But Ranthia had the misfortune of bearing senses sharpened by an obscene amount of vitality—at least by human standards. She had no doubt about the terrible utterance she had overheard. And she knew exactly what it implied…

“Sentinel Steel transferred to the inward-focused Sentinels, those often called the Security Sentinels, twelve years ago. It is my understanding that she still serves in western Remus, as part of the final defensive line to ensure that aggression from beyond Remus, both from the shimagu and from any other source, fails to penetrate the borders of the empire.” Night’s voice felt atypically gentle as his words saved her from the worst of her assumptions.

“Security Sentinels aside, there are more War Sentinels than are present in this room too. But we have selected those that we feel would be of greater benefit consolidated here in Spearpoint for the coming days.” Sentinel Old Guy (the Storm [Mage] that claimed to have figured out how to make it useful) chimed in.

The [Healer] Sentinel continued to keep her gaze fixated on Ranthia, though she kept her mouth shut.

“If the current schedule holds, our customary meeting tomorrow will be preempted by the Coalition gathering. Unless you receive orders to the contrary, be certain to attend at the primary fortification’s great hall. Your station is worthy of a seat within the assembly, and your participation is expected. I do not believe that I need to remind any of you of the importance of this assembly.

“As a final note before we end today’s meeting, I wish to urge you all to take care when interacting with our dwarven allies. The one that some among them were calling the King Under the Mountain was killed four nights ago. There are undoubtedly individuals within their ranks that will be in an atypically sensitive state, and I will not tolerate any attempts to antagonize them. Be respectful and remember that their ways are different from our own.” Night concluded, in a perfectly dry tone. As though he was reminding them about something inconsequential, like the weather.

But Ranthia was openly gawking at him. She had spent a lot of time around the dwarves of Remera ever since Avyna departed. She had heard of the man that Night coldly informed them was dead. He had worked tirelessly to unite the city-states of Khazad and was well-respected by the survivors from Nolgrod too. The Remeran dwarves had often spoken of him with hopeful reverence—he had represented a path toward true peace and cooperation amongst the dwarves.

And his death was a footnote to their meeting?! Just a heads-up to not antagonize allies that no one should be antagonizing in the first place?!

“What happened?” Ranthia demanded before anyone could get up.

“The kill was identical to others that have affected us in the past.” Night answered after a pause so brief that Ranthia wasn’t sure if anyone else noticed.

That was… odd. Not Night being surprised about her asking questions—it wasn’t like anyone else in the room seemed to give a damn, so her caring probably was at least somewhat unexpected. But if it was a death like the others… why were assassins from the empire killing a politician found amongst their own allies? The King Under the Mountain had been a staunch supporter of the dwarves’ alliances, from everything that she had heard. If anything, he had hoped to increase cooperation between each nation.

Was her theory wrong? Was there truly some unknown shimagu twin, or was it some internal power struggle amongst the dwarves that chose to mimic a known killer’s signature style?

Ranthia wished she could consult with—and offer her sympathies to—the dwarves of Remera, but she was under direct orders to remain in Spearpoint until new orders came in. Sure, there were undoubtedly dwarven camps within Spearpoint, but it wasn’t like Ranthia would know anyone that was there—and intruding on such a sensitive topic was just generally a bad idea.

While Ranthia chewed on her thoughts, Night dismissed them. He promptly disappeared in a blur to go do whatever it was that bloodsucking predators did during their free time and… okay, that was a thought that conjured unhappy mental images.

Ranthia shook her head to clear it, which let her catch Sentinel [Healer]’s approach.

Ranthia was still nursing a bit of a grudge over Sentinel Beast’s behavior, and she was feeling more than a bit overwhelmed by everything she had learned—and seen—during the meeting. When she asked herself if she was interested in being fawned over by a fan—a peer that was plainly enamored with her—the answer was a resounding no.

Some thoughts just made her want to hide and take a nap.

Instead, with an unspoken apology thought in the direction of the too-slow [Healer], Ranthia blurred into motion as well, and made her escape.

She had dwarves to find.

As expected, Ranthia received a polite—but cold—response from each group of dwarves that she located within Spearpoint. They were happy enough to exchange greetings with her, and several [Battlemasters] took the opportunity to introduce themselves to a member of humanity’s closest approximation of their ranks. But no one really wanted to give Ranthia more than their names and/or a beverage. She was, after all, a stranger that hadn’t even fought alongside them yet.

But even with the minimal hospitality Ranthia received, something felt off.

There were no overt signs of grief or anger. If anything, the dwarves seemed to be excited—those that chose to speak to her boasted about how they looked forward to fighting alongside her (and everyone else) to see the shimagu army broken and the final twins cut down. It was possible that they were just putting on a brave front since she had no real bond with them, yet it seemed strange.

But, in the end, it wasn’t her problem. Meeting her peers had left her feeling uncomfortable, and it was entirely possible that she was just projecting her personal discomfort onto the actions of others. And, unfortunately, her [Mind Healer] wasn’t around to help her through it.

Also, there was more than a little guilt that she hadn’t followed Pierce to try to offer whatever help she could to him. He hadn’t been in her care for a long time, but it was hard to set aside the sense of responsibility she felt for him.

And if there truly was a shimagu assassin striking among the Coalition, all Ranthia could do was maintain her personal vigilance. So long as the assassin avoided her—or she managed to counter any attempt made on her—she had nothing to worry about.

Besides, she never had gotten any sleep, and with the sun setting, she needed to remedy that. Because if anything, the next day was sure to test her far more than interacting with her fellow Sentinels had.
