Choosing what to pack was strangely complicated. Sure, the war was about to end, but she had no idea what that actually meant. Would they go for a single overnight all-out offensive and be done? Would it be eight days of fierce combat? Would the shimagu army surrender if they took out the remaining twins, or would they have to cull enough to cripple their ability to fight? It wasn’t like Ranthia was going to get answers, so she was forced to trust her own judgment.

The first things that went into her pack—the backpack itself was an acquisition from a convoy roughly six years ago, because the one she bought in Remus was falling apart after so many years—were her practical mistweave. The material didn’t get soiled, which meant her tunic and spare undergarments were all she really needed. Eight pairs of sandals didn’t take up too much room and felt sensible. …Another two pairs, just to be safe. Avyna’s map was sensible to take, and it didn’t take up much room. Her traveller’s cloak (also new—despite being purchased nine years ago) felt like an essential item as autumn was succumbing to winter.

Choosing what to pack for her armor was far more complicated. Complete sets were bulky. She could break her armor down, but then she needed almost thrice that time to reassemble it—which meant it was unavailable in a crisis. The linings and the leather were the most space-hungry components, but she could take enough replacement steel plates and connectors to keep her going for ages—so long as the damage her armor took remained very specific. But inarguably, the arcanite in the lining was the most important component for her, unless her armor Skill finally manifested, and if she used up the arcanite in one lining she really needed a way to replace it…

After hemming and hawing for entirely too long, Ranthia crammed one complete set of armor into her pack, stuffed a spare lining inside of it, and piled in some repair and maintenance tools and supplies. That had to be sufficient. Mostly because her backpack couldn’t hold much more, no matter how she expanded it. It wasn’t like she could carry an enchanted bag, not that enchantments worked half as well on pliable materials—and she was getting distracted. Again.

Snacks! Snacks were important. Meals would (hopefully) be provided, but if she was on the field of battle and found herself in a lull, it was good to have something she could choke down quickly. As nice as pears and other fruits were, Ranthia had no interest in keeping pulped mush in her belt pouches. Also, she ate the last pear she had days ago. Jerky was good, but she didn’t have much left—and it wasn’t like she could just wait around for Numeria to open her shop. She’d always struggled to keep nuts in stock too; they were all too easy to snack on.

With a resigned sigh, Ranthia approached a cabinet she hadn’t opened since Avyna’s departure.

She never had gotten around to actually trying the Ilan bread that Avyna infrequently received. After the first few attempts went awry due to emotions or emergencies, Ranthia had turned it into something of a game—finding (mostly) plausible excuses to avoid trying it. It wasn’t without reason: she had wanted to leave it for Avyna to enjoy, since it meant more to her. …Also, admittedly, there was a modest amount of concern ever since her elf clarified that the fruit was ‘dangerous’ to non-elves due to it potentially being addictive.

Ranthia had seen enough purple flower addicts that she was somewhat loath to risk it, even baked into travel bread.

Naturally, Avyna had been less impressed with Ranthia’s antics, to the extent that she left three pieces behind—in their home’s best stasis enchantment—along with a note that stated how long the bread would last and hinted at Avyna’s future displeasure if Ranthia allowed them to go to waste. Naturally, Avyna had no way to know, but Ranthia’s concerns were mild enough that it wasn’t worth lying to the woman she loved.

With a sigh, Ranthia grabbed one of the densely baked breads and broke a corner off of it. From that fragment, Ranthia took a properly dainty nibble, a crude approximation of how Avyna had always savored the bread.

It wasn’t as sweet as Ranthia had feared, which was good. The bread itself had a nice dense and chewy texture that wasn’t overly prone to crumbling—how elves got a travel bread that could last for a long time so moist was beyond Ranthia’s knowledge. The flavor itself was strange. It wasn’t unpleasant, but Ranthia found herself struggling to place it. It was almost as though the flavor shifted or had more complex notes than her vitality-enhanced tongue could identify. Yet it was impossibly cohesive, with the myriad notes blending into a surprising harmony.

Ranthia continued to take nibbles as she worked at the flavors. It wasn’t off-putting, that was for certain, but it was harder to decide if she actually liked it. It was so different from anything that she had ever experienced, and many of the notes from the fruit were sweeter than she would usually prefer. And yet…

Eventually, Ranthia decided that it didn’t matter if she was a fan or not. It existed, and it was edible. She just needed to wrap the rest of it and—

Where did the rest of the bread go?!

Ranthia stared mutely at the countertop, where the majority of the bread should have sat—bereft of a single corner. Yet there were only a few small crumbs to suggest there had once been bread there.

“…I’m giving the rest to the dwarves.” Ranthia closed the cabinet with a bit too much force, lest she find a hand reaching for either of the remaining travel breads.

The base commander left a message for her at the gates with a list of concerns about what her absence meant for the security of Remera, the region, and the Legion personnel that patrolled or drove supplies through it. That wasn’t surprising, but it ended with him acknowledging that she likely had no further information to offer which made reading it feel like an even greater waste of time than it already was!

But after that, Ranthia made her exit, witnessed by saluting legionaries and cheering dwarves.

She had never been to Spearpoint base, but she had a very good map—and she had spent much of her life studying and scouting the terrain the war was fought within. Besides, every young Adventurer learned what it took to travel in a (mostly) straight line without screwing that up; direction-finding was crucial.

As much as it felt like Ranthia was jinxing herself, the journey itself went smoothly. Sure, she had to climb a mesa to orient herself at one point, but the skies were just beginning to brighten when Ranthia finally arrived at the irregular walls of Spearpoint base, which meant she was right on schedule. The entire region surrounding the base buzzed with activity. Scouts from every species represented in the Coalition swarmed the area to keep the shimagu from pulling off anything clever—and each offered her surprisingly warm greetings when she presented her Sentinel badge. Sure, there were language barriers in a few cases, but the Sentinels weren’t just recognized, they were respected.

…Well, except for the elven patrol; they saw fit to chuckle amongst themselves about “another mortal that thinks she’s something special” until Ranthia thanked them for their diligent scouting efforts in High Elvish. One from the group seemed mortified, two started offering her friendly pointers about her pronunciation, and the rest just scowled broodingly in her general direction.

The sound of conflict filled the region, even as she moved through peaceful, currently uncontested territory. In a valley on the far side of Spearpoint, the armies of the Coalition and the shimagu fought on—a melee the likes of which Ranthia had never seen and could have scarcely imagined. A pointless waste of life that would undoubtedly have less total impact on the war than the meeting Ranthia was travelling to attend.

It was strange to have a level that would have been literally unthinkable when she was young. At 753, Ranthia could potentially do more damage to the shimagu than an entire Legion could in the same amount of time. And she wasn’t about to pretend that she was capable of more than anyone else in the Coalition. Night was undoubtedly—at a minimum—still her equal. Pierce had probably become a deadly force, if he was still around. Amphea—Steel—could stonewall an army better than Ranthia ever could. And those were just her immediate peers that she was already familiar with.

She had witnessed a small force of centaurs as they tore a shimagu army asunder. And the dwarven [Battlemaster] of Remera considered herself “average, at best” amongst her peers. In addition, Ranthia had no idea what to expect from the top combatants from the gnolls, minotaurs, and whoever else had joined their efforts to put a stop to the shimagu’s enslavement.

And beyond them all, the elves had personnel with twice Ranthia’s level and at least eight times her experience. It was impossible to imagine what they would be capable of—Avyna, with a civilian build, had rivaled Ranthia’s greatest efforts.

Her heart felt abuzz with anticipation by the time Ranthia finally reached one of Spearpoint’s gates and began the process for entry. One gate raised and Ranthia stepped into a tiny room, where she was checked by spears thrust through openings just large enough to accommodate them. Once a [Healer] cleared her with some sort of parasite-detection aura, the next gate opened—revealing another small room, which housed a small table and a gleaming (likely conjured) crystalline knife. Ranthia was ordered by a voice that seemed to come from all around her to use it to cut her own palm, while another [Healer] tried to heal the damage she inflicted with a ranged Skill. After that, she was finally allowed to enter a somewhat larger room with a diverse group of guards that (respectfully, as much as they were able to make such an act respectful) restrained her while four different [Healers] entered and laid hands on her.

Only then was she finally cleared to enter Spearpoint. Her anticipation had chilled more than a little after a prolonged session of manhandling and well-meaning abuse, but she still had to stop and properly take in the sight of the base. The original fortress of stone—stolen from the shimagu—remained the heart of the base, and the Coalition had built outward from there. As a whole, the place was a chaotic jumble of tents and hastily assembled structures. It was a mess and Ranthia was in love; there wasn’t even a hint of order to be found! The efforts to leave space for roads often ended in failure, resulting in numerous footpaths that dead-ended against a tent or a structure. Quite plainly even the expanded outer walls had been insufficient for how many men and women ended up crammed into Spearpoint, which resulted in people aggressively building where they could—including both upward and downward.

It was madness. And it was beautiful.

Ranthia’s mood lightened and her smile brightened as she ambled along, enjoying the cacophony of life forced into close proximity. Spearpoint was noisy enough that it almost drowned out the sounds of battle. Also, it was hilarious to watch centuries try to assemble in the twisted and narrow paths ahead of deployment to relieve another force. There was an almost palpable “we gave up years ago” energy amongst the leadership while they watched their neat lines collapse into a press of flesh.

As expected, Ranthia’s objective was the original fortification at the heart of Spearpoint, but instead of entering the stone fortress, she was directed into a suspiciously new wooden structure assembled within the inner walls. Inside, a harried man who looked—and, more worryingly, twitched—like someone who hadn’t slept in days gave her a room number for her “shared room that she would share with another Sentinel who should be able to give her the rest of the detail-things she needed” and handed her a half-eaten apple that she was rather certain he hadn’t meant to give her.

With the apple left on the man’s counter, Ranthia set out. The room number wasn’t as useful as Ranthia had expected—the building seemed to have been built under some numbering scheme that she couldn’t parse out—but the unadorned halls were empty enough that she could use a bit of speed to trivialize her search.

With the proper door found (…assuming the man gave her the right number, which was a somewhat bold assumption) Ranthia knocked to let the enigmatic “another Sentinel” know she was there. After waiting in silence, she knocked again. When that one also went unacknowledged, Ranthia finally tried the door and found it unlocked.

Within, the room was… drab. Drab was absolutely the best word Ranthia had for it. Grey fabric had been nailed onto the walls, as though it somehow provided a decorative touch. On the left side of the room, a small, simple cot sat—with grey linens—mirrored by another on the right. And, at a massive table that occupied almost the entire back wall of the title, a diminutive—and very grey—woman sat facing it. Aside from the small storage chests at the foot of each cot, there was nothing else in the room.

“Hi?” Ranthia called out hesitantly. In an ideal world, she really wanted some form of acknowledgement before she barged in. She was trusting the man that sent her there less by the minute.

“Yes, Sentinel Grace, come in already. I’ve been using the bed to your left, but feel free to claim it for yourself, if you have strong feelings about your spatial orientation while you rest.” Even the woman’s voice was drab and forgettable, not that she bothered to look up from whatever it was that she was doing.

