Ranthia shrugged and made her way into the room, closing the door behind her. The bed on the right was fine with her. She set her backpack down next to the bed and pulled her mistweave tunic out, before she shifted into a fresh image that was wearing it. There was no rack for her armor, so she just carefully set it against the wall—she could clean and maintain it later—and started to unpack her backpack into the empty storage chest.

The woman never said another word, which had Ranthia practically fidgeting by the time she was done.

“So… can I ask who you are?” Ranthia asked, terribly tempted to walk over and peer at the woman’s precious table.

“Sentinel Grey. Charmed. Don’t mind me, I’m trying to memorize the new material compositions for every structure in Spearpoint. The last report was incomplete.” The woman that eerily reflected her title replied, in a somewhat clipped tone.

Seriously, her clothing was grey, the heavy Sentinel armor resting on her bed was grey, and her hair was extremely grey. Even her skin had a somewhat grey pallor. And Ranthia couldn’t even begin to guess the woman’s age because of it.

“Everything?” The incredulous question passed Ranthia’s lips before she could stop it.

“Yes, as I stated. Though I only care about the structures themselves; the biological entities within and their possessions are on their own. My Skills cannot and will not improve their resilience, no matter the fidelity of detail I am provided.” The woman confirmed.

Ranthia just sighed and leaned against the wall. By her estimate, there was still almost a full hour until the meeting. She felt too restless to grab a nap and her hopes for conversation were apparently dead.

“I suppose I should offer you an advance warning: you may wish to be careful with Sentinel Solace. She is a fan of yours, and her emotions run deeper than most seem to realize.” Grey almost startled Ranthia when she actually spoke up, unprompted.

“I have fans?” Ranthia let a wry smirk play across her lips. Maybe her roommate had more of a sense of humor than she dared to hope.

“Per her file, her grandmother attended your Triumph, and you gave her some worthless bauble. Solace was raised hearing of you and often attended the orphanage that you founded. This is what led her to the path of a [Healer]. Also, she screamed with excitement when Night informed us that you were being summoned here.” Came the deadpan response.

Ranthia opened her mouth, then closed it.

In the end, she had no idea what to do with that information.

The meeting room was another eerie facsimile of the one in Remus, and Ranthia no longer had any doubt that Night was copying it intentionally. By all logic, the layout of the room should have steadily changed as time passed, yet it remained unerringly consistent, even after more than eighty years. An immortal seeking a place of comfort was the only viable explanation.

Ranthia amused herself by imagining Night’s reaction if she redecorated the room while she settled into a plush chair near the exit—it was easier than fretting about the five pairs of unfamiliar eyes that watched her enter. Her roommate—thus far, the only person in the room that Ranthia had ever seen before that moment—was already perched atop a simple stool.

Ranthia felt out of place enough that she was actually relieved when Night walked into the room, especially when Pierce followed him in. They moved at casual speeds to their seats, which gave Ranthia ample time to appraise both men.

As expected of an immortal, Night remained unaffected by the passage of time. He hadn’t even changed his hairstyle in the time that she knew him, and even his level was eerily similar to what it used to be. At 551, 549, and 91, Night impossibly had one of the lowest levels in the room—with only Grey’s 547, 501, and 219 competing with him. Everyone else present had at least one class at or above 600, with Ranthia and Pierce standing well above the rest.

…Pierce, on the other hand, had actually managed to surpass her level. The man was just over level 800 in his first two classes, with his third trailing just a bit behind them.

But before Ranthia could ask him what in Xaoc’s glory he had been doing, Night began the meeting. The first items were about changes to base security—namely, the screening process that Ranthia had endured—and orders to remain within Spearpoint until the meeting (tentatively scheduled for the next day) with the Coalition leaders and elite.

“With those matters addressed, we should take a moment to refocus on our own ranks. This is the first opportunity that many of you have had to properly meet, so I would like to propose we have each of you introduce yourselves and the basics of what you bring to the ranks of we Sentinels that have focused ourselves on outward threats.” Night beckoned to Sentinel Grey, clearly intending to sit the process out himself.

That was fair. As the nominal ‘lead’ Sentinel, it was safe to assume that everyone in the room was already familiar with him and whatever facets he chose to reveal about his own combat role and bloodsucking tendencies. Not that it spared him from the glares of almost every man and woman in the room.

He just ignored their glares, of course.

“Sentinel Grey. I am currently fortifying every structure within this base, including the walls and the tents. I would ask that you refrain from punching walls when you get frustrated, it costs me mana every time.” The woman was the only one that wasn’t preoccupied with glaring at an indifferent vampire; she just rattled off her introduction.

And set the tone for the rest.

“Sentinel Gravity. You’ve probably already seen me zipping around. But don’t treat me like a [Messenger], I’m a combatant.” The dark woman in the lightest Sentinel armoring Ranthia had ever seen went next. She had a slight build and average features, which made her seem oddly ordinary amongst the often visually distinct ranks of the Sentinels.

“Sentinel Beast. One class gives me a quasi-bond with a pack of predators, the other two let me fight just as savagely as they do alongside ‘em. Don’t be worried if I go all beastly, just stay out of our way and trust us to keep our teeth pointed in the right direction.” A gruff middle-aged man with long hair—dyed a vivid red—and leather armor that wasn’t half as tattered as it was meant to look.

“Sentinel Solace. I’ll be departing the ranks of the Sentinels once the shimagu have been exterminated from Pallos. I can weaken any shimagu caught within my mists and have never failed to purge a parasite from anyone.” The sole [Healer] in the room spoke next. An attractive woman with dirty blonde hair, wearing mid-weight Sentinel armor painted glossy white, with golden trim. She was the only person in the room that was wearing one of those ridiculous capes they were assigned for formal occasions, though hers was white-and-gold without a hint of the typical red.

Sentinel Silence. Quiet kills. The next man communicated through Ranger hand signs—which took Ranthia a moment to remember how to parse. She had never even realized that she was getting rusty.

“Sentinel Grace. I specialize in one-on-one combat and punching up, but I can also handle groups.” Ranthia chose to keep her contribution simple, once she came up. There was no need to try to flex or show off, not with her peers.

Or so she had hoped, but Sentinel Beast snorted in what was undeniably derision. That unwelcome sound was followed by an even less welcome high-pitched noise that came out of Sentinel Solace, though the woman’s facial expression never changed from her mien of calmness. Even as her eyes remained unerringly fixated on Ranthia.

“Sentinel Pierce. As I like to say: have spear, will pierce. Now, they might call me the strongest human back home, but I’ll be honest: there’s at least two people in this room that I wouldn’t want to fight. Not with my life on the line, at least.” His voice was jovial and warm, but Pierce had undeniably changed since he left Ranthia’s care. Sure, he had grown and matured—that was to be expected—but there wasn’t even a hint of the arrogant snot that she had known. His smile looked easy, yet something about it felt forced. To Ranthia, her former apprentice looked as though he smiled because he felt like he had to. It was as if he was burdening himself with the weight of the expectations of even his so-called equals.

…It wasn’t quite what she used to do, but it was still uncomfortably familiar. Unfortunately, Ranthia wasn’t confident that she could do even a fraction of what her [Mind Healer] had done for her, but she probably still needed to speak to him.

“Sentinel Sage. Back in Remus, I’m known as the oldest Sentinel, even though I’m probably only in third place in this room alone. I bet I’m referring to the exact same two that—” An elderly man, hunched by the weight of age, started to speak.

But Ranthia was running [Divine-Touched Identify] on each of her peers as they spoke up, and what she saw from him demanded an interjection.

“You have two Storm [Mage] classes?!” Ranthia was stunned. Storm [Mages] were a famous joke. It was a build that simply didn’t work, yet the man had two worthless classes—as a Sentinel?! Storm, Arcanite, and Storm was just an inexplicable combination for a triple-classed [Mage]!

In the aftermath of her outburst, the room was utterly silent. Every eye was on her, and no one so much as breathed.

“Sentinel Grace is able to see the tag for each class a person possesses, in addition to the element. This is due to a unique evolution of [Identify], through a process that has proven impossible to replicate.” Night spoke into the silence, and the tension slowly dissipated from the room.

…Mostly, at least.

“Ha, yes, I am the proverbial Storm [Mage], and I found a way to make it not suck. Basically, I have a large support unit that I affectionately refer to as the links in my chain. My Arcanite class allows me to link our mana pools together as a collective whole, which I combine with channeled effects to generate potent storms.

“That said, please bear in mind that I cannot control what I have unleashed, once it is done. It’s really not my fault if you fly into a storm and get struck by lightning.” Sage accompanied his explanation with an exaggerated wink.

“I still say you did it on purpose. I saw you; you looked right at me right before it happened.” Gravity’s tone was acidic.

“Those that listen to a humble old timer’s instructions have nothing to fear.” Sage reiterated with an affable smile.

While Gravity openly seethed.

With the meeting devolving, another Sentinel seized his moment to make things worse.

“I still can’t believe the infamous Sentinel Grace is just some child slapped with the name of the woman she replaced.” Beast muttered, nowhere near quietly enough to even count as an attempt to subvocalize his thoughts.

Seriously?! The man was the third lowest level of the group, more than a hundred and twenty-eight levels beneath her, and he still wanted to try and belittle her?! Ranthia was more insulted by how blatantly idiotic it was than the actual insult!

“Looks can be deceiving. We should have all learned that lesson while dealing with the shimagu.” Ranthia chose the closest thing to diplomacy that she could muster. It was a tad patronizing, but it was better than the first several things that came to mind.

Sentinel Beast replied with a charming bit of casual misogyny. The words weren’t worth remembering, but they sure as chaos cemented Ranthia’s opinion of him. Even Gravity looked ready to start throwing punches, and his commentary hadn’t even been directed at her!

“Enough.” A single word from Night cut through the room before anything could escalate.

The uncharacteristically open irritation on his face probably did more to bring the rising tempers to heel than the word he spoke. The word just brought their attention to his open displeasure.

“Beast, if It helps, I can vouch for Grace. She isn’t someone given the name—she’s the original. Don’t let her pretty face fool you, she’s one of the few people that could probably take me apart, even today.” Pierce accompanied his benevolent words with a magnanimous smile that should have been off-putting yet somehow wasn’t.

The blood-haired man grumbled a halfhearted apology after he gave Pierce a too-stiff nod.

At least Ranthia had absorbed Sentinel Beast’s name. The brute truly was absolutely bestial. But she also wasn’t surprised. When she was just another trainee at the Ranger Academy, the expectation behind the Sentinels was a coordinated collective—allies that knew each other well.

Instead, the reality of war meant that many of them seldom laid eyes on one another. Instead of forging trust through mutual respect, they were asked to acknowledge the badge of their station as sufficient cause to have faith in one another. And that was a lot to ask, especially when the number of Sentinels was greater than ever. The war had undoubtedly eroded some standards.

But that thought was fleeting. Ranthia was far more concerned with who was absent. Aurora had disappeared from the sky ages ago. But there was no sign of Mirage, Quake, or Deflection either. Was Bulwark still in Coalition City, or had time—or shimagu activity—taken him as well?

And where in Xaoc’s glory was Amphea?!

“Night… Amph—Sentinel Steel, is she…?” It wasn’t entirely relevant. She clearly hadn’t been expected to attend the meeting, but she was one of Ranthia’s people! …And Ranthia had to know if she had gotten another one killed, by the same enemy she had meant to save them from.

“Who?” That time, Sentinel Beast actually tried to subvocalize his reaction.

