"Marked for death means he will die—no matter what," Ashlock said sternly. He wanted the Covenant to be taken seriously, and that could only be achieved through consistency. He didn't want people in the future to think they could bargain for their lives.

Tiberius gulped. "I see... that's a shame, but I understand."

Ashlock left Tiberius to sulk and moved on to the next pressing topic. He addressed Elaine and the members of the Mystshroud family she had gone to gather.

"Now, Elaine, I leave the upgrading of the peaks' illusion formations to incorporate Mystic Qi to you, and also the research on the Fleshfruit trees."

Elaine bowed. "I'm grateful for the opportunity to contribute more to the sect and won't disappoint you."

Ashlock appreciated her enthusiasm. "I look forward to it. For now, that is all."

He retreated into his Inner World and sighed. Things were escalating faster than he had anticipated. While that fleet had been comprised of older airships set for decommission, the Celestial Empire had still sent hundreds of cultivators and a Monarch to kill him.

Worst of all, they were starting to figure his tricks out—such as staying away from the ground and even going as far as to firebomb the trees. This fight had also further proved to him that he needed more Monarchs, as no two were the same. One who would work great against Ren might suffer against another.

"A poison that targets souls," Ashlock mused. He had never realized how incredibly dangerous that was, having never been on the receiving end. Yet, that's what his cursed blood was capable of, and it was even capable of turning into a miasma that hunted down targets.

"I'm getting quite terrifying, aren't I?" Ashlock chuckled as his attention shifted to the entrance to the Eternal Realm. The celestial fog stored within the cave shimmered and shifted peacefully. "I wonder how Stella is doing? It's been a few days, so I don't expect her to be a Monarch already, unless she got straight to business and didn't get distracted."

Ashlock relaxed for a moment longer before returning his attention to the surface. He didn't expect the Celestial Empire to launch another attack of that scale on him immediately, so he had some time for his forces to recover and to set about making a fleet of his own.

"I'll keep Moros lurking in the wilderness in case any stray airships carrying spies or a few strong cultivators come my way," Ashlock decided as his vision zoomed through the wilderness and he located Grand Elder Ren.

The Poison Monarch had already made it to the edges of Floridawn, yet instead of heading toward the World Tree, he paused in the air and then made a detour. His destination? Ashlock could only guess, but he seemed to be heading straight for Cyphion's estate and would also encounter Elysia, who was there.

Ashlock watched with interest, totally unaware that something had occurred in a pocket realm many layers of creation away.

***

Stella slowly opened her eyes and took her first breath as a Monarch of the Aether.

"Oh," she said with a massive grin as power crackled around her, "so this is what it feels like to be a Monarch. I like it."

"Congratulations on your ascension," Kael said, coming into the room. "What will you do now?"

"Is Thalos Tessellate still insisting on that meeting with their Patriarch?"

Kael nodded. "He's been coming here regularly to check on your progress and has members of his family posted outside. I'm sure he's already aware of your success and will be here shortly. Should I send him away?"

"No," Stella shook her head. "I thought meeting their Patriarch would be impossible and planned to evade the meeting, but with my new domain?" She smiled. "I really can become a princess who travels the stars."
