The guards who watched over the compound it was housed in did move to intercept him, but the moment they saw who he was and understood his attitude, they changed their minds and simply called out from the side.

“Ascender Titian, this is Duchess Griselda Latham’s personal retreat, and she does not condone unauthorized visitors, so we must ask you to leave until after you have seen the Duchess and gotten her permission to enter the grounds.”

Matt just met the Tier 35’s gaze until he wilted and stepped back into formation with the other guards.

Seeing they were giving in, Matt spoke, “I’m not here for the villa or anyone inside.”

He didn’t care about the not-so-little orgy that was happening with several non-local dukes with people that were not their spouses. While things seemed clandestine when it came to immortal relationships, not everyone kept to things like monogamy as he and Liz did, which meant they might not even be doing anything untoward.

Seeing he moved to one of the rifts on the villa grounds, the guards relaxed— until, using a mana draining array, he forcefully ripped every ounce of mana from the Tier 35 rift.

Instead of trying to stop him, the guards started preparing the area for the deluge of people who were about to come out of the rift’s many instances, but Matt didn’t stop and spent millions of mana every second creating a mana null space.

The rift, being a rift, didn’t instantly dissipate, but like a fish pulled out of water it started to gasp and starve as its magical conduits were drained of their mana.

One failed and the rift warbled, but as the formation tried to drain mana from the already empty area, one turned into five and five into a hundred and then the entire rift fell apart and everyone was dumped out of the instances all at once.

Matt quickly identified the scientist he had been looking for and stepped next to him. “You are summoned to court on the Capital in regards to your engine patent. You have four months to report in, now that you have been notified. Do so or be found in contempt.”

Turning to everyone else, Matt put on his best smile. “Everyone, I would like to apologize for the interruption of your delves. For those that don’t know me, my name is Ascender Titan.”

There were only around five hundred people, which was less than he expected for a Tier 35 rift, but he suspected the rift being one of the duchess’ personal rifts, it was allowed to get to full or near full before being delved. To that end, he also suspected that some of these people might have been in the rift for longer than he’d been alive, which meant they didn’t know who he was. And if they didn’t bother to check with their [AI], they might react badly to his intrusion. Understandable, but something he’d like to cut off.

He actually felt bad for those he had just ripped out of their rift and wanted to make it up to them as much as possible.

Thankfully, he had an easy way to do that.

“To show my apology, I will happily cover everyone's expenses that they paid to enter the rift and any replacements for gear that was used or damaged during their delve.”

Everyone graciously declined his remuneration. He would rather they take the money he offered instead of using this opportunity to try and grow closer to him, but the latter was acceptable.

The easiest answer would be to take them out to an expensive banquet, spend a week or two chatting with them, but that wouldn't be as impressive as what Matt had in mind. And this latest attack reminded him that he needed, if not allies, at least acquaintances beyond his circle of friends.

Spreading his hands, he created a formation out of his mana crystal. It took a few minutes to carefully form the intricate patterns while forming the mana stone, but he wasn’t in a rush, and everyone seemed more than happy to watch his show.

Once he was done Matt let a genuine smile show. “And let me be the first to showcase one of the projects that Titan’s Torch is working on. Bespoke rifts.”

There was an audible murmur in the gathered crowds, which had grown despite the guards’ attempts to keep higher-Tier outsiders from entering the villa, but Matt’s destroying of the rift had gathered everyone's attention. Including the duchess, who was flying over at her ‘best speeds’ having readily finished up the meeting she had been in on one of the other continents. Being a Tier 35, she would have noticed him immediately and could have appeared next to him before he could react, but she seemed willing to let this play out, so Matt didn’t call her out.

“This is currently in the phase of being more art than science, but that's a good thing since I consider myself something of an artist when it comes to rifts.”

Matt winked before he pulled up the record of the rift he had destroyed to find it hadn’t been anything truly special.

Turning to Duchess Latham as she landed, he smiled. “I apologize for not greeting you properly when I arrived, but I had something to do that took precedence.”

Griselda smiled and waved away his apology. “I wouldn't want to interfere with your business, but now that it is over, I would request you stay for at least a meal or two. Let me show you the hospitality of my world.”

Matt didn’t let his inner sigh show. He had been afraid of this request, but considering how he had stamped all over her fief, he owed her at least that much. He was sure he’d also be getting several one-sided business deals thrown his way.

Still, he could use this.

Gesturing to where the rift had been, he asked, “Since I broke it, I might as well replace it. Any particular inclination for what kind of rift I should aim for?”

Griselda’s gaze turned from generally friendly to interested in a heartbeat. “Oh, you have that level of control?”

Matt shrugged and proceeded to exaggerate shamelessly. “At this Tier? Not really. As stated in my guild’s reports, rift science has not advanced enough to guarantee anything, but I can aim for an inclination for what I replace the rift with. If nothing else, there will be a rift here when I’m done. And if we are lucky, I can choose its theme and-or monster type.”

Most of them probably took that as him downplaying his skill, but he was doing the exact opposite. Anything but the roughest, most basic shaping, like overall element, of a Tier 35 rift was still millennia away, if not longer.

“I will happily accept anything the Ascender finds interesting.”

Matt was secretly pleased, as it meant he could present whatever result he got as a success. That was no doubt her intention, but still, it worked for all parties involved, so why not take the wins where he could get them.

In his personal aperology work, he had been playing with shadow mana and seeing how it tended to result in trap or puzzle rifts. Matt’s gut told him that was part of the key to making some of the more convoluted, and therefore notable, rifts they had encountered in delving, but they were also incredibly finicky.

He at least didn’t actually care about a set rift instance that needed to be kept from de-aspecting, so Matt started with an unequal balance of wood mana, water mana, earth mana, and a hint of fire mana for Tiers 1 through Tier 10. At Tier 11 he replaced half of the wood mana with air, which resulted in the various woodland creatures they had been seeing exit the rift upon Tier up to start mixing with birds.

There were a number of murmurs of exclamation at the sight, and so Matt started narrating what he was doing and why, as well as when things happened that he didn’t expect.

At tier 20, he switched from feeding the rift himself and ambient mana to throwing mana stones into the rift. He couldn't do many more tiers before it’d take even him noticeable amounts of time, and it was better to err on the side of switching over sooner.

Griselda offered to use her own mana stones, but Matt just waved her off, using his destruction of the earlier rift to explain his generosity. It was a good opportunity to come off well while not being too egregious in price.The statement he was making was well worth a few months of production.

As they reached a Tier 30 rift, Matt looked to all of the Tier 35’s and said, “I would appreciate all of your help in destroying the rift monsters before they threaten anyone.”

Tier 30 was also when the rift became interesting.

The rift’s monsters radically changed, and from a general but uninteresting variety of forest creatures, they had suddenly transformed into scaled versions of their former selves with much stronger attacks and impressive defenses.

Not that the Tier 35s struggled to kill the monsters five Tiers lower than themselves, but it brought out another round of appreciation from the watchers who attributed this to Matt’s plan rather than the luck that it was.

Still following his gut and hoping the next few Tier ups didn’t ruin the good impression he just made, Matt changed up his mana ratios once more, adding more earth and a touch of Aiden’s water mana with all of its inherent complexity thanks to his Authority. Luckily, the monsters didn’t revert to something less interesting before the rift reached Tier 35, but unlike what he expected, most of the previous rift delvers didn’t clamor to enter the rift. Instead, they accepted Griselda’s invitation to a gathering she was throwing to host Matt.

It took him a moment, but then he understood that the rift they had been delving was undoubtedly one that was well understood, in and out and front to back, and therefore with minimal risk for those who were prepared. Unlike him and his friends, these people didn’t want to enter new rifts, they wanted to enter known elements that had no surprises to minimize their risk of injury or death.

Realizing that, he almost felt bad about making the rift a peak Tier 35 rift instead of a medium Tier 35, like the one he had destroyed, but it was a little late for that.

He did notice that Griselda shot the rift a genuinely interested look, and from the guards she posted around the rift, he suspected she intended to claim the first clear for herself and her team. Considering the rift was brimming with mana, the reward would be generous, which might add to her anticipation. Though, it might also just be the notoriety of having an Ascender Titan-made rift.

Either way, Matt didn’t care so long as he left here without five hundred new enemies.

And contrary to his own expectation, he did better than that.

He mingled and chatted for a full two weeks before making his excuses to return to the court battle. As he expected, people complained and Griselda wanted to chat in private, which he accepted as it let him ask her what she knew about Falker’s guild.

What she personally knew was rudimentary as the guild, despite being Tier 35, was anything but notable. But she was a duchess and a hereditary one at that, so her family had an extensive spy network that she tapped into. For the price of one small favor to be agreed upon later, she sent Matt everything they had on Falker Industries.

What Matt saw didn’t instantly tell him who was pulling Falker’s strings, but it did fill in some gaps. A lot of gaps actually.

Notable was that three thousand years ago, when Falker’s guild was just formed, they had been in a transitional period. After their first successful product but before they were able to create any new products, the guild was only surviving on Falker’s personal wealth. If they had gone belly up after one successful product, they would have simply been one of a million other similar guilds, but they didn’t.

Not for lack of trying however.

No, an unnamed investor had given them enough of a monetary boost they had weathered the hard time until they created a new product, which had made them viable again. Since then, they had created a new product every two to three hundred years without fail. In and of itself that wasn’t unusual but, with someone directing them to make trouble for Matt, he was seeing another picture.

Instead of a lucky break followed by steady growth, he was seeing some sort of buyout followed by creating a hidden asset to be used at a future point when one needed to strike out against someone without leading too many clues back to oneself.

There was a chance they were simply a pawn of Griselda’s family, but Matt doubted that. While it was possible she was playing some convoluted game, her family wasn’t notable and wasn’t involved in research or development in any way, shape, or form, as their personal specialization was combat formations. That, and with the way she was trying to tie herself to Matt through this interaction, it felt unlikely she was behind or even a part of this scheme.

That didn’t mean she couldn’t be a useful person to know, which was why Matt put in the effort to cultivate the relationship.

He didn’t have a need for combat formations, but if he found himself needing it in the future, he had a personal contact already established.

Seeing the information did, however, give him a new idea behind Falker. Griselda’s family’s information had noted that while the majority of Falker’s guild’s shares were publicly traded, two of the larger share blocks were controlled by puppets of either Falker, or whoever was pulling Falker’s strings. In normal day-to-day voting, the blocks rarely agreed with Falker’s share, but whenever there was something that looked like it might fail, one or two of them would weigh in and ensure the proposals went through. Over the years, even a few breadcrumbs could paint a picture.

