Chapter 386

The following week passed far too slowly for Matt’s liking, but he understood it was a hectic one for his lawyers.

He hadn’t seen a single one of them drop below their maximum perception speed for even a second while they got the guild ready for the metaphorical war they were about to enter.

And war it would be.

Falker Industries seemed determined to prove that they had independently developed the engine with such fervor that Johannes feared they might have actually done so.

If that happened, they would be shit out of luck and end up not only paying court fees, but would take a fairly severe publicity hit.

He could already see the headlines: “Ascender’s Guild Viciously Attacks Innocent Organization Over Design Dispute”. It wouldn’t kill all of his goodwill, but it would go a long way to ruin the image he and everyone else had worked hard to curate.

Reputation was three quarters of the battle when it came to helping people.

Even if they failed, it would recover, but the public's overall impressions would be negative for a while.

Matt felt dirty thinking about it, but he knew they had counters ready to deploy if such an event would happen.

There was an easy counter to negative publicity— good publicity that people couldn’t help but talk about more than the negative. And they had such an invention sitting there in the form of Ra’thala’s easy-to-create skills.

No matter what his enemies tried to drum up, releasing that would erase any negativity from the public's perception of his guild, but Matt hated the idea of using that information like that.

The rational part of him said it was no different than combat, and using any and all moves you had in the most advantageous way was not only to be expected, but the only proper way to fight. That didn’t stop him from feeling like he was tainting a good thing.

But like combat, letting his enemies use emotion or feeling to control him to their advantage was foolish. Far better to vent to their corpses. If the guild’s reputation was ruined, less good would happen than his perceived misdeed of using Ra’thala’s skills strategically would ruin things.

As much as he wished he wouldn’t have to use that card, his gut told him his enemies would be ready for anything that had been in planning for a long time.

Still, there was a chance they could quickly push through the legal proceedings and come out with a victory that would destroy any plans his enemies had laid out.

It would just come down to the initial hearing the following week, and having pulled out the mortal clause, things were moving fast. But that was a double-edged sword.

If this was really a calculated move from his yet-unknown enemies, he expected they would be better prepared for a legal battle than his people would.

That was the problem with being on the defensive. They lacked initiative and could only brace for the next hit instead of striking out early. That would all change once they identified their opponent, and Matt could only hope they could figure out who was targeting them quickly.

Amusingly enough, it was Matt’s first time in the courtroom, and he was dressed in his Ascender’s robes as they were the highest-honor clothing he rated to wear. Though, they made him stand out in stark contrast to everyone else’s suits or low noble regalia for the few who had ties to such families.

If he had a choice, Matt would have preferred to wear a duke’s or a guild leader's many layered suit, or better yet, a simple civilian suit to play up the everyman image he pushed for his guild, but this worked in its own way.

Standing next to Falker in front of the judge’s bench, waiting with their lawyers, the contrast between each side was palpable, even if this was just an initial hearing.

A hostile news organization might try to play it as Matt using his rank and prestige to bully Falker, but the visual contrast spoke volumes.

Judge Hatfield sauntered into the courtroom fifteen minutes late with a congenial smile. “Sorry, sorry, my last case ran late. Is everyone ready for our initial hearing so we can try to avoid a lengthy trial?”

Matt didn’t need a reminder that this could easily drag on but he said nothing, letting Johannes handle the initial proceedings.

Both sides claimed they had created the engine first and implied the other was the thief while not directly accusing anyone of such.

After both sides had made their case, Judge Hatfield waved. “I have reviewed both sides' presented materials and proofs. I am no expert in such technical developments, but neither claim is obviously fabricated. I am, however, an expert in patents. And to avoid a lengthy trial, I will offer a split patent solution. The Falker Industries, as it is based out of King Rusty’s kingdom, can have primacy over their kingdom as well as King Frederic’s and Queen Tur’stal’s. Ascender Titan and Titan’s Torch can have primacy over the remaining kingdoms. Both patents will be set at the standard thousand years, as is typical for items slated for mortals.”

Matt frowned. Johannes had suggested that this was the most likely outcome, thanks to its quick, easy, and typically acceptable fix to such close patent debates.

Most corporations or guilds would be more than happy to divvy up the Empire's Kingdoms rather than potentially lose out on the entire Empire should the suit go to their opponents. It was less about what was right or just and more about profit.

Johannes stepped forward. “Judge, as a charity Guild, Titan’s Torch intends to make the patent freely available as per our charter. The typical price fixings required by split patents make that impossible, so we cannot accept such a judgment unless it comes with an exception to that clause. We ask—”

Falker’s lawyer snorted and stepped up to the bench next to Johannes, interrupting him. “Judge, this is a clear attempt to undermine the proceedings and our patent. Falker Industries submitted the patent first and simply wishes to do as all research institutions do and make our substantial investment back. If Titan’s Torch is able to freely distribute the patent to even a portion of the Empire, that will remove any incentive for local manufacturers to produce the vehicles themselves and instead people will just buy them from Ascenders Titan’s regions.”

Johannes waited for the man to finish while staring a hole through Judge Hatfield's forehead.

The judge ignored the silent rebuke. “An understandable conundrum. Does Titan’s Torch have a way that this doesn’t undermine the spirit of the settlement?”

Johannes kept silent until the judge waved at him. Looking confused, Johannes asked, “Is it my turn to speak now or will I be interrupted once more?”

Seeing neither party acknowledge his grievance but that neither spoke, Johannes continued, “As I was saying before. Titan’s Torch understands that our methods are not conducive to a typical guild's methods of recouping their costs. In the spirit of good business and fair play, we are willing to pay for expected profits to buy out Falker’s claim, so that we can make the patent freely accessible Empire-wide.”

Matt kept his expression flat, but he wanted to sneer at the offer. He had been very disgruntled when Johannes told him of his plan, and while he had agreed grudgingly, he was grateful to have been talked into it as Falker’s lawyer immediately balked.

“Our patent has the potential to revolutionize low-Tier travel for personal vehicles and such an offer would prevent our iterating and patenting of any future designs based on this current model. We can not accept such a blatantly unfair agreement and are offended by its very proposal.”

Matt hated that Falker and his people were assholes and unwilling to let their clearly stolen design go, but another part of him was glad he didn’t need to fork out a large fortune to buy back his own design.

That would have… rankled. Rankled enough that he wasn’t sure he’d be willing to continue playing this little game.

It wouldn’t come to that, as Johannes had been correct though, and they had immediately refused. That gave Titan’s Torch an advantage, as they could truthfully say they had gone well beyond the typical buyouts offered and Falker had refused.

Judge Hatfield looked between both parties and once more tried to broker a deal, but when both sides refused to budge, he was forced to wave his hand again.

“Since no agreement has been reached and both sides have what seem to be credible reports, including AI-backed oaths, we must go to trial and let a jury decide an acceptable outcome. To that end, I will schedule our first hearing for next month the fifteenth as is in accordance with the Mortal Exceptions clause for a speedy trial.”

Falker’s lawyer stepped forward. “Judge Hatfield, I have already put forth my official complaint about using the Mortal Exceptions and Deviations clause to rush this initial hearing, and I will once more lodge an official complaint about this second use of them. They are there to ensure mortals are not taken advantage of by immortals. Yes this is a device aimed at mortals, but that in no way shape or form meets the requirements for such a speedy trial as all parties involved are immortals. The Guthrie case shows my interpretation of the rules are most correct.”

For the first time, Matt witnessed Judge Hatfield’s seemingly endless equanimity vanish.

Glaring at Falker’s lawyer, he said in an absolutely flat tone. “I will not be told I do not understand the law in my own courtroom, Mr. Varni. You’d do best to remember that. As for the Guthrie precedent, I already looked into that after your protest last week. The Guthrie case was initiated by former Judge Wiseman, who was stripped of their position for favoring people he had connections with, and while the Guthrie case wasn’t one he was officially charged with collusion on, it was brought up in his hearing as evidence of how he was unfairly biased and willing to over turn long standing precedent if it suited him. So no, Mr. Varni, I will not be accepting your protest. I do, however, encourage you to report me for dismissing your protest citing such precedent. Besides ignoring that Guthrie's case being the most recent case of using the Mortal Exceptions and Deviations in cases between immortals selling mortal goods, it was an upset of a far more established tradition which can be seen in the protests lodged in the Guthrie case.”

Matt raised an eyebrow at Judge Hatfield’s firm stance. Johannes and his people had prepared several contingencies in case the judge ignored the precedent, but either he wasn’t as corrupt as they feared he would be, or he was smart enough to not make things look too biased and was putting up an act.

Either way, the maneuver bought a modicum of Matt’s respect.

With that settled, they were given a court date a week out, where they would start going through the bureaucracy of selecting jurors and everything else.

Surprisingly enough, that went through without a hitch, but their first actual day in court a month later, Falker’s lawyers petitioned and got an extension because their lead scientist had, upon the completion of his latest project, entered a rift to advance his cultivation, which immediately put a halt to the proceedings.

Johannes protested that the estimated time of a decade to a century before he would exit, with no way to tell for sure, qualified as an immortal abusing their lifespan. But the court deemed that for such a key witness, they would give a grace period of a decade. Hatfield’s reasoning being that while the mortal exceptions were valid, there weren't any actual mortals in the suit, and so he was inclined to give the scientist the longest allowed period to come out of his delve. If he still was not available after a decade, they would continue without him.

A decade was not totally unreasonable for a mortal, but the decision immediately ruined any budding good will Matt had towards the judge.

Matt considered just letting sleeping dogs lie and wait it out. The engine wasn’t that impressive in and of itself and wouldn’t really gain traction until someone else iterated upon it a few times, if it was even possible to work around the limitations of Travel mana at all. Not to mention how much of an advantage they would have on the slim chance the researcher truly was just delving and stayed away long enough to lose the opposing party a key witness, but what changed his mind was learning Gia Innaka and her whole team would need to remain upon the Capital ready to resume the trial thanks to the mortal clause.

It was the dichotomy of waiting possibly a decade for Falker’s lead scientist to exit his rift while demanding one of Matt’s best teams sit on their hands that made up his mind for him.

With things in limbo, Matt was free, as he only needed to be at the trial for the important parts like the initiation and closure, so he excused himself.

When Judge Hatfield asked where he would be so they could contract him, his answer was simple, direct, and must have set off a dozen alarm bells.

“I’m going for a walk.”

He refused to elaborate and immediately left.

And he did go for a walk. In fact, it was such a long walk it could almost be called a meander, and at the end of it, he accidentally found himself standing over the planet that Falker Industries called home.

Using some high level access codes he had as an Ascender that were never revoked post war to access to the Planetary AI, he found the rift that Falker’s lead scientist had entered and flew down to it.

It wasn’t inside the Falker compound like he had expected, or on their allies’ lands, but it was instead one of the local duchess’ personal rifts, not that the revelation stopped Matt.

