Unlike me, Gerel doesn’t dwell on his dark thoughts but simply accepts things the way they are, because he has long since given up on trying to become a better man. It’s a shade of resignation I know well, as I too have been stained by this same fatalistic acceptance, but Gerel has it far worse. He’s lived with it for so long that the emptiness has become a part of him, one he not only identifies with, but clings to because he has nothing else in his life worth holding onto, or at least that was the case until recently. This is who he is, Gerel, Warrior and Husband, and he wholeheartedly believes he is destined to fail as the latter, that he will meet his end on the field of battle and leave Yuzhen a widow, an outcome he almost looks forward to, because then she can find someone more deserving to love.

Before I can even come up with something to say, Gerel has already moved on from his dark place, or perhaps it’s better to say he was always there and is now focused on other things instead. A burst of pride pushes past all the anger and hatred, and while that is all I can read from his emotions, I notice that his pride is strongest whenever his attentions turn towards me. He’s proud of me, for some reason, delighted by my newfangled strength, and while I wouldn’t go as far as to say he admires me, his chest puffs and back straightens every time he glances in my direction. He’s… contented to see how far I’ve come, and takes no small measure of satisfaction from it, as if he had anything to do with it in the first place. I suppose we’ve sparred a good amount, and he was there at the start, but I have no idea why he’s so pleased by my accomplishments or why he would be proud of me in the first place. Not proud like, “Hey I know that guy,” or “I used to chop his legs off all the time,” but a more personal pride, like, “He’s finally living up to his potential,” sort of pride, something you’d expect from my parents rather than casual acquaintance that Gerel is.

What a weirdo. Thankfully, there’s no way he’s my father, because even though people think we look alike and sometimes mistake us for brothers, he would’ve been thirteen or something when I was born. Not impossible, but icky and improbable, so I doubt I’ll be calling him daddy anytime soon.

Or ever actually. Even if he is my father. Which he most definitely isn’t.

Truth be told, it’s easy to see why I don’t like him. He’s arrogant enough to believe it is his holy duty to fight the Defiled, and overly humble about his accomplishments, which comes off as haughty and imperious, as if he was merely setting the standard for Martial Warriors and those unable to match up were all failures. He’s antisocial to the extreme and makes no effort to connect with the people around him, not even those he meets with every day, and he prefers things this way. He lives his life at one extreme, pushing himself to the limits in everything he tries, so much so that he doesn’t understand how to dial it back. A spar with him is just a death match without death, which is why only the bored Warriors of the Iron Banner can stomach his company. Deep down, he doesn’t like who he is, but he doesn’t know how to be any other way, and though he loves his wife dearly with all his heart, he believes he’ll ultimately end up disappointing her and lives in dread of when that day will finally arrive.

In short, Gerel is me but better in most ways. He’s taller, more handsome, and radiates this chilling intensity which makes enemies and allies alike both fear and respect him. The only metric I’m ahead in is number of wives, and I wouldn’t necessarily say that’s 100% a win since it just means I’m going to end up disappointing more women than he will. That being said, I also admire the hell out of him, because even though I would never dare call myself his rival, I have always seen him as a Warrior to surpass. That’s why I always kept going back to spar with him despite losing so many limbs, because he was the means through which I measured my own progress. In my eyes, Gerel does set the standard for Martial Warriors everywhere, a truth I simply accepted because he embodies the concept of one in every way, shape, and form, so even though I never liked him, there has never been a day when I didn’t respect the hell out of him. Even when he was chock-full of Spectres and on the cusp of inviting them in for tea, I was still in awe of his strength and determination because any other person would have long since gone over to the dark side.

So while Dad is and always will be my hero, and Mila the person I wish to surpass, Gerel is the man who I will always measure myself against, because in my eyes, he is the ultimate Martial Warrior. A dedicated, hardworking man without any real flaws or weaknesses aside from his anti-social tendencies, which I can’t really comment on since I’m at least equally as bad, if not worse.

All this and more is revealed to him as my Natal Soul merges with him to share how I feel, and I sense his alarm turn to surprise, admiration, and gratitude as it all sinks in. “You’re a better man than you think you are,” I Send, using the language of the People to show my recognition of our shared roots. “A Warrior I am proud to fight alongside, and when this is all over, one I would like to share a drink with, if that’s alright with you.”

Oddly enough, Gerel reacts to my friendly offer with a spike of panic as he glances towards Dad and Sends something, who responds with wide-eyed dismay followed by palpable relief. Even if I wasn’t tapped in to their ambient emotions, I’d be able to read all this from their expressions alone, and I have an inkling as to why they would react this way, though I hope I’m wrong. A long second passes as Dad studies my face as he Sends something back to Gerel, and then both of them try to play it off as nothing by simply pretending it’d never happened in the first place, a status quo I would love to keep. “I look forward to that drink,” Gerel Sends, sounding anything but, followed by, “Though I’d much prefer a sparring match first. Would love to see how far you’ve come and if I can still take your legs off as easily as before.”

See, this is why no one likes him. He’s being one-hundred percent serious when he says this, which means he’s challenging me to a spar with the intent of dismembering me. I mean, yea, we tend to push the limits of propriety in our spars and have almost accidentally killed each other on multiple occasions, but that doesn’t mean I enjoy losing limbs and almost dying.

…though I suppose I can see why he might think otherwise. I mean, there were times when he’d cut my legs off and we’d keep sparring as soon as I finished re-attaching them, or I’d stab him in the gut and grin about it, so I guess we’re both equally to blame for this misunderstanding.

Whatever. Putting Gerel out of mind because his infuriating ways are threatening the delicate Balance of my emotional well-being, I move onto the next subject of interest here in Shi Bei. I came here to kill Zhen Shi, but seeing how I have no idea where the fuck he ran off to, all I can do for now is watch and wait. Much like Gerel, I chafe at having to stand on the sidelines, but unlike him, I’m unable to rein myself in. Pushing myself to the utmost limits and then taking a few steps even further, I settle into the rhythm of maintaining my precarious Balance for as long as I am able to while simultaneously waiting for my foe to show his ugly, wrinkled face.

Because the moment he does, I will end his existence by unleashing the greatest weapon I have at my disposal, and if that doesn’t work, I still have a Taddy and Pong Pong to spare, the former standing behind me and the latter hiding inside my man-bun because he thinks it’s warm and safe. Bring it on, Zhen Shi. Your days are numbered, for I am Falling Rain, and I have come to teach you the true meaning of regret.

Mm… too much? Maybe I should say something cooler, like, “This day next year will be the anniversary of your death.” Or go full edge and blurt out, “Omae wa mou shindeiru.” Then again, maybe it’s better not to say anything at all. I dunno. We’ll just have to see how it goes.

Chapter Meme
