He was one of the Irregulars who came to my rescue in JiangHu, hurtling himself at a wave of Demons with only an iron knife in hand. He had no expectations of survival when he did so, only a desperate desire to buy even a single second by sacrificing his life, a trade he thought well made. Today, he stands with Spiritual Spear in hand as a Captain of the Stormguard, impaling his foes as they approach while emitting a steady, sturdy, standard Aura of courage and conviction to bolster the hearts of his allies while vocally proclaiming that victory is all but assured with the Legate here fighting alongside them.

A sentiment echoed by Yazhu, a cobbler’s son turned Stormguard Banner Bearer, who even now refuses to put down the bow-tie bunny emblem as he wields his Spiritual Spear with one hand. Darting Fang, Pierce the Horizon, Skewer the Blossom, and more, his every thrust displays a different variation of a Movement which encompasses a wealth of hidden nuances he has yet to wholly understand, but he doesn’t even bother trying. Not that he has to, as he immerses himself in Insight and discards logical reasoning in favour of gut instinct and tactile response. Just as he was the first to sound the rallying cry in JiangHu, he leads his comrades from the front, driving them ever forward step by step in his eagerness to test his newfangled abilities and denying the Enemy purchase upon the parapets.

Shodo, Wen Na, Tengo, and more, the Officers of the Stormguard rise up to the occasion as my severed Natal Souls help further them along the Martial Path. Every member of the Stormguard receives some benefit, for they are more receptive of my assistance than most, because each and every one of them has the utmost faith in my abilities and believes I will lead them to a resounding victory once again. There is a power in faith that I cannot describe, a unifying strength and bolstering influence that affects not only those who have faith, but also those around them who lack it. The other Imperial soldiers see the Stormguard fight without fear, which is enough to ignite their courage and competitive spirits as they refuse to be outdone by a band of Martial Warriors who formed their Cores only a year ago, which sets into motion a chain reaction that has all of Shi Bei fighting that much fiercer as they embrace faith and hope upon the battlefield.

This alone is not enough to hold back the Enemy however, and while the rank-and-file Stormguard are lacking in personal strength, their commander and second-in-command are more than enough to hold up the Heavens for now. At twenty-eight years young, Lixian is by far the most promising of the bunch and it shows as he stands apart from his soldiers to draw the attentions of all Champions and Chieftains towards him. With Runic Shield raised to cover most of his hunched frame and Spiritual Spear held ready to thrust, his stance is hardly the most domineering around, but it’s difficult to argue against results. Block and thrust, that’s how most his duels start and end, with a single block and a single thrust. An amateur might see this and think Lixian’s opponents are all trash, but an expert would point out the precision and timing of his blocks and counters, for he does far more than just hunker down and wait for impact. The former farm-hand has a knack for active blocking, meeting every strike with one of his own to throw off his opponent’s sense of timing and create an opening for the subsequent killing thrust. Neck, heart, liver, and groin, these are his favoured targets, all fatal targets save for the last, but not even the crazed Defiled can keep fighting with their nether-regions impaled.

In keeping with the theme of frightening efficiency, my former second Mister Rustram had finally come into his own as a Warrior of renown, wielding his rapier to kill every Enemy who comes within range. A deceptively long range to boot, given his newfangled familiarity with Domain Plating and Honing, which he uses to extend the length of his thin sword and kill without even having to touch his foes. A skill he picked up all on his own I might add, without the need for assistance from my Natal Souls, so the only help I offer now is a quick top off of his Core. With Yazhu holding the centre, and Ogum, Shodo, Wen Na, and Tengo on the wings, their battle-line soon turns into a crescent moon, with either end pushing forward while the centre stands in place, creating a killing ground around Rustram and Lixian standing alone at the forefront.

Despite having distanced myself emotionally from the fray, I cannot help but personally lend Rustram a hand, because despite his outer veneer of calm confidence, I can sense his concern stewing within. The moment I see a lull in the fighting, I Send, “Sai Chou is alive and well,” and it’s heartening to see his shoulders visibly relax as he takes in the good news. “Shares partial credit for killing Mataram YuChun as well.” Concern and pride war within my good friend, as well as no small amount of self-deprecation, no doubt lamenting how he’s even less worthy of his wife now that she’s killed a Peak Expert who was well on his way to becoming a Living Legend, a sentiment I relate with all too well. “Just a suggestion regarding your new ability to solidify your Domain; it is a skill as flexible as your imagination can make it, so don’t get too fixated on this singular use.”

Advice which he immediately puts to good use by extending his foot to trip a Champion trying to push past him, except the Champion was well out of normal reach. That’s Mister Rustram for you, always using his head, and I would love the chance to tell him that he doesn’t actually need to extend his foot at all, or even create an obstacle using his Plated Domain. Cover the floor in Deflecting Domain and watch your opponents slip like they stepped on a banana peel while you glide across it with effortless ease, or use it as a foot or handhold to brace against in order to change your angle of attack. There’s probably a whole wealth of other applications for Plated Domain, to say nothing of the defensive aspects which I should really learn, but Mister Rustram is in the thick of it now and I can’t afford to distract him again.

Trusting in Mom’s hand-picked guards to keep her Disciple alive, I move on to other small successes on the battlefield and find my good friend Fung in low-spirits as he fights with everything he’s got. Not because of the actual battle and bloodshed itself, which he hates but understands is necessary, but reading emotions is not the same as reading minds. It takes a good few seconds to parse through his feelings to figure out the source of his despondence, but his actions tell me more than his words or emotions ever will. First off is his lack of poetry, which I only recently theorized might be his way of regulating his breathing and flow of Chi, but he fights in silence and suffers for it. Not to say he’s doing poorly, because with sword in hand, Fung is easily able to match any young Warrior in the Empire short of the truly exemplary stand-out talents, but today, he lacks his usual calm and confident demeanour. This does him no favours, for his greatest strength is his formless style, able to strike or defend from any angle or stance without so much as a hint of warning. Fung achieves this by keeping his shoulders and upper arms slack and devoid of tension, but he’s out of sorts as he fights here today, his muscles all strained and taut from apprehension.

It’s not death he fears, or even defeat, because he’s wholly confident of leaving Shi Bei alive, even if the worst should come to pass. No, my good friend is twisting himself into knots because he’s standing so close to the woman he loves, yet unable to express his affection in any way, shape, or form.

Despite being an easy going and affable sort, Fung is not without his pride, and in his eyes, Seoyoon has made her choice to reject him, so he will not go begging for her to take him back. That doesn’t mean he’s over her however, as nothing could be further from the truth, because he’s discovered that no amount of meaningless sex will ever make him feel the way he feels about Seoyoon. I knew he was down bad and tried to help him get over it, but I never noticed that he doesn’t want to be over it. He wants to win her back, by hook or by crook, but his ego will not allow it, because his self-esteem took a great blow when Seoyoon ended things as she did, and he knows his heart cannot bear a second rejection.

Not even a hundred meters away from where my friend stands, Seoyoon fights with a similar lack of spirit, though you wouldn’t know it to look at her. Visually, she appears calm, cool, and collected as she wields her twin swords with grace and aplomb, but inside she is just as big a mess as Fung is, if not more. Every time she finds a moment to spare, she glances over in Fung’s direction, and their eyes have met more than once only for circumstances to demand their attentions elsewhere, but there’s no mistaking the hope and expectation in Seoyoon’s heart every time their eyes meet, or the pain and disappointment when Fung inevitably turns away. Why? As far as I could tell, Seoyoon could easily have refused being betrothed to Yong-Jin, especially considering his relationship with Shuai Jiao is more commander and subordinate than father and son. They share a bond of trust and respect that cannot be broken, but that’s all there is to it, so while the world sees Seoyoon’s marriage with Yong-Jin as a tie between the Ryo Family and Shuai Jiao, those in the know can see that it does almost nothing to bind them, for the Wood Blessed Mentor and Disciple pair are nothing if not pragmatic.

So why would Seoyoon accept a betrothal she clearly doesn’t want when she’s head over heels for Fung? I mean, her brother was so against the marriage he refused to even participate in the planning, which was why he wasn’t present during Shuai Jiao’s trap of a meeting, so there must be more to this marriage than meets the eye, but I sure as hell can’t figure it out. Either way, seeing how the Ryo family was left to rot alongside the rest of the forces here in Shi Bei, it would appear as if Shuai Jiao has changed the terms of their agreement, or perhaps even decided he's better off without a Sword Empress to contest him. That’s something to mull over at another time, so all I can do now is dispatch two severed Natal Souls to the two star-crossed lovers and try to show them how much they mean to one another. “Remember who you are,” I Send to Fung, once I’m certain he has time to listen, “Tong Da Fung, the Great Wind of the Typhoon Brothers, a light-hearted and carefree poet and lover. She’s made her choice, but if there’s a man more charming and convincing than you are, then I’ve yet to meet him.”

“…And what happens if she rejects me again?”

In all our years together, I’ve never heard Fung sound so bitter and heartbroken, because even though I know he’s been broken up about Seoyoon, he’s never once mentioned it out loud. “Then at the very least, you’ll know you gave it your all and can continue on without regret,” I supply, knowing it sounds empty to a man in his position. “Sometimes, things are not meant to be, but you’ll never know until you exhaust all other options. I’ll tell you this much though, you’ll have a better chance of winning her over if you behaved more like yourself, and less like a sad sap who’s lost all will to live.”

Though there’s no reply from my good friend, I can sense Fung’s begrudging amusement and rekindled hope as his spirits lift once more, and his swordsmanship improves drastically as he relaxes and recites his first poem of the day. Over on Seoyoon’s side, she has yet to wholly understand what just happened when she subconsciously accepted my Natal Soul’s bundled emotions, but I can sense her spirits lifting as she looks over to see the man she loves in full form once again. That’s why she fell in love with him in the first place, not simply because of his dashing good looks and impeccable charm, but because of his carefree and lackadaisical demeanour which seemed wholly at odds with his superlative skill. This was a man who defeated the older brother whom Seoyoon idolized with all her heart, so when she dug deeper to try and understand how a no-good layabout could match the great Ryo Geom-Chi, she uncovered the little-known secret of how Tong Da Fung is, above all else, an upright and honourable man.

A rare thing to find in the Empire these days, especially in someone as talented and well-off as Fung, and she soon found herself swept off her feet by his silvered-tongued charms.

I hope things work out between them, especially now that I know Seoyoon isn’t as cold and apathetic as she appears. That’s just a façade, a front she puts up because she doesn’t know how to be strong and feminine like her older sister, and it’s just easier to feign utter indifference than walk the fine line between Warrior and woman that everyone expects from her.

