“If he wants to apply, we’ll consider it. But no. These [Knights] will do what they want. But some of them…some of them have causes here and abroad they’ll fight for. Tell me—what do you call someone who works for little to no pay, risks their life for something important, and is an expert, enough to make a difference wherever they go?”
She looked around the inn, and Mrsha was reminded of their conversation in the Mage’s Guild. A few guests called out. Relc raised a claw.
“A smart [Mercenary]? Oh wait, they don’t exist.”
Captain Todi.
“Gold-rank adventurers?”
Menolit raised his claw.
“Stupid Humans?”
He got a laugh. Erin Solstice raised her brows. She turned back to the four figures sitting across from her, and Ser Solton saluted her.
“[Knights], madam Solstice. [Knights].”
Then, a figure sitting almost forgotten behind the commotion and excitement felt the hairs on the back of his neck rise. Those shining eyes turned across the room, and a plain man in a cap, a ruffian of little-good repute turned from glancing out the window for threats as Erin Solstice looked his way.
“Yes. [Knights]. If anyone wants to join, I’m willing to accept them. Knight Orders didn’t always just take [Knights], you know. They took [Crusaders] and [Paladins], [Chevaliers] and more. Even [Mages]. But a [Knight]…is an honorable person. A good man. It’s a class upgrade for most. And I’ll make sure anyone who joins gets a suit of armor.”
She looked at Normen, and Dame Thuile stood.
“That is a brigand. A criminal. I know this. This entire event is riddled with unvalorous statement and intent!”
Erin Solstice turned to the Hydra Knight. She smiled at Dame Thuile.
“You are speaking to one of my employees. Normen was part of one of the most famously honorable organizations in all of Izril. Isn’t that right, Mister Knight?”
The Clairei Knight looked like he was about to swallow his tongue.
“To—some sensibilities—that statement is broadly correct. You cannot be seriously saying you are going to knight someone…?”
Erin Solstice pushed herself up. She turned to Normen, and the Brother froze in his seat. He stared at her as Erin smiled his way.
“That depends on what he wants to be.”
 
——
 
“Sorry for springing it on you. You can say no, if you want. You can also quit being a [Knight]. It’s not forever.”
Ser Sest looked like he was about to faint at Erin’s words. Normen? But for Alcaz patting him on the shoulder, he thought he might swoon over, and since Mrsha was standing next to him, he doubted he’d be caught.
“Erin, this is insane! How did you know all that? Did you learn it when you were dead?”
Drassi had come barreling through the door upon hearing the story. Ceria, Yvlon—everyone was gathered around Erin as the [Knights] watched and Thuile had a breakdown in public. Erin glanced at Lyonette with that knowing look…then an impish smile crossed her face. She flapped one hand dismissively.
“Nope! I asked Ser Lormel if there were weird [Knight]-laws and traditions. Old stuff has all kinds of stupid rules. You should read up on them some time. I used to do it all night long when I was bored.”
“What?”
The [Innkeeper] grinned mischievously.
“I was pretty sure I could fulfill a lot of the requirements, but it was all Lormel’s knowledge.”
The Thronebearer executed a smooth bow, a pleased smile on his face.
“Never face a Thronebearer anywhere but the field, I believe it’s said. A privilege to serve.”
Lyonette looked like she was ready to kill Lormel, but Erin turned to her.
“Lyonette, can you make Normen a [Knight]? If he wants to?”
“Me?”
The [Princess] froze, and Normen’s heart leapt in his chest. He looked at Erin and then at Alcaz. His friend was giving him a wide-eyed look.
A [Knight]. Him? The Brothers often politely ribbed the few in Izril, or mugged them, but…Normen imagined himself riding around in a suit of armor. Would he speak in thees and thous?
Or—he looked at Erin, and she spoke.
“It wouldn’t be like a normal [Knight]. You need training. And armor. Demas Metal or at least steel. Pelt can forge a set. A lot of the time might just be here. But if I need something, if I think you can help…it’d be like resting at the inn and then going on adventures. Do you think you’d enjoy that life, Normen?”
Slowly, he took his hat from his head and stared at it. Normen looked at Erin, then at Alcaz. He wondered where Pivr was. He had resigned himself to perhaps seeing the strange Flying Antinium seldom. But he had wanted to see those Hives.
He wanted to go to the new lands of Izril. A Brother couldn’t hope to survive those journeys. Not even Wilovan.
But in a suit of armor…Normen whispered.
“I don’t know as I’d mind, Miss Solstice. If I could gain the class.”
“You can. Lyonette…?”
The [Princess] tried to hide her expression, but everyone saw the reservations on her face. She didn’t have to respond—Dame Ushar cut in swiftly.
“Lyonette cannot knight anyone, Miss Solstice.”
“But Brunkr—”
The female Thronebearer spoke carefully.
“If Lyonette acted in…anonymity, that is one thing. Right now, she is a noted and recognized individual, even if her exact class is not on display. Anyone would be considered a Thronebearer of Calanfer. And as she has not the permission of the throne…”
She looked at Normen, and he bowed his head. He would doubt his candidacy too.
Erin Solstice’s eyes narrowed slowly. She stared Ushar down, and the Thronebearer refused to give way. The [Innkeeper] took a breath and spoke.
“Fine. In that case—I’ll do it myself. Normen. Do you want to be a [Knight]?”
She turned, and the Brother stood, looking down at her, because yes, she was shorter. But he felt like he was looking up at someone staring at him with two burning flames behind her eyes.
Like a ruler of Khelt, perhaps. Or just a strange [Magical Innkeeper]. Slowly, he closed his eyes, then opened them and nodded.
“If—”
His voice caught. With his helplessness. With desire, with a boy’s dream of being more than a piece of filth on the street who had to steal. With the crooked honor of a Brother who lied to himself that he wasn’t the worst in the world, that he might sleep.
“—If you think I could truly be one.”
For answer, Erin Solstice turned and found Bird, standing there among the crowd. She walked over and patted Bird’s shoulder.
“I knew a Knight. Long before Ylawes. He didn’t have the class, but I thought—he could have been one. He was an Antinium. Who you are doesn’t matter. If you are a [Knight], you are a [Knight]. Rabbiteater is a [Knight]. Normen. You can gain the class. Do you want to?”
Every Brother of Serendipitous Meetings in the world would later listen to those words, or the meaning. They would look up and think, even Wilovan and Ratici. For Normen Callesn slowly put his hat on his head and nodded to Erin as he tugged it straight.
“It would be an honor.”
 
——
 
So she took him out of the common room of the inn, but not out of the inn itself. Erin Solstice walked up, slowly, through a garden, taking her time because she was still weak.
But she walked…up a hill with glowing Sage’s Grass and yellow, brilliant and terrible flowers. Past a napping bee who crawled out to see what the fuss was about.
Up a hill, into the mist and statues. Normen had only been there once before, to her grave. He had felt—he didn’t have the right.
Someone was waiting for him there. More than just one person, but it was Crimshaw that Normen saw first. He stood idly, slouched to one side, as if he had been waiting for a while. But almost like he knew why he was here.
Those stone eyes found Normen as Erin Solstice accepted a sword that gleamed like red crystal from a Hobgoblin. She held it awkwardly and put the tip in the grass as she spoke, leaning on it slightly for support.
Four [Knights] watched from below, in disbelief, confusion, acceptance, and awe, as she spoke. The Thronebearers lined the edge of the hill as more guests watched from below. Erin’s voice carried to them in the breeze.
They gathered, faces turned up, like a memory. Moore looked up and remembered a frozen bier. The rage and despair that had haunted him—and now filled his veins like poison?
“Calm down.”
Seborn took Moore’s arm gently, and the half-Giant started. He unclenched his fists. He saw Mrsha turn and wave down at him, and he found a smile as he lifted his hand. Ulinde took Moore’s other hand, and though she wore a corpse’s body, the Selphid’s grip was reassuring to the half-Giant.
A loud sniff made the Halfseekers look over. Jelaqua was already crying again. This time, she was joined by Drassi, who was trying to speak to a camera-Gnoll.
“Jelaqua, stop crying. T-this is Drassi, reporting to you live…”
She was allowed to be here. The people at the doorway were pressed up, demanding to be let in, pleading. Klbkch came to a stop with Relc and looked up. Grand Strategist Chaldion glanced at him, and the Slayer regarded one of the leaders of the Drakes.
They both turned and looked up, higher, as the sunlight from an autumn sky filtered down through the dome’s center. Yet both Chaldion and Klbkch stayed where they were. Relc walked higher, and he found his boots crushing the soft grass. So he paused for a second and took them off.
The statues on the hill waited for him, like everyone. The most frightening and beautiful things of the garden. They stood for each person who knew them. Bird came to a halt and put a little flower behind the antennae of one of the Antinium. Then he pointed.
“See? Someone else wants your name, Knight. It was a good one.”
This was the place for such a moment. The air was still, but it hummed with expectation. Regrets…Erin looked at the statues, and she knew all of them.
Numbtongue stood next to Shorthilt and Headscratcher. Watching. If only there had been six Hobs. Six hundred.
A lifetime of regrets. A memorial. Erin stared at Numbtongue, and he nodded. For this moment might mean one less statue. They could only dream.
The voices, the people talking, all were a kind of background to the heart of a storm. A hurricane of gazes and desire and expectation, swirling around a calm void where the man knelt in the grass. Normen felt as though each second took an eternity and passed in a flash as he and Erin looked at each other.
An [Immortal Moment]. Enough so that the odd apron, her weak muscles, the entourage of a grinning Hob, a silly Gnoll girl with a bee on her head, and all the others felt grander.
Erin was burning. It was in the pupils of her eyes. Pink flame in one, and something else in the other.
Glory…and a second fire, slowly breathing itself into existence. Light green, like the open fields of the Great Plains. The endless horizon. But something else as well.
A Goblin’s smile. A figure in armor. The flash of green, holding a shield.
Flame like a Goblin’s honor. Burning bright. The [Innkeeper] spoke softly.
“Normen Callesn. I am no [Princess]. Nor am I royalty in any class.”
Lyonette started guiltily, but Erin went on without looking around.
“We don’t need such titles. Nor do [Knights] need a throne. They are traditionally associated with such things right now, but the old ways knew times when all that there was were memories. Shattered thrones. Dark skies and no kingdoms. A [Knight] is an idea. It is honor and duty and valor. It is a calling and a responsibility. In the ways of the oldest [Knights], I ask if you are willing to be a guardian of those in need. A protector of the small.”
Her smile was slight as she uttered a kind of heresy for the Terandrians. An idea for everyone else. Especially the Antinium and other peoples who watched.
The four [Knights] from farther lands could have objected here. Ruined the dignity of this moment. Protested with word, if not deed in this hallowed ground.
But they couldn’t. Not even Dame Thuile. They looked up—and the [Innkeeper] stood there, flanked by ghosts. No—the Hydra Knight’s eyes widened.
“Statues?”
They were different for each person. You saw only the ones you knew, most of the time. Some people saw nothing.
For a second, Thuile saw a gathering of figures upon that hill. Proud [Knights], their bodies stitched together, Garuda who flew through the skies. Even a Djinni with a helm.
Ghosts, in the company of an [Innkeeper]. Try as she might, Thuile could not make herself climb that hill and interrupt. The statues were just that. But she feared to interrupt their silence. As if they might come alive and judge her. They gave weight to every word the [Innkeeper] spoke, and the Hydra Knight put her head down and—listened.
The Brother was speaking haltingly. Terror was in every word. Not a terror of death, but something else. Failure. His head rose, and his hands clenched helplessly as he met the [Innkeeper]’s eyes.
“I…I am willing. I fear I’ll fail, though, as it were. And that would be a disgrace.”
Normen blushed at his poor response. He hung his head, but Erin waited until it came back up, searching.
“Everyone fails, Normen. The question is—can you try? Can you try and stand alone against a thousand foes? Will you run when you stand before monsters?”
He knew the answer to this one. Normen stared at Crimshaw, and his chin rose.
“I can stand until I fall forever. No. I would never run.”
The young woman nodded. And if you looked at her, maybe you saw how it was done. A weary warrior, bleeding on a battlefield, raising a sword before one who was worthy. That was all it took.
Ser Lormel, Ser Sest, Dame Ushar, and Ser Dalimont looked at Normen as Erin spoke, and they began to see it.
“Normen. Have you lived a life of honor?”
“I’ve…tried. I truly have. I’ve done things I wasn’t proud of, but there was always a line. There were rules. Or else I was a beast.”
The Brother of Serendipitous Meetings whispered. Erin nodded. Slowly, she lifted the sword.
“No matter what you do. Or where you go—will you vow to stay true to a dream? A dream of honesty, of doing what is right? Even if that dream drowns, will you reach down and lift it up? Will you fight when you must, and protect what you can? Will you be a Knight of the Order of Solstice?”
Normen looked up. He hesitated, and then his lips moved and a dry tongue tried to speak, for a second.
The [Innkeeper] waited, and across the world, a watching Hobgoblin wearing armor spoke. He spoke with a laugh of joy and said the same thing as the Brother—his brother in arms.
“I swear.”
Erin Solstice brought the flat of the crystal blade on Normen’s shoulder and tapped him on both sides. She managed not to decapitate him with the razor-sharp blade, then she gave it to Numbtongue and threw her arms around Normen.
