Mrsha wasn’t exactly interested in numbers either, but she had been hanging out with Aunt Selys and Gire. And what she realized was that there was a difference between the two.
Gire hadn’t been able to meet with Moore, so Mrsha had just played with him that morning. Gire was, in fact, working out the Ekhtouch tribe’s affairs and delegating budgets of gold to various tribe members, ordering them to link up and managing purchases of healing potions across the continent through proxies.
Selys also got mad when Mrsha messed with her paperwork. She had [Clerks], budgets, and income reports.
Actually, she hadn’t been able to take Mrsha in that morning either to avoid her watching Lyonette’s showdown with Lism. She was with Kevin in the common room.
“Well? What does it look like?”
Pisces was hovering at their table and sniffing self-importantly now and then, but he was struggling to keep up. Kevin frowned at the numbers and the circled ones.
“…Yeah, you need double-bookkeeping.”
“What’s that?”
“Uh—something from home. This is way too confusing, but I think that’s on purpose. Whomever this guy is—he’s making some of the gold vanish.”
“Woman, and I knew it. I’m going to the Watch.”
Selys slapped the table. Kevin exhaled as Pisces nodded hesitantly. He squinted at the list of numbers.
“It is quite, ah, adeptly concealed. How did you identify the thefts, pray tell?”
“Aside from the fact that I felt like I was spending too much gold? I…found these ledgers open on my desk. I must have been looking into them. See how I circled each bad entry?”
“Nice.”
Selys rubbed at her head.
“Yes. Nice. I barely remember it, but I’ve had a lot of late nights—”
Mrsha sniffed the ledger. It smelled like a rat. Well, the entire embezzlement was also fishy, so she let that slide.
In that sense, rats were better with money than Erin and Lyonette. Mrsha tugged at Selys’ arm.
“Not now, Mrsha. Aunt Selys has to go arrest a mean [Clerk]. What? Oh—the door.”
Selys knew what the fuss was about and grimaced. She’d explained to Pisces and Kevin, and the [Mechanic] winced. He stood up fast.
“I’ve gotta go. Before Erin thinks I can help.”
“Can’t you help her like me? You can at least put together numbers—”
Kevin backed away so fast he was practically moonwalking over to the hallway.
“No, absolutely not. I worked in my bike shop now and then, but I hate numbers. I hate them. I can barely do Solar Cycles’ work. In fact, we have a bunch of new orders for our big clients. The Empire of Sands. So, uh—bye.”
He vanished just as Erin turned from the discussions.
“Kevin! Don’t you know about—Kevin? Wait, come back! Oh, Selys!”
“Pass. I’m clearly not cut out to judge character, Erin. Excuse me. I need to find Relc.”
The Drake also got up, and Mrsha saw Erin’s face fall. The little Gnoll girl sighed. Lyonette had the Thronebearers’ help, but they didn’t manage businesses. They could negotiate, but it seemed, to her, that the inn was badly mismanaged economically.
What to do? She pondered for a moment, then brightened up.
Wait a second. Mrsha the Networker might be able to help out after all. Didn’t she know about someone who could help with business ventures? She scampered up to her room to find her [Message] scroll. Mrsha scribbled furiously with a self-satisfied smile.
 
——
 
King Fetohep of Khelt was reading. He was not happy while reading.
He had spent sixteen days straight repairing the damage to his realm, allocating new lands for the Gnoll tribes, but mostly—conducting diplomacy, a rarity for Khelt on such a level.
It was taxing, because, while he could write a [Message] or speak via spell while also doing paperwork, he had to pretend to devote all of his attention to a fellow ruler of state. But it was a certain trio of kingdoms that were demanding his attention.
Well, one in particular. However, his new expansion into Jecrass needed security, leadership, and restoration from the war. It was not monster-free, and the people were afraid of the undead. Worse, however…Khelt sighed.
The Claiven Earth and Medain. In fact, not just them, but several cities had, apparently, surrendered while he had ridden north. Khelt was now in possession of two kingdoms. The Claiven Earth were being very…very careful. He had not asked much of them, and they had not protested. Yet.
The armies he had sent across Khelt were fresh in everyone’s mind, but Fetohep was also aware many half-Elves had joined the exodus to Izril. He had to deal with them, but carefully. Simply…releasing them was an issue. There were many factors, but the half-Elves were at least intelligent. The cities who wanted to be part of Khelt could be dealt with.
Yet one man was somehow so…imbecilic that he was a worse headache than all of the other elements combined. Fetohep read the long [Message] accompanied by—he stared down at the shipment of spices from Baleros—a gift.
 
Your Exalted Majesty of Khelt, Eternal Protector of the Sands, King of Kings Fetohep of Khelt—
 
It was always a new combination of addresses. Was this hand-written? It was slightly harder to read.
 
—Your Obedient Friend and [High King] Perric would like to inform you that I have commissioned six statues in each major city of Medain. I have demanded their construction within the month, and I hope this small gesture will please you—
 
Fetohep groaned. He actually didn’t know what to do.
He said no parades; Perric threw him a banquet. He insisted on no banquets; statues appeared. It was even worse, because the High King was not a clever man.
If he were, he would have realized that Fetohep would have accepted statues of Khelta or Serept or any other ruler, but himself?
A month’s time? They weren’t even going to be good statues, and meanwhile, Medain would be looking upon the hated image of the tyrant.
“What does one say to a complete fool? I…cannot express the words in a straightforward enough manner. Perhaps a [Curse of the Dunce] would do when I pen my reply.”
He needed to cut Medain and the Claiven Earth loose. Just—Fetohep was reading the rest of the long address when a [Message] scroll flashed with new words. He looked to the side and saw it was one of his personal ones. Keyed to…
He read the brief message. Fetohep of Khelt raised a hand, and an enchanted quill poised to take his dictation.
“No.”
 
——
 
Fetohep: No.
 
Mrsha’s face fell. She wrote back furiously.
 
Mrsha: I don’t need your help, you stinky, lazy skeleton! Poo-brain! Creler-face!
Fetohep: I will draft a [Message] to Erin Solstice with the contents of your statements.
Mrsha: Have a nice day! Goodbye!
 
Well, darn. Fetohep was clearly a high-level [Mrsha Expert]. She couldn’t even get a rise out of him. Mrsha thought for a second and then thought of the other person she could contact.
Wait a second, yes! Didn’t he do math-things too? She should have asked Yelroan first! And like that, Mrsha wondered where he was.
Was he okay after the battle? She frowned and began to write a letter, then realized this [Message] scroll was keyed to Fetohep. She’d need to get to the Mage’s Guild, but that was okay.
“Miss Mrsha? What do you need, a walk to the Mage’s Guild? I believe Princess Lyonette will approve that. I shall go at once.”
Ser Lormel glanced over his shoulder, and Mrsha quite audibly heard Lyonette saying a few bad words to Lism. She almost wanted to stay, but Ser Lormel hurried her out of the inn. They were just heading down the hill when someone caught up.
“Hey guys…”
Erin Solstice had bisqued up and innocently avoided Mrsha and Lormel’s stare as Normen and Alcaz caught up. She put her hands in her pockets.
“Whatcha doing, Mrsha? Going to the Mage’s Guild? I see, I see. I’ll just tag along. Maybe Laken’s written me back.”
Mrsha pointed back at the inn accusatorially. Erin glanced over her shoulder.
“Lyonette? She’s got it. Let’s go. Right now. Come on, hup, hup, hup! I’ll race you!”
 
——
 
Laken had not written back to Erin, and the [Mage] at the desk visibly tried to duck down when Erin returned. But he took Mrsha’s [Message] with some relief as Erin tried to act…peaceable.
“Who is this Yelroan guy again, Mrsha?”
Mrsha wrote on a piece of paper for Erin.
“Yelroan is a considered scholar of the mathemagical world. I vouchsafe him as a good friend, if one with altogether too much style to be lumped in with the plebian academics. He has nice sunglasses. He reminds me of Saliss. He was working for the bad Plain’s Eye tribe, but then redeemed his actions by saving my life! He and Merish—of whom I have considerably less positive things to say—are the only two Plain’s Eye Gnolls worth a damn in my esteemed opinion.”
Erin glanced at Ser Lormel, and he dabbed at one eye.
“Such beautiful prose. Worthy of any Calanferian missive. I say, I say, well done, Miss Mrsha. Although I will note the foul language in the last line.”
The [Innkeeper] stared down at Mrsha’s beaming face. She liked her writing—Fetohep refused to reply if she wrote like this, though. He said it was ‘odious for a child to write so’.
Erin’s face fell as she remembered the tribe of doom-slaying Gnolls…that Mrsha had told her about. She had only stories, not lived it, but Mrsha still had friends abroad.
“The Meeting of Tribes. I always wanted to see it. Now…how are things?”
Mrsha sighed, which was answer enough. She shook her head and began to write. Meanwhile, a [Message] skipped around the world to a certain [Mathematician].
How were the Meeting of Tribes, the surviving Gnolls, doing? More importantly, now Erin and Mrsha wondered it—
What had happened to Plain’s Eye?
 
——
 
Yelroan was working when Mrsha’s [Message] found him. Unlike Fetohep of Khelt, he was not managing the affairs of his tribe.
Not anymore. Feshi had him doing his work for the other tribes at the Meeting of Tribes, taking lists of names and seeing who was dead and what was left.
But that was not the only thing the blonde-furred Gnoll was working on. He was the premier [Mathematician] of Izril.
Alright—the only one. So there were institutions aware of him. The Merchant’s Guild, for instance, hired him for the same thing Haldagaz had done for Selys.
Checking their numbers. Yelroan could, for instance, actually visualize numbers. It helped him spot trends and irregularities, but part of a [Mathematician]’s class were Skills that anyone could value.
“[Data Discrepancy]. Let’s see…it might just be a mistake in the ledgers.”
Yelroan’s quill circled an entry in red ink. He supposed a lesser [Clerk] might have this Skill, but he could tell almost at once this was probably only a bookkeeping error by an apprentice, not a systematic pattern. He was going to advise the Merchant’s Guild in Pallass to stop trading via their northeastern roads in steel products.
They were just not profitable. He’d done a comparative—and it was worth more to sell south, even to Oteslia’s weaker market forces. Manus was better, and Liscor was untried, but if the door kept charging the same rates, they’d make a fortune.
Now, Yelroan saw this based on the data, but he was aware there were surprises. He wasn’t a [Merchant]; his job was to take data, infer some conclusions, but mostly, present the data back to the employer in digestible formats.
He’d done that all the time for the late Chieftain Xherw and other Chieftains, so Yelroan wrote a brief summary with all the discrepancies he’d found as he packed up the files. Then he included his breakdowns of profits in their trading routes and his recommendation.
“[Message] for the Merchant’s Guild in Pallass. Care of Guildmaster Toiese. Ask them what to do with my files—store, return, or burn?”
Yelroan had a system. The Gnoll who had the [Message] scroll was one he’d worked with. She was…well. She took the [Message] without a word. Her eyes lingered on Yelroan for a second too long. Then she got to work, sending the data.
Store, return, or burn was common practice. Either Yelroan kept the data for use later or a City Runner brought it back—an expensive, slightly dangerous option. Lastly? He could just erase the valuable records, since the Merchant’s Guild obviously had their copies.
Some idiots only kept one copy and sent them to him. Yelroan shuddered at the worst practices he’d seen. He nodded to the message-Gnoll and retreated to his office.
His tent hadn’t been damaged in all the fighting. Amazingly, every warrior had just rushed past it or looked in, seen little to loot or destroy, and run on. Yelroan supposed that was a commentary on the value of numbers being disguised.
Today, over two weeks after the Meeting of Tribes, the betrayal of their entire tribe’s history, the death of his Chieftain and Shaman Ulcreziek, Yelroan worked with numbers.
No. He was not over it. If anything, he was working to avoid what he’d seen. If he stopped and thought about it—
He’d panic. It was a kind of denial, and it applied to the assistant sending [Messages].
What had happened—happened. It was hard to deny. But Yelroan sat in the Plain’s Eye camp. Or rather, what was left of it. He stuck a quill in an inkpot, ready to get back to calculating just how many healing potions the tribes used per month.
There was going to be a real shortage of potions. However, Yelroan’s quill scratched on the parchment.
“Out of ink? Damn.”
Yelroan cracked another inkwell…then another…then realized he was out. He looked around, bemused…and realized no one had refilled his paper sheaves either.
That was how he knew his tribe was ashambles. Just—no one remembered to give him ink. Yelroan got up slowly. He hesitated as he walked out of his tent.
The Gnoll who sent [Messages] had been placed next to his tent, so he spoke for a second.
“I’m just—heading out to get some ink. Do you know who has any?”
“Silverfang?”
She spoke after a second, her voice croaking with disuse. Yelroan vaguely recalled Satar talking about her free ink.
“That makes sense. I’ll be back.”
She barely nodded. He stepped out of the tent, and the sunlight gleamed off his fur. Yelroan looked around and inhaled, even now, the stench of death. But far away.
The blood was still clinging to them, even two weeks later. Not that many Plain’s Eye warriors were around. They were—split off, divided up. Some were under the care of other tribes. Others were serving their original subtribes in Plain’s Eye, but they were not a force anymore.
They could not be. The trust was not there.
Plain’s Eye was camped on the outskirts of the former Meeting of Tribes. A kind of…ragtag assembly from the great, organized tribe it had been. Many of their members were gone. More would leave, tomorrow, and the day after.
