They were not a tribe any more. At least—Yelroan doubted they could ever be. The name was tainted. Their very purpose was called into question, and the Gnolls who had lived through the war in the Great Plains had become the most hated people of the plains.
Yet they were alive. Alive and not butchered for their deeds.
Chieftain Feshi had seen to that. Adetr Steelfur, the other Chieftains had refused to let this become a second slaughter. So there were many Plain’s Eye Gnolls alive.
There was just one thing. As Yelroan emerged from the tent, he saw many Gnolls glance his way. Just—glance and sometimes stare, then, often, look away. He was used to it by now, but for once, Yelroan was glad his sunglasses hid part of his expression.
He kept his face straight as the light yellow, blonde fur on his body waved in the breeze. He headed past Gnolls sitting aimlessly around. Children silently mending blankets, braiding cord to make rope.
Even fletching, cooking—but almost all trade goods. They needed to make money.
After all—they had to live. And many of the Gnolls who’d fled had taken a lot of the tribe’s coin with them. The work of making an arrow, tanning hide, that was distracting.
Yet it was hard for the Plain’s Eye Gnolls to ignore it for long. Because, unlike Yelroan—the reason why he was used to the stares? The [Mathematician] felt his fur rising, even now.
For everywhere he looked, all he saw were white Gnolls.
Doombringers. No—Doombearers. Every single one. Yelroan was the one Gnoll with fur any other color; every other Gnoll had snow-white fur. They would stare at each other, and that instinctive horror would rise—then they’d look down at themselves and remember.
An entire tribe, changed by the Witch of Webs’ magic. Save for Yelroan.
That last bit wasn’t actually that surprising. Yelroan had essentially exiled himself from the tribe by opposing Xherw. If it had not come to the end, he would have surely left his people forever rather than be part of the killing.
Was he spared? Why had he come back? Yelroan didn’t know. He just…
Knew math. He knew this job. So he worked. And slept little, but to see that battle where all the treachery had come to light. And he did not wake with nightmares to realize this was reality, but relief that at least Mrsha was alive. At least—
It was over. Now came penance, and Yelroan was at least willing to earn gold so the Doombearers might not starve.
It also made his life easier. The Gnoll guards at the Silverfang camp recognized him, but if he’d had white fur, they would have questioned him.
Sort of ironic, that. White fur was no longer the symbol of cursed fate. It was now a Plain’s Eye symbol. A mark of traitors.
Not a great move for white-furred Gnolls, but the few that Yelroan knew looked relieved it was over.
Then again—they didn’t have white fur either. Qwera the Golden Gnoll and Wer the Wanderer both had brown fur, dyed, and both had declined to ‘go natural’.
Yelroan saw Qwera briefly while he was asking for some ink from a Silverfang [Packmistress], who gave him four bottles in exchange for a signature and note that he’d taken it. Silverfangs were organized. Yelroan had a meeting with Gaarh Marsh to give them a better system of keeping track of things tomorrow.
The Golden Gnoll looked exasperated as she stood in the middle of the Silverfang camp. She was loading up her caravans. A [Merchant] sold what they could, but she needed to buy as well, so she had a lot of artwork, valuables from jewelry to ceramics, family treasures, all loaded up.
A lot of it was Plain’s Eye. They’d sold it to Qwera to raise funds, and she was going to send it, probably to Drake cities or further abroad, for a profit.
In return, she had offloaded much of her caravan’s supplies, but her generosity had limits. She was snapping at someone as Yelroan headed back to his camp.
“I have given you every deal I can, Merish.”
“You still have that Pallassian steel. There is enough metal for more than one tribe in those ingots.”
“Yes, and I’ve promised it to Weatherfur, who will divide it among the tribes.”
“But none for us.”
Yelroan stopped and turned his head. He saw a large, familiar Gnoll, two hand-axes at his side, speaking with his head lowered to Qwera. A few Silverfang Gnolls were watching him, but Merish had switched sides at the end and had been the one to kill Xherw. For that, he gained a pass.
Yet his fur was white. That was the difference between them. Merish noticed Yelroan and nodded to him, and the [Mathematician] stopped, but the [Shamanic Warrior] was still part of his tribe. If anything—he was one of the reasons Plain’s Eye had not completely disintegrated.
“I am not giving Plain’s Eye ingots to forge metal. Ask Feshi for some or what the other tribes make. I’m entirely aware of how poor your tribe is and how dire this coming winter is.”
The Golden Gnoll’s own brilliant fur gleamed in the light. Merish waited, but Qwera was done. She turned away and shouted.
“Ysara! Are you done packing or are you going to dally here until your precious little sister appears on Baleros fighting Hydras?”
“I’m ready to go! She’s not doing that, is she?”
Ysara Byres was packing her single wagon. Qwera rolled her eyes.
“Not yet. Let’s say our farewells. Merish—”
She looked back at the Doomslayer with little love. Merish looked so tired as Yelroan approached, but Qwera gave him a single nod.
“You don’t have to keep being Plain’s Eye. Maybe it would be better if they did disband.”
“Even if they wanted to join other tribes and forget—we are white Gnolls. Someone must atone for what we’ve done.”
The Golden Gnoll glanced at Yelroan and then spat to one side.
“A shame you’re all wearing white fur now. But at least it’ll make the others less of a target if some idiots start all this again. Yelroan, are you really staying here?”
“For the moment, Miss Qwera.”
Yelroan raised a paw and nearly dropped an inkwell. Merish caught it, and Qwera sighed.
“My offer stands. I could always use someone with a head for numbers. Alright then. Off to Liscor or wherever! And about time, too. Tesy’s already raising hell in Oteslia.”
Tesy and Vetn were gone. Qwera and Ysara were moving out. A lot of Gnolls were going—but the remnants were still here, trying to figure out what to do. Merish turned to Yelroan.
“Ink?”
“I’m out. It’s nice to have Satar around. No steel for Plain’s Eye?”
“We don’t need weapons. We need—tools. And arrowheads. And any number of things. Few tribes can spare that even if they would trade with us. Did Ysara offer you a job as well?”
Yelroan shrugged self-consciously. He had always known he could quit his tribe and find a job anywhere from Rhir to a big city, but Merish hadn’t known that. Yelroan stuck with his tribe out of loyalty, not a need for work.
“I can always take her or anyone else up later. You need someone telling you how much you have. Are you still planning on a city?”
Merish rumbled in his chest as they walked out of the camp, back to their ragged mess.
“Yes. Most of the warriors are dead—even if all the other subtribes agree to rejoin us, we will need walls. In case of…anger.”
Reprisals. Not to mention Drake armies. Merish gestured vaguely to the west.
“Feshi has marked a spot westwards. We’ll set out soon enough.”
“Generous of her. We get to build a city or town right in Manus’ path if they come calling. Do you really think you can quarry enough stone in…”
Yelroan was no [Geomancer], but the flat Great Plains did not strike him as a good spot to build a city out of. Merish just shook his head.
“We cannot do what we’ve done. Plains Eye—no, whatever tribe we become, the white Gnolls here will need to survive the winter, first. And monsters, other tribes, Drakes—”
“Walls. Well, maybe some [Shamans] can raise the first walls out of dirt. I need to get back to work. Tell me if you need anything?”
Merish just nodded. Yelroan waited, and then he spoke.
“—You don’t need to be the one all the other tribes shout at. You…”
You killed Xherw. It made Merish less of an enemy to the other tribes, but more of a traitor to some of his people. Merish, though, just shook his head. He looked down, and Yelroan felt another chill on his fur.
Merish had taken Xherw’s axes. They were one of the few valuable things left that the other tribes had not taken. The [Shamanic Warrior] spoke heavily.
“Chieftain Feshi is not a cruel person. She is a [Strategist], but even she is reluctant to give us much. Yelroan, the other tribes will move away from here, those that don’t build their own settlement here.”
Out of the fort that they’d fought around and the Chieftains’ Tent, still hiding the secrets of Earth. Yelroan nodded. Merish glanced west.
“We have enough to eat and live off of now. Once winter sets in, if no preparations are made, tens of thousands will die with no one to beg for help.”
“Right. Well then. I’ll keep working on your budget. You need to find more [Shamans], Merish. Or we won’t even have dirt huts, even if we keep making more tents. Too many burned.”
It wasn’t cold, sleeping under the stars, unless it rained. Merish nodded, and Yelroan saw him walk through the camp.
Alone. Until the first Gnolls drifted up to him, and he gave them orders, which they began to follow. His sister, a little Lizardman letting a Gnoll girl cling to his back, warriors…
Somehow, despite the burden on him, Yelroan thought Merish looked better than he had when first he had come back from Rhir. His friend had told him that this, at least, gave him no more nightmares.
Just regrets.
Oh, a world full of regrets. The quiet Gnoll, as shellshocked as everyone else, blinked as Yelroan put an inkwell in front of her.
“Just in case you run out.”
“Thank you, mathematician.”
That was the first full sentence she’d said all day. He tried to smile—then he returned to his workspace. Yelroan stared at the inkwells, head in his paws.
All his ambitions for the future, all his dreams, the certainty of everything was gone.
This is what we deserve.
He knew that. But it still…Yelroan tried to count, blankly, how many gold coins they’d need. No—how many monsters might come calling.
That was when the Gnoll called out.
“Mathematician Yelroan, a personal [Message] for you.”
“Put it in my pile.”
“No…it’s from…her. The Doombr—the Doombearer. Mrsha du Marquin.”
Yelroan sat up, and his head rose as the first [Message] from that little, innocent Gnoll, found him. He strode out, read the [Message], and sighed.
 
To Yelroan,
Are you keeping well? It is me, Mrsha. I am writing to you in inquiries regarding your superlative mathematical talents. I have something of a math-related quandary with two dunces managing my inn and was hoping you had some insights into the subject.
Are you well? Is Qwera still there? I hope you are okay. It feels as though the Meeting of Tribes is so far away, but I still think of Chieftain Torishi, and I am very sad. However, I trust Feshi is in the peak of health, and I want you to be too.
You were nice. Are you okay? Can you help me with a math thing? We have a door that earns money, but Erin (she’s alive), doesn’t know how to make it earn money…
 
It was painfully ornate at times and also young. It hurt—more than anything. Especially because she remembered it all.
Torishi Weatherfur. Iraz Steelfur. Cetrule Silverfang, Firrelle Ekhtouch, Reizet Az’muzarre, yes, even Xherw and Ulcreziek Plain’s Eye.
Too many legends had fallen. Too many holes left in their people. Sometimes, Yelroan thought of what had happened, and his anger wasn’t just at Xherw—but at the Drakes.
Xherw had been a traitor to his people, made a monster, and tried to kill countless Gnolls. The Drakes? They were just—bastards.
He realized Mrsha had laid out a small business problem, and he thought of the door’s mana consumption problem as a numbers game. Not so much in terms of how to fix it, but deal with an unchangeable variable. Yelroan wrote back.
 
Dear Mrsha,
I am well. Plain’s Eye, or what we now are, is stable. The Gnolls are still mostly in shock, and we help out. Mostly, another tribe like Silverfang says it needs burial detail or asks for our artisans, and we work.
I’m still at my old job, to help pay for costs, mostly. Merish—I hope you don’t think too poorly of him—is keeping everything together. He thinks it will be a tough winter and is saving up. A lot of the subtribes fled, and we gave a lot of our goods and gold to the other tribes when they left. So you could say we’re now the poorest tribe in the world, but I’ve seen Greenpaw’s income.
I don’t know what’s coming next, but you gave me a simple problem. You’re going to have to get a deal with each city you connect the door to. Count each person who goes where—and they subsidize the costs. That means, if the actual cost of the door sending someone is twenty silver, but you only get paid ten, or six after taxes, they need to guarantee fourteen for the inn. More if you want a profit.
I can work out the average costs if you have data from Liscor. It’s not pleasant, but your only other alternative is raising prices to lower demand.
Frankly, I think Invrisil and Pallass will agree to terms. Their leaders will negotiate. Reach out to both of their offices. You want to go to the 6th Floor in Pallass and lodge an appointment with their Civic Management secretary. Entry or passports might help, but they mostly report to the Watch Captain, and this will need higher authority.
I don’t know who to go to in Invrisil, but try the [Governor]’s headquarters. If neither one pays attention to you, inform them the door is closed until you can come to a speedy agreement. 
I have sample contracts I can send you the wording on, but any Merchant’s Guild can probably do the same. Have Liscor’s send you a representative as a witness and get a Magical Contract, Tamperless-subtype. That’s very important. Then pay to send one copy to the care of Oteslia, and another to First Landing.
What that does is it means you have a witnessed, legal document proving the contract, so that if either city tries to not pay you or get out of it, you have a copy in two major cities they can’t change. Liscor will have one as well. 
That’s how to do subsidies, and if you can expand the door’s mana capacity or—I don’t actually understand what you meant when you said it runs on grass—you can obviously change the deal, but it’s not a bad idea to be paid by each city. Remember, you have a monopoly on the door.
