“That Grimalkin. He’s so preachy. Just because he…has giant muscles. I’m working hard! It’s not fun doing this stuff. I could do it twice a day. I guess. You know what he lacks? Bedside manner.”
Erin was in a bad mood after leaving the shop. However, the Sinew Magus had apparently gotten to her. Possibly not a diplomatic win, but a win nonetheless for the Drake.
The danger was always in pushing too hard. Too little empathy. Normen tipped his hat as he pointed towards Shivertail Plaza.
“To see about the door, Miss Erin?”
“Nah. I’m mad, and Lism hates me. Lyonette calls me in as backup if she doesn’t get the door. Then—bam! Wheelchair to the knees! Let’s head back to the inn. I’d say I want to tour the city and see what’s new—but I’ll do it on my own two feet.”
The [Innkeeper] was unhappy, and Normen nodded. He had seen the new parts of Liscor, but a lot was still under construction. It wasn’t all paved, so Erin would have trouble with stairs or rocky parts. Or crowds.
It was just an imposition to be in a wheelchair when it was such a rarity in Liscor. Often, Normen had to slow, and Erin had asked Ser Dalimont not to clear people in her way.
Although…as they had to wait for another throng of people, Normen thought privately that this was a case where the Thronebearer should do when she said don’t.
He was learning his employer. And she was learning about him.
“How’s it going, Normen? Do you like the inn? Want to go back to, um, being a Brother?”
“Not at all, Miss Erin.”
The young woman sighed and relaxed a bit. A gaggle of Humans were passing across the road, not yet used to Liscor’s traffic, hence the holdup. They got some glares, but Liscor’s citizens were not outright hostile.
“That’s good. Ishkr has you helping, right? We’ve got new Antinium, but we’re going to need to train them, so I appreciate it.”
“It’s all quite pleasant, Miss Solstice. We’re by way of being more security, but it’s simple enough to haul some water up or move some chairs or bags from the basement. Mind you—I haven’t had to throw anyone out on their head yet.”
“Oh, like a [Bouncer]? Um…yeah, that’s good too! Wow, Liscor is busy, isn’t it?”
It was, with more species than any city other than Invrisil. And even in Invrisil or Pallass—Normen had noticed it was one species who held sway. Liscor was rapidly becoming a three-way tie of Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans.
But not all of them would stay. Some were visitors from other cities. And some?
Liscor had been the place for Silverfang Gnolls and Cellidel’s Gnolls to come to. However—it seemed many of the Humans flooding into the city might not stay for Liscor’s growth. All three waiting pedestrians heard a swirl of conversation.
“—heading to the New Lands. I hear some people are just grabbing enough food for a month, a bag of holding and supplies, and going.”
“With what? What’s there to go to?”
“What do you mean? Some want to settle, found a city. Fancy being a [Governor]? Pickaxes, shovels—there could be buried treasure, shipwrecks—anything out there! If you’ve got combat classes, this is the time to go. But we’d have to leave now to be on time.”
“Really? I—I don’t know about going alone.”
“Entire Guilds are sponsoring people to go. I hear there’s a five-gold bounty on anyone with the right classes in the Merchant’s Guild. Not just guilds; the Empire of Sands was saying that anyone over Level 20 should contact their representatives to meet for an expedition.”
Normen listened with half an ear. Here was something else that he wanted—would have done but for this inn.
New lands. Just…pack up and go. Even a Brother might find a new life as a guard on the road.
It called to him. But Normen thought of Crimshaw and sighed.
No. You didn’t abandon what you paid in blood for. The Humans were excited as they talked, and Normen thought they were [Laborers], cheap builders for Hexel’s plans.
In fact, some of them were interesting. Not interesting in hair or skin tone—you got all sorts. But one had too much hair, if that made sense, that gave the impression of perhaps Gnollish blood. Another, the one tempted by new lands, had a personal pickaxe that was clearly enchanted with a frosted tip. To…break ground? Or just keep yourself cool?
And there was a young woman with a hand made of stone? Crystal? Semi-see through, like quartz. She hurried past as Normen blinked at her.
“What a colorful mob.”
Ser Dalimont remarked. Erin sneezed as some of the stone dust filled the air. She kicked the wheels of her chair, annoyed. Everyone else was navigating around the laborers, but she had to wait rather than accidentally hit someone.
“Yeah. I guess the new lands are big. I hope if any of my friends go they talk to me. It’s a shame the door’s not that strong…it’s so far.”
“Do you have any plans with the new lands, Miss Solstice?”
Erin looked up at Normen and, to his vague surprise, shook her head.
“Nah. I mean, it’s exciting but…I’m an [Innkeeper]. Liscor’s my place. I can’t see myself going, and I’m no adventurer. If the Horns or anyone else goes, I hope they’ll be safe. All I can do is make food. Speaking of which, how was the Bulkup Bisque? Did you like the name? How strong are you?”
Normen flexed his hand.
“I still feel as strong as an ox, Miss Solstice. Well, not an ox, but it’s like—[Lesser Strength]? On top of [Lesser Strength], since I have the Skill. You’ll make a fortune.”
“Yeah, if only we could sell it abroad and store it, huh? But hey, the inn will have an actual menu no one can beat. I just wish…”
I wish I could get stronger that fast too. The [Innkeeper] tried to push herself up slightly and fell back into her chair. They got moving at last, and she stared into the distance. Normen tried to cheer her up.
“It’s a magnificent creation, Miss Solstice. The kind of thing that’d get every Brother in the inn—not least for the gym!”
“Hey, we could do that! Workout and bisque.”
“Are you…sure?”
Dalimont looked slightly askance as he watched the crowds, but Erin smiled at Normen’s confused face.
“They’re well-behaved, right, Normen? I’m not opposed. If you want, invite them in!”
And that was why he was here. Because of one of the few people who’d say that to a Brother. Normen simply touched his cap.
“I’m sure some fellow’d be here tonight if I can pop out, Miss Solstice. They’ll love your bisque—”
Though they might need to take it to-go to avoid bringing trouble on her inn. But it might save his fellows’ lives. Normen smiled ruefully at Erin.
“It’s a crying shame that an [Innkeeper] can’t eat her own creations, eh? Like a [Chef] can’t enjoy their own meals.”
Erin nodded ruefully, then frowned.
“Well, yeah—I mean, Imani does like what she makes. So I don’t know if that analogy holds.”
“I meant, magically.”
“Oh! Well, Imani doesn’t do magic, but Palt gets high on his stuff. You meant me? I can totally eat what I make! It’s just that I don’t because I, uh, made horrible stuff. But if I—”
Erin’s mouth kept working as she suddenly realized what Normen had assumed. She slowly stared up at him, and he decided that it really wasn’t an act. Genius she might be—
But she really didn’t consider some things.
 
——
 
“Erin. What are you doing?”
Erin Solstice stuck a spoon in her bisque. Lyonette had been amazed when Normen rushed her back into the inn. In fact—Erin had demanded they return so fast that Grimalkin hadn’t finished updating his charts in the weights room.
He came out, saw her about to eat the bisque, and pointed a claw at her.
“I wouldn’t eat that, Miss Solstice. Remarkable effect. Would you consider selling the recipe to Pallass if we can replicate it?”
“What do you think, Grimalkin? And why can’t I eat it?”
“Because it’s a shortcut. We just spoke about effort?”
Erin eyed the bisque.
“Yeah, well—I don’t even know if it’ll work. And if it does, wouldn’t that be a great workout?”
Grimalkin made a disgusted noise as he watched Erin take a huge bite of food. The [Innkeeper] chewed timidly, then brightened up.
“Hey, it is as good as I thought! And you can’t even taste the spiderweb!”
Mrsha, about to sneak a bite, took a sniff of the bisque and decided to pass. She ran over to Grimalkin and began to pose in front of him. The Sinew Magus looked down.
“…What are you doing?”
Check out my gains, bruh. She made one arm and then flexed. Grimalkin hesitated. He patted Mrsha on the head.
“Very…impressive. Excuse me.”
He tried to get around her, but Mrsha raced after him. Okay, not impressed with that? She wrote and handed him a card. Exasperated—he was busy—the Sinew Magus took it, then hesitated.
“How is…Ferkr? Quite well. She’s leading some Gnolls back to Pallass, but my understanding is that she may be a permanent liaison to the tribes. A credit to her city.”
And to him, but he looked unhappy for some reason as he said it. Mrsha excitedly wrote, and Grimalkin peered over her shoulder.
“Is…she…yes, she’s contacted most of the tribes who remained on Izril. They appear to be—recovering. Not all the Gnolls were at the Meeting of Tribes, and the ones who avoided the fighting before the battle there have linked up with their people unmolested. I will inform Ferkr you mentioned her. What’s this?”
Mrsha handed Grimalkin a card with a smile. For a special friend? Grimalkin eyed the blank autograph card.
“…No.”
He flicked it back, and Mrsha caught it. But she wanted to brag to her friends! Then she heard an exclamation from the common room and whirled around. Grimalkin paused, then sighed. He walked back, and when Mrsha raced into the room, she stopped.
Erin was on her feet. The [Innkeeper] wobbled a bit—then slowly raised her head and took a few steps forward. She nearly fell, but caught herself as half a dozen hands reached out. She walked around—then did a little jump. It was still harder, but she walked—then she ran a few steps.
“I can walk!”
Grimalkin sighed slightly, but it was drowned out by the raucous cheering. The [Innkeeper] turned and wiped at her eyes. Mrsha threw up her arms, then tackled Erin and took her down, but the [Innkeeper] got right back up.
Beware.
In her office, Watch Captain Zevara got a slight chill on her scales as a [Guard] ran a message up to her. She read the note, then spoke as she folded her claws.
“I think we’re getting a bit poetic with our code phrases. Just…let me know what she does.”
The note read:
Chaos walks.
 
——
 
Chaos danced. It was never really boring in The Wandering Inn, was it? Relc came running into the inn with a huge smile on his face.
He was just in time to see Erin twirl across the room. She was doing an improvised dance—and so was Bird.
“I can walk! Relc! Look! No, don’t laugh—”
“Yay! Everyone’s happy. Do the Bird dance!”
The Bird dance was Bird waving all four arms in a semi-rhythmic fashion while spinning around in circles while walking. It was fairly hypnotic.
Mrsha was flailing about with excitement, but Erin had to stop after a second.
“Whew. I can feel that. I don’t think I’m doing any backflips right now. But look! No wheels! Take that!”
She kicked her wheelchair and then hopped on one leg. But the beaming smile never left her face. Relc grabbed Erin in a one-armed hug and laughed. Tessa poked her head out of the rafters as Klbkch followed him in—then Selys—then…
“Magic solves everything. See?”
Tessa looked around for someone to vouchsafe this to, but the [Necromancer] was still asleep, and the Hob wasn’t here. So she went back to sleep.
 
——
 
Now that really did feel like a return to form. When Ceria Springwalker heard Erin was walking, she smiled broadly.
But she couldn’t rush back to the inn just right now. The half-Elf sat back in the private backrooms of the Adventurer’s Guild. However, unlike other times, this was not a Gold-rank only area.
There were Silver-rank teams here, or rather, Captains. And of the Gold-ranks, only the ones who’d been on the raid or their proxies, including specially-warded scrying orbs, were present.
There were only three that the adventurers trusted to be even remotely secure enough to keep everyone from eavesdropping. Even then—
“Hi, Wistram. Remember me? You charged me eight silver coins for a [Message] spell your [Mages] ‘lost’. Where’s my money?”
Earlia peered into one of the scrying orbs, glowering as she hefted her warhammer threateningly. A voice echoed from the scrying orb.
“…Will someone get this idiot out of the way?”
Prince Zenol’s glower made Earlia blush. But yes, everyone did assume Wistram was watching. Come to that—Ceria eyed the Captains here.
Some, like Anith, were decent Silver-rankers who could keep their mouths shut. But their teams? Even Levil of Pithfire Hounds had talkative members. Ceria thought of her team, the original Horns, and wondered how long the details of this meeting would remain private.
“Hey, everyone. I’ve got some good news, so let’s get this over with. Settle down! This won’t take long. The arguing will.”
The other Captains turned as Ceria waved. She was still eating. She’d taken a bunch of kettle-chips with an entire basket of sauces and a drink to keep lubricated.
She was so casual. But perhaps that was how Ceria had wrangled any kind of agreement out of yesterday—and so quickly too.
Then again…
 
——
 
Typhenous was the representative of Griffon Hunt. His team was with Emperor Laken on guard-duty. They had debated heading to the Gnoll Plains, but Halrac, the veteran [Soldier], had made a simple call.
If Griffon Hunt went, the odds that they’d make it in time were remote. Secondly? They would almost surely die if they ran into a Drake army. They’d stayed at Riverfarm and Invrisil.
Waiting for Erin to wake up in case she needed backup. No one had expected Erin to fly off via pegasus. And no one could be more pleased than their team she was back and, apparently, on her feet.
Typhenous wished he could see Halrac trying to hide a smile. However, he was more curious about Ceria.
She had come into the contentious arguments and set all the parties mostly to rights. At least, the ones who could move the needle by influence. Elia Arcsinger’s team was the largest. And true—her presence had united the Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, independent groups like Zenol’s team, and others around her.
But how in Rhir’s hells had she gotten Elia’s team to shut up and back her? The half-Elf who the Named Rank adventurer had sent was no adventurer. He was a [Negotiator], and a good one who’d been pushing for a Relic-class item for her team.
