When you said, ‘I was at the Village of the Dead raid, and now I’m rich’, the guests in this inn tended to say, ‘okay, that’s great’. They didn’t buy you a drink or give you a star-struck look of wonder because they’d seen the team that went into Albez and slew Adult Crelers.
“Hey, Lyonette. Whatever happened to our door?”
Erin called out as adventurers began to head to Liscor to get back to Invrisil. She was worried Lyonette had been stonewalled before even getting to the Council, but the [Princess] just turned around.
“The door? The Council asked me to give them a day for all the arranged transits. But they promised to bring it here as soon as the gates open next morning.”
Erin’s mouth opened.
“…Huh? Wh—just like that? What about all the fees you wanted to collect?”
Lyonette’s face soured.
“For using the door? Councilmember Lism told me he’d discuss that tomorrow morning. Mrsha, dear. You’re going to get to play with Gire tomorrow morning!”
Mrsha looked up and then patted Moore excitedly on the head. She wanted to introduce one tall friend to another! She completely missed the adults’ looks of interest or reservation at Lyonette’s smile.
 
——
 
Presently, it was night and thus had gone another day of The Wandering Inn. Adventurers earning coin, friends abroad, and Erin walking.
Not a bad day at all by Normen’s calculations. Quiet, but dramatically quiet. It was indeed pleasant. He could see himself doing this for a long time.
Did he crave the new lands or feel some tinge of regret when he saw the adventurers? Yes. But the inn had a rhythm of its own. The [Innkeeper] led no charges in battle unless she did, but here…
Here things mattered. For instance, as Normen was eating his supper—he’d stayed sharp rather than eat with the guests—he noticed Erin walking into her garden, leaning on her chair for support. Normen turned to Ishkr.
“Can I help you clean up, sir?”
The Gnoll stopped with a huge load of plates.
“I’m fine, thanks. Liska will help me clean up.”
He glowered at his sister and the two Workers who were bussing the tables. She glared back and began pulling chairs and tables to the side for sweeping.
Normen didn’t know how the [Servers] enjoyed that kind of life. He wiped his mouth, stood up, and sidled over to the garden. Mostly because a certain little Gnoll girl, who’d made Moore promise to come back tomorrow morning, was creeping in after Erin.
“Mrsha? It’s bedtime. Mrsha…”
Normen saw Mrsha turn, notice him, then hop through the door. He grabbed for her and missed.
“Come on, Miss Mrsha. A poor fellow—or girl—keeps a lady waiting.”
He whispered as he chased her around the outskirts of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The new plants were growing nicely, although Normen wasn’t much of a plant person. Mrsha clearly wanted to run around some more, and the Brother obliged her.
They were quiet enough or Erin was preoccupied enough that she didn’t notice them slipping in behind her. She stood amidst the Faerie Flowers and Sage’s Grass at the top of the hill. Mrsha was wiggling in Normen’s grip, and he was sneaking back to deliver her to Lyonette when he heard Erin speaking.
“Whew, Numbtongue and Octavia? Who would have predicted that? I mean—it makes sense. But wow.”
Mrsha stopped wiggling, and she and Normen exchanged a look. The Brother blinked. So Erin wasn’t oblivious? And yet, he was almost completely certain the bisque hadn’t occurred to her without his suggesting it.
Erin folded her arms. She stood there for a few seconds, nodding, then shaking her head.
“I’m…I’m not having the talk! Octavia probably knows everything. Yeah. Alright, and Ryoka’s alive. That’s good. I guess I’ll find out what the heck she was doing later. How long does it take to sail from Terandria to Izril? Mysteries.”
She was talking to herself. Hyping herself up? Despite himself, Normen was a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings, and anyone on the street loved a secret. Mrsha was just a nosy girl. They listened, tip-toeing to the door when Erin spoke.
“Alright. Okay. Alright, okay.”
She took a few breaths and then let go of the wheelchair and thrust one hand into the sky as she planted her feet a shoulder’s width apart. Erin stayed like that—then she grabbed the wheelchair and shook her head.
“Nah. What about—”
She pointed forwards dramatically. Then she tried to copy Pisces’ thumbs-up pose. Mrsha was giggling so hard that Normen had to cover her mouth. Erin gave up in the end and just clenched a fist.
“Here goes nothing. <Post: Heroic Quest>!”
Both Gnoll and Brother stopped smiling. They stared up as Erin raised her hand.
“Heroic Quest: Zeladona’s Trial of a Thousand Blades! Receive the [Walk of the Swordmaster] Skill! A thousand people must participate! Survival not guaranteed! Reward—the Skill. Posted rewards—um—wait.”
A charge flickered in the air. Just like the first time, Normen felt something wanting to set his hair on end, but unlike when Erin had nailed the quest to the Adventurer’s Guild—it wasn’t quite working. The [Innkeeper] leaned on her wheelchair.
“Darn. I’m missing something. It’s not the conditions…it’s the reward? I know how it works, but I can’t give out the—huh. Damn.”
She sighed. Mrsha and Normen exchanged a look of silent awe. Then, Erin Solstice closed her eyes. She took a breath—and the [Garden of Sanctuary] went very, very quiet. Normen felt his arms tremble, and Mrsha stopped breathing.
“<Post: Legendary Quest>.”
Erin’s words hung in the air, as if you could almost see the letters hanging there. She spoke slowly, and Normen felt like each word was trying to insert themselves into his head.
“Legendary Quest: Destroy Rosh—”
She hesitated. Normen was about to shout at her. Don’t. Don’t post that quest.
There wouldn’t be an inn left. Not even if the entire Brotherhood were here. And the [Innkeeper] needed no Ulvama, nor Normen. She sighed, and the words faded out of the air.
“…Not yet. Not yet. Not that or anything else. Not—”
She turned, and Normen and Mrsha slipped out the door as Erin began rolling downhill. Silently, Mrsha accepted her scolding and went to bed, though Normen was sure she wouldn’t sleep easy.
Yes. This was why he was here. The Brother went to his own light sleep. Rather than this being too easy or calm, he only feared, even with his new levels? Even at Level 30?
He wouldn’t be able to do what was needed when the time came.
 
——
 
The next day, Erin Solstice was in more pain, but a healing potion sip sorted her out. She woke up, asked Normen to take her to the Mage’s Guild, and sent Ryoka a reply.
At the same time, she filed a request.
“Hey. Um. Do you know where [Witches] are? I’m looking for a ‘Nanette’. Can I send her a [Message]?”
The [Mage] had to lean over the counter to talk to her. The Drake hesitated.
“Do you mean a [Witch] in general? We don’t…just keep records of random [Witches], Miss Solstice.”
“Okay. But you have records, right?”
“Are you asking us to search through all the records of known [Witches] for a Nanette?”
“Yes. She’s on Izril, around Riverfarm, maybe? But she may have moved. Can you put out a [Message]-thing for all Mage’s Guilds in the area asking if she’ll talk to me? Say I’m, uh—trying to contact her regarding witch-stuff.”
“I suppose that’s possible. The cost will be…let me add this up.”
Erin interrupted the Drake as he fetched a kind of abacus out.
“Wait, hold on. Can I talk to Emperor Laken? I’ll ask him if he knows anything.”
“You mean—the [Emperor]? You can’t just send a [Message] spell to someone of that class randomly. He is on an exclusivity list. Even then, his [Messages] are vetted by his people.”
“Yeah, but I know him. He [Messaged] me, actually. Tell him I’m looking for Nanette.”
“You aren’t on his lists. I could inquire—”
Erin had to reach up to slap her hands on the desk.
“What do you mean, I’m not on the list? He talked to me! Isn’t that proof?”
The Drake was having a bad day. He had to confer with a senior and then groaned.
“Oh. You were dead, so you’ve been removed from—I have to contact Riverfarm’s Mage Guild and ask them to clarify. It may take a while—”
“I’m not dead! Just tell him I’m not dead!”
“Er, Miss Solstice. I’d hate to interrupt as it were, but this isn’t this gentleman’s fault, exactly.”
The Drake gave Normen a look of sincere gratitude as Erin hesitated. She looked around at the other customers waiting in line, staring at her.
“Classic Solstice moment.”
One of the Drakes, Menolit, of all people, chuckled. Erin turned beet red.
“I—I would like to inquire at Riverfarm. Thanks. Um…do you accept tips?”
 
——
 
When Erin got back to her inn, the portal door was being installed in Hexel’s room by no less than the [Architect] himself. Erin brightened up—she had been embarrassed into silence the entire ride back—right up until she heard the argument.
Lyonette, Lism, and the [Negotiator], Teliv, were having a duel in the middle of the inn’s hallway.
On one hand, you had Lyonette, flanked by two Thronebearers, the aura of royalty on her side and a [Princess]’ knowledge of negotiations. The Thronebearers themselves were as savvy in this field as any other non-combat profession.
On the other side—Teliv, a [Negotiator]. And Lism.
Lism’s stubbornness seemed to be winning. Teliv flinched when he saw Erin and tried to hide behind the [Councilmember], but Lyonette kept snapping.
“What do you mean, no remunerations? You’ve had that door running for months!”
“Yes, and we are completely willing to offer you credit on your taxes for the coming fiscal year. Ah, Miss Solstice! Your door is being returned to you. I hope you will remember Liscor’s tax on visitors, but we are delighted to return the door to its proper owner. We never intended to hold onto it, as you can see.”
The Drake’s smile was not being returned by Erin. She gave him a suspicious look.
“You’re being nice. What’s wrong? Are you not paying us? That’s illegal.”
“Indeed it is. Erin’s a citizen of Liscor. She had to pay her taxes—I demand a share of the profits. Not even half, but a—quarter will do for however long the door was running.”
Lyonette’s eyes flashed. She knew Liscor had funding from selling lands and their other recent economic ventures. They could afford to hire a famous [Architect] in Hexel.
Lism sighed as the [Innkeeper] joined forces with the [Princess]. Teliv was no help, so the Drake put up his claws.
“Very well, Miss Solstice, Miss Marquin. You win.”
He held out a claw.
“I believe that would be sixty gold pieces. We’ll round it up, but we’re two hundred and forty plus gold coins in the negative, so a quarter…”
Erin blinked at his claw. Lyonette’s mouth opened.
“You lost money on the door?”
Suddenly, it clicked. Lism glanced at the door being maneuvered into place.
“We did indeed. That damn door has been more trouble than it’s worth. I wish you the best of luck making a profit on it, but if you want the actual income—you’re not going to get it. For four months, we’ve been losing money on it. The only thing that even kept it from bleeding gold was sending supplies through.”
“But the fee for each person is six silver—”
“No, it’s ten. We upped the price to twelve, but then brought it back down. And even then, as I think you’ll find—recharging the door for all the foot traffic costs more than you can spend.”
“Impossible. That might be the case in Liscor, but Erin’s inn produces mana.”
Lyonette spoke flatly, and Lism laughed.
“You think so? There’s a bit more traffic coming through the door these days. Do you know how many Pallassians are willing to visit Liscor in a day?”
“No…”
“At least a hundred. How many can your inn sustain per day? And that’s just Pallass coming through one way. We’ve subsidized the costs against the business they bring. But we don’t make money on recharging the door. We’ve tried mana stones—that’s the way to bleed the most gold. It’s simplest to hire [Mages] to spend their mana on the door. You’ll need a rotation of at least forty. I’ll send a [Clerk] with the details.”
Erin and Lyonette looked at each other in horror. A hundred visitors per day? From Pallass? Lism was backing away slowly.
“As you can see, we consider it a public service, but we will be delighted to consider some credits in the future. Now, I must be—”
He was almost out of the inn when Ser Sest leaned against the doorway.
“Councilmember, please, have a seat! It would not do for such an important Councilmember to leave without refreshments. And as I’m sure Lady Lyonette and Miss Solstice would point out—the income of the door is still income, no matter the expenses Liscor chooses to take on.”
Lism cursed and tried to use Teliv as a battering ram, but Dame Ushar also spoke cheerfully.
“It would also behoove Liscor to negotiate for usage of the door.”
“What? We earn a tax! It’s implied we’re working together.”
“Yes…but what’s to stop Miss Solstice from recouping her losses by charging three gold coins per visitor? That would cut down on traffic nicely.”
Lyonette started breathing again as Lism put his back to the wall. He produced a quill like a sword and waved it back and forth.
“Teliv—get me our [Clerks]. And Krshia.”
They were squaring up for a battle for the ages. Erin glanced at Lyonette and whispered to the [Princess].
“…I really don’t want to be part of this. You handle the door, Lyonette.”
“Erin! You need to at least consider the inn’s finances! I’m managing it myself, but—”
—But the [Princess], despite acting as a manager for the inn’s affairs and finances, was not, in fact, good at high-level economics.
It was a realization that Mrsha had come to. She was trying to sneak up on Lism and plant a note on his back, but she had realized something of late.
Erin and Lyonette were sort of bad with money.
And it said a lot that a [Princess] of Calanfer was better than Erin. Lyonette at least counted the money coming in, but here was the thing—she was sort of, um, princess-like in how she regarded money.
In short, Lyonette’s funds went into a vault buried in the garden. The inn was the state or kingdom, and all proceeds went into the treasury. She then doled it out to vassals and could have really benefited from a [Chamberlain of the Coin].
Lyonette had been taught more to audit and make sure her council wasn’t mismanaging or embezzling funds, rather than how to use it. Erin? Erin just asked if there was enough to fund the newest project and thought that as long as more money went in than went out, everything was peachy.
