There was no flash of light, no thunder—save for the sigh that came from every lip. They gazed at Erin Solstice and began to stir, dreamers in a waking vision coming back to life. Erin Solstice embraced Normen fiercely and spoke as she let go.
“There. It’s done.”
“Are you sure? Does anyone have [Appraise]…?”
Mrsha’s flying kick of rage made Thuile stumble and go tumbling down the hill. Erin whirled around.
“If anyone doubts Normen—step up. A [Knight] is a [Knight]!”
There was no doubt in her eyes, and somehow, Normen didn’t doubt it himself. He looked up at her and rose, slowly. He felt lighter, not heavier. He felt as if he could run a hundred miles and lift five hundred pounds—okay, maybe three hundred.
“I won’t forget this, Miss Solstice. Ever. I’ll live up to this. I will, I promise.”
She turned to him and then Alcaz.
“You have time, Normen. And whatever you and Alcaz—or anyone—want to be?”
She looked at the guests, her new employees, and nodded.
“Yeah. I’ll make sure you get it. You need a trainer. And armor. And a whole lot of things—I don’t know. You know, Normen. This was easier than hiring someone to clean dishes.”
She gestured at all of the staring people, glanced at the new [Knight], and he nearly burst out laughing then and there. With exasperation as much as anything else. But then his breath caught as an Antinium fanned his wings and Pivr saluted him. Normen lifted a hand as Dame Thuile stared up at Pivr’s underbelly and shouted in horror.
Erin laughed. She motioned Normen down to greet his friend. The [Innkeeper] looked around and spoke to Mrsha and Lyonette and the others.
“It really is easier.”
“You mean—forming a Knight Order to solve all your problems abroad?”
“Not just [Knights]. We’ll recruit a bunch of people.”
“What, we’re not good enough, Erin?”
Jelaqua Ivirith scoffed, or tried to as she blew her nose messily. Erin eyed her.
“I assume you have your own life with Maughin, Jelaqua. I need my people. And I will make sure they have the best equipment! The best! Invisibility potions. Invisibility cloaks. Damn squids. That takes money, supplies, and someone organizing things. I just can’t do that, but I’ll [Knight] everyone. Not you, Mrsha. But anyone who wants it—or other classes.”
She looked about. Erin took a deep breath and felt that fluttering uncertainty again. But she knew what to do with it this time. She bent down, went to pick up Mrsha, and groaned.
“Mrsha, you’re heavy! I think the bisque is wearing off. Someone get my chair!”
Erin flopped into the grass, and Mrsha hopped into her lap.
“What can I do for you, oh mighty granter of classes? I would like to be a [Wizard], please.”
She held up a note, and Erin rubbed Mrsha’s head with a laugh.
“No, silly. Not yet. Plus, you only need a wand and a few other things for that. Can you help me with something? I want to offer Yelroan a job at my inn. Can you tell him there’ll be free room and board and maybe some of the Gnolls can make a living in Liscor or north? So—”
She hesitated. And the words caught on her tongue. Erin lifted a finger as Mrsha excitedly began to write and Lyonette looked concerned at this unknown Gnoll.
“Wait. Tell you what, Mrsha? Give me an hour. I need to work up a proper job offer. With numbers and everything.”
An actual job offer? Mrsha went tumbling down the hill in surprise. Erin sighed. Lyonette put her hands on her hips, but she was actually smiling.
“And how are we supposed to attract all the talent that even a Walled City wants, Erin?”
Chaldion was watching her. Erin blew him a kiss and winked. She looked at Lyonette and then gestured around.
“Tell him…I’ll do this for him. Tell him we’ve got a laptop and more math than he could ever dream of. Hexel will need help, and there’s trigonometry and algorithms and logarithmic numbers. But most of all? Tell him that I think we could do a lot of good here. I want…”
 
——
 
…to send people to help anyone in need. But she needs your help. Please say yes. 
—Mrsha
 
Yelroan looked at the [Message], then turned back to the scrying orb replaying the [Innkeeper] making a [Knight] out of someone. He thought of a laptop and…began to write his refusal. He was so busy trying to word it right that he didn’t notice Merish was there until the Gnoll read over his shoulder.
“Dear Mrsha, I’m afraid that I cannot in good conscience leave Merish and the others while—hrr. I see.”
Yelroan jumped. Merish calmly picked up the piece of paper and tore it in half.
“Merish!”
“You should think about it. If not there—then Pallass, or anywhere you always said you wanted to go.”
The other Gnoll looked tired. The new [Chieftain] met the [Mathematician]’s gaze, and Yelroan shook his head. But guiltily.
“I don’t—I cannot leave the tribe, Merish. You’re going to need someone helping you out.”
If he left, who would be there? But Merish just took a seat.
“A lot of the other tribes are willing to take some Plain’s Eye Gnolls who weren’t part of the Doomslayers and had no notion of anything. The ones who follow me will know what I’m getting into. It will be a hard winter. But I have spoken to Chieftain Akrisa, Chieftain Feshi—they are far kinder than they need to be. Do you know, Yelroan, what Silverfang did nearly two decades ago?”
“They sent Gnolls to Liscor. To earn gold.”
Yelroan spoke slowly. Merish nodded.
“They made a foothold in a city in case they failed or ran into trouble with their main tribe. They looked ahead to where Gnolls might flourish, and look at Liscor now? They send gold back and forth, to help start the city, and then support the tribe. You can earn more money somewhere safe behind walls, Yelroan. North of Liscor, white fur might not matter to Humans. It’s not a bad idea.”
“But you need me here.”
Merish didn’t deny that. However, he looked at Yelroan and shook his head.
“You are doing this to help me, Yelroan. Me and the tribe—but you’re not part of Plain’s Eye, are you?”
“I’m right here.”
“Yes. But look at this.”
Merish reached out and tapped Yelroan’s blonde fur. The [Mathematician] bit his lip, but Merish just shook his head.
“Xherw, Ulcreziek, and I never really understood you were so gifted, Yelroan. Take a job offer. Send money back if you want—but for once? Don’t let our tribe hold you back.”
Slowly, he stood, and Yelroan rose with him. He didn’t know what to say. He grabbed Merish’s shoulder and embraced his friend. Merish leaned on him for a while. But then he let Yelroan go and removed the last shackles on his friend.
You could be anything. Join the Order of Solstice. Become a [Knight]…and while the only member in Liscor had a lot of practicing to do and needed armor to fit, it was the first step. Perhaps only the [Innkeeper] saw it now as she tip-toed up on another recruit, a drunk and babbling [Swashbuckler], but she hoped everyone might one day see the inn abroad.
Wherever it needed to go.
 
——
 
[Conditions Met: Courteous Mugger → Courteous Knight Class!]
[Courteous Knight Level 27!]
 
[Skill Change – Brute’s Swing → Knight’s Riposte!]
[Skill – Knight’s Riposte obtained!]
[Skill – His Hat Held Wrath obtained!]
[Skill – My Cause is Just obtained!]
 
——
 
[Magical Innkeeper Level 47!]
[Legacy: Garden of Sanctuary, authority recognized. Key of Reprieve granted.]
 
She woke up with something under her pillow.
