Another day dawned over The Wandering Inn, and a few people started their day in very different ways.
The sun was welcome these days, if only because the fall was getting cold. Cold enough that Lyonette had gone down to rekindle the fireplace in the hopes that it would warm up the inn. She’d doubled up on her blankets—and grumpily stared at the snoozing Mrsha who, furry and warm, hadn’t been affected by the night chill.
Picturesque. That was how the moonlight playing over purple, orange, and green grass looked. A foreign landscape for Earthers—or even for those not local to this area.
Pisces Jealnet was up before the sun began to chase the moons into the distance. He placed a mostly-untouched Faerie Flower drink on the railing of Bird’s tower.
It was the only place to really stare out at the landscape aside from your window or the roof, and he was fairly sure the occupants of the third floor would hear him walking about.
Now that he was here, Pisces understood why Bird spent all his time in the tower. It truly did have an unparalleled view of everything.
A beautiful night until dawn. Pisces’ eyes were tired, and he thought—now that he’d spent so long awake—he might finally sleep the moment he lay down.
Of course, he couldn’t. Pisces flopped into his bed, lay there for twenty minutes, then got up and spent another hour in the pre-dawn light filtering down from the High Passes.
He wondered what Cawe would have thought of it all. Greenery without end, water aplenty—far too much of it. When he had described it in their brief chats, she had claimed that was what any rich nation was surely like. And had been so disappointed to hear Liscor was not that rich. A Chandrarian Garuda had thought of water as unto richness.
Had she gotten to see it, in the lands of the dead? Maybe just for a few minutes.
From Chandrar to Baleros, then Terandria. No, she hadn’t made it to Izril after all. But she had visited more continents than he. All while being pursued by…what?
Erin hadn’t told him. She had looked him in the eyes—and never said the names. When he had pressed her, angrily, she had said only this:
“I can’t tell you. You’re not ready.”
That had been the angriest Pisces had been with Erin since…well, since that evening at the Adventurer’s Guild. It had not been a pleasant evening. Even now, it seemed, every second he could hear Erin whispering the words. Pisces felt as if Cawe were saying it.
“Tell Pisces I kept you out of their chains.”
He was watching her die. Only, instead of Igheriz, it was—what? Some monster that even ghosts feared? Why would Erin not tell him?
More questions, and he had thought he knew all the big ones, such as her world. Now this. Was he relieved?
The young man didn’t know. His head was empty and overfull, fixated on that single sentence and unable to focus on anything else. If there were anything he was grateful for—
It was that Igheriz had died twice.
He had told Erin everything. She knew his story already. Another unhappy realization—that Cawe had told Erin all of what passed. Yet the [Innkeeper] sat there, leaning forwards in her chair as they sat by the fire.
No one was allowed to disturb them that night. Pisces had seen his friends watching, but he and Erin had talked. It was not the relief he had hoped for. Some of it was—but other parts just brought the nightmare back.
“What of Riqre? Did he die twice?”
“He wasn’t there.”
So, no. He wasn’t ready to fall blissfully into rest. Pisces was going to be shorter on sleep than before. For a while. Yet the [Necromancer] was already trying to figure out how to tell his friends what had happened.
And he would. If only because, at the end of their talks, as Pisces demanded to know who had killed Cawe, Erin had turned to him and made him a promise.
“It’s the kind of thing where the more people who know, the more dangerous it is. The kind of secret that hurts people. Once you reach Level 50—I’ll let you know.”
Only she could be so…upliftingly aggravating. Pisces snorted as he took a light sip from the Faerie Flower drink. That seemed to bring memory clear, but not take him into visions or delusions.
“Level 50. She says that as if I will reach it within a decade. One supposes I have been holding myself back from levelling purely by inclination. She says it—”
He ducked his head.
…With that aggravating surety in her gaze. Just when you thought she didn’t trust you or was supporting you in your fallibility—she looked as confident as the rising sun that he’d do it.
The [Necromancer] rubbed at his eyes as the first rays of light fell over him. Dawn. The earliest risers would be getting up. He saw a few birds rising and flitting about. Pisces raised his cup to a glowing bird—a Creona Flashbird, blinding its prey or predators.
“To the greatest [Pickpocket] in—twang.”
An arrow shot past Pisces’ hand. The [Necromancer] saw the Flashbird dive in a scream—then a flash of light. When he could see again, Bird lowered the bow.
“I have missed. Wait. What are you doing in my tower? I am Bird. This is my home. Are you replacing me?”
The Antinium peered up at Pisces. The [Necromancer]’s mouth opened as he saw the alarmed bird flying away.
“No, I was merely enjoying the view. Pardon me, Bird.”
“You…were in my tower? Enjoying my view? Do people go into my tower when I am not there?”
Bird looked unaccountably upset. Pisces grimaced as the Antinium stared around as if searching for tower-assassins ready to leap into his abode.
“I assure you, it was a one-time affair.”
“Affair? With my tower? What have you been doing here? I know the meaning of the word affair. You will not put one on my head. Or over it.”
Dead gods. Pisces fled the aggravated [Hunter]. Bird looked around, then checked the door to his tower.
“I need a lock. People can just wander into my tower?”
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet practically stumbled into his rooms, where he did fall asleep almost at once. Because of that, he missed the only other occupants of the inn awake at such an hour.
The Thronebearers and the other security.
Erin Solstice, even Lyonette, weren’t pre-dawn risers. The Thronebearers traded off by inclination. Shriekblade, Tessa, napped during the day and was often the nocturnal figure stealing food from the cupboards that had scared Mrsha to death when the Gnoll girl tried doing just that.
The sight of a Drake perched on the kitchen counter, eyes glowing slightly by moonlight as she stabbed a piece of cake with a knife—well. Good little Gnoll girls weren’t going to be stealing that cake anyways, were they?
So the nocturnal stay-awakers were in a different category from the real pre-dawn risers. Even with [Twofold Rest], it was a choice; most of the inn’s inhabitants just got better sleep than usual. Six hours of Erin’s inn giving them rest put them ahead of people who lived with only six—or four—or two hours of sleep each day.
A lot less midday naps required was the point. Only two goodfellows got up with Bird. And those were Normen and Alcaz.
What a strange time to be alive. Normen rolled out of his comfortable bed, and that wasn’t new. The Brothers had comfortable beds. They had lovely hideouts. They even had a generous hand with coin if everything was going well, and you couldn’t ask for more than that for a fellow who made a rough living.
—Or so he’d thought. But ever since tendering his partial resignation, Normen had discovered the joys of civilian life.
Namely, the feeling of sleeping in your own room, not a hideout, and that when you stepped outside, you might not have a target on your back.
Of course, he was now worried about someone putting one between Miss Solstice’s shoulder blades or on the lovable tyke, Mrsha, or the others. Yet guard-duty was not…being a Brother.
They’d thrown him a party. Just drinks and good company in one of the finer restaurants, and they’d all gone to one of the cheaper plays by the Players of Celum. Normen had been privately waiting for some…comeuppance for quitting the Brothers.
But they were an honorable lot, and the Gentlemen Callers had spoken up top. Mostly, Normen had learned—he and Alcaz had already been marked as dead. After Crimshaw had died and the chapter in Invrisil had taken so many casualties—anyone following the Tallman into a war and fighting Belavierr was probably dead. He couldn’t argue with that one.
Crimshaw deserved this. Normen stopped shaving with a bit of alchemical cream and a flick-knife. He stared into the mirror and around his room.
Not better than the Brothers’ hideouts or other accommodations he could afford. He’d earn far less than he might in a big job. And safety?
The inn was famous for being attacked. Normen had done the math on who might die in another Witch of Webs attack, and he was fairly certain how the first line of defense—himself and Alcaz—went. Yet there was a different feeling to this.
In the Brothers, you would get the call. One moment you’d be tipping your hat to a lady or gentleman on the streets, doing business in such a way that even the civilians didn’t look too afraid around you, although their kids were never present—the respectable ones with homes, that was.
The next? You took off that hat. And in the moments when your blood felt like fire and your heart was all you heard as you swung a club into someone’s face—you knew you’d be dead or breathing blood and relief in five minutes. And it was a coin toss on which it’d be.
Not a bad life. You could make it a while, and as Crimshaw had said when he vouched for Normen—sometimes a fellow stands for something. No [Slavers]. No harassing old folks or the worst of what could be done in the name of making coin.
You slept soundly in the Brothers.
In The Wandering Inn? Normen…rested.
“G’day to you, Alcaz.”
“Fine morning for it.”
The two Brothers greeted each other as they left their rooms, practically within moments. Not verbally—they mouthed the words and tipped their hats.
They were still Brothers. For now—it was all Normen knew, and he hadn’t lost the class. He was a [Courteous Mugger]. A man with a plan that involved hitting you until you lay down. He hadn’t consolidated his classes, though he had leveled up no less than five times in his adventure. Being in the Titan’s company and hitting [Soldiers] in battle did that.
He absconded with himself downstairs first as Alcaz prowled the upper floors. Normen didn’t go into occupied rooms, but he did go into unoccupied rooms. He’d do a circuit, check a few items, maybe straighten a chair, and leave.
He wasn’t a [Rogue]. Countering invisible foes was a hard, hard job. But Alcaz had a few tricks he’d shared with Normen.
They couldn’t use Seeme Dust or other expensive tools the Brothers would employ—not for long-term guard-duty. But a bit of dust just so meant that you could see it land where you sprinkled.
If someone were under the bed, for instance, even if they had a cloth mask so they didn’t sneeze, Normen might see the tiny bits of copper and silver mixed with the dust vanish or drift onto the invisible figure. Whereupon his foot would then connect with whomever was down there.
Was it necessary? Well—no. After four rooms, one of the Thronebearers emerged from a room she was checking and nearly ran into him.
“Oh, Miss Ushar.”
“Er—Ser Normen. Are you—checking rooms?”
“I…might have been insofar as I was having a walk about, miss.”
Embarrassed, the Brother tipped his hat, and the Thronebearer, Dame Ushar, gave a knightly bow. Both looked slightly askance—it was unprofessional to be caught out.
“What’re you using?”
“Just—grit and metal dust.”
“Oh. We have anti-invisibility charms, and we’ve been employing dust. Are you the reason why our [Trigger Runes] record recognized visits each day? We thought that was Shriekblade.”
Normen was entirely embarrassed. He hadn’t even seen the runes that Dame Ushar showed him. Not hidden in the doorjamb or anywhere on the floor, which he would have guessed. She flipped up a floorboard and showed him one written on the underside.
“That is—amazing work, Miss—I mean, Dame Ushar. I didn’t even notice it was altered. Do they teach magic to [Knights]?”
“More like runecraft for the purposes of defense. Each squad assigned to bodyguard has one magic-capable member. That’s me. We do still use dust, and we check glass for prints. But, er, if you are using silver, you may wish to switch to ground copper.”
“Why?”
“One of the guests—Miss Fierre—was complaining. Apparently, she is slightly, um, allergic because of an alchemical makeup she uses.”
“Oh. I see. Well, I shall tell my colleague, Alcaz.”
“If you wish to keep checking—”
Normen tipped his hat slightly and bowed.
“I can see when I’m outclassed, Dame Ushar. If I were one of the trickier fellows—I am not.”
The Thronebearers were good. Better than he was, and that embarrassed Normen to no end. He began to see why the Gentlemen Callers had encountered such difficulty.
They were not bodyguard experts. The Thronebearers were. Mind you—if it came to a fight, Normen would take the Hobgoblins over any one of the [Knights]. But if they were guarding the inn, what was his job?
He might have agonized, like Wilovan and Ratici, but Normen and Alcaz’s relationship was different. They were hired. They were—in no small way—part of the inn, not on contract.
Besides, Normen had found he had a lot to do day-by-day. So he decided he might do less rigorous sweeps per day as he headed down to the next part of his new routine.
And this—this was something the other Brothers had pestered Normen to get them. He was still in contact with his friends. There were a few, uh…in Liscor now, and he’d heard some might be heading south.
Which was an interesting development any [Guardsman] or Watch Captain would be really, really unhappy to hear about. But even the Brothers were in envy of one thing that Normen and Alcaz now had free access to:
The weights room.
Grimalkin had made a manual with pictures depicting how to use each set of weights after a few injuries. Alcaz was doing deadlifts as Normen strolled in and removed his jacket.
“Did you run into the [Knights] as well?”
They spoke, now that they were far enough from the guests to not wake them up. Alcaz shook his head.
“I fear I upset that Bird fellow. He was in a bit of a spot when I came into his tower, demanding to know if I was, er—fornicating with the woodwork?”
“Mildly hilarious, Alcaz.”
“I almost shat myself trying not to laugh, Normen.”
They smiled, because that was funnier than laughing. Then Normen began to lift. And he did enjoy that.
