Erin indicated the air, and everyone agreed that they personally knew Chaldion and played chess with him all the time as if that were a natural thing.
Crazy Human. The [Spies] were really listening here, and not just in a professional capacity. Erin laid out her Chaldion-themed view of people.
“Chaldion—he’s fun. Sometimes. He’s definitely smart, and you know, if he wants something done, it gets done. Armies? He can probably mobilize a lot of Pallass. The thing about Chaldion is that…you don’t want to give him everything.”
“Why not?”
Menolit sort of got her perspective, but he was craning his neck around, trying to understand. Erin threw up her hands.
“Because he’s Chaldion! You give him a Wand of [Sparks] and he’ll burn down someone’s house with it! He does…mean things in Pallass’ service. Even I get that. When I ask Chaldion for help—if I do—it’s always something he and I both want. Like less Raskghar eating people. But I don’t ask him for favors. And if he does something, it’s because he thinks he’ll get something out of it. He does everything like a chess game. Only moves that help him come out ahead. I would rather give…uh…Magnolia Reinhart a magical fortress’ coordinates than Chaldion. At least there’s an outside chance she’d use it for more than just Pallass’ benefit.”
My goodness me. Lormel mouthed the words as everyone listened to Erin’s spiel. Some of the spies of a certain Drake persuasion who were reporting to the Walled Cities were alternatively amused or nervous.
Especially because a certain [Strategist] was going to hear this. Erin was too annoyed to care. She poked her palm with one finger.
“I know this. Why do you think I don’t invite Chaldion over to play chess every other day, even though he’s the only expert within walking distance? I can’t even talk about my bisque without worrying he’ll turn all of Pallass into bisque-city.”
That one made no sense, but Menolit protested.
“Hey, I’m a Liscorian kid, but even I know the Grand Strategist’s saved the cities more times than I can count. What has he ever done to you, specifically?”
Erin gave Menolit a mildly outraged look.
“Nothing. He’s always nice and polite and helpful.”
“So…”
“So what? I don’t need to see him doing bad things to me. I can see the other things he does. The next time you see Chaldion? Any of you. Look in his eyes. Eye. After every Wyvern in the world attacked Pallass, he looked like he was coming to my inn for drinks. He doesn’t blink. I don’t trust him. I don’t want to be in debt to Chaldion, or the Titan, or even Altestiel or Ilvriss. But I also need…”
Erin rested her head on the counter.
“…more employees.”
Ah. Normen felt like this was the moment when a lot of observers captured the duality of Erin Solstice. The ability to read a Grand Strategist and the inability to hire someone to clean the dishes. Erin stared down at the counter and then around the Mage’s Guild. She looked at Mrsha, and the Gnoll girl had an exasperated look on her face. Erin blinked at Mrsha, and her face turned suddenly rueful.
“This is me, again. Isn’t it?”
Mrsha hesitated as she wrote a scathing critique. She peered up at the [Innkeeper] as Erin looked around, and it was familiar.
Her breathing was too fast, even if she was burning energy by standing. She felt…harried. A bit frantic. The walls were closing in—and Erin felt like she had a while back.
In Invrisil, to be precise, in a fancy restaurant as a bunch of [Actors] and everyone threw her a big party. Or at the Christmas party, trying to keep things together.
She was fighting off the panic attack, but it was coming upon her when she thought of the things she not only did not want to do—but felt she wasn’t qualified for. This was why she was an [Innkeeper]. She wanted to help that poor Yelroan fellow; she needed to find Nanette.
But not like this. Yet Erin knew that if she ran away, if she went back and invented some kind of Spell Soufflé—she would only be solving part of her problems. She could not go back to the way things were. Erin stared down at Mrsha, writing on a card as she stood on two legs instead of scampering about. Mrsha had even put on her kilt to go into the city.
She turned to Menolit, and the owner of Liscor Hunted peered at her. When had that even happened? Erin looked at Normen, and he stood where Crimshaw had been, where Wilovan and Ratici had been. Erin closed her eyes.
“Yeah.”
If she had time to herself, she felt like she could work this out. Unfortunately—her time was up. Erin had stayed at the Mage’s Guild too long.
She hadn’t realized it, but her being bound to a wheelchair was, in a way, safety. Because it meant she rolled along with an escort and could not move about as freely. The inn was a safe haven in the way only a nigh-impenetrable building with a powerful hidden garden and a Named Adventurer running guard duty could be.
In fact, despite her comments, Chaldion, Niers, and the other individuals Erin knew were part of the reason why people had not been tearing down her front door to meet General Sserys. But she was back, and the consequences were this.
“Innkeeper Solstice? Aha!”
A panting figure burst through the doors of the Mage’s Guild, and Normen whirled. Alcaz had his hand on a knife, but neither man drew their weapons—yet. Ser Lormel moved in front of Erin, but the team of five Humans came to a stop.
“Who…?”
Normen’s sense of danger spiked, although none of the figures were holding a blade. He recognized enchanted artifacts, and the leader had a wicked throwing axe to complement a battleaxe strapped to his back. He wore iron armor—simple, cheap—strong. Perhaps a tad cheap for his level, but his team had invested into their enchanted weapons, which each of them carried. He threw Erin a salute.
“Captain Derros of The Axe Brigade. I participated in the raid on the Village of the Dead. Gold-rank team. This is Gaineos, Berob, Camiw, and Zeb.”
He introduced the four other teammates. Erin vaguely recalled him from last night’s celebrations.
“Okay.”
“Ser, I regret to inform you Miss Solstice is on business. Please allow us our private space. Miss Erin—perhaps we should return to the inn? This Yelroan can speak via a [Mage].”
Lormel was glancing out the window, catching onto something, but Derros kept speaking as the [Knight] tried to physically screen him.
“Miss Erin! You’re the owner of The Wandering Inn, right? I have an opportunity for you.”
“What? What opportunity?”
Derros beamed.
“My team is just about to come into a lot of gold as part of our share on the raid. I am prepared to offer you a very handsome sum for a quest. Personalized to my team. Something, oh, that might reward us with a Skill or treasure? I believe you can do it—and I’m willing to recompense you for something suitable. Just the quest, not even completing it!”
Erin Solstice looked at Derros, and there was a stir from around the watchers. Her heart sank, and she saw the first natural conclusion of all of her actions thus far beaming at her.
“I don’t—I can’t just give you a quest. Captain Derros? I don’t know you.”
“Ah, but I know the Horns of Hammerad. And I’m willing to pay you for…whatever you might offer quest-wise. Not even a <Mythical Quest>! In fact, we’d like to start lower. We could trial one of the, uh—is it <Rare Quests>? And work our way up. I’d love to talk it over. Do you want to eat in one of Invrisil’s restaurants? Here? We could discuss it, all paid for by us, of course. What do you have in stock?”
Erin backed up, and the three men blocked the Gold-rank team. The [Innkeeper] looked exasperated.
“I can’t just give out the things I may or may not know. It doesn’t work like that.”
“Why not? Do you need a price on it? Uh—uh—forty thousand gold. For the right quest.”
Normen’s head spun despite himself. Erin Solstice blinked once, then her scowl deepened.
“No. I told you—I don’t know you. You need to be…”
She struggled for a word.
“…worthy.”
Captain Derros’s brows shot together. Now he began to look annoyed.
“See here, Miss. We’re a Gold-rank team. Do we need to prove our worthiness somehow?”
“No, I meant trustworthy! Ethically worthy! Not a bad person!”
“We do plenty of charitable cases. Ask anyone—The Axe Brigade is a long-established team which takes in criminal classes and reforms ‘em. We’ve got twenty trainees all ranked Silver and more in Bronze-rank. If you want our history—”
“No! Mrsha, come here. Let’s go back to the inn.”
Erin tried to back away—but the Gold-rank team was in the doorway. She was circling around them when a second team burst into the Guild.
“Wait! Whatever Derros’s offering you, we can match it!”
Another adventurer that Erin had never met before threw out her hand dramatically. She had…makeup? No, something closer to exaggerated face-paint, and her clothes were colorful and flashy.
“The [Fools] of Fortune have arrived! To bid on a quest!”
Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Derros instantly swung a fist at the [Fool].
“You Silver-rank idiots. Get away from—oh shit.”
It was a cuffing blow meant to miss, but somehow the woman walked straight into the fist. It sent her sprawling to the ground, and three figures running after her tripped up on her and went sprawling to the ground.
“My face! He’s broken my face!”
The [Fool] screamed. Derros swore as he reached for a potion.
“That was an accident! Don’t call the Watch—”
He was offering the potion when the [Fool] sprang up.
“Aha! Acting! I auditioned for the Players of Celum, Miss Solstice! Even a Gold-rank team can be laid low! Give us the chance the Players of Celum never did, I beg you!”
She swept a leg, and Derros landed on his back. The [Fool] put a foot on his chest and then fled backwards as The Axe Brigade turned on them.
Erin’s mouth was still open. Mrsha was applauding her new favorite team. Most of the Mage’s Guild was chuckling now, watching the chaos. Menolit was whispering to the [Mage] on duty.
“Five silver says your guild explodes somehow. Chair, window, entire thing. Give me six-to-one odds. It’s good money for you, but I’ve won…twice.”
Erin backed away from the [Fool], running from Derros and his team as they tried to get to Erin. It was funny for everyone—
Except Normen and Alcaz. Lormel too, but he didn’t recognize the Fools of Fortune.
Normen did. He recognized folks from the street when they walked in, and this Silver-rank team might not have enchanted blades on par with The Axe Brigade—but Normen was sweating.
Knife-fighters. They could gut you from chin to groin in a flash.
“The fucking Parade gang’s members. Back off.”
Alcaz hissed, his blade half out as he thrust a palm out. One of the [Fools] laughed.
“Oh—whoops. Brothers! Shh! Don’t alarm the civilians! We’re reformed! We quit!”
Parade was like the Assassin’s Guild—but a lot less covert. There was nothing quite as nasty as a bunch of [Fools] laughing and dancing down the street suddenly surrounding you and knifing you two dozen times before pretending you’d ‘fallen down’. They didn’t hold territory—gangs hired them to off each other.
Mrsha stopped looking excited and backed off as her sharp ears caught the whispers. The [Fools] and Gold-rank adventurers were still trying to get to Erin.
“Out the back doors. This way, Miss Solstice.”
Normen didn’t even see how Lormel found the back doors, but the [Knight] apparently knew where they were. He blocked off the hall as Erin backed out the door. Normen followed, embarrassed, as Alcaz helped stymie the teams.
Damn it. Once again, Normen was reminded that the Brothers didn’t do protection. He really was behind the Thronebearers.
“Thanks, Normen. I guess Lyonette was right. I need you guys around. Let’s go to the inn.”
The adventurers were now trying to get out of the building, but it sounded like they were busy fighting each other.
“Summon the Watch!”
…And that would slow them down more. Normen sighed as he and Erin hurried down a street. The [Innkeeper] could barely go above a fast walk—she looked tired.
“Don’t pull me, Mrsha! Even with the power of bisque, I can’t run! Darn. I wanted to ask Yelroan more questions. Maybe Typhenous for Riverfarm. Lormel’s actually sort of impressive. Too bad they’re on loan from Calanfer, eh?”
Mrsha gave Erin a grudging nod. Normen saw Lormel exit the guild and run after them. He panted to Normen as he caught up.
“Your friend, Alcaz, got tangled with the Gold-rank teams. He’s fine—”
Lormel winced at the loud voices and crashing behind him.
“—I think. It’s just a fistfight.”
Erin opened her mouth. But Normen blurted his question in frank disbelief.
“How did you get out, Ser Lormel?”
Alcaz was a knife-expert, and Lormel was…well, no offense, but without armor, Normen would bet his life savings on his friend every day of the week. Ser Lormel gave Normen a slightly embarrassed smile.
“I know when not to raise my fists, sir. A fellow in armor isn’t much of a target if he backs away.”
A completely different attitude towards the fight. Normen nodded and resolved to work out how to change their methods with Alcaz. They were just heading down main street when the third group caught them.
“Horse shit eatin’ slimes on a corpse pile.”
The Brother of Serendipitous Meeting lost his temper. Entirely unprofessional, but Mrsha’s look of awed respect almost made it worth it. Crimshaw would have cuffed him on the head—but even the older man would have probably said something similar.
…Because four [Knights] were headed straight towards them. And one of them was pointing at Erin Solstice.
“There she is. Pray thee halt, company! We require an urgent conversation on the manners of knightly affairs!”
They were each wearing a different kind of armor. One looked—fast. He was on a horse and had green and cobalt armor. Normen vaguely recognized him as Izrilian.
A second had armor in black and purple—Ser Lormel tensed up. Another? Light purple and green. The last was completely different from the other two; he was helmetless, had what looked like a scale and bag of coin on his chest, and he seemed older than the others by far. He also had a bag of holding on prominent display.
The Order of the Clairei Fields of Izril, the fastest Izrilian [Knights]. A member of the Order of the Hydra, and another from the Thirsting Veil of Ailendamus. Lastly? One of the Order of Haegris, a Haggle Knight of Terandria.
“A Thronebearer of Calanfer!”
The Hydra Knight spotted Ser Lormel, and her imperious tone changed to hostility at once. Lormel cursed. He raised a speaking stone to his lips.
