“I hate doing things like this. Really—I do. It’s so—uncertain. D’you know why I like chess? Chess has a lot of variables, and you have to think ahead. But no one dies if I mess up a chess game. It’s all just pride and scores. That’s okay. This?”
She looked morosely at him.
“…If I’d have known the Horns would go into the Village of the Dead for me, I’d—I wouldn’t have lived with myself if they died. I don’t want to get you killed or ask someone to die for me. Even if it’s people I don’t know via Niers.”
Normen looked around. He spotted a Drake sitting at a table with one gemstone eye flashing. Chaldion might have been trying to read their lips, but Palt had been running interference, and the Drake looked annoyed.
Possibly hurt by Erin’s comments this evening. The [Innkeeper] sighed, and Normen tipped his hat.
“It’s a decision we can all make. Myself, Alcaz—we’re ready for the call. Not eager, but if it’s the right reason, it’s why Crimshaw stayed. He could have run. He knew how to get out of any scrape, but he didn’t. Sometimes, Miss Erin. Things are worth putting down your hat for.”
Erin’s eyes shimmered as she met Normen’s gaze. She wiped her eyes.
“You—and that’s what they told me. They told me, when I didn’t want to do this. Yep. Even if I don’t want it—you’ll all do it yourselves. I’ve got crazy adventurers, and I’m going to get into trouble.”
“Who said what?”
The [Innkeeper] found a handkerchief and blew her nose.
“Oh—ghosts. Alright. I guess—I’ve got to do this.”
She stood up and glanced at Normen. He shifted uneasily, because Erin’s eyes looked straight at him.
She didn’t see a man in a hat. Nor a Brother. He had the feeling she was looking straight at him and seeing something even he couldn’t in a mirror. It was unnerving and intoxicating. Why he wanted to be here.
Because she saw something more than a criminal on the streets. The Gentlemen Callers, the Brothers…Erin whispered.
“Normen. I have an idea. Stick by me, would you? You don’t have to agree, but hear me out?”
His hat was on the table. Normen put it on and adjusted it.
“Always. What am I doing?”
Erin Solstice looked around, and her eyes alit on someone as the [Knights] waited for her. She pointed, and the figure rose uncertainly.
“First? Get me Ser Lormel.”
 
——
 
It was safe to say this was probably being broadcast, recorded, or watched in some way. The inn had guests, from Menolit to newcomers, and the [Knights] would report home. Even if Wistram News Network were not in this room—this would be news.
Moreover, it was also safe to assume that the inquiry from the four [Knights] was hostile to Rabbiteater in some way. Ser Solton and the Clairei Fields representative were more neutral parties, but two from Ailendamus?
If the Order of Solstice did not, in fact, exist, or if it were scandalous, it could reflect poorly on the Goblin Slayer abroad. At the very least, it was knightly-politics.
Knight-Captain Lotorghast didn’t even pretend, to his credit.
“A new Order of [Knights] is no light thing, Miss Solstice, hence our concern. Even new orders, like the Knights of the Petal in service to House Walchaís, required substantial representation, as well as the credentials of the esteemed [Chevalier]. One cannot claim representation in an unofficial order.”
“But Ser Solstice is a [Knight]. I don’t see the problem.”
Erin pointed out reasonably. Lotorghast nodded.
“That is not under question. A [Knight] is a [Knight], even if some Orders would take issue with such a simplistic analysis…we are not so fastidious. We would simply like to know if the Order of Solstice exists.”
“And meet with their membership. Peaceably. Again—this is all a huge misunderstanding.”
Ser Solton added. Erin sort of liked him. Not only was he intelligent enough to try bribing Mrsha with some of his loaded baked potato, he had checked his drink after Dame Thuile’s mishap.
Erin frowned as Ser Lormel stood there, backing her up as a member of the Thronebearers. Lyonette watched anxiously.
Please don’t say anything stupid. Please don’t say anything—
“The Order of Solstice? It totally exists. Ser Solstice, um—takes his name from the order! Anonymity and stuff. I’m not affiliated with the order per se, but I guess they liked my name? I’m like—a friend of the order. Which exists.”
All four [Knights] exchanged a look. They all had truth spells of some kind, as a [Knight] might well encounter trouble on their affairs abroad if they could not take people at their word. The problem was—
Erin’s statements weren’t entirely false. Not one thing she’d said was false—even that last part.
“The Order of Solstice does exist? Impossible. I have a fifteen gold bet that half-Elf made it up!”
Ser Solton jerked a thumb at Ceria. He really wasn’t a fool. But the [Innkeeper] folded her arms.
“No, it totally exists. Maybe it wasn’t, uh, properly recognized, but I’m recognizing it now. Bam. Order of Solstice, [Knights] of Izril. Sworn to protect the innocent and kick people they don’t like.”
Lyonette looked at Erin in horror. That wasn’t what Erin was supposed to say! Knight-Captain Lotorghast forestalled Thuile’s outburst, and the Clairei Knight spoke.
He was actually white-haired with age, he was so old, but he was fairly polite.
“Miss Solstice. You cannot simply instate a Knight-Order. I have no…prejudices against a [Knight] who appears naturally by his conduct. It’s simply a matter of falsely claiming membership, which is in and of itself no great crime. There are brilliant [Knights] who gain their class without any membership such as Ylawes Byres, whom I believe you know?”
“Brilliant. Ylawes. I get what you’re saying, but I’m telling you—the Order of Solstice exists! I’m making it exist!”
Erin waved her hands. The [Knights] tried to smile at the silly [Innkeeper]. A few covert scrying mirrors zoomed in on Erin for their viewers.
“Miss Solstice. You would have to have proper representation, the authority to claim all this. There are rules. A Knight-Order is more than a name. For instance, one cannot be a [Grandmaster Knight] without being part of an order. To start a chapter, why, you’d need at least a few [Knights] as members. Not one.”
Erin Solstice’s eyes glinted. Normen was watching everything, and he saw the silly look in Erin’s hazel gaze vanish suddenly. The other [Knights] didn’t notice, save for Ser Solton, who looked up sharply and then around.
“Oh, but the Order of Solstice does have multiple [Knight] members. It has three, and three’s all you need.”
“Ridiculous. Ser Lotorghast, this [Innkeeper] is clearly bluffing.”
The younger [Knight] shot to her feet, but the Thirsting Veil Knight held up a hand.
“Then why is my truth spell only flickering, Dame Thuile? I agree, this is all very unusual. Miss Erin Solstice, I am no…Thronebearer of Calanfer. I do not know knightly customs, but even I am aware that a Knight-Order requires at least a hundred [Knights] of pre-existing class to be convened. Moreover, even if you try to create a Knight Order, Ser Solstice still lied, albeit in a minor way, when he claimed to be part of a Knight-Order.”
Erin Solstice’s smile was bland. As bland as Crimshaw who bought a drink for a fellow a few minutes before he shoved the glass pieces up the other fellow’s nose. The [Knights] saw her look around, and then the air changed.
“That’s what you think, is it, Ser Lotorghast? My, my. I guess you guys really aren’t old enough to remember the rules.”
Her eyes flickered, and they were suddenly—uncannily—sharp. Precise, as if she was zeroed-in on a target. As if she knew…
Everything.
The [Knights] hesitated. Erin Solstice looked up at the ceiling and then spoke, reciting something from memory.
“Regarding the issue of Ser Solstice representing himself as part of a Knight-Order—he did not lie. He was a [Knight] because he was a [Knight]. And he got to claim being ‘Ser Solstice’ and call his Order that because he was declaring his Intention of Familiarity to form a Knightly Order.”
“How do you know about the—”
The Clairei Knight started. Lyonette’s jaw dropped along with half of the inn’s, but Erin held up a hand.
“All of this is correct and fair under the codes of chivalrous statements.”
The four [Knights] had not come prepared for a showdown in knightly-culture. They turned to Ser Solton, and the Haggle-Knight hesitated, searching his own memory.
“True…but that would require at least one other [Knight] having expressed interest in the same causes. Intention of Familiarity implies multiple [Knights], at least two, wishing to create an Order.”
Erin raised one finger.
“There was another.”
“Oh, come now. Who? Ylawes Byres was never—”
The Clairei Knight fell silent. Lyonette looked up suddenly. There was only one person she could think of. And Erin—
She wouldn’t forget. Mrsha stopped trying to glue Thuile’s feet to the floor with a paste Octavia had given her. She looked up, and her eyes shone. Erin spoke slowly.
“Brunkr Silverfang was knighted at this very inn. He was the first Silverfang [Knight] in living memory. He wished to join a Knight-Order and was denied by the ones he applied to in the north. He is, posthumously, the first [Knight] of Solstice.”
Every Gnoll in the inn turned to Erin. She looked around, and a few figures tried to hide the scrying orb.
Terandrian Events, a live broadcast on their channel, saw the [Innkeeper] staring straight at them.
“Be sure to write this down. I, Erin Solstice, am formally declaring the Intent Valoris to form a Knight Order. It was already declared by two [Knights], and it will be formally recognized when enough members have declared their intention to be recognized as part of the order.”
“Two out of a hundred?”
Dame Thuile spluttered. Erin shot back.
“No. Two out of five. Only five members are needed.”
“Ridiculous! A hundred is—”
“Terandrian law. I am declaring the Order of Solstice a crusade-chapter. Based in Chandrar, but we’ll move it to Izril. One of its members is already on Terandria, and the others will not stay at a headquarters.”
Dame Thuile just looked at Erin. She didn’t even know what that meant, and even Ser Solton was confused. Then Ser Sest gasped.
“Eternal Throne! That’s what she means! She’s invoking the Order via crusade law!”
“Crusade law…?”
The Clairei Knight looked bewildered, but Ser Lormel, one of the experts in all things not related to combat, explained to a fascinated audience.
“Ser Lotorghast is correct and incorrect that a Knight Order requires a hundred members to form in Terandria. That bar was actually raised after the Order of the Hydra was formed. But the authority of [Knights] in Terandria, is, well, Terandrian. The number is less in Izril, hence the Knights of the Petal containing far fewer members when they were incepted.”
Ser Sest nodded, taking up the explanation with visible excitement.
“Meaning that unlike Terandria, where the bar was raised to two hundred independent [Knight-Errants] or [Knights] of other orders, or Izril or Baleros or Rhir, where different dispensation was needed, Chandrar maintained that only enough [Knights] in good standing needed to pledge to form an Order as there were Shield Kingdoms. Symbolically, that was still dozens in antiquity. Now?”
Ser Solton spoke slowly.
“Four. Plus one leadership role.”
Erin’s eyes glittered as all the other [Knights] turned to her. Thuile was protesting.
“You cannot invoke a Chandrarian chapter of [Knights]! You are on Izril.”
“So? A [Knight] Order can be convened anywhere with enough authority.”
“You are not affiliated with Chandrar! I happen to know a crusade is more than a word. I was just part of one!”
Thuile hammered a fist on the table, flushing with outrage. Erin Solstice put her hands on the table.
“Oh yeah? Well, I was friends with a number of [Knights] of Chandrar. Virtue Familaris allows me to invoke the crusade.”
“That’s ridiculous! You can’t call a crusade! That’s not…”
Erin’s eyes stilled Thuile’s tongue in her mouth.
“Not on Terandria. Not now. In the old days, when [Paladins] were an arm of [Knights], it was fair. The Crusaders of the Dawn Patrol were founded by a dozen [Knights] determined to fight against fangs in the darkness. They became so famous they fought across Rhir and every continent in existence. My friends are [Knights] of Chandrar. They are dead—but don’t you dare deny they were [Knights].”
The truth spells shone bright and clear with honesty as Erin jabbed a finger at Thuile, who leaned back each time.
“Who are they?”
Erin turned and fixed Lotorghast with a stare.
“You don’t get to know their names. Not right now. You came here demanding to call Ser Solstice a fake. Well, he has all the requirements to declare he’s part of an Order, and once three more [Knights] join, it will be real.”
“You have no headquarters, no armory, no squires nor livery nor anything else. An Order in name is but an idea, Miss Solstice.”
Ser Solton spoke kindly, but thoughtfully. Erin gestured around the inn.
“This is all the base they’ll need. Drinks are free for members of the Order of Solstice. As for an armory—they can buy armor. Weapons. Actually—Mrsha, didn’t you say you knew someone who made that Demas Metal stuff? Let’s get a suit of armor and ship it all the way to Terandria!”
Mrsha hesitated. Could she get Mrell to…? Yeah, she nodded thoughtfully.
She could probably do that. And it’d be one of the few actually useful things that he did. The [Knights] were hesitating, but now Erin was aglow.
Literally. She clenched her fists as pink fire burned on her palms. Glory. She was lying…but with the truth.
Bird realized how deep his class was as he beheld a master at work. A real, true genius did not lie, but made lies a reality.
“…It seems that the Order of Solstice is more legitimate than we thought. If still unrealized. We withdraw our complaint, Miss Solstice. Although I would still like to note that the Order of Solstice’s current, single member is somewhat dishonorable in how he conducts warfare.”
Ser Lotorghast spoke up at last. Thuile was astounded, but Erin just folded her arms.
“But he wins. Oh. And one more thing—I’m not doing this just to be cute.”
She pointed at her own scowling face. Ser Solton’s brows were in his receding hairline.
“Perish the thought. Are you planning on recruiting more [Knights]? This Ser Ylawes, perhaps?”
Yvlon choked on her drink at the idea of Rabbiteater and Ylawes being fellow [Knights]. Erin pursed her lips.
