…Do you have it secured? Also, frankly, if you’re going to be sending hundreds through the door each day, I’d be worried about bathrooms, lines, etcetera. It might be good to connect this door outside of your inn so you don’t worry about thieves or people to move through it. However Liscor did it? Ask them if you can hire the people who made it work last time. Also—
 
Yelroan dipped his quill into the inkwell and realized he was running out of space to reply. He had written all this automatically. Obviously, he was thinking, but this was sort of second-nature. Not that he’d ever seen magical doors being installed in a city, but even if he wasn’t in charge of this, you had to know this in his role which often went to more than math.
Idly, he gave the paper to the Gnoll to send back.
“I’ve got more. Are they still there?”
“Looks like it.”
“Alright, give me five minutes.”
Yelroan sat down and kept writing.
 
—security is an issue. Someone has to manage the lines, make sure no one cuts ahead or does anything like that.
I think you need to consider asking Liscor to just manage the door. Also, raise the prices. It will reduce the number of people travelling, which I know Liscor doesn’t want, but the needs of the inn are not that of a city. A hundred travellers from Pallass? Forty [Mages] to recharge one door? It’s also risky to have it connected to an army. This could really entangle the inn, Mrsha.
I’m not telling you how to do this, but bear it in mind. Oh, and you also need to make a deal with the Merchant’s Guild regarding transporting goods. You need to take a cut, but cities have import and export taxes as well as contraband.
The Merchant’s Guild will use your door to transport illicit goods and pretend they had no idea it was wrong and leave you in trouble. [Smugglers] will go through the door too—this is why Liscor and each city needs to organize it. Is there a checkpoint?
 
He handed the second piece of paper off and went to find a sample contract. After less than a minute, he got a response back.
 
This is too much work! 
:( 
Stop telling me to do things! Erin’s going to throw up all over. Pallass has a checkpoint thing with a really mean Drake! 
 
Yelroan almost smiled. He wrote back quickly, passing the contract over—the Gnoll sighed, but began to copy some of the wording so Mrsha could see. He was glad this was being paid for by her. Normally, he didn’t care, but this was now…
The Gnoll stared at the parchment, and his quill began to move faster.
 
I’m sorry, Mrsha. This is what happens when you have an object that everyone wants. You need to think about the future. Pallass would have an organized checkpoint, and the other cities should probably copy that. So should you.
I know it’s hard—you don’t have to do any of this. This is if you want this to be a civic, public door. Otherwise, just restrict access, make it exclusive, and put all these things in place on a smaller scale. It means only rich people will be able to use it, but it’s easier on you.
Change isn’t easy. It can be a good way to make money—you just need to ensure all your deals are fair, and the Merchant’s Guild can do that. You have a magic door.
I wish we did. Merish is going to lead our people westwards. Build something to keep us from starving in the winter or being attacked. It’s going to be difficult. I’m staying with him—I may remain with the other tribes, though, because I can make money here and I’m useless in a fight.
Every gold coin is going to count. Even the journey could end up with a…a lot of people dead. One big monster attack and there are a fraction of the warriors we used to have.
I know it’s necessary. No one trusts Plain’s Eye, and they shouldn’t. But the kids didn’t hunt Doombringers. Doombearers, like you. Some tribes are taking a few Gnolls on, but the white fur is risky.
I saw a zombie rise out of all the dead in the Meeting of Tribes. Then it fell backwards into a pit, and a Crypt Lord emerged. Spontaneously. Then it collapsed into two more, and whatever appeared took every Gnoll over Level 30 to fight. Lehra herself had to slay it.
That’s…bad luck. Once we’re away from the other tribes, more events like that could happen. No one can control their powers here. And the other tribes don’t want us around. 
 
He stared at the paper, then realized he was off-topic. Yelroan almost went to tear it up, but he couldn’t. He was writing what he wasn’t saying.
 
Sorry. For the door—if you’re not doing this already, do a schedule. One big transit per day or break them up if you have to. It will cut down on the inn’s guests too, and can’t you offer them food and drinks while they wait? I’m no [Innkeeper], but I bet this is all obvious. Just writing at random, sorry.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was reading over Mrsha’s shoulder. So was Ser Lormel and even Normen, although Alcaz was glancing around.
“Whoa. This is such good advice! Who is this guy?”
Mrsha was beaming—right until that last part came in. Then her ears drooped. Erin bit her tongue as Yelroan’s emotions came spilling out onto the page.
“Oh no. That’s terrible. I didn’t know there was such trouble. Are they…this is the bad tribe, right?”
Mrsha nodded emphatically with a huge scowl. Erin tried again.
“But there are innocent kids and people? They’re not all bad.”
“They’re all bad! Except for Merish and Yelroan!”
Mrsha held up a furious sign. Then she amended it.
“Except for babies, maybe. But most are bad!”
“So how many babies are in the tribe? What’s Plain’s Eye?”
Ser Lormel coughed into one gauntlet.
“The…largest tribe in the world? Hundreds of thousands, perhaps more spread out in various sub-tribes? Millions?”
“How many babies is that?”
Mrsha’s face fell as Erin tried to work that out. The young woman felt her stomach clench.
“If only we could send them, like—help. Not a care package, but something like what Liscor gave to Esthelm. But they’re way too far south, right?”
Far too far from the door. And besides—Ser Lormel pointed out the obvious again.
“I believe Plain’s Eye could fill up Liscor to the brim. This is only one group, Miss Solstice. If a large one.”
“Maybe you could post a quest, Miss Solstice? Something to help them if they run into a monster? Or…send something?”
Mrsha raised her head.
“I can send my allowance to Yelroan! To help babies. Only babies. Erin, give him your boon!”
“My boon? I was gonna give that to Rabbiteater…hey, I haven’t booned anyone yet. Maybe. Although I’ve never met Yelroan…I don’t think I can boon anyone I haven’t met. I wonder if Ilvriss could help?”
And like that, Erin’s mind was racing. Didn’t Wil say that Feshi was a friend of theirs? Maybe—
“Salazsar is currently at war with Fissival. Sort of a tall ask if you want my opinion.”
Erin looked over and saw Menolit was still in line.
“Menolit! They are? I mean, I remember that. Sort of. What are you doing here?”
The Drake looked self-important.
“Organizing visitors for Liscor Hunted. I’ve got some clients who want to bag a Rock Crab.”
Erin rubbed her hands together. Yeah, yeah. Didn’t she know Ilvriss? And there was some Centaur that was also there—
She had lots of friends. Whom she could ask to help her do things. Like…protect and shelter and feed a few hundred thousand Gnolls.
Erin hesitated.
“Even Ilvriss isn’t gonna be happy with that one. I’d better think of some good incentives. Like a quest. I’ve got two. If I can figure out the big, big one. Or I, uh, bake him some muffins? Say, buddy, is Laken talking to me yet?”
The Drake [Mage] looked up with a sigh.
“No, Miss Solstice. The Mage’s Guild or whoever is over there is reviewing our request. But they get a lot of [Messages]…please check back tomorrow. It might take a while to reach someone in authority given our channels. Again, this is unfortunate—”
“Aw, come on! Wait, Griffon Hunt is there and Typhenous is here! I’ll just ask him! Duh! Why didn’t I think of it?”
Erin slapped her forehead. The [Mage] glowered as Erin turned to the others.
“If Nanette is there, I’ll ask Griffon Hunt to escort her back.”
“Is that team not on some sort of assignment? They cannot just take on an escort out of nowhere. That would be a tremendous breach of contract!”
Ser Lormel looked mildly horrified at the idea. Erin blew out her cheeks.
“Okay, I’ll get them to talk to Laken who sends someone with Nanette. If she’s there. Otherwise, we’ll find them. Uh—uh—maybe the Horns? Or Ryoka? If they’re willing.”
She was having a headache again. This time, Menolit, who by now was leaning on the counter and openly listening in, broke back into the conversation.
“You want to send a Gold-rank team to bring someone back? Or a Courier? I like that. That’s being rich for you. Pure overkill. Don’t use a [Flame Jet] spell to slay a rat, cast [Hurricane of Acid].”
Erin opened and closed her mouth. It was true. That did seem like a trivial waste of Ceria’s time when you put it like that.
Yelroan’s Gnolls, finding Nanette, and Erin had a bunch of other tasks like connecting with Goblinhome or looking into certain things. She had a bunch of friends, but they were people. With…desires. Interests.
“It’s too bad I can’t pay them to do that. But they’re Gold-ranks and Couriers. Damn. I need cheap…intelligent…labor.”
Mrsha the Mercenary puffed out her chest. Erin patted her on the head.
“Not you. I guess I could hire Silver-rank teams, right? Or actual [Mercenaries]?”
“That is how most people get things done, yes.”
Menolit’s face was deadpan. He was really enjoying this. Erin sighed.
“It’s too bad. But what if I got like—Vuliel Drae? That’s a bad roll of the dice. Oh, hey, Insill. Didn’t see you there. Sorry, but you guys did cause a moth attack.”
She waved at a mortified Drake. Erin felt like she was coming to some kind of a conclusion, but she turned back as Yelroan sent more files over.
“This Gnoll’s super smart, Mrsha. What did you say he did? Managed an entire tribe of Izril’s finances? I feel like that’s a difficult job. Do you think he could do our finances?”
Wistfully, Erin leaned on the counter and stared ahead. At this point, even the casual observers pretending to read newspapers or wait in line were giving her the side-eye.
This [Innkeeper] was really something, huh? Erin Solstice spoke slowly, coming to a conclusion she had really come to before being shot with crossbows.
“I think…I need more employees who can do that sort of thing. I don’t know about entire tribes, but more help’d be nice. Or…hey, Normen, Alcaz. Do you think you could go to, like, Riverfarm and find someone and bring them back?”
She looked at the two Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. Normen opened his mouth. He thought of all the hazards that lay on the road even for a resourceful fellow, especially if he had to guard someone. Not to mention…[Witches]?
Brothers didn’t mess with [Witches]. Erin stared at him innocently.
“What? Maybe both of you?”
Every spy, informant, and observer in the Mage’s Guild felt the two Brothers’ pain as one overworked employee to another in the face of the obtuse boss.
No—mostly obtuse. Erin was leaning on the counter hard, exhaustion playing as big a part as…unexpected weakness.
Normen saw it. The same young woman who could and did look Sinew Magus Grimalkin in the eye and not blink at his disapproval, who had challenged the Assassin’s Guild in Izril—and he had been there—
She feared Yelroan’s simple, straightforward instructions more than that. Erin was speaking faster.
“Can one person even help with an entire tribe? That’s an army, isn’t it?”
“No one fellow could do that, I’m afraid, Miss Solstice. Not even Wilovan, and you know he’s a true gent. I hate to say it—but I’m not your man to go find a [Witch]. Aside from a lack of decorum…we’re not able to assure her safety, as it were.”
For a moment, Normen saw Crimshaw tangled with a dozen Gnolls in the doorway of the inn. He tugged his hat down.
“…A fellow does the best he can. But I’m afraid I’m no Gold-rank adventurer.”
Erin nodded slowly, her eyes on Normen. Then the same Drake, Menolit, broke in.
“There is someone who could help protect most of the Gnolls in this tribe. At least, if they stuck to one place. Not all of them, obviously, but eliminate big threats, help with issues like cold—everything. The full affair.”
“Who?”
“Saliss of Lights. He’s not called Pallass’ one-Drake army for nothing.”
Erin frowned.
“I have literally never heard him called that. But yeah—he could probably blow up any monster he wanted. Or melt them. I saw him fighting Frost Wyverns.”
“Exactly. You want someone who can solve an entire, uh…tribe’s problems? Saliss of Lights. Or—an Archmage. Get Archmage Eldavin to teleport everyone to safety, build them a city, and reinvent a lost magic over breakfast!”
Menolit was warming to his theme. He gave Erin a side-eye.
“Saliss is back in Pallass. Think you might call him up?”
Everyone turned to the [Innkeeper] expectantly, and Erin just sighed.
“…I don’t give friends orders. The Horns could do that too. They’re not gonna do guard-duty for a few months if I ask.”
“Okay—what about a certain Fraerling that I heard plays chess with you?”
“Who? How do you—”
Menolit rolled his eyes. Everyone and their sister knew the Titan’s students were visiting Erin’s inn. Had Erin not remembered that Venaz had presented the Titan’s gift well within view of the walls?
“There’s about a few thousand Centaurs running around the Great Plains. They’re bound to be good at guard-duty. So—”
Ask the Titan of Baleros for help. Normen knew civilians asked for big favors. On the streets, any favor you got was one you could repay, and you would repay it. It was mind-boggling to him to even suggest. You’d get laughed at if you went to another gang and asked for something like that—or you’d receive a shiv in the ribs.
Erin seemed to have the same opinion.
“I’m not doing that. There’s a difference between…asking for help and getting armies to march around. That’s not a favor, that’s a relationship.”
Menolit was getting exasperated. Normen could not know it, but the Drake was a regular of Erin’s inn, and he had known Erin almost as long as most of her customers.
“Well, that’s sort of how business works, Erin. Didn’t you organize the Watch to help fight the Raskghar?”
“Yep. And I got adventurers too. Because it was a common threat. Menolit, the difference is simple. It’s like—Chaldion. Let’s pretend this is Chaldion, not Niers. Everyone knows Chaldion, right? Yay tall, has a cane, one eye?”
