After one day, he sat there, upset and pale. Typhenous hadn’t missed how worried he’d gotten when Ceria started talking with him. The Plague Mage smelled underhandedness, and he was all in favor of it. He just wanted to know what Ceria had said.
 
——
 
The half-Elf smiled around the table, though the Captains had to sit or stand there were so many.
“Alright. I know everyone thought me and my team were dead. And I apologize for the delay. But at last—we’re ready to divide the loot from the Village of the Dead raid. Please, wait until I’m finished. Then object.”
“What, just like that? No ceremony? No—”
A Gold-rank Captain looked outraged. Dorgon, the Silver-rank Minotaur, rumbled behind him.
“Silence.”
Ceria rolled her eyes.
“Listen, you want ceremony? I’ll sprinkle roses and get a [Bard] to play while I hand your share out. But it’s coming out of your funds, Maeist. I know how hard it’s been for some teams, not knowing if they’ll get a fair share. So I’m going to come out and say it—we’re selling almost all the artifacts. It’s gold-shares, not loot shares.”
The sigh that ran through the room from most of the Captains was relieved. However, Keldrass and several Gold-rank teams objected at once.
“Those are Relic-class items, Ceria!”
“You want to just sell—you’re getting the Helm of—”
“Silence!”
This time, Ceria shouted into a [Loud Voice] spell. Every Gold-rank in the room clapped their hands to their ears, and the Gnolls shouted invectives at Ceria. The half-Elf aimed her skeletal finger around, the frosted tip pointing at Keldrass.
“Cool it or I’ll start casting [Snow Plume]. Just let me explain my reasoning. Gold, not loot. Because if one person gets that [Legendary Swordbane…Drake Swordmaster]’s sword, even by fair and unbiased luck of the draw? There will be blood. You know it, I know it. That team won’t make it out of the city without a fight, from thieves and other teams.”
Keldrass opened his mouth, then nodded reluctantly. Ceria ticked off another point on her hand.
“Second? If we do loot, a lot of teams walk away with a pittance. We don’t have that much gear that people want. So no loot. It’s simple. Now, each team will get an equal share. Teams that were wiped? Fair share. Size? Doesn’t matter. I hope each team will allocate gold to teammates that fell, but it’s per-team shares. Silver-ranks get one. Gold-ranks, two. Named-ranks, three.”
This time, the muttering was a lot less happy. Ceria had just dumped a lot, and Typhenous was frankly surprised by some of it.
No extra loot for dead teammates? That was probably because it was per-team, and that made sense because it would have disadvantaged small teams for large, Silver-rank teams.
However, the distribution of loot was also colder, if more equitable, than he had assumed. Typhenous watched members like Dorgon’s faces, but the Minotaur was just listening for the end.
“Is it fair to let all Silver-rank teams be paid half what Gold-ranks get, Ceria? I mean, we’re not the same level, but that’s certification. Not level.”
One of the Silver-rank Captains glanced at Dorgon, bringing up the very same point. Ceria’s smile was bland.
“If you want to vote Dorgon’s team a Gold-rank’s share, I’ll let you all nominate him. But that’s the exception, not the rule. Listen. The Gold-rank teams went into the fire. We placed Silver-rank teams in support, not the vanguard. I’m not going to play this game—which is what has been going on here. If you want to say—Jelaqua’s team charged straight into the fighting, then we’ve got a problem, because now we’re comparing achievements. Fair, equal shares.”
“And the Helm of Fire for you. And what you pulled out of the treasure chambers. We never updated the haul with what you all got. We know you pulled a Relic-class sword out. What else did you get? Your message mentioned Relic-class items, and I heard there was a circlet in Savere. What about that, Captain Springwalker?”
One of the older Gold-rank Captains was glaring. Ceria’s return glance was bland.
“You know we claimed a Relic from the outset, Captain Derros. Let me finish. Everything that was recovered goes up for auction via the Merchant’s Guild. They’ll take their cut, but it’ll be small, and the overall gold gets portioned into shares and then given out. The Horns? I can tell you we’re claiming the sword, a spellbook Pisces found, and two rings Yvlon grabbed. We’re putting in two scrolls, and anything else we keep—”
The roar of protest was deafening.
“That’s four Relics!”
Ceria slammed her cup on the table.
“No, it’s two good rings, a sword, and a spellbook! The Relic is the sword—and it’s not ours. Some damn [Empress] is running around with it, so believe me—getting it back is going to be a problem. We went straight into the heart of the Village of the Dead, and it was a fluke we survived. Everything we got save for the two scrolls is ours.”
More protests, but the Gold-rank Captain Derros wasn’t done. He pointed a finger at Ceria.
“What about the circlet? That’s a Relic-class item!”
Everyone went silent, and Ceria Springwalker smiled crookedly.
“It might be. But I’ve got bad news for you, Derros. There’s no way you’re getting it. You know the Siren of Savere? The leader of the most dangerous nation of [Bandits]? How do you think I got out of there with my skin intact?”
The adventurers groaned as they realized what had happened. Derros’ mouth opened.
“She stole it?”
An interesting note here—there were truth spells and crystals all over the room. Most didn’t even bother to hide the fact that they were being used. A few changed colors depending on what was said, and there was a lot of interference with other people’s speaking, but the one closest to Ceria only flickered a bit as she spoke.
“Revine had it in a glass case in her personal rooms, and a Drake [Enchanter] was looking it over. You want to tangle with the Siren of Savere, be my guest. We’re laying claim to it—but it’ll be a headache. The Siren of Savere, uh, already has a bit of a grudge against me.”
The truth spells flickered a bit, but they all showed an unhappy truth to the adventurer Captains. All except Typhenous, whose eyes flickered because he didn’t use truth spells.
They were too easy to fool.
“Alright, but that’s still a huge amount of loot—we know you went into the Village of the Dead. Whatever that monstrous thing was you saw—Tolve…something—alright. But the Helm of Fire?”
Derros sounded almost pleading. And this was where Ceria relaxed.
“Oh. We’re relinquishing our claim on that. It’s going up for auction. That’s how we’re guaranteeing everyone gets a big cut.”
There was no shouting this time. Everyone exhaled, and Jelaqua gave Ceria a nod as Typhenous silently applauded. That was how you ran negotiations like this.
“Fair! Damn me, but that’s the best Relic because it’s so famous. Every Walled City wants it. The Five Families want it. I thought you needed it?”
Ceria waved that away.
“We were going to trade it for help for our friend. The Healer of Tenbault, an Archmage—yes, I want it, but we’re being fair. So here’s what we’re going to do. As I said, everything gets sold. But if a team wants an artifact—they have to pay full market price. Not auction price, but what the Merchant Guild appraises it for. You have two days, then it’s all going up for auction. It’ll take at least a week for the sales to go through and more for the division, but I intend to portion out the gold within a month.”
The teams listened carefully. Some were dismayed, because the conditions meant that a Gold-rank team could possibly buy a few artifacts from the haul. No Silver-rank team could.
“Monster parts? Sold. Loot from the undead? Sold. Fair shares to all. Now, listen. I know some of you were hoping you’d get an artifact, but let’s be real—that would cause the kind of infighting you hear about that leaves many teams dead. You’ll all get a share of the coin. But before you argue about Named-ranks getting three shares or bias, let me say this: you’re done.”
Ceria spread her hands on the table. The adventurers stirred. Was that a threat?
No. The half-Elf was smiling around at them. The Silver-ranks especially. Then…perhaps they felt it again, like they had after the [Sword Legend] had fallen. A leap in their hearts. Ceria looked at Earlia, Anith, Levil…and the same light from Albez was in her eyes.
“You new teams especially—this is your haul. The Merchant’s Guildmaster gave me some estimates. The Helm of Fire is probably going to sell for at least a million gold pieces.”
“A million?”
“Under auction. Yes. It’s a relic. And true, there are a lot more teams here. Almost fifty, so it’s divided up, but I did some rough calculations, and I think we’re going to see each Silver-rank team walking away with at least 20,000 gold pieces from the Helm of Fire’s sale alone. Possibly double that. Or higher. That’s your haul. If you want to retire? Anyone who’s not in this for life is done with adventuring.”
The Silver-rank Captains had the same look Ceria had when she’d come out of Albez and began realizing how much they had. And unlike her—some were in tears.
They would retire. Retire with enough gold to set themselves up for a long time. If they managed their funds wisely. The Gold-rank teams were no less enthusiastic about those numbers.
That wasn’t just a few artifacts. That was…multiple artifacts per team member. Even divided up, the Village of the Dead raid was going to be one of the richest hauls in recent history.
Ceria Springwalker concluded with a smile.
“Given all this, I’d say drinks are on me. But since I know how much trouble you lot cause, it’s on the Merchant’s Guild. They’re throwing us a party, and we get to watch the auctions begin in two days. Food, drink—and don’t promise the [Merchants] anything. Now, who’s got questions?”
 
——
 
Yvlon could hear the cheering once the doors opened. They had been silenced, but the anxious adventurers waiting for their Captains to emerge burst into smiles when they heard that.
It had taken nearly two hours, even with Ceria’s straightforward distribution. Yvlon still thought it was a bit—cruel to teams like Lifwail Blades, but Ceria had pointed out a fair share to their families was enough to make anyone rich.
“We’re rich! We’ll never have to work again!”
Earlia kicked open the door and almost shouted the sum to her team before half a dozen adventurers grabbed her. Derros shouted.
“No numbers! Everyone talks in private, damn it! Do you want your city to eat half your gold? You’d better hope you don’t live near a noble or a Drake city!”
“They don’t strip us of gold like you Humans! Wait, damn. The income tax…”
Keldrass turned to Bevussa, who groaned. However, the jubilation was wild among the free adventurers, who had neither city nor anyone they owed dues to.
The Adventurer’s Guild was happy—they took a cut. The Merchant’s Guild took a cut. So food and drinks were already being rushed out as Yvlon found Jelaqua.
“Jelaqua—how’d it go in there?”
“Ceria’s a smooth leader, Yvlon. Don’t worry—she hit them with the old tough-but-fair breakdown. I was worried—you know? I’d be sweating up there, but Ceria laid it out, and almost no one objected. If anything, we thought your team took the biggest losses.”
“We did?”
“Well, two Relics both in Chandrar? And you’re giving up two scrolls most Named-rank teams would die for. At least you’ve got your rings. Sounds like that and whatever Pisces had were the biggest hauls. Sorry about that.”
“No, it’s fine.”
Yvlon felt her stomach twist when Jelaqua put it like that. That wasn’t much in-hand. She hadn’t thought that her two rings would be the biggest haul, but she hadn’t been thinking of that when Ceria broke it down.
Why was her friend so calm? Yvlon found Ceria talking to Eldertuin’s representative, who shook hands with her.
“Ceria, do you think it all worked out well?”
Ceria scratched at her head.
“Hm? Oh, absolutely. We kept a lot of what we took. We’re giving only the scrolls away, and that’s a lot of artifacts. We have to pick them up, but they’re ours.”
“True…but the Helm of Fire and the sword?”
“We were never going to get them. I hope Pisces’ backer isn’t mad, and Selys will be upset, but if we tried to take only the Helm of Fire, I think there would have been a fight. Pick your battles, Yvlon. Trust me. We got what we wanted. I did a lot of thinking about what to prioritize.”
Ceria gave Yvlon a significant look, but she had to break off to shake more hands. The Silver-rank teams wanted to thank Ceria especially, but the Gold-rankers clearly thought she’d done a fair job as well.
The only person who didn’t seem pleased was the half-Elf from Elia Arcsinger’s team, who left without even looking at Ceria. Yvlon whispered to Ceria.
“How did you get Elia to back down? By offering her team a triple-share? She had a lot more support for the Helm of Fire. She took down multiple giants.”
“With help. I just…persuaded her representative to shut up.”
“How?”
“By telling him I’d recall something publicly. Elia and I had a few words I don’t think she wants repeated. She’ll take the gold.”
Ceria winked at Yvlon. The [Armsmistress] blinked, but she didn’t get a chance to say anything more.
“Yvlon Byres. Ceria Springwalker. I would like to congratulate you on your negotiations. Is now a good time? House Isphel may attempt to purchase a few of the artifacts, although I fear the Helm of Fire is out of even our pockets.”
A voice spoke, and the two whirled and Ceria cried out.
“Prince Zenol! How are you?”
The Gold-rank Captain and [Prince] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen smiled, hands clasped behind his back as he stood in some rich room—the scrying spell didn’t show much. He looked unharmed, and Yvlon sighed in relief.
“Zenol. How—how is Nerrhavia’s Fallen? Queen Yisame?”
“As well as could be expected after the fallout of Pomle’s disastrous siege. The mood is—troubled. But I will not distract you from the moment.”
The Prince’s polite words reminded Yvlon that the last time she’d been there, he’d betrayed General Thelican and she’d essentially thrown Nerrhavia’s battle into chaos. Ceria chewed on a chip.
“We didn’t do you any services, Zenol. How much trouble is House Isphel in?”
His smile didn’t change.
“House Isphel has risen, not fallen, Ceria. As for the climate—well. Strained, but holding. I may not be an adventurer but a [Prince] for now, but I am grateful for my share in the raid. I hope you did everything you set out to accomplish?”
