“Dalimont, to me! We have a problem—[Knights]! Miss Solstice, behind me. Halt! This person is under Calanfer’s protection and a citizen of Liscor! This is not Terandria!”
He held up a hand, and the Hydra [Knight] drew a spiked mace.
“It is always a fitting place to battle Ailendamus’ enemies! I challenge you, Ser Thronebearer!”
“Dame Thuile. This is not the time for a duel. We are on the affairs of our Orders. Stand down.”
The Haggle-Knight spoke sharply, and the woman hesitated. The other figure on foot wearing the black armor of the Thirsting Veil spoke sharply.
“As [Knight Captain], I order you to stand down, Dame Thuile. My rank supercedes yours abroad.”
“Yes, Ser Lotorghast.”
The [Knight] lowered her mace, and the four [Knights] approached.
“Miss Erin Solstice? We would like to speak to you urgently. I realize this is quite inopportune, but may we have a brief word?”
The Haggle-Knight smiled. Erin stared at his chestplate. Mrsha backed behind her as Normen put out an arm.
“Back up, sirs and madam. Miss Solstice is busy.”
His temper was already up. Normen’s fingers curled around his club’s hilt. The Hydra Knight recoiled from him.
“I espie a brigand of some sorts. My Skill detects it. Stand down, whomever you are.”
Ser Solton pinched at the bridge of his nose. But Normen just reached up with his other hand and tore off his hat.
“I said, back up or you’ll find yourself staring at the sky. This is not a moment to test my patience.”
His hat was upon the ground. The Clairei Knight knew what that meant and went for his sword. But the Hydra Knight just stared at Normen—then she went for her mace.
She was fast. They both came up with mace and club as fast. Normen swung.
[Brute’s Swing]. A blow like someone swinging a bat, straight for the face. The [Knight] shoved an arm up and knocked his swing wide. She slid in, as if she were skating across ice.
[Shoulder Ram’s Charge]. Normen ate it as he tried to move back, stumbling. He stepped in with a roar.
[Flash Blow]! His club smacked the knight across the head, and she stumbled. The faintest of dents—
Then her mace swung into his side, blindingly fast. Normen felt a blinding surge of pain.
“—[Willow’s Counter].”
He was down and trying to get up when she pointed at him.
“[The Defeated Lie Still].”
She was…over Level 30. Even without the armor, there was a cut to her moves from the way she’d shoulder-charged into him like that to start the fight.
He’d never seen a [Knight] do that, nor use a counter-Skill. He didn’t think they had that. Even the Clairei Knight looked astonished.
“Dame Thuile. Enough.”
The Thirsting Veil Knight looked upset at his impetuous comrade’s actions. He turned—and Ser Lormel was hurrying Erin down the street.
“Halt!”
Thuile charged after Lormel, clearly hoping he’d turn and fight. The Thronebearer whirled around. He raised his shield—and then began slamming the hilt of his sword into it.
“Help! Rogue [Knights] on the streets! Summon the Watch!”
“Oh dead gods.”
Ser Solton moaned. Ser Lormel backed up, still shouting, as the [Knights] halted. Normen, lying still, unable to move, saw Dame Thuile hesitate. Lormel backed up, the perfect choice to block the [Knights] while he got his ward to safety and the Watch stopped them.
Unfortunately, he made one mistake. He’d stopped dragging Erin away. The [Knights] were trying to call out this was all a mistake when Dame Thuile swore.
“Ser Lotorghast!”
She flipped her mace up and deflected the spinning frying pan. It clattered to the ground, and Ser Solton stared at it.
“Is that a frying pan?”
“My arm!”
Erin Solstice screamed as she grabbed at it. Then she pulled a glowing green jar out of her bag of holding.
“Let go of Normen or I’ll melt your faces.”
Normen really, really hoped she didn’t throw that. The [Knights] froze.
“Did anyone else’s [Dangersense] just go off? I think we’re getting off to the wrong start.”
The Clairei Knight spoke nervously. Dame Thuile raised her shield—right as a squad of [Guards] came skidding around the corner. She whirled as a Drake came barreling at her.
“Relc kiiiiiiick—oh shit.”
He broke off the kick, dodged back as she whirled the mace at him. The Thirsting Veil Knight looked at Relc, the Watch, and then did two things. He kicked Dame Thuile in the back of the knees so she went over and raised his hands.
“Enough! This is a mistake. We yield. Let us talk civilly, and if you say one more word, Dame Thuile, I will have you shipped back to Ailendamus in a rowboat.”
His voice was authoritative enough to stop everyone for a second. The [Guards] halted, and even Relc lowered his spear as Normen felt Thuile’s Skill on him break. Dame Thuile froze, and the [Knight Captain] removed his helmet as Erin approached, still waving the jar of acid.
“I apologize to the Watch of this city, as well as the Thronebearer of Calanfer and you, Miss Solstice. And to your…protector.”
He eyed Normen as the Brother scrambled up. Normen looked at the other [Knight] and, head lowered, fell back behind Erin.
“Who are you and why are you after me?”
Erin demanded hotly as the adventurers who had been after her caught up, saw the Watch, and decided to make a tactical retreat. It was Ser Solton who replied.
“We are the [Knights] who were—formerly—part of the Chandrarian crusade against Khelt, Miss Solstice. We were also present at the Meeting of Tribes and have ridden north at best speed to make it to Liscor. Some of us are heading home. Others—”
He nodded to the Knight of the Clairei Fields.
“—Have joined us on this mission of diplomacy.”
He glared at Dame Thuile.
“The Order of the Hydra does not act for all of us. Our young associate is impetuous, and we will pay any fines necessary.”
“Ooh. Good. Fines. Hey, someone tell Watch Captain Z to levy a bunch of fines!”
Relc rubbed his claws. Ser Solton turned to Erin.
“Miss Solstice. Would you please lower that…weapon? We have, in fact, only come here to approach you about a certain matter of [Knights] that we thought you could answer.”
“Me? Knights? Normen, are you alright?”
“Nothing’s broken. A day’s rest will do me good, Miss Erin. Sorry to let you down.”
The Brother muttered. Erin glanced at him and glowered, but Ser Solton offered a healing potion and his bag of holding.
“We will repay any injuries, Miss Solstice. Ailendamus and Calanfer are at war. Dame Thuile was acting as most [Knights] do. On Terandria.”
He sighed.
“…I am just going to say this before we’re arrested or cause more trouble. Innkeeper Erin Solstice. Do you know or are you a member or associate of the ‘Order of the Solstice’, of whose members include the renowned Ser Solstice, the Goblin Slayer of Izril and Lightherald’s replacement in the Dawn Concordat’s war with Ailendamus? We would dearly like to meet a new Knight-Order and inquire into some of their codes of conduct regarding chivalry in battle and their inception as an Order.”
And then it came full circle. Ceria Springwalker skidded to a halt with the other three Thronebearers, Lyonette, and a very wrathful Numbtongue. She stared at the four [Knights] and recognized Dame Thuile from the boat.
Dame Thuile, of the Order of the Hydra, who had had contact with the famous Ser Solstice of Izril and heard tales of the Order of Solstice.
Ailendamus’ spy networks weren’t incompetent. You heard Solstice, checked on the few people who had that as a name, and found an [Innkeeper] who was also connected to the Walled Cities and a lot of strange events. Perhaps it wouldn’t have been such a big deal except for Rabbiteater hobgoblining around with [Princesses] and defeating the Dame of the Hills.
And perhaps it wouldn’t have gotten to this part but for a half-Elf assuring Dame Thuile the Order of the Solstice existed. Yvlon grabbed Ceria’s pointed ear.
“Do you see what you’ve done? Your words have consequences!”
Ceria eyed Erin Solstice, whose mouth was wide open in confusion. She grinned without a hint of regret.
“Yeah, but not for me. Dibs on the closest viewing seat. This is going to be great.”
 
——
 
Fifteen minutes later, Erin sat in the inn with a bunch of advisors.
Lyonette du Marquin and Numbtongue, to be exact. Normen watched them as he hovered near their table, feeling about as useful as a bug.
The four [Knights] were all waiting, talking, as Ser Solton investigated the weights room and Dame Thuile received a loud dressing-down from her comrade in the Thirsting Veil. The Clairei Knight just kept staring at Numbtongue, but Erin was cloaked in privacy spells. Mostly because her advisors needed to hammer a few things into her head.
“No matter what, you cannot say that Rabbiteater is a Goblin, Erin. You will get him killed. It will be a scandal for the Order of Seasons, Calanfer, and us. Just tell them enough to get them to leave. Say…you know Rabbiteater—but say Ser Solstice!—and that you have no idea about an order.”
“Don’t say Goblin.”
Numbtongue nodded and poked Erin from the other side. She swatted at him.
“I’m not an idiot, you two! But why the Order of Solstice?”
“I don’t know. Yvlon says it’s Ceria’s fault, and if so, I’ll have it out with her. But just lie to them.”
“They can tell I’m lying, though. I bet they have truth spells.”
Lyonette rolled her eyes.
“So? Then they know you’re lying about something. Tell them nothing. Say nothing about Rabbiteater being a Goblin and they just know you’re lying.”
“Don’t say he’s not a Goblin either or they’ll know that’s a lie. Don’t be stupid.”
“Argh! Enough! I’ve got this!”
Erin threw up her hands. She chased the other two away and then sat there, glowering at the [Knights]. She didn’t leave the privacy field. Instead, she glanced around.
“Normen, you sure you’re okay?”
“Just my pride, Miss Solstice. I’m glad Ser Lormel was there. Now there’s a fellow who can do his damn job.”
The Brother sat at the table. Erin looked at him, then glared at Dame Thuile. The Hydra Knight had removed her helmet. Her hair was deep brown, and her skin was darker still—but crossed by a number of scars on her face. They looked like big talon wounds. Or—someone with claws?
Erin stuck out her tongue, and Thuile looked astonished at the levels of childishness. But then—she hadn’t seen Mrsha pouring pepper spice into the drink she was about to be served. Ishkr didn’t even stop Mrsha.
“All I’ve gotta do is lie to cover for Rabbiteater. Simple. This day sucks. It’s way too…busy. And I feel like I’m getting nothing done. I’m sorry you got hurt, Normen.”
“It’s my job, Miss Erin.”
She glanced at him sideways as she rested her chin in her hands.
“You can call me Erin, you know.”
Dame Thuile had finished being dressed down, and the other [Knights] were waiting for Erin. Her annoyed colleague in the Thirsting Veil was relaxing—just in time for Thuile to take a gulp of ale and spray it all over his armor.
That made Erin smile. Normen too. Alcaz was nursing a cut lip with a drink of his own, and he had earned it. Normen…
“I think I’d best leave the guarding to the [Knights], Miss Erin. I’m no good here. You can count on me to throw a few drunks out, but I’m no Crimshaw.”
Erin looked up slowly.
“Crimshaw. I know him, don’t I? He…what happened to him? I don’t remember—”
The guilt in her eyes was almost a good thing. Normen shook his head, smiling despite himself.
“You couldn’t remember. He—was caught up when a bunch of idiots attacked the inn. After you got shot.”
“Oh. I’m sorry. Was he your friend?”
“Sort of. More like—a mentor. That’s how you get into the Brothers. Someone guarantees you’re the right sort, and you live up to that. Any big mistakes are on them, and they show you how things’re done. Crimshaw was mine. It’s why I wanted to stay. And a fat lot of good I’ve done.”
Normen stared at his hands. Erin patted him on the shoulder.
“It’s not your fault. Look at those [Knights]. They’ve got armor, and Lyonette thinks they’re all important ones since they went on the crusade against Fetohep. Which was a bad idea, because he has, like—super-spells he could blast you with.”
It was all true, but the Brother didn’t feel better.
“It’s kind of you to say, Miss Erin. I just wish I could be more’ve a help. Maybe I’ll do some work waiting tables.”
“No. You’re great. You can guard the inn and…”
Normen shook his head.
“I can’t make sure you’re safe, Miss Erin. I just can’t. You know it, I know it. I can’t even go through civilized roads and find whomever you’re looking for in Riverfarm.”
“Nanette? No, I get it…you’d want an escort.”
Normen smiled bleakly.
“If I was Wilovan or even Crimshaw, I’d do it. In a heartbeat. An adventure like that, a small one for a good thing? I just don’t want to—see what happens if I fail. I’d go down to help them Gnolls too, but four baby Crelers’d do me in. I’m afraid I’m not the good sort, Miss Erin. That lot is. I know you don’t want to impose, but they’re the real ones.”
He nodded at Ceria, being scolded by Yvlon. Ksmvr was tugging on her other ear gently, and Pisces was staring daggers at the two [Knights] from Ailendamus. Erin looked at Normen, and her sympathy turned to…
Anger? No, outrage. She grabbed his arm as he turned.
“Don’t say that. You went into a war after Mrsha for me, and you didn’t have to do that. You—Rasktooth, Infinitypear? Even Ulvama? You’re all heroes. All she’s got is a set of armor.”
She jabbed a finger at Thuile, who watched Erin warily. Erin stomped over to the edge of the ward spells.
“All you’ve got is some fancy, stupid armor! Yeah, you heard me!”
She waved her hands and sat back. Normen coughed.
“…She’s also better than me without armor, Miss Erin.”
“Oh. Well—she’s got fancy training! If you had those things, you’d, uh, be at least as good as she is! Twice as good!”
Normen considered this might actually be true. But so what? Erin just stared at the [Knights.]
“Rabbiteater’s the Goblin Slayer of Izril. Ser Solstice…the Order of the Solstice. That’s—nice.”
She rested a chin on her hand, looking thoughtful.
“Nevermind that he’s in trouble. Look at him. My [Champion]. And they don’t even know he’s a Goblin. I wonder if he wants to come back to Izril? I want to help him—if he needs help. Nah, I just want to hug him.”
She looked proud. Proud and thoughtful. Erin glanced at Normen. Then she stared ahead thoughtfully.
“…I’ve been a bit embarrassing today, Normen.”
“It’s all company at the bar today, Miss Solstice. I haven’t done well myself.”
Normen saw Erin’s lips quirk, but then she shook her head.
