“Our friend, Erin, is alive. We owe you a lot, Zenol. Don’t ever hesitate to collect.”
He nodded slowly. Yvlon frowned at the small image of him in the scrying orb. The [Prince] nodded, and there was a slight glittering on his clothing. He made no move, just kept speaking.
“I must go, but again, as I have always said, my sincere respect to my Izrilian counterparts. If you do have the chance, Nerrhavia’s Fallen welcomes you both to return. Think on that if you intend to return to Chandrar.”
Ceria broke in idly before Yvlon could reply.
“Do you have…any kind of weather problems, Zenol?”
The [Prince] had begun to step away. He turned, and Yvlon saw that glittering…silver flash again, a tiny speck on the scrying orb.
“Just a bug problem, I believe. Nothing of note. Ceria, Yvlon—”
The image flickered out. Ceria eyed the scrying orb, then chucked it at a [Receptionist] across the room.
“Hey, put that into storage.”
Only when it was far away did she turn.
“Zenol’s in trouble.”
“Are you sure?”
Yvlon had picked up on some things, but Ceria just produced a few fingers.
“He was way too polite. Zenol isn’t shy about being direct. ‘Respect for my Izrilian counterparts’? Do you recall even a hint of that?”
Exactly the opposite. Which meant…Yvlon’s heart sank. Ceria nodded.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen has it out for us. He was warning us off. I don’t know about the rest, but it sounds like there’s trouble for him. Did you notice that thing crawling up his clothing?”
Yvlon had. Zenol had deliberately not brushed it off. Ceria gave Yvlon a long look.
“A silver beetle.”
“This is my fault. He came back to Nerrhavia for me, and we might have made him a traitor.”
“Eh, you said Queen Yisame liked him. That counts for something.”
Yvlon bit her lip. She hadn’t told Ceria about Yisame’s frank…admiration for her. Or the Queen’s confession that a lot of Nerrhavia wasn’t under her full control. If Sage Etrikah hadn’t stopped the metal plague—
Her guilt wormed away at her as the adventurers celebrated. It was that reminder. Ceria seemed oblivious, but she had forged the fewest connections abroad. Everyone else could not help but remember—
Their friends were out there. And not all of them were safe.
 
——
 
The world was still in a better place than it had been a month ago. Erin was walking, and it seemed like the celebration at the Adventurer’s Guild produced more good news still.
“Hey, everyone! Look who’s rich!”
The Horns returned to cheers from the inn, and Pisces woke up, came downstairs, and found they were rich. Again. Ceria high-fived Kevin, grabbed another mug, and kept up her noshing on food as she congratulated Erin on being able to walk.
More news came in as Jelaqua finally dragged in Moore along with Seborn and Ulinde. Erin was hugging Typhenous when she saw the half-Giant.
“Moore!”
Mrsha ran up to him instantly. The half-Giant entered the inn, looking…gaunt. He didn’t seem as cuddly and nice as before. It was as if the dangerous Moore, when he got mad, had stuck. Mrsha leapt up—and he held up a hand.
She stopped, circled around, and Moore nodded to her.
“Hello, Mrsha.”
He backed off to a table, and Erin Solstice saw the girl staring at Moore. She went to hug one leg and climb up, but Moore tried to shoo her off.
“Oh boy.”
Seborn gave Erin a significant look, and the [Innkeeper] nodded to him. The half-Giant didn’t smile, and he reluctantly let Mrsha sit on his lap and scribble a smiling face she held up.
“Moore! Where’s my big smile? Jelaqua, Seborn, Ulinde, whatdya want to eat? Ishkr, do we have enough servers?”
“Perhaps. The new Antinium are here, and Silveran has…appeared to help out.”
A certain Antinium Worker was helping serve dishes. He ducked behind one of the adventurers as Lyonette tried to chase him off.
“Silveran! You’re not working here!”
“I can if I want to.”
Erin turned to Moore. The half-Giant nodded at her.
“I’m glad to see you’re walking, Erin. Here. Mrsha, go play.”
He tried to hand Mrsha off, and she squirmed in his grip. Mrsha looked betrayed and hurt. Erin picked her up. It was still harder to walk and move than normal, but any mobility felt like wings. She hesitated—but the Halfseekers were so loudly saying nothing that they were shouting it at her.
“Moore! My favorite half-Giant! What’s wrong? You look…um. Serious. Mrsha’s been dying to see you!”
She held Mrsha out, and the little Gnoll nodded, but Moore just hunched over.
“I’ve—been staying away. I’m glad to see Mrsha, Erin. But I don’t think she should be climbing over me.”
“Oh, because you’re so dignified? Too good to let Mrsha steal your snacks?”
“I would never do that! Not to Moore! Just everyone else!”
Mrsha wrote emphatically. The half-Giant hesitated, then looked up. The [Bloodearth Mage] hesitated, and then it burst out of him much like it had Pisces.
“I’m—dangerous, Erin. Children shouldn’t be around me. My magic and Skills have changed.”
“Moore!”
Jelaqua half-rose, and he hunched his shoulders. Erin saw Seborn looking at her, and the [Innkeeper] hesitated.
—Instinct. Erin saw Moore lift a hand and then strode forwards. Even sitting, she had to hop and give Mrsha a toss. The little Gnoll girl yelped silently—and then landed on Moore’s head.
“Erin! Don’t throw Mrsha!”
Lyonette spun and shouted angrily, but Mrsha gave Erin a nod and then hugged Moore’s head.
“Mrsha, get off.”
He gently tried to pry her off, but stopped when she clung to his hair. Moore tried again, and Mrsha scampered onto his shoulder. He reached for her and saw the snot.
Mrsha’s eyes were running over with tears. So was her nose. She hugged him.
“Don’t you love me?”
She held a wet card. Moore hesitated.
“I do. But I’ve hurt people. Mrsha—after Erin—”
He looked at the [Innkeeper], and Erin grabbed his side. She hugged him fiercely.
“I heard you fought in a war for me. You—you silly half-Giant! I’ve been waiting for you to come here so I could do this! I just couldn’t chase you down in a wheelchair.”
“I’m too dangerous. I don’t grow plants. It’s all blood and death. Erin—don’t.”
“Make me! I bet you won’t. You hit bad people. Not Mrshas and Erins. Mrsha, get him!”
The Gnoll clung to Moore’s head, blubbering. The half-Giant didn’t seem to have the strength to pull her off.
“Moore. I tolb you. We’re your teabmates.”
The half-Giant looked around and saw Jelaqua oozing orange slime out of various orifices. The Selphid grabbed him.
“You big dummy. Ulinde, get in here! Seborn—”
“No.”
But the [Rogue] was watching, and Moore protested, but weakly.
“Jelaqua—no, really. Don’t hug—argh.”
“Seborn! Come on!”
It was a group hug, and the [Rogue] was the only one out. Seborn slowly stood up as his team beckoned to him. The Horns were watching. Half the inn was watching. Typhenous was definitely watching.
The Drowned Man slowly put a hand on Moore’s shoulder and rested it there. Then Erin pulled him in, and he embraced Moore’s arm for a second.
“Alright. Now let me go. I said let me—”
Moore’s arm trembled as he drew his friend into a hug. Mrsha patted him on the head, and he…sighed as he rubbed at his eyes. It sounded like relief.
 
——
 
You couldn’t hug away everything, but you could squeeze out a lot. Erin with legs was better than a wheelchair.
She could chase people down. And unlike Pisces, the real trick might have just been getting Moore into the inn.
Because Mrsha refused to let go of him once she got onto the half-Giant’s shoulder. She held a bowl of chips and kept feeding Moore bites and making sure he was eating. The anxious little Gnoll’s attention was enough to make Moore begin to tear up every few minutes.
Horns and Halfseekers. Adventurers in the inn, and Erin on her feet. Amidst all of it, a single man in a hat tapped Erin on the shoulder as she was resting her legs for a second and beaming around.
“Miss Solstice. I hate to trouble you, but I popped down to the Mage’s Guild on my errands, as it were. Was holding onto this, but I recognized the name and thought—”
Alcaz proffered a [Message], and Erin accepted it.
“Thanks, Alcaz! What’s this ab—Ryoka?”
Every head turned. Lyonette groaned, and Mrsha looked up. Rather than let go of Moore, she hopped on his head and tugged at his hair like a driver.
“Mrsha, that hurts. Don’t do that.”
The half-Giant still obliged her by walking over. Erin was reading rapidly, and she exclaimed as Ceria walked over.
“Where’s Ryoka now? I haven’t heard of her since the Village of the Dead raid…tree rot. Is she okay?”
“I don’t know—does anyone know where Ryoka was?”
The other guests of the inn looked about. Klbkch raised one hand.
“I recall she was sighted in the presence of Lord Tyrion Veltras. Allegedly, he proposed to her.”
“He what? But—”
Relc choked on his drink. He hesitated.
“Well, yeah. You save someone’s life and it happens. He proposed…did she say yes?”
Levil called out.
“No, and I heard she appeared in Ailendamus. As a prisoner of all things! Or a guest. It’s hard to tell, but the Wind Runner was hobnobbing with some fancy [Princesses].”
“Right before she tried to murder the Archmage of Memory. Which is fairly typical for her.”
Lyonette scowled. Erin’s mouth opened as Mrsha began chucking salsa-dipped chips down at her mother. The [Innkeeper] blinked.
“So that’s where that was. Wild. Ailendamus…and what was—um. Nevermind. Well, she’s alive! And she’s out of jail.”
“She was in prison?”
Half the guests exclaimed. Erin showed the letter around. It was brief, but Ryoka explained she’d been incarcerated and was on her way back to Izril and how were things?
Classic Ryoka. Erin sighed in relief. Then she remembered something else.
“Rabbiteater!”
She shouted in Selys’ face as the Drake went to read the letter. Selys nearly slapped her.
“Erin! What about him?”
“Wh-what happened to Rabbiteater? I mean…Ser Solstice.”
Most of the adventurers didn’t know who Rabbiteater was, but the second name caused a lot of surprise. Levil nearly choked on his food.
“I don’t know who that other one is—but do you mean, Ser Solstice, the [Knight]? The new Lightherald of Calanfer?”
Erin’s mouth opened and continued to open as two-thirds of the inn instantly recognized the name and turned to her.
“No, I mean, my friend. Wait, is it the same Rabbiteater? He’s a—”
There was no time for anyone to stop her. Numbtongue, emerging from Octavia’s shop with the [Alchemist] in tow to figure out what the hell was going on, began to shout. But he was saved by the power of Ulvama.
The [Shaman] turned, saw Numbtongue’s expression, and then delicately, swiftly, and deliberately tossed her entire mug into Erin’s face. The [Innkeeper]’s splutter and ensuing shouting was enough time for Numbtongue to get over.
“Hey! Why did you do that—Ulvama?”
Erin glared. The [Shaman] stared at Erin.
“Acid bug on your face? I need another drink.”
She handed Ishkr her empty mug and took one off of Silveran’s tray. Erin was about to shout in confusion and anger when Numbtongue dragged her aside. Erin’s eyes went progressively rounder until she raised her head.
“There is no way. Does anyone have a recording of—what battles did you say he was in?”
Levil nodded eagerly.
“There’s an entire documentary. No, wait. What did Wistram say they were selling? A film of the war. You buy this memory crystal you can use with their cheap scrying orbs…hey, Ceria. Can I get an advance on my share? I’ll buy it all!”
Erin was glad for the commotion and recap. She had to sit down again.
“Rabbiteater’s a hero? No way.”
It wasn’t him being heroic that was so astonishing. Just—she hadn’t known about it. And she had thought she knew a lot of what happened.
Her friends, around the world. Erin suddenly looked up and found Alcaz trying to see if the bisque had fully worn off by now.
“I have to send him a [Message]. I hope he’s alright. Everyone—keep partying! I need a bath.”
Lyonette sighed.
“We can draw some water from the well later, Erin. It’ll take too long right now.”
“Darn. We need plumbing! And a bathroom! At least a towel. I’m sticky.”
Pisces pointed a finger at Erin.
“[Cleanse].”
Some of the sticky mead vanished from Erin’s clothing, and she sighed in relief. Pisces sniffed.
“As you can see, it is entirely effective in keeping oneself clean—”
Erin threw up her hands. But she was laughing.
 
——
 
The Bulkup Bisque had an effective duration of four hours. It wore off in the last thirty minutes. It also seemed like it shielded the users from some of the effects of their exertions.
At least, Normen and Alcaz claimed to feel a bit sore, but nothing to trouble anyone over.
Erin? She sat down abruptly in her wheelchair and then began yelping.
“Ow. Ow. Ouch, what’s—”
Within five minutes she was grabbing a healing potion. She took one huge gulp.
“Argh! My body is killing me!”
The potion reduced the pain at once, and Erin relaxed—then realized she couldn’t stand up again.
“Damn! The bisque wore off!”
“…I assume that sentence made sense to someone else?”
Yvlon looked around. Erin groaned.
“I’m out of strength!”
Ceria was aware of Erin’s new food and looked around the inn, still full of activity. The new Antinium were learning the ropes and serving food to the adventurers, who were too high on relief to even care who was bringing them food and drinks.
“Well, why not eat more?”
“I don’t wanna eat bisque right now.”
“You could…oh, hey. Anyone know enchantment magic? Palt? Bezale?”
“What? Oh—[Lion’s Strength]? I could use a scroll, but that’s expensive.”
Bezale was reluctant, so Palt tapped Erin on the shoulder.
“How about [Rhinoceros Beetle’s Might]?”
“Isn’t that a Tier 3 spell?”
Ceria snorted, but Erin Solstice pushed hard and rose with a wobble. She clung to the table and blinked.
“Hey, this isn’t as strong as my bisque—but it’ll do! Bezale, how much is a [Lion’s Strength]…?”
“Eight hundred and twelve gold pieces. That’s the friend-discount.”
“…Bisque it is! I wonder if I can make it last longer? Probably more of the gumtree bark.”
It was enough for Erin to hobble around and move from seat-to-seat with. She decided a bisque would help her get around for four hours each day—or she could have two, but she didn’t know if she had enough room for bisque in her life. But if Palt enchanted her…
Well, the inn didn’t party into the night. Mostly because the adventurers left the inn to head into the town and hit the bars and celebrate. The Wandering Inn was, ironically, not the spot a lot of the teams wanted to be.
