"Wait, everything?" Thane glanced at the World Tree looming over them. It was no secret to the nobles that the World Tree wasn't peaceful; it was enslaved by a grand formation that spread throughout the whole Empire. If the formation were to be destroyed, the Celestial Empire would crumble.

"I have the same fear," the Enforcer said, following his gaze. "The formation has already sustained some minor damage, but if it can't be stopped—well, I'm sure anywhere under the World Tree's canopy is the last place anyone will want to be."

Thane paled at the Enforcer's words. He had planned to head inland, sell the information he knew, and be pardoned from his exile. What he hadn't expected was for this to be a problem on this scale. Taking a moment to consider his options, he realized there was no future for him without Floridawn.

"Can you bring me to a Councilman? I have something I need to tell them," he asked the Enforcer.

"I can do you one better," the Enforcer said, pulling out a communication jade. "Councilman Cyphion was already on his way to check on the situation. I'll request his presence here and provide his insight on this."

"Thank you," Thane said. While he had some grievances with Floridawn and the Celestial Empire in general, he wasn't so cold-hearted to watch the city he grew up in wither to dust. Lost in thought, he only noticed the Councilman's arrival by the sudden, unmistakable pressure weighing down on the surroundings.

A young-looking man, adorning a simple white robe, stepped out of the portal. Embroidered on his chest was an unassuming white flower, but Thane knew it was a queen of the night, a cactus flower known to bloom once a year, only to wilt by morning.

Councilman Cyphion's eyes widened in surprise. "Thane? Is that you?"

"It's been a while," Thane smiled, ignoring the shock on the Enforcer's face. While this barking dog could only call on Cyphion, Thane was an old acquaintance. He had done some of the decorations in the man's home.

"The beard alone tells me that, it um," Cyphion paused, wrinkling his nose, "suits you, yeah. This Enforcer here informed me you possess something to share?"

"Before that, my lord," the Enforcer stepped into the conversation. "I have reason to believe what we are facing is not decay as initially expected, but rather desolation."

"Desolation?" Cyphion said, his eyes oddly lit up at the mention of the affinity that destroys all. "Could it be him?"

"My lord?"

"Oh," Cyphion blinked. "It's nothing, and yes, you're right." He tasted the air. "This is indeed desolation Qi, and of high quality. Nearly Monarch Realm, I believe. Now, Thane, what is it you wished to share with me?"

"The source of this desolation," Thane paused, feeling the attention of Cyphion and the Enforcer on him, "I believe it to be a tree of some kind. One that is different from the World Tree."

Councilman Cyphion looked between the two of them and frowned.

"Trust me, just dig down and you will see what I mean—"

"Oh, I trust what you say is true, Thane," a sigh escaped his lips. "I just wish it wasn't you who found out." He walked past them both with a complicated expression. Pausing a few steps away, he suddenly looked up into the sky as if a bird had caught his attention, and a smile tugged at the edge of his lips. "As I suspected, he's here."

"Who?" Thane couldn't help but ask.

"The All-Seeing Eye, a god I once stole a sword from," Cyphion replied, "and now that you know that," he looked over his shoulder, and Thane shivered from the coldness in his eyes. "You're going to have to die."
