“Are either of you likely to have a speciality that is, in some way, monetisable?”

The two hatchlings looked at each other, confused. Seeing their dilemma, Demetant stepped in.

“Perhaps you could explain what you mean?” she suggested gently. “These two are still very young and aren’t sure what you’re talking about.”

It seemed as though the little ones were a little more uncomfortable around Merchant in a way that they hadn’t been with Vibrant or even Brilliant. She supposed it was probably because Merchant just looked different than any other ant they had met. She was so expressive, so human-like with her mannerisms and way of communication, that speaking to her just felt different.

Then, of course, there was the clothing.

A gleaming monocle made of a gold rim and sparking crystal glass sat over her left eye, while she had a… cloak… or back covering woven in some sort of highly reflective silk covered in elaborate stitching. Combined with rings that covered the joints in her legs, Merchant was rather dazzling to look at.

The Champion sighed.

“It’s kind of hard to explain, because for the most part I’m the only member of the Colony who actually understands this stuff.”

“You can try,” Demetant encouraged her.

“Fine. Well… now that I think about it, it’s not that complicated. Are either of you going to be able to use your abilities to make money? Because that’s what I do, I make money for the family and then use that wealth to get things that we can’t make or get ourselves.”

“Are there things we can’t make?” the first hatchling asked, confused. “I thought we made everything!”

“I wish,” Merchant grumbled. “We can make pretty much all the simple stuff, but there are still materials we don’t have access to in our territory and specialised designs and techniques that we haven’t been able to figure out yet. The world is a big place, after all.”

The two hatchlings considered this for a moment.

“I have one main question,” the second hatchling said.

“Just one? That’s good, time is money.”

“Is there any chance you could tell me what money is? It seems like a core concept that you have built your speciality around, but I’ve never heard of it.”

Merchant slumped.

“Yes… yes, I suppose that’s where we would need to start. I thought that the idea of commerce might be spreading through the Colony a bit faster by now, but hatchlings wouldn’t be learning about it, obviously.”

“It’s not part of the antcademy curriculum,” Demetant apologised.

“No, no, I understand, there’s no need for you to be sorry, Tender. Most ants aren’t going to encounter the concept through their lives.”

She sighed.

It didn’t take long for her to give a basic primer on the concept of commerce and when she was done, the second hatchling nodded in understanding.

“I understand your question now. You’re asking if our abilities and interests are likely to be in demand outside the Colony in a way that you can sell.”

“Exactly,” Merchant nodded with relief. “I’m glad you both get it.”

“Yes…” the first hatchling said, wings buzzing nervously, “both of us.”

“I am looking to specialise as a healer. I’m not certain anyone outside of the Colony or its direct allies are likely to accept healing from a monster. Perhaps there may come something in the future that I learn or develop, and if I do I’ll be sure to let you know. If I might say so, my sister has a particular interest in flying, which I don’t see as being valuable to you.”

Merchant stroked the bottom of her head in an odd motion with one of her forelegs.

“Hmmm… yes, I see what you mean. Flying isn’t all that interesting from my perspective.”

“Flying is interesting from all perspectives!” the first hatchling insisted, rising off the ground a few centimetres as she flapped her wings.

“You sound like a magpei,” Merchant laughed. “They can all fly and they look down on everyone who can’t. Come to think of it, you should probably have a talk to Diplomant. Showing those big-mouthed bird-brains a flying ant is probably a good idea.”

“I’ll let them know,” Demetant said.

“As for you,” Merchant said, turning her attention to the second hatchling. “The possibilities are a little more open. You’re right that people might not want to accept your healing, not at first anyway, but in future? If you get good enough, they’ll line up and bury you in money for the privilege of having you treat them. With the advantages of powerful evolutions and mutations, who can say what might be possible?”

The second hatchling shrugged. She certainly didn’t know how she might develop with future evolutions, but she wasn’t all that interested in trying to heal anyone from outside of the family. As far as she was concerned, the rest of the ants did enough stupid things and got themselves hurt at a fairly constant rate. If she worked as a healer, then she would have more than enough to do just taking care of her siblings and cleaning up their messes.

“But the healing is just the beginning,” Merchant enthused. “Healing methods. Medical technology. That sort of thing is extremely valuable.”

As she got going, the Champion's eyes gleamed as she began to consider all the ways in which they might generate wealth.

In a way, the hatchlings were now able to identify with their fellow Champion more than they could before. That fascination and focus was something they both understood to differing degrees.

“If something comes up, I’ll be sure to let you know, sister,” the second hatchling said.

“Yeah, and flying is amazing!” the first hatchling insisted.

“I believe you,” Merchant laughed, then another look came over her face. “Now, perhaps I can convince you to try wearing some of my bespoke line of ant clothing? A dashing vest? A nice back covering?”

“Uh, no?” the second hatchling said.

“Hah… I’m trying to get a business started developing an ant clothing line, but getting clients is proving difficult.”

“Why would you sell to us?” the second hatchling asked, confused. “None of us have any money to pay you.”

“It’s something I’m doing for free, not to generate profit,” Merchant sighed. “It would be easier for outsiders to look at us as something other than monsters if we wore more items of clothing. Make us look a little more civilised in their eyes. Also, my siblings deserve to look their best!”