"I fear that's impossible, Deathless." The orc's bloated lips moved with lurid and exaggerated detail. "The other orcs have tried. They've inflicted all manner of pain upon me, and I delighted in all of it. I feasted upon it. All pain is food for me. All pain. And I get so many different varieties, so much nutrition from myself, from the world." And now the Gourmet leaned in, his breath stinging, steaming the air in front of Shiv. "I… think I can love you."

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: I fear we do not have a strong enough Mental Illness Skill to continue conversing with this orc. If you do not leave right now, you will, however, develop a Vomiting Skill from how disgusting this creature is.

Against Shiv's will, A Glimpse of Perspective triggered then, and shadows played behind the orc, revealing insights into his history and philosophy. It showed Shiv things. Things he promptly ripped out of his own mind and tore apart using Psychomancy. It didn't matter that it hurt his consciousness. It didn't matter that it left him bleeding from his eyes and nose. He had absolutely zero interest in knowing how the Gourmet saw the world. And if he stayed a single second longer, he was going to rip the orc's head off and then commit suicide right afterward for even touching the wretch.

He left using his Strider of the Unbending Path skill. He vanished in a flash of gold, and the last thing he saw were the rotting worms that waved out from between the space of the Gourmet's wedge-shaped teeth.

Fuck you, Challenger, Shiv thought, cursing with all the rancor he could muster. Fuck you for the orcs in general. Fuck you for the Culturist. But fuck you for this fucking orc in particular.

The Challenger is amused by your continued suffering.

Yeah, whatever. I'm gonna kick the shit out of this orc just like I did all the others. Then I won't need to think about his ass ever again.

“How very optimistic of you, Bruiser.”

And despite all the burning resolve within Shiv, he couldn't help but feel a sense of deep foreboding building inside his heart.

***
