Unknown to these wolves, Shiv had plenty of vicarious experience watching Georges deal with such cretins, and he'd participated in some of those experiences as well. After cordially accepting and deeply apologizing to the orcs in public, he returned to the kitchen, infused a new batch of upgraded ingredients with a set of echoes, and made a specially prepared version of the Manifold Orc Meatballs for the orcish food critics.

At first, the new echoes resented Shiv for infusing them in his shit, but when he explained to them what he wanted to do, they suddenly went from outraged to overly enthusiastic. They cooked themselves as best they could, hardening into little pellets and hiding within the meatballs. They were spread out enough that it would take more than a few chews for the offending guest to realize what was condensing around their gums. The critics failed to realize they were nursing their lips on fecal matter, and their demands grew more and more outrageous. They requested additional meaningful meatballs delivered then, promptly, and for free, even though the orcs were already eating for free anyway. Then they started complaining about the marrow tasting like marrow, the gristle being too stringy, and the lean meats being too lean and buttery.

One among the orcs also pretended to nearly faint when he found traces of mushrooms, claiming he was allergic to vegetables, for that was the food that prey species enjoyed.

Despite mushrooms not being plants to begin with, the gathered orcs promptly began gagging en masse. However, that was also when the orc snob who'd started it finally realized there was an added aspect to his meal. He inhaled a mouthful of shit, and he began choking and gagging.

Shiv immediately accused the orcs of ruining their own palate due to their shit-chewing skills, and he took the offensive as his Sage of the Enkindled Heart guided him. The beautiful thing about slander was that it had little to do with truthfulness or rhetorical genius; it had everything to do with aggression and static statements. The more one explained, the poorer one was at slander. The more one explained, the worse one was at defending themselves.

As the various critics began gagging and retching from all the shit they'd had consumed, Shiv decided to strike the initiative. He continued accusing them of being saboteurs at his business. He told them that the other orcs had clean mouths, that they were without shit between their teeth, and that these orcs must have had some kind of sick fetish to indulge in scat-play so publicly.

It was a beautiful thing, understanding the nuances of an orc's psychopathy. The moment the others realized what he was doing, they didn't refute him; they didn't question, even though they more than likely suspected the truth. They piled on their own kind, sensing an easy opportunity to scratch their own itches. And they tore into them, ruining the critic orcs' reputations by deeming them scatological perverts. And then murdering them slowly and in vivid detail at the center of the dining room to “uphold the Chef's honor against salacious slander.”

Some of the critics found Shiv's counterattack funny and simply played along as they were crucified, dismembered, or staked to the ceiling, bleeding to death with faintly amused grins. The sore losers that tried fighting back quickly found themselves ripped apart. Some of them came apart as a golden bolt of lightning tore through them. Others fell into neatly split halves and found their mana fields all collectively bifurcated as well.

At the same time, a brawl nearly unfolded at the bar, but the offending parties were turned into a bonfire thanks to Candles’ timely intervention. When the next group of wolves arrived, they learned to behave themselves better, incentivized by the unstable Pyromancer twitching nearby.

And so the day went on, and Shiv learned what it meant to truly run a restaurant. He realized it would be really hard to run a kitchen without someone like Adam, who could spot any number of issues in an instant using his overwhelming Awareness. Or Jessica, who intervened a few times, though she tried to be quiet about it. And Gone was nothing if not honest about her victims. Someone had to behead a few of the grayskins.

But even with all that help, there came problems beyond Shiv near the end of his first run. The initial dilemma that exceeded his ability to handle was capacity. When you could only invite approximately a thousand orcs into your restaurant before you stopped being able to keep up, what resulted was mass dissatisfaction among the have-nots. And with over a million have-nots gathered outside, Shiv found himself overwhelmed by a cascading series of problems.

First came the Restaurant Raiders. These orcs had one desire, and one desire only: to indulge in their Insul’s fine cooking, no matter what they had to do. Being the martyrdom-focused orcs they were, their solution naturally devolved into violent raiding. They broke into the Court Leviathan first by detonating a series of mana bombs in the waiting room. That upset Shiv greatly. It pissed Valor off even more. However, with the outside of the Leviathan shredded wide open and everyone having clear line of sight into the dining area, a mass run on the restaurant began. Hundreds of thousands of orcs flooded toward the wounded, but rapidly regenerating Court Leviathan.

The battle that took place was subsequently as chaotic and absurd as the situation that caused it. Bombs went off everywhere, devastating skills and spells were unleashed by both sides. The orcs within the dining area dubbed themselves the Bourgeoisie or Shiv's True Children, despite their Insul’s attempt to get them to stop fanning the flames. To make matters worse, Shiv's cooking was interrupted as a specialized orc strike team somehow slipped past all of their defenses and managed to almost kidnap his physical body, knocking him out using a specialized neuro-toxin that bypassed his Plaguefueled skill.

But before they could take his organic form away, Valor stepped out seemingly from nowhere and performed a series of delicate incisions on the orcs' necks and soles with Necromantically charged blades.

The ancient lich wasn't very fast, for he still lacked his complete Reflexes Skill, and he wasn't very strong, as his Physicality remained crippled. He didn't even have all his magical skills. Despite all of this, the orcs never saw him coming, and surprise was a potent thing, even when faced with thirteen Heroic-Tier orcs.

By the time they came apart, the Court Leviathan had mostly regenerated, and the massive insurrection stabilized into an uneasy détente due to most being unwilling to truly risk destroying the Court Leviathan. Diplomats among both the Raiders and the Bourgeoisie began arguing with each other, trying to negotiate time limits for how long each orc can eat within the kitchen.

But just as Shiv had thought things were about to stabilize, the shadow of his cruel enemy revealed itself.

Through the densely packed clouds above descended a shape, distorting and displacing the smoggy vapors that painted the Tutorial's firmament. Shiv wondered if it was a falling mountain, and launched himself high up into the air, desperate to prepare for whatever mad attack the orcs had planned upon his restaurant. However, after a few seconds, when the massive structure had passed through the clouds entirely, he realized he wasn't staring at a plunging mountain being used as a disposable meteorite. No. The thing he stared upon was a colossal cauldron with a series of interlaced spell patterns on the bottom, allowing it to fly. The cauldron itself was shaped from orichalcum and rimmed with simmering condensation. Standing at the edge of the cauldron was a horrifically obese orc that wore a white chef's hat longer than he was tall on his bulbous head.

He sneered down at Shiv more sneerfully than anyone had ever sneered at him, gluttony, defiance, and cruel lust making up his gaze equal measure, and his grotesque stomach was large—and distended enough—to contain Shiv and two other orcs at the same time. That flopping length of prolapsed fat swayed below the orc's dirty apron, and Shiv felt his stomach turn just looking at it.

"You are the Deathless who thinks himself a cook." The orc spoke with a slow, slurred tongue and sprayed spittle with every word, but his voice was deafening all the same. "I look upon you, and I see nothing more than an upjumped Commis. I see nothing more than an acolyte pretending to be a master. The others say you were trained under Georges Archambault."

Shiv stared the rival chef down with rank disgust rather than any kind of fear. His Sage of the Enkindled Heart activated before the enemy orc could fully finish his social attack. "Look, if you come here to challenge me to some kind of cook-off, I'll do it. If you try to insult Georges or say that I won't live up to his memory, do anything like that, I'm just gonna leave. You're already hard to look at, so I don't feel like playing psychological games with you."

And before the enemy chef could derive any pleasure from Shiv’s emotional wounds at all, a look of surprise overtook him. "How did you—"

"Because it's the kind of shit I would say to myself if I wanted to piss myself off. And you orcs are pretty predictable when you smell blood. You always go after the open wound. Can't resist it. Kind of feel bad for you. Too bad for you, I'm kind of a bastard too, so if you want to be an actual prick, don’t. Unless you really got a good Psychology or Rhetoric Skill helping you, maybe just stick to the cooking."

The hideous orc regained his cruel composure faster than Shiv expected, spinning twin spatulas of Moonsteel in his hands in a dramatic flourish. "Very well,” he drawled. “Then we do this directly, without words. I understand you are making meatballs out of my kin. I accept this challenge and promise to surpass your dish. I offer no terms, and I will grant no clemency. All the orcs within your restaurant will turn away and come to my cauldron. For that is the will of the Gourmet. Your fate is to stare up into the sky and know that you have been bested. Know that no matter what novelty you provide with your amusing humanity and feeble skill in the kitchen, all your customers will be bound to me. They will come to me in time. They will forget you. They will scorn you. And I will have avenged my humiliation in the halls of the Court of Night at the hands of your… worthier predecessor."

Shiv’s nostrils flared for just an instant. He caught his own surprise before it could fully slip out of him, but with the way the Gourmet grinned, Shiv didn’t hide his emotions well enough. The Deathless had suspected he might run into a moment like this; Band had hinted that he knew Georges’ past as a means of provoking Shiv, he wasn't surprised that part of that was also wrapped in truth. Maybe the Gourmet was exaggerating how much he knew about Georges, or maybe not, but Shiv didn't care. Frankly, this added more spice, more challenge to his pre-opening night, and if Shiv can break a rival chef, then that would do much more to add to his legend. Might even grant him some additional levels.

"You know what, Gourmet? You're on! But I don't care what you got to say about Georges. If you lose—and I'm going to make you lose—I will need you to do something for me, alright?"

Shiv drifted in a little closer in an attempt to intimidate his rival, but the Gourmet never backed away. Unlike many other orcs, no thread of fear left him, refusing to feed Shiv with power. The Gourmet, though an unsophisticated and utterly repulsive-looking specimen of an orc, had a soul made of sterner stuff than others. For the first time, Shiv started wondering just how great the Gourmet's Cooking skill was.

"Tell me what suffering you wish to inflict upon me, what depravity, and I will endure them with pleasure." The orc's breath was hot with cooking oil, liquor, and all manner of other questionable spices, but there was also a hint of naked delight.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: I fear that this orc enjoys being hurt and humiliated as much as he enjoys inflicting pain. There's a name for people like him. We heard Georges say it once.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 147 > 149

"What are you, some kind of mass-masskist? Felling hells was that word…”

"Masochist," the Gourmet corrected with slurred glee.

"Yeah, that. You're one of those sick fucks who get off on being hurt by other people?"

The Gourmet bellowed with ugly laughter, slapping his grotesque belly loudly. "Only when they have earned the right to wound me so sweetly."

And suddenly Shiv was having second thoughts about dealing with this orc. Among all the others, there was a relatively straight exchange of hostilities when it came down to it. But something about the Gourmet made Shiv's skin crawl so much that he wanted to rip his own skin off and chuck it into an incinerator just to avoid this orc ever getting his grubby hands on it.

Despite this, Shiv didn't back down. "You know what? Yeah, sure. Fine. Let's do this rival cook-off thing. But I'm not talking to you again until after I beat you."

"Aren't you going to give me the terms of my punishment?" the orc asked innocently. The abomination blinked like an oversized child, and he began swinging his distended stomach in a hypnotic spiral motion until its underside slapped against the edges of his cauldron. The sound that followed was sickening.

"Hells fucking no," Shiv said with a shudder. "I'm not here to give you any pleasure. I'm here to take pleasure from you."

