“Me, either.” Detective Ramirez said. “I'm not sure what we can do with the information once we get it, though.”

“We'll worry about that when we have it.” She said and finished the plate of fries, and waved to the waiter. He brought over another plate full of fries, and took the empty one.

“How can you eat like that?” Her partner asked. “I'd be big as a house if I ate like that once a week.”

Officer Stonewall chuckled as she ate several fries at once. “I have a high metabolism.”

“Give me some of that metabolism.” Detective Ramirez said and grinned. “I hate eating salads!”

They both laughed.

********

Ren woke up with a warm body beside him. He opened his eyes and looked around.

Good morning, Teepo. Ren thought to his friend.

“Good morning.” Teepo said.

How's the time?

“You've got about 2 hours left before your early breakfast.”

Thanks, buddy. Ren thought and snuggled back down with Nathalia.

*

Lara, the Sage of Ages, sat at her desk in the Aurora Library. She was in the middle of a good book when she received a popup that said she had a message. She put the book down and opened the message. Her eyes widened as she read the words, and then she closed it and ran to her closet. She stepped inside and chose the Library in the Giant Kingdom. She stepped out of the closet, and was surprised that the stack of books that was supposed to be blocking her door from sight wasn't there. Instead, there were two Guardians of the Land; and in between them stood the Chancellor.

“We need to discuss the book.” The Chancellor said in a gravelly voice.

“I'll tell you anything that you need to know.” Lara said.

“We need to know where the abominations are staying.” One of the Guardians of the Land said.

“All I know is where the description is in the book.”

“So you won't know if that's the actual place or not.”

“Not from just the description.”

“Can you get the actual location?”

“Yes.”

“Then do so.” The Chancellor said. “We will wait for you here.”

Lara nodded, and stepped back into her closet. She chose the Aurora Library, and stepped out of it.

“Oh, crap.” Lara said and leaned against the door. She opened the messaging system and typed up a message to Ren and sent it.

“Please be in the game. Please be in the game. Please be in the game.” She repeated as she waited for Ren's response.
