As we approach the building, I nervously glance at Tabitha. Now that we were back outside the crater, I had full use of Sense Mana again, so I knew our camping spot was still empty, but that wasn’t what I was worried about. "Do you need to be farther away from the crater?" I ask. I don't mention it aloud, but I could see the mana built up in Tabitha's body. She'd have died from the pain if she were a weaker person.

“Here is fine,” Tabitha once again wipes the sweat from her face. “Can you take the first watch; I need to meditate?” She asks me, sounding extremely tired.

“Of course; leave it to me,” I tell her.

Tabitha nods once before jumping into the hole under the root, disappearing from sight but not from Sense Mana. She shifts around at the bottom for a minute before her mana silhouette takes up a meditative posture.

All I wanted to do was nap, and the day wasn't even halfway over. Throwing my full bag to the side, I hop up and take a seat on the root shielding the corner of the exposed building.

I double-scan our surroundings for anything dangerous, and afterward, when I'm doubly sure there isn't anything around, I go over our adventure in the crater in my head. At the same time, I try to purge some of the extra mana from my body. I had resisted it better than Tabitha, but I wasn't far from entering stage two of mana poisoning either.

While I try to force the extra mana out of my system, I go over all the materials I gathered, the magic beasts we ran into, and the sight of the lake; I go over everything with a fine-toothed comb.

Finding out that a magical kraken was living in the center of the Endless Forest was big, but while scary, it wasn’t something that affected me directly. I'm sure Pacore will be excited to hear about it, but he already had one giant sea monster to worry about, so I doubt anything will come of it any time soon.

No, instead, I focus on what I learned about myself. I was still missing valuable skills for one thing, and I learned I might need to adjust my weapons. Both required us to head back to the village, but I couldn’t help but think I would be missing out if we did that.

I wanted to go home, but the crater was the perfect place to train Sense Mana and Mana Skin. Both options had their merits, and it was up to me to decide.

"Sorry, everyone, wait just a few more days," I say to myself while looking off in the direction of home. When Tabitha finishes meditating, I'll ask her if we can spend a few days on the crater's edge. It was relatively safe there and had enough mana for me to experiment with.

Then there was that patch of dead forest. I saw it again while we were leaving the crater, and for some reason, it called out to me.

A few more days, that’s all I need. Because if the crater taught me anything, it's I must improve my skills further. Good thing I never shied away from hard work. I only hope my family understands.
