“Mana Shield,” Ali said. “Try shooting where Malika punches.”

“Aah,” Calen said, a tight grin flickering across his lips.

I think those gaps are taking longer to close, Ali thought, squinting at the holes Malika’s strikes left in the Mana Shield. A shining arrow zipped by, barely a centimeter past Malika’s ear and threaded the needle right through the rapidly shrinking gap. Alexander Gray hissed in palpable fury as Calen’s arrow punched through his left thigh. Perfect, Ali thought, conjuring a couple of barrier shards and spending the next several minutes of battle aiming to follow Calen’s example.

“I can’t believe I have to use my most powerful magic on you weaklings!” Alexander yelled; his face red with rage.

Arrogant. The thought flickered through Ali’s mind as she summoned another barrier shard. After all, we’re beating you. Besides, even she understood that withholding your most powerful magic out of pride in a real battle was a poor strategy. Still, she readied herself for anything. She would not make the same mistake of arrogance.

The mana and necromantic energy swirling around Alexander Gray roiled violently as he consumed another slave, leaving only one remaining. Intense dark energy condensed within his chest, building in power and size until it appeared as if he had swallowed a dark star. What spell is that? Ali thought, urgently studying the magic formation, trying to divine its function. Suddenly, every single skeleton on the battlefield collapsed, as if a giant scythe had cut their marionette strings. The mana animating them recoiled, snapping back into the necromancer and Ali felt a bad, bad premonition.

Slowly, bones from the dead skeletons began to levitate and swirl around, speeding up as they closed in on Alexander Gray.

“Careful!” Ali called out, “It’s some kind of avatar spell.” She didn’t know quite what, but she could tell its general purpose was to enhance him in some way.

“Hit him quickly!” Malika hissed from between clenched teeth, her fists blurring with speed.

The bones rushed in rapidly and stuck to his body as if seized by a strong magnetic force. More and more flew in, striking the giant bone construct around him with loud cracks. It accreted bone with growing rapidity until Alexander Gray was lost under a pile of bone larger even than the giant troll zombie, fully four meters tall and almost as wide. The entire pile crackled repeatedly with violent dark magic as he began to laugh, his amplified voice echoing from the battlements. It twitched this way and that, and then bone arms and legs as thick as tree trunks with giant claws instead of fingers reached outward and it stood up.

The avatar of bone took a thunderous step toward her. Ali gasped at the sheer bulk and power of the creation. Tight-fitting bone plates slid and shifted past one another as the black energy from the dark star powering his profane transformation leaked out from between the narrow seams and gaps.

“Over here,” Malika called as she took three running steps up the side of the construct and landed a powerful kick to the center of its chest, right over the spot where Ali could see the pulsing kernel of death mana. Her magic flashed blue once again and Ali saw the green nature mana of Mato’s healing helping her against the ever-present blight that still poured off him. To her horror, she noticed that Mato’s tree was full of dark blotches of necrotic rot, but on closer examination, she saw them rapidly healing under the continuous pressure of his aura and the soft glow of her Kobold’s healing magic.

He's sharing Malika’s damage. It had to be the only reason she was able to stand there at the center of the blight, dishing out endless punches and kicks. Several times Malika attempted to maneuver him, trying to entice Alexander Gray to chase her back into range of the Chain Lightning, but just as clearly he was having none of that.

Malika’s cool response brought Ali’s mind back to sharp focus. Quickly, she organized her creatures. Circling the Lux Drifters overhead, she began to rain acid on the abomination of bone, observing that the magical shield was no longer in effect. She flew her Kobolds closer and added their firebolts to the assault, reasoning that they would need every last point of damage. Finally, she began firing her barrier shards, trying to pierce the tough exoskeleton the necromancer had built, and carefully directed her slimes to place their explosions where Malika would not get hit. Her four remaining Forest Guardians became her melee attack force, and Malika began using them as platforms to launch her powerful attacks.

With a huge swing, the necromancer’s bone arm swiped at Malika but missed as she deftly dodged the blow. Instead, it struck a Forest Guardian, knocking it rolling across the ground. Shocked at the raw power of his avatar spell, Ali watched her Guardian roll to its feet and charge back into the fight.

I hope Malika doesn’t get hit.

Just as the thought crossed her mind, a giant bone arm connected with Malika’s back, knocking her flying through the air. A rapid series of healing flashes erupted as she and Mato reacted to the brutal strike. Ali summoned a small disk barrier next to Malika. Her friend immediately executed a neat flip and pushed off the barrier, taking several steps in thin air, supported only by her magic, before throwing herself back into the fray.

As Malika announced her return with a shattering front-kick to that mighty bone skull, Ali attacked with every Kobold and Sparkling Ooze, covering the necromancer in a giant inferno of white and red magical explosions. With a huge roar, the necromancer reacted by firing necromantic energy rays and bolts in quick succession, blasting her Kobolds off their flying platform. Ali threw up barriers to protect them, but he destroyed two of them instantly.

Malika re-engaged with her blue flashing soul magic. Calen flared with the light of the sun, casting harsh shadows on the ground as he activated his Righteous Fury skill. Each arrow he shot sought out chinks in the necromancer’s armor with uncanny accuracy. Ali shaded her eyes from the intense glow of his flying form and the hail of arrows he rained down on the necromancer, his hands moving so fast they were a blur. Shards of golden barrier magic materialized around the heavy avatar, lashing down as Ali sought to punch through the bone being shredded by Calen’s heroic efforts.

“Stop. Stealing. My. Mana!” the necromancer roared, his voice distorted and loud coming from deep within his armored bone avatar. Ignoring all attacks, he launched a frantic attempt to crush Malika.

Ali felt a surge of pride watching Malika stand there calmly dodging his furious swings and stomps, relying on her dexterity and continuous healing to keep her alive while her fists blurred and flickered with her ultra-rapid precision punches and the elegant footwork that Ali recognized from their training together. Even bone backed by the power of death mana could not withstand the fury of their combined assault, chips flying from every blow and cracks jagging across the individual segments.

Amid the hail of sizzling firebolts and buzzing arrows hammering into the heavy bone carapace, Malika twisted, spinning around as she leapt nearly two meters into the air. Her arms blurred with speed, delivering a near-instant flurry of jabs into the smoking ruin of crushed and burnt bone covering his torso. Intense flashes of blue mana strobed against Ali’s mana sight. And then… the dark, pulsing necromantic energy within the vault of his bone chest flickered. Malika’s spin reached its peak and she finished the combo with a heavy knee-strike to exactly the same spot. Her magic flickered once more, and the necromancer’s energy sputtered and died.

Malika landed lightly on the ground amid a rain of bone chunks as the Bone Avatar spell unraveled. A volley of incandescent light bombs pierced the disintegrating armor, detonating like grenades in a pile of woodchips. Chunks of shattered bone clattered off Ali’s hastily erected barriers as firebolts and Calen’s radiant arrows rained down unabated on the necromancer’s suddenly exposed body. An inhuman scream rose from the necromancer’s throat as his hair ignited like a torch and his limbs spasmed in agony.

With the remainder of her barrier capacity, Ali summoned a needle-sharp blade of gold and rammed it home through his chest.

A soft chime sounded in the back of her mind, and the body hit the ground among the shattered chunks of his bone armor.

Your group has defeated Blight Summoner – Human – level 73 (Death)

“Ran him completely dry,” Malika said, a smug smile on her face.

“Wow,” Ali said, gazing at Malika as she realized just how devastating her mana attack must have been for the necromancer.

“Well, that was certainly effective,” Calen nodded, joining them to inspect the corpse. It looked like a shriveled, charred rag lying in a blackened half-cage of bone, a shattered vessel altogether too small and frail to ever have contained the horrific power of the man who had called himself Nevyn Eld’s servant.

Ali floated down and began to refill her mana pool from the remains of hundreds of corpses and skeletons. As Mato’s aura progressively erased all remnants of the necromantic blight, Ali became aware of distant cheering and shouting from the people on the south wall of the town. She let out a sigh of relief and returned to the bones and her tedious deconstruction. As she approached the corpse of a skeletal Ice Mage, though, her eyes were drawn to a glimmer of white frost clinging to the tattered blue rags it still wore.

That’s odd. She drew closer to examine it. Is it… growing? She shivered as an icy breeze tickled her skin. Looking up, she found the forest in front of her rapidly freezing as frost and ice crystals appeared growing on everything.

“Uh, guys?” she called as unnatural tendrils of dread began to raise the hairs on the back of her forearms. “Guys!”

“What is it, Ali?” Malika asked, glancing up from her inspection of Alexander Gray.

“Oh, shit!” Calen said. “Ru–”

A dark figure emerged from the forest. A shrouded face turned toward her and two intense icy blue flames of magic in its eye sockets seemed to bore right through her soul. Ali shivered, not from the icy bite of its aura, but from fear and recognition.

Death Knight! she screamed, but her mouth refused to form the words. It was the very same monster that she had faced with her mother fleeing Dal’mohra on that fateful day.

“The master will have his prize.” The ethereal voice echoed everywhere, as cold as its magic, seeming to come from far away and yet whisper to her from right behind her ear. A wave of dread washed over her, borne on the back of the icy tendrils of its mana, fixing her in place with terror as effectively as if she were literally frozen. Her friends stood, immobile, staring at the monster. Without her mother’s hand holding hers, and without her magic protecting her mind, she railed powerlessly against the relentless aura of fear.

Death Knight – Undead – level ??? (Ice)

It began to stride forward, heavy sabatons crunching as ice sprang from its footsteps. Sensing her terror, her remaining Forest Guardians roared and charged, but as they approached, they slowed and stopped, ice growing up from the ground through their bodies coating them in a thick layer of rime. The Death Knight raised a gauntleted hand and drew a greatsword from its back, its movements unhurried and deliberate. The sword shone with an intense blue flash as it connected, and the frozen Forest Guardian shattered into heavy blocks of ice that crashed across the ground. Ali’s mana reservation snapped painfully. Slowly picking its way across the battlefield, moving on a direct line towards her, it dispatched the Forest Guardians one at a time, pausing only to examine the corpse of Alexander Gray with frosty disdain before making it vanish into some storage enchantment.

Unable to move, nor even think, she was forced to watch as the Death Knight stalked across the battlefield, easily deflecting the long-range attacks of her slimes using a conjured shield of ice. Her heart hammered fit to explode inside her petrified chest as it slowly drew closer, freezing all around them.

Suddenly the being hissed, head snapping to the left.

A brilliant figure rose from the blighted forest on wings of fire and lightning. Drawing a bow, it unleashed an arrow imbued with magic so powerful the flare overwhelmed Ali’s mana sight. With a howling roar, a stream of arrows leapt from the bow, closing the distance to the Death Knight in an instant. The crash of the impact shook the ground, and the wave of heat bowled Ali over as the secondary detonations left craters and a rain of ice and dirt. The Death Knight was knocked sprawling, and the hail of lightning and fire magic followed it relentlessly, as if hunting with a mind of its own. But it rolled to a crouch, behind an intensely glowing shield of ice. Still, the incandescent fury of the unidentified archer hammered down, driving the Death Knight into an undignified retreat as it clawed deep furrows across the field in a vain effort to withstand the onslaught.

“Cursed Elf!” the Death Knight snarled; its echoing voice filled with icy fury. “This is far from over… I will return for your head.” Abruptly, the oppressive aura of ice and fear vanished. Ali stumbled to one knee as if suddenly released from her bindings, and as the fiery onslaught faded, all she could see was glowing slag and blackened bone. Of the fearsome Death Knight, no trace remained.

What was that? Her eyes leaped. Who…

Ali stared wide-eyed at the sight of their rescuer alighting gracefully on the battlefield. Her wings of fire and lightning dispersed, and her bow vanished, but the remnants of her incredible power were still visible in the intense white runes of lightning mana slowly fading along the left side of her face and down her neck. Her eyes smoldered with the fury of a firestorm, but they too began to dim as she touched the ground, leaving the image of an elegant elf with the darkest ebony skin Ali had ever seen. Her dark hair was bound high in tight braids, and her smoky eyes turned to study Ali where she knelt in the mud and scorched dirt.

Archer [Pathfinder of Legends] – Night Elf – level ??? (Fire / Lightning)

A Night Elf? What is she doing here?

“That Death Knight was… looking for you, Fae girl,” she noted calmly, addressing Ali in Elvish. Her elegant voice perfectly matched her exquisite leather armor and carried an undercurrent of power – not quite a question nor a demand.

Awkwardly, Ali scrambled to her feet and bowed, greeting her in formal Elvish, “Thank you for saving us, Hunter of the North.”

