The Elf’s piercing eyes scanned the corpse-littered battlefield and the giant pile of bones, steam already rising from the thawing ground strewn with the corpses of the undead and the blocky chunks of Ali’s Forest Guardians. The eyes flicked to each of her companions, pausing briefly on Mato as he shifted out of his Tree Form. Calen’s low gasp carried to her hearing. Ali reflexively brushed off her clothing, trying to process their victory over Alexander Gray and then… this unexpected help.

“You all killed Alexander Gray?” the Elf asked, switching to Common.

“Yes,” Ali blurted out. The Elf seemed cautious, and Ali wondered if she had been explicitly hunting the Death Knight. She seemed more than capable of it.

“Good work,” she said with the barest hint of surprise making it past her controlled composure. “I have business to take care of before I track that Death Knight down. I suggest you take cover inside the town walls in case it returns.” A sour twist of her mouth accompanied her mention of the Death Knight. And with that, her wings reappeared, and she shot off towards the town, leaving cracks on the ground where she had stood and trailing shockwaves behind her.

“Who was that?” Ali asked.

“That was Lyeneru Silverleaf,” Calen answered breathlessly, eyes wide – awestruck.

The legendary Pathfinder, Ali recalled. And Calen’s idol. What is she doing here?

Seth cowered in terror. But his body refused to show it, standing immobile in the remnants of the circle. He had been forced to watch, unable to even move or even speak, as Alexander Gray had ripped the souls from each of his companions, one by one, while the heroes tried desperately to fend off his endless horde of undead minions.

He had felt the yawning pit of darkness deep inside, and the lure of madness. The pull to escape his terror was relentless. He knew he would die, and judging by the unholy screams of his companions, that death – if this could even be called living – would be excruciating. And yet, his mind refused the allure of oblivion, clinging to consciousness by the bloodied fingertips of his shattered will.

Unable to do anything else, he was forced to watch the heroes as they struggled. Seth was rooting for the heroes, but as Alexander Gray turned himself into a huge bone construct and unleashed his greatest magic yet, Seth gave up in despair. The necromancer was simply far too powerful. Waves of undead blight washed through him endlessly, but Alexander had done something before the fight and somehow, he was spared from the necrotic damage. But he could still feel its tendrils rooted deep within his flesh.

Suddenly his chime sounded, and the black letters of the notification scrolled across his vision.

Requirements met for class advancement.Primary class slot available.Experience threshold reached.Subjected to large quantities of death affinity mana.Commanded an undead monster.Endured undead blight.Class: Undead Commander (Necromancer) unlocked.This class will be permanently affixed in one week.Additional class options may be available at a shrine.

Seth’s blood ran cold. Necromancer? Undead Commander?

The dark text filled him with sudden dread. His most fitting natural class was the same as Alexander Gray’s? Him, a necromancer? He would have screamed if he had control of his voice. Instead, his thoughts seemed to swirl like inky waters every bit as malign as the power he feared.

Don’t worry, you won’t live long enough for that. Inside he chuckled at his fate, wondering idly if he was losing his grip on sanity. He would be saved from a fate worse than death – by dying.

Right on cue, a wave of necromantic power reached for him, claws dragged through his soul to rip and tear, pulling him inexorably, writhing from his own body. His mind shrieked for an eternity. His body spasmed, and he saw his perspective splitting into two as he began to separate.

Suddenly, he found himself on the frozen ground, his soul snapping painfully back into place as he passed out briefly from pain. It was the sudden release of the compulsion collar that brought him back to his senses, and he looked up. The heroes were clustered around a huge pile of bone and a corpse.

The corpse of Alexander Gray.

I’m free… I am? What happened?

With all his will he forced himself up and suddenly he was running – shambling, stumbling – as fast as his ruined body could manage, straight for the gates of the town, ignoring the agony of his blighted muscles, the heroes, the battle, the necromancer, and even the strangely icy wind on his back. Town! Safe!

***

I need a healer. Seth crawled down a dirty alleyway, his body finally having given out and unable to support him anymore. He was blighted, driven far beyond what his body could normally have endured by the cruelty of the compulsion collar. If he didn’t find a healer soon, he was going to die.

And then I need to figure out how to get rid of this necromancer class, or somehow unlock another one. He had no idea how he might do that, but he needed to survive first. He crawled a little further and then suddenly froze at the sound of a voice behind him.

“Oh, look what we have here. Are you lost, boy?”

Seth turned to look, but all he saw was the black truncheon descending and then the lights went out.

Malika strode into the guild hall, frustration and annoyance at the town council threatening to bubble over and disturb her mental calm. Bastian Asterford had delivered a rousing speech filled with particularly effusive gratitude for their efforts in saving the town, yet simultaneously coming across as slimy, manipulative, and insincere.

Fucking hypocrite. He had caused the problem in the first place. If they had marshaled the garrison commander like they had for the Goblin siege, the fight could have been handled far more safely.

It was a particular brand of wealthy entitlement that simply got under her skin. After all, his maneuver of declaring a state of emergency had been a political tool to prevent the other council members from getting involved – and there could only be one reason for that. He had been plotting to sacrifice Ali before allowing Donella, Vivian, and Gerald to swoop in and save the day.

“Aah, Malika, how may I be of service?” Weldin greeted her as she stomped into the guild store. His unique brand of formality and propriety seemed to prevent him from calling attention to her mood, even though she knew how perceptive he was. For some reason, it seemed to ground her a little – perhaps simply a reminder of the sanctuary of the few honest and reliable people in her life.

Matching his mannerisms, she straightened up a little, anticipating the game they typically played. “There was a bit of a disturbance out front, and I somehow found myself in possession of a few extra items, but I find they don’t suit me. Perhaps you might find someone more appropriate for these?”

She had been rather annoyed to discover the Death Knight had made off with Alexander Gray’s corpse, but she had picked up a few decent weapons from some of the higher-level undead, and she enjoyed the excitement gleaming in Weldin’s good eye. But before that, Alexander had actually dropped a few items she needed to dispose of.

Weldin’s excitement vanished the instant she produced the collars and dumped them on the countertop. They were ugly black devices made from cold iron and had been fastened around the necks of the hapless prisoners who had been victims of Alexander’s necromantic sacrifice ritual.

Compulsion Collar – level 12-12 to level requirementWill Suppression (wearer is compelled to obey the crafter of the Compulsion Collar)Geas (wearer is prohibited from interfering with the Compulsion Collar)Requirements: NoneQuality: UncommonValue: 25 goldCollar – Head

“I cannot in good conscience buy those,” Weldin said, his face twisting in revulsion. His expression was firm, and Malika was a little surprised – and encouraged – by his conviction.

“I don’t want to sell something so evil,” she agreed. It wasn’t that long ago that she had been subject to the Cuffs of Suppression. Devices like these that sapped freedom went against the core of who she was. “I don’t want anyone ever using them again. I was hoping you could take them to the Novaspark Academy and find an enchanter to safely dismantle them. Perhaps we can split the salvage?”

“That… that is reasonable,” Weldin answered, nodding. “Twenty-five percent for the guild cut?”

Malika nodded, agreeing easily. She didn’t care about the money, just that she trusted Weldin to properly dispose of them.

She pulled out the last item she had found in the pile of bones left behind when the necromancer’s avatar had failed. A rather strange pendant with a glowing green crystal in the center. It had presumably been a large part of the reason Lirasia had been deceived.

Amulet of Natural Deception – level 52A delicate pendant with a silver wreath around the rim and an emerald set in the center.+36 Wisdom.Disguise. (you appear as a Druid with nature-affinity mana to most forms of Identification)This amulet Identifies as an Amulet of Vitality when worn.Requirements: Intelligence 182Quality: RareValue: 63 gold.Created by Indacus Argyle.Amulet – Head

“That’s quite remarkable,” Weldin said, examining the piece. “But it is essentially a tool of deception. Are you sure you wish to sell it?”

It was easily the most expensive item Malika had appraised and, while the gold would be quite welcome, she understood what Weldin was getting at. The only people who would be interested in this piece would likely be those who had reason to conceal the identity of their class. Like the necromancer – or more relevant now; thieves, assassins, and the like. The pendant wasn’t inherently evil like the collars, but even if someone reputable bought it, likely it would end up in the hands of those with devious intent.

It would have to be someone I trust. She pondered the problem for a while – none of her friends would get any effective use out of it.

Wait. What about Mieriel?

The guild administrator had done a lot of covert espionage for them during the preparation for the town council trial, and it was abundantly clear that was her main job for the guild. While Malika still hadn’t fully forgiven her, it did make sense – especially considering the twisted devious criminal politics of Myrin’s Keep. Mieriel was probably single-handedly responsible for keeping the guild in business and not beholden to Jax Hawkhurst, destroyed by Kieran Mori, or warped to some other influential person’s agenda.

“How about–” Malika began and then coughed awkwardly, realizing she had almost blurted out Mieriel’s secret. While Weldin was a trusted member of the guild, he probably didn’t know yet – Vivian had kept this secret from everyone, revealing it only when there was no other choice. “– what about Vivian?” Malika finished, recovering from her stumble with an awkward glance at Weldin’s raised eyebrow.

“The Guildmaster?”

“Yes,” Malika said. “Aah… there could be jobs that require concealing someone’s class. At least if Vivian controls it, we can trust it won’t be put to nefarious use.” At least better than the alternatives.

“She might not want to pay what it’s worth,” Weldin warned, turning the pendant over as he examined the craftsmanship.

“I don’t mind a steep discount if I know it will be used only for the guild, and not sold to some random criminals,” Malika answered.

“Very well, let me talk to the Guildmaster when she’s free and see if she wants to purchase it on the guild’s account,” Weldin said, storing the powerful but perhaps dangerous pendant. “Would you like me to deposit your gold directly into your account?”

“That would be perfect,” she said, finishing up her deal and leaving Weldin to his new purchases.

“Malika.” The undercurrent of urgency in Vivian’s voice interrupted her thoughts and she looked up sharply to find the Guildmaster’s long stride crossing the carpeted guild hall bearing down on her with clear purpose. “Not that I think anything bad is going to happen… but Lyeneru Silverleaf left the council angry after Jax Hawkhurst told her Aliandra was a dungeon. I think you should check on your friend, just in case.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
