Looking up, Ali met the necromancer’s gaze, and felt a chill run the length of her spine. He’s smiling?

“You whelp! Did you think it would be that easy?” he shouted.

He raised a fist and a dark, seething magic appeared within it. All around him, the chains connecting him to the immobile slaves pulsed. Each wore a collar that glowed with the same black mana, and each of them had eyes filled with terror.

“Look out!” Ali yelled.

The seething magic formation pulsed once and shot out toward one of the collared slaves. A ghostly outline of the man appeared briefly, struggling against the force of his magic, but to no avail. The apparition let out an unholy echoing scream as it was torn from the body before being drawn toward the necromancer and sucked into his chest. The corpse of the man hit the ground with a sickening thump, writhed grotesquely, and then his entire skeleton stood up, ripping itself out of the now-dead flesh before joining the fray.

Alexander Gray moaned in profane ecstasy as he absorbed the essence of the slain man. The necromancer’s dark mana surged exponentially, and his aura pulsed, rippling outward from him in ever-widening rings that brought death to everything they touched. Plants withered, and even the ground blackened as the blight consumed everything that was not already undead. As it reached Ali’s Guardians, their dense vines and thorns withered, dying even as the Elementals’ powerful regeneration magic fought to replenish the plants. Caught within the deadly aura, even the Guardians themselves began to decay, chunks of their bodies blackening and rotting and falling away, to be slowly regenerated by their auras.

“Back up!” Calen shouted.

The black pulsing blight grew stronger as the Necromancer reached forth and consumed another bound slave. Rapidly, the blight clawed its way up the legs of a Forest Guardian, blackening and rotting its wood and withering its strength till it crumbled under its own weight and collapsed.

“Back up,” Ali commanded, echoing Calen’s cry as she scrambled to regroup her Guardians so that their regeneration auras would overlap. But in the press of undead, they were too slow, and she lost a second Guardian to the inexorable blight emitted by his powerful spell.

“Ali, can you hold him off for a bit?” Mato called.

“What…” Ali exclaimed, hearing the unexpected voice of the Beastkin. She snapped her head around and found him standing there untransformed.

“I will try to deal with the blight,” Mato said. Then he reached out his massive hand and pointed, “You will need to handle that…”

Ali glanced in the direction he pointed and quailed a little inside at the sight of the giant troll zombie bearing down on them, great rotting gashes leaking putrid goo down its torso. Ali nodded, marshaling her remaining Guardians to intercept the enormous undead creature as she struggled to keep her stomach under control.

“Whatever crazy thing you’re doing, hurry it up!” Malika yelled.

Mato’s body stretched, growing rapidly broader and taller as his Tree Form transformation took hold. His roots dug into the blighted soil as Malika and her Acolytes healed him. Ali had no idea what he was planning – his tree could not move, let alone fight – but she trusted him and charged the giant zombie with her remaining Forest Guardians, knocking it back so that it could not reach Mato while he was vulnerable.

She flew her Lux Drifters in, raining acid down on the necromancer, trying to distract him while she defended Mato’s transformation. Skeletons and zombies surged, trying to reach his position, and the potent Chain Lightning ripped through the ones unfortunate enough to cross into the range of the powerful mage on the battlements.

The blight pulsed stronger and stronger, slowly encroaching on her Guardians. She could see it take root in their wooden bodies and feel how the regeneration magic struggled to banish the damage. Blackened patches grew up their legs and began to infect their armor with monstrous ease, digging deeper and rotting away their power and strength.

On the far side of the sea of undeath, Alexander Gray cackled and ripped the essence from another of his slaves.

“We’re losing,” Ali whispered as the black blight surged once more. One of her remaining Guardians stumbled, and an entire leg rotted away in seconds. The skeletons swarmed over it, stabbing and slashing with their rusty weapons while it thrashed around in a futile attempt to rid itself of them.

“Switch to Firebolts,” she commanded. She desperately needed to reduce the damage to her Guardians. But without the power of her area damage fireballs the skeletons and zombies began to overwhelm their perimeter through sheer force of numbers. “Mato… any time now!”

A pulse of viridian green mana flickered from behind her. Then, with an enormous surge, it exploded outward, rippling across the battlefield with the sudden rushing scent of leaves and forest glades. Waves of black blight crashed against the rippling verdant green, a titanic clash of nature against death magic unfolding in Ali’s mana sight as Mato’s Sanctuary ballooned to an enormous sphere around his majestic tree transformation. But, although the forces of death and growth appeared matched at first, Mato’s aura shimmered with the power of Vitality Rejuvenation, and the blight began to dissolve. As the Sanctuary aura pushed back the blight, it washed over her Forest Guardians, and the black claws of the blight’s grasp loosened and began to recede. Rot faded as vitality and vigor rushed back into the Guardians, bolstered by their regeneration and the potent magic of Mato’s tree.

“Yes! Mato!” Ali whooped.

“What!” the necromancer roared. “This is impossible!”

Well, we got his attention. That may not be a good thing –

“Fireballs, now!” Malika yelled.

“Back to fireballs!” Ali redoubled her bombardment. Now that the field could benefit from Mato’s regeneration aura, she ceased controlling the damage or conserving her mana and simply unleashed all her slimes, Kobolds, and the Lux Drifters upon the skeleton army. The acrid stench of the acid made her cough, but it left swathes of skeletons melting and smoking in its wake. Intensely shining balls of white energy lofted up over the battlefield, fired like artillery magic from the Sparkling Slimes in the rear to land in blinding detonations among the monsters. And from her barrier platform, angry red roiling fireballs seared forth with a steady thump, thump, thump of fiery blasts.

“Ali!” Malika yelled out from a crush of undead monsters where, somehow, she was tanking the giant troll zombie. Several skeleton mages lobbed fireballs and ice lances at her while she dodged frantically, but it was the enormous, rotted arms that flailed at Malika’s acrobatic speed that scared Ali the most.

If that thing connects… When the zombie missed and struck the ground, corpses bounced and lesser undead stumbled and fell, and the thuds and thumps of the impacts were probably felt across the other side of town. She knew well the legendary might of the giant trolls, and this one was a zombie that couldn’t feel pain.

“Fireball those mages,” she commanded, and her Kobolds immediately responded. She wished she had had enough mana to make a group of shamans, but her Guardians had been far too expensive, taking the bulk of her mana pool. And now they were tied up, tanking hordes of zombies and skeletons each.

“Drag those skeletons back,” Ali commanded. One of the Guardians immediately backed up, drawing a veritable horde of undead with it. “More.” It complied. Suddenly, a deafening crack split the air, leaving purple afterimages on her retinas and flying chunks of smoking bone.

“Nice one, Ali,” Calen said, not even slowing down his stream of arrows.

With all her other minions being pressured or busy, Ali fired two long barrier shards at the zombie giant troll. Both shards impaled its dead flesh with a disgusting squelching noise, punching clean through the monster’s torso and out the other side. She shuddered, reminded of the sound of Roderik’s gruesome death. The giant troll swung its great arm again, ignoring the sharp shards of golden magic piercing its ribs and chest – she couldn’t tell if it even noticed.

“If I can levitate Mato, I can pick you up,” she muttered, straining with her shards against the vast bulk of the giant troll. But although it began to lift, she had vastly underestimated the incredible weight of the giant monster, and instead of lifting it, her shards ripped through the flesh and out the side of its ribcage, spraying putrid black fluid everywhere. The monster continued pursuing Malika, but its torso flapped open from the two cuts she had made that severed through almost the entire right-hand side of the ribcage. So violently foul was the reek of rot and death, that Malika doubled over in a fit of racking coughs and choking as the stench billowed out as visible miasma from the ghastly wounds like smoke from a roaring bonfire.

“Ugh,” Calen said, wrinkling his nose.

Ali doubled down, firing new shards into the monster, ripping and tearing great rents in its flesh until the top and the bottom half of the monster finally separated. To her horror, the monster continued attacking unabated, dragging itself along the ground, ripping the roots and vines that grasped at it.

But Ali’s gruesome work seemed to give Malika enough of an edge, so she tried her new technique on something much more manageable. Her barrier shards pierced the chest of a human-sized zombie, and she hoisted it into the air with ease. Looking around quickly, she levitated it higher and higher, until she dismissed the barriers, sending it crashing down on top of one of the catapults. The putrid rotten flesh burst into a rain of chunks and a splintering crash, cracking the catapult support beam in the process and triggering it to fire prematurely. The weakened siege weapon tore itself to pieces from the impact.

Grinning, Ali cast about for more likely candidates, spending a while catching stragglers that were trying to mob Mato’s tree, tossing them into the catapults whenever she could, until all the catapults lay in ruins. Well and done! Ali didn’t need to look far for some corpses to deconstruct so that she could refill her mana pool. She heard herself screech, “Try knocking our walls down now, Alexander Gray!”

Malika gave a snort of grim amusement and signaled rudely in the necromancer’s direction. “You heard her!”

Alexander Gray let out an incoherent roar of frustration. “Fine! Nevyn Eld will just have to be satisfied with your corpse!” he yelled, glaring at Ali. With a sudden vortex of dark mana summoned from his hands, he fired a black ray of energy that shot out across the battlefield.

Acting on reflex, Ali blocked it with her golden barrier, briefly grateful that it didn’t pass through the transparent magic. But the force of the death magic blasting into her barrier continued unabated and she heard several sharp reports as cracks appeared radiating from the impact. Her barrier suddenly shattered into a cloud of golden sparks, and just as the beam struck her, she selected one of her Forest Guardians and teleported, switching locations with the enormous creature. Mato’s magic whisked the damage away from her, but the beam bit deeply into her Forest Guardian, causing it to roar with pain. Several tons of wood and bellowing rage hung suspended in the air at her prior location. Ali immediately summoned a barrier and flew sideways out of the way as its massive bulk fell to the ground, crushing several skeletons in an enormous ground-shaking thump. The Guardian rose to its feet amid the destruction and clouds of dust as its companions’ auras repaired the serious damage it sustained from the fall and the necromantic beam.

“You ok there?” Calen asked.

“Mato got me,” she said calmly, but it had been far too close for comfort.

Ali flew back up into the air as the dark necrotic wound Mato had sustained from taking her damage slowly repaired itself. Alexander Gray was quick to pick her out again, firing a second beam, and she was once again forced to pour mana into her barrier to hold back the powerful necromantic attack.

I need a distraction. She glanced about, but Calen was already shooting at the undead trying to reach Mato, and Malika was darting through the enemy horde picking off the most dangerous skeletal mages with ruthless precision. Ali left her Guardians to deal with the remaining skeletons and redirected all the rest of her minions to attack the necromancer directly. Firebolts and light bombs smashed into a sphere of magic surrounding him, only visible as a dark haze whenever it repelled an impact. Is that a Mana Shield? Ali teleported again, switching with a Kobold Fire Mage this time as her barrier shattered into sparks. The mage didn’t fare nearly as well as the Guardian and the necromantic energy blasted clean through its torso with a destructive power that decayed its flesh in an instant.

Suddenly, a glowing white arrow smashed into the necromancer’s Mana Shield and Malika charged in with a flurry of rapid punches, her magic flashing the same blue color as her eyes. Ali watched in mounting astonishment as the unusual blue version of Malika’s magic seemed to consume portions of the death magic shield before they quickly reformed.

Her mana attack can work on the shield? Alexander Gray was clearly restoring his shield, but he glanced at Malika with a worried expression. But it was the view in her mana sight that told the true tale. Ali’s view of the shield was a black pulsing formation of magic, but whenever Malika’s fist hit it and her soul magic flickered blue, chunks of the formation disappeared, as if she were eating it bit by bit. “Malika! Keep at it!” she screamed.

Alexander Gray reached out and consumed the soul of one of his few remaining bound slaves, causing his blight aura to pulse out much stronger, fighting against Mato’s Sanctuary imbued with Vitality Rejuvenation. Malika stood in the middle of the blight, dodging the beam attacks as she kept up her relentless assault. Within her body, Ali could see the invasion of death magic, continuously pushed back by Mato’s aura, and then re-healed by the constant flicker of Malika’s own healing magic. She could not imagine how much agony Malika was feeling, and yet, she continued to attack with unbroken focus and precision.

Finding herself ignored for the moment, Ali quickly deconstructed several more skeletons to refill her mana pool and then joined the assault by firing barrier shards at the pressured necromancer.

“What is that? It’s blocking my arrows,” Calen asked. “Some kind of shield?”

