The battle turned. Jane pursued the lava elemental, harrying it with shadow spears and her own conjured greathammer, stabbing and slamming when she found an opening. If she didn’t kill it, it would track her and attack. Jane had made the mistake of letting one go the last time she had been here; never again.

The fight took her ten more minutes, but she killed the damn thing. These lava elementals were the reason she didn’t hunt for flame slimes as a flame slime herself. Sure, she could sneak around that way, if she didn’t come into direct contact with a lava elemental; the lava elementals liked to eat flame slimes, too. But as soon as she came into contact with a lava elemental it took a lot longer to kill one without the extra Stats of her rings. 20 more Strength and Willpower made her [Strike]s with a greathammer and her shadowy spears much, much more effective than anything else Jane had tried.

Jane went back to the start of the fight. She gathered up her dropped flame slime cores then went to her central location, where she stored the slimes in a depression in the ground alongside with the rest. She looked down at the two dozen cores she had gathered. Some of them were beginning to fade from white to yellow, ever so slightly. She needed to eat them, and soon.

Now was as good a time as any.

Jane dismissed her clothes. Her rings and her bag went into an organized pile nearby.

She quickly transformed into a tumbly, bumbly, pile of yellow-orange goo. Being a flame slime was okay. Jane had hoped that it would be a nicer experience after leveling her Flame Essence skill a dozen times, but the only thing that had really improved had been her eyesight.

Or rather ‘eyesight’.

Jane could now see her nearby surroundings with a normal sort of vision. It wasn’t exactly like normal; she had no actual eyes. But she could ‘see’ everything with perfect clarity out to maybe ten meters. Past that things got a bit fuzzy, though Jane could extend her vision out to a hundred meters with [Ultrasight], or [Hunter’s Instincts].

Jane took a moment to look all around herself with 360 degree vision, making sure that there were no monsters nearby before she decided to get her meal. She rolled over and down the slope, into the depression that held the dozen cores, rolling right over the orbs. The cores popped into her gelatinous body as fast as she could eat them, which, as it turns out, was a dozen at a time. She relaxed around the cores, bursting them with fire, drawing out the essence inside. She felt and watched as a flaming spot of reality soaked into herself with each burst core.

Consuming a dozen cores only took a minute.

When that was done, Jane turned back into herself and dressed her human body in dark blue [Conjure Armor]. She slipped her rings back onto her fingers, and continued the hunt.

She ate three hundred more slimes that day. And then, because a quick jaunt home revealed the noon-time sun, Jane went back to the mountain and gathered up another hundred slime cores.

Jane was ‘full’ after her first meal of a dozen cores, which would have been a problem if she wasn’t a slime. As a slime, this was no problem at all. Whenever she felt too ‘full’ —which was a strange enough concept to have as a plop of slime— all Jane had to do was leave behind some goo she gained, and she was back to feeling ‘not that full’.

This was a much nicer process than what she had to go through with the shadow spider.

- - - -

Jane made it back to base just as the sun was setting. As the moons crested the canopy, the forest lay dark with shadow. It would have been a nice night, if not for an obvious problem.

Something had come through the forest just outside of her base, like a miniature tornado had ripped across the land. The tree and its covering roots had been yanked away, completely. Other nearby trees had been uprooted. Rocks had been torn from the ground. Jane smelled the air with [Scent Tracker] and carrion came to her. It was not an immediately worrying scent, for the smell was distant, old.

A wyrm had probably come through and torn up the place for whatever reason.

Jane looked all around, at the thin, shaggy silver trees of the forest. Maybe she should go hunt the wyrm? She needed to investigate her base, first.

She dropped into shadows as a breeze filled the glade.

The inside of her base was dark. All but one of her wardlights were gone, save for a single corner glow that cast the room in deep shadows. The tiny glow was enough to show that something very wrong had happened here while Jane had been away. The floor, the roof, the walls, everything had been scratched up, like daggers had been drawn across the hard stone edges of the boxy space. Something had clawed around, searching.

A lot of somethings had clawed around, searching.

A cold fear crept up Jane’s backside. She flared [Hunter’s Instincts] and dropped into the shadows. She hid. She wasn’t sure why she hid. But she knew, utterly and completely, that if she didn’t hide, she would be dead. It was an instinct simultaneously her own, and not her own. The deep dread coiling around Jane’s mind did not come from [Hunter’s Instincts], but from the shadow spider, and it told her to hide if she wanted to live.

As she hid there in the dark, something scrambled across the stone. Fingers, or nails, or something else, sharp and grasping and wanting to kill, touched the shadows all around Jane, pulling at the darkness, but unable to grab hold.

Jane shifted inside the shadows, becoming a shadow spider, fully immersing herself in a body that knew how to deal with the dark things of the world. As her uncontrolled shift completed, her rings and her bag dropped into reality; like baubles and wreckage surfacing from a wrecked ship, bubbling up from a pool of darkness. She had no time for any of that, though.

Because now she could see them, and whatever they were, snakes or feelers, they couldn’t hide from Jane’s [Eyes of Magic]. Whatever mind control the hands possessed, the natural resistance of the spider finally allowed Jane to realize a pall had been drawn around her sense of her surroundings.

Long, shaggy silver arms, reached across her room, digging at her shadows. Eight arms in total. Seven of them came from the front entrance, while the eighth clawed down from the vent in the back of the room. Tiny hands pulled and prodded at the darkness, searching, but finding nothing.

One hand grabbed Jane’s bag and rushed backward, taking its prize with it.

One hand managed to brush against one of Jane’s rings. It paused, then grabbed the ring, ever so daintily. It slipped the ring on a finger. Jane’s ring joined a dozen other gold, or silver, or iron rings. All of the hands had rings all over every finger.

Jane moved to the top of the room and exposed herself just enough to [Stoneshape] the tunnel shut. She had set up a collapse expecting some sort of monster, but she never expected this. As tons and tons of stone collapsed on the monsters, trapping six of the seven on the floor of the entrance to her room, they squirmed and they shuffled, but did not seem to care. No blood came, no bones broke.

All seven of the shaggy arms had sensed Jane peeking out of the shadows. They reached up for the darkness containing Jane, but none of them found purchase, for she ducked back into the shadows too fast for them to grab. Jane used the distraction to grab the second ring resting on the floor and put it on a foot-claw. The silver arms and tiny hands sensed her brief exposure. They tried to grab her, but failed; again.

If tons of stone didn’t stop them, how the fuck was she going to kill them?

Jane briefly exposed herself just long enough to use a spell she rarely ever used, a [Health Drain Ward].

Dark blue light flashed into the collapsed tunnel, covering six of the seven arms as they all reached for her. They found nothing but slippery shadow. Jane had never used a [Health Drain Ward] offensively. They were primarily used for doctor work, to strip away the Health barrier so that they could cut on the body. [Drain Ward] did no damage at all, but it felt like pure itching hell if anyone except a doctor used it, and Jane was certainly no doctor.

Jane touched a leg into her own [Drain Ward], and quickly pulled back. Yup. Itching hell, for sure. But the shaggy silver arms didn’t seem to care. They stayed in the [Drain Ward], reaching for Jane, but finding nothing.

Jane peeked out on the very back of the room, instantly casting a modified [Conjure Weapon], and testing for responsiveness, before ducking back into shadow. The arms slammed into where she had been. Jane whipped around the room, taking out her weapon, and taking aim at the gathered arms, under the stone that did nothing to trap them, but certainly helped to keep them stable in one position.

Jane ripped a giant-sized meat cleaver from the shadows above, powering a [Strike] with all her might, guiding her blow with darkness. She brought down an edge of Force that would have cracked a boulder in half; it had in all the testing she had done, anyway.

The cleaver slammed through six arms, as seven tried to reach for her. The seventh grabbed a back leg. It yanked, pulling Jane to the back of the room, pulling her leg off. Black blood spurted over the stone. Jane dropped her cleaver.

She was in pain?

… What was she doing again? She looked all around. She took stock of the moment.

She briefly saw a black spider leg vanish up the vent in the back off the room.

Something was very fucking wrong. What the fuck was going on? What the fuck were these silver shaggy arms? Where was her other ring? Why was she only wearing—

Where the fuck was her leg!

Jane spat into the air through her fang-filled mouth, “Fuck fuck—”

Jane sunk into shadow. She took the shaggy arms with her; all of them had rings on the fingers of their tiny hands, and each of them were as light as feathers. What did they belong to? Were they attacking her? They had to be what happened, right?

Okay. Okay. Jane had a plan for this sort of situation. She had drilled it into herself a few times. What was it?

… Always have a plan…

In case of unknown attackers and strange situations—

This was a mental attack! It wasn’t a unicorn, right? Unicorns didn’t have shaggy arms, did they? No. Unicorns were horses and nightmare made flesh. This was something else. And whatever it was, was not in Jane’s memory.

Retreat.

Jane secured the shaggy arms and [Greater Shadowalk]ed the fuck out of there.

She reappeared under the ashy sky, alone on the dark, volcanic fields. She stayed there, as a spider, for a minute, gently bleeding out from her ripped leg, watching all around herself in every direction at once, making sure no strange magics held on the horizon. She breathed hard. But soon enough, she calmed. Jane morphed back to human and conjured clothes. She secured the bendy, shaggy arms in a conjured bag. Her own bags with all her normal stuff were back at her base, but there was no fucking way she was going back in there unprepared.

Even now, as she looked all around her, she wondered what she was doing. Shouldn’t she be in bed? She was going that direction. But then she looked at the severed shaggy arms at her feet, and terror crawled across her skin to settle in her chest.

Jane opened a channel to Liquid, all the way back in Spur. ‘Team Leader Jane Flatt requesting permission to inquire about something weird.’

Jane stood there on the volcanic sand, breathing out a terror coiling around her heart.

After a minute, Liquid sent, ‘Report.’

‘What do these belong to?’ Jane sent along an image of the arms. ‘I can’t remember—’

‘Come to Spur immediately, Jane. You’re in danger. Come to the Courthouse right now! My office!’

Jane and her cargo of six shaggy silver monster arms left the field in a blip of dark blue.

She was already freaked out; didn’t have to tell her twice to leave the scene.

- - - -

Three quick [Teleport]s landed Jane in Liquid’s office. The matte-grey wrought stood next to her, alongside Guildmaster Mog and a priest. Pure worry crinkled Liquid’s dragonkin face, but at Jane’s appearance, and at the dropping of six shaggy arms into her office, Liquid put on her business face.

Jane said, “Hello. I’m not sure what I’m doing here. Uh.” She looked around. “Hello, Guildmaster.”

Mog nodded at Jane, but it was not a happy nod. It was a look of worry and concern.

Liquid pointed to a chair. “Sit, Jane. That’s an order.”

Jane’s eyebrows went up, but she sat down in the chair, as ordered.

Mog looked down at the arms. She said, “They really are reacher arms, aren’t they?”

“It appears so.” Liquid stepped over the arms to stand next to Jane.

The priest moved with Liquid to stand next to Jane. She muttered about checking Jane over, so Jane let her. The priest asked Jane to stand and shuck her clothes, so Jane did as she was asked. The priest began poking around at Jane’s body, looking for something.

Liquid frowned. “Nothing? No wounds?”

Jane almost said something, but Liquid interrupted her with a stern look. Mog conjured heavy metal gauntlets then began setting the arms across the floor into orderly lines, instead of in a pile.

The priest spoke with practiced authority, “She was definitely touched. No doubt there. But it’s mostly gone, now.”

Liquid asked, “Anything else?”

The priest stepped back from Jane, saying, “The wound was suffered in a different form, and not treated. Probably her spider form.” She pointed to Jane’s side, near her hip. “A leg was torn off.”

Jane looked to her side. Her skin swirled on her hip, like an old wound. Her eyes went wide. “What the fuck.”

“You’re okay now, Jane,” Liquid said, her grey eyes turning softer.

The priest said, “You can put your clothes back on, now.”

Jane conjured dark blue cloth armor around her body. It might have been a bit more sturdy than normal, but that was only because Jane was feeling a bit more vulnerable than normal.

Mog pointed to one of the tiny hands on the shaggy arms, saying, “This is one of Erick’s rings.”

A small panic filled Jane’s head. She touched her fingers. “One of my rings is gone.” She looked up. “What happened?” She tried to remember… “I’m not sure where I was.”

