This was okay. The books all said this was a terrible experience. Like the worst overeating Jane would ever know. The writers of those books had access to magical healing, though. They never had to suffer through weeks of rehabilitation from a gunshot wound, or broken bones. Jane had.

Jane would have smiled if she had a mouth. Instead, she just lifted up a pseudopod and slammed it down on a slime, crushing and consuming it all in one blow. The depression full of forty slimes was soon down to half-size; half of the depression filled with Jane, the other half with slimes scrambling to get away from the blob monster. Jane paused. She took a moment to steady her churning not-stomach; Flame Essences floated around in her slime. Jane added those essences to her skill, then telekinetically ripped out the rad fragments inside of her. As [Fireblend] swelled under the influx of new essences, Jane flung the rad fragments out of the depression.

Jane looked upon the rest of her horrible feast and said a silent prayer to Phagar, sorry that she had to kill such cute little things, but Veird demanded hard answers to harsh truths. Jane lifted up another pseudopod and slammed it down on another flame slime, cracking the smooth volcanic ground underneath.

Huh. Eating that one wasn’t so bad. Jane paused. She ate two more, easy as another shot of tequilla after she’d already had four. The next seven slimes joined her collective without the slightest discomfort.

Ah. This was the change.

Jane quickly ate the remaining slimes like they were candy and she was starving. This was certainly the change. Jane had to control herself, now. She had to find balance, and calm. She spat the extra rads out of herself, then settled into the depression like 400 gallons of sapient, flaming napalm.

She held her senses around herself, holding her mind steady as bright, hot pains lanced through her hot-tub sized body. She hummed an ‘ohm’ with her entire self; vibrating, practicing transcendental meditation, holding onto herself as strange desires and crushing needs washed over her mind like so many hurricanes passing overhead.

She hummed, and she waited, as pain struck, and transformations happened, both within, and without. Soon, the pain began to pass. The need to eat became a distant desire; one she could control. Gentle nudges began throughout her entire gooey body, almost exactly the same as with Ramizi’s [Polymorph] Potion.

That man made really good potions. Much better than the shit she bought—

A spike of pain flared across Jane’s core.

Jane went back to meditating, back to letting her thoughts touch upon her mind, but gain no purchase. Another spike of pain came, but smaller this time. Then came another, but it almost wasn’t worth calling a pain at all.

More pain came, but it was unremarkable. More desires came, but they were ethereal, unsubstantial things, compared to Jane’s true goals.

Ash fell from the sky; black snow that traveled in swirls and gathered in drifts. A layer of black soon covered Jane’s glowing surface. She vibrated her ‘ohm’, scattering her ash blanket to the edges of her pool-like self. Soon, the only visible part of her was a circle of gentle yellow and orange, surrounded by black. It didn’t take long before the deluge of ash covered even that part of her, fully blocking her sight of the outside world. She didn’t mind. Her ‘eyes’ were already closed.

Jane meditated away the pain. She let her worries pass her by. Trials and tribulations vanished from her mind. She existed, and that was enough.

After a while, she stopped vibrating. After even longer, somehow, she slept.

- - - -

Jane woke up at the bottom of a hollow, black space. A beam of sunlight shone through a crack in the ceiling, to touch upon the wall just above Jane’s glowing, yellow body. She burbled, waking all the way up, expanding her senses outward, and inward.

First, she noticed her core was gone. This was good: this was normal. She wasn't a flame slime anymore.

As she looked upon her immediate area with perfect clarity, better than she could have ever hoped to see the world as a flame slime, she checked her recent notifications, and [Polymorph].

Polymorph, instant, 500 MP ~{Favored Spell}~

Change your physical body.

Familiar Forms: 3/10

~Jane Flatt

~Shadow Spider

~Flame Ooze

Special Action!

You have successfully transformed a Familiar Form!

+5 points!

Jane relaxed into herself, happy with her progress.

Fireblend, instant, close range, 5 MP per second

Become one with fire.

That one was still the same, though.

Jane stretched upward, extending a long length of yellow goo up into the crack above. The ceiling broke at her touch, crashing down all around her like so much ash. Jane moved together, avoiding most of the downfall as the thin barrier fell, revealing a cloudy, sunlit sky. With a long tendril extended, Jane moved out of the depression with ease. She hauled herself onto the surface, and looked around with full vision, in every direction all at once. Flame oozes had really good sight; almost comparable to shadow spiders.

As Jane looked out across the volcanic land, she saw flame slimes rolling around in the ash, both as yellow balls, and as pockets of radiant heat. She stared at one slime in particular, watching how it moved, waiting for a reaction within herself.

But as she waited, nothing happened. She wasn’t hungry, looking at the flame slimes. That was good news. She did not seem to inherit the need to feed common to all oozes; the books had warned against that. As Jane spilled and swirled around, testing herself, testing how she could move, she felt even better about her decision to go for a transformation. She certainly moved around a lot easier as a flame ooze. Before, she plopped and rolled. Now, she moved.

Jane slammed a pseudopod forward, then dragged herself forward. She pushed herself up onto one pseudopod, then fell forward. Soon enough, Jane figured out how to ‘walk’ as an ooze. It was half a jump forward, half catching herself as she fell. When she had that motion understood, she picked up the tempo.

She launched herself forward, then caught herself, then did it again. She chained the motions together. Soon, she ‘ran’ across the land; a flame ooze on a mission of self discovery. If she wanted to, she could move faster than this, though.

Jane dipped into [Greater Shadowalk], wrapping her natural radiance in shadows. Like a candle hovering behind smokey glass, ooze-Jane slipped into the darkness all around. And she hunted, and she found her prey.

Like a volcanic eruption, Jane burst out of the ground around the unsuspecting flame slime, swallowing the entire orange beach-ball in one great, glowing gulp.

A notification appeared.

Flame Body, instant, close range, 5 MP per second + Variable

You are the flame.

Jane laughed in great gurgling, splattering guffaws, though if there were any onlookers, they probably only saw a monstrous flame ooze burbling and splattering a bit more than normal. Laughter and speech didn’t seem to work as a flame ooze. Oh well! When normal communication wasn’t possible, that’s what [Telepathy] and [Prestidigitation] air-writing was for.

Ah. Well. [Telepathy] didn't seem to work as an ooze. It didn't work as a slime, either, but Jane had hoped that she could use it as an ooze, but apparently oozes were also mindless creatures! ... Duh.

- - - -

Explosions rocked the Firemaw Mountain as a flame ooze crawled across the surface, launching fire in every direction, only to disappear in one pool of fire and come out the other. It played around with lava elementals, taunting them to unwinnable fights, before it ate the elementals. It played around in ash drifts. It bounced across lava flows. It danced into a pool of lava a hundred meters across, heedless of the heat, for the flame ooze was hotter than lava, by far.

The flame ooze dove into the lava, only to find the lava much denser than it imagined. It did not get far.

Something shifted, and the flame ooze dove into the lava, then came back up, chased out of the molten rock by surprise lava sharks. The ooze came back and killed three lava sharks, and then ate them.

The flame ooze spent a great deal of time on the ridge of the main caldera, next to its much smaller flame slime cousins, staring at the hundred meter tall fountain of lava that always spewed out of the Great Firemaw. And then the ooze rolled down backward, following the example of its smaller brethren; slime after slime after ooze rolled down the sides of the main volcano like snowballs in winter.

For a few adventurers, who were there, and who were scouting for trouble with [Scry] before they decided to try the Firemaw Mountain, seeing a hyperactive flame ooze was more than enough reason to leave the volcanoes well enough alone. They would come back to Firemaw Mountain some other day, hopefully after the flame ooze had moved on.

- - - -

Jane finished playing around with her new spell, and her new oozy body. [Fire Body] wasn’t very useful outside of her flame ooze form, but the two abilities together were a revelation.

She knew exactly how to deal with the moon reachers.

- - - -

The moons hung high in the sky, illuminating the dark forest. Shaggy silver legs carried shaggy silver bodies across the land, while tiny black eyes and well developed noses searched for more food. Six of the eight creatures were unbalanced; one arm of each of them was shorter than normal, but they were regrowing. Prey had hurt them days ago. Each of them were grumpy about it, but they ate and ate, and their arms were coming back.

A light in the forest caught Leader’s eye.

Prey. Fun prey? Oh. Yes. Fun prey. Prey that runs and does not see. Prey that sits around a warm fire and does not know they are dying, one by one. Leader led the way toward the light, so the rest followed.

Killing time, tonight. Ripping and tearing time. Feasting time. The Hunt was on.

And then Leader caught a scent. And then everyone caught the scent. It was a hurting scent. It was a familiar scent. Calm rage spread among the reachers. They knew this prey. They smiled, revealing their bodies as little more than pits of teeth.

As the group neared, their skin began to itch. It always itched, though. They didn’t care. The Hunt was on!

- - - -

Jane watched from the firepit as the moon reachers drew close. She had set out the arms hours ago, next to one of the reacher hunting paths. It was pretty damn obvious where the reachers hunted, once Jane’s mind wasn’t foggy; they were as tall as the trees, but the canopy was not open around here. They had to move through normal, open air, until they spotted prey.

Moon reachers were a simple monster, in a way, if you didn’t fuck up the initial encounter.

The reachers walked toward faux-bonfire Jane, glowing away as the firepit, hiding herself in plain sight while they stood completely exposed. Jane had constructed a ring of benches around herself and populated those benches with sleeping bodies made of [Stoneshape]. The reachers stayed outside of that ring, moving slowly, their arms and legs draped to the ground.

Jane counted eight reachers; six of them with uneven arms.

The final one stepped around Jane’s fire pit. The eight monsters completely encircled her and the fake bodies. As the first one reached down to a stone fake, Jane dipped a tendril down into a radiating tunnel she had carved hours ago. Her bonfire-like body did not move on the surface, but she didn’t have to. She cast herself down those tunnels. The effect was immediate, and bright.

Forty meters away, in every direction, fire burst from the ground and set the forest ablaze, ringing the whole camp, except for the direction toward the reacher’s main walking path.

In a bright second, the forest became an inferno. Jane helped it along, all the while unmoving, all the while keeping her senses on the moon reachers. The monsters screamed, mouths dropping wide open, as fire licked up their long legs, and long arms.

Jane stirred the fire into a storm of flame.

The moon reachers tried to flee, but Jane had picked this part of the forest well. The trees in every direction were dry, but thick. There was no easy escape except the way they came in, and when they all went that way, it didn’t take much but a few good [Stoneshape]s to trip them into each other. Those long limbs were quite a detriment when so many were trying to escape in the same direction at the same time.

Silver fur burned quite well.

Jane fed the flames as the moon reachers collapsed to the ground. They died in fire, one by one, each pinging a notification for 95%. It didn’t take long for all eight to die. It was a good kill.

Jane lifted herself from her bonfire position, and began cleaning up. Fires dimmed under Jane’s command. [Drain Ward]s were dismissed. Half-burned trees were smothered, and left to recover if they could. Soon, the fire was gone. The forest crinkled and cracked as burned wood began to cool.

Jane left the barbecue’d moon reachers for the forest to clean up; she didn’t want them. All they had going for them was their [Thought Fog]. Otherwise, they were pitiful forms. They couldn’t even run without getting tangled in their own limbs. Jane did take a look at their hands, though. They had a lot of rings on those fingers. It took her a while, longer than the actual kill, but Jane pried the rings off of those fingers with [Telekinesis], and gathered them up.

With one final look around, and finding the threat eliminated, Jane wrapped the rings in a ball of stone, held the stone in her body, and dipped into shadow. She popped up into her last base and transformed from flame ooze, to spider. She picked up her belongings and loot and wrapped them in silk, before traveling to her other bases, picking up more of the stuff she had forgotten about, from clothes to rads, thanks to the moon reachers.

Back at her first base, Jane picked up her badge, and looked at it for a moment. It was nice to have it again. It was just crazy, pure and utter nonsense, that she had forgotten about her guild badge. She slipped the badge into a silk bag, and left the forest a blip of dark blue.

Firemaw Mountain was over and done with. Thank the gods.

Somewhere between the mountain and home, Jane transformed back into a person. She put her own rings back on and wrapped herself in [Conjure Armor]. She paused. She sat down on the sand in the dark, glowing night. Moons and stars hung overhead, while crystal agave and mimics glittered all around.

She took out the rings she had salvaged from the moon reachers. They were a pile of burned and blackened metal and gems. They were the trophies from hundreds of kills.

Jane sat there on the sand, under the sky, with the rings cradled in spider silk in her lap.

