“You are. Unknowns come with experience multipliers, rare trees, and all other kinds of treasure. Since I’m exiled, you’d do better trusting me than almost anyone else who is a part of Schema’s system.”

Yawm raised both his hands, “It gets even better. Schema will give unknowns in his system enhanced rewards for killing other unknowns. When you’re a part of his universe and considered an unknown, it becomes a kill or be killed world! Rise to the top or become a corpse. Now isn’t that a fair and just ruler?”

The bitterness in his voice was thicker than pudding. I grimaced, “Damn. I knew it was bad, but I didn’t know it was that bad.”

Yawm nodded, “So don’t worry about them. I assure you, those levelers won’t worry one second about you. Now come, let’s give them a warm welcoming.”

I glanced down at me runes, then back my hands. For a second, I imagined someone hurting Althea. There was a sudden, explosive anger in my gut. I can’t even explain it. It was a savage, primal sort of emotion. Whenever I thought about how much I hurt Althea, my stomach sank too.

Yawm was right, as much as I hated to admit it. It wasn’t any fun, but this was a kill or be killed system that Schema put us in. Either I accepted that or I died. Besides for that, it would be interesting to see what a true galactic mercenary was like. I also wanted to see how I measured up to them.

Who knew, they might even be a way of gaining a few levels. I sighed,

“Alright. I’ll go with you.”

Yawm slapped my shoulder, “Hah! This is good. Very good. Follow me. I’ll show them to you. I’ll even let you have the weakest ones.” With Yawm’s bloodlust fully unveiled he leaned towards me,

“Leave the strongest ones for me, or else I’ll fight you in their place. I can deny one good fight, but two in a row? I won’t allow it.”

I frowned, ”All I ask is that you talk to them first. These aren’t eldritch after all. You can actually reason with people.”

Yawm narrowed one eye and widened the other, like he was raising an eyebrow,

“What? Hah, if you wish. I assure you, they won’t listen to reason. Unlike the eldritch, they’ll lie and decieve you before stabbing your back.”

He turned towards the direction of the levelers, “In fact, why don’t you talk with them instead?” The air around us crackled before turning a green tint. Radiation swelled before coalescing into Yawm’s palms,

“It becomes self evident after a bit of thought about their circumstances. Levelers spend decades killing abominations. Tell me, what do you think those kind of people become, given time?”

Yawm turned his head towards me,

“I’ll give you a hint. They are monsters.”
