It wasn’t an impossible feat by any means. After a few more minutes of trying to latch the mana onto something, I got a tangible effect. I snapped a gravity well onto the corner of a desk. A few minutes before I planned on visiting Yawm, I gained a skill.

New skill gained! Mana Press(lvl 1) - You press your mana into objects, allowing you to maintain magic. +1% to duration of pressed mana.

It was a simple yet effective skill. I tried pressing mana into the palm of my hand. It worked, letting me hold the mana in place. After a while, I pressed the mana onto various objects throughout the room. With each object, I tried out a different effect.

I stopped whenever the chair and table were floating in the room. As I pressed the both of them onto the floor, a knock rushed from the door. I turned towards the knock, leaning on the table and chair to hold it down,

“Who is it?”

Keeja opened the door. Without a word, he pointed towards the hallway. I lifted myself off the desk and walked through Yawm’s ice palace. Along the hallway, the same phosphorescent fish glowed bright. They lit our walk before we reached Yawm’s study. Keeja paced up to the door and knocked on it. Yawm’s voice muffled through the doorway,

“Come in.”

I opened the doorway, showing Yawm’s study. Two chairs made of the pale ice sat beside his desk along one corner. Yawm sat there, enjoying a liquid from a cup. I walked up. As I did, Yawm turned towards me,

“Ah, you’re here. I hope Keeja didn’t interrupt your rest.”

I shook my head, “No, I was already awake.”

“Then it’s good we didn’t waste any time. Would like some tea as we sat here?”

Beside his was a cup full of brown liquid. I picked it up and smelled it. It was a very full, rich flavoring. It smelled like black tea mixed with mint. I looked at Yawm,

“Is this, uh, cannibalism?”

Yawm shook his head, “Your species eats mammals, correct?”

I nodded. He continued, “This is no different. I ally myself with certain plants. Others I cultivate for my own use. In this case, I prefer an herb I found on a fringe world named Ostrebos. It leaves a cooling after taste. I highly recommend it.”

Considering I was already immune to poison, I took a sip. The tea had a texture, like creamy milk. It was like drinking the smell of coffee, not the actual bitter taste. With my enhanced senses, I caught a few notes like hazelnuts and cream. After finishing the warm sip, it left a cooling sensation in my mouth.

I’m not gonna lie, it was one of the best things I’d ever tasted.

“This is delicious.”

Yawm raised a cup to me, “I see you’ve good taste.”

I toasted the cup to him. We took another sip at the same time. I sighed after finishing it, enjoying the relaxation. We sat there watching one of the transparent walls as fish darted back and forth in the deep blue water. After we finished our cups, Yawm turned towards me in his chair,

“I enjoy tea before work. I’ve found that any good routine involves starting with something I enjoy. It becomes much easier to start a routine when it starts in a joyous manner.”

Yawm pressed his mammoth hands together, each of them laying over the other,

“Now let us begin by elaborating on the consequences of learning this language. I’m certain you’re curious about why the cipher is so dangerous.”

I nodded, and he continued.

“The cipher slowly disintegrates your fundamental understanding of reality. What I mean by that, is you cannot look at reality the same way. Have you ever heard the phrase, ‘Absolute power corrupts absolutely?’”

I set my white cup on Yawm’s desk,

“Once or twice.”

Yawm opened his hands and raised them up to his chest,

“It’s a simple statement, yet it explains many of the problems associated with the cipher. All sentient species share a few defining characteristics. One of those characteristics is a sense of morality. Most people’s morality is based on limitations. If they do something bad, an authority figure will come and punish them.”

I frowned, “Yeah, but take that authority away, and you take their morality away. They’ll do whatever they want then.”

Yawm nodded, “I’ve found that several of my prior disciples suffered from this fate. Once they mastered a few fundamental concepts, they went wild with power. They turned on me, so I handled them as I needed too. I tell you this because some mental preparation assists with handling the cipher’s allure.”

I shook my head, “I’ve seen people go crazy without someone there to reign them in. I’m not one of those kinds of people.”

Yawm pointed a finger at me, “We’ll discover that during this process. I would also like to discuss the consequences involving Schema’s system.”

I leaned back in my chair while raising an eyebrow, “What kind of consequences?”

Yawm waved a hand in a circle, like he was grasping for words,

“The kind that...you may be concerned with, since you are a part of his world.”

I crossed my arms, “Lay em on me.”

Yawm took the tea and put it beneath his chin. Roots crawled from it, soaking up the herbal tea before he spoke,

“Schema will leverage your use of the cipher against you. The threat of being exiled will constantly be used against you as you level.”

I shrugged, “I expect it.”

Yawm turned a palm towards me, “Schema will also use what you want against you. I had a family before becoming a breaker for Schema. Whenever I betrayed him and killed a sentinel, they were killed. If you have someone you value, they will be used against you by him.”

Thoughts of Althea, Torix, and the others flashed through my head. I grimaced,

“That sounds ugly.”

Yawm sighed, “It is, was, and will be in the future. Schema is no stranger to diabolical methods for taking advantage of people. Learning the cipher comes with these consequences. Are you still ready to dive into learning them?”

I shrugged, “I’m already this far. I can’t turn back now.”

Yawm nodded, “An understandable approach. I find myself thinking the same thing with my own goals often enough.”

A chill ran up my spine as he said that. I didn’t want to end up like Yawm, not at all.

Yawm stood up, drinking the rest of his tea before setting the cup down. He raised a hand, the cup blipping out of existence. Yawm turned towards his desk.

“Now that you understand the consequences and have accepted them, let’s begin.”

He pushed a sheet of paper towards the edge of the table. He pressed his fingers together, and a pen materialized for his fingers to grasp. He set the pen there,

“Now I want you to write out what letters you already know onto this sheet of paper. This will give me an idea of where we should start.”

I stood from my chair and walked over. I grabbed his offered pen before turning towards him, “I don’t know much. I can already tell you that.”

Yawm waved off my concern with a hand as he already started on his own runes, “Let me estimate your abilities for myself. I’ve found self assessment to be an unreliable metric of success in all ventures. Learning the cipher is no different.”

I shrugged before opening up the portal for my grimoire. Yawm observed closely, but he didn’t comment on it. Not until I opened it up towards the black pages.

“I’ve never seen a grimoire of that coloration. It’s an interesting artifact.”

I nodded, “Yeah, I found it helps with understanding and remembering my runes.”

I wrote out my letters as Yawm continued writing out his own. After an hour, I completed my second endurance rune, mimicking my previous one. Another hour later, and I carved out the strength and dexterity runes as well. I showed them to Yawm,

“This is pretty much it.”

Yawm opened a palm towards my grimoire,

“May I inspect it?”

I frowned, but I handed the grimoire towards him anyway. Some measure of trust was needed between us. Otherwise I wouldn’t even be able to function around the guy let alone learn something complicated.

That’s how Yawm looked at my markings on my grimoire. They were complicated. He cupped his chin as he held the grimoire in a single hand. He murmured in his deep voice,

“The detail in these runes is...astonishing. Are these really the only runes you’ve written?”

“Well, uh, yeah. Besides for the runes about magic.”

Yawm shook his head, “That entire language is a neutered version of the cipher. Schema teaches it for the utility it offers, but its potential pales when compared with the real language.”

Yawm inspected the runes for another minute. As the length of time dragged on, I got nervous. After a while, there was a tension in the room. Wondering what was going on, I tapped Yawm’s shoulder,

“Uh, what’s going on?”

Yawm shrugged, “I don’t quite know. I’m just in awe at the quality of these runic inscriptions. If I had a word for it, I would call them clean. There is no waste or filth here. Every piece of the symbol is necessary, and that simplicity makes them beautiful.”

Yawm turned towards me, “You have a talent for this.”

I scratched me cheek, “Well damn, thank you.”

Yawm handed my grimoire towards me, keeping the motion slow and precise. It was like he was holding a glass vase. I grabbed it from him before setting it down on the table. Yawm pointed at the grimoire,

“Whoever you first learned your inscriptions from is a master. I would recommend maintaining your current approach. I picked up bad habits whenever I first started writing out the cipher. Over the years I’ve grinded out many of them, but the process was painful.”

Yawm turned a palm towards me, “You don’t have to worry about such matters. Instead, I would focus on maintaining the quality of your transcriptions. Start with concepts and ideas you have a firm grasp on. As you branch out, keep that coherence with your other work.”

I pointed at my grimoire, “Then I just have to keep trying to do this kind of thing?”

Yawm nodded, “I believe that is your best course of action for learning the cipher. Once you’ve developed your style more, I will give specific lessons on certain concepts.”

“Cool.” I turned towards my grimoire before forming my left hand’s index finger into a spike. With that spike, I carved out what I would add towards the endurance rune. Several more Hours passed like that, each of us working on our runes.

If I ever had a question, I asked Yawm and he would give me a reasonable answer. There were times when Yawm asked me a question like why I was carving a certain way. It felt less like a teacher and master relationship and more like two students working together.

I enjoyed the process much more than the straight on lecturing of Torix. Torix had his strengths, but listening wasn’t one of them. Yawm was the opposite. He had this awareness at all moments that surprised me. He was trying to learn, not teach.

It wasn’t like he was on guard. It was more like he engaged himself with whatever it was that he was doing at the time. I wondered if I looked the same. I hoped I did.

After several hours, Yawm’s head raised. He turned into a random direction. He set down his pen before clapping his colossal hands together,

“Hah, hah! Finally, they’ve come. I’ve waited quite a while for this.”

I raised an eyebrow, “What? Who?”

Yawm turned towards me, “Levelers.”

I set down my own pen, “Levelers?”

Yawm leaned against his desk, “It’s a common phrase used among those searching for a class in Schema’s system. They go from world to world hunting strong monsters for experience. Whenever they have the opportunity for bonus experience, they jump for it.”

Yawm glanced off,

“I was a leveler before being classed as a Breaker. I wanted to become a Fringe Walker, but Schema saw through my plans. A Breaker doesn’t get to stay in one place for long. As a Fringe Walker, I could’ve stayed on a fringe world for decades. That would have jump started my research. It’s a shame really.”

He turned back towards me, “In this instance, the levelers discovered the quarantine that Schema started. Doubled experience and material rewards are a powerful lure. Schema won’t even let levelers learn why a quarantine exists. Most assume it’s for the creation of a fringe world.”

Yawm lifted his hands and stared at them, “Levelers always come to my quarantine zones, eventually. The rivers of blood I’ve spilled in their blood grow greater with each world I pass.”

Yawm gripped his hands together, his hands shaking with a mad energy,

“As much as I pride myself in my principles, I cannot deny my...fervor for a good battle. I can’t help but grow excited at the prospect of an excellent fight.”

Yawm shook his head, “They often end far too fast for my liking, but they are excellent breaks. It’s good to let my inner demons out, I suppose.”

Yawm sighed, his excitement building. He shivered for a moment before offering a palm to me, “My named ones have told me of a pack of levelers hunting them down. Care to watch me dispatch them?”

I narrowed my eyes, “Hmm, thanks but not thanks. I don’t want to see people become mutilated.”

Yawm wrapped his arm around my shoulder, shaking me, “Come! Do not deny yourself the sight of something like this. Are you not curious to see how I battle? Our own fight ended in seconds. This fight may be different. We will have to see.”

Yawm let me god and pointed a finger at me, “Even if you decide not to fight them, they will fight you. You’re an unknown, correct? That’s no different than being an eldritch. You’re lich friend will be no different. Neither will Althea. They will hunt you all down for the experience you offer.”

I raised an eyebrow, "I guess I'm lucky not to have felt the effects yet."

