Erick recognized Guildmaster Fork, the brownscale son of Apogee, but he was wearing what looked like formal robes. His clothes were sky blue, and well made. Erick felt a pang of self consciousness, because the other two people in the room were also wearing the same type of high quality robes as Fork. One was an incani man of dark grey skin and horns, while the other was a brown skinned human man. Both of the new people looked to be in their 50s. Erick’s mauvescale guide stepped back, and excused herself, as the three people in the room looked at Erick.

Fork said with a smile, “Welcome, Archmage Flatt. Do come in.”

Erick walked in, saying, “Hello, Guildmaster Oreellico.” He looked to the other two people. “Hello...”

Fork gestured to the incani man, saying, “Guildmaster Rexarix, of Bend, of Old Kingdom of the Wasteland Kingdoms.”

Erick said, “Hello,” as Rexarix bowed slightly, saying, “Greetings.”

Fork gestured to the human, saying, “Guildmaster Fieldsmith, of Odaali.”

Erick smiled wide, exclaiming, “Odaali?! Heeey! Hello! How’s it going in Odaali?”

Fieldsmith smirked a little, then spoke with a deep, resonant voice, “Much better now that the city isn’t full of killer plants. The reconstruction efforts have returned the city to its former glory, but our populace will still take decades to recover.”

The levity of the moment rapidly passed, as Erick suddenly recognized a dissonance. There was a human and an incani, ostensibly from other sides of the war, standing next to each other. In the same room. Without killing each other? Erick couldn’t help himself; he looked to the incani man, trying to understand. Everyone noticed.

Fork frowned a little. Fieldsmith raised his eyebrows, as he banished a smirk from his face.

Rexarix paused for a second, then said, “Oh. You don’t know?” He glanced down to the silver star on Erick’s chest, saying, “Bend and the Wayfarer’s Guild have always been strong opponents of the Quiet War. After the Daydropper Massacre, Bend was the first Kingdom to step forward and ask for open discussions with the Republic. It is my understanding that your [Zone of Peace] was instrumental in ensuring that such a talk could happen, at all. Thank you for that. You prevented the loss of a great many lives.”

“Oh.” Erick felt like an ass. He tried to keep that emotion off of his face, but likely failed. “Ah. Yeah. I did not know that.” He added, “Pardon my ignorance. I don’t know a lot about geography or history.” Erick tried a joke, “My schooling was not exactly local.”

“Understandable.” Rexarix spoke with levity in his voice, saying, “My schooling was quite distant as well, but not as distant as yours.”

Erick smiled. Okay. This was good. Rexarix seemed nice. Social faux pas successfully brushed over!

Fieldsmith spoke up, “Bend and the Guild have always been opponents of the Quiet War, but I’m also partially representing Odaali. We wish to move past this nastiness, so even if this [Gate] project fails, we will have been working with the other side in a positive manner, which is almost a win.”

Rexarix nodded.

“Oh?” Erick said, taken aback. “Are you… suggesting that there’ll be a [Gate] between…?” He looked back and forth between the human and the incani, unsure how to even finish his question.

“Not yet.” Fieldsmith said, “Maybe after a hundred years of peace.”

“The idea is for smaller, national-only [Gate] systems, for a while.” Rexarix said, “In order to appease parties that are not here, a neutral Wayfarer Guildmaster of a Republic branch and a Kingdom branch have been tagged to ensure that neutrality remains intact, and the scope remains small throughout all stages of this theoretical [Gate] system.” He added, “But we have to create the [Gate] first!”

Erick smiled. “That would be useful, yes.”

Fork gestured toward the chairs, near the table, asking, “Let us sit?” He looked past Erick, to the doors of the room, where Teressa, Poi, and Kiri stood. “We’ll put up sound barriers, too, but these secrets are not to be shared.”

Erick had already expected this sort of pressure from this meeting, so he played along how he had already instructed his people to play along. “I doubt any of them would speak of any of this, but Teressa? Can you stay outside?” Teressa nodded, then stepped outside of the room, while Erick continued, “Kiri knows a lot more of your magic, and will be able to help me understand more of this conversation, later.” He added, “Poi hardly ever speaks.”

Fork said, “I must insist.”

Erick frowned. He had hoped that Kiri could stay, but that looked to be too much. He said, “Poi will stay.”

Fork nodded, while Rexarix and Fieldsmith gave silent assents. Erick turned to Kiri. The young greenscale did her best not to pout, as she walked out of the room. She closed the door behind her. When it clicked shut, and the casual sounds of the rest of the building muted somewhat, Fork raised his hand, spilling magic into the room. The walls took a shimmer to them, and the rest of the world went dead silent. [Silent Ward]s were weird. Hearing nothing but the tiny sounds of those in the room was slightly unnerving. Ophiel, sitting on Erick’s shoulder, twittered a bit with tiny flute sounds, disliking the silence.

Fork gestured to the seats again. This time, the four of them sat down, while Poi stood to the side of the room, playing the part of furniture.

Fork said, “A lot more people are tagged to be involved in this, if it happens. Renarix and Fieldsmith are here for who they are, in addition to who they may come to represent. The politics involved in this are going to be the stuff of nightmares, Archmage Flatt.”

Fieldsmith said, “When there’s no fruit on the trees, no one argues over ownership. But we hope for fruit, so the arguing has already begun.”

Erick said, “I hope to not be too involved in all of that.”

Rexarix said, “You likely won’t.”

“Hopefully not,” agreed Fieldsmith.

Erick nodded, then he said, “So. [Gate]. No one actually knows how the spell works? Everyone who has ever had it has gotten the spell through spending some amount of points on the Class Ability? Do I have that right?”

Fork and Fieldsmith spoke at the same time, saying, “Yes,” and “As far as I know.”

Rexarix said, “Broadly. Yes.” As the other two turned to Rexarix, Rexarix took the lead, saying, “We have several people in our organization who are on the Quest, but almost no one makes it to the end. And then, even if you make it to the actual Quest, it costs 10 points to buy, or the completion of an impossible task. Getting to that Quest is a whole extra matter, too. The Quest Chain begins with [Teleport Object]. This is of a middling difficulty, but you cannot use the one in the Script, and if you fail to make it properly, then the next part of the Quest is locked to you forever. Because then you need [Teleport Other]. This is exceedingly difficult, with only the best Wayfarers or Spatial Mages able to achieve such a skill. Some people find themselves incapable of creating both, locked, as it were, to one or the other. But if you make it past this hurdle, then you must either deepen your understanding of Spatial magic, or some other trigger happens, and you get the [Gate] Quest.” He huffed a little, adding, “Which is just infuriating. No one knows what the trigger for the Quest is, exactly. And that’s only part of the problem.” He looked to Fieldsmith. “The book?”

Fieldsmith curved his hand through the air, with a quick, practiced motion, pulling a book out of some other place. It was a light tome, maybe a handspan square, an inch thick, with a plain black cover. He said, “A collected volume of [Gate] wielders of the Wayfarer’s Guild, and how they achieved [Gate].” He held the book tightly in one hand, while he said, “This is a very dangerous book. Not only because of [Teleport Other], as a necessary part of getting [Gate], but because it lays out all of our most secret methodologies. But, it has no actual maths, so it’s practically useless to almost everyone.”

When Fieldsmith mentioned ‘no maths’, Erick felt as though the world opened for him. This was perfect.

Erick said, “Perfect. Let’s crack open that book.”

The room was already silent, but at Erick’s words, no one else spoke. Rexarix raised an eyebrow, while Fork turned stern, shifting his gaze from the incani to the other human in the room.

Fieldsmith said, “I feel… that I would be killing you by giving you this book. But that is not true, is it?”

Erick looked to Fork. “You didn’t tell them?”

“I did,” Fork said, casually. “But if you could please show them your notification for the Blink and the Teleport Quests, that would go a long way to showing them that they won’t be indirectly responsible for murdering an archmage through brute-forced Spatial Magic.”

They wanted those notifications? Those notifications… 6 or 7 million kill notifications ago? Erick thought at the air for a moment, trying to bring up a notification that far in the past, but nothing came to him. Uh.

Erick paused. He sent to Poi, ‘How do I…?’

Poi replied, ‘A small prayer to Rozeta.’

Erick did as such. His notifications popped up in front of him. Easy! Thank the gods— or rather, thank Rozeta. He showed those notifications to the two people who had not seen them yet. It was then, that whatever tension had held in the air began to fade, to turn into something nice; happier. Fieldsmith smiled, then chuckled. Rexarix grinned wide, revealing sharp incisors.

Fork chided them, “I told you.”

“And I am sorry for not believing!” Fieldsmith said, exuberant. “My gods. This could actually happen. Brute forcing Spatial Magic! Unheard of!” He set the book down on the table and pressed it toward Erick, saying, “Bless the harvest,” as he momentarily bowed his head.

Fork did the same head-bow. Rexarix did not. If Erick wasn’t mistaken, Fork and Fieldsmith seemed to be devout Atunites. Erick filed that information away, as he picked up the book.

He asked, “I’m taking this book with me, correct?”

“Yes.” Rexarix pointed at the book in Erick’s hands, saying, “But be aware: that book will kill someone if you let it be stolen, and then it will continue to kill the foolish long after its first victim is scattered to the winds. Every time one of these books is stolen, the same thing happens. I do not speak in false warnings.”

Erick looked at the book in his hands. It felt heavier, somehow. He said, “Oookaaay. I see.”

“I am sure it will be fine!” Fieldsmith smiled, as he said, “We will be brute forcing [Gate]!” He laughed, his voice a deep rumble, before he joked, “I expect results in a month!”

Rexarix said, “We shouldn’t get carried away by the tempest.”

Fieldsmith tempered his smile to a subdued joy, as he said, “Of course.” He smirked, adding, “But when you have an archmage that controls the sky, what is wrong with joining the breeze?”

“We are not here for that, Fieldsmith,” Rexarix said. “Please stay on track.”

Fork asked, “So, Archmage? Where would you like to begin?”

Erick weighed the book in his hands, then set it down, and asked, “I’ll read this later, but for now: Everyone here has much more knowledge of what we’re getting into than I. Let us begin with each other’s experiences with creating [Teleport Object], or [Teleport Other], or how far you have gotten with the [Gate] Quest, and what it actually entails?” He added, “I’ll go first with my recreation of [Blink] and [Teleport].”

Erick spoke for a short while, surprising Fieldsmith and Rexarix with his trial-and-error approach to [Blink], but only in the fact that it had worked at all. Among those in the know, which included many of those in the higher echelons of the Wayfarer Guild, Erick’s methodology of wardlights and trial-and-error had killed many young Spatial Mages over the vast, 1400 years of the Wayfarer’s Guild’s history.

Erick explained how his experience recreating [Teleport] was a surreal experience, where he briefly had more Ophiel out there in the world than he had summoned. Even now, Erick wasn’t quite sure how many there had been, but it was definitely more than he actually conjured.

Rexarix and Fieldsmith listened, deep in thought.

Fieldsmith spoke, “My creation of [Teleport] was about as difficult as anyone’s, with the usual methods outlined in the book we have given you. My particular experience involved flipping a coin and going to the beach, only to find that I should have gone to the market instead.”

“Mine was what I wanted to make for breakfast; going fishing for fish, or making hotcakes,” said Rexarix.

Fieldsmith nodded, continuing, “I completed [Teleport Object] in the usual way, back in my 30s. [Teleport Object] is broadly considered the line that separates most Wayfarers from the greats, because this is where the Elemental Body skills are used unconventionally, and with slight difficulty.

“For me, using [Air Body], I am able to spread my senses far outside of my own mortal shell. I am sure that you have noticed the same when you are using your [Lightwalk]. And I am sure you have noticed that you can remain clothed, or have small items on you when you assume your other form. This next part of Spatial Magic involves taking much larger pieces of other objects into your Elemental Body, and doing to them what you did to move yourself through the manasphere.”

Erick flinched in surprise. “It’s that easy?”

Fieldsmith smiled. “No. A failure of this action is [Partial Teleport], but this is one of the most devastating, harmful [Teleport] spells one is capable of creating. A warning, though: If you make [Partial Teleport], the creation of such a magic will soak into all the other Spatial Magic you manage to create...” He paused. He said, “Uh. Usually. Most of us work our Spatial magic through extensive maths, and because of this, when we fail and create a [Partial Teleport], it means we have failed somewhere along the way. A correction of maths and understanding eliminates [Partial Teleport].

“But the creation of the spell itself proves to be a problem. Almost everyone who chooses to keep [Partial Teleport] locks themselves to this path of incomplete understanding. Even if they do manage to fix their maths and create [Teleport Object] down the line, the taint of [Partial Teleport] crops up from time to time. Thus, we always instruct young Wayfarers into petitioning a Registrar to remove any [Partial Teleport] spells they manage to accidentally create.”

