"Hm? Oh, sure," Cale said distractedly. He was already starting to make his way toward the spires in the distance, and he gestured for Leo and Damien to follow along. The other students were beginning to move, too, though they were more studiously staring at the ground than anyone else. The three kobolds had even managed to find some way to retrieve a massive hat of some kind, presumably to make sure none of them looked up.

"It's a test," Cale said as they walked. "I mean, you knew that already, but it's also a test of what you're willing to make use of. He's essentially started us off with two hints and a point buy system. The whole point of this exercise is to learn as much as we can about the Inverted Spires, right? But you can't learn anything without taking risks."

He gestured upward, careful not to look up this time. "Professor Sternkessel gave us three points. He could have started us off with one if he just wanted to be harsh, and two if he wanted to make sure we learn from our mistakes. Three means he wants us to take calculated risks. Even if the only thing we learn is what happens when we look up, that's still valuable information. Leo, notebook?"

Leo handed him his notebook, looking perturbed. "So what did we learn?" he asked. "I didn't see anything happen."

"Me either," Damien said. "You said it looked like the sky was falling? But it didn't look like anything happened, and then Professor Sternkessel showed up."

"If you look up, the sky starts to fall," Cale said. He flipped the notebook open to an empty page, grabbed a pencil from Leo, and began to sketch. "You get about two minutes before it crushes you. My guess is that it's a localized dimensional collapse triggered by direct observation, but I don't know why. Some spells collapse when observed, but I don't sense any spellwork here."

Cale eyed the watch for a moment, waiting to see if it would react. After a moment, it dinged almost reluctantly, and their score clicked back up to a three. Cale grinned.

"And like I said, I got the chance to get a closer look at what's up there, so now we know what the buildings look like." He handed the finished sketch to Leo. "Do any of these look familiar?"

Leo squinted at the notebook, then paused incredulously. "...Cale, these are terrible," he said. "These sketches look like a child drew them."

Damien stood on his tiptoes to take a peek, and then—surprising even himself, apparently, considering the look on his face—let out a very un-dreadshade-like giggle. "Is that a tree?"

"It's a spire!" Cale protested.

"It looks like a drunken unicorn's attempt to draw an artistic, abstract rendering of their own horn," Leo said, unable to keep the amusement out of his voice. "And what is this supposed to be?"

"It's clearly a house!"

"It is a triangle and a square, Cale. This is how children draw houses. Have you never taken an art class?"

Cale sniffed. "I don't need to," he said. Leo just snorted at him before turning to the next page and glancing through the rest of the sketches. His finger paused on one of them, and slowly a frown formed on the minotaur's face.

"You're sure you saw this symbol?" he asked, showing it to Cale, who glanced at it briefly and nodded.

"Yep," he said. "It was plastered all over a lot of the houses, usually woven into cloth. I got to see one up close before it smashed through me! Probably the most accurate drawing in the whole thing."

Leo very deliberately chose to ignore the second part of that response and instead rubbed his chin as he examined the drawing, his brows furrowed. "Strange," he said. There was a gleam of interest in his eyes. "That's the symbol of an old noble house of the kingdom of Thyrahl. I believe they were called the Loomweavers. One of the greatest mysteries in Utelia is what happened to them—as far as we know, the entire noble house, buildings and all, just up and vanished."

Cale blinked. "But if they've been here the whole time, someone would have noticed, right?" he pointed out.

"The buildings look nothing like the Loomweaver palace and estate, even putting aside the atrocity you call your art into account," Leo said. Cale decided to ignore the comment. "Going by what I can see on the horizon alone, these aren't Loomweaver buildings. The Loomweavers loved color. They would have had patchwork quilts all over the place, haphazard paintings, that sort of thing. This sort of white, sterile architecture would be anathema to them."

There was a small chime from the watch, and Cale took it out and examined it to find that their score had once again been raised, this time to a four. He grinned. "Looks like that counts as a discovery too," he said, pocketing it again. "But if they hate sterility so much, why would their symbol be here?"

Leo shook his head. "I wish I knew," he said. And then, a little more hopefully: "Maybe that's what we're here to find out?"

He seemed excited by the prospect. Cale made a small note of it.

"Um, guys?" Damien's voice was timid, but he still reached out and grabbed them both to stop them from walking. "There's grass in front of us. Like, a lot of it."

Cale stopped and stared at the grass. He frowned, leaning down to look more closely. It wasn't really grass, although it certainly looked like it. It seemed more like the glasslike surface of the ground had shattered and now sprouted in tufts of green-shifted fragments.

"Huh," he said after a moment. Then he glanced up at the other two and raised a brow slightly. "You know what's weird about Professor Sternkessel's rules?"

Damien and Leo both looked at him, slightly thrown by the sudden change in topic. "Everything?" Damien offered. Cale laughed.

"Well, that's true," he said. "But I'm talking about all the point mechanics. Think about it—he has a specific clause in there for us to rescue one another, but if that's the case, why put us in teams at all? And more importantly, why isn't there a rule about not putting other teams in danger?"

Damien frowned slightly and exchanged an uncertain look with Leo. "Are you saying he's trying to make us fight one another?"

"Oh, nothing so simple," Cale said, standing up and taking a few steps back from the grass. "It's all about what makes a mage. What you do in the circumstances you're presented with and how you choose to take advantage of them—it says a lot about who you are as a spellcaster.

"I talked about using our points to buy information, but technically, there's another way to gather points and information." Cale dusted off his pants. "That is, you could intentionally put another team in danger and make a discovery from that. All the better if you rescue them. You get to double up on the points."

Damien's eyes went wide. "Is that why..."

"It's happened before, huh?" Cale smiled at Damien, not unkindly. "Live long enough and you learn a lot about how other people think. That said, I'm pretty sure this time they're going to get in over their heads, so... how do we feel about giving our classmates a rescue?"

Right on cue, a small spell sparked in the distance. It was almost unnoticeable, but it was just enough that another student in a different team stumbled and tipped over into the grass. At the same time, the third team ran over to 'help'.

"What are we rescuing them from?" Damien asked helplessly.

"That's the best part!" Cale said happily. "I have no idea. But you know what? I bet we can find a way for you two to work on your attunements while we do it."

They both gaped at him, of course, but Cale was already speeding off toward the others. There was no time to waste, after all! Not when there were mysteries to be solved.

Deep within the faux sky of the Inverted Spires, something with no name began to stir.

It was a thing of rules. All beings of great power were things of rules, really, but this was bound by more than most. It could have no name. It could have no self. It existed only to enforce an arcane set of rules and requirements, a contract enforced over a region of space. For this alone, it existed, and for this alone it was content.

It did now as it always did, growing a refracting beast from the grass that would storm away at the intruders, and it should have been satisfied.

But it was not. Its thoughts—insofar as they could be considered thoughts—were elsewhere.

Something beneath them had looked at it, and whatever it was had survived. Not because of the intervention of the Many-Ringed Anchor, either, or at least not entirely. It had simply withstood the force of a city collapsing on top of it. How? None before had survived a breaching of its rules without intervention from the Anchor.

The thing with no name didn't like it. It had made that rule for a reason. It was one of the only rules that it could truly call its own, and now it had been breached without punishment or payment.

It wasn't enough to awaken it properly. Not yet.

But a rule could not be enforced if those subject to it were unaffected by its consequences.

That meant, if it wanted to enforce its rules, then it needed to be more.
