I showed Torix my status, and we read with a vicious hunger.

Becoming a sovereign entails tremendous opportunities, and it entails even greater responsibilities. By accepting this class, you've ushered yourself into the highest echelon of those living. It's similar to attaining godhood, and in that matter, you decide what your reign will represent. Will it be a rule of benevolence or one of annihilation?

You will decide.

Class completion - 100%

The Sovereign is a class oriented around conquering, expansion, and a widescale influence. It is one of the system's highest level classes, and it comes with many benefits that few know of. You will be one of those few, and if you use the benefits offered to you wisely, you can unlock doors that will vastly broaden your overall potential.

Good luck.

Since the Sovereign gives many broad and other specific bonuses, they'll be detailed below using a series of general bonus outliers. This structures the numerous additions, granting you the opportunity to organize all the benefits therein.

I turned to Torix, "They have to sort everything, or else people get lost. Woah."

Torix raised a finger to his skeletal mouth, "Shh. I'm reading it."

I followed suit.

The main benefits of the Sovereign class are as follows:

Ba. 1 million credits per city maintained. Salary received yearly.

Bb. 2.5 million credits per region maintained. Salary received yearly.

Bc. 100 million credits per planet maintained. Salary received yearly.

Ca. Terraformed worlds offer 100 million credits and automatic ownership.

Cb. Fringe worlds offer 100 million credits and 25 blue cores.

Cc. Forbidden Knowledge - individual runic inscriptions, artifacts, and eldritch are incredibly valuable. Reward-based on the specimen.

III. A Sovereign breaks many of the standards and norms placed on others. Where they would find barriers and closed doors, a Sovereign finds open arms.

Remember that as a Sovereign, you may no longer push your limits. You will find that you discarded them long ago, and now, all is possible before you. Your enemies will tremble, your allies will revere, and all will know you, for you are legend.

We stared at the variety of benefits, many of them unexpected and kind of out there. As the finalization screen popped up, I turned to Torix,

"Welp, I'll see you on the other side."

Torix stood up, giving me some room, "Let's assume it'll be a successful transition."

I pushed the yes button, and an absurd rush of mana coursed through my veins, bones, and mind. The energy flow left my skin heated till it glowed, and the concrete beneath me melted. Sizzling air coursed up from me, creating a wind tunnel in the room. Torix snapped his fingers, creating an insulating barrier from the rest of the room as my class changes took place.

Once more, my skin ruptured as uncontrolled growth took place. My blood boiled as I singed the world around me. Time and space bent under the vast energies while gravity warped under my feet. I shook in place, unable to tolerate the overwhelming rush of strength, power, and vitality. I came to life once more, and my senses took the experience in.

A dilation occurred around me. It was difficult to describe as if the space I owned increased in size. My reach exceeded the scale of this room now, taking up a reasonable chunk of the mountainside. Both above and below, my surroundings fell into my dominion. My determination here, it was absolute. It gave me a sensation of control, this territory under my will.

That change passed, and other alterations took place. My mind sharpened, my weaknesses becoming strengths. It was as if I stood over a vast ocean of potential, and now I gained access to that endless sea. It gave me more words to say, motivation to move forward, and an understanding of people. This lucidity wrapped around me, becoming my new normal.

Another augmentation took place after. These invisible chains that stopped me and held me back, they snapped. They opened up new possibilities and horizons that unveiled in an unseen distance. They filled me with a growing sense of hope and a renewed sense of motivation. At that moment, anything was possible.

Once more, another phenomenon took hold of me. It was pure, unadulterated mana. It rushed. It poured. It suffused everything, drenching me down to my core. My entire being radiated, a vibration rattling me until my teeth cracked, and my bones disintegrated to powder. The enormous deluge of energy expanded outwards beyond the physical limits of my body.

This energy emanated from the area around me, and it diffused with crackling intensity. An ionizing cloud formed throughout nearby space, the air melting. Radiation ebbed from every pore on my skin, and I went blind. I could no longer see, feel, or hear. Everything went numb outside of one sensation - energy, cosmic in size and utter in nature. It left me unable to think, and whether ten seconds passed or a hundred years, I couldn't have told you.

It felt like an eternity wafting in a storm of energy.

This energy faded, gradually at first, before sinking into nothingness. It left behind different vigor, one that wasn't foreign. It was my own. It flickered, snapped, and echoed into the distance. It left a gentle warmth, one contained but forboding a torrent of violent power. It spoke with a voice of madness, an endless hunger that feasted on its own flesh, like an ouroboros that defied nature.

It was me.

I stood, having fallen to my knees at some point. I stared around me, and Torix stood with his grimoire open. Twenty golems circled my transformation, each golem assisting our lich with an elaborate, runic incantation. Peering around, I found myself in a pile of mush. It was heated plasma, the air sapped from all the space around me. I existed in a vacuum contained by those around me.

I lifted a hand, and mana poured out like a cosmic flood. Cold inundated, and the space around me stabilized. Torix and company took a deep breath, no longer needing to contain the volatile energies I emitted. As I walked over towards Torix and my first golem Alpha, their multiple protective barriers fell down.

Over them, I loomed like a titan. I raised a hand, "There we go. It's good that's over with."

Torix gawked at me, his skin crawling. I don't know why, but I could tell. To put him at ease, I reached out a hand and put it on his shoulder, "Thank you for keeping the guild safe while I handled my class."

Torix nodded, "Yes...disciple."

I stepped past them and my golems. The others stared from a distance, Spear peering from behind him. Across the room, he whispered, but I heard every word,

"And a monster is born."

I ignored him. I'd decide if I was a monster or not. I peered at my followers, and I lifted my hands, "With my class unlocked, I'll be able to crush Lehesion under my feet. Thank you all for helping protect my family here while that happened."

I raised a hand, and the Rise of Eden draped out. It went well past its previous limits, covering the entirety of the room. Using its stat-boosting effects as a bolstering agent, I spoke out,

"Now, let's get ready for war, everyone."

Everybody popped into action, going back to their practices—all besides Torix, who stepped up to me with an inkling of hesitation. I tilted my head, "Are you alright? You seem, I don't know, weird?" My eyes widened, "Was I out for weeks or something?"

Torix waved his hands, fumbling with his words, "No, it's been three hours. As for my strangeness, I...I don't know. I-I just, so, well, hm...you feel different. That's all."

I grinned at him, "I'm the same."

Torix's posture relaxed, but he laughed, "Hah...You're not. That much is certain."

"We'll see. Let's inspect my status sheet and come up with some plans moving forward."

"But of course."

Heading towards Torix's lair, I turned behind me. Reaching out a palm, I restored the missing concrete with gray stone. The vast scar my transformation left would act as a reminder of what any other considerable modifications would do. They would take time, and they might cause more damage than I expected.

I noted that, making sure to only handle them post-combat and in a safe place. Once at Torix's lair, he and I hovered on mana derived seating. I opened my status, and we inspected the damage done. It was plenty.

The Living Multiverse(Lvl 15,000(Cap: 25,000) | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden | Class: Sovereign)

Strength – 82,480 | Constitution – 102,382 | Endurance – 198,003

Dexterity – 43,942 | Willpower – 160,718 | Intelligence – 101,818

Charisma – 41,950 | Luck – 57,490 | Perception – 32,921 |Awe - 5,201

Health: 689.2 Million/689.2 Million | Health Regen: 20.3 Billion/min or 339.0 Million/sec

Stamina: Infinite | Ambient Mana 4.001 Trillion

Mass: 16.8 Million Pounds(7.6 Million Kilos~)

Height: 17'6 (5.33 meters)

Damage Res - 99.24% | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 84.4 Million % | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% to allies within aura's radius.

Mana Conversion - 6.7 Billion mana/min siphoned into runes and armor.

Many of my stats ballooned from the class. The health and mana bonuses did most of the work, making my health regeneration absurdly high. It would only take two seconds to fully recuperate from a deadly attack. At this point, killing me would be damn difficult for even someone like Yawm. I couldn't die in one hit, after all.

The stat bonuses increased in a much more linear manner. They all boosted up, charisma and willpower in particular. As for everything else, I received respectable boosts in everything. The attribute bonus was the reason for that, along with all my attribute conversions. Combine that with my cipher bonuses, and every stat I owned stood towering over most specialized mains.

Well, besides for awe.

Wielding my new torrents of mana, I lifted a hand, squeezed it, and reached out my fingers. As I did, a quintessence crystal expanded outward. I bisected it using slicing, telekinetic panels. I pulled those pieces apart, hovering them millimeters from each other using hundreds of gravity wells. Turning to Torix while raising my eyebrows,

"Well...It was worth the wait, I suppose."

Torix's eyes flared white, and he stayed speechless. He shrugged, "Every stat is at least three times higher than mine. That's incredible, you know. Way to steal my thunder after gaining my class."

I smiled, "Come on now, I couldn't match that evil speech you gave. It left our guildsmen chilled."

Torix shook his head, "Nice attempt at deflection, but I can't understand your stats anymore. The numbers, they're difficult to comprehend. You can generate, let me see, ah yes, 3,000 times as much mana as me. Excellent. Just superb. I am a mage class, after all. It only goes to reason that you'd have an army of me's worth of health regen."

I nodded at my stat sheet, "I do agree that my stats are getting out of hand. I think this is my last big net gain, outside of my sovereign skill to be fair. And elemental furnaces. And speaking in the cipher. You know what, I think my dimensional skills are unexplored too. Ah man, the fused mana type, I could use that too. It mentions entropy here."

Torix deadpanned, "Yes, this must be the last part of your exponential growth. Your reassurance just now was comforting in that regard."

I rolled my eyes, "I appreciate the sarcasm."

Torix stared up, "I do wonder if you could face a Spatial Fortress now? Your stats seem up to it. That much is certain."

I raised a hand, "I...I don't know. Maybe?"

Torix let his hands flop against his sides, "Time will tell, I suppose. Regardless of your new potential, I say we develop a plan for using those sovereign bonuses. They mentioned many perks I hadn't expected."

I opened my status. It turned blurry for a moment before it changed colors to red, like an Overseer's HUD. I rolled my shoulders, "Well, damn. Looks like I'm moving up."

"Certainly. I say we move in order, handling each bonus from your class to maximize this discussion's orderliness. What do you say to that?"

I nodded in silent agreement. Torix pointed at my status,

"In the beginning, it mentions sovereign skill augments. How close are you to gaining one of those skills?"

I furrowed my brow, "I don't know. I have two legendaries, three mythicals, and seven unique skills. I don't really know how I'd fuse my mythicals, but it should be possible. Hunter of Many is primarily about, you know, hunting. I could manage to do that while using Matter Conversion easily. The same could be said for A Manifold Mind."

"You sound as if there's a large however incoming."

I pushed two of my fingertips together, "I don't see A Manifold Mind and Hunter of Many making a legendary skill. They could, in theory, but I think it wastes my potential. I could use that legendary slot on something more important, like primordial mana. I'm pretty damn sure that mana type is important for my future progress."

"Ah yes, your auras are dictated by your mana types. You could also use your other, strongly integrated legendary skills to bolster your lack of primordial mana knowledge. Speaking of which, how goes that studying?"

I frowned, "Poorly. It's still a struggle. I can't seem to understand it."

Torix nodded, "You'll get it, certainly. Pushing that aside, do you have any plans regarding your future skill development?"

I opened my skill menu, pointing at my uniques, "So, here's what I'm thinking. Artisan of Destruction is a new skill of mine. It's handy since it helps me make golems. Fusing that together with other skills is very important. I think that primordial mana will be unique, like all the other advanced mana types. Considering all of that-"

I waved my hand at all my other unique skills, "I'll level with you. I don't really know what to fuse it with next."

Torix pointed at Mass Manipulation, "What of this one? It seems rather useful."

