"That skill has a deceiving name. It lets me shrink or expand myself. I think it would kill most people, or at least discomfort them."

"It would allow you to dictate the size of your creations better, would it not?"

I tapped my chin with a knuckle, "I guess. Hmm, it could be good with primordial mana. I might make denser stones or specific kinds of materials better. Primordial is origin and dominion mana, after all, and it should give me even more control over whatever I create. That could be useful with detail-oriented work."

"I agree. I believe this would be the most pertinent skill for fusing. That you have at the moment, at least."

"That's the next milestone then. After that, what about the planet owning bonuses from the class. What do you think of those?"

Torix scoffed, "Oh, all of that is simple. We will conquer a wide swath of the known universe. That much is to be expected of us now, given our net abilities."

I blinked, "Huh...galactic conquerors? It sounds cool and all, but that's pretty aggro."

"Indeed. That is precisely why I enjoy it."

I pointed at the fringe and terraformed world bonuses, "I get that, but how about we try this instead? I don't want to crush other species under my foot, and if I learned anything from Blegara, it's that managing even a simple planet is hard. If we make a settlement from the ground up, we decide how it develops."

Torix leaned back, crossing his arms, "Do you believe we have the means for it?"

I remembered the giant rift on Blegara, funneling untold volumes of water onto its surface.

"Yeah, I do."

"Then we'll do as you say, guildleader." Torix pointed at the last segment of the planet owning section, "I see Obolis must've specialized in this particular section. He loves searching out secrets and the like."

I analyzed my memories, finding Obolis's one message. I shook my head, "He has a different class. It's called the Founder."

"Perhaps it's a rare variant of Sovereign?"

"Yeah, it could be. We don't have enough knowledge to say. Either way, these special privileges seem pretty spicy if I do say so myself."

"Oh, most definitely. They remind me of my ability to learn the cipher."

I facepalmed, "Duh, how'd I forget that. I'll teach you that for an hour a day, like our mind magic duels."

Torix's eyes turned green, "Thank you, disciple. A teacher's greatest joy is to learn, especially from those they once taught."

I jeered, "You didn't have the teachers I had at my school, then." I pointed at the third section of my sovereign bonuses, "So...When should we start our meetings with the Overseer and Schema? I've had a few, but I'm imagining this is more like a way of stating grievances or something."

Torix tilted his head, "It would likely, at the very least, act as an excellent forum for asking questions. You could learn a lot if we spent some time asking for the right answers, especially from Baldowah. I remember Yawm's runes. Perhaps we could use that forbidden knowl-"

"No. I'm not doing that."

Torix shrank in my vision, recoiling some. I looked away, "I mean, I'd really enjoy not doing that, if you know what I mean."

"Of course...I won't speak of it again."

A strained silence passed over us before I pointed at my status again, "So, uh, it looks like I won't get exiled out of the blue anymore."

Torix jumped for an opportunity to end the awkwardness, "Oh, most certainly. That is, it's quite the boon. I don't know if it will be a legitimate court, but it's better than nothing."

I nodded, pointing a the galactic council part, "And look at this shit. I'm a member of a galactic council. Me of all people?"

"Hah, my disciple has joined an echelon I knew nothing about. Excellent. Superb. Tremendous and all that."

Torix and I stared at our status screen before laughing at how ridiculous we sounded. I shook my head, "Man, I never imagined I'd be here. Ever."

"Me either. I believed I'd be studying on my moon base until the day time stopped and the universe grew cold. Now, I am a part of a guild with tremendous potential. Considering our capabilities, we should be able to enact tremendous change."

I narrowed my eyes, "Yeah, I could be an actual Harbinger of Cataclysm."

"Gah, I remember mocking you for that name. Now, it seems more than fitting."

I simpered, "Hah, it still feels off to me."

Torix shrugged, "In actuality, it matters more what others think of that title. I can assure you now, it's difficult to imagine you as anything else."

"Yeah, thanks for that. I don't think my view of myself has changed as much as I have. I still think of myself as similar to what I started, but in reality, I'm worlds apart. Either way, what about these new research options? What do you think about all that?"

"Oh, I'm most certainly excited. I'll be exploring a few of the more malicious avenues of necromancy, but that isn't all. I'll be implementing more of the eldritch augments we've found."

I raised a brow, "What other eldritch boosts do we have?"

"The Omega Strains."

"They're eldritch?"

Torix leaned back, "Well, in a manner of speaking, yes. They seem to be a primordial, primitive evolutionary step towards eldritch. The strains are the eldritch equivalent to what viruses are to us. Not quite dead and not quite living, yet they still enact their will on life. That is what the Omega Strain acts as."

"Yeah, Amara might be able to help us ally with other eldritch too. If Schema allows it."

Torix scoffed, "Could that AI even stop us now?"

I remembered the forced eclipse created by a Spatial Fortress's arrival,

"I think he can. For now."

Torix steepled his fingers, "We shall see. Now, I sense this new awe stat of yours. It definitely creates an aura about you that wasn't present before."

"What's the difference?" I lifted my arms, giving them a close look, "I don't see it."

"It's less that you're different and more so that your abilities are more readily apparent. Before, you seemed like an average person granted an extraordinary opportunity. In that way, you abused your circumstances to the fullest, but you always came across as mostly normal."

I scoffed, "Sheesh, people could've fooled me into thinking the opposite. Half the time, I feel like a demon."

Torix waved a hand, "No matter what you appear to be, your actions will still speak volumes. Those that saw you in action will most certainly have their opinions swayed. Now, even those that haven't seen your capacity will be put at a disadvantage. At the very least, they'll experience even greater discomfort than normal."

I frowned, "Huh, I don't know if I like that."

"It's the reality we now face, however. Regardless, those combat bonuses appear to have vastly exceeded what they mention. What is your mana generation now? Ten times higher than before or something silly like that?"

I waved my hand, "I lost track of all my multipliers long ago. I'm just glad that Schema does all the math for me instead."

Torix stood from his chair of dominion mana, "That leaves the last of this discussion - the entropy mana. Is that, perhaps, all manas fused together?"

I opened a dictionary using my status, "It shouldn't be. Entropy is about decay and chaos. Most of the manas are more about order and control."

Torix walked back and forth, "Then perhaps it's some kind of...er...I don't know. That might be a question worth asking the Overseer or Schema."

I winced, "Or maybe even Baldowah. I could ask them about a lot of this stuff."

"We'll come up with a list of questions for it." Torix reread the sections before letting out a quick sigh, "Well then, I'd say that about covers it. Ten times mana. Far stronger, heavier, faster, and you have this weight about your presence. It's outright oppressive, I might add."

I nodded, "And I have a lot more options moving forward. I won't be reliant on the Empire for that anymore."

"That about covers that. We need to prepare for our siege of Blegara."

I bopped myself up by stomping one foot. I transferred that force with telekinesis, pushing myself upward. Turning towards him, I rolled my shoulders, "Sounds about right."

As I stepped out of the lair, a bit of stone over Torix's room cracked. A few crumbles fell out, and before I left, Torix pointed at it, "My stone generation is still quite iffy. Would you mind assisting me in recreating this?"

I nodded, waving a hand over the stone's wound. It reconstructed, the color identical to the surrounding rock. Torix whipped out some primordial mana, making several vines and mosses nearby grow into the empty space. It got me curious, so I stepped up,

"How did you learn about primordial mana anyway?"

"Oh, this? After unlocking my archmage class, I got the inkling suspicion that my approach had been all wrong up to that point. You see, I'd attempted copying other people's primordial mana, and each one of them would tell me something different."

Torix raised one hand, speaking in a gruff voice, "You must wish for the growth of others, but in your way." His voice grew lighter, "You must treat the object as if it were a tool with a mind. Respect and control, in equilibrium."

Torix threw his hands up in frustration, "Regardless of how I managed my thoughts, primordial mana never arrived for me. It was only when I tried making the mana using my own, original thoughts that I conceived the power."

"Huh...so what were your thoughts?"

Torix cackled, "Hah, well, I simply imagined erasing the mind of my creatures and recreating them in my image. A better image." Torix snapped his fingers, creating primordial mana,

"Eureka, my conundrum was solved."

"I'll give that a shot. Mimicking hasn't really worked so far for me either."

"Good luck with your efforts then, disciple."

I stepped out of the room, thinking it was weird the stone cracked over Torix. Either way, it led to a helpful conversation with the lich, so I counted it as a lucky coincidence. Either way, I had plenty to do before we invaded Blegara. We needed rings for every Omega Strain user, more golems, and armor for the gialgathens. As I created multiple consciousnesses, I smiled with confidence.

It was time to see how much of a difference a class made in practice.
