Having spent months listening to rumours and mentally preparing for the worst, Yan was pleased to find Rain in such good health, living comfortably in the northern citadel with only minimal discomfort. The proof was etched in his easy, relaxed smile as he lay asleep on his side, snuggling Mama Bun close and more relaxed than she’d ever seen him before. He’d come a long way in the years since they shared a tent on the battlefield, a high-strung, jittery fool who came awake at every noise and movement. Back then, he wore a pensive frown even when fast asleep, tossing and turning about to escape the nightmares of his haunted past, but all that was gone now. It was odd how he could never sleep easy when he was a top tier talent, but now that he’d lost his strength, he’d made peace with his weakness, and while the Empire lamented the downfall of its Number One Talent, Rain seemed a happier man for it.

And so long as he was happy, Yan was happy too, though she’d be happier still once his acne scars healed and he put on a little more weight...

Careful not to disturb the two sleeping beauties, Yan slipped out from under the covers, quietly got dressed, and snuck out the room, where her hopes of making her way out of the manor unseen were instantly dashed as she almost tripped over sweet Tate. “Morning Yan-Yan,” the sweet child said, rubbing the sleep out of his eyes while heading towards the dining room. “Papa wants to know if you want breakfast?”

Mother in Heaven... Thankful he didn’t ask why she was coming out of Rain’s room, Yan pinched his soft, white cheeks and smiled at his disgruntled pout. “Sorry sweet pea, Grandpa and Da’in should be having breakfast next door, so I’m heading over to join them, but I’ll come back afterwards to watch you Demonstrate the Forms and see how strong you’ve gotten.”

Puffing up with pride, Tate said, “Real strong. I’m gonna be the next Number One Talent, ya?” Distracted by his gurgling stomach and wary of more cheek pinching, he ran off shouting, “Okay, bye-bye Yan-Yan!”

With Tate alerting everyone in the manor to her presence, Yan now had no choice but to go greet them before leaving, an awkward and somewhat embarrassing experience she’d much rather avoid. Her future in-laws treated her warmly and no one brought up her overnight stay in Rain’s room, but Yan still lacked skin thick enough to pretend it wasn’t a big deal. Traditional customs aside, being a family of Martial Warriors, they all undoubtedly overheard the entirety of Yan and Rain’s reunion, a minor detail she’d forgotten until seeing everyone again in the morning. It was one thing to sneak into his tent or yurt while out on deployment, and another altogether when his bedroom shared a wall with his parents’ room.

Thankfully, Luo-Luo was a late riser and had yet to come out, because Yan didn’t think she could handle the lovely courtesan’s accusatory gaze...

Utterly mortified by the thought of her in-laws knowing what she and Rain had been up to last night, Yan escaped as soon as she could, but things were no better next door. Awake and seated at a table in the courtyard, Grandpa and Da’in both smirked when they spotted Yan peeking over the manor walls, and for a moment, she considered just running away and pretending she was never here. Unfortunately, Da’in was not so merciful and waved Yan over with a smile. “Yan! Oh Y-an! How good to see you. Come join us for breakfast.” Ignoring Yan’s scowl as she dropped down from the walls, the slender beauty beamed prettily and said, “Oh Yan, you’re a grown woman now.” The innocuous statement made Yan’s stomach twist and Grandpa choke on his tea, but Da’in pretended like she didn’t notice and continued, “It’s long past time you stopped climbing walls like a child. You should use the door like a normal adult.”

Had she known which room was hers, Yan might very well have run into it to hide, but she couldn’t. Instead, she did the next best thing and ignored the jibe as she sauntered over with an air of indifference, carefully stepping around all the adorable bunnies romping about the courtyard. Taking her seat with an apologetic smile, she filled Grandpa’s teacup with a grateful nod, because while he wasn’t entirely thrilled by her behaviour, he was mostly happy to look the other way. The people of Central had a lax view when it came to matters of premarital sex, but it was a topic which Yan and Grandpa were both uncomfortable with, which meant Da’in took great delight in bringing it up as often as possible in their presence. “So tell me,” she said, her wide eyes glowing with excitement, “Was he still fit enough to –”

Rain was, but Yan didn’t want to talk about it, especially in front of Grandpa. “Breakfast smells delicious,” she interrupted, spotting Eun coming out of the kitchen with two trays of food. “What are we having today?”

“Tch.” Setting a tray in front of Grandpa and Da’in respectively, Eun planted her feet and crossed her arms while facing Yan with an expectant look. “You’ll have air for breakfast until you answer the question, sweet child. Love and loyalty are all fine for the dramas, but this concerns your future happiness.”

Mother in Heaven. This was not happening. She must still be asleep, and all this merely a horrific nightmare, but Yan knew if she didn’t say anything, then Eun could do much worse than withhold breakfast. “He’s fine.” Having said it, Yan didn’t like the way her answer sounded, as if she were covering for Rain’s weakness, so she amended, “Better than fine. He’s not as... vigorous as before, but it was... very nice.”

“Nice.” Spitting the word out like a curse, Da’in threw herself back in her chair with a pout, still girlish and charming despite her age. “Boring.”

“Quiet you. Let her speak,” Eun scolded, having long since taught the Ryo Scion her place in the Du household hierarchy, which as far as Yan could tell, went Eun, Grandpa, then everyone else. “Go on then.”

Cheeks burning as she sank into the memory of last night, Yan said, “It was... different. Slow and tender, but sweet and intimate. Not necessarily better or worse from before, but... good. Really, really... good.” There were many other words to describe it, but she couldn’t bring herself to use them with Grandpa right there. Where before, they would engage in a hungry and passionate embrace, last night was an intimate and unhurried affair, with a gradual build up and release instead of a rush to sate their appetites. While this was mostly because Rain’s body was frail and weak, he made up for it with attention to detail and boundless enthusiasm, plus Yan found the need to restrain herself rather titillating, and the results spoke for themselves.

At least this time he remembered to lay out towels beforehand...

“Better than good, judging by your smile there.” Nodding in approval, Eun left to fetch Yan’s breakfast while muttering, “Injured he might be, but at least the boy knows what he’s doing, which is more than you could say for most...”

Grandpa’s cheeks took on a shade of red which Yan had never before been seen, and neither she nor Da’in could restrain their laughter. Clearing his throat, Grandpa waited for their hilarity to die down before asking, “So what are your plans for the day?”

“Well, Rain arranged a private arena so we can exchange pointers with his friends, but that’s not until after lunch. There’s also a banquet tonight in Grandpa’s honour, so that will be fun.” Perhaps Yan would even wear her new gift, a lovely, pink formal gown which revealed scandalous amounts of leg when loosened. The outfit also came with a matching set of pink-diamond jewellery, so similar to the outfits and accessories worn by Mila and Li Song during their recent and much-talked-about public spar. “In the meantime, I promised Tate to go watch him train, but you’re free to do as you please.”

Huffing in displeasure, Da’in poked at her grilled fish and scowled, yet somehow still looked radiant in doing so. “So just like that, I’m supposed to entertain myself until the afternoon? How cruel, I followed you all this way and kept you company on the journey over, only to be tossed aside for a handsome young face.”

“Jealous?” Yan teased, earning herself a hateful glare from her friend. “I could put in a good word, maybe even convince Tate to sit in your lap. A few more years and you might not have a chance anymore, so you should strike while the iron is hot.”

“You joke, but I’m this close to taking you up on the offer.” Sighing, Da’in slumped in her chair and lamented, “All the good men of my generation are already taken and I’ll not settle for less. I even considered marrying a younger man, but your Rain makes them all seem so... mediocre. Like that Zian fellow. I expected more from him after hearing how he recklessly offered an open challenge to all of Central’s Experts, but he folded like a paper lantern the second I pressed him for an opinion. His answer was so boring and politically correct, I can’t even remember what he said.”

“Bah.” Back with Yan’s breakfast, Eun gave Da’in a light swat on the head accompanied by a fond smile. “If he’d said otherwise, you would’ve called him a pompous fool and beaten him to a pulp. Don’t pretend otherwise, he’s not to your tastes.”

Giggling as she took the matronly woman’s hand, Da’in sighed and said, “You are absolutely right. Perhaps there will be someone more suitable amongst Rain’s friends.” Insisting Eun join them for breakfast, Yan and Grandpa ate in silence while Da’in grilled the gossipy woman on the eligible bachelors of the north, a list which embarrassingly included people Yan knew like Gerel, BoShui, and Vichear. Worse, they even asked her for her opinion of each man, asking all sorts of questions Yan thankfully didn’t have answers to.

She didn’t know any of the men particularly well, but even if they’d grown up thick as thieves, how was she to know what kind of lover someone might be?

Thankfully, Grandpa came to her rescue once breakfast was done. “Goddaughter,” he said, stealing Da’in’s attention and putting an end to Yan’s embarrassing plight. “Seeing how the Medical Saint is absent, I decided it wouldn’t do for us to impose on Young Lady Mei Lin any longer, so I procured an empty manor for us to stay in on the south side of the lake. Kyung knows the location, so bring him to fetch your sister and move your things in. It may not be my place to meddle, but I feel it isn’t proper for young Seoyoon to stay under the same roof as that rascal Tong Da Fung, especially without supervision. They’ve yet to be betrothed and the boy has a sordid reputation, one he takes pride in by all accounts.”

Was Grandpa upset because Yan stayed the night with Rain? They were already betrothed and Grandpa never mentioned anything about rules or reputation before, but then again, Yan never brought it up. Giving Yan a questioning look, Da’in simply nodded in agreement with Grandpa like a dutiful goddaughter should, but Eun was not so pliant. “Isn’t the citadel packed full of soldiers? Who do you know that would give you a manor to stay in, and an empty one at that? Besides, Seoyoon can handle that Fung, has him wrapped around her finger like –”

“Never you mind woman.” Waving her to silence, Grandpa coughed over what Eun was about to say before continuing, “In fact, go with them in case the girls need help.” Though Eun stood to curtsy in compliance, her smouldering gaze said they would have words about this later, and it would not be pleasant. Once they were alone, Grandpa turned to Yan and Sent, “Your betrothed is in dire straits, and I do not mean his health. I’ve been told he’s entered into conflict with an Imperial Scion, one powerful enough to force the Legate to abandon Rain and the Bekhai.”

While Grandpa explained what little he knew, Yan did her best to make sense of things. Why didn’t Rain tell her first? Because he didn’t trust her? No, that was silly, he probably just didn’t want to ruin their reunion or didn’t think it mattered much. Yea, that sounded more like Rain, the idiot. Mother in Heaven, how did he piss off an Imperial Scion? Then again, considering his history, it was only a matter of time after coming into contact with them. Rain detested arrogant people abusing their power, and never thought twice about what he said, which was both a part of his charm and maddeningly frustrating.

When Grandpa finally fell silent, Yan took a deep breath and Sent, “You were right to find new accommodations, but I will not be going with you. I will stand by Rain and the People until the bitter end, but I hope I can be a part of your family again in the next life.”

Even the People couldn’t stand against the Imperial Clan, not in its entirety, but their blood would not come cheaply.

“Silly girl.” Reaching across the table to take her hand, Grandpa held it tight and smiled. “You think I would abandon my granddaughter? Is this the man you think I am? You’ll notice I made no mention of moving my own things, or yours for that matter.” Brushing her questions aside, he Sent, “The manor is for Da’in and Seoyoon, and perhaps Gam and little five if they so desire. It would not do to drag the Ryo family into this mess, and the Eccentric would do our cause more harm than good.”

Though Yan had hoped he would say as much, Grandpa’s steadfast support brought tears of happiness to her eyes. Even after all he’d done and sacrificed for her, he was still eager to do more. “Thank you Grandpa.”

