“Bah, what need is there for thanks? This is as things should be.” Settling back in his chair, he added, “Besides, this old man has always held a grudge against the Imperial Clan for not offering to take him in. If the Medical Saint can Heal my injuries, then I’ve no doubt the Imperial Physician can too, so in what way am I lacking compared to that sword-obsessed fool, Jun Bao? Now come. Let us pay your betrothed a visit and find out just what sort of dog-shit mess the in-laws have stepped into.”

Next door, Yan and Grandpa were warmly welcomed by Rain as he finished off his hearty breakfast while surrounded by his greedy pets. Though worried about the impending disaster, she was relieved to see him eating so well, and his wizened frame was supposedly improving by the day thanks to his healthy appetite. He wasn’t doing so well before the Legate procured some miraculous tofu pudding for him, which made Yan wonder why the Legate would go to such lengths only to abandon Rain to the whims of another Scion. Even crippled as he was, Rain still had value, and the People had only just displayed a fraction of their true strength to show he wasn’t the only talent amongst their ranks. It made no sense, but Yan’s understanding of politics was next to nil.

Instead of confronting him right away, Yan greeted Sarnai and the others before sitting down and taking Rain’s hand. “Is there anything you want to tell Grandpa and I?”

Blanching as he sat up straight, Rain asked, “He knows?”

“Yes.”

“Ah well, we weren’t exactly making a big secret of it.” Clearing his throat, Rain turned to Grandpa and bowed in his chair. “I know it’s traditionally frowned upon, but Yan and I have already consummated our love for –”

“Not that you idiot!” Wishing she could crawl under the table and die, Yan stared at her feet and squeezed Rain’s hand tight. “About your conflict with a certain faction.”

“Um... You’re going to have to be more specific.” Weathering her murderous glare, Rain’s eyes widened as he realized what she meant. “Oh, you mean with err... them. The bigwigs.”

From context, Yan took it to mean he understood, but with Rain, it was always best to be sure, so she Sent, “If that means the Imperial Clan, then yes.”

“Yea, sorry I didn’t tell you sooner, but I didn’t want to bring up my problems so quickly, so I figured it could wait. I was going to clear out the warehouse for you to stay in, but Mom and Dad said you guys would be unaffected if you stayed at Teacher’s home, because he’s not one of the People.”

This was the first Yan had heard of it, and apparently Rain didn’t wholly understand either, but Mother-in-Law Sarnai nodded and that was good enough for Yan. The Medical Saint had always been a bit of an oddball, but a lovable one with a noble spirit, so if he wasn’t a part of the People, it wasn’t because they wouldn’t have him, but rather the other way around. No matter, because in the end, it was a difference without a distinction considering his close ties to Rain, but it should be enough to keep the Medical Saint insulated from Imperial Wrath should things go poorly. Grandpa wasn’t entirely convinced, but after a brief back and forth between him and Sarnai, the latter snapped and said, “If I say it’s fine, then it’s fine. Should you think my word not good enough, then move your things to the manor the Legate gave you. I care not.”

“Mom...” Diplomatically stepping in, Rain quietly elicited a begrudging apology from Sarnai before offering a more heartfelt one himself. “Things are tense,” he said, offering a helpless shrug. “We’re all on edge waiting for our foe to make the first move for a whole week now. I’ve taken hits on the business side of things, like losing all cases in Adjudication and paying fines for trumped-up charges, but otherwise, things are quiet.”

“Lord Husband is being modest,” Luo-Luo said, so quiet and unassuming Yan didn’t see her until she spoke up, though it also been because the bears were stuck to her side, their furry, fat forms pressed against her while gurgling in contentment at her touch. “In the past week, we have lost a small fortune and will only lose more as we are forced to turn down new contracts for fear of stumbling into a trap.”

“It’s not really losing money if we’re rejecting work. No, I get it, no need to argue again, but it’s just gold.” Spoken like a true silk-pants, and as Luo-Luo’s hands balled up into fists, Yan offered her a sympathetic and encouraging smile. The poor girl worked herself silly training and running his business, but Rain didn’t seem to appreciate her much, somehow unaffected by the beautiful woman’s many charms. Perhaps Yan should have a word with Luo-Luo and point out the fact that Rain was hardly in a position to resist if she were to slip into his room and refuse to leave. Thick though his skin might be, even he would balk at asking his guards or family to help remove his naked concubine from his bed, and once there, it was only a matter of time before he succumbed to lust.

Perhaps Yan would even help arrange it and stick around to see how it worked out...

Unaware of Yan’s lecherous plots, Rain continued, “What I mean is, if all he can do is hurt our profit margins, then our opponents are not as fearsome as they let on. There’s more coming, but I have no idea what. Not assassins, though there have been people probing our defences these past few days. Whatever our enemies have planned, we will deal with it as it comes, and if they think the People will go down without a fight, then they are sorely mistaken.”

Proud as she was to hear Rain’s confident declaration, she feared he was taking this too lightly. Grandpa’s noisy throat clearing told her he felt the same way as he said, “As impressed as I am by your courage and resolve, our foe is not so simple. A crafty, cagey bunch, they see direct confrontation as a weapon of last resort, used only when all else has failed. While the People will no doubt put up a stalwart defence in the event of an attack, I fear our enemy will strike in more subtle and insidious ways.”

As if on cue, a Death Corps guard marched in and the room’s mood plummeted as everyone noticed the Justicar only a single step behind. Displaying his Token of Authority for all to see, the Justicar wasted no time with preamble or niceties and jumped straight to business. “Given recent events, this Official has seen fit to review past cases concerning individuals amongst the People and discovered inexcusable lapses in judgment which make a mockery of Imperial Law. For their part in the defence of Sanshu, numerous local bandits were pardoned of past crimes by Magistrate Chu Tongzu, including notable individuals such as Ulfsaar the Voracious and his wife, Neera the Miserly, Hangman Jorani of the Mother’s Militia, Siyar of the Sharktooth Syndicate, Jester Wang of Butcher Bay, and countless others. Given the severity of their many crimes, I have found them unfit for pardon, reinstated the bounties upon their heads, and demand the People hand over any and all criminals hiding within their ranks, especially individuals who once belonged to the Azure Ascendants, Butcher Bay Bandits, and Crossbone Corsairs.”

Which meant most of Rain’s retinue were now criminals again, and to contest this would mean a trial by combat for every accused soldier, but the Justicar was not yet done. “Further investigation has also uncovered proof of stolen property in Falling Rain’s possession, as well as individuals found living in Defiled rebel Yo Ling’s island camp where said property was illegally plundered. As such, Imperial Consort Falling Rain is hereby ordered to hand over all ill-gotten gains to the Disciplinary Corps, thereafter to be returned to its rightful owners, as well as any and all suspicious individuals previously residing on the aforementioned Yo Ling’s island for questioning. For his part in concealing these crimes, Imperial Consort Falling Rain will be fined an amount equal to the value of the stolen goods, a figure which has yet to be determined.”

Taking a deep breath, the Justicar continued, “For their crimes of rebellion and their part in the Battle for Sanshu, Dastan Zhandos and his retinue should have been sentenced to torture until death, but instead were granted clemency by Magistrate Chu Tongzu. In lieu of execution, they were made slaves to serve in defence of the Empire, but now they sit idle in the Citadel living lives of luxury. Such an affront is an insult to the loyal Imperial citizens who suffered due to their actions, and as such, Imperial Consort Falling Rain is hereby ordered to hand over command of Dastan Zhandos and the remainder of his former retinue, so that they may serve out their sentence on the front lines.”

Holding his hand out, the Justicar waited for Rain to obey, but Yan’s idiot beloved shook his head. Trembling from head to toe in rage, Rain growled, “The token burned up and was destroyed in Sinuji.”

“Very well.” Wholly expecting this answer, the Justicar moved on. “For his crimes, Imperial Consort Falling Rain is hereby stripped of his rank of Second Grade Warrant Officer and ordered drafted into the Imperial Army as a liaison for the criminal slave soldiers in his possession. Private Falling Rain is to report for duty within the hour, alongside the aforementioned slave soldiers.”

“You dare?”

Sarnai’s famed temper erupted and Yan feared for the Justicar’s life, but Alsantset moved to block her mother from doing anything which might be construed as rebellion. Luckily, Baatar had long since left to carry out his duties else Yan feared the Bloody Fanged Wolf might have already torn the Justicar into pieces. Unfazed by Sarnai’s anger or the threat of her Aura crashing down upon him, the Justicar nodded and said, “I dare, for I uphold the Emperor’s laws.” He wasn’t done either, and he announced he was charging Rain’s co-conspirators for being complicit in his crimes and recited a long list of names, crimes, and fines which started with Marshal Yuzhen, Marshal Yo, and Magistrate Chu Tongzu before moving on to other notable personages from North and Central. While the punishment never went any further than a fine, the implicit warning was that their punishments could be raised if Rain didn’t roll over for the Disciplinary Corps, and the message to the world needed no clarification: anyone and everyone who dared to support Falling Rain would share in his misery.

Merely the opening gambit and already it neatly cut Rain off from his allies, because while these crimes were neither shocking nor heinous, it showed just how much power their enemy had and just how far he was willing to go, even drafting a crippled war hero and risk angering both soldiers and civilians alike. One thing was for sure though: with the Disciplinary Corps involved, unless Rain contested the charges in hundreds of separate trials by combat, then Yan and even Grandpa could do naught but stand on the sidelines and watch. The Disciplinary Corps represented the Emperor’s justice, and to retaliate meant rebelling against the Empire itself, not so daunting a task when the People were home in their mountains, but here in Central, thousands of kilometres away from home and surrounded by millions of loyal Imperial soldiers?

The only outcome was defeat, and Mother help her, Yan had no idea how anyone could save her beloved Rain.

Chapter Meme
