Eating it would probably give her enough experience for another level. What would be lost? Potential friendship? The term existed in her mind, part of that nebulous cloud of knowledge she’d inherited from her past life. But even if she knew the definition of the word, the concept itself held no intrinsic meaning for her. She felt no emotions or bubbling sentiments at the idea. There was nothing but the persistent hollowness that seemed to trail everything related to her former life.

A strangled screech broke Pyre out of her thoughts. The other flesh lump had seemingly given up, determining that Pyre was not, in fact, intelligent, and now rushed towards her. Even when contorting its body to move, it still maintained that vague head and torso shape. Its bony wings fanned out behind it. The pointy ends gleamed in the dim light.

A spindly wing shot forward, flying straight at her. Pyre twisted out of the way, but at the last moment, the other lump jerked. The wing whipped to the side, abruptly veering directions and crashing into her.

Pyre skidded back from the force of the impact, but she was able to absorb most of the blow. She probably wouldn’t be able to take too many more of those, though. Her eyes narrowed. On closer inspection, the wings were constructed from several smaller bones linked together with actual joints. Pyre hadn’t been able to connect bones like that with [Ossification]—it had to be a specialized subtrait.

“Understand!” the lump screeched again, its second wing extending to join the first. Its voice was nearly piercing at this point, echoing loudly throughout the enclosed pit. “Understand!”

If Pyre wasn’t so preoccupied with dodging out of the way of the next attack, she might’ve paid more attention to the tinge of desperation in that voice. As it was, she focused on sprouting some bones of her own, forming a line of crude, curling bones that vaguely resembled half of a ribcage.

The attack bounced off the pseudo-ribs, the bones effectively forming a shield. She was only able to cover half of her body, however, before hitting the max limit for [Ossification]. Clicking her tongue, she stretched her body thinner, sinking low to the ground to duck underneath the next strike. The flexibility of the bones made them cover a wide range, but it looked like the flesh lump wasn’t great at aiming its attacks. The specifics of wave motion weren’t its strong suit, it seemed.

If Pyre wanted, she could keep low to the ground and slowly inch forward, dodging attacks until she reached the other lump and could devour it. That, however, sounded unreliable and time-consuming in a decidedly not fun way. Stopping every five seconds to wait for the bone appendages to back off? Trying to predict the whipping motion of the attacks? She didn’t know much about her past life, but she was almost certain she hadn’t been a physics expert.

Fuck it, she thought. She already knew she could take a blow, and the other flesh lump didn’t look like it was going to move closer any time soon. No point in raising her constitution stat to 50 if she wasn’t going to take advantage of it.

The other lump shifted slightly, its bony wings making snapping sounds as they extended behind it. Pyre morphed herself back into a large mound that was easily three times as large as the other lump, then retracted her pseudo-rib shield. For what she was planning, she’d need the next attack to hit her actual main body.

A final loud snap rang throughout the pit as the other creature shot both wings forward. Pyre still dodged the initial blow, but this time, when the bones bent at their joints, she remained in place even as one of the appendages whipped towards her.

It crashed straight into her body. Flesh rippled from the blow, a dull throb radiating out from the point of impact, but she stood her ground. Before the bones could retract again, Pyre immediately wrapped the other end of her body around the bones, holding the other flesh lump in place. It would’ve been easy to tug the creature closer, but she didn’t want to risk it detaching itself from the bones.

Instead, she used the trapped bones as a bridge. She was large enough that she could maintain a steady hold on the appendages while stretching the other half of her body out, and that’s exactly what she did.

The mass of extended flesh barrelled towards the other flesh lump. Pyre reabsorbed one of her existing mouths, then created a new one—wide and gaping—at the very end of her body. The jaw unhinged just as it reached the other flesh lump, revealing rows of gleaming white teeth. Before it had a chance to react, the mouth clamped firmly over the creature’s head.

A shrill scream rang throughout the pit. Pyre frowned. That was a lot more high-pitched than she’d expected. If she had ears, she would’ve covered them. She didn’t slow down, though, her mouth continuing to chomp down and rip into flesh and, she realized, bones. That was how the lump had maintained its “head” and “torso” shape while moving; it had managed to create an actual internal skeleton.

[The trait [Sound Perception] has leveled up! Lvl 1 —> 2]

Unfortunately, the bones and the lump’s higher level in general made it much harder to consume, not helped by its constant thrashing. It moved too much to eat around the skeleton, so Pyre was left with no choice but to tear through all of it and spit the bones out later.

The pit at this point was filled with a mixture of snapping, crunching, and screaming. After some fiddling, Pyre realized she could shut off her [Sound Perception] trait much like she could technically manifest 0 eyes or mouths if she wanted. She silenced the sounds around her, mentally relaxing once the shrill shrieking was gone. It probably didn’t count as a headache without an actual head, but she’d felt one coming on.

Finally, the mouth tore into the creature’s torso, and the entire lump collapsed. It twitched in place for only a moment before falling entirely still, its smell starting to weaken. Pyre was able to devour the rest with little issue, finishing consuming it just before the last traces of life left it completely.

[The trait [Flesh Eater] has leveled up! Lvl 3 —> 4]

[You have devoured (1) Flesh Lump Lvl 7][Experience earned!]

[Your species has leveled up! Lvl 7 —> 8][Strength +3, Agility +2, Constitution +3, Magic Resistance +1, Intelligence +1]

[You have earned 10 points]

[You have gained (1) [Ligaments] subtrait shard]

[You have gained (1) [Skeleton] subtrait shard]

[You have gained (1) [Darkvision] subtrait shard]

[Required amount of [Darkvision] subtrait shards collected][Apply subtrait shards to [Eye Growth] trait?]

[You have gained the [Basic Impact Absorption] skill!]

[You have gained the [Cold Blooded] title!]
