Ren waved his arm enthusiastically in the air. “Bye!”

The All-Seeing Mirror stopped showing the popups, so Ren reduced it back to it's normal size and stored it.

“Now, what should I do with you.” Ren said and rubbed his hands together.

“We'll take you when your shield drops!” One of the mages said, and Ren laughed. “What's so funny?”

“I have a Mana Pool that holds triple my total Mana.” Ren said.

“We can wait for it to run out.” The mage said confidently.

“My Mana is maxed at 99,999.” Ren said, and he felt the ripple of shock roll across the room.

“We... we can wait years! Yes, years!”

“Even if I somehow burned through my Mana Pool, my Regeneration is so high that I could cast any of the fifth level spells without even making my normal Mana Bar twitch.”

Ren let them stew on that for a minute, because he felt the mage and her family coming down the hole towards him. He took a couple of steps to the right and let them float down to where he was. He cast Iron Wall from the wall over to where they were about to land, and they stopped on it.

“Please, don't hurt them.” The mage said.

“Yeah! Leave them alone, you bully!” Biliosh said.

The Light being that was her mate floated in front of the child. “Don't hurt him, either.”

“I told you, I'm not hurting anyone.” Ren said. “Especially children.”

“You're acting like you're going to destroy them all.” The mage said.

“Yes, because I could.” Ren said. “Very easily.”

“Why are you doing that?”

“Because I'm trying to show them that even though someone has the power or ability to do something, doesn't mean that they should.” Ren said. “I could erase everything and everyone within this realm if I wanted to.”

Complete silence met his true statement, and Ren faced the Collective.

“I'm not going to, so you can dispense with the plans to lobotomize me.” Ren said, and he felt their uneasiness. “What? You didn't think I'd know you planned to have Xuunah use her Spirit Blade on me?” He asked and chuckled. “How stupid do you think I am?”

No one answered and he sighed.

“I'm going to tell you this once, and only once.” Ren said. “Your Light beings with the polymorph ability are not deviants or aberrations. Vasalor gave them that ability so they could help the mortal realms.”

“I was wondering why we started that program of checking on mortals.” One of the Collective said and was quickly shushed to be quiet.

“No, don't shush him!” Ren said. “His question is valid! It's good to question your position. Don't just take the daily routine at face value. Check yourselves. Ask what's going on... or better yet, check to see what's going on.” He said. “Having the Collective is great, as long as it's for the benefit of your people. If it starts to cull out those you don't feel are worthy, then the Collective itself isn't worthy of being a part of!”

Gasps filled the room, and Ren looked around at the Light beings.

“Don't jump to conclusions! I'm not telling you to abandon it!” Ren said, because he could feel that's what they were thinking. He took a deep breath and let it out. “I'm telling you to use the Collective to help your people... all of your people. Just because some have experiences the majority of you don't understand, doesn't mean they don't belong. It only means they are different people.”

No one said anything, and he could feel the confusion in them.

“Do I need to make a threat to unify you?” Ren asked, and he felt them get defensive. “I do, don't I?”

They didn't respond, and he shook his head.

“I told Xuunah that I had several options to explore before I had to get to this point, and here I am anyway.” Ren said. “Very well.” He activated his Ultimate Terror ring and funnelled it through his Aura, and they all screamed and sunk to the floor. “I hereby command you to treat every one of your people with respect, and you will not abuse anyone within or without the Collective.” He ordered them. “I'll be watching you, and if I see any injustice among you, I will return... and you will not enjoy the experience.”
