“One of the biggest differences between the armed forces and the player forces is training. Once you join the armed forces you will constantly be learning and assigned more classes that build upon what you have. Player forces are left to figure everything out for themselves, and trust me when I say people are not cut out for that shit.”

“And what’s your opinion on special recruitment?” Ivy asked.

“You probably know more about it than me,” Julian said, looking at Ivy’s Omnitech flight suit. “All the guilds are different, while the spec ops groups are secretive. It all varies a ton and we could spend the entire evening going through details. I’ve done it before; please don’t make me do it again.”

“With all these rules why would anyone want to join one of these forces, why not strike out on your own?” Alan asked.

“Because unaffiliated groups will be targeted and fired upon by all United World Government forces,” Julian said. “There’s barely any worthwhile mobs spawning on Earth, thus it was decided fighting other player forces would help level everyone up. That’s probably why this war started. Everyone’s either joined a faction, gone into hiding, or fled the planet by now. Left with no one to kill we turned on each other.”

I think his guess is closer to reality than not, Nu sent.

Oh? Do you have an idea of what this war is about? Alan asked.

Only educated guesses, but I think this whole Operation Phoenix began as a military wargame that became a training exercise on a grand scale. One of the benefits of being inside a virtual space is that combat drills don’t have to hold the punches—live ammo against live targets is a real possibility since everyone respawns. Such practice is costly, but it can be effective, Nu sent.

Icewolf didn’t sound like he thought this was a training exercise though, Alan sent.

Not in private, but he did in public. Remember that the opening line in his speech was specifically that “this is just a game.” That was probably directed to the military brass and those in the know that Operation Phoenix was about to start, Nu sent. If everyone is expecting Control Points to fall as part of a massive test, they won’t be as alarmed as they should be.

So this is just a drill then, Alan sent.

No, not at all, and that’s the genius of this plan. The Game does not care about any of this—all that matters is who has those Control Points. If he holds them for 24 hours under the Ashes of Humanity faction that’s it. That’s the ballgame. The territory is now Icewolf’s to set rules and laws as he sees fit until another faction takes the Control Points back and holds them for a day. Actually, it might not be Icewolf setting the rules; I have no idea what leadership apparatus the faction has set up.

“Is there something you’d like to share with the rest of us?” Ivy asked.

Alan looked up and noticed that everyone was staring at him.

“Nothing that I can share aloud, but if my guess is true it’s important we reach the front lines very, very soon to take advantage of the situation.” Alan turned to Julian. “What’s the fastest path to combat?”

“Well any tutorial would involve combat, but if you want to actually fight in this war…” Julian sighed. “It would probably be by joining the player forces. You sign up, get tested, and then are shipped off. You think you can survive in an active warzone without any training and minimal support? Go for it. I’ve stopped trying to convince morons not to throw their lives away.”

“This group of morons might surprise you,” Isaiah said, smiling. “Besides, I thought I saw some messages that there was a bonus for fighting in different areas.”

“Yes, there is a recruitment drive underway for player forces in the District of Columbia metropolitan area specifically. Washington, DC, as the location for a number of key Control Points, is heavily contested,” Julian said. “But you all haven’t even gone through the Tutorial. You’d be worse than cannon fodder—you’d be free experience and gear for the enemy.”

“Never mind that, what’s this bonus?” Alan asked.

“1,000 credit enlistment bonus, more if you can demonstrate needed aptitudes. That’s way down the line though; you can’t properly sign up until after you complete the Tutorial. I don’t deal with contracts and all that bullshit, thank God,” Julian said. “This is supposed to be an introduction to the armed forces of the United World Government and to get everyone signed up as a citizen. You pick an initial path, I send you further down the line for processing. Sounds like you’re all joining the player forces, despite my warnings, is that correct? You might still be able to switch later on but it’s a whole ordeal.”

Alan was about to answer in the affirmative, but stopped and looked around at the others first. Bob and Charlie were passive, standing guard. They’d go along with whatever their employers commanded. Isaiah was nodding along, while Ivy…

“Fine, if you think this is the best choice.”

“I do,” Alan said.

Julian pressed a few buttons on a screen and a new message appeared:

Alan hit accept. Another message appeared:

Faction Change! Title Established.

You are now a (preliminary) member of the United World Government granted the title Player Forces Recruit. United World Government reputation set to Friendly.

Please follow established laws to avoid punishment.

As a faction member, your Faction Standings will change, and your actions will influence your faction’s reputation as well as your own.

Faction bonuses will not apply until the completion of the Tutorial.

The timer that had been counting down disappeared, followed by additional messages:

Player: Alan (Anomaly)

Destination: To be determined.

Please follow instructions on how to proceed. Squads for the Tutorial are still being established.

“What now? This message only says to follow instructions, whose instructions?” Isaiah asked.

“Whoever is next,” Julian said, “because now you get to face the Hallway.” He gestured to the simulated zone Alan had noticed earlier.

“We’re facing a hallway? What does that even mean?”

“You’ll see, now move along,” Julian said. “Next!”
