It was a man. Hurtling through the sky in an uncontrolled tumble as if launched from a catapult. It seemed like he’d started his flight from the clifftop south of the city, judging from his trajectory, which was less down than it was out. Far, far, out.

Val lowered the wine he’d been about to pitch away, taking a thoughtful sip instead.

Well then. Looks like somebody’s having a worse day than me.

“And...yeah,” Rain shrugged. “She told me roughly where she’s staying, and she wants me to make sure nobody from Fel Sadanis goes to that part of the city. Until we’ve got a ship, she wants us to basically pretend she’s not here. Once we’re underway, though, she agreed to answer all of our questions, not just about the DKE, but, like, goldplate stuff too. That’s the deal. Information for passage.”

He waited while Ameliah, Tallheart, and Vanna stared at him. They were all huddled together in Subtlety’s shielded engineering compartment. Ameliah spoke first, the three of them having stayed mostly silent through his update, possibly in shock.

“Did she say anything else? About the war or the fallen cities?”

Rain shook his head. Information about what was going on elsewhere on the continent was frustratingly hard to come by. “I got the sense that she’s been here for a few weeks at least. I doubt she knows the latest. I guess I could visit her under reversed Detection and ask, or write her a note or something, but it’s probably better to just leave her alone. It’s not like we can do anything about the war from here, and I’d rather not piss her off.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “Did she ask about me?”

Rain raised an eyebrow. “Why would she?”

“Does she still expect me to make the fourth sword of Osar?” Tallheart clarified.

“Oh, right,” Rain said, scratching at an ear. “I guess that deal never did get resolved, did it? And no, she didn’t. Incidentally, she only had one sword with her. First sword, maybe second, I think. Definitely not third. Either she’s got the others stashed in her hideout, or she lost them while she was on the run. She didn’t outright say it, but I got the impression she tried fighting a Citizen or two. I wouldn’t expect that to have gone well.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled again. “She is gold, correct?”

Rain nodded. “The other Citizens raised her cap before they elevated her. At least, I think that’s what happened based on some of the things she told me back then. I don’t know if she’d already passed fifty when she was running Fel Sadanis, but she’s had more than enough time to get there by now. My soul certainly seems to think she’s powerful enough for it.”

“Your soul?” Vanna asked.

Rain nodded. “I made a bit of a breakthrough this morning.” He shifted his gaze to Tallheart, who he could feel sitting there, solid as a stone. Linksight added another layer on top of that, clearer than ever, connecting all four of them in the purpose of holding a discussion. It was a little distracting, honestly. “I was going to tell you about it tonight, Tallheart. Linksight is working, and I can sort of feel how strong people are. It happened after I connected my core to—“

Tallheart rumbled, interrupting him. “Remain focused. We can discuss your oddness at another time.”

“Right,” Rain said, swiveling to look at Ameliah, then back to Vanna. “Later, then. I was actually thinking of starting a small group...” He shook himself as Ameliah cleared her throat. “Right, later. Anyway, while we’re all here, is there anything else we need to discuss before we go talk to Fechton? Ameliah, did you see any ships coming?”

“Two of them,” Ameliah said. “From the north. I’d guess the nearer one will be here within a week, but I really don’t know. It was hard to judge how fast they were going with how high I was, and I don’t know much about sailing to begin with. I guess it will depend on the wind.”

Rain nodded. They’d agreed before she’d gone scouting that making contact with any ships on her own was risky. There was no way to know just who might be waiting for her on the deck—one of the Sea Kings, for example, or a Citizen. Taking a breath, he smiled at Ameliah. “We’ll just have to make sure we’re ready for them.” She smiled back, and he turned to Vanna. “On that note, how are things going on your end?”

“Besides the headache we were dealing with just now?” Vanna asked. Rain nodded, and she continued. “Well enough, I suppose. I’ve got the volunteers sorting through the wreckage for tools and usable wood. The first city watch patrol will be tonight, and we’ll start building barracks for the refugees tomorrow morning. We’re going to hold an election for a city council at the end of the week. I decided that would be better than a mayor, given the factions we’re dealing with. At least with a council, they might keep each other in check.”

“Great, thanks,” Rain said, turning to Tallheart. “And you? Anything important you’d like to tell us?”

Tallheart rumbled. “Not particularly.”

Rain gave him a level look. “Did you, or did you not, yeet a man?”

Tallheart returned his flat stare tenfold. “You asked me if I had anything important to tell you.”

“I think it’s pretty important, considering who it was,” Vanna interjected. “I’m the one who had to deal with him when he barged dripping into my tent.”

“Will somebody tell me who we’re talking about, please?” Ameliah asked. “And what is yeet?”

“I don’t know,” Rain replied. “I’m too old.”

“Rain,” Ameliah warned.

Rain sighed. “Throw. In this context, it means throw...or maybe...throw with attitude, and we’re talking about Thrast. Tallheart hurled him off the cliff. When I went to find Nails to message you, Thrast was already at the camp, bothering Vanna and making a huge stink.”

“As garbage does,” Tallheart said flatly.

Ameliah covered her mouth, hiding a sudden smile. Vanna was less restrained, snorting with amusement.

Rain crossed his arms, not in the mood for humor at the moment. It had taken the threat of violence to convince Thrast that he and Vanna didn’t have the time to deal with him. Even then, he’d only stormed off after Rain had promised to come talk to him the next day. It was trouble he didn’t need. “He says you stole his equipment.”

“His equipment was also garbage,” Tallheart said. “It is on the cliff somewhere. I have no use for it, just as I have no use for him. Do you not care that he broke Tristin’s arm?”

“Wait, he did what?!” Rain demanded, cut off in the middle of forming his next argument. “Is Tristin okay?”

“By now, I would assume so,” Tallheart said. “Jamus took him to the clinic.”

Rain cursed. He must have just missed them. He’d rushed straight from the clinic to the lowcity after Velika departed. Ameliah had shown up only a few minutes after Thrast stormed off in a huff, and then she’d carried Rain and Vanna straight here. He’d had no chance to hear about the incident, and clearly neither had Nails, by the fact that he’d yet to receive a Message.

“I need to finish inventing radio already,” Rain muttered to himself.

With the increased scope of their operations, the lack of robust long-distance communication was becoming seriously inconvenient. Message was great, but only two people had access to it, and it was frustratingly one-way. Radio would neatly solve the problem, but knowing how one worked and building one without any of the parts were very different things. Myth and Reason had only just figured out how to make a halfway decent diode a few days ago.

Rain sighed, returning the project to its mental shelf and his mind to the present. He looked at Vanna. “Before I got there, did Thrast mention he broke someone’s arm?”

“He didn’t care to mention that, no,” Vanna said testily. “You heard him. He claimed Tallheart attacked him unprovoked, not that I believe that for an instant. What do you want to do about it? Should we add him to the trial docket for assault?”

Rain cursed under his breath, then shook his head. “I don’t know. Tallheart’s right. We don’t have time to deal with him right now. Ameliah and I will go check on Tristin, then we’ll grab Fechton and get him up here. I left him with Samson, and he’s probably safe enough for the moment, but I’d feel better with him properly out of sight. Samson doesn’t even know who he is yet or why he’s guarding him. If Thrast shows up at the clinic, I’ll...I don’t know...yeet him again or something.” He turned to Tallheart. “Do you want to be there when we talk to Fechton?”

“That may not be wise,” Ameliah said, laying a hand on top of Rain’s.

Rain glanced at her, giving her an equivocal shrug. “Tallheart won’t hurt him.”

“That’s not what I’m worried about,” Ameliah said, giving him a look like he was stupid.

“Oh,” Rain said, turning back to Tallheart. “Well, he did seem scared of you, but he doesn’t know, well, you. He just knows the propaganda. I doubt ‘Vileheart’ is something you decided to call yourself.”

There was an awkward pause, but eventually, Tallheart spoke. “Like you, I have been given many names that I would sooner leave behind.”

Rain grimaced, flipping his palm over to take Ameliah’s hand and giving it a squeeze.

So he didn’t pick it, but it’s not entirely unearned. Damn it, I don’t want to know.

He shook his head, then looked up. “Ameliah’s right, and I have the dumb. We should at least set the groundwork before we bring you in so he doesn’t clam up in terror. I just thought, like, you’d know what questions to ask since you’ve...fought them before...” Trailing off lamely, he sighed, then shook himself again. “Anyway, we’ve been talking for long enough. One thing, though, that I want to be clear on. Nobody say a word about Velika to anyone outside this compartment. After we talk to Fechton, we’ll decide whether to inform the council heads about him, but not Velika. They don’t need to know, and she’s got too much history with too many of our members for us to risk it. Top, top, top secret. Keep it to just the four of us.”

“Agreed,” Vanna replied.

Rain looked to Tallheart and Ameliah in turn, receiving their nods of acceptance. Only then did he rise from his stool, rolling his shoulder as he headed for the ladder. “Right, time to go see what the Empire’s deal is.”
