Nanette Weishart had lost her mother, the Great Witch Califor, to Belavierr at Riverfarm. The Stitch Witch had killed Califor. She had presented it like a deal: Califor could sacrifice herself to save Nanette from a cursed object Belavierr had planted on the girl, or she could watch her daughter die.
But that was just the lie Belavierr told. Califor had made the only choice she could. The only choice a mother would take. She had rode across the burning land and called a wildfire into her body.
Nanette had survived. Belavierr always kept her promises. Only then had the other [Witches] learned the truth: that she was Califor’s daughter. It had been a secret, even to witches like Eloise and Hedag that Califor trusted with her life. Even Nanette hadn’t…actually known it herself.
Well, she’d known it, deep down. But not consciously for a long while. Califor had told her she was a child she’d saved—to protect Nanette. The girl had grown up in awe of the Great Witch who had made her, Nanette, her first and only apprentice.
…It was so obvious in hindsight. And she had found out, eventually, and Califor had sworn her to silence. It had been Nanette’s proudest secret that she would have died before revealing.
At the same time, though, it had been hard. Califor could be a strict mother, and she treated Nanette like an apprentice. Not all her lessons were easy.
Nanette Weishart could remember moments when she made a grave error in alchemy, when she was sick, or—or just afraid at night. And Califor would treat her, well, like a [Witch] would treat an apprentice.
Harshly, sometimes. If Nanette was afraid of things under the bed, Califor would have her crawl under it with a dagger and a candle. Because she should be the woman who went into such places, not feared them.
If Nanette wasted something or put herself in danger, Califor would scold her. And sometimes—sometimes—the [Witch] would relent and draw a sobbing girl towards herself. Shelter a sick child in the crook of her arm and wrap her in that wonderful, old, magical cloak and carry her through the night.
Nanette’s favorite story of Califor wasn’t of the peaces that Califor had brokered, nor her feats of magic, like throwing a Wellfar ship out to sea. It was of the day when the Great Witch of Izril did battle against an entire pack of gargoyles. Tore up half a mountainside and fought off monsters an entire Gold-rank team would back away from. All for her lost apprentice. Her daughter.
There would always, always be that image in Nanette’s mind of the straight-backed woman striding along with a walking staff, a cloak of tattered warm shadows hanging from her shoulders and a blue hat pointing straight up at the sky.
If she closed her eyes, even so much time afterwards, she could believe Califor was around the corner or waiting for her.
Lyonette was a wonderful woman who truly treated Nanette like a daughter. Mrsha was a wonderful, brave, and silly sister. But Nanette would never forget her mother who had died for her.
So. What would you do? If you had a magical root in a palace to any future at all.
What would you do to be happy again? To hold someone you loved?
The answer was so dreadfully simple. All you had to do was find a reality where Califor lived. And then…and then…
Well, there was another Nanette in the way, wasn’t there? Didn’t you have to deal with her?
Think about it logically. You wanted a reality not so different from the one you lived in already. Not one where Nanette had tragically passed away—because that would make the Califor a grieving mother, different from the one you knew.
If you were that bereaved traveller, surely the most natural thing would be to find a world so perfect that you were happy in it.
Then…insert yourself into it. Like a hermit crab stealing someone else’s shell. A cuckoo bird pushing the real bird out of the nest.
It was so easy. Of course that’s what you’d do. To be happy, why wouldn’t you?
After all—they had no idea you were coming. Nanette Weishart, the ‘real’ Nanette, had watched for a while. And chosen her moment perfectly.
 
——
 
It was a beautiful, sunny day as Califor Weishart strode away from Riverfarm. She had a bit of a limp, but she was doggedly walking, and a girl followed her, nearly tripping on her robes, hurrying to keep up with the Great Witch of Izril.
After all, if Witch Califor had just banished Belavierr and saved Riverfarm with the coven of [Witches], brokered a great deal between all of witch-kind and the Unseen Emperor, who was Nanette, Califor’s best (and only) apprentice, to complain about a bit of footsore?
It had been an amazing battle. Nanette wasn’t sure how to explain it, but she was determined to get it right in her journal, which she had open. The blue tome with a yellow ribbon was filled with Nanette’s drawings and notes of the battle.
It had been eight [Witches], plus Ryoka, against Belavierr.
Califor! Hedag! Eloise! Mavika! Oliyaya! Nanette, Wiskeria, and Witch Thallisa versus the Witch of Webs.
It was lucky all of them had been there. Not Nanette; she’d sort of been extra, but without Witch Thallisa and Oliyaya arriving on impulse to this meeting, they might have failed to best Belavierr. But they’d done it! They’d hurled the Stitch Witch into a tornado made of fire and sent her flying back to Terandria!
The Order of Seasons and the Witch Hunters had given chase, led by Ser Raim. Belavierr had sworn vengeance, but for now, everyone was safe. Riverfarm had feasted them for four whole days and nights before Califor had announced they were leaving, much to Nanette’s dismay.
She liked Ryoka and Durene, and she liked Riverfarm, but Califor had insisted. She’d actually left their horses to help with the recovery efforts—she claimed she could buy replacements for the handsome reward that Laken had offered them. And she had promised to be back after helping [Witches] relocate to Riverfarm.
Who knew, they might actually settle down there. It was awfully exciting to think about. Nanette wanted dearly to find out more about these Goblins that Emperor Laken had brought with him.
“Nanette? Hurry up, would you? I intend to be at a town where we can purchase a horse, or at least a ride, by nightfall. We won’t be getting anywhere if you keep trying to write and walk.”
Califor glanced pointedly at Nanette, and the girl hesitated.
“But Miss Califor, I should get my thoughts down before they vanish! And training myself to write and walk seems like a thing I should practice.”
She pointed this out reasonably, and Califor snorted.
“Recording fictitious exploits is not a useful talent.”
However…the road was sunny, they were enjoying their triumph, and so Califor merely harrumphed and let her daughter record her daring exploits down. And that was possibly as close as Califor would come to reveling in her daughter’s pride in her. She would never admit it, and Nanette would never say it outright.
But this was the moment when little Nanette, twelve years old and apple-cheeked, still innocent, still filled with wonder and hope and her hat full of her craft, was happiest.
It happened as they passed by a few trees burnt down by fire. The withered branches and scorched wood was actually mostly intact. Califor stopped to survey the remains of a burnt homestead.
A good ways behind her, Nanette tripped as she scribbled down an illustration of the final battle. She squeaked and fell behind a burnt tree for a second. No issue; Califor was well within distance, even should a monster literally pop out of the ground.
“Nanette, hurry up.”
Califor rose from her inspection of the ruins; she sensed no death here. The owners had fled. There was a root cellar, and Califor was of half a mind to open it to take what was inside instead of leaving it to rot. But she decided it was better to let the original owners reclaim it; if it was still here on her return trek, she’d open it.
Her daughter hurried up the road, holding onto her hat, running in her hand-tailored boots and blue robes, and Califor paused to note how big Nanette was in her clothing.
Time to let the seams out a bit. Califor wondered how she hadn’t noticed Nanette was getting so big. She shook her head. Nanette was growing so fast…Califor resented thinking that, because every parent she had ever known had said the same thing.
“Come, Nanette. Hold my hand if you cannot keep up.”
Maybe she should teach the girl more magic so at least she could levitate the book. Magic was a crutch, but after Belavierr, the girl should begin learning…
“Coming, Mother!”
Califor’s head snapped around, and she almost hissed a reproval at Nanette. Even here it was risky—
No. It had been so damned close. One wrong move and they would have all perished at Belavierr’s hands. She will hold a grudge. Perhaps I should be more honest.
The older [Witch] tried a smile. It didn’t suit her. She held her hand out to her running, beaming daughter as she turned ahead, embarrassed.
A small hand that was overly sweaty slipped into Califor’s, and the woman resisted the urge to wipe her hand.
“Now, keep up. We have a lot of ground to cover.”
Nanette made no reply, just breathed in and out loudly, and Califor resumed walking. Nanette held her hand so tightly.
Someone was making a choking sound behind Califor. A faint, incredulous sound coming out of non-responsive lungs. Yet it was too late.
The deed was done.
—But Witch Califor heard that faint gasping noise and half-turned. For she was a mother, and she would check on her daughter…she turned. She saw her daughter.
Nanette, her earnest little child, stood in the road, her journal on the ground. A quill was still in her hand. She was open-mouthed, eyes bulging.
Choking. On her own incredulity, nothing else. Staring at…
Califor gazed at Nanette, and then the [Witch]’s second thought asked that pertinent question.
If that’s my daughter…who’s holding my hand?
She peered down, and a brown-haired girl, taller than Califor remembered, wearing an oddly clashing blue-and-yellow outfit that seemed frankly mismatched, stood there. She had no hat. She wasn’t an earnest girl anymore, but a growing teenager. And she was shaking like a leaf.
Califor blinked at the second Nanette—and jumped. She actually jumped three feet in the air and let go of the strange girl’s hand. She had her wand in hand before she caught herself.
Who? What? How?
The Great Witch said none of this. She caught her breath after a second, and her spluttering daughter stopped choking.
“Miss Califor! Miss—”
The older [Witch] held up a hand silently. And the trembling girl standing there stared ahead. Peeking at her mother out of the corner of her eyes.
 
——
 
What would you do? Honestly?
Murder yourself? Just to be happy?
Don’t be silly. Don’t be ridiculous. Even if you got away with it, even if it worked—could you be the same person ever again?
It was a silly idea, even putting aside the fact that Califor was a Great Witch and could read countless things in people she met. Guilt being one of them.
That voice that spoke in your head—Nanette knew it well. It was the voice that sounded so reasonable, that gave you every excuse to do what was easy or selfish.
Califor had taught her better than to listen to it. If she was anything, if she had pride in anything—it was that she was Califor’s daughter.
Califor said nothing as the younger Nanette ran forwards and put herself protectively between her mother and this stranger. She was only a bit younger than this other Nanette, but dead gods, she looked years apart.
Nanette Weishart of tomorrow was taller by a good two inches already, and breaking close to three. She had different clothing, no hat, and just—age. She fidgeted as Califor took another deep breath.
Shock. Nanette had never seen Califor shocked, but it was written over her face now.
It is worth it just for this. Even if nothing else…
Nanette hiccuped. Her eyes were glistening with tears. It hurt. It hurt more than she thought.
This is not my mother, but it is. Oh, Mrsha. Oh, Mrsha…what have we done?
She waited for what was to come. A blow. A question. A…Nanette stood still, trembling in agony, until Califor finally moved.
“Come on, Nanette. I said I want to be in the next village by nightfall.”
She kept walking, and both Nanettes nearly fell on their face. They gawped as one, and the younger one screeched.
“Miss Califor! Look at—”
A hand picked up Nanette’s journal; Califor adjusted her blue hat.
“I said come, Nanette.”
She held out one hand, and the little girl clung to it, hide-staring with baleful nervousness from Califor’s other side. The [Witch] walked slowly, measuring her stride with her staff. After a dozen steps, she glanced to her right. Her Nanette was peeking around her dress, eyes bulging with horror, confusion, distrust…
Califor met the older girl’s gaze, and it was the older Nanette who flinched and halted a step. But Califor’s voice was calm.
“Chin up. Widen your stride. We’re covering ground, not shuffling around on a dancefloor. What are you wearing, and where are your good walking boots?”
The Nanette of tomorrow jumped, then did as Califor bid. Her stride lengthened, and she seemed to realize she was taller and didn’t need to hurry so much to walk next to Califor.
“My—my boots? I got too big for mine—these are a gift. My clothing’s fine, isn’t it?”
“No. The colors do not match. That rain jacket and the leggings with the tiny witch hats…no. It makes you look more childish than you are. As for the boots…”
Califor eyed the bright red boots critically.
“They’re expensive. But they don’t seem fit for travel. Any [Thief] will have them off your feet.”
To the young woman’s surprise, she grew angry and burst out.
“They were a gift! I’m allowed to have nice things!”
Then she caught herself, flushed, and turned red, then white. Califor kept walking, and after a second, Nanette strode after her.
“I—should I get rid of them?”
“…No. If you’re to wear them, just make them match better and be prepared for [Thieves]. Did you enchant the stitchings yourself?”
“Yes. With a bit of help.”
The older girl showed Califor one boot, and the Great Witch breathed in and out. She jerked a nod.
“Good.”
Silence. Then there were three witches walking down the road. After a second, the choking sounds grew too loud, and Califor squeezed her hand.
“Nanette. A good [Witch] does not gobble like a chicken.”
“Miss Califor! What is going on? She looks like—”
“Nanette, I have ears. I should enjoy using them many decades more.”
