His eyes were shining with hope, even in the middle of hell itself. Kevin swept back his sandy hair, and his tanned skin was peeling in places. His lips quirked up.
“Who knows? Maybe we’ll even get out of here. That’s the great thing about this world, other me. Anything’s possible. So if you want to do anything—study necromancy or something and find a way to revive me. But, uh, don’t get it wrong because you don’t want to summon some of the people here.”
He glanced to the side and half-smiled ruefully.
“Actually, revive Halrac first. Or Moore. Or a ton of people. I could make a list of the best people to bring back.”
He stood there like the hero of surfing and bicycle repairs, that ridiculous guy—but he looked like a hero to the other Kevin. What other Kevin could see of him through the tears.
“Dude. When did I get cool?”
“Did that sound cool? Good. I was seriously getting ruffled back there.”
Kevin felt at himself. And the other Kevin—no longer Fake Kevin—stood up slowly. He began to really breathe again. It only took a pep talk from yourself in hell to get back on your feet.
“I…well, fuck. When you say it like that, I guess I’ve gotta make a gun.”
The other him laughed at the same time, because it was such a stupid idea that neither one wanted to do.
“Maybe just work on a jetpack or something for Fighti, huh? Go on. But come back with Lyonette! And good luck!”
Kevin cupped his hands and shouted as the other him walked away. He saw the other Kevin hold up a thumb, which was probably the coolest thing he could think of doing. But he was sniffing so hard that he ruined the effect.
Nevertheless—the Kevin in hell kept grinning and laughing. Because the other Kevin still looked a bit cool.
 
——
 
Kevin Hall was ascending the stairs when he ran into Mrsha and Dame Ushar. The two were warily peering down the hallway.
“Kevin! There you are! Thank goodness—Miss Mrsha, keep back from that hedge maze! Those aren’t our people in there!”
Dame Ushar had a badass shield, and the girl was wearing the most awesome red mage’s robes that Kevin had ever seen in his life.
He managed a smile.
“Hey, guys, what’s up?”
Beach Kevin! You okay?
He bent down and ruffled Mrsha’s hair, then impulsively hugged her. She smiled in relief, and Kevin knuckled the top of her head gently.
“It’s Kevin to you, Mrsha. I’ve decided I’m real. Or real enough.”
He grinned at her perplexed expression. Roots Mrsha pointed down the hallway.
What’s down the definitely-not-cursed hallway, Kevin?
“A mirror to hell and heaven.”
Mrsha’s face became an ‘o’ of horror, mirrored by Dame Ushar’s. Roots Mrsha reached for her signature weapon—a root—and Kevin stalled her.
“Better not. They told me we might destroy the entire world if we open a, y’know, portal to hell here. Let’s talk. Did I worry all of you?”
They had a lot to do. There was a crisis coming, and Mrsha led Kevin away from the basement and mysterious maze, back towards the doors. Though not without glancing over her shoulder.
I have a request for you, Kevin. It’s the final part of my plan that’s gone so wrong.
“Okay. Name it.”
He was braced, ready. All of Kevin’s despair over his mortal condition—he regarded Mrsha and wondered how he could explain his conversation to the other people who doubted if they were real. Halrac. He had to talk to his Halrac and Moore.
But they’d still leave their world behind for this one. For one where they were dead and faced only uncertain, difficult times. Even if they were willing to leave, like Zel, how could you ask it of them? That was the truest test, and it seemed Mrsha had a solution of some kind. She relayed her meeting with Zel Shivertail, if not in so many words, and Kevin closed his eyes.
“Zel. Fuck. I never knew him, but he sounded like a good guy. Magnolia was all torn up about him. There’s so many people we could revive. Not enough roots.”
Even if they had one root per world…no, wait, that could be enough. What if they went back to before everyone…no, that still missed people like General Sserys. Kevin began thinking. Mrsha stopped him.
I could have revived my tribe, Kevin. I’m ashamed, but it wasn’t my first thought. So many people. I understood with Zel that we’re giving them danger, death, and if people realize they’ve come back from the dead, they will be targets.
Like I’d be if Roshal thought I was alive. It wasn’t easy, even now. Kevin scrubbed at his hair.
“So what’s the solution, Mrsha?”
In answer, she gave him the gentlest squeeze of her hand and produced a notecard with the finest embellishments in writing yet. Like an official contract, she handed it over, and Dame Ushar and Kevin read together.
Kevin Hall. On behalf of my world and the worlds that I, in any form, have opened, I have a request to make of you. This ‘real’ world is painful, difficult, and the wars we fight are not necessarily fair. I believe in better worlds. I have no right to ask a painful future of anyone. So, therefore…I ask that you take them into yours. Your world is the best version: let them come. Zel, Brunkr, the other Erins. Everyone who wills it. There will be battles. Struggles. But let everyone go there. One happy world for all.
His eyes opened wide as Roots Mrsha unveiled her final plan. Then Kevin saw it as Ushar gasped.
My world? His world, where there was trouble and chaos and drama? But—better. His world, where Zel Shivertail could step out of the shadows along with another Erin.
“Are you sure? Your world—”
Mine isn’t happier. Perhaps a final world for all of us, then. But I think yours will do. And if there is trouble, Roshal—you’ll have the Tidebreaker on your side. And at least one other Erin. There is one who needs to heal and rest.
That was the entirety of the girl’s plan. And Kevin immediately saw the flaws in the logic. He shook his head.
“What about me, Mrsha? What about people who want to help your world?”
Her eyes were serious as she replied.
I think this state of affairs cannot long continue, Kevin. I have chosen so harshly for them—this is all I can do to make amends. One world with hope. One world with suffering. Both have struggles, but the ‘real’ one…is harder. If I can make a difference, I will stay and help.
So two worlds, two choices if you wanted to leave your reality. Heaven and hell. It was appropriate given what Kevin had just seen, and he exhaled.
“Oh. That’s pretty traditional too, y’know. This is all crazy, but I think—”
He bent down and held out a hand as she slipped hers into it.
“…I think I know where I’m needed.”
They began walking back. He knew it would not go perfectly; an army of faithful Antinium didn’t seem like a good sign, nor the roots to other worlds. But if it was madness, then let him remember, let them all remember that this was still The Wandering Inn.
There was a bit of light that shone even amidst the darkest hours. He would believe in it until the day he went to hell himself. Kevin had it on good authority it was a fun place to be.
As for Mrsha? She clutched his hand tightly. These two imposters. Fakes—but she had always cared. In this or any other world, she hoped she would always do what she thought was right.
In the silence, they swore they could hear Kevin Hall laughing still.
