“Okay, question. What’s the worst-case scenario here? Pawn and the Painted Antinium leave the [Palace of Fates] and join Erin in Baleros? They’re not going to hurt us, unless I’m misreading the situation. The worst case scenario is that Erin has…a free army of high-level Antinium keeping her safe and Roshal and the Blighted Kingdom are destroyed? Frankly, given what I keep seeing in these future doors, that doesn’t seem that bad.”
This voice of reason and logic came from Yelroan, who adjusted his sunglasses. Pyrite shaded his eyes and blinked at the [Mathematician], confused as to who this Gnoll with the shiny sunglasses was. But he nodded with cautious optimism along with everyone else.
“Right, that’s not bad. Aside from the g-g-God thing. Erin wouldn’t want to be that.”
Ishkr managed the word after a few tries, and Peggy waved a hand.
“Pshh, she can turn back. Probably. I dunno. She keeps saying the scary Three-in-One woman was that. Erin summons, uh, a hundred thousand super Antinium in a snap of the fingers? Sound pretty good. She does that for a while, then we fix it.”
You had to admit, it sounded like a winning strategy. When life handed you a bunch of lemons, make a lemon-crusade. Right?
It felt like the plan of action until Ishkr lifted a cautious hand.
“Small problem. Uh, does anyone know if Pawn can track Erin, or is he just going based on what we told him?”
They’d given Future Pawn some information about their world, or rather, the original Mrsha had. Everyone else shrugged, and Normen frowned at Ishkr.
“No. It sounds like he doesn’t have any ability to do that. I heard some of the [Crusaders] describing their wars, and it sounded like they ran down rumors instead of following ‘divine prophecy’. But they can go anywhere in the world they want, so reaching Elvallian might take them a day at most.”
Which was crazy, but a Level 60+ Antinium could work wonders, literally. Ishkr fidgeted and bit his lip, clearly wondering if this should stay a secret. Yelroan eyed him, and the [Head Server] decided this was too pertinent to keep under wraps.
“What…would happen, hypothetically, if Pawn marched an entire crusade to Elvallian, and even if Niers Astoragon were a reasonable man about the entire affair, Pawn were to find that the Erin Solstice that’s on the news…wasn’t the Erin Solstice he was hoping for?”
The others took a second to digest that, and Normen’s eyes narrowed. Jewel gasped.
“You don’t mean—”
Normen was the only member of the Order of Solstice who knew Erin well, which was sort of ironic, but he had said how odd she’d acted on television. Vess muttered as the pieces clicked into place.
“Oh, Ancestors. That might be bad. And it’s the Forgotten Wing company.”
Ishkr nodded.
“Not exactly a calm group who’d take an army showing up well. I’ve met Niers.”
Durene snapped her fingers in relief. She was very nervous, mostly because she’d come to the conclusion she wasn’t the strongest person in the room, not by a long shot.
“Oh yeah, I forgot! He was actually at the inn. He seemed nice at Daquin, right? He’s the world’s greatest [Strategist]. Surely he’d be reasonable…?”
Ishkr traded looks with Yelroan, and Pyrite raised a hand.
“I have met Niers. He is not reasonable. I have not met this Pawn, but if I stare at him…”
The former Goldstone Chieftain eyed Pawn, arms raised in benediction to his goddess.
“…I do not think he would take a fake Erin well. Or the second question. What if he makes this fake Erin a Goddess? Does anyone know who she is?”
Everyone turned back to Ishkr, and the Gnoll’s expression grew fidgety. Ever since he’d told the rest of the inn’s family about the fake Erin, they’d speculated, of course. There were only a limited number of people it could be, and Ishkr had privately done some thinking.
At first, before he’d talked to the real Erin, Ishkr had realized the other Erin was fake. His instinct had been that it was probably Ulvama. It made sense; the Goblin was the only person who hadn’t shown up. It could be Silvenia—some things fit, but Ishkr had doubted the Death of Magic had that much time or patience. A possibility, but Ulvama was the theory everyone had gone with.
…Then had come the Erin-meeting where she’d indicated quite plainly that she and Ulvama were in the same place. So Ishkr went back to the mental drawing board. He had conceived of a third person it might be, which was the most insane option of all. And because it was so crazy, he believed it was probably true.
He coughed into his paw.
“…If that could happen, you don’t want a fake Goddess. No matter who it is.”
It would be hilarious. He kept his face straight as Normen cursed and fidgeted with his helmet’s visor again. They went back to speculating as a few members of the group wandered away, either unable to help or processing what was going on.
Kevin, for one. He walked off, waving a hand at someone.
“Oh, hey, Peggy? Peggy, hi. It’s me—”
She screamed so shrilly that the Painted Antinium peered over at her, then she burst into tears and ran, much like Numbtongue. Kevin lowered his hand, gazed around, then stumbled away.
 
——
 
Kevin was terrifying to talk to. There was a reason people weren’t instantly coming over and engaging him in conversation.
“I mean, what do I even say? Kevin! My guy! Long time no see! I buried you! How’s it going?”
That earned Rose a laugh. A dark one that turned to wheezing and coughing, but it was a laugh. She helped the burnt man to walk a few more steps, then looked around.
“Is there a seat anywh—oh, wow. That’s convenient.”
Rose saw a stone bench set next to a rock garden in a hallway that was all glass. It was bright and cheerful, and when you thought ‘Devil’, you didn’t really associate the imagery with that.
Dead gods, there were little handprints of various species in paint on the ground. A Gnoll’s pawprint, a tiny Sariant Lamb’s hoof, a Drake’s clawed hand—Viscount Visophecin eyed the flagstones as he stumbled over to the bench, then sat down.
He looked like shit. Rose had no idea what degree of burns the Lucifen had, but he looked like a chicken wing done extra crispy. He was alive, though, and she’d brought him away from the Antinium on general principle.
“If…you need to speak to the image of your friend, I suggest you do so, Miss Rose. In my experience, you seldom get second chances in moments like these.”
Even half-collapsed on a bench with most of his suit burnt away, he was still a handsome guy. He had greyish skin, and he fit the image of a fit, suave, business-Devil that you had in your head. Again, extra-crispy. He actually smelled like burnt ashwood and perfume. How did you incinerate nicely?
Rose was vaguely allured, but mostly fascinated.
A Devil. She glanced around, but no one had launched an attack on the Painted Antinium so far, and besides, she was Rose.
Not the important person in this moment. That’s why she’d snuck away to help Visophecin. She felt like this was a job for an Earther. Of course, that was if he was on her side.
“I could see Kevin. But I think you need me more. You sure you don’t want a healing potion?”
Visophecin was breathing slowly, and he held up a hand.
“It has a limited effect on my physiology. I will survive. I must simply gather my strength in case I am needed. Why…would I require your assistance, Miss Rose? I barely know you, though I am indebted to you. I shall not forget it.”
A toothy smile. Rose shivered.
“Oh, that’s so cool. I thought since there were Demons, I’d never meet an actual Devil, but you play the part really well. Is that on purpose? Do you know about Devils? I know you’re called ‘Lucifen’, but if you were actually the Devil, I think you’d have known better than to fight someone who does holy damage like that.”
Visophecin’s smile winked out, and he gave her a cautious, appraising look.
“My exact nature is secret—”
“Right, right. Just like Colfa and everyone else. Lips sealed. Don’t threaten me, please, or put a bomb on my tongue like Ryoka had. I think she mentioned that? I’m from Earth. You know that too, right?”
A hesitation. He was playing a hand of poker, and he had the face to match. This was a bigshot from Ailendamus; Rose bet he was a match for any Archmage of Wistram with his political savvy and insights. But he wasn’t prepared for a young woman who’d hung out with Adetr Steelfur for the last few months.
Rose? Rose was playing checkers.
“I—am aware of your origins. I gather that was secret.”
“What? Yep, in the inn. But here?”
Rose indicated the [Palace of Fates] and leaned forwards.
“So do you know what a Devil is? I’m not saying you are one, but I don’t think you know, and it’d be useful to figure it out, right?”
The Viscount’s eyes flickered.
“Courier Ryoka did explain some of the legends of Earth to me. The—reputation my kind has seems overinflated, even if there were similarities. Rest assured, I am not evil by default, nor do I seek the downfall or souls of other beings on pure principle.”
On pure principle. Rose didn’t miss that. She gave Visophecin a sweet smile.
“Right, that sounds like Ryoka. She told you about Lucifer?”
“An astonishing coincidence. She did relate other beings of such natures, so I am well informed.”
“But she missed the part where you’re weak against holy magic.”
The Lucifen hesitated.
“—I was not aware that was a given rule.”
“It is in video games.”
“…That would be these fictitious games you play on devices from your world?”
“Yep.”
“Entirely fictional works loosely based on stories or events wildly exaggerated. Pure fantasy.”
“Mhm. But in video games, darkness characters always are weak against holy or faith-based damage. It’s super effective against them. Case in point.”
Rose folded her arms, and Visophecin’s eyes narrowed. He opened his mouth, clearly trying to work a hole into this terrible argument full of them. Then he regarded his skin which was charred black in places. The Lucifen tried to unslump, then leaned back on the stone bench.
“…Is there anything else I should know about, ah, Devils?”
“Hm. Let me think. If I were guessing what you were purely based on my information from Earth…I’d say you’re big on contracts. I’d be real wary of signing anything you gave me, unless I were trying to trick you. I’d assume you were fireproof—uh, present examples excepted, obviously—and that you were good at summoning stuff. You’d be darkness-magic flavored with fire magic as an optional. Oh, and I’d expect you to have a second form.”
Visophecin hadn’t been that impressed until that last bit. He sat up a bit.
“On general principle or because you saw…?”
The young woman gave him a thumbs up.
“On general principle! Some huge form that makes you tougher and more evil-looking. Like I said, video games. Holy magic is almost always your weak spot.”
“An entire type of class? It seems my people have been lucky up till now not to encounter such…is there any way to mitigate the damage?”
Rose was stumped by that.
“A…ring of holy resistance?”
The Lucifen nodded along, then caught himself. He coughed.
“You have no idea if that exists, do you?”
“Nope!”
They stood there, and at least one of them felt rather silly about all this. But Rose just sat on the bench and scooted over. She stared down at the children’s handprints on the tiles, then at this lovely hallway.
It was probably the most functional [Palace of Fates] she had seen, lovely and open. She imagined a children’s center might have a hallway like this, or a nice private elementary school. There were even plants in the rock garden they were sitting next to; fake, of course.
“So…this is your palace or something? Is this your personal hell?”
Visophecin was gingerly reconstructing his suit. He glanced up as he tugged at one cufflink and remade the dark fabric.
“Hm? Not at all. Oh, it’s not ideal, but I rather suspect it’s based on my subconscious. I have been…in similar locales a lot.”
“Daycares for children?”
His eyebrows rose.
“Hardly. Or rather—”
He exhaled.
“It resembles House Shoel’s mansion. The handprints are mementos of the children who visit. If this were a real location, the names would be written below—ah.”
He bent over, and Rose saw names written under each handprint. Visophecin sat back.
“A very clever Skill, then.”
“You…have lots of children who visit your mansion?”
Rose gave Visophecin a round-eyed look of innocence, doing her best Erin, and tried not to leap to the most obvious and darkest conclusion of why that would be. Visophecin noticed her stare and clarified.
“My people share space with our fair cousins. Agelum. They have a fondness for children and, well, mortality.”
“Oh. Oh. Ohmy—not-gods! And you’re hanging out with them? That’s so…”
Cute! Adorable! Unexpected! Hilarious! Heartwarming!
Visophecin’s red pupils dared Rose to say any of the words bubbling to the tip of her tongue, and she bit her lip.
“—Ironic.”
The Lucifen exhaled. His gaze shifted away from Rose.
“Yes. It is, isn’t it? Though what should I have wished for? Some…appropriate vista of your image of me? A castle of self-aggrandizement? I have heard stories of a court my people held, and it was…”
For a moment, the [Palace of Fates] seemed to flicker, and a wave passed across the corridor, turning the cheerful handprints on marble to a black-and-red checkerboard of tiles. Black columns rose upwards, the open windows took on an orange hue, and the odor of oil and metal filled the air. The ceilings rose, but points developed overhead, and Rose’s skin itched as if eyes were upon her; despite the grander vista, it seemed to bear down on her shoulders.
—Then the wave passed, and the hallway remained. Visophecin seemed just as surprised as Rose and blinked around. She leaned back.
“Yeah. That’s clichéd. So…you’re not an evil guy. You let little kids autograph your floors, and you were fighting pretty non-lethal back there. You’re not what Earthers would expect.”
“Perhaps not. Perhaps I am in too many ways, like this weakness to—faith.”
Visophecin’s eyes stole back to the place where the Painted Antinium were gathered, and Rose noticed his wounds were almost healed. Which was surprising to him as well as her. He flexed one arm, and his muscles stood out on his body. Visophecin blinked.
“I feel invigorated. So that’s what we were missing all along.”
He closed his eyes, and Rose spoke, tilting her head.
“Faith, right? Oh! You guys need faith to survive or get powerful?”
