He spoke, then seemed to realize Mrsha and Ushar weren’t with him. The Unicorn turned.
“…Huh. How do I get back?”
At this point, a Gnoll girl poked her head through the door and waved a hand wildly at Taletevirion, who accepted a card and the sword.
“Ah, right. Don’t steal the Forceshield or some of the other stuff. The best items? Well, it’s not this.”
He walked over and tapped the Forceshield buckler carelessly; the Unicorn placed the wrapped sword next to the bag of holding and wandered about.
“This staff. These robes—eugh, they smell like old man, even now. This, this, this…”
He began randomly tossing things into his bag of holding and stopped after about ten items. The room was still packed with artifacts.
“Those are the Relics. Anyone need a new sword or something?”
The Gnoll girl was trembling as she stood in the hallway, peering at the simple door which was worth more than anything else in the room. She half-shook her head.
Nope. The most important thing is right here.
“Hah! Wait, are you serious? That’s so sad you believe that.”
Dame Ushar cleared her throat a few times, pointedly, and both Taletevirion and Mrsha eyed her. Blushing, the [Knight] hurried into the room.
“If there’s so much—do you think there’s a few pieces in there fit for me? And Ser Dalimont!”
The Unicorn rolled his eyes, but helped her pick out a few items. Mrsha’s ears perked up. She heard voices; the Horns of Hammerad had dispatched the Crelers faster than she thought.
Come on, let’s go!
The Unicorn sauntered out of the room, closing the door behind him, and Mrsha was last to bail out. She saw lights coming down the corridor, slowing—she heard voices.
“Hsst. Hold up. I heard voices ahead.”
That was Yvlon. Mrsha scrambled towards the magical door that would one day become the [Portal Door] of The Wandering Inn. She just had to…there! She slapped a note on the front of it, then ran for the root.
By the time the Horns of Hammerad turned the corridor and found the door, their guards were up. They were covered in Creler goo, but excited. They approached the door warily, checking for traps, but it was Ksmvr who raised a hand.
“Excuse me, Captain Ceria. But there appears to be a note on the door.”
“A note? What th—what the heck? Oh, tree rot!”
Ceria squinted, ignoring Pisces and Yvlon hissing at her to get back in case the note was trapped. Ceria stared, tore the note off the door, and groaned.
“Some bastard beat us to it!”
“What? No!”
Yvlon cried out in horror, and Pisces clutched at his hair. The note was simple. It read:
 
Hey there, rookies, I cleared out the best items from the vault. No hard feelings. Careful with the door; it teleports you into a nifty pit trap. You might want to take it with you. Could earn some coins. Help yourself to what’s inside. I even left you my old sword to make up for it. Oh, and watch out for the Bloodfields. There’s an Adult Creler buried there. 
Much love, 
—The Thief of Fluff 
 
“The Thief of Fluff? Who’s that? I know there’s a Thief of Clouds—where are you, you bastard?”
Ceria began shouting, and Pisces had one of the skeletons open the door. It vanished, but the second one got the door open, and the adventurers gasped at the room filled with magical treasures. They gaped at each other, and Yvlon threw up her arms.
“She left all that behind? Who is this woman? It’s a trap—we’re being set up, and once we emerge—”
They began bickering, panicking, but in the end, after much paranoia, confusion, and discontent, they had to admit they might be super rich. Though each grimacing Horn clearly wondered—if this was what was left, what the heck had been taken?
 
——
 
Mrsha felt bad about it. Slightly. She felt like she had done the most obvious, Todi-brained thing in the world. You had magical roots, so don’t overthink it. Just loot alternate realities. But she had done this because…
Taletevirion held the two wands, and he glanced back at the doors in the [Palace of Fates]. But he didn’t move towards them. Now, he seemed well and truly afraid and perhaps regretted his impulsiveness. But his eyes held a resolve unlike the weary gaze of Zel Shivertail.
“I’m committed, then. And I feel oddly bad about stealing from another world, don’t you?”
Yeah. Especially when you look at her.
The two turned, and they had to agree—the real problem wasn’t them. Taletevirion had taken nine Relic-class objects, not including the wand.
On the other hand, Dame Ushar was posing with six different artifacts on and brandishing a jewel-encrusted scabbard in front of a mirror. She jumped when Taletevirion coughed loudly into his hand.
“You’re over your magical interference limit and will explode in about seven minutes. Also, your color coordination really doesn’t work.”
The blushing Thronebearer hastily removed some of her gear, avoiding Root Mrsha’s flat gaze. Taletevirion felt at his bag of holding.
“Right. That’s changed everything. Here.”
He handed Mrsha a huge staff taller than she was, then dumped a bunch of robes over her head. Mrsha blinked as she tried to balance the multiple Relics sitting on top of her. The robes were huge, but snapped together, and suddenly she was a miniature, robed [Wizard]! She pushed the hood back, sniffed at it, and wrinkled her nose.
Yuck, it did smell like old guy! She also, coincidentally, felt as strong as a lion. The staff was divided into two parts, floating around an invisible gap in the air where the pieces of twisted stone trailed out like filaments and vanished.
As if an invisible vortex spell were permanently sucking the middle of the staff away. Mrsha held it as far away from her body as she could, and Taletevirion wandered away.
“I need to start strategizing. Oh—don’t activate that amulet or open that jar. Those two I think are cursed. I’m not an [Enchanter], though. I just have good eyes.”
The amulet on her head and the jar being balanced there too? Mrsha froze in terror until Dame Ushar grabbed the objects and shoved them into Mrsha’s bag of holding.
“Taletevirion! What about all this?”
“Oh, there’s barely any magical interference.”
He nodded at them, and Mrsha almost felt at the void in the middle of the staff. Then she decided to poke a stick from her bag of holding into it. The stick didn’t dissolve or vanish, so she gingerly tried to twist the staff on the basis that the two floating halves could probably move, right?
“Miss Mrsha, please don’t mess with—”
Dame Ushar might have been impressed with Root Mrsha’s ingenious mind, weariness, and maturity, but the girl was still a child sometimes. She saw Mrsha twist the staff into a right angle, like the hands of a clock, then freeze guiltily.
Mrsha held up a card and wrote on it.
Sorry, Ushar! I can’t believe I—Ushar?
The Thronebearer was frozen in place. Mrsha blinked in horror. She saw the woman’s mouth closing and her eyes growing wide. Slooooowly—
“Oh, hey, it’s [Haste]. I bet you each angle corresponds to a different bound spell. So twelve spells if it’s hours. But it’s three dimensions so I bet there are more. [Wizards] love that kind of stupid stuff. You should really get Teriarch to look at that, but he’ll probably try to steal it.”
Taletevirion walked past Mrsha at her speed, and she screamed silently. The Unicorn winked at her, then strolled away.
Leaving Mrsha the Great and Terrible with the staff. She tried to run after him, waving the staff at him to call him back—then tripped on her robes. The red robes glittering with old truegold inlays from the age of the Rihal Imperium stretched slightly as Mrsha went tumbling—then felt the world vanish behind her. The girl opened her mouth in mute horror as she realized what was going on.
 
——
 
“—that!”
Ushar barely saw Mrsha and Taletevirion move. The girl blurred away with Taletevirion at such speeds that Dame Ushar couldn’t keep up. Then? Mrsha turned into a rotating orb of white fur and her green kilt, an uncontrolled somersault forwards. Whereupon she began floating upwards through the air. Levitating as she spun around in a dizzying circle like a living top.
Ushar saw the ball of white fur and red robes flying higher like a comet until Mrsha finally dropped the staff. The Thronebearer ran forwards, dove, and caught the girl. Mrsha sat up, held her mouth not to vomit, and then stared past Ushar.
The magical staff stood straight up and down in the ground like a lamppost, glowing, behind the woman. The girl and woman eyed it. Then they ran after Taletevirion, yelling at him to explain.
 
——
 
Another root down. It wouldn’t come out of the door when Dame Ushar and Mrsha got back with all the Relics safely secured away—except for the robes, because they made Mrsha feel cool. She washed it in the bathrooms with soap, though, to get rid of the old man smell.
“We can’t reuse the roots, Miss Mrsha?”
Roots Mrsha shook her head. She suspected the roots were, well, rooting in the worlds she put them in. Their ‘death’ when used up might actually be a side-effect of what they really wanted.
Each world is a new one for them. I wonder what the Faerie Flowers really do? Mrsha checked how many roots she had left on her. Then she wondered how many more they might need.
Well, I have used four. That is enough for now. To the last thing I must do, Ushar. You can go if you want. I’m sure Lyonette will be facing down Pawn, and we could all die from that showdown.
Verily, they were not the only people in the [Palace of Fates], but the damn thing was so big they could all miss each other unless they actively sought one another out. Ushar hesitated, but then shook her head.
“Not without you, Miss Mrsha. Last would be—Kevin? The Kevin from the world of the beach garden? Why…him?”
Why indeed? Mrsha put her hood up and strode down the hallways.
Because I promised to talk with him. Or rather, other Mrsha did. Because he’s the key to helping Zel. To resolving our disasters. We could do it without him, honestly, but Kevin fits. He’ll judge us. If anyone could speak for, well, everyone, it’s probably him. Come on. Let’s find him.
They set out and began to walk. But what they realized was…Mrsha blinked as they came to an empty hallway, that grandiose and generic [Palace of Fates] that it seemed to be when no one had an image. She poked one wall, even wrote a note card.
No, no. Show me Kevin.
—The hallway flickered, and the girl stood there with the [Knight]. Mrsha glanced around, confused, and a figure alighted in the reflection of a window. Sheta’s vast eye appeared and scared the daylights out of Dame Ushar. She spoke.
“There are places beyond these hallways of doors. You must walk to find him.”
Beyond the doors? Mrsha’s eyes widened. She nodded at Sheta and strode forwards, realizing the [Palace of Fates] was changing around her. She had to come back for Ushar, who was stuttering. And it was Kevin, appropriately, who had found the rest of it.
The [Palace of Fates] was, after all, more than just one thing.
 
——
 
Kevin Hall walked. He just walked away from these people from the real reality, away from the crazy army of religious Antinium, away from it all.
He’d forgotten he wasn’t the main character. Sometimes he forgot and the world would helpfully remind him. Seeing Lyonette swearing to ash Future Pawn while a bunch of people stood around in a war conference for the fate of the multiverse really helped in that regard.
It’s not like he had cared about being the main protagonist of this crazy story, and story it was, when you thought about it.
“It’s like…A Kid in King Arthur’s Court. Wow, that was a terrible movie. The dude made a bicycle out of steel and rode it around, which doesn’t work because it’d have shit traction and be too heavy to ride. And I did the same thing.”
That’s, uh—
That’s where he’d gotten the idea from. Unoriginal. But when you thought about it, this entire world was a story.
Kevin hadn’t thought about it like that since coming here. It got real. You forgot to consider home except in terms of getting back and what you might use. Maintaining the idea that you were a protagonist in a game or storybook only worked when you hung around other Earthers.
When you were around people in this world, you figured out they were just—people. So utterly unlike NPCs from a video game that you just didn’t think of it.
But now he felt like a storybook character. His example? A superhero comic. The Justice League, uh, a Marvel squad, any of the bigshots standing around during a multiverse arc. They’d be facing Vortdoom and his army of evil multiverse alternate-reality superheroes with all the odds against them.
Then you got all the heroes together for the volume-ending anthology—and you had to buy like six different comics to find out what happened from each hero’s point of view—and it’d be a giant disaster that usually left almost all the heroes alive and the world was mostly repaired by the time their next arc started.
…Kevin remembered why he’d stopped reading superhero comics as a teenager now. Nothing seemed to matter, including death. You realized that even if someone died, they’d be back in a reboot. The status quo never changed.
Spiderman never would be happy without a disaster happening. Batman would never get over his parents or get laid. Powers changed, villains came and went, but the status quo remained the same. With all the power in the world, the Hulk destroyed buildings that always got rebuilt, Superman saved the world, people still presumably died of hunger, and supervillains always came back.
In their way, the comics he’d grown up with were as depressing as Kevin’s faith in the world of Earth changing for the better. He liked cycling, surfing, having fun, playing games, doing things he could control. But the world he couldn’t fix and wouldn’t know where to start.
In this world, things could change. Or at least, he had believed that. He couldn’t do it, but Magnolia Reinhart could. He’d seen Erin Solstice pull off miracles around her. Whatever she wanted to claim, she had real protagonist energy. So did Ryoka. Perhaps it was what you made of yourself, but Kevin hadn’t wanted to be them.
In this hypothetical scenario, though, it was the end of the world where most of the Human population might be wiped out. The last heroes were gathered to make plans, and they’d assembled in their watchtower or space fortress.
Captain Continent, Heroinewoman, the Sunglasses Dude, and so on. Cosmic heroes…and Roy from accounting. All these superheroes ready to do the Right Thing, and Roy jumps in and asks if this is all fiscally responsible or something.
(In this scenario, Kevin was Roy.)
