He opened one eye, visibly annoyed by her pointing out what was probably some great realization to him. But then Visophecin just nodded and sat back against the bench.
“A lesson in hubris. One I have learned more than once, but it seems, not taken to heart. Hope amidst hellfire. It is raining, a downpour of sorrows, but there is always, always a brilliant figure standing amidst the storm, laughing in defiance of it. I shall do the same.”
He had a sword at his side, and now, his clothing was mended. He sat forwards, clasping his gloved hands together. Ready for battle, quietly determined. He seemed unsure, though, what else to say, and so Rose gave him a beaming grin.
“Welcome to The Wandering Inn. I’m Rose.”
She held out a hand, and Visophecin eyed her, bemused, then shook her grip lightly. He smiled at her, inspecting her now, and she shivered.
“You have legends about my kind, but you don’t fear me?”
“Eh. I was raised religious, but they did a good job of pushing me out of that. Once you decide God and his angels might not love you, the Devil himself seems nicer. We need help. Whose side are you on?”
The man in black studied Rose, one eyebrow raised, then his eyes lit up, and he lifted her hand and gently pressed his forehead against it before glancing up at her.
“I am on everyone’s side I care to be. Especially if we can strike a…deal. Do you need power, Miss Rose Cinevoy?”
She’d never told him her last name. Rose shivered again and then felt her arms tingling with excitement.
“What kind of power?”
He did not smile, but rather stood and offered her an arm. When she refused that, the stranger held the door open for her and offered her a light for the dark room. This was a palace full of doors, but there was always one more to surprise her. She stood a while at the entrance, mostly because it was appropriate.
He waited longer, pondering the consequences of his actions.
 
——
 
“Ushar, keep an eye on our visitors. I’m…going to prepare.”
Lyonette was white-faced, and Dame Ushar hesitated before bowing. She hadn’t a hope of keeping tabs on everyone; they’d already lost Demsleth, Taletevirion was still wandering around, and other people were moving off. But given her druthers—the [Knight] watched Ser Dalimont trailing after Lyonette and decided an impossible task suited her more at the moment.
The [Knight] was…lost. She had failed her oath so quickly. She had sworn to protect Mrsha, and the girl had done what she’d thought was right and vanished. Ushar hoped Mrsha wasn’t—dead—but she…
It was the same feeling as the Solstice. This helpless chaos made Ushar feel as though Pawn wasn’t wrong. Perhaps it was Erin Solstice or the inn. Here came events so great they would make the Thousand Lances of Kaaz fall to their knees.
The Thronebearer slapped one cheek lightly. Wait, she was being a fool. There was still another Mrsha here! She had failed, but at the same time—
She turned to her charge, and the place where the thin white Gnoll girl had been…was empty.
Roots Mrsha had vanished. Unlike the real Mrsha, she had made no promise to Ushar to trust the Thronebearer. The [Knight] swivelled around, then began panicking.
 
——
 
Roots Mrsha moved slowly. She was a bit tired after being cured of the Crypt Worms. She was just a tiny bit exhausted from all this unpredictable fate-stuff. Which was funny, because she was part of it.
She didn’t run off panicking like the others or march with dreadful intent like Lyonette did. Rather, Mrsha just left the [Palace of Fates], climbed up into the [Garden of Sanctuary], and hugged a little bee who came flying down to meet her.
Hey, Apista. It’s bad down there. Stay up here. I need a few roots.
The bee was confused, but she gamely followed Mrsha to the place the original white Gnoll had hid them: in the snow in the Drathian [Garden of Sanctuary].
The roots weren’t frozen or dying; they were the same as ever. Mrsha began to count.
They’d had eighteen. A number had been used on the doors, then re-used…had someone taken one or two of them? She glanced suspiciously at Apista, and the bee avoided her gaze.
Well, it’s all going to Rhir. Mrsha took four, leaving only a few left. She knew that each one was irreplaceable, unable to be reclaimed, the chance of a lifetime, yadda yadda. It didn’t matter. You could use one on any door and pull as many people as you wanted through, it seemed.
Besides…
It’s all falling apart.
Mrsha went back to the [Palace of Fates] and began walking down the corridors, searching for ‘her’ doors. They were slow in coming, as if even the palace were being overloaded by all these events.
Roots Mrsha had only one objective now. She knew it and wearily walked forwards as someone stalked her. One of the few people who really mattered in this moment.
Mrsha didn’t matter. She was a weak, young girl, despite her levels, and she was tired. She only mattered because of what she held. The roots.
“What are you plotting, child?”
Mrsha walked past that vast mirror that stretched down the hallway, and a Harpy towered over her. The [Empress] took one step for every two dozen of Mrsha’s, looming over the little girl—but the hallway was clear and sunlit from the windows on the far end.
Empress Sheta only existed in the mirror. She was not nervous nor frightened. That was good. It was actually reassuring to talk to her; you needed scary people for moments like this. Mrsha wrote on a card and pasted it to the mirror as she walked.
Hey, Empress Sheta. Is the other me dead?
“I do not know. I have never seen anything enter the doors, let alone fathomed what might occur when one closed. I asked the overseer of Skills to create this place for me, and that was never what I bargained for. Other aspects of similar design, yes, but not this impossibility. It is my creation; it already borders on the limits of what may be made with Skills. The [Pavilion of Secrets] is sentient. This palace has no true mind, but it is greater.”
Look, I don’t really get what you’re talking about. Do you mind saying it like a reasonable person?
Sheta hopped back a few times, aghast by Mrsha’s reply. She opened her mouth, then gave Mrsha a glare like a hunting eagle. She scratched at the floor with one claw.
“If I must be blunt—the [Palace of Fates] is less powerful in many ways than my pavilion. The [Pavilion of Secrets] has many functions, one of which is to uncover grand truths. With it, one may meet with beings, affect the world around them. It is the tool of a sovereign ruler in their prime. This…this is the quiet palace that exists for one who is tired and weary. Who wishes to know what might have been.”
To hurt yourself.
“Not just that.”
The Empress of Harpies turned her massive body away, shielding her face with one wing. Then she relented and glided towards Mrsha after a minute.
“Yes. No. The Unicorn uses it as I intended. You…have done what I wished were possible. Madness. Disaster. I ask you again: what is your will?”
The child gave her a bleak, silent chuckle.
It’s simple, Sheta. Mrsha and I thought this might happen. We’re the same person, after all. We made a plan in case this kind of thing occurred.
Not that they’d predicted holy Pawn and an army of faith, but they had thought of it. Mrsha’s first door she had opened, after all, had been to that raft. To speak with the one woman who would understand consequences the most.
“I see. Then what is your failsafe?”
The Mrsha from another world raised her head and gave the last Empress of Harpies a sweet, disarming smile. In her world, her Rags was dead. Her mother was frantic, searching for her. Her Lyonette…might be dead.
She had not given the idea the thought it deserved, had tried not to countenance it while she helped Mrsha in this world. After all, even if she could return…
I’ll just be stuck in the [Palace of Fates]. Unless, perhaps, I can shift where I pop out. She’d thought of that too. She could run away with the roots in her hand.
But she was afraid to open that door and ask if her mother was alive or dead.
All my fault.
All our faults. But we chose this. 
So, whether you believed it or not—
Mrsha would take responsibility. The girl wrote at length on her card, then gently licked it and slapped it to the mirror. The Harpy Queen blinked at the saliva-covered note. It said this:
If all fails, I will do what Mrsha would do: burn it all down. If there are consequences? So be it—she and I are ready. All we want is a world slightly better than it was. Are you a good person, Empress Sheta?
“I…”
The Harpy Queen hesitated in a moment of true honesty. She had been hiding. Hiding not from Pawn, though she did not know his class. She had been hiding from Demsleth. From that old man whom she had never dared invite into the [Pavilion of Secrets], her shame.
Much less here. She opened her mouth, and Roots Mrsha vanished. Skipping through the [Palace of Fates] to her destination.
Empress Sheta grew angry at this. She drew breath to cry out her outrage, for she was still the last Empress of Harpies, the final ruler of the nation that had ruled Izril forty thousand years ago.
Then she saw something below the note currently sliding down the mirror and leaving a trail of saliva on the ground. The Harpy went cross eyed. She bent down, her massive frame tilting forwards until it was mere feet from the ground.
There it was. A single, innocuous piece of flexible plant matter. A brown root blooming with yellow flowers.
She felt a chill on her wings as she had not truly experienced until the last moments of her life. The wind blew in the world of the mirror-palace, ruffling Sheta’s feathers.
One claw reached for the tiny object. Then Sheta hesitated. She wavered as the lifeline, that link to reality, to life waited there. Then, like an actor upon a stage, the Harpy Queen’s head twisted around while her body remained still.
That was horrific; the genetics of an owl let the woman’s head move in ways that would have killed another being. And it had saved her life before, you know. An arrogant Drake [Princeling] had once tried to assassinate a girl of six and only found out, later, that the girl had played dead.
You see, Sheta too knew what it was to be a burdened child with too many woes to take on. The only difference was that she’d grown up. She stood on one claw, resting the other on her leg, balanced perfectly, spreading her wings for balance, posing; Harpies loved to pose, each in their own manner. Another fact lost to the ages.
—And there was no one to know it. There was a root, her advent into reality, and the [Empress] hesitated, because…the girl had run away.
From her. Sheta spoke to the empty hallway, hesitant, giving her soliloquy to the unseen audience she imagined.
“I am dead. The ‘me’ who stands here is but a copy I gave to the [Palace of Fates] as part of my bargain. I am the Empress Sheta who walked here until the moment when I tired. Then—I spread my wings and flew out of this place to my final battle. I never returned.”
She waited, but the child was gone. The child, Mrsha, who had time for everyone and everything that mattered to her. Not…
“I am the last Empress of Harpies; I believe this to be true in spirit, if not in fact. The Harpy Empire of Iltanus was collapsing before I was ever born. I let it die. I tried to do it well. I could have clung to power, even, possibly, kept my empire burning another hundred years. Perhaps a thousand. But I would have had to become a slaughterer to overwhelm the voices who called out for freedom and their own liberty.”
No girl sat there, and now, the Harpy’s head searched around for something, even a gnat, to speak to. Not once had they asked her for her story. Sheta whispered.
“I did this because the Dragonlord of Flames taught me well. He showed me what cruelty hid in the shadows cast by the wings of ambition of an empire. So I damned it—and perhaps my people—that I might save more lives. That I would live without reproach. In doing so, I condemned so many to their painful ends.”
Her eyes shone with reproach for her champion and teacher, and Sheta hid her face with one wing, parting the feathers slightly to peek through, like an actress hiding behind a fan. But there was no young woman to confide in, none of the other heroines Teriarch had met over the years to share her story with—and she did not have the heart to speak to him.
“I have never seen roots such as these. Once upon a time, they laid a tribute before me: a length of rope made of Djinni’s essence. Their very magic and beings, memory and love and emotions, twisted into strings and melded together; a tool to call upon them and subjugate their will for war. It horrified me. This root scares me more. If I emerge, Mrsha du Marquin, I fear what I will do.”
Her voice dropped low.
“I was wrathful. I let my empire die at the end of it all. I have made war that melted the Continent of Glass. I was there when the Dragonlord of Flames burnt cities until they called him the Pyrelord.”
No Mrsha stood before her. The Harpy Empress paused, affronted to the core of her being. She spread her wings and reached for the root.
Then, once more, hesitated. She closed her eyes, and stood there again.
At last, the Harpy lowered her claw, backed away from the mirror, raising her wings. She flapped—and the hallway of mirrors vanished as a Thronebearer skidded around the corridor. Sheta removed the hallway from the rest of the [Palace of Fates], from any place a visitor would find it. Then she stood there, waiting.
Thinking.
After all, she had a moment to seize, but choosing when to take it was the wisdom the Dragonlord of Flames had taught her long ago. And then she wondered—where Roots Mrsha was going, if this was how she had begun her final gambit. If she had started with the last Empress of Harpies—what next?
Like Ushar, the Harpy flew off to find the girl. But the Gnoll had already vanished.
Great deeds awake. Mrsha, both of them, had always known what to do at the end.
She had just feared it. The children took the roots that so many beings coveted and used them on the things that mattered to them. A root—not for armies, [Heroes], or great relics and treasures.
She had always needed one root for herself, for this. And the girl had always, always saved one for her dear sister. Even if they weren’t really sisters by blood and hadn’t known each other that long—
There was no reality where the true Mrsha did not leave one for Nanette. Best of luck, the girl wished both of them as she opened her door.
Best of luck.
 
——
 
