So he left. He just walked away because what Kevin had been wrestling with was his own death, the knowledge that he was fake. The impossible decision to leave his world and perhaps join another one where he was needed and wanted. And he realized—they didn’t have time for his little existential crisis.
“It’s all cool dudes, you save the day. I’ll just…stay out of it. Head down. Like other me did, unless he was trying to be a hero. Dumbass.”
That was unfair. Real Mrsha had told him how he had died—trying to stay out of the way. Only, someone had decided he was a main character and shot him.
“With a fucking gun.”
It still bothered him. Bothered him enough that someone had seen him as a legitimate threat to assassinate, seen Imani like that. Bothered him because…that person, Roshal, the Emir Yazdil, had seen right through Kevin.
He wanted it. Oh, he couldn’t be an Erin, but someone had known what lay in Kevin’s heart. The owner of Solar Cycles was making bicycles for the rich and powerful. Had they, in fact, found the secret plans he’d tried to hide away? Did they know he was giving Goblinhome information?
“I’d have done it. That’s the fucked up thing.”
Kevin was passing by doors—doors as he walked through his version of the [Palace of Fates], which, fittingly, looked like an interstellar space station, some hideout of superheroes. He trod over red carpets and impressive, rich interiors and shook his head.
“No, I don’t want to see other futures, thanks. Also—these super headquarters are way too rich. Turns out my superheroes were more like Hollywood elites. Fuck, man. This day just keeps getting worse and worse.”
The doors stopped appearing, and Kevin wished for a place away from all of this. So he kept walking, not paying attention as the walls morphed back to regular marble and stone and kept thinking out loud.
“I would. I’d be sneaky about it. Like—I wouldn’t make a gun. But maybe I take some of Octavia’s matches, some fire magicore, a tube, and—okay, that’s a gun. But who can tell? Then I go over to Rags and go, ‘hey, that Wyvern Lord dude? Give him one of these.’ She’d do it, and I’d pretend she made it.”
That was his lame attempt at being a hero. His middle finger to the powers threatening the people he liked. Buying toilet paper for Goblins because they enjoyed the texture. Gifting bikes to Goblins such as Rianchi that not even the monarchs had.
Someone had known it. Seen that Kevin wanted to be That Guy and shot him dead. That’s why it stung; it was proof Kevin wasn’t That Guy and that he was lying to himself.
“I could have been. I don’t know. I’m dead. I should go with Mrsha. But even if I went—”
Then he’d be ‘other Kevin’, the Kevin who had died but come back. Imposter. And you know those were the real redshirts, the expendables.
Stop thinking this is a story. Kevin banged his head against a wall. That hurt a lot, and he shook himself.
He was now in a different part of the [Palaces of Fates]. A huge, marble staircase was descending towards these massive doors. The doors appeared locked, and Kevin felt like they were too big to even yank open. So he turned the other way.
“This place is amazing. I wish I felt it.”
Hands in his pockets, he moved away from the front doors, down a side-staircase. These led to less-magnificent doors with big glass panes and a clear view of outside. A bright day. No, wait, there was some mist. Still, pretty impressive. Kevin pushed the doors open and blinked.
“Huh.”
He shaded his eyes and stared up at the sky, but there was no real sun. Moodily, Kevin kicked the ground as he wandered around the interior garden or wherever he was now. He wondered if you could get lost and almost doubled back before seeing another staircase leading downwards.
Down fit his mood, and he reckoned he could retrace his steps, so he descended. The hallways of stone became rougher walls. Kevin shuddered.
“—The heck is this, a dungeon? What do I do? Pyrite didn’t even hesitate. ‘I’m dead, so there’s no second chances.’ Dude, that’s hard as fuck.”
He couldn’t do that. If someone gave him a second chance and told him the alternative was dying, he’d take that chance. He just wished—
Kevin stopped, slid down against one wall, and covered his head with his arms as he curled up.
He wished he’d seen his family once. Written them a note goodbye. 
 
——
 
The young man sat there for a long time. How long, he didn’t know, but the faint light playing over his skin made him gaze up. He wiped his eyes and blinked.
The dungeon-like hallway was filled with light. Reddish, grungy, and hella ominous. But other, brighter lights cast flickering shadows down the long hallway.
“Uh. Hello?”
He didn’t like it. This was too spooky for him, but Kevin had been told this place was safe…
…No, wait, no one had actually said that; he’d assumed it was safe because it was related to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. But everyone had been talking about fighting. And no one had mentioned spooky dungeon lights.
Kevin was edging back towards the stairs and the garden with the hedge maze; he thought he’d seen people walking around up there. But then he swore he heard his name.
“Kevin.”
“Oh my god. No, I’m not doing this. Hey, I’m not doing this, you hear me?”
Kevin cupped his hands together and shouted. He knew stories and clichés and rules. You did not do this. But the voice spoke again, and he swore it was his name.
Why did any idiot go towards the ominous lights and the voice calling his name in the empty magical palace in defiance of common sense and everything he knew of stories?
Well…you did it because you were mostly worried about what happened if you ran away. You didn’t want the monster sneaking up on you. And you did it because curiosity was a bitch who’d knife you for the rest of your life if you didn’t.
But mostly—Kevin did it because he was dead, and so what else did he have to lose?
 
——
 
Past the cellar door set into the grand palace was a stone tunnel filled with bleak cobblestones, and the iron bars in the door’s window cast long shadows like prison bars into the darkness.
When the door swung closed, the daylight halted a bare dozen feet as the hallway descended downwards, like the mouth of a giant. It was never black; before the pure darkness could take over, a faint, red light filled the other end of the hallway, like a living creature’s open maw.
The light moved, pulsating as if invisible bellows lay beyond, but the smell was not of a creature. It was the faint odor of oil, fire and metal. The air was still, not filled with dust as you might expect. It was only the illusion that there should be dust and debris here.
And where did that red light come from? If you walked down the hallway and turned right, you would come to a chamber. Here, the rough stone had become obsidian-black, semi-reflective like a pond of night. Or ink, if someone had pressed a hexagon-shaped stone into it. There were six sides to the room.
Six mirrors, each one eight feet tall and half as wide, looming over the young man who stopped in the center of the room. Each one stood by itself, unnaturally straight, with no visible supports or backings; as if someone had cut open a piece of reality and placed it just in front of each wall.
The red light came from them; if you looked into the mirrors, it seemed as if crimson clouds were mixed with black fog, swirling about their depths. They felt wrong, like six holes in the world. If you stared too long into the void, it felt like it was pulling you towards the mirrors.
Down.
The only thing that kept this tunnel from being nearly devoid of light was the pale blue glow from the second room, just a few paces down and to the left. An archway of pale stone separated this place from the hallway, forming a point at the apex, then curving down to either side.
Here the black stone lightened, and past the archway was a circular room filled with white quartz, like a gemstone trapped amidst the crude stone around it.
That room had only one mirror, which stood in the center of the room instead of in front of the walls. This mirror had a frame; white wood carved like feathers and leaves forming a frame around the rectangle, giving it a tranquil, ephemeral feel. From the mirror shone light so pale it was almost white, tinged with blue. There was no color in it in the natural world; it was the same vision as when you opened your eyes on a sunny day.
Light and dark. The hexagonal room was filled with whispering as the young man entered, faint voices, all inaudible, coming from the six mirrors.
When he saw both rooms, Kevin took off his shoe and threw it at one of the dark-room mirrors.
“This is so fucked. Seriously? Who the hell would go in there?”
His shoe bounced off the mirror, and it flickered, showing him those red-black lights shimmering across the glass. Kevin ducked back, heart pounding.
Then he realized he’d tossed his shoe in there. He stared down at one sock and one shoe and wondered how much his feet would hurt if he walked back like this.
Or I could take off my shoes and be the sock runner…aw, hell.
Kevin stomped into the room, deliberately not looking at the mirrors, ready to scream and run if anything started crawling out of them. He bent down, yanked his shoe up, and swore he saw something in the dark veil of the shimmering mirror closest to him. Kevin whirled, and the voice spoke, predictably, when his back was turned.
“Kevin.”
He screamed. Anyone would. Kevin began running and tripped—one shoe meant a bad gait. He stumbled, arms windmilling, and heard laughter.
It was merry, infectious, and not at all scary. A great laugh, or so Kevin would have believed—but he hated it.
You always hated the sound of your own voice.
The young man froze. He stood there, back to the mirror, and the laughter died down.
“Sorry, dude. But that was hilarious, you have to admit. Come on, turn around. We need to talk.”
This is a trick. If it’s not a trick, it’s fucked. Kevin stood there, shoulders hunched.
“You’re another me from another world. No, wait. You’re some version of me that’s conjured by the Skill. You’re a Kevin from some fucked up function of this place.”
He could just imagine summoning versions of people you’d known to talk to and cry about. This place was messed up. He hoped Erin never got this Skill.
The voice, his voice, sounded amused.
“Nope. Try again.”
That had to be it. Kevin refused to turn his head around; he had the idea that some monster was mimicking his voice, and when he turned, that’s when they got him.
He was also, he realized, afraid. So afraid because this felt surreal, and it made him doubly sure he was fake and unimportant and would vanish when this place ceased to be.
“Then what? Come on, fucker. Just be straight with me. I’ve had a bad day; I’m not dealing with this well. Just…what then?”
The chuckling sound faded, and then the speaker cleared his throat.
“Sorry. This is…well, you were close. How about another old standard? Mirror to hell?”
The Kevin of better days froze and felt that chill run down his spine. Slowly, he turned his head, and he saw a figure waving at him in the mirror. He stood on red ground in a sea of ghostly shapes, and the land beyond him was terrible and bleak.
But there he was. The [Mechanic] grinned and gave Fake Kevin a pair of finger guns.
“Straight from Hellste. This is the coolest thing ever. You can’t see it, but the Goblins are all over this thing, and the Lucifen too. Hey guys, don’t get in the—”
A blurry, but recognizable Goblin’s face appeared in the mirror, pressed against it and upside down. A small, grinning green figure with red eyes but hazy like someone had blurred her out. Fake Kevin recoiled—the Goblin went flying with a screech, and both Kevins ducked. He rose, chuckling.
“This mirror thing wasn’t here a bit ago. It just…drew me over. Then I heard you muttering to yourself. Hey, uh, me. What the fuck.”
He spread his arms, and the two Kevins regarded each other. Fake Kevin was at a loss for words. He realized he knew more than this Kevin; the other him was flabbergasted.
“Dude. Dude, are you from Earth? Or wait—are they cloning me? Did Magnolia clone me? Or was it a Skill? Am I alive?”
His tone grew hopeful, and the Fake Kevin realized it was his job to explain…
Fuck. You thought it couldn’t get worse, and somehow, something worse than actually dying happened. He squeezed his eyes shut.
“No, listen. It’s not that. I’m you—from the Winter Solstice. Only, there’s no war with some weird triple woman. I’m a fake version of you.”
“Huh?”
There was an easy way to answer this. Fake Kevin spread his arms.
“Dude. Alternate realities. Multiverses.”
Kevin, the real Kevin’s eyes widened.
“No fucking way. Are you serious?”
Someone came up to Real Kevin, a figure that Fake Kevin couldn’t make out, and whispered to him. Aside from Kevin, the other ghosts crowding around were blurry, and Kevin glanced over his shoulder.
“What? I’ll explain—look, find another Earther. Where’s George? Get him to explain it. Sorry, that was Velan. He’s in charge around here—well, one of the leaders. Everyone’s been freaking out about recent developments.”
“…Velan as in Velan the Kind?”
The ghosts in the mirror susurrated, and Real Kevin smiled ruefully. Then he seemed to realize the sound wasn’t coming across.
“They’re all laughing. Can you hear that?”
“No. Just whispering. Can you…see anything behind me? These other mirrors?”
“What mirrors? No, I can just see you, as if you’re standing in the void. Do you, uh, have one shoe on?”
Fake Kevin sat down and put on his other shoe. He began speaking.
“This is crazy.”
“Multiverse shit. So what reality are you from?”
“A fake one. That’s all. Fake.”
Fake Kevin rose to his feet, and the real Kevin leaned forwards. His eyes were alight with curiosity, and he seemed—older? As if he’d seen more, maybe?
In the nature of the dead, Kevin’s face was shifting from a slightly younger man to how he imagined himself to—Fake Kevin recoiled—
A young man with a hole in his chest where his heart should have been. Kevin saw the gesture, touched his chest, and then shifted back to normal. His smile went out.
“Sorry. That happens here. How do you know that you’re fake?”
The other Kevin tried to explain. It was confusing, but Hell Kevin snapped his fingers.
“Oh, the [Palace of Fates]! Hey, Velan, it’s the [Palace of Fates]! Another of the Goblin Kings was right. Some people remember it, but they’re really old Harpies over that way. Some of them survived; most of the ghosts got munched up, but all the people in hell plus us refugees made it. The Goblins have been getting us up to speed and vice-versa.”
