The holy kept marching through the door out of their world into a hallway filled with lights. The eternal sky shone above them as they walked into the [Palace of Fates]. When they entered, each one would stop and gaze up. Then they would see it.
A wending road through the heavens, rising above the hallways of comforting wood and creaking floorboards of an inn. What else could heaven look like? They would kneel, interrupting the procession into this world, and gaze upwards into the shining sky.
There, he stood. The hallways were all open-ceiling, and the walkways and staircases branched upwards until they reached the place where the apostle stood, all four arms raised. His faith was a terribly painful light for all but the faithful to behold.
Pawn’s certainty pressed down on your soul. Like an ocean of light, his convictions shoved aside doubts, clashed with impurity of thoughts, and it burned. His army continued to gather. Already, over a hundred Antinium, despite the delays in how many could move through the door at once and their reverential pace.
Each warrior was over Level 30 at least; the very vanguard of the Painted Antinium’s crusade admitted only that level as foot-soldiers. The highest-level among them were over Level 50—equivalent to the greatest champions a nation might field.
There were at least twenty of them; perhaps more were waiting to come through and holding the door from their side of the world.
And this was only the thousand Painted Antinium that Pawn had come with. More were making their way to Liscor. All of them, marching from the Hivelands and their garrisons across the world. The faithful had found their day of miracles.
Their faith was warping reality. So much concentrated belief became a physical presence, like magic. Only, the faith of the Painted Antinium did exactly what they thought it did.
It invigorated their flesh, healed any wounds, and they smiled with courage, conviction, hope, respite, and strength. The things Erin Solstice had given them. The things they believed of her.
Then the miracles began affecting their armor and personal effects. Blades, enchanted and unenchanted, began to glow as they manifested blessings. Sacred relics charged themselves until they were as radiant as the sky.
The silliest was the food. A Worker who had brought a single ice cream cone walked forwards, and the blessing of the Faith of Solstice turned their cone into a quadruple-stacked ice cream cone covered with sprinkles, whipped cream, three cherries, melted chocolate—and each ice cream was a different flavor. Mint, cookies and cream, neapolitan, and caramel. The Worker couldn’t even figure out how to eat it and stopped the entire line of Antinium until they broke out bowls to share the bounty of ice cream.
This was the army of holiness to bring salvation to the world. Pawn was shouting from his position as he faced his Antinium.
“First, we shall march—not upon Liscor or Pallass or any city of Izril. We go, my flock, to Elvallian. Home of the Titan of Baleros, where She waits! The Forgotten Wing company shall be first to know our presence, and they shall join us in championing Erin Solstice. Or they shall become the witnesses of Her wonders.”
He raised his club overhead, and with it, he could split the walls of a fortress. His holiest warriors stood around Pawn, and the [Apostle]’s eyes were glowing. Those two eerie pupils swivelled right and left as the Painted Antinium clicked their mandibles and lifted their weapons in reverence and determination.
“We shall witness the birth of our Goddess. Then she shall lead us across this world upon her enemies. As she wills it, Roshal, the Blighted Kingdom, and her other foes shall be cast into Hell. Then we shall return here and open every door. Until She is in every world. Then, we shall return to our world with an army of the faithful that numbers endless billions. Then, Heaven shall be on earth as everywhere. This is the start of our final war! Rejoice!”
The Antinium coming through the doors moved faster, a frenzy of excitement and desperation upon hearing Pawn’s words. They waited, forming solemn ranks kneeling in prayer, some investigating doors, each one filled with visions of Pawn’s future.
The greatest army to ever come to Liscor now stood in the [Palace of Fates]. Pawn had the highest level in a faith class in this world. And he was praying. Levelling from simply being here.
Lyonette du Marquin gazed at Pawn’s army of faith from the corridor where she and the rest of her world had retreated to. She spoke softly.
“I can kill him.”
Ser Dalimont tore his eyes away from the horrifying—and awe-inspiring sight. He thought he’d misheard her. Certainly, Duke Rhisveri, rubbing his beard, turned his head.
“You’re joking. That Antinium might be able to match me if I was here in force. Well, not alone, but that army can’t be stopped. Not by you, and possibly not by Pallass. I’m preparing teleportation spells. If he turns hostile, I’ll bring you all to Ailendamus. We’ll have to mobilize every asset we have if his insane plans succeed, but that’s the only way to stop this lunacy.”
It said something that the good Duke Rhisveri seemed like the only voice of reason and hope in this moment. Lyonette didn’t take her eyes off Pawn. She still stood in front of the far humbler door that led to the past.
The world with the inn, the beach, the Winter Solstice—where Rags and her daughter had vanished. Of course…another Mrsha was there. Roots Mrsha was gaunt, tired, and she saw Lyonette’s gaze fall upon her. The [Princess]’ eyes were so empty.
Lyonette gazed at her daughter, but Roots Mrsha knew she wasn’t the real daughter Lyonette needed to see. She was only…the spare. The only Mrsha left, perhaps. No one knew where Rags and Mrsha were.
Everything was unravelling. Lyonette glanced from Mrsha to a frozen figure trying to make sense of all this. Kevin.
Kevin, from another time. Her eyes flicked away from him so fast that it was as if Kevin were also glowing like the sun. Lyonette took a steadying breath and repeated herself.
“I can kill him. I will erase his army and Pawn himself if I must. If I must. It will be the end of this [Palace of Fates], perhaps. But if he is so mad—then I will halt him here. I doubt I will survive the deed, and it may cost the lives of many of us. But I can do it. The question is—should I? There’s that Titan out there. I’ll kill it too.”
She wasn’t shaking or mad with grief. That was the unsettling thing that caused Root Mrsha’s hair to stand up. Lyonette’s face was eerily calm, but her words were heavy. Like Rags had been before she went to battle the Titan the first time. A woman facing her own death. The difference was—Lyonette’s eyes were locked on Pawn.
Rhisveri passed a hand over his eyes, then narrowed them. He learned forwards, so close he was almost pecking Lyonette with his nose.
“Huh. Say that again?”
She leaned away from him.
“What? I will kill him.”
The Wyrm rubbed his eyes again.
“You keep saying that. But this truth spell has to be malfunctioning. Because, heh, that would be—”
Lyonette’s blue eyes were glowing. Her face was almost bloodless, and her lips were stark red and crimson, almost Vampiric.
“If my daughter is dead, I will obliterate that [Apostle] and this entire place. No one will survive. Not you, Rhisveri, not that Titan if he somehow pops out of another door. I hope, earnestly, he doesn’t force me to it.”
The Wyrm’s characteristically superior expression became uncertain. He moved back a step, and from his perch, Pawn’s oration to his faithful faltered.
 
——
“—hour is coming! The—the—”
The Worker half-turned and saw the red-haired [Princess] gazing at him. Pawn’s glowing eyes blinked, turning black for a second to simulate the effect, and he gazed down at his hands.
He had one left. The [Priest] was burning. Not with faith or holy fire, but more mundane flames, eating away his broken carapace. He raised his head, and the [Palace of Fates] was…disintegrating.
Hallways were breaking apart and vanishing. Dead Antinium, his faithful, lay in mounds. Those who weren’t simply ash were charred husks. The imprints of metal armor and weapons were baked into the stone floors, which themselves had cracked with the heat or turned liquid in places.
Black soot covered the hallways, and the flames were engulfing everything. There was a single woman standing in the ash of it all.
Lyonette du Marquin, nineteen years old, lifting a burning weapon in her hands. Her clothing was aflame, and she was dying, arrows sticking out of her eyes. The [Apostle] raised his hands to stop her, and the final flare of light engulfed them both.
 
——
 
“Argh.”
Pawn recoiled from the vision and stumbled. His sermon petered out, and the Antinium started. The [Apostle] checked himself, but he knew this.
[Omen of Destruction].
It shook him. The omens were infrequent, but they spelled true disaster; even Mrsha and Rags’ ambush of him hadn’t triggered this. The last time he’d felt one occurring, a volcano had been poised to erupt over his faithful in Baleros.
“How…?”
That wasn’t the right question. The omens did not lie. Future Pawn half-turned from Lyonette, and rattled, he spoke to Purple Smiles.
“Purple Smiles, I entrust command of our world to you. Ensure the rest of the Painted Antinium come through safely. Leave enough to hold the door…do not let the guests of the inn take it. We may have to collapse the gate. I do not trust one like Archmage Springwalker with it. And the rest of you—do not provoke the people from this time.”
Uncertainly, he pivoted to Lyonette. He did not understand—but if that was a fate, then so be it. They would leave this place without a hint of a battle against her.
This is not my Lyonette who loves me. This one is more dangerous than she was. Far, far more. Far less faithful as well.
How beautiful. He hoped this version of himself was dutifully courting her. She hadn’t even brought him up. Perhaps he was dead?
 
——
 
The unnatural confidence the [Princess of the Inn] had was one thing. But mutually assured destruction was still destruction; the rest of the inn’s guests were arguing about what to do.
Grandmaster Normen was strategizing with everyone of sound character he could muster. So that meant, well, everyone.
If you weren’t standing in a semicircle, you were listening from the sides. Some of the inn’s staff were squatting around, rubbing at bruises, but the main discussion was centered around a few people.
Bird, Elia, Ishkr, Yelroan, Peggy, Rosencrantz, the other [Knights] of Solstice, Colfa, and Vaulont. The people who felt motivated to do something. Most of them had their arms crossed or were fiddling with weapons. Jewel was running a whetstone down a blade for Peggy as Pyrite shared around a bag of liquorice.
Normen had a rough map he was pointing at; Rosencrantz stood in the center of the circle, rotating helpfully. It wasn’t a good map; the [Palace of Fates] was inherently mutable, so it was essentially a map of the corridor that Apostle Pawn was in with possible vectors of attack drawn in little arrows.
The little arrows made Normen feel better. The Grandmaster eyed Pawn balefully with both his healed eyes and pointed out the obvious.
“He won’t go back. And every second, more and more of that army is coming through. We couldn’t even stop them when they were fighting barehanded. Even if we had Elia snipe Pawn or something…they are going to go to Erin.”
Though, admittedly, their ideas weren’t solid yet. The half-Elf jumped when they suggested she shoot Pawn and raised a hand.
“Me? I don’t think I can do that. Or rather, I don’t think he’ll die.”
Elia shook her head reflexively, and Bird raised her hand.
“I doubt Elia and I could kill Pawn. Even if I shot him in the head, I feel like his stupid rings would stop the arrow. Or his people. Or he would just heal. Then the Painted Antinium would kill us all, so this plan is terrible, Normen.”
“Well, what would you do? What would Erin do?”
Bird scratched her antennae.
“Talk him down and throw a cake at him? I do not know. What if we sent our Pawn at him? I think he’s in the Free Hive. Or maybe he’s somewhere else.”
“What would that do?”
Bird crossed her arms defensively.
“Maybe they’d get very confused and explode? I don’t know! We must distract him. I vote Lyonette seduces him.”
Jewel choked on a sip of water. She shook her head.
“That’s stupid. What if we just…sealed them in here? Think about it. They have to enter the [Garden of Sanctuary]. We just make the door vanish, and we’re set.”
That actually got nods from several people, and Normen brightened up. Peggy pointed excitedly behind her.
“That’s right! Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary] doesn’t belong to them. We’ll just say, ‘no bad Painted Antinium’!”
She beamed until someone grunted and raised a hand.
“Pawn has a Skill that lets him transfer between worlds. The [Garden of Sanctuary] won’t stop him.”
Everyone turned, and all the Goblins flinched. Normen just eyed the big Hobgoblin who stood there as if he belonged, and Pyrite stopped chewing on some liquorice. He met the [Grandmaster]’s eyes.
“Or is that incorrect?”
Ishkr broke in, somewhat breathlessly.
“—No, that’s right. Er…er…Pyrite? We’ve never met. I’m Ishkr. From this world. Can I offer you a drink?”
He produced one via his [Instantaneous Order] Skill, and Pyrite accepted it with a faint smile. Then he grimaced as he glanced at the Painted Antinium. The Hob nodded at Ishkr.
“I know almost everyone here. From my world. I’m dead.”
He was too casual about it. Someone else flinched and walked away from the group. Numbtongue looked physically ill and shook his head. He couldn’t bear to meet Pyrite’s eyes or Kevin’s. But what was even worse was when someone tried to place a hand of concern over his shoulder.
“Br—Numbtongue?”
Headscratcher, the Goblin Lord of Sorrows, gazed at the [Soulbard] of this world, wondering why this Numbtongue had a silly beard. Numbtongue jerked around, met Headscratcher’s worried gaze, and then he ran with a cry.
The Goblin Lord of Sorrows almost ran after him, but Pyrite snagged Headscratcher’s arm, and the [Berserker] joined the strategy meeting. Ishkr offered Headscratcher a drink, and the Goblin Lord took a deep draft of plum wine.
