And just for a moment, with a [Witch]’s magic that needed no spells—
All was right in the world.
 
——
 
The dead should stay dead. No matter how much you missed them…otherwise, what was the point of living?
That was the thesis that the former Three-in-One, Kasigna, had lived by. It was the root of her discontent with what was going on. At least, one aspect of her felt that way. The other half just wanted vengeance, to live…but the Maiden remembered her dignity as a ruler of death.
It wasn’t just to spite mortals. If you could revive the dead, would you not try to do it every second you had? Wouldn’t you think of a passing life as lesser, then argue and revive those you thought mattered most? If it were possible, no matter how improbable…it would be terrible.
But for one more reason she implored that girl to cease her madness. Stop, for it will hurt you.
Cease, before you tear that heart of yours to shreds on what is impossible, what will never be the same.
You cannot unwind time. Death has occurred; live with the time you have. Stop chasing those spectres. Naught awaits you but suffering.
Look. You’re already crying.
 
——
 
Sacrilege was hard. Breaking the rules that made up society was difficult if you weren’t actively mad—and even the insane knew the rules existed.
It was funny. Sometimes, people wrote the rules down, but often, they didn’t have to. There was ‘right’ and ‘wrong’, and everything in your life compelled you not to break these invisible laws that governed your existence.
It wasn’t like ‘don’t walk on the grass’, because plenty of people did that. In fact, because everyone broke that kind of rule, it wasn’t really a law at all. But there were real forces that shaped your very thoughts. Opposing those was far harder, because it felt wrong. Especially if you had been told all your life that something was bad…challenging that assumption was the most difficult thing to do.
Even if you questioned your beliefs, you’d have to endure the scorn of your friends, family, everyone else who saw you as mad. And if you had the will to go alone, to endure disdain and the loss of so much in your life—there would always be that voice in the back of your head questioning if you were doing the right thing.
That was how you knew you were thinking. If you never heard that voice of doubt in your head—then what you were doing was easy. And what was easy was sometimes right, but sometimes people who believed they were righteous were simply wrong, lacking all the facts, taught lies.
The point was—breaking the real rules was hard. And it weighed on him. He knew it did. Whenever the Drake’s head rose, he blinked at that heavyset face in the mirror.
So grim. So damn weary. He tried a smile on for size, and it just didn’t fit him anymore. He’d changed. He knew he had.
His class had changed him; he was more of a behemoth than he had been, oh, twenty years ago. Far weightier; he looked like he could walk into a wagon and win, because he could. The armor only added to the appearance.
Burnished, flaming orange plate metal, improperly matched with plain steel armor. Barely enchanted steel at that. Magnolia hadn’t commented on his armor, and he hadn’t asked for anything else.
This armor would do. This…Relic of his people was gift enough, even if he didn’t know how it worked. It wasn’t cursed. He was wearing a heirloom any [General] of the Walled Cities would have torn their neck spines out for. That was enough to make him feel like he was doing something right.
But ever and ever, that voice in Zel Shivertail’s head asked if he was making a mistake. He stood in the command tent that Magnolia Reinhart had given him, wearing the armor that she had plucked from her armories for her new [General], and studied the maps of the ground outside of Invrisil.
As if he had a strategy. He was just…biding time, really. Waiting for the Goblin Lord’s army to get in range. Everyone was looking to him for a plan when the truth was, Zel Shivertail didn’t really have one.
Oh, he was busy. He’d be busy meeting with officers from various cities, inspecting the troops, showing them the battle plans, but that wasn’t the same as high-level strategy. Zel Shivertail had worked with countless [Strategists], from idiots new out of Manus to self-taught geniuses to monsters like Chaldion. They could probably have come up with some kind of plan, dug out more of the battlefield, used some formations to great effect.
Zel knew he didn’t have the time nor control to go for any of that. In the coming battle, he would have his forces perform solely the simplest maneuvers—cavalry run down archers or intercept other cavalry, infantry hit infantry, and so on. What he needed was control.
This army that Magnolia was raising for him was ragtag. Too many disparate forces, not enough unity. All the best commanders had been siphoned off by Tyrion Veltras, damn the man. Zel’s army had to be able to pivot around him. If he didn’t have that, the battle was already lost. The rest of his strategy was simple.
Hit the Goblins when they hit us. Wipe out those commanders of the Goblin Lord, go for him. Arrogant it might be, but the plan was to endure the Goblin Lord’s assaults and have the allied forces buy Zel time to kill every high-level Goblin on the field.
Zel Shivertail was the highest-level being present save for perhaps Magnolia Reinhart. He could do it. He had to. But still, the voice whispered that pernicious statement.
They’ll never let you command an army in the Walled Cities again. Even Tyrion is sabotaging Magnolia. Forget saving the world with her grand plans, you’re going to die tomorrow.
“We’ll see.”
After a moment, Zel circled a hill with a bit of charcoal and put some archers there. He did wish he had someone, anyone to help him. Olesm, for instance, even if the [Tactician] was more of a boy.
Even Ilvriss. But who would leave the south to join the north? Only a fool.
Only him.
The [General] of Izril known as the Tidebreaker, hero of the Antinium Wars, was so preoccupied with the map that he didn’t realize someone was in the tent with him until the scales on his back prickled.
I didn’t hear anyone come in. But he sensed them—their presence was somewhat muffled.
[Assassin]? A bad one if so. But Zel’s claws opened slightly, and he glanced at a silver goblet he’d positioned—just in case Magnolia hadn’t been honest.
Strange. I can’t see anyone behind me. They must have been in his blindspot. The Drake whirled, ready to take a blow and fight if he had to. He had killed the Necromancer of Izril. He had fought every foe he could name for the Walled Cities.
He’d not die so easily, even alone. But Zel never lashed out with his claws, which could shred mithril and magic with ease. He stopped and blinked.
“Mrsha?”
The white Gnoll cub stood there, tears streaming down her eyes. It was Mrsha! Zel glanced right and left, thinking he’d see Lyonette, or Erin, that silly fool, would jump in and shout ‘surprise’!
He was ready to roar—this was about to be an active battlefield, and they’d chased him here!? But Zel’s breath caught as his mind noticed the incongruities.
Wait a second. This can’t be Mrsha. She’s too tall. She was far too tall for the child he’d said farewell to just last month, and she stood on two legs. More importantly, she was wearing clothes. A kilt and a shirt, both a bit worse for wear, but proper clothing.
Another white Gnoll? Another Doombringer? Zel’s mind flashed to the Stone Spears tribe. But he’d left those children with Gnolls he trusted—and he was sure he could tell Gnolls apart.
This looked like Mrsha. But it wasn’t her.
Illusion. You’re being tricked. Zel’s eyes narrowed, and he had no expensive artifacts or spells; he did the only thing he could and condensed his aura around himself, like a shield. He was unpracticed, but he could push hostile magic away from him or block it off if he tried hard enough…
Nothing happened. The girl kept crying, tears running from her brown eyes. She was hiccuping, standing in front of him and swaying, and she seemed so much older.
“Mrsha? What’s going on? Why are you here? Where’s Lyonette? Erin?”
Zel strode forwards after a moment, and she flinched when he reached out. He hesitated—then touched her head.
She didn’t explode or knife him, so, gently, he lifted her into his arms. She was heavier, but he was so much stronger that it didn’t matter. Zel inspected the girl. This would be the moment when a cunning [Assassin] rammed a dagger through his throat. But she just sat in his arms, hiccup-crying.
Then she reached for something, and Zel tensed slightly, ready for—
A card.
It was just a card and a quill. The Drake relaxed, slightly, when he realized she was writing, but his mind spun for other reasons.
It’s me, Zel. Mrsha. I’ve come for you, just like I promised myself. No matter what. It’s really you.
She made no sense. Mrsha couldn’t write. But—at the same time—it did make sense. It was a logical solution to her inability to talk.
“What’s going on? Who are you?”
A rougher tone of suspicion entered Zel’s voice. He put the girl down on his command table, and she scribbled again.
Mrsha. From the future.
“Don’t be ridiculous. Time travel is an idea from fantasy books and for [Mages] from Fissival to talk about. We live in the real world.”
The real world, where magic could kill or maim thousands. Where monsters walked and could cast terrible spells. But everything died if you ripped off its head. 
That was the world Zel Shivertail lived in; the Waning World, twilight of the great legends of old. Six squabbling Walled Cities, an Antinium threat—a Goblin Lord being the greatest foe of Izril—and where the world sat on his shoulders.
He did not recognize her, and she…realized she didn’t recognize him. The girl sat there, blinking at the Drake, and then she raised her wand to write in the air since it was faster. She saw him twitch. Tense, just a moment, and then she gazed at the Drake anew and figured out he thought she was a trick.
Some ingenious plot to kill him. He was suspicious, wary.
She had never known that of him. The Drake stood there, frowning at Mrsha, arms crossed, and she tried to explain.
 
——
 
“So you’re claiming this is the product of a Skill and the Faerie Flowers that Erin has. That in two years—less than two years—there will have been countless major battles, too much for even a Walled City to handle. That The Wandering Inn is one of the most important places in the world, a new part of the continent has risen from the sea, and monsters from the days of myths have re-emerged. And the Dragonlord of Flames.”
There was more, of course. But Zel summarized the big things, and Mrsha nodded. He scrubbed a claw through his neck scales, then turned to her. Zel held up a finger.
“One. Knowing Grimalkin or Chaldion isn’t impressive. Any Drake who’s been to Pallass knows the local oddities. Mentioning Rufelt and Lasica is a touch more impressive, but it’s public knowledge. Two. The odds of some of these events you describe, like Tyrion Veltras fighting alongside Pallass and Manus, is remote. I cannot envision a scenario like that. Not from him. Three. If the world is so dire, if Dragons have returned and there is such an overwhelming need for help—you’ve come to the wrong person. I am not your hero.”
He spread his arms, indicating himself, and it was true. He wasn’t. Zel Shivertail wore the Heartflame Breastplate, but he hadn’t figured out how to activate it. He was a Level 40-something [General of the Line].
Not a Named-rank adventurer. Probably on par with them, but no Zeladona. Not the King of Destruction or his Seven.
He was just…Zel. Mrsha’s tears had ceased, but she still felt like she was weeping. And it was hard—because he hadn’t gathered her up into his arms and hugged her. He was angry, disbelieving. But oh, it was him.
I know that. It doesn’t matter. I came for you, Zel. Only you. Of all the people in any world I would save, it was Moore, Halrac, the Redfangs, Kevin, and you.
The [General] shook his head, sounding bitterly amused.
“Lumped in with Goblins. I suppose that means something. If I believe you, prove it.”
He spread his hands, an invitation for her to take him by the hand and show him wonders. Mrsha didn’t. She could have brought him to the root and the door, but she had learned her lessons. She was not the real Mrsha who could speak with her new Skills and prove it—but it didn’t matter.
Mrsha wrote in the air, and she remembered when she’d found out. But she hadn’t seen his death. So even now, it felt like that bad dream she’d never woken up from.
You’re dead, Zel. You will die when the Goblin Lord faces you in battle. He will lure you away from the army and trap you in a dome of bones. When he emerges—you will be dead. The Walled Cities will mourn. Liscor will mourn. I will never forget it. You will die a hero, then terrible things will occur. Tyrion Veltras will march the Goblins to Liscor, and more good people will die. I wish history had changed. If you lived—the world would have been better.
As before, the words struck Zel Shivertail, and he felt his own death place a hand on his shoulder. The Drake staggered as if taking a blow, and Mrsha waited.
No blood ran from Zel’s face. He did not weep, nor cry out—instead, he let out a breath as that echo of fate stole over him, and he felt the truth of her words sink into his flesh. The [General] gazed down at his claws, then his head rose.
He stood, back straight, the awe-inspiring [General] she had known, that force for good—and then he began to laugh.
The Drake threw his head back, covered his eyes, and a chortle of mirth escaped his lips. Then a guffaw, which grew louder. The laughter was unnatural—Mrsha didn’t remember Zel ever laughing like this. It grew louder and louder until it bordered on the hysterical.
“General Shivertail? Is everything well?”
Someone called nervously from outside the tent, and Zel stopped. He glanced at Mrsha, then strode over to the entrance.
“Everything’s fine. I was merely—is there a [Silence] spell perchance?”
He re-entered the tent after a moment and avoided Mrsha’s eye. She sat there, unsettled, as the Drake strode over to a cabinet, opened it, and pulled something out.
A wine glass and bottle of wine. He stabbed the cork with a claw and yanked it out, then poured himself a huge cup.
“I won’t need to be sober, then. A drink? Do children drink wine in the future?”
His tone was sarcastic as he held a full cup out to Mrsha. She shook her head, and the Drake threw back the entire cup and filled the glass again.
This isn’t right. This isn’t Zel.
