Dead gods. She understood now, why older [Witches] grew jaded and snapped at younger ones. She could see herself doing that to younger Nanette, and the words were inside her, ready to be spoken.
But again—why? Why bite at the little hand trying to pull you up? Instead, the Older Nanette bent down and gave herself a fierce hug. The little Nanette worriedly patted her older self on the shoulder.
“It’s okay. It’s okay! Don’t be too sad! Everything will be just right now. And I like your clothing, even if Miss Califor doesn’t. Do you think I could borrow some of it?”
“Absolutely. I promise.”
Older Nanette sniffed and stood back to admire her adolescent self. To fix this image in her head, properly, and remember it forever. Even if she had lost it, to know she had once been like this. She turned.
“The potion’s nearly done. I think it’s some kind of brew for battle? It looks serious.”
Califor was indeed making the liquid in the cauldron rise up, and it was changing to fantastic colors. Younger Nanette whirled and squeaked.
“Oh! That’s the strongest thing she’s ever made! Miss Califor! What is—?”
She ran over to ask questions, and the older Nanette took a few more steps back. It was such a beautiful image, the two witches standing together. How it should always be. She was the spoiler to this scene—yet they had accepted her with incredible grace.
Nanette took another step backwards, towards the burnt cottage and trees where the root was, and Miss Califor barked without looking up from the cauldron.
“Nanette Weishart. If you try to run and leave us behind, I will have younger Nanette sit on you.”
Younger Nanette’s head snapped up in surprise. The older girl froze guiltily, and she cried out.
“But it’s going to be devastatingly hard! Don’t you have regrets? This world is yours!”
Her reply was laughter. A [Witch] laughed, then began to cackle for the second time Nanette had ever heard, and Nanette’s hair stood on end. Califor swept her hat from her head and bowed, her eyes daring the girl to even try to leave her behind.
“My daughter needs me. I must go. Is it fair? Is it right? We are witches. There is only right, wrong, and whichever we choose to do. Now come. Stop crying. We have great work to do.”
 
——
 
So a witch hugged her mother and prepared to lead her out of her world into the hallway of infinite possibilities.
As she did, a real monster walked the halls of the [Palace of Fates].
Well, one among many. The trick of being a monster was luring the good, ordinary people of the world into letting you come among them and not recoiling in horror and fear. Illusions. Every old monster used illusions.
His was a good one. The illusions of monsters were often egotistical. Had you ever seen a ugly monster in disguise? Well, Taletevirion had. Sometimes it indicated how they viewed themselves, with humility.
Or it was their trick on the world: a victim that could be bullied so they could find vicarious joy in revealing themselves.
The Unicorn appeared like a half-Elven man when he chose to be, a lithe [Swordmaster], fit and old, eyes and hair silver, a healer and warrior combined.
It was what he was. It was the lie.
Healer. He could heal, yes, better than anyone in the entire world, perhaps. But he did not go around healing. He used his gifts sparingly, as he chose. In his way, as selfish as the ‘Healer of Tenbault’.
Warrior. All his battles were past. He was, again, one of the last great swordmasters of the world, but he defended a forest with no voices in it. He drew his blade seldom, and there were causes he should have fought for but had abandoned. If he was in shape at all, it was simply because he was a magical being, a Unicorn, and it was not hard to keep fit for him.
If the illusion of him was honest, it should have been a potbellied drunkard. A one-eyed, one-armed man with no legs covered in his own filth, smiling out at the world with rotted teeth, laughing at himself and everything else. Filled with so much loathsome self-hatred that he persisted out of spite.
That was who he was. And you see, that was the lie as well, because that was the image Taletevirion held in his heart. But here, in this [Palace of Fates], he could not hide from himself. He saw…
Everything. The Unicorn walked from door to door, shapeshifting. One second a man stumbling forwards, opening doors with his hands and pressing against the invisible barriers, the next a Unicorn kneeling, his horn brushing against the glowing fates trapped within. He took no notice of the Painted Antinium. He was blind and deaf to the world beyond.
What was he watching? A panting Gnoll girl halted as a Thronebearer finally found her. Both stopped and saw.
 
——
 
A child was standing. It was always difficult to stand for the first time. Everyone forgot what it was like in time, but that moment a baby rose on its feet was when the world changed. Humans, Gnolls, Drakes—they all reached that moment.
But horsekind had to stand within moments of being born. They entered the world and had to stand within hours of beginning their existence. They had to move, to run. Losing a leg or breaking an ankle was often death for them.
This Unicorn had only time to blink and draw breath for the first time as she emerged, wet, a nub of silvery material on her head; a horn, which would grow throughout the rest of her life. The most magical part of her. She had six seconds to lay there, then someone spoke.
“Up. Get up, Mauviron. You have to run.”
A panting Unicorn was speaking to her, trying to rise from her side. Her mother. The Unicorn, whose name was Mauviron, blinked in confusion, not able to understand. Then she heard a horn blowing.
“Get up, now.”
A voice rasped at her, and a far scarier face appeared; something poked her. A horn. The first sensation the child felt was a prickle of pain, then a jolt of energy; her legs moved, and she jerked, but didn’t quite get up. She tried to retreat from the male Unicorn, who swung around.
He was like her, but wrong. The child didn’t understand, yet, why, but the red splashed across his mane and flanks made him appear like a different creature. His fur was pale white; Mauviron’s mother was like golden grass. Their child was a viridian mix of colors.
The [Hunters] thought that made her more valuable. Taletevirion shouted, and the young Unicorn got to her feet. She began running as he charged, and an arrow scored her side. She gaped back, wide-eyed, and heard screams.
 
——
 
It was not a kind reality. From the moment the child got up and ran, she never stopped. She couldn’t; she was always hunted.
Unicorns. In the years before the Creler Wars began, after the Treants had marched into the sea, the last magical forest, the Vale Forest, diminished. There had been barely a dozen Unicorns left after the last and final war to defend the fragments of magic that kept the place an echo of the Greatwoods Forest it had been.
With the absence of the Treants, they became the only defenders. The hunted. A Unicorn’s horn was a Relic in any age; with the first Unicorn’s death and proof there were still some left alive, rulers and nobles launched expeditions into the forest, torched swathes of it, and fought each other for the miracle cures that could extend their life, cure infertility, add to their beauty—anything you wanted a Unicorn horn to be, it was, in their heads.
A dozen became six. And the last six Unicorns became desperate, because they were shielding the greatest folly of all: a child. A Unicorn with unique coloring—at least, in the minds of the hunters, who became obsessed with her.
Run and run and then fight. The child had to run through her first attacker when she was eleven. Stab a Drake through the heart and trample the dying body. She lost her mother when she was fourteen, her father the year after. Then they imprisoned her and used her as a healing tool, waiting for her horn to grow. Cutting shavings off it and selling it as a miracle.
She finally broke free when her captors had a visitor, a man with differently colored eyes. He pulled the bars of her cage apart and apologized to her with tears in his eyes: he had been asleep. Then he took the wounded girl and led her out into a blazing sea of flames. Flew her away, out of a kingdom he’d burned for what he believed to be their sins.
A century of some kind of respite. Learning. Arguing with a guilty Dragon who taught her what he knew and didn’t stop her from finding and slaying the Unicorn hunters and their kin. She became a better killer and bitterly left the Dragon to his den.
Then the Creler Wars began, and a chittering tide of dark thoughts arose from Rhir, sweeping over every continent. The young woman fled their advances at the start, even rejoicing in watching nations she hated vanish—until she realized they would not stop and began slaying them in secret.
Mortals she saved flocked to her healing powers, and she found some of them that defied everything she had learned of them. The Unicorn, Mauviron, joined forces with other immortals and warriors who gathered to stop these horrors of Rhir. She fought for a century. Five centuries.
She joined the Dragonlord of Flames and the other remaining Dragons as they took wing. She marched with the last three Unicorns against the Crelers on Terandria’s shores.
There she died.
It wasn’t the final battle; she was leading a charge on an Elder Creler when the ground fell away, exposing Adult Crelers in their nest. She fell, unsupported, and landed amongst a dozen of them. When she finally emerged from the pit in the ground, the Elder Creler was waiting.
It thought one word at her as it opened its body up, razor mandibles like a ribcage parting and revealing its brain inside its glowing shell. The pulsing mind said:
“Bleed.”
The Unicorn’s wounds opened, and she stumbled. Then the Elder Creler leapt, countless tons of shifting, malleable chitin falling upon the Unicorn before she could move away. It tore and reveled in its victory until Dragonfire engulfed it, the pink flames rendering the Elder Creler into a shrieking form—
 
——
 
Then and only then did the Unicorn leave the door. Taletevirion stepped back from the door that contained a future that had never been—a child he had never had.
“She never learned how to forest-walk. That’s how they get you. Teriarch must never have…that’s how they get you each and every time.”
That was all he said. A cavalier statement for his unborn daughter—or so it seemed. The Unicorn trotted left to another door marked by a glimmering horn, a Unicorn’s silhouette, their head raised high, and opened it.
He watched another Unicorn being born from the same mother and father, this one a boy. And another reality played out before him, years and centuries passing in the blink of an eye in this world.
The Unicorn left the door after his child died and walked over to the next. He left the doors open; he was walking under the roots of a vast World Tree, and where the roots twined downwards and formed natural arches were the doors to his [Palace of Fates]. Each one arranged in a line just so.
There were thousands open, glittering, proud futures, wondrous deeds, tragedy—lives where he had been a noble teacher and parent, and ones where he had died before even giving them their names. Realities where he’d fled or even had to do battle against his children.
But always, fates that fit him. He was the one constant in each door. Hero. Coward. Brave warrior—
The Gnoll girl stared into one and saw a Unicorn’s empty eyes gazing skywards. A battlefield was roaring around him; thousands of Unicorns fought with rearing hooves, horns stabbing, armored in regal wood barding, ironbark and magical materials.
This door played out the future in which the Unicorn died, taking a sword thrust through the side and unable to heal. Taletevirion had watched the world play out for the next three thousand years without him.
—And he continued. Door after door spilled their secrets to him, time accelerated so he could watch them, and the girl, Mrsha, jerked her eyes away.
If she had tried what he was doing, she would have gone insane. But the Unicorn was older than her by so many countless years…Dame Ushar was averting her gaze.
“Lady Mrsha, come with me. Your mother needs you.”
She wanted to take Mrsha with her, but the girl just held up her paw.
I am not the Mrsha you want, Ushar. I am Roots Mrsha, and this is my place. Whatever you have promised, it isn’t me. I have business with Taletevirion. If you’d like, you can help. I have to find Kevin as well. I don’t know where the real me is.
The Thronebearer hesitated. She knelt down.
“I believe you’re true and real, Miss Mrsha.”
A smile like Zel Shivertail’s crossed Root Mrsha’s face.
That makes one of us. But it’s alright. Even we ghosts have a purpose.
Unnerved, the Thronebearer moved to embrace the girl, to tell her it was alright. To stop—stop trying to look like her grandmother. But Mrsha didn’t even notice. She was watching Taletevirion.
On and on the Unicorn walked from door to door. Tormenting himself? She couldn’t tell; she’d done the same thing, but she had truly been in a dying hell. He had another purpose.
Around the base of the World Tree. It stretched up so high that even this copy of his memories was beyond comprehension. It looked big to Mrsha and Ushar; like they were two people standing before a skyscraper of Earth. The tree was vaster than that; their minds merely reduced it so they could stand before it without it taking up their entire thoughts.
Every now and then, after a dozen doors, the Unicorn would stop. Then begin walking up one of the staircases built into this vision of the old forests, to a higher floor. He would halt there and open a door. Watch for a few seconds, a minute—then close the door and turn away.
The doors up there were different. Unlike the other ones, he would only watch a bit. Finish a door, try another, then have to walk downstairs and keep seeing his other worlds. After the third time he did it, he noticed Roots Mrsha standing there.
“It’s you.”
It’s me. Hello, Taletevirion. We’ve never spoken. Or if we have, it’s not much.
“Sounds about right. I don’t talk to kids much. You’re looking a bit starved there. You should munch on some Yellats. They’re great for that kind of thing. They break down slower in your body, grow everywhere, and need less than other plants. They’re the real Sage’s Grass. When a Dryad invented that, she saved so many lives.”
Dryads invented Yellats?
The Unicorn nodded as he walked over to the doors.
“That’s what Teriarch told me. The old geezer forgets a lot, but he remembers credit where it’s due if it was a great deed. I make fun of him for his age all the time, but being here makes me realize how much I’ve forgotten.”
