Mrsha nodded and swore she’d remember his words, all of them, though she had no desire to ever follow this gloriously tired hero’s path. Never again would she be able to read a book or listen to a story of a famous heroine or leader and not wonder how tired they were.
Yes. That’s the irony of all this. The one person who will come with me…has given enough. More than enough, and I will condemn him to suffering or death.
“I don’t have any intention to die.”
The Drake lied. He shifted back to his things, and Mrsha saw how resolute he was. Zel spoke to himself.
“I may not be able to affect things as greatly as I could in today’s world. I may be underleveled, but I have always done better with my back to the wall. I could hit Level 50; that would be something. And if I do, if the Walled Cities are in as much chaos as you claim, then perhaps…I didn’t care about my reputation, so I joined Magnolia Reinhart. But I was still too afraid to make a stand in the south. Perhaps I can. Meet these other people like me. Support them. Make the cities—Liscor, perhaps—more bearable for us. I’d like that.”
Hope glimmered in his tone, that spark of victory he chased in every single battlefield. Then, a question occurred to Zel. He glanced down at his armor and began to unhook it with his claws.
“I should leave the Heartflame Breastplate behind. Though, frankly, it’s not much of a Relic from what I can see. Still, it’s one of the Relics of the Walled Cities. Even Luciva’s glaive isn’t as legendary, you know. What became of it? What happened to Selys if her grandmother died?”
He didn’t know any of these things; it hadn’t occurred to him to ask. He’d seen a problem and engaged it before trying to pick up on the details. Sserys could do details as well as high-level vision. Mrsha’s ears perked up.
The Heartflame Breastplate? Oh, I just realized—you don’t know how to use all the features! It’s way cooler than you think. Selys got it. From your…when you died.
Her face fell, and he grew guilty and uncomfortable at her words. But then Mrsha’s eyes lit up, and she wrote on, feverishly tracing glowing words in the air.
She fought really hard to keep the armor! She and Tekshia hated your family! Um, sorry if that makes you upset.
To her relief, the [General] was grinning. He sat down in a chair, suddenly fascinated.
“Me? No. I don’t particularly care for…how did she keep my armor?”
Mrsha had to relate the technical details about Zel’s inheritance spelling out what happened to his gear, and the [General] slapped a claw over his forehead and genuinely laughed out loud.
“That little—? She was just a teenager the last time I had it drawn up, I think! She wanted to be an adventurer. I think Tekshia honestly pushed her more into it. I never thought she had to be. Her parents were good ones, you know.”
Good what? Adventurers?
Zel cracked open an eye.
“Hm? Of course. Selys’ mother, Tekshia’s daughter, was Gold-rank. So was Ilveem. I didn’t know them the best, but they were both decent to me. The rest of my family—”
He heaved his shoulders, not wanting to get into his relationship with his family, then decided to hell with it.
“—They know who I am. Pride in the Tidebreaker and disgust in me are difficult things to reconcile. Don’t worry about Selys taking the breastplate; they have enough money. I shared the wealth when I was first popular, and they hoarded enough of it away. But Berssila was always more understanding, because she’d been an adventurer. I didn’t save either one at Liscor.”
He rested his arms on his knees, and Mrsha stood there, so surprised that he wrinkled up his brows. She had to explain.
No one’s ever said Selys’ parents’ names to me. Berssila and Ilveem?
“Yes. I suppose Tekshia doesn’t bring it up because she lost them. Berssila was her only child to make it to adulthood, and, well, you know what happened to her, don’t you?”
They died defending Liscor when Az’kerash attacked. Mrsha nodded, and Zel stared blankly ahead.
“Good adventurers. Tekshia never blamed me for failing to lift the siege. Not once. Temper like a cat with its tail stepped on, and she’s as stubborn as Sserys was. She got ideas into her head as well, like me adopting a child or having one just to prove I was…but she raised Selys. She was a very good Gold-rank adventurer back in the day. Spearmistress Tekshia. Even when she became a mother, she told everyone courting Berssila they’d have to beat her before she’d approve of marriage.”
He found another cup and poured himself a second drink. Silently, Zel toasted the air, and Mrsha solemnly took a cup and took a sip, then made a face. But they chinked goblets, and she tilted her head.
Wow, so this Ilveem guy was better than Tekshia?
“What? No. She beat him black-and-blue so many times I told her to take it easy on him, especially because he was truly committed to Berssila. One day, the two of them ambushed Tekshia and beat her together.”
That made Mrsha laugh, and Zel felt himself warming up, not just with the drink.
“…Did Selys wear the Heartflame Breastplate? Is she an adventurer?”
Nope. She’s an [Heiress]. She loans it out to Gold-rank teams for big money. And she built lots of apartments in Liscor and just…makes money while existing. But she has a bunch of beavers in her mansion, so that’s nice.
Zel nearly spat out his drink.
“She rents the Heartflame Breastplate to—? And no one’s stolen it or taken it from her?”
Drake law, and I think she invests in good security.
“What’s mine is mine, and if you try to take it, I’ll stab you. Ancestors.”
The Tidebreaker rolled his eyes, but he had come alive for a second and ceased being that stressed, imposing figure. Mrsha remembered this Zel, whose face was far more emotive, who grew exasperated and…she leaned over the war table, suddenly, searching for something else to say.
Magnolia kept her promise, you know. She went to Oteslia and tried to get everyone to make peace. She wants to build this crazy big wall through the High Passes. So people can travel it at will.
“She did that? And no one assassinated her? Why a…a wall?”
Mrsha had to explain the wall-passageway from the north to the south, and Zel rubbed at his chin.
“That’s wildly expensive and impractical. But then again—I’ve heard Gnolls complaining that they’d love to go north if they weren’t afraid of being shot by the first Humans they encounter. They’d use that door. And frankly, the Bloodfields made Liscor an island on its own anyways. Eradicate it for good or just build another road and you’d connect it with the south.”
Oh, we already have a road. And Erin can now teleport people all the way to Pallass and Invrisil regularly without breaking her door.
“She can? That would have saved…I never even got to really tour Invrisil. What’s it like?”
So Mrsha described the City of Adventurers, and because she’d visited Pallass, Zel could actually talk to her about the Walled Cities like a person, not a big adult speaking to a child.
“That’s quite funny, you know. You’re always on the upper floors—the real sights in Pallass are the bazaar and lower floors. You’d have a lot more cheap places to mingle down there. The fact that you met Saliss and Pelt is extraordinary. I wish you had seen Oteslia, though. I like it of all the Walled Cities, and not just because they were the best to me.”
He paused.
“Okay, probably because of that. But they have vast gardens with magical plants. There are waterways over the lake with mangrove-type plants that have roots which can go hundreds of feet. They grow them down, and the [Gardeners] harvest them. Gnolls are welcome there. Fissival has more extraordinary sights, but they’re a nightmare to pay for anything at a fair price. And frankly—”
He grimaced, about to go off on the City of Incantations, but Mrsha waved her paws urgently.
Fissival flew!
“It did what?”
Then she described something Zel had never envisioned—a city, an entire city, held aloft by a single woman (and a Djinni). The [General] sat there, clasping and unclasping his clawed hands.
“Archmage Valeterisa. Yes, I remember her. She came back and…”
And Ilvriss! You’d be really proud of him, Zel! He really changed after you passed away. Everyone liked him when he had to leave for Salazsar, and he helped with so much! He came back with Nerul and Xesci, who’s like a person from a brothel, and he’s nice. To everyone, Humans, Drakes, Gnolls—
“Ilvriss. Turned over a new leaf? Wait, what’s this about a brothel?”
Mrsha described the surly Wall Lord’s transformation, and Zel shook his head, trying to imagine Wall Lord Ilvriss treating Erin Solstice like a confidant. Nay—
“He gave her his ring? That’s a sign of marriage in—”
Mrsha’s huge grin told Zel that she knew very well what it was, traditionally. Zel sat back, unable to encapsulate all these changes in the people he had known just by her words. But then he saw the message the Gnoll girl wrote.
Some of them changed because of you, Zel. Ilvriss did. I think he’s trying to do what he thinks you’d do. Valeterisa, the Gnolls I met in the south, there’s no one I ever talked to who didn’t know your name or like you. Even Fetohep said you were a real hero of the Drakes.
“…Who?”
That one word would have slain an undead Revenant-king, and it put another smile on Mrsha’s face. She stepped back as Zel opened and closed his claws. As if he were reevaluating them, seeing something—worth, perhaps—clinging to those bloodstained, worn claws.
—But then his head rose, and he brushed at his neck-spines.
“I let them down, then. In both worlds. I forgot what I did still mattered and grew selfish. I can make it up to them. Even if it’s only in some small way. At least let me try.”
He was getting up again, and Mrsha’s broad smile flickered as she saw his resolve had only strengthened. That was his problem. For one Gnoll child and a silly young woman in danger, he would charge a Goblin Lord.
Mrsha knew what she had to do and took a step back. She grabbed hold of something with her right paw, and the Drake didn’t notice until he turned around and saw the shimmering words.
That’s the problem. My world was always unworthy of you, Zel Shivertail. I can’t take you with me. You deserve rest. Something far better than anything I can give you.
His eyes widened, and Zel began to stride forwards, then stopped as he saw Mrsha’s arm tensed. She was at the step between worlds, and she could haul herself out of his reality in a second. He held out a clawed hand.
“Wait. I am coming with you. That’s what you wanted. Don’t be silly, Mrsha.”
She smiled at him, eyes shining as she stood there, so much older than the child he recalled. Mrsha wrote in the air with a flourish, with triumph.
Not you. Perhaps not anyone. I know exactly what must be done, I think. You cannot come with me, Zel Shivertail. We are battling dead gods, armies of Seamwalkers, and worse.
“That is why you need me. Don’t leave!”
Zel almost lunged, but he wasn’t that fast, and if she cut the root-thing she kept talking about—he saw her pull her legs into the air and backed up a step, holding up his claws.
“Mrsha. I don’t want—I don’t need to die here. I want to leave and see a better future. Not die at the Goblin Lord’s hands.”
She shook her head at him.
Your Heartflame Breastplate activates by hissing, and the flames protect you from harm. Selys told me that. It amplifies Dragonbreath—it probably gives you Dragonbreath too. If I don’t come back, retreat to Invrisil. Oh! And be careful; Tyrion Veltras will drive the Goblins from Dwarfhalls Rest and use them in a giant stupid army to siege Liscor with trebuchets from the Unseen Empire. Erin will stop the Goblin Lord’s army with her Goblin friends at Liscor. That’s where they might need you.
Zel was circling the tent, knocking over chairs, heedless of the things in his way, as she pivoted. He was rasping.
“Don’t leave me behind. You need me. Don’t go, Mrsha. Not like Sserys. Not again.”
She flinched, and he moved. So fast and sure of himself that he was holding her hand. Gently.
“I am coming with you.”
Again, the girl half-shook her head as she tried to pull back. She let go of the root a second to write with her glowing wand.
No. Not yet. Not my world. You don’t have time to wait here. So…I’m going to close the door. It doesn’t hurt. Believe me, you won’t even notice. I was in my own door, and it feels like a second. You’ll hear the loudest sound ever, and then…it’ll be one second, Zel.
He didn’t understand until he saw how thin she was; her unnatural maturity and everything else had prevented him from seeing the obvious. Zel almost let go.
“You’re from another door? But then that only proves my point. We are needed.”
Are we? Or are we spares in our own eyes, Zel? Dead men and women who can die for a great cause and not be missed? Because I am like you. And I know what I believe I am.
This time, the [General] was the one who could not reply. Mrsha continued, her neat little handwriting like a soft voice, gentle and precise, curling her letters so cutely you had to focus to see how her hand shook.
There is a home waiting for me…but everyone I love may well be gone. I have saved one last root for myself. But my Rags is already dead, and a horror is descending upon my world. We are all fake, figments of the truth. So therefore—wait. I will open this door and show you that world you desire.
Her plan, her final idea gleamed in her eyes, and Zel had no ability to read her thoughts. But the Grand Design of everything did, and it—the Second Edition—saw the shining spark in her thoughts. Redemption to this madness.
Mrsha had no way to make Zel let go of her arm. No force in the world could have. But slowly, the Drake released her. Then he confessed.
“I’m tired, Mrsha. I’d love to rest in The Wandering Inn. Truly rest and take my armor off for a while. But the Goblins…”
Strange, how they had seemed less evil over time. Strange, what knowing your death did to you. Had he been changed by this conversation? Or had he been changing even as he left?
So many regrets. Zel pressed the heels of his hands to his face, and Mrsha nodded as she wrote.
True respite. No more disasters. No—I lie.
She grinned like that mischievous, fry-stealing scamp she was, and Zel blinked at her. The girl laughed with real humor and flicked a card up. He caught it, bemused.
There will be disasters, I just bet! But more manageable. I promise you respite and trouble, Zel. But battles you can win. Lots of sadness. Some happiness. How does that sound?
