He trotted along, and Mrsha held up a card as Ushar followed them timidly.
Like what?
He gave her a smile of yellowed teeth, his big brown eyes in his horse’s face crinkling up slightly.
“What a bastard I was. All my failures and flaws I covered up in my head. Each and every one. How much worse I could be.”
He stumbled as he walked, and she realized his fur almost seemed semi-transparent, as if the visions were doing something to his body. She had no idea how Unicorn physiology worked. Before she could reply, his head came up, and his mane streamed through the air like moonlight.
“—And it also showed me when I did things right. I forgot that too, or how much it mattered. It’s hard to believe in your head, but I saw it. I remembered, even if the mes in the other futures did it wrong—I can be proud of that. My grandest deeds and my lowest sins. I wonder what Teriarch would see here. This might break him. Or he could wander this place…forever.”
Mrsha nodded and held up another card.
I have seen so many doors myself. You can lose yourself in them. Why are you doing this? I know how painful it can be.
She gazed up at the doors above, and the Unicorn pulled a new door open using a little latch near the ground. A latch for horses. Of course.
“This is just a way for me to view my life. For better or worse. There’s one about two hundred doors to the right that has the moment I beat a Dragon in single combat. It actually happened. Just go over and—eh, nevermind. Up there…”
He gazed into a future where he and Teriarch never went to war against the Crelers, then his head rose. Taletevirion whispered, hoarse.
“These are the doors where I could have made great mistakes. Had a child—a child—when there were twelve of us left. But I wanted to know, that sweet poison of what-if. Higher up is what this [Palace of Fates] was made for, I think.”
What it was made for? Roots Mrsha blinked. Many people had remarked upon the nature of the [Palace of Fates], how useless it was for a Level 70 [Empress] like Sheta. At the same time, how much it might matter, how much of a trap it was for the mind and heart.
But use?
What? Does it tell you the future? Because it’s always changing. So…
The Unicorn laughed in great amusement and shook his head as he shut the door and began to walk up the wide and narrow stairs fit for him.
“Predicting the future? Hah, I gave that up long ago. The puppets of the Great Trees love their prophecies, and I’ve met [Oracles], [Soothsayers], [Diviners]…no. This is what I’m looking at. See?”
He threw the door open, and Mrsha saw. Perhaps only she had earned Taletevirion’s respect enough for him to confide in her: she alone had seen as many doors as he. And what she gazed at made her blink, then sigh.
Oh.
A weary Unicorn was nudging a child. A tiny Dryad, who, similar to a Human baby, was curled up in the middle of a blossom of leaves, pulling herself out of a tangle of plant matter like a seed pod. Mrsha glanced up, and the Unicorn bent down and indicated something hanging from his side.
A bag of holding. Containing…the Dryad seed wand. Taletevirion walked past the door, opening another one.
Another image of a Dryad being born, this one different, and this time, Taletevirion wounded, balancing on three hooves. Another door opened—the Unicorn stood over a pile of ash as fire rained down, weeping.
Every door above was not the past, but the future. Futures where he took the wand and tried to raise the seed. Futures where he failed. Futures where he triumphed.
Still, Mrsha thought she was missing something.
“So you’re learning from the future?”
“No. I’m simply seeing it. The worst. The best. Futures where this single child becomes a monster. Futures where she revives the Great Forests—and it can be done. The most hope. The most despair. Until my heart bursts from all of it.”
The Unicorn bared his teeth again.
“That’s the trick of it, you see. This [Palace of Fates] can show you who people might be. It can show you what if, your heart’s desire. But that’s for good people. I’m a monster. So was whomever made this place. And if I think like them—I can watch every future, every terrible decision and weigh it against the good. Until I am so tired of it, so heartsick and weary, I can do what is necessary. Kill my best friend, because in grief, I have watched him truly die a million times.”
That was what he thought the [Palace of Fates] was for. When she heard that, Mrsha grew terribly uneasy and glanced over her shoulder.
No. It’s not for that.
The cynical blankness in Taletevirion’s expression faded, and he pawed at the ground as he looked away.
“Not for you. And perhaps, not for me. It’s not quite working. I am…look. This is one of the best futures.”
He was watching as a grown Dryad woman negotiated with the Five Families of Izril to let her forests grow. A Lady of the Flowers of Izril in truth. She shone with hope—the Unicorn kicked the door closed with a foot.
Now he was half-Elf again; he threw open another door and spun.
“And here is the door I fear.”
A burning figure, covered in flaming tar, writhed on a stake of wood. A future where they burned the last Dryad. Mrsha didn’t look away—Taletevirion shut the door, guilty.
“The best of it. And the worst. I am…the last Unicorn. I judged the puppets who thought themselves masters of this child’s future. I took her. Now, I have a choice.”
Let her live or don’t. It was more complicated than that, of course. He could wait or try to help the child—but it boiled down to that. Then, Roots Mrsha began to understand.
You want to know how difficult it is.
“Yes. Yes. Even if the best future awaits her, and it is far from certain. Look, Mrsha.”
The Unicorn walked back to that resplendent figure treating with mortals as equals. He rested his head against the invisible barrier, and the half-Elf whispered.
“She’s so…lonely. Always, always. Who’s her companion? Children, brave children whom she will lose? Me? A drunk, bitter warrior too cautious to show her the bright future? Teriarch, willing to get his heart broken by another young woman? If I bring this child into the world, it will be so difficult.”
Yet the doors called to him, so many futures where he stood or died and found the trial worth it. He was not afraid of his end, Mrsha realized.
Only the cost to that unborn soul. The Unicorn turned questioning eyes to Mrsha, and she held up a card.
Do you know what these roots do? It is cruel, you know. So terribly cruel what I have been doing.
A hand brushed Mrsha’s hair, and Taletevirion knelt down and rubbed her head gently.
“Yes. I don’t envy you. There is no one I would bring back into this unkind world. Not a one. Nor would Teriarch himself, I think. But we are old. We have made our own peace with death.”
She rubbed at one eye.
I have a way to fix it. But I am nevertheless a monster who ruins things. Once more won’t hurt. I have to go find Kevin.
“…I have no idea who that is. Sorry.”
She laughed. That was fine. Mrsha shook her head and held up a card, giving Taletevirion the smile of a real monster.
I have something for you, Taletevirion. Though you may murder me. I offer you a choice because I have an idea. One that changes these many doors. One that is not held in a single one of them.
The Unicorn raised one eyebrow, greatly amused. He glanced over his shoulder at the countless doors behind him.
“Oh? That’s impossible, but go ahead.”
Silly Unicorn. Mrsha led him down the stairs and met Dame Ushar. The Thronebearer hesitated, and Mrsha held up a card.
Dame Ushar, I require one of the Deathblades or whatever the heck they were called. The ones Ylawes got from Facestealer’s defeat? I know he took one, but don’t we have some around here? Either that or one of the working artifacts from the lightning garden.
Ushar’s brows rose, and she stole a glance at Taletevirion.
“I think—we may have a few? Master Hedault was due to analyze them or bring them to market, but after the Winter Solstice and all the…let me check.”
It didn’t actually matter which blade she got; she just needed a half-decent one. The Unicorn was intrigued and helped Mrsha as Ushar emerged with both a blade of lightning and one of the Graveswords.
“The City of Graves, I think. See that seal on the pommel? Skeleton wing. Classic Drakes. That one’s better than the lightning sword. If you’re giving them to me, don’t bother. My sword is a manifestation of my actual horn, and it’s better than both.”
Roots Mrsha took the deathly sword and gave Taletevirion an arch look. She re-wrapped it in the linen, careful to avoid the edge, and shook her head.
It’s not for you, dummy. It’s a gift. Follow me.
The Unicorn and Thronebearer followed Mrsha as she led them towards her part of the [Palace of Fates]. Taletevirion leaned over.
“Ushar, right? Do you ever think it’s weird we’re following a child around?”
“Er—ah—in this case, it feels appropriate, Sir Taletevirion.”
“True. You’re smarter than you look.”
 
——
 
The door that Mrsha came to was simple, and she produced a root, much to the horror of Dame Ushar.
“Lady Mrsha, what are you doing? There are only so many…”
The girl pointed a finger to what was inside the door, and Taletevirion and Ushar peered inside, frowning. She realized…they had no idea what was going on.
Look inside, Ushar. You too, Taletevirion. Do you recognize who’s in there? Do you know where this is? The hour has come to cheat. So cheat we will. I could go anywhere in the world. Steal anything. But this? Does this change things, Taletevirion?
He didn’t get it. The Unicorn inspected the gloomy image, frowning. He was peering, he realized, at a dark tunnel barely filled with light; small wonder he was hardly able to see. A [Light] spell was illuminating a group of idiots delving down into ruins.
Classic adventurers. Only, he thought he recognized them. There were four; another usual number. One was a young man wearing white robes, following a few silly skeletons armed with shovels, a woman with soon-to-be-bad arms behind, then an Antinium and a half-Elf with a bone hand. They descended down into the ruins, halting when they saw the glow from the tunnels beyond.
Creler eggs and baby Crelers in hibernation.
Dame Ushar didn’t know the history of the Horns of Hammerad well, but she realized where they were and started.
“This is—Albez.”
Still, the Unicorn seemed nonplussed. Mrsha moved the image away from the Horns. The view travelled down the hallway, past a teleportation trap on a door and above a pit with runes of [Insanity]. Within was a vault, small, compared to Udatron’s laboratory, but packed with magical items.
A magical staff, racks of weapons—among them a buckler that could produce a [Forceshield] spell, various artifacts of lesser magic…a bag of holding with an iron wand inside.
The treasures of Warmage Thresk. Taletevirion’s eyes focused on the bag of holding, then flicked to Mrsha. She was inspecting the room.
They never pulled out more than a fraction of the treasures from the room. See? These were the ones nearest the door. A Fire Elemental appears, and it blows the place to smithereens.
“It must have been better than a Fire Elemental, it sounds like. Regular ones can’t burn magic like that. How’d they kill it?”
With the door and an angry Yvlon. Look at all the stuff they never got. And that wand.
Mrsha had the root in her hands. A doorway to another world. Access to whatever you wanted. It would have given her a door into the vaults of Ailendamus or the Blighted King, which were actually probably really bad ideas because she bet they were trapped and there was no good [Rogue] around.
But this? She gazed up at the Unicorn and hefted the wrapped blade.
They managed once. It’s mean and cruel…but at least Yvlon won’t burn her arms. It’s up to you, Taletevirion.
He croaked, his voice hoarse.
“Why—why show me this? We can’t do more than change their future. Why bother doing that? Can you even steal things from other worlds?”
He’d never thought of that. She laughed at him and nodded. Then Mrsha pointed back at the endless hallways he had been looking at.
Your lonely fates. Tell me, Last Unicorn: is it worth it? Because if it’s not, I won’t open this door. But your choice—would it help if she were not alone, this unborn child? Or does two compound your sins?
She gazed up at him, that little monster tempting him, he who had nothing left to steal. Nothing—but hope for the future. The Unicorn recoiled away from her and put a hand to his face. He shuddered, and Dame Ushar moved in front of Mrsha, for what good it would do, because a real expression of wrath clouded his face. Then he drew his sword.
“This place is damned. And so am I. But I’ve been damned for centuries, and a dead man, too. Open that door, and I have no more excuses. It’s all been damned new ever since that Gnoll [Bartender] served me a glass of Rxlvn.”
Mrsha had no idea what he was referencing, but she saw a wild streak enter the Unicorn’s gaze, and she didn’t hesitate. The girl thrust a root into the door.
Be careful. The trap activates the Fire Elemental the moment you—
Too late. The Unicorn leapt through the door, and Mrsha saw him land in the hallway and cursed silently. She nearly went in after him; Ushar pulled her back.
“No, Miss Mrsha!”
Wait, wait, stop! The door’s trapped! It leads you to a—
The Unicorn touched the door, vanished, and Mrsha gulped. A second later, he popped back into place.
“Teleportation trick. Nice. Whoever made it never fought a real [Druid] who can wyldwalk.”
He flung the door open. The Unicorn sauntered into the room. He approached the bag of hodling and reverentially stopped before it. He spoke, a whisper, as Mrsha and Ushar watched.
“Not two to raise a generation of new Dragons like those poor idiots in the Walled Cities. Just to not be alone. You’re alive in there. You were already born; I won’t make you wait forever or be killed for some [Mage]’s magic. You are the last children of the old forests, and I will at least let you see this world.”
So saying, he reached into the bag of holding, grabbing the wand, and gently placed it in his bag of holding. Instantly—a burning shape began to coalesce out of the air.
“Intruder. You are trespassing in the personal sanctuary of Warmage Thresk. Identify yours—”
The Fire Elemental began and stopped. It was a roaring bonfire of flames, a being of pure infernos whose ‘face’ was multicolored fire. It glanced down at its chest.
Taletevirion’s sword was piercing through its magical gemstone heart. The Unicorn didn’t watch the Fire Elemental as it vanished with a feeble cry.
“Not a real elemental. Artificial one. Add it to my list of sins.”
