Only, it was. She’d asked for a world exactly like her own. She’d asked for Zel…but this was a side of him she had never known. The girl realized it was like everyone else in her life. She’d grown up knowing Relc as the big, kind guy until the Golden Triangle scam, and she’d seen him at his lowest. She’d watched Pisces evolve from the hurt [Necromancer] lashing out after Montressa and the others jumped him to the silly hero who fought Adult Crelers to the man who’d come back after Chandrar to…
Just like Erin. Just like everyone—she had never seen this side of Zel, because she’d been too young.
And this hurt almost worst of all. Because when Zel turned, he had a sneer on his lips.
“Mourned as a hero. Me. The Walled Cities…no, I can see it. When I’m dead, finally dead, they’ll panic. Their weapon against the Antinium will no longer be there, and Liscor’s army has no more Sserys. What, do I have a statue?”
In Liscor. And other places. You have one in Shivertail Plaza. They renamed it after you.
Another laugh. Too bitter. The Drake’s tail lashed across the carpet.
“A statue. Liscor was always best to us. Sserys has no damn statue. Not in Manus, which he saved, nor in most cities. Neither do I. I never wanted them—but Sserys deserved them. A hero. They have the gall to call me that?”
He swept the maps from the table, and Mrsha flinched as they fluttered past her.
But you are one. The Drakes know how important you are—
Zel spun and roared at her.
“Then why am I here alone?”
The girl flinched backwards. The [General] was wide-eyed. He slammed the goblet down and ripped a map out of the case Magnolia had given him. Zel spread the map out over the table, stabbing his claw into the Walled Cities in the south.
“Where is my backup? Where are my adjutants, like the ones Ilvriss has? Where are my Wyvern Riders flying in from Manus, my secret [Infiltrators] from Pallass? Fire support from Fissival, gold from Salazsar? Don’t tell me they can’t reach me. Manus could have Wyverns at First Landing in under a week if they had to! None of them came to aid me in my final battle, did they?”
No…no, of course not. Mrsha would have remembered that. She was about to write how far it was; they were in Invrisil. But she hesitated, because she had seen Manus’ forces arriving in Liscor. She knew that Pallass had Wyvern Riders too.
But you came to help Magnolia.
“Yes. I did. Look what she gave me. The Heartflame Breastplate.”
He touched the Relic on his chest, and Mrsha realized he didn’t know how to activate it. She was about to tell him when Zel slashed a claw through the air.
“More than any of the Walled Cities ever gave me. No, that’s a lie. They armed me well, at first. I had an army at my beck and call. Support and accolades—it all vanished so fast. Look at me now, Mrsha. Look at the ‘hero of the Antinium Wars’. It doesn’t matter that I broke from the south. I had nothing left to lose. Magnolia Reinhart, my ‘enemy’, gave me a piece of Relic-class armor to wear. She apologized that she didn’t have the other pieces! Look at my armguards!”
He tore one of the braces of metal off his body and hurled it onto the ground. Mrsha stepped over to it and picked up the piece of steel. Good steel, padded on the inside, scratched to heck and back from battle with deeper cuts that had saved Zel from harder blows. She could see where it had been repaired, and she guessed a Skill of his enhanced the metal. But it was…wrong.
The steel was heavy. And it didn’t have that magical energy she could feel coming from the Heartflame Breastplate. Even Normen’s Demas Metal armor felt better than this. This was just…
Steel plate armor. The kind she expected Yvlon to be wearing as a Silver-rank adventurer. Maybe a tiny bit better, but…Zel was watching Mrsha.
“You are older. Don’t you get it? That [Necromancer], Pisces, did. Anyone with eyes does. Tell me what you see, Mrsha.”
A hero. She didn’t write that. Instead, Mrsha hesitantly wrote—
I know Ilvriss has fancy armor and a sword because he’s a rich Wall Lord. But you’re a [General]. Can’t you pay for better?
“What cities employ me well enough to do that? I took on work for the Trisstral Alliance because it was the right thing to do. If we’d beaten Salazsar’s army, we would have ransomed them. But even at my best, I never had enough gold to…this is the armor I can afford. It breaks so damn easily. I’m lucky I don’t use a weapon or I’d be repairing that, unless it were a Relic. The Walled Cities never cared for me. I’m just a troublemaker to them, as good as a traitor before I came here. They’re just afraid because I’m their secret weapon for the next Antinium Wars. Now I’m dead. Hah. That’s something. How are the Antinium in this future?”
She didn’t reply. The Drake was drinking deeper. He sat there and glanced up sharply. Then he saw her expression and seemed to realize who he was talking to. Zel hesitated—put his cup down, and turned away.
“—You’re still so young. Don’t mind me. Just—tell me more of what’s going on. Politics. You said something about the Meeting of Tribes?”
So she told him the rest. Zel stood, pacing around the tent, turning away people who wanted to meet with him, reading her abridged account of all that had gone down in Izril, then the world beyond. And he was not silent. When he heard about the magic stolen from the Gnolls, and the plot around Doombearers, he began swearing.
“Fissival. Always Fissival. Did they ever tell me…? I’ve met Fissival’s Three before. If they’re the same ones, they might have hinted at it. But they never trusted me as much as other Walled Cities. I have met Chieftain Xherw. He’d do anything for the good of Gnolls. I liked him. Now that explains that odd feeling I always got around him, as if the dice were always in his favor.”
What would you have done in that moment?
Mrsha hadn’t mentioned the ghost of Sserys. Zel was more like the [General] she remembered for a moment, and he sat, thinking out loud.
“Me? Tried to negotiate. Told Manus to stand down; joined the fighting on the side of Salazsar. Ilvriss attacking Fissival. I can actually see it. It would be a disaster, but I cannot imagine I’d take Manus’ side, or Fissival’s or Zeres’.”
Good. That was the [General] that she knew. Then Zel shook his head and took another drink of wine.
“And so they’ve lost another damn army each. Chaldion’s out of Pallass, and they’re about to fight across these New Lands?”
Other nations are settling there, and a big Dullahan army just landed, I think—
“Then it will be war. The Dullahans have always hated us since the days of the Dragon Wars. The Walled Cities will try to claim as much as they can. It’ll be damned war with them; Pallass will be in chaos without Chaldion. Who’s leading them? Duln? Duln’s a solid [General]. Not imaginative, but he’ll listen to…who’s the replacement? Esor.”
It’s not Duln. It’s General Edellein and—
Zel Shivertail leapt to his feet and kicked a chair into one of the tent’s walls. It bounced off the enchanted fabric. He began swearing, and Mrsha jumped, heart beating in her chest. It might have been the drink—he didn’t drink this hard in front of her. He was always kind to little Mrsha.
“—scale-rotted, coin-grubbing [Senators] and their shortsighted, shit-filled hoarding ways! Edellein? He’s no Thrissiam! He rose to power on the merits of his family name! I’d trust any of the others over him! Now I have to fix all of this?”
He turned and punched a fist through the canvas wall of the tent. Zel blinked—then yanked his hand out of the hole in the expensive fabric. He stared at the gap, then at Mrsha, and flinched away from her eyes.
“I—I’m sorry. I’m just thinking of what would have to be done. If I went with you.”
If I went with you. She realized he was considering it. Yet—Zel Shivertail just sat back down, staring at his boots.
“I can’t. I’m not high-level enough for this. I’m not the trusted [General] you think I am, Mrsha. Even if I ‘emerged from the dead’ now, I think they wouldn’t heed me.”
That doesn’t matter. I just want you. I want you to live, Zel.
He shook his head.
“And do what? Hide away in comfort while I know they’re making mistakes? Change my name? I’m not one of those [Actors]. No. I’d want to try and make a difference.”
The Drake saw her expression and almost smiled.
“Did it never occur to you what the dead would do? Do you think we’d just come back and live happily ever after? I almost think the cities would execute me for abandoning them for so long. Even if I could save them—and I can’t. I don’t…want to go with you, Mrsha. I could, but to what end?”
His statements astounded Mrsha. Not because she hadn’t heard them before; every person whom the Mrshas had talked to had the same reasons. But it was how Zel presented his struggle. He didn’t talk about the people he’d leave behind or the impossibility of leaving. Just what a new world had to offer him.
This was the first time she’d ever heard that. The Drake spoke as if he was considering going with Mrsha, as if leaving wasn’t the greatest struggle.
Like he had no reason to stay, but even less to go.
Zel. You said the Walled Cities let you down. You mean they didn’t give you enough money or support. Why? Because you wanted them to do things right? Or that you don’t want war with the north?
What would cause all this? Him not being favored politically? Mrsha could sort of see it; Zel had always been someone saying the Antinium were bad and everyone needed to work against them. But it didn’t quite make sense.
The Drake avoided Mrsha’s eyes.
“If you don’t know…I suppose they kept that quiet too. Don’t worry about it. Tell me more about…”
He tried to change the subject as the girl watched him, and she remembered things she’d overheard in The Wandering Inn. No one had ever explicitly told her these things, but she remembered a plot with Relc and Klbkch to bury Zel somewhere else.
With Sserys. Which had made sense to Mrsha at the time, because they were both heroes. And she’d heard…something about his reputation being bad. So bad that only Selys and Tekshia had been at his funeral.
A hated Drake for reasons no one ever explained to her. Ordinary Drakes and Gnolls thought Zel was the best. But—but—
When Sserys had possessed Erin Solstice’s body, hadn’t he said the same kind of thing? Valeterisa had once said that she and Sserys were sons and daughters of the walls that hadn’t been wanted.
Why would anyone say that of Sserys?
She knew the answer. It was in all the little things building up in her head. Most of all, it was Elirr and Hexel giving Mrsha a serious talk. Helping make that private beach house…it was Rose of all people.
Mrsha’s eyes opened wide when she saw it. Oh. Of course. She held up a card.
It’s because you’re a Turnscale, isn’t it, Zel? You and Sserys. That’s why.
The [General]’s read her message, and his eyes glowed faintly as they narrowed. Mrsha was afraid. Zel rose slowly and ponderously, shaking his head. She backed up.
“That’s just a word.”
I’m sorry. I just meant—
“It’s just a word. It shouldn’t define me. It’s one word, one accusation they never actually proved in court of law against my entire military career. Against decades of service opposing the Antinium. The same for Sserys. He saved us all in the First Antinium War. The entire south was being overrun except for one Drake and his mercenary army who turned the tide. He died too soon, but I wonder—if he’d lived—would they have turned their backs on him? They did to me. Because of that word.”
His huge hands crushed the silver goblet, and he balled it up as if it were paper and tossed it across the floor. It rolled to a stop, dripping wine, and Mrsha stared at it, then Zel.
So it’s true? You like other men? That’s…the big secret why the Walled Cities hate you?
He refused to answer. Even in this moment, even here, with the future calling, he wouldn’t say it. Perhaps—couldn’t. Instead, the Drake gazed past Mrsha.
“Sserys had his army. They loved him, regardless of who he was, because they were always that distant city of yokels and fools in Liscor. And they could see his talent oozing out of everything he did. Small wonder Liscor were still mercenaries, even under him. He was obvious. And I? I was just some officer in my city. I didn’t graduate from Manus; I wasn’t a great genius in combat. I just knew how to hold the line. When the Antinium came at me, I did.”
That was his famous defense of his city where he’d held the Antinium back and emerged as a hero. Zel continued speaking, like a corpse giving witness to his life.
“I didn’t even realize…and if I did, so what? I was a [Soldier]. It was war, and it didn’t matter. Until the [General] of Liscor just had to meet the [Soldier] who’d fought so damn hard. Then it was like being poisoned. I hated him at first. Because he was so…wrong. Wrong to everything I believed. Then? It was a damn war, and I thought we’d lose it until the end. Who cared?”
The little Gnoll girl stood there, listening as Zel’s eyes stared blankly ahead, and he almost smiled. Almost—but the ghost of it vanished.
“He died like a raging comet, trying to put an end to that threat forever. He was higher-level, the [Spear of the Drakes], who could have lined them up and made the Walled Cities work together. He left me behind. That bastard never could wait for reinforcements. And they thought I could replace him. That’s all they could talk about those first few years. I ‘just’ had to hit Level 50 and I’d have command of all their armies. They’d put everyone behind me and win the Second Antinium War, and I was all for it.”
His claws opened and closed, and the Drake’s face was blank.
“Then they spoke about the Gnolls, and I asked them why we couldn’t have peace. Some of the fools were angry—some took my side. They had plans for the north; I said the north had saved us and the Bloodfields were a disgrace. Some thought I was an idiot. But they were right behind me because I was here and Sserys was not. Chaldion of Pallass found me, that old monster, and I think he approved of me. Dragonspeaker Luciva had my back. So I lowered my guard and said the one thing I shouldn’t have. And everything—vanished.”
Zel spread his clawed hands apart.
“That dirty word. As if I were sick in the head. I could sympathize with Gnolls or Humans and it wouldn’t matter. Chaldion told me to disavow it. He said I could be anything else. Any other kind of monster and they’d need me enough for it not to matter. But not that. I was too proud.”
