“In hell.”
“Hellste.”
“Does it…hurt?”
No one was torturing the other Kevin as far as he could see, and Hell Kevin spread his arms and grinned.
“Nah. Apparently, the Goblin Kings think the torturers never got ‘installed’. There are some people called the Lucifen who keep trying to take command, but the Goblin Kings are sort of the top dogs around here. Even the really fucked up people can’t take them out. Those people are sort of…squished down below, in rivers. They’re super fucked up. The worst you can imagine. You learn to ignore them speaking to you.”
He glanced to the side and down, and the Kevin from the beach world imagined rivers of souls like some depictions he’d seen of hell.
“So that’s not great because we’re, like, sharing space with them, but aside from that, you just hang out and shoot the shit. Talk to everyone about what’s going on. Apparently, the Deadlands were like that, but you’d drift apart and lose focus. Here you’re just chilling. No food, no fun, but you can play chess or other games in your head. I was doing a roleplaying session with people to see how it worked. There’s even plays.”
“What the fuck.”
That summed up everything Kevin had to say about this. He was speaking to a ghost from hell in the middle of an empty palace. The only thing that didn’t make this a horror film was his counterpart’s jovial attitude.
“I know. But technically it’s ‘Hellste’. I didn’t choose the name. That’s straight from the Goblin Kings—”
“Wait, wait, wait. Back up a second. Goblin Kings. Like Velan the Kind. He butchered an entire continent of people. He’s a monster! You’re hanging out with him?”
Real Kevin held up a finger.
“Ah, right. Okay, let me explain. It’s not his fault. Hear me out! Velan’s chill. So are most of the Goblin Kings. Some are bastards, but what happens to each one is that when they become a Goblin King, bad shit happens. When they die, they come here as they really are. So Velan’s actually really nice, just like his name—wait, hold on, I just realized I’m talking to you—hey! Hey, I need a list of important stuff to tell myself!”
Kevin waved his arms and began screaming, and the frenzy of ghosts around the mirror grew even more intense. One of the Goblins reappeared, and Kevin stared at a weary-looking Goblin—
“Who’s that? Only he’s visible.”
“That? That’s Velan. You must be seeing the Goblin Kings.”
“One was tiny!”
“That was Sóve, the Island Queen. Okay, now listen. Uh, uh—”
The real Kevin was getting excited with all kinds of ideas and secrets to share from the lands of the dead. But the fake Kevin just sat, cross legged, and put his chin in his hands.
“Don’t bother. I’ll get the real Mrsha—no, wait, she’s vanished. I’ll get real Lyonette or someone to take notes. Don’t tell me. I’m gonna vanish or die.”
“Er—hold on, guys. Alternate Reality Me just said something really weird. What was that?”
Hell Kevin held up a hand and saw his counterpart just…sitting there. Despairing.
“I know I’m not real. Real Mrsha found me. She was trying to get me to replace—you. She told me I was dead, and I felt it, man. I’m from a future that’s better than hers. An imposter. I shouldn’t be here, but the Faerie Flowers breached all these doors. Not the flowers even; they grew roots and they can go through anything.”
“Waitwaitwait, roots? Those fucking—there are roots that can let you enter and exit alternate realities? We’re actually doing a multiverse arc?”
“Yep.”
It was refreshing to speak to someone that thought in the same way he did. That was something. Real Kevin wavered.
“Those roots—”
“Oh. Should I let you out?”
Fake Kevin stirred. That would be something. But this Kevin was clearly a ghost. Not exactly ideal. He began to stand, and Real Kevin shouted.
“No. Never. Keep those away from here at all costs! Understand?”
He was so intense that Fake Kevin recoiled.
“Why—?”
Real Kevin was casting around, clearly relieved this conversation was only audible to him. He lowered his voice.
“Sóve, I need everyone back. Back—listen to me. There are so many fucked up monsters in here that if they were unleashed, they’d destroy the world. Not just that. There’s this woman who kept trying to get in here. We got her good, but the Goblin Kings reckon she’s still alive. If she did enter, we’d all be dead, and there’s five more. None of them can be allowed to enter the lands of the living. But most of all—you’d let them out.”
Real Kevin’s eyes were wide, and he glanced around. Fake Kevin felt that prickling getting worse.
“Who?”
Real Kevin licked his lips.
“The Goblin Kings. They’re super chill except for—but that’s because they’re dead. I don’t know what happens if there was a way out. If all of them had a route straight outta hell, they could crack the fucking world in two, man. Don’t do it.”
That was the scariest warning he had received so far from his ghost trapped in hell, and Fake Kevin swallowed. However—he felt like in this scenario he had to be the more drastic Kevin here. He pointed back up the tunnel.
“Listen, I get that, dude. But did they—did they tell you what happened to Erin? You might have been, uh, shot before they described what Roshal did. Seems to me that if these Goblin Kings like you, and therefore like me, we could use dozens of Goblin Kings tearing shit up around here. Sometimes the world needs breaking, right?”
Maybe just one or two? Airdrop them on Roshal, the Blighted Kingdom, and, uh, Wistram? Flip a coin on Wistram. He was being facetious, but he thought there was a point…
Real Kevin stood there and shook his head. He opened his mouth, messed with his hair, then turned.
“—Okay. How about this? Hey, Sóve? Quick question?”
A blurry shape came forwards, unmistakably a regular-sized Goblin, visibly shorter than Kevin, barely four feet tall. Like the others, she was ‘clearer’ even in the fog. Fake Kevin heard a voice, and Real Kevin nodded.
“Yeah, just—you’re the Island Queen, the Goblin King who made the Isle of Goblins, right? A safe-haven, etcetera and so on. When you did that, literally raised an island from the sea and made it float and stuff, all the other nations tried to stop you. You—and I’m quoting here, ‘destroyed their fleets, their ships, and took their lives until they formed islands of the dead and turned the seas crimson’. Because they were attacking your people, your island. I get it. Do you…”
He swallowed and stopped.
“Do you regret that? Any of it? Any of the bloodshed?”
Regret. Not ‘would you do it again?’ or ‘was it right?’ or justified. Just…
Sóve peered at the fake Kevin, then grinned and spoke a single word. The Hell Kevin turned to his counterpart.
“She said—”
“Yeah, I heard. ‘No’.”
They both fell silent, and Fake Kevin decided that was an answer. Then he saw a blurred, green shape step over. A taller figure whispered, and the Kevin in hell stopped. His eyes lit up, and he turned.
“Velan said ‘yes’. There’s things they won’t tell me, but it’s like that, Kevin. We’re all dead down here. But if there were…”
If there were a door, then things would be different. The Fake Kevin nodded and dropped the idea. Or at least, put it under the same category as Antinium Crusade.
“Got it. Lips sealed. I didn’t see anyone else around here, and I’ll warn people. Anything else?”
“Uh—uh—I’ll download all of it to you. The big stuff, yeah, Sóve. Waitwaitwait—okay, don’t tell him too much about the you-know-whats or he’ll get struck by Halflings from the moon. Wait, is that a joke? That’s a joke, right…?”
It seemed like there was conflicting information, even in the lands of the dead. Real Kevin brushed at his hair distractedly, a bad habit from when he’d been trying to be a cool surfer dude, which was somewhat of a contradiction in terms. True wisdom was understanding all surfers were bums at heart.
“—Most important points. Erin’s supposed to know most of it. Goblins are chill, but Goblin Kings are as bad news as it gets. No one’s in eternal suffering here. People keep appearing who’ve died, good and bad. This is like—everyone’s here now the Deadlands are gone.”
“What about that mirror that seems to go to heaven? Damn, it’s all blurry behind you…”
Real Kevin actually craned his head in an attempt to see and turned.
“Hey, guys, does he mean Diotria…? Okay, the Lucifen are real excited. That’s apparently ‘heaven’; aside from people called Agelum and real good people, no one goes there. Okay, excuse me, some kind of people who have the right requirements.”
“Right. But there is a heaven…?”
“You should check. Ah! Aaaah! But there’s also heaven here! At least, we think it is! It’s floating over there past the bounds of our place. There’s a bunch of Antinium in it, and we keep communicating via sign language. Actually, they’ve begun drawing on the walls. They have tons of fun stuff.”
“…Antinium heaven.”
Fake Kevin slapped himself a few times. Then he nodded. There was a lot to catch both sides up on, but he took the moment to interrupt.
“Let me tell you what’s happened to me first. Then I’ll get Lyonette, okay?”
Real Kevin hesitated, but nodded. He listened as Fake Kevin told him everything he knew and what was going on. His face grew confused, troubled. Eventually, both sat and had a conversation at what felt like the end of both their worlds.
 
——
 
“I wish I had a beer. I wish we both had a beer.”
“That’d be nice.”
They could imagine it, sharing a cold one and just toasting each other in silence. Now, the Real Kevin understood what troubled his fake self so much. And despite all his hope, his levity and goodwill in death, his death did weigh on the Real Kevin.
“It was Roshal who shot me. The Emir Yazdil. Some of Roshal’s people turned up here. Lots of them, actually. Apparently, Fetohep blasted the entire city because he’s awesome like that. But one of them was Iert.”
“Who?”
“The Naga’s right hand. Real piece of work. He told me personally that the Naga thought I could make guns, and he wanted me dead, if he didn’t get me himself. Frankly…I’m glad it was death over capture. But I didn’t want to die.”
Kevin touched his chest. The other Kevin averted his eyes.
“Now Mrsha’s searching for replacements. I’m sorry. I think she thought I’d be you. We’re probably similar. But I’m—sorry.”
He was speaking to the one, the only Kevin there ever was or would be. And the ghost bowed his head and seemed as if he would have wept but for the other ghosts around him. Then his head came up, and he offered his other self a fake, pained smile. But he did smile.
“Sorry? What for? It’s not your fault. The world needs more Kevins, man. Antinium, Human—go for it. Get out there and make a bunch of guns and give them to the Goblins or something. Or maybe be smarter about it. But go on.”
He stood, beckoning Fake Kevin up, and the imposter raised a haggard head.
“What? Dude. Didn’t you hear me? I’m not you. I’m a fake.”
“You and I can finish each other’s sentences, you think like I do, and you’re alive. Go with Mrsha. Just—tell her I’m here as well, okay?”
The real Kevin’s smile flickered, but he brought it back with supreme force of will. He stuck up a thumb at his counterpart, and Fake Kevin stood there.
“You know I’m not you.”
Kevin’s eyes were shimmering, and he stood in Hellste, surrounded by the ghosts condemned to the worst fate—and Goblins.
“No, I don’t know that. You look like me, sound like me—even if you’re more depressed than Eeyore on cold medication—and you’re alive. So go on. Do something, dude. I give you my blessing.”
The real Kevin pressed his hands against a mirror, and his face was serious.
“I should have used my chances better. I didn’t take it seriously. I’d do it all different if I could. Believe me. I want to. I think about it, and I’m only glad…Imani’s not down here with me. They should have made sure she was dead. Go on. Be safe, but make something that will blow Roshal in half.”
He was rarely so intense as this. Kevin—Kevin from the beach world backed away a step.
“But—”
“If you keep saying you’re fake, I’ll climb out of hell and kick your ass, man. Sometimes, there are ways out. Don’t you get it? People have been summoned from hell before. There are stories; it used to happen more. People would communicate with the dead, summon ghosts—this is all a big game to them. They decided to eat everyone, and they got their asses handed to them, even though they won. This world is real, but it’s also a game, and we were summoned as the players!”
The real Kevin hammered on the mirror, and his voice rose with the whispering behind him. They sounded, faintly, like screams. The living Kevin backed away from the mirror, and his own voice haunted him.
“But it’s real. It’s real, and we should have taken it more seriously, just like Erin and Ryoka. It’s on you, man. Don’t lie and say we can’t do anything. That’s how we died, and I regret it. I regret not trying everything to be the person I wanted to be. I wanted to be a better person, and even if I couldn’t fight like Halrac, you don’t want to be down here and say ‘I have regrets’.”
His voice was roaring now, like the real hellfires of perdition that a younger Kevin had been taught was waiting for sinners when he was growing up. That terrifying voice and the flashing red lights nearly chased the living man away.
But then the wrathful voice changed. The red light shifted—and it was still red, but like the crimson of Goblin eyes. And the other Kevin said.
“I’m down here. But I am still here. And you know what? That’s just fine. Halrac’s here too, and I’m surrounded by heroes and interesting people. I’m still…here. So long as I’m here, I think I can wait a long time and not go crazy. Someday, maybe, they’ll open a door to Earth. And if they can and we don’t bomb each other—I hope someone becomes a [Necromancer] or [Medium]. So I can tell everyone I love what happened to me.”
He grinned, and for a second, he was standing right there. The flickering visions of flames left him, and his shifting figure became solid.
Then Kevin Hall was facing Kevin Hall, not a see-through specter, but a young man wearing a custom T-shirt with Solar Cycle’s logo hand-stitched on the front. There was a bit of oil and grease on the sides and his pants where he kept wiping his hands instead of a rag, and he had a bunch of mechanic’s tools on his belt.
