Now, he was walking. Walking in a circle that spiraled outwards from the middle of the tent. Ranting to the child who stood there, paralyzed.
“Accomplishments became other people’s. I never took a position in any Walled Cities, even the ones that liked me. I had my allies, but what did it matter? I wasn’t the one to unify them. The Second Antinium War? The entire world unified against the Goblin King, but they wouldn’t follow me. Afterwards, it was always the same. They need me, they need me, there is no one else to do my duty. But no one will take my hand. Ilvriss—hah—he doesn’t know. My dirty secret.”
Zel kicked the ball of silver away. Then he spun and pointed at Mrsha, voice rising.
“Now they’re in trouble again. They’ve been in trouble since I was a child, and I gave everything to them! Why did I leave the cities? Because I had nothing left to lose! Traitor to them? They were the traitors to me! My life has been like crawling over Adamantium razors. War was the easiest part of it! Now I have to come back from the grave to drag them out of the mess they’ve made again?”
At last, he stopped and saw her again. Shamefaced, Zel Shivertail peered down at his boots.
“That’s all my life has been. To be needed forever and never wanted. I’m…sorry, Mrsha. I couldn’t hold it in anymore.”
The girl swayed as he sat down on a chair that could barely support his weight. And she regretted it, coming here. Oh, yes.
She had never wanted to know this. Not this side of Zel. Knowing that he had died so angry, so resentful at the cities who had spurned him just for liking other men. All the regrets of the lonely, abandoned General of Izril.
Mrsha stumbled forwards and reached for his shoulder. She was still short, so she wrapped her arms around his side, as much of him as she could reach, and hugged him.
He seemed surprised by the hug, as if he expected her to run away as well. Zel’s clawed hands hovered, then patted her on the head, as he always had.
“I shouldn’t tell you this. What am I doing?”
He glanced at the hole in the tent, though the [Silence] spell was still active, and Mrsha gazed up at him as she held up a card.
I’m sorry. Drakes suck.
“It’s not just my people. It’s just the state of the world. It’s me. Sometimes, I wish there were nothing…wrong with me. Sserys would put me on the floor for saying that. But it’s how it feels. Everything would have been so much easier if I wasn’t—me.”
The [General] was staring at his claws again, and Mrsha shook her head fiercely.
They’re wrong. They’re all wrong! You haven’t met Rose, who’s silly, or—or Elirr and Hexel, or Saliss…
She knew they were all secrets, but not to Zel. Not to the lonely [General]. Zel’s head rose, and he gave her a blank expression of astonishment.
“Saliss of Lights is a turn…no. Who’s Elirr? I don’t know—anyone, Mrsha.”
No one? But there were communities and—Zel shook his head.
“I was a young officer when I found out who I was. Then, one of the most famous Drakes in the world. Even if there were—would I endanger them by walking into a room like that? Saliss. Hah. Small wonder. He was always…kind to me.”
He rubbed at his eyes and averted his gaze. Mrsha tugged at him.
It doesn’t matter. You can come with us, and we’ll all love you. I promise. If anyone hates you like they hate Numbtongue, I’ll hate them forever! You don’t have to be so alone.
“It does matter. It is the very definition of what I am, and I have refused to change. I could have been their hero, but I made my stand here. I bet my life that they would bend before I did over this—one—thing. Now, you tell me my bet was always in vain. But I am needed. I can’t do it.”
The weary Drake bowed his head. A snivelling Gnoll girl clung to him.
Please. The world was worse when you vanished.
That alone made him smile. A quiet, endlessly sad smile from someone who had lost everything—lost it all, Mrsha realized, before he had found that silly inn. And that made her weep all the harder, but he patted her head.
“It may be ridiculous to say, but the days in the inn, as aggravating and strange as they were, were enjoyable. But I can’t go with you, Mrsha. There’s nothing for me there. At least here I can make a stand. Withdraw into Invrisil. Magnolia Reinhart has more to offer me than you do. At least she’s…an ally. Perhaps in both senses. There’s no way she doesn’t know.”
He brushed at his eyes, and Mrsha sobbed. Because it was the lesson both Mrshas had learned again and again. These people would never leave. Why would they?
But you’re so miserable.
“You get used to it. Don’t shake your head. What’s misery, Mrsha? If you had to be miserable every day of your life, but it saved just one person—let alone a hundred, a thousand—wouldn’t you try? Call me a coward, but I’d rather stay in this fated world. Try to change it from where I am. What does the future hold? A grave for me and even more burdens. Nothing changes about who I am and what they are. Maybe someday.”
His eyes longed for that day he would never see. Mrsha clung to his arm and wrote desperately.
If there were something, anything in any world that would get you to go with me, what would it be?
She had all the small power in the world—was there anything? And there was. Zel Shivertail stopped. She heard him draw breath, saw the Heartflame Breastplate rise, and her head shot up. Then he glanced away.
“—No. That’s a terrible idea.”
Tell me. I can do it.
What would it be? Something impossible, no doubt. A welcome in Pallass. Edellein’s position. Or…Zel sat there and murmured.
“Sserys. That would make it all worth it.”
Oh. Of course. Mrsha backed up a step.
General Sserys?
A spark entered Zel’s eyes. He twisted around and gave Mrsha a smile, like someone addressing a daydream.
“Yes. Bring him to the future and I’ll go. That would make it worth it. Go and ask him.”
Me? She had only so many roots—yet Zel’s face came alive at the idea, and she hesitated. The girl backed up towards the center of the room, and Zel tilted his head. She had never said how she came in here, and he swore he saw her grab…something.
I…for you, I could try.
“Wait. I only meant—”
He rose and put out a claw to stop her, but Mrsha vanished. And Zel felt as if he heard a faint sound in the distance. Like a door closing.
 
——
 
The Drake blinked, and no time at all had passed, but suddenly Mrsha came tumbling back out of the air. It was the same Mrsha, only, she was radically different.
“What in the world…?”
She was covered with graffiti! There was ink all over her white fur, and someone had put what appeared to be a bowl of noodles over Mrsha’s head. She tore it off her, and Zel saw there was a huge, red mustache colored on the Gnoll’s fur.
He almost snorted until he realized how miserable she was. Mrsha blew some noodles out of her nose and held up a card.
Sserys sucks! He won’t come!
“What? You met him? But no time passed—”
Time had eminently passed, and Mrsha tried to wipe the ink off of her fur as Zel found a towel to clean her with. She was silently screaming with indignation.
I went to see him! But then he beat me up, drew on me, and told me I was stupid!
“Sserys. You went to see—?”
Another door! Him and his stupid army!
“He hit you?”
No, but he dunked me in water and tried to get me to show him where the root was and explain everything! Then he said he wouldn’t come. Then he said he’d draw on my butt!
Mrsha’s face fell, and she stared at the messy towel. She gazed up at Zel, and he had to cover a snort as she pulled on her kilt, exposing more doodles. The [General] turned away; an indignant Mrsha threw her towel at him and he had to take a card to read what she said.
Sserys is an asshat!
The [General] blinked, struck by the statement, and he slowly nodded.
“He wasn’t—kind to people he didn’t like. It’s true. So he said no.”
His heart sank; not that he’d taken his wild idea seriously, but the girl had. And she avoided Zel’s eyes.
I tried. I really did. He won’t come. He’s dumber than…Leon is. He wants to win in his world, then rally all of the south and invade our worlds. Actually, he’s exactly as dumb as Future Pawn.
“Future Pawn? What? That sounds like Sserys. You actually met him.”
A disbelieving smile was coming over Zel’s face, and he started to grow excited. That place Mrsha had vanished…he stared at it and thought he could make something else out.
What if you took me with you? Then I could talk to him. The adult Drake was about to say that when he realized Mrsha was avoiding his eyes. There was something else, something that Zel hadn’t considered, and when it occurred to him, his jubilation faded.
“Oh. I was there too. Of course I was.”
Fool. If it was another Sserys, he already had a Zel. He should have asked for a future where General Sserys of Liscor was alive and…single. Dead gods, what a monstrous thing to request. And what a miserable pair they might have made. Mrsha nodded at the floor.
I’m stupid too. I didn’t think of it. Sserys is going to attack the Antinium. Only this time, he’ll take you with him. Maybe you’ll die or win. He’s too stubborn to do anything else.
Zel Shivertail rocked back on his heels and closed his eyes. He retreated away from Mrsha, as he had almost never done, and crouched down. Then, at last, he could speak with a wobble in his voice.
“At least—we’ll succeed or die together. Thank you.”
When he glanced up, he realized how much he hurt her with that. Zel turned away.
He knew Magnolia Reinhart would be here soon, if not because of his strange actions, but to meet one last time. Zel whispered as he gazed at the crumpled maps of the south. All the petty cities, the six Walled Cities.
“It’s always been like this, Mrsha. The cities cry out for Dragons. Real ones, leaders they create, regardless of whether or not they’re worthy. They don’t understand that they don’t need any more. Even the ones they have.”
Mrsha’s head rose slowly, and she fixed her eyes on the General of Izril’s back. Zel Shivertail closed his eyes and breathed in and out. Behind him was that girl with her world of terrible burdens. She had nothing to offer him but more pain.
But she needed help. So that’s why you went. Not because you were paid or because you would receive anything. If they had nothing to offer you, that was how you knew they were in need.
Zel spun on his heel.
“…Okay. Brief me on the situation. Is there anything I can take?”
What?
Zel bent over and picked up his worn armguard. Silently, he put it on, and the scarred metal still seemed brighter than his heavy expression. Yet the Drake merely rolled his shoulders.
“For your world. For this…real world where I am needed.”
You’re coming? But you said—
His grim smile was so damned weary. There was no hope in it. She had just offered him hope and taken it away.
“I’m coming. It doesn’t feel real; I suppose you know that. However, I believed you when you told me I was dead. The facts are that makes me believe this other world is the ‘real’ one, and if I want to make anything better, I have to go. It sounds like I won’t make a difference in this world even by my death. Besides—”
He glanced around the war tent and shook his head.
“—It’s not like I’m leaving much behind.”
No comrades. No dear friends. No allies greater than Magnolia or Ilvriss. Mrsha found herself asking the questions that should have come up.
But what about this world’s people? You have people in the inn. Selys. And…
She didn’t know anyone else. Zel spread his arms and shrugged.
“From what you’ve told me, it would have been better if we retreated at Invrisil. My death against the Goblin Lord may have foiled his army, but Tyrion Veltras was always able to overwhelm him. As for Selys…”
He paused and rubbed his face.
“—Is there a Selys, still, in your world?”
Yes. But Tekshia passed away.
Zel’s face crumpled up slightly. He closed his eyes, took a deep breath, and like a man taking a wound, kept moving, circulating the tent and picking up the few items he possessed.
“I would have liked to say something to her. A letter. I’ll write a letter. I owe Magnolia that. Though I can’t tell if she’ll send my words to Liscor or [Assassins]…”
He found an inkpot and paper, and then Mrsha realized he was serious. There truly was nothing holding the [General] back. To him, one world was as good as any other.
Or just as bleak. Her eyes were stinging. The girl gazed upon Zel’s heavy shoulders and realized that of course he was coming. The world needed him. So he would go. She saw those shoulders, which had relaxed in despair and grief and honest fury for the first time since she’d ever known him, rise once more. Zel glanced over his shoulder and grinned at her.
“Well? Aren’t you going to smile for me? Or don’t they do that in the future as well? And where is Erin? I would have thought she’d be the one stealing people from their fates.”
To his surprise, Mrsha did smile then. Mrsha du Marquin, Roots Mrsha, stood up suddenly and seemed to relax in great relief. Her lips curled upwards, and she wrote in the air with her wand.
Erin’s busy. It’s just me. I came to each and every world like this, Zel. You’re the only person who would come. And I see it now. My true choice.
She took a step backwards, and he tilted his head, bemused.
“What choice? Sserys or me?”
No. The girl shook her head, and her eyes were infinitely proud. Her wand flicked through the air, like someone casting a spell.
Mrsha and I were always selfish in this. We knew it. We brought misery and tried to steal happiness from these many worlds to fill our own. We did not consider the lives and feelings of those we stole, because we were mad with grief and the desire to hold our ghosts again. Truly, I am Orpheus. Erin was right. Or perhaps I’m Hamlet.
She held up her paws and stopped, inspecting her fingers, as if searching for the drops of blood. Zel just scratched at his head.
“More plays from Erin? Everyone is selfish, Mrsha.”
Including you?
It was such a ridiculous statement to hear from the Drake. Zel chuckled.
“If I were not so selfish, I would have forsworn loving Sserys. I’d have been that perfect leader and compromised what I wanted for the future for the betterment of Drakes. You’re allowed to want everything, Mrsha. It’s just—the cost that you have to calculate. You send [Soldiers] forwards, and it’s so easy on paper, giving orders. But if you’re going with them, or you have to look them in the eyes afterwards…that’s leadership.”
