The younger girl almost exploded into a sunburst of indignation and confusion. She peered around Califor at the other young woman, and the other Nanette waved at her, awkward. Young Nanette rubbed her chin with her fingers, and it was a sign she was Califor’s daughter; she began to think.
After about half a minute of silence, the young Nanette spoke in a crafty voice.
“Miss Califor, do you remember what we ate last week for lunch on Lundas?”
“No. I rather imagine it was whatever we had in our bag of holding.”
The girl’s face fell. There was a chortling sound—young Nanette stared at older Nanette, then pointed accusatorily.
“You don’t have a hat. And you’re filled with…sadness. And joy. And…”
Her voice wobbled uncertainly, and the older Nanette flinched away. She had no hat to hide her face, so Califor’s descended and covered her expression.
“It is unkind to point out such things, even to other [Witches], Nanette. Remember that. If a [Witch] has no hat, there is always a reason. Usually, it’s that the wind has blown it off her head.”
Both girls stared at her. The older [Witch] walked on. The young Nanette hesitated as the older one felt the hat on her head. Then the young Nanette stabbed a finger forwards.
“If you’re…if this is…what’s my favorite food?”
The older girl blinked at her.
“Honey drizzled on apples?”
“Hmf! What’s—what hair color did I want to have but I wasn’t allowed to?”
“Blue.”
Califor muttered under her breath.
“Because it would have looked ridiculous. Blue hair along with blue robes does not match, Nanette.”
“I could have made it look good!”
The younger Nanette insisted, while the older one, treacherously, shook her head along with Califor. The two Nanettes exchanged glances. The younger Nanette turned away first.
They walked on, now passing by an entire burnt forest. Califor tsked when she saw it.
“This entire land will starve come winter. When we return with [Witches], it will be with craft and resource, Nanette. The Unseen Empire will need [Witches] as surely as we need them.”
This time, the older Nanette broke in with a timid voice.
“It won’t be all that bad. Laken’s people starved once before. It would be more important to send food…elsewhere. Many people will come to him—I imagine. But farther-flung villages will starve, especially if worse happens.”
The younger Nanette blinked in outrage at this sacrilege: contradicting Califor. She waited for the older girl to get upbraided, but Califor just glanced down.
“Interesting. Those Drakes hit a number of lands, but they were nobles’ lands. It tends to miss commonfolk, who might see taxes rise and have goods levied, but you speak as if outright famine will beset places. What would cause that?”
The young woman hesitated. She fiddled with Califor’s hat, then whispered.
“Plague. More arson. And people buying up food and goods and moving southwards. Towards…new lands.”
“That’s an awful lot of predictions for someone who doesn’t know the future!”
The younger Nanette blustered, and Califor patted her on the head.
“It would be. If someone didn’t know the future.”
That stumped the girl so much that she kept her mouth open until she swallowed a fly. Then she hacked and spluttered and turned red until Califor slapped her back.
“Lunch. Let’s picnic somewhere out of the sun, but with an eye for hungry monsters about. Help me find a good place.”
The two girls searched around automatically, and both pointed towards a bluff of stone that wasn’t damaged by the fires as much as everywhere else. It was an eleven minute walk away, and they set out for it.
The older Nanette had been watching Califor all this while. At last, it seemed like she were unable to keep the words in, and they slipped out.
“D-don’t you have questions?”
Witch Califor kept walking, eyes on the horizon. She spoke, seemingly to herself, as the younger Nanette listened in.
“I rather suspect you’ll tell me. Wait. Stop. Look there. In the forest.”
She’d spotted something, and all three witches halted and peered into the burnt forest. What they saw were some glowing spots on the ground.
“Embers?”
The older Nanette hesitated, but the younger one clapped her hands together.
“Oh! Oh! Is it magicore? Fire magicore? That’s valuable! We should scoop it up in a bottle!”
Califor shaded her eyes.
“No, I think they’re Flarespot Shrooms. They’ll go very well in a sandwich or pottage, if we have enough. Come on, let’s harvest them.”
She trooped forwards, and sure enough, they saw magical mushrooms growing after the wildfires. They did indeed have glowing red spots on the caps.
“Careful. Use that sickle, not your hands, Nanette. And you…older Nanette. Take this.”
Califor handed the older girl a sickle and, bare-handed, picked a few mushrooms. The hot little toadstools went in a basket, but they nearly ignited the wicker.
“Should we spell the basket against fire…?”
The younger Nanette eyed the smoking basket dubiously, but the older one shook her head.
“What if we put some of the dead leaves and mud on the basket’s walls? It’ll keep them long enough to make a meal. ‘Wasting magic when hand will do is [Wizard]’s work.’”
The comment drew a pleased smile from Califor, and she nodded. The two Nanettes, awkwardly at first, began to gather up some mud by digging at it with a rock. They did the exact same thing at times and would spring apart, but sometimes the older one would take a different path from the younger and they would be surprised again.
Soon, the basket was lined with mud, and they were putting clean leaves on the bottom to contain the mushrooms when they were attacked.
A snuffling sound, and an ash-black boar trotted into view. Califor spun around.
“Sootboar. Stay calm, Nanette.”
The youngest [Witch] had frozen with wide-eyed terror when the big boar appeared. He had sharp tusks and was pawing the ground aggressively.
He wanted the mushrooms. The girl was right between him and the pile of them on the ground. It was the older Nanette who moved.
She pulled the younger girl away from the mushrooms and backed up slowly. She never took her eyes from the boar and made no sudden moves. Its head wavered from the mushrooms to the two girls. Then, it seemed not to like something about them and lowered its head and pawed the ground. It began to lumber towards the two girls, and the older Nanette reacted.
“Stop!”
She hurled something at the boar, and there was an explosion of light. A crackling sound and a squeal—the boar leapt sideways, and a little, round stone dropped to the ground. A jolt of lightning had emanated from it.
The boar’s reaction was to back off, but it then activated a magical power: its black hide blended in with the dark forest background, and it pawed the ground again, signalling it was going to attack from the shadows it had become.
This time, it was Califor who acted. She’d snuck up on the boar from the side, and as it lowered its head to charge, she brought her hands together and clapped right next to its head.
It was one of the loudest sounds the two girls had ever heard. The boar lurched away in alarm, squealing. It lowered its head, and Califor clapped again. She stepped quickly, forcing the boar to circle; it tossed its head at her, but she repeated the ear-splitting sound, then put two fingers in her mouth and whistled.
The loud, aggravating noises and the way the woman was pursuing the boar changed its aggression into uncertainty. It backed off a few steps, and Califor kept whistling, making the pitch warble, then dropping it low and ominous.
The older and younger Nanettes waved another stone and a wand, and flashes of light sealed the deal. The Sootboar took off running.
The [Witches] gazed at each other, then went back to their mushrooms.
 
——
 
Six minutes later, Califor debriefed them on the little side venture.
“What made you decide to use light to scare the boar away? It might have kept fighting.”
The older Nanette beat the younger one to her reasoning.
“Well, I thought we could let it take the mushrooms and leave, but it must have thought we were dangerous, so I threw that stone at it. Then, when it tried to hide, I thought it liked darkness. So light might make it think it was hunted.”
Califor made an approving sound.
“Sootboars love the aftermath of flames, but they are not fireproof. They hide in darkness, so light does scare them. It was a good thought. And if it had charged after all?”
“I’d have tossed more of my Elemental Stones at them. I have a lot. I would have used my whistle of friendship, but I rather thought we’d have to give it the mushrooms if we didn’t chase it off. And I’m not that generous.”
That drew a smile from Califor, and the younger Nanette, holding the basket, bounced forwards.
“What stones? Let me see!”
Nothing would do but the older Nanette show them her treasures, like the skeleton key, Stones of the Elements, and the whistle that signalled friendship to animals. Califor frowned.
“The whistle is from Gaarh Marsh. Not a bad one, either…I had something like that when I was younger myself. It wears out, but it’ll be years, and I lost the other one before I could take it to a [Shaman]. Those stones are magically powerful.”
“An Archmage of Wistram made them. A real Archmage.”
“Hm. The key’s the most valuable of the lot. Death magic and refined. With it, you could pick any door in the world.”
“It’s not as simple as just inserting it in a lock, though. I’ve had to practice.”
The older Nanette confessed, and Califor raised her brows.
“Well, of course. If it were perfect, everyone would have used it. But with it, I daresay even magical locks might open for you. Those stones might make starting a fire for some soup easy. You do that; Nanette, you see what we have for a soup or pottage. That barley and some meat, I think. I’ll see to the seasoning.”
They got to work with practice, and soon, a thick and flavorful pottage was simmering in the stove. Califor had the older Nanette reduce the intensity of the fire her stones made.
“I haven’t cooked with them often, but Flarespot Shrooms generate their own heat. Hm. Actually, I have a better notion. Let’s fry them up in a pan before they go in the soup. Get a bit of butter out, Nanette.”
The crispy mushrooms went in as big chunks in the soup; Califor carefully diced them up across the spots to remove the heat effect, and the magical pottage was simmering as they all sat there.
Only then did the older Nanette draw her legs up to her chin and stare at the pot.
“You’ve been awfully kind to a stranger, Witch Califor. I could be anyone or anything.”
The Great Witch snorted, amused.
“Unlikely.”
“I could! You don’t know what, or who, I am.”
The older Nanette insisted with a touch of annoyance, and she had forgotten Califor, in some ways, because the [Witch]’s brow arced.
“If I had to guess, I would wager you’re a Nanette from the future. Only a year or so. You talked of the future authoritatively. Something terrible has happened to me, I suspect, or you’d have your hat and wouldn’t have gone to hold my hand. I think someone has cared for you, since you have gifts and clothing and magical items, but they haven’t much sense of fashion or give you too much liberty. And I don’t think you’re some cunning monster or illusion or trick. After all—”
Her eyes glinted in pride and understanding of herself, and Califor lifted her hat from the older Nanette’s face and cupped the girl’s cheeks with her hands.
“I know my own daughter.”
Nanette Weishart’s eyes filled with tears. She tried to speak and swallowed, and then tried again—then her nose began to run. Califor just held her, gently, putting her arms on Nanette’s shoulders, and the girl threw her arms around Califor. She began sobbing and crying, and a hand patted her gently on the head. Not just for this moment, for the ability to touch a memory, to be here—but for the proof of it all that she had known but wanted to be reminded of, as every child did now and then.
Nanette truly did have a wonderful mother.
 
——
 
After a while, Nanette realized that her younger self was holding out a blue handkerchief. The girl blotted at her older self’s face timidly, and Nanette took it and blew her nose. Califor sat back and spoke.
“The pottage is ready. Let’s eat.”
It was surreal. She was so calm and collected, and she didn’t push—that was the aggravating thing. Nanette had never known what it was like to be on the other end of Witch Califor’s mind.
“Sh-shouldn’t you be asking what happened? If I should be here…? I didn’t know if I should have come, myself.”
Nanette sniffed as she took a bowl of pottage. Califor raised an eyebrow again as she took an experimental bite.
“It’s too hot for you, Nanette. Younger Nanette. As to your question, have you interrupted things terribly by coming?”
“N-no. But surely…aren’t you going to make me go?”
Califor glanced at her Nanette, and the girl was wide-eyed with the mystery of it all. The Great Witch turned to older Nanette.
“Do you think you should go?”
“I—I don’t know. There are things happening in my world. Terrible and important, but I couldn’t stay. I know I should have helped. There’s this girl who’s like my sister, and she surely needs my help if I can give it. But I had to come here. I should go. Yes. But how can I?”
The witch almost wept again, and Califor’s eyes sharpened. She put her bowl down and half-rose.
“Then, perhaps, do you think we should go?”
When the older Nanette blinked, Califor gestured.
“With you.”
When both Nanettes sat there, open-mouthed, the [Witch] grimaced.
“Honestly. What did you expect I would do? If I should meet another daughter…one is a handful enough, two might be easier in some ways. Three, with this other mystery child? But you are no [Witch] full grown. If I am needed, let’s go. Unless, of course, there are rules about how many can leave.”
“I—there are—but I could get another—just like that? This is your world! What about that and me and—I’m not your Nanette. You’re not my Califor! I didn’t think this would happen!”
The girl was in tears again, and Califor strode over.
“Of course not. I am a Califor, and if the other one is anything like me, I expect she’d have no doubt I’d go where I am needed. Nanette, my—no. Younger Nanette? We may need new names. But I am a wandering [Witch]. My apprentice, my daughter, is all that I need, truly need. If it is dangerous, I should know about it. But show me, at least. Or stay.”
She knelt in front of the blubbering girl—both of them, because one of the Nanettes was sympathy crying—and lifted her great hat, filled with magic and wisdom and determination.
