It sounded…better than anything he had right now. Better than how she talked about her world. The [General] knelt, searching Mrsha’s eyes like he would gauge the heart of a new [Soldier] entering battle. Was she lying or would she refuse to break when the battle joined?
Her brown eyes were clear, and she stood proudly.
“You promise you won’t abandon me?”
I swear it.
Zel let out a huge breath. He sat down, cross legged, then decided he could stand. Just for a second.
“Then tell me, because I’m a [General] and I hate being left out of plans.”
So she got up, pretended to whisper in his earhole, and put a card right under the Drake’s snout. He blinked, read, and laughed.
“That’s silly. I like it. But what about your…the real world?”
The guilt he felt was mirrored on her face, and Mrsha stepped back again.
I reckon I’ll just let them cheat. One second, Zel.
She didn’t want him going with her, he realized, or she feared he’d be swept up in the chaos and never leave. Mrsha was right. The Drake shut his eyes, then nodded.
“One second. Then I’m coming after you.”
So, Mrsha swung herself back through the air and vanished with a smile. Zel Shivertail stood there, waiting, watching that root hanging in the air. He swore he heard a muffled thunking from just beyond, like someone swinging something into the air. Like, perhaps, someone trying to shut a door with something in the way.
Then he heard a voice from his world, just beyond the tent flap. His heart leapt in his chest as the familiar voice spoke.
“General Shivertail? Is everything well?”
Magnolia Reinhart. Zel glanced around the destroyed tent and wondered how he’d explain this. A fit of madness? He himself questioned if this was a mental breakdown. He half-turned, wavering, about to call out, and thinking if this vision of the future were just an illusion.
Then he heard it. That sound louder than everything. The [General] of Izril laughed, and he spun. Waiting for his moment.
SLAM.
 
——
 
Outside the door, a girl slid to the ground as the damn door finally shut on the root. She was almost positive it hadn’t severed the root. But just in case…
Running out of roots.
Eh. They’d had eighteen. More than enough to finish this. Then Mrsha wept for the one person she could not, would not take. Not to this world.
After a while, she rose to finish this folly. But it would be her triumph instead. She swore it, and left to find the last person she needed, the one who could, perhaps, make all this right.
Taletevirion for extra points. But the final piece of this puzzle she needed was, obviously—
Kevin.
 
——
 
They marched back to the burnt trees where the gate to older Nanette’s world existed, and Califor bade the younger Nanette prepare a cauldron. To make potions.
This surprised both Nanettes, but the younger one dutifully emptied water flasks into a smaller cauldron and chopped up Sage’s Grass—Califor Weishart gave her a list of duties.
“A magical draught may well make the difference if we encounter difficulties. Now is not the time for stinginess; put all the craft you have in the brews. I will tell you if you err.”
While the younger Nanette sweated over the pot, the older Nanette stood there, wondering if she should help; she had no hat. She could still cast magic, but she doubted it would be any good. To her surprise, Califor stood next to her.
Califor was shorter. No…Nanette was taller. However, not seeing her mother as a giant, but merely ‘tall’ felt wrong.
Califor seemed as bemused by the growth and patted Nanette on the head.
“Here I thought you’d be adorably short forever. I cannot imagine what will become of you if you reach my height. Or taller.”
“Taller?”
Califor was complimenting her? ‘Adorably’? It was a side of her mother Nanette had never known. Because of course, she had come back older, if not wiser.
This was the bittersweet power of the [Palace of Fates]. This was what it had been made for. To tell you all you wished to know. The regrets and heartache were your fault.
The roots just amplified the power. Califor murmured and shook her head.
“Our lineage, such as it is, comes from tall women. Northerners of Terandria, actually. The people of Golaen are all this tall—or even more ridiculous.”
“I’m from Golaen?”
Nanette squeaked. Califor grimaced.
“I am, and not related to the thickest bloodlines that intermarried with the half-Giants. One of the border-towns was where I grew up. I was considered average-height; short in the capital. Someday, you should visit. I would have taken you, but Terandria is not kind to [Witches].”
“You don’t fear anything.”
Nanette said that instinctively, and Califor made a faint sound.
“Hah.”
The young woman waited for anything else, and then their silence didn’t grow awkward—but Nanette felt peculiar. The chopchopchop sounds of her younger self working, the spicy tang of Sage’s Grass in the air, and the burnt charcoal…this was real. Beautiful. And then Califor spoke.
“Speak to me, witch to witch. Through that door, how dire are things?”
Witch to witch. Nanette chilled, and her heart felt like it would burst as Califor glanced at her. She tried to reply. Tried not to stutter, and she had an image of herself shouting at Lyonette. The young woman colored.
“I’m not a [Witch], Mother. I put my hat away after you…died. I’ve been more like a child these last few months. A fool.”
She remembered how she’d shouted at Mrsha after the other [Witches] had lectured her. And the girl had been dealing with this. Califor raised one eyebrow.
“Oh? Then you’re a bit older for admitting it. But you are a witch, hat or not. I would hope there would be a tiny bit of you that would always be a witch, even if you gave up your class. I did wonder, you know, whether I was doing you a disservice by teaching you the only class I knew. I feel the same right now.”
“What? But this is everything to me. I love it! I still do. It’s just that my hat was so heavy—”
Nanette tried to defend her mother from the guilty expression on Califor’s face, but the [Witch] just shook her head.
“I am not always correct, and with you, I fear every mistake I made. I nearly ran when I realized Belavierr would be there, Nanette. Not for myself; for you. My duty warred with my desire to keep you safe.”
In another world, Belavierr killed you with it. Nanette’s eyes stung, but she refused to weep. Not here. Not now. She jutted her chin out.
“I have never thought you let me down in any way, Witch Califor! As an apprentice or as your daughter!”
“Even for dying?”
—Dead gods, but she’d forgotten how her mother was so fast. Nanette was tongue-tied, and Califor glanced at the pot.
“Less Sage’s Grass in that portion, Nanette. Power is wasted if not used entirely! So. Witch to witch. How dire is it? Because I do not want to take my—younger Nanette into danger. Not so soon. Would it be better if you stayed here?”
And now they came to it. Nanette clenched her hands together, desperate.
“It is dangerous. Horrible! There’s an Old One Titan running about, and it’s not even the worst of what’s going on! Erin is missing—”
“Who?”
Califor didn’t even know. Nanette tried to list out the events that the [Witch] should know, and Califor’s face grew more dour with each new one. She exhaled after Nanette paused to think if she’d missed a problem.
“Interesting times. What a curse upon people’s lives they are. You should stay here. Stay and join me. Two daughters and a roaming [Witch]. It is not the safest, but it is better than that.”
She lifted an arm, indicating the open road and the world beyond. Nothing in sight but an adventure past the trees, under the blue skies and warm sun.
It was so tempting. Nanette had listened to the Painted Antinium’s philosophies of heaven, and if there ever was one…she glanced at her mother, and it called to her. Then the Great Witch swept a robed arm, and the blue cloth made the invitation vanish.
She hugged Nanette, enfolding her in a soft embrace, and Nanette stopped thinking. Califor murmured to her.
“Forgive me. It’s unworthy of me to even ask. If you are my daughter—this sister of yours, these people—you can’t abandon them, can you? But I am afraid for the younger Nanette. For you.”
She truly was. Mortal, ordinary fear stared out of Califor’s eyes, and that was what could lay the famous Califor Weishart low. The same thing as anyone else. Nanette blinked at her.
“But you’re going to come with me?”
“I cannot leave you behind. What mother could? I just cannot promise I will remain where it is dangerous.”
“The Wandering Inn’s not that dangerous normally—”
The older woman found a rock and briskly retied her boots. A sure sign she was preparing for trouble; loose boots could trip you up when you needed to run or kick the hell out of something. You started prep for trouble with your boots. Nanette did the same thing as Califor spoke.
“Hah. I recognize places and people who draw events to them. I am one of them. I used to be even worse, you know. I grew cautious when I had you; it doesn’t matter whether the place is filled with mana, luck, or at a crossroads or not. It is about intention and willingness, and—when you have seen them enough times, you will recognize places that draw in events. As if they were waiting for you to show up.”
“I’ve seen The Adventurer’s Haven. It’s not like that, I think…”
Califor shot Nanette a surprised grin.
“Larracel’s Haven? No, that’s not a place that invites chaos. Look at Larracel herself. She doesn’t want it, even for her beloved family. But that [Innkeeper] sounds much like Ryoka Griffin, who we just met.”
“Oh! I get it. A kind of…Ryoka’s not quite a busybody, but she thinks she matters even if she has no idea what’s happening. So everywhere she goes everyone gets caught up in her windiness.”
“Exactly. It sounds as if this place also actually matters. Well, there’s nothing for it.”
She was coming. Nanette was lightheaded. Califor strode over to the pot of bubbling potion and began to help younger Nanette. After a moment, they called her over, and the older girl stood there.
But I can’t lose you twice.
Nanette didn’t say it out loud, yet Califor seemed to glance up. Her eyebrows quirked in a silent reply.
I don’t intend to die twice.
The fear remained. Nanette twisted her hands in the hem of her shirt and glanced over her shoulder to the door, hidden in the forest of burnt trees.
“Miss Califor? The potion’s ready, I think. Can you add magic now?”
A timid young voice interrupted the conversation, and both witches turned. Almost, they’d forgotten little Nanette scurrying around and tending to the cauldron.
“So it is. Good work, Nanette.”
Califor eyed the pot and strode over to the mixture, which had turned a promising shade of bright purple with a weird line of glowing white mixed in. She bent over the pot, and the younger Nanette stepped back.
She hesitated, then came to stand next to her older self. They weren’t that far apart. A few months. But the differences between them stood out when they regarded each other.
One was a cute little [Witch] with her blue boots and robes and hat. She had round cheeks, an earnest expression, and just seemed…young. Her craft was happiness.
The older Nanette had begun her puberty. She was taller and no longer had the trusting expression of someone who was sure the world would work out for the best. She also had no hat and had on red boots and her own self-styled clothing.
So…Cute Nanette and Older Nanette. Clearly, Cute Nanette’s glances of dismay made it clear she felt like the future might not be the improvement she thought it was. Her little face screwed up with thought, and the older Nanette knew exactly what she was doing.
 
“If you can’t say anything nice, think of something.”
—Nanette Weishart, 23 A.F.
 
That was the motto the little girl lived by, and she was really having a hard time, but she eventually came out with something.
“I’m ever so much taller in the future! That’s very nice, isn’t it?”
“Mm. It is nice.”
Neither one said a word. As they watched Califor sprinkling some more herbs into the cauldron and briskly chanting a spell, Older Nanette murmured.
“You’re allowed to be mad. No one expects you to be a goody two-boots [Witch] forever. I’m putting you and Miss Califor in danger. Say what you’re feeling.”
She was harsher than she intended to be. The young [Witch] bit her lip and scuffed at the floor, and Nanette felt like the older [Witch Apprentices] who had bullied her for being Califor’s apprentice despite not being that talented. She cleared her throat.
“Sorry. It’s me. I’m…doing this to you.”
“It’s alright.”
Cute Nanette’s voice wobbled, and her chin rose with determination. Older Nanette fixed her with a glower.
“It is not.”
“No, it is! I swear on my hat! I was listening when you and Miss Califor were talking, and I agreed with what she said, even if I wasn’t as clever with words. We should go with you.”
“You’re not mad I’m here? Bothering your mother, making you leave your world?”
The older witch was caustic, trying to get a rise out of the girl she knew she had been. But her memory was faulty. She gazed into those round, brown eyes, expecting a flash of the irritation or anger she expected, and only saw…earnestness.
More faith than an Antinium [Crusader], goodwill exceeding that of a dog, and the simple pleasure of a girl who liked to give people flowers because it put a smile on her face.
It scorched Older Nanette’s soul. Not just in self-hatred, but to realize what she’d lost. And that was the thing. The younger Nanette saw exactly what her older self had lost, and that knowledge aged her.
Determinedly, the younger girl put her hand out and took the older one’s, making both of them start. Cute Nanette whispered, standing on her tip-toes so they were more level.
“That’s exactly why it’s important. I don’t know what you’ve been through, but I know what I’m like. If I lost Miss Califor, I—I don’t know what I’d do.”
Her face screwed up with uncertainty and dread at the very thought. Young Nanette rushed on.
“—So we must go with you, even if it’s dangerous. It’s the right thing to do. I shan’t look at it like you stealing anything, but me gaining a big sister. Then everything can be better. Not perfect, but better. That’s the [Witch] I wish to be, and if I can’t help myself, then how can I help anyone?”
The Older Nanette stared at her younger self for a moment, and the younger girl gave her a bright smile, like a sunburst in the middle of a rainstorm.
