Gotta say, I’m not loving this. I need to figure out how to Cleanse my collected Spectres and use the resulting Heavenly Energy to fix my shattered Core, but I have no idea where to even begin. With Spectres and my gourds of Water Chi, I believe I have all the tools at my fingertips, but it’s the how that’s beyond me. Accomplishing things inside my Natal Palace was as easy as imagining it, but things aren’t so easy out in the real world. How do I affect things inside my shattered Core if I can’t even get in? Heaven knows I’ve tried. What am I supposed to do? Science it out? I’ve tried, and the only hypothesis I’ve proven is I. Don’t. Know. Science!

Maybe it’s time I gave religion a real shot...

Time passes and the battle drags on. After an hour of quiet meditation, Dastan joins the battle with Red One and Green One at his sides, and their combined presence bolsters the spirits of my stalwart soldiers for a little while longer, but spirit and determination can only go so far. Another hour passes, then two, but despite suffering significant casualties at the hands of the defenders and Alsantset’s mounted harassment out on the plains, the Defiled continue assaulting our position with indefatigable fury, setting foot on the battlements multiple times despite my people’s best efforts. With no other choice left to me, I arrange them to take short breaks in small shifts starting with Sahb, Camsul, Red Two, and Green Two, offering them food, water, and first aid while they rest their weary limbs. Four people doesn’t seem like much, but it’s one-sixth of our total forces, and the pressure redoubles on those left to defend. Ten minutes is hardly enough time to rest, but Sahb and the others head back into the fray to give Song and three others time to quench their thirst and patch their wounds.

Draining a waterskin dry, Song gasps for air and wipes her face without taking her eyes off the battle, wholly focused despite being thoroughly exhausted from the constant fighting. Offering her another waterskin, I smile and quip, “Bet you wish you stayed in camp with the others now, don’t you?” The smile dies on my lips as I note a gash on her bicep, hidden by layers of caked blood and viscera. Clean cloths, that’s what I need, something to wipe away the gore, dirt, and sweat, but I make do with a little water and the hem of my cloak. Hissing at the sight of the deep wound, I fumble for the needle and thread I should’ve already had waiting. Working on instinct, I set to stitching her wound as quick as I can, though my needlework leaves much to be desired if Song’s pained grimace is anything to go by. “Not an order or anything, but it’d be helpful if you spent a little effort on learning to Heal. I know you’ve got this fancy Runic Armour to keep you safe, but it offers no protection to your head or limbs.”

“Uhn.” Responding with a non-committal grunt, Song stoically accepts my advice and ministrations with little change in expression, though she might just be too tired to process it, so I leave off the commentary and finish patching her up before moving on to check the others and ultimately sending them back out to fight so a new batch can come back and rest. The cycle continues until everyone’s had a chance to rest, but there isn’t too much work for me to do. Having been with me for so long, most of Dastan’s retinue are good enough to use Panacea during battle, but I never shared the trick with my Death Corps guards. Still, their blackened steel armour has kept them more or less intact aside from an assortment of minor and not-so-minor scrapes and bruises, though I suspect the Abbot’s been Healing injuries wherever he can while hiding somewhere nearby.

I appreciate the effort, but I can’t help but wonder how he rationalizes it with his beliefs. Even though he’s against violence, he’s Healing soldiers while they commit acts of violence, albeit in self-defence, which in a way makes him at least partially responsible for the violence they inflict. A conundrum to be sure, but if he hasn’t noticed it, I’m not gonna bring it up.

Our good fortune soon runs out as Tarsov slips on a severed limb and takes a glancing blow to the skull, which renders him senseless as he crashes to the ground. With a scream of incoherent rage, Saida dispatches the offending Defiled with a boot to the face and stabs two others in quick succession, standing over the body of her fallen comrade and fighting off all comers to protect what might well be a corpse lying at her feet. Leaping into action, I charge forward cane first and stab at a Defiled face peeking over the battlements, but my feeble attack glances off the man’s bone-helmet and barely makes him flinch. Devilish grin widening as he pulls himself up, the Defiled tribesman rips the cane out of my hands and raises his axe to deliver the killing blow.

Saida’s sword materializes in his neck and his corpse drops lifelessly from the battlements, taking the thrown weapon with him. Left with only a single blade to cover too much area, she quickly falls into a dis-favourable situation and screams, “Get him out of here!” Reacting without thinking, I dive down to cradle Tarsov’s head while dragging him away to safety on my hands and knees, only making it a few centimetres before realizing that not only is he too heavy, but Saida might’ve been talking about me instead. In for a penny, in for a pound, so I continue dragging Tarsov with me despite seeing the white of his skull through the gaping head wound and not knowing if he’s dead or alive. Either way, the only way he survives is with a Healer’s attention, and leaving him at Saida’s feet might get both of them killed instead.

Hell, for all I know, Saida’s already dead and there’s a Defiled weapon hurtling down towards the back of my head.

Don’t look back. It’ll only slow you down. Eking out every ounce of strength I have from my gaunt, frail body, I drag him away from the parapets with no regards for my pain or exhaustion and continue even though it feels like my arm will tear off, but no matter how hard I try, my progress remains painfully slow. The others are too busy fighting to lend a hand, but it’s better this way. Division of labour and whatnot. I do what I can, leaving them to concentrate on what matters the most, keeping the Defiled off the wall and out of the fort. Not even halfway back, my lungs and muscles are already burning with effort, but I refuse to give up, dragging the comatose warrior back to safety mere inches at a time. Inwardly cursing with every movement, I thank the Mother it’s Tarsov here instead of the gargantuan Balta, or worse, one of the Death Corps in their heavy ass plate armour.

Still... How fucking wide is this fucking wall? I’ve been dragging this bastard forever now, and I still haven’t reached the end...

Strong hands lift me from the ground and pull me away to safety, only a pitiful few steps away but far enough that I would’ve collapsed before getting there on my own. Blinking in surprise as I look up at my benefactor, I see Masahige’s powdered face twisted in a grimace. “See to your man,” he screeches, pointing at Tarsov laying prone in the arms of another soldier, “And call the rest of your people back. You and yours have monopolized enough glory for yourself.” Turning away, he draws his sword and raises it high to address his soldiers, yelling, “Warriors of the Empire! Will you stand idle while slaves and traitors fight the Empire’s battle? Forwards to battle! To glory!”

Though Masahige remains rooted in place, his soldiers rush in to fill the gaps with a cheer while my people slink back, each and every one of them exhausted from their efforts as they slump down around me, and it is with a heavy heart I notice Saida being carried back by Kuang Biao. Unfortunately, I can only work on one person at a time and Tarsov is closer, which means Saida’s fate is in the hands of the Abbot and the Mother above for now. While my hands set to work tending Tarsov’s wounds, I can’t help but wonder why the Lieutenant stepped in now when my people were ready to crumble. I mean, I know Jixing doesn’t want Dastan and the others to die so quickly, since it’d mean I’d no longer have reason to be out here, but if Masahige had waited a little while longer, the Defiled might’ve killed a few of my people and broken through while I lay helpless on the floor, which was a reasonable enough death which I think they could’ve accepted.

Noticing my inquisitive sideways glances, Masahige sniffs and says, “Traitors and slaves they might be, but like you said earlier, it would be foolish to dispose of them so soon when they can still be of use in future battles.” Pursing his lips in conflicted indecision, he reluctantly adds, “If the Commander does not remove me from this assignment, then we will speak regarding future arrangements. The battlements will be better defended if your people are supported by my troops.”

...Did my struggle to save Tarsov win him over?

...

Probably not. If anything, I bet it was Dastan’s phenomenal display of Martial Strength. Let’s be honest here, even at my best, Dastan looked more like an Imperial Hero than I ever did, and that’s a fact.

If only my facial hair wasn’t so thin and patchy... I’d look pretty awesome with a beard...

Chapter Meme
