As a young man, Du Min Gyu had not been considered a peerless talent or prominent genius. In fact, his name didn’t become known among the populace until well into middle-age, for he spent the prime years of his youth as a solitary wanderer, moving from one city to the next ostensibly in search of fame and fortune, but really just being a puffed-up little shit. Even now, his cheeks burned with shame when he thought about how he ran away from home because his father refused to let him marry his childhood sweetheart. Worse, when he asked her to leave with him, she revealed her true colours and laughed in his face, because it was young master Du she wanted to marry, not some silly romantic of a vagabond.

Heartbroken and too embarrassed to return home, Min Gyu left Yantai to ‘broaden his horizons’, but in truth, he merely wandered about without aim or purpose. Five years later, he incidentally saved the life of a travelling young noble and took grave injury in the process, an event which earned him the gratitude of the boy’s family. Though his skills were lacking, they sponsored Min Gyu to become a Third-Grade Warrant Officer as a reward, only to use their influence a few months later to send him away to war. It turned out that his benefactors didn’t like how well he’d been getting along with their daughter, because in their eyes, Vagabond Du was good enough to befriend, but not good enough to marry into their family.

A laughable stance for a third-rate merchant family whose net worth was ten times less than what Min Gyu left behind.

Considering he had no deep affection for their daughter and found her infatuation bothersome, Min Gyu had been understandably resentful over being strong-armed into war. Though he enjoyed playing with weapons and the occasional spar, warfare and bloodshed was a foreign concept to a merchant’s son, and seeing how he was already twenty-five years old and lacking both Aura and Natal Palace, he counted himself as no great talent. His knees shook and chest grew tight in the hours leading up to his first battle, and though it only lasted a mere twenty-eight minutes, he came out a changed man. In the following days, he fought, he killed, and he survived to the war’s end, playing an insignificant role in putting down an insignificant uprising, but when all was said and done, the fire in his chest had been ignited and his broken heart mended once more.

For he had a new love now, and her name was War.

From there, he travelled across the Empire and took part in every conflict, rebellion, and outbreak he could find, slowly but surely gathering valuable experience, valiant comrades, and loyal subordinates, but limited fame. Over the next five years, he Condensed his Aura during the Battle of Five Pagodas, Formed his Natal Palace after the Black Scarf Rebellion, and Awakened to the Blessing of Wind while standing on the summit of Wutai Mountain. Even then, he still couldn’t be considered an outstanding talent, but then eight years later during the Defiled uprising of Shilin, he uncovered twelve Concealed Wraiths in camp to save the Commander’s life and went on to slay three Demons in battle. Due to his exemplary performance, Du Min Gyu finally rose to the heights he’d long dreamt of, promoted from Third-Grade to First-Grade Warrant Officer and given the title of Sanguine Tempest, for wherever he passed, the winds blew red with the blood of his enemies.

His journey had been a tumultuous one, a foolish, love-sick silk-pants who left home, only to single-handedly slaughter a hundred turncoat Experts and turn defeat into victory at the Hoplesh Rebellion more than thirty years later. For this, he was promoted yet again and became a rare Exarch of the Empire, a Peak Expert whose name was spoken across the Empire. Only then did he reconnect with his family, and for a time, life was good.

Then he fought the Butcher of KunLun and plummeted from lofty heights, a crippled warrior whose only value was his uncanny talent to take mediocre Martial Warriors and turn them into passable Elites. Almost fifty years later, Du Min Gyu was hale and healthy as ever and looking forward to the next chapter in his saga, but none could deny he had weathered harsh winds and heavy rains to make it to a hundred and ten years of age. Despite all these trials and tribulations however, nothing he experienced in his first century of life prepared him for celebrating the new year with his granddaughter and god-daughter.

Though physically fit as a man half his age, he ran himself ragged during the first five days of the new year, with not a moment to spare as Yan and Da’in dragged him from one event to the next. An intimate breakfast with Marshal Yo, followed by Shuai Jiao’s hosted luncheon, topped off with a private dinner at the Ryo family household, and all this on the day before new years. Min Gyu’s schedule only grew more hectic from there, but he’d never been one for social events, so the visits, banquets, and gatherings took a heavy toll on his mental stamina. He would’ve much preferred to curl up at home and read a book, or go over the Forms with Yan and Da’in, but alas, his aged star was once again on the rise and his presence in high demand. Da’in’s events required he be on his best behaviour, for they included hypocrites and sycophants from the highest echelons of nobility which made them mentally taxing affairs, but Yan’s affairs were emotionally taxing as she used her recent celebrity in an unconventional manner, to bring attention to the wounded, crippled, or fallen soldiers who otherwise went ignored.

Though initially averse to the idea of listening to sad tales and comforting forlorn soldiers, all it took was one visit to remind him that these men and women were still soldiers in spirit. Their genuine delight and gratitude over a few simple words from ‘the great’ Du Min Gyu was a touching and humbling experience, for it reminded him how dark his days had been when he sat in their place, a plight which lasted for long decades after his run in with the Butcher of KunLun. It’d been so disheartening when his close friends and allies stopped visiting, perhaps deeming him no longer worthy of friendship or because they couldn’t stand to see him fallen so low. Regardless of their reasons, those dark times were when he needed their support the most, and while he eventually emerged from his trials and tribulations unscathed, not everyone could be so lucky.

So what if it broke his heart to see so many former soldiers in distress? His discomfort meant nothing compared to what they themselves were currently going through, so if a kind word and firm handshake could raise their spirits, then by the Mother, he would visit the hospices every day and use whatever means necessary to see that these heroic young men and women got the treatment they deserved.

Despite his newfound empathy, Min Gyu didn’t know how long he could keep this up, because he knew all too well how easily one could fall from grace, not to mention the sleepless nights spent agonizing over what to do about the wounded soldiers. Luckily, his ties to the Ryo family and all it entailed meant he had plenty of leeway when it came to his irritable demeanour, while the only person of note Yan insisted he meet with was Eccentric Gam, and he treated the peculiar half-fox the same way he treated the crippled, only Gam’s deficiency was mental rather than physical. A shame Wu Gam was so attached to his rude and contentious Mentor, because the young man was a seed worth nurturing, not to mention a more palatable connection to the lovely Mother Gam.

Even with all his connections, Min Gyu had yet to open a dialogue with the lovely and powerful Divinity, or even uncover her true name, but considering the curious nature of Ancestral Beasts, it was possible she didn’t have one because she felt names unnecessary. Not a far stretch seeing how she labelled her children by number, but truly a shame, for it implied Mother Gam was an Ancestral Beast who had yet to wholly overcome her primal heritage and adapt to newer circumstances. Considering Eccentric Gam was over four-hundred years old, this meant she was either slow to learn or simply refused to, and Min Gyu guessed it was the latter. Talent and bloodline alone could not account for her ability to raise her children into powerful warriors, which suggested Mother Gam’s rejection of social constraints was intentional, rather than instinctive.

How unfortunate, but fitting in a way, for a wild meadow was beautiful because of its untamed and uncultivated nature, an alluring garden left free to grow unchecked and untainted by human tampering...

At any rate, Min Gyu was too old to be mooning over a woman like a love-struck boy, so if it were up to him, he would’ve sent the Gams a small gift and a personal letter as befitting their superficial relationship, but after months spent fighting side by side on the front lines, Yan treated Wu Gam as a comrade in arms, though the young half-fox was still smitten with her. Thankfully, there was no risk of becoming in-laws with the insufferable Eccentric, for Yan treated Wu Gam like a little brother to safeguard, and he behaved as such despite being the older of the two, a naive, straightforward man who knew little of the world at large and understood even less. Yet another reason Min Gyu itched to steal the boy away from his outlandish Mentor, but despite his subtle and not-so-subtle overtures, neither Mentor nor Disciple cared to entertain the idea.

He even swallowed his pride and offered to co-Mentor the boy, if only to teach him table manners and civility, but even this was met with derision. “Hmph,” Eccentric Gam had replied, his lip curled in an aggravating sneer. “What’s he gonna learn from you? How to curtsy and suck cock? Maybe you could teach him to bat his eyes, flutter his ears, and strike a cutesy little pose too, so his human masters find him all the prettier.”

Luckily, Yan’s uncontrolled laughter defused the situation else things could have turned ugly, but between her indecent suggestions regarding Wu Gam’s clothes and posture, not to mention the young half-fox’s red-faced embarrassment, they were soon all laughing together again. That was the last time Min Gyu offered to Mentor Wu Gam, though he found that the young man was amenable to his teachings, if only to get in Yan’s good graces, so he took full advantage of the poor boy’s infatuation to keep him from becoming a second (or fifth) Eccentric Gam. He even went as far as inviting young Gam along with them on their trip to the Northern Citadel, though regrettably, the thick-skinned older Gam took this to mean the invitation extended to him too. To make matters worse, Da’in and Yan learned of this beforehand and arranged a carriage for themselves along with Seoyoon and Tong Da Fung, leaving Min Gyu to suffer the Eccentric’s grating attitude, slovenly habits, and off-putting odour for five, long, torturous days.

Had he known this beforehand, he would’ve thrown young Gam out the door the first time Yan brought him home for a meal.

Putting yet another of Eccentric Gam’s long rants out of mind, Min Gyu studied the quiet, straightforward Wu Gam in secret. Given Rain’s damaged condition, he’d be lying if he said he hadn’t considered trying to pair the half-fox with Yan over the past four months, but he knew his granddaughter was steadfast in her love of the fallen young hero. Such were the ways of young love, and who knew if she would come to regret this in ten or twenty years, but he could only let Yan make this mistake and be there to support her through the difficult times. Love was strange and unfathomable, but she was strong with many centuries of life yet, so he hoped for the best and made no effort to break off her engagement, no matter how many prospective offers crossed his desk.

Hmph. Even crippled, Rain was still better than most of these dregs seeking to fish in troubled waters, worthless toads hoping to taste swan’s flesh...

In contrast, despite making it known he was looking for a suitable husband for Da’in, he had yet to even hear rumours of interest much less receive a proposal. Why, he couldn’t say, because she was a charming and considerate beauty who also happened to be a phenomenally talented Martial Warrior of noble birth. In what way was she lacking? Believing the young men of Central were overly intimidated by her prowess, he’d tried hinting at the parents and grandparents of young men he deemed a suitable match, but instead discovered that bringing up his god-daughter’s marriage was a surefire way to end conversations as the affected parties couldn’t get away fast enough. What Da’in had done to deserve such a response, no one would say, but considering the effectiveness, he used this ploy often to get away from would-be sycophants who otherwise bored him to tears.

No matter. The Empire was large, and if the young men of Central were too cowardly to court Da’in, then perhaps there was a promising young man in the North who could match the thorny rose of the Ryo family. Da’in’s father, Dae Jung, didn’t seem overly concerned regarding either of his daughters’ marriages and was happy to let them choose their partners on their own, perhaps taking a cue from his wife, Jeong Hyo-Lynn, who allegedly eloped with Dae Jung after her father rejected Dae Jung’s proposal. All parties involved denied the rumours, but seeing how Madam Hyo-Lynn ran the Ryo family household with an iron fist and ordered Central’s Sword King Dae Jung about like a common manservant, Min Gyu wouldn’t put it past the formidable woman to throw away the face of two prominent, feuding families for the sake of love.

In fact, according to Da’in, her father was merely a nameless, good-for-nothing fifth son of the Ryo family before their marriage, and all his subsequent achievements were thanks to her mother’s efforts. Had his childhood love run away with him, then perhaps he would’ve become like Dae Jung, a man so utterly under his wife’s thumb he probably need to ask for permission to shit, so now Min Gyu offered daily prayers to the Mother in thanks for helping him escape a life of fearsome oppression. Regardless of how he felt, if this were true, then Jeong Hyo-Lynn was far more deserving of the title, ‘Great Teacher’, for Ryo Dae Jung went from a twenty-year-old wastrel to a Peak Expert before turning forty, a formidable achievement which few living could match, including Min Gyu himself.

As luck would have it, he met one of those illustrious few a few kilometres away from the Northern Citadel, leading a squadron of Marshal Yuzhen’s personal guards. The most recent warrior raised to the status of Peak Expert of the Empire, Gerel of the Bekhai wasn’t much to look at even in his striking silver armour. They’d met once before, but Min Gyu had little impression of the bald, amber-eyed man aside from his surly nature and hungry eyes. It wasn’t fame or fortune that one was after, Gerel was a man hungry for challenge, and in their first and only meeting, the young man yearned to see how he would match up against the famed Du Min Gyu. Though Kyung had marked Gerel as formidable, Min Gyu had previously ignored the Bekhai warrior’s unspoken challenge and treated it as the ignorant ambition youth, but now, at thirty-three years young, Gerel truly had the qualifications.

And judging by his gaze as he offered to escort them to the citadel, one still hungry for a challenge. Perhaps Min Gyu would even oblige and take revenge for Kyung’s rude treatment at the bald bastard’s hands...

New waves overtaking the old was no surprise, but he was once again shocked by the depths of talent hidden within the Bekhai ranks. Rain and Yan were one thing, but to learn the surly half-red-panda girl Sumila possessed enough talent to surpass both was outrageous to the extreme, not to mention the leaps and bounds taken by the slave-girl Li Song, who was now strong enough to match Yan, and the almost unheard of achievements of Dastan and Sahb, two slaves from Sanshu who Developed their Domains at twenty four. What humbled Min Gyu the most however was Tong Da Fung’s improvements, a boy he’d dismissed out of hand as an indecisive silk-pants who would never amount to much, but instead had blossomed into a fine warrior beneath Akanai’s tutelage and dealt a heavy blow to Min Gyu’s pride.

There were also the established young Experts of the Bekhai, like Alsantset, Vichear, Tenjin, and Tursinai. One or two could be considered luck, but for the Bekhai to nurture so many young talents proved the effectiveness of their teachings, which meant Yan’s name might have risen even higher if he hadn’t snatched her away. Great Teacher, Pei. What Great Teacher? Which student of his was even half as promising as Gerel of the Bekhai? Even Charok, the unranked brother of Falling Rain, was strong enough to match Kyung, who to date could be considered Min Gyu’s star pupil, so what right did he have to be proud?

Mother in Heaven, if that hateful woman Akanai were to make a snide comment regarding Yan’s progress...

“You look like you ate a shit-bun for breakfast and only figured it out now.” Intruding on his thoughts the same way he intruded in the carriage, Eccentric Gam was as blunt and vulgar as always. “Bet I know why too.”

Though he should have learned to leave the half-fox be, Min Gyu couldn’t help but say, “Oh? Pray tell.”

“You’re worried about the runt.” Nodding sagely as if he knew everything, Gam said, “You’re looking at it all wrong though.”

Aggravating as always, Gam stopped speaking and stared until Min Gyu grit his teeth and played along with the farce. “Wrong, but how so? Is there a way of looking at young Rain’s situation which makes it better?”

“You see a strong warrior turned cripple and think ‘What a shame’. Me? I see a strong warrior stomped down by the Mother Herself and think, ‘Well shit. That boy’s going places’. See the difference?” Rolling his eyes, Min Gyu pointedly turned to stare out the window and end the conversation, but Gam was not so easily dissuaded. “Now, I’m no Mother-Loving prayer pusher, and I won’t offer platitudes like ‘She never gives more than you can handle’ or crap like that, but the boy survived a planned attempt on his life which even accounted for Mama and two other Divinities, so he’s either the toughest bastard alive or the luckiest. Probably both, I’d wager.”

This was news to Min Gyu. “Planned? I heard his Core shattered during an impromptu duel, when his foe partially Demonized?” A disturbing feat, but one which had yet to be replicated, so there was no great need to panic.

With a thunderous snort, Gam slapped his chest and said, “I was there, or did you forget?” Min Gyu most certainly had, but he refused to say so, and after a long, silent standoff, Gam continued, “Saw most of the kerfuffle first hand and heard the rest from Mama. It was all planned from start to finish. Defiled lost the cavalry battle, but that wasn’t enough to force them back. They didn’t run, they made an orderly retreat, regrouped, then came back to kill Falling Rain. Brought enough Defiled powerhouses to keep the Divinities out of play, and more Demons and Peak Experts than they needed to keep anyone weaker from interfering, then took their sweet time destroying Rain’s Spiritual Weapons before taking his life.” Shrugging, he added, “Would’ve worked too if the Bekhai didn’t show up when they did. I’ll say this, I’d almost pity that Emissary Gen if the boy’s parents ever get their hands on him. Fierce, them Bekhai.”

“...But why? Talented though Rain might be, he’s not worth so much effort.”

“Defiled seemed to think he was.” Clicking his tongue, Gam put up a sound barrier to keep Wu Gam from listening in and said, “Mama’s got a guess she wouldn’t share, but I bet it’s got something to do with what rattled her a week prior, same day the boy got back from Patrol. She wouldn’t say what got her all shook up, but she kept me and Little Five close for most of the night and was ready to bolt at the drop of a pin.” Shrugging again, he fell silent for a long moment before continuing, his voice heavy and expression maudlin. “Whatever the reason, at least Rain’s still breathing. Not the worst outcome in the world when a soldier marches off to war, hm? Besides, he might be happier as a normal person instead of a Martial Warrior. Ain’t the worst fate in the world.”

Though he tried to hold his tongue, Min Gyu couldn’t contain his surprise. “Really? That’s how you feel? You, the Peak Expert who keeps throwing himself into near-suicidal situations?”

“I don’t do what I do because I want to die,” Gam growled, almost sounding like a petulant child who’d been wronged. “I put myself in tough situations to challenge myself and grow. Lure the Enemy Experts out to me so I don’t gotta go running to them, get it? It’s tiresome standing around with nothing to do, and I ain’t fast as I used to be.” Shaking his head, he looked down and lamented, “Shame about Jukai. Kid poked his nose in where it don’t belong. Should’ve left me to handle Goujian. I wouldn’t have died, I don’t think, and even if I did it would’ve left a proper opening to exploit. He lost his life to keep my old hide intact, hardly a worthwhile trade.”

Touched by the rare moment of weakness, Min Gyu softened his voice and said, “That ‘kid’ was near sixty years old and a Peak Expert himself.”

“Pei. Sixty years is but a babe. Even you at a hundred and ten barely count as more in this grand-daddy’s eyes.” Almost as an afterthought, Gam clarified, “No insult intended, just stating the facts. I lived a long life, longer than I’ve any right to. Only made it this far because I’m the worst of the bunch, too weak and too stupid to even try to take the next step. The others were more talented than I, but in the end, they still failed, and I can’t bear to watch Little Five go through the same.”

Ah. So that’s what happened to Gams one through four. Or two through four, Min Gyu wasn’t quite sure if the Eccentric counted as the first, but this wasn’t the time to broach the subject. Though burning with questions, he held his tongue and simply patted Gam on the arm before leaving him alone with his thoughts, while Min Gyu ruminated on his own. Contrary to what it might sound like, Peak Expert was not the end of the Martial Path, but merely a new beginning. From there, one needed to step off the Peak and soar into the Heavens, or plummet down to their doom below, which was all Min Gyu knew of it. He’d always believed this was merely a flowery metaphor, but considering Gam had lost his siblings and Disciples to the mysterious next step, perhaps it was time Min Gyu rethought his stance. Not that it mattered, the Path to Divinity was a carefully guarded Imperial secret, and while others before might have stumbled across the answer on their own, he had no such delusions of grandeur for himself. He’d long since come to terms with the limits of his talents, and while he couldn’t deny he coveted their secrets, the Imperial Clan never saw fit to offer him terms of service.

Not that he blamed them. Until recently, he’d been little more than a drug-addled has been of undeserving renown. No matter. Ten years. Mother in Heaven willing, he had a decade to raise Yan to the Peak so she could stand on her own, but even if he failed, at least he could die knowing the Bekhai looked after their own.

It was near dusk when they finally passed through the gates of the Northern Citadel, where he found a delegation of Bekhai waiting to receive him, though not the small, intimate group he’d hoped for. Rain was there, looking much healthier than the rumours painted him, though still sickly and weak. Standing with help from a four-legged cane, a device which could’ve saved Min Gyu much pain in previous decades, Rain wore a bright smile which turned into a pained wince as Yan ran into his arms. A good sign, all things considering. If the boy could still feel pain, it meant he wasn’t overly reliant on sedatives or tranquilizers to get him through the day. A good start, but seeing the rest of the boy’s wives there soured Min Gyu’s mood. Mei Lin, Sumila, Li Song, and Zheng Luo, Yan greeted her future sister-wives in this specific order, which was different from the order they stood in. Marital friction cropping up before the marriage ceremony was never a good sign, but what else could one expect from a man with five wives, and three of them talented Martial Warriors, no less?

Disgruntled though he might be, Min Gyu swallowed his grievances to greet the boy cordially, and even took the time to say hello to the boy’s coterie of pets. The wildcats and bears were too skittish to approach, and the Guardian Turtle paid him no mind, but little quin Kishi ran up squeaking up a storm, eager to play and cuddle with her old friend. Yan warned him against naming the quins before they were fully grown, but he couldn’t help himself with this particular darling. Kishi was the smallest and gentlest of Zabu and Shana’s brood who often came crying to him for more food, so he’d spent many a long night worrying she’d be rejected by her parents or go to sleep hungry, but from the looks of things, the little pup was growing up well and as cheerful as ever, her tail lashing from side to side as she ran circles around Min Gyu’s legs and tried to snatch his cane away to play.

A good thing he didn’t need it to stand anymore, but he still kept it in hand out of habit.

As for the rest of the delegation, one could tell from a glance they weren’t here to welcome Min Gyu and Yan, but to ensure Rain’s safety. It seemed ridiculous to bring not only a full detachment of Death Corps, including at least one Peak Expert judging by the strength of his Domain probing Min Gyu and Gam for threat, but also a cadre of hidden Bekhai guardians lurking in the shadows, whom he found using the same trick he’d used to uncover the Wraiths in Shilin. Although Concealment kept Warriors out of sight, he sent a light breeze of Wind Chi through the surroundings and tracked its movements around hidden obstructions, and in doing so discovered no less than twenty hidden defenders stationed in tight formation around the area.

A bit overboard considering the Northern Citadel was essentially in Bekhai hands, but from what he knew of her, Akanai was not someone who acted without reason. If she believed Rain needed this much protection, then the situation must be more dire than Min Gyu imagined.

Since Akanai had not deigned to receive him and he wasn’t overly familiar with anyone else from the Bekhai, he kept quiet and followed the boy back to their accommodations. Min Gyu and Yan were given spare rooms in the Medical Saint’s villa, though regrettably, the Saint himself wasn’t present as he was off doing personal research. Since their arrival was unexpected, the Gams were offered private rooms in a nearby barracks, a princely offer considering the cramped conditions in the Citadel which the Eccentric gracefully accepted, or at least with what passed for grace when dealing with him. In light of their long travels, Rain arranged for a casual, private dinner instead of making a big fuss and spectacle of it all, which was very much to Min Gyu’s liking. Though still not entirely sure Yan should go through with the marriage, he looked forward to meeting the parents who raised a child like Falling Rain, if only out of morbid curiosity.

To his disappointment, Baatar and Sarnai were perfectly respectable Martial Warriors, though the steely woman impressed him by setting Eccentric Gam on his best behaviour with little more than a glare. She even somehow had convinced the surly bastard to bathe, groom, and dress nicely, and Min Gyu took great delight making fun of the half-fox’s ‘fetching’ outfit. Akanai was as unpleasant as always and refused to divulge anything about Rain’s chances for recovery or the need for so much protection, but her husband was a friendly and delightful man to chat with, full of tall tales and amusing anecdotes which were made all the more entertaining when delivered in his charming drawl. What impressed Min Gyu the most was Charok’s humble demeanour, a Martial Warrior to match Kyung who happily cooked and served dishes alongside Eun and the servants, an even-tempered young man who raised two darling, goat-horned grandchildren, so precious and well-mannered Min Gyu couldn’t help but pinch their cheeks and happily dote on them. By the end of the night, he had his fill of delicious food, quality wine, and agreeable company before swaggering back to his room in a pleasant mood, and only belatedly noticed Yan hadn’t returned with him.

Off to canoodle with her beloved he supposed, though she would have to be careful not to break him...

Feeling guilty for making light of Rain’s condition, he bade Da’in and the delightful Mei Lin goodnight while telling himself that the veiled guard standing outside the half-hare’s door wasn’t an insult to his honour. Stepping into his room, he sat down while Kyung ran off to fetch a basin of water and idly considered if he should move here. Though still a citizen of Central, it’s not like he had much keeping him at the other Citadel, since he had no duties to speak of whatsoever. Once the new year celebrations were over and done with, Yan would head back to the front lines, and even though Da’in made an effort to stop by every now and then, most of the time Min Gyu sat around twiddling his thumbs and making excuses not to meet with ‘old friends’ or ‘admirers’.

“You’re losing your touch, old friend.” Stepping out of the shadows and giving Min Gyu a fright, Jun Bao smirked and took at seat at the tea table. “Had I been after your life, then your head would’ve rolled.”

“Unlikely.” A second voice chimed in, one neither men recognized and emanating from within the room. Bolting to his feet, Min Gyu drew his weapon and stood back to back with his old friend, but even his trick with Wind Chi failed to uncover the hidden intruder. “The Medical Saint’s manor is not a barroom hangout. Be quick about your meeting, or take it elsewhere.”

Muttering apologies and offering assurances as they saluted empty air, Jun Bao gestured for Min Gyu to follow and they made their way out into the night and onto the rooftop of a nearby warehouse. Still worried about the Medical Saint’s unseen protector, Jun Bao didn’t even bother putting up a sound barrier and Sent, “Mother in Heaven, the Bekhai surprise me yet again. The strongest of the Medical Saint’s guards is off with him, so I thought it a simple matter to sneak past the rest.”

Disproportionately pleased even though it had nothing to do with him, Min Gyu held his head up and Sent, “Seems like you would’ve been better off pledging yourself to the Bekhai than the Imperial Legate.”

“Careful there.” Eyes hard and tone grim, Jun Bao’s heated response to the light-hearted joke betrayed his nerves, no doubt still searching for the hidden Bekhai guardian. “That’s why I’m here in fact, to give you a warning: if you wish to survive the coming weeks, distance yourself from the Bekhai. There’s a manor on the south side of the lake for you and your company. I suggest you move out in the morning.”

“...Why? Who could threaten the Bekhai here?”

“You never did have a mind for politics.” Biting his lip, Jun Bao shook his head and sighed. “I cannot say much, but the Bekhai have angered someone they should have left well alone, and my Patron cannot protect them. He delayed their enemies as best he could to give the Bekhai time to prepare, but regardless of how much strength they gather, I fear their end is nigh. Direct confrontation is a weapon of last resort in the Imperial Clan, and the Bekhai are worse than novices in other areas. Leave in the morning, or seal your fate alongside them. This is all I can do, old friend.” Ignoring all of Min Gyu’s Sendings, Jun Bao stepped off the roof and left him standing in the chill of night with a heavy decision upon his hands. Choose life and watch the Bekhai succumb to their doom, or join them in their inevitable downfall?

Damn it. It wasn’t even his decision to make. Yan would never abandon her beloved or her people, and Min Gyu would never abandon her. No matter. His life would end soon regardless of what he did, so giving up ten years to give Yan a whole lifetime was a small price to pay.

For him at least. Should they come with ill-intent, then the Imperial Clan would pay dearly indeed, for standing against them was the Hero of the Hoplesh Rebellion, the Sanguine Tempest Du Min Gyu.

Chapter Meme
