Imprint? He had found two of the shrine abilities referenced imprints – it seemed the first one was for collecting imprints, and the second one was for using them, so he switched to the second one to see if he could figure out how it worked. As soon as he focused on it, the skill presented him with a list of choices.

Imprints (Max: 30)1- Bone2- Sword3- Leather Armor4- Bone Shield5- Plate Armor6- Bone Bracelet7- Arrow8- Bow9- Sling10- Dagger11- Robes (Tattered, Simple)12- Blackened Deathcap Mushroom13- Starving Wolf14- Giant Spider15- Spitter Drone16- Piercer Scorpion17- Kobold Mage (Bone / Fire)18- Kobold Archer19- Kobold Rogue20- Kobold Acolyte (Holy / Death)21- Kobold Warrior (Warrior / Swordmaster)22- Kobold Slinger23- Zombie24- Skeleton25- Skeleton Mage26- Undead Giant Bat27- Skeletal Wyvern28- Wight29-30-

Are these what I can make with the shrine? He suddenly understood Nevyn Eld’s orders. He was to produce an army of Wights and Skeletal Wyverns for him, and there they were at the end of the list of imprints. But the prior dungeon had filled the imprint slots with a lot of other things, some of which looked like they may be useful, but most looked like a waste.

I will have to choose wisely, and consider how to build my army, he mused, rubbing his bony chin. All he heard was the rasp of his fingers. There was no sensation at all.

He chose one of the two empty slots to record his new granite imprint, finding it to be rather intuitive, and then he tried to create some, but the shrine was out of mana. He quickly refilled it with twenty-thousand mana from his own mana pool, leaving him with a still-astronomical nineteen thousand mana, which was already beginning to regenerate. He used some of the mana to create granite and found that it created cobblestone-sized chunks of stone, taking about a minute to complete each one.

Not particularly useful. He started working his way through the imprints to see what each one could do. Bone simply created various bones that seemed surprisingly worthless because they were not corpses he could resurrect. Perhaps he could use them to create an abomination, but there were so many better options. Most of the early imprints were various forms of weapons or armor, several of the imprints creating slightly different variations, seemingly at random.

But when he got to the twelfth entry and made a Blackened Deathcap Mushroom, he felt something shift in his sense of the domain he had been granted. His space was so small, that he instantly felt the release of pressure closing him in, and in moments he found that the mushroom had expanded the space he could comfortably be in. The radius grew slowly, but he immediately planted a bunch of them all around the edge of his area, excited to be able to acquire access to more space.

While he waited to see how much room the mushrooms would ultimately give him, he summoned a Kobold warrior. The monster appeared before him, gleaming with green scales and a reptilian face. And just like his zombies or skeletons, it appeared to be bound to his will. Immediately, he cast Sacrifice on it, reaping its life for a temporary power boost, and then raised its skeleton to serve him.

That’s convenient. He had always had to carry corpses to start his army or find something to kill first with his bolts of death magic. But now he could just summon living monsters and turn them into undead whenever he needed. He amused himself for a while creating every kind of monster and turning them variously into zombies or skeletons. Only the Piercer Scorpion and the Spitter Drone proved to be duds – elementals that were not compatible with his mana. He simply had no use for them and would replace them as soon as he found something better. Perhaps the Trolls the Master asked for? He must have some reason to demand those specifically.

When his mushrooms stopped expanding his domain, he grew new ones all around the border, expanding yet again in an ever-growing ring that blanketed the former town square. When he finally reached the forest, he used his Deconstruction skill to demolish the dead trees, making himself more and more space, until his notification chimed again.

Imprint: Blighted Oak completed.

Curious, he added the imprint to the final empty slot and created a Blighted Oak at the boundary of his domain. As soon as he completed it, he knew he would keep it. The black tree was large, spreading dead boughs wide, and every inch of its surface oozed the miasma of his Undead Blight. And more importantly, it expanded his domain far quicker and wider than the mushrooms.

As he strolled through the decrepit and run-down streets of Lyton, his new domain, he understood how he could serve. He had an enormous mana pool, thanks to the shrine and Nevyn Eld’s advice, and he had the imprints to serve him. All he needed now was to expand and gain his levels back, and maybe earn some more powerful imprints. There were so many little towns along the way to plunder.

He channeled his mana into the shrine imprints and began his task.

Mage – Undead Wight – level 43.

Skeletal Wyvern – Undead Dragon – level 37.

“Go. Hunt the living and bring me their corpses,” he commanded. Myrin’s Keep would pay. It was only a matter of time. First, he needed to get stronger.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
