Honestly, Randidly didn’t even care. He just used the collisions between Aether and Nether for more power, so he could seize the ripples from the impacts and pull them into the firestorm he wielded. Wind, Nether Weight, and patterns combined into a whirling grey millstone that Randidly intended to use to grind them all to dust. So when he pointed at Tyune’s tentacles, he unleashed a searing ray of annihilation that blended kinetic force, blazing fury, and Helen’s insights into how organic patterns became currents.

Tyune reacted more quickly, emphasizing his image and deflecting the blast to the side-

-but Randidly just grinned. Because the deflected blast passed Tyune harmlessly, but it had also annihilated most of the tentacles that slowed down Claudette. With the opening, she used Randidly’s Dreadful Alacrity to close the distance and slash with the keening Clarent. Tyune blocked the strike, but ice began to form on his body.

That attack… did Claudette always possess such sharpness?

Randidly turned his attention back to MacDuul when a voice spoke out from above. “Well well, doesn’t this look fun?”

His skin tingled with a tired resignation. In a way, he knew that this interruption would arrive eventually; he just wished he had more time to prepare. Randidly looked up with a solemn expression on his face. In her own body, Actus Suprem Devick floated above the lighthouse. A metal mask hid her features, leaving the watcher's eyes to simply scan her long crimson hair. Her body was covered in Military High Command finery, leaving the viewer no confusion over her importance.

She reeked of power and death. Even with fifty meters between them, her presence pressed against Randidly.

She gestured at herself. “Oh, this? It just seemed less climactic when we fought with the same body. So I convinced Don Beigon to allow me to change my choice. Aren’t you excited?”

Even through her mask, Randidly felt the weight of her eyes as she scanned him. “Aren’t you, Randidly Ghosthound? Because this time, I’m here just for you.”
