A necklace swung crazily as Visophecin pulled. The hair stretched the scalp, and the flesh elongated until it tore loose, exposing a red skull. Visophecin dropped the hair and flesh and took a better grip under the chin. Then he pulled and felt the body convulsing. The [Slaver] was still alive until Visophecin felt a tearing sensation and yanked the spine apart. He pulled the head off, and a dripping cord of bones followed it.
There.
The Devil tossed the head aside without a word. Then he looked down. Ulvama stared up at Visophecin, naked and bruised—she raised a claw to shield herself, and Visophecin lifted a claw.
He conjured his coat out of the air and held it out. When she flinched, he put it gently on the table and walked to the door.
The head of the first slaver was still visible, fingers dragging him down.
“Kill me.”
The Lucifen ignored him. He strode to the door and looked into the storm. The warship had noticed his presence. Incredulity had stained the reflexes of the crew, and they might have assumed it was one of the other Masters of Roshal sending a servant.
The screams had roused the crew to action. Half had run for the cells; the other half mustered towards the cabin. Two Djinni descended, eyes wary, as Visophecin stood before the door. The Lucifen reached through a black hole in reality—and found something waiting for him.
He pulled it out slowly, reverently. The first Djinni recognized the blade and pulled back. The enchanted scimitars swung into a guard as the four-armed being of magic saw the Lucifen stand in front of the door to the cabin.
In one hand, he held a sword made of flames that seared the eye and glowed with the inferno of Hellste. The other pointed—and marked the two Djinni, who recoiled and retreated despite the calls to attack.
Their collars burned, forcing them to fly down and land on the deck. Visophecin marked them. They were [Slaves]. So were some of the crew who had been given weapons.
Everything else on this deck died.
The warship held hundreds of crew. Now a bell was ringing, breaking the stalemate in the [Ship Master]’s office. Iert snarled, wondering if it were another trick—but even the Masters of Roshal had no idea what was going on.
 
——
 
Pazeral and Yazdil were not the only two who had servants on the ship. Andra had not found anyone she liked, but money talked. The [Slavers] were all too keen to rid themselves of the Naga’s authority for a new master.
Pazeral spoke to them, but Andra promised simpler things than his return to glory days. She promised wealth and power and delivered.
[Collector of Thousands] Tillep was one of the most senior [Slavers] on the ship. He was Level 43; he was nodding as Andra gave him swift instructions. She had multiple scrying mirrors, one of which was attending the showdown between the Naga and the rest of the crew, as well as one focused on Tillep and another monitoring a Merchant’s Guild negotiation via one of her representatives.
“Do not clash with the servant, Iert. If Pazeral interferes with his people—eradicating, suborning, threatening, are all acceptable—remove them from the scenario.”
“Shall I move the [Innkeeper] to a separate cell?”
Andra was smoking. She nodded; something made her deeply uneasy this night.
“Yes. With a ring gag and in full restraints.”
The man licked his lips.
“Shall I pose her? A-artistically?”
Andra’s stare was cold and disinterested.
“If you wish to take recordings, that is your reward. Do not touch her besides that. She is not to be touched until she reaches Lailight Scintillation.”
He was disappointed. Andra further clarified. Clarity was essential in how she operated.
“She believes she is in control. She has the poison of the Rebel of String and Khelta in her soul. First—show her she is not.”
She stubbed the end of her cigarette onto an ashtray.
“We do not need a Goblin slave. Some rules are sacrosanct for a reason. Show her what remains before you touch Chandrar’s shores. Then cleanse the ship.”
“It will be done.”
Andra nodded. She was swinging back to the stalemate in the [Ship Master]’s office when she heard a sound. Instantly, she switched to a view of the ship’s deck. Her eyes focused on a figure standing in the rain with a flaming…
“What is that? Tillep, there is a monster on the ship. Kill—”
A hiss from the other Masters of Roshal. No—just one. Only one recognized the figure standing there. Pazeral recoiled, then spoke with longing, interest, wariness—
“Lucifen.”
Andra didn’t know the name, but Yazdil jerked, and Shaullile blinked in faint recognition.
“Kill it.”
Tillep and his bodyguards were already heading for the door. There was one versus hundreds—but Andra’s heart was beating faster. She didn’t like this. Had an ally found Erin Solstice?
There were two Djinni on deck, and the spellcasters were preparing Tier 5 magics. The figure seemed to be guarding something. Andra checked her pulse, and it steadied—until she noticed something else.
“There are more—”
 
——
 
They climbed out of portals into the thrashing rain and surf battering The Naga’s Den. Some floated in the air or walked onto the deck.
Forty Lucifen, each one a full adult of House Shoel—each one looking distinctly different. Visophecin felt their advent and realized something.
They had all activated their Warforms.
He was the only Lucifen who had mastered it—but the power was coursing through them all. It was a well that he was drawing from, sharing with them. Visophecin realized for the first time that each Warform was different.
Azemith’s was close to a Medusa, long ‘braids’ of serpents trailing from her head, but far longer than any Medusa’s, stretching down to the floor and rising again. Each serpent’s eyes shone a different color, and they spat shards of the killing magic the Lucifen had perfected, [Midnight Shard], without warning.
Another Lucifen appeared to be more akin to a Minotaur with gigantic horns and a furred body—a tail thrashed as he grabbed one of the [Slavers] from behind and tore them apart limb by limb, as Visophecin had.
(Visophecin. What is this? How have you done this?)
He felt them demanding answers. Yet he only had one command.
(Kill every slaver of Roshal aboard the ship. Judge them. Protect the slaves, Erin Solstice, and the Hobgoblin, Ulvama.)
The Djinni dove at him as House Shoel attacked as one. Visophecin sundered one of the scimitars with a slash from his blade and grabbed the first Djinni’s neck.
[Law of the Lucifen: Halt].
The figure froze as he turned to the second, aiming for the collar.
Across the deck, a female goat-woman with wide, staring eyes lifted a pitchfork and ran one of the [Mages] through with it. Theadrix hoisted the wailing [Slaver] into the air as blood showered down and the trident grew spikes. She planted it on the ground and stalked on as the crew saw them everywhere.
Devils. Not monsters. They cast spells and systematically hunted down the [Slavers]. They were enjoying this.
They should not, Visophecin felt. Igolze joined him, a huge stone gargoyle in principal shape, seizing one of the Djinni, and Visophecin pointed at the door as three more Lucifen strode towards him.
“Belowdecks. Now.”
One took a guard position at the door with Igolze—Visophecin strode towards the door leading down to the cages. He knew Erin Solstice was there. His combat training would have had him secure her safety first—but he had made a pact.
Three Lucifen and Visophecin breached the door with a ray of flames and descended the stairs in a blur. They pointed their fingers across the room, which was tall enough to have two floors, a walkway leading up to the second level.
Shimmering cages of magic and prisoners with guard rooms and spells restricting any chance of escape. Drains leading down to a cistern that exited the ship.
That was what Visophecin expected. He was ready for a battle—but he found none. Instead, all he saw was fire.
It was invisible, but the smoke and shimmering aura of the flames and his unique vision let him see the heat outline of the fire. The magical fire was covering half the prison, and the few [Guards] left alive were fleeing the fire.
Fire? Visophecin hesitated, then strode through the flames.
“Erin Solstice.”
She was standing in her cell, the manacles melted off her wrists. The cell door was down, and she was covered in blood. The surviving prisoners in her cell stood far back from the flames—Visophecin met her eyes and understood.
The pact went both ways, didn’t it?
Her eyes were black—until she raised her head and recognized him. Then the flames died down around Visophecin.
“Where’s Ulvama?”
“Secured. There are surely kill-spells. We must deactivate them now—”
The other Lucifen moved to secure the control room and destroy the collars. It would not be easy, even for them. There had to be keys…
Erin strode past Visophecin as he reached for her collar. Her eyes were only on the stairs.
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] walked onto the deck, her body screaming in agony. Her flesh was melted from the manacles—Visophecin followed her, demanding a healing potion and that she stop before Roshal activated her collar.
She only halted to look around the deck. Screams filled the air, and dozens of figures pursued the crew across the deck. Some were laughing. Lucifen.
They caught sight of her and stared, as if they recognized something. As if she were marked.
Erin didn’t care. A claw grabbed her collar, and Visophecin inspected it. Erin rasped, her head searching the deck.
“Find the [Ship Master]. Iert. Kill them.”
Two crimson eyes regarded Erin. His voice was deeper, echoing, but the same.
“Very well.”
He advanced towards a cabin surrounded by Lucifen. They were immolating it from the outside. A Gnoll burst out of one window, howling. Visophecin fired black spells nonstop, putting holes in Iert’s arms and legs. The Gnoll leapt for the railings and fell into the sea as the Lucifen focused on him.
Erin ignored the fighting. She was walking towards a cabin guarded by two of the Lucifen. They regarded her as she stopped in front of them. Her head rose—and they moved aside.
A young woman walked through the door into the cabin where nineteen scorch marks had twisted the floorboards forever. Erin saw a figure in the corner of the room.
Red blood was pooling from a corpse as Ulvama watched the stain moving across the floor. She looked up as Erin Solstice walked towards her. She gazed at Erin and flinched away.
“Dreaming.”
That was all Ulvama said. Erin stopped. She was breathing hard. But she spoke as if she didn’t notice the flesh still smoking on her hands or the blood covering her face.
“I came as fast as I could. I’m sorry.”
The Hobgoblin was curled up, knees shielding her, hugging her legs. Erin reached out—saw the flinch—and stopped. She knelt down on one knee and held out a hand, but didn’t touch Ulvama.
“They’re killing the [Slavers].”
“How? This is a dream. It doesn’t happen.”
Erin nodded.
“I chose.”
Still, the [Shaman] didn’t understand. She looked past Erin, and the screaming and laughter—it was all impossible. This was a dream, and she was going to wake up into the real nightmare.
But that hand and those hazel eyes—Ulvama hesitated. Her hand moved. She reached out, snatched her fingers back—then touched that hand. She hoped it was real. Then she grabbed Erin.
Ulvama was shaking. Erin’s body was still shaking with pain, exhaustion, the effects of using the power Visophecin had granted her.
It was all distant.
She stood up with Ulvama in her arms. She didn’t feel the weight. Erin carried her, awkwardly, towards the door.
“I’ve got you.”
One of the Lucifen reached out and stopped when the other blocked them. Erin carried Ulvama into the storm, and the rain hit both of them.
Cold and icy. It didn’t feel like a dream—but they both looked at each other, not sure if this was a dream.
Visophecin strode towards them with a single key in his hand, charred and bloody. He stopped as Erin spoke.
“I won’t let it happen again, I swear.”
The Hobgoblin met the Human’s eyes as Erin’s arms trembled and she nearly slipped and fell. Ulvama put her feet on the ground before Erin dropped her. But she didn’t let go.
“Okay.”
They looked up at Visophecin as Igolze offered them each a blanket to drape around them, and the prisoners stumbled onto the deck. Two kneeling Djinni were laughing as Erin breathed in and out.
Freed. Though what came next…Visophecin knew it would only get more complicated.
Erin didn’t care. Her heart was beating…no, that was Ulvama’s pulse. Her hands were holding onto the Hobgoblin tightly.
“I’m sorry I took so long. Never again, I promise. I promise.”
Her eyes lifted towards a flag flying in the storm. Roshal’s flag began to burn as one of the Lucifen set it alight. A flake of ash fell and stung Erin on the temple. Then she stopped worrying it was a dream. Because if this was a nightmare and she had yet to wake—
She would do it again.
 
——
 
“Well, this is a pleasant surprise. Greetings, Lucifen.”
A cracked mirror in the [Ship Master]’s office was the only thing still intact when Visophecin went back to inspect the location. Everything else was burnt ash.
He stopped, regarding the smiling man with too-bright eyes who sat with only a towel draped over his nether regions. Lord Pazeral, apparently.
Visophecin did not know him. But the ghost of Roshal knew him.
“I take it this is the [Innkeeper]’s doing? I didn’t think your people were alive. Here is my offer, and I speak for the Masters of Roshal. Return Erin Solstice to us.”
Visophecin said nothing. The collars were unlocked. Roshal had been trying to kill all the [Slaves], but the Lucifen had blocked the command spell. The entire crew had been wiped out. The only body that Visophecin couldn’t account for was Iert, and he had leapt into the ocean.
Lord Pazeral had to know that if they had wiped out the entire warship, the odds of another ship taking this one were remote. Especially if he knew their powers. He seemed to, but the glittering [Lord of Possession]’s eyes were not afraid.
“Your kind has always known better than to make us their enemies. Turn around, and we will join forces. Whatever that woman offered you, we can exceed it, be it knowledge or wealth of any kind. On an Infernal Pact, no less.”
Visophecin still said nothing. He pointed a finger at the mirror, and Pazeral’s voice rose.
“You do not wish to make an enemy of Roshal, Lucifen. We will hunt you down. Roshal can chain anything. It will be enjoyable, however costly. Give. Her. Back.”
He leaned forwards, a snarl replacing his look of confidence. The Devil replied calmly.
“You own no one.”
