“A matter of opinion, Lord Pazeral. My servant, Iert, was the only member of this force to perform his duties satisfactorily. We would have had all the auxiliary targets and a far greater lead after a day of transit. At least we recovered two Djinni. I believe few of the [Assassins] will escape their pursuit.”
A woman’s tone, older than the other one, speaking fastest of all, irked and pedantic.
“Our agents have not yet been adjusted to our liking. You did not inform us of this occasion even when we warned you about Wistram. Or rather, Thatalocian did. Without Pazeral’s and Thatalocian’s aid…”
“Iert prevailed on his own merits, Lady Andra. Or will Lord Thatalocian grace us with a prediction now?”
The cracked tone again. Thatalocian.
“Four. Four…yet four becomes five. Then six. I have never seen a number change twice. Why six? I did not see it. The numbers altered. The equation…the calculus was off, and I did not realize it. Yet I cannot see the sixth number. Where did it come from?”
The young voice.
“Pursuers, Thatalocian?”
“No—it is a number that matters to her. It matters greatly. Erin Solstice. 5-18-9-14.”
The young woman knew that voice. The soft tones of the Gnoll cut in.
“Master. She is awake. What is your will?”
Pazeral.
“Your dog at least is loyal, Naga.”
The displeased voice was Emir Yazdil.
“Remove her blindfold, Iert. Cordially. A drink, I think. Something like Amentus wine, and adjust the mirror a few degrees. Send for—”
“Water. You. Fetch it. She is our captive, Emir.”
Lord Pazeral cut in as the footsteps shuffled—then someone else moved. A pause, then a furry paw pulled the blindfold off the young woman’s face.
The light blinded her, even in the cabin, and she made out the fuzzy outlines of chairs and tables. A glowing mirror. Rain pelting the deck of a ship, visible through a glass window.
The young woman said nothing. She saw five faces turn to her in the mirror and a number of silent men and women wearing collars standing against the walls. Before them—smiling men, two women, wearing silks and a crest.
A hand holding a pair of scales.
Roshal.
A man with numbers in his very eyes, old, hair rapidly turning white. Thatalocian.
A young Drake, scales flawless, a smile on her face that never touched her eyes. Shaullile.
A smiling, bronze-skinned Stitch-man who reclined, nude save for a servant blocking his crotch from view. Pazeral.
A woman in a business suit sitting with a view of a city by night behind her. Andra.
A Naga, curled in on himself, sitting upon a pillow, eyes fixed on every inch of her. Yazdil.
The five [Slavers] of Roshal stared at the young woman. Her cheek was red from lying on the table, and a bruise from striking her head on the ground while being carried was on her face.
Her clothing was slightly burnt. Rain had left her damp. Her hair was mussed, and her hazel eyes swung from face to face.
She said nothing.
Neither they nor she spoke until the Gnoll returned and put a bowl in front of her. Water moved slowly as the [Innkeeper] turned her head.
Her neck ached. She saw a hooded figure next to her and jerked.
Ulvama.
She could see the green skin and faded paint. They had put a bag over her head, and she was shivering, making the water tremble.
The boat was rocking. They were moving.
Emir Yazdil spoke crisply, breaking the silence filled only by the breathing of the [Slaves] and [Slavers] in his ship.
“I wish to speak with Erin Solstice—privately.”
“A common desire. Perhaps later.”
Thatalocian did not look away from her. He nodded. Her eyes fixed on him a second, then Lord Pazeral hissed down at the servant kneeling before him.
“Keep licking—look how she stares. This is delightful. Speak, woman.”
Erin’s eyes fixed on him a second, then roamed. Lord Pazeral laughed.
“You.”
He pointed, and someone moved and struck her across the face. Her head snapped back, and she rocked in the chair; Iert caught it. Yazdil raised his voice in outrage.
“Lord Pazeral!”
Thatalocian turned his head.
“She is my guest, Lord Pazeral.”
“And my captive. Speak.”
Silence. This time, Andra flicked her quill and nodded.
The blow hit Erin in the same spot, and her head lolled as blood and spit dripped from the corner of her mouth. Iert drew a blade, and a figure backed up, bowing.
“The Masters of Roshal—”
“This is Emir Yazdil’s ship. The Naga’s Den obeys only his command.”
Iert growled, and a voice snapped back. Andra.
“Yet we are the Masters of Roshal. Be silent, [Slave].”
The Gnoll hesitated and looked up as Erin Solstice raised her head. She kept staring as the Naga’s eyes flicked left and right, scowling.
Thatalocian and the Emir placed their hands palms down.
Andra, Shaullile, and Pazeral lifted their hands, palms up. The silence grew deeper as Iert turned his head slowly.
“A compromise?”
Shaullile spoke, voice neutral. Lord Pazeral cut her off, eyes rolling.
“You idiots. Not her. Do you know nothing?”
His eyes flashed in anger. Silence—then Iert lowered his sword. One of the figures standing to Erin’s right calmly grabbed Ulvama’s head and struck the table with it. Erin spoke instantly.
“Stop.”
The Hobgoblin cried out. Erin Solstice turned her head, and Lord Pazeral motioned. A [Slaver] struck Ulvama from the side, and she landed on the floor.
“She speaks!”
A booted foot began to kick, and Erin tried to stand.
“Stop—”
Iert leaned on her, and she couldn’t move. She struggled, and he ignored it. Then a voice.
“Enough.”
Thatalocian. The [Slaver] stepped back, panting, and Erin saw Ulvama curled up until they picked her up and set the chair upright.
“I can see this will be troublesome either way it goes. We have met before, Erin Solstice. Do you recognize me? I am [Slave Lady] Andra of Roshal.”
For a second, Erin’s lips compressed, then she looked at Thatalocian. She spoke slowly, the words coming out piece by piece.
“…I…remember him. He was one of the ones that tried to teach me. Until Khelta stopped them.”
Andra’s own lips thinned, and her nostrils flared. The [Numerologist] smiled as Pazeral scowled and Shaullile shrugged.
The Naga watched Erin, eyes bright. Ulvama was making a wheezing sound as red trickled down from her hood. Iert let Erin go and stepped back, standing right behind her. Thatalocian addressed Erin with a nod.
“It was a shame. Those of us that survived the Seamwalkers made it to Roshal. Five of us…now four. Did any ghosts survive that you know of? Besides the Immortal Tyrant.”
The [Innkeeper] did not start. Her eyes just flickered once.
Pazeral lifted a finger, and Erin spoke.
“I don’t know.”
“Yet you knew about her. She will be a problem, perhaps. She is younger than I, but her reputation was strong amongst ghosts.”
The [Numerologist] nodded to the others, and Shaullile nodded back, as did Andra. Pazeral just yawned.
“These are banal questions. Ask her later, Thatalocian. Do you have anything to say?”
The [Numerologist] frowned, then smiled faintly at Erin. He glanced at Ulvama, then looked Erin in the eyes.
“You will arrive at Lailight Scintillation tomorrow. We shall speak and come to a consensus—then.”
“How did you get me all the way to sea?”
The young woman looked out the window, and the Naga spoke crisply.
“Alas, spells are not perfect, and the recent—disruptions—during the Solstice meant that I did not have the pleasure of greeting you this very night. You are aboard The Naga’s Den, my personal ship, one of the fastest ships in the entire world. I hope you will consider me a personal friend in the days to come, Erin Solstice. Your inclinations do matter, and the others are less graceful.”
He looked anywhere but at Lord Pazeral as Erin swallowed blood before she spoke.
“Why did you do this? I haven’t done anything to Roshal.”
Not a single one of them deigned to respond at first. At length, Shaullile spoke with a sigh.
“The Rebel of String’s companionship alone implicates you. We are not blind. An enemy is an enemy, even if you have not taken overt action—yet. You could be one of us. I vote no.”
She lifted a hand, palm downwards. Andra reversed it, looking around, and Yazdil hesitated as Pazeral spoke.
“No vote—yet. She’ll resist. I say we treat her like a slave and reverse it—if we see promise.”
“Let me go. The Five Families and the Walled Cities won’t forgive you.”
The [Innkeeper] rasped, coughed, glanced down at the bowl of water—the five Masters of Roshal ignored her.
“I would offer her the contract first, Pazeral.”
“She will resist more, Thatalocian.”
Pazeral thrust his hand out, palm down. In silence, the other three lifted their hands, palms up.
Pazeral kicked the girl in front of him away with an oath, and Iert put something in front of Erin.
“I will remove one hand from your cuffs if you agree to sign. The collar works as well as the cuffs.”
Erin Solstice stared down at the contract. Then up.
“No, there’s no way out of it. Yes, it’s very generous. Would you like a translation? Fetch me an oath stone.”
Shaullile spoke while filing a nail. Yazdil coughed.
“Those do not exist anymore, Lady Shaullile.”
“Oh. Then she shall believe me or not. She can read it. But so you understand, Erin Solstice, it is a very clean contract. Agree not to harm us or take action against us. We will treat your companions and people with respect. Yourself included. You agree to join us for three months and learn in good faith to become a [Slaver] of Roshal. Class mandatory, of course. The other way is without a contract. I advise you to sign.”
They waited. Pazeral threw himself back down with a smile.
“She won’t agree.”
“I also advise you to sign.”
Thatalocian spoke gently to her. Erin Solstice looked up at him. The two held each other’s gazes until Andra coughed impatiently.
“We could delay this until she is before us—”
“No.”
A chorus of voices. Andra sighed, raised a hand, and spoke to the side.
“Coffee. Stamina shot.”
She folded her fingers as Erin spoke.
“Why me?”
Thatalocian responded calmly, fingers moving across an abacus, tossing a die down and noting the numbers.
“Because you matter. I am Roshal’s child, and you would eventually come against us. I would prefer an open hand, but you would not take it. Sign the contract, Erin Solstice. There is no other protection I can offer you while we vote. Three months. You will be a guest. You will doubtless scheme. You will hate us.”
Thatalocian’s eyes lifted, and the numbers changed slightly as he stared at her, unwavering.
“—I intend that you break parts of Roshal. You may slaughter them. You may destroy what this is. Many are unworthy.”
His eyes moved across the room, and the lesser [Slavers] shuddered. Thatalocian went on.
“But I am a son of Roshal. I would like you to meet one person in all our number whom you could respect, for one quality. I would have you understand there is bravery. I would have you make a single friend.”
The other four glared at Thatalocian flatly, rolled their eyes, sipped their drink, or sighed and nodded. Erin read the contract.
“There is a way out of your predicament, Erin Solstice. Bend one inch. Just bend. You know where this is going.”
Shaullile spoke crisply, impatiently. Erin’s eyes rose.
“I know.”
“And?”
All five leaned forwards. Erin stared at the contract as Iert paused with a pen and dagger on a piece of cloth. She didn’t look at Ulvama, though the Hobgoblin had moved a foot and was touching Erin’s leg with it.
Only Shaullile noticed, though she could not see the angle of the table. She grimaced—and Erin spoke.
“I thought I knew you.”
Pazeral began smiling. Thatalocian sat back, and Yazdil’s lips quirked as Andra’s face grew flat. Erin’s eyes focused on the table and a spot of blood.
“I thought it was like people who killed Goblins. Like monsters. I didn’t really look closely. I didn’t want to die or put my family in danger, and I guess I pretended there was nothing I could do. I was afraid of seeing.”
Her eyes rose slowly, memorizing each face. Pazeral clapped his hands together.
“The Goblin first.”
The [Slavers] grabbed Ulvama, and a hand produced a knife and began cutting at her clothes. Another grabbed Erin’s arm and sawed at her shirt. They ripped cloth off, and Erin felt cold air on her chest and hands on her belt. Ulvama made a sound—
“Touch her and I swear, we will both regret it. No matter what price I have to pay.”
“Stop.”
The [Slavers] stopped as the Emir tapped one claw on a side table that held a drink. He was displeased and gazed about.
“She is my guest. I would rather her be a guest.”
One of the [Slavers] had Erin pinned with one arm. He smelled of lemongrass cologne and old sweat worked into leather. Her cheekbone was gritting into the table.
She heard Lord Pazeral speak crisply with excitement.
“She has declined your offer, Yazdil. Surround her in comforts when she arrives. She still doesn’t understand. [Slavers], what do you think?”
“Lord Pazeral, give me leave, and I will remind this one in a moment and cheer the entire crew.”
One [Slaver] was breathless and was pressed up against her arm. She felt his trousers rubbing against her shoulder, fabric stiff and straining as it pressed into her. Another bowed rapidly.
“Lord Pazeral, we could simply introduce her to some water until that haughty look vanishes.”
“Lord Pazeral, a brand?”
“If Lord Pazeral wishes to join us in person—”
She couldn’t see Shaullile, or Andra, but the Drake spoke up.
“Be careful. She won’t break until she shatters completely. Grab her mouth. She might bite her tongue.”
Hands gripped Erin’s mouth, forcing her teeth apart, and Andra murmured.
“Subtlety this crew lacks.”
Pazeral smiled like a teacher watching young students.
“They are still [Slavers]. I say give them a night.”
Yazdil replied softly.
“No.”
Silence as hands moved. Then Lord Pazeral spoke.
“Then the Goblin?”
A pause. Emir Yazdil spoke suddenly.
“I believe I would like a recess of thirty minutes. I have a suggestion.”
“Very well.”
Lord Pazeral sounded amused. Ulvama was panting, and Erin felt the pressure release all at once. When she looked up, the Naga was smiling at her. Her skin was prickling—then he spoke.
“Put her in the cells with the others. Though—one moment. I must insist as master of this vessel. Iert?”
“Yazdil, you do treat yourself as a first among equals rather than one of us.”
Shaullile spoke sidelong.
“Indulge him or he may pop, Thatalocian.”
Two hands grabbed each arm. Erin began to pull—but couldn’t move as she heard footsteps behind her. Then a paw gripped one ear, and she felt a piercing, hot pain—
