The [Shaman of the Old Ways] stood there, and Erin realized that Ulvama was right. They were alike. A question occurred to her belatedly.
“How many times have you done this?”
“More than you. You’re cold. We eat something. Then…I need two things.”
So saying, Ulvama brought Erin into one of the cabins and found her belt pouches of powder and paint. She worked for a little bit as Erin found a mirror.
Her face was cut up and bruised. The two earrings—Erin realized they were still in her ears and nearly ripped them out. Ulvama stopped her and removed them—before gently offering something to Erin.
“I’ll heal my ears…”
She had no healing potions. The vessel’s stores were mostly gone with the crew. Ulvama gently put something in Erin’s ears.
“Shush. Pierced ears is nice. Hold still.”
She took a brush and began to work. Erin squirmed—then saw her reflection in the mirror changing.
When they came back onto the deck, Visophecin turned—and blinked. Igolze almost made a comment before Azemith stepped on one foot hard.
Erin’s face was covered in paint, the [Shaman]’s magical colors glowing. Her eyes were lined with a bright hazel, like her eyes, and the red slashes down her cheeks that covered pale white and green—
Blue dots around her eyes. It wasn’t a full mask, but it was like Ulvama’s own decorations, which she had reapplied. Visophecin realized what it was. Something he had so rarely seen—
Goblin warpaint. 
It covered the [Innkeeper]’s mortal wounds. In Erin’s ears were two polished jade beads with red dots mixed into the stone. Like a Goblin’s eyes.
When Erin turned her head to the rain, the glowing colors made her look more like the woman who had sat in that room across from him.
And Ulvama wasn’t done. She looked at the Lucifen, whom Erin had called into this storm. Devils in their finery, drenched by the surf. The Hobgoblin lifted her eyes to the dark sea.
She pointed a finger straight into the night sky and frowned, eyeballing distance before she looked down. Erin looked up at Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin grinned at Erin with all her teeth.
“No matter where you go, Erin Solstice. Remember: you chose the best of friends.”
So saying, the Hobgoblin traced something in the air. She drew magic, and like Tesy, like her class, her magic was more than waving a wand and speaking a spell. The [Shaman] took her time, writing a single word in the center of an illustration.
Though Erin could not read it. The [Innkeeper] looked at the word.
“What’s that one mean?”
“Næfoma.”
Ulvama pointed up—and shot a star into the sky. It burst upwards, blasting through the rain, leaving a trail of vapor and glowing particles of magic in its wake. Ulvama’s eyes glowed as she shaded her eyes, sure that they would see it.
At least one, and remember. The Hobgoblin whispered.
“It means, ‘help’.”
In her gaze, one of two burning beacons flickered—and then began to grow brighter. The [Innkeeper] turned to her, and Ulvama winked. Erin strode over to the helm, and Ulvama pointed as they adjusted their course. Looking at the same thing, now.
“Let’s go.”
Without a word, Erin grabbed Ulvama’s hand, and the [Shaman] squeezed tightly. Erin turned to Visophecin, who watched her, not understanding what he saw in the Human and Goblin’s gazes. So she told him gently, hazel eyes filled with a calm, terrible light.
“Because it matters. Each and every time. I’m sorry. I am. I don’t know you. I don’t love you. There’s no one I would want more with me right now. Come on. Let’s die.”
Erin spun the wheel, and it felt like time had started again. She was giggling, laughing, listening to Ulvama’s cackle as she held a Goblin’s hand and sailed forwards. For no other reason than she had to. Erin called up to the sky.
“At last. I’m ready.”
