A roaring sound. It hurt fiercely, then numbed as something wet and soft was pressed against it. Her other ear—
Iert withdrew the hot needle, then fished around at his side. Something clinked, and she felt a weight pull down each ear. Erin’s arms shook, and she stared at the Naga’s sudden, huge smile.
A pair of sapphire-and-gold earrings hung from her pierced ears as the Naga leaned back.
“Magnificent. I believe High King Perric’s Djinni last wore these—before I traded him for them. Iert, take a mage picture.”
“Thus, the Naga marks her first. Each to their own. I prefer simpler means, but I cannot transit over after being defeated. You overstep so, Yazdil.”
Pazeral rolled his eyes, but indulgently. Andra nodded as Shaullile shrugged and Thatalocian said not a word. Iert moved Erin’s head left and right, patiently capturing her face with an artifact as Andra spoke.
“You have had your way, Yazdil. In the next vote, we shall have ours.”
The Naga’s smile vanished, and he sat upright, an objection on his lips. Yet his eyes lingered on Erin Solstice’s face with satisfaction.
“Unchain both, but keep the collars and unlinked manacles on at all times, even in the cells. Also, separate those two from the main kill spell. In case of accidents.”
“Yes, Master.”
Iert pulled Erin up without a word and marched her out onto the deck. The doors flew open, and Erin saw figures moving in the storm, cursing, two glowing Djinni blowing air into billowing sails—
A storm at sea. No sign of the coast.
Then they were opening a door that led down, and she smelled worse. The first floor of cells were magic like Liscor’s. They shoved her through, and the wall was solid one-way. Ulvama stumbled and fell over, and Erin saw the Hobgoblin was naked and bruised from fingers. A huge cut ran down her chest, across one breast, partially healed by a potion but still raw and deep.
The [Guards] walked down the ship’s hallway, pausing to stare at the two, and one spoke.
“Haven’t had a Goblin in the ship for decades. The [Ship Master] will be pleased.”
Erin stared down at her shaking hands, naked now except for the collar and metal guards on her wrist. The rain poured down harder.
 
——
 
The first thing the occupants of the cell did was surround Erin and Ulvama. There were enough of them to physically form a wall and push the two against the cell’s door.
Neither woman spoke at first. Ulvama was shaking, covering herself, and Erin—saw a [Guard] pass by and reach through the cells and grab those on the exterior. He pulled one of the prisoners out of the magic barrier. Erin croaked.
“Stop. Stop.”
The prisoners in her cell shoved at her, and she realized they were all female. Humans and Drakes, mostly. They kept pushing without a word, blank-faced, until someone spoke.
“The Naga wants both of them. The [Guards] can’t choose either. There’s no point to shoving them forwards.”
The shoving stopped. Then they drew back, sat down, or faced the other wall, and Erin could breathe.
Erin stood there, realizing when she turned that there were [Guards] watching her. One lifted something and cast [Magic Picture]. She turned the other way.
“Ulvama. What happened?”
“They got you. I chased. There was…fake Ryoka. Magnolia Reinhart shot. Archmage flew after us. Doesn’t matter. Doesn’t matter.”
Ulvama looked up, crimson eyes finding Erin’s.
“You should have signed.”
“I couldn’t. They’ll…”
“Do you know what comes next?”
Ulvama grabbed Erin with both arms, shook her, and the [Innkeeper] stumbled. The Hobgoblin was panting. She looked down at Erin—then sat down and curled up.
“I shouldn’t have tried to stop them. But I had to.”
Erin squatted down next to her.
“If they…I…this…”
Silence. Then Erin focused on the cell.
It was pale white. Painted; there were stains on the wall. Red, brown, yellow, and drains. Nothing else. Erin saw many of the other women looking at her; only two had collars on. Many recognized her.
She recognized one of them, but did not know from where.
“The [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn. I knew the Naga wanted you. For you, we tarried a month here. Unpleasant compared to Lailight Scintillation. The crew were bored. This is for you.”
Someone slapped Erin across the face. A Stitch-woman, one of the two wearing a collar, raised another hand, and Ulvama caught it.
“—Who are you?”
Erin shook her head, and the woman spoke.
“I am [Emira] Isoquen of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Who, as luck had it, led my armies across Medain when they were routed, and I was placed on this ship. Two months I have been at sea.”
She looked—her chin was raised. She had a hand ready to slap. She stood with Erin and Ulvama in front of the walls and stepped back when a [Guard] passed. Her hand lowered, and she stared at Erin, eyes flashing.
“You were a prisoner of war?”
“The King of Destruction, of course. My enemies did not allow my ransom to be met. But you will remember it, all of you.”
Her head turned around, and few looked up. She had said this many times.
“When I complete my service as a [Slave] and return home, you will remember it was Emira Isoquen who won her freedom among all. And two months I wasted at sea for you—”
Another slap until Ulvama seized the arm, and her claws dug into the skin. Then Isoquen froze and backed up, tearing her arm loose.
“So they were planning this long ago in secret. Not even Magnolia knew.”
Erin looked around. They were all looking at her—then away.
“All for you. Even the crew did not know until the morning. We will be at Lailight Scintillation by the next mid-morn. This ship could have made the trip fourteen times in the month it waited. And a Goblin.”
The Stitch-woman spat on Ulvama, and Erin shifted. She raised a fist, and Ulvama looked at her. Erin lowered her hand—turned away from the [Emira]. She had spotted someone else.
The second woman with a collar didn’t move when Erin sat down. She only looked up when she saw Ulvama.
“Goblin.”
“Do I know you? I’m—Erin Solstice.”
The other woman was covered in injuries. She was older than Erin, and had her back to one corner of the far wall where they all tried to be. But no one got near her. She looked up at Erin.
“They said your [Knight] came to my village.”
A [Shepherd] of the village of Salefenwool stared at Erin Solstice. One of the victims of the Bloodfeast Raiders’ attack. Erin looked at her.
“What did…”
Silence. A hand gripped Erin’s arm.
“Did the others make it?”
“Yes.”
The [Shepherd] opened her eyes, and Erin looked down—then up swiftly. Ulvama gazed down with familiar eyes, and the [Shepherd] moved slightly. Erin realized someone was hiding behind the [Shepherd].
“Good.”
The blood in her  ears was still roaring from the pain of the piercing. The sound grew louder. Erin looked down as two eyes peered up at her. A smaller figure.
Lizardfolk.
“Hello. I’m…Erin.”
The [Innkeeper] forced the words out. The girl hid her face with her claws, but Erin saw what remained of her face.
Someone had, with a blade, removed her features. Lizardfolk and Drakes had less cartilage than Humans. So they had removed scales and flesh, and what remained had scarred over. Two eyes found Erin’s, bright and yellow. Her neck frills were all but gone.
“I want to go home to my mom.”
The [Shepherd] said nothing. Erin looked away. Ulvama did not. Her chest rose and fell hard, and when she looked around—the others in the cell said nothing.
“What happened to—”
“They said they’d fix my face. I can’t run away until they do.”
The Lizardgirl whispered, and Erin’s stomach heaved. She closed her eyes and heard a sob—then Ulvama spoke.
“You will. I promise.”
When Erin opened her eyes, the Hobgoblin had the girl in her lap. She gently patted the girl’s head as the girl clung to her. The [Shepherd] stared at Ulvama, who ignored her and everyone else.
“Will she love me?”
Ulvama’s hand never stopped patting the girl’s head.
“Yes. No matter what.”
 
——
 
The [Guards] passed by the cell four times in the next…Erin guessed ten or twenty minutes. Once, they grabbed one of the [Slaves] and towed them out. There wasn’t any struggle.
The third time, one stopped, noticed Erin’s red cheek, and demanded to know who had done it. When someone looked at the [Emira], he shoved the butt of a spear through the cell and struck her until she curled up into a ball. Erin spoke up when he didn’t stop after a dozen blows.
“Stop it.”
He gave her an affronted look. Then smiled.
“She’s already found the child, see, Master Iert?”
“Which [Slaver] decided to raid Baleros?”
The Gnoll paused as he passed by the cell, and the [Guard] shrugged.
“Mistress Ureaia? Break apart. Build back better. It keeps the canvases from running away. I know the Naga prefers to work with an unblemished product, but not everyone can find diamonds in the rough. They’re all still decent with time. Well, compared to her.”
The [Guard]’s gaze at Erin was both for her body—and level. Iert’s look was flat, unreadable. The Gnoll walked up to the cell, then through it. Half the cell backed away—the other half looked at him, trying to attract his eye.
He only stared once at Ulvama, then focused on Erin.
“The Masters of Roshal are debating what to do. They will vote very soon.”
His eyes flicked to Ulvama, then Erin.
“You would be better served if you’d signed.”
She said nothing. Iert stepped forwards.
“The Emir has his own contract. Sign it and you won’t regret what comes next. You have until the ship reaches harbor and it ends. Call for it.”
He stepped back, face blank as he glanced down at her.
“Refuse a second time and he will let Lord Pazeral have his way. The female Masters are not better than Yazdil. The [Numerologist] least of all.”
He turned and left. Erin sat there as every eye turned towards her.
She looked at Ulvama. The Goblin’s claw paused as she patted the girl on the head.
 
——
 
“I never told you about my mother. I tell no one. All Goblins in my tribe know what happens if they are captured in battle. I tell them. Rags’ tribe is kinder. They just die.”
One minute later, Ulvama spoke. The [Shepherd] had moved away to whisper with some others, who listened in to Erin and Ulvama’s conversation. Now the cells knew her name. Their heads swung towards her, then away.
“Your mother? What happened to…”
Erin’s eyes rose. She had never known to even ask. Ulvama’s face was pale, and only the girl who’d fallen asleep let the Goblin hold still. But she held Erin’s hand tightly. Gently, and her voice filled the cell and Erin’s ears.
“She was a warrior who was captured on a raid for food. Doesn’t matter if they’re male or female. Sometimes they just die. Sometimes they torture Goblins. Cut limbs off, put them in cages. Make them suffer. But female Goblins—they rape them. Most never survive unless their tribe comes back fast. They live a week. Then—”
“Why? They kill themselves?”
She still didn’t understand. Somehow, the Hobgoblin smiled. Though her eyes—
“No. The ones who captured them kill them. No one should ever know what they did to a Goblin. My mother got away. Had me.”
“Ulvam—”
“Shh. Just listen.”
The Hobgoblin took a deep breath, then another.
“I…was captured twice. The first time I was a [Shaman] raiding. My tribe found me after two weeks. They had to find me after the farmers traded me…a few times. To other farms. It’s always in secret, where they take you. The next time, my tribe was attacked. Four days of adventurers in our tribe’s cave before the Mountain City tribe came and killed them. I never left the mountain afterwards. The third time was another Goblin. I killed him after he fell asleep. Then I became the strongest [Shaman].”
Now they were here again. Ulvama’s voice was controlled. She was forcing the words out as directly as she could.
“That’s why we followed Tremborag. No matter what he was. He was strong. Goblins copy everything. I never had a baby, though. I was a [Shaman].”
The [Innkeeper]’s hands were shaking. Ulvama took her other hand and squeezed it so tight Erin’s fingers groaned. Erin didn’t pull away.
“I’m…”
The [Shaman] spoke past Erin’s head, staring at something else.
“These things happen. Someday, those moments seem far away. Then—suddenly—it was yesterday. Then you’re right there again. It wasn’t my fault for being a Goblin.”
Ulvama stopped.
“They make you think it was.”
The young woman said nothing to that. The Hobgoblin squeezed harder, her hand shaking.
“You can survive. Don’t fight back.”
“I—”
“Don’t fight back.”
The Hobgoblin seized her head warningly. She rested her forehead against Erin’s, speaking slowly and directly.
“Don’t bite anything. They will break your teeth out of your face. Mine grew back. Yours won’t. If they want you to cry—cry. Don’t be angry. They like that. Be blank.”
The [Innkeeper] tried to say something, but her throat wouldn’t work. So she listened as Emira Isoquen spoke. Her voice was level, and like Ulvama, they put aside emotions and spoke to Erin directly.
“Not this lot. If you’re blank, they’ll torture you until you react. Pretend to resist and give in. They won’t believe it if you burst into tears right away.”
Another woman at Erin’s shoulder.
“Find a position you can breathe in. Or else you’ll suffocate or pass out. Don’t let yourself pass out. Even if you think you want to.”
Other prisoners began to speak, adding…tips. No, not tips. Erin looked around, and the advice felt like tools. The kind she had never thought existed. Tricks to let her escape the worst.
Her mother had taught her to be careful when Erin was ten. Every girl got this kind of advice. Their words, their looks reminded Erin of Shauna Solstice, a long time ago.
Ulvama’s hand was gripping Erin’s arm.
“You will live. Make one believe they’re your favorite if it’s one-on-one or you see them often. Don’t let the others get jealous. They won’t let you go, but maybe they’ll give you a bandage if you’re bleeding.”
“You learned all this.”
Erin spoke the obvious, not because she was in denial. Her head rose, matted hair tangled, as Ulvama combed it with her claws.
“And you still tried to save me.”
The [Shaman] combed Erin’s hair silently a second.
“You’re stupid. Without me, they’d kill you the first time. I thought they might take little Mrsha. I thought I could slow them down.”
She had known—but the [Shaman]’s gaze was bright.
“I don’t leave my tribe. I should have fought better. Thought to ask where the stupid chained monsters came from. Or Djinni.”
Erin whispered.
“I should have too. Ulvama—”
