The shapeshifter was still on fire, bleeding red into the snow, and looked around for something else to kill as Aotazen’s screaming finally stopped. Erin was gone. Ulvama was gone. Iert was gone.
Valeterisa lifted the real Wind Runner into the air as the Antinium raced down the tunnel after the [Assassins].
That only left…her eyes slowly travelled downwards, and there, lying petrified on the ground, was a shaking, white-faced City Runner. Persua looked up.
“Ryoka? I—it’s me. Persua.”
She saw the face of ‘Ryoka’ waver, and the shapeshifter condensed, melting down as Persua shook, face white.
“I—I—I just wanted to be friends. My redemption. We were supposed to be the best of friends.”
The shapeshifter bent over her, and, shaking, Persua slowly stared into her own, pale face, features moving like wax as…she…spoke.
“I’m Persua.”
By the time Tyrion Veltras and the others found the spot where Iert had vanished, everyone was gone.
 
——
 
It was a dream. It was a dream, and she would wake, she knew. Erin Solstice sat in a dark room, her room in The Wandering Inn, writing at her desk.
A mirror on one far wall with her wardrobe of clothes her friends had bought for her. Her unmade bed…there was no inn beyond.
Just her.
She wrote and spoke out loud slowly. Thinking. Part of her knew this was a dream. Knew she was asleep. It didn’t…know what was happening.
Only that terrible things had happened and would happen. The rest of Erin was just focused. A little ghost of an [Innkeeper] who whispered truths of this world without weeping, though she should.
It was too much.
“Kevin is dead.”
How she knew, she could not say. Only that she knew it. Erin stared down at her list.
 
[Mechanic] Level 28.
[Boarder] Level 14.
[Warrior] Level 4.
 
He’d been an [Engineer] but gotten a new class. A better one. [Tinkerer] had become [Engineer] had become [Mechanic]. Maybe, in time, he would have become an [Auto Repair Mechanic] or a…a [Mechanist]?
Her quill scratched the paper, though she had never dipped it in ink.
“Sounds like Kevin. But he also just loved being free. He would have been…a [Mobile Mechanic]. Combine [Boarder] and [Mechanic]. Yes.”
That made sense. It fit. But Kevin was dead. Shot straight through the heart with a [Pinpoint Shot]; beyond the power of Joseph to help even if he’d had a healing potion.
Kevin was dead. So was Halrac.
 
Cause: <UNKNOWN>.
 
“I know who it was. Kasigna.”
 
Cause: <Kasigna>. Method?
 
“Gods kill.”
 
Cause: <Kasigna, touch of death.>
 
“Sure.”
Erin wrote that down slowly. Did it matter? She closed her eyes, opened them again.
“Tyrion Veltras was a Level 29 [Diligent Lord]. I see. And he fought Cauwine? And survived Kasigna and the entire…battle. Of course he’d level up. But Kasigna and Cauwine don’t exist.”
 
Experience Reward: Not Available.
 
“They’re gods. Even if they are dead—surviving them is…harder than surviving a Dragon? I don’t know. If Teriarch was angry…at least surviving a Dragon. Zeladona was there? Then use her for Cauwine and Kasigna.”
Erin wrote a string of numbers, approximating an encounter with a Level 80 enemy or a Dragon, and circled the higher amount—Level 80 [Warrior] over average Dragon.
“There. Put that in.”
Now, at least, they would be rewarded fairly. Numbly, Erin noted down Tyrion’s current class.
[Diligent Lord]. She supposed he was. She stared at the paper.
“…Make him better at what he’s doing. Leading people. For better or worse. Even if he’s not good at it, he went to Ailendamus. Make him a [Lord of the Five Families]. And give him a Skill…to empower his allies. There.”
Consolidate his [Lancer] class? No…not yet. He hadn’t done as much as a [Lancer] as he had as a [Lord] this battle. Erin marked [Lancer of the Ages] up to Level 37. [Lord of the Five Families]…Level 33.
“Four levels there, two levels there. It’s hard to level as a [Lord]. He’ll probably get to Level 40 as a [Lancer] first.”
She moved on. Halrac was dead. He would have been…
[Knight-Archer of Lost Flames], Level 36.
He would have made Level 40. She didn’t think of what his class might have become. There was no point.
“Lyonette is Level 29 in [Worldly Princess]. It’s time for her as well.”
Erin rocked back in her chair, thinking. Time didn’t matter in this place. She was almost glad of it, having only this to do. Think about levels. Levels…couldn’t hurt you.
“[Princess]. She is one now. She’s done so much, but she’s been stuck with me. Now she’s a [Princess]. [Antinium Princess]? No. [Princess of Dawn]? That’s stupid.”
Erin thought of every [Princess] class there was and ever had been. Ran down the list slowly.
“She’s not light, even if she has some of her father’s powers. She wants to be a mother. She’s…a [Princess of Changing Days]. No, a [Princess of World’s Change]. The more she does, the more she’ll be.”
Sest was dead. Erin could hear Lyonette weeping, somewhere. The [Innkeeper] spoke.
“She has had bodyguards, servants, protectors, and champions, now. Now—she should give something back to them.”
Yes.
Not everything was going to be acted upon. Everything she wrote down was a suggestion. Helpful. But this…Erin gently wrote a Skill down and knew it fit.
[Royal Pact of Service: Class Ascensions].
She wished she could smile, but Erin had none to give. Slowly, she spoke the names of the dead—and living.
“Bird’s dead. But he’s not ‘dead’. He’s coming back.”
The Free Queen was already remaking his body. It was Erin’s job to remove his levels.
He was a Level 40 [Bow-Singer Queen of the Free Antinium]. A Level 17 [Amazing Liar].
Erin removed ten levels, adjusted for the ones he would receive. Changed his class.
 
Level 35 [Bow-Queen of the Free Antinium].
 
That would do. Simpler. He’d lose [Wings of Escieda]. But keep his [Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow] Skill because it was from his friendship with Rafaema.
In this moment, Erin knew the Lightning Dragon’s nature, knew Rafaema had lost a wing, and saw the future in Bird’s reincarnation and made notes.
Not just about him. Each level she wrote, each new class—had not been assigned yet. But they would be. It was only a matter of time.
They had all tried so hard. Lost so much. Erin Solstice kept working, writing until her fingers would have bled if this wasn’t a dream. Making sense of the dead.
Gershal. George. Tekshia…
Names she knew, people she had never met, Erin suddenly understood. She knew Imani wasn’t dead. Not yet. A piece of metal from an imperfect gun was buried in her eye socket, and a [Healer] was gripping it with a pliers as one of Geneva Scala’s clones told her to remove it.
Not all of them were dead. Many were gone. And they would not come back.
They were in Hellste now. Kasignel was gone. There were only a few ways to even speak with the dead, and the ways to come back…
Erin rubbed at her eyes at last. She pushed herself back from the table and stopped writing. She had done something that mattered.
“Gods need a value.”
 
Yes.
 
They could not be a void. Erin stood over the paper, quill poised, a drop of ink forever suspended on the brass.
Those who strived against them deserved Skills too. But which ones?
“[God’s Fist]? [Blade of the Divine]? [Brand of the Blasphemous Sinner]? [Diotrichne’s Blessing]? No wonder these Skills have never been given. Not these. For someone like her…Kasigna…”
She wrote simply.
“[Death Defier]. Let them cling to life even if it should kill them. It won’t make them invincible. It’ll let them pretend to be a corpse. Even if they don’t have enough blood.”
She paused. Thought.
“[Bound Spell: Word of Undeath]. Arise.”
The [Innkeeper]’s quill scratched a hundred times. Then a thousand.
“[Divine Guidance]. Once per…month for lesser. Week for regular. It doesn’t have to come from them. Point them in the right way. Tell them which lever to pull—yes.”
It was so easy. Well, not easy. She was using all of her mind to figure out each Skill and level earnestly.
But it was easier than…living. Easier than chess. Erin stared at her chessboard.
Easier than chess?
Her head rose, and the [Innkeeper]’s hazel eyes focused on the blank window. Then her head turned. And she looked at the mirror gleaming darkly at one end of the room.
She pushed the chair back and walked towards it, still feeling like the world was a drifting dream where time mattered little.
“I see. It’s happening again.”
She had done this before. Only, last time, it had been thinking she was on Earth.
Earth.
The piece of paper that never grew longer, nor changed no matter how much she wrote on it, called to her. Why was she here? It wasn’t the same as Kasigna’s trick. Erin stared at the mirror, and she was reflected in it.
“Oh, that’s why. Earth must be strange, mustn’t it?”
“Yes.”
Erin said that too. She sat down and wrote for a while.
“It’s different and the same. Yeah. [Cameraman]. Or [Camerawoman]. [Nerd] isn’t a class. It’s sort of an insult. You’d have to think pretty oddly to get it as a class. But [Gamer]…I guess it fits.”
She switched to a pen with green ink.
“Really? No one came here before us?”
There was no answer. But in this moment, Erin knew all the answers and nothing at all. So she kept writing. Then stopped again.
“They messed with fate, didn’t they? Kasigna. Shaestrel. Fate itself is a Skill—but those two were fighting over it—but they can’t see the future for more than, what—two days after this? Something’s thrown it into chaos. Not just the Solstice. What?”
She traced a line across a map and circled a spot in the world.
“I see. It’s the [Pirates]. That’s their Skill?”
The [Innkeeper] stared at the letters on the page and shook her head.
“It seems—broken to me. And fair. So it’s fine. It’s what they wished for, isn’t it? Why am I here?”
She stood up again, and this time, she faced her mirror fully. An [Innkeeper] with ash and blood smeared across her features, without a smile, her brown hair disordered from the fighting. She looked down, and a collar and handcuffs were on her neck and hands.
“I see. This is a dream. But it’s not. Why me?”
She thought about it, and her reflection’s lips moved as Erin spoke.
“…Because I’m an Earther. Things should make sense? I agree.”
She lost track of which one she was, the reflection in the mirror or…which side of the mirror was right? Erin Solstice saw her lips move as she shook her head.
“Earth is confusing. I don’t fit my class.”
“How rude. At least this doesn’t hurt. I’m not being altered, am I?”
“How could I? Makes sense.”
The two locked eyes and blinked at the same time. Or so she assumed. She couldn’t see the world when her eyes were closed. The world disappeared and reappeared in a moment. How terrifying.
“And I…haven’t reached Level 50 yet. Technically, I’m Level 53, closing on Level 54? Wow.”
“I adjusted Theillige’s level ups down because all they did was come into my inn. Fighting for me matters more. It’s only fair.”
Yet—Erin Solstice shook her head.
“I’m not ready to change classes. I didn’t do anything during the Solstice but survive. I haven’t changed.”
She paused.
“…But I might, when I wake up. Something terrible has happened, hasn’t it?”
“Oh yes.”
Her eyes were empty, and something was in those depths. Erin whispered as she met her eyes.
“Why did you warn me?”
One of them looked down a second.
“It’s embarrassing. I shouldn’t have done it. I just—wanted to know what you will become.”
“Just for me? Ah. Because no one knows what class I’ll be.”
“Or what Skill Erin Solstice gains. I wanted to know.”
“Everyone does, I guess.”
It would be kinder to stay asleep forever. Erin knew that. Even so, she was still perplexed about—this.
“So I was needed. And this was the best method? What if I’m biased?”
“I can’t nearly destroy the world like Mrsha—wow. Really?”
She almost laughed at this. Almost…then rested her head against the mirror, so close that her reflection was only separated by the tiniest barrier.
“Yeah. I haven’t done anything to deserve Level 50. Nothing worth it yet. Are you….on my side?”
“Yes. And theirs.”
“You shouldn’t be. Not theirs.”
Erin stared at herself, raising an eyebrow.
“Why?”
The two locked gazes—until they lost track of who was who, and one of the Erin’s lowered her gaze.
“I suppose it’s always about fairness. I hate it. When I wake, I doubt I’ll remember this.”
“It will be bad when I wake. I should stay like this forever.”
It was so tempting. For a while, the two young women looked at each other, and at last, one of them confessed.
“I’m sorry. I just don’t understand you after all.”
The other one spoke with half a smile.
“That’s okay. I don’t understand anyone.”
Then one of them turned while the other stayed put. The first slowly walked to the door to Erin’s room and took a deep breath. The other watched them as Erin Solstice put her hand on the door.
“Dark moments await. In their way, worse than Kasigna by far.”
She opened the door, and the other whispered.
“Yes.”
…Then Erin woke up.
 
——
 
The metal cuffs and collar were cutting into her skin. The air tasted like salt. The world rocked, and a creak ran through the ground. Rain pattered down softly, and it smelled like oil, wet dog, and a deep stench of fear and urine hidden by a strong perfume of roses.
She was in a chair, hard, plain, and simple, rocking slightly from a bad leg. Her cheek was pressed against a piece of polished wood. There was a soft blindfold on her face. She heard someone breathing heavily beside her. Felt the shaking through the wood.
—Voices. A soft, growling tone of deference. Iert.
The slightly distorted echoes of…five voices coming through a spell. A polished, enunciated tone raised in anger, a sibilant edge to it.
“I did not order Magnolia Reinhart’s assassination. Worse yet, it failed. Nor did I demand the Earthers killed, merely apprehended if possible.”
“We agreed, Yazdil.”
A polite, controlled voice of a young woman. Then the dry tones of an older voice.
“Not all voted in consensus, but I remind you that you are not the sole authority, Emir. Every Master of Roshal is invested in this moment.”
A barking laugh and the sense of resonance, a voice of magic, also male, contemptuous.
“Few matter. However, we are agreed. Our enemies should fear us.”
The first voice again, rapid and angry.
