Bird glanced at the Silent Antinium’s Prognugator, and Mrsha stared at him. Treachery? Bird didn’t tell her what was going on. Then they heard a bang—and Mrsha’s ears perked up. It sounded far, far off, past Liscor’s walls. But then there were horn calls and…and…
Bird turned in a moment, and his antennae froze.
“Someone shot Magnolia Reinhart. The inn—”
He raised his bow and hesitated as the Antinium susurrated. Mrsha saw Bird turn to her.
“Stay here. I will go find Erin.”
He took off running with all the Antinium around him. Mrsha almost ran after him, but Nanette grabbed her hand.
“Don’t! If it’s dangerous—let’s find someone who can help! Is Miss Ryoka alright? Where’s Emperor Laken?”
Suddenly, the children were running, asking everyone in sight questions. There was more chaos in the air, and Mrsha’s ears caught a babble of voices.
“Someone’s attacked Riverfarm! The [Emperor]—”
“It’s Khelt! They’re wearing Khelt’s—”
“Lock down the city, now! Close the gates!”
Chaos. Mrsha was dragging at Nanette’s hand, now, and pointing. If they didn’t know where to go—Selys! Mrsha was leading everyone through the streets towards Selys’ mansion when she slowed and came to a stop.
“Found the auxiliaries. Grab those two and move. Now.”
Eight figures wearing Khelt’s symbol skidded to a stop and ran at the children as one spoke into a speaking stone. Without a word, Nerry, who’d been running to keep up, fired both wands. Mrsha flinched as Nanette hesitated.
“Who—”
A wave of liquid so hot it burnt the feet off one of the [Assassins] made them stumble—then collapse, shrieking. The others leapt as a slicing blade of wind hit one in the chest and cut them down.
“Run.”
Hethon Veltras stared at the [Assassins], then pushed at Nanette. Sammial shouted it.
“Run!”
 
——
 
Iert’s team had split. He had sent the [Assassins] after the auxiliary targets, and they reported they’d found the children.
Iert and Aotazen had gone after their primary target, who mattered more.
Ryoka Griffin.
She’d been flying over Liscor, and they’d tracked her onto a street and approached, asking for help. Ryoka had turned, and Iert had let two [Assassins] hit her with darts.
The Wind Runner took a step, looked puzzled, then alarmed, and the wind began to howl—
Then faded.
Iert stepped forwards fast, grabbed the Wind Runner before her head could strike the ground, and glanced around. Several civilians were staring at him in shock—he shoved the Wind Runner at another [Assassin].
“That’s two. Squads—report.”
“Squad one. The children are escaping.”
“You’re letting children escape?”
“The lamb has magical wands!”
It was like a stupid damn joke. Iert snarled back.
“You are Roshal’s finest. Grab them. Squad three?”
“Engaging. Lady Reinhart’s servants are holding us off. They fight as well as Ranks. I will have the targets. I can likely secure the [Princess] as well.”
Squad three’s leader was a Face. Iert paused.
“…Leave her. Meet us at the rendezvous the moment you have them. Be warned—the gate to Liscor may now be open.”
He heard a grunt, which summed up his feelings. Squad two had botched the entire operation. Which one of the others had ordered this? Yazdil would be furious. Worse, the second squad actually had the temerity to chime in at this point.
“Master Iert! We have fulfilled our orders and are trying to take the [Emperor], but we are surrounded! They have killed a Djinni!”
Iert grunted as he heard a transmission from the second squad. He spoke into the stone crisply as Aotazen inhaled.
“Someone’s following us, Master Iert.”
“To the tunnels. Squad three, you have ten minutes. Meet us there—now. Squad two?”
“Master Iert? If you give us your two Djinni—”
The voice was begging. The Gnoll glanced towards the gates. He spoke into the stone.
“You’ll never make it to us with the [Emperor]. The code phrase is: ‘Nuretic adevinial preservic’. Lure the [Soldiers] and the Forgotten Wing Company towards the inn. Then kill yourselves and make sure you leave no traces.”
He heard a sobbing choke, then cut the connection. Iert glanced down.
“All three principal targets are with us. Two bodies, one object. Get me the auxiliaries. Ideally six.”
Though that might limit their exit to a few hundred miles as opposed to a few thousand. But the Naga willed it. Then Iert was running towards the entry point they’d used, a length of rope tied to the battlements the Watch hadn’t noticed. To the Antinium tunnels. He hoped there would be no more surprises, but he was listening in on both squads still attacking their targets.
He didn’t like what he heard.
 
——
 
Invrisil’s streets had been quiet during the Winter Solstice. People sat indoors staring at the blank scrying orb or watched their windows but didn’t go out on that dark night. The streets had been filled with unswept snow.
Now they were glowing, walls and glass windows flashing as magic streaked across the main street where dozens of servants were fighting, grappling or cutting at figures wearing black armor—[Assassins]—and the snow was turning red.
Bodies were strewn across the street, bled out or mangled by magical fire. A roaring [Druid] in a warshape hurled [Assassins] away from him, and they died—there were no healing potions to mend a slashed throat. It wasn’t worth wasting on Roshal’s regular [Assassins]. Even so, they should have been better than this.
“The servants of Magnolia Reinhart are holding us back. Disgraceful.”
A masked figure, a Face of Roshal, watched as two [Knights] grabbed a screaming [Princess] and towed her away to safety. She didn’t go after them. Instead, she watched as the Ranks of Roshal, the [Assassins] who were supposed to be the best in the world, fought and died.
Evenly matched with Magnolia Reinhart’s servants. Perhaps not a disgrace, then. Credit to her for watching Izril’s shores. No wonder she’d hamstrung Izril’s guild.
The [Druid] was the worst problem. He’d torn two dozen [Assassins] apart already. Still, he was bleeding, and the Face aimed a bow at a cluster of servants guarding the auxiliary targets.
Kevin, Joseph, Imani. She was one of Roshal’s Faces, not in service to the Naga, but all of Roshal served one another in some way.
A Selphid. So features mattered little. Her name was Yoreth.
She fired a Void Arrow at the largest cluster of servants, and twenty of them vanished with one of the Ranks who dodged back too slow. Then fired another arrow. Phoenixfire.
The explosion sent Nalthaliarstrelous reeling, roaring in agony as his gigantic animal form burst into flames that would not go out as he rolled around. The streets the [Assassins] were fighting across collapsed into the sewers, and Invrisil’s buildings caught fire.
The servants caught in the blast that were not instantly obliterated were flaming corpses. Yet the rest fought on—hard.
The Face was striding forwards to end the fighting when she heard a warning sound in her ear.
“Mistress Yoreth—a spell just locked down our teleportation—”
The speaking stone went dead as she felt every piece of magic gear below artifact-class go dead.
[Mass Dispel Magic]. That wasn’t Magnolia Reinhart, though. Then Yoreth felt a chill on her skin.
Aura. It was heavy—but weakened instantly.
She turned and leapt impossibly high, kicking off the walls of the buildings around her as a [Siege Fireball] blew the Ranks around her to bits. Yoreth caught a wall and used [Spider Touch], holding herself in place as she looked down.
Damn. The door must be open even if the [Innkeeper] was out. She spotted a [Lady] in a tracksuit, shielding her face with one arm, and a burly Drake. Neither one was an auxiliary target, but they were concerning. Magus Grimalkin had a lesser mark on his head for optional assassination.
They must have run through to secure the [Princess] the moment second squad tipped everyone off. Their instincts were good, and Yoreth cursed as she continued to dodge upwards. At least the [Lady]’s aura wasn’t working well.
Magus Grimalkin and Lady Pryde were already there, and a stream of [Light Arrows] from a Centaur took an [Assassin] off their feet.
“Imani!”
That must be the Centaur, Palt. The Earthers were shouting in relief as Yoreth stared down and realized the Sinew Magus had knocked out communications.
What were the odds he could stop a [Teleportation] spell? She didn’t like it. Yoreth spoke to everyone in earshot.
“If we cannot capture the targets—fall back.”
They’d simply retreat. The Ranks weren’t keen on dying and began to stream away as they tried to slow the Sinew Magus’ advance. He was looking up at her, pointing a finger—Yoreth leapt, dodging through the air like a cloud of mist. She pivoted, drew two objects from her belt.
“Kevin Hall is the most dangerous.”
Her orders were very clear if she couldn’t secure him. The young man looked up as he heard his name. His mouth opened.
“Me?”
Then he saw the pair of objects Yoreth pointed down at him. Grimalkin reached out, but he was so slow—and Yoreth only had to speak a word.
“[Pinpoint Shot].”
The weapons she held were so beautiful and so crude. A piece of enchanted metal tubing set in hand-carved magical Sascrel wood, written with magical runes down the barrel’s length, overly fat and wide-barreled, stuffed with a loaded paper cylinder.
But the design was unmistakable. A hammer on one end touched a glowing red gem as Yoreth squeezed on a metal trigger. Magic and handcrafted materials in a design from the dawn of this object’s ancestry.
A caveman of weapons adorned in magic and jewels. The black muzzle rose as the Earthers stared into the black belly of an idea from their home. The staring mouth of a weapon. That black hole turned red in the flash—that lasted forever.
A crimson glow and a voice that spoke from the barrel of the gun, a promise that it would write its name and nature across the world. Just like this. And a sound that captured the sound exactly—and not at all, louder than time.
Bang.
 
——
 
Kevin fell over as Joseph flinched. Kevin stumbled back, fell down, and Joseph saw the figure land, and Grimalkin froze. Joseph looked down and saw something wrong.
There was a hole in Kevin’s chest right where his heart should be. The [Engineer] stared up as Joseph bent down and looked around.
“Healing…does anyone have a healing…”
Did those fix hearts? Kevin looked entirely surprised as he gasped, then coughed.
“Joseph? I never thought it’d be me. I never thought it’d—”
Bang.
A second shot made Joseph flinch. He heard a scream—but Kevin was staring up at him, and Joseph bent his head as he waited for a third. He heard a whisper in his ears.
“It’s our responsibility, now. It’s on you, man. I’m sorry. Tell…we have to—them that I…”
Joseph waited, but Kevin’s voice trailed off. The [Football Manager] held his friend—then looked up as he saw the black-clad figures fleeing and heard a second name.
 
——
 
Yoreth took a second to confirm Kevin Hall was dead and aimed the second pistol. Grimalkin had a moment to choose, and he shielded Pryde with his body. Then saw who Yoreth was aiming for.
The Selphid saw two eyes open wide, and Imani flinched away. She turned her head and shouted.
“Palt. Ru—”
Yoreth fired the second gun, and Imani’s head jerked in the moment before the Centaur covered her with his body. He galloped past her, arms spread wide, then circled and caught her.
Palt looked down at Imani’s shattered eye socket and a piece of metal smoking in her skull. He stumbled and fell, trying to find a potion, a spell.
“Imani? Imani—”
She stared up at him, one eye wide and empty. The other eye socket…Palt shook her gently.
He didn’t remember the Selphid until Yoreth was turning away, a scowl on her face. Palt’s wand rose as the [Illusionist]’s head came up.
Yoreth raced away as Grimalkin gave chase. Palt fired [Light Arrows], burning through his mana, a stream of Tier 1 spells—and the [Assassin] never looked back. The spells glanced off her back, and she vanished.
Palt began to get up, eyes wide, chest heaving—until he felt something on his arm. Imani’s hand was twitching. Palt looked down—then picked her up in his arms.
He began to run, screaming for help, as Joseph looked down and felt the blood running down his arms slowly grow cold and stop. When he looked up—his eyes were blank. He waited and waited, but he was alive.
“Why me?”
 
——
 
“Squad three has gone silent. They have been destroyed or their communication spells are down. We will operate on the former assumption. Squad one, reform with your targets—now.”
The [Assassins] in Liscor hadn’t been decimated, unlike their counterparts, but every group was having—trouble.
“Master Iert, we have secured our target. Moving to rendezvous.”
“We have run into the Antinium—”
The squad chasing the children had grabbed both Nanette and Mrsha, but had run into—difficulties.
Firstly, the Watch, who’d attacked when they saw the chase. One squad of eight had to be killed—and the lamb had amazingly good aim. The bee had stung one of the [Assassins] straight through the eye.
That wouldn’t stop one of Roshal’s Ranks. But one of the [Lords] kept hurling the [Assassins] back with pure aura, and they did not have orders from the Naga to kill Sammial Veltras. One of them had been about to kill both pets with a [Homing Throw] when Bird had shot them through the forehead.
Then the Silent Antinium and Bird’s own Antinium had raced into the fighting. One of the Listeners had warned Bird, and the Silent Antinium locked blades with the [Assassins].
“Mrsha. Nanette. Come here.”
Bird shot a fourth [Assassin] through the head and judged Mrsha would be safe. They were fast and quick, but outnumbered by the Silent Antinium, who threw themselves forwards with the same disregard for their safety as the [Assassins].
Then he saw one of them jerk—and glowing eyes peered around.
“Ridiculous. These are Roshal’s finest? I will do it myself.”
“Uh oh. Watch—”
Suddenly, one of the faltering [Assassin]’s postures changed. She…he? Lifted a blade and suddenly cleaved through six of the Silent Antinium so fast Bird barely saw him move. He leapt and threw his sword through a seventh before pulling the blade out and feeling at his belt.
“Claim the children. Or you will all suffer my wrath.”
The remaining [Assassins] threw themselves forwards as this strange leader glanced at Bird.
“You must be Antinium. Disgusting. I would not chain you. I fail to see the appeal.”
“Lord Pazeral—”
“Do not interrupt me.”
