The figure beheaded an [Assassin] trying to silence him. They turned their blade back and blocked an arrow Bird shot at their face, then a second and a third. The arrows snapped off the blade, and Bird heard Mrsha make a sound.
“Mrsha, Nanette. Run.”
He kept loosing arrows, fast as he could. Lord Pazeral deflected them carelessly until the [Piercing Shot] Bird had mixed into his arrows punched a hole straight through the man’s shoulder. Lord Pazeral glanced down at the hole in his body as his hand went limp.
“Is that it?”
Bird leapt into the air.
[Wings of Escieda]. They opened around him, jade wings that buzzed and kept him airborne—Bird stared down at his foot. It was missing. The leaping stab had nearly caught him.
[Lesser Dragonbreath Arrow].
This time, Pazeral dodged and lifted his hand.
“[Aegis of Roshal’s Chos—]”
Lightning boomed down the street like thunder, and Bird saw his target vanish in the dust. He flew higher—and saw the breaking barrier vanish as Pazeral leapt at him.
If you fly, you’re a bird. Die.
Bird shot eight arrows before the two crashed to earth and saw the body flinch—but the man behind it just grimaced as he regarded an arrow sticking out of his collarbone and another in his side. His sword was impaling Bird on the ground.
“Poor quality materials. Collect the children. Where—”
Bird was in a great deal of pain. But his bow wasn’t broken for once. He raised it slowly as the [Lord of Possession] eyed him disdainfully.
All the [Assassins] were dead. Pazeral heard an odd sound in the air and paused.
“Lovely music. Ah—”
He looked up, and the bolt of lightning met his sword as he tore it out of Bird’s chest. The blade melted, and Pazeral stumbled back—then drew a dagger.
“Now you die.”
The Hobgoblin met the furious onslaught of slashes from the dagger with difficulty. Numbtongue grunted as a dagger plunged into his chest, but glanced off a rib—then Pazeral slashed across his neck. Numbtongue’s recoil barely prevented his entire throat from being opened up.
“Here we are.”
Lord Pazeral kicked a sword into the air and caught it. He pointed it at Numbtongue as the Hobgoblin exhaled and lifted his Dragonblood crystal blade.
He didn’t realize Pazeral had no regard for his ‘life’. The [Lord] leapt, inviting the Hobgoblin’s cut.
In the flicker of time between the two meeting, Pazeral looked right—grimaced—and flicked the sword through the air.
Then Bird’s arrow shot him in the head. Numbtongue beheaded the [Lord of Possession], and Pazeral’s spirit vanished with a sigh. Numbtongue whirled.
“Bird?”
Bird was on his back, a sword through his head. The Free Queen jerked as she caught his soul, and Bird whispered to her.
The inn. 
Every Antinium in Liscor went berserk as Numbtongue cried out and then grabbed Mrsha and Nanette. But Erin—
 
——
 
“Even Lord Pazeral failed? Very well. Tell me you have one auxiliary.”
Selys Shivertail, Krshia Silverfang, Liska or Ishkr Silverfang—any of them. If the inn hadn’t been empty, they would have grabbed ‘Peggy’ or a Knight of Solstice.
Iert stood in the snow at the mouth of the hidden tunnels that led to the Hivelands. It would be a long journey—and perilous if they’d angered the Free Queen. The other agents wanted to leave, even Aotazen.
“Lord Iert, do we need—”
The Named-rank stopped whining as the Gnoll looked at him. Iert did not enjoy failure. He had the arrow, Erin Solstice, and Ryoka Griffin, both of whom were lying silent at his feet. But his master wanted an auxiliary, preferably multiple.
Squad one had been reduced greatly. Iert spoke.
“Unleash both Djinni.”
Two magical beings arose, both of whom bowed to Iert instantly. He gave them crisp instructions.
“Ward us upon our return in accordance to your understanding of the word in your contract. I, and the safety of these two, are your principle concerns.”
“As you will it.”
They carried glowing scimitars, and both had four arms. Iert growled. He should have demanded more Djinni, more [Assassins]…but they might have been noticed. There were eyes even in Roshal.
“Squad one, where are you?”
The last [Assassins] finally appeared out of the snow, away from Liscor, which was shaking with alarms. Iert was tense; he knew the Antinium could hear them, and so he snapped.
“You got the auxiliary?”
“Auxiliary—we got a primary, Lord Iert! And possibly an auxiliary. We could not check the list. They were fighting. Both came out of The Wandering Inn from Invrisil. ”
One of the Earthers? If it was Princess Lyonette, he would kill them all.
“We have all the primaries—”
They hadn’t even sedated them! Both were struggling, albeit gagged and bound with handcuffs that nullified magic and skills. Iert bent down as he stared at—
Ryoka Griffin and Persua Mavva. His head jerked up. Persua Mavva was definitely on the Naga’s list. But—
He stared at the Wind Runner who lay unconscious, then the other Ryoka. The second Ryoka tore off her gag and began shouting.
“Erin? What the fuck’s going on? Hey, untie me or I’ll kill you. Erin? Wake up—it’s the Solstice. This can’t be happening. Erin?”
“Help! Don’t hurt me!”
Persua was wailing in terror. Iert stared at the [Assassins] and leapt to the logical conclusion.
“Body doubles. Or a clone Skill? You—”
He grabbed Persua’s hair and yanked her head up. She babbled.
“I’m a City Runner, and Mihaela Godfrey will kill you if you hurt us! Ryoka is Lord Tyrion’s girlfriend. If you harm us—”
“You sent a message to my master. Or tried to. What was it?”
Months ago, Persua Mavva had begun to send a [Message] to Roshal, and the Emir Yazdil specifically, regarding Ryoka Griffin. She had decided not to—but the [Mage] she had hired had passed the information along, and the Naga was curious. Doubly so when he found out she had last met ‘Rastandius’, one of the greatest [Soothsayers] of the modern era.
The Naga never forgot these things.
Iert saw Persua’s eyes go round. The City Runner jerked and stared at Ryoka, who raised her head with a look of disgust and fury.
“Persua—”
For a second, Iert saw Persua waver, then her eyes slid sideways, and she stuttered.
“I—I—I was just trying to get her in trouble. I didn’t mean anything.”
Well, that decided him. Iert dropped her with a grunt.
“Grab that one too. I’ll transit her myself. Fall back through the tunnels right now. They’ll be all over us in a minute.”
Relieved, the [Assassins] moved the two Runners close to Erin and the first Ryoka, and Iert carefully took a scroll out and unrolled it. Still, he didn’t like the two Ryokas one bit, and he saw the other one struggling.
“Let her go. She’s my friend. Erin? Wake up. Erin—”
She was straining at her handcuffs, and Iert snapped.
“Put them both to sleep.”
An [Assassin] instantly cast a spell, and Ryoka kept thrashing as Iert saw a purple mist run over her. The [Assassin] paused.
“[Slumber] isn’t working, Lord Iert.”
Artifact? The Gnoll’s hair began to stand up on end. He saw Ryoka pulling at her handcuffs now, and her skin was deforming from the strain.
“Aotazen, knock her out. No—break that one’s legs.”
Persua flinched as the [Juggernaut] bent down with a grin and grabbed one of Ryoka’s legs. The Wind Runner was hyperventilating now.
“She’s my friend. Don’t touch her. Do no harm. Don’t touch—”
Aotazen grabbed one leg and held his hand against Ryoka’s thigh—then snapped it. Persua shrieked.
“Ryoka!”
Ryoka Griffin gazed at her broken leg without even flinching. Then she looked up at Aotazen. Her arms flexed—
Ryoka tore one arm free of the magical restraints with such force the metal bit down to her bones and tore the flesh off her hand. Iert saw the magic explode and recoiled as Ryoka sat up, then tried to stand.
“What?”
Aotazen punched her into the ground instantly. Ryoka stared up at the sky, nose clearly broken, then sat up. Iert paused as Aotazen grabbed her and began to choke her out efficiently.
“She is insane, Master Iert.”
The Named-rank grinned, but Iert was inspecting the manacles along with the Ranks. They didn’t look defective. He knew how strong they were.
They should have destroyed her bones before they would come off. Even the Djinni eyed the second ‘Ryoka’—and Iert saw the hint of a smile on one of their lips.
“Aotazen—kill her now!”
The Named-rank hesitated. He released Ryoka’s arm, went to snap her neck—and Ryoka Griffin stood up.
Her leg was broken, but she stood lightly, and the [Juggernaut] snapped her neck around. Ryoka’s neck twisted around until it faced him, and Iert heard the bones crunch. Persua screamed—and Ryoka spoke.
“Ow.”
Aotazen’s grin turned to a look of shock. Ryoka gripped his arm as it seized her—then twisted her body around until her neck was facing the right way. Then she headbutted the Named-rank.
It didn’t hurt Aotazen. Ryoka lashed out in a series of punches that looked good—for someone at Level 15. The Named-rank stared at her, then caught one fist, snapped her wrist until he saw bone—she jumped back and twisted into a roundhouse kick.
This time, he staggered, and Iert felt something in the ground. The Named-rank cursed, caught a fist, and Ryoka grabbed his hand as it went to crush her face.
The Named-rank stopped—and Iert saw his muscles bulge as Ryoka whispered.
“Protect her. Protect her. I’m such a failureshe’smyfriendIhatePersuaprotectherdonoharm—”
“R-Ryoka?”
Persua was staring at Ryoka’s legs. They weren’t broken anymore. Then Aotazen, a trained former [Gladiator], lost patience or sensed the danger and jerked a knee up as Ryoka grabbed him.
He broke her ribs, making her recoil, and rushed forwards. His fist deformed her face, smashed her skull to bits—the Named-rank kept punching and punching until a hand grabbed his arm again.
“I’m going to kill you.”
Ryoka Griffin’s face regenerated as Iert backed up a step. The Named-rank adventurer recoiled from Ryoka in horror.
“She’s not Human—”
Iert snapped.
“Kill her. Now!”
The [Assassins] impaled ‘Ryoka’ from all sides. One went to behead her, but the blade stopped halfway through her skin. Now, ‘Ryoka’ was growing. She slowly bent Aotazen’s hands back as his limbs trembled and the earth shook. He was straining with all his might, but Ryoka was getting bigger and bigger—
“It hurts.”
One punch drove the [Juggernaut of Sin] into the ground. He lay there, stunned, as the shapeshifter from the High Passes turned and its flesh bulged and exploded. It reformed instantly and seized one [Assassin]—tore their head off, then looked around for Iert.
The Gnoll was ten steps back, cursing as he saw Persua, Erin, and Ryoka at the thing’s feet.
“Get the others to me. Now!”
He dodged sideways as ‘Ryoka’ grabbed at him, faster now. Iert swung his blades through her arm and felt resistance. A punch sent him reeling, and the Djinni were rising into the air. One had a ball of fire, the other was poised to dive with both swords drawn.
A hand made of colors seized one Djinni, and a voice screamed.
“Let them go!”
Ulvama’s warpaints were glowing, and the [Shaman] had conjured a painted hand that smashed one Djinni into the ground. Iert swore, but the Goblin was alone. She must have tracked them somehow.
Now, the two Djinni were fighting the Hob, and the thing that was pretending to be Ryoka was engulfed in flames. A Void Bolt blew off part of its head—and it groaned as it reformed.
“Huuurts.”
Persua gaped up in horror as she stared at—whatever this thing really was. Then she noticed a second body lying on the ground.
“Ryoka?”
Iert snatched Erin, dragged her back, and an [Assassin] went for Ryoka—the shapeshifter seized the figure and squeezed.
“No harm.”
Iert didn’t go for Ryoka. He backed up another step, snapping orders.
“Djinni, get those two and bring them to me!”
“—Fighting—”
A tense voice came from overhead. Iert snarled. It was one [Shaman]—then he saw Ulvama pulling more painted creations out of the air.
Of all of the inn’s defenders, she had also been waiting for that final moment that had never come. The [Shaman] pulled a blade out of the air and swung it through one of the Djinni’s swords.
“Curulac—”
The Djinni began screaming as he bled mana into the air. The second dodged the sword as Ulvama swung it—it was vanishing, and her face was pale.
“Fishies.”
Copies of Erin’s spell burst into life, painted fish, red and green and yellow and more colors, with huge teeth, tearing at the Djinni. Ulvama’s eyes were wide, and she was staring at Iert.
She knew what he was. She ran for Erin, drawing a dagger, and the Gnoll slashed her across the face and down her front, but shallowly. She drove a blade into his armor, and he struck her twice on the cheek and came to a swift decision.
“Squad one—fall back to the ships. Range is…3204 miles. Give me a confirmation my calculations are correct. Naga’s Den, mark yourselves for teleportation. Emir, we have fewer passengers than expected; I will be teleporting directly to sea. All ships, withdraw after pickup of auxiliary teams.”
[Assassins] backed away from the shapeshifter as Iert knocked Ulvama down, stomped on her, and unrolled a glowing scroll. Ulvama lifted her arms as the fake Ryoka turned.
“Stop—”
That made four—if he grabbed Ryoka. The [Assassins] were trying, but Iert growled and saw more disruptions. Antinium burst from the ground a hundred feet away as Archmage Valeterisa dove, drawn to the sounds of the fighting.
“Protect—”
He drew one of the new weapons from his belt, fired it, and the shot knocked one of the Antinium flat and put a hole in its chest. Iert went deaf and cursed—he couldn’t use a mass-destruction weapon with Ryoka Griffin lying there. Then he saw her rising into the air and the Archmage of Izril diving.
“Time to go. Am I within calculations? Is the spell secure?”
Iert paused one second until he heard three affirmations in his earpiece. Then he whispered the spell as the skies lit up.
“[Greater Teleport].”
He vanished with two of his primary targets—and an auxiliary—in tow. Aotazen tried to grab for him, but the Gnoll vanished in a shower of light, and the Named-rank cried out.
“Master Iert. What about—”
The shapeshifter picked up the Named-rank adventurer, and Aotazen punched furiously, shrieking. The gigantic ‘Ryoka’ opened her mouth and—
Archmage Valeterisa and the Antinium avoided ‘Ryoka’ and chased the fleeing [Assassins] whom Iert had abandoned. The Archmage was shouting into a spell.
“They have teleported away! Ryoka Griffin is here! I am tracking—”
