They came out of the tunnels as the Goddess of Death fell to pieces. Shadows in the night, discarding burnt spell-scrolls and bandaging their own wounds. The undead had not ignored them either, but they had been attacking from afar, sending servants into the fighting.
Three Djinni remained. No less than nine, two of them Agamta-potent, had been sent into the fighting, and that dead goddess had torn one apart. Draugr had raced into their ranks as well.
They had sent nearly two thousand, despite interceptions and delays—a number of high-level experts, but they had relied on their wealth to make a substantive impact. After the fighting, less than a tenth remained.
The greatest slaughter had actually come from the ghostly undead. Kasigna had spawned them underground; their first targets had been the hidden Antinium…and the lurking force, which found itself fighting ghosts and ethereal undead from all sides. It had saved the other armies from ambush from below, but the cost would be reckoned too high.
Yet they had a victory, of sorts. And here came another.
As the Gnoll, Iert, prowled towards The Wandering Inn, they had been disintegrating the bodies.
They looked nothing like what they were. A third seemed like Chandrarians, which they all were, but they had the iconic skeletal hand holding a golden coin—the symbol of Khelt—on their armor.
The other groups appeared to be either [Maids] or [Butlers]—or members of the Forgotten Wing company, and they split by groups. Searching.
The principal group masquerading as Eternal Khelt headed straight for the inn, and the Gnoll raised his sword overhead, though the cheering was sparse. Yet he had fought—he had come within a foot of Kasigna herself. The Gnoll touched his side; he hadn’t dared put the arrow in his bag of holding, so the tip was secured in a belt pouch, the shaft snapped off.
Halrac’s arrow. One of his top priorities. There would be no retreat until at least one more priority had been secured.
“Quarry located. Invrisil. They’re moving towards the door leading to Liscor.”
“Let them cross. I will be there once I secure the principal target.”
The Gnoll spoke into a stone, adjusting the casual course of his group, keeping far away from Magnolia Reinhart and her servants. Everyone was exhausted; [Soldiers] had simply collapsed where they stood or tried to find anyone alive in the carnage.
It was a straight shot to the inn, either way. Iert leaned against one wall as the other [Assassins] took positions well outside the inn, peering in via windows and confirming there were only two targets.
“Three. Shriekblade and the Hobgoblin and [Innkeeper]. Report for training after this.”
The Gnoll’s voice was quiet as he leaned up against one window; only he was certain he wouldn’t be picked up by Erin Solstice’s aura, despite her exhaustion as she put her head down. The [Assassins] hesitated. Iert spoke.
“Squad two. Keep away from Magnolia Reinhart. Forget the auxiliary targets if they’re on the battlefield.”
They signaled affirmation. Iert grunted. Yazdil would have been best served if only his people were here, but the Naga was no longer in principal control. The Gnoll watched as [Assassins] loaded blow darts with piercing tips and a sleeping powder.
There was no way she should have noticed them. When one snuck in via the window he’d slowly maneuvered open, the [Assassin] fired the dart when Iert was sure she was asleep—
Yet she almost leapt into that garden. 
Iert tackled her to the ground and used his fallback—[Deep Slumber]. Tier 5.
An [Assassin] hoisted Erin Solstice onto his shoulder as Ulvama shouted. Iert blew a cloud of sleeping dust into her face, and she recoiled, coughing. Then his fur stood on end as someone dropped down from the rafters.
“Who? Roshal? Die.”
Shriekblade landed on the [Assassin] who’d grabbed Erin and drove a blade through the Stitch-woman’s ear. More of the [Assassins] poured into the inn. Iert turned as Ulvama recoiled, coughing.
She’s not falling over. She must be able to resist sleeping dust. Iert raised his shortswords, and Shriekblade was on top of him, slashing, so fast two strikes skated off his enchanted armor, despite his best guard.
Named-rank. They had one as well, besides Iert. The Drake took two more slashes at Iert before the charge from Aotazen, Arenabreaker, tossed her across the room and cracked the wall. She probably broke several bones as the [Juggernaut of Sin] kept charging at her.
A Stitch-man eight feet tall with a chest as wide across as a bull’s, and the same physique to match, strode forwards in bronze armor, the same he had once worn in Roshal’s largest arena where he had earned his name. The old bronze was enchanted, and he had added more muscle since the Sinew Magus’ gymnasium and his weight-lifting techniques had spread to Roshal.
Aotazen’s corded arms bulged, and he crossed them between his face and kept charging. He smashed through the table and chairs as if they were made of dust—his [Unstoppable Charge] hit one wall as Shriekblade dove away, and he halted rather than injure himself. Yet the entire inn shook from that single impact.
Iert drew something from his bag of holding. One of the [Assassins] slid a collar around Erin Solstice’s neck.
“Cuffs too.”
They hesitated. You did that for Djinni newly bound—but they bent over. Iert saw another [Assassin] grab Ulvama and begin to choke her—he tossed something as he saw Shriekblade dodge and cut into Aotazen’s arm. She was snarling, and the Named-rank began to roar before Iert silenced him—
Two [Assassins] had tagged Shriekblade with tranquilizing darts, but she didn’t even pause. Another person resistant to alchemy. She was charging at Iert as he blew something through the air. She rushed through it as he backpedaled, on the defensive again.
One strike cut open his cheek. He snarled silently as she passed through the cloud without any effect. Tessa’s eyes were wide, and she was opening her mouth now, cracked ribs or not, to scream—when her deadly dance faltered.
The dust clinging to her scales was slightly red. It hadn’t harmed her. Her report said she could drink poison and not lose much efficacy. However—
Iert blew another pawful of dust and then lifted the bag. One of the Ranks leapt at Tessa with a collar. They were all over Level 30, but she diced them in a second, blades severing the neck, jabbing twice through the collarbone with dull cracks.
—But her eyes were on the bag. She inhaled the red powder, and Iert spoke.
“Selphid Dust.”
The highest grade Lailight Scintillation carried, and she was apparently purged of her addictions. That probably made it worse. Her eyes tracked the bag as her pupils dilated hugely. She was shaking, and Iert spoke as she recoiled, fast as a snake—
“[Restore Addictions].”
The Naga’s servant had many Skills. Tessa stopped dead in place, then began clawing at her face. She leapt as Iert tossed the bag, and it fell, trailing more dust. She scrambled after it across the floor, dropping her blades, hunching over it—Iert turned away.
“Clear the inn—now.”
They had about thirty seconds before she went berserk. Aotazen was looming over Tessa, fists raised.
“She’s on the list, Master Iert—”
“Leave her. We’re not tangling with a Named-rank on Selphid Dust. Where’s the Hobgoblin?”
She was gone. Iert turned. He’d been distracted in the scuffle, but the [Assassin]—
Dead. The one who’d been choking her had a broken neck. Iert hadn’t seen Ulvama vanish, but one of the Ranks reported.
“She went through a door and then appeared on the far side of the inn—”
“[Garden of Sanctuary]. She’s about to raise the alarm. Kill her. Secure the other targets now—”
Bang.
Iert processed the sound from across the Floodplains, but his ears registered the sound, and he flinched. There was only one device that made that noise, and he counted—twenty-four shots? That was every single one the team had.
“What did you do?”
He howled into the speaking stone as the squad around him jerked in alarm. There was a pause—then a hornblast and screams and shouting as Roshal’s forces blew whatever cover they had.
Iert raced from the inn with his people around him. Aotazen was looking left and right.
“Master Iert, do we go?”
“Not without at least one from the auxiliary list! Our quarry—squad three, secure them! We’re going into Liscor after auxiliary targets and our other primary. Go!”
Iert didn’t ask about squad two. As he raced outside, he saw what was going on, clear as day. It must have been one of the others’ orders. Iert heard a single scream.
“Magnolia!”
 
——
 
Tyrion Veltras had been asking where Ryoka was; they had gotten separated in the last moments of fighting. He had been counting the dead and looking for Buscrei and demanding to know whether Oswen was really—gone.
The Five Families had gathered together with the Drakes, for once, in a silence that transcended animosity. Wall Lord Aldonss was dead. General Duln was dead. Wall Lord Ilvriss and General Shirka, the two ranking commanders, had met Tyrion’s eyes, and he’d held out a hand without a word.
Then…Ressa had looked up and called out to a group of Dullahans, Lizardfolk, and Humans wearing the Forgotten Wing’s insignia. It had been so fast. Tyrion had observed something was off and was putting his shield up as the group raised these odd—weapons—in their grips. Long tubes.
Then they had exploded, and Magnolia Reinhart had staggered as she raised a hand—looked down at crimson stains on her pink dress and then down at Ressa.
The [Head Maid] had thrown herself in the way of the [Lady], and her outfit was shredded. Both of them had been hit. Magnolia’s lips moved as Tyrion Veltras staggered—three objects had struck him across the chest, but ricocheted off into the ground.
The two women slowly collapsed into the grass as Tyrion Veltras reached out, eyes trying to find one of the things that had hit his armor. What was it?
He was not the only one who had been attacked. The [Knights] of Solstice, Chieftain Rags, Emperor Laken, and the old man, Demsleth, had all been attacked. Normen was wounded; Demsleth was pulling something out of his chest, and the traitors were attacking now, throwing themselves at each of their targets.
Jericha was staggering, eyes open wide in horror as the [Maids] and [Butlers] turned. Xitegen—deaf, looking around, shielding his face. Then the ‘Forgotten Wing company’s [Soldiers] drew their blades and—fled.
Or tried to.
Perorn Fleethoof rode down on the first assassin and slashed their head off. She was covered in blood, but her voice rang across the Floodplains.
“Treachery! Protect Erin Solstice! Treach—”
A Djinni exploded upwards, shedding their disguise, and it was chaos. Perorn was pointing towards the inn, and [Soldiers] were crying out, thinking Kasigna had returned or it was undead. No one knew who was attacking, and the first person who got to the inn came out clutching at his arm.
“She’s gone mad. Run.”
Ishkr. Then Tessa came out of the inn, screaming and frothing at the mouth, attacking everyone she could see, and Erin was gone. They didn’t realize that for precious minutes—when Tyrion finally got inside and saw the inn was empty—
Only then did he turn back to Liscor as more alarms blared and realize who they were going after.
 
——
 
Mrsha, Hethon, Sammial, Visma, Ekirra, Apista, and Nanette appeared in the grass outside of Liscor at last.
“No, tell me what it means. Go back! Go back! I want to see—”
Sammial was shouting in frustration, but the children appeared out of the dark. The snow parted and revealed vines and blooming flowers for a second, a twilight path.
Then they were looking around and shivering, and Nerry snarled as she tensed, the two wands strapped to her sides glowing. Nanette was holding the lamb, pointing her around as she spoke.
“Is the battle over? They said ‘she’ was gone. Let’s go—”
“Where’s Father? Ryoka?”
Hethon’s question made Sammial turn. Without a word, the children stopped and were hailed from the gates. The southern gates had been untouched by the fighting, but the Watch saw them instantly.
“Hold your fire! It’s Mrsha and the children. Get in, now! Signal the inn—no, wait. Signal Numbtongue and Bird!”
Beilmark was pale faced and hurt. Mrsha stared up at her, then smelled the blood and fear in the air. Yet the air was silent…
“Where did you come from? Ekirra, Visma, your parents were worried sick. Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion was attacked.”
Beilmark ran down to meet them, and the kids babbled answers. Ekirra shouted.
“It was! We were gonna die—”
“Miss Nanette was shooting magic from her wand! And Nerry! Then the wall grabbed Hethon—”
Visma. Beilmark heard Sammy shouting.
“Tons of ‘em! But they said they’re dead! They didn’t look dead, and they didn’t acknowledge me! It’s not fair!”
“Where’s House Veltras? Is my father alive?”
Hethon’s voice was loudest of them all. He shouted, and all fell silent. Beilmark twisted to a [Guard].
“I—I think Tyrion Veltras made it. They’re alive. Some of—there were casualties.”
“Anyone from House Veltras?”
“I heard all of Oswen’s gone.”
Sammy and Hethon stopped talking, and Beilmark drew a finger across her throat.
“We don’t know that. Lady Buscrei’s alive. She’s the bowmaster, right? Listen, it’s not safe at—grab Mrsha!”
The Gnoll girl had tried to go running with Apista towards The Wandering Inn, but a Drake grabbed her, and Beilmark made a fast decision.
“It’s not safe out there. Into Liscor, now. I’ll find Selys—no. I’ll find Krshia or someone else. Come on.”
They hurried through the gates as Nanette put Nerry down, and the Sariant ran after them. They had questions, but Beilmark didn’t want to answer them. Why would Selys not be available? Was she hurt? The children babbled questions, but they had a few answers when someone rushed into Shivertail Plaza.
“Mrsha! I knew you were alive!”
Bird charged into the square, waving at Mrsha, and she raced over to hug him, sobbing. The Antinium had several cuts on his chitin that looked deep, but he was safe, and—and Antinium were all around him.
“Do not go out of the gates, Mrsha, Nanette. It is filled with sadness. But Erin is safe, and so is Numbtongue and—how did you get here? I thought you were in Invrisil.”
“We were in the Vale Forest! I think!”
Nanette tried to explain, and Bird tried to understand. Mrsha was staring at a group of Silent Antinium with huge scythe blades, who were agitatedly rubbing them together.
“Revalantor Bird, we must go to the Free Queen now. Treachery. The Hives are discussing attacking the Flying Queen, but the Grand Queen forbids it.”
“Oh. I will go later, after I see Erin.”
