A spell shattered the mirror as the [Slaver] shouted—and Visophecin found a burnt map on one wall and began to restore it.
 
——
 
The [Shepherd], Marika, was dead. That was her name.
They’d hacked her down, the flesh of Tombhome or not. She’d bought Erin the minutes she needed. Half of the cell was dead.
The Lizardgirl and Emira Isoquen were alive. The rest of the [Slaves], loyal or prisoners, were huddling on the deck in the rain. It was freezing, but none of them wanted the clothing of the dead slavers.
One of the Lucifen created a shield from the rain as they returned to their regular forms. They looked—tired. Only Visophecin seemed to return to his regular form for pure practicality.
“The map indicates we are halfway towards Chandrar.”
“Already?”
Erin spoke quietly as Ulvama stayed next to her. Visophecin nodded curtly as the other Lucifen inspected the map.
“This ship was powered by Djinni and seems to have been ready to use current-altering spells. Roshal builds their ships for durability and speed. Even so, they were unable to hug the coast—it seems they were wary of Krakens, so they were forced to take a sea route.”
He traced a line across from the southwestern coast diagonally through the center of the map, circling wide of Chandrar’s northern shores, clearly aiming to circumnavigate the desert continent before coming into harbor.
“They surely feared Khelt would intercept, or even the King of Destruction. Visophecin, the House is alarmed. I have updated them on the situation. It is unlikely Roshal can bypass our protections, but we must assess and return…I think we can Gate back home. The power from the pact—”
One of the female Lucifen was glancing at Erin. Ulvama squeezed one arm, and Visophecin noticed. He spoke curtly.
“A moment, Azemith.”
She stepped back, and he glanced at the freed prisoners and murmured to Erin.
“It is likely Roshal is sending ships to intercept us at any moment. The most sensible option would be to bring you to our homeland.”
Erin opened her mouth, and he continued.
“Or The Wandering Inn. However, a guard must be effected; there are doubtless agents in the area. Regardless, I propose we abandon this ship. It would not be impossible to return this ship to a port in northern or southern Izril. Teleportation will be far faster. One or two of our number could claim the vessel and attempt to return it to safe harbor.”
Igolze shrugged, not greatly pleased by the idea.
“Roshal will doubtless want it back and the questions that arise, and securing a vessel of this size? We cannot even manage it with the forty of us. It may be simpler to scuttle it. Though this is a warship of considerable magnitude.”
Erin didn’t react to the proposal. She just breathed in and out and looked at Ulvama. Then the Lizardgirl. One of the Lucifen was bending over her as the girl hid her face. But Azemith pried her claws loose. Erin’s head rose—and the Lucifen produced something and handed it to the girl.
It was a mask. Then Azemith patted the girl twice on the head and murmured something. Her eyes were foreign as she rose.
She did not understand them. They did not understand her. But they had a pact. Erin stared at the map as the Lucifen debated quietly.
“The Djinni and loyalists will need oversight. It would be more prudent to leave them in Liscor.”
“We are bound by a pact, Vultapheles. The clause includes their protection.”
“I see. This calls for a full conclave. Our cousins included. The opportunities this represents—”
“Later.”
They were waiting for her to say something. A potion had mostly healed her wrists, though a burn scar remained. Erin whispered.
“We’re so far at sea.”
“Shock. I propose the House, Visophecin. One of our secluded areas for a day or two. The prisoners will catch a sickness, and their condition needs treatment.”
Another Lucifen spoke in a clipped tone, regarding Erin and Ulvama. Visophecin half nodded, but he approached Erin again, lowering his voice.
“We can communicate your wellbeing to Ryoka Griffin. Transit back to my home is what I propose. Erin Solstice?”
Her eyes were still on the map. Visophecin was about to take command, presuming she was in justifiable shock, but Erin was thinking.
She was thinking of only one thing. Their location was far from any landmass in the world save one. Still far from that, but she guessed it had only been a few hours since the Solstice ended.
It wasn’t even dawn yet. Then again, it was the longest night of the year.
Even so—Iert had said this was one of the fastest ships in the world. Slowly, Erin’s head turned, and she whispered something that made Ulvama refocus a second.
“He’s out there.”
“The Gnoll? We are monitoring the waters. If he even manages to swim within a mile of us, levels or not—”
Visophecin began, but Erin was staring northwards now. There was no way she could tell…Igolze surreptitiously checked a compass and noticed her head was pointing north with a slight eastern tilt.
“Rabbiteater.”
The Lucifen stirred in vague recognition of the name. Viscount Visophecin took a second as Ulvama’s head rose.
“Ser Solstice?”
They…were closer to Wistram than any other position on the map right now. He felt the slightest tingle on the back of his neck as he turned his head.
“What is the status of the Terandrian fleet?”
“Chaos. With the attack on Wistram, their attempt to make for the Isle of Mages is stymied. They were engaging the Bloodtear Pirates—it was nearly twenty percent of their rearguard overtaken by the time I last checked. The Baron of Nadel is sailing down on them as well as Admiral Seagrass’ fleet, but fire support from Wistram has ended.”
One of the Lucifen reported as Erin stared into the storm. The storm, she realized, that had to be caused by the Bloodtear Pirates.
“Erin.”
Ulvama was watching her, and Visophecin could not predict what might come next. He did not know her. However, even the [Shaman] seemed—surprised.
“I know what I have to do.”
Erin spoke quietly, and all the Lucifen blinked as her hand rose. She looked around for the steering wheel of the ship, unmanned, and half started for it. Then she looked at the prisoners.
“Take them all somewhere safe, Visophecin. Where neither Roshal nor you can hurt them.”
He twitched at that. One of the Lucifen made a sound, but Visophecin spoke, curious.
“It will be done. What of you?”
“I’m not leaving. Turn the ship north. Towards Wistram.”
Now, all the Lucifen began to catch onto what Erin Solstice was thinking. Several exchanged incredulous looks. One smiled.
“I think she is confused. There are armies fighting north of us, Miss Solstice. Even if we arrive in time, this is one ship.”
“A warship. You took out every [Slaver] on it in minutes.”
Yes—but that was with their Warforms, and most of the Lucifen were exhausted. None would admit it, but they wouldn’t have dared try that if not for the element of surprise and the empowering pact.
“—We can arrange the safety of the prisoners.”
Visophecin spoke after a moment’s pause. Some of the Lucifen were waiting for him to tell Erin she was being ridiculous, but his scalp was prickling now. He wasn’t sure why.
“Yes. And Ulvama, too.”
The Hobgoblin started. Now, Erin was walking across the deck, and she grabbed the wheel and turned it. The ship moved—slowly, and Erin fumbled with the wheel, struggling to keep it steady. She glanced down as the blanket nearly blew off of her.
“I need clothing. They took my things. Get them back, and find out what’s going on.”
“No. Visophecin, we will have Roshal’s ships on us if any are in the area—and I have no doubt they will try. I agree with the proposal to relocate all to the House. The rest? You are exhausted, overwrought…as one supposes you might be.”
Azemith addressed Erin directly and with an attempt at kindness, however vague. She took a step towards Erin to pull her away from the wheel—
A crackle of energy. The smell of brimstone, and Azemith yanked her hand away with a cry.
She had been scorched by something when she touched Erin! It had looked like…the portal that had dragged those [Slavers] into the ground. Now, Visophecin felt it.
Erin Solstice’s head turned slowly, and she knew it too.
“You have an agreement with me, Visophecin.”
“For your freedom and the safety of—”
The Lucifen had not actually shed sweat since his duel with Rhisveri. But now his skin was prickling, and he felt the authority in the air. The other members of House Shoel looked at him, and Erin spoke.
“What I said was: ‘I want you to protect Ulvama and everyone else I deem fit before I get to safety.’ He’s out there. I feel it. Rabbiteater’s still alive. But those [Pirates]—”
She remembered her dream vaguely. Thought of Kasigna and the fae. Even they couldn’t see what was happening at sea. She couldn’t remember any Skills or classes—but she knew.
“There are nearly a hundred enemy ships. Each one crewed by Bloodtear Pirates or famous crews. That is no joke of a navy, Visophecin. Their specialty is fighting at sea, and they are besting Terandria’s [Knights] on the water. Members of the Thousand Lances are dead, regardless if they aren’t the legends of their heyday. They have slaughtered dozens of ship crews, [Soldiers], [Knights], and all—”
Now, the Lucifen were arguing—urgently—with Visophecin. They were attempting to open Gates, but aside from the one Igolze was opening to take the prisoners to House Shoel…he would have to return.
An Infernal Pact, that man, Lord Pazeral, had called it. Visophecin felt it on his wrist, like a piece of magic or a promise written in power linking him to Erin. And she was pulling.
“There is one [Knight] out there, and I understand he is sailing with the Order of Seasons, the Kingdom of Calanfer, and Earl Altestiel, not to mention numerous powerful kingdoms, Erin Solstice.”
“They’re coming for them all.”
Erin was staring ahead, now, as Ulvama looked at her. Just looked at her. Curiously, as if seeing Erin for the first time—she had seen a thousand fragments, but this was the entire view of Erin. Visophecin licked his lips.
“The odds of our even reaching him are—”
“Not one.”
The [Innkeeper] whispered it into the storm. She looked back, eastwards, towards Liscor. The dead had not even been buried. Her inn stood—but there was no one in it.
Halrac, Gershal, Tekshia, Moore, Ulinde, Kevin, Theillige—the list of them ran on. She was numb, but only because she had bled out. Whether or not all of them were her fault—
Roshal.
Kasigna.
Erin closed her eyes.
“I couldn’t help anyone. I asked them to stand with me, and they did. They always did, and now—”
She opened her eyes and met Ulvama’s gaze. The [Shaman] was still shivering, bruises on her green skin—Erin whispered.
“Even you. I have been taking help so long, and today—they all paid for it. Except me.”
It should have been her, each time. The [Innkeeper] stared ahead. She knew Visophecin was right. She knew it was madness.
She no longer cared.
“Just one of them.”
The [Witch] slowly adjusted the wheel. She knew he was out there. She followed the [Boon of the Guest], a connection that spanned countless miles. A familiar aura in the storm. It had been so long. She had thought he was dead. Like all the others.
They were trying to argue with her, pleading now. But Erin only knew Ulvama was there, and Visophecin. She looked at the prisoners, and they gazed at her.
“I didn’t save them. You did.”
That was what she told the Lucifen. Erin looked at Ulvama, who asked a question.
“Is it because he’s a Goblin?”
She was curious. Erin shook her head.
“No. He’s not the first Goblin I ever had at my inn. Not the first guest. I never knew his full story. He was one of five silly, brave, heroic Goblins.”
Her memories were flashing around her. Erin’s eyes stung.
“Just like so many I’ve known. He stayed at my inn and changed. He left when I got his brothers killed to protect what I thought mattered. I tried to help him. I’ve tried to help them all, but they always gave more to me than I gave to them.”
Every part of her was shaking with exhaustion, pain, loss, and grief. But her hands were steady on the wheel. She looked straight ahead. Now she was pulling forty-one Lucifen with her. At last, she remembered she had a hat, and it began to burn once more.
“He’s my…my brother? My son? My friend? My—guest? My…family?”
Erin shook her head slightly and glanced at Ulvama. She smiled faintly.
“He’s my guy. He’s mine.”
Then she looked around as the Hobgoblin saw Erin Solstice stand straighter, at ease at last. The Lucifen were afraid—but Erin Solstice just steered them straight into that storm. North.
The rest of the world was following after. Somewhere, in that dark night, the Horns of Hammerad were still lost in the Crossroads of Izril. A single [Knight] fought on a ship with hundreds of people who wore his class—as the Bloodtear Pirates bore down on them, singing and reaching for the only hope that mattered.
Far off, but drawing closer with each second, was a ship of charred corpses, ash, forty-one Devils, a Hobgoblin [Shaman], and an [Innkeeper].
 
——
 
Rabbiteater turned his head once as he lifted his axe high and wondered if he were dreaming. He looked south and tapped on his helmet, then looked around for his friends.
It had to be his imagination.
 
——
 
“You should go. They’ll take you somewhere safe. Anywhere you want.”
Erin turned to Ulvama, but the [Shaman] didn’t step into that portal in the air. Erin went on, after a second, as the Lucifen turned back to the [Shaman].
“…I know you won’t. You came after me.”
“Yah. Death isn’t very scary.”
Ulvama grinned at last, somehow, despite everything. Erin was shivering in the freezing rain, and the huge warship was listing despite the Lucifen’s best attempts to crew it with magic. Azemith was demanding reinforcements or help—
But the two of them were a different kind from haughty immortals. Ulvama put an arm around Erin’s shoulders and hugged her tightly.
“Why do you think I stayed at your inn? Well, first was Rags being stupid. But I realized she was right. Rags is tough. She doesn’t need me. You do. You’re like a mini me. A stronger one than I was. But you needed me. Now—”
Ulvama’s eyes searched the storm, and Erin realized she too was staring north. As if she saw a distant light at sea.
“You need someone stronger than you. To keep you safe.”
Me? Erin stared, and Ulvama made a bicep as she looked down at the shorter woman. But her eyes were roaming the storm.
“Your silly boy is out there. Let’s get him. We don’t leave anyone in our tribe. Not Goblins captured. Not little, stupid Gnoll children. Not [Innkeepers]. No one.”
