“Survive. You’ll get better one day. It will take a long time. But look at me.”
That was all the Hobgoblin said. She gestured at herself.
“I can’t ever go back to being the one I was before. Everything I did afterwards was me. It was me. They can’t break you completely. But—”
Then her voice gave out. Erin gripped Ulvama back tightly, hugging her. The Hobgoblin took a shuddering breath, and Erin spoke.
“It almost happened to me once. It was a Goblin Chieftain—I killed him before anything happened. I don’t think about it. I try not to. I never thought about you or anyone—”
Erin fell silent. Ulvama almost smiled.
“It changes nothing. I am me.”
Erin’s throat worked.
“It means you’re strong.”
This time, the Hobgoblin hit her on the knee, hard. The smack made the girl in her arms jump. Then burrow her head silently into Ulvama’s chest. The Hobgoblin stroked her head.
“It isn’t Ulvama. Nothing about those days is me. The one you know.”
“I’m sorry. I just meant…I’m trying to say…”
Erin looked at her. Then around the cells. It was noisy. She could hear everything. Faint cries, laughter, grunts—rain falling.
Time. The [Guards] watched her from the railings. The other slaves…the [Shepherd] was whispering to one and then sidled over to a drain and squatted down.
“I want to raise a hundred glasses in your name.”
The [Innkeeper] looked at the [Shaman] suddenly. Ulvama blinked, and Erin’s eyes blurred.
“I want to give you a million billion hugs and fight for you any day. I want to be proud and sad and angry for you and find whomever it was and kill them. If you want me to.”
The [Shaman] listened…then nodded. She squeezed harder, let go, and sat back.
“I don’t want it to have happened.”
Erin whispered.
“I’m sorry, Ulvama.”
The Goblin opened her eyes.
“Okay. Thank you.”
 
——
 
“Go over there.”
The [Shepherd] came back and urged Erin to rise. The [Innkeeper] squatted down, and several Humans blocked her from view. There was laughter. She peered into the drain and looked up.
“Seve?”
Something glistened despite it all. Fouler than anything. Enough for one person. Or two.
“He was here. Do you want it?”
Something was hanging from the holes in the drain, secured by a thread of woven hair. It was filthy, but if you pulled up, the chunk of meat still, somehow, looked appetizing. The Flesh of Tombhome. Seve-Alrelious’ gift.
There was no magic here.
No Skills.
The prisoners looked at her, and all she had to do was bend. Choose. The [Innkeeper] felt her skin grow colder and colder—till she heard the sound of many boots, and then she was sweating.
“The Hobgoblin.”
The [Slavers] stopped at the cell, and everyone else parted ways. Erin grabbed Ulvama as the [Shaman] put the girl down. Ulvama backed away, and Erin tried to shield her. Get in the way of—
“Go back home, Erin Solstice. Someday, somehow. But make sure it’s you who’s going home.”
Ulvama whispered as Erin grabbed her. The [Slavers] came into the cell, and the Hobgoblin kicked at one—they grabbed Ulvama, and Erin took hold of her friend with all her strength.
“Not you. Get Iert. Tell him I’ll sign—”
Ulvama saw one of the [Slavers] hesitate, but another laughed.
“The Naga is not the only master of Roshal now. No contracts save for the one Lord Pazeral has.”
He reached for his side and produced something. Erin froze—and then struggled.
“Call the Naga! Tell Thatalocian—”
She raised her voice, and Ulvama was looking at her. They were grabbing Ulvama everywhere, and one was licking her.
“This is what it means to be us.”
Ulvama told Erin. Then her grip loosened, and they tore her away, and the Hobgoblin caught Erin’s eyes.
“Don’t sign it.”
The [Slaver] showed Erin the contract, then placed it down. There was no quill or inkpot.
“Sign it in blood with a fingernail. Lord Pazeral’ll know when it’s done. You have ten minutes. We’ll be counting each one. Come on, Goblin. You’re the most beautiful one I’ve ever met. And I have met many.”
Then they were gone, and the eyes followed Erin as she picked up the scroll and looked at it. Then she knew it was over.
 
——
 
A girl, a [Shepherd], an Emira, and the others sat and watched Erin. Clustered together. Erin read the contract once. She understood.
[Slave] contract. Pazeral spelled out what he wanted. One month of service to him, enforced by magic, before she would ‘renegotiate’ with the Masters of Roshal. No other terms. He needed no other terms.
There was sympathy even on the Emira’s face. Erin Solstice thought a minute had passed. Two. The [Shepherd] spoke.
“There’s no way out for her or you.”
She had something she’d pulled out of the drain in her hands. Erin looked at her, then at the [Slavers]. They were watching her. No matter which of the five it was, they watched. Erin bit her lip until it bled, and one called out.
“Don’t make us come down there and waste a potion on you, [Innkeeper]. Bite your tongue and you won’t die fast enough. Even if you did, the Hob won’t enjoy it.”
Blood ran down Erin’s chin, and she looked at the faces. Drakes. A Gnoll in the far cells, staring at her. Humans.
“I don’t know you. If you stand up, they can’t see me. If I asked you to die, would you give me the time I need? For a chance?”
The [Innkeeper]’s hazel eyes were bleak. She stared into the eyes of the little Lizardgirl, which shone as if they still believed this might be a dream. The [Shepherd]’s gaze that had refused to break—yet had forgotten what the sun looked like. The Emira’s shattered eyes. A Drake who stared at Erin with all the hate in the world, as if hoping this were somehow someone’s fault.
“How much…”
Someone began to ask—then silence. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes were calm now. They looked empty of everything except the spot Ulvama had been.
“Just a chance.”
She bit her lip harder, then touched the blood and spat onto one hand. Erin wiped it across her face as a minute passed. Her fingernails dug into her skin till more blood dripped down, and the [Slavers] leaned forward to see if she would sign. Erin wiped the blood onto her arms, and in silence, the [Shepherd] swallowed something.
 
——
 
“Master Solhen, prisoners are blocking our view of Erin Solstice.”
The [Slaver] counting down the minutes wondered if they’d already begun raping the Hobgoblin. He was annoyed; there would be little fun by the time he was off his shift. The fun, once you were a veteran, wasn’t in the act, it was the first few minutes regardless if you participated or not.
Three minutes had passed—and he saw [Guards] jabbing the butts of spears into the cell with the [Innkeeper].
Master Iert would soon find out the Hobgoblin was gone. All the other injunctions still held, so Solhen strode over and saw a wall of bodies standing. They were blocking Erin Solstice from view. He could barely see—one of the [Guards] spoke, voice alarmed.
“I think she’s biting her tongue.”
“In the cells! Don’t harm their faces!”
Solhen snapped. More [Guards] forced in, now clubbing the prisoners down—until one grabbed an arm. Her collar flared, and the [Guards] hit the [Shepherd]—but instead of falling as the collar spoke pain into her body, she just bit one.
“[Slaves Cannot Harm Me].”
Even the [Guards] were unto veteran [Slavers]. He laughed—until the teeth tore into his flesh, and he suddenly struck her in the face. She kept biting even when he drew a dagger and jabbed it into her ear.
“What are you doing—”
The [Slave Master] was apoplectic. She was high-level! Then he saw the [Shepherd] reach out and pull the man’s throat out. She rose, dagger sticking out of her head; the collar burned, and she ripped it off—and part of her neck.
Her skin and bones began healing. Solhen backed away, mouth suddenly dry. He remembered the Courier and shouted.
“The flesh of A’ctelios Salash. That—kill it. Kill it.”
Now, all the [Guards] were rushing down, and Solhen was staring into the cell in horror. If she had eaten it—the Masters of Roshal would murder each and every one of them, turn them into [Slaves], or throw them down the Wishing Well. He pushed the [Guards] forwards, and they hacked at the rapidly mutating limbs of the woman, tried to fight forwards…
“Tell Iert and the [Captain]—”
Master Solhen’s voice rose as he fumbled for a speaking stone. To raise an alarm. To call for backup. To warn the other [Slavers].
His fingers found the stone, began to pluck it from its holster, and slowed. The man’s mind kept moving, but his fingers scrambled slower and slower for the stone, as if he were trapped in water.
The other [Slavers] and prisoners felt it too. Their eyes began to roll, and their motions became frantic lunges as the time between each blink of an eye became an age. The spatter of blood flying through the air hung forever…forever…
Then Solhen saw what the [Innkeeper] was doing. She had not eaten the flesh of A’ctelios Salash. Rather, she was covered in blood.
Her blood. The blood of some of the other prisoners, from nails, teeth—blood running down her naked body, but in streaks. Swirls of blood in a complicated pattern that moved as she—danced.
She was dancing as Solhen’s eyes froze in place, and his mind screamed, locked into his body. Faster and faster, a curving pattern that became whirls of red blood and white skin and shadows. Her shadow was long on the white background of the cell, and it twisted as Erin Solstice moved, head jerking, limbs moving wildly—but not without purpose.
It looked like the shadows were dancing with her now. Growing taller and taller as she flickered behind the silent prisoners. Her eyes were wide and huge, and he saw her head twist—move—when she next appeared, he wasn’t sure if it was Erin Solstice he was seeing. Or something else.
 
——
 
 
Dancing shadows in the [Slavers]’ ship.
Blood running to the floor.
The stench of fear and excrement and old semen and suffering.
Ulvama’s face.
The glowing contract.
Choose. Bend or break.
Erin Solstice made her choice. Her body jerked as it danced along, a puppet now, to something she could no longer take back nor control. Time slowed and stopped. Her eyes were bleeding. Her ears and nose were bleeding, and she heard a scream in her mind, like a door opening.
She tasted blood and bile on her tongue. Smelled brimstone and oil in the air—then time stopped even for her.
Erin Solstice left her body. It was still mid-dance, arms lifted high, mouth open in a wild scream—and inside that mouth was a pit of despair. In the space of one wide pupil, in the single note of a scream, Erin Solstice opened a door and stepped into a black room.
An ancient table of red wood, crimson, and two black chairs so dark they were invisible waited for her. A light shone down from nowhere, illuminating the room. Erin Solstice stopped there in the room, naked, covered with the sigils she had learned to draw, body shuddering from the dance she had learned from that profane place.
The Garden of the Lucifen. She stood there, in silence, until she saw a door on the far end of the room open. A man slowly walked through it.
He climbed up a dark stairway that stretched down to infinity. His suit and tie were perfect, and he stared upwards at a faint light as he came. How long he walked, Erin didn’t know. They had forever in this fraction of a moment, and he took his time.
Walking up this place he had never trod that was so familiar to him. When the man stopped in the doorway, she saw his horns and crimson irises. Saw his grey skin and the sharp teeth—and a smile that only he understood.
Viscount Visophecin, first of the Lucifen, stopped in the doorway and blinked as he recognized Erin Solstice. Then he saw her naked body and the blood on her and bowed without a word. He removed his jacket and offered it to her.
Then he took a seat.
 
——
 
They said nothing for a while. If Visophecin looked past Erin, he could see the place she had walked out of. She said nothing as the jacket was smeared with blood, and she sat there panting.
Time had stopped. Visophecin knew what this room was supposed to be, but not even his forebearers’ own sires had known how to get here.
Ever since the Infernal Court had fallen to ruin, the height of Lucifen’s power had waned. This…
Roshal.
Did she know who was looking for her? The Wind Runner had already begged Rhisveri for aid, but Roshal sailed almost immune to all surveillance, and fingers had been pointed at the Forgotten Wing Company, Khelt, the Circle of Thorns…the Archmage of Izril could only trace the [Greater Teleport] Skill to a spot off of Izril’s northwestern coast.
Even if she made it there with the few volunteers able to fight—they’d have to catch up across the sea. 
Roshal had almost executed a perfect kidnapping. Almost, save for the one thing even they didn’t realize Erin Solstice had: the pact of the Lucifen.
Did she know why she was here? Had she been assaulted? Visophecin was calm, analytical. Then he stopped studying her and looked up into her eyes and stopped thinking for a second.
The [Innkeeper] was still shaking. Her mortal body was frayed from her kidnapping, the summoning dance, and her emotions. Ah, but her eyes.
Her eyes were filled with a steadiness that forced the Lucifen to stop. He met her gaze and adjusted his clothes. He stopped analyzing the moment and sat upright against his chair.
Erin Solstice’s voice was cracked and hoarse.
“…Do you know what evil is?”
The Lucifen thought for a while, then inclined his head slowly.
“I believe I may have seen it over the centuries I have lived. Good evening, Erin Solstice.”
“Do I…know you?”
Her body stirred, but her eyes never changed. She sat, weary, his coat covering everything but her legs. The Lucifen paused.
“You are famous. We played a game of chess during your tournament. I also have some small ties to you by way of an acquaintance.”
“Ryoka? Now I remember you.”
She had seen his true form when they played together. He was recalling the shadow of the Lucifen he had seen over her shoulder. Now, he understood why. Viscount Visophecin was silent a moment. He didn’t know what Ryoka had said, and trust…he cleared his throat gently.
“How did you find a way to summon me, Erin Solstice? It has been a long, long time since my kind were offered a pact. Do you know what you did?”
“Yes.”
This time, Visophecin’s pause was longer. He covered his hesitation by snapping his fingers.
“May I offer you something to drink. Tea? Refreshments? A cloth, perhaps?”
