Strangely, he felt it was within his power to conjure such things from thin air. Though that had never been an ability of his. Lucifen were strong, physically and magically; they knew ancient spells and had access to the Gates, which functioned as powerful quasi-teleportation spells.
They could even learn their ‘Warform’, like Agelum, with training. Visophecin was the only living Lucifen to master his. But Lucifen had no innate powers like the Agelum’s mastery of battle.
—Yet right now, he felt more alive than he ever had been. A potential was in his very essence, and he longed to explore this room. To question Erin Solstice.
However, something told him their conversation mattered more than all of it. Erin Solstice whispered as Visophecin produced an ancient, black pot with faint, pale lines, a piece of ceramic broken then artfully repaired to create the effect.
“No. Do you know where I am?”
“…A [Slaver]’s ship flying Roshal’s flag, I presume. Deep sea, bound for Chandrar.”
“Yes. I have a friend. They took her upstairs.”
“Ah. Miss…Ulvama? A Goblin?”
Visophecin hesitated. Erin whispered.
“Yes. It’s been four, five minutes. They said I would have ten.”
“You are in a cell in their ship, I presume. The collar on your neck—a Skillbreaker collar and magic nullifier as well.”
“Yes.”
Visophecin steepled his fingers togethers and felt the claws of his nails poking through his gloves. What now? He truly didn’t know.
But she did.
“They offered me a contract. If I signed it, they’d stay away from Ulvama.”
“Ah. No doubt magically enforced. And via Skill and blood.”
Visophecin smiled, imagining what kind of contract it was. The smile flickered as the [Innkeeper] whispered.
“That’s right. So I summoned you. I know you. You’re Lucifen. Cormelex’s people.”
Then Visophecin did twitch. He had mastered a [Gambler]’s poker face, had spoken lies to royalty, and had stared down a Wyrm, all blank-faced.
How did she know that name? How did—
“I found his [Garden of Sanctuary].”
The hairs of Visophecin’s neck slowly rose. Cormelex had a garden? He kept his face straight.
“Intriguing. For clarity’s sake, I presume the ritual to summon me was in that garden?”
“Correct.”
He had so many questions, yet now, Visophecin was aware this was a negotiation. And he thought he knew the stakes. He leaned over the table.
“…Having appraised the odds against you, I must caution you that Roshal is a dangerous foe. Their capture of you was no accident. I may be able to render some assistance, but if you have the disposition of their ship, the highest-levelled person aboard?”
“His name is Iert, and he reports to Yazdil. This is his flagship, The Naga’s Den.”
Ah. This will be a problem. Visophecin had ranked his abilities against levels before, and Level 50 individuals consistently had the potential to kill him, even in Warform. He had advantages—but beyond that?
He had dueled a master of Noelictus, and even with all of his kin, he hadn’t been sure how many of them would have had to die to kill…someone who might be Level 60. Depending on how many Relics that Gnoll had, an entire warship of Roshal?
She is in a warded cell as well. Yet…Visophecin felt the power of this place calling to him. An urge in his bones. He had to strike a deal.
What would Ryoka Griffin say if her friend was captured? That was one small consideration. The balance of power in Izril would be thrown off—for better or worse—but mostly, Visophecin was just thinking.
They took the Hobgoblin upstairs. He felt his blood chill further. Lucifen functioned opposite of most species. He didn’t warm, but grew cooler.
“Did they assault you?”
“Not yet.”
“I see.”
Two crimson eyes glowed softly in the darkness. Erin Solstice’s own seemed to shine, but with a different light.
“You don’t know what will happen here. You’ve never done this before, have you?”
His eyes snapped back down from staring upwards at the invisible light source, looking for any other details in the room besides the doors, the chairs, and the table.
“—It has been some time since this ritual was effected. However, I know exactly what will happen should we agree. Terms are always required. A contract, be it words or written. In this room, we must understand the terms well before agreeing. But the price has always been the same.”
“What will happen?”
She wanted him to say it. The Lucifen fidgeted in his chair, then looked at her directly.
“The price is a bit of you. A piece of your soul. A link between you and we.”
She nodded.
“Are you better than Roshal?”
Viscount Visophecin bit his lip on the easy answer. He stared past her, then focused on Erin.
“I believe I am fairer.”
Her eyes were boring into his skull. Erin whispered.
“Are you like them? Roshal?”
The leader of the Lucifen avoided her gaze and glanced around the room. Now the reek of uncomfort left his skin hot, and his blood chilled more. He adjusted his tie.
“—I do not know.”
She said nothing, and the words followed Visophecin’s statement, a justification, clarification, that he had thought after meeting Ryoka Griffin but not had the chance to say.
“I believe good or evil may not always be perfectly obvious, but there are rules and reasons to break them. I do believe in right and wrong. We are simply not all judged at the same time, or equally. I believe my role is, in part, to judge. Or at least, my nature.”
He didn’t mean to say that. But the answers forced themselves out of him, and he realized this room demanded it. A fairness that if used correctly, he was sure would be as painful as could be. The [Innkeeper] stared at Visophecin, then pointed.
“Look out the door for me.”
He was losing control of the negotiations, but there was nothing for him to do but stand and look out into the ship’s hold. His height allowed him to see much. He saw the [Slavers], the cells, the prisoners, and when he turned—he knew what she would ask but could not stop it.
“What do you see?”
The Lucifen answered slowly, gazing around the hold of the ship.
“Something that calls to a part of me. Something that I would ban in any lands I hold sway over.”
The second part of his answer—relieved him. He wondered what he would have said to Uziel if he had not said that. He sat back down, and Erin Solstice saw the Lucifen shift. Then he spoke, as if he had to say it because it mattered.
“I am not ruled by my darkest reflection.”
Who was being judged here? Who was the more unsettled? Visophecin saw Erin Solstice’s face was bloodless. He wasn’t sure she had blinked.
“I have to choose. What I want is this: freedom. I want to leave the ship. I want you to protect Ulvama and everyone else I deem fit before I get to safety. I want you to kill every single [Slaver] of Roshal between me and these things. Can you do it?”
Visophecin didn’t know, and he was afraid the room would compel that answer. But then he felt something moving.
Click. Click. Click.
Both he and Erin stopped, and they heard it. The ancient creak of sound. A feeling of movement.
As if some scales, unseen and invisible, had suddenly found a weight on them after eternities. The scope of her desires suddenly became apparent to Visophecin, her desire and fear and anger and—her emotions, so vivid he recoiled, and his chest heaved.
And he felt the counterbalance of the offer. Power. She had power. This room had power. He almost reached for her, then spoke.
“I can fulfill this request. The contract…you know what you are giving away?”
She said nothing for a long moment. Erin stared into Visophecin’s eyes, then into the door behind her. Her lips moved.
“Will I ever come back? Do I have a chance, if I don’t like the deal, of ever getting out?”
For the first time, her gaze wavered, and the Devil spoke almost gently.
“Oh, yes. It will not change you entirely.”
Erin Solstice’s head jerked after a moment of staring down at the table. She whispered.
“Even if it’s a lie—thank you.”
Was there more to say? Visophecin cleared his throat, and against his desires, he spoke. His fair cousins crossing his face.
“Do you—consider the cost worth the bargain, Erin Solstice? You may still turn away.”
Erin Solstice whispered as she sat up at the crimson table upon her chair melding into the darkness.
“I know. But Ulvama’s up there, and every way out looks dark. She’s up there, Visophecin. She’s—all of them. Halrac. Ulvama. Each one—she’s the one in front of me. I should have never asked them, but I did. She’s up there. If it’s not you, I will sign any contract.”
“I see.”
He should have felt pleased to understand how desperate she was. But he felt guilty instead. A worm in his heart. Yet the [Innkeeper] kept speaking.
“Help me. Don’t let them do anything to her. Help me save them, and you can have a part of me.”
She stood up slowly, and his coat was smeared with blood as she offered it to him. The Lucifen put it back on and the two stood there. He felt the room trembling with the same anticipation in his bones.
Erin Solstice’s eyes were huge in her face, her cheeks devoid of color. She was naked, covered in blood, and stood at the end of a road that had led her here. Visophecin saw the [Innkeeper]’s eyes fix on him and then the stairway stretching down to infinity.
Now she saw that the staircase continued. It fell downwards, but as her head rose, she realized that the stairs also led ever upwards towards that distant light.
“Are you prepared?”
The Devil hesitated and lied as he looked Erin Solstice in the eyes.
“Of course.”
She nodded.
“Then. Take my hand.”
 
——
 
Visophecin, First of the Lucifen, was walking up a staircase that rose in a spiral ever upwards.
He could not see the stairs nor anything but the light.
The pits below him had no end. His climb had no time to it. He was walking ever upwards, and his body strained with each step.
Yet his head was fixed higher at the faintest glow in a place beyond midnight. So dark that a spark would be blinding.
Upwards.
His eyes focused on that distant place, like a promise, as an energy coursed through him he had only ever dreamed of. His legacy.
His heart…beat slowly in his chest. He felt cold. He felt.
The Lucifen had a promise to keep, so though the journey might take forever, still he rose. Higher, climbing one step at a time, a stairway of infinity.
—And he was not alone.
They appeared out of their own doors, bewildered, leaving House Shoel’s lands. Travelling across the world for his call, for the nature of their blood. Male and female. Adorned in the finery of other species.
Lucifen.
Azemith, Igolze, Vultapheles—Visophecin could see them out of the corners of his eyes. Lucifen whose heads rose to that tantalizing radiance. Drinking in the pact.
He could have continued climbing forever, but there was a door. Visophecin stopped in front of it and adjusted his clothing. Then he swung the door open and stepped into a brighter world. The darkness before dawn.
 
——
 
It looked, to some of the sailors and crew aboard The Naga’s Den, as if a ring of fire had traced itself with black flames on the deck of the ship. A figure slowly climbed out of it, walking up a stairway.
He stood before a cabin filled with laughter as the rain poured down and the waves of the sea crashed against one of Roshal’s mightiest ships. The crew were in a good mood after waiting so long. But all the [Slavers] were up to their tricks.
Iert, the Gnoll, was distracted, and the [Ship Master] was likewise glancing at his cabin where several [Slavers] were blocking the door. The Gnoll had one hand on his sword, but his master had told him not to shed blood—yet.
The figure paused in front of the door and inhaled. He counted the bodies within, glowing figures of heat. He was taller, seven feet high, and stooped as his hand rose and knocked on the door.
Jet black skin. Long claws tinged red at the very ends. His hair was gone—his skull resembled a smooth bone structure similar to a helmet. Two sockets shone crimson, and Visophecin realized he was different. His regular Warform was not this.
I have wings.
His tail left a wake of rain as the crew pointed at him. Inside the cabin, the laughter stopped.
“Master Iert?”
A note of fear. Then someone got up. Visophecin raised one claw as something ran from his mouth and long, forked tongue and trailed onto the deck as rain pelted his armored body. He realized it was drool.
I have never been hungrier. There was a feast here.
Yet he had a promise to keep. There was one figure in the room that sat still, save for the trembling. Visophecin focused on her. He felt his kindred coming.
He had lived his entire life in black and white. Now—it felt like he could see colors at last. He felt alive, and when the door swung open, a man looked up at Visophecin.
He smelled like lemongrass. He had a smile and excitement on his face. His trousers were bulging, and he was shaking with anticipation.
Then—he looked up, and his eyes widened. Visophecin saw a group of twenty men of various species turn. They looked at him blankly, not understanding what they were seeing.
A Devil pointed a finger and spoke.
“[Law of the Lucifen: Hellbound].”
It was no power he had ever used before. He simply knew he could do it. The [Slaver] in front of him jerked back, a hand going for a sword. He tried to step back, but a hand seized his ankle.
The man looked down—and Visophecin thought it was a strange hand. Clawed. Red and black, like the fires of another gate opening below the man’s feet.
Below all the [Slavers]’ feet. They shouted and screamed as the Hobgoblin jerked—Visophecin saw the claw pull, and then the man who smelled like lemongrass and sin began to shriek.
Flames slowly ran up his legs. Black fires of hatred. Burning perdition. The hands were pulling him into the ground, and his scream grew higher and higher until his mouth was open but the sound couldn’t keep up with the agony, and he was silent.
The hands. Visophecin stared down at them. They were not a Lucifen’s hands. They looked—
Like a Goblin’s.
The room was filled with shrieking sounds as twenty men found something pulling them down into a place that had no exit. An infinity of crimson eyes was staring up at them.
One managed to break free. The [Slavemaster] tore free of one hand with all his might, a sword cutting the circle apart. He stumbled forwards, screaming as he saw the flames still clinging to his skin.
Visophecin caught the figure by his head and tilted the man’s neck back. He saw an oiled beard, silk clothing arranged into a toga style, and rings that flashed uselessly, each one bearing Roshal’s sigils.
