Cost: 5,000 PC (Warning: Cost increases with every purchase)

After checking out the Outpost Beacon... yep, definitely gonna be one of the most important things to have. Especially after checking out another new building that had just unlocked, which would definitely become absolutely crucial and used by everyone during this event.

Teleportation Nexus

A building allowing teleportation to any Teleportation Node structure within the Territory. Teleportation activation time and cost are dependent on the distance from the Teleportation Nexus and the Teleportation Node. The Teleportation Nexus can only be used by members of the Territory.

Cost: 150,000 PC

They had already discussed using long-range teleportation, and this seemed to be the way they were going to do it. The cost for the Nexus wasn’t even that bad, being fifteen days of income for their current Territory. After expanding, it would naturally be far less.

That didn’t mean making a teleportation network would be a cheap endeavor, though, given the price of the next item.

Teleportation Node

A structure one can teleport to and from using the Teleportation Nexus.

Cost: 2,500 PC (Warning: Cost increases with every purchase)

Just like the Outpost Beacon, the Teleportation Node would get more expensive with every purchase. It didn’t specify how much more expensive, but Jake reckoned this was a way to somewhat limit a single galaxy from expanding too fast, as these important structures would quickly become too expensive to just pump out. It also meant that one had to carefully consider where to place the Outposts and Nodes, as losing them would be a huge blow. Nothing said the price wouldn’t stay higher even after losing one of these structures, after all.

Making a traditional teleportation network also wasn’t possible, which had been confirmed during this Preparation Phase. It seemed that the Exalted Prima simply didn’t allow it, preventing the circles from functioning. Had to suck for space mages, but Jake didn’t complain as they didn’t have a lot of those.

It was also confirmed that many other forms of magic or skills that could give strategic advantages were weakened. William had noticed that karma seemed oddly obscured within the virtual world. Jake had already confirmed that the view distance was severely limited, and long-range communication skills seemed limited as well. From this, it was clear that the Exalted Prima wanted them to use the special structures and items available to purchase using Prima Credits.

These limitations weren’t absolute, though, as some things did still work, perhaps due to them being deemed powerful enough for the Exalted Prima to allow them.

Jake’s massive Perception, allowing him to bypass the limitation on view distance, was one example of this. Another was that Miranda could still use her special communication skill, which even worked across universes, to contact and talk to Jake. Needless to say, that was a massive advantage and one of the things allowing Jake to do what he was about to do.

Exchanging a quick look with Miranda, she nodded and spoke. “I’ll reach out if anything changes. Now go.”

He didn’t need to hear more than that as Jake shot into the air and straight towards the largest bordering Territory, eagerly planning to get the culling started.
