Hannah’s hand was clenching the front of her shirt. She was trying to think of what she should say.

Thank you? That didn’t seem right.

Let me fact check this information and get back to you to confirm? That definitely wasn’t it.

Kid, are you okay?

Better. But still not great.

Apparently she’d waited too long. Because the boy spoke again, in a slower, more pointed tone. Like he was trying to explain something to a younger child.

“I’m telling you they died in the first explosion. The one you couldn’t have done anything about anyway. Because you didn’t know it was coming. So you don’t have to feel bad about it…okay?”

“O-okay,” said Hannah. “Thank you so much for letting me know.”

“I don’t have Mr. Thomas’s number, so can you tell him, too?”

“Okay. I’ll call him right away,” she said mechanically.

Hannah, you idiot. Be a hero. The eleven-year-old victim is being the mature, thoughtful one here. Do better. Think of something. You’re going to feel like an ass if you don’t say something comforting.

“Bye, then,” the boy said.

“Alden, wait!” Hannah’s mind was still completely blank. She scrambled for an idea, and blurted out the first one that popped into her head. “Do you want to come to Anesidora sometime? I could get you a day pass.”

She winced at herself. Those were totally for special circumstances and bigwigs and immediate family. But she could do it. Probably.

The boy seemed to be considering the offer. “During summer break?” he suggested. “Would it be expensive to fly there?”

Oh right. Travel to Point Nemo wasn’t exactly simple.

“I’ll get a teleport for you! The System can do that. You just…let me know when you can come.”

“I’ll ask my aunt if she minds,” he said. “But she won’t.”

“Great! See you this summer then!”

She’d have a while to—

“Break starts in three weeks.”

Shit. Northern Hemisphere.

“Cool!” she said, finally managing to summon up her Hero Hannah voice. “Let me know what your aunt says. We’ll make it happen!”

“She’ll say yes. Bye.”

He hung up again.

Hannah rubbed a hand down her face. I think…that went okay?

She’d always wanted to do something for the kid, and it just hadn’t been an option. A hero couldn’t go inserting herself into a victim’s life. But since he’d called himself…

I need to check on the case’s facts again. Maybe call Arjun. He might answer after all this time.

“So…Hannah?”

She looked up and saw Ilya watching her over the top of his hand of cards.

“Are you secretly dating a Rabbit?”

“What? No. You know I’m single right now,” she said absently. She was racking her brain, trying to think of which friends she could call to get a travel pass on short notice.

“I dated a Rabbit once,” David said dreamily. “She was so rich. But she would get yanked away by summons at the most awkward moments.”

“That’s why she was rich,” Nuray pointed out. “She was one of the lucky ones. Rabbits who never get summoned have zero skills and zero money. And that’s most of them. It’s a rough gig.”

“Hannah,” Cly said slowly, “I think what our friends are trying to point out in a stupidly round-about way is that you just offered to purchase a custom teleport for a civilian kid.”

“We can do that can’t we?” Hannah said anxiously, still flipping through contacts on her System screen. “I know I’ve heard of people doing it.”

“Yeah, but…have you ever priced one?”

“No,” Hannah said. She’d never needed to. Teleport was covered by the island government for official travel, and superhumans didn’t really get the opportunity to do a lot of unofficial traveling. “Why? Is it bad?”

Everyone else at the table exchanged glances.

Cly sighed. “We’ll…start a fundraiser for you or something. It’s a good cause. In the meantime, you should eat mostly ramen and beans.”
