Carried in an ornate, open box between two burly men, lay a six foot long throwing spear and a pair of gloves that flanked it like pillars. Unlike most throwing spears, the Transpired was made out of dense metals, with a large but sturdy blade carved from some scorpion monster’s stinger.

Under normal circumstances, Matt would have thought that was strange enough, however that was the smallest most inconsequential oddity about the item. He’d heard the phrase ‘enchanted within an inch of its life’ often enough to describe an item that was optimally used that he’d stopped giving weight to the phrase but upon seeing the spear, he changed his mind.

The spear, magically speaking, looked like a blank piece of paper that someone started randomly enchanting on but, upon realizing they were running out of space, resorted to writing smaller in the margins and then around the edges. However when that wasn’t enough space, they’d started writing around and then inside the letters. Yet that still hadn’t been enough for Madam Renaissance, who’d continued that recursion down at least a dozen times.

And that was just what he could see as a Tier 30. Matt could only curse himself for not being a higher Tier to see deeper.

Somehow, despite all of the seemingly random choices and oddities that individually would have ruined any other Tier 44 item, the Transpired was a perfect example of weaponsmithing.

Matt didn’t understand how she’d done any of it. He didn't attempt to contemplate how she fit all of the enchantments onto a single item without overloading it and didn’t intend to try. Because Madam Renaissance hadn’t technically enchanted the weapon at all.

Or maybe she had.

That was what confused Matt, because what he was seeing should have been fundamentally impossible. She’d ‘enchanted’ the spear with what to him looked a lot like talismanic runes, except the spear was far from a single-use item showing minor wear and tear indicating it was fully tested which surprised no one who’d done any research on Madam Renaissance. Additionally, it was clearly made to last, with repair and defensive runes featured prominently in the clutter.

Which shouldn't have worked in any way shape or form.

While many things were called enchanting colloquially, there were differences in the details. Talismans, despite sharing a lot of core principles with more permanent formations or item enchanting, were not the same thing.

Yes, Matt knew of similarities or outright exceptions between all three disciplines. At the same time as a competent Tier 30 general enchanter, talisman master, and formation specialist, he’d reached a high enough vantage that he deeply understood how surface level the commonalities were.

Similar to languages, the runes and methods to use them differed between branches the same way that one couldn’t randomly substitute in foreign words into a sentence without the meaning being distorted or lost entirely. Unlike people who might understand from context or languages which could have loan words, the enchanting disciplines were far more rigid.

While a lot of the actual work experience transferred between them, given the practical similarities, what Madam Renaissance had should have been impossible.

It was like a book intended for Sect readers following all of the normal Sect language rules that happened to be written in Empire standard. Yet it was still entirely understandable by someone who didn’t speak Empire. It was a contradiction and one Matt couldn’t wrap his head around.

Far from the only one to notice the oddity, the excited and confused chatter only lasted until Meadow spoke once more. “A strange item, but what else should someone expect from the Woman of a Thousand Faces. However, let me bring out the next two items to complete the set, the Inexorable, and the Improbable.”

Two more ornate items were carried out at Meadow’s words, revealing a heavy bladed Axe with its edge made out of a teal rhino horn and a full suit of armor with a lining of seal fur.

Both were seemingly enchanted like permanent talismans, but they didn’t have to wait any longer as Meadow stopped teasing them.

“Together with the Transpired, these three items make for every rift delver’s dream. Being unkillable inside a rift.” Hearing the uproar, Meadow didn’t try to tame it. Instead she let it build, nodding along urging the pack leaders. “I know what I said and how unbelievable it sounds, but it's true. While I will remind everyone these items only work inside a rift and on rift monsters, everything I say is factual and coming from Madam Renaissance herself.

“First, the Transpired. It is a spear that doesn't need to be thrown. Once activated, the spear targets the rift monster's truncated causality, somehow allowing it to have already struck before being thrown. Then to retrieve it, one must only activate the gauntlets and the spear will return, or activate their secondary ability and have the spear teleport back.”

Proving her words, a recording of a Tier 44 mountain panther showed the stealthy cat prowling along a rocky cliff for several seconds. Then, out of nowhere, before the cat or anyone watching could react, the spear was simply inside the panther. Its confusion was clear, as the cat was hit with the full force throw of the Tier 44 spear with zero warning, spelling the end of its life.

Scene changing, the video followed the spear as it flew into the sky to its caster who stood unmoving in the showcased armor, along with the axe on their back. Rather than getting to see either used, they watched as the spear vanished several times, only to come back time and time again.

“Madam Renaissance says it’s a failed prototype, but to us normal folks, how can this be anything but a perfect item? And because it does get better, we have the final two items. First up the axe, the Inexorable. What it, or any spells cast through it, hits is always cleaved in two, allowing a delver to bypass armored bosses alone.”

Behind her, the armored figure put actions to her words, chopping through rock behemoths as if they were wet tissue paper.

As the monsters died the recording didn’t stop; rather, Meadow started talking over it, “And if somehow two weapons that never fail can’t let someone clear a rift without worry, the armor is called the Improbable for a reason.”

Against all good reason and sense, the Tier 44 boss’s attacks missed one after the next. Even when the armored figure was seemingly caught in an inescapable net of spells or was about to be grappled, he always escaped. Every projectile and spell parted or was weakened enough to not cause any damage, while physical attacks landed at bad angles or otherwise had something go wrong.

It was almost like watching Wun fight with his luck based Talent but as Meadow had repeatedly warned them, the items only worked in rifts and on rift monsters.

While Matt was interested in the items academically because of the strange enchanting methods, he wasn’t interested in competing for the items. He didn't exactly have any issues delving that needed such items to help him ascend like a crafter might. It’d be downright boring.

“This armor makes it nearly impossible to take a hit. Large hits are reduced to medium ones and then down to small, which the armor can easily protect against, allowing unparalleled safety. Bidding starts in one minute and the set starts bidding at one full Tier 47 mana stone.”

“Oh, she’s going to fleece a noble family for this one.” Liz proclaimed the moment Meadow made it clear she was done speaking and her words couldn’t have proven more correct.

After a lot of back and forth, the set ended up selling for three T47 mana stones and three hundred and eighteen T46 mana stones. The insane cost breaking the usual custom of always sticking to one Tier of mana stones thanks to Silvia Dobrescu who must have emptied her families reserves to secure the armor set.

The instant the auction ended their ducal trading partner disabled her privacy barrier and flew down to the stage to collect her items, forgoing the rest of the auction.

With millions of gazes, Silvia did the only thing she could do. Fly to her family's estate on the Capital and wait for one or more of her family's Tier 46’s to arrive and escort the armor back to their duchy. As she exited, Silvia smiled at everyone who called out to her but stopped for no one.

Nor did anyone actually try anything, though everyone watched.

Meadow didn’t immediately start the next auction. Instead, she bantered with the crowd, letting people try to guess at some of the upcoming items but she never confirmed anything.

When it became clear no one had the temerity to try and steal from a sitting Duchess in broad daylight, she ended the small break. “And with that interlude we enter the second and final half of the auction!”
