Before any of them could answer Kyle, Meadow did it for them, “I hope everyone is ready for a battle. As advertised, the second batch of elemental upgrade orbs are up for sale. I’m sure everyone has already seen the videos of Tulon’s [Fire Bolt] post-upgrade. Actually, why don’t we show it to everyone just in case someone hasn’t seen it.”

While Matt hadn’t seen the new recording, he had a good idea of what to expect, having seen the initial tests.

A projection behind Meadow came to life. Not wasting any time, it showed Tulon Fase as he cast [Fire Bolt], unleashing a small arrow of flame as a baseline. The Tier 14 skill hadn’t been important enough to earn an upgrade orb, but as the skill of a Tier 44, it was still decently modified through infrequent use, as seen in the before footage.

From that single initial impression, Matt assumed it was a backup spell or something of the like. Many high Tiers had dozens of spells like it, used when they were advancing at lower Tiers, but too useful to discard once they were outclassed.

Watching further, he reckoned Tulon had mainly used the [Fire Bolt] as something of a surprise attack, but he changed that opinion when Matt saw it impact a shield. Most energy based spells struggled against shielding, and while that was nothing new, Tulon’s [Fire Bolt] had been honed into a sharper, more penetrating point, letting it break through an already stressed shield.

It wasn’t a conventional choice, but Matt was pretty sure that was why Tulon, a fire Mage, had bought the Metal elemental skill upgrade orb in the first place. Seeing the effect post-upgrade orb, his suspicion was confirmed.

The new projectile was no longer the typical red and orange fist sized dart of flame. Post-upgrade, it was much darker, more reminiscent of cooling metal, with thin fissures of red peaking through its slag.

Where the normal [Fire Bolt] was a purely energy-based projectile with all the advantages and limitations associated with its incorporeality, post-upgrade with the Metal elemental orb it had become material, almost weighty. And most importantly for everyone watching, powerful.

The only downside Matt could identify was that the speed of the spell hadn’t increased as much as was expected with a normal upgraded [Fire Bolt], nor had it gained one of the other variant upgrades. That put it in line with their tests. Any thoughts of disappointment the crowd might have had were swept away when the projectile struck the training dummy.

The difference between hits was night and day.

Rather than penetrating the target’s shield or, failing that, exploding, the [Fire Bolt] slammed into the barrier, mushrooming like any other slug. Mid collapse, the still fiery heart of the projectile continued forward. When the shielding was pierced, liquid fire, more reminiscent of molten metal, sprayed the target.

The next few tests showcased more of the changes to the spell, which fell in line with what Matt expected but was new to most of the crowd below, leading them to a single conclusion.

The new elemental upgrade orbs were fantastic.

As Tulon showcased, the spells, despite having the properties of another element, were still considered of the original element for the purposes of spell casting. That allowed his fire-aspected mana, Natural Treasures, and Domain to still apply to the spell the same way pre-upgrade.

The excitement in the air was palpable. Elemental upgrade orbs were must-haves. Except when everyone looked into buying them, they found they were unavailable. In other words, exactly what Matt and every aperologist wanted.

Fervent desire for something just out of reach but with a method to gain them in sight.

Watching the first Tier 26 Water upgrade orb sell for a staggering one hundred and fifty Tier 44 mana stones caused the room to celebrate the stark contrast to the previous Tier 26 air orb, which had only sold for one hundred and seventy three Tier 43 mana stones in the last auction.

Not that it was too surprising, or, more accurately, their plan from the beginning. There were far more eyes on the new upgrade orbs since the first auction, leading to far more interest. That, and the auction house had spread the word far and wide that the ones on auction today were the only ones available until a rift was made that dropped them.

Meadow opened the second box, revealing the Tier 26 Decay upgrade orb while a bit of mist crept into the hall.

“For those not in the know, let me tell you a dirty little secret. Decay mana is one of the more complicated and notorious Level 2 mana types for how rarely it appears. Natural Treasure, skill, or Talent, they are all rare to see. At the same time, it's also one of the more desired mana types by delvers and military combatants alike. Something even more interesting is that a lot of decay spells, when upgraded to Tier 26 or higher, tend to have more in common with curses, given how they eat away at the target body and sometimes spirit. Yes, you heard me right people, some of the rarest decay skills, when upgraded, damage a target's spirit directly. And as an upgrade orb, the skill in question is up to you, letting you maximize your chances with a synergistic initial skill. Think how easy a skill upgraded with a decay upgrade could make a rift. One skill usage, say something simple but creative like [Fog] or [Misty Veil]. Post-upgrade, you cast, then start moving to the next group of monsters as the ones behind you die, unable to stop their bodies from rotting from the inside out. As Tulon so kindly showcased for everyone, your imagination is the limit.”

Having worked the lower crowd into a fervor over the skill, Meadow used a finger to trace a circle. “And that is why we are starting the bidding at fifty Tier 44 mana stones.”

As the price immediately soared, their suite became correspondingly relaxed as they watched their earnings rise. It would be split with the crew, but as they broke the Tier 45 threshold, it stopped mattering.

A Tier 26 upgrade orb selling for twenty five Tier 45 mana stones set several records, but he knew that was nothing in comparison to the final Tier 26 Firmament upgrade orb.

When Meadow unveiled the final orb, several peak Tier 46 spiritual perceptions broke decorum and scanned the orb.

Rather than getting angry, Meadow waved at the orb, “Get a good look everyone. If Decay mana was rare, Firmament, one of the best defensive mana aspects known, is mythical. Offence is great, but if you're already dead, having a stronger attack doesn't help you. Composed of Metal, Crystal and Lava mana, with Mud, Sand and Force as supporting mana aspects, Firmament mana is often described as indestructible or inevitability, for good reason. However, personally, I prefer the saying ‘Firmament is to Earth what Storm mana is to Air’. It's not even a purely defensive upgrade, as any earth cultivator who took personal offense at a mountain can tell you; don’t only think of your defensive spells when considering your repertoire. Crafters, maybe you want to increase the defensive prowess of your armor? Make your weapons harder than a Deep Sea Tyrant’s horn? Now is the time to review the spells in your outer spirit, everyone. Maybe you haven’t used a Tier 26 upgrade orb on a skill that has been waiting for this moment for centuries… Good luck everybody, this one starts at one Tier 45 mana stone.”

The price immediately reached triple digits, only slowing down in the four hundred mana stone range.

It didn’t quite reach the legendary T47 bracket, with a final price of five hundred and eighty two Tier 46 mana stones, but they were more than happy with the results. The price was fantastic, even among the final day’s event, given its status as the ‘best’ elemental upgrade orb.

Only minutes after the final orb sold, Matt started receiving messages through Titan’s Torch about partnerships, research grants, and thousands of aperology requests all related to elemental upgrade orbs. Thanks to his deal with Mackenzie, he was kept in the loop as the Talented aperologist kept a running tally of how many people had reached out to her, and there was no comparison. The higher Tiers were smart enough to know that Talents offered the route for much faster results, even if non-Talented work would be more important in the long run, but that was fine.

Like few of his ‘inventions’ before, the possibilities of elemental upgrade orbs had firmly grabbed the attention of the highest echelon of society and wouldn’t be letting go. Many non-core skills had been with the various Tier 40s for tens of thousands of years, if not longer. They knew their skills inside and out, and every single one of them would jump at the chance to have even more influence over a skill’s upgrade.

Lounging in his seat watching things play out, Matt couldn’t help but tell Liz about the back end developments.

Their discussion was interrupted only a few items later as a small sphere of liquid fire was brought out and set down next to Meadow.

“Fire mages take note of this lot, you can’t afford to pass this up. This little Tier 36 beauty,” Shaking the vial and causing the liquid to clank around the glass like a marble, she continued, “is a fire-based Natural Treasure that allows fire still under your control to act and behave like a liquid.”

That was all Liz needed to know to become fully interested.

Not waiting for the rest of the pitch, she started trying to bid along with what felt like half of the Empire.

As a Level 1 mana type and ubiquitous thanks to staple spells such as [Fireball] and even [Solar Flare] being common, popular and strong, the amount of fire cultivators was almost uncountable. Even if a higher Tier didn’t necessarily need it themselves, they undoubtedly had someone close to them that might want such a strange effect, which was why it had been held in reserve until the final day.

From a starting price of fifty Tier 44 mana stones, it quickly reached the Tier 45 range, but there it slowed down as five identification numbers battled it out.

Growling at the bubble, Liz fumed at the countdown. “Stop raising the price you assholes! I’m not giving up. I’m cooking this into me and none of you can stop me!”

Annie, Kyle, Vinnie and Tara watched on in closeup fascination as several Liz’s slowly lost their minds. None of the five bidders seemed willing to give up, even as the price reached the four hundred mark.

It was only there that one of the bidders dropped out; however Liz’s remaining three opponents seemed as determined as she was and the price rose correspondingly.

Mathew, returning with a mug of a dark ale, offered, “Why not drop out right until the end? Make them think you are giving up.”

A Liz paused mid tirade. “Ehh… Why not?”

Melinda, following along a moment later with her own glass of bourbon, asked, “Why is this so good? I kinda get the fire like liquid blood thing but can you use your cauldron with something like this too? How does that work?”

Rather than directly answering, Liz smiled at everyone around them. “Come with us to the Corporation and I’ll shoooow you. I intend to render myself quite a few times while we are there and have access to their markets. It will be fun and maybe we can learn something together. Matt is going to fund everyone’s initial starting capital, per JR’s rules, but then you have a decade to do all the things you haven’t had the time to do.”

Her coercion was interrupted as two people dropped out of the bidding after the five hundred and fifty mark.

Reentering with a splash, Liz raised her reserve all the way to one Tier 46 mana stone.

The remaining bidder iterated the price three times before giving up themselves, leaving Liz the winner at a staggering five hundred and sixty four 45 mana stones, not quite forcing out her entire reserve.

Just as they were calming down from Liz’s victory a few items later, Meadow's next introduction pulled them right back down to the stage.

“Today we have a bit of a special treat before a brief intermission. A trio of items created by possibly the single best crafter the Empire has ever had. Someone who can do the impossible. Someone I’m sure everyone has heard of…” After a brief pause to lean forward, Meadow finished with a faux whisper, “Madam Renaissance.”

As news spread across the Empire, those high Tiers who hadn’t previously attended the auction either logged in digitally, or, for those in-system, ate the fines to teleport over joining the lower crowd.

Madam Renaissance rarely made non-commissioned items anymore and when she did, they made a splash.

Liz, nearly vibrating from excitement, repeatedly tried to shush everyone, not wanting to miss anything to the room’s good natured booing.

Not that Meadow needed the help.

Silence returned to the venue as she seemingly replied to an audience member near her. “I kid you not. The very Woman of a Thousand Faces you’ve heard tale of. The woman who has lived through every triumph, every tragedy, traversed every walk of life as she mastered every craft personally: Maaaadam Renaissance!”

Meadow let the crowd chattered for a long few moments before she started to speak again. “While the madam herself considered these failed products, I must humbly disagree! In my personal opinion these are nothing but grand successes. Yes, they can’t be used outside a rift or on higher Tier monsters, but they are Tier 44 and therefore perfect as they are. In fact, I’d go as far as to say these three items are things that should only exist in myths and legends, yet we have them up for auction today. First up! The Transpired!”

