He opened up the Quest—

Julia instantly turned to him, knowing what he was about to do. “No. I can get this on my own.”

Ezekiel put on a calm face even though he was screaming inside. He casually tried, “Allow me to help. Please.”

Julia said, “I appreciate your help, but I can do this on my own.” She asked them all, “Anyone want to go explore a nest? Find some treasure?” She added, “We actually have two nests to explore; we never cleared out all of the other weaver’s nests.”

Nope.

Ezekiel instantly had his Odin scatter. They turned to magenta sunforms. Half of them dove deep into the Blood Weaver lair, lighting up the red darkness in search of bodies and treasure. The other half lightstepped back to the Nacreous Weaver’s hunting grounds, in search of spoils.

He had checked out the Nacreous Weaver’s grounds already, but he didn’t search that place nearly well enough.

“We won’t be clearing either nest,” Ezekiel declared, happy to have the distraction. “Odin is doing both right now.” He half-glanced away, saying, “Ah! Not five seconds to find the tragedies produced by the monster. I’ll try to keep the sites separate so that we can report where the people therein actually died.”

Magenta sunforms deposited a mound of corpses twenty meters away to the right, and also to the left; blip blip blip! Bones stuck out of dried gore. Webs got everywhere. Crusted metals laid dull in the afternoon sun, while clothes and the furs of beasts were vague suggestions of what they had once been. A few small spiders of both kinds had come along for the ride, but they were instantly dispatched by the ripping tear of an Odin who solved the various problems before they could become problems.

Julia, Tiffany, and Paul watched.

In ten seconds, the Blood Weaver pile of bones and gore slipped down the side of the mountain, for it had gotten too large, and sunform Odins kept bringing more. Most of the gore was not people. Mostly, it was monsters of all sorts. Chimeras. Frogs. Snakes. A lot of ant-like monsters that were small, but multitudinous. Wolves.

The Nacreous Weaver pile was much smaller, but contained a high percentage of people. Thirty-one people, so far.

In a minute, Ezekiel’s anger and sorrow over his daughter’s various decisions was matched for his feelings about the horror show that laid before him. He calmed, as many different thoughts swirled and organized.

This was yet another reminder that there was a larger threat out there than the ones that people made for themselves; than the one Ezekiel made for himself whenever he wanted Julia to stay home and safe and not go anywhere or do anything dangerous. He would have to apologize later. Again.

That thought swirled back to the Calcium Disodium EDTA he had almost reinvented earlier in the day.

War was going to be the outcome from that new technology, sure. But another outcome would be that at least one decent-seeming nation of Nelboor would gain a true foothold on power, and that power would allow them to spread even more civilization across this war-torn continent; allowing them to kill more monsters and make more of the world safe for people.

For in his brief time here in Nelboor, he had gotten a good look at this land.

Most of it was uninhabited. Like the Crystal Forest in some respects, but in others, not. The Crystal Forest held no water, and no greenery, and any greenery that showed was ripped to shreds by rampaging mimics. The monsters were the problem, there, just as much as the environment was a problem. But in the Crystal Forest, people couldn’t live without a complete environmental overhaul.

Here, half the problems of Nelboor stemmed from ever-present war, and that required different solutions than the solutions required to fix the other half of Nelboor’s problems, which was a problem of monsters.

An expansion of civilization would help to solve the problem of monsters, but would simultaneously exacerbate the other half of Nelboor’s problems of war.

Ezekiel hadn’t seen much of those brutal, flashing contests of blood, as his Odin prowled the skies. But he had seen the aftermath. Bodies rotting in fields. Scorched spaces in the middle of green prairie. Broken swords. Viscera and worse.

Which was worse?

War?

Or monsters?

This was a complicated problem, with no easy solutions. Plus, was it right for Ezekiel to even make these decisions? Likely not. Except, he had to live in this world, too, and if he did bring Candlepoint’s Gate network here, then he damn fucking better have a fucking say in how this part of the world worked!

While Ezekiel thought, silently, and watched bodies both new and ancient fall down the mountainside in an ever-growing pile of gore…

He thought.

“Sir,” Tiffany spoke over the continuous sound of tumbling bones. “Are you okay?”

“I am fine. I am angry, but I am fine.”

Julia began, “Dad, I—”

“I am allowed to be angry. So are you. It happens. I don’t want to talk about it right now.” Ezekiel said, “There are larger concerns.” He gestured at the pile. “There are a lot of people-bodies in that pile.”

Julia went hard. “Later, then.”

“Later.” Ezekiel turned away from the still-growing pile, to face Tiffany and Julia, as he said, “Now that the spider hunting is done, there is another issue. I remembered how to solve antirhine poisoning. Should I tell them, or should I give it to them, or should I do nothing and let them solve it on their own? I am partial to the last option, but I could be swayed in a different direction.” He continued, “From what I have seen, the Highlands could well serve the rest of the world by expanding, and by this expansion, they could end conflicts and erase the true threat that is the monsters. But I don’t know a lot about the Highlands. I don’t know if I should give them this technology. Perhaps they should come to it on their own. It might take them days, or months, or years to get where I already am. Or it could happen tomorrow. Or it could never happen. What say you?”

Julia and Tiffany went a little wide-eyed. They said nothing. Tiffany frowned a little.

Paul abstained, saying, “I already told you my feelings.”

Ezekiel nodded.

Tiffany said, “Don’t give them anything. Give this magic to Spur.”

Ezekiel said, “Right. This is a good option. I have already given it to the Mind Mages, but I could also give it to Spur.”

Tiffany continued, “Songli has proven they can make a society out of a shitty culture, but so what? They don’t deserve what you’ve already given them, or what you could truly offer them. Not yet.” She shook her head, and said, “We haven’t even been here a full week. At least wait longer than this.”

Julia said, “I agree with Tiffany. Don’t give them this yet, and especially not before we’ve had a chance to talk to Riri. I’d like to know how she had planned on these spider encounters going. That might shift my opinion.”

“Yeah. That too.” Tiffany asked, “Did they try to get one of us killed? Or did she expect you to Wither both sites and then to pick up the pieces afterward?” She added, “I expected a [Withering].”

Paul said, “I would have suggested as much if we had continued toward the Blood Weavers.”

“Yes. I apologize for that.” Ezekiel said, “Please tell me if I am ever this ridiculous ever again, and I will reconsider the plan. Neither of you signed up for this level of danger.”

“Eh!” Tiffany said, “Ah. Well. I still like this sort of thing. Don’t get me wrong! But… Ah. Thank you.” She added, “It’s been nice adventuring. I do like this. Definitely don’t give out more magic, though, Boss. Not this soon.”

Ezekiel resummoned his Odin who had depleted themselves moving around bodies, then sent the new ones out to gather more, and said, “There will be no dissemination of technology right now. Maybe not ever.” He looked to Julia, and said, “I will be using whatever happened here to gain concessions from Star Song in the form of points for you so that none of us have to worry about mental contamination. Please do not countermand me on this when we visit Riri.”

Julia looked at her father, briefly going hard, before she softened. Somewhat. She said, “Tell them I will work for those concessions. This will also give me a better chance to see what they’re about, and besides that, I can handle myself in the field against whatever they might have me do.”

Ezekiel shoved away unproductive thoughts that would only lead to more arguments.

Julia’s change to his plan was an acceptable idea.

Ezekiel nodded, saying, “Okay.” He turned to Paul. “You can check for mental contamination?”

“Of course.” Paul said, “One of the first things I ever learned, since I have to check myself for it all the time. It’s easy enough to do for another.”

… Right.

“… Right.” Ezekiel said, “Of course.” He turned to the bones and otherwise still piling up, still tumbling down the mountainside. There were more ancient bodies down in that hole, but there was no need to grab the rest. Ezekiel was suddenly tired. He had the Odin stop. Bodies and bones continued to slide down the mountainside like a minor avalanche.

Everyone stared at the flow, as ten magenta sunform Odin hovered high above.

“Look at all this death!” Ezekiel asked his people, “This sucks, doesn’t it?”

Tiffany and Julia laughed, tension vanishing as the horror of monsters settled into a gallows humor background. Paul affected a smile, but there was no heart in it.

Ezekiel added, “There’s a hole into the Underworld at the bottom of that crevasse, about hundred meters long and twenty wide. Removing this trash sent half of the rest of the trash falling down into the dark. It seems the weavers hunted from both directions. Yes, there are the bodies of sapients in this pile, but the weavers keep the Underworld monsters at bay. Shall I do anything... About any of that?”

Paul said, “Throw some stone pillars across the hole to block out the bigger monsters. Let the weavers open it more if they need to. Don’t kill the weavers. Underworld threats are worse.”

Tiffany gave an all-encompassing, “Yup!”

Julia nodded.

Ezekiel sent five Odin back into the hole. They [Stoneshape]d crisscrossing pillars from one side of the crevasse to the other, building up a thick network of blockages. It didn’t restore the webbing that had been there before, but it did enough, for now.

The other five Odin got to work on the pile of bodies sitting out in the sun, sorting people from otherwise.

When Ezekiel remembered, he cast a few [Sealed Privacy Ward]s across the land, at points where someone might [Witness] something they shouldn’t. With secrets once again hidden, he got back to work.

Half an hour later, Ezekiel, Tiffany, Julia, Paul, and Odin, had sorted out four hundred and sixty-four skulls from the rest, some with horns, some with scales, some with nothing. Some of the skulls were attached to bodies. Some were just separated heads.

There had been some treasures in the pile too, but no one wanted to loot the dead. Back in Spur, there was an endowment that anyone could pay into, in order to support the families of adventurers who had died in the line of duty. No one was sure if The Fund still existed in the Clan Exchanges of the Songli Highlands, but if it did, it would be getting a hefty donation at the end of the day.

Together, Ezekiel and Tiffany spotted barely a hundred sets of paperwork in the Blood Weaver pile, and most of the papers were too degraded to read, but the Nacreous Weaver pile had rather intact paperwork. By the time the sun began to set and the world had turned orange and gold, the team had recovered a hundred and seventy-one identification papers. Only seven of them could not be [Mend]ed back to quality. The paper was thick stuff, for the most part. It was designed to survive rain and weathering and unfortunate deaths in the dark places of the world.

Ezekiel buried the skulls in individual nooks in the mountainside, then raised an obelisk monument in the middle of them all. He carved upon the stone an image of Phagar on one side, Koyabez on another, Rozeta on the third, and a small prayer on the fourth that was a common epitaph in some parts of the world.

It read: ‘To those who have lost their lives defending us from monsters, may your gods guide you to a better world. The ones you have left behind will continue to toil against the Darkness, but your fight is over. Thank you for your service.’

The magenta light of [Cleansing Flame]s lit the coming night, burning the avalanche of bodies to thick air.

- - - -

They stopped in at the Clan Exchange in Eralis. The ‘Mage Guild’ in the main city was larger than the one in Darzallia, by a lot. It was five stories of stone and steel and seemed to be specially protected by the Void Song in the air.

They walked in with a massive bag of spider silk slung over Tiffany’s back, much to the surprise of many of the clansmen in the building. Some eyed them, seeing their wealth, and not knowing who they were except that they were unknowns. Some people almost made a move. But others held back those who moved, telling them in silent commands that this was not a procession to be interrupted. Even if they didn’t know Ezekiel and his people as ‘Clan Phoenix’, they certainly recognized a death procession when they saw it.

Ezekiel and his people soon found that, yes, the Clan Exchange had a ‘Fund’. They called theirs ‘The Office of the Lost’, and it was not exactly the same.

In a somber room, Ezekiel handed over a large stack of paperwork to a professional man in stark-white garb. In small words, they spoke of the location of the monument, and of the graves. Then they deposited the spoils gathered by too many monsters.

Many of the papers belonged to people outside of the Highlands, but the Office of the Lost respected death when it had been caused by monsters. The clansmen who had perished fighting against the darkness would find solace in that they had been found, and their graves had been marked. Their families would be told if they could be told, and the treasures Clan Phoenix had found would be used for this service.

A small amount of the treasures would go to the families who had lost people, but most would go to the Border Clans, who keep the monsters out of the Highlands.

It was the perfect sort of corrupt-government note to get Ezekiel’s anger up and fuming before he went to Star Song.

- - - -

Ezekiel sat across from Riri and Patriarch Zalindi at the very same courtyard they had been in earlier in the day, but now the sky was dark. Stars glittered above while gentle white lights illuminated the grey stone and the pink willow trees, and a cold wind blew across the Alluvial District.

