The four of them reappeared in a flash of magenta light on the western side of the South Central Tribulations, and a bit more north than their previous latitude. The ground under their feet was an expansive, bare hillside, high up on the mountain, where trees had yet to encroach. But down in the valley, the trees were as large as the smaller ones in the Forest of Glaquin.

It was as though they had appeared on a rocky island amid a sea of green and darkness.

The wind blew with a gentle force, whistling on scattered boulders and sharp grasses. Odin, sitting upon Ezekiel’s shoulder, joined in the whistling as more and more of his bodies rejoined the team, to watch down from high above.

They were only a few kilometers from the start of the Blood Weaver nest, but they were already in the monster’s territory. Close enough that they needed to be on alert in case the monsters prowled this far, but they were in no danger of an imminent attack. And besides, Tiffany and Odin kept the best lookout that was possible for mortals and [Familiar]s to keep.

Tiffany sat down on a boulder. Paul joined her. Julia stood nearby, watching.

It was time for a small bit of magic making.

“Here’s how this one is supposed to go.” Erick discarded his magenta affectation as he held up his hands, projecting white light through them. “[Interception] on one hand. Blood Altering with Destruction in the other.” An Ophiel alighted onto the ground in front of Erick and sang one song, while another Ophiel sang a different one. Erick said, “[Conjure Force Elemental], and [Ward]. From there, it’s a matter of joining them all properly.”

He heard the sounds before him, and they were… strange.

“Ah.” Erick said, “There are some oddities here. There might need to be some adjustments to the plan.”

His audience watched as two more Ophiel came down and took over the sounds for [Interception] and Blood Altering—

He found two problems.

The first one was an easy problem to fix, but it would require certain bloody sacrifices that were easy enough to sacrifice. Looked like Erick was finally getting to use his Blood Mana Class Ability.

The other problem came from Destruction, so Erick focused on Destruction for Blood Magic, himself, while his four Ophiel took up the rest of the song. Soon, they were singing the sounds of a primordial life rushing to defend its creator from the worst kind of mutative magics; of surrounding the holder of the charm with absolute [Interception] of all harmful Blood Magic.

Blood pulsed in Erick’s ears as he listened to the sound of life.

The mana bade him raise his arm. He did.

He cast, molding songs into substance. Mana rushed out of him as blood slipped out from burst capillaries in his hand, and pushed through his skin, appearing like dew. The bloody dew detached. It floated upward.

Life gathered into a thumb-sized drop of bright red blood.

Erick’s arm stopped bleeding when enough blood had gathered. It barely hurt.

And then mana flickered through the floating plasma and red blood cells and otherwise, turning liquid life into something less real, and more Real at the same time. Magic crystallized into a perfect red sphere that was cracked inside like broken dreams. It was bright, and it was powerful.

Erick swept a [Cleanse] across his upheld hand, dispersing the bloody beginnings of his spell into so much thick air.

The glowing charm descended into his grip.

A blue box appeared.

Sanguine Charm, instant, close range, 1000 mana and 1000 health

Create a major charm that prevents a multitude of harmful Blood Magics from affecting the holder. Absorbs a large amount of Blood Magic damage before breaking. Major Blood distortions made against the holder may automatically fail. Lasts a maximum of 48 hours.

He held the charm in his hand and watched as its crystalline form became liquid then twined around his hand, to slip around his wrist to hold there, becoming a red-ribbon bracelet with a central ruby. He held it up to the light and smiled as it glittered.

He sucked in a lungful of fresh air, barely registering that he had briefly stopped breathing. Eh! He was fine. Ezekiel looked to Paul, and said, “Finally found a use for Blood Mana!” He willed the blue boxes for his new spell to all of his party. “What do you think?”

“First: this.” Julia tapped him with a [Greater Treat Wounds], saying, “You stopped breathing for a moment there.” Then she read the box.

Ezekiel was pleasantly surprised that her healing spell still worked; if what Arilitilo had said was true, then [Greater Treat Wounds] was, if not Blood Magic, then at least adjacent to Blood Magic. [Sanguine Charm] seemed rather solidly against only the ‘harmful’ types of Blood Magic, though, so… Maybe there was a nuance between ‘harmful’ and ‘helpful’ that was more than just a matter of perspective? Or maybe [Greater Treat Wounds] was not actually Blood Magic, but instead merely attained through that discipline, sort of how he had Remade [Force Bolt] even though he had Remade it using his lightform, which was certainly not Force.

Something to ask Arilitilo about.

Paul finished reading the new spell. He said, “We should ignore the possibility that this spell will make the upcoming Primal Blood Weaver a simple affair, and you should kill them all from afar and not take the risk.”

Tiffany read the charm, saying, “Ohh! That’s pretty good. Reads almost the same as the Charmer at the guard station back home. A lot more duration, though.”

Julia read the box three times, then hummed, and looked to her father. “I think I need Blood Mana.”

Paul instantly said, “No you don’t.”

Ezekiel smirked as he conjured another [Sanguine Charm] to test the cost, now that the Script’s reductions kicked in. The initial creation of the spell took 1000 Mana and 1000 Health, but the next cast took 54 Mana and 63 Health.

… Huh.

Ezekiel cast another charm, and the cost was the same.

There was something odd going on, there.

Constitution reduced damage taken to Health by a diminishing return percentage. He currently had 81 Constitution. He also had 81 Intelligence, which reduced Mana costs by what appeared to be the same diminishing return percentage. … When [Defend] was active, though.

Ezekiel activated [Defend] and recast [Sanguine Charm].

Same costs.

The problem was that Dexterity was the New Stat which reduced Health costs by a diminishing return percentage, and he only had 71 of that. Which meant that his Health cost reduction was less than his Mana cost reduction, which is exactly what happened with the costs of [Sanguine Charm].

It made sense that Dexterity reduced that Health cost, because that is what it was created to do, but Ezekiel had thought that Constitution would have been the modifier, here. It was more intuitive for the reduction of damage to his body to be the modifier when it came to extracting damage from his body in order to fuel his magic.

But… Now that he considered a few other facts…

Namely, Dexterity was the ease at which the body could live and move and function. So, looking at it from that perspective...

Constitution just reduced damage taken, and he wasn’t inflicting damage on himself when he used Blood Mana. He was using the resources of his body to fuel magic costs.

Ah. Okay. That made sense.

Yes. Dexterity wasn’t exactly ‘Dexterity’, it was the ability for the body to function well.

Strength was more than physical strength, and though Strength had perfectly understood Health benefits, it gave rather undefined physical boosts. An orcol with 50 Strength was stronger than a human with 50 Strength, after all. For an orcol, their Vitality lets them regrow body parts. The same was not true for a human. Willpower wasn’t anything except for a measure of the mana a person could hold at any one time.

But why didn’t Constitution reduce damage taken to [Personal Ward]s, too, when armor and other defensive structures helped reduce damage to both Health and [Ward]? Dexterity had odd effects, too, now that Ezekiel reorganized his thinking on the subject. He was a lot more limber than he had ever been in his life, now that he had Dexterity.

Perception had odd effects, but numbers? It had none. All Stats were odd. All of them were abstractions.

Ezekiel’s minor detour into the workings of the New Stats and the Old ended almost as soon as it began, with barely a second passing. He returned to Julia’s comment about needing Blood Mana, and said, “I tried casting healing spells with it and it hurt like a fucker, so it likely won’t work how you think it will.”

Julia paused, thought a bit, then said, “There are a lot of different ways to work around that. I could still easily exploit Blood Mana to cast spells for an indefinitely long combat.”

“True. Healing yourself with regular, cost-effective mana, and then using that Health to make big spells. It’s a valid tactic.” Ezekiel said, “But Arilitilo’s books warn that a person would tax their body too much if they used too much Blood Mana, leading to systemic stress. But anyway—” He held out a hand, where his charms had stuck. Only one remained of the few he had cast. The charms beyond the first had tried to attach to the same spot and they had turned to red dust that spilled to the ground. “Can’t have more than one, it seems.” He conjured another one and put it on his other wrist. It turned to dust, too. “Yup.”

“I’d still take one,” Julia said.

Ezekiel handed out charms, saying, “One for everyone.”

Julia’s charm snapped around her wrist. Tiffany’s went around her thumb. Paul held his blood charm in his hand for a moment, then placed it against his wrist where it became a bracelet just like Ezekiel’s.

“So!” Julia said, “Thanks for the charm. Seems like it’ll protect me from the weavers, so I’ll hunt this horde on my own.”

A breeze passed through.

Ezekiel wasn’t sure he had heard that right.

He asked, “What?”

Julia said, “I’ll hunt this weaver on my own.”

Ezekiel felt his world crumble. He asked. “Please don’t do this to me. Not against Blood Weavers. Not against anything like this.”

Julia froze as the weight of Ezekiel’s displeasure fell upon her. She stared into his eyes for a moment, seeming soft for a long second. Then she turned hard, and said, “I can turn into liquid flame. Or metal. I have [Aura of Freedom]. Not only am I naturally immune to whatever Blood abilities they have, and I doubt I even need your charm, for I am capable of freeing myself from literally any binding spell they could possibly throw at me. [Blood Control] spells will not work on me. The only people in danger in this situation are you, Tiffany, and Paul.” She rapidly turned to Tiffany and Paul, saying, “No offense meant, but you don’t even have an Elemental Body.”

Tiffany stayed well clear of the conversation. Paul did too. Both pretended not to hear anything as they looked away.

Julia turned back to her father, and said, “I could have taken that Nacreous Weaver, too, if I didn’t have to watch out for you. I am much more competent in this arena than you think, and I do not appreciate this smothering.”

Ezekiel felt empty. Gutted.

Julia stared, unflinching.

A moment passed, while Ezekiel tried to put his own thoughts in order. She was right. She was wrong. But above all, Ezekiel had to let her do this. He had expected her to try this. He had expected to lose this argument, too.

Ezekiel said, “You’re right. But I’m sending an Odin with you, who will [Withering] them if needed.”

“… Acceptable.” Julia said, “Please keep Odin away from the actual fight. I will be going in, now.” She shifted to light and stepped ten meters away where she instantly immolated into liquid fire and splashed outward into a flowing pool of orange ooze. The red dot of her [Sanguine Charm] was a spot of red shadows in the billowing heat of her brilliant form. She spoke with [Prestidigitation], saying, “Thank you for watching over me.” Another twist of light turned her into a shooting star that took off toward the north, toward…

Toward what was likely certain death.

... For anyone else except for Jane.

Why was this so hard? It would never get any easier, either.

Erick watched. He waited. He could do nothing else, lest he drive away his daughter. He had learned that lesson long ago.

Besides… Jane could handle this fight.

- - - -

The world was cold and Jane was fi—

Julia was fire.

Ah. That talk with her father had gone less than great. But it had gone. And now it was in the past, and they’d talk about it when they all got back home, and everything would be fine.

Eventually.

Everything would be better if he would have let her go on this entire hunt on her own. She hadn’t spoken up when the plans were made to get the Nacreous Weaver, and that was on her, but there hadn’t been a ‘best moment’ to talk about it. If it had just been her attacking the monster, then no one would have gotten hurt at all.

She didn’t expect all that reflection, but if she wasn’t constrained to fight with her father nearby—

That wasn’t fair of her.

She could have gone oozey right away and flanked the monster while Tiffany struck from one side and everyone attacked from every angle. That had been her own plan, but then her father had lucked out and mesmerized the weaver.

Paul would have gotten hurt, though, for sure. He had strained to freeze the weaver for that single moment. He could have done it a few more times, maybe, but even once was a lot. Probably due to the reflection, again. Paul had frozen too when he froze that weaver.

Ezekiel had been almost useless, too, until he lucked out.

Eh. They all got lucky. [Force Weaver] was no joke. Even she didn’t expect that. She could deal.

Her Unicorn Form would have worked, too. [Beautification Aura] would have been an instant kill, with less chance of accidentally burning her own party. But Poi would have gotten hurt… Maybe. He could probably piggyback off of everyone else’s sights. Back during the Unicorn Hunt, Marric had been fine fighting the Unicorns, and he was a Mind Mage, too.

She could have done that fight so much better.

And she could have trusted them to fight beside her as a monster, too. Why hadn’t she tried that with them? Was it because her father didn’t like seeing her as a monster? He certainly didn’t like spiders.

Was she embarrassed?

Julia loved her father, and everyone else was pretty great, too. Tiffany was warming up to her, finally, but…

She had sunk a lot of that just now, hadn’t she? By demanding to fight on her own, she had basically said that they were all useless.

Dammit.

She was better off alone.

