Julia sat to Ezekiel's side. Elder Mirizo stood behind Zalindi and Riri; still silent. There was no tea, for there was no need. This conversation wouldn’t take long. Ezekiel had told them as much when he contacted Zalindi not ten minutes ago in a sending.

Ezekiel said, “Thank you for agreeing to meet so soon. Is everything going well with your Alchemists?”

“Most of them are still sleeping off their gifts.” Zalindi’s voice was that of a mountain rumbling. He said, “Loremaster Riri was also sleeping, but not too soundly, it seems.”

Riri looked as well put-together as ever. If she had been sleeping ten minutes ago, Ezekiel couldn’t tell. She affected a small smile, and asked, “Should we have reason to worry about the gifts given?”

“No.” Ezekiel said, “I was trying to break the tension, but I see that raising a concern over the Alchemists was the exact wrong way to break the tension.” He sighed. “I am concerned, but not for the Intelligence I have given you. What I am here for is the truth about the spiders you sent us toward.”

Zalindi gave no impression of tension or worry. But he turned an eye toward Riri, and that was enough. Zalindi was concerned now, too.

Riri, however, was perfectly poised. She asked, “Was there a problem?”

“A few small ones.” Ezekiel said, “A few possible poisoned treasures which make me wary of further treating with you.”

Mirizo watched, a slight concern in his eyes. Zalindi casually glared.

Riri focused, hard, and yet she remained soft. She diplomatically asked, “Please inform me of the issues experienced and I will try to reduce the severity of your suffering or remove it entirely, if it is within my power.”

Ezekiel nodded to his daughter.

Since a part of the deal Ezekiel had made with Star Song was to teach him and his daughter spider silk magic, Riri would need to know of Julia’s capabilities. So instead of simply showing off the Kill Notifications, Julia produced the Familiar Form boxes she had recently gained, then handed them to Riri.

The Loremaster’s eyes went wide. Zalindi watched Ezekiel, but he spared a glance toward the boxes, too. Mirizo read over Riri’s shoulder.

Ezekiel waited.

Riri dismissed the boxes and became utterly professional. Or maybe she merely discarded her apologetic persona, since such an affectation would have been harmful in this situation; Ezekiel wasn’t sure.

Riri said, “The Nacreous Weaver and the Primal Blood Weaver were exactly that the last time I knew of them, which was four days ago and five days ago, respectively. You have gained a great deal more than we bargained for. I fail to understand the issue you believe you have.”

Ezekiel expected this tactic. He came ready to counter it. He said, “I understand that Star Song participates in Stat Quests. I want twenty points for my daughter. This extra allowance from you to me would counteract the disaster of the Queen’s mind emerging in a year. That is why I call this gift of yours a poisoned treasure, for it certainly seems that way to me.”

Zalindi breathed out of his nose, a little louder than normal breathing. He said nothing.

Riri said, “We cannot do this unless you are willing to work further with Star Song, past previously established bargains.”

Zalindi spoke up, “We cannot do 20 points. No. Five points; this is what we can offer in recompense for putting your Clan in danger, and each point would cost you in gold.”

“Not acceptable.” Ezekiel asked, “What needs to happen for 20 points?”

Riri took control of the negotiation, “Two hundred thousand gold per point. 4 million gold.”

“A lesser offer,” Ezekiel said.

“For 10 points,” Riri said, “Clan Phoenix can become a branch family of Star Song.”

Zalindi glanced to Riri, then turned back to Ezekiel.

With not a little bit of pride, Ezekiel said, “I have a counteroffer. For my daughter’s personal help in killing whatever monstrous threats you deem worthy, you will give her 20 points. Half upfront. If needed, I will step in, but I doubt that will be necessary. As of today, Julia has killed an Ancient Unicorn Queen and also this Queen Blood Weaver, solo. She has a Flame Ooze form and many others that are capable of countering many of the monstrous threats of this world. What say you?”

Zalindi and Riri turned toward Julia.

Silence.

And also trepidation.

Small lines of thought passed through the manasphere between the Patriarch and his Loremaster. More lines of thought went elsewhere, tapering off into nothing as they vanished in the distance. Julia waited. Ezekiel waited.

Riri said, “We can afford the 20 points if Julia agrees to do a month of missions. She will be sent out to branch families all across the Highlands. Border Clans, mostly. There will be a few deeper missions into the Tribulations where she will be expected to solo various threats that encroach upon our interests. There will be minor jaunts into the near Underworld. Most of the points she gains will be paid by us. Some points will come from standing Quests that have yet to be cleared, and that need to be cleared. We will not pay half upfront, and Clan Phoenix will become a branch family.”

“You will pay some lesser amount upfront,” Ezekiel said, “And Clan Phoenix will not become a branch family.”

“This is an unwise decision.” Riri said, “Branch families of the Highlands gain much power and opportunity. Are you sure you wish to take this route?”

“Clan Phoenix will not become a branch family,” Ezekiel repeated.

Riri said, “We accept that decision.”

Zalindi silently watched it all.

Ezekiel looked to both of them, while he sent to Julia, ‘Is this okay?’

‘Yes!’ Julia sent, ‘This is great.’

Ezekiel said, “She will not assist you with assaults on people, and 5 of those points will be granted as soon as possible.”

“It will be as you say.” Riri added, “Clan Star Song looks forward to a closer working relationship with Clan Phoenix.”

“We will cement this relationship now.” Zalindi placed his hands together in a near-silent clap and stood. Ezekiel, Julia, and Riri stood with him. “Young Mistress Phoenix. This way.”

Zalindi walked over to the edge of the stone courtyard, where a water fountain spilled from chest level down into a shallow stone basin. The flowers of pink willow trees laid upon the clear surface. A small stone vase sat near the edge of the water.

Julia joined Zalindi at the water’s edge.

He said, “Whenever you are ready.”

He handed her the Quest that they had seen days ago.

Quest!

Deliver a vase of water to Patriarch Zalindi Star Song.

Reward: 1 point.

Poster: Rozeta, Dragon Goddess of the Script

Lesser Poster: Patriarch Zalindi Star Song, of Clan Star Song

It was a ceremony.

Zalindi stood on one side of the burbling fountain. Julia on the other. With a quiet joy and a reverence that Ezekiel couldn’t match, Julia dipped the stone vase into the basin, filling it to the brim. Julia was enjoying this. She stood, and handed the vase to Zalindi. He took the vase and spilled the water back to where it came.

Julia repeated this process four more times.

At the end, she bowed to Zalindi, and it was done.

Zalindi said, “Someone will pick you up in the morning. Clan Star Song looks forward to a close working relationship with Clan Phoenix.”

Ezekiel gave a thankful nod toward Zalindi, Riri, and also Elder Mirizo, who still had yet to say a sound in Ezekiel’s presence. The three of them gave deference to Ezekiel, but Riri went further than the other two, fully bowing.

After it was over, Ezekiel had some thoughts. This transference of points had been made possible by the sacrifices of lesser clansmen who gave up parts of themselves in order to gain access to a clan. This is how they did it here, and the transaction seemed uneven, somehow. It seemed exploitative. Ezekiel didn’t like this part of this culture, but if they did this to themselves, willingly, then it was okay for him, and for Julia, to take advantage of this aspect of their culture, right?

Maybe.

Maybe not?

Maybe he was thinking too much; this was certainly true. Julia was better, now, with 5 more points stuffed into Willpower. She’d be even better, later, when she had 75 Willpower.

By the time Ezekiel got back to the hotel room with his people in tow and his daughter safer, he was feeling better about most everything. He was even feeling okay about his various decisions of the day, and his new obligations going forward. Sure, there had been some rationalizations there at the end, but this was fine, right?

Even the fact that Star Song was scheming was fine.

Ezekiel was pretty sure that the schemes weren’t that bad. But there were schemes, for sure. It was fine.

Except…

One part of him was certainly not feeling fine.

“We ran around a lot there. No breaks.” Ezekiel touched his own stomach, asking, “Everyone else is really damn hungry, right?”

“Gods yes,” Tiffany exclaimed, as she dropped the second spider-silk bag Ezekiel had made onto the table. It clattered with the tell-tale sound of clinking coins. “One grand core means one fine meal!”

“Hopefully more than one meal,” Paul added.

“Blughh,” Julia said, sticking out her tongue. “No food for me.”

“How does that even work!” Tiffany loudly asked, “How do you eat in other forms and not get hungry in this one? It makes no sense!”

Ezekiel laughed.

Paul smirked, saying, “You can still drink beer, Julia.” He said to Ezekiel, “Let’s get dinner. I’m starving, too.”

“I could drink a beer,” Julia agreed.

“I could drink a keg,” Tiffany said.

Ezekiel gestured to the door, saying, “Onward! To dinner!”

- - - -

In a small room where none would see, Riri stood with Patriarch Zalindi and Elder Mirizo. The two men did not look happy with her, but this was to be expected. Something had gone wrong somewhere in the plotting. If one of her ‘underlings’ had fucked up like this, they might even be out of a job, depending on the severity.

Riri had made allowances for many unexpected events, each allowance designed to draw Erick Flatt deeper into her web, but this event came at her from the shadows.

Mirizo asked, “Did you plan on angering him like that?”

No. She had not. But she could not say that truth. She could not reveal that she hadn’t planned for every contingency. Yesterday, if this had happened, she would have considered throwing herself on the mercy of her betters, but today, her mind was clearer.

Riri said, “He was not angry. He was worried.”

“Of course he was worried!” Mirizo said, “Worry leads to distrust which leads to anger which leads to death at the hands of—” He stopped. He said, “I have been prepared for all of that to happen, eventually. I have been prepared at every stage of every possible breakdown, but I cannot properly prepare for our own people handing him poisoned treasure. Especially not you.” He added, “I am not angry that it happened. I am angry that you didn’t tell me of your plans ahead of time, Riri.”

“Have I ever led Star Song astray? No. I have not. Do not talk to me like I am some simple Loremaster or one of your Enforcer underlings.” Riri said, “This was simply an advancement of certain timetables, for while today’s upset was unexpected, it was within projected parameters. We were always going to lure them in with something unavailable elsewhere. So it happens to be points! So it happens that he could have gotten this from any Clan of our standing! We are lucky he came to us for simple points.

“This is acceptable. He could have asked for more and we would have given it.” She said to them both, “We are poised to expand, and greatly. Along with our own advancements in Particle Magic thanks to Ezekiel, this new deal with him is a perfect reason to go on a large recruitment drive. We will gain these points back in a single week. And! With Julia taking care of some long-standing threats and gaining half of her points that way, and with her father backing her up, we are set to expand in ways Star Song has never before been able to expand before! This is perfection. This is what we wanted. All the pieces might not have been planned, but they will be exploited, of that, you can be sure.”

Mirizo listened, silently.

Zalindi told them both, “Riri is trusted, and yet I cannot help but feel that it is we who have been taken advantage of here. Two unknown and potentially lucrative Variants.” He turned to Riri. “How much did they gain from the resources we could have had?”

She said, “We have not lost much revenue. We have lost options, which I would have turned into revenue, but not as of this moment. Pearlchan laid her eggs while I was sleeping, and none of them appeared special, therefore, nothing was truly lost.

“Except, the [Prismatic Thread] from the Radiant Nacreous Weaver is a qualitative upgrade over [Light Thread], usable in many different ways. I could have abandoned six different forms and taken up that one, opening up five slots for other forms. This is the only true loss. The Queen spider has gifted Julia with [Queen Spider Mind] and [Perfected Body], both of which I already have, but both abilities are paired with two different forms. I could have dropped two forms, for that one.” Riri said, “Another lost opportunity, but nothing serious. When I gave those treasures to him they were worthless to me. He has lucked out. Let him have his luck.”

Small lies, but they would serve. If Riri told herself those same lies enough times, she might even start to believe them. A special spider corpse was waiting for Riri under preservation and cold spells, but it could wait longer.

She would have liked to have had that Variant Nacreous Weaver! The Queen was a small loss, but the other one... It would have allowed for...

For a lot.

Jane would still need to come to her to learn how to use her newfound powers, though, so that was one good outcome to this unexpected mire.

Mirizo frowned at Riri; seeing much of what went on behind Riri's eyes, but diplomatically unwilling to voice his own true thoughts.

Zalindi relaxed. “A shame, but no real loss.”

Riri said, “It is more vexing than anything real.” She declared, “The cost for Ezekiel’s deepening interest in Star Song has been paid, and it was as inexpensive as we could have made it. It is up to us to lure him deeper if we wish to do so, but let us not push too hard. The fish might escape if we tug at the wrong time.”

Mirizo frowned. “Spur will push back.”

Zalindi smirked, and said, “Why would Spur get involved? We’re dealing with Scion Phoenix, and he has no connection to that Dark Land.”

