In my admittedly limited experience, the phrase “battlefield tactics” is something of an oxymoron.

This isn’t to say tactics aren’t important, but once the battle begins, there’s little room for grand strategies or fancy maneuvers. It’s all well and good to move pieces around on a board and play at being general, but reality is not so clean and neat. ‘Battlefield’ might as well be synonymous with ‘area of chaos and pandemonium’, so to imply one can be tactical on the battlefield is almost laughable. Sure, there’s things a commander can do to improve the odds and help his soldiers out, like getting reinforcements to where they’re needed or shifting battle-lines to ensure effective coverage, but once battle is joined, the time for tactics is largely over with. As the commander, you’ve made your plans, gotten your troops in place, and decided what to do if shit hits the fan, so really all that’s left is to sit back, manage your reserve units, and pray everything works out okay.

Today, whilst sitting in my carriage and watching the battle unfold, I learned how wrong I’ve been all this time.

Mister Rustram and I talked a lot about tactics over the last year or so, mostly because he didn’t want me to feel left out while he was out leading my retinue and I was sitting at home as a cripple. I never was a huge fan of leadership roles, but seeing as I had nothing better to do after walking a handful of steps each day, I threw myself into the topic with more zeal than I would otherwise have had. Even then, there wasn’t much I could offer besides a scuffed version of the checker-board formation, which isn’t even all that effective without dedicated units. Shields and pikes at the front would be ideal, supported by close-combat skirmishers directly behind them, while archers, catapults, and eventually cannons hang back at the rear. Stuff like two-handed weapons would do best on either flank, especially if outfitted in heavy armour and armed with javelins or hand-crossbows as a ranged option, while lancers, horse-archers, and heavy cavalry would be deployed in position to assist wherever they might be needed.

That’s the ‘ideal’ composition we came up with, but the issue is, even if I used every gold coin I made as Minister of Finance, I still wouldn’t be able to get the idea off the ground. The biggest problem is a social one, because here in the Azure Empire, Martial Warriors are the one percent, the elites who we must appeal to, so asking them to focus on a single weapon and role would be ‘constraining’ their Martial Path. I figured we could get around this by drafting able-bodied citizens to serve as soldiers, but the idea is all but unheard of, with reactions ranging from laughter to outrage. I’m sure that if we armed a millions citizens with pikes, trained them to use their weapons effectively, and left competent Martial Warriors to serve as their officers, they’d be worth at least a hundred thousand Defiled, but the issue with a civilian militia isn’t one of effectiveness. The problem is logistics. Without Chi, adding standard humans to the Imperial Army is actually a hindrance to the rest of the troops, because an army only moves as quickly as its slowest soldier. While I got around this with my irregulars by ensuring they had enough cattle-drawn wagons to carry every last one of them, this isn’t a viable solution once the numbers scale up, especially where food and water is concerned. Transportation for ten-thousand irregulars is difficult enough to arrange, what with the logistics involved in ensuring the wagons are kept in good repair, the cattle in good health, and everyone fed and watered, so it would be a nightmare to do the same for a million irregulars in the field.

If we could get around this, then I’d imagine that front line of shielded pike-men in my ideal formation could easily be filled by irregulars, with Martial Warriors taking up the roles of skirmishers, heavy infantry, and cavalry. Commoners could probably do a decent job as horse archers too, albeit short-ranged and less effective ones due to their lower draw-weights, but they’re perfect for manning catapults, ballistas, and other such immobile weapons of war. That’s my envisioned solution to defeating the Defiled, a combined army of Martial Warriors supported by well-trained commoners and deadly war engines, but thus far, the public has yet to even accept the idea of crossbow-wielding commoners on the battlefield, much less taking up actual weapons and going toe-to-toe with the Defiled.

Honestly, it’s always pained me to think about how much more effective the Imperial Army would be if they got over their aversion to ranged warfare. Forget crossbows, even something as simple as javelin or axe throwing would be huge considering how much strength a Reinforced Warrior can put out. Give everyone two or three ranged throwing weapons and the kill count would skyrocket, but no, they’re all Warriors of the Martial Path and must eschew all ranged weaponry, because it does not fit in their Dao. To be fair, most Martial Warrior’s can’t even afford a single Spiritual Weapon, much less keep a second one handy to throw at the Enemy, so I get why it doesn’t factor into their Dao, but if you’re a basic soldier without a Spiritual Weapon, what’s the harm in learning to throw a javelin? It’ll kill just as well as a basic spear or sword, and you can do it from a relatively safe distance too, so where’s the downside?

I’ve asked this question many a time, and while I’ve gotten several answers, none were really to my satisfaction. Akanai called it matter of Martial Pride, in that Imperial Warriors were conditioned to believe their value was determined by their Martial ability before any other metric. I can see how she’s right in the sense that it would make most Warriors feel ashamed of picking up a ranged weapon, but it’s difficult to argue against results. For several months, my retinue held the record for most Defiled killed, a record we obtained while also having a shockingly low death rate. Part of this was due to my retinue’s knowledge of Panacea, but publicly, the only reason I ever gave was crossbows and longbows. That’s it. That’s all it takes to kill Defiled, some bendy sticks and string, but no one cared enough to try and replicate my success, despite how effective ranged weaponry has proven to be.

Grandpa Du sees things in a different light. Being a Wind-Blessed Warrior, he understands how great an advantage range can be, but he also believes ranged weapons are held in disdain because they will not help Martial Warriors progress along the Martial Path. This makes less sense than Akanai’s explanation because while reaching the Martial Peak might be Grandpa Du’s ultimate goal, there are many Martial Warriors who’ve all but given up after Core Creation and make no effort to progress. By sheer virtue of being a Martial Warrior, they are essentially demi-gods among mortals, and we all know power corrupts. Say what you will about morals and ethics, but the sad truth is, if you give a random person power over the people around them, no matter how minuscule that power might be, chances are, they will abuse said power to their own advantage if there are no consequences to doing so. We see this principle at work in real life, because as long as a Martial Warrior takes care not to piss off a stronger Martial Warrior, they can pretty much do whatever they please in the world of commoners. Sure, there are laws in place and a commoner can plead their case to an Adjudicator, but a Martial Warrior could simply demand trial by combat, and most commoner families would be shit out of luck. What are they gonna do? Hire a Martial Warrior using all the coin they don’t have?

Hell, this isn’t even a problem specific to the Azure Empire. It’s just human nature. How many normal people treat waitstaff like trash, or yell at salespeople just because they can? What about petty managers who make life difficult for their employees or home-owner associations who selectively enforce rules and regulations? Sure there are good people out there, but I’m a glass half-empty sort of guy and cannot bring myself to believe that humans are inherently good. We’re good when we need to be, when circumstances require unity and solidarity to survive, but otherwise, we are selfish creatures at the core of it all.

Personally, I believe ranged weapons are widely disdained for one reason and one reason only: because the ruling class of Martial Warriors fear them, and they are right to. Seeing the death and destruction wrought by my crossbow-wielding Warriors and supporting mobile catapults should strike fear into the hearts of any oppressor. The Chosen we face here today are a formidable foe, and while they were admittedly an unorganized and unruly bunch, the speed with which Mister Rustram cleared the northern flank is impressive, to say the least. Any observers of today’s battle would have seen a marked difference in results, with the northern flank dispatching their foes in record time while the Death Corps held the centre and the soldiers of Central milled about in a chaotic mess while struggling to hold back their foes. Though men and women of the Empire were fighting for their lives and I was beside myself with worry for the Imperial rearguard, I smiled as Mister Rustram’s mobile catapults turned and directed their fire at the Enemy forces on the southern flank. How that must have stung Ishin Ken-Shibu’s pride, and while we’re all fighting on the same side, it doesn’t mean I have to like the man.

Truth be told, after seeing his forces milling about in one gigantic, largely impotent mass, I wasn’t exactly surprised. Even though I expected more from Kenny, I just figured this was one more argument against ‘Might makes Right’, because when you equate Martial strength with competence, you’re gonna get a lot of idiots in charge of more deserving people. The difference is clear as night and day, with Mister Rustram’s forces arranged in tidy squares all lined up in neat little rows, while Kenny’s forces look more like an unruly, rioting mob, with Central soldiers and Death Corps all running about like chickens with their heads cut off. Many of them aren’t even looking at the battlefield and are instead staring at their feet, leaving me to wonder if I erred in promoting Kenny to a First Class Warrant Officer. If I hadn’t, then Hongji probably wouldn’t have put the opera idiot in charge of the southern flank and I wouldn’t be watching this clown fiesta unfold before me.

Just as I was about to dictate a message asking Colonel Du Kang Bing to take over the southern flank, I’m struck speechless as I’m given a first-hand view of how a competent commander controls the battlefield and brings order to chaos.

One second, the southern flank is a milling mess of Central soldiers and Death Corps, and the next, they surge forward into the Chosen battle-lines, but not as one. Five, thin columns emerge from the giant mob of Imperial Warriors, like fingers uncurling from a giant, closed fist. Killing all in their path, those five columns of Central Warriors drive deep into the Enemy forces as the Death Corps move up behind to support them, resulting in a strange, five-pronged formation which I’ve never seen before. My first thought is that Kenny must have lost his marbles, until I realize that now, the Chosen caught between the ‘fingers’ or prongs are now surrounded by Imperial Warriors on three sides. Clouds of blood spray into the air as the once unruly mob transforms into a disciplined formation, one moving ever forward to drive the enemy back. Were these soldiers commoners, this tactic would never work, because there is too much pressure concentrated at the front of each finger, with only five warriors spear-heading each column of the assault.

However, with Ishin Ken-Shibu and his dance-troupe leading the charge, it’s a whole different story. Even from this distance, I can make out the Painted Dancer’s porcelain features there in the vanguard of the centre-most prong, while his four sparring partners each leading one of the prongs alongside him. With them are several more of Ken-Shibu’s dancers, all with painted faces and wielding dual swords in similar fashion to their leader. All told, there are maybe sixty of these dancers spread out over the five columns, and together, they cut a bloody swathe into the Enemy while their allies behind them clean up whatever is left behind. Forward they move in a rotating ring of flashing death, their swords slashing high and low to maim and kill whoever is in their path, and seeing how effectively these coordinated dancers can kill, it makes me wonder if the whole reason ranged weapons are looked down on is because they’re actually less efficient at killing than a group of well-trained Martial Warriors.

I mean... I’ve always known that a dozen Akanai’s could probably rout a million peasants with crossbows, but she’s a Peak Expert standing high above her peers. Here and now, I am witnessing less than a hundred ‘mere’ Experts with the potential to do the same, and I worry that my dreams of a crossbow revolution will never come to pass, for here in the Azure Empire, it’s possible might actually does makes right.

