Turning my gaze northward, all I see is my cushioned carriage interior, but what I want to see is Mister Rustram. In the blink of an eye, I’m there at his side, watching him fight for his life against his Demonic foe, one which towers high above his head. His rapier barely scratches the surface of the spiked Demon’s chitinous skin as they trade blows in a flurry of motion. A single mistake would see Rustram pulped where he stands, but his feet remain planted in place as he slips, sways, and dodges the lightning fast attacks by only moving his upper body, utilizing Balance on Windy Leaf in the way it was intended. Wondering why he’s insisting on fighting at this disadvantageous range, I finally notice Sai Chou laid out behind him, a pool of blood forming beneath her as it pours out from the gaping hole in her midsection. Broken sections of entrails poke out from the grievous wound and I can barely make out the tattered remains of the organs which should sit in that cavity, all rendered unto pulp and mash by her Demonic killer.

And despite all the pain and suffering she must be enduring, Sai Chou’s eyes are firmly locked upon the back of her beloved while a soft smile stretches across her lips. Though I sit several hundred metres away, I can feel Rustram’s desperation hanging in the air as he unleashes all his fury upon the spiked Demon, his frantic yet targeted rapier blows now scoring deep marks across his thorny foe’s chitinous plating thanks to the Honed edge being bolstered by a pseudo-Domain Rustram only just Developed. My friend has grown strong from his trials and tribulations, and his desperate need and focused Intent have given him even more strength, but this still isn’t enough to save his lady love, and all three of us know it. This realization crushes Rustram and I, but Sai Chou bears it well, smiling through the pain because she can see – nay, can feel – how her beloved loves her as much as she loves him, and I can feel it too, his emotions expressed directly by his actions which bleed ever so subtly into his Aura. There Rustram stands, going toe to toe against the Demon who struck her down, not only standing his ground, but holding the upper hand, an Imperial Hero fighting the Enemy to save his lady love.

Alas, she knows it’s too late for her, and all she wants is to see him survive, so that he can live a long and happy life, even if it is a life she cannot share with him.

Sai Chou’s Aura billows out, and in it, I sense the same love Rustram has for her, only lacking the poignant desperation suffused within his. This is their last, desperate attempt to share how they feel with one another, but I can tell neither of them can feel it yet. I want them to have this, to be able to share this affirmation of love and look back on it together in years to come, so I will not stand idly by and watch Sai Chou die.

But I’m so far away, a crippled Warrior with a shattered Core. What can I do?

Probably nothing, but Rustram can probably do something, so maybe I try and help him. I have reserves of Heavenly Energy, and I know this because otherwise, I would not be able to Scry, Orate, or do any of the other unexplained Chi shenanigans I’ve been doing these past few months in spite of my shattered Core. Even then, I can’t Heal Sai Chou, because not only am I too far away to affect her, Healing another living entity is a complex working I have yet to succeed at, but I have some theories. What’s stopping Rustram from Healing Sai Chou? Well, aside from the Demon attempting to murder him and innate deficiencies of Chi, Rustram’s pseudo-Domain barely extends past his rapier, so there’s no way it can stretch all the way to Sai Chou.

What did Grandpa Du say about Auras and Domains? They’re deployed in the same manner, right? Well, Rustram has an Aura and the beginnings of a Domain, so I just need to help him fully Develop it and he’ll have all the tools he needs to save Sai Chou. He’s almost there, emanating his emotions in an attempt to share them, and what is Chi besides Heavenly Energy bound by Emotion? Just as Aura is a metaphysical expression of emotion, Domain is a metaphysical expression of authority bestowed by the Heavens, but fuck the Heavens and fuck their authority. I make my own way in this world and I always have. That is my Dao, and if the Heavens have an issue with that, then too fucking bad. Rustram will not die here today, nor will Sai Chou, because I will not allow it.

And just like that, Rustram’s emotions take control of the area around himself and Sai Chou, utilizing a wholly realized Domain granting him authority bestowed upon him not by the Heavens, but by me. How this works, I’m not entirely certain, but for now, the only thing that matters is that it does. Despite this miracle, I worry it isn’t enough, for while this borrowed Domain might eventually allow Rustram to defeat his Demonic foe, Healing another living, breathing person isn’t as simple as willing it. Taduk said Healing others requires the pinnacle of mastery, and the only thing more difficult is wielding the elements, but I can do the latter, and not the former. It has to do with the inviolability of Chi once it is bound to the individual, and the internal Domain each and every living person possesses, but even as I put my mind towards coming up with an answer, I see Rustram’s Healing begin to take effect and think I might have figured out the answer.

We draw Heavenly Energy into our Core and bind it with emotion, but I’ve come to realize it’s more than just emotion. Dad once told me he suspected our Cores were created from our Souls, and I think he’s right, mostly because of what Gen-Shi said about the term ‘Natal Soul’ being surprisingly apt. When I or anyone else enters another living being’s Natal Palace, we are sending a portion of our souls in, but it’s not as easy as wanting to go. Much like the Spectres, we must be invited, but I never realized this because Ping Ping and Pong Pong were both happy to let me in, even if I never exactly asked for permission. They trusted me without fail, and allowed me access into their innermost sanctums, their very souls themselves, and that makes me feel all sorts of warm and fuzzy feelings inside. As for the other times? Well, Dagen and Bei probably both knew something was wrong and subconsciously sent out a cry for help, one which allowed me to slip into their Natal Palaces unhindered, and I walked in on Yo Ling taking an audience with Spectres. What are Spectres? Slivers of souls, which meant he had an open door policy into his Natal Palace and my Natal Soul had no trouble queuing up as well.

All this is something to ponder for another day though, because with regards to Healing, the greatest hurdle to Healing another living person is not the Healing itself, but convincing the patient’s body and soul not to reject the Healer’s ‘foreign’ Chi bound by soul matter. This isn’t a problem for Rustram and Sai Chou however, because they are truly, madly, and deeply in love with one another. Driven by Intent and protected by Domain and Emotion, Rustram’s Chi surges out of his Core and streams towards his lady love, who accepts it without struggle or suspicion. Cheesy as it might sound, their loves makes them two parts of a whole, and thus they have no barriers between them, so his efforts bear fruit as his Chi drives Sai Chou’s battered body to producing Panacea wherever it is needed. Were it anyone else dying at his feet, Rustram’s attempts to Heal would likely fail because Chi is Heavenly Energy branded by one’s soul, and souls are inviolable, but to Rustram, Sai Chou is someone he cannot live without, and his love makes it possible for his Chi to affect her, and she feels the same way about him. What I see here is love and trust in its purest form, because for all intents and purposes, Rustram and Sai Chou are one soul inhabiting two bodies, and that, above all else, is what makes this Healing possible.

Someone much smarter than me once said, “Love is power, because it multiplies the best we have and allows humanity not to be extinguished in their blind selfishness. For love, we live and die. Love is the Heavens, and the Heavens is love.”

...Oh god, the cattle! This is why Ulfsaar, Neera, and a few others can use Panacea to Heal the cattle, but not other soldiers. It’s because my sweet moo-moo’s trust their riders so much it allows their souls to intertwine and intermingle without interfering with their Healing efforts.

That’s just...

We don’t deserve the love of animals. We just don’t.

...Why can’t I Heal my pets then? This is bullshit!

Staying long enough to see Rustram slay his foe and kneel at the recovering Sai Chou’s side, I leave them both to their efforts and return to my carriage, drained and enervated by my efforts. This is not the weariness which results from physical exertion, but the mental fatigue and burgeoning headache which comes from overusing Chi, the same sensation I vaguely remembered after waking from my coma following Ping Ping’s ascension. Shoulders sagging in exhaustion and relief at the knowledge that I helped in some way, shape, or form, I turn to Lin-Lin and try to explain what I just did and how it might help me in the future, but my thoughts are a jumbled mess which I cannot untangle. Instead, I look into her inquisitive brown eyes and marvel at the beauty hidden within her bright, clear gaze. “I love you wifey,” is all I utter, but it’s enough, because her beautiful eyes light up in delight and fill me with warmth and affection.

“Love you more, hubby.”

Though I have so much more to say, all I can do is offer my sweet wife a smile before turning to Ping Ping nestled against my chest. “Love you too, Ping Ping.” Judging by her warm nuzzle and happy squeak, I can tell Ping Ping feels the same way, even without the comforting burst of Loving Aura which accompanies it. There’s an answer here to all my woes, one I am not yet smart enough to figure out, but it won’t be long now. I’ve got everything I need in front of me, I just need to piece it all together in a way my tiny, smooth brain can wholly understand.

Or maybe understanding is overrated. Maybe I just go with my intuition and stride into battle wielding the power of love. If it works, it works, right? Who cares about the how or why?

...

Yea no, I totally care. Also, there’s no way I can ‘wield the power of love’ when I can’t even think it without laughing. The Dao of Love might fit others, but I’m afraid my Dao is a little different, even if there’s some overlap. I’ll figure it out eventually, but first... I need a nap.

So here on the fields of Central, I snuggle Ping Ping close, lean back into Lin-Lin’s warm embrace, and surrender to the peaceful bliss of oblivion. I’ve done my part and there are better Warriors than I to handle the rest, so I might as well rest while I can, and who knows? Maybe when I wake up, everything will make sense again and I’ll figure out how to fix my shattered Core.

Now wouldn’t that be nice?

Chapter Meme
