Despite the vast distance between us, I can easily see Kenny’s expression as he dances through the Enemy battle-lines, and it is not one of anger, fear, determination, concentration, or even excitement. No, what I see on his painted features is nothing short of joy and satisfaction, for this is the dance he trained his whole life for. His red-rouged lips move in soundless recitation, and while I do not recognize the words, it has the rhythm and cadence of a song, one sounding in his heart and driving the tempo of his hands and feet as he moves round and round the battlefield. That’s not all the song does, as it also helps him keep time with his comrades, each of whom are singing the same, soundless song and dancing to the exact same rhythm. Even the pauses to breath are baked into the song, and any athlete worth their salt can tell you how important proper breathing can be, which makes this coordinated effort that much more impressive.

Without Ken-Shibu and his retinue leading the charge, it would likely be a long and bloody fight to throw back the Chosen, but in the blink of an eye, the southern flank is cleared of Chosen save for a modicum of stragglers. Only then do I notice the rear guard emerging from their hidden, underground tunnels with Hongji arranging his troops, and I say a small prayer of thanks for that. When the Chosen surged over the eastern walls of Castle Jianghu to attack our withdrawing forces, I feared for the worst and thought the entire rearguard had been slaughtered in record time, Hongji and Yan included. Why didn’t anyone tell me about the escape tunnels? I was so stressed about how we were gonna all get away, but they had this easy out in mind. Even better, we can totally use these tunnels to retake the castle later, because even if the Enemy know they’re there, they’ll have to devote resources to guard them, and every little bit counts.

Even as the thought comes to mind, I notice a familiar, ragged-robe figure backing out of the tunnel with his staff held high. As the last of the Imperial rearguard stream out from around him, Eccentric Gam cackles with fiendish delight and slams the butt of his staff into the dirt. A cloud of dust rises up into the air as the tunnels collapse beneath the feet of the Imperial soldiers, cutting a furrow in the otherwise flat plains that goes clear through the southern flank yet somehow avoids impacting a single Imperial soldier. Thinking back on how Ken-Shibu positioned his troops, I realized the Painted Dancer spaced his five prongs so that they avoided the tunnel, meaning he knew exactly where the rearguard would be emerging from and what Hongji intended. Again, we’re all on the same side, but I can’t help but feel a little miffed about being left in the dark, especially considering I’m supposedly the highest ranking civil and military officer in the outer provinces.

Seriously, this is bullshit. Where’s the face? Ever since I got here, everyone’s been telling me how I gotta give face, but now that the roles have reversed, why doesn’t anyone give me any face? How dare they...

My sullen dissatisfaction aside, I can see our plans coming together, but just as I relax to take a breath, Rustram’s startled, Chi-fuelled cry rings through the air. “Demon Slayers! To me!”

With that, everything has changed and the tension returns in spades, especially since Guard Leader closes the back window and pulls Lin-Lin to sit at her side. Stubborn as ever, my wifey refuses to release her hold around my neck, so I too am drawn back to Guard Leader’s side, and together, we sit and wait for news to arrive, but none is forthcoming. Despite being the nominal commander of the Imperial Army, no one ever comes to me for orders, especially not here on the battlefield. While I understand and even insisted the army be led in this manner, with Hongji in firm control of all the retreating forces, I would’ve still liked to have been kept in the loop. A simple report every now and then would’ve been enough, but not only were pertinent details left out of the initial plan, the only information I’ve received since the retreat began is what I could see with my own two eyes.

So here I sit, in the closed confines of my carriage while the sounds of bloody battle erupt all around us. Resting her chin on my shoulder, Lin-Lin hugs me from behind and smiles as sweet Ping Ping pokes her head up for a quick nuzzle. The not-so-big girl rests in my arms with her back facing the Enemy, which I don’t love because then it feels like I’m using her as a shield, which I kinda am. The red panda is also here with us, hiding in the cushioned box I tied to my wrist, but I figured Mama Bun would be safer with the rest of my floofs in the wagon Song prepared for them. Even though Demons might be wary of attacking me, Defiled Peak Experts and Divinities won’t share the same concerns, and I’m worried Zhen Shi might concentrate his efforts in an attempt to take me off the board. It’s not hubris or anything, because even without my Succ ability and the utter lack of face given, I’m still pivotal to the defence efforts of the outer provinces since I’m the only thing keeping the alliance of outer provinces from falling apart. Without me or a Legate to direct the defences efforts, we go from a single unified front to three separately defended regions, and we cannot afford to fight alone against our numerically superior Enemy.

Who at this very moment is throwing everything they have at us, to... I dunno. Keep us in place for the rest of the Enemy forces to catch up? Peak Experts and Demons alone can hardly accomplish this, but the problem is, I’m worried about Mister Rustram’s forces. The checker-board formation is great to use against a large, Enemy army, but the downside is now all of the Imperial Peak Experts will be spread out over a wider area. Not even Hongji or Nian Zu can command every Peak Expert like a common soldier, because a large number of them aren’t actually enlisted in the army. Many are here just to protect their younger generations, which means they go where their wards go, and even in these troubled times, there are Peak Experts who won’t even reveal themselves to their ward’s commander, like Ken-Shibu’s recently deceased uncle who was a hidden Peak Expert. Even now, with the Enemy unified and threatening everything we hold dear, the Empire still can’t put aside politics to work as a single, unified force.

I don’t know how Zhen Shi got all the Defiled on his side, but whatever he did, it must’ve been magic, because there’s no other explanation for it.

Time ticks by with each successive second dragging on for longer than the last, and my mind races at a million miles per second in hopes of finding a distraction. Without one, all I can do is fixate on the worst case scenarios, like what if Mister Rustram’s Demon Slayers don’t get there in time and my friend is already dead? What if there’s still a couple mole-rat Demons around and they’re currently digging a series of tunnels behind us? What if the Enemy commander sends all its Demons and Peak Experts against us, here and now without a care for losses incurred? That last one is a real nightmare scenario for the Empire, because the Enemy outnumbers us and can probably afford the trade, though something tells me the Defiled Peak Experts won’t be as willing to sacrifice themselves as the Demons might be. I wonder why Zhen Shi doesn’t demand Oaths from his followers, but it’s clear he doesn’t since he still needs Gen’s gift of gab to entice people over to his side. Otherwise, he could just threaten Imperial soldiers with torture or whatever and force them to take Oaths, but that’s not happening, which is weird because I would totally do that if I was an evil overlord.

If I didn’t have all these pesky morals, I would totally make an awesome evil overlord...

“You worry too much hubby.” Her cherubic face drawn in consternation, Lin-Lin rests her chin atop my shoulder and sighs. “You did what you could, ya? Now it’s time to let others do their part too. Trust in your friends and allies hubby. We’ll get through this together, so settle down and stop making Ping Ping all nervous.”

Leaning back into her warm embrace, I press my cheek against hers and nuzzle in close while simultaneously stroking Ping Ping’s smooth, leathery head. On the surface, my sweet wifey seems utterly unfazed by the war unfolding around her, as calm and composed as can be, but I can tell she’s still worried. Rather than leaving him to perch between her hare ears, Lin-Lin has Blackjack tucked into a tiny purse similar to how Song carries Princess around in a shoulder-bag. Unlike the diffident weasel-bear however, the sweet hare hates the closed confines of his new digs and has a perpetual scowl etched across his adorably chubby cheeks, but my wifey is unrelenting. Normally, she spoils the little hare rotten and brings him traipsing about to the most dangerous places, but not only has she kept him confined all morning, she’s similarly secured herself against my back so that we won’t be separated in the event of an Enemy attack.

My poor, sweet, carefree wifey... if she were anyone else, I’d say she was handling things well, but if Lin-Lin is this concerned, it’s the equivalent of Mila pulling her hair out in frustration or Yan pacing back and forth all night when she’s unable to sleep.

Hoping to alleviate Lin-Lin’s concerns, I offer what I hope is a reassuring smile and say, “I’m just thinking is all. You know how I get.” Waving towards the southern flank, I reiterate my admiration of Ken-Shibu’s leadership skills and Hongji’s use of hidden tunnels before concluding, “So now I’m just wondering how many other secrets my allies have hidden away. It’s like playing a game of chess without knowing which piece is which, making things particularly stressful as I have to account for more variables.”

“Hehe.” Hugging me even tighter and choking off my air flow, Lin-Lin plants a chaste kiss on my cheek and beams with delight. “You really saw all that, Hubby? Stinky Shibu-Bu and his dancers, Ji-Ji coming out of the tunnel, and Gam-Gam collapsing it behind him?”

“Well... yea.” How else would I be able to share the details with her?

“Think back hubby,” Lin-Lin says, her smile seeming all the brighter as she tilts her head to one side. “Where were you watching them from?”

“Uh...right here? With you? In this carriage?” Is Lin-Lin alright? Maybe all this stress is affecting her more than I thought. Poor wifey. I should’ve made her stay at the Citadel, but she insisted on coming along...

“I know you were physically here, hubby.” Rolling her eyes in undisguised impatience, Lin-Lin repeats the question. “I’m asking where were you watching from? You couldn’t have seen Stinky Shibu-Bu from the carriage window hubby. I was right behind you and all I could see was dust in the distance, ya?”

It’s incredible how I can overlook even the most obvious of details, like how I started panning around the battlefield for an overhead view. I mean, how else was I supposed to see past all the soldiers on these stupid flat plains? “Ah... I uh... I guess I must have been Scrying?”

“Yup!”

After enduring Lin-Lin’s second squeezing embrace, I immediately ask, “But how? I don’t have a working Core, much less a Domain to... stretch out, or whatever it is you do with Scrying. I was sitting here, wanted to see what was going on over there, and it just... happened.”

“I dunno.” The worst part is, Lin-Lin’s singsong tone makes it clear she doesn’t care about the how, and thinks I shouldn’t either. She means well, but I have no idea how she can be so laid-back and unconcerned about things, which I think is the reason for her Martial success. She doesn’t think, she just does whatever it is she wants to do, and somehow, it works. When she wants to jump down from a high vantage point, she doesn’t stop and consider the distance, wind speed, angle of approach, and her ability to Lighten. No, she just jumps, and somehow, things work out. This isn’t to say she’s reckless, but more that she has an instinctive approach when it comes to heights. She just knows if she can make the jump, and if she can’t, then she finds a different way to go about things. She wasn’t always the phenomenal Lightener she is today, but rather she slowly built up to it with years and years of climbing and jumping experience, with each incident honing and fine-tuning her senses until she learned the optimal way to go about traversing great heights.

In a sense, Lin-Lin has discovered a very specific form of One with the World, one which relates solely to heights and Lightening. It’s no different from Martial Warriors tempering themselves through repeated life-and-death battles until their movements become instinct, or how my pets learn and gain confidence from the obstacle courses. There was a time when my bears and wildcats refused to climb the walls or cross the balance beams, because it was new and unfamiliar, but now, they’ve mastered those obstacles to the point where it’s the same as walking across flat ground. It’s a different form of learning from the one I am so obsessed with, an intuitive understanding versus my preference of logical reasoning, except now, I realize my intuition isn’t half bad.

This is my snaffu with Guiding all over again. I throw Peace expecting to hit my target, and it hits, Guided there by Chi and Intent. I look out my carriage window and expect to see the southern flank, and I do, Scrying from above as naturally as breathing. The question is, how can I replicate my success so I can use it as I please?

The answer?

It’s simple.

Practice.

