“Are you sure about this?” Michael asked, concerned.

Stella shrugged off his concerns with a scoff and a laugh. She was sure of herself. Whatever a mere human had to throw at her, it would likely be less than the capabilities she'd simply been born with.

“You don't have to do this for me, Stella. I don't know what you're planning, but I'm sure you'll just get hurt. If that happens, do you really think I can just stand and watch?”

He'd tried to talk her down all day, but now, with the moon partially in the sky and the town of Fellheart sleepy and silent, the duel was about to commence.

“I won't get hurt.”

Michael looked like he wanted to reach out and stop her by force. He stepped into her path.

“I don't know much about you, Stella. But I do know that this is a dangerous situation. Please, just give up. Forfeit the fight, and go home.”

Stella wanted to tell him that she was a dragon. That no one human posed a danger to her. Instead, she slid him out of the way with strength that clearly shocked him.

“Trust me, I'm less breakable than you think.”

Stella had no intention of letting the pompous leader of the guild prevent her tutor and her first friend from selling his products. This duel was just another way to humiliate both of them, or so Shamun thought.

Even if that's what he intends, he won't succeed. But, if I beat him by a mile, what will that mean for me? Also, will my renown get a boost if I put in some extra flair during the duel?

Thick grass hissed against a gust of wind. The wide, dense field was beautiful, but more or less a jungle for someone like Stella to walk through. Despite becoming a teenage dragon, she was only about 5 feet tall. Basically, she was short.

But maybe that helps with my agility? I hope so, I need something with intellect this low, she thought.

Moving deeper into the grass, she raised her gaze to the twinkling stars above. In the forest, she scarcely looked up. And with a canopy, there'd be nothing to see anyway. But this was different. The sky stretched wide with millions of stars. They were all the colors of the rainbow and so bright that they practically acted as second moons.

Stella took her time admiring such beauty before setting her sights on the repugnant Merchant Guild Leader, Octavius Shamun.

“What took you so long?”

“I was enjoying the view… Until now.”

Stella became aware of the amount of witnesses Shamun had brought along. At least five… No, six.

“I thought we agreed on a single witness?”

Are they going to try to cheat? No, they wouldn't even expect I'd have a chance.

“I thought it prudent to ensure a number of eyes witnessed your defeat. This way, we can put an end to this case once and for all.”

Stella wanted to use her tail to push Michael out of the way. He was trying to step into her path again, probably on instinct. Then she realized she had no tail, and pushed him aside with her hands instead.

Moments later, the other witnesses moved aside as well.

“Are you certain about this?” Shamun chuckled.

Stella nodded once, tired of the same repeat questions.

“I will begin by reading the rules of a duel!” Said one of the men Shamun had brought.

“Any lethal force will be a forfeit! All skills or spells used may harm the target but cannot appear as a force to annihilate. Additionally, conceding will make the nonconceding party the winner, regardless of other factors. Finally, the winner officially wins any guild trial or trials currently involved.”

“Are we all agreed?”

“Yes.”

“Yes.”

“The fight will commence in 3…2…1!”

Stella was surprised by how fast Shamun could move. He was a merchant, right? What skills for fighting could he possibly have?

A spiraling pillar of purple light and glitter, lifted Shamun into the air. But it wasn't just some random light show, the falling glitter particles were actually a drowsy spell.

Instantly, Stella was unsteady and tried to hold her breath. As she tried to collect herself, Shamun appeared behind her and without hesitation cast wind magic to throw her a few feet. The result was Stella landing face-down in the dirt, laughter erupting around her.

Keep it together! You can't lose to this guy!

Stella had barely gotten to her feet when another gust of wind hit her, throwing her much farther this time. After bouncing many yards from her original position, she remained hidden in the grass.

She recovered as quickly as she could, shaking the drowsiness from her limbs and then trying to summon her [Elemental Breath].

Without the ability to shapeshift or use her more powerful ability, she was at a significant disadvantage. In fact, she needed to fight while maintaining her current form, which was becoming increasingly difficult. It was instinct to form claws or expose fangs when you were threatened, or that's how she felt about it anyway.

All I need to do is burn his clothing, and then he'll concede… Probably.

For now, it was probably better to only allow the public to know what she wanted them to. A girl with fire skills didn't sound like anything of note. A girl with a multi-element ability on the other hand?

“Come out! If you want to, just give up!”

Stella pulled heat into her center. She needed her ability to work from her palms or wherever she required it to be summoned. She'd done it before and even used ice to shield herself while she couldn't use her maw.

Alright, let's do this!

She popped out of the grass and dodged as she nearly got blown away yet again. Shamun was toying with her, attempting to keep her out of the fight entirely. But now she was prepared.

Another wind blast, but she was out of the way in seconds. Her reflexes were unrusting, her body slowly moving more and more like a well-oiled machine.

After dodging a few times, she held out her right palm and sent a ball of fire at Shamun's midsection. It was meant to be minuscule but came out bigger than she'd intended. Michael’s face reflected shock, which was mirrored by the other witnesses.

“Fire, eh?” Shamun scoffed.

He held up a hand, meeting the ball of flames with wind he'd hoped would snuff it out. Except, the flames continued and caught on his expensive purple suit.

“Wh-What kind of fire is this? It acts like dragon-fire!”

Stella blinked as her flames spread just like they normally did. She didn't see what was so special about them. But, as Shamun ran around catching fire to the grass and everything else, she realized the fire was incredibly persistent and had an almost sticky quality to it.

Stella considered putting it out with water, but decided she could just heal Shamun with some of Michael's potions after the duel was finished.

So, she watched, a little too amused for her own good. She didn't let him suffer for long. After a second of watching him run around like a turkey, she made her way through the grass until she was close, then lit his pants on fire.

“AH! HOT! VERY HOT!”

“Do you concede?” Stella asked.

Shamun didn't respond. He seemed to collect himself somewhat, blasting himself into the air with another one of those glittery pillars. Stella covered her mouth and nose this time, holding her breath as the particles fell around her, glowing like purple fireflies.

Shamun continued to ascend using gusts of wind, then landed with the fire completely put out. His clothes were still mostly ruined, but he seemed completely unharmed.

“You cheated! You never told me you had a dragon-fire skill!”

Stella frowned.

“Why would I reveal my way of winning? You never told me you could put me to sleep with glitter!”

He ground his teeth, then suddenly drowsy particles began to rise around his feet. Tendrils of the stuff spread through the grass, lifted in the air and danced over their heads.

Stella had to admit it was beautiful, but it wasn't like she could hold her breath forever. Michael and the others gathered had all fallen asleep where they'd been a distance away and Stella was certain even the beetles were sleeping.

I can't move away fast enough to get out of range… And though it seems to dissipate fast, he is currently just producing more to replace it.

Stella grew red-faced under Shamun's ruthless grin for a moment, thinking about how to get herself out of this situation. Then it dawned on her. Maybe all these glitter particles were flammable?

A small spark from her fingertips was enough to light the particles ablaze. It was like the air was on fire for a moment as small explosions went off and then connected together in a chain.

Ooo, kind of like a firework!

[Elemental Breath is evolving. Select path?]

Yes, please!

Shamun was currently freaking out as the air exploded and tried to run away only to trip. Stella walked over as she looked through her skill evolution tree.

“Do you surrender?” She asked, able to breathe again.

Shamun grit his teeth, turning over in the grass and wiping ashes and dirt from his face and suit.

A web of skill paths exploded in her vision, much like her fire exploding Shamun's only skill to pieces. The web revealed paths that had greyed out or locked skills. Eventually, she focused on only three.

[Vaporize: Flames that are so powerful they vaporize everything in their path.]

[Elemental Body: Infuse your body with any element. Consumes mana for the duration it's used.]

[Become Flammable: All objects and elements become flammable.]

Hm, it's mostly fire-based. Is that because I use fire the most when I fight?

Honestly, the options were all less valuable than the skill she currently had.

Are these truly upgrades?

[Answer: They are evolutions, something exclusive to your species. Upgraded skills and evolved skills are entirely different.]

Hm.

Stella wondered if it would be better to reject the offerings and just upgrade her current skill. But, more firepower did sound enticing.

After imagining some cool fight scenes, she chose [Vaporize].

[Elemental Breath has evolved into Vaporize.]

Remembering Shamun, she regarded him where he stood. It had only taken her a few seconds to make her choice, so the merchant was still dusting himself off.

“Do you concede?” She asked sternly.

“Absolutely not—”

She tried out her new skill on the grass next to him and was glad she did. The flames disintegrated the grass and even scorched the soil underneath. It was like using a high-power flamethrower.

“Yes. I surrender.”

Stella smiled and looked over at the groggy, but awake, witnesses. They were all very surprised by Shamun's answer and by Stella's power.

“Then you agree to not bother Michael anymore?”

“Sure.”

“And you'll help me when I ask?”

“I'm not sure with what… But fine.”

“Perfect. Then I'm leaving, come on Michael, it's about your bed time anyway.”

Michael had many questions, including when his bed time had been decided for him. Stella simply explained she knew a very strong fire skill. After dropping Michael off at the inn, she headed for the woods.

[Renown has increased to 5.]

Wait, what?

Name: Stella Algos

Stage: Queen Dragon Fledging (35% to next evolution)

Class: None

Renown: 5

Wealth: Peasant (+1 to all stats)

(C: 96 S: 4 0 G: 0)

Stats: (0 points available)

Power: 28 (27)

Vigor: 24 (23)

Grace: 21 (20)

Intellect: 10 (10)

Skills:

Wrath Of The Ravenous (Grade SS) - Level 2

Vaporize (Grade SS) - Level 1

Silver Tongue (Grade B) - Level 6

Strength In Numbers (Passive)

[Rewards available.]
