With the cold weather came the launch of Niala's warming drink, or drinks, in this case.

The first, dedicated one ended up called the Hotmug. They had tried branding it as a Hot Nococo, but once people began describing its effect as dipping into a hot tub, there was no going back. It took off, as David knew it would, and was added to the Boudoir's offering as a seasonal drink.

The second “surprise” success was basic fruit water, but hot. Linzy had suggested this one, and she had gotten it right. People still liked their fruit water, they just didn't want it cold.

It, too, had joined the Boudoir's menu. Luke and Martha had learned that betting on Niala was a winning move. Anything the catkin would allow was being added to the franchise.

High winter arrived and passed, and the year slipped into low winter. With it, preparations for the renewal day feast began, invitations were sent, and the Allwardens would once again host.

This year, however, there would be two celebrations: a bigger, more official one at their embassy, to give thanks to everyone who had helped them and who was part of their fledgling nation, and a smaller, personal one, for close family friends.

Karline showed up a few weeks before the end of the year, claiming that she was taking a vacation. Panic flashed in her eyes when Niala told her that she was getting her own guest house instead of having to settle for a single room.

She slumped in relief when David reminded her that she was more than welcome to join them for meals.

The young courier woman looked... more mature. She stood straighter, her steps had that extra bit of certainty to them, and her eyes didn't bulge out as often.

They still did when she met Cookie, but just for a flash. She was back to her good old resigned self afterwards, barely reacting to Niala having wings or David being able to imbue objects with magical neck beams.

She gave up and retired to her guest house when they talked about their overall financial situation and their plans to buy an airship or two.

After weeks of hectic preparations and planning behind them, it was done.

The embassy's reception room was decorated, the food had been planned and prepared, the guests all confirmed, and the same was true for their house, which was to host the second, smaller celebration.

Now, David and Niala laid on top of each other on the couch, with the sun having departed the sky a few bells ago. A mild snowstorm tantrumed outside, while a crackling fire drowned the sound of the wind howling at their windows.

Lychee was curled up around a damp towel, behind the couch, while Jordo patrolled outside, immune to the cold, allowing the Scion Guards to rest within the embassy.

David read a book on engraving, one hand scratching his wife's head, making her ears twitch now and then. She was re-reading her copy of “Storm Born” for the third time, looking as engrossed as she had been the first time.

He glanced at her. “Is it really that good?”

She flinched and blinked, turning her head to smile at him. “It's amazing. Adam Storm is nearly a perfect you.”

“Dedicated, loyal, kind and brilliant?”

She shook her head. “He punches all his problems away.”

He stared at her with a blank face.

“What? It's true! I mean, you don't really punch everything, but it's close enough!” She squirmed and rotated sideways, showing him the passage she was currently reading. “Look! Here, Adam is accosted by Untruth cult members, and they have an artifact that makes them immune to his storm powers, so he punches a door into a wall! Like how we got out of the temple!”

“That was Leviathan.”

Her ears wiggled. “Yeah, but you told him to do that. Anyway!” She flipped to another page. “Here, his fairy love, Fifipom, gets abducted, and the cultists bring out the same artifact, so he can't run away. This time, he throws his storm power at the artifact so hard that it stops working! The same thing you did with the mana bracelets!”

“That was also Leviathan.”

She shook her head. “No, no, you told me you exploded yourself, and it overloaded the bracelets.”

“I lied. I wanted to look strong and powerful. It was Leviathan.”

She narrowed her eyes at him. “There's nothing wrong with being powerful, you know?”

“I know, Leviathan is very powerful, and that's fine.”

Closing the book after a few seconds and turning all the way so she was facing him, she searched his eyes. “...David, do you really hate it when I call you strong?”

He met her gaze, felt the concern creeping up into their link alongside the ever-present flow of love, and sighed. “No, kitten. I don't hate it, but at the same time, it feels like it's the only thing people see when they look at me.”

The ears on top of her head flopped down. “Oh, trumpet...” she lamented, flattening herself over him, burrowing her head over his shoulder. “It's just hard to see the clouds when the sun is blindingly bright.”

He paused for a second. “That was strangely poetic.” He craned his neck to look at her with narrowed eyes. “It came from the book, didn't it?”

The following silence made him suspicious. The slight blush he saw appear on her cheeks confirmed it. He threw his head back with a groan.

He felt her tail begin to wag as she tried to suppress a giggle.

“It's not funny.” He pouted.

She nuzzled into his neck, her giggles tickling him. “It's a little funny!”

David put an arm over his face. “I don't want to be the angry punch man. I want people to see that I am kind and helpful.”

She crawled up him until her face was at his level and gently pulled his arm away. A smile as warm as the fire greeted him. “I know that you are, trumpet.”

He looked at her eyes. “What about the other people?”

Niala brought her head down and rubbed her cheek against him. “It's not their fault. When a tall, powerful man with evil eyes stared at them, they can't help it.”

He frowned. “What do you mean, evil eyes?”

The rubbing stopped as she pulled her head back. “I mean, your eyes? Your standard expression is partway between 'I'm going to stab you' and 'Out of my way, insect'.”

“What? No, it's not. It's just a neutral look.”

Her eyebrows arced downward. “Oh, trumpet, when's the last time you really looked at yourself in a mirror?”

“I...” His mouth remained open as he searched for the memory. It took a few seconds. “... I don't remember.”

She gave him a tired smile. A few seconds later, the clinking and rubbing sound of Cookie's tendril crept up the stairs, holding a hand mirror. He handed it to Niala, who smiled at the young pile. “Thank you, Cookie. You're the best.”

The tendril shivered in joy and retreated, and Niala positioned herself off of her husband, sitting up on the couch. David followed suit as she held the hand mirror to him, his face greeting him.

She peeked around the edge of the mirror. “Ok, look at yourself with your neutral look.”

He did. The David who looked back at him seemed... mildly annoyed.

She nodded. “Ok, now, make the expression you make when you haven't seen me all day, and I show up.”

His mouth broke into a wide smile. His eyes remained much the same. Mirror David looked annoyed at being really happy.

“This time, imagine you have to go talk to Brenson,” Niala said.

His smile was replaced by a scowl. His eyebrows remained stuck in a flat line. He appeared angrily annoyed.

Frowning, he turned his head toward Niala, who was hiding a smirk behind the mirror. “Are you saying I always look annoyed?”

Her ears wiggled. “Is that what you think you look like? To me, and everyone I asked, it's more of a talk to me at your own risk.” She reached out and traced his eyebrows with her thumb. “It's these guys' fault. They're very lazy.”

Turning back to the mirror, he did his best to wiggle and raise his brows. He could see movement, but only when he strained. He frowned and looked at Niala. “Why didn't anyone tell me I looked scary?”

She blinked. “Because you look scary? Why would anyone tell the dangerous-looking person that they look dangerous?”

“Then why didn't you tell me when we met, or after, or since?!”

Her cheeks turned pink as she looked down. “I just... I'm into the tortured killer look...”

He stared for a second, then let his head hang back again. “This is horrible.”

Niala put the mirror away and leaned forward, draping herself over her husband. “No! You're perfect! I love you! Nobody else matters!”

He sighed, but the cute little catkin furiously rubbing her face on his chest chased away anything that wasn't happiness. With a smile, he pulled her up and kissed her. Her eyes widened in surprise before melting into bliss and closing.

They pulled apart after a while, and she rested her head on his chest, tracing little circles on it with a finger. “It's really fine, David. People will get to know you, just like I did, and they'll see that you're the greatest guy ever.”

She moved her cheek up and down a few times. “And if you continue with your engraving, and you start repairing and selling magic tools in town, you'll be known for something other than your big, powerful muscles...”

Her head sprang up. “Oh! We need to find a name for your enchanting shop!”

He frowned. “I'm not even sure I'll keep going, and I might just want to keep it a hobby.”

She shook her head. “No, no! Maybe not a name, but at least have a vision! Like, you know how I've always wanted my own little potion shop? The dream was a companion, a light in the distance that I could use to orient myself!”

He quirked a brow. “Sure, but now you're my light. Founding a family with you is my dream. I don't need another one.”

Her eyelids fluttered as she froze. Her face went red, and she hid back into his upper torso. Her voice was muffled and a bit tinnier. “Just think about it, if you're serious about engraving, ok?”

He smiled at her and stroked her hair. “Alright, I promise, kitten.”

She was fiercely smiling when she looked back up at him. “You know, I bet Angeline might be able to help you.”

“With an enchanting shop name?”

Her ears twitched. “No! With looking less dangerous! She's the master of facial expressions and fake emotions.”

He slowly nodded.

That's right. If anyone can coach me on managing my appearance, it's her.

Angeline shook her head. “I'm sorry, it's impossible for you.”

David blinked. “Why?”

She pointed at his face. “Your eyebrows are defective. They're the basis of showing emotions. As they are now, any expression you attempt will be a variation of 'dangerously annoyed'.”

He turned toward Niala at his side. “Kitten, give me your hand. Let's summon me magical eyebrows.”

“What? No! David, why does this matter so much?!”

He threw his hands down. “I want people to know I'm happy!”

“But they know you're happy! You're just... annoyed-happy!”

“I want to look happy-happy!”

Her ears flopped. “Why?!”

He stopped and stared at her for a few seconds. “...It doesn't matter.” He waved at Niala's sister. “Thanks, Angeline. We'll see you at the Renewal Day dinners.”

David turned to leave, but his wife trotted around him and barred his way, hands balled on her hips. “David, I can tell that it's bothering you. Tell me why it's important, please.”

He stopped and blinked at her a few times. Letting out a breath and smiling, he put his hands on her shoulders and gently pulled her in, staring down into her eyes with a smile. “Kitten, it's fine. I just wish people didn't think I was annoyed at them all the time, but, like you said, you're the only one that matters.”

She pressed herself against him, rubbing her face on his chest and circling her arms around his back.

David eased into his role as a hugging pillow for the next few minutes and started petting Niala's head. He glanced back at Angeline, who was tapping her chin.

He quirked a brow, which she noticed before addressing him. “You know... you'll always look annoyed and dangerous, but that doesn't mean you cannot use that, dear brother-in-law.”

“What do you mean?”

A dangerous smile splayed across her face. “Just that the only tool in your box might be a sword, but it's a very good sword. I wonder just how intimidating we could get you to be?”

It sounded like a question, but he could see it in her eyes. She was already planning, and even just that much was enough to give him cold sweat.

He wondered how his brother kept his sanity.