It took three and a half months of consistent night-time visits to accomplish, but I have finally seen everything there is to see in Pong Pong’s Natal Palace.

Well, I didn’t visit every night, only most, but considering our travel time was virtually nil, that’s still a hell of a lot of ground covered. Or water, I suppose? Either way, aside from the times I booted the animals out of my room for happy fun times with Yan, and that one week Pong Pong spent vacationing at the beet farm after we got back from the banquet, I devoted all my nights to deep diving with the tiny turtle inside his Natal Palace. While I discovered a few more foreboding forbidden zones he zealously avoided, much like the undersea cave system and sandy white beach I’d already seen, every visit uncovered dozens of startling new vistas to discover within the seemingly endless Natal Palace.

Or at least they did until tonight, when Pong Pong cut our exploration short, jumped us back to the familiar coral reef, nestled onto his stately coral throne, and offered me a little turtle shrug as if to say, “And that’s all, folks.”

“Awesome Natal Palace, Pong Pong.” Although he clearly doesn’t understand Common, he gets the gist well enough and lets loose with a melodious squeak of delight as he launches himself off his throne in a dizzying upward spiral. It’s incredible how easy he makes it look, zipping through water and cutting through currents with careless ease as if he were a graceful dancer instead of a jeep-sized turtle. That’s another thing that keeps throwing me off, because I swear everything in his Natal Palace is slowly shrinking, or rather Pong Pong grows me a little more each time I come in to visit, because he was bus-sized three months ago and all the furniture still fits him perfectly. I don’t know why he’s incrementally making me bigger, and I can’t figure out how to frame the question in a way that gets me something besides a shrug, so it’s pretty much remained an unsolved mystery up until now.

Much like how we’re both submerged underwater yet can still breathe, speak, and hear. What can I say? Magic.

An answer I’ve been using far too often in recent times, especially since it’s not much of an answer at all. Magic is just science people have yet to understand, so it’s lazy hand-waving at best. Take Pong Pong’s movements for example, which hold a hint of what I saw in Roc and Zian, a natural, intuitive understanding of complex physics, in this case hydrodynamic propulsion. Knowing without awareness, understanding without comprehension, one might even call it instinct except that it isn’t. It’s more than instinct, more than merely natural, a command over his movements which falls just short of sheer perfection. More telling is how Pong Pong’s movements on land don’t exhibit the same level of mastery, and not just because he doesn’t like to move around much when out of water. Despite being an awesome, pocket-sized, non-mutant ninja turtle who can do some crazy land-based acrobatics, it’s a marked downgrade from how he moves in water which is instantly noticeable. What’s more, the bears, wildcats, rabbits, and other Laughing Birds besides Roc lack this natural mastery too. Maybe it’s because they’re all still young and growing, but then we have Mama Bun who is older than dirt and far from graceful or effortless in her movements.

If pressed to describe Mama Bun’s movements, I’d grudgingly admit she’s an awkward, bumbling bunbun who sometimes doesn’t seem in full control of her body. I’ve seen her leap in one direction and land butt first, because halfway through the journey she decides to turn around to see what’s behind her. Then there’s the ridiculous way she throws herself on the ground, as if trying to body-slam the grass instead of lying gently upon it, or her inability to estimate heights which often leads to over or under shooting a jump. What’s more, she’s demonstrated zero spatial awareness when something catches her attention, and it doesn’t even have to be something particularly interesting. Could be a feather blowing in the wind, or a delectable Spiritual Plant cutting tucked away in my pouch, once Mama Bun’s interest is piqued, she will pay no mind to anything else. Mama Bun is sweet and adorable, but graceful, natural, or intuitive? Ha!

Rabbits aside, what I’m seeing in Zian, Roc, and a few other people is an example of One with the World, or so Dad tells me, but there’s no really explaining it. Dad can demonstrate the most efficient way to draw his sword, slash someone in front of him, then loop the sword around to stab another person behind him, but he can’t tell me why he takes two short steps instead of one longer step, or why a certain angle of approach is better than another. He just knows which one is better, because he’s swung his sword hundreds of thousands of times. That’s the beauty of the Forms, because not only can you find strength through Insight, but also through mundane, everyday repetition. Once he explained it to me, I started seeing One with the World everywhere, whether it be in the way Naaran holds his spear while walking through the manor to avoid smacking into things he shouldn’t be able to see, or how Nian Zu sets his feet down with unassailable purpose, in a steady, even cadence that always finds the most stable footing. It’s visible when Tursinai idly spins her Spiritual Chain, looping it around her finger and releasing so the weighted end shoots out like a dart, only for it to fall back into the loop with barely an effort on her part, and it’s even apparent in Mafu’s full body shimmy before he dives into the water, which is both adorable and practical at the same time, since he’s warming up the muscles he’ll need for a sudden burst of speed when he sees something worth catching.

There are many examples of One with the World, and not just in beasts and Warriors. The other day, I watched a sailor literally hitch a rope around a chair leg using nothing but one hand, momentum, and timing. It was almost magical how the end-piece fell perfectly into place as he pulled the knot tight with a flick of his wrist. Dude was drunk as a skunk and would’ve had trouble finding his ass with both hands and a map, but he’s tied that knot so many times he could probably do it while fast asleep.

How does knowing and recognizing this help me? I don’t really know, but I’ve tried to put less emphasis on understanding how something works, and be content with simply knowing and doing. To this effect, I dip my head, kick my feet, and swing my arms to propel myself through the waters, sensing the currents flowing around me and letting my body find the path of least resistance, rather than try to mentally plot out the many natural forces at work and how they all interact. The water takes me away and shifts me into Pong Pong’s wake, allowing me to benefit from his hard work while following his path, and together we shoot through waters at a breakneck pace. Enjoying the game, Pong Pong switches it up and corkscrews away, and I follow suit without caring about direction or orientation. A flutter of my feet speeds me along as my arms take on a winding motion to minimize drag as we set about on a grand old chase through the colourful coral reefs of his Natal Palace.

Giving myself in to the current, my body instinctively responds to changes in my surroundings, reading the flow of water moving about the obstacles in front of me to avoid crashing headlong into them. Moving through the water isn’t just about moving my hands and feet, but also my arms, legs, thighs, and even my hips and chest. Any surface of the body can be used to propel me through the water, and in a race this close and in such a confined space, I can’t always count on being in the best position to kick or push away. As I tumble in and about the corals, there are times when circumstances force me to curl up or flatten out to get through a tight space, and for a time I even chase after Pong Pong travelling feet first by sculling my hands at my sides.

Somewhere along the way, I realize my eyes have been closed for some time now, but rather than slowing down, I’ve actually sped up. There’s no need to look, because things are moving and spinning so quickly the disorienting sights would do more harm than help. No, now I can focus on parsing through the information that matters to help navigate my way through these waters. There’s no map in my mind or radar pinging my surroundings, it’s just the water telling me what’s there and my body moving to avoid it. Not just through my sense of touch, but other senses as well, senses I’ve always known were there, but never really thought about.

My sense of bodily space for one, informing me where my limbs are at all times whilst I scramble through the water in a jumbled, mixed up fashion. No matter how I turn, twist, fold, bend, or flex, I always know where the various parts of my body are in relation to each other. It doesn’t seem like much, but this is a sort of Oneness, being always able to touch your nose or find your belly button without really looking. Not exactly One with the Self, since that’s more applicable to emotions than physical bearing, but still something.

There’s also my sense of buoyancy, which helps keep me oriented by differentiating up from down. Again, only a minor thing, but it’s very helpful since it helps me know when to put in more effort to dive and when I can rest a bit and let the water do the work. There’s also my sense of balance, which is less useful while swimming, but still helps me orient my body to maximize my economy of motion. Can’t jump off a stone without getting my feet underneath me, and I can’t push aside a bunch of seaweed if my arms are extended the wrong way. Even my sense of temperature comes into play, because the way water and temperature interacts, with warm water rising and cold water sinking, the rush of warmer or colder water can be an indication of which way Pong Pong has gone.

There’s so much more to what my mind is processing, but I can’t even begin to discern all the individual streams of information, much less figure out how I know what I know, because while I’m doing all this, I’m also tracking the disturbance Pong Pong’s tumultuous passing leaves behind. I can sense... no, I know he’s close by, so close I can almost touch him. There’s a hint of alarm in his erratic, twisting movements, because this is the closest I’ve ever come to catching him, and even though he loves our thrilling games of tag, his base instincts tell him losing is never good.

This is a game, but it’s also practice, and Pong Pong is a life-long tag champion. He has to be, because out there in the real Azure Sea, getting caught means death. This doesn’t mean I’ll go easy on him, because he’s been getting real cocky lately, and has even learned to taunt me by happily shaking his turtle butt in my direction whenever I get too far behind. No idea where he learned it from, but I guess with all the Aura-chatting we’ve been doing, he figured out how to read human expressions as well. Smart little guy, but still a turtle, so I must use my big human brain to defeat him.

Sadly, my greatest weapon is sorely lacking and I can’t close the distance before running out of energy, which is a strange sensation here in Pong Pong’s Natal Palace. My lungs don’t burn, nor do my muscles get sore, but there’s a weight on my mind which is almost impossible to shake off, like my thoughts are leaden stones swimming through molasses. Also, a wicked headache and a general sense of irritability and laziness, which makes it easy to fall asleep. Unable to press on, I ascend above the coral reefs and suspend myself in the water, lazing listlessly with arms and legs akimbo because it just feels more comfortable like that. Stifling a yawn, I pulse an Aura of defeat and fondness out into the Natal Palace and smile as Pong Pong pops up a good distance away, maybe two or three kilometres in real distance. The little guy can really book it through water, and with the magic of Natal Palace fuckery, I can almost match him. I doubt I could do this out in the real world, even with a working Core and Domain, because I’m fairly certain Pong Pong bends the rules for me in here so I can put up a better fight.

He probably cheats to win all the time too, but I can hardly blame him for that. Who doesn’t like winning?

Darting over for a gentle headbutt, he squeaks in muted discontent, as if to say ‘is that all you got?’. It’s all good natured though, as he flips over to match my posture and ask for a belly rub, his clawed fingers and toes wiggling in delight as I comply with his requests. Fun as all this was, we both need some real sleep, which he gets while nestled atop his coral throne which I suspect sits at the exact centre of his Natal Palace. I’ve never actually mapped it out, but this coral reef is hands down the largest zone of all, while the others are nestled within it like little pocket dimensions. It’s a lot like my most recent Natal Palace layout, with multiple areas like Mila’s forge and Taduk’s cottage all separated by the void, except in his case, Pong Pong filled the void with water, plants, corals, sand, and well... a lot of other stuff.

All inanimate stuff. He’s got a real thing against making living creatures in here, unlike Ping Ping who happily snuggles with her giant red panda every time we’re there. In contrast, Pong Pong has yet to become One with the Floof, so I can only pity his unenlightened self.

