God I love it. Finally, I can make this most frustrating of customs work to my advantage, and better yet, get rich doing so. From these damn annoying fools no less, though to be fair, all the money is gonna go straight back into the province, so it’s more like I’m getting rich in theory, before blowing it all on essentials like food and weapons. And that’s assuming the Master of Coin and other Imperial agents leave me alone to manage the War Bond funds in peace, which I doubt they will once they see the numbers involved. I’ll only have one chance to use all the money unimpeded, after which everyone will be clamouring for their piece of the pie, but I haven’t wasted these last three months and with luck, my carefully-laid plans will help me emerge victorious, even if the Legate takes my Office Title away.

Leaving those worries for another day, I take a break from my normal routine and head over to greet my lovely wife-to-be, but it turns out Mila’s not home and left for the farm first thing in the morning. Gotta say, this stings a bit, especially since I wanted her to weigh in on the wedding planning process, but knowing Mila, she doesn’t even care and would rather spend all day meditating or blacksmithing. To raise my spirits at having been so quickly abandoned again, I head up to the roof and play with the adorably floofy baby Laughing Birbs, whose feathers have finally come in so they no longer look like horrific alien creatures. Instead, they’re like mini-Laughing Birds whose heads are too big for their round poofy bodies and have not yet learned to steal and extort, which is just a solid plus all around.

There are seventeen babies in total, and they’re all super affectionate and love being held, so I pray they stay this sweet and innocent forever, because I have no idea what I’m gonna do with thirty-seven thieving rats with wings. Maybe I should build myself a manor out at the farm, so I can get away from the crowds. I’ll have plenty of work to do there soon enough anyways, and I could bring Ping Ping and the birds to live out there too, not to mention see more of Sir Inky and my precious beautiful beets, but then I’d have to trouble Dad for more guards and suffer through an hour long commute every time I have an event at the Citadel.

Still... it’d be a nice place to settle down and have quiet happy fun times with Mila and Yan. Maybe even Luo-Luo too, if I can get over my various neuroses and give her a chance. One step at a time there though, buddy, starting with your marriage with Mila.

Man... I’m getting married in eight days!

...Eight days to plan a giant wedding from scratch, so I can get married.

I need help. I need my mom...

The day passes in a blur as Mom and I plan out an elaborate wedding banquet I have no desire to attend, with help from a few chosen flunkies from the crowd. They’re not good for much, but they do know how to plan a party, or at the very least, they have servants who know how to plan a party who they put under my command. After lunch, Lin-Lin brings Blackjack to join the party planning team, looking lovely in a breezy, sleeveless floral dress dyed in the colours of the skies, with her ever-present white silk scarf repurposed as a sash. My little wifey adds a much needed splash of liveliness to the proceedings, and ensures Ping Ping and the floofs are all included in the banquet process, though I stop short of dedicating time for an animal talent show.

Honestly, Luo-Luo would probably be the best at planning this sort of event, but like I told Yan, it’d be weird to ask her to plan my wedding after she turned down my terrible, awkward, impromptu proposal.

By mid-afternoon, I am all planned out, and Mom kicks me out of the meeting for ‘being too sour’. It’s her way of looking after me, since she knows I need a nap, so I give her a kiss on the cheek and bring Lin-Lin out to see Ping Ping. The big girl is delighted by my arrival and spends a good minute nuzzling me by the pond, after which she hunkers down in her favourite napping spot in the shade of a pitifully tiny tree, where she watches me and Lin-Lin fly our kites alongside the aerial fleet unleashed by the crowd of children around us. I paid for most of those kites, since their families could hardly afford it, but I’ve been secretly campaigning to convince labourers to unionize, or at least collectively bargain for better pay. I’ve been paying my workers more than industry standard, but that bar is set so low I have to be careful not to trip over it. This hasn’t had the result I’d been hoping for, but Silva, Viyan, Birca, and a bunch of their friends are all out there day and night talking up a storm about the power of the working people.

Bulat and Ravil would probably be more useful in this endeavour, but I have them working on another private project at the farm. It’s true what they say: it’s hard to find good help. There’s so much more still left to be done, and so much more I have planned for once the War Bond money comes in, but I only have so many people I can trust. That’s neither here nor there for now though, because this is my time to relax. Putting one arm around sweet Lin-Lin’s shoulder, I pull her in close for a hug while ignoring her laughs of protests about how our kites are going to get tangled. “Hey wifey,” I begin, kissing her hair and basking in the joy of hugging someone shorter than me. “How is it you never get jealous of Mila, Yan, or Luo-Luo?”

I don’t know why I can’t leave this topic alone. I should just keep quiet and count my blessings, but I can’t help it. It’s like picking at a scab until it hurts. It just needs to be done.

“Stupid Rainy.” No hubby today, not this time at least. “I’m jealous all the time, dummy.” Elbowing me away to focus on her kite, Lin-Lin bites her lip ever so adorably as she brings it back under control from a near disastrous entanglement. It’s not that I didn’t see this about to happen, but whenever it does, I just pick out two kids standing in the crowd and say they can keep the kites if they can untangle the strings. It’s never very difficult and it’s a face-saving measure for their parents, because even poor people value and deserve face.

Once her kite is soaring a safe distance away from mine, Lin-Lin glances over and sticks out her tongue in a fit of pique. “I love you Rainy, and you’re the best, but you’re also terrible, ya?” Puffing her cheeks in fake anger, Lin-Lin’s beautiful brown eyes sparkle with mischief. “I knew it the first time you went to Shen Huo. Remember?”

Yes, yes I do, because she somehow found out about Fung bringing me to the Golden Swan Pavilion. That was embarrassing, to say the least, so I gloss over her question and move on. “For being jealous all the time, you sure are accommodating.”

“Cause this is just how you are.” Deftly moving so she can stand with me without risking her kite, Lin-Lin gives me a playful hip-bump before sinking into my embrace. “You’re a stinky pervert, but you’re my stinky pervert, ya?” Biting me on the bicep, she adds, “Just remember, you can’t play favourites like you do with the floofs, ya? You hafta love all your wives equally, but me a little more equally than the rest. Got it?”

“Yes wifey.” I don’t think I could help it even if I wanted to. Lin-Lin is just too sweet to ever be mad at, even when calling me a stinky pervert. Then again, that might just be because she’s not wrong. “So does this mean you’re my Mama Bun?”

Stomping on my foot ever so daintily, Lin-Lin scrunches her nose in mock anger. “I’m being serious Rainy. If you wanna have five wives, you gotta be the best hubby ever, and even though I know you can do it, it won’t be easy, ya? That’s why you can’t have more than five, because then you won’t have enough time for all of us. Two days for each wife, this way there will be no conflict and we’ll all be one big happy family. I thought it all out already, so you just hafta be you and be a good hubby, got it?”

“Yes wifey. You’re so smart, wonderful, sweet, and beautiful.”

That earns me a toothy smile before she buries her face in my chest, so happy she can barely even speak. “Love you hubby,” she eventually utters, all the while keeping her kite in perfect formation.

“Love you too, wifey.” Maybe she’s One with the Kite, but that’s ridiculous. I mean, she spends a lot of time flying kites, but it’s hardly to the point of Oneness... right? Nah, I’m just seeing it everywhere now that I know about it. That’s a thing. I know it is. I don’t know what it’s called, but it’s a thing. It’s probably why no one tells Martial Warriors about the milestones, because it’s not like anyone can really verify if someone has a Natal Palace, unless you’re privy to Imperial Scion secrets like the Legate.

Wrapping up my afternoon playtime with a quiet nap next to Ping Ping, I spend an hour or so paddling around the river inside her Natal Palace. The ‘animals’ are still adorable and realistic as ever, and I still can’t fathom why Pong Pong doesn’t like having living things in his Natal Palace, but whatever. He’s different, and he likes different things, and that’s totally fine. After Lin-Lin wakes me up for dinner, we head back to the manor after another long day of work, with still more to be done for the wedding in the coming days. Mila at least has the grace to look sheepish about skipping out to go meditate, but she declares in no uncertain terms that she’s going back out tomorrow as well, because there are matters on her mind which she still wants to check out, namely how her crazy detailed Natal Palace compares to the real thing.

No one is saying much about it, because they don’t want to colour Yan or the twins’ perceptions, but I can tell they’re impressed by the level of detail Mila went into while building her Natal Palace. There’s even room to expand, as well as an unfinished... I dunno, throne room? That space in the centre where she sits, it’s got plenty of room for improvements, though it does bring to mind the importance of a Natal Throne. I dunno if that’s a real thing, but that’s what I’m calling it, because Yo Ling literally sat on a throne, and I can’t think of a better term. It’s the seat of power, though why one is even needed is still up for debate, unless...

He who holds the throne, holds power? Is that how Zhen Shi body-snatched Gen? And Demons take over hosts? By occupying the figurative throne?

Interesting stuff, which I should bring up with Monk Happy the next time we chat, because, let’s be honest here, he’s the only person worth talking to when it comes to theoretical Chi stuff. Mom, Dad, and Grandma are brilliant Martial Warriors, but they’re all about doing and don’t care much for the how, and while I’ve been trying to ease up on fixation with understanding, I can’t change who I am. Just like Lin-Lin says, I am a stinky pervert, but I am also an inquisitive soul who wants all my answers nicely laid out before me, and I can’t change overnight.

...Though if I’m being honest, I don’t really want to change. It might not be fair to the women in my life, but I love Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin, and can’t imagine a life with even one of them missing. Even Luo-Luo is starting to worm her way into my heart, and might have long since done so if not for my strong, anti-imperial bias and deep-seated trust issues.

Also... the tandem toilet incident might also have something to do with it. Even after more than a year, those sounds still haunt my nightmares...

Chapter Meme
