Giving his cheeks one last tickle before waving goodbye, Pong Pong waves back and sends me off on my way, where I immediately succumb to the darkness of sleep. It’s not the Void, it’s just a faint perception of being asleep while drifting in a haze of senselessness. All too soon, the night comes to an end and I slowly come awake in the light, with no Yan beside me and no Aurie sprawled over my legs. Mama Bun is still here though, nuzzling me awake, but she’s much less gentle once she notices I’ve come to but have yet to actually get up. The floofy girl is ready to start her day, but she refuses to do so without me, so I laugh as she thumps the bed and paws my chest before sweeping her up in a warm embrace.

I love waking up like this, with a beloved friend here to greet me. It’s the best.

Having woken up late as usual, breakfast is a lonely affair with just me and Luo-Luo, and we dine in the courtyard with the floofs around us. Sorya and Anrhi cooked up a simple affair, having come a long way thanks to their daily practice now that Charok and Alsantset moved out to the farm with the twins. They only lived here with Mom and Dad because it was safer to have us all stay together, but with my star on the rise as the first ever Minister of Finance, we no longer have to guard so thoroughly against hidden assassins. I don’t miss being crowded by invisible guards all the time, but I miss seeing the twins every day. They still come back for a meal every two or three days, and all their rooms are still exactly as they left them, but it’s not the same.

I should probably move out after marrying Mila, because we’ll be a household unto ourselves. I’m a little sad and a lot nervous, but I also can’t wait. I’m getting married!

With Lin-Lin opting to skip breakfast altogether and sleep in until lunch, I’ve had more time to get to know Luo-Luo during our private breakfasts these past few months. She’s not very opinionated on most things, and I’ve no real interest in the arts, so we mostly stick to work-related topics, though I’ve been trying to branch out. That said, even keeping up with daily gossip is linked to work, since the rumour mills can teach us a lot of things that work out to our advantage in business and finance. “Sorya tells me the stonemasons were let off early last night,” Luo-Luo begins, pouring my tea with a beautiful smile and an all too obvious display of cleavage. I still look, of course, because she’d be upset if I didn’t, but its little things like this that make our relationship feel... contrived. “Again, I might add. Second time this week.”

Jorani’s twin half-sisters have a real penchant for gossip, and there are times they’ll hear about something before even my spymaster MuYang knows to bring it to my attention. “Another stone shortage. Shit.” Luckily, the outer walls and fortifications are mostly done, and now we’re just putting up fire-breaks and reinforcing choke-points, but even though production and purchasing should be keeping up with demand, the shipments have consistently been coming in short. Not just with stone either, but also timber, cloth, foodstuffs, and more.

We’re getting robbed blind in almost every thing we buy, all across the Empire. I say we in the Imperial sense, since they’re paying for most of it, and it’s almost impossible to stop because there’s no single culprit. There’s no big mystery. This isn’t a conspiracy to bring the Empire down through economics, it’s petty theft, except there are thousands of thieves working independently to steal, skim, cheat, lie, and pretty much anything else, all in order to line their own pockets. Case closed. It happens all the time, whether it’s the farmer who sells you a kilogram of rice that weighs less than a kilogram, or the farrier who paints over a cracked horse hoof, and usually the Marshals write the losses off as the price of doing business, but the losses have been ramping up in recent months, and Yuzhen asked me to look into it. “Did Junior get back with that little project I put him on.”

“Yes, but I am not sure what you expect these numbers to prove.” Sliding over a document filled with names, dates, and numbers penned in Junior’s neat hand, Luo-Luo sums it up for me so I don’t have to read it. “The stolen shipments are coming from all over the Northern Province, not just from one supplier.”

Which was expected, since anything less would have been an obvious solve and this case would have never made it to my desk. “True, but only a handful of companies are being stolen from,” I say, speaking around a mouthful of egg tart. God, beet sugar is amazing. It’s not the white powdered sugar I’d envisioned, and more of a reddish-brown rock sugar, but it’s delicious, cheap, and readily available, which means I can have dessert for breakfast now, and not feel guilty about it. Plus, sugar tea tastes so much better than butter tea, and will fatten me up all the same. I just hope I don’t get the diabeetus, though from what I can tell, that’s not a thing in the Azure Empire. First good thing about this world I’ve heard about, though it’s possible it was just never diagnosed before.

Perusing through the numbers, I confirm what I’d already guessed. “Either we have some very discerning bandits, which is silly, or a handful of companies are screwing us.” Devouring the rest of my egg tart, I point at the relevant numbers and wish this was an electronic document I could rearrange as I please. “These companies, to be exact. See the pattern?”

“...No, Lord Husband.”

And it kills her. In her own way, Luo-Luo is as competitive as Mila is, and honestly, it’s kinda adorable. “Right here. These quarries by Shen Jin, these farms by Feng Huang, and these lumber mills by Jiu Lang.”

“...They’re the companies losing the most to bandits... but they also reported record highs in production.” Her voice growing in confidence as she looks over the numbers, Luo-Luo gasps and exclaims, “Too high! They’re lying about their production numbers!”

“Exactly. Everyone is working harder than ever for the war effort, but to put out twice as much cut stone? Three times the amount of lumber? That’s bullshit. They’re padding their numbers so they have ‘more’ to sell, then sending shipments out underweight and claiming someone along the way is stealing from them. They either have multiple inspectors and Administrators in their pockets lying about the weights, or more likely, someone is providing caravan masters with forged inspection papers to get them through the official checks.”

Which coincidentally takes place at the Society Headquarters. My old enemies are at it again, what a surprise. Situ Rang Min had to be a lot more subtle about opposing me these last few months, but dollars to donuts, he’s still working for Yang Jixing and would happily cut my throat with a smile. Fun, fun, fun.

“How did you even think to look for this?”

I do love it when she looks at me like that, as if I’m some brilliant, big-brained genius. “The numbers were too neat and orderly. We were losing ten or fifteen percent from each shipment, almost to the exact kilogram. No way someone skimming would keep to such rigid margins, because people are greedy. There’s also the fact that it’s hard to skim timber and stone without being spotted. Food and other stuff I could understand, but difficulty aside, there’s also not much of a black market for building materials.”

“I will put together a report for the Marshal. Arresting the caravan masters will be simple enough, but I will advise she hold off and gather more proof so she can go after the mastermind. It’s likely these companies have been doing this since the start of the war effort, so even if we cannot charge the owners, we may be able to demand they make up for our losses if we bring this before a Justicar.”

Smart. She knows as well as I do that killing wagon drivers would be meaningless, because it’s the company owners who are behind this scheme, but they’ll get away with it unless we have iron-clad proof that they’re involved. Otherwise, some lackey or stooge will take the blame for their crimes while the true masterminds get away scot-free. At least this way, they might have to pay us back for overcharging us in the first place. I’d much rather order the people in charge to be hanged by the neck until dead, but alas, the powers of my Office do not extend so far.

Technically, my Office doesn’t even have the authority to charge the aforementioned companies with a crime. I figured out what they were doing, but all of this information goes to the Disciplinary Corps for review, after which they’ll conduct their own investigation. Or rather, add it to their current ongoing investigation which is getting nowhere fast. They’ve probably arrested a few small time thieves, but there’s no point going after labourers stealing food to eat or clothes to wear, but they’re the easier targets, and even Oath-Sworn Justicar’s need to show results.

And most importantly of all, the Disciplinary Corps’ job is not to uphold justice. It’s right in the name. Their job is to dispense discipline, plain and simple. So long as it doesn’t get in the way of the big picture, they don’t give a flying fuck if some schmuck is stealing from the Imperial Clan, not unless he’s dumb enough to get caught. They’re not the police, here to solve crimes and protect the people. No, they’re judge, jury, and executioner, so woe befall anyone who comes to their attention.

Honestly, the only reason I’m doing this is because Yuzhen figured this sort of thing would be of interest to the Minister of Finance, since the Imperial Clan was technically financing most of this. I didn’t want to correct her, since Administrator Hang was in the room at the time, and the Legate never really specified what my Official duties were to the world at large, so I figured the exact details regarding the responsibilities of my Office were best kept secret until I was in position to exploit said responsibilities. Either way, this left me no choice but to accept Yuzhen’s busywork, which was fine, but then word got out and I had two messages from the other Marshals by the end of the day, inviting me for a private meeting to discuss how my Office can help them. That’s how I got pressured into visiting both other Citadels, and why I’ve been busier than ever chasing down missing shipments, deferred payments, and all other manner of issues which really have nothing to do with finance.

I mean, yea, finance is a broad term that could include many things, but I just wanted to sell War Bonds and introduce paper money, or rather Treasure Notes, which seemed like a much more appealing name. Seriously, I thought the Imperial Clan would love the idea of making coin out of thin air, but here I am busting my ass to get it implemented and working as a fucking bean-counter to hide my true reasons for introducing paper money. This is the fucking worst.

Either way, I’m always happy to start off the day with a victory, so I bid Luo-Luo goodbye and head out to meet my adoring fans with the Death Corps at my side. Well, more like my crowd of flunkies and boot-licks who I want nothing to do with, but now that the Legate has made me a proper Imperial Scion and Office Title holder, that makes me the closest thing to royalty in the outer Provinces. I have so many more Death Corps Guards now, a full thousand of them in fact, though I would much rather trade half of them for a dozen lion-riding Royal Guardians. Hell, the Legate can even keep his stupid Guardians and just give me the black-maned lions, but despite all my efforts, he refuses to give me the floofs. He won’t even hand over Kuang Biao’s old mount, because it’s somehow beneath the lion’s dignity to be ridden by a Death Corps guard, which really sucks since I heard Royal Guardians and their mounts are supposed to share a special bond.

I suppose it’s for the best though. If the people of the outer provinces thought I could be bought with floofs, I’d be drowning in pets by now. Seriously though, why isn’t anyone gifting me floofs? I want a red panda...

Putting on a smile as I greet everyone in proper order, I inwardly scream at the need to play nice. The crowd is particularly big today, as they’re all here to congratulate me on my coming nuptials and fish for an invite to the wedding banquet, but I have no idea who I’m inviting or where I can find a venue that fits one to two thousand guests. Technically, I could just ignore the crowd and they’d have no choice but to keep fawning, but while they aren’t the most influential people around, I still need their help from time to time, and you catch more flies with honey. Thankfully, I have no need for them today, since stupid Administrator Hang works at a freaking snail’s pace and has no authority whatsoever, so I have to wait to hear back from the Master of Coin all the way in the East whenever I bring up something that needs to be changed. It’s a pain, but at least things are getting done now that the shoe has finally dropped and the Master of Coin understands how much money there is to be made from exploiting Imperial face.

