In a reversal of roles, Jukai let loose with a triumphant roar as he Deflected every appendage away in an undulating wave of darkness. Only a short, three meters remained between them, but Zian’s Mentor paid a hefty price in Chi to charge through that gap, and the investment paid off as his twin sabres bit deep into armoured carapace. In the space of a heartbeat, Jukai scored a half-dozen critical hits and gouged a multitude of deep wounds across the Demon’s abdomen, chest, and face before the bladed appendages recovered enough to defend it. Now it was the Demon’s turn to retreat, the distance between them widening to twenty metres as Jukai stood in place, flourishing his sabres with quiet arrogance and undisguised disdain.

An inhuman screech emanated from those thin, blackened lips, the Demon now sporting a new set of furrows diagonally across its face. A centimetre higher and Jukai would’ve blinded the creature, though some believed Demons senses had nothing to do with their physical organs. More than one Demon had been recorded as lacking eyes or ears and their vision and hearing didn’t suffer for it, but regardless, the fruits of Jukai’s efforts made for an inspiring display. Imperial soldiers sounded out with encouraging cheers to celebrate his display of superiority, and the Defiled shrank back upon seeing their revered entity receiving a sound thrashing at Jukai’s hands.

Cautiously moving forward to reengage, the white-faced Demon stopped and turned westward, its body frozen in mid-step. Long seconds passed in utter silence before it turned back to face Jukai, its green eyes oozing with hatred and reluctance. Its elongated fingers retracted into normal length fingers as the undulating katar appendages fell still and draped about the Demon’s shoulders like a leather cape. Drawing itself up to its full height, it spun on its heel and stalked away, crossing tens of meters with every step in casual disregard for the laws of nature.

Seizing the opportunity, Zian raised his weapons and signalled the charge with a wordless bellow, his cry taken up by his comrades and allies as they surged forwards to meet the Enemy. The Demon’s retreat did little to dissuade the tribal savages, but Jukai’s victory had Imperial morale at an all time high and they made short work of the remaining Defiled. With victory in hand, Zian relinquished Balance and let elation take control as he ran over to embrace his Mentor. Laughing like a madman, he shouted, “Let’s hear it for Colonel Jukai, Twinned Dragon of Shen Bin!”

Cheers rang out as the soldiers hailed their triumphant hero, but Jukai’s Sending cut through it all. “Bah. Twinned Dragon my ass. Your father was the dragon, and I a mere snake, hitching a ride upon his rising star. My Martial Brother would have skewered that fledgling with half the effort it took me to wound it, even lacking twenty-something years of practice.” Grimacing as he looked West, Jukai Sent, “Strange that the Demon retreated. I’ve heard inklings of other new-born Demons doing the same, but this is the first I’ve seen of it, and there has yet to be a Demon sighted marching east. There’s no doubt about it young master, the Enemy is marshalling its strength. A war is coming, one unlike any the Empire has ever before seen, so you must hurry and live up to your inborn talents.”

Resisting the urge to curse Jukai for being a fool stuck in the past, Zian composed himself and stepped back, wondering if it was even possible to catch up to his Mentor if given a century, much less a handful of months. Staying behind long enough to oversee the cleanup, he returned to camp a weary and worried man, hoping he could live up to his Mentor’s exacting expectations. How was he to take the next step and become ‘One with the World’?

A steaming hot bath awaited him as he slipped inside his tent, his beloved concubine ready with a team of beautiful handmaidens to help him wash away the rigours of battle. Having learned from experience, Zian kept his eyes forward and hands to himself while the serving women went about their work, well aware of Jing Fei’s propensity towards violence if her ire were provoked. Why she insisted on keeping such gorgeous servants, Zian couldn’t say, but he honestly believed she would end his life in a jealous rage if he were ever to smile at the handmaidens, and he would beg for death if he ever laid with one.

Oh how he loved this deadly and dangerous woman...

Sat in the tub with four naked handmaidens, Zian struggled to retain control while Jing Fei circled about like a hawk in search of prey. Stopping behind him, she placed her hands on his shoulders and massaged them, though she made sure he had a clear view of her sharp, poison coated nails. “Try and relax,” she Sent, as if she were not the reason for his tension. “In case someone cares to Scry on us. You’re not supposed to be terrified of your Fei-Fei, remember?”

A silly game of hers, where she played the part of abused and despised concubine so she could garner sympathy from his enemies’ servants. “Why bother?” he Sent, though he still did his best to obey. “The last nearby Society force set out on patrol this morning.”

“They did, but Ji Jing returned just before you set out for battle.”

Which mean Gulong was with him, Zian’s little cousin and greatest rival for the title of young patriarch. Not that he cared for the title, but Gulong would gladly slit Zian’s throat for it. A shame, considering there had once been a time when they’d been closer than brothers, but that faded away after Gulong suffered a shameful defeat at Falling Rain’s hands and Zian failed to avenge him. “Why?”

“It seems Rang Min desires a new wife for his precious heir, one with a larger dowry and more significant influence.” Jing Fei Sent, her fingers digging into his shoulders as he accidentally made eye contact with a handmaiden. Luckily, she didn’t break the skin else Zian might very well drown in the tub without assistance, so he closed his eyes and she continued speaking without missing a beat. “They came across a two-thousand strong force of Defiled and left little Ji Yeon behind to die, alongside seven-hundred soldiers to make it look realistic.”

Poor girl. Her mother was cousin to Zian’s mother, which meant that by blood, Ji Yeon and Ji Jing were the closest family he had in the Situ Clan, but they never got along. Ji Jing had always been jealous of Zian’s accomplishments and their father kept Ji Yeon away from the playboy philanderer Jia Zian. “A shame. I’m surprised Ji Jing went along with it.”

“Likely ordered to by their father, though I doubt their mother knows. She does so love her precious Ji Yeon, but alas, Gulong needs more support if he means to snatch the title of young patriarch away from my heroic husband, and a wife from the same Clan brings no riches.” Forestalling his questions, Jing Fei explained, “Ji Yeon is highly favoured by her uncle, Lin Xiang Gu, who also happens to be a Lieutenant Marshal and the Society’s closest tie to Marshal Yuzhen. Even though Ji Yeon’s father is amicable to the divorce, if it upsets Lin Xiang Gu, then the fat merchant might switch sides and back you instead. He is a rich man with deep pockets and widespread influence who, despite his best efforts, has no natural born children of his own, so he dotes on Ji Yeon quite a bit.”

“And her death, though unfortunate, should be more or less expected for a soldier on the front lines. Clever. A shame about the girl though, she was a shy, timid little thing with no head for politics, but Gulong was infatuated with her beauty and demanded the marriage.”

“Then perhaps dear husband would like to go bat his eyes and rescue her from Gulong’s insidious clutches.”

Though teasing, there was a hidden edge to Jing Fei’s tone, one which aroused Zian so much he almost missed the implication. “She’s still alive?”

“Indeed. Rescued by Falling Rain, no less.” At this point, her ‘massage’ turned into plain abuse as her powerful grip threatened to tear flesh from bone. “Luck or design, it’s difficult to say. The little runt is the most perplexing foe I have ever faced.”

Tapping her hand gently to beg for mercy, Zian Sent, “Luck, without a doubt. He’s not one to scheme or plot, following whatever fool notion slips into his head. Did you hear about his cattle-mounted cavalry? Ridiculous.”

Loosening her grip, Jing Fei switched to massaging his scalp instead, as she still needed physical contact to Send. “You underestimate your ‘friend’ too much if you believe his facade. On the surface, he appears to be a foolish oaf who cares nothing for politics, yet he has repeatedly outmanoeuvred all his opponents. He was sixteen years old when I watched him goad a forty-year-old veteran warrior into losing Balance, and only a year older when he humiliated Gulong and defeated you in single combat. Let’s not forget how he noticed my nails and identified the likely poison, or his book and the wonders contained within. Falling Rain is nothing short of brilliant, and to believe otherwise is folly.”

Resisting the urge to scoff, Zian Sent, “You’re reading too much into his actions. So Rain stumbled upon Ji Yeon’s forces and rescued them. Hers is not the first force he’s rescued nor will it be the last. His Bekhai scouts range farther than any others, which is how he finds so many Defiled to kill. It’s sheer coincidence he foiled Gulong and Ji Jing’s plot.”

“Is it also sheer coincidence the escorts Rain provided to see Ji Yeon back safely carried a report of the battle, a report which contradicted the one given by Ji Jing?” Zian could imagine her smirk as he shifted in the water, no longer as certain as he was before. “I believe Rain knew of Ji Yeon’s troubles and understood she could not afford to contend with her brother and betrothed, not while here in Sinuji. If she did anything besides nod her head and follow whatever story they presented, she would’ve tripped and fallen on her sword in the dark of night, but now, thanks to Rain’s report, she can seek refuge with Colonel Hongji and there’s nothing anyone can do to stop her. I’m told the Colonel even let Ji Jing dig his own grave and lie about the Enemy numbers before reading Rain’s report aloud, which I doubt he would have done unless Rain requested it. The Colonel has no reason to antagonize the Society, nor does he have the backing to do so, which means your friend is pulling strings and means to make you Situ Clan Patriarch.”

Ha. As if. “Rain’s never written a report in his life, he leaves that to his Second. There is no conspiracy and he is not pushing me to become Patriarch. Enough, we will not speak of this again.” This was the one point of contention between them, for she refused to let things lie. “I want nothing to do with Clan or Society. I intend to renounce my place as young patriarch and take up my father’s name, and nothing you say can convince me otherwise.”

“Oh idiot husband of mine.” Her condemnation almost sounded fond until she drove her knuckles into his temples. “You’re like a child who refuses to play the game because he doesn’t understand the rules. No matter, for your darling Fei-Fei is here to explain things in simple terms so you’ll know what to do.”

“I said enough! I will not be manipulated into doing your bidding.” The pressure on his temples had yet to abate, but Lu Jia Zian was not a bull to be led around by the nose.

“What you call manipulation, I say is merely speaking sense.” Changing her tack, Jing Fei eased up on his temples and pulled his head back into her bosom. “Fine. You want to become an independent Martial Warrior. How will you manage? Your uncle has recused himself from command and now serves under Nian Zu. Will his support be enough to keep you safe from the Society? Hardly, even if you add in your Mother’s influence as Magistrate. So who will you rely on? Falling Rain? Will you go crawling to your friend and ask him to shelter you? Will you also ask him to pay your soldiers and purchase your weapons? Is that the sort of man Lu Jia Zian is?”

“Of course not, but –”

“Yes, yes,” she Sent, speaking right over him. “You will accomplish a great feat and make a name for yourself. Lu Jia Zian, not Situ Jia Zian, and people all across the Empire will be dazzled and flock to your side. Is that what you think will happen?”

“Well... yes, but it sounds ridiculous when you –”

“Your name will be on everyone’s lips, but not in the way you think. Worse than unknown, Lu Jia Zian will be infamous, known solely as the fool who threw away riches to become a short-lived pauper. You want vengeance and recognition for your father? Then become Patriarch and take it! One word from you and Gulong dies tonight, with nothing to connect his passing to either of us. So long as he lives, your position as young patriarch is tenuous at best, so act now and seize victory!”

“I will not have Gulong poisoned.” Dismissing the serving girls with a wave of his hand, he waited for them to leave before opening eyes and turning his glare to Jing Fei. “Rival or not, he is still my cousin. If he is to die, then it will be by my hand, not yours. Understood?”

“As you command, husband mine.” Smirking as if she’d won a great victory, she slapped him across the face hard enough to darken his vision and Sent, “Now, rough me up in case someone is still Scrying so we can go about our marital duties. Mother-in-law is understandably upset I am still without child, so I will work you hard for the next few days.”

Heavens above, Zian loved this woman more than words could ever describe.

Chapter Meme

Chapter Meme 2
