Amidst the pandemonium of battle, Zian stood a man alone, his curved sabres flashing in a ring of rotating death beneath the starry night sky. His soldiers fought around him, but they knew enough to keep back and give him ample space, for fighting shoulder to shoulder was not his way. His whirling blades guarded him better than two allies ever could, and he showed his soldiers what a true warrior could accomplish, offering a goal to be matched and an example to be followed. Parry and riposte with the right, Deflect and thrust with the left, these were his primary killing tools as he strode through the horde of featureless Defiled, their howls of fury and screams of challenge cut short by his arrival. The exhilarating rush of triumph threatened to overcome his cool composure, but he swallowed the urge to give in to celebration and clung to calm tranquility instead, a task growing more difficult with each passing day.

Poise and self-control were his guideposts to the State of Enlightenment, but with having experienced so much bloodshed and mayhem in the past three months, Zian found his Path grown twisted and treacherous. Other warriors such as Rain or Fung could let their emotions rule whilst retaining Balance, but Zian found it would slip away if he gave in to wrath or jubilation, an irrefutable death sentence should it happen to a man in his current predicament. Though he yearned to give in to outrage or submit to euphoria and slaughter the Defiled to his heart’s content, to do so would mean to go against his Dao and seek a new Path to the peak of strength. No, better to stay the course, for his Martial Path lay in detached serenity, a tranquil mind and impassive heart in the heat of battle, his passions and emotions fed to the void within. Mentor Jukai had guided him well in this endeavour, teaching him that anger and happiness were not the Enemy nor a human failing, but merely a distraction of the mind. Zian learned not to suppress or eliminate his emotions, but to instead remain unaffected by them, a willow-tree swaying in the wind or a lotus blossom skimming over water.

At least until battle was won. Then he could celebrate his victory or criticize his errors all he wanted, for such was life. Love and hate, joy and anger, experiencing these emotions were all a part of the human condition, and repressing them wholly would unbalance him as surely as overindulging. Balance in all things, not only when required, such was his Dao of not just Martial might, but of life itself. A hard learned lesson, and one he had Rain to thank for, because if not for his defeat at the runt’s hands, Zian would never have fallen from grace and Mother would have never have allowed Jukai to meet him.

Mother in Heaven, it still soured his appetite to admit as much...

Sidestepping a clumsy attack, Zian dispatched the offending Defiled without breaking the rhythm of his whirling blades. The constant motion of his twin sabres provided both defensive and offensive options, but the key to utilizing them properly was economy of motion. Another lesson learned from his Mentor, for while Zian studied the reports of his father’s fighting style, Jukai had helped Lu An Jing perfect his skills through countless hours of sparring and deliberation. Two stalwart friends of humble origins, working together to puzzle out the Martial Path, and without Zian’s father to guide him, Jukai had stepped in to take his Martial Brother’s place.

Sometimes, Zian wished he too had a close Martial Brother to rely on. The closest he had were Fung, BoShui, and... Rain.

Ugh.

A jarring impact shook Zian from his thoughts as a Defiled Weapon broke his momentum, the triple-bladed bone katar catching his right sabre and holding it fast. A second, similar katar lanced towards his throat and Zian loosened his grip and Lightened his body, cartwheeling through the air to avoid the killing blow and free his sabre. Back on his feet and no longer caught, Zian slowed his tempo to avoid getting caught by his opponent again. Though his face was wrapped much like any other Defiled, his piercings denoted him as a higher ranking member of his feral tribe, though the two Defiled Weapons already said as much. Finally, a challenge worthy of Lu Jia Zian, though still not notable enough to warrant casting aside his current name, Clan, and Society to stand on his own.

Then again, considering the celebrated accomplishments of his peers, Zian would have to slaughter a thousand Defiled or kill a Demon unaided before the world at large would take note...

One step at a time. Giving his foe the respect he deserved, Zian fired off a barrage of rapid, twisting thrusts, daring his opponent to catch them so he could Deflect the attempt and leave the Champion open and vulnerable to a killing strike. Not rising to the bait, the Defiled Champion writhed and contorted to avoid the blows, his head bobbing wildly as his feet moved in a series of meandering and illogical steps which left Zian flustered and bewildered. When his opponent should’ve stepped right, the Defiled Champion leaped back, when he should’ve held ground, he instead gave way, his movements never ascribing to common sense or rational theory. Rather than a battle, it seemed almost as if the Defiled Champion were dancing instead, moving to an unheard rhythm which had Zian tripping over his own feet.

Unable to adjust to the cadenced movements, Zian opted for the next best thing: breaking it apart. Rather than aiming for chest, neck, or head, he set his sights on his opponent’s limbs. His blades flashed and simultaneously scored a gash on one arm and a gouge on opposite thigh, never slowing as he brought them around for a final, double thrust. Stumbling back beneath the onslaught, the Defiled Champion gazed upon Zian’s form and saw death approach, his eyes wild with madness and disbelief. Howling in wordless rejection, he charged forward and impaled himself upon Zian’s sabres, avoiding instant death and trapping them fast with flesh and katars. Legs kicking and teeth snapping, the Champion raised his head to the Heavens and...

Rippled.

There was no other way to describe it. As if a thousand bugs crawled beneath his skin, the Champion’s muscles quivered and pulsated while suspended on Zian’s sabres, and try as he might, he could not free them. Comprehension gave way to abject horror as he realized what was happening, his efforts redoubling beneath the assailing Aura before it was too late. A Demon birth, taking place in front of his very eyes, with both his weapons entombed within the emerging disaster. Tugging, kicking, Honing, and Deflecting, nothing he tried would free his sabres and Zian panicked at the thought of losing them both. Few things could destroy a Spiritual Weapon, but getting caught in the transforming flesh of an unborn Demon was one. The Living Legend Broken Blade Pichai lost his scimitar in this manner, and though he survived the ordeal to eventually reach the pinnacle of Martial Strength, he took the better part of three decades to accomplish such a feat, lauded as an exception to the rule, rather than the norm.

Was this the end of Lu Jia Zian’s rise to fame and glory, ruined before he could even announced his new name?

“Release your weapons and step away, Young Master.” Jukai’s voice jolted Zian from his panic and he did as his Mentor instructed. “Continue Honing your weapons and Mentor will handle the rest.”

Taking action for the first time, Jukai stalked into battle with the grace and poise of a tiger on the prowl, his sabres flashing in the moonlight faster than Zian’s eyes could follow. One pass severed the developing Demon’s hands from its body and a second ripped Zian’s Honed sabres from its flesh, their hilts hooked on the curved tips of Jukai’s matching blades. A flick of his wrists sent the recovered weapons hurtling back through the air, arcing high before plummeting down to drive deep into the dirt on either side of Zian, a display of control, precision, and skill which few could ever hope to match.

And all done in less than the time it took to blink.

Pulling his sabres out of the dirt, Zian scraped the Ichor off on a nearby corpse, flooded with relief to find his weapons were unharmed. Fully formed, a Demon’s yellow-white bodily fluids would not damage a Spiritual Weapon, but if caught in the transformation process, the transforming Ichor would render the nigh-indestructible material brittle and weak. No one knew exactly why, but most theorized it was the Father’s malicious purposes at work, a ‘protection’ offered to His children as they took physical form.

Mouth dry and heart pounding, Zian stood back and watched the Demon emerge from Defiled flesh, a humanoid nightmare given form. Grey flesh gave way to ebony carapace and the human-leather headwrap fell off to reveal features just human enough to unsettle and unnerve all who gazed upon its grotesque face. Blood-red furrows encircled its glowing green eyes and its flat, powder-white face almost seemed in mockery of the makeup so favoured by Central’s elites. Another bloody furrow divided its face lengthwise, running through the gaping wound which sat in place of its nose and its bloodless, black lips, pressed so thin they seemed stretched in a taunting grin. Shorn off by Jukai’s lightning quick actions, the triple-bladed Defiled katars rose from the ground and merged with the stumps of the Demon’s wrists, the blades elongating into sinuous fingers as its back erupted into a cape of billowing, dagger-like appendages. Each seemed capable of independent movement as they wriggled and writhed about, rearing up like dagger-headed snakes to snap at the patiently waiting Jukai.

Grotesque and disconcerting to the extreme, the Demon’s birth had put an end to the chaos on the fields of Sinuji as Imperial and Defiled alike stepped back to watch a duel for the ages, and neither man nor Demon intended to disappoint. One moment, both stood across from one another, and the next they were locked in bloody combat, though still several meters apart. In utter defiance of logic and reasoning, Jukai’s two sabres fended off dozens of the dagger-like appendages in a cacophony of ringing steel, his feet rooted in place and body untouched beneath the Demon’s onslaught. Some of the attacks were seen off by the sabres themselves, while others were drawn aside by an invisible force, the pinnacle of Deflection on full display as one man and two sabres stood unscathed beneath a flurry of attacks. So flawless a defence, a full arms-length of impenetrable air sat between Jukai and the Demon, a demonstration which made Zian’s attempts seem slow and unpractised in comparison.

The stalemate lasted for long seconds before Jukai’s first step, and to Zian’s dismay, it was a step back. The constant barrage of blades shifted and swerved, probing Jukai’s defences in search of a weakness and found one in his unguarded back, hence the need to retreat. Redoubling its efforts, the Demon surged forward and Jukai skipped away, knowing that if even a single appendage were to slip past his whirling guard, it would spell his defeat. Step by step Jukai gave way, and behind him, the Imperial lines retreated from the duel. Though itching to get involved, Zian swallowed his pride and moved aside, knowing that if he tried to help, then Mentor would die trying to save him.

Instead, he committed everything to memorizing this battle, knowing that if Jukai were to fall, then it would be up to Zian to unlock the secrets hidden behind every move and decision. To bind a Spiritual Weapon, one must become One with the Weapon, but to utilize External Chi to its full extent, one must become One with the World, and only then would Chi remain Chi outside his body instead of returning to the Heavens. That’s how Jukai explained it, and though Zian had yet to have much success beyond Sending, he clung to the words and studied his Mentor’s actions, hoping to find Insight or even mere comprehension to help him along. Deflection was only the most obvious of Jukai’s Chi expenditures and Zian ached to understand the rest. Was there an external version of Lightening which allowed Jukai to move as if in harmony with nature itself? Always retreating yet never stumbling as he tread through mud and over corpses, he darted left and slipped right with supernatural speed and nimble agility unmatched by anything Zian had ever seen. Such celerity required precision and practice, but also raw power as well, so was there also an external version of Reinforcement which raised the limits of the skill? Or was he instead Amplifying every step and pivot to keep up the frenetic pace, a feat which Zian wasn’t sure was possible considering how much focus it would take. One wrong move and an ankle would turn or a knee would blow out, to say nothing of the strain it would put on one’s muscles...

Despite this consummate display of skill, Jukai claimed he was still inferior to Lu An Jing when he died at thirty-one years of age, only six years older than Zian was now. Was the old man a fool or was Zian’s father truly a dragon among men?

A strangled cry escaped his lips as his Mentor took his first wound, merely a shallow cut to the shoulder, but just as the embankment crumbles before the flood, the insignificant wound heralded the coming of disaster. For all his footwork and Deflecting, Jukai could no longer fend off the all-out assault, the dagger-laden Demon closing the distance between them and scoring more hits with each passing second. A graze on the thigh or a gash on the cheek, none of its hits were decisive, but it would only be a matter of time.

Or so Zian thought.

