Another loud bang was followed by a pair of chimes, and then an incandescent arrow zipped past his left ear and buried itself in the left shoulder of the female warrior, making her hiss angrily, followed closely by a volley of Firebolts and Ali’s golden magic. He attacked with his Swipe one more time, and the combined assault finally staggered the warrior. She teetered back and forth momentarily before falling sideways, swords clattering to the ground. Now that he wasn’t taking the bulk of the damage for three people, his Brutal Restoration began to gain ground against the stacked bleeds.

And now you, he thought, unleashing a powerful attack at the annoying Kobold hiding behind his annoying shield with his annoying grin. Time to die!

By the time they killed the Kobold warrior, Mato’s bleeds had already stopped, and his magic had mostly restored his health to normal. What remained would regenerate easily over time.

Your group has defeated Shield Warrior – Kobold – level 20Your group has defeated Bloodletter – Kobold – level 19Your group has defeated Archer – Kobold – level 18-20 x3

He shifted back to his Beastkin Form and poked the annoying Kobold with his foot.

“Ugh, this guy was so annoying,” he complained, sitting down to watch Ali deconstruct the corpse.

“Why?” Ali asked.

“Every time he shouted, I would get disoriented and then find myself attacking him instead of the other one.”

“Must have been a Taunt skill, right?” Malika suggested, coming over to look at the Kobold.

“I think so,” Mato answered. Now that he had a second to actually think through what had happened – well, he had not imagined a Taunt skill would be so … confusing. Every time that grinning one-eyed warrior had shouted at him, his body had seemed to just do stuff on its own without telling him and he would only realize it later. So annoying!

“What’s a Taunt skill?” Ali asked, looking first at the dead Kobold and then at him.

“It’s like when you’re on the playground and you insult the bully to provoke him into fighting you,” Mato answered.

“Why would you want to do that?”

“Well, you can make him start the fight, and then he gets into trouble.”

“No, I meant why would a monster want that?”

“Oh, well this Kobold had a shield and solid defensive skills. Whenever it made me attack him, the other one had free rein to slash me and cause bleeds on all your minions.”

“Is that why my rogue kept attacking it instead of the other one?” she asked.

“Probably.” The rogue had switched to the shield warrior every single time it shouted. But what he hadn’t seen was the shaman changing targets. He glanced at Ali’s Goblin speculatively.

“What I want to know is why it didn’t affect the shaman when it affected me and the rogue,” Mato growled, more than a little annoyed at being pushed around by the Kobold’s skill.

“Most likely the shaman has high wisdom,” Malika answered, sitting down beside them.

“Wisdom? How does that help?”

“I was always taught that wisdom is like endurance for the mind. It makes your mind more resilient to attacks. Taunts are mind-altering attacks, a suggestion, but powered by magic, so the shaman probably just resisted it.”

“Ugh, so I need to invest in wisdom now?”

“I think lots of warriors and rogues simply give up on avoiding Taunt attacks, wisdom doesn’t buy them much,” Malika answered.

“But Mato is a Druid. He has spells, so it might be worth a little wisdom,” Calen added. “If everyone has enough mana, I can go get the next group.”

As Calen set out, disappearing into the darkness of the ruins, Mato considered their words. Having his mind messed with really didn’t sit well with him, and if it were just a matter of spending a few more attribute points on wisdom, he might consider it. He glanced through his skill list, checking the trait tags.

Arboreal Sanctuary, Natural Prowess, and Brutal Restoration, he thought, tallying the skills tagged with wisdom. Perhaps it’s not such a bad idea to invest in more wisdom now and then? Otherwise, I’ll just be a liability at some point.

Ali stood at the feet of the kings’ statues, gazing out across the plaza. As far as her eyes could pierce through the gloom, the broad plaza was littered with piles of bone, trash, rubble, abandoned Kobold campfires, and huge encrustations of bone that were the work of Spitter Drones. Beyond the plaza loomed the dark towering edifice that had once been the Grand Library Arcana.

Ali shivered.

When she had last beheld the library, a horde of monsters had been encamped on the plaza, and she had despaired of ever crossing it. Now, however, it was as deserted as the day the Blind Lich attacked.

“Who are these guys?” Mato asked, breaking off a piece of the bone encrustations that hung from the statues of the kings reaching as high as their waists.

“The three kings of Dal’mohra,” Ali said, glancing up at them. And then, deciding that they deserved better, she continued. “The Dwarf with the Hammer of Justice is Bragni Doomhammer. The big guy with the sword is Artur Dragonsworn – legends say he wielded Dragon Fire. The Elf in the robes is Thaldorien Stormshaper, one of the wisest sages in the land, and the creator of the Grand Library Arcana.”

“You knew them?” Malika asked, gazing up at the enormous stone renditions.

“No, I was hardly important enough to hang out with kings and sages,” she said. She cocked her head and looked at Malika for a moment, and then back at the statues. “I did see Thaldorien once when he visited my mom. He was nice to me. I also remember the one day he just teleported into the center of the library while I was studying, and handed the Head Librarian an incandescent magical tome and vanished, leaving the entire library gasping. He was so cool!”

“That’s an awesome story,” Calen said.

The smile from that memory fell from her face as she remembered she had met them all one more time. “When I last saw them, they had been turned, raised as Death Knights by the evil necromancy of the Blind Lich.”

Mato hissed at the mention of the undead.

Ali shook her head to dispel the disturbing memories, focusing instead on the dark outline of the arched doorway into the library on the other side of the ruined plaza. At her back was the now cleared residential ring of houses where they had been systematically wiping out the horde of Kobolds, Skeletons, and Bone Spitters for the better part of the day now. She was weary but determined to see what had become of her beloved library. Still, just sauntering in there did not strike her as the wisest idea.

Hundreds of tiny Bone Skitterers scrambled away as her feet crunched on the bone-encrusted plaza. The giant stone tower loomed larger as they approached, looking foreboding in the darkness. When she had last been inside, the entire building had been lit by runic magic. Now, it was dull and dark, with bone running up the walls, and what was left of the enormous stone doors hung shattered from ancient worn hinges.

When she had last been inside, she had witnessed Maeria Runeweaver’s murder by a skeleton’s rusty blade.
