Jason took a sip and winced at the burn in his throat. One of his usual sweet and colourful concoctions hadn’t felt right. After the long briefing session, and longer Q&A panel, he needed something that tasted like it could strip varnish.

“How did I do?” he asked.

“Quite well,” Anna said. “You stayed on topic, and on tone. Mostly. Why is it that I’ve been telling you about consistent messaging since long before you get back, but Princess Zara tells you once and you actually listen? And if you make a joke about what you listen with, I’m throwing you off this boat.”

“Don’t think of it as me not listening to you,” Jason said. “Think of it as you laying the groundwork because I’m a slow learner.”

“I find that answer surprisingly acceptable,” Anna said, then sipped at her own drink. “International relations started out rocky, but they were always going to. They are heading in a better direction now, I think.”

“Common enemies make for quick allies,” Danielle said. “And I’m afraid we’ve got a few common enemies too many.”

“This reality core business is certainly bad,” Jason said. “The vampires and their blood plant things are still out there as well. It wasn’t meant to be this hard.”

Danielle nodded.

“What felt like unstoppable power, when we were weak, turned out to be unstoppable only to the weak. As our power grows, our challenges become commensurately more complicated. Your power, Jason, has left you with more complications than anyone of your youth should have to deal with. Or even my relative youth, for that matter. None of us have had time to develop the wisdom these situations demand. We rely on one another and do our best. What is that thing you used to say?”

“Do the best you can with what you have.”

“Indeed. It seems that you had at least a little wisdom from the beginning.”

“I think you should put all of that aside, for now,” Zara said. “Nothing is on fire; the things that need to be done are being done. You’ve got a boat made of clouds, full of friends, a world to show off to them and a plundered pirate ship.”

She nudged his shoulder.

“You could be worse off, Asano.”

Jason looked out over the Australian outback, red dust stretching out to the coast and blue waters beyond. He took a deep breath and let is out slowly.

“I really could be, couldn’t I? It might be time to put the serious business aside for a while. Have a barbecue or two.”

A toothy leech struggled out from his collar and slithered onto his shoulder before rearing up to release an affirming chirp, like a territorial baby bird. Jason let out a chuckle at Colin’s enthusiasm.

“You tell ‘em, Big C.”
