Hello Sovereign, you've been selected as a part of the 7,821st galactic council! As a new Sovereign, you shall be allowed to make an introduction to other ruling members and be allowed to speak with several Overseers and Schema free of charge!

| Note | Length of talk varies. You shall be meeting with other ruler sub-class members, each of you representing the might and prowess of your guilds.

You'll also be expected to create alliances with other guilds and form a tight-knit, galactic community! That's the Schema way! Due to the war with the rebels, donations will be mandatory, but Schema's not going to hold an event like this without the chance for an award. A lottery will be held with a special mystery prize!

Who will win it? It's time to find out!

| Note | Non-participation is considered a declaration of war against Schema. Noncompliance will not be tolerated.

Time till meeting: Galactic standard time - 4 hours. Earth time - 3.5 hours.

Chapter Begin

I read the message and reread it, my stomach sinking at the prospect of being under Schema's thumb. Another message popped upright as my mind started racing.

Don't worry rulers, Schema's thought of everything. We understand that mobility, locations, and even circumstances might be trying considering this is the shortest period between an announcement and the meeting ever recorded! Personal Sentinels will be put into place to escort each member of the council. This ensures you will each make it on time.

No, you will not need a warping specialist. No, you will not be allowed a warping specialist either. Do not ask for permission to bring one. Standard galactic warping will be rescinded with the galactic meeting space to prevent incursions or other issues. Thank you all for your gracious compliance.

After arrival, all weapons and items within dimensional storages will be confiscated, along with other supplies. Several Overseers and many Sentinels will act as guardians during your stay here. Be aware of this, and plan accordingly.

Have an excellent stay on the Schema-owned cruiser and good luck with the lottery.

I grimaced as dread pooling into my stomach. After rubbing my temples for a while, I got my thoughts together. I sent messages to everyone, asking them to have an impromptu emergency meeting at Chrona's home. The open vantage point gave us plenty of room, and it let people fly here from afar.

While everyone gathered, I considered my options. The most worrying part of this process was being warped onto some far-off space shuttle. It could be a nearly infinite distance from home, and I may never get back home if Schema stranded me out into the dark recesses of space. Inevitably, I'd reach inhabited space wherever Schema sent me over decades, centuries, or millennia. With my runes firing at all times, I'd be a destroyer that'd wipe Schema off the face of the galaxy. However, Yawm's contract ensured I may die before I reached Schema or could reach him. The idea of being trapped like that made me nervous.

Maybe finding some loophole in Yawm's contract was possible. I could also survive whatever backlash occurred from it, or I may reverse engineer the cipher. Pulling myself away from these worst-case scenarios, I got myself out of the tunnel and back towards Mt. Verner's peak.

On arrival, I found most of our members already there. Chrona, Krog, Helios, Kessiah, Torix, Althea, and Amara gathered in Chrona's home. Only Hod and Florence lagged behind. Seeing Chrona's less humble abode brought a smile to my face; Helios erected void ice architecture for her.

Like a luxurious version of her home in Rivaria, the permanent ice wafted a dense fog onto the ground at certain spots. Void ice operated strangely. It was essentially ice at absolute zero combined with magic shenanigans, which apparently changed its makeup. Even from a cursory talk with Helios, the process involved loads of complex computations and intricate mathematics. However, it gave way to an abundant, flexible material.

In this case, Helios molded a specialized, insulating glass over the entire expanse. This stopped the void ice from peeling people's skin off when they stepped on it. Flying into an open courtyard at the ice palace's center, my guildmates waited for me in the court. The violet ice architecture left plenty of room for a gialgathen, meaning I didn't scrape my head on the ceilings here.

It also made a chunk of Mt. Verner's peak change into the new material. I kept myself light on the icy glass, not wanting to destroy the beautiful lines and details. I found Chrona resting on an elevated platform, the others around her. Stepping up, I smiled at everyone,

"It's been a while since we all met like this, hasn't it? How is everybody?"

Althea hopped over and gave me a hug, and she tried lifting me. Before she shattered the glass or her bones, I pulled us up with a gravity well. I rested my forehead on hers,

"We have to start thinking about our surroundings. I've gotten heavier lately, so that might not be the best idea."

She rolled her eyes, "If you say so...Hm, you have seemed taller lately now that I think about it."

I held back the size increase with my mass manipulation, but at this point, I stretched that skill's limits. I smiled at Althea, "How's your search going?"

Althea frowned, peering away, "It's...It's been slow. I've been working with Florence to help out settlements here. In particular, I've been working on trying and helping children acclimatized to the system. Torix doesn't work as well with them, and I think I can do a lot of good there."

I hugged her, "That's amazing. What do you mean things have been 'slow?' That's incredible, and I think you're doing great."

She blushed, "Heh...I'm doing my best."

I set us down onto the void ice, and I peered around, "Speaking of Florence, is he with Hod?"

As I said that, Hod flew through the air, holding Florence in his talons. Even from far off, Florence's words rang in my ears,

"Hod, do this like we planned. We must nail the landing. It will be glorious."

Hod lifted his long beak, "Pshh, Hod born for landing. Hod only land well."

I blinked, well aware of Hod's many crashes. As they both swooped over the courtyard, Helios facepalmed at the sight of his brother. The ice mage simmered, "Ah, perfect. Two idiots pairing together. It's a match destined since the dawn of time."

As if on cue, Hod and Florence smashed into one of the voice ice pillars. They both flopped down, each of them plopping into the icy ground. Helios fixed the cracks wherever they landed. Florence lifted his face, his black mask cracked, "Ah, Hod, my man, that was horrible. Like, not even close to being correct."

Hod rolled on the ground before snapping back onto his feet. He spread his wings and lifted a leg, mirroring a yoga pose. He cawed, "Hod trick you. Florence fool and Hod initiate special landing."

He jutted his beak out while hopping in a circle. Mirroring a sprinkler, he let out a few caws and Hodisms before Florence smacked his hand onto the ground. The chatty albony gasped, "Agh, he's outdone me yet again. Making me the joker while he's prepared for this landing...A true genius worthy of fear."

Florence played into the situation without missing a beat, and I blinked at them both. Kessiah burst into laughter, pointing at them both. Our remnant healer guffawed, "Gagh, you both look so dumb. It's been so long since I've seen either of you, and that's how you introduce yourselves?" She gave them an ok gesture with her hand, "Really, you nailed it. Just perfect."

Hod puffed out his thin chest, "Hod know. Hod once thought Hod make mistake once. Hod mistake was Hod thinking Hod make mistake. Hod wrong about Hod being wrong."

Hod tapped the side of his head as if he was saying something profound, "Hod think too much sometimes."

Althea laughed, and she let her hands unwrap from around my neck. I set her back down onto the ground, having held her by her hip up till now. Our sizes were quite different at this point, and I mentally thanked her for her transformative abilities.

No, I'm not diving into more detail about that.

Anyways, with everyone gathered, I raised my hands, "Everyone, I have two announcements. Both needed to be in person."

Krog raised a brow, and he spoke in his gruff voice, "Does it involve reinforcements for Blegara? The eldritch formed a rebellion against our cause, and it's been difficult to pacify the Vagni's support for that faction."

Florence pushed himself up, "Ooh, could it be organizing the new guildsmen with an initiation? Most of the village heads wonder what you're like in person, and I tell them you're larger than life." Florence walked up, raising a hand to the top of my head and barely making it, "Which is even more true now. You're getting swole, Daniel. Slow down and leave some gains for the rest of us."

I frowned, "It's the furnaces. Anyways, no, it's not about either of those issues, though they're important, no doubt, especially the eldritch rebels. What I'm talking about is a set of gifts for all of you."

Amara hissed, "What does it entail? More of your flesh and blood?"

I raised my brow, "Well, yeah."

Amara drooled while rubbing her hands together, "Then all is well."

Chrona pointed her tail at me, "Let him speak. We must listen as this is urgent. He mentioned two announcements, and he wouldn't call us here in an emergency message for just this."

My pocket dimension spawned over me, and I pulled out all the specialized gear I crafted, "For the most part, you're right. I think this might be worth calling you all here by itself, but I'm gathering everyone for the second announcement. I'm getting this out of the way while you're all here."

I dispensed with the grimoires, the new armors, and the rings. I gave Florence and Helios two rings as well, and as I did,  I murmured, "You can take these to the Emperor if you'd like. Just know that by the time he analyzes what this is, it'll be out of date. You won't get anything else after this if you do that too."

Helios peered down at the ring, "Hm...Noted."

Florence snatched the band from my hand. The chatty albony lifted it up, "Ooh, this looks fancy." He put the ring on before taking a step back, "But it feels even fancier. Hah, this is well made. It makes me feel more Daniel-ey. Physically speaking, that is."

Unlike his brother, Helios suppressed his excitement. The ice mage peered back and forth between the ring and Florence. Helios gazed off while sliding the ring onto a clawed hand, "I suppose...I'll accept the gift." His pale blue eyes widened under his mask as the band took effect. He murmured, "That's...This is a developed enchantment. It's potent."

I smiled, "It's the tip of the iceberg."

Behind me, Amara lifted her new grimoire, studying the book and its intricacies. She sat down and opened it before gripping it from both sides. She spoke with surprising emotion,

"This...It will make operating with cipher much simpler than before. It dwarfs anything I've ever been given. Thank you, Harbinger."

Torix gawked at his grimoire while scoffing, "It's as if you'd devoted yourself to ceasing my technological renaissance. Why, if every magical device carried these conveniences, obelisks would become obsolete."

Althea stared down at hers, "Uhh...Why did you make one for me?"

I shrugged, "You can use my armors and the books themselves to fuel simple magical spells. I know you don't like using your blood magic, but this should give you a lot of utilities if you take advantage of it."

She pursed her lips, "Thanks. This is really cool."

I smiled, "That's my intention. You got a new set of armor as well."

Althea walked up to her mobile exoskeleton, "Yeah, it's definitely a step up from what you gave us before. It's kind of...I don't know, a huge leap. It looks like power armor, just using your fabric's innate abilities rather than hydraulics."

I frowned, "Yeah, it is."

Althea leaned over it, "It's really neat...And it looks like it would require a pilot or skill to use. Heh, I hope I can get it up and running on my own, but who knows. It could be tougher than it looks."

I cupped my chin, "You know, I thought the same thing. I think it'll be fine for the most part. Don't get in it until I get back, though."

Althea tilted her head, "Back from what?"

I sighed before opening my status. I turned it to everyone, "Schema's called the first galactic council since I obtained my Sovereign class. I'm set to introduce myself, my guild, etc. I wanted each of you to know where I intend to go with the guild and what kind of plans I have for the future. If there's something you don't like, now will be the time to say it."

I turned a hand to everyone, "Everyone, I know I've been disengaged from the day-to-day affairs of the guild lately, and I haven't been discussing my future plans with any of you. By knowing my intentions, you'll all get a better idea of what we'll be working towards in the future."

I spread the Rise of Eden over everyone, "You all know about this aura. I also have Event Horizon, and most of you've experienced that as well. However, I've discovered recently that Schema and I have come to a crossroads regarding my auras and mana. I don't hate the AI, but at the same time, he's put us me one bad spot after the other."

I sighed, "The best example...It's Yawm. That was before most of you arrived, but those that experienced it will know what I mean. We were trapped on Earth and pitted against Yawm of Flesh. He was over 10,000 levels above us with Etorhma's cipheric augments. This gave him ridiculous powers, and it was a miracle we survived."

I let my hands flop against my sides, "That was a death sentence. No quests or additional support during the war with Elysium was a cakewalk compared to that. The gialgathens also suffered cruel fates where they were allowed to be killed by Schema since they weren't in the system."

