I grimaced, "And Schema didn't get rid of our unknown statuses...He also left Hod's species to die. I mean, in all honesty, the system and our circumstances have been tugging us around for a while. So far, survival has dictated what we'll do next."

I waved a hand, "I'll ensure that won't be an issue any longer. I'm going to establish Earth as a primary fortress for our guild. I'll be making thousands of cities over the planet, enough that a Spatial Fortress or two will have to think twice before landing here. They'll face a horde and me at full force."

I pointed into the sky, "There are planets in our solar system that are terraformable as well, like mars, venus, maybe even the moon. We're in a unique situation where we can pull those planets from the brink. I'll talk with specialists to see how feasible each location is. I'll be finding fringe worlds to colonize as well as my golems are Fringe Walkers. Each and every one of them."

I let my hand down, "And last but not least, I've also allied with a non-Schema entity. It's a dangerous gamble I'm making, but at the same time, I know this entity is a huge opportunity for us. We'll be able to expand our guild's options exponentially moving into the future by associating with this person. I'll elaborate more later."

I looked at everyone from above, "Is there anything anyone wants to add that I should mention to the galactic council? Maybe something someone disagrees with."

Florence stepped up, squeezing a hand where he wore his new ring. He stared at his hand before giving it a nod. He smiled at me under his cracked mask before reaching up and placing a palm on my shoulder. He said, "May I speak?"

I stepped aside while generating a pillar of stone for Florence. I lunged to one knee, making me stick out less. Florence spread out his hands, "So, you all know I'm a member of the Empire and an albony royal. I've been a member of this privileged class since birth, and I've done well under that system."

Florence put his hands on his hips, "But I've disagreed with it. I've disagreed with how we've handled natives, other populaces, and even how we manage planets from the ground up. Working with each of you has been a breath of fresh air. It's amazing that such a group of talented individuals from so many different species have come together under one cause. I know you're all used to it, but I can tell you from an outsider's perspective; it's extraordinary."

Florence peered at me, "You all know the cause, but it deserves to be spoken aloud. You're the reason for this, Daniel. You gave each of us a new home to call our own, and we all couldn't be more grateful for it. Please, stand."

I looked up at him in surprise, but I stood up. Chrona and Krog called out in unison, other gialgathens in the distance joining them. Hod spread out his wings and bowed. The others, even Amara, lunged to one knee and gave me a bow as well. Only Helios stayed standing, but he lowered his head regardless. Florence hopped off his platform before lunging with them.

He bowed, and as he did, he removed his dark, wooden mask. A joyful, jovial smile of his stared at the ground. He said,

"I, for one, have gained so much since coming here, and I can't imagine going back to the Empire."

Florence tossed his covering aside, and Helios gawked as the wooden mask tumbled on the ground. Florence put a hand over his chest, "If you're willing, please, I'd be honored to join your guild."

Florence made the most of the slight gesture, showing a willingness to throw it away. Without a second thought, I opened my status, sending him an invite. Florence accepted, and his bow and tone of voice deepened,

"Thank you, Harbinger. You've given all of us a home, and whatever you want to do, we're all for it. Really, you don't have to ask for my input. I'm all in, and I think everyone else is as well."

No one disagreed, and I stared at the group. They stayed in place for a while, and Florence's speech almost brought tears to my eyes. I hadn't expected it, and it really caught me off guard in a good way.

I stammered, "T-thank you guys. This really isn't necessary. I'm just doing what I can."

Florence peered up with clear blue eyes, "Come now, you deserve some recognition. I think everyone can agree with that?"

Krog and Chrona growled out in the back, other gialgathens joining the cry. Hod's form flared out with umbral fire. Althea whisper-shouted, "Go, Daniel. Wooh."

Kessiah shook her head, "You saved my ass, that's for sure."

Torix's fire eyes flared green, "Whatever you decide to do from here, I shall support it however I can. You've done a fine job, all things considered."

I swallowed back a wave of emotion before lifting my hands, "Ok, that's enough, guys. I can't take anymore."

Althea ran up and gave me a hug. Hod joined, and Florence walked up and put a hand on my shoulder. Torix joined, along with Krog and Chrona, who put their tails on me. I gave everyone a small smile, "Thanks. We'll be doing big things from here. I promise you all that much."

They all let me go and backed up. With the cheesy but warm moment over, Chrona gave me a grin while spreading her wings, "You took us from a doomed planet and extinction to several new ones with clean waters and open fields. I shall always miss what Giess was, but I know that this will be a fine home in the future. Whatever your guild does, the gialgathens will serve under it. For now, and for all time."

Krog smacked his chest with his tail, "We stand by you."

I soaked in the unexpected congratulations, feeling good about what I'd done for once. I took a breath, peering at the time. The meeting would take place in an hour, but the Sentinel would arrive in a minute to get me situated. I closed my eyes, "Then I won't let you guys down."

I released my Mass Manipulation skill. As I did, I cracked my neck and rolled my shoulders. I waved out the stiffness from the magic while spinning my arms. The others gawked at me, even the gialgathens staring up by the time I finished my full expansion.

I peered behind me, "When the Sentinel arrives, I'll be expecting each of you to test out the new gear. Well, everything aside from the armors. When I get back, I'll show you how to use them."

Helios gawked up at me, "A-Are you expanding yourself?"

Behind me, a tear in dimensions popped into existence. I turned to Helios, "Actually, I've been shrinking myself this entire time."

Our old friend, Spear, walked out from the cleaved space-time behind me. He was my Sentinel chauffer. It looked like Schema had a sense of humor.

I smiled at the Sentinel,  "Hey, long time no see. It's been a few weeks."
