Nathan almost objected, but Sarya cut him off with a raised finger. “Don’t start with a false premise. This is a stealth exercise, not a combat one. I don't want things getting messy, and you will not disturb the peace of my city. You may flee from them, but you cannot fight them. If any guard touches you, then you will hand over one of the slips of paper as their prize. At the end of the day, they will report the score, in paper found versus paper taken.” Her smile turned sly. “They’ll be rewarded for every paper they take, so they’re motivated. And they won’t lie about it.”

“Do I get a reward?” Nathan asked glumly, seeing the nature of the game. Being chased by the guards could be fun, but if they were competent, it might also be a pretty terrible slog.

“Normally, I offer enchanted trinkets or additional training. But that doesn’t strike the right chime, does it?” She replied, then tapped her chin in thought. “What treasure would serve? Ah, a few things. Books on spellwork. No grand Insights, but from Ushia's words, you should gain interest from even basic spellbooks. Further rewards will be in luxuries. A meal of finest ingredients for each slip you deliver.”

Nathan traded a look with Khachi, who shrugged. “It is your burden,” the wolfman said.

With a sigh, Nathan took the pieces of paper. They weren’t enchanted, but each was stamped with a complex pattern that would be quite challenging to replicate. “Alright. Just into the city, and then any guard I see?”

“Guard captain. Symbol on the shoulder,” Sarya replied with a nod, then shooed him away. “So I may have theological discussions in peace and without the interruptions you will have."

Nathan went, quickly finding his way out of the palace and heading down the causeway towards the city of Kehonia.

As he left, his skill-enhanced hearing allowed him to hear Khachi ask Sarya a question. “How many do you expect him to plant?”

The response was quiet, but amused. “One or two. My guards are good.”

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 84400/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 564

Regenerative Focus: 5740/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 3

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 2

Arcane Insight 4

Evasion 1

Mental Vault 5

Tutoring 9

Parkour 9

Visibility Control 5

High-tier Disguise 5

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
