Niala was on the bed next to her husband, holding hands, while their consciousness were pointed inward.

At David's suggestion, they had opened the door linking them, with Niala consuming his mana to keep it open. Now, instead of having to feel out her body for signs of the fel essence, she could hunt for them.

It made things so much easier.

And also a bit concerning, because there were a lot.

To make matters worse, they exhibited limited survival instincts; when she began exterminating them in one area of her internal library, they fled to other parts.

Infuriating.

But she had to keep at it if she wanted to feel clean again.

David's projection walked beside her. The feeling when he'd “come inside” had been strange, at first. Like when you swallowed a too-large pill, and you could feel it go down your throat.

That had passed quickly, though, and been replaced with panic when David's projection had begun “dissolving”, its outer edges fraying and floating away in globules.

They had rushed back to the door, realizing as they did that his projection simply kept regenerating, never losing more than its periphery.

With time to think, it had become evident that they were seeing the effect of Niala's passive mana-eating ability. With some practice, she was able to suppress it, at least where David was concerned.

Now, his presence felt like a little ball of warmth that moved around inside her body. It was, all things told, quite enjoyable.

Really, no matter how, having David inside her was-

She shook the thought off with a massive blush. Peeking over her shoulder, he hadn't seemed to notice. Instead, he was busy looking at the books lined up on the shelves.

So much that he'd stopped walking.

She frowned and stepped back to him. “David? Is there something?”

He looked at her, then back at the book. “Did you ever try to read them?”

Her ears wiggled. “The books? Not really. They're only this clear when the door's opened... oh.”

She didn't wait for his next words, her hand flying up to the tome he'd been staring at. Her fingers touched... a book. Leather-bound, with a title that she couldn't read, but was certain meant “Muscle Relaxant potion.”

She shared a look with David, who shrugged. She gently tugged at the book. It shifted slightly toward her. At the same time, she felt a twinge of pressure in her head. Nothing that hurt, just... as if a finger had gently pressed a tiny point in her brain.

With furrowed brows, she pulled out the book in its entirety. The same ghostly touch in her brain reappeared, and this time remained. Still no pain, more of a hard-to-ignore presence.

She opened the book, looking inside.

Again, it was filled with squiggly lines that she couldn't read, and yet the text was the most evident thing ever.

All of her notes, thoughts, ideas, and information about the muscle relaxant potion. If anything, her memories of it were the clearest she'd ever had. The knowledge contained in the book felt solid in a way thoughts couldn't.

She turned the book toward David. “Can you read this?”

He squinted at the squiggles. “...No, but... it feels as if this is a potion formula, somehow?”

Her ears twitched. “It is.” She said with some wonder.

She snapped the book closed and pushed it back where it had come from, and quickly found another one to pull out, this time about a Bowel Clearing potion. Same feeling, same unshakable knowledge. She could probably pass out, and she'd still remember this.

That book quickly returned to its spot, only for her hand to pull another, and another, and so on. The results stayed the same each time.

She'd always had an incredible memory, but this was a step above. For whichever book she had in her hands, she had perfect recollection of the knowledge held within.

She tried going to other sections of the library, to books that looked older, their lettering faint. Memories of when she was young, things that were more dreams than actual images. Taking out the book made the fog disappear. Her memory of finding her first rare wild ingredient, in infinite details, clear as crystal.

She didn't yet know what to make of it, but she was certain it would be useful at some point.

And it was all thanks to her stupidly mana-tuned husband. She smiled and put the book away. She held out a hand to David, who grasped it, and then dragged him to another section, her mind telling her the way to what she was looking for.

They arrived in a section where the bookshelves were mostly empty, though one end of the row had a few books, and, getting closer, had a book in the process of forming; it appeared ghostly, and the title read something like “exploring inner library with my hunk.”

She coughed. David looked at her with puzzled eyes. She thanked the saints that he couldn't read the titles.

She turned toward David, smiling at him. She could feel the confusion through their link, but he smiled back anyway.

He doesn't know why I'm happy, he's just happy that I am...

With a few dainty steps, she pressed herself into him, languidly embracing him, and looking up at his face, her eyes twinkling.

He understood her silence, his smile widening, and bent forward, pressing his lips against hers.

They let the kiss endure; a soft and comfortable thing.

Next to them, the forming book shone bright and fully materialized.

She pulled back, giving him a wink, and turned toward the book. Already, next to it, the faint outline of a new one was visible. She pulled at the hunk book and opened it.

In her mind, the feeling of a long, loving kiss solidified. Every second, every moment of it, remembered in perfect detail.

She wondered what other kind of memories she could retrieve and relive.

Blushing, she gave David a timid smile.

Well, she could think of a few...

Rupert Dellong, Niala's “uncle”, the middle-aged bunnykin who Cornelius had asked to come manage his daughter's “country”, leaned back in his padded chair after having finished tallying up all of the Allwarden's finances.

It had been his first self-appointed task, and a sorely needed one. While Linzy, the saleswoman, had kept a clear log of the potion shop's transactions, it was incomplete, only listing the sales and direct costs. It made no effort to account for passive expenses, losses, unsold goods, and so on.

He smirked. Niala was very much like her father in that regard. Those annoying little numbers just got in the way of alchemy. He hoped that Cornelius gave Mahala a small prayer of gratitude every night.

Closing the book and putting away his pen, ruler and autobacus, he got up and stretched, walking up to the window of his second-story office in the Allwarden's embassy. The day was drawing to a close, painting the vista a soft orange.

A warm smile drew across his lips as he watched a small family leave the public park, heading back home. If anyone needed proof that this “Reign Ascendant” was nothing but a paper nation, this was it. Who let foreign civilians roam on their embassy grounds?

The Allwardens did.

It still felt strange to think of his “niece” as the matriarch of a noble house, but he figured he'd get used to it, even if she had the profile of a princess instead of a queen.

He frowned. Was that right? Or was he just too cynical to accept that a ruler could be benevolent, kind, and genuine?

A ruler... in the present, an empty crown. In the future, though...

The weeks of number crunching he'd done had culminated in an honestly frightening outlook. Panacea Potions, in its current state, would remain highly profitable, though its growth potential was finite given the limited scope of the business, and he knew Niala had no intentions of changing that.

And it wasn't as if she would need to. After repeated discussion with Luke Wayman, David's brother, the pair's wealth evidently lay in the Old Woman brewery.

Luke's “Boudoirs” were also a stroke of genius, and Rupert had elected to enter a partnership with the merchant and his wife. No longer just a supplier, the Old Woman Brewery would become a major shareholder in the Old Woman Boudoir company, funding expansion and reaping in the profit.

There were also the fruit water drinks, which Rupert had strongly suggested to Luke should be sold in his Boudoirs.

So far, they had a single location testing the marketability, but the numbers practically guaranteed wider deployment.

The small set-aside portion of the warehouse was woefully unsuited to produce the quantities they would need, however.

Which was why they had bought a warehouse complex in Longwater and were having it transformed into a manufactory. The town already had a vibrant market of fruits from all over the continent, and would tap into it.

Further, the condensed syrup used to make the Fruit-ices had a relatively long shelf-life, at least a season, and could be diluted to recreate chilled fruit water with barely a difference in taste.

He'd also had a team, on loan from the Cococo, work on additional commercialization of the fruit syrup. So far, they had found that it made a wonderful additive to cakes and pastries, giving a subtle, fragrant taste without adding too much sugar.

Plans were being drawn up for an Old Woman bakery.

And then, of course, there was the topic of the mana crystal mines, up north, in the so-called Living Vault.

That one... was practically set and forget. All he needed was to ensure that the mining output was properly measured, and the exploitation fees would follow.

Given the expected value of said mana crystals, he suspected that, under his guiding hand, the Allwardens would own half of Riverwall within a few years. And, if that revenue was used to fuel the Old Woman brand's expansion, he could easily envision a catering empire seizing the market in the same frame of time.

He sighed. If he was being honest, he hadn't been certain what Cornelius was throwing him in when he'd contacted him. The man's messages were as useless as they were flowery.

“Great opportunity!” He'd written. “My daughter's legacy requires a strong and storied hand on the rudder!”

Rupert would have accepted anyway, given what he owed Cornelius, but he would have been the first to admit to more than a bit of trepidation at the prospect of setting foot in Amberfall once again.

He was mostly certain that nobody was looking for him anymore, but there was always the chance.

Though here, now, in this so-called embassy, with, of all things, a nascent business to nurture and grow, protected by well-trained Azure Guards, he felt... good.

Running the Sonnell branch of the Cococo had been fulfilling, yes, but it was an established business. Opportunities to grow had been few and far between.

The Old Woman Empire, in contrast, was young and bursting with opportunities.

He turned and picked up the sample Old Woman-branded mug on his desk, heading to the kettle to mix himself a cup of Old Woman, and smiled.

For the daughter of the man to whom he owed more than his life, and for the simple joy of raising a new business to dominance, he would do his best.

And, as the people who had wanted to have him removed could attest, if any were still alive after Cornelius and his late wife had been done with them, Rupert Dellong's best could be frightening.

Anaakendi sat facing Hodge, both of them looking at each other with a grim disposition.

After the abomination had been slain, she had left the flotilla to investigate what they were calling the Deadwoods, the Hummer's previous territory. If there were more temples, more of these people, she needed to know.

She had found more and, staying outside, had tasked the winds to explore within.

She wasn't willing to risk entering the lair of magivores.

From what the air currents whispered back, they all seemed abandoned or dormant.

Except one.

Near the centre of the territory, one massive pyramid made of the same white stone stood. That one, she hadn't needed to listen to the wind. The whole thing had been positively thrumming with energy.

No movement, and no obvious reaction to her presence, but she just knew something was happening there, even if she didn't know what, exactly.

And thus, she had come back and told Hodge of everything: the fight, David and Niala's conditions, and what she had seen further north-east.

It pained her, but she had to admit that she was out of her element. For the longest time, she had thought the beast that had attacked Riverwall so long ago had been a pit beast of some sort. The fels, as a threat, were mostly a mystery to her. To learn that they were people had been aggravating. To know the height of power that the fels could reach had been stilling.

Neither of the incarnations knew what to do with this. They both agreed that something had to be done, but their minds refused to provide a solution. It was as if there was a wall that kept them from seeing the way forward.

Hence, their current staring contest.

The only thing they could do was keep an eye on the pyramid; Anaakendi would fly out there regularly, while Hodge would try to find records among the varied books in his pile.

Neither thought it was enough, but it was all they could do.

They would, obviously, tell David and Niala, but not now. It would wait until they had healed and gotten stronger.