Lara hadn't realized that she was desperate to have someone kiss her like that, until someone actually kissed her like that. Like she was air, and they wanted to take as many breaths of her as they could before they died. Her body responded appropriately, and she grew sensitive in certain spots. It felt like an itch that she needed to scratch, and she moaned into his mouth as his hands left the sides of her face and moved down her body.

Ren felt her desperation and immense need to be held. He ran his hands quickly across her small chest, around to her back, and down to cup her other cheeks. She gasped into his mouth as he grabbed her backside tightly. He picked her up easily a moment later, and she wrapped her legs and arms around him automatically. They still had their lips locked together, and Ren started to move his head back to ask where to go.

Lara broke the kiss before he could and looked at him “My closet. Down there and to the right.”

Ren practically ran down to where she said. Lara opened the door for him when they got there. He stepped inside and she shut the door behind them.

Warning!

You have entered a game restricted area. All skills, abilities, bonuses, and effects have been temporarily suspended. They will be restored once you leave the game restricted area.

Please Note: Blue Screen protocol is in effect.

Once inside the closet, they started to kiss again, and Ren still held her easily. He massaged the part he was holding, and Lara didn't know how long she could take him holding her like that, and not do anything about it. Almost as if he knew what she was thinking, he moved his hands to her lower back, and she unwrapped her legs from around him.

“We... have to... stop.” Lara said, a little breathless as she broke the kiss, and stood up. “You... you should go.”

“Lara...”

“I told you before, Ren. My real name is Lisa.” Lara said, and ran her hands through his hair. It was just too tempting not to. She sighed and smiled. “Is it Lisa you're kissing, or Lara the Sage of Ages?”

“Yes.” Ren said, and Lara stopped moving her hands and looked at him.

“Wh-what?”

“Yes, that's who I'm kissing.”

“But... you didn't choose.”

“I don't have to.” Ren said. “It's you.”

“Ren...”

“Do you honestly think I could run as far as I just did in real life? Not to mention carrying you while I did it?”

Lara opened her mouth to respond, and Ren put a finger to her lips.

“I'd probably die of a heart attack if I tried.” Ren said. “I'm still me, no matter what I can and can't do.”

“But...” Lara said, and the movement on her lips made it feel like she kissed his finger.

“No buts.” Ren said. “You're you, and it doesn't matter what name you want to use.” He said and moved his hands to cup the sides of her face. “We're all alone in here. No one else can see us. No one else can hear us.” He smiled. “I don't even have my Aura, or any of my awesome abilities.”

Lara put her hands on his. “Ren, I...” She blushed, and Ren felt the heat through her skin.

“I think this is the start of our time together.” Ren said, and she nodded.

“I knew it was going to happen soon, but...” Lara shook her head. “Never mind.” She said and leaned in. “Can... can you...” Her blush deepened. “...kiss me like that again?”

“It'll be your pleasure.” Ren said, and she laughed. It was a genuine laugh and a pleasant sound; one that he felt she hadn't made in a long time. He kissed her again like he had before, and laugh was the last thing she wanted to do right then.
