If she had gone fast, Erick would never have stood a chance. The first attack came from the tail, at what must have been quarter strength and speed; Erick saw it coming, thanks to [Swift Movement], but still, his Handy Aura wasn’t strong enough. The tail carved through a hundred telekinetic arms before Erick caught the whip and severed the bladed part.

The second attack was a charge, with the twenty-foot tentacles leading the way. If Sizzi had attacked with her full force, Erick would have lost, but because the tentacles only came in at half speed, and because he was using [Swift Movement], he caught them and broke them all.

Flying above the monster now, and with no way for Zog to attack him, Erick severed both of its arms at the shoulders, ending the fight.

Erick floated away, saying, “If this wasn’t a training scenario, you would have won, Sizzi. Your monster is really good.”

No one said a word.

Erick looked around. Kiri, Zimmy, Waelog, Lowhit, and even Draz, were silent. Kiri was smiling, though. Sizzi was tending to Zog, gently pouring mana into the monster’s violet body like she was caring for a hurt animal, regrowing his not-flesh, treating him like a wounded animal. Which was probably how Sizzi thought of the skill. Poi was simply beaming pride.

These reactions were strange, though. He clearly lost, right?

Erick asked, “What did that look like to you? Because Sizzi pulled all of her attacks.” He looked at Sizzi. “You pulled your attacks, right?”

Sizzi turned to him, smiling, saying, “Zog was limited to about half power, which is as much as I used against anyone else. According to arena rules, you won that fight, fair and square. I could have given them different skills, but that wouldn’t have been good remedial training.” She turned back to her monster, whispering, “You did really good, Zog. Good boy, yes you are. You’re a good boy.”

The monster seemed to smile, as much as a massive jawed, demon-beast of a chimeric creature could smile.

Draz spoke up, “You still failed, though, Erick! Obviously! Still weeks of learning left to learn.”

Erick smiled. “I’ll do better next time, sir.”

“SEE THAT YOU DO!” Draz cleared his throat. “Uh. Archmage.”

- - - -

Everyone did a lot better the second time, including Erick. [Swift Movement] was crucial for all fighting scenarios. In retrospect, this fact was obvious. Moving faster made everyone else slow down, and slower things were easy to deal with, duh. When they broke for a rest on benches of stone Erick [Stoneshape]d from the ground, Erick learned something else interesting.

“You’re a Scion of Focus, too?”

Sizzi said, “Yes, Archmage. I fell in love with [Conjure Force Elemental] before I matriculated, and the only way to make it work right was to have an endless supply of mana.”

“Ah. That would explain why I haven’t seen other people use the skill. People don’t like Scion of Focus for some reason.” Erick almost asked her about her thoughts regarding Willpower versus Focus, but he wanted to stay on topic. “So how does this skill work, anyway?”

Sizzi frowned. “Most mages use their little guys to trigger traps. Or even worse, as extra bodies on the field, just to tie up the monsters long enough to gather them all in one spot, and then fireball them all.”

“Are your constructs conscious?”

Sizzi stared out across the sands, across the crystal agave horizon. Wind blew across the land, causing the nearby agaves to tinkle and chime in the breeze. Eventually, Sizzi said, “No. They’re not conscious. I wish they were, but they’re not.”

Erick smiled softly. “Ah.” Then he added, “It would be hard for me to send childhood friends against monsters, too, even if they were imaginary. But people aren’t immortal like the mana ocean; maybe the same particles have been through your summons more than once.”

Sizzi paled, then relaxed, then tried not to smile as she sighed.

Draz shouted, “Break time is over!” Then he spoke to Sizzi, “Can you do two more rounds?”

She shook her head. “Sorry, Draz. I only have time for one more.”

“That’s fine. Thanks for coming.” He shouted at Waelog, “You’re up!”

When it was Erick’s turn, he utterly demolished every bunny and dismembered Zog, but stopped before he took Zog’s head. [Swift Movement] was truly crucial for keeping himself ahead of Sizzi’s monsters.

- - - -

After Sizzi went back to town, Draz returned the class back to the sandy arena in the Adventurer’s District, where Erick proceeded to get his face smushed into the sand, quite a lot.

But he might have been getting better. He felt more comfortable using [Swift Movement], even with the constant HP drain the skill demanded.

When the class was over for the day, Erick’s day still wasn’t over.

Erick and Poi [Teleport]ed out into the Crystal Forest, 800 kilometers north-northwest of Spur. It was time to finish off a skill, and build another one. After Meditation revealed no eyes, and a high flight into the sky revealed no people, as far as Erick or Poi could see, Erick began.

Shaped X [Withering].

A slime [Withering] fell to the ground, and expanded to the north, rolling over everything and killing dozens of mimics as it flowed.

Five minutes later, another slime [Withering] flowed south, killing dozens more mimics, and Erick got one more notification.

Withering Level up!

Withering X, 1 minute per level, super long range, 500 MP

Purge all water from all monsters in super large area, dealing <damage> every second. Cleanse the land around every monster killed in this way.

Particle Mage Only.

Erick was pretty comfortable with the skill now, but there were two more steps to take. After seven minutes of Meditation and a flight dozens of kilometers to the east —flying was such a great part about life on Veird— Erick was ready for the first hurdle.

Shaped X [Withering].

As the near-invisible spell dropped to the sands below like a god dumping a bucket of heavy air, another notification appeared.

Withering Slime, 10 minutes, super long range, 1000 MP.

Unleash a super large wave of semi-sentient magic that searches for monsters and purges them of all water, dealing <damage> every second. Cleanse the land around every monster killed in this way.

Particle Mage Only.

Erick set down on the sands below, next to the dried out sapphire corpse of a crystal mimic. He Handy Aura’d the largest block of blue not-stone apart, then plucked the glittering rad out from the center. He put it in a pocket, then did something slightly new.

Aurify.

[Withering Slime].

The manasphere seemed to realign in some fundamental way around Erick, as a notification appeared.

And the sky rumbled from horizon to horizon.

Domain of the Withering Slime, 2 MP per second, aura, super long range

Provide an anchor for the Withering Slime to exist on your world.

Particle Mage Only.

“Okay!” Erick yelled, as the sky opened up, though it was already a perfectly clear day. “That’s different! But I like it!”

Something vast and near-invisible reached down from the cloudless sky, like a gentle pseudopod, like a giant, silent friend, expanding, expanding. Poi yelled something, but Erick couldn’t hear; he was too focused on the vastness rushing down from on high. It wasn’t really there, but it made a noise like the loudest rainstorm Erick had ever heard.

The empty sky seemed to reach for Veird; for Erick. Erick lifted his hands to the magic, and the magic responded like an invitation granted. An ocean of otherworldly warmth flowed down and through him as it rushed across the sands of the Crystal Forest. White light glowed in the air five feet away from him, coalescing in an amorphous blob. The light flexed, and suddenly Erick was the center of a pale white orb, the center of a twisting intangible sea of mana. Erick was the core of the largest slime Veird had ever seen.

Mimic death notifications pinged.

Poi sent Erick, ‘Are you okay, sir?’

Erick looked around. Poi was gone. ‘Of course I’m okay! Where are you?’

‘I am about four hundred meters up and away from you, because you’re currently in the middle of a very, very large monster.’

Erick laughed. ‘It’s my aura! It’s not a monster! Though the spell description might beg to differ. Does it look like a monster?’ Erick spoke to his spell, “Are you a monster? No you’re not!”

The spell did not respond, which was okay, but kinda disappointing.

Erick sent, ‘Touch it? It shouldn’t hurt you.’

Poi sent, ‘Uhh… That seems like a bad idea.’

‘Oh nooOO!’ Erick mocked, ‘I see some assassins out here!’

Poi spoke right beside Erick, “That’s not funny.”

Erick yelped, quickly stepping to the side. He turned to Poi, who was standing in the glowing white ‘core’ of the Withering Slime, looking rather perturbed. Erick frowned; Poi frowned right back.

“Thank you for showing up in my hour of need. You’re my hero.”

Poi sighed, then turned to the pale white sphere. It was almost completely translucent, but it was still certainly there. Poi touched the edge of the white sphere. Nothing happened. Poi stepped completely out of the white sphere, into the 'goo' of the Withering Slime. Still, nothing happened.

Poi dropped a shimmering blue [Weather Ward] where he stood. Erick could only tell it was a [Weather Ward] because the Withering Slime expanded away from that space. Poi’s skin stopped shimmering; he must have been wearing a [Weather Ward], too. Poi reached for the edge of his [Ward]…

He paused.

Erick said, “Just touch it!”

Poi stuck his hand beyond his [Ward], into the Withering Slime.

Nothing happened.

Poi sighed in relief. “Mind if I look at the spell?”

Erick handed him the box for [Domain of the Withering Slime].

Poi’s eyes went wide. He dismissed the box. “Are you near Aurify 3, yet?”

Aurify 2

Transform an AOE spell into a semi-permanent effect surrounding yourself, based upon the parameters of the Aurified spell. Increase an instantaneous spell to a 1 second duration in order to create an aura.

Able to support 1 aura at a time.

You may choose who or what is affected by your aura.

Doubles the range on an Aurified spell.

Exp: 728,109/1,000,000

“Not quite yet.” Erick said, “I still got a ways to go.”

Mimic death notifications flicked across Erick’s vision.

Erick looked out across the Crystal Forest. “The range on this thing is pretty huge, isn’t it?”

Poi said, “If you saw it from the air, you would not be so comfortable at its core.”

Erick looked around. “Is it actually a slime core?”

“It certainly looks like one, but it’s obviously not.” Poi added, “… Probably.”

Notifications still rolled in.

Erick wondered how far his Domain actually reached.

… Notifications still rolled in.

Hmmm…

Erick waited till the notifications slowed, one every ten seconds, then he turned off his aura. Erick watched as thickened air turned thin, the white ‘core’ around him unlayering, like ash drifting into the sky, peeling away with the wind, rejoining the manasphere.

Erick said, “That was all quite impressive. But! It's time to go home...” He looked at his notifications. “… And deal with all these.”

With a blip of white, Erick [Teleport]ed both Poi and himself back to Spur.

- - - -

When Erick called down the Withering Slime to Veird, he killed every single mature crystal mimic in 10 kilometers. He didn’t see what came after he left, though the crystal mimic life cycle had come up twice now during his nightly telepathic conversations with Jane; he knew what would happen in the space he had cleared.

Over the following hours and days, juvenile mimics slithered out of their hiding spots in the real agaves, to soak up the mana in the air that the dead adults could not, to crystallize a rad from their own dust supplies, and from the mana in the air; to grow. Many matured faster than their counterparts, and thus dominated the absorption of resources in their area. When one of those fresh adults found a dried out mimic corpse, since it was organic and not an agave, they ate it and the rad inside, like beef jerky spiced with rock candy. Those who ate the rads instantly bounced from level 30, to 31; they didn’t have to wait to grow their power on their own.

And thus the cycle of life in the Crystal Forest continued, barely interrupted.
