Each translucent, flying magenta bunny, inverted, into bright, blood-red spike monsters. Too many teeth, too many exposed tentacles and guts, too large of a central eye. They glowed bright red, and then they cackled.

The monsters cackled, and they all sped up.

Erick smiled and laughed. “They’re so cute!”

Zimmy whispered, “They’re ungodly monsters...”

Well, yes. They were ungodly monsters, but this whole summoning-thing looked like the workings of a child who wanted friends, who only had conjured monsters to work with. Erick might have been way off on that guess, though. But kids back on Earth drew crazy monsters all the time. If they had access to [Conjure Force Elemental], Erick wouldn’t be surprised if some of them made creatures like Sizzi’s.

Erick really should pay more attention to the fight.

Waelog blurred. She was an orcol with a ‘fast forward’ button. Countless bunny-monsters ripped out of the air as Waelog smashed and crashed, but she was still surrounded. She zipped out of the melee; the bunny-monsters trailing her. Three stuck to her body with long tentacles, trying to gnaw at her armor, but she was past that distraction. Her spear was pointed at Zog, and Zog wasn’t moving.

Something really fast happened. Erick didn’t see what.

But Waelog was on the ground, groaning. Zog’s crab arm was gone, but its tentacle arm was wrapping around Waelog—

“All stop!” Sizzi shouted, “All retreat!”

The monster-bunnies flipped inside out again, hiding the red monster inside, revealing the fluffy pink-violet outside, with big floppy ears and long hoppy feet. Zog leapt away from Waelog.

Waelog stayed on the ground, staring at the sky, defeated. She sighed, more resigned than angry.

Sizzi petted Zog’s flank, while the remaining bunnies hopped around her feet. Sizzi shed violet mana like a tree in fall. Mana soaked into Sizzi’s monster. Zog’s crab arm regrew. Seven bunnies became 10, those 10 became 20, then 30.

Erick looked up [Conjure Force Elemental].

Conjure Force Elemental 1, variable duration, close range. 10 MP + Variable

Conjure a Force construct under your command. Constructs operate based on mana.

Purchase [Conjure Force Elemental 1] for 1 point? Yes/No

Not yet.

Erick asked, “Is this some specialized spell with stuff I’m just not seeing, like [Ward]?”

Kiri whispered, “Extremely. Later ranks of the skill let you infuse your monsters with extra mana and skills they can use at your command.”

Lowhit said, “I can kill them.”

Zimmy said, “I don’t think I could. That’s a lot of bunnies.”

“Put up or shut up, Lowhit!” Draz turned to Sizzi. “Ready?”

“Yes,” she said.

Draz shouted at the still downed Waelog. “Get up, Failure! Clear the arena!”

Waelog lifted her legs up fast then tucked into a backward roll. She lifted to her feet with subtle grace, then walked over to join the audience, as Lowhit walked into the makeshift arena.

Lowhit started flying.

Four seconds into the flight, he screamed, as fifty pulsing tentacle bunnies reflected his magic back at him like they were all crystal mimics, each using [Reflection].

“How come [Reflection] isn’t in the Script when I search?” Erick asked.

Lowhit flew away, trying to avoid the rampaging monsters, testing them with various Altered spells. Decay Shrapnel did nothing; they weren’t organic, so that made sense. He had much better luck with fire Shrapnel, though. The bunnies burned, and knocked into other bunnies, which also burned.

Kiri said, “[Reflection] is not a base spell. It’s from [Ward], and it's very specialized. It doesn't have an option to buy, like how you can buy[Teleport]; you have to get [Reflection] some other way, like how [Polymorph] comes from a Mimic Potion. Some people spend years learning [Reflection]. Aside from Crystal Mimics, you almost never see someone outside of Archmages with [Reflection], and even then—”

Lowhit screamed; a tentacle bunny was attached to his leg, the others were close! He shot out an unaltered Shrapnel, and dozens of the Force shards reflected in dozens of directions; some right back at Lowhit.

Erick asked, “Is it expensive? They seem to have an endless amount of [Reflection].”

Kiri said, “She must have a good version of the spell. Look closely at her; she’s still shedding mana into the ground—”

Erick looked. She was; violet mana dripped from Sizzi’s skin into the ground like tiny drops of water.

Kiri continued, "—The bunnies must be horde monsters, and she’s constantly feeding them new mana through hidden paired bunnies in the sand below her.”

An explosion of fire rocked out from Lowhit, blowing apart twenty bunnies. He had cleared a path to Zog, but he was obviously injured. Blood dripped from his arms. His robes were in tatters.

Sizzi said, “Stand down!”

The bunnies retreated to Sizzi’s side, where she infused them with more mana.

Lowhit shouted, “FUCK! Dammit. I thought...”

Draz slowclapped as he said, “Great job, Lowhit! Bunnies took you down! FAIL!”

Lowhit grumbled, moving off the field, as Sizzi finalized repairs on her monsters. Shrapnel wounds vanished, burns healed over, translucent pink-violet not-flesh returned.

Kiri strode out into the field. She bowed to Sizzi. “Thank you for this opportunity.”

Sizzi smiled, then turned to Draz.

“Whenever you’re ready!” He shouted. “Go!”

Kiri took to the sky, straight up.

The bunnies leapt and tumbled, crossing the field and then flying up, straight at Kiri.

Kiri pulsed, bright green, and the air flexed. A wave of fire crashed out of her, cascading down the bunnies, hitting each one on the way to the ground, and then booming sand out, causing a minor crater. One of the bunnies closer to Kiri instantly popped and exploded in fire, burning another one, that then one popped, spreading the fire. Dozens popped, then all of them popped, scattering violet and red remains into the air.

Kiri pointed at Zog, her finger bright, bright green; the world around her seemed to dim.

Zog dashed to the side to avoid what must have been a specialized [Force Beam], because the thin line of light that came out of Kiri’s fingertip came out all at once, not over ten seconds. It did not crater the ground like her other attack; it just went in deep, like a nail from a high-powered nailgun.

Draz said, “Stop!”

Sizzi recalled Zog, and began recasting her bunnies. Kiri flew down to the ground.

Draz said, “You fail today because you’ve taken this opportunity to learn direct combat, and turned it into yet another way to avoid direct confrontation. If you hover above 10 feet, you’ve lost the learning opportunity.”

Kiri looked like she was about to say some casual thing, but halfway through, she seemed genuinely mollified. She nodded. “I apologize for wasting time. I will do better if you see fit to give me another chance.”

Draz said, “Back in line, Kiri. Zimmy! You’re up.”

Zimmy stepped forward, and said, “I cannot fight the horde. Please let me try against Zog.”

Draz frowned. “Sure. But that’s a failure, and you’re going against that horde today, or you’re out of the class.”

“Yes, drillmaster. Thank you, drillmaster.”

Draz turned to Sizzi. “Okay?”

Sizzi recalled her bunnies to her side. When they were all next to her and still, she sent out Zog, a translucent violet 12 foot tall crab-squid-centaur monster, to face Zimmy, a 5 foot 5 inch girl with large horns. Erick tried not to think about Zimmy being turned to paste.

Sizzy said, “Slow roll, Zog. Attack.”

Zimmy dashed to the side, avoiding a claw grab. Zog hopped around the small girl, 4 feet proving much faster than 2, but Zimmy dodged again, under the claw. She sliced upward, clipping into Zog’s torso. Her tiny dagger dug deep, but there was nothing vital to the construct; it whipped around like nothing happened, trying to grab Zimmy with its tentacle arm. Zimmy [Blink]ed directly onto the monster’s centaur-back, riding the monster like she was a cowgirl, her daggers—

She blinked 50 feet away, immediately, shouting, “Fuck!”

Draz yelled, “It’s a bad idea to jump on most monsters.”

Zimmy went to one knee, groaning. That’s when Erick realized something was wrong. Everyone else realized, too. Zog pulled back at Sizzi’s command. Zimmy fell to the sand. Erick almost ran to her, but Poi and Draz were faster. Poi already had the rod of [Treat Wounds] in his hand.

But Draz got to Zimmy first. He flashed a deep purple magic into the teenager. She groaned, mumbling incoherent words. Draz said something to her as he helped Zimmy back to her feet. Blood covered Zimmy’s lower [Conjure Armor], like she had wrapped her legs around wet red paint.

What happened?

Zimmy said more quiet things to Draz. Poi returned to Erick. Draz said quiet things to Zimmy.

And then Kiri gasped, in recognition.

Erick turned to her. “What happened?”

Draz said, “Anyone care to guess what that was?”

Kiri said, “Anti-melee [Reflection]!”

Sizzi smirked.

Erick wondered if that was impressive. It must have been, right? And was Zimmy really okay, now?

Lowhit said, “Damn. Now that’s impressive.”

Waelog asked, “That’s what I felt?”

“[Melee Reflection] is correct, Kiri!” Draz said, “You will meet many monsters in this world, and none of you are ready for the breadth or depth of what’s out there. Even with tricks and luck, pain comes.” He patted Zimmy on the back. “Best to be prepared with items and others to cover for your inadequacies before you set out into the world.”

Zimmy said, "Yes, sir. Sorry, sir."

Zimmy looked like someone had given her a bloody beating, but no one else seemed to care, now that she was walking around like nothing was wrong. Erick looked away from Zimmy. He needed to get used to this sort of thing; everyone else obviously was.

Draz shouted, "Start again! from the top!"

What? No.

Erick said, “I want to try against the summons.”

Draz frowned. He sighed. He turned away, saying, “Fine.”

Erick walked into the arena space. Bunnies crowded around Sizzi, hopping back and forth over each other, while Zog stood at her side. She streamed mana into them, topping them all off.

She curtsied.

“Thank you for this opportunity, Sizzi. I didn’t know this spell was this good.”

Sizzi blushed dark purple. “Tha— Thank you, Archmage.”

Draz shouted, “Begin!”

The air around Erick shifted as he took control of his space with [Flight of a Thousand Hands Aura], just in time to meet the approaching bunnies. Seeing them bounce around all playful, like magenta fluffballs, was cute, but seeing them flip inside out, exposing tentacles and teeth and eyes, was exactly like seeing the violent drawings of a tormented child come to life. It was scary, but also heartbreaking. Erick did what he had to do, though.

Erick flew backward, staying near the ground, not giving the not-bunnies a chance to surround him; he had seen how poorly that went for Lowhit, and Waelog. Those two had tried to gather them in front of them like this, but only Kiri, and now Erick, succeeded. The bunnies came at him one at a time, and Erick prepared to…

… to rip them apart…

Aww. Poor bunnies.

Erick grabbed the first bunny and tore it apart with quick telekinetic slices and yanks. The next one leapt into his aura and found itself immediately dismembered and sliced in half. A few more leapt at him, tentacles snapping, teeth gnashing, but Erick kept them away with gentle brushes from his aura, managing the horde as he saw fit. There were only 40 bunnies after all...

There were only 40 bunnies.

Erick had a thought. He stopped running. He simply grabbed every bunny and held them away from himself, with five hands or ten, it didn’t really matter. There were more than enough hands to lighten the workload. He had control of the situation, and control of every whipping tentacle and gnashing set of jaws, as well. Erick set down on the ground, the bunnies and their tentacles still trying to reach him, but Erick held firm.

Erick said, “Okay. We can just… ignore these guys, then? Sizzi?”

Sizzi cordially nodded. “Bunnies, retreat. You’ve done more than enough, thank you.”

The bunnies stopped struggling and folded back around to their warm and fuzzy sides. Erick set them down one at a time. They hopped and flew back toward Sizzi, as Erick turned to face Zog.

Zog was different than the bunnies.

If Erick was a guessing man, he would think of Zog as the creation of a learned woman, trying to make up for all the inadequacies she had seen over her lifetime. The claw was a nice touch, but it seemed to serve as a distraction from the tentacles, which were likely the real problem, as Erick had just demonstrated with his own ‘tentacles’.

So Erick asked, “Do the tentacles extend?”

Sizzi nodded. “Yes, Archmage.”

Zog’s tentacles extended to what might have been their full length: 20 feet. Zog was suddenly more squid than crab or centaur.

“And the tail looks rather wicked, too.”

Sizzi nodded. Zog flicked his tail like a whip and carved a 10 foot long, three foot deep trench, within tentacle reach of him.

Sizzi says, “Zog’s tail was very helpful against Waelog.”

“That’s what hit me!?” shouted the orcol.

Erick said, “I can pretty confidently say that I have no way to deal with that, aside from running and throwing lightning, so my choice in a battle like this would be to run.” He added, “But… I gotta try, so. Let’s try.”

Sizzi went slow.

