They took off without much more conversation, headed directly into the Blight. They flew a little higher than before to avoid the constant attacks from below. There wasn’t much point in trying to stay hidden in the terrain. If they couldn’t hide from every single undead, they couldn’t hide from any greater intelligence of the Blight, and it seemed to have shown the capability to steer undead in their direction already.

After a few hours, Nathan could feel fliers massing to the side. He made no sudden moves, but did call out to his friends just loud enough for them to hear. “Fliers massing on the right. About a hundred. Same as last time, but there are seven bigger ones.”

Khachi grunted. “My light shall lead us, as yesterday. I have had time to think of an appropriate prayer for this foe. Stella, force shields?”

“Teach a mage to light a fire. I’m going to put some wizardry in them this time.”

Nathan’s paranoia kicked in as the monsters started accelerating in their direction. He didn’t trust this to be the only thing that would hit them, and so he scanned the surroundings for another layer to the attack. But there was nothing.

“It’s escalating slowly, testing one thing at a time.” The realization made Nathan feel cold, like he was a bug being examined under a microscope by a being that could crush him at any moment.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 9

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina: 100500/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 763

Limitless Focus: 7630/7730

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 5

Inspiration 8

Impulse 6

Mystical Discernment 8

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 10

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 8

Veracity 4

Whiplash 1

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 8
