“From Goisedall, yes.”
‘A-N-D-T-H-E-M.’
…Which then just implied that there had been more ghosts or dead people that Spoony had seen that he had not. Nailren felt the fur on his back rising more.
“Where? Who?”
This time, the marker slowed as she wrote, and he realized that even with this stronger connection, she was getting tired.
‘H-A-L-F-E-L-F.’
“The half-Elves? They had a dead ghost clinging to them?”
‘Yes.’
“Were they angry? Or was it someone in their expedition who died?”
‘D-O-N-T-K-N-O-W.’
Then the cursor moved.
‘T-I-R-D.’
Then it pointed down.
‘Goodbye.’
“I understand. This must be hard. But now you can communicate with me…I’ll begin saving ectoplasm. Gross. You should touch, uh…we’ll figure out a system.”
He wondered if he could mount the ouija board so she could write. And he needed a system so she could tell him something was up beyond tugging his ear. A bell, maybe. That was exciting, and by dinner time, she had worked up the energy to write another message.
‘H-O-R-S-E.’
“Yes? What about it?”
Nailren eyed the roan, who stopped chewing dinner, perhaps alarmed at the supernatural being’s interest in it. Was it related to the dead? Did it have something about it that Nailren didn’t know? Spoony wrote.
‘P-A-T.’
Nailren sat in silence. Then with a sigh, he got up and patted the horse on the head.
What are you doing, my friend?
The horse gave him the side-eye with both eyes, but Nailren had to pat the horse for a good fifteen minutes until Spoony was happy.
 
[Ghostspeaker Level 9!]
[Skill – Ectoplasm Handler Obtained!]
[Skill – Imbue Object: Ghosttouch Obtained!]
 
“…Gross.”
 
——
 
Ectoplasm was gross. However, by the time Nailren got to his next destination, he’d done a few things. Firstly—he’d given himself an ear piercing.
A sewing needle for repairs to his gear, a fire, and a poke and it was done. It hurt more than he’d care to admit, but he’d put a hole at the tip of both ears. And—a little loop of twine and bead of wood with a hole in it.
Both beads were naturally imbued with ghosttouch. Which seemed to be an enchantment that let ghosts, or Spoony, touch something with far less effort. Naturally, Nailren had added the effect to his planchette on the ouija board too.
This way, his ghost friend could talk to him or tug on his ears without issue. It was so subtle he doubted even other Gnolls would pick up on his ears twitching. More importantly, they’d developed a few other variants. A tug was yes or no, but if she pulled his ear down, he knew there was danger, and so on.
He’d actually alarmed her when he’d pierced his ears, and she’d kept writing ‘sorry’, as if she’d made him do it.
Pierced ears healed if he wanted them to. A little poke with a needle was a small price to pay for communication and an advantage. Spoony had been generating ectoplasm as well, day-by-day. He would let her play with an object and come back to find it covered in the goop. She really liked his bow and fiddling with his arrows. With all that ectoplasm, he’d had just enough to imbue two more objects; once the object reached ‘capacity’, you couldn’t imbue it with more ghost-stuff.
The first object Nailren had imbued was a little dried grape ball with a tiny pellet inside, an old standby from his past life. Once the pellet was crushed, it’d emit a faint, but malodorous stench any Gnoll with a decent nose or tracking Skill could pick up. It wouldn’t come off, not with a bunch of washes, and most people wouldn’t realize they had it on them.
After all, it’d be very handy to have a ghost able to lift and plant such an object.
“Shame we can’t do that with a speaking stone, but no magic. This will do. Remember, don’t show anyone you can lift these.”
Nailren had secured both in an unbuttoned pouch on his horse’s saddle. That way, she could lift them out of the pouches and move them through the air.
Not fast; her strength was weak, and she could only go ten feet before she had to halt, but he wondered if she might produce more energy if needed. Either way, the little scent-ball was one.
The second was a caltrop. Nailren had sharpened each edge until it was so damn spikey it had cut him twice just touching it. Sharp as steel could get.
“If you can’t throw it at someone, get them to step on it.”
Spoony was very excited by her two new tools. He hoped the ghost would be responsible with them, but Nailren was already imagining other ways to get her to help him. She seemed happy when she could do things, and he? He liked the idea of an invisible, immortal being watching his back. Her judgement would be something he’d have to establish, but that was how he spent his journey.
Then, like so many others, he came to Woll’s Waystation.
 
——
 
It wasn’t a question of why you went to Woll’s Waystation. It was more a question of whether or not you could miss it.
You see…it stood out. As the rocky south of the New Lands with that volcanic gravel gave way to the yellow grasslands, and the coral lands bordering the giant ravine to the north also became grass—as you came over the river, this was the logical spot for it.
Low walls of dirt. Barely more than a bunch of rocks piled up around the dirt base—but it was the only thing you could see before you entered the grasslands proper. Beyond there, the Eternal Grasslands of Archmage Kishkeria stretched out for many, many miles, and here the waystation had been built.
The walls were just slopes of dirt, it was true, but the Drakes patrolling them walked along the little square keep like it was a Walled City’s battlements, spears and all.
The irony, of course, was that they had a lot to watch; when Nailren rode up, one of them snapped down at him.
“Form a line! Identification?”
“You must be joking. Let us in!”
A Human in front of Nailren shouted up, but the Drake just hammered his spear down on the ramparts; a few clods of dirt rolled down the hastily-compacted side.
“We’re doing this properly! Identify yourselves! And there’s a fee to enter the waystation! One copper per head!”
“…What?”
The man in front of Nailren was part of a group of [Riders]. He was alert, so he’d come into the New Lands faster than most and hadn’t been hit by the mana-drain. He counted his group of ten, and one hissed.
“Just pay the Drake a silver. It’s worth visiting to talk!”
“We’re not paying to enter a lump of dirt!”
The Drake heard them arguing and glowered before sighing.
“You can also pay with information. Have you seen anything useful? Seen any monsters? Any information from Goisedall? Anything new counts.”
The group conferred, and the man shot back.
“We just got here. We’re from Lycit.”
“Never heard of it. Got a passport?”
“No. It’s in the north. House Radivaek? Famous for dogs?”
“I don’t see any dogs with you.”
The man was grinding his teeth.
“Not everyone has dogs. Look, we saw the Plain’s Eye tribe moving in. How about that?”
“Hah, we heard that ages ago! Try again.”
“…There’s some damn ugly toads that lay eggs big enough to fit in your palm? Grey, fat—the toads just hop around and poop ‘em out nonstop.”
The guard on the waystation’s walls stared down at the man, and Nailren tilted his head. He hadn’t seen that. The Drake eyed the man.
“You serious?”
“Yup. They don’t lay like normal frogs.”
“And it’s not poop?”
“We broke one open. Little tadpole inside.”
“How big are the frogs? Are they dangerous?”
“Oh, yay high. They didn’t have any teeth; they just ate the yellow beetles.”
The man gestured up to his knee. So big but not threatening. The Drake considered this.
“…Well, that’s probably good enough. Go on through.”
The party did, grumbling as they passed through the ‘gates’, which were really just a pair of wooden doors that could be opened or closed. Nailren, eying the sloped wall, bet you could just walk up the side. Maybe you’d have to scramble a bit, but unless someone with a pointy spear was atop the wall, it wouldn’t really stop anyone.
“Identification!”
“Labright. [Traveller]. Here to see what’s up. I heard this place existed, and I had to see. This the first place in the New Lands? I’m from Pallass, 7th Floor.”
Nailren put on a City Gnoll’s accent, and the Drake grinned down at him.
“From Pallass? We’re all from Hemshaw—got any info?”
To the Drake’s surprise, Nailren flipped a copper coin up. He caught it and nearly fell off the ramparts.
“Oh—you don’t have to—it’s more about information.”
“Nah, I’ve not seen much. Just stuck with the pack, me. Glad to pay it. Copper’s cheap, right?”
Nailren cast his eyes at the other wagons parked outside the Waystation, and the guard nodded, appearing a bit embarrassed. He motioned another Drake over.
“Go on in. There’s not much; the courtyard’s where people hang out, and the Waystation itself is where we’ve got stuff stored. You can’t go into the upper levels, but the downstairs has places to sleep and a table. The only damn one in the New Lands. Woll’s probably hanging out there. Oh, and don’t pee anywhere near the walls! We’ve got latrines that way!”
He pointed, and Nailren nodded. He ran through the gate with a friendly wave as Spoony tugged his left ear.
‘No, no, no…’
She was highly amused by his lies, it seemed. He tugged at one ear.
“Shh.”
He was listening. The Drake had walked over to his buddy.
“Right, the Gnoll’s from Pallass. Can you believe that? And those Humans are, uh…from some place up north with dogs. House Radivaek or something.”
“Adventurers?”
“They didn’t look like it, and they had a weird story about some gross frog…”
“Hold on, hold on. Let me get this in order. I wish we had parchment, damn it! Woll needs to get more.”
“Just remember it all; didn’t you get a Skill for that?”
“Only if I work at it! Okay, [Commit to Memory]. From the top.”
“Uh, the Humans are, uh…shoot, I’ve forgotten.”
Nailren rode into the keep, nodding to himself. It was easy to write the Drake guard off, but in truth, this wasn’t the worst operation.
Guards on the wall—pointless, of course. But they kept people from entering and leaving at random, and more importantly, the copper coin bit wasn’t real. What the Waystation wanted was information.
A piece per visitor, even if it might sometimes be made up, was valuable. This ‘Woll’ might be a sharper character than one expected.
And the Waystation had a lot of traffic. Given how flat the next area of the New Lands was, people were making this a stop to share information, trade, and Nailren suspected, try to figure out where the value and danger was.
A perfect place for gathering. The role of such establishments for ages.
An inn, in more primitive terms. There were cook fires, people of each species talking loudly, and the ‘keep’, a two-layer building of stones mortared in a hurry, had people tromping in and out. Nailren glanced around and had a thought.
My horse—
“Hey, I’ll take your horse for either a snack or two coppers.”
Someone called out, and Nailren turned. He eyed another Gnoll, and here was a real City Gnoll with a bunch of horses all waiting, tied down to stakes in the flattened-earth courtyard. There was a lot of manure, but it wasn’t filthy—yet.
“You’re just charging people to hold their horses. Two coppers? It was one to get in.”
The other Gnoll grinned; he had a spot of silver over one eye and black fur.
“Bah, no one pays that. Two coppers is cheap!”
“You’re not a [Handler] or [Hostler], are you?”
“Nope. [Apprentice Trader] Rilles, at your service. My caravan leader got this far, then turned around. [Tea Merchant] Tilfem’s caravan. Lasted one week to get here, and then he turned around and said he was done. They headed back to Goisedall, and if they’re not there already, they’ll disband the moment they reach Izril proper.”
Nailren winced, but then changed his mind.
“Wise of him. Had a lot of magic?”
“All of it gone, yep. I stayed.”
“Why?”
Rilles shoved his paws in his pockets and glanced around the Waystation.
“Well…there’s food enough here and plenty of people with too much to carry. They’re dumping or trading a lot of it here. Tilfem himself had to offload his tea, and he did it cheap. Good place to trade, huh?”
“It is indeed. But you’re taking horses?”
“Everyone who comes here needs a place to put ‘em.”
“How do I know you won’t take my horse and just ride off with it when my back is turned?”
Nailren knew the answer, but he liked Rilles’ attitude, and the Gnoll waved his paws around.
“Look at how many people there are! I’m holding most people’s horses; if they see me ride off, there’ll be a clamor like you won’t believe! Plus, the Drakes on the wall know me. Anyways, where would I ride to? Or sell the horses?”
Other caravans, but they’d have to be far enough away to want to take the risk. Nailren grinned as he fished out two coppers.
“Made a good income?”
Rilles’ grin was the answer Nailren needed. Two coppers wasn’t much, but if enough people came in and out and they mostly just grabbed their horses and went…
“It’s more’n I’d make working the Merchant’s Guild at my level, and I’ve levelled twice. The worst part is shovelling out the manure. I had to buy a shovel, and I have to take it far.”
Nailren’s brows rose.
“You’re not using it as fertilizer?”
“Me? No. Woll says it stinks too bad, so he’s having me put it in one spot. I might have to invest in a wheelbarrow. I’ve been using a hemp bag, but, uh…after one day, I think I need something I can clean.”
Which was making a compost dump. Possibly a place to plant in a few months if it kept adding up. He nodded to the enterprising Rilles.
If you had the will, you could find opportunity here. Quite a lot of it. Nailren kept an eye on his horse; he didn’t have many valuable items in his saddlebags, but one could argue they were all valuable. However, Rilles seemed to know his business relied on no one getting stolen from, so as he called out to new people coming in or watched them pick up their horse, he had his eye on the animals.
Nailren? He headed inside the Waystation. There he met Woll.
 
——
 
Woll was a character. At first, when you saw him striding around with scales a lime green, all loud voice as he had four conversations at once in the cramped keep with one table, a rickety set of stairs leading up to a huge storeroom, you thought that he was a short, hyperactive Drake.
He was, after all, only 5’2. Then you saw the huge, four-inch boots he was wearing and you realized—
He was a very short, hyperactive Drake. Though in fairness, the hyperactive part might have been the tea.
