“C’mon, Russell, let’s take a breaaaak. We’ve all got blisters. Everyone’s tired. You go scouting or hunting or something, okay?”
Honarai was of mixed ethnicities. Latino-Asian or something, and Russell only knew that because Chester had done the group circle thing the first night to introduce everyone. Her hair was dyed half-blonde, half blue, and she was stressed because the hair dye was fading; he did not care for her.
Los Angeles, California. Exactly as opposite as she could get from Russell, or maybe that was Chester—and the weirdest class of them all, even Arnie.
[Streamer]. Which meant she was used to having a camera on her at all times, even 24/7, and filming all her life to her audience—which she didn’t have because there was no internet, no electricity, and she was very unhappy.
Chester and Arnie were the two guys along with Russell. Arnie was from Idaho, and Chester was Washington.
Arnie was a video game designer and mangaka, which meant he was in the same line of work as Lenora, though he didn’t have her class, and Chester had been an intern with his eyes on bigger things. He was an aspiring politician and had been running for local office when he’d been grabbed.
So, [Candidate] and [Martial Artist]/[Transmigrator]—Arnie knew martial arts and apparently knew what was going on. Though he mostly seemed gassed for someone with such a powerful sounding class.
They were all sweating, including Russell, but he jerked his head.
“No time to rest. We’ve got to keep walking.”
“Why don’t we take five, Russell? Huh?”
Chester loved doing compromises. Russell glowered.
“We’re barely doing ten miles a day. If we’re as far from civilization as I think, we’re going to be in trouble soon.”
“What’s the problem? You can just keep hunting. Lenora’s the one who’s going to starve if we run out of your ration bars.”
That was Arnie. He was wiping his forehead with Russell’s hand towel—another moment of irritation from the [Gunslinger]. Lenora flinched, and glanced guiltily at Russell; Chester’s voice was soothing.
“Let’s not worry about that right now. What do you think, Russell? See anything worth checking out?”
Russell shot back, annoyed.
“I’m not hunting anything now. It’ll attract too many bugs and potentially something after the blood. Five minutes, then.”
He strode away from the group so he didn’t have to make any small talk. Honarai began chattering behind him.
“Right, so, I was thinking. Maybe if we were all teleported here, it’s like a game. Someone could be watching us, you know, Hunger Games style? What if we’re getting points?”
“No one told us if we were, Honarai.”
“Right, but is it weird if I start talking to the screen? There could be cameras…”
Russell walked until he was staring out across the grasslands. He wished he had binoculars. There were distant blotches on the land he suspected were forests or…something. He longed to keep moving.
I should be out there! He could have gone at least five miles further, even with his pack, but for this lot.
‘The man in black fled across the desert and the gunslinger followed.’ The first line of The Dark Tower by Stephen King, one of Russell’s favorite books. Or, when he turned his head and stared at those distant mountains, that Erin had thought might be the High Passes…
They had to be truly massive if he could see them this far away.
‘Far over the misty mountains, cold…’, The Hobbit. He really hadn’t liked those movies. The book was better, but that song had captured the feeling he wanted to follow.
Stories.
Russell might not know what was going on, nor was he familiar with being ‘isekaied’, a thing that Arnie assured him was what was going on with them—being taken to another world—but Russell did know stories.
Just not video games. Movies, books, sometimes television shows, but mostly the former two. He could get back and watch a movie on his beat-up sofa or take a book with him when working and read it before sleeping. He was used to having his phone die on him and needing to keep it off unless he had to call someone; he’d been meaning to buy a rechargeable power bank, but he had a system.
He was used to physical labor, too, unlike the others. Chester had just graduated and was going into politics, so he was campaigning. Lenora had a job even if she worked from home, and Arnie was a game designer, but he hadn’t finished any games—or mangas—and Honarai’s job was apparently playing video games or doing anything she wanted while people watched.
What it all meant was that none of them were ready for this but Russell, and so when they finally got up and began trudging along, he felt put upon.
By their suggestions as much as anything else.
 
——
 
“Holy crap, that’s a deer! Russell, Russell! Shoot it!”
Arnie pointed, and Russell eyed the deer with impressive antlers, grazing on the grass with evident delight. He grunted.
“Nope.”
“What? It’s meat for, like, a week!”
“More like weeks. We can’t haul it, and it’ll spoil without any way to preserve it.”
“Oh, but—”
“Stay away from it. It looks like an oversized buck or something. I don’t like those horns.”
That was for Honarai, who’d begun making a beeline for it. She protested.
“What? C’mon, it seems so friendly.”
Russell gave her an incredulous look.
“It’ll gore you. We don’t know what kind of species it is; it’s not like any deer I’ve ever seen.”
The horns were more complex and thicker than he was used to, and the animal was rather big. Well-fed. Honarai hesitated.
“There are deer in Japan that eat out of your hand, you know.”
“Right, and there are moose that will kill you the moment they see you.”
“Moose? Really?”
“Yep, in Alaska. Nothing scarier. I’d probably rather run into a bear than a moose.”
They laughed at that, like it was a joke. Which annoyed Russell because—moose killed people. They were famous for being dangerous and angry as shit. If he had his rifle ready to go and was in position and a moose walked up on him, he’d still shit bricks if he had to shoot it before it got him.
“C’mon. If it charges, I don’t know if I can take it down even if I hit it.”
Better switch to the Winchester just in case. Russell switched the hunting shotgun out for the longer rifle on his back and eyed the deer as it kept munching. If it did charge, fire once, drop the rifle, draw his revolver, and hope he killed it.
—Oh, right. And use his Skills. Did he have to shout them each time?
[Stabilize Aim], [Quick Swap Weapons (Guns)], [Reduced Recoil]—a bunch of ‘Skills’ for a gunslinger. Which he liked; he could change weapons very quickly, despite the cumbersome harness he’d rigged up to carry all three firearms, and he felt like he was on the top of his game with his shots.
Not that he’d done more than shoot eight rounds so far.
One from the Winchester, four from the hunting shotgun, three revolver rounds. He was counting. He’d been on a hunting trip when he’d been taken and been damn lucky to be holding everything while porting over to his camp, but that was still not a lot.
Not for this. Each time he fired, he was down one more. Each shot required thought and concentration. No wasting even a single bullet. No missing.
There’s not exactly a way to resupply my ammunition. He was stressing about that already. So, when Chester brought the suggestion up again, he got a snappy response.
“If you’re worried about getting attacked, what if you taught us how to use—”
“No.”
“Dude, you’ve got three guns. We need to protect ourselves!”
Arnie protested, and Russell took a breath.
“You don’t know how to use them. None of you have ever shot a gun before.”
“I have in self-defense training.”
“Do you know how to maintain a gun?”
Chester hesitated, and Russell just bet he’d sent a bunch of rounds downrange at a target. Maybe he had taken more than one or two lessons, but Russell wouldn’t trust Chester to have good firearms discipline.
“Just give us one and we’ll get the [Gunslinger] class. A bit of practice and we’ll back you up. I’ll take the revolver.”
You’ll take my revolver out of my cold, dead hands. Russell glared at Arnie.
“I don’t have ammunition for practice.”
“Well, what if one of us holds the gun and we are taught how to fire it, just in case? C’mon, let’s vote on it.”
“This isn’t a vote!”
“Pwease?”
Honarai made a face at him, and he blinked. For a moment, his resolve wavered, and he almost agreed before he realized—
“You’re using a Skill on me! Stop it!”
“Darn. That’s an ‘L’.”
She made a face, and Russell got madder. Chester raised his hands.
“Okay, no using Skills on anyone else. Which one was that, Honarai?”
“[Charming Appeal].”
“How many do you have?”
“Um…at least ten? I’m Level 18.”
And she was higher-level than he was. Russell growled and stomped on, but he felt like they had a point.
What if something jumps me and I need backup? 
 
——
 
At midday, he tried to teach them how to at least cover him. He unslung his shotgun.
“This one has a wide spread, so never, ever point it even in the direction of one of us, got it? I’m going to show you how to take the safety off.”
“I know how to use a gun.”
Arnie didn’t seem like he did, and he swung the gun around, nearly aimed it straight at Lenora and Chester, who both flinched, and that was that.
Russell grabbed the shotgun back instantly, palms sweaty.
“Alright, forget it.”
“What? C’mon—”
“You never point a gun at someone, ever!”
Russell shouted at Arnie, and the young man backed up, raising his hands. Russell holstered the shotgun and stormed off.
It only occurred to him, later, that Chester might have had a role in Russell even trying to teach the others how to use a gun—he also had Skills that apparently worked like that. Had he used them? Either way, Russell didn’t trust them. He stopped only once to fire the shotgun; at a large, winged swan with blue along its neck and a beautiful crest.
It was such a lovely bird he admired it through the scope for half a minute until he saw its head come up. Then he fired; its head vanished, and he heard a sound.
Lenora, from behind him. She was gazing the other way as he trudged over and bent down to check his kill. Enough, he hoped, for lunch and dinner.
Not for her, though.
She was vegetarian.
 
——
 
Food would be an issue for Lenora soon, but eating just meat wasn’t going to do anyone any favors either. At least they had a fire. If anything, not burning down the tall yellow grass was an issue; they had to find a clear spot of ground, then they made a grass fire with a huge mound of the grass, and Russell had to cook the goose—fast.
None of them were exactly good at cooking, either. Lenora munched on a rations bar with every sign of distaste as Russell ate the cooked meat, burning his fingers on it.
Damn it was good, even if there weren’t any seasonings! With some…with more utensils, since he only had one plate and utensils they traded turns using, he’d be eating like a king out here.
Then they continued. That night, Russell checked his shotgun, cleaning it with a little brush, and he resolved to clean the bore and re-oil it tomorrow. It had rained twice so far, and he was paranoid about that too. If need be, he’d disassemble both guns and store them in the pack to keep them from rusting.
“Hey, Russell. Do you think there’s anyone out here?”
“Erin said we’d run into civilization if those’re the High Passes. We’re just too far out from…Drake cities.”
Everyone listened hungrily to him, and Chester stretched out by their little fire. Honarai and Lenora were preparing to sleep in the tent; they got it for privacy.
“You haven’t had another visit? When you do—”
“Yeah, yeah. Tell her to contact all of you.”
Russell wished he could have another word with her, but what she’d told him about the world was fascinating. Arnie perked up; he’d been picking at his popped blisters.
“Drakes. Related to Dragons. So there’s an entire species of them—and Gnolls?”
“Yep.”
“I know them. And half-Elves. We should make contact with them as soon as possible. Then we can start trading our knowledge with them.”
“Yeah? And what do we have, aside from being able to hunt for meat?”
Unless he found more ammunition, that wasn’t a long-term, viable strategy. But Arnie gave Russell a look like he was crazy.
“We invent things from Earth, obviously. We can make tons of stuff. Bicycles, mayonnaise, hair conditioner—”
“You know how to make all that?”
Russell was impressed, and Arnie hesitated.
“It’s standard in stories. You use egg whites, I think. For both mayonnaise and hair conditioner.”
“…Wouldn’t they have figured that out?”
“Not in a fantasy story. And we’ll make more bullets for you as well. I know how to make gunpowder. It’s bat guano, charcoal, sulfur, and, uh…salt, I think.”
Russell opened his mouth and closed it. Arnie was chock full of knowledge, which was impressive, but Russell just frowned.
“That won’t work.”
“Really? Why not?”
Chester frowned at Russell, and the [Gunslinger] incredulously hefted his gun.
“Even if we made gunpowder, that’s not a bullet. This uses a .308 rifle cartridge. It needs primer, a casing—you’d need a factory.”
Or a home setup with tons of tools he didn’t have. Actually, Russell had been picking up the casings of each bullet he shot, even the shotgun cartridges, in hopes he could do something with them, but what would actual gunpowder get him?
Some kind of black powder cartridge that would either blow up my rifle or just be unpredictable as hell. He shuddered at the thought. Arnie hesitated.
“—Well, we’ll make a musket then.”
“A musket. Like, a civil-war era musket?”
“Why not? We can mass-produce them.”
Russell stretched out next to the fire and peered up at the sky.
“Good luck with that.”
Undeterred, Arnie began to talk about the other inventions they could make with Chester, like a windmill, printing press, soap—just ash and grease, apparently—crop rotation, and so on. Russell wondered how fantasy this world was.
 
——
 
“Is Arnie talking about things he’s gonna invent when we get to civilization again?”
In the tent, Lenora and Honarai were listening to the boys talk. Honarai was fiddling with her smartphone.
“Yep. Chat, he’s sort of cringe, right?”
She half-turned to a camera, and her face fell. It was genuinely a reflexive action, and Lenora shook her head.
“I don’t think making any of that is easy.”
Honarai rolled her eyes.
