Plenty of interesting people passed by Woll’s Waystation. Woll didn’t do more than take note. He wasn’t here to make enemies. He was going to survive by not making enemies, but damn, he was curious. Keeping the Waystation stocked and afloat in gold was just a side hustle. Someone was going to find something valuable here, and when they did, Woll wasn’t going to be second or third to cash in on it.
He’d settle for eighteenth.
 
——
 
Woll’s Waystation was indeed a magnet. You came there because you saw it.
“Hey…is that a building?”
“It’s either a building or a ruin. We have to go.”
“I swear I see people moving.”
“Could be a dungeon, let’s—”
“It’s a building. Looks like a fort. Drakes on the walls.”
Falene Skystrall spoke flatly, and the excited babble of voices hushed. Dawil gave her a reproachful glance.
“Pointy, you take all the fun out of life.”
“Aye, she does, but it’s good to have a [Mage] about!”
Evor shouted, and Falene smiled at him as she shot Dawil a triumphant glance. The Silver Swords and Cenidau warriors adjusted their course, and Ylawes called out.
“Are they friendly, Falene?”
She squinted again with her enhanced vision spell.
“I can see a tremendous amount of traffic in and out, Ylawes. I’d wager they are.”
“What’re the odds they have a working [Message] spell and the Merchant’s Guild has their ear?”
Anith was worried, but Falene snorted.
“Even if they have a [Mage] like me, they won’t get much more than the basics. I can punch through the mana drain to do an update with my contacts in Gaiil-Drome or Wistram, but it’s just a download of basic information. Unless we’re considered regional dangers, we won’t be on that list.”
Thus reassured, the Silver Swords began to march towards the keep with a will. Small or not, Drake or not, civilization was a kind of magnet, a lure, a beautiful thing this far out.
“I can’t believe anyone’s settled here already. How do they deal with the food shortages? The lack of mana?”
Ylawes was bewildered, but Anith just shrugged.
“There’s a power in being a trading post, Captain. And where there’s a will…I’ve seen Lizardfolk clear out thick jungle and have a village up within a month. And that’s terrain I’d swear to you was impossible to walk through. Do we have anything we want to trade for? To do?”
“Well, we’re searching for work. Evor? What are your people looking for?”
The [Hearthguard Leader] tugged on his beard, thoughtful.
“We’re looking around, but work would be good for us too. We fight for pay, or we could guard just as you do, Silver Swords. From there, I think we will split up again. We need to follow the rivers to make carrying this longboat worth it.”
That made Ylawes’ smile slip slightly.
“Are you sure? It’s been a fine time in your company. Should we, ah, bet another Mithril blade?”
He was rather tactless at times, and Falene, Anith, and Pekona all winced along with the northfolk at the blatant question. But Evor just chuckled.
“Pleasant as it is, there is such a thing as too pleasant. Your group is bigger than ours, and we must not rely on your team either.”
Especially if they were reinventing themselves, the [Shield Maids] included. Ylawes nodded reluctantly.
“Then we’ll have to have one last night behind actual walls.”
“Aye, now you have it! Remember, strength! If anyone should shout it as friends of northfolk, it’s you! Shout it, and other warriors will know you met us! We’ll meet again as friends, my axe upon it.”
So, the Silver Swords joined the other parties flowing towards Woll’s Waystation. They were one of many groups; a huge caravan around the walls from a [Merchant] that made Ylawes advise his team to put hoods over their heads to be less noticeable—and had everyone telling him to take off his silver armor, then—a party of Humans riding westwards, and a few groups coming back.
A single [Rider] with a bag of silver pieces trying to renew their lease at the waystation, five Humans running towards the waystation, though only one of them wasn’t winded—
Everyone coming to Woll’s.
Including trouble.
The dinging in Ylawes’ head he had put down to a piece of spare armor until it grew into a louder clanging sound, and he slowed.
“Wait. [Dangersense]. Something’s…”
His head swivelled as the marching group slowed, and Larr pointed and swore.
“Captain, one o’clock! Look! Monsters!”
They came bounding along the ground, faster than horses, if not larger. Long, bounding shapes with dark hides that were reddish or matted almost black, but hairless, with big-big teeth—a full pack of twenty. And leading them—Ylawes took one glance and swore.
“Cericel! That’s a Maven!”
“Giant’s blood, what is that?”
Thker swore as he raised an axe, but they were thousands of paces away; it was just that the oversized Maven leading the rest of her brood was probably eleven feet tall and racing along as fast as the others.
Fast as a horse. Faster, in fact. The reason this mattered was because the group that had set out from Woll’s Waystation were returning—and the Cericel were going to catch them.
“Larr! Rasktooth! Cover those riders! Silver Swords, with me! Everyone else, get back! The Cericel are a Gold-rank threat when led by a Maven!”
Ylawes was running full-tilt, wishing he were on horseback, and Falene was shouting.
“Ylawes, you can’t solo it! Come back!”
He knew this was true and that without enchanted armor it might rip through even steel with its claws, but the Gold-rank adventurer was operating on instinct.
They can jump regular city walls. They’ll butcher those ten Humans then leap the keep walls, and they get faster when they drink blood. He activated a Skill, knowing he was too far.
[The Knight Charged With Wings of Steel].
His leap took him maybe forty feet, and Dawil shouted as Ylawes advanced, but the running [Knight] still felt like he was in slow water. The Cericel were bounding at the Humans, and the firefight was quick.
Off-their-guard or not, the Humans from House Lycit were armed. Two turned and fired crossbows. A Cericel closing on them staggered; it didn’t fall. And the Drakes…
The Drakes had closed the gates. The [Riders] saw that and screamed, swerving around the walls, but the Drakes were firing arrows and bracing with spears.
The…right call for other monsters. Not Cericel. But there were people on the walls taking shots at the monsters. Unfortunately, Cericel were so fast—Ylawes saw one twist and guessed it had dodged an arrow. They were headed for the Humans, who had changed directions and were heading for the caravan; the wagons were turning, forming a circle, and more arrows were flying as [Guards] rushed to fill the gaps. Another smart move—again, against an enemy that wouldn’t just—
“They’re going to jump! Watch your backs!”
The voice that cracked from behind Ylawes was loud and familiar. Falene! She’d used what magic she could to warn the waystation and caravan. Ylawes saw real panic amongst both sides now, and he realized she’d thrown the last of her magic at the only other person who could help.
Dawil was charging after Ylawes, enhanced with [Speed]. Almost on his heels—
“Pekona, get back!”
She was sprinting after them, blade unsheathed, and Ylawes motioned her back, then gave up and kept running. Three of them versus two dozen Cericel—
No, wait, a bit less. Three were down. The arrows being shot at them were hitting the ones who stumbled. Even as Ylawes watched, another twisted midleap, then fell, and he heard a thin, high-pitched scream before its body began to jerk.
“They’re hitting it! Must be some [Archer] on the walls!”
Indeed, a fifth Cericel went down, a visible wound in the leg, before they hit the wagons. Ylawes could only run and watch.
It was bloody. The Cericel bounded into the wagons, slashing, then backed up and jumped the wagons. They landed on the other side, and Ylawes heard screams—then half of them were leaping over the wagons.
Half dead? Or just fighting—he saw two more crawling over the wagon’s sides, blood on their talons. The Maven was shrieking.
Cericel were tactical. They could tell when they were outnumbered, and she was after easy game. Such as…she spun around, and Ylawes saw a rocking wagon headed away from the Waystation. Someone had panicked and was turning around—easy game just out of range of anyone.
Ylawes tried to run faster. The Maven was bounding around in a circle, out of the Waystation’s range, and he was shouting.
“[Challenge of the Knight]! This way! This—”
The Maven was too far or just ignored his challenge. The wagon was racing eastwards, as if there was anything to take cover that way. He saw everyone else was either ducking down, trying to avoid the Cericel’s attention, or grouped together to fight. Which was naïve; the monsters smelled blood.
Cericel. One of House Byres’ old foes, or so the old stories went. Not quite Vampires; they’d popped up after Vampires, but they had so many weaknesses that were the same.
Including an aversion to silver. His breastplate would make them recoil, but the Gravesword, ironically, wouldn’t be the best weapon here. Ylawes’ lungs were burning as he saw the Maven turn and race past a group of Humans, who’d frozen. Five of them—he was ready to break towards them if the Cericel split, but the Maven wanted the screaming horses. More blood.
The five civilians were frozen, unarmored, with hands over their mouths or pointing, all except for one. One of them, wearing odd clothing, was kneeling, bracing something long in his hands against one shoulder. An odd tube…
Ylawes saw the Maven beginning to bound away when he heard a sharp, loud crack and saw the other four Humans recoil. The tube flashed, and he heard it for the first time ever.
Crack. 
Pause. 
Crack. 
Pause. 
Crack.
 
——
 
Nailren’s bow was drawn, but he couldn’t hit the Cericel. He could slide down the ramparts of the Waystation, but if they turned on him, he was dead.
That wagon was dead. However, he could see someone in armor running at them, and he swore he’d heard Falene’s voice.
If that’s the Silver Swords, I’ll go over the edge when they engage. Nailren snapped at Woll.
“Who here can fight? That’s a Gold-rank team out there. We have to back them up!”
“No one’s high-enough level. Not our visitors today—Fetta, can you back Labright up?”
Woll was ice-cold, watching through a spyglass. The Drake by his side hesitated, and Nailren eyed her.
[Assassin]. He hoped she was quick. He was about to ask if the Waystation would consider opening its doors to sally out if the Maven were taken out when he heard it.
Crack.
He flinched, and so did every Gnoll on the walls.
“What the hell was that?”
It was loud, hurt Nailren’s sensitive ears, and he saw the Maven, mid-leap, falter. She screamed, spun, and there was maybe a half-second’s delay before—
Crack. There it was again! The Maven visibly flinched and clawed at her chest. She reared up, casting around, left, right—
Crack. The third shot made Woll whistle and Nailren blink. He swore he saw the Maven’s mouth open before tiny flecks sprayed out of the back of her throat and head.
Did something just go through—? She was clawing at her throat when she slowly, ponderously, collapsed. The Cericel around her were shrieking, bounding around the downed Maven and nudging her. They couldn’t believe she was dead.
Nailren couldn’t believe it either. He stared, waiting for the giant, Gold-rank threat—on her own, she was considered a threat for a Gold-rank team—
And she didn’t move. She twitched, and then Nailren was leaping the walls, ignoring Woll’s shouts and running, because he had to see. Something—he saw the [Knight] shouting as the Cericel turned and drew an arrow to his bow.
But the strange sound didn’t come again.
 
——
 
It was a monster like nothing he had ever seen before. Not even a polar bear came close to that thing’s height. And it was so…foul.
Ragged, loose skin, long fangs, blood on its long claws—the very image of a horror. It had almost made Russell freeze, but he’d dropped to one knee and lined up his shot.
Hesitated. He had hesitated given how far away it was, until it hit the caravans. Then he’d seen the creature bounding out and realized it was now or never.
So he fired the Winchester and hit her in the chest. Her? The second round had struck the same spot before he’d aimed for the open mouth, between the teeth.
He’d never shot so smoothly before. His Skills—that had to be it.
[Stabilized Aim], [Reduced Recoil], [Smooth Reload]—no fumbling the rifle rounds as he cranked the bolt-action back and slotted another in. He was fast. Three shots, and on the third, he remembered the Skill that he had, the only one that fit under ‘active’ Skills according to Erin.
[Hollow-Point Shot].
Had it actually changed that final rifle round to act like that kind of ammunition? If so, it had been a kill-shot. Russell had a fourth round chambered, ready to fire, but he never did.
“Russell, there’s more of ‘em! Shoot!”
Chester was shouting, but Russell saw a man running into the fight with a sword and shield next to a Dwarf, and he was so entranced he said and did nothing. Just watched as the first of the jumping horrors leapt on the man and ran right into his sword. The Human kicked the writhing thing off his blade, turned, hit the second biting creature with his shield, and swung around.
“Silver Swords—on me!”
Then Russell met the fantasy. And he never took his eyes away from the [Knight] who fought back-to-back with the Dwarf. He wasn’t certain, seeing the shorter man—until he saw a running woman with a glowing staff throwing a shining spear at one of the screaming monsters. Then he whispered.
“‘Aye, I could do that.’”
“Is that…no way. Chat, are you seeing this right now?”
Honarai turned around to peek at nothing at all, and Chester rubbed at his eyes.
“Is that an Elf?”
“And others.”
There was a dog-man that looked Egyptian, another Dwarf, a running bug-person that made Russell start and remember Erin’s words, a lizard-man, and even a little, screeching…
“Goblin.”
It didn’t look like the ones he imagined, but there they were, and last of all he saw a running, tall archer with a bow, which—
“Wookie.”
Arnie was pointing, dazed, and Russell frowned at him.
“Gnoll.”
They didn’t really look like that. But he just lowered his rifle, watching as the Silver Swords cleaned up the rest of the screaming things. Only when it seemed like the last ones were running did Russell start, cycled the bolt, and began dismantling his rifle.
“Russell, what are you doing?”
Lenora saw him grab the pack Arnie had dropped, and Russell snapped at her.
