Everyone turned to the Antinium, and Nailren saw Falene rub at her temples. She might have wished to keep that secret; Evor and the Cenidau warriors twisted around, confused. Ylawes’ eyes widened.
“They are? How can you tell?”
Rasktooth glanced at Infinitypear, who counted on his fingers.
“They have odd clothing. They speak oddly. They stare at other species. And they have that weird stuff. The stuff only Earthers have. I saw the pretty Human with colored hair hide it. It not metal, and it not wood.”
“Ah. The stuff Kevin’s laptop is made of. I saw that too.”
Dawil murmured. Nailren’s ears perked up.
And here I stayed away from the inn because I really didn’t want to become a damned regular, doomed to always be sucked into Erin’s orbit. Ylawes was scratching at his head.
“I’ve never seen that.”
“It’s that thing Ryoka had, lad. You know that rectangle that lights up?”
“Oh, right…are you certain?”
“Only one thing to do. Keep an eye on ‘em, ask them where they’re from, and wait for one of them to do the finger guns or something. Shouldn’t take long. Pointy, you got mana for a [Message]? Assuming this area’s clear of mana drain.”
She was grimacing.
“I’m tapped. Anith?”
“Dead zone, I’m afraid. But Mrsha checks in regularly.”
Nailren let out a breath. More Earthers. Standard enough, none of his business, but…he hesitated and glanced at the dead Maven. Ylawes looked down too, and Larr finally found what he was searching for
“It’s all hacked up because someone sliced her head off, Pekona. But look at her chest.”
He’d found two small wounds that went deep. Nailren squatted down.
“Mind if I look?”
He sat there for a bit as people came out to inspect the bodies—the Silver Swords headed into the Waystation—and hmmed as he worked with his knife. Spoony wanted to go inside, but the ghost lingered until Nailren, who had a lot of gore on his paws, found what he wanted.
“Aha.”
He couldn’t find more than one; had the others fallen out or something? But he picked up the hard, foreign object and stared at it. A crumpled up piece of metal. Nailren pocketed it as he pretended to wash his paws off.
Not your ordinary Earthers at all. But the problem was—he was a Gnoll alone. No tribe, and he was out of his old work. Even so…
He was so damn curious.
 
——
 
There was something…familiar about Woll’s Waystation. Oh, it wasn’t great, even by the low standards of the Silver Swords. There was literally no roof anywhere except for the keep, and a brief rain popped up after the fight with the Cericel. Which revealed that yes, there were leaks in the fast-made building.
However, when Ylawes shook hands with the over-caffeinated Woll and caught his breath, yes…he knew this.
A building where people gathered in the middle of arguably-dangerous lands, fighting off monsters, with a quirky caretaker and adventurers and strange children from another planet?
It felt like home, in a perverse way, that not even House Byres felt like. Here, a Gold-rank adventurer thought, just for a moment, that he might find people who understood his brand of insanity.
If anything, Woll was the one unprepared for the Silver Swords. He’d finished peeing—again—and was introducing himself to the Cenidau warriors, who were distinctly unimpressed by the waystation. Styrvi dumped a roll of pelts down on the ground.
“We’ve hides to trade. Not much. The skin of some giant reptile we slew—how much is it worth?”
“Hmm. How much? Well, we don’t have a [Tanner] or anyone to appraise it. Tell you what, I’ll throw in a bag of tea, and…”
Falene was tilting her head as Ylawes glanced around for the possible-Earthers, but they’d vanished amidst the crowds, and everyone was staring at Rasktooth and Infinitypear. True to their nature, Poke Duo were going around shaking hands.
“Hello, I am Infinitypear and this is Rasktooth. We are not monsters.”
“I technically a monster because I’m in the monster bestiary. Goblins has eight whole pages, big record.”
There was something about the two that drew attention to them, the same as Anith, actually. The Jackal Beastkin was so unfamiliar every Gnoll had come over to say hello, and they’d drawn the others with them.
It left the Silver Swords free to investigate. Dawil instantly strode off.
“Latrines, then I’ll see about getting us work.”
“I’ll ask around too, Dawil.”
The Dwarf hesitated, about to do his customary slap on the back and needling comment to begin the competition, but he held up a finger.
“Just one thing, lad. Let’s not commit to anything this time, eh? We’re just getting offers and there’s no need to promise things on your honor or word, right? Remember the [Merchant]?”
Ylawes’ cheeks went red. He hesitated, but knew he deserved it and ducked his head.
“I do. No promises, Dawil.”
The Dwarf hesitated another moment, then forced a smile and tugged at his beard.
“Right, well then, we’ll see who gets the best offers. May the smartest Dwarf win!”
Ylawes folded his arms and glowered at the Dwarf in a rare show of actual pique, and Falene half-smiled.
“What’s the score?”
“I think it’s…16-23.”
Pekona turned to them. She was half-inclined to go with her team, but clearly didn’t want to be as social as Insill or Dasha. Even Larr was chatting with his people, but the Drathian [Sword Dancer] seemed like an outsider even in her team. She hesitated.
“What numbers are those?”
Ylawes hesitated, about to say it was silly, but he realized the Silver Swords’ little in-jokes probably meant it was hard to understand what they were doing, so he coughed, flushing slightly.
“How many times we’ve landed a good contract. When we’re seeking. Random offers don’t count, or missions of mercy. Dawil and I will go searching for work, and whomever gets the best offer…”
Pekona nodded until Falene put in.
“Ylawes is the ‘16’. Dawil has a pattern of finding better-paying jobs. One time, he actually secured a better offer—from the same client. Ylawes doesn’t negotiate.”
“I negotiate! I just—don’t press hard.”
Ylawes muttered as Pekona hid a smile with her hand. Falene directed her attention back to Woll.
“Fascinating. I’m going to investigate the economy of this place.”
That was a purely Falene-decision, and Ylawes was looking around for that [Merchant] who might need escorts after the Cericel attack. He walked off, but Pekona lingered.
“What kind of economy?”
Ylawes hesitated; he’d have liked her to come with him, but Falene seemed pleased by the question. She pushed her spectacles up the bridge of her nose.
“Well, how is Master Woll going to make a profit off those hides? They might have been skinned well enough, but quality control must be an issue. Moreover, a few hides is not worth much. Oh, in the New Lands, if you could process them, everyone needs gear. I don’t see any other infrastructure here. So either he must hold onto them, process the hides himself, or send them to Izril proper for payment, which incurs costs in transportation—and the goods are worth less in Izril. The hide of the animal—a crocodile, I believe—would be worth more for novelty. But the rest?”
Her lecture to Pekona made the [Sword Dancer] nod.
“So he should hire a [Tanner].”
“Yes…though building a tannery? Difficult; it’s a noxious place. And how much food does he have? Even with trade, will he have shortfalls? He seems to store goods, but security and [Thieves] must be an issue.”
Ylawes glanced at Pekona and Falene. Well…yes, when she put it like that, this was a big and risky undertaking. If he thought about it for two seconds, he’d have come to largely the same conclusions, if not as technical as Falene.
But because she’d pointed it out, he did linger long enough to see Woll buy the furs. Not for much, but he offered Evor a gold coin and some silver before striding over.
“Ah, Silver Swords, was it? My earholes are burning. Did I hear someone talking about trade? Even the [Merchants] seem more concerned with finding valuable goods than sending them…well, I do not have the funds to do more than develop this waystation at the moment, and as you can see, we had to make do. Our [Mason] developed some kind of sickness on the first night, and we had to rush him back to Goisedall.”
“Oh dear. What kind of sickness?”
Woll shook his head, grimacing.
“I don’t know, but it was a high fever, and the man was sick and constantly—well, let us just say he used the privy quite a lot. Terrible, terrible—it’s hit half the people I brought.”
Falene glanced at Ylawes, alarmed, and Woll hurried to clarify.
“That was before we set up the waystation! I rather suspect it was some off-meat or something. At any rate, I have an open request for more [Builders], anyone with useful Skills for this spot. In time, I’d like a road back to Goisedall. The first trade road through the New Lands. Now, what can I do for you all? Anything to trade? That is a fine hide from a—crocodile you said, Miss Falene? I do think it’d be worth something in Izril.”
Ylawes re-introduced himself and explained they were looking to be hired. Woll smiled.
“Well then, this might be a good place to linger a day or two. I don’t know if Merchant Kileth needs more hands—I’d say he’s in the market for some, but that might have rattled him, poor man. He may well turn around here.”
“Have you seen that happen?”
“Oh, quite often. This is where it occurs; caravans come in, peer across Kishkeria’s Grasslands, and count how much food they’ve got now that their magic’s out and farming’s bad. Then they turn around. Or they try the grasslands, run out of food, and come back here in a mess. Or just don’t come back at all.”
Falene’s brows had risen.
“Truly? But while the magic issue is dire, it’s not insurmountable—I can cast magic, if a limited amount per day. And if I eat more food or run into any good magic sources, I can [Harvest Mana].”
Ylawes blinked at her, and Woll nodded.
“True! We had some [Sorcerer] come through. The Amazing, Astonishing Leireit or some such. However, most caravans don’t have Level 30 [Mages], Miss Falene. And the farming…they could live without magic, but without food?”
He shook his head, and Falene tilted her head to one side.
“…But you can fix that too. The Archmage of Memory has created a ritual that allows one to purify the earth. Not much, but—”
“He’s what?”
Woll’s voice rose, and Ylawes realized—the man had no access to [Message] spells. In the next second, Woll was towing Falene over.
“Attention! We have a [Mage] with [Message] spells with critical information about the New Lands! Mage Falene—you, we need a billboard or something. A way to post messages!”
It was like Erin all over again; Woll ran and found some planks of wood and was cobbling together a billboard as Falene delivered her information.
“A ground-purification ritual? Do you know the spell?”
Everyone was astonished, and Falene hesitated.
“No…but I could learn it, I think. It’s complex to impart via [Message] spell, but I could pull it off, I think. Then you’d need at least four Level 10 [Mages] capable of linking.”
Woll came striding back over, followed by several interested people.
“I don’t know what that is, but we have magic-users.”
A Drake [Mage] leading her team gestured at her chest.
“So do we. I practice a bit of it myself. Miss Falene, can you teach someone? If you taught me or I got the instructions—I’ll pay you to teach it!”
The [Battlemage] glanced at Ylawes, uncertain, but he was thinking and nodded slowly.
“It’s a very important thing, Falene. Others might come with the knowledge, but if that came with somewhere to sleep, and food while Falene works? I have to ask Dawil, but I think it makes sense, don’t you, Falene?”
Woll nodded rapidly as she thought it over.
“Let’s do a deal, Captain. We can find room for your team!”
The Drake was beaming, as he produced his clipboard and prepared to write things up, but Ylawes leaned over as Falene began to get names of potential students.
“I’ve never had to teach linking—it’s advanced, and it’s usually an entire semester in Wistram—”
“We’ll learn it fast or die trying.”
If there was no other recourse for [Mages] but that—she took a breath, then glanced at Pekona.
“Pekona, my pack on the horses—I need my notes, please?”
Pekona dashed off as Ylawes nodded at his team.
“Obviously, we’ll take a fee from anyone who wants to learn. A very reasonable one.”
“Naturally, naturally, but I’ll compensate you for this, Captain. This knowledge benefits us all. Woll’s Waystation is a place I intend to be essential—and this is just the thing. Information as well as trade.”
Woll’s eyes were gleaming, and Ylawes coughed.
“To that end, Woll—I’d hire more guards. And build those walls higher.”
“Of course, Captain. The Cericel attack proves we need security, and it’s on the list as soon as I get some more [Builders]. As I said, my team—”
Ylawes went on as Woll chattered.
“I would also see if I could persuade some of the people passing through to work for you. You need a good staff. A good staff, thick walls—I’d make the Waystation as wide as you can, but twenty feet, at least. And…crossbows. An entry hallway, maybe. With traps. Somewhere to funnel attackers.”
Woll blinked at Ylawes.
“I…that seems a bit excessive, Captain. I’d like an open trading post, not some kind of military checkpoint back home. Drakes already have a stigma attached to them, and I’d like not to play into that.”
He grinned, but the [Knight] turned to Woll, and his face was so serious that the [Secretary] hesitated. Ylawes stared at an [Innkeeper] who was not that much taller than Woll and saw someone resting on a frozen bier. He put a hand on Woll’s shoulder.
“As someone who’s seen a place like this growing before, Woll, I’d insist it’s very important. If not the hallway—there will be trouble. When the troubles comes, we might not be there. Then it’ll just be you and only the people who you can count on. It could be a lot worse than the Cericel.”
Woll blinked at Ylawes, not sure what to say, until the man smiled.
“Forgive me, it may be unnecessary.”
“No. No, you’re right. Only a fool makes a mistake twice. Or fails to listen to the expert. I have been the fool and here is the expert. Salii would toss me off a tower if I didn’t—well, then. I’ll look into it. Quickly.”
The [Secretary] took Ylawes’ advice and switched from reluctance to acceptance so fast it threw Ylawes, but the [Knight] was relieved. He ducked his head.
