“Not what he’s going to make. Any real conditioner is going to have an emollient, preservative, emulsifier—if everyone doesn’t even have basic conditioner or shampoo, they’re going to be disgusting. You can probably make some with some shea butter, water, coconut oil—and an avocado and honey? But how do you emulsify it and rinse it out?”
She knew hair, it seemed, and distractedly fished for something.
“At least I’m not running out of makeup. Hair dye, yes. Do you think I’ll get a Skill for that?”
“You have a Skill for your makeup?”
“Sure. [Refill Makeup Kit]. It only worked once, though, so maybe it’s like a weekly thing?”
Lenora knew her Skills and class were not suited for this place, but she turned to Honarai.
“Do you think we need different classes, Hona? Russell’s the only one with a gun.”
“He’s a grump. Once we meet people, we’ll do better. All he does is complain.”
It was true that Russell wasn’t exactly friendly, but he’d been hunting to keep them all fed. Still, he did order them around and refused to let anyone so much as touch his guns or do more than carry his pack. They were talking outside, and the two young women left their tent a moment to sit by the fire.
“So what’ll you do once we find civilization or other people? I’m going to cultivate my inner energy as soon as I can find a manuscript.”
“…A manuscript on what, Arnie?”
Arnie paused.
“Cultivation. And I’m going to call myself another name, for this world. Something for people to know me by. Ala’bon.”
It—Lenora had to halt and turn her head, and Honarai bit her lip as they approached the fire. They saw Chester’s face go blank, but Russell didn’t bother with any of that. He just started laughing.
“That’s a stupid name!”
Arnie stood up abruptly and stalked away from the fire. Russell stopped laughing as Honrarai shot him a glance.
“Dude.”
“What? That’s the dumbest name I’ve heard.”
“There’s no need for you to be a dick about everything.”
Russell sat up and growled.
“Who’s being a dick? He’s not done anything—he doesn’t even haul the bag or set up the tent, and he just talks about cultivating his inner qi. I haven’t seen him use a single Skill! Even Chester has [Pitch In], and he can help!”
“Yeah, but you’re still being a dick about—”
Chester put out a hand, forestalling another argument.
“We’re all having a hard time. I think it’s difficult for Arnie to hear someone laugh at him, isn’t it, Russell? And it’s true he’s talking a lot, but we’re all far from home, so why don’t we just relax?”
The comment made Russell hesitate, and he sat back as Honarai nodded. Then both eyed Chester.
“Was that a Skill?”
“No. Just teamwork training.”
He appeared quite pleased with himself as Lenora changed the subject.
“Let’s say this is a fantasy world. That’s what you were told, right, Russell?”
Everyone listened again about this woman he’d met, and even Arnie stopped fussing with a sleeping bag and turned his head. Russell stared into the night.
“Yes. Magic weapons and swords and plate armor—nothing more advanced. Magic, though. Lots of magic.”
“I could be a [Mage]! Chat, that’s so—kek.”
Honarai sighed, and Chester sat forwards.
“Lots of species, though. Didn’t she tell you the north was all Humans and we might be distrusted for being in Drake lands?”
“Mhm. Sounds like there are sides. She didn’t say much except not to mention her name—sounds like she’s on someone’s bad side. It seemed like it.”
Russell’s hand moved towards his waist. He didn’t rest a hand on his revolver, just on his belt, but Lenora glanced at it.
“Are you going to fight?”
They all eyed him, and he blinked.
“Fight? I don’t even know if there are sides. We’re all on Earth’s side, right?”
Everyone but Arnie chorused agreement, and Russell went on.
“I’ve got as many rounds as I carried here. Wish I’d brought some open tips for my rifle. Heavier grain.”
“That’s…a different bullet?”
“Mhm. Open Tip Match—good if I was shooting at long range. I just have hunting ammunition.”
He hefted the rifle and let Lenora inspect it. It made her uneasy, and she handed it to Honarai, who nearly tried to peer down the barrel before hesitating.
“Is this unloaded?”
“Yep, but don’t do that in general.”
She did it anyways, frowning.
“Why’s there a spiral in the gun?”
“Rifling. So the bullet spins?”
Again, he gave them all that incredulous expression like they were idiots, and he didn’t seem to realize how obvious it was at times how little he respected them. But then again, they hadn’t done much. Lenora massaged her aching feet, and Chester frowned.
“So you’ve got a gun, which no one else in this world has—or only a few people. And that could change the course of a war. Like…a fantasy. Imagine being in—in Lord of the Rings and having a gun. Did you ever want to be that guy?”
Russell blinked at Chester.
“What? No. Just shoot my way though the Ringwraiths? I never dreamed of…”
He stared into the fire.
“I like old Westerns too. I usually buy DVDs on discount.”
“DVDs? Who doesn’t stream?”
“Someone who doesn’t have good internet and can’t afford a subscription.”
He retorted, and Honarai bit her lip. Lenora felt the conversation go dead again, and after a moment, Russell stared at the fire.
“…Besides, they had it in the books. The movies too.”
“What?”
“They had gunpowder in Lord of the Rings. Saruman invents it and uses it to blow a hole in Helms Deep. That’s the entire point of his armies. The Uruk-Hai are modern orcs with steel.”
Arnie had come back, and when Lenora turned to him for confirmation, he blinked. No one knew what to make of that book knowledge, but Russell just took his rifle back from Chester and began to check it for rust.
“I don’t want to be a soldier, anyways. There’s a big difference between shooting game and shooting a person.”
“But that was your job, right? Leading hunting parties in…where?”
“Virginia. There are swamps. It’s a decent living if you can work for tourists or people who want a guide.”
Honarai sat there as Russell stared into the distance.
“Hunting. Wow. How do you…I mean, do you, like, gut the animals on the spot or something? How do you get them anywhere?”
“We can skin and gut the animal, but usually you just load them up in a truck. There are people who process it.”
“So you just get a bunch of meat? Do you have to, like, salt it?”
Russell developed that too-patient tone of voice.
“No, the people who process it can do all the work. You’ll get a vacuum-sealed bag of all the good meat, Honarai. If you bag a single deer, that’s plenty of venison. There’s not much money in selling the meat, though. Sometimes, I just lead tourists who want to collect trophies.”
He grimaced.
“Anyways, I just do that for money. My turn. How big a streamer were you?”
“Um—you’ve never heard of me?”
Everyone else knew Honarai, and her face fell when Russell shook his head. She casually shrugged.
“I don’t know, I did okay. I had sixty thousand regular viewers on my streams.”
“…Is that a lot?”
“I was top five most-watched streamers in the world!”
“Huh. Does that pay well?”
Yes, absolutely. If Lenora was any judge, she bet Honarai was a millionaire. As for Chester—he had been winning a race to be one of the youngest members of his state’s House of Representatives. Lenora didn’t know if she had any big claims to her name—she had won an artist of the year award for her debut comic, but she hadn’t hit financial success.
And Arnie…Russell listened to Honarai talking about her metrics and collaborations with other streamers, and when she mentioned being in several commercials, it seemed to click. He kept inspecting his rifle until Chester interrupted.
“There’s a pattern in the Spirited Generation. Most people who get spirited tend to be good at something, even if they’re not the best. Like we’ve lost an Olympic rower, a tennis champion, an International Master at chess—”
“—the world’s best streamer—”
Russell rolled his eyes.
“And there are ordinary people too. I’m just a hunter.”
“You’re a pretty darn good shot. I’ve only seen you shoot once at your targets. I’m pretty sure that’s good, isn’t it?”
Lenora’s quiet observation made Russell pause and grin in satisfaction. He nodded after a moment.
“I’ve never competed or anything, but I guess I’m decent. I’ve been hunting since I was a kid. My dad taught me since I was…twelve?”
“You had a gun when you were twelve? Dude, that’s so irresponsible!”
Honarai exclaimed, and Lenora nudged her with a foot. Russell was glaring when Chester broke in.
“Do anything interesting on your hunts? Did you win an award?”
“No. I’m not famous or rich. I live in a trailer. I’m not—”
Russell glared again, then stared past them.
“Well, I did have to shoot a grizzly, once. It jumped us.”
“You shot a grizzly bear?”
The [Gunslinger] nodded, but he was staring into the long, dark grass around them. The wind was picking up, and the fire was going out; Chester began to stamp on it before the embers could blow.
“The last thing we need is a brushfire. How close was it?”
“Ten feet away. Snuck up on our blind. I had to shoot it dead with this.”
Russell murmured. Lenora felt her skin crawl. He had a hand on his revolver. He unholstered it, and Honarai blinked.
“Wait, like how many rounds?”
Russell didn’t reply. He sat there, then began to rise as Arnie walked over.
“I think I’ll try cultiv—aaaaaaaah!”
The creature leapt out of the grass and rushed at Honarai, both pairs of jaws open. It was long, running on all fours, and—
Lenora was screaming and grabbing for Honarai when the thunder deafened her. She flinched, and there was a jerk—the body hit the fire, and she heard another shot—then silence.
“—get back, get—”
Silence and darkness until Honarai’s stun gun flashed in the night, and then a light—a flashlight from Russell’s hand. He was aiming his smoking revolver around, then gazing down at—
Lenora stared at the beast with two mouths, both stacked vertically on top of each other. It had two tails, four eyes on each side of its head, and it resembled a long lion or something like that—its claws were very sharp, and it lay with two holes in its head and two more in its body. The last bullet had gone through its spine.
Russell stared down at the predator he’d shot and spoke into the ear-ringing silence.
“Five shots. Same as the bear.”
He sat down, took a huge breath, and then another, then stood.
“We should move the body. There might be more. C’mon. I’ll keep a lookout.”
Then they were moving. Honarai was shaking, and Lenora wondered how good a shot you had to be to fire five bullets and hit a target in the dark that fast.
The most dangerous Earther willing to listen to Erin Solstice kept staring down at the animal he’d shot. Excitement and fear combined into heart-pumping adrenaline was turning into sludge in his veins as it faded, but he stood there a second and shook his head in wonderment.
Clearly, he loved this world. But Lenora wasn’t sure the world was ready for him.
 
[Gunslinger Level 15!]
[Skill – Mitigate Hearing Damage Obtained!]
 
——
 
Aside from that one level in the encounter with the Two-Jawed Plains Hunter—Russell didn’t level once in their journeys.
Everyone else did, and that, more than anything, seemed to annoy him.
“Turns out that [Candidate] levels from keeping everyone together.”
Chester was a natural leader-type. Big smile, handshake you could use to anchor a boat with, handsome—and Honarai had exactly the opposite type of charisma.
“I can’t level [Streamer] until I get something to stream with—but I did get [Tech Girl]. See?”
She’d taken some of her own possessions, which were all devoted to streaming, and combined a selfie-stick as well as a bunch of cord and her stungun to create…a stungun spear. If she held the trigger down, it became a temporary spear she seemed willing to jab someone with. Her close-call with the monster had galvanized her.
Lenora, by contrast, was too afraid to do anything so violent, but she’d levelled twice as an [Artist]. Which amazed everyone because she didn’t even have a sketchpad.
“I’ve just been drawing with this. [Inkless Pen].”
She produced the digital pen and scribbled on her arm. Having no other canvas, she’d done a likeness of the monster that Russell had killed, and it was scarily good. If they’d been back home, she’d have made amazing art for Ala’bon’s story, The Hand of Destiny.
Not that he’d gotten it started yet, but Arnold de Grasse, Arnie, or Ala’bon as he had decided to call himself, just hadn’t found the right artist. He could have finished the scripts and made the best manga ever if he’d had someone like Lenora around.
The day after the monster attack, everyone was all over Russell, which…fair. He was even persuaded to show Chester how to aim the shotgun, but didn’t let him do more than undo the safety.
“If you need to reload it, we’re in trouble. Don’t fire it unless I tell you to, got it?”
Which meant they gave Arnie the pack. Which was damn heavy, but Arnie could manage the weight. In truth, he felt a bit…embarrassed.
Not because Russell had been the hero yesterday; he’d had a gun, obviously. But Arnie hadn’t had a chance to unveil his Skills.
He’d lied to them, you see. It was a classic move when you didn’t know if you could trust your allies. Arnie had told them he was a [Martial Artist] and he had taken classes, but the truth was, he wasn’t a [Transmigrator] either. He had every intention of learning cultivation and magic if they were available—that was just common sense. But he had been chosen, and when the moment came, he’d use his Skills.
After all, he was a [Hero]. He was low-level, only Level 6—for now—but he had [Increased Stat Gain] and [Hidden Potential]. He’d been Level 5 last night, but surviving that encounter had awarded him experience.
The weight of the pack was just…training. He marched under the sun, panting, as he steadied his emotions and began to refine his body. The first ten levels were set up. Another night of laboring like that?
 
[Hero Level 7!]
[Skill – Strength Enhancement (Gradual) Obtained!]
 
He slept well indeed.
That was how their journey went, day after day. With Russell to hunt for them, they were still doing well, even if they had no toothpaste and the rough travel was getting to them. Lenora was running out of ration bars and appeared quite hungry. Ala’bon resolved to seek out some wild vegetables or something to resolve her issues.
