“Hey, hey, a newcomer! Come on in, tea’s free! You’ll have to either provide your own cup or wait until one’s washed. Or sell us your cups! I’ll do a special deal on those. What’s your flavor? We’ve got Earl Grey, Baron Black, Chandrarian Sand Tea, Drathian Flower tea…I’ll be right over. Where was I, and who was I?”
He spun, and a Human man appeared quite taken aback as he took a step back. Woll pointed at him.
“Merchant Kileth, right. Quartermaster. Well, I reckon I can take…how much?”
“Er, quite a lot of dry seed, heavier items we cannot carry due to our Chests of Holding, such as a grandfather clock, excess supplies—”
The man was trying to be quiet, but Woll was loud and took another gulp from the teacup he was carrying as he wrote, balancing a clipboard on one arm. Ink was smudged all over his scales and his bright red uniform that reminded Nailren of a [Receptionist], but higher-scale.
“Can do! That’ll be…one gold coin per square foot filled. Per week. You don’t pay, you forfeit your goods. Either collect on the day or we claim it.”
“A gold coin per square foot? Are you mad?”
Everyone around him recoiled, and Woll went on smoothly.
“Space is at a premium, and we don’t have any! You see that keep? Our second floor? We don’t have anything else! Gold coin per square foot, or—I’ll charge you a silver with one condition.”
Everyone stopped arguing, and Woll brushed at his scales as he glanced at Nailren.
“It’s a silver per square foot, again, and you buy time. A week, two weeks, a month. I’ll go as high as two months. But if you don’t send someone back to say you’re alive and that you’re still coming back for your goods, after that period elapses, I’ll take it.”
It was a bet. Kileth recoiled uncertainly, but Nailren saw the same trick Rilles was pulling on a far, far larger scale.
Not everyone was going to make it. Woll went on casually.
“We set up a passcode only your group and I know. If anyone makes it back, they can pay and renew the lease. Otherwise, it’s mine. I’m hoping to get a way to preserve or expand my storage, but until then, it’s at a premium. You can send riders back once you establish your camps. Dump it here and circle back. Or sell it; the folks outside will take anything you have to offer. Or I will, at a price. Tea?”
Someone had a teapot and a cup that might have been cleaned; he held it around, and a Gnoll took it. Woll gulped more down, and Kileth murmured.
“I think I’d take the second option…yes, let’s talk space. As for tea—”
“I’ll give it to you cheap. A bag—a full bag could mean tea for a month. Good for morale, energy; one gold coin for this Chandrarian Sand Tea. Eugh, kicks like one of their camels does, I bet, but it keeps me going.”
“One gold coin?”
“If you sell me something I like. Heck, sell me some paper, ink, cups or a chair, and I’ll throw two bags in, free! I’ll let you sit on it, Merchant. Now, you, who was I? Right…innkeeper. Sleeping within view of the Waystation’s free of charge. But inside or in sight of the walls costs.”
“You don’t own what’s outside of the walls.”
Woll patiently talked to the Gnoll who seemed like an adventurer of some kind.
“No, sir, I do not. But my guards have to know what’s out there, and if they don’t recognize you…that’s not me making reasons to charge you, that’s practicality. We’ve had [Bandits], [Thieves], and we’re not perfect, but this is how the Waystation keeps itself safe. You want to just camp out there? Be my guest, and because you’ve paid, you can haul water from the well. Tastes brackish, but it’s decent. You know what goes well with that? Tea? Tea? Tea.”
He was more obliging than you thought, especially for a Drake. And efficient; he actually cleared the people wanting to talk to him, and someone, the Drake with the tea kettle, went with the [Merchant] so she could calculate how much space he needed. Then Woll strode over.
“Hello, friend. Tea?”
“Thank you, though I’m not able to do business. It’s just me.”
Woll shook Nailren’s hand, then paced around the keep. Then he headed outside.
“Oblige me. If I have any free time…”
There were stones on the ground outside the keep, and a few Drakes and Gnolls and even two Humans were working. They were pasting mortar—crude, not nearly as good as proper cement—onto the stones and fitting them into the ground. Crude foundation laying; Woll began pasting stones with more mortar with clear inexperience, but a will. Nailren squatted down and obligingly tossed stones down so they could be filled in.
“The tea’s good. High-quality stuff. From Merchant Tilfem…yes?”
He put on the same Pallass accent, affecting the ‘yes’, and was rewarded by Woll glancing over.
“That’s right. Poor man had to offload it, and I got it for enough food to see him back without his people eating him alive. Knock-down prices.”
Now he was giving it away—and it’d still probably be a tidy profit. As if reading Nailren’s mind, Woll added.
“It’ll go bad with all this rain; the Waystation’s not drip-free, and it’s better to make friends than hold onto it. So, you’re from Pallass?”
He’d already heard or written it down. He was glancing at his clipboard now balanced nearly-impossibly on one arm. Nailren raised his brows.
“You have to be from a Walled City yourself. I should guess—Zeres? That’s closest, or Manus, but you don’t seem military.”
“Hah! Catch me going to either city. Er, unless you like them. I’m Salazsarian! City of Gems and all that!”
Woll pounded his chest, then went on without missing a beat.
“I came here the moment I saw the New Lands rise. Like the Waystation?”
“It’s incredible.”
“It’s shit, and we all know it. But it’s the only thing we could throw up. I wish I’d taken a recipe for Salazsarian concrete, but, well, we had concrete mix. Lost it all when our Chest of Holding blew. Two hundred feet of carnage in the rain.”
So he’d been hit by the magic issues? Woll was cheerful enough, and Nailren had to ask.
“What’s your class, if you don’t mind me asking? And how does a Drake like you come to be here?”
“You mean how does someone like me end up in the New Lands when I have zero survival Skills? Fair enough. The answer’s easy: I used to work for the greatest Drake in Salazsar. Ever heard of Salii the Secretary? Salii the Serpent? Salii the…damn, we really should have come up with better names for her.”
Ah, of course. Nailren grinned slightly; he saw a tired-looking Drake come out of the keep. The one with the teapot.
“Woll? Merchant so-and-so’s asking about a contract.”
“We don’t have one. Get him to start putting things in and do the spiel about how we’re not going anywhere and he can always hunt us down.”
She sighed and trudged off, and Woll glanced at Nailren.
“Know her?”
“I’ve heard of her, yes. Highest-levelled [Secretary] in the Walled Cities.”
Woll sighed and stared at the mortar for all of 0.2 seconds before continuing to plop it in with the stones.
“I was her understudy. Ancestors, what a Demon. Tongue like an ox stepping on cacti. But the adventures we got up to. I’d be getting ahold of a mining sector, really optimizing layouts, and she’d walk into her office and say, ‘Woll, we’re quitting the company, we’re going to bail out Remarbo Mining Limited.’ And we’d pack up, walk into a first-floor office filled with roaches, and start cleaning house. The levels. We could have been running Salazsar like one of Pallass’ machines by now if the Walled Families had listened to her.”
“Why’d she leave? I heard about that.”
Woll shook his head, despairing.
“She wanted them to let her take a risk. Open an entirely new vein, give her—and companies of course—the chance to mine outside of Salazsar. Deep mines, super risky for monsters, expeditions for more rare things we never dig up—even [Miners] who’d unearth dungeons! All super-experimental, super difficult stuff. They said it was too expensive, too risky, too unnecessary. And she said: of course it is! That’s the point! They level, we level. A city lives on its levels, even Salazsar. But they shot her down, and she left. She was thinking Rhir, Manus, for the third Antinium War, or the Grand Queen of the Antinium…then she went to Pomle. The rest’s history.”
Woll gulped down more tea and scribbled a note in his clipboard, which remained glued to his arm even when he stretched his limb straight up. Nailren eyed him.
“You didn’t go with her?”
“She said Pomle only needed one Drake. Plus, I get seasick. But the New Lands…when I saw that, I quit my job that day. We rushed to get this place done.”
“Why the Waystation?”
“Because it’s needed. Because it’s here. That’s the biggest lesson Salii taught me: be essential. I could be cute and say it was something else, but no. Be needed. People need a place to stop. They need a place to sell things and buy things. They need this, and being here matters more than a ceiling without holes in it. When you come back, it won’t be that much better, but I’ll be here. Woll. You tell anyone you see, and if I hear you sent them, I’ll have something waiting for you.”
Woll jerked a thumb at his chest and stood, and Nailren rose.
“Well, that fits in with why I’m here. I was making a map, actually…”
When Woll saw the beginnings of the map, he dashed inside and handed Nailren a bag of tea.
“Take it. So the Haven’s out there, eh? Good trading routes. I’m sending back riders for supplies. Paper. I want as much paper as you can get!”
He was telling a harassed Gnoll woman, who growled at him.
“It’s all expensive as shit, Woll.”
“Well, buy what you can and get back here. I’ve underlined how much you can pay for everything. Stick to the list.”
“But what if I see—”
“Stick to the list, Merri. The list doesn’t lie. What do we remember?”
“Everyone lies but the list.”
The Gnoll rolled her eyes, but she mounted a horse and set out with two other riders. Woll turned to Nailren.
“I’ll take a copy of that map. You’d think we’d get fliers doing the job.”
“Actually, I was surprised no one had beaten me to this. I’ve only got basic Skills…”
Woll snorted.
“The real [Cartographers] are either old men and women who use other people’s maps and never go outside or explorers who knew exactly how much they needed to prep. They’re out there, probably, but few of them are riding around like you. Not a popular class. As for fliers…well, the Oldblood Drakes say their wings hurt trying to get more’n twenty feet off the ground. Mana drain gets them too. And the Garuda I’ve seen aren’t going high. Something’s spooked them.”
Nailren eyed the skies.
“Predators? I heard rumors of some nasty ones.”
Woll nodded, jerking his thumb west.
“Write this on your map: the area we’re in front of is the first major zone in my mind. I call it Kishkeria’s Grasslands. It’s wide, flat, and not entirely empty. I’ve heard two groups claiming there might be submerged areas you can’t see. But there are monsters.”
“Really. Standard or New Lands? The Landsharks are all east of here.”
“Both. A few Landshark packs, but we’ve heard everything from Corusdeer to slimes. Even Gold-rank threats. A Wyvern rider from Salazsar landed here two days ago. Said his entire wing was scouting and got chewed up by rival Wyverns.”
So the air might be more risky than land…Nailren supposed it made sense. You couldn’t hide in the air, except in clouds. He shook Woll’s hand again as he rose.
“What’s the fee for a night?”
“Five copper. Well’s free for anyone who pays for the night; the rains kept us topped up. At some point, I’ll get more dug or start charging, but everything else here is a service. If you’re lucky, someone has drinks to sell, and remember, no one here is guarding your horse. Someone offers to do that for you…”
Woll waited a beat, then grinned.
“Hah! Your face! We know that Gnoll kid. Bright fellow. Come on in, later, and we’ll be swapping stories. I’m still asking anyone who knows what went down in Liscor to talk. No gambling, though; too many fights.”
“I’ll join in. I might stay the night, at least, to find out where I want to head next.”
Nailren nodded, and Woll leapt up.
“Splendid! Anyone in the Waystation? Hello! Who am I and what am I doing?”
He charged off, and Nailren shook his head. He liked this place already. He did feel a tug on his right ear as well.
‘Yes, yes, yes.’
Spoony liked Woll too. Nailren put his hands in his pockets.
“Keep an eye on my horse for me, though, Spoony. And if you see any ghosts or anything, two tugs left, one tug right.”
He began to stroll around, introducing himself to other travellers.
 
——
 
There were windows without shutters in the waystation, and the smell of manure was strong. Woll reminded himself to get the kid, Rilles, to shovel more often. No, wait, he couldn’t do that while he was standing there.
“Fetta? Get someone with a shovel to run down and get that manure out, would you? See if anyone’s got a wheelbarrow for sale.”
“We’ve got one.”
“That’s for our mortar and stones. Like hell we’re giving it to Rilles. Or just a spare hemp bag. His reeks. Oh, and what’s that contact in Salazsar you have? The one in the Assassin’s Guild?”
Fetta, the Drake with the teapot, paused in making more. She leaned on the counter.
“Couldro. Why?”
“[Memo: Couldro]. Would like an information lookup on ‘Labright’: fur color brown, solo, armed with a bow, earrings both ears…”
Woll calmly threw the [Memo] out and thanked Salii for insisting he learn a Skill that was encrypted compared to most [Messages] and didn’t require mana. Level 30+ [Secretaries] or higher only. Fetta gave him a sharp look as she checked her sides.
“Should I watch him?”
“No need for that. No need. It’s just that he knew Salii’s name.”
“So? You can’t shut up about her.”
Woll leaned against the rough window casually.
“No one normal knows Salii the Secretary. She’s only a hero to those of us in her class, or who have seen her work. You have to cultivate an appreciation of fine things to be able to worship Salii’s high heels. He might just be a smart, educated fellow from Pallass. Accent sounds right. Or he’s an Eye or…I’ll just add him to the list.”
