“The lad’s good with monsters, especially the ones his house hunts. That’s House Byres, by the way, one of the noble houses of Izril. The Five Families are the big ones; Terland, El, Reinhart, Veltras, Wellfar—you should know them and the six Walled Cities of the south, Miss. Important to get these details right when you’re in Izril.”
Now it sounded like he was giving Honarai advice. But Ylawes was muttering.
“I think…this is a Hound. There’s types of Cericel. What we killed was a ‘Maven’, which isn’t the same as a Scourgequeen. A Scourgequeen would be even deadlier, if not actually larger. There’s Fangbeasts…but they’re only in alpha-packs. I think this is a Hound, and if we killed a bunch of Stalkers, then it fits. It’s a small pack, and the Hound was scouting for prey last night.”
Russell’s skin crawled. So they’d missed the pack in the night. Oregg swore.
“Damn. How many packs might there be, Captain Ylawes?”
“Hard to say. Cericel spread fast, and they’re dangerous. I’d hope we killed the entire pack here, but…if you killed a Hound, sir, there’s a bounty on them. Only two silver, but Cericel are a public-menace monster, and you could swear on truth stones and be paid the bounty if we were at an Adventurer’s Guild.”
Ylawes addressed Russell, and the man smiled.
Truth spells. Great.
Dawil was nodding.
“Best if we all stay sharp. We staying here, lad? Might be good if everyone holds together. Are you heading east? It’s safer than the New Lands, especially if you lot just popped up.”
Honarai turned to Russell and Lenora.
“Oh, well, we’re exploring like everyone else. We might go back, but we don’t want to be quitters, right? Even if we’re out of gold.”
Ylawes and Dawil exchanged a look, and the Dwarf sighed.
“Well, if you need a hand, the lad here is going to insist…”
Russell had the feeling of the jaws of a trap closing, but he wasn’t sure if they were just being charitable. He hesitated, not sure what to say, and Honarai was doing the same when someone interrupted.
“Excuse me, actually, we have work. Russell! Hona, Lenora!”
Chester appeared with none other than Woll himself. He was smiling, and Russell turned as Dawil frowned.
“I’ve got a job for us for lodging for the night. And some food and coin.”
“Really?”
Russell was impressed right up until Woll nodded.
“This is your friend who can kill monsters?”
“Russell, yes. He can defend himself. Russell, Woll needs more people to stand watch. The rest of us get to lay stones.”
The [Candidate] seemed very pleased with himself, but Russell shot him an immediate glare. Stand watch with what? My rifle? But Woll was busy.
“I’d like more hands, yes, and anyone who can relieve pressure on my people while the Silver Swords are camped—go see the Drake up there, Rillemet. He’ll have you working.”
“Oh, yay. Laying bricks. Woo.”
Honarai pumped a fist into the air, but she didn’t seem that upset. Russell pulled Chester to the side.
“What the hell are you thinking?”
“I found us work. Russell, we need income.”
“I can hunt! What am I supposed to tell them when they ask me what I’m carrying?”
Chester gave Russell an impatient gaze.
“Just tell them it’s a weapon. You won’t have to use it unless there’s another monster. Russell, we have to engage with these people, not skulk around. Come on, we’re laying bricks. Teamwork, right?”
He patted Russell on the shoulder, and the [Gunslinger] took a breath. But they’d already agreed and he was conscious of the Silver Swords watching him, so he nodded and grabbed his pack.
 
——
 
Fortunately, the Drake told Russell he was going to be pulling the night shift, so it’d be dark when he had to stand watch.
“Look, just shout if you see anyone trying to sneak in or out. We told everyone inside—no leaving to use the privy. Woll’s orders. If you see a monster, scream. You won’t be the only one on the walls.”
The low dirt walls weren’t exactly impressive, but Russell nodded as he held his long rifle as covertly as he could. He didn’t see the Silver Swords below, but he cursed Chester—again. The Drake, Rillemet, did inspect the rifle with a frown.
“One thing—what’s that you’re carrying?”
“It’s…my weapon. It’s like a crossbow.”
“Huh. No design I’ve ever seen.”
“It’s from Terandria.”
Rillemet raised his brows. After Russell was not forthcoming, he nodded.
“I guess it’s new, or maybe they have a copy in Pallass or something? The City of Inventions makes stuff like that all the time.”
“Maybe.”
“Can I see it?”
“…Sure, but be careful. Don’t touch—anything.”
Russell held out the gun but didn’t let the Drake do more than touch it. Safety on or not, he jerked it back before the Drake could peer down the tube.
“It’s loaded.”
“Right. Oops. Well, as long as it shoots, just walk down the walls every now and then. No need to march. Here.”
He had a lantern, and Russell accepted it. He stood on the walls as the Drake walked down, and then he sighed. It was going to be a long night. Russell walked up and down the walls and distinctly heard Rillemet talking below.
“Yeah, the Human’s fine. Bit taciturn, and he’s got some weird crossbow weapon. I’m turning in. Tell Woll that the walls are gonna become mud unless we actually start making them out of stone. I’m surprised this entire place hasn’t rained away.”
Whatever someone else said to him was lost as Russell stared into the night. He was annoyed at Chester. Annoyed at Honarai getting them in trouble, even if she’d been trying. Lenora was fine. Arnie had muttered about ‘gathering intelligence’ before they’d began working.
If only I were by myself. Then he felt sure he could have gotten what he needed from Oregg, gone out, begun hunting, and come back and made enough coin to buy some supplies and keep going.
Instead, they might be found out already. True, not by evil people, but…
What will this lead to? Erin said that some people knew us. Enemies and allies.
He had three guns; the others were sleeping with his pack, which had the shotgun and his ammunition in there, and if he lost it, there was no replacing it in this world.
The most precious things, the only things that made him useful. Russell paced up and down the walls trying to think. Eastwards from here, but to where? Erin had said she had an inn where he’d be safe. This was Izril, but they were far from normal civilization.
Could you trust people you just met? A [Knight] had to be a man of honor, right? A Dwarf, a half-Elf, a Human.
Goblin and Antinium. Russell nearly ran into a Drake patrolling the other side of the wall, whirled on his heel, and walked back.
Monsters. There was something called a ‘Scourgequeen’? But he’d shot down a Maven; they’d been saying it had a bounty and that her hide might have been worth something if someone could process it.
Could I kill monsters? Like an adventurer?
He didn’t have enough ammunition. How to get more? Impossible. He could have hand-loaded the shells back home, but…maybe Arnie’s gunpowder was the best option.
Why bat guano for gunpowder?
…It was a long night. Russell only got relieved when the sun was rising, and he stumbled down the ramparts as a yawning Rillemet met him.
“Good work, er, Human. Dead gods, I told you that you didn’t need to pace!”
“I just felt like walking.”
“Well, I appreciate the energy. Get some sleep. Your group’s over there.”
Russell walked over and groaned.
They’d set up his tent in a corner of the keep. The tent, which was so visibly from Earth with its nylon fabric and unique design that—
He gave up. He was tired, and the fact that they were getting out of his bedroll meant he’d get that and the tent. He stumbled over, sleep-deprived, and Honarai offered him something.
“Hey, Russell! Good work! We get breakfast. Here, I got you this, and I could get you some tea later?”
She held out his tin cup filled with water. Russell took it, raised it to his mouth, then jerked the cup away.
“Hold it. Where is this from?”
He peered at her; they’d been drinking rainwater they’d had to collect in the tent tarp, but they’d been low on water before. She shook her head.
“Don’t worry, Woll said we could use the well. It’s over there, see?”
She jerked a thumb at a crude well and bucket someone was drawing water from already. Russell’s sleep-addled mind prompted him to take a sip of the water. But then he squinted.
“Did you boil it?”
“Boil it? It’s from the well.”
He dumped the water out of the cup instantly.
“I’ve got soap in my pack. Clean the cup, clean everything with boiled water, got it? Don’t drink anything from a well without boiling it, Honarai!”
He was tired and snapped at her, and she raised her hands.
“C’mon, Russell—”
Then she felt at her stomach.
“Ow, I’ve got cramps, actually. And Chester said his stomach hurt last night too.”
Russell stared at her, and his heart sank as he heard cursing from over to his right. He turned—and Dawil crawled out of his own tent.
“My insides! Dead gods, was it something I ate?”
Honarai stared at Rusell, then at Dawil, and the [Gunslinger] closed his eyes. Even Gold-rank adventurers? But in a world of magic and spells, he supposed…only Ylawes Byres, who cared about well sanitation, and the Gnoll, Nailren, made a point of boiling water.
Everyone else?
Well, half of them had all gotten what he was pretty sure was dysentery.
 
——
 
It was actually quite a problem. It was dangerous.
And gross, of course. Give credit where it was due: it was the young man, Russell, who went running towards Woll and delivered the news to the Drake the moment he realized what was going on.
To Woll’s credit, the Drake instantly shouted the news and issued a public apology; he hadn’t known. He was, of course, both embarrassed and in trouble with any group that had gotten sick, but the most embarrassed person was probably Dawil.
“I can’t believe I’ve got…whatever the hell it is! Like a rookie in front of the younger adventurers! I just—I remember Ylawes boiling water, but Falene took over once we hit Gold-rank and just hit our gear with [Cleanse] and cast [Purify Water] each time we camped!”
He’d taken the convenience of magic for granted. So had Woll; the Drake from Salazsar might be prepared in many ways, but he’d never had to worry about sanitation in his city.
The Dwarf was pale-faced, sweating, holding his cramping stomach, and he was one of at least a hundred struck down by the mass-dysentery. He lay there, curled up, until a shadow fell over him.
“Psst. Dawil. Whose magic is silly now? Hmm?”
He groaned up at the superior half-Elf who stood over him. However, after that, Falene just checked his temperature and cast a cooling spell on him, Insill, Dasha, and Infinitypear, who were all lying there.
It was a mark of how badly Dawil was feeling that Falene didn’t mock him that badly. Even Infinitypear had gotten sick.
“I just don’t understand. You drank water, Rasktooth.”
The Cave Goblin was patting his brother’s back.
“Yeah, but I grew up drinking dungeon water or insides of monsters.”
“…And?”
“You is stop brown streaming when you get, like, one year old. Or you get a Skill, [Greater Resistance: Filth] or something. Guess that one place where Cave Goblins beat even Antinium, eh, Brother?”
He cheerfully patted Infinitypear again, and the Worker rasped.
“I am not in a pat-pat happy mood, Brother. Stop patting my back shell, please.”
“Sorry. You need help to get to the poo spot again?”
The latrines were…crowded. A second one had been dug, but Falene grimaced.
“Bad sanitation causes this. Washing one’s hands with hot water and cleaning that well—essentials. I’ve agreed to keep teaching the ground-purification ritual and cast [Cleanse], but Woll may have to do more than rely on my magic. I’ll help Dasha use the privy with Pekona. Er, how bad is it this morning, Ylawes?”
He took a breath.
“It’s…well, I’d rather be cleaning up Creler guts, Falene. It is a smell and sight. Be careful where you step.”
She paled as Pekona finished putting a charm on Dasha’s chest. Ylawes heard loud cursing from the side and groaned.
Russell’s party of probably-Earthers, the Silver Swords, the colonists, and Cenidau’s warriors were all hit. Evor was swearing up a storm as Styrvi snapped into another tent.
“If you need to shit that badly, use your helmet! But don’t come to me to clean it! Argh, how are we not sick?”
She and Rigalde had drunk a lot of water from the well too; Cenidau’s wells were so cold apparently it wasn’t as much of an issue. Rigalde muttered.
“I handed you the cup. [Cleanly Hands].”
“Argh. What a time to be a [Maid]. Cleaning literal shit off of clothing!”
However, for all their ribbing and complaints, there was a sense of actual urgency amongst the healthy. Woll himself was speaking to a sleep-deprived Russell and Lenora, who were the only two standing.
“Let’s say it is this disease you know. Dysentery?”
“Could be cholera. Either way, it’s going to take days to clean up. And it means they need hydration. But it could get bad.”
“So, water, boiled water, understood. How bad is…bad?”
“They could die. Do healing potions work on diseases?”
Woll was glancing around at the people lying there or hobbling to the latrines. The horses were unhappy as the scent of manure was replaced by something a lot worse.
“No, that’d make it worse even if we had enough. How fatal is dysentery?”
Russell hesitated as Ylawes walked over with Rigalde. He glanced at them, and the [Knight] listened as the young man licked his lips.
“It killed more people than anything else on the—during a famous incident back home. I don’t know how to treat dysentery. It’s a threat where I come from—lots of idiots will drink water without purifying it first, but I’ve never had to treat anyone. They need rest, lots of fluids, and medicine.”
“Medicine. Like for the Yellow Rivers disease. Could Goisedall have any…?”
“It’s not a common issue. Drakes have good well sanitation, so the [Healers] might not carry any.”
Especially if this is an Earth illness. Ylawes bit his lip, and Woll sighed.
“We need a [Healer]. A good one, right now. Miss Falene has sent word to the local Drake cities, and I will seek out every caravan passing by here, but I confess, I am ashamed, Captain Ylawes. Salii would never have made this mistake.”
He hung his head, and Ylawes had to ask.
“Could it be we’re wrong, Woll, Russell? I know this all seems to point to the well, but a good adventurer double-checks things. Woll, you’ve been here longest. How have you not gotten sick, or most of your crew?”
