“I apologize if I’m wrong, it’s just—yes, I do think it’s best. I’m no expert on security but I’d be happy to answer any questions you have. Ah, but on another topic, what did you have in mind for compensation?”
Only then did the Drake seem to think to ask where Ylawes had come from. But when the man said House Byres, that told Woll nothing.
After ten minutes, Dawil walked back into the waystation, wiping his hands on a handkerchief and grimacing.
“I really wish I had toilet paper. And somewhere to wash my hands instead of a damn bucket. At least we’ve got soap. Eugh, the things you see…so any progress on deals yet, Anith? Where’s Pointy and the lad?”
He turned, and the Jackal Beastkin pointed wordlessly at Falene and Ylawes. Dawil’s face screwed up.
“Aw. Every time, it’s just his damn luck. Every time, I swear…”
 
——
 
Russell’s mind was being blown every ten seconds in the waystation. It wasn’t that there was magic everywhere. On the contrary, the lack of it and the feeling that this really was some kind of ramshackle, border trading outpost in the middle of nowhere made it feel even realer to him.
Because it meant this wasn’t the best of what the world had to offer. With that said—
Everyone’s got steel or leather. He’d noted Ylawes wearing plate armor, but even aside from the Cenidau warriors, there were Drakes strutting around with leather and chainmail, sharp-looking weapons on hips.
“Everyone’s dressed like a—a fantasy story.”
Lenora breathed as she and Russell stood together. He nodded.
“Lots of metal.”
“Mhm. More than I’d draw. How many smithies do you have to run to produce enough for everyone? In the dark ages of Europe, this much steel would have been impossible for anyone but someone of the nobility to own, or a professional mercenary.”
Russell twisted around, surprised.
“You know history?”
“I mean…yes? A bit? I worked on other projects before. Fantasies. I had to research lore-accurate clothing and backgrounds when I was put in charge of those. This—this isn’t a dream, is it?”
She was biting on her thumbnail and staring at a Drake as he strolled down the walls, spear on his shoulder, and both watched his scales moving slightly with every step, the light catching each one, flashing orange as he yawned, revealing his teeth and…for a second, Russell understood Lenora’s anguished eyes.
“No one could animate or draw that. Not in such detail. I thought we might be in some sick virtual reality, you know, with artificial intelligence or…but no one can draw that.”
That was how she believed this was real. Russell had already believed the moment he had smelled another world and bent down to touch the grass.
The sight of the Cericel Maven had also proven it to him; no creature dreamt of in God’s creation on Earth could move like that thing.
Speaking of which, he wished he’d skinned the animals he’d shot, or got some meat, because this was clearly a place to trade, and they had no coins. Food, supplies, everything could be had here, and Russell tried to think of anything he could sell.
…Nothing. Everything I have is clearly not what they’re wearing. Even his clothing might be ‘cotton’, but he had a lot of polyester fabrics, good, lightweight gear that anyone would clock as unique a mile off.
How do we earn money? The answer seemed to be spending bullets—shoot one of the deer, skin it, take the meat and hide back for profit. But how many bullets could he spend?
Just don’t miss, and see what’s the most valuable here. He nodded to Lenora.
“You see the others? They keep wandering off. Let’s figure how to make money.”
“Sure.”
They saw Arnie walking around the small waystation keep; he was listening to the half-Elf, Falene, not really saying much. He seemed to be absorbing her talk about magic. Chester was nowhere to be seen, but Honarai…
“So you’re from Salazsar. City of Gems? I’ve never been!”
She was chatting to a Drake with a teapot as she sipped tea, and Russell groaned—but the [Streamer] was good at talking and, it seemed, savvier than he’d given her credit for. The female Drake shrugged.
“It’s not as rich as you’d imagine, Miss. No gemstones lining the streets, and the [Miners] might pull gold out of the ground, but they don’t keep it.”
“Aw. But how big are the gemstones? Also, your scales? Fabulous. How do you keep them in good shape out here? Also, do you know where to get supplies? We’re, like, out of money, and we’ve been stuck out here for ages.”
The Drake poured Honarai another cup, grimacing.
“Ouch. How’d you lose your money? Bag of holding explode?”
“Yes. Exactly. Russell’s the only one with a bag now!”
“Well…Woll might need hands, but food’s pretty dear. Tell you what, I’ll ask if we need help or something. But if you can hunt or you have enough food, just keep heading east. Goisedall’s only seven days on foot or less; depends on these rainstorms. The rivers are nasty but there are decent fording spots. And if you go straight east, there’ll be enough people coming this way that most monsters won’t be a problem. Where are you from, again?”
Honarai’s smile almost twinkled as she lifted a hand to her face.
“Tell you what, you guess which nation I’m from and I’ll tell you if you’re right. I bet it’s super obvious.”
“Well…I don’t know Terandrian kingdoms well—”
“Come on, it’ll be fun!”
Lenora whispered to Russell as they eyed Honarai.
“Oh, she’s good.”
He still wanted to say that she was taking too much of a risk. However, it proved that everyone here spoke English, like Erin had claimed, and they were…people.
To test this, he walked over to someone who he felt like he could talk to: a Gnoll that had a bloody tarp over something he kept swatting flies away from. They might be from different worlds, but the Gnoll sniffed at Russell, frowned a second, then nodded.
“Interested in buying? I’ve got half a Corusdeer here. Unsalted; I’m looking for eight gold pieces. Nothing less. It’s good, killed this morning, and unless anyone wants monster parts, it’s worth it in the New Lands.”
Russell put his hands in his pocket and didn’t smile, but shook his head amiably.
“I’m actually looking to hunt myself. Is eight gold a good price? And would you say that a Corusdeer’s the right thing to hunt? Sorry, but we just got here, and we’re low on money.”
He nodded to Lenora, who waved, and the Gnoll hesitated, then shrugged.
“It’s what I’m charging. I’d be lucky to get five gold for an entire deer with antlers back east, but here? Everyone needs meat. I just wish I had more salt. I’m thinking of smoking it—if I can get a source of wood. There’s some of those pink tree-things a ways east, but hauling it out here without a bag of holding…I just can’t carry it all. But hey, I leveled [Hunter]. Level 18. If I get some kind of hauling Skill, I’d be set.”
“Oh, nice. Was that a bow kill?”
Did they use spears? Crossbows? The Gnoll indicated a recurve bow on his back.
“Unenchanted. [Bleed Arrow]. Had to run it down for two miles, but better than them charging me. You a [Hunter]? Izrilian?”
“No…Terandrian.”
It seemed safe, and the Gnoll nodded.
“You hunt Corusdeer up there?”
“I haven’t before. I saw one yesterday, but I was worried about the horns.”
“Hrr. Might be a stray buck, yes? They can be loners. Most go in herds. Don’t shoot at them in a herd. I think that’s obvious, but sometimes an idiot tries it. Their horns? They ignite. If they charge you and hit you full-on, even with a healing potion you’re in trouble. Without one…?”
He shuddered and shook his head. Russell’s lips twitched.
Healing potion. The Gnoll stuck out a paw.
“My manners have left me with all this excitement. Oregg.”
“Russell.”
“[Hunter]?”
“No, uh…another class sort of like that.”
“You favor a crossbow? Wand? Or something crazy like a spear?”
Oregg checked out Russell, who clearly had no visible weapons on him, and the [Gunslinger] adapted fast.
“I’m—crossbows, yeah. I stow mine when I’m not using it. The rain’s going to rust it, and I don’t have much oil.”
That was the right thing to say. Oregg immediately began cursing the rain.
“It is, isn’t it? My bowstring’s already feeling like it’s fraying, and I wouldn’t want to have metal here—! And I paid for an enchantment that made my bowstrings last longer. That’s twenty gold I’ll not get back. Without magic, this is all so much harder. Still…at least we know how to survive, eh?”
He bared his teeth, and Russell copied him. They got to talking, and Oregg confirmed what Russell had suspected.
“Those fowl are tasty, but most creatures here are too small to be worth shooting if you miss your arrows. The Corusdeer are where I’m specialized.”
“With Skills…?”
“Sure. [Deer Hunter]’s my class. I have [Identify Stragglers], [Advanced Tracking]—nothing fancy. I’d love to take on bigger game, but again, I can’t carry it. Those Landsharks…”
He shuddered, and Russell felt his skin prickle.
“Worse than the Cericel?”
“I mean, worse, better, I’d be dead either way. Too many things that are actual predators out here. Were I you, I’d be careful how I camp. But a monster’s worth more than any animal, even a magic one like a Corusdeer. Damn, I wonder if those Cericel are worth something. Maybe we could harvest them if those adventurers are too busy.”
Oregg cast an eye towards the gates, but it seemed like a number of people had the same idea. The Gnoll, Larr, was loudly warning people off.
“We’re collecting their parts. Adventurer’s claim!”
“The meat and bones could be good bait for predators. But again, I’m not going to risk that.”
Russell glanced at Lenora.
“We ran into a—some kind of monster last night. It had two jaws, and it was fast. I wish I’d taken parts off it. What do you think would have sold?”
The Gnoll’s brows rose.
“I don’t know. I’m told there are valuable organs, but [Alchemists] get picky about those. Claws and teeth are good ones, or just skin it if your knife can even pierce its hide…what did it look like? Two jaws…”
Russell tried to describe it, but something with lots of teeth on all fours fit a lot of animals. The two jaws part got Oregg’s attention, though, and then Lenora raised a hand.
“Um—hey, would this help? It looked like this.”
She stuck out an arm, and the two hunters blinked. Russell recoiled as the same animal he’d had to shoot leapt out at him. Her skin! Right, she’d been drawing on…
“Drake’s Ancestors, what is that?”
Oregg’s exclamations drew a few other people over. They stared at Lenora’s drawing and began to confer.
“That’s no monster I’ve ever seen. Great, another threat to watch out for in the New Lands. Is this accurate, miss?”
“I’m an [Artist], and I drew it as close as I could, so…yes? It was about six feet long, I’d say four high?”
“Fantastic. How’d you kill it?”
“Lucky shot. It jumped us when we were sitting around the fire. I thought I sensed rustling, and it was moving in the grass.”
The others groaned, and then someone else put in with a familiar voice.
“That’s a new monster. I’ve never seen the like. Dawil! Have you ever seen this?”
The Gnoll, Labright, Nailren, or whatever his name was, had come over. His call brought the Dwarf, who stumped over, took one look at Lenora’s arm as the two Humans tried not to show how excited they were to get to talk to him, and shook his head.
“Nope. That’s a new monster. Wonderful. Why two jaws?”
“Maybe it’s just to bite things twice as fast?”
Nailren bared his teeth in a joke, but Dawil muttered.
“There’s always a reason. Doesn’t sound twice as smart if it jumped you lot, but maybe it can see in every direction or something? Those eyes…four of ‘em?”
“Yes, and they’re sort of green. It’s got a pale red-grey hide, like flesh, but it was filthy. And it had paws like a dog. Digitigrade.”
Lenora’s attention to visual detail was valuable, and Dawil’s eyes flickered to her.
“Paws like a dog…hold on. This is ringing a bell in my head. Maybe…what’s your name, Miss? Mine’s Dawil. Gold-rank adventurer with the Silver Swords.”
He held out a hand, and she shook it.
“I’m Lenora, this is Russell—”
“And I’m Honarai! You’re a Dwarf? Hello!”
She appeared as Dawil jumped. Honarai shook his hand excitedly, beating Russell to it. He eyed her hair and clothing.
“Where are you all from? Hey, Ylawes, get over here! Someone found another monster!”
He hollered, and Russell bit his lip, but Honarai answered for him.
“Oh, we’re all from different parts of Terandria. I’m from Pheislant, Lenora and Russell are from Ailendamus, Arnie’s from…well, actually I don’t know, and Chester’s Calanferian.”
“Quite the spread. I’m from Deríthal-Vel, myself. Have you ever been to Dwarfhome? You’ve never met my people abroad?”
“No, never! I hear it’s great, though. Big fan of Dwarves. I just, you know, never got out much.”
“I see. Well, Pheislant is on my list of places to go. Kingdom of Keys. Always wanted to visit.”
Dawil stroked his beard, and Honarai beamed at him.
“Hey, you come by and I’ll hand you one myself!”
It was Russell who noticed Oregg frown absently and a few of the other travellers blink. He felt like—no, the too-bland expression on Dawil’s face told him Honarai had just made a mistake. She realized it too and went on.
“Well…kingdoms, what do I know? I just live wherever. So what’s this about the monster that nearly ate us?”
Ylawes had walked over, and Dawil indicated Lenora’s arm. Actually, she’d found a piece of wood and, to everyone’s amazement, had already sketched the monster out so she didn’t have to keep holding her arm out.
“Amazing art.”
Nailren eyed the plank of wood—and Lenora’s pen—and Russell’s skin itched.
We have to get out of here. But…none of these people seemed hostile. It was just that they clearly understood Russell’s group was not who they said they were.
It was hard, actually, for Russell to look at the Dwarf, Human, and half-Elf and not hear the lines from that movie playing in his head, or to meet Ylawes Byres’ gaze as the man asked about the monster attack and think this fellow was a threat.
—Nailren Russell wasn’t sure about. However, Ylawes’ attention was drawn to the monster, and he disagreed with the others.
“That’s not a new monster. I think—I’m not positive, but I think that’s actually a Cericel.”
“What? Are you serious?”
Everyone was surprised by this, but Dawil nodded.
