——
 
Query: how did you talk to a ghost? Some might say you just went up and talked to them. Certainly, [Witches] were of the opinion most ghosts could understand you, but their legends also had summoning circles and seances.
Not all ghosts were the same was Nailren’s suspicion, and the many ‘experts’ he’d talked to had all had ideas that worked…but none perfectly.
In fact, the most correct opinions had come from none other than Joseph. Salt circles worked on ghosts, and so, despite his instincts, Nailren had procured an item that would help him communicate with the other side.
They were riding along after he’d torn down the camp, and he balanced a little, unfoldable board on his lap and produced a tiny little marker, an arrow with a hole in the center.
“Alright, Spoony. This is a ouija board. I was told this is the tool you can use to speak to me. Well…go for it. How are you feeling?”
He put the marker down and watched it judder as he tried to hold it in place. He knew Spoony was there; he felt an excited tug on his arm, then…the little marker moved.
“T.”
It moved again, after a delay.
“H.”
Another pause, eight seconds, then it went up and to the right.
“I. ‘This’? Or another word?”
A pause. There was a ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ option helpfully added to the alphabet as well as numbers on the board and a ‘goodbye’ at the bottom. After nineteen long seconds of nothing, Nailren saw the marker slide halfway towards the ‘yes’. Stop.
“Spoony?”
Nothing. He was trying to calculate how long it’d take her to write even a sentence at this rate. Nailren glanced around.
“You there? Was that a ‘yes’?” Hello?”
After two whole minutes, the marker finally moved to the ‘yes’, and Nailren frowned.
“Great. This is it. And…”
He and the horse exchanged a look in the dead silence as they rode along. Both eyed the board. It took six minutes before the little marker flipped off the top of the ouija board. Nailren caught it, put it back on the ‘yes’. That could have been the wind or something.
Spoony flipped it off again. He suspected…she was a bit mad.
 
——
 
After picking up the ouija arrow, Nailren did some speculating out loud. He didn’t feel cold or anything; she wasn’t pulling on his hair or pestering him like she did when he assumed she had energy and was bored. So he stroked his chin-hair and thought out loud.
“I have a notion. From how you were writing back there, it seemed like it took you more and more time per letter. Which, if I equate it to a body—which is all I understand—suggests you were tiring, yes? Tug my left ear for ‘no’, right ear for ‘yes’.”
He felt the faintest of tugs on his right ear and nodded.
“Interesting. I’ve seen you move things before, but it tires you greatly, even small objects. Even that marker, hmm?”
‘Yes’.
“Is it harder to move a big object or harder to move an object for long periods of time? Left for big object, right for long periods of time.”
A pause—then both his ears twitched. Nailren snorted.
“I suppose nothing’s easy. Hrm. But this is more efficient than the board.”
‘Yes’.
“But Joseph was convinced that was a useful tool.”
‘No. No.’
Evidently, she had already taken a great dislike to the ouija board, but Nailren was frowning.
“The concept makes sense. Perhaps the pointer is too heavy?”
It had been made well by a good [Carpenter], but he found a little piece of grass and shaped it into an arrow with his claws.
“Try this, Spoony.”
This time, she managed three letters, ‘IHA’, before having to pause. Nailren read.
“I-H-A-T-E-T—ah. You hate this. Hrm. But it lets you use words. And you know how to speak.”
He felt a tug on his right ear and winced.
“You didn’t seem that linguistic when you were haunting me.”
Silence. He scratched at his chin.
“Well…let’s try to talk. How about I ramble and you tug my ears. Let’s say ‘yes’ and ‘no’ for ears, and for fingers, we can, uh, say my left hand is for agreement or disagreement. Pinky is disagree, thumb is agree.”
He quite enjoyed making a logical system where she could use parts of his body to indicate how she was feeling. It worked for about thirty minutes; he began rambling about Barnethei’s inn, and she strongly agreed she liked it, then had low agreement that it’d do well. And then he talked about Goisedall and the Silver Swords and thought she didn’t care or didn’t get what was going on before he realized—again—she was tired.
How strange. Before, when he’d taken her camping supplies and she’d been after him, she’d grown strong enough to lift objects and constantly attack him, even materialize. Was rage a source of power for her?
“Spoony, get mad. Really mad.”
There was no reply, and he just imagined her going, ‘Okay, and how am I supposed to do that?’ Nailren hrmed.
“Well, and I want you to take this personally, you’re the ugliest Human I’ve ever met. And the weakest ghost.”
A tug at one ear, faint. ‘No’. He hesitated.
“—No? Not much ego about your looks. Well, I suppose it’s hard to hurt your feelings, anyways. You have nothing to lose. Except your life, of course. Which someone took from you. Did you even fight back? You let that family die. Husband, wife, brother.”
A pause, then the tug on his ear was harder.
‘No.’
“You did, though. Now you can’t avenge yourself. You were the one warrior there, and you let them down. Did you not even post a watch? They slit that man’s throat in his sleep. If you’d just paid attention, you might be alive instead of with m—”
The strawberry roan was eying the grass and bending for a quick mouthful on the trot when he felt his rider shift. The horse halted in alarm, heard a shout—and then Nailren was sliding, grabbing for the saddle.
The shove had nearly tossed him out of the saddle. He caught himself, flailing wildly, and shouted.
“It worked! Spoony, I wasn’t serious. Spoony, use that anger and the board and…Spoony?”
Silence. After a moment, Nailren slid off his saddle to readjust it as it had moved a bit from the shove. The horse gave him a peek, and Nailren crossed his arms.
“Look, it was an experiment. I had to say something that would hurt her feelings.”
He paused. Then put his head against the horse’s side.
“…Right.”
The horse ate some grass. It was great grass.
 
——
 
His ghost friend’s feelings remained hurt for quite some time after that. Which Nailren got, and he felt bad about—that had been personal.
Nor was it a viable strategy. Keeping someone genuinely mad—again, not a helpful tool.
“I’m very sorry, Spoony. How do I make it up to you?”
She was ignoring him. He was working on apologies, now, and thinking out loud.
“Okay. How to apologize to a ghost…”
In truth, it wasn’t that much of a mystery to him. Gnolls might not have a lot of active ghost-lore, but they did have a tradition around honoring the dead.
A thought occurred: did ghosts benefit from rituals of the same nature? Nailren thought so.
“Why do we bury corpses? Some Gnoll tribes practice natural burial, where they leave a corpse to be returned to nature. But most cultures have coffins or cremation. Why?”
He thought out loud.
“Well, firstly, to avoid the undead issue, yes. However, there is also a very important component of honoring the dead. We create elaborate sarcophagi for important dead. Erect statues. There are other means too. Placing food on one’s grave markers. Or burning incense. In Drake cultures, it is customary to leave a coin on a loved one’s grave.”
Drakes being Drakes, they were fake coins without denominational value and deliberately made dull to avoid someone with Hoarding Syndrome stealing them. Nailren went on.
“Gnolls make favorite foods on their death-days and tell stories. These could just be ways for the living to remember the dead, but what if these practices inform the dead in some way? I have no marker for you, though, Spoony, and your grave is far…but what about this?”
He stopped and produced a little plate, placing the spoon in front of it. Then, carefully, he selected some bread and added some Prelon jam he’d gotten from Plain’s Eye. He put it on the plate and clapped his paws together.
“I offer this to you as an apology, Spoony. May you accept it.”
Silence. The horse opened its mouth, eyed Nailren, and closed it. They waited, and the ghost…tugged Nailren’s ear.
‘Yes.’
Then a pause.
‘No.’
Nailren eyed the bread.
“…Do you accept my apology?”
‘Yes, yes.’
“…But the bread’s not your favorite.”
A pause. ‘No.’
“Oh, you do like the bread?”
‘Yes.’
“So…something’s wrong. It’s not working.”
‘Yes’.
“Hrm. I see.”
Nailren went pacing around the plate. He tried putting the spoon on the plate. Then he tried to make a marker by writing ‘Spoony’ on a piece of scrap wood, then realized she needed a name and tried to get her to use the ouija board to sound it out, but she was tired, and the bread was not really being offered to her in any way, apparently.
The horse decided the matter by eating the bread and jam.
 
——
 
A half day of trying to figure out optimal methods of talking to Spoony had Nailren mentally a bit tired by the time he stopped for lunch. Certainly, she seemed tired; she’d begun getting the system he’d tried to come up with confused. He wasn’t sure if that was her limited state of being, personality, or just this being too complex, but it wasn’t working.
“Sorry, Spoony. We might have to go back to simple means of talking.”
She wasn’t that happy. She was rattling his waterflask, which made a loud clacking sound as the metal hook rang against the flask, and he grimaced.
“Okay, you want to talk to me. Any ideas? I wish I’d talked more to Pekona after all…”
He watched, gloomily, as the ectoplasm got on his flask, then trailed across his pack—
“Hey. Hey. That’s my trail mix. Get out of there.”
He had to shoo her away from the pre-made balls he mixed up; they were a combination of ‘dry’ goods like oats, raisins, all glued together with flour, honey, or ‘wet’ travel rations. Pemmican, the Gnolls’ hated standby, with a coating of batter or with slivers of butter or sugar inside, anything to make the dense, calorific food more palatable.
Nailren groaned as he saw her ectoplasm his pack again. He began tossing items out for cleaning.
“Scat, scat! You’re worse than a damn cat! Spoony, I’m going to get mad. I’m serious, this is annoying.”
She had to be desperate for attention, but he was regretting this already. Most objects Spoony was touching barely vibrated; clearly, she didn’t have the energy for much. She rifled through his pack, then, as Nailren was preparing to yank out all his items and just clean and re-pack it all, a jar flew up, hit him so hard in the jaw he saw stars, and fell back in the pack.
“Argh!”
Nailren grabbed at his mouth; he’d bit his tongue! His horse peeked over.
You good, my friend? The cursing Gnoll rolled about, then jumped up.
“Was that for the insults earlier? That was uncalled for!”
That hurt. He felt a sudden, anxious tugging at his ear.
‘Nonononono—’
And then a tug on his jaw and his shoulder. Was she…apologizing? Nailren rubbed his jaw.
“That was way too hard for you to do without being angry! What was—wait a second.”
He saw the jar that had beaned him in the mouth in his pack. Nailren reached down slowly and then lifted the glowing jar of ectoplasm. He stared at it, and a little [Light] spell exploded in his head.
The strawberry roan really wondered what the Gnoll kept staring at that empty jar for.
 
——
 
What could a ghost touch? Things it connected to. Just like how they were weaker, unable to find him if he didn’t have something that belonged to them…
“Connection. Most connections between you and I are weak because we do not know each other, yes? In hindsight, I could have, I don’t know, dug up your bones and made something out of that? No, don’t freak out, that’s a hypothetical. And I’m no [Necromancer]. But perhaps an artificial connection can be made. Like…so!”
Nailren was working on something as he rode. He had the jar of ectoplasm and a hypothesis. If Spoony’s spoon necklace was his [Locus of Connection], then it made sense that had some spiritual strength.
But could another be made? The one thing of ghosts he had was ectoplasm. So, therefore, he was trying to add it to…the ouija board marker. A planchette, as it was known.
The little heart-shaped arrow didn’t want to soak up the ectoplasm, which is what he’d feared; the substance only seemed to linger on things, not be absorbed. However….you could condense ectoplasm, and he had a fairly dense glob of it.
“I could eat it, but I don’t think that’s wise. I could leave the planchette in here, but that feels like it wouldn’t absorb much. How does one add a substance that cannot be absorbed to something else? Well, you coat weapons in oil. And perhaps this stuff is not yet ‘real’ enough to interact with the wood. Compression.”
He effected compression via a simple means: he found a ball of cloth, wadded it up until it formed a rough seal, and then pushed the ectoplasm down. There was actually faint resistance as Nailren pushed down, and then—
When he lifted the cloth plunger, he swore it was glowing. Nailren eyed it.
“Wait a second. Disable [See Ectoplasm].”
There was still the faintest glow or odd vibrancy to the cloth when he deactivated his Skill. When he reactivated it—it was aglow with the compressed stuff! Nailren grinned—then panicked.
“Wait, this isn’t what I want. Argh!”
He ended up not being able to get the ectoplasm out of his clothing and finished with several stains on his clothing that water would not remove. However—there was just enough left in the jar to toss the planchette in. As he watched, it soaked up the vibrant ectoplasm, and when he took it out, the little marker had a glow to it.
“Alright, Spoony. Let’s give this a second try.”
He put it on the ouija board and held his breath. There was a pause—and then Nailren coiled as the planchette whipped to the first letter, then the second, and began to move as fast as someone putting their hand on the marker and moving it.
Maybe even faster.
‘H-E-L-L-O-N-A-I-L-R-E-N-S-O-R-R-Y.’
“Hello, Spoony. Or…I’m sorry. I don’t know your name. Can you tell it to me?”
The hair was standing up on Nailren’s neck, but he was grinning. There was a pause, and his friend wrote.
‘F-O-R-G-O-T-H-A-Z-Y.’
His eyes widened.
“You forgot? Interesting. But you can see and hear me, and you remember you were Human, yes?”
The planchette moved to ‘yes’. Nailren rubbed at his chin.
“What else can you see that I might not?”
‘D-E-A-D-P-E-O-P-L-E.’
