For answer, Woll pointed glumly at someone going around.
“I suppose it was just luck. And the rains—it gave us so much water we weren’t using the well nearly as much until just now. As for how I didn’t get sick of late…tea, Captain Byres. Tea. Once we got it, I’ve not had a drop of water, just tea, and of course one boils the water before drinking…we might have saved many people from the tea and failed to notice the well as a result. I’d toss an entire crate down the well if that sanitized it. That doesn’t work, does it?”
He turned to Russell, and the young man shook his head. Ylawes felt at his side.
“I could offer you some powdered silver…”
“Does that stop dysentery?”
“No, it’s a family custom, but it might help?”
Woll shook his head after hesitating for a minute, and Russell eyed Ylawes.
“Best not to toss anything else down there. It’s going to be a long, filthy day, gentlemen. Mister Russell, sleep. Miss Lenora? I will hire you to write up Miss Falene’s news about the purification of the ground on our billboard, something eye-catching, as well as an advisory about this sanitation issue. Then, all hands are going to be digging a new well and more latrines. Captain Byres, I’d gladly pay for help too.”
So that was how Ylawes made a living for a bit. Digging holes for people to poo into. All things considered…he’d rather have been marching. Still, it let him keep an eye on Russell. Dawil’s test of Honarai had proven they were lying about where they were from, but how else to tell for sure if they were Earthers?
I could just ask. But Russell seemed wary. So, Ylawes Byres tried to think of the most Earth-like thing from Erin Solstice he could imagine. He thought and thought and finally had it after helping Dawil to and from the horrible latrines.
“You need anything else, Dawil?”
“Just some more good water and rest, lad. I’ll be hungry in a bit. Sorry.”
Dawil lay down with a groan, and Ylawes saw Chester wobbling back over to some blankets Woll had given them; Arnie was wrapped up in the sleeping bag, and Honarai was in the tent. He paused, then raised his voice.
“You know what? I really miss food from home—I mean, Liscor, Dawil. I could really go for a cheeseburger right about now. And a milkshake.”
He’d never actually had a milkshake, but it was something he’d heard Erin and other Earthers say longingly. Ylawes watched as, out of the corner of his eye, Arnie’s head poked out of his sleeping bag. Chester halted dead in his tracks, and Honarai rustled around in the tent and went still. Dawil stared up at Ylawes with one bloodshot eye.
“Congratulations, lad. Now, would you mind tying the tent up? I’m gonna try and sleep.”
Well, it was something to Ylawes at least. He wondered what to do about it.
 
——
 
They knew. Russell stood on the walls, gazing down at the Silver Swords, and he held a long tube wrapped in a bit of cloth he’d traded for.
A rifle. He gazed down at the [Knight] who was made of stories. A good man.
That’s what he’d heard people saying. The Silver Swords. Ylawes of House Byres, like he was someone they were familiar with.
He seemed honest, brave, and he knew.
Russell held the rifle like a spear, but the wrong way around. Such that he would let it slide down his grip, find the trigger on the inside, raise it, click the safety off, and fire.
He could do it in one motion. If he needed to, he could aim and fire, and even distant as he was—the [Knight] was so close within the range of a rifle.
He had a helmet, but not on now. His blonde hair…Russell was sweating. He did not want to shoot this man.
But be careful. That was what Erin Solstice had warned him. He had firearms. He did not know who to trust.
Shift the cloth. Aim, fire. He would hit the man through the head. Russell would have to take out his entire team. He could do it; they were close together, and he could reload the bolt-action faster than anyone guessed. Let alone if he went for his revolver.
He had not killed anyone in this or any other world. But they could not have his weapons. She had come to him, that [Innkeeper], to warn him. To tell him…
The [Gunslinger] thought he understood this world. He thought he treated it with the gravity that Honarai, Arnie, even Chester and Lenora lacked. But he was still new. Still young.
He could see, as he thought of how to kill Ylawes Byres, the man stop grinning at Dawil and freeze. Put a hand on the back of his neck as if he’d felt a sudden chill. Ylawes Byres’ head turned right and left, and Russell pretended to keep sauntering down the wall.
He didn’t see Insill glance up and poke his teammates or Infinitypear bolt upright in his Sleepingbag of Fluff and nudge Rasktooth. The Silver Swords all woke up, from Dawil who cracked one eye open and shifted, so a little leather holster was exposed, to Falene, who whispered words of magic.
And Russell noticed the sudden moment of tension, but he did not know why because he was new here.
[Dangersense].
Ylawes Byres was casually walking up the walls as Chester halted, unsure if he should stop the man. But Woll trusted him, so no one even glanced twice as the [Knight] studied the battlements and did a slow three hundred and sixty degree turn.
He frowned, scratched at his head, and then glanced at Russell. He smiled, lifted one hand, and Russell faked a smile too.
How do you know what a cheeseburger is? A milkshake? I could believe one or the other. But not both.
Were there people from Earth, Earthers, in the open? Erin hadn’t indicated that. She’d said they’d come for her. This good and honest man…
Have you killed them? Do you know them? You know us. What is going to happen?
Swing up and fire. Just a thought. Russell did not want to murder anyone, but—he had killed the Maven. She had been huge, a screaming monster of pallid flesh and teeth, but she had been the most humanoid, intelligent thing he had ever slain.
He remembered shooting the grizzly bear dead and, in the following silence, sitting and thinking what a waste it was. That infinite regret when he saw how magnificent the great beast had been, and the certain knowledge he had done the right thing.
But that man…frowned, just once. Put a hand to the back of his neck. Rubbed at one ear. Then came striding down the walkway.
“Russell, right? I hope I’m not disturbing you.”
“Not at all, sir.”
Russell smiled, as untensed as he could be. Ylawes Byres just glanced down at his teammates, who were peering up at him, and lifted a hand.
 
——
 
He smiled, and Rasktooth stared up at his Captain with huge, glowing eyes.
Monster. He met Russell’s gaze for a moment, and they locked eyes. Goblin and Human. Rasktooth frowned, because there was no hatred in Russell’s eyes. Yet when the young man glanced at Ylawes…
Anith sat up, exposing the black fur on his chest. Insill had grabbed his foot. Dawil got up, yawning, reaching for a water flask. And Falene just sat.
“Dawil.”
“I know, Falene. Let him do his thing.”
They sat as the [Dangersense] shrilled again in Insill’s and Infinitypear’s ears. Louder now. Not the faint alarm.
And they knew the Silver Knight heard it too, but Ylawes just held out a hand after tugging his gauntlet off.
 
——
 
“I fear I haven’t introduced myself fully. Ylawes Byres, Captain of the Silver Swords. I know we’ve met, but I never had the chance for a word.”
He could grab Russell’s gun—the [Gunslinger] hesitated, but he had to do something. So he switched the covered gun to his other hand, held out a hand.
Revolver then. Ylawes’ eyes flickered, and Russell picked up on the little movement.
Why?
Why had he come up the stairs? Why was he…? Russell heard Ylawes clear his throat.
“Your group’s fascinating, if you don’t mind me saying so, Mister Russell. Not many people have done well in the New Lands, even my team, and we are adventurers. To survive so far in without much in the way of supplies or rations—”
He was a clever man. Just like anyone from home. Russell bared his teeth.
“We lost all our gear. And our friends.”
It was a good lie. Chester’s lie. Just don’t ask who or where or what. Ylawes nodded.
“Of course. I’m sorry, that’s insensitive.”
“No, I understand. You’ve been through it as well.”
“We have. My people, my team, have been led astray by my indecisiveness and foolishness. But they persevered through it all. They humble me, from Rasktooth to Anith. Thank you for not treating Rasktooth unkindly, or Infinitypear, by the way. So few would give them a chance.”
God. He was so earnest. Russell glanced down at the Silver Swords, then at the darkening landscape. He felt the revolver taped to his chest, skin tearing with the adhesive, and knew he’d rip off his epidermis, but he could draw it. He stepped back, staring out across the landscape.
“I guess we’re just a bit more open-minded than most. Sorry, I have to stand watch.”
“Of course. It’s just that a Goblin and Antinium are not welcome in any corner of the world. There are few people who’d tolerate them…anywhere. Just so you know.”
Was that a hint? A warning? Russell’s skin was freezing. His heart was beating too fast. Don’t do this. Don’t—he looked Ylawes in the eyes.
“Look, we’re just trying to get to safety.”
“I understand. I’m…I’d just like to talk.”
“Well, now’s not a good time.”
Leave. The [Knight] heaved a huge breath. He stood, folding his arms, gazing across the dark, beautiful world Russell had yet to explore, and the young man imagined finding that safety Erin had promised. Dropping off his companions, then coming back here to explore.
“This New Land is a beautiful place. It makes me feel like the world is an adventure again, as if I were a boy.”
“Truly spoken, sir.”
“I just wish I weren’t endangering anyone else. That it wasn’t so hard at times. I just want to have…an adventure. But I also want these young rookies to level with me. I want to see them become something amazing. I can’t have it both ways. Or even one way. But I want to do right by people. That’s all. I…like to see people smile.”
Russell could not meet Ylawes’ earnest eyes as the [Knight] turned to him. Ylawes went on.
“I’ve changed a lot.”
“Really?”
“Oh yes. I didn’t think I would. I thought I was on the Right Path, where honor, nobility, and courage gave me everything I needed. Then…my sister showed me up.”
Ylawes frowned. He felt at his mis-fitting armor, at the stubble on his chin. Russell glanced at him.
“You have a sister?”
“Yvlon Byres. She’s famous. Almost Named-rank. She passed me, and I was jealous. I didn’t…think I was. But I suppose I felt annoyed. Why wasn’t it me? She’s younger than me. I always knew I was better than her at most things. But she…she’s braver. I think she is. She took more risks. Lost more. And rose higher. I never really talked to anyone about how I felt about this.”
Why was he telling Russell this? The young man felt compelled to say something, anything.
“I never had siblings. I grew up by myself. My dad wasn’t really in my life much after I got through high…education. I know how it feels to be jealous of people.”
This world was his chance. But Honarai and Chester were more important here. And Lenora made beautiful art. He was just a [Hunter]. The guns made him special.
But Ylawes was glancing at the covered gun, now, and speaking.
“It’s difficult for so many, I agree. And I think…I haven’t had it that difficult. I’m a nobleman. Falene and Dawil joke about it sometimes, but I didn’t know what that meant until I really looked at someone who wasn’t born with my wealth and advantages. In the New Lands, everyone’s equal. It must be hard, though. For you.”
“Me? I’ve been hunting all my life.”
Russell was faintly insulted by this, but Ylawes nodded down at his camp.
“Your friends haven’t.”
“You can tell?”
“It’s a bit—obvious. They’re new. So are you, aren’t you?”
Russell said nothing, but once more, Ylawes twitched, and the [Gunslinger] noticed it and the two simultaneous movements below.
They can tell I’m thinking of…and then a dark pit opened in his stomach as his fears became a reality. But Ylawes’ voice was controlled.
“You learn to tell. It’s a strange thing, Russell. Those Cericel the other day…”
“Strange how that happened. Sometimes, things happen, and it’s best not to ask questions.”
“True. But the Silver Swords ask all the questions. We’re not very smart—well, Falene is and Dawil is, but not me—and we’re nosy. We try to help. And if you were in need—”
“We’re not. Sometimes, you should leave well enough alone, sir.”
Russell’s voice was louder now, and he stood, hands on the stock of the rifle aimed down at his feet. Ylawes peered at him, and the wind blew the [Knight]’s fair hair.
But he was a brave man. He didn’t back away from whatever he was being told.
“Russell. I think I know your people. I think I know you.”
“I think you’re mistaken. I think it’d be a bad idea to bring anything up.”
Russell was sweating. Ylawes knew. So he had two options. Trust this man or don’t. But how could he trust…?
He was everything that looked like a hero from stories in Russell’s mind. But Russell had been warned. He backed up, and Ylawes took a step forwards.
“Russell…”
“I’m warning you, Ylawes. Don’t.”
Just back up. Back up and he’d get everyone to leave camp in a moment. Just run for it. Ylawes stood there, and below, someone called up.
“Hey, Captain.”
Ylawes never moved his eyes off the [Gunslinger].
“Leave it, Insill. Russell, you might be new here.”
“I learn quickly.”
“Yes, but…in case you didn’t know, there’s a common Skill some people gain. It’s called [Dangersense]. It’s not very reliable, but plenty of people have it.”
Russell squeezed his eyes shut. Then opened them, and sweat beaded his brows in the spring heat.
“I—I see.”
“I’ve learned not to rely on it. But I do listen. Russell…”
“I don’t know what you want, Ylawes. But I don’t trust you. You seem like a good man, so drop it. Please?”
Russell was begging Ylawes. His arms were shaking with adrenaline. Lift and fire. Lift and—
He was panicking, he realized. Panicking in a way he’d never felt when face-to-face with an animal. But a person? He didn’t know what to do, but he was ready. Ready—for what?
Russell was afraid.
 
——
 
Ylawes Byres stood there.
“I see. It’s hard to trust someone. I understand. But Russell. You’re not alone.”
The young man jerked. His eyes found Ylawes, and they were like a piercing gaze of their own. The silver knight had scarcely seen eyes as focused as Russell’s. They reminded him of Halrac.
