“Hiding this. Help me. Chester, the shotgun, the shotgun!”
He snatched it when Chester stared at him; Russell remembered Erin’s first warning for him. He tore out items to hide the gun pieces, then wrapped them in the tent and shoved it all back inside. He nearly did the same for his revolver, but then left it at his side.
Just in case. He dithered, then grabbed some cord, yanked off his holster from his chest, and took his shirt off.
“What’re you—”
They stared at him, but Lenora got it. She hesitated, then grabbed a loop of cord and helped him; he tied the revolver around his stomach, hiding it against his shirt. It was not comfy, and he taped the hammer down, but that was all he could do.
By the time he’d finished his furious packing, the monsters were gone, and there was cheering and shouting. Russell got up and saw Chester, Arnie, and Honarai were already waving at the people who’d fought the monsters off.
“Remember, everyone, be cool, be normal.”
Chester was calling out, and Lenora gave Russell a look.
“Did they see you firing?”
“Maybe.”
He wasn’t sure how visible it would have been in the chaos, and he’d been in the grass, so the muzzle flash was hidden, but they’d know something had killed that big monster. He turned to her.
“Don’t let anyone take my pack. I’m not letting go of it, but if I do for any reason, or someone’s messing with it—”
“I’ve got it. Is this…are we in Izril?”
He stared at the mix of species, then saw another lizard-person coming out of the dirt fort. He squinted, trying to tell which species was most predominant, then shrugged.
“Guess we’ll find out. Don’t say anything you don’t have to.”
They had to blend in. He wished he could tell the others that, especially Honarai and Chester…but then it was too late.
 
——
 
“—just like that. A damn Maven. I didn’t know we had Cericel around here. Lad, this isn’t good.”
“I know, I know. Larr, what killed it?”
The first thing Russell heard was the Dwarf’s voice. It was deep, concerned, but glorious. He was standing next to the corpse of the ‘Maven’, and Russell saw someone had beheaded it.
“Smart.”
That was his first, unguarded comment, and it got him a glance from one of the people standing around. The lizard-guy, who was short, had black scales, and two drawn daggers. He nodded at Russell.
“Standard practice for any monster. You Humans alright?”
He bared all his teeth, and Russell’s heart jumped, but Lenora thrust a hand out.
“Oh my goodness, thank you! We were so afraid when we saw them come out of nowhere. What did you call them?”
“Cericel. They’re not supposed to be here—I guess they moved to the New Lands too. Insill. You’re lucky we were here. Well, the Silver Swords, really. I barely got to stab anyone.”
The Drake held out a claw, and Lenora shook his hand after only a beat.
“Lenora. And this is Russell…”
She was doing pretty good, actually. Russell had been going to glare at her, but she’d even remembered that thing Erin had said.
Don’t say ‘oh my God’. Don’t use ‘God’ at all. They’re around. You don’t want to meet them.
Chills. Then Insill stuck out a clawed hand, and Russell—hesitated. He took the clawed hand gently, and Insill glanced at him. Russell saw that face, beyond the world’s most perfect costume, shift to one of slight concern.
“Don’t worry, I won’t scratch you.”
“I—sorry.”
“Never shook hands with someone with claws?”
“Uh, no.”
Rather than take offense, Insill bared his teeth again.
“You two must be Terandrian, then. You hurt? Did you see what hit that Maven? She just keeled over.”
“Us? No. What, uh, what are you doing here?”
“Oh, we’re just adventurers. The Silver Swords. I mean, my team’s Vuliel Drae, Silver-rankers, but we’re all one group right now. That’s Ylawes, our Captain.”
The very friendly, very helpful Drake jerked a thumb at Ylawes, and Russell had to ask.
“That guy there. He’s a Dwarf, right? And that’s an Elf?”
“…Half-Elf? Yeah, Falene and Dawil. Why? Do they all seem like Humans to you?”
Insill began chortling until someone jabbed him.
“Insill.”
A one-armed woman had come over and was cleaning her blade with a cloth. She’d been beheading the Cericel, and Insill whined.
“It’s just a joke! I was just—these two are Terandrians. They have trouble telling apart Humans too! What’s the difference between a short Human and a tall Dwarf?”
“It’s Dasha either way.”
The swordswoman murmured, and the two began laughing until said woman, who was less Dwarf-like and a bit taller—and who had a beard—stomped over.
“I heard that! Wait, who’re this lot?”
Lenora introduced them, and Dasha shook Russell’s hand with amazing grip strength. She had an axe, he realized. Just a real axe—
Surreal, head spinning, and he knew Lenora was probably just as overwhelmed, but she was thanking the embarrassed Silver-rankers. Russell turned to the others. Worried they’d be freaking out or—
Chester was shaking Ylawes’ hand, and he regarded the short Drake who’d come over.
“Chester Mackintosh. Thank you so much for your heroism, Captain Ylawes. We’re travellers, and when we saw the monsters—what did you call them?—appear, we were worried for our lives.”
“Not at all, sir. I’m only glad the Maven fell so easily. But what hit it? Was that your keep, sir?”
The Drake, Woll, blinked at the dead monstrosity.
“Not us. I thought it was you—is that a Goblin?”
He backed up, and everyone behind him reached for a weapon, then there was a shout.
“A-Antinium! Watch out!”
Russell saw a Drake draw two long, curved blades from sheaths on her back so fast he recoiled. His hand went for his revolver—which wasn’t there, but along his stomach—and the [Knight] threw out a hand.
“Wait, wait, they’re with us! They’re adventurers!”
All the attention was deflected away from Russell and the mysterious dead Maven as everyone, especially the Drakes, freaked out over the Goblin and ‘Antinium’. Russell edged around the group, staring. He heard a furious argument behind him.
“—killed on sight, I don’t care how—”
“We’re adventurers, and—”
“—something, Woll! We can’t stand for it, not with honest Drakes around!”
Then a cool, loud voice.
“You want to do that, strangers? Are we talking, trading, or dying then? Because you touch our friends and it’s the last option.”
Russell swivelled, and the arrival of honest-to-god Vikings…it wasn’t the final blow because his mind was already spinning, but he just stared at them and nodded.
Why not?
Vikings.
 
——
 
As the argument between the two sides raged, and a man came running out to check on his caravan and ask if anyone was a [Healer]—they had wounded—Russell saw Arnie and Honarai.
“E-excuse me, you’re—you’re—”
The Elf—no, half-Elf was panting, leaning on her staff, and grimacing as if hurt. She straightened though when Arnie stood in front of her, mouth open. She was…
It was the same thing all Earthers saw in half-Elves. The same thing anyone did the first time they met one. A painful realization of what immortality looked like.
This is exactly what they wrote of. Nothing less. Falene Skystrall smiled at the tongue-tied Earther.
“Yes? Falene Skystrall, Silver Swords. And you are?”
“Uh, Ala—Ala—Arnie.”
It seemed like he caved at the last second, and she held out a hand. He shook it, and she nodded.
“Hello. Are you with that group we passed?”
“Um—yeah. That was—you were casting magic.”
Falene’s brows rose as she eyed his clothing, and then she glanced at her staff.
“Oh, yes. Even with the mana drain, a high-level [Battlemage] can cast a few spells. I only regret I couldn’t do more. I’m rather exhausted at the moment.”
“Mana. [Battlemage].”
“Er…yes.”
Falene eyed Arnie’s open-mouthed expression and hesitated, clearly unsure of what to say next. She forced a smile.
“Are you hurt?”
He didn’t say anything, but Honarai pushed forwards.
“Hey, you are amazing. My name’s Honarai, but you can call me ‘Hona’—can I ask you everything? How’d you get your class? Can you teach me any spells? Your ears are amazing. Can I touch them? Or is that super rude? We’re new here—your fit is also incredible. Is this fantasy-core clothing?”
Falene didn’t know what to say as she tried to answer the young woman in order. She was glancing around when Russell stepped forwards just in time to grab Arnie.
“I’m a [H—”
“Thank you for saving us. We should get Chester and Lenora.”
He tried to yank Honarai back as well, and she complained.
“What? Come on! Russell!”
Falene stared at the three of them, but then was drawn back into the argument between the Drakes and Silver Swords. Russell hissed at them.
“You idiots! Don’t give away anything!”
“What? I’m just asking questions.”
Honarai protested and Arnie tapped her on the shoulder.
“She knows magic. We should get her to teach us some.”
Russell shook his head, incredulous.
“What? How? We don’t have money, we don’t have anything to trade—”
“—And she definitely has conditioner. No one has hair like that without shampoo and the works.”
Honarai added. Russell hissed at them.
“Just be normal!”
Chester had found Lenora and was listening to the debate without inserting himself, eyes flicking back and forth. The Earthers stood to the side, all of them trying to piece together the argument, which sounded like it was ending.
“No violence! Not at my Waystation! I’m not tempting the wrath of Cenidau or Gold-rankers—who just fought the Cericel off, I might add—and if anyone has a problem with the Goblin or Antinium, they can settle this. Ten miles away! No one fights here!”
A Human whirled to Woll, incredulously.
“You’re not going to bar them from the Waystation?”
Woll eyed Rasktooth and Infinitypear, then the Cenidau warriors. His eyes flickered.
“If I do, does that violate Cenidau hospitality?”
“It does.”
Evor shot back, and Woll beamed.
“Excellent. My claws are tied. I’m neutral. Who has a claim on those monster corpses, and are they edible? They don’t look like it, but if they are—I’ll make an offer. The lowest offer. Now, back to the Waystation! Tea’s on me!”
He marched off, and the others followed him or went off muttering, and the Silver Swords were talking amongst themselves.
“Right, let’s get in there.”
Russell nodded, and Chester agreed. They were just about to walk over with the crowd when someone spoke up.
“Are you alright?”
One of the tall…Gnolls was watching them. He stuck out a paw, and Russell blinked.
“Labright, [Traveller]. I saw you just missed the Cericel horde.”
“Er, Russell. [Traveller] too. We were lucky, yeah.”
Nailren sniffed the air as Russell shook the paw gingerly, and the Gnoll nodded.
“Did you just come into the Waystation? How far west were you?”
Russell squeezed his toes against his boots, not knowing what to say, but Honarai jumped instantly.
“Oh, we’ve been in the grassland for ages. And we were eating birds and stuff—and we dodged another horrific thing with lots of teeth—hello! Honarai.”
She shook his hand, beaming, and Nailren smiled at her without baring his teeth.
“Where are you from? I’m from Pallass—”
“Well, we’re from Terandria…”
“Oh, what kingdom?”
Honarai was drawing breath, but before she could speak—and she seemed so confident—someone shouted.
“Hey, Nailren! Is that you? Couldn’t get away from us?”
Insill bounded over, and Nailren whirled, then raised a paw.
“Insill. Ah, I’m glad you made it. Are those Cenidau warriors? I should say hello to Captain Ylawes. Please, excuse me.”
He turned, and Honarai waved.
“Thanks for saving us, Nailren! Love those earrings!”
When he had walked off to shake hands with the [Knight], whom he clearly knew, Honarai leaned over to Russell and whispered.
“Jeez, good thing that happened. Because I was just gonna say ‘Cenidau’ or something. Do you think this is Izril after—”
Russell grabbed her arm. She hesitated, and he drew her back and whispered.
“Not here.”
She opened her mouth, and he pointed. He’d been watching Nailren’s ears, and they were long and, well, furry-like. Like a wolf’s.
How good was his hearing? The other Earthers around Russell blinked, and then they were hurrying inside the Waystation. Chester was glancing around.
“I think we pretend we’ve been here or—there’s a one copper coin fee. Let’s not pay that. Hey, did that Gnoll say his name was ‘Nailren’?”
“That’s what they’re calling him—why?”
Russell blinked, and Chester glanced at the Gnoll.
“He said his name was Labright before.”
The [Gunslinger] peeked over his shoulder, and then he subtly checked on his pack. And he resolved to stay away from that Gnoll in particular. Fortunately, the chaos around the Cericel and the Goblin and Antinium were a distraction—as well as the last visitor to arrive at the Waystation.
 
——
 
“It’s Labright in the Waystation.”
Nailren wished Insill hadn’t been so friendly—some [Rogue]. However, the Silver Swords were not big on dissembling. He gave up as he saw Ylawes frown.
“I’ll just say it’s my last name. Listen, did you see what hit the Maven?”
Ylawes hesitated and glanced around.
“I swear I saw someone with a weird object, but I don’t know if it was that—it was powerful.”
“Three shots and the Maven was down. I swear I saw bits of it flying out the third time. What was that?”
Dawil glanced at the dead Maven, and Nailren kept his face blank. Larr was sneezing.
“It hurt my ears and there’s a damn stench in the air! You don’t smell it, Anith?”
The only other member of a species with a sensitive nose was rubbing at his.
“Yes, it’s acrid. Could it have been a spell?”
“No mana. Crossbow?”
“True, but who…?”
Nailren was conscious of the five Humans walking into the camp behind him. He was playing it cool, but Falene Skystrall was whispering to Dawil. At this, she glanced up.
“Ylawes, I think we need to confer. Captain Nailren, maybe we should share information? We have a mystery on our hands.”
“Perhaps.”
Nailren agreed calmly, and he eyed Dawil, whose brows were fully up. It was Rasktooth and Infinitypear who raised their hands.
“Uh, Captain, you know how you say to say important stuff even if we is not sure and this is bad time?”
“Yes, Rasktooth? Did you see what did that?”
The Cave Goblin shook his head, but he nudged Infinitypear, and the Antinium pointed.
“Those five Humans are Earthers, Captain.”
