“Hey. You know, I never asked your name. Mine’s Erin. Erin Solstice.”
She watched his eyes widen, and he inhaled sharply. He half-slouched in his seat across from her, legs astray across the stone bench, not quite looking directly at her.
“…Mine’s Russell.”
No last name. He was cautious here, because he knew everything he said was true. But still, he told her his name. The smells of another world clung to him still. He probably thought they did not; his clothing was marked by grass and dirt, and he carried a hunter’s vest and the closest thing to this world’s belt pouches she had ever seen.
But the smell of bug repellant marked him, along with the faintest odor of oil, soot, metal, the pollutants that seemed so foreign after years here. The [Gunslinger] peered up, and she thought she saw him shiver.
“I know you. You’re on the list. The Spirited Generation. You were one of the first.”
She didn’t react to the knowledge a world was seeking her. Not one twitch. Her eyes focused on Russell, and whatever he believed, whatever he thought of her—the [Innkeeper]’s next words had gooseflesh rising on his body again.
“I dreamed of Earth when I died. I remember that.”
“So death’s just like a game, like Arnie’s been saying? You can come back from it?”
“No.”
“But you said—”
“You won’t come back. I got lucky.”
That annoyed him. His already-stubborn chin jutted out, and he brushed at his short, black hair, like a nest of black chickadees crammed under a camo-pattern cap, unused to regularly seeing sunlight. His voice was gravelly until he coughed, thumped at his chest, but it still rasped with a distinct challenge as he met her eyes at last.
“If one person made it, anyone could, right?”
She didn’t blink. After a moment, the [Gunslinger] glanced down at his lap. For a weapon he didn’t carry. Not here. Erin nodded, which surprised him.
“Anyone could, that’s true. But don’t count on it, Russell. It’s the chance of a lifetime, like winning the lottery. Don’t count on that.”
Russell’s head rose again, and she sat there, hands folded in her lap. After a second, he ducked his head once more.
“Right, that makes sense.”
Sorry. He didn’t quite get the word out. Not sure if he should say it, and then—the moment was gone. It lingered on his tongue, and then the real question floated in his mind.
How’d you die? How’d you come back? But he found it so hard to ask, so he studied her instead. Wariness, excitement, annoyance—he’d been flitting through emotions. And again, his perception of her changed. The hair he’d thought was dyed and annoying, like Honarai’s bright, stylish demeanor…
No, that wasn’t a dye. He saw more scars every time he looked up. Ear, neck, hands, ones he hadn’t even recognized as scars. A faded cut along one cheek, a gash up her arm, and those were the ones he could see.
Something was…off about some of her teeth. They looked sharper than usual. Everything she was made his heart beat faster in excitement and also—wariness. This was no dream. Not that he’d woken from it for…
“How long have you been here?”
“About a week and a half.”
“So short.”
“How long’ve you been here?”
He knew the answer. Ten years. Ten years—his skin was crawling, waiting for her to say—
“Two years and a bit, I think.”
He blinked and blurted out.
“Impossible. It’s been ten years! But you—”
He realized something.
“You look like your pictures. Well, sort of—you don’t look old enough.”
Not by far. And she took the news about how long it had been, barely blinked. Like a war vet, he thought. Took a blow on her chin and just stood up and kept going, all adrenaline. Her scars.
What the hell did they do to her? Erin Solstice blinked once, and that was it. As if she’d known time had passed and the rest was just mildly unpleasant. One more wound on the pile.
“Time’s different here, Russell. So it’s been ten years back home? Did they elect Jeb Bush as president?”
The first laugh of the conversation burst out of Russell, full of incredulity.
“…What? No, no—you thought he—how’d you know that? It was—”
Then he hesitated, because he wasn’t sure he wanted to get into politics with her. He’d already engaged with Chester once on that and regretted it. Never get to talking about politics with clients. Rule of his job from home. Just smile and agree to anything stupid she said. But Erin just tilted her head.
“I guess that was the lie in the dream. Nevermind.”
“When you were dead.”
“Yep. Sorry. I know this is all confusing, Russell. Just—let me tell you what’s important, in case we run out of time.”
She was yawning, and he sat forwards, hunching, wishing he had notes. There was a notepad on the chess board across from him, and a pencil. He blinked at it. That hadn’t been there—
When he glanced up, the hazel eyes caught him again, and she was smiling.
“I was told you’re a dangerous guy, Russell. Not a bad guy, but someone I should meet. I get why. You’re the only [Gunslinger] I’ve ever met. You might be one of the only Earthers armed. You’ve got the class—what level? Until you’re Level 30, you’ll be in danger, gun or not.”
One of the only Earthers with a gun? Really? He was skeptical about that—someone had to have been carrying. But it made him smile.
“Level 14.”
“So soon. In just a week and a half?”
“No, I got it when I landed.”
“You did?”
Another exchange, and he faltered.
“You didn’t get a class?”
“It didn’t work like that when I arrived or for anyone I know. The rules are changing. Good. Tell me—when you got your class, [Gunslinger], was it green?”
“Green? No…classes can be colors?”
She was staring past him.
“So there’s at least one other person. Green means ‘new’. Red’s bad. Gold is royalty, purple’s law or something—I don’t know all the rules.”
“Is there a book? A…manual? Like in a video game or something? I’ve never played ‘em, but we have an ‘expert’.”
His mouth wrinkled up at that, head swivelling for somewhere to spit, but this was all too grand and important to sully with that. Her lips quirked.
“No, no manual. And this is no game, Russell. So you are armed.”
“Yep.”
Did she want one of his weapons like the others? Or did she have some kind of plan? His guard went up again, but she kept undermining his suspicions. As if she could read him like an open book.
“Keep them hidden no matter what. If people see you have them or what they can do, they’ll take them from you.”
“No fear. None of them are leaving my side.”
She leaned forwards, and this time, he had to take her seriously. The pressure she exerted meant she wasn’t an idiot running her mouth, a know-it-all gazing down on him. The scars…he’d seen terrible hunting accident scars, wounds from accidental discharges. Even a man who’d been mauled by a bear. Never anything quite like that.
“They’ll take them from you, Russell. There are armies, [Assassins], [Thieves] who can steal the dreams from your sleep. Keep them hidden. There are things in this world you can’t shoot dead. Got it?”
A slower nod. Then her face wrinkled up as she yawned, and she became a person again.
“Wait. Did you just imply you’ve got guns plural?”
“Yep.”
He grinned. She eyed him.
“What kind?”
She didn’t seem to know firearms at all, so he said it in the simplest way she’d get.
“Revolver, shotgun, .308 bolt action.”
“That’s a lotta guns. What, do you collect them or something? How did you have three on you when you got here?”
His brows rose.
“I was on a hunting trip.”
She gave him a sharp look, then her lips quirked up. Russell had to ask.
“Who told you I was dangerous?”
“My Skill. You may well be the most well-armed Earther in the world, Russell. [Gunslinger] indeed. Now, tell me where you are. Which species have you been seeing?”
“…None? Just the others I arrived with. There’s four of ‘em and me.”
She frowned.
“Landmarks?”
“I don’t see much. Hills north of here. Maybe some mountains far, far off east, assuming the sun rises and sets like it does back home. The grass’s yellow. There was a tower we passed a few days ago, but it made my head ring. [Dangersense], I think.”
“Yellow grass…I don’t know that. Chandrar? Alright, then when you get to civilization, this is what I’d do. I’ll contact you as often as I can, but I might be busy or missing.”
She appeared sick. He nodded as he picked up the pencil and began to crib notes in an untidy scrawl.
“Wish my phone were working. Do I get to keep this?”
He waved the notepad at her and saw, for a second, her eyes light up with mischief and wonder. He eyed her and she grinned.
“Right. There’s so much I have to tell you. You can recharge your phone, but you’ll need a [Mage] for that…”
Then he was grinning too. She was everything he wanted this world to be.
The others…not so much. That had been a while ago. Before one of the moons cracked.
 
——
 
He had a feeling he was missing something. Well, a lot of things. Russell T. Morgan wished Erin Solstice would summon him to her mysterious gazebo-thing again, but she’d said she couldn’t check on him all the time.
Maybe she was busy as she said, or the moon cracking meant something big was happening. He didn’t like that.
Russell felt like he was behind, and he hadn’t even seen a single other person aside from his companions and Erin Solstice. But when you peered up and saw the moon crack like it was a piece of glass in the sky, well…
It made him pick up the pace until he heard complaints, and he sighed loudly. Then he turned his head, and the yellow grass he was trudging through, with yellow beetles, strange creatures bounding around, all the things he longed to go out and explore, was replaced by too-familiar ire.
Here he was in another world and he was doing his job again. Escorting idiots. Russell trudged back through the grass, his long boots and mud-green pants scattering midges and beetles, even a black lizard which went scurrying away. He stared at the orange, glowing bands on its side.
Most beautiful damn lizard I’ve seen in my life. He’d have caught it in a heartbeat and taken it to some scientist or the zoo back home, dropped everything to grab it because it was magic.
Here? It was one in a thousand, and he’d still have gone tearing after the lizard except that he was afraid his ‘team’ would wander off or get themselves hurt while he was gone.
Also—he was a bit weighed down. Russell had his long rifle on his back, shotgun in his hands, and revolver at his hip. A lotta metal, let alone the ammunition in the magazines in his vest, belt, and backpack.
He wished he were twice as heavy. If he was back home and known that he’d be here, tomorrow, he’d have bought up everything he could lay his hands on. And taken his pickup truck. And brought his .45 carbine. Which would have been complete and utter overkill for this trip, but in hindsight…
Well, the others didn’t have a single weapon between them, not even a knife, so Russell considered himself lucky enough. He hadn’t even put down his pack; he’d come with a tent, bedroll, and necessities all stuffed into the huge pack that he was having Chester carry.
Actually, again, not that fair; Honarai had a stun gun. But as ‘guns’ went, well…Russell would trust what he had before he relied on the others for anything. Especially because, and he wanted to ask Erin about this the next time they met—
Was there somewhere he could leave this lot? Or a way to get more directions? She’d told him to find civilization, but it seemed like they were really out in the boonies, even by his standards. Then again, no cars…and they were not marching fast.
“Hey, we’ve got to keep moving. What’s with the stop?”
He approached the four people sitting around in the tall grass. One of them was sitting on his pack—which made Russell’s eye twitch. The tallest among them, Chester, called over casually.
“Lenora’s got bugs in her sandals. They’re biting her.”
“Okay, but let’s keep moving, huh?”
Russell couldn’t argue with that, but he was impatient, and Chester gave him a smile.
“Give us one second, Russell, huh?”
Russell didn’t like Chester. Well, to be fair, he wasn’t sure he liked Honarai, Arnie, or Lenora either. They’d all appeared more or less together; he’d seen Honarai land within sight of him, and the rest had all heard him firing a shot and come this way.
Each one from a different part of America, even if Lenora wasn’t actually American. Which, he supposed, meant they were all on the same side, if it wasn’t all just Team Earth. Erin hadn’t said anything about a headquarters or something.
There had to be someone from the army, right? Even if it was only people around Erin’s age. Not that Russell was planning on necessarily joining the military if they were forming one here; good way to come back with too many war stories and looking like you’d been through hell. But any group from Earth could use an explorer, someone who was a good shot and knew bushcraft, right?
That was him. Russell felt, strongly, that he was useful. And he knew he was indispensable to the survival of this team—but he rather disliked being so vital right now.
Lenora was fiddling with her sandals again, and he got it, really. If he’d been in his house with nothing more than a digital pen that was all plastic and useless—not even her cellphone on her—then he’d be in trouble. The sandals weren’t even hers; they’d had to make some out of some of his camping gear (the hunting blind).
He knew it was dead weight, probably, but it still made him mad to have to cut it up and then abandon it because the rest of the group claimed it was too heavy. It was well used, and he’d gotten it for sixty dollars at Home Depot, but it was his.
Anyways, the sandals were terrible, just held together with some cord, and Lenora was shaking little ants out of them. She didn’t complain, which was good of her; she was Canadian. Visiting from Toronto when she’d gotten nabbed.
He’d never been. He’d heard there was good hunting in the U.P. of Michigan and had always been meaning to take a trip when he’d saved up. Maybe even move and work up there for a change. But she was utterly unlike him.
A [Digital Artist], who did…art. Colorful cartoon animations or something like that. Kid’s shows. Her class was not useful here. None of theirs were, except maybe Arnie’s, and he…Russell cleared his throat after it looked like she’d gotten the bugs out.
“We good? Let’s get moving. We have to keep going or we’ll never get out of here.”
