With a voice filled with calm, and the only thing he had: trust, Ylawes raised his hands.
“I’ll leave you alone, Russell. I swear. We don’t mean any harm by it.”
“Good. Thank you. That’s all.”
Russell backed away down the battlements, still holding that weapon that made Ylawes certain Russell could kill him. Death sang in his ears.
Yet Ylawes just stared at Russell, and, on the ledge of the battlements, hanging off a protruding piece of stone, he could see a black-haired woman with a sword. Pekona. She was waiting.
He hoped Russell didn’t glance down and to the side. But Ylawes met Russell’s eyes again and saw the panic, fear, and wondered…if this was what it had been like for the others.
Erin. Ryoka. Kevin. Imani, and so many more. He turned and gazed back east. Towards where he wanted to be. And north.
“The High Passes lie to the north, Russell. It’s a long way to Human lands. Not that the Drakes are always…terrible. But they can be difficult.”
Ylawes swallowed hard. Russell said nothing. Ylawes stepped back. That felt safer, but his [Dangersense] still sounded in his ears, a long siren.
“If you go east, you’ll find Goisedall or another city. Then you can follow the trade roads north. Do you have any coins?”
“We don’t need help. Thank you. We’ll find our own way.”
Russell’s voice made it sound like he might go any direction but what Ylawes suggested. The [Knight] heaved a breath. One last try.
“Russell—I’m not going to follow you or give you instructions. Just a suggestion. If you keep going north, there is only one safe route through the High Passes until Magnolia Reinhart builds her wall. You must pass by the Bloodfields, which are dangerous at this time of year, but a road has been built. In the shadow of the High Passes, there is a single place. A city. It won’t be flooded by the time you get there. It is the City of Liscor, and it divides north and south Izril. The only place where the Antinium, the Black Tide of Izril, have made a Hive amongst other people.”
Russell drank in Ylawes’ words like some kind of prophecy, eyes focused on Ylawes’ face. So hungry. So afraid. Ylawes saw his finger twitching and spoke.
“If you go there, stop a while. I won’t tell them to expect you—”
Death. He paused, and below him, his team tensed, but Ylawes just met Russell’s eyes. He would say it. Say it, because he had to give the young man the chance he deserved. If it meant his life…Ylawes didn’t want to die.
“There is a building far away from the City of Liscor, which is relatively safe, even if plagued by monster attacks. It is a famous building, and I wouldn’t walk there; monsters infest the rolling Floodplains, and they are dangerous, even for me. Hidden Shield Spider nests, though I have been told they have decreased in number, Rock Crabs…”
“I get it. What’s there? I suppose I should know all of this?”
Ylawes shook his head, meeting the hostile glare.
“No. Not everyone would know this place. It is a strange building. An inn.”
Russell went still. And Ylawes could no longer read his face, but the [Knight] spoke on over the pounding of his heart.
“It’s perhaps the strangest place in Izril. It’s called The Wandering Inn. Inside, you’ll find the hated Goblins, feared Antinium, and more. It’s not always safe, but there is a wonderful [Innkeeper] who runs the place. She’s…absent. For a while. And the inn is often hated or distrusted, but it is a place where great and wonderful things come from. And tragedy. I will not tell you to go there. But if you should ever travel north…it has rooms for very reasonable rates, and good food. Familiar food, I think, to you. If you are good of heart, you will find friends there. Tell them I sent you. That’s all I wanted to say. You don’t have to do any of it.”
Ylawes turned on his heel. He began walking down the battlements, nerves alert, waiting for…death. But he realized, after a few steps, that he no longer heard that alarm. No longer felt his skin crawling.
In the silence, Russell T. Morgan spoke.
“Wait. Please.”
Ylawes halted and turned. He saw Russell lower the strange cloth object that couldn’t be a spear, resting it on the ground. He flicked something. Then gazed at it and put it on the edge of the battlements next to him. He stood there. When he turned to Ylawes…the [Knight] knew.
“That inn. What’s…what’s the name of the [Innkeeper]? The important one? She’s important, right?”
“She’s the most important [Innkeeper] in this or any other world. I like to think she’s a friend of mine. But I think I’m just one of her many guests. Someday…I’d like to repay what I owe her.”
“What did she do for you?”
Russell took a step forwards, and a lantern illuminated his face, now. He was so young. Wary, nervous, afraid…but Ylawes met his eyes and smiled.
“She broke down what I believed about monsters and the world. Gave me real monsters to fight. Made my sister a hero and left me behind. She served me drinks and food. I never would have become a Named-rank adventurer before. Just a good, honest Gold-ranker half-blind to the world. Now…”
He craned his neck back and gazed at the stars. Then he held out a hand.
“Her name is Erin Solstice. And I think she’d want to meet you, Russell.”
The young [Gunslinger] peered at Ylawes’ hand, then his face. He stood there, caught in indecision, before he exhaled. It felt to Ylawes like all the tension, the burdens Russell had put on his own shoulders, his expectations, and the ones someone else had put on him, lifted a second. He took Ylawes’ hand and squeezed hard. And all Russell said was this:
“I dunno if I’m that likeable or important. But she…I’m on her side. Can you tell me more?”
Ylawes Byres smiled. When he did, he shone so bright that Russell wiped at his eyes just once. Then let the [Knight] introduce him to his team.
Sometimes, Russell realized, the things you read in stories weren’t all dreams. He relaxed, and for the first moment since he’d met Erin, he stopped worrying about his guns. Then he sat for a while, apologizing, and basked in the stories they told him. And swore he’d see it for himself.
To brave a world’s danger and chase the trail an [Innkeeper] had forged. To race across the wilds and find the heart of stories promised to him. And someday, to walk home and tell them of the lands yet untamed. And the friends he had made on the long journey in this world of wonders.
 
[Gunslinger Level 16!]
