Once he hit Level 10, he thought a movement Skill or something would allow him to efficiently scout this area and get ahead. Then he could power-level to 20, and if they hadn’t stabbed him in the back, he’d take care of this group. Russell seemed useful, and Honarai could be a valuable relations expert, as could Chester. He just had to keep levelling.
 
[Hero Level 8]!
 
——
 
The monster attack was crazy. Honarai didn’t sleep well that night or the next one, which sucked when they were having to march all day in the endless grasslands. At first, everyone loved Russell.
He’d shot a giant lion-thing dead just like that! Pure action hero movie stuff. So you’d think they’d all love him and it was great after that, right?
Wrong. They started fighting—again—the next day after everyone stopped being happy, ‘Russell’s so awesome’.
It was about the guns. It was always about the guns.
They tried to convince Russell to let them carry his firearms, even Lenora. He refused.
“No. Not happening. None of you have practice. I showed you how to aim and shoot; if we see trouble, I’ll hand one to you. Otherwise, they stay on me.”
“Russell, come on, now you’re being unreasonable. After the monster attack? You walked me through how to aim and shoot them responsibly! I’ll carry one; that’ll help you as well. Let’s be reasonable now.”
Honarai listened to Chester trying to work on Russell. Even the charming [Candidate] was having a hard time with Fort Russell, which was Honarai’s nickname for him in her head.
He was just…stubborn. Nice guy, in a way. He was this country dude who had way less muscles than a gym-bro, but he just kept going when anyone else from home would have probably flopped onto a couch with a protein shake or something.
However—Honarai turned up the wireless earbuds to block out the argument as it got louder.
“Come on, Russell! It nearly ate me!”
That was Arnie. He went for a grab, and Russell yanked his shotgun back.
“Try to grab my gun again and I’ll deck you.”
Arnie retreated, hands up, but Chester stood there with Lenora, arguing.
“Russell, you’re being unreasonable. We need to defend ourselves. If something gets you, what happens then? If you give just one person your shotgun, we can stand watch. If two of those things came at us and we were armed—”
“You’d miss.”
Oh, that was it. Honarai bobbed her head to the tunes she was listening to. She didn’t like conflict, and she was using a Skill.
[Trickle Charge: Walking].
Skills were awesome, though this one was sort of lame—unless you were stranded without electricity. In which case? Awesome.
She was a [Tech Girl], which was sweet. She had a bunch of Skills. Blew her mind.
[Carefree Stroll]. Made her feet hurt less and stopped her getting horrible blisters even though her feet were tough after so long out here.
[Extra Nutrition: Meat]. That one kept her from, like, dying of scurvy, she assumed. So much meat made her feel ill, but you got what you got.
[Energetic Voice]—that was good for pepping people up. No one knew she had it.
She loved all her Skills, really. But none of it was, like, magic. Like her [Streamer] class. That had some Skills that sounded amaze.
Like, like, [Spectacular Presence] and [Don’t Miss A Moment] and [Interact: Viewership]! It sounded like everything she was. Something that’d make streaming even more awesome. But she didn’t have an internet connection, so…was she useless?
Honarai didn’t know. She saw Russell slap down Chester’s hand.
“Knowing how to aim and shoot doesn’t mean I’m giving you—you will miss. I don’t have the ammunition to waste!”
Got it, he was talking about his bullets. Honarai didn’t do guns. She knew they were necessary, and she sort of agreed they should use them, but she understood Russell’s point.
“I’m used to shooting. I’ve hunted before, I’ve competed in competitions, and I’ve practiced for thousands of hours. You’ve had fifteen minutes pointing. You won’t hit anything coming at you unless it’s slow. And what I’m worried about is you hitting someone else in a panic, or wasting shots.”
All about the ammo with Russell. Just like how Honarai checked the charge of all her devices on her phone and decided she had to take her earbuds out to recharge. She got that, but she still thought they deserved to be able to defend themselves.
Here was the thing: she and Chester had the same sort of…class. He was a [Candidate], and he was good at making everyone work together. You sort of looked up to Chester if you talked to him long enough.
Honarai got that because she was a [Streamer]. Game recognized game. Streaming was all about popularity, getting attention, and reading the room. Not like how Chester did it—he was way more professional and political. But she thought she was better at reading people than he was.
Honarai could tell…Russell would give them a gun when California froze over. He’d do it, but it’d be when he thought they needed it. Not before.
But Arnie and Chester really didn’t like that. Both of them wanted a gun. Arnie squared up.
“Hey, man, you’ve been giving us lots of orders, but we’re all a team here. Even if you got to talking with that weird [Innkeeper], you’d better share.”
“My firearms. Or what?”
“Or…there are four of us and one of you.”
“Is that a threat?”
Russell didn’t do that thing where he bared the revolver on his hip. He just glanced at Arnie as if he was considering belting the shorter guy across the face. Correction: Honarai could somehow tell he was thinking about just that.
[Check Vibes]. Not good. And she sensed Arnie…
He backed up behind Chester, fast.
“Hey, what’s wrong with you?”
“What’s wrong with me?”
Russell glared around, and Lenora avoided his gaze, Chester began speaking, and Arnie glared. He turned to Honarai, and she…
“What was that? Hey, anyone want to borrow my iPhone? It’s charged up again.”
—Pretended she hadn’t heard. Russell stared at her and then snorted, but Arnie instantly went to borrow it. She gave her earpods and phone over to Lenora since it was her turn, and that worked.
Definitely. But Chester wanted to get her to pressure Russell, and she just blew him off as she walked ahead. She didn’t like Russell’s ‘I’m the best’ attitude. But she really didn’t like Chester suggesting she could flirt with Russell to get him to be more helpful.
She wanted to find someone else. She had to believe there were cameras or some way to stream, right? Or was her class thing just—Honarai stared at the grass.
Some days out here, it sucked. It really did.
 
——
 
And some days, they stared up at the sky and cried.
Lenora was crying. Honarai’s makeup, which somehow was still on her face after so many days, was running. Arnie was blinking tears away, and Chester was wiping his sleeves.
Even Russell just…cried. Scuffing at his eyes. And gazing up—
Up.
As they stood before the setting sun. It blazed across the sky, a ball of light unlike their world’s, some kind of…of different planet. And the stars.
Oh, the stars. Lenora had seen them on the first day, multicolored, and she’d sat there, speculating about whether they meant something different in astrological terms, but she hadn’t the understanding to grasp it.
The stars at night were beautiful, forming constellations she had filled her notebook with. And the [Digital Artist] liked to imagine, yes, she had a bit more insight into color, scene, and form than most.
But everyone, absolutely everyone—could just look up in this moment and weep.
The burning sun was fading across the horizon, leaving a trail across the vision, a bright star falling, but it was that perfect time of day when the night was also present. Two moons rising higher. Green and blue.
Stars in the daytime. On Earth, it would have been a common sight, if pretty. But oh.
“The sky.”
The sky. Some kind of—of storm or something must have been shifting the sky, Lenora thought. Or maybe this was normal? Because the blue sky, which gave way to orange and vibrant red, then dark night, which she termed almost purplish at times or a blue ochre close to midnight black—
It had changed completely. A lavender slash had divided the orange sunset, and waves of fire were bathing the horizon line as the sun sank, a falling disc which brought the deeper colors to life. High above, St. Patrick’s Blue swirled, yes, swirled like a nebula unfolding amidst the warm blackness and dancing stars.
Like an artist dipping their brush in colors to draw a heaven above. Lenora was crying. If she could have brought this image home, captured even half of it—she thought someone would look at this and believe there was a god, no matter what Russell said.
Because it was so beautiful. She gazed up, and the stars became a constellation in her eyes, placed with far more deliberateness than the ones of home. Humans of her world had read into the stars’ shapes like a belt, a kite, even shapes like centaurs in the abstract stars to give meaning.
These were shapes, she knew. She looked up and a lion stared down at her, a lion-man illuminated in burning stellar lights.
“Oh. So that’s why people stargaze.”
Honarai had her phone raised, snapping pictures, taking videos, and Lenora could not begrudge her that. How would she ever, ever explain to someone how it felt?
The wind blew her hair, the grass rustled, and when she turned her head to admire the ground, she could see the wind blowing. A long pattern of flowing grass moving a mile long, flexing like a snake made of wind across the endless yellow sea.
“I could die like this. If this is as far as we go, at least I saw this. If only I could capture it.”
She had her pen in hand and was trying to draw it. But she couldn’t. Lenora blinked the tears out of her eyes, and that broke the spell. Arnie turned away.
“It’s magic. See? We’re chosen.”
Chester sighed.
“Wait till they hear about this back home. Everyone has to see this.”
Honarai just kept recording for home, that might never exist, a [Streamer] with no audience. But it was Russell who turned to Lenora, and she supposed the two of them were the best friends, at least of the group. He met her eyes and wiped at his own, then hefted the killing weapons on his shoulder.
“We’ll make it. I promise, Lenora. There’s more to see.”
She studied him and smiled. She believed he would. But they had been out here so long…she sat as little beetles flew on her notebook, and fireflies danced under the wonder of another world’s heavens.
 
[Digital Artist Level 15!]
[Skill – Draw My Thundering Heart Obtained!]
 
Oh, strange world. Oh, voice which spoke to her as if it knew her. Oh, fate.
Why did it feel like the world wanted to reward her for being her? She loved it. She feared it. Lenora curled up in their tent. Rejoicing and despairing day by day.
 
——
 
Nailren woke up after a day of riding long and listened to his horse snorting contentedly in the morning. The animal—he didn’t name most of his horses—was a strawberry roan. No warhorse; they ate too much and were too temperamental. Just a good, rugged plains horse. One of the Wild Wastes’ breeds, he thought it was.
Despite all the riding—no, perhaps because of it—the horse was happy. Even with Nailren and a pack on its back all day, it was munching on grass as it lay on its belly with every sign of enjoyment.
“You and me both.”
They loved this land. Mood was an excellent component of travel; the miles melted away the more you were enjoying things. Be in a bad mood and every second weighed upon your shoulders.
It was the grass; it had to be. Nailren plucked a yellow tuft and eyed it.
“Just how good is this?”
The roan ate the piece of grass out of his paw, which told Nailren…well, he rolled out of his little tent that was the same color as the grass. He had [Camouflaged Position]; the more he stayed in one spot, the harder it was to see him or his surroundings.
Perfect for avoiding trouble. Nailren had scored some fish from the river yesterday, and he’d tucked the fried fish in a bag covered with de-scenting oil. It still worked so well he only got a whiff of the fish when the bag opened.
“Yup, that’s got to be eaten up.”
One night was all it could take before it would spoil. Smoking it, now, that’d buy more time. Oh no, fried fish for breakfast with some fresh bread from the Explorer’s Haven?
“So tragic. So horrible.”
Nailren munched on his breakfast and reckoned he’d have the energy to be on the road in minutes for another day of hard r—
He was fishing for his waterflask in his packs when he froze. Peered into the backpack, then raised his paw and shook it out.
“Not again. Spoony!”
He howled, and his paw was dripping with glowing, pale—
Ectoplasm. 
“It’s all over my damn pack! What were you doing?”
He cursed, and the inside of his pack was indeed aglow with the leavings of a ghost. Much like a snail, they left this weird goop everywhere. Apparently, only Nailren could see it.
It was only really noticeable if you got a lot on you. Then you’d have this vague, cold, slimy sensation on your body. It wasn’t even that sticky; it came off rather easily, but it adhered to everything. To Nailren, who liked a clean setup, it was the most annoying thing about his new companion.
“I told you, stop touching things when I sleep!”
He growled at the invisible specter following him about, and he felt a tug on one ear.
“Stop that. This isn’t a game!”
The problem was, what could he threaten Spoony, his ghost, with? Leave her behind? That was an excessive threat and probably wouldn’t work more than once or twice; and it’d ruin the relationship. He didn’t even know if she would stick around, but friendliness was vital.
The problem was that she clearly got bored in the night. Even as he watched, he saw his half-eaten plate of fish move. The spoon rattled around, and he saw ectoplasm appearing in splotches over—
“That’s my food.”
Disgusted, he swiped at her, then began snatching up all the ectoplasm he could and putting it the only place he could store it: a glass jar.
It seemed you could pack ectoplasm in, so he’d been filling this jar with the ghost-leavings on the hunch it could be useful. However…Nailren eyed the bright glow in the jar.
“Less of it this morning. It definitely vanishes. Hrr. I don’t have a container that’ll hold this. Great.”
So he had a rapidly-vanishing, if seemingly unlimited, resource. The [Clandestine Chieftain] rubbed at his forehead.
“I guess that’s on the list of things to do today. Ghost-things.”
He heard clapping behind him and jumped. His horse stopped eating and let out a panic poop. Then Nailren sighed. He was enjoying the New Lands and riding, damnit.
It seemed like his ghost-friend was getting bored.
 
