Pacing out of the Hall of Heroes, I lifted myself with magic. Torix stepped onto one of his black clouds, and we flew off into the sky. As the mist-shrouded us, Torix raised a hand to me,

"If you wouldn't mind sharing the footage from the camp with me, I'll review it while we head out towards the other clues that the Skyburner gave us."

I sent the files, "Sounds good."

As we traveled through the air, Torix went full-on lecture mode,

"As you may remember, Draygalga told us to search in three places. You found the camp near the River of Tears. Now we must search for a mountain of fire and ash or Lehesion and Emagrotha's battle site. The historical records of the civil war's end are blurry at best. However-"

Torix sent me a few coordinates, "The location of Mt. Ash is not."

I laughed, "What? It's seriously called Mt. Ash? I never thought the Skyburner's hints would be so literal."

Torix shrugged, "He gave us the locations without lacing his words with riddles. I say we count our blessings."

I ducked under a flock of birds, "Eh, I guess...How long is it before we reach the mountain?"

Torix waved a hand, "A few hours at most given the speed of our travel. The silvers will slow us down, but I intend to use them to our advantage. In order to do so, I'll need time."

I raised an eyebrow, "Are you going to be writing out some runes or charging some spells?"

Torix shook his head, "Not precisely. I'll restock my private reserve of troops. I've been so preoccupied with preparing your legion that I neglected my own."

I raised an eyebrow, "Where are you going to get the soldiers?"

Torix pointed down towards the approaching silver territory, "Among those heathen beasts, actually. I've yet to test out my new abilities since we killed Yawm. It will do me some good to stretch these old limbs and practice a few of my incantations." Torix rolled his shoulders,

"It will feel good to test my new limits as well."

I raised an eyebrow, "What kind of new limits?"

Torix steepled his fingers, cackling like an evil overlord, "Oh, you shall see disciple. All you need to know now is that I aim to impress."

Torix steepled his fingers while descending towards the silver's border. We landed right between metal and grassy ground. Merjects and engorgs crawled off in the distance, weaving between the forest of spires. Before stepping in, Torix messed with his status screen. I imagined he was fiddling with his stats and skills.

I was wrong.

After a few seconds, Torix took a sharp breath and pressed something on his status with a dramatic flair. I stared at him, waiting for something to happen. Nothing did. After a few more seconds, the atmosphere around him blurred. A forcefield encompassed him in white light, letting out a blinding light.

Streams of dense, white mana flooded him from all directions. The air around him siphoned inwards, bending the grass and trees to him. As the winds howled, the ground beneath his feet cracked. These fissures spread outwards, energy coalescing in breaking waves.

Each pulse built the mana condensing over him. The power saturated Torix's entire body, showering him in white light. The glow around him bent inward, reality warping around him. At the apex of the display, the ritual siphoned the sound. It left my ears ringing.

A moment of peace passed over our surroundings. That calm shattered as a shockwave ebbed from Torix. It ripped the grass from the ground. It uprooted nearby trees. The clouds above yielded, the mist scattering out from Torix. Nearby silver spires bent, and even the metal ground beside him crumpled.

As the destruction approached me, I leaned over to take the brunt of the wave. As I did, I dragged back to the treeline, leaving me stunned. The surroundings were left devastated as Torix floated above a crater. He looked the same to me, nothing unusual about him. As he dropped down to his feet, I jogged up,

"Hey, you alright?"

He waved his robed arms, his black mana funneling into his palms,

"I'm feeling better than ever in fact."

As I reached him, Torix raised his hand up. He pointed towards the silver line, and Torix funneled the black mana at his palms into the metal. All along the border, purple, glowing eyes opened on the steel.

Polygon beasts rose from the silver's territory, the saysha beetles skittering off them. Each monster took on a different form, their bodies were random but functional. Curious about what they were, I analyzed them.

Ore Golems(lvl 1,000 | Controller: Torix Worm, of Darkhill) - Machinations of metal, an ore golem are mindless minions made of some lustrous chemical element. Whether made of copper, iron, or whatever the free element, these creatures are physically imposing as minions come.

The robust, natural materials they are made of decide their overall toughness. If made of tin, these creatures are far more flimsy then if made of steel for instance. This requires more mana for their creation. Likewise, the strength and intelligence of the golem are decided by the amount of mana infused into the monster.

The main issue of using these beings involves commanding many minds at once. Without direct control, these creatures will attack ally or foe alike, including the caster themselves. This means that mental partitioning is significant. Many young casters have been torn apart by their own beasts given a lapse in focus.

If done efficiently as this creature was, ore golems are a valuable tool in any conjurer's arsenal, however.

I leaned onto one foot and crossed my arms, "Did you, uh, need that white light to summon these things?"

Torix scoffed, "Of course not. That light spawned from something else altogether more interesting."

I pointed at them, "You've got what...a couple dozen of these things? I can see why you wanted to make them before we kicked the Skyburner's asses."

Torix shook his head, "I own more along the lines of several hundred, not several dozen. However, these creatures won't be the armada I use against the Skyburners."

He waved his hands at the ore golems as if they were garbage,

"You've seen and felt the breath of those beasts. These creatures will be puddles in seconds against those monsters. The ore golems aren't scalable either. They require a portion of my mind in each of them. I could create a few hundred more perhaps, but a thousand of these creations pales when compared with a true army."

Torix shook his hand, "No, I want a formidable force. For that, I'll be ensnaring the stronger silvers that you've found deeper in the territory. These creatures will be used to hold those stronger beasts down in place."

I gestured to all of Torix, "Then what was the shockwave from earlier all about?"

Torix pointed above him, "Look at my title."

Torix Worm, of Darkhill(lvl 5,000 | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion | Class: Speaker)

My jaw hung as he cackled,

"I've been debating my class for the longest time. Since we'll be facing the Skyburner's, I assumed its time I took the leap. Too much wasted experience otherwise."

I blinked a few times, "Well damn...I didn't think getting a class would be that flashy."

Torix nodded, "Neither did I. Otherwise, I'd have told you about my decision before the fact. I didn't mean to surprise you."

I walked up and patted his shoulder, "Eh, I like surprises. Either way, I can't believe you got a class before me. That's damn impressive."

Torix puffed out his chest, "A master must tread into the unknown. There's nothing unexpected about it."

I waved my hand at Torix, "What did the class do?"

Torix weighed his hands back and forth, "The class revolved around charisma, perception, willpower, skills, and a few utilities. It synergized quite well with my current build, though it came with a few chores I'll need to handle from here on out."

I raised an eyebrow, "Chores?"

"You've seen other Speakers no doubt. They're always working, aren't they? That's because every class comes with a quota of tasks. Some people overdo their responsibilities. Others neglect them. For a Speaker, we are to enhance the overall prosperity and well being of worlds we're stationed on."

I crossed my arms, "So you'll be sent somewhere soon?"

Torix nodded. I winced under my helm, my stomach sinking. Torix placed a hand on my shoulder and looked at me with a mischievous glint in his eye,

"Don't worry, Daniel. I'll be heading out to Earth. It's my choice to be stationed there."

Relief washed over me, but I had a few questions all the same,

"Why Earth though?"

He raised a finger, "I've already formed an academy there for mages and warriors. That alone fulfills my duties as Speaker. Just as well, my class grants me enhanced rights, such as quest giving and the like. With those added tools at my disposal, I can motivate my students even further."

Torix spread out his arms, "I'll form academies on several parts of Earth before extending my reach outward to other planets. Over the next century,

my schooling will become a sign of a remarkable mage off reputation alone."

He shrugged, "The warrior part, well, that may prove more difficult. I'll get there given time, however."

He pointed at the silver border, "We'll have to discuss the details later. We have a task at hand, and we must hurry."

I grinned, "Alright, alright. I'll quit interrogating you."

With Event Horizon's aura spilling outward, I killed off the Saysha in front of us. As I stepped onto the metal floor, my foot rung out. It reminded me of what we were up against. There were two camps left. If we didn't find the cause for all this, then we'd have to rely on Tohtella to handle the problems.

That wasn't a risk I wanted to take. Before I made my next step, Torix stepped up beside me,

"Would you mind if I took the lead on this venture?"

I turned to him, "You sure? The silvers can overwhelm you if you don't have a stout defense."

Torix raised a finger, "You'll find I'm more than prepared."

I let him step in front of me. As I covered his back, we skulked deeper into the forest of spires. After a few minutes, a group of merjects leaped from pillar to pillar, traveling towards us. Within seconds, they circled us like vultures. I raised my hands, my mana building in my runes. Before I let loose, Torix raised a hand to me,

"Wait."

He blackened the landscape with his mana, darkening the air around us. As his energy built, he raised his hands and cackled,

"I wonder which spell I'll disembowel them with?"

He pointed a finger at one of the merjects,

"Perhaps this one."
