It made perfect sense why the espens wouldn't want to fight the damn thing. A merject even attempted sucking up the whale's fluids. It jumped on the side of it. When it pierced the whale's skin, the blobular blood wrapped around it.

The merject howled in terror as the blood entered its eyes and ears. The poor creature swelled up like a balloon before its insides became outsides. There were other horrors I found there as well. Massive, metal caterpillars injected their organs into their hosts. Eldritch beasts lay sprawled out, their bodies welded down as their bellies writhed with eggs.

I can't deny it - it haunted me.

This grisly land of living horrors ate away at my sense of calm. It left me stunned at how awful a situation could get. If this is what fringe worlds were like, it was no wonder Fringe Walkers were given so many resources. Having to reverse a planet in this kind of a situation...it was daunting even for a god, let alone a mortal.

I learned something while wandering through those wastelands I would never forget. This was what happened when you let a bad situation spiral out of control. This was what could happen if Earth became a fringe world. The hardest part about it all though was that I was perfect to stop it.

No one else could exterminate the vermin like I could. I crushed through these monstrosities with ease. As disgusted as I was, I wasn't about to let any of these abominations live.

I tore them apart, and my black armor devoured the corpses I left behind. It was a bloodbath, one where I numbed myself to the carnage. It was like I salted the earth, no food left for other creatures. I even sterilized the ground with Event Horizon.

The task weighed on me over time, however. It exposed something I needed to work on. Even if my willpower was sky high, I needed to control my thoughts and mind. I needed to be able to flip a switch to stop myself from breaking down.

In a situation worse then this, I wouldn't be given a chance to hesitate. I needed to pull the trigger so to speak and just go forward. When I got back, I vowed to get something from Torix to help with doing that. The bag of bones would appreciate having something meaningful to teach, no doubt.

Just like that, I drenched the silver's territory with their own blood for hours. The sun set as I stumbled onto my first breakthrough. On the side of a flesh whale, as I called them, the beast carried charred flesh and burns. Simple as it sounds, this was the only hint I needed.

Based on my battles before, the flesh whales never changed their direction midflight. They changed course if something big attacked them or they ran out of spires. Considering no silvers sprayed fire, I connected the dots; a gialgathen burned this damn thing. Armed with that knowledge, I pulled myself to the top of the metal pillars.

The thing is, the flesh whales scraped their stomachs on the spires. This leaves a trail of blood behind. If I followed the path, I retraced the steps of the flesh whale. If I were in luck, I'd find the gialgathens.

Feeling more clever than I probably should've, I shot across the landscape. Fighting the silvers wasn't an option now since it made too much noise. After a half hour of following the silver trees, I found a curve in the flesh whale's path.

I leaped down below the metal steeples, hidden by them. I discovered a path of espen blood at the bottom. I tracked the trail, weaving through shining towers. After evading a horde of engorgs, I stumbled onto an enormous wall.

Composed of welded together spires, the barrier towered over the metal treeline. From inside the expanse, hammering, squirming, and fiery breath echoed out. Espens of some kind grunted. Gialgathens heaved out their fiery breath at something.

It was what I'd been looking for. Planes couldn't come here because silvers would tear them apart. Tohtella would've needed a satellite system to show her the location, which Giess didn't have yet. Finding their base this fast was a huge boon for the plan.

Before turning around, I scaled the wall, aiming to find more information. With the wind whistling in my ears, I pulled my head over the barricade. As I looked down, I soaked the sight in. As I did, my eyes widened, and the hair along my neck rose. My stomach sank as I ground my teeth.

It was evil, plain and simple.
