"I-it's fine!" Damien swept out a tendril of decay mana, turning the pile of dirt into a smaller pile of dust; Cale noticed that Syphus seemed rather dismayed at the sight, and made a mental note of it.

"...In any case." Syphus cleared its nonexistent throat. "Here's what happens when I try to cast a spell of a different attunement."

This time, Cale felt the golem attune and channel mana into a water-based construct. He raised an eyebrow slightly—for all its apparent issues with magic, it was very good at attunement. The shift to water mana had been practically instantaneous.

The problem became clear the moment that mana was fed into a spell construct, however. Cale watched, fascinated, as the etherite crystals on its head reacted by abruptly flaring to life. He could feel the enchantment woven into it using the etherite's properties to pluck with deliberate precision at a critical part of the construct, causing the entire thing to suddenly collapse.

Incredible. That was essentially the kind of high-level dispel performed by experienced combat mages. Cale's own methods relied on sheer brute force, which worked well for him but was an order of magnitude less complex than induced spell failure.

Not only that, but this particular dispel had been tuned to unravel the construct after the Gift's involvement, as if the person who had woven the enchantment had known the Gift might try to adapt to it if given the chance. The only thing that was wrong with it was its targeting mechanism.

Which was a pretty severe flaw, to be fair, as impressive as the enchantment otherwise was.

"It's dispelling your spells instead of amplifying them," Cale said, brow furrowing. "You said this was supposed to absorb other spells?"

"It's dispelling my spells?" Syphus looked briefly confused, then annoyed; its eye narrowed and it spoke again, this time clearly to someone else. "Did you add a dispel function to the ears? I thought we agreed on an absorbing function!"

A pause. "Well, right now, neither of them are working," it said, clearly frustrated. "This is what happens when you keep adding new features without talking to me."

Another pause. "Yes, I know you were trying to help," it said with a sigh, a little bit less aggravated now. Cale sat back and wondered if he even had a solution for this—enchanting wasn't exactly his expertise. He'd had the basics taught to him a few times across the centuries, but that level of precision work was beyond his mana control, and he'd lost interest relatively quickly.

"I don't know if he can fix it," Syphus eventually grumbled. It turned to Cale, who blinked and sat up. "Do you know if you can fix it?"

"I have no idea," Cale said cheerfully. "I've got a couple ideas. We could wait for the cooldown for [Awaken Artifact] to wear off, if those crystals count as an artifact. No guarantee it'll work, though, it doesn't necessarily let me change existing functions so much as add to them."

He paused, mostly for dramatic effect. He'd paid attention to that fight between Syphus and Nala, after all. "There are other spells you can cast, though, right?"

"Physical enhancement spells, yes," Syphus agreed. "More generally, any spell that targets me usually works fine."

Cale nodded to himself. That made sense. Presumably, the enchantment had accidentally been flipped at some point so that it worked to dispel any spell that Syphus cast targeting another mage, rather than dispelling any spell cast by other mages that targeted Syphus.

Still a bit of a headache, though. Cale knew from personal experience that these sorts of mistakes were typically buried deep within an enchantment, which usually meant they were painfully difficult to find. Easy enough to fix once they were found, but it was the finding that was the hard part.

Maybe he'd be able to make a spell for that on Utelia, actually. That seemed like something that would be valuable.

"Just to be sure, you can't just go back to your creator to get it fixed?" Cale asked.

Syphus shook its head. "Not for another thousand years."

Cale paused. "Literally, or..."

"Literally, yes."

"Right." That seemed like a bit of an arbitrary restriction. Cale wondered if it had something to do with how Sisyphus had been able to send the golem out in the first place.

That cut down on some of Cale's options, but not all of them. He opened his mouth to make a suggestion, but before he could—

"Um..." Damien raised a hand again. Cale suppressed the urge to tell him to stop doing that. "Can't you just... take the crown off?"

Syphus blinked, narrowing its eye slightly at Damien. "It's a body part," it said, sounding slightly offended. "The crown functions as my eyes and ears. Would you remove your skin if it would help you cast healing magic?"

Damien shrank back a bit at that. "N-no, I guess not. Sorry."

"That said..." Syphus seemed to frown, thinking through the idea. "I could temporarily disconnect from the crystals if necessary. It would almost certainly allow me to throw an opponent off-balance. I'll have to consider it. Thank you, Damien."

Poor Damien looked like he didn't quite know how to react. He was relieved and confused all at once. "You're welcome?" he said, phrasing it like a question. "I'm still sorry though."

Syphus tilted its head. "Why?" it asked. It thought for a moment, then nodded. "Oh. Don't worry about it. I always ask organics if they would remove their skin eventually. I find it provokes interesting reactions. Wasn't sure if it would work on you, though, since you're not technically organic. It definitely worked on Nala."

Flia let out an undignified snort at that. Leo choked and started coughing. Damien... still looked confused.

Cale was mostly glad he wasn't the only one that couldn't always remember how to connect with people. "Anyway!" he said. "I think I have something that won't require you to take off the crown. It'll take some work, though. Probably a few days in the library."

Syphus's etherite ears folded back with interest. "Oh?"

"You can't cast external spells, but other people can," he said. "More importantly, other things can, otherwise other artifacts and enchantments would fail around you. And you can still cast spells on yourself."

"All correct," Syphus said, watching him intently.

"Well." Cale grinned. "I happen to know about a rather obscure spell tradition used by the Spellfist Monks of the Certain Death Valley."

"The what monks of the what?" Leo asked in the background, his tone a mixture of interested and concerned. Cale smirked and stood, mostly so he could gesture with the appropriate level of drama.

"The Certain Death Valley," he said. "Not a very creative name, I know, but they had to rename it because travelers kept trying to pass through it. Imagine a valley with temples and ritual sites built on one side, then massive craters filled with spell remnants on the other."

"You look way too happy about this," Flia remarked.

Cale beamed. "I'm glad you noticed! I had a great time there."

"Before or after they named it the Certain Death Valley?"

"I went there as soon as they renamed it."

Flia sighed. "My point," she said, gesturing tiredly in Cale's general direction.

Cale, of course, simply took it in stride. "Anyway, the reason one side of the valley was so destroyed—really, it started looking more like a cliff after a while—was because the Spellfist Monks are always practicing their particular brand of spellcasting, so there was a good chance of at least a fifth-tier spell flying across the valley at any given moment. Excellent mana sense training, let me tell you."

"And what was their brand of spellcasting?" Syphus asked, still focused on him.

Cale grinned. "I'm so glad you asked," he said. "They practiced self-enhancement spells that would temporarily turn different body parts into spellcasting artifacts. Or to put it another way: they used transformation magic to turn themselves into living spell cannons."

He paused dramatically, mostly for effect, and then continued. "Now, just to warn you, we're going to have to rediscover a lot of it. I mostly only remember the basics. Enough to get us started, not enough for any of the really high-level stuff..."

Cale trailed off. Everyone was far too silent about the reveal for his liking. None of them even made the appropriate expressions of shock and awe! Flia, Damien, and Leo were all wearing expressions that were varying levels of horrified.

Syphus, on the other hand, just stared straight ahead. Cale worried for a moment that it, too, was horrified, until it finally spoke.

"Sweet," Syphus said.

Cale was pretty sure that was the most glee he'd ever heard in the golem's voice, which meant that look in its eye was, in fact, a gleam of unprecedented excitement. "When can we get started?"

Finally, someone else that appreciated how cool the Spellfist Monks were. "Like I said, tomorrow!" Cale said brightly, ignoring everyone else's horrified stares turning onto him instead. "We're going to have to hit the library."

Which was also exciting, albeit for different reasons. In all the realms he'd been to, Cale had yet to find a library that wasn't, in some way, interesting.

It didn't take long after that for everyone to decide they were due for some well-deserved rest. Cale took a moment to admire Utelia's moons, in particular the one that had very deliberately started to rotate to face away from the planet, then made his way to Akkau's office. Mostly because—as much as he might have wanted to get some sleep—the old dragon was waiting for him, and there was at least one thing they needed to sort out before the end of the day.

Some sort of plan for the Red Hunters, mostly. The Thread of Fate more or less ensured that any of their plans would intersect with Cale, so long as he wasn't forcing a confrontation, but that didn't mean he was willing to let them continue their manipulations on the Brightscale Academy's students. Sneaks-In-Darkness hadn't been the only 'mentor' amongst them.

Though there was a second thing that bothered him. Every now and then, he'd noticed glimpses of strange magic leaking from Akkau, and the old dragon had more or less admitted he was hiding something. And the way he'd been summoned to Utelia didn't quite make sense, either. How had those elves captured Akkau, for instance? Where had that little girl come from? Why summon someone from across the Realms just for a blood sacrifice?

Cale sighed. It wasn't like a lot of time had passed since he'd first been summoned to Utelia; he didn't know if Akkau was ready to talk about any of those things just yet. In some ways, the Headmaster reminded him of himself—haunted and pained in ways he struggled to express.

He could at least ask, he supposed. Cale hesitated, then reached out and knocked on the office door. "Akkau?" he called. "You still awake?"

Akkau's voice emerged, dry as the desert. "I am not that old, Cale Cadwell Cobbs," he said. "Come in. There is much we have yet to discuss."
