Erick shot out two more beams. He clipped some wolves, but they were too fast. Like eels in a river, they slipped this way and that, crushing for the kill, jaws wide, growling, snarling. Jane crashed into one, tossing it into a wall. She sliced into another and that wolf collapsed to the ground, two legs severed, left behind to sit on ground like the incani girl’s legs over there in the middle of the street. Jane spun and inserted her sword into the downed wolf’s chest, and then she was moving to the next target. There was a kill message, but Erick didn’t bother to read it and the box vanished as soon as it appeared.

Black blood scattered and wolves raced toward Jane’s feet, but she dodged, sliding her sword into writhing not-flesh, scoring more hits, scattering bodies.

Suddenly, three more wolves were dead and one wolf was leaping right at Erick’s face. Jaws latched around his arm and the monster pulled Erick to the ground.

82 absorbed!

Hit for 24!

Hit for 35!

Hit for 30!

A sword pushed into the monster’s face, and the monster let go. He had almost hit 0 HP.

A rush of white light wrapped around Erick.

Healed for 25!

Jane’s [Rejuvenation] ticked lots more. Erick couldn’t get up in time, the last wolf was coming for him.

[Force Beam].

Like so much shadow, the monster burned under Erick’s withering glare.

Crit for 350!

You have slain Shadowolf G!

25% participation!

+582 exp

All around them were shadowy bodies.

A breeze swirled through the street. There were no more wolves.

And then a yowl echoed from a darkened street, like a horror movie’s rendition of a tiger’s meow. Two cat eyes stared at them from the darkness, both of them bright, bright yellow, but small, like twinkles in the night sky.

The eyes closed and the darkness vanished. Light returned. The sounds of a far away city came back to Erick and Jane’s section of the destroyed Human District. Battle receded, but Erick’s heart kept right on chugging, boom boom boom boom. He stood.

Was it over?

It was over, wasn’t it?

He stared around him, trying to make sense of everything. Nothing was sensible. Everything was fantastical, shouldn’t-be-happening. Crazy and foreign.

Jane moved to one of the monsters and stabbed her sword into the body. She rooted around inside the chest cavity. Black blood got everywhere. What was she doing?

Erick’s voice returned to him. “What are you doing?”

“It’s supposed to be next to the heart in shadowolves but I didn’t expect the insides to be so strange and— Ah ha!” She pulled out a crystal fragment —a rad— its glittering warmth barely visible through the black viscera. “This one’s worth 5 gold!”

Erick promptly vomited up breakfast.

Jane said, “We should hurry and get the rads and get to town.” She looked all around at the carnage. “I don’t think this was a setup, but it might have been. And that shadowcat! Fuck! That’s a level 25 kill quest!”

As Jane went and did what she wanted to do, Erick threw up again. He did not want to throw up again, but this day did not seem to be the kind of day where Erick got to do what Erick wanted to do.

Sometimes life was like that.

There were a few level ups and several completely missed blue boxes, but Erick would deal with that later. They had to get to the nearest guard station as fast as they could. They had killed up to ‘monster G’, meaning 7 kills, but Jane only found 5 bodies, including the first one that had been half-dragged off the street, meaning two bodies had been dragged away by hidden forces. At least two more wolves were hiding in the decrepit Human District, probably a lot more than two, and they were being led by at least one shadowcat.

Erick and Jane did not retrace their steps to the beginning of the Human District; they went straight to the closest part of town, which happened to be a part of the sprawling dragonkin district, which was less of a district and more of the glue that held the rest of Spur together. After the locals stopped screaming and realized what was going on, Erick and Jane found themselves herded toward the nearest guard station.

Just to make sure that any scheming incani didn’t try to contradict the truth, Jane had cut off 5 shadowolf tails, hauling them with her like some macabre trophy. Apparently this was a completely normal way to vet your kills with the Adventurer’s Guild, because the guard took sight of the tails, the black and red blood, and the story of wolves and cats at face value. At the mention of a possible cat, the crowd that had gathered around Erick, Jane, and the guards, started talking louder among themselves.

The next thing Erick and Jane knew they were [Cleanse]d and standing in a courtroom in the courthouse, opposite Xemal and three surly teenagers, one of the teenage girls still missing her feet and having to sit because of it. Standing in the audience behind the incani were two more incani, one of them the bystander for the mugging attacks, the other unknown. Behind Erick and Jane was Al, and strangely enough, Guildmaster Mog. The story of a shadowcat in Spur had spread through the town like wartime news. Mog was here for the official report on what might be a prelude to disaster.

In the lawyer and judge’s area were Hera, Felair, and a shining bright, completely silver wrought in the shape of an aging female dragonkin. The silver wrought was wearing actual clothes like a normal person, instead of her flesh shaped into robes or armor like all the other wrought Erick had ever seen.

She was Silverite. She was the Mayor of Spur. She had been the Mayor for the last 550 years.

She took her seat in the judge’s booth; the rest of the courthouse took their seats at her sufferance.
