“Alright everyone, the representatives of Zazas just arrived. Please take your place at the table,” Jaratalassi clamored above the hubbub of conversations.

Viv once more appreciated the fact that whoever had organized things had made quite sure to place people who didn’t like each other at either side of the round table, within sight and out of range of a random punch.

“First, a word from the king,” the old general said.

Sidjin’s father stood with regal grace. Viv appreciated that he’d joined them at the table rather than sat on the throne. It was a small gesture but a meaningful one, and the other representatives seemed appreciative.

“Thank you, my friends, for coming to Glastia. It has been a long fight. We have bled and sacrificed much as an alliance but now, the time has finally come to bring an end to this nightmare that has cost us far too much. I will let the good general explain the plan, however, I felt it important to keep you apprised of the situation now. There are three developments I will explain before we begin the planning stage.”

Viv nodded, as did the others. She appreciated that he wouldn’t waste too much time on posturing.

“First and as you know, the number of beastlings has decreased significantly over the past three months. There was a time when attacks would be constant, when beastlings covered the land outside the walls like a spreading plague. Those were the darkest days of Glastia. I am pleased to announce that their numbers have finally dwindled, as have their food reserves, and we have confirmed a great many cases of cannibalism. We finally have an opportunity to attack. That is, unfortunately, the only good news.”

“In the past month, we have seen an increasing amount of partial or tame aberrants.”

Cries of stupor and horror spread throughout the room, as did mumbles. Meanwhile, Viv’s mind went through a logical path.

The shamans of the beastlings used to draw power from the divine scorn of Efestar. It so happened that the God of Vengeance had stopped answering their call. With Octas out of commission for a long time, they’d turned to new options.

That left Gomogog.

And the semi-dead one.

“Impossible. Aberrants are the bane of existence, of reality. There are no powers that could possibly twist them to service. Magic doesn’t even affect them properly!”

“There is,” a voice said.

The resident bishop of Neriad was a dark-skinned woman wielding a staff. Scars criss-crossed her skin.

“The Righteous God has spoken to me. There is a dark god they thought dead at the hand of Maranor herself, but it appears some of its essence is returning as a corrupting wave. His name was Khaton. Khaton the poisoner, or Khaton the defiler. He is a long forgotten blight that rises in the wake of Octas’ weakening. This might be his attempt to return.”

“And his domain is… aberrations?”

“His domain is defilement, abasement, corruption. Or rather, it is what is left now that most of him has died. Do not mistake the dead god’s nature for weakness, however. No matter how dead he might be, his lingering essence is no less dangerous to us mortals. It is this essence that the beastlings are tapping into right now. It will bring them power just as it will consume those who partake.”

“How dangerous are they?” the Baranese envoy asked.

“They will resist mana effects, will fight longer, be much stronger. Wounded soldiers might become infected and die.”

‘WHAT?”

“The churches will provide their support to prevent this from happening, but we cannot be everywhere. The best would be to avoid being wounded by infested flesh.”

Viv sat back in her chair. Damn. It couldn’t have been easy, huh. There had to be something that went horribly wrong. She thought she’d have some respite after Octas’ fall but now they had a new contender for the title of divine shithead.

She massaged the bridge of her nose.

There was a third piece of news.

“And finally, we have confirmed aerial reports that the beastling leaders are building a fortress.”

This time the stunned silence only lasted a second.

“What do you mean, build?”

“Inconceivable. Are you jesting?”

“This has never happened!”

“Enough!”

The king was not unkind even as he chastised the other delegates for losing their cool — mostly nobles and lesser leaders. The generals and those like Viv remained quiet.

Viv was starting to ask herself questions about the beastlings. If enough gathered, what happened then? Could the smartest of them become capable of negotiations, since they were capable of at least stacking one stone on top of another? It would have been interesting to try. Farren would have tried to talk to them.

Unfortunately, he was dead, and the beastlings were being preyed upon by Khaton. So. Yeah.

Genocide it was.

“We believe that the various beastling hordes will gather to fight us if we march on the fortress and take it, slaying all their leaders in the process. We will need an army capable of laying siege. There is only one such group among us.”

The king looked right at Sidjin, his son, then at Viv, but it was Jaratalassi who spoke.

“We would like the Harrakan forces and their siege weapons to lead this assault.”

Viv didn’t have to think twice. This was why she was here anyway.

“The Empire will answer the call of the Alliance.”

Lak-Tak was going to have a field day.
