Her intimidation flared. They were both shorter than her and clearly not the pick of the litter. She grabbed one of them by the collar, then slammed him against the wall. Her wings spread behind her like omens of doom.

“You. Who the fuck’s in charge of this section of the wall?”

“I… I… I…”

“WHO IS YOUR SUPERIOR?”

“Lord Redclaw, ma’am!”

She dropped him on his ass and cast a quick mirror spell just to be sure.

Monster eyes? Check.

Bone spike reforged war crown of the Old Empire? Check.

Tall? Fucking check. She would never be tiny again.

Silverite-embroidered regal battle robes? Hell yeah, custom made and it had pockets.

She looked great.

“Onward!”

It took only a few seconds to reach the top of the wall. Although it was rather low here, it was still wide enough to allow for multiple layers of defenders and their supplies. Right now, a hundred or so soldiers huddled in confused squads, uncertain as to what was going on. Viv had no intention of letting them recover.

“Where is Redclaw?” she asked in a deceptively cold voice.

[Aspect of the Sovereign]

Intimidation crashed into them like a wave. The squads wavered, taken by surprise, and a path was instinctively cleared towards the perpetrator of today’s indignity.

He was a thin, aristocratic man in mage robes bearing the symbol of a claw. In red, of course. Right now, he was looking like someone who thought he was doing a fun prank only for two cop cars to pull up in front of him. Viv made a beeline for the fucker. Behind her, the One Hundred pushed his men aside by sheer weight.

She only stopped when she was so deep in his personal space he might ask for rent.

“Do you think this is a joke?”

She smashed her intimidation aura into him. He had some leadership of his own, but under Viv’s monstrous, aspect-boosted power, that resistance crumbled.

“I asked you a fucking question.”

“Who do you think you are?”

“You know exactly who I am. Now, you’re in charge of preparing our spot. Why is there a landfill there? Is this some sort of jest?”

“We… are defending the walls! I have no time for—”

She slapped him. Her enhanced strength sent him tumbling.

One of his men drew his sword. Viv gestured and… nothing happened.

Damn, she missed Solfis already. He would have understood without prompt.

“Ban, if you would?”

The armed man got an instant face full of tower shield. He didn’t stand back up. Redclaw did, however, gasping with disbelief. Viv grasped him by the collar and lifted him until his feet dangled over the ground. She felt red mana coil but even in his stressed circumstances, the man knew that casting offensive spells would lead to his death.

It was immensely cathartic grabbing people like puppets like that. Viv spared a kind thought to the planet for giving her physical stats as well.

“I am giving you and the traveling clown show you call a troop two hours to clean the mess you made, the time it will take me to meet the rulers of the Paramese alliance. If it’s not done when I return then I’ll throw you on the beastling side. Without your feet.”

“WHAT?”

With the help of some telekinesis, Viv tossed the harried noble over the parapet and right on the nearest pile of refuse. His scream was abruptly interrupted, then the swearing began. It wasn’t a very long fall.

Viv allowed herself a smirk.

“See you lot very soon.”

***

By the time Viv left for the city itself, the work had already started. Redclaw had tried to leave the place but having almost two thousand annoyed Harrakan soldiers standing around meant that it was actually quite difficult to depart unnoticed. She rode across a well-traveled road at the head of the Knights of the Blue Rose towards the imposing gates of Glastia. Although she was here as a full member of the alliance, Sidjin and her headed the formation side by side to show that the fallen prince was no one’s lackey.

The ride almost changed her view on Param’s politics. Almost. Past the Golden Order’s encampment, they came across forces from Enoria, Baran, from Neriad’s various smaller orders, then mercenary companies and the like. Each encampment proudly displayed the identity of its owner in either style or structure. Some of the mercenaries had been here for so long that the camps were more permanent fortified barracks than temporary lodgings. Some of the poorer groups didn’t even have tents. They slept on the ground.

The important thing Viv picked up was that there was absolutely no way a city, even one as rich as Glastia, could sustain such numbers. It meant that the rest of the alliance had maintained a presence mighty enough to stop the horde here for over five years, reliably. An achievement she had never expected from the bickering collection of egos that formed said alliance. It was heartwarming in a way. Some leaders here were smart enough to realize danger before it knocked on their windows. Honestly, she wasn’t sure the governments of earth could have done any better.

“Glastia,” Sidjin whispered. “It has been too long.”

Viv returned her attention to the city-state as they approached its noble walls — those much older and made properly from the start. She had to admit, if it wasn’t embroiled in constant conflict, Glastia would be a much larger player. First, the Harrakan delegation rode through a monumental gate defended by guards in puffy red uniforms, then through the outer circle which was where Glastia’s poor districts, warehouses, and most artisans were. People here worked even as the distant retorts of exploding spells roared from over the walls. Viv looked up, but the defensive structure blocked the sight.

“There is always a raid happening somewhere. People have grown used to it by now,” Sidjin stated.

A dark cloud came over his features.

“Sometimes, I couldn’t fall asleep unless I heard the sound of battle.”

“Huh.”

He kept quiet while they traveled under another high arc. The middle city held banks, trader’s offices and other important services. Viv recognized elements of northern architecture in the thick columns and flattish roofs, though many lacked the splendor of Helock. A diverse crowd busied itself throughout the city. Wealth wasn’t seen in jewels but in the nice cut of clothes, a visible concession to the constant siege. Nevertheless, Viv found they lacked the fear she’d seen in other places. The constant slaughter had become a routine. Hell, there were eight year old kids who couldn’t remember peace.

The highest and most fortified circle was occupied by the palace, as much a keep as it was a seat of government. The place was crowded with elites in elaborate armor, war mages and bristling nobles. A tired seneschal kindly requested that her retinue stayed behind before leading them deep into the palace, through what Viv was pretty sure were reconverted stables.

“My father used to keep his vaunted stallions and chargers here,” Sidjin confirmed. “I used to come here between lessons to brush my favorite mare. They’re gone now. Sold out, to placate the nobles.”

“I imagine you have a lot of memories here.”

“It was my home for close to thirty years,” he said with a shrug.

Viv kept an eye on her paramour while he looked around, brows furrowing at either memories or differences with said memories. There were a lot of people who looked at him, but there were also a lot of people who looked at the elemental archmage with a crown so it was hard to gauge how bad it might get. The thought of assassination attempts did cross her mind.

It didn’t take long to reach what had to be the throne room. The space where court would be held had been cleared, and a massive wooden table now occupied the center of it. A detailed map of the wall and the land beyond caught the eye with nice colors and some magical effects. Right now, a dark mass of wriggling creatures battled on a ramp leading to the outer wall. That was certainly a nice enchantment that Viv definitely wanted to steal.

“I shall leave you here. We are still waiting for a few guests, so please make yourselves at home. You will find refreshments in the corner.”

“Thank you, Eldrim,” Sidjin replied absent-mindedly.

The seneschal allowed a very sad smile to fold the corner of his lips before he bowed and left. A quick glance around showed familiar faces, one of whom was heading straight for her.

“My student! Hahahaha.”

“It’s good to see you, General,” Viv greeted.

Old Steel Trap looked much better than during the previous conflict. His curly beard covered his robes and the beginnings of a small belly, a sign he hadn’t been on the campaign trail in a long while.

“I see my Bitter Heart deserter is feeding you well,” Viv teased.

“I married her! Great woman. Incredibly patient and understanding. Can outdrink me, which I thought impossible but here we are. Oh, I got your message and I gave it some thought.”

“Oh? Should we discuss salary?”

“I regret to say that no, I will not defect to the Harrakan Empire. You are not the first to offer to recruit me, you know? The others had the decency of gifting me jewels and weapons, at least.”

“I meant no disrespect.”

General Jaratalassi guffawed.

“Ah, you are too pure yet. And no, I must remain as neutral as can be if I hope to keep this alliance working. Not that it will prevent me from rushing to you to show my preference for members who actually show up when I ask!”

He turned at that, and the shoulders of a nearby nobleman tensed.

“I do, however, have a student of mine that could fit you. Despite his incredible talent, he managed to alienate every possible recruiter due to his terrible personality.”

He grinned.

“But I suppose that just means you two will get along just fine. Don’t lose your patience too fast, he’s worth it. In any case, there are more people to greet for this old man. Why don’t you two go around a bit? We will begin shortly.”

Viv nodded, then grabbed Sidjin’s elbow to allow him to guide her through the room. There were only forty people or so here, and she happened to know at least half of them by sight. Maybe she was getting experienced.

The Enorian representative turned out to be a southerner she knew, one of those who’d readily turned their back on the loyalist cause to welcome Harrakan trade. The Baranese representative, however, proved quite cold. She guessed she’d burnt that bridge by allying with their resurging rival Enoria. Sidjin then deftly guided them through a gauntlet of northerners including his half-sister Shaya, who seemed pleased to receive their consideration. Viv was surprised to see the champion of the Mornyr arena. The dour blade master was far too quiet to claim a title as boisterous as ‘dragonslayer reborn’.

“And you must be Viviane and Sidjin,” a voice said in the northern tongue.

Viv turned to see a short woman in heavy gold and black plate stand with her arms behind her. Next to the diminutive commander was a tall girl with high cheekbones and a haughty demeanor. Both were dark-skinned, but while the commander’s hair was gray and very short, the tall warrior’s own fell in long braided tails over her shoulders.

“Oh, you must be of the Golden Order. You worship Enttiku, yes?”

“We are indeed her warrior priestesses. You have very few threads, hmmm, interesting. You must be very hard to kill.”

“I try, thanks.”

“I am Order Master Kreta. I understand that we will be covering each other’s flanks during the advance, from the way our encampments happen to be side by side.”

“Your reputation precedes you. I am looking forward to seeing you work.”

“Indeed. Our goddess watches over your work in the deadlands with a pleased eye. It would have been easy for a black mana expert to expand into necromancy, yet you decided not to. We take note and we approve. When the time comes, we will be at your side.”

Viv nodded.

To be honest, she’d completely forgotten she could technically learn necromancy. It was just a massive waste of her time.

“Well if it isn’t my dear brother Sidjin.”

Short dark beard, dark elegance, and thwarted heir ambitions announced the coming of Medjin, Prince of Glastia and an absolute twat. Viv kept her temper in check. This was up to Sidjin. He’d been very clear about that.

“Have you found your arrangements to be to your satisfaction? I thought it might suit the quality of your character.”

“Oh you flatter me, brother,” her paramour replied with a pleasant smile.

Only her familiarity with him made her realize that under his polite mask, Sidjin was absolutely livid.

“But no, it is not my habit to have someone else’s underlings clean for me.”

The implication made Medjin frown. Viv guessed dear Lord Redclaw might not appreciate having been worked to the bone for someone else’s revenge as well.

“I see you still keep to the same… company,” Medjin countered.

Viv remained impassive. The asshole prince was just trying to get her to lose her temper. It would reflect poorly on Sidjin.

“Oh my company will be as pleasant as I like once you’ve turned around and fucked off.”

Eh?

She thought she was supposed to be the iron fist and he would be more diplomatic? Red mana bubbled under Sidjin’s controlled aura, and even now, a few of the more experienced warriors were turning in her direction.

“Remember, brother, I kill for honor, I kill for Glastia, but you, I’d always kill for pleasure. Anytime, anywhere, you and me, just say the word.”

Medjin paled a bit. Perhaps he had forgotten that Sidjin was an archmage named ‘the Red Mist’ before he even developed teleportation, and that little display acted as a reminder. In any case, he left, which was a relief.

