“You SHOT ME!” Ren hopped up and grabbed 2 of the guards on the left, picked them up, and kicked the third lightly in the chest; but it still sent the guard across the floor. Ren swung the guards he held around, and threw them into the 4 guards on the right. He equipped his shield as several crossbow bolts whizzed by, and Ren deflected several more.

“Stop firing, you fools!” Ren shouted. “You'll hit the people!”

Another crossbow bolt bounced off of the shield and Ren ran at them as fast as he could, with the shield held in front of him. He wanted to stop them from firing into the crowd, but had completely forgotten that he was wearing his new boots. Ren smashed into them much faster than he had intended; two of the crossbowmen bounced off of his shield, one was caught in the Grip of Earth enchantment, and two more were trampled as Ren ran over them. The last one stared as Ren came to a stop, deactivated the enchantment on the shield to release the guard, and turned around.

“On the left!” Teepo shouted, as another fireball hit Ren in the side, and Ren pretended to fall to the right, away from it. He clutched his side as the fireball engulfed him, and heard the Knight laugh.

“Even with your armor, you're not so tough against fireballs.” He said smugly as he walked over to Ren on the floor, and shot a fireball every couple of seconds.

I guess I didn't have to activate the wand prematurely. Ren thought. He was going to shoot me with it anyway.

The Knight stepped close and waited for the fire to dissipate before firing again.

“What the hell is going on out here?!?” A stern voice asked.

“I'm just subduing a prisoner.” The Knight said.

“With a fireball wand?!?” The voice asked. “Where did you even get that?”

“He stole it!” A voice from the crowd said.

“From him!” One of the dwarfs in front pointed to Ren on the ground.

“I didn't steal it!” The Knight turned to the dwarf. “We were attacked!”

“It's still stealing.” The dwarf muttered.

“Give me that.” The voice said, and the Knight frowned.

“I acquired it in battle.” He said. “By right of conquest...”

“Hand. It. Over.”

The Knight passed him the wand and the dwarf looked down at Ren.

“Are you done?”

“Pretty much.” Ren said. “I could use a bit more cooking on my left side; but I can make do without it.”

The dwarf with the stern voice smiled. “Lady Neram said you had a weird sense of humor.”

“You know where she is?” Ren asked.

“She's in the royal apartments.” The dwarf said, then looked around. “Is that what this is all about?”

“Part of it.” Ren said. “No one would tell me anything.” He stood up and realized he was about 5 inches taller than everyone else, thanks to the thick soles of his boots.

“You're a big one.” The dwarf said.

“I could make a rude joke about that line, but I'd rather go see Lady Neram.”

“You can't, you're a prisoner.”

Ren shook his head. “This idiot claimed, without proof, that I committed treason against the crown.” He stuck a thumb out to indicate the Knight. “I was hit by a fireball, then when I attacked, non-lethally by the way, they opened fire with crossbows and then more fireballs.” Ren looked around. “Is anyone hurt?”

Several of the guards raised their hands, and Ren ignored them.

“Is any civilian injured? There were a lot of crossbows flying around.” He said, and no one spoke up. “Thank the gods.”

“I'd ask you what happened, but I'd rather get an independent version first.” The dwarf said, and went to the crowd. He came back a few minutes later, and looked at the Knight. “You have some explaining to do.”

The Knight scowled. “I don't answer to you.”

“Then go answer to whoever.” The dwarf waved a hand in front of the Knight's face, and the Knight held out a hand for the wand. The dwarf shook his head. “I don't think so.”

“It's mine.” The Knight said.

“Where's the Minor Healing wand?” Ren asked. “If you have the Fireball one, you must have the other.”

“I gave it to the Medical Wing.” The Knight said, and the other dwarf winced slightly.

“For a people with an Honor based society, you sure have a lot of people who lie.” Ren said. “How is he even a Knight?”

“Inherited Honor.” The dwarf with the stern voice said, then turned to the guards that were still standing. “Take the others to the Medical Wing of the Main Keep.”

The guards gathered up the injured and left the lobby.

“As for you...” The dwarf turned to the Knight. “You will return the stolen property.”

“You can give it to the Medical Wing.” Ren said, then pointed at the Knight. “...as long as he doesn't get to keep it.”

“Hand it over.” The dwarf with the stern voice said. “Right now.”

The Knight pulled out the wand from behind his back and handed it to the dwarf. “This isn't over.” He said, then walked away down the hallway he had come from. The dwarf sighed and turned to Ren.

“He's always been a trouble-maker.”

Ren shook his head. “I bet he started out leading a regiment or something.”

The dwarf nodded slightly. “Yes, and now he's down to a Knight. It won't be long before he's only a Warrior.”

“I honestly don't care where he ends up.” Ren said. “Take me to the royal apartments.”

“It's really odd to talk to someone in full plate armor.” The dwarf said. “This way.” He walked down the hallway to the left of the staircase, and Ren followed until he got to where Riley and Stacy still held the 4 guards at bay.

“Come.” Ren said, and they ran over to him as he followed the dwarf into another hallway to the end. They went through that door, and to another set of staircases after Teepo gave the all clear. They climbed up the stairs and down yet another hallway, then arrived at a door with 2 guards in front of it. Teepo slipped inside and Ren felt his relief and surprise.

“She's here with 2 guards!” Teepo exclaimed.

“Open the door.” The dwarf said, and one of the guards opened the door.

“By the gods, leave me alone!” Narhilda said, as she threw a pillow at the open door. Ren caught it and stepped inside. “What's this? Now you're sending in gold... armored... REN!” She ran across the expanse of the room, and Ren stored his armor and dropped the pillow in time to receive her bone-crunching hug.

“Hi.” Ren said, as he held her close. The two guards ran over as well, to stand beside them. They scowled down at the two metal dogs.

“Thank you, Dural.” Narhilda said to the dwarf.

“Don't thank me.” Dural shook his head. “He was making quite the scene in the lobby.”

“He was?” Narhilda said, surprised. “Why?”

“To find you, of course.” Ren said. “I tried asking politely, then more guards showed up.. and... well...”

“Things got out of hand.” Narhilda said, and Ren nodded. She turned to Dural. “I know I can't ask...”

Dural turned to the guards. “We can wait in the hall, while Lady Neram discusses need to know information.”

The guards looked at each other, nodded slightly to Dural, and stepped outside the door and turned to face it.

“Thank you.” Narhilda said.

Dural leaned close. “It will only work for a short time, then I will have to let them back in.”

She nodded slightly and he left the room, turned to face the door just like the guards, and closed it.

“Oh, Ren!” Narhilda said, and kissed him passionately. Since Ren was only wearing his bodysuit, she felt his reaction to her, and she broke the kiss. “We... we can't...”

“Just because I'm ready, doesn't mean it has to happen.” Ren said and smiled. “If that was the case, I'd be doing it all the time.”

Narhilda smiled and took his hand to lead him to sit on one of the many couches in the apartment.

“How did you get here?” Narhilda asked, still holding his hand.

Ren told her about how he'd contacted Nathalia with his Sending Ring after coming through the portal, and found out they were here; but she wouldn't tell him anything about it so he came to see her himself.

“She's always been loyal to me, without fault.” Narhilda said. “Keep going.”

Ren explained about finding the dogs missing, coming to the castle, getting locked up, and then going to the alchemist's lab. She gasped when she heard what had happened to the dogs, and how it had hurt Ren, and she went quiet as he told her about the encounter with the alchemist.

“How... how could you?!?” Narhilda asked, and put a hand over her mouth. “I've known him for decades. He was a good man! He didn't mean anything by experimenting on your toys!”

Ren let her hand go and stood up. “They are not toys! Or things! Or wonderful mechanisms to experiment on!” He nearly yelled at her, then clenched his fists as he tried to calm down. “The same thing happened to me when I was younger, Narhilda.” Ren said. “When I felt Stacy's pain similar to mine, I... it brought back a lot of the memories I'd suppressed about my own experiences.”

Narhilda reached a hand out and held his wrist. “Sit. Please.” She said, and Ren sat back down. “I didn't know that you...”

“It's not something I ever... ever... wanted to talk about.” Ren said sadly. “The things they... they did to me... all in the name of research.” He shook his head. “I... I snapped, Narhilda. I did something... something I never thought I'd do to someone else.”

“Oh, Ren.” Narhilda started to cry, as she felt the truth in his words. “That... that still doesn't justify what you did today.”

“Do you think I don't know that?” Ren asked, pain clearly on his face. “I crushed that man's fingers, Narhilda! Over and over! I was so mad that I... at the end I... I held them in an Iron Grip and healed them.”

The tears were streaming down her face as Ren kept talking.

“I left them a pile of money, so he could live comfortably for the rest of his days; but no matter what I do or say, I can't take back what I've done.”

Narhilda nodded slightly, and Ren looked down at his hands.

“What do I do now?” Ren asked.

“The only thing you can do.” Narhilda said. “Confess in open court, and face the punishment.”

Ren looked at her. “Are you serious?”

Narhilda nodded slightly. “If you let this go, and people find out about what you did...”

“I've already lost 10,000 Honor, Narhilda.” Ren said, and she gasped. “If I admit it in open court...”

“You'll probably lose the rest.” Narhilda said. “It's the chance you'll have to take.”

Ren sighed, and nodded slightly. “You're right. I... I'll do it at the start of the trial in the morning.”

Narhilda took his hand again and held it tightly. “Ren.” She took a breath. “Ren, I... I have something... something you need to know about.”

“Is it about you not being Nathalia's real mother?” Ren asked, and Narhilda froze in shock.

“How... how did you...”

“Teepo told me the morning after he overheard you and Nathalia talking in the kitchen.” Ren said. “It was a bit of a surprise, but... think back.” He looked at her. “I've always treated you like a woman, and you've always treated me like the man of the house.”

Narhilda opened her mouth in surprise, and then she smiled.

“After I admitted to myself, and to you, that I loved you... I... I realized that it felt like I've been living with 2 wives this whole time.” He shook his head. “I thought it was weird having those kinds of feelings for you, but...”

She took him into a hug and kissed him. He didn't fight the feeling this time, and kissed her back just as passionately as she was kissing him. Ren caressed her breast and she moaned in appreciation, then laid back on the couch. He kept making out with her, and things started to get hot and heavy; then a knock on the door shattered their moment, and they froze.

“Oh... oh my...” Narhilda said, as Ren sat up. “I... I almost lost myself there.”

“Me, too.” Ren said.

Narhilda sat up as the door to the apartment burst open, and a bald red-bearded dwarf stalked into the room.

“FRITZ!” Ren yelled, and stood up to greet the dwarf who had sent him to the Dwarven Kingdom. Ren hadn't seen him in several months; not since the last time he was at the mines back in Aurora. “What are you doing her-ghwah!”

A fist connected with Ren's face and cut off his words.

“What are you doing to my mother?!?” Fritz asked, fists at the ready.

“WHHHHAAAAATTTT???!!!???”
