In terms of her soul defenses, those were coming along much more slowly. She didn’t really know what she was doing, and she only really got a good chance to practice when Erin was at Aetheric Illusions. She was making progress, though. She now had a layer of denser soul matter—that’s what Elise had begun calling it—forming a soft shell around her soul. It was still permeable, and it did not block everything, but as she strengthened it, she noticed that the effects of Erin’s illusions become much less pronounced. At least until Erin realized what was happening and started putting extra aether into Elise’s illusions, at which point the shell was breached and became useless. Still, it was a start, and Elise was proud of how far she had come.

Her efforts in mastering mana were going decently well, but without extracurricular time to devote to it, they were bearing much less fruit. She was steadily improving in both Practical Combat and Defensive Gardening, but had not made any breakthroughs. She did have a breakthrough in Intermediate Unattributed Spells, where she learned the trick behind making self-levitation efficient, but she hadn’t quite mastered it, and had yet to unlock the Skill. It was unfortunately not something she could really put into words for her deskmate Cassie, who needed the trick a lot more than Elise did, but Cassie managed to figure it out on her own just a couple days after Elise did. Despite their relatively smaller mana pools, both girls were now properly on track to unlock the Skill before the semester’s end.

She befriended a few more people in each of her classes, mostly after they approached her, but her social life was also on a slight upswing. With her evenings so busy, she didn’t have much time to deepen those relationships outside of class, but it was good to have people she was friendly with.

Elise and Jessie were quickly becoming close friends. They shared a deep secret, they were from the same home world, and they both had generally agreeable personalities, so it would have been strange if they didn’t. Elise was very happy to finally have a friend her age that she could share things with, though. The two shared whatever tidbits they managed to gather about both themselves, and any potential other aetherborn.

Both agreed that Samantha was suspect, but given that Maggie’s prophecy only spoke of two on the continent, they couldn’t be sure. They did at least manage to pin down who they thought might have been the one that was “no more.” Three years before Jessie arrived in the world, the youngest princess had started acting strangely. She was only seven, and was previously unremarkable, but became precocious overnight. There were rumors that she had been replaced by a changeling, or possessed by a specter, and the king himself had her tested, but nothing turned up. About six months after she changed, however, she vanished, and had not been seen since.

And as for Samantha, despite previously seeming to want to go into the Dungeon with Elise, just the two of them, that desire had vanished. Elise had poked her about it, but Samantha claimed that she was going to have a very busy few weeks, and unfortunately wouldn’t have time for another friendly Dungeon trip. She refused to say what she was busy with, of course, but it struck Elise as odd. No more odd than anything else Samantha did, but still odd.

The biggest change during this time had actually been Sophie. She must have told Irylax about her experience in the Dungeon with Elise, because ever since then, Irylax had been working her to the bone to improve her combat ability. Elise was worried Sophie was being overworked, but she never once complained, and in fact seemed eager to repeatedly throw herself into danger, so Elise didn’t say anything. And under Irylax’s guidance, Sophie had turned from a timid teenager with no combat experience to about half of a fighting machine. She still had moments where her inexperience showed, but her mana efficiency and combat decision-making had improved drastically to the point where she was confident enough to challenge for a position on the Dungeon Competition team.

So, the weekend three weeks after the Aetheric Illusions Dungeon Trip, Elise found herself back in the Dungeon with Sophie. However, this time, rather than it being just the two of them, or the Aetheric Illusions Class, it was the rest of the rookie Dungeon Competition team, with Professor Sucri following close behind. Sophie had managed to prove her individual abilities to Professor Sucri, but she had not yet proven that she would be better for the team than Frank was. And unfortunately for her, Frank managed to hear about what she was aiming for, and found a sudden surge of motivation.

As much as Elise wanted her to, Professor Sucri could not just replace Frank with Sophie, especially when he had suddenly become motivated and was performing better than anyone on the team except Telvir. In fact, he was doing so well that Elise thought that he may have cemented his spot on the team permanently, and it was instead Lauri the Ainar who was on the chopping block.

Regardless, while Sophie had improved, she still needed to prove her ability to work in a team, and more specifically, her ability to perform better with the team than someone who had the chemistry of four weeks of cooperation, and as many advantages as she had, that would still not be an easy task.
