Ren and Artemis stayed in bed for several hours. They played and cuddled and enjoyed each other like old lovers do. Sex was involved occasionally; but, it wasn't the focus of their time. Just being there with each other was what mattered. When Ren felt Yuwen's resolve to make lunch, he called an end to his antics with Artemis and they left the bed and went to the table to see that the books were gone.

“You finished.” Ren said and felt the three women's happiness at completing the task. He went to Yuwen and licked her cheek. “Good job.” He said and went to Dilseffa and licked her cheek. “You did well.” He said and went to Tiyaphi and licked her cheek. “Great work.”

“Are you going to do that every time?” Tiyaphi asked, jokingly.

“If I'm here, yes.” Ren said. “Yuwen, can I help in the kitchen?”

“If you want to.” Yuwen said.

“I can show you some tricks and...”

“We can all help!” Dilseffa exclaimed, and everyone looked at her. “Ren, can we have aprons?”

“Sure.” Ren said and gave them aprons, and they all went to the kitchen and prepared lunch for themselves.

“Throw it, Ren.” Teepo whispered as Ren picked up a thin slice of meat to add to the sandwich he was making.

What? Ren thought to his friend.

“Yuwen's concentrating too hard on making something in front of you.” Teepo said. “Throw it.”

Ren smiled and pulled his hand back and flung the piece of meat across the counter and it made a slapping sound as it splatted onto Yuwen's face and stayed there.

“FOOD FIGHT!” Teepo yelled and flew down to grab a thin piece of meat and flung it at Artemis. It hit her arm and made the same slapping sound as it splatted and fell off.

“Oh, it's on!” Artemis exclaimed and grabbed a handful of lettuce and threw it at Teepo. He flew out of the way and the lettuce hit Ren in the face. “Oops!”

Ren grinned evilly as he picked up his half-made sandwich and threw it at her. She batted it away and its contents sprayed out and hit Tiyaphi on the chest and Dilseffa on the arm. Yuwen peeled the meat off of her face and looked at what was happening, and saw Artemis grab several slices of bread and start to throw them like they were bombs. Ren, Teepo and Artemis laughed as they dodged and grabbed ammunition from the counter, and Yuwen, Dilseffa and Tiyaphi exchanged glances.

“What are you...” Yuwen stopped talking as a piece of bread bounced off her forehead. “Hey!”

“No bystanders in a food fight!” Teepo chittered in laughter and picked up another piece of meat. “Tiyaphi! Catch!”

Tiyaphi turned her head just in time to let the thin slice of meat hit her chin, and it flipped over and landed on Dilseffa's chest.

“Ooo, you little...” Dilseffa grabbed that slice of meat and flung it back at him. Unfortunately, she wasn't great at throwing odd-shaped things accurately, and it went off to the side and slapped the back of Artemis' neck.

“Target acquired!” Artemis chuckled and diverted her next attack to Dilseffa, whose eyes widened as a deluge of salad ingredients flew towards her. Suddenly, Ren was there and jumped up, and all the things hit him in the chest and the salad dressing splattered and made them stick.

“OH, NO!” Ren yelled and put a hand on his chest and fell backwards. “I'm hit!”

Dilseffa caught him and eased him down to the floor.

Ren reached up and touched her cheek with his wet hand. “A-avenge me.”

Dilseffa nodded slightly and put a hand over his eyes to close them, then stood up and grabbed several carrot sticks. “RAWR!” She yelled and jumped into the food fight. Tiyaphi and Yuwen saw her going at it and exchanging blows with Artemis and Teepo. The two women looked at each other, smiled and grabbed some ammunition, then joined in on the fight, too.
