Even if he could, he would have never made that man an artifact that could boost his Domain. But now hearing he had already created an Authority, something only rumored from ages long past or from descenders, Jiang was doubly glad he couldn’t, for allowing someone like that to gain even more power would be a mistake.

Items that interacted with Domains were almost unheard of on their own, but his were quite literally the best in the Realm.

He shuddered at the very thought.

He wasn’t the only one, but it was mainly the oldest members.

The newest members looked all too enthused, no doubt not having learned of the cruel reality of those who truly stood above everyone else. Jiang wouldn’t disabuse them of that notion, but time and experience surely would.

Except the words out of Victoire’s mouth were not about Duke Waters. “Hero Shadow is a menace. You should have seen it. The reports came in like a breaking dam. The war was slowly grinding in the Sects, Federation, and Republic’s favor but then bam! Out of nowhere, three dozen pinnacle and peak elites, dead or captured. Just like that, the war ground to a halt as the fuckers tucked in their greedy little fingers, not wanting them to get chopped off. I really want to have a chat with her about her usage of shadow magic to assist in her teleports. She’s said that the Shadow facade wasn’t entirely a facade, so I’m sure there is a ton I can learn from her.”

Even Mathias nodded as he gushed with the exuberance of youth. “And Hero Legion. Forging her new mana type in the middle of a fight. Blood, Fire, and Lightning all harnessed. I’ve seen a sample of it, and it crackles with power. If I could find a way to harness even a fraction of that kind of oomph, I could burn down anyone.”

Victorie said something Jiang didn’t catch, his mind going over the monsters that Heroes often were but brought his attention back as Mathias disagreed with a shake of his head. “If I could meet only one of them, it would probably have to be Titan. The aura potions, let alone the skills. I respect someone like that.”

Jiang thought the youngest Siblings were just caught up in the propaganda but seeing the reactions of the other Siblings, he decided to check. Even in his brief perusal, he was taken aback by the reports he saw of the Empire's newest Heroes.

Hero Shadow had been bought out of the war but he still saw the horror she represented. Realm-wide teleports with her seemingly only limitation being Tier. That was horrifying and he would have bought her out as well. He was half surprised no one had made a move to kill her but the Ascendancy of the Sun had done that previously and been summarily destroyed for it. Not that it was any loss, even if what replaced it was scantily better.

Still, Jiang wouldn’t trade the Corporations for the Ascendency any day of the week.

Though if anyone would be killed for their Talent, he could see it being Hero Shadow. That was terrifying.

Hero Waters might be scarier as an individual but Shadow removed the main limitation of a Hero, in that they couldn’t be everywhere at once. If they went ‘right’ the opposition could pull back. But with her, she could be —and bring dozens of similarly strong people with her— left, right, center, back, and front in seconds of each other.

A quick check showed the Guilds were still officially allied with the Sophron Empire and for once, Jiang was glad for it.

He had pushed against that move when it was proposed a few years back but he had been one voice drowned out by the many who believed that this new dynasty would truly be different from the ones that came before. He didn’t believe so but history seemed to prove him wrong.

Even his level of access, second only to the Tier 47s, showed the Empire had been an erstwhile ally, which surprised him. The Empire he knew was never a good place to live and the Sophron reforms seemed so extensive he assumed they were performative, but he also hadn’t paid that much attention.

Looking deeper, the other Heroes were similarly impressive.

Hero Light, Shadow’s partner, might not be as splashy but Jiang suspected he was the true powerhouse on the team in actual combat. That level of manipulation was impressive but in a quieter way, which was weird to say for a mage.

The second and newest team was interesting.

Just as he was looking into them, Luis sent him a message containing a recording.

Hero Titan, a large man in armor similar to a Paladin’s, killing a Sect Dao Child. Jiang had no love lost for his former home, having been one of the high-Tier figures who pushed for the separation as the cultures diverged in the early days of the reconsolidation wars, but that was how he knew how strong they were. He almost wasn’t surprised to watch a Hero monologue to a corpse but it was the subject of the monologue that caught his eye and Luis had provided a second cut together clip that explained how Dao Child Maven had assisted in a series of coordinated rift breaks on a civilian planet.

Her end couldn’t be more fitting.

What was most interesting of all was this Ascender Titan.

Unlimited Aura potions. Even from just the headlines he skimmed, it seemed… too good to be true.

“Are these artificial Aura rifts and their potions better suited then the natural ones we’ve tried in the past?”

Jiang was hoping to see nods, but all of the oldest members shook their heads.

Mathias was the one to speak, however. “The potions are useful. I used one myself but they aren’t a guarantee. I already resonated with a fire Concept similar to what I ended up with, having been trained by the outer guild, but I still needed to work while forming the Concept to get it to land on the Justice that the circlet demands.”

Jiang sighed. “Pity that.”

Therese, a Tier 28 he knew fairly well, raised finger. “I still think it's an opportunity. His guild already released several new variants of Aura, if they could create one suited for our understanding of Justice…”

Cedric, a Tier 34, shook his head. “It's not worth the effort or expenses when the odds are so small. The circlets require a very specific understanding of Justice, far more specialised than any of the Aura variants released so far. It's not a matter of sharpness or hammer or some other weapon variant. It’s deeper than that. I don’t think it's possible to replicate it. Trillions of people in our outer guild have spent centuries trying and failing over the years. How many of them created versions of Justice, Assistance, Good, Decency, or other positive helpful Domains but couldn’t bind to a circlet? I can’t see a rift managing the specific aura we would need. I’m sorry, it just seems like another pipe dream where we end up with nothing but ash.”

Jiang didn’t interrupt and listened to the seemingly familiar arguments until people started making the same points for a second or third time. It was only then that he asked, “Walk me through these new potions. Your experiences with them. How they are made. The like.”

He could just as easily look it up, but he wanted to hear his Siblings’ takes on them rather than dry reports.

Luis started. “We’ve always known of aura and aura potions but they have always been small-scale.” Jiang nodded, being even older than Luis, but he was correct in that they were rare and niche products. One in five hundred thousand planets might have a single aura rift. “Hero Titan, after the war, opened his guild and then released the method to create rifts that reliably produce aura potions. For free, mind you. He even did so in unregulated mana stones for ease of distribution. Together, they allow for aura rifts to be made reliably. They have exploded in popularity and are quickly going to replace Bottled Concepts. They already have, for a lot of low-Tier cultivators, as they are cheaper and you get an actual Concept out of it, even if it’s a tad generic as a baseline. But in another few thousand years? I doubt there will be even a single Bottled Concept left.”

Gesturing to Mathias, Gram, the only other person over Tier 40, added, “Mathias here is the exception to the rule. Instead of just getting a fire Concept, he got a fire Concept related to his perception to Justice but he didn’t do anything unique or at least identifiable that is replicable. If we could have identified something that useful, we would have ten thousand Crowned, not ten.”

They were technically closer to a hundred than ten but it was a near thing and Jiang took the point as it was meant.

Victoire rolled her eyes. “And I’m saying if we just ask, Hero Titan might be not only willing but able to help us. It doesn’t hurt to ask even if we are rejected.”

Several of the older members moved to speak but Luis beat them to it. “Heroes are fickle beasts. They are often against our own virtues more than with and if we could slay them, we would. Hero Titan may indeed be a good person but he is young and we have seen little of him.” Holding up a hand he placated the younger members who both looked like they wanted to comment. “I do concede that what we have seen is a good start. But I’m wary as is everyone else. We have trusted and been proved wrong before.”

This time it was Mathias that spoke with a hard look in his eye. “And Hero Titan is different. How many others, let alone Heroes, would have shared the aura potions rift design. How many more would have done so while ensuring anyone could get the single required ingredient for free? How many others would then go on to revolutionize low-Tier delving.”

A small ember of flame appeared in his hand, causing Jiang’s eyes to go wide.

That was not a [Fireball].

“What is that, Brother?”

Seeing his surprise, Mathias beamed. “[Solar Flare]. Hero Titan’s latest product. Skills simple enough that even a Tier 1 can create them given a little time and a lot of effort. All shared for free across the entire Realm. It's this, this is why I agree we should ask. If he can’t help us it's no loss but if he can make a rift that better corresponds to our needs. Can we afford not to?”

Jiang nodded slowly as he thought it over. Young Mathias was wrong in his assertion that asking and failing would cost nothing, as the highest Tiers the political favors he would need to call in to get a meeting with a Hero weren’t small, but the boy had the right idea of it.

“Is there any indication that they can do that? All the aura rifts I’ve heard of were elemental or related to vagaries like sharpness or the like.”

At that, even the older members nodded and sent him various reports, smaller in scope but larger in implication, about follow-up rift creation methods for all types of aura. Numerous aura’s were there, which was damn impressive, including auras he had never considered possible, like movement or precision. Most importantly, the latest reports even spoke of multiple Level 2 mana types being created, allowing for more complex auras and in turn Concept potions.

Jiang was always hesitant to call any Hero good, even if occasionally he had been convinced, but this one had at least veered away from the typical with his generosity.

No, philanthropy might be a better word.

In his millions of years, he had seen few who were so willing to give away what could have made them wealthy but more importantly, powerful. Anyone who controlled either method could have made themselves a powerhouse in their Great Power, a cornerstone that would last long after they Ascended.

This Hero Titan might have alternative motives but the facts spoke for themselves. People were helped and while that wasn’t exactly the driving motive behind Those Crowned in Glory, they were more there to ensure evil was rooted out, it was a good preventative measure to ensure people didn’t turn to lesser evils that grew into larger ones.

“I am willing to entertain the idea but it will take time to get the agreements needed to enter the Empire. Interacting with one of their Heroes will undoubtedly make that even harder.”

To his surprise, Luis shook his head. “Entering the Empire has never been easier. Helen has completed her restoration of her Concept, and since she is willing to vouch for us, we old fogies have been given carte blanche to travel to and from the Capital so long as we don’t do anything untoward. We leave in three weeks.”

Qin Jiang stood before he realized he had moved at Tier 46 speeds.

Coughing slightly, he said, “Then gather up everyone who can make it back in the next two weeks. It's time to congratulate an old friend on an achievement long overdue.”
