“You didn't even have to guess that, did you?” The dwarf laughed. “I doubt any of them could perform maintenance.” Then he thought about it. “Except for those elites. They really know their stuff.”

Ren smiled. “I gave them a crash course with it before the battle with the giants.”

“Everyone in the crafting section appreciates that.” The dwarf said. “Their knowledge was invaluable when we took one of the things apart.”

“I'm glad you guys got them up and running so fast.” Ren said. “How long do you think it'll take to replace all of the old catapults?”

“Replace them?” The dwarf shook his head. “We're adapting them to the Ballista design.”

“Automatic Catapults?” Ren asked, a little surprised. “How does that work?”

“We're still working on it.” The dwarf said and started gathering supplies. “Let's get going. The shift change for the place she's being held happens in an hour.”

Ren helped him gather the things he'd need, along with medical packs and food; then they left the crafting section to meet Princess, who was waiting patiently.

“I'll be right back.” Ren said, and ran back into the crafting section. He gathered the resources to build a small cart, added a ton of extra padding and handholds, and stored it. He went back out to Princess and the dwarf, then took out the small cart. He attached it to Princess' saddle, and told the dwarf to get in and hold on. Ren borrowed the mirror and looked at the map to get to the place the girl was being held, then showed it to Princess.

“We are here.” Ren said and pointed to the map. “We need to get here.” He said and pointed to a spot about half a mile from where the girl was being held. “It has to be swift and quiet. It would be best if we weren't seen.”

Understood. Princess thought to him. Cast your spell for that when the time comes.

“Cast the spell...” Ren said, then remembered he had a wand with Obscuring Mist in it. He smiled, pat her neck, and climbed up into the saddle after he gave the mirror back to the dwarf. “Let's go.” He said, and Princess took off as if she wasn't pulling the cart at all.

*

The dwarf held in his urge to yell at Ren to slow down, because he knew that their time to rescue his daughter was soon coming to an end. He'd paid the last ransom amount, and they'd increased it again. There was no way he could get 8 platinum by next week. Even if the budget was approved and he received his full share, he could never hide such a large amount from the other workers. The kidnapper's demands were just too outrageous to handle anymore.

*

They made good time to the spot that was half a mile away from the kidnapper's hideout. They dismounted and Ren saw through the trees that it was a large castle. Even knowing what was ahead and seeing the plans of how to get around everything, it was still a massive structure to get through. Then he thought about his new staff.

It's not so massive with that thing in my hands. Ren thought happily.

“I don't see where we can set up a Ballista.” The dwarf said. “Everything here is covered in trees and pretty much even ground.”

“Let me worry about that.” Ren said and equipped the Staff of Earth Moving. It required two hands to use the Move Earth spell, so he concentrated on what he wanted and aimed the head of the staff. The earth twitched and moved; and just like the description said, it moved like waves of water. It was weird to see the ground shift and move like that, but it only took a minute for a small 20 foot square and level hill to appear, and for the trees to move over just a bit to clear out of the line of fire.

“By the gods!” The dwarf said. “Can you make me one of those?”

“It says it's unique.” Ren said, and the dwarf nodded.

“That makes sense.” The dwarf said. “Can you imagine if everyone had one of those?” He laughed. “There wouldn't be a spot that was left untouched!”

Ren nodded slightly. He'd thought of that, too. It's why he avoided the dwarf's question rather than answer it. He was pretty sure that he could make more of them, because it binds on equip. Being unique meant that Ren could only own one of them, not that there can't be more than one. He took out the Automatic Ballista and set it up in the best spot.

“You can see the entire castle from this vantage point.” Ren said. “Give me a couple of minutes, and I'll send a signal, like this.” He said, and used the Obscuring Mist wand to cast the spell off to the right. A 20 foot wide circle of mist, 20 feet high, appeared. “You'll see that appear at the top of the tower on the far right side.”

The dwarf looked to where Ren pointed, and nodded slightly.

“Once it does...” Ren took out the cartridge of bolts, and enchanted the first 5 bolts with glyphs of Fire and Wind Runes. “...shoot the towers on the other side of the castle, through the windows if you can manage it.”

The dwarf grinned. “It will gather the bastards together.”

“Right.” Ren said. “Far away from me and where I need to go.”

“I'll try and choose my shots carefully after that, to take as many of the kidnappers out as I can.” The dwarf said.

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said. “You've got a hundred shots in this thing. After the first dozen bolts or so, they are going to know the direction it's coming from.”

“They won't guess how far, though.” The dwarf said.

“I wouldn't count on that, so just in case, I picked this spot because you can see a lot of the road coming out to here.” Ren explained and pointed. “It'll be like shooting fish in a barrel.”

The dwarf laughed. “I'm so glad I tried to swindle you.” He said. “None of this would have been possible otherwise.”

Ren chuckled and put a hand on the dwarf's shoulder. “If they start to get too close, don't stay and fight.” He said and handed the dwarf one of the Level 1 Fireball wands. “Pop the Ballista apart, shoot it with fireball spells, and run as fast as you can through the woods. I'll meet up with you on the road back that way a few miles.”

The dwarf nodded slightly, and took out the All-Seeing Mirror. “You should take this with you.”

Ren shook his head. “You need that to protect yourself.”

“They might move her when this all starts.”

Ren took out two steel squares and enchanted them with the Sending glyphs. “Keep an eye on her, and if they do move her, think of me and whisper the details.” He said and gave the dwarf one of the squares, and put the other in a pocket. “I'll hear you.”

The dwarf took the steel square and laid it on the Ballista. “Good luck.”

“You, too.” Ren said, went over to Princess, and unhooked the cart to store it. He climbed up onto her back, and she took off through the woods at a sedate pace. Time was of the essence; but stealth was going to be a much needed friend soon.
