As the runes over an arm glowed green, he moved it from his fetal position. Another arm cracked off, then a leg, then his other leg. Yawm struggled against some unseen force before stretching out his arms.

The unseen shackles around him snapped. A hellish shockwave rippled through the city, radiating from him. The wave was vast and powerful. Trees uprooted. Windows shattered. Buildings collapsed. All of the floating islands within the rift crashed down onto the ground as the wave passed them.

The wave of force shot through the rest of the city after. A gust of wind followed in its wake. This gust collapsed buildings and flipped cars. Miles above yawm, clouds were sent outward. A circular opening appeared in the gray, cloudy sky, letting light beam down onto where Yawm stood.

It was like watching a nuclear bomb drop onto a city. The shockwave reached us. In mid flight, even I was sent tumbling by the unbelievable energy.

I rolled through the air before crashing into the ground. Pavement rushed past my face, wind howling in my ears. Dirt, dust, and rocks were sent past me in the shockwave. Boulders rolled by me. Every piece of untempered glass was broken apart. By the time I oriented myself once more, I found myself on the top of a hill.

I jumped onto the top of a building, getting a better view of Yawm. He had raised his hand towards the legion’s battle. Facing the black plumes of smoke, Yawm coalesced a blue light into his palm. He launched it towards the legion. As it passed over the city, grass and trees burst into flames. The world burned as the ball of light passed over it.

Before the light collided with the steel legion, I looked above Yawm to check his status. When I saw it, I fell to my knees, the concrete beneath me cracking. I grabbed the sides of my face, my stomach sinking.

A hollow, sickening sensation crept through my body, leaving me numb. There was a reason Schema hadn’t sent Overseer’s to fight him. There was a reason that Schema hadn’t sent a some higher level person either.

He was simply too strong.

Yawm of Flesh(lvl 14,337)
