When she returned home from the expedition, Sophie excitedly told her that Sucri was getting her Bronze Dungeon Pass ready, and that she would be able to go into the Dungeon on her own now. Elise congratulated her, and gave her some encouragement, telling her about the unpleasant experience with Frank in the Dungeon. That got Sophie even more fired up than before, and she excitedly ran out into the backyard to practice her nature magic.

“I’m gonna get strong enough to kick his lazy bum!” she shouted as she left.

Elise giggled, then decided to join her, as she needed to work on her own nature magic, since she would be dependent on it during club activities. Elise drained her mana pool three times before Sophie drained hers once, and by then, more than an hour had passed, so the two went back inside for the night.

The next day, classes went roughly the same. It was another lecture day in Aetheric Illusions, unfortunately, but Emmett let them out early again, and the six who sat at the front excitedly talked about going into the Dungeon on Thursday. Samantha joined them in their enthusiasm, showing no hint of disappointment, and it wasn’t until Elise was already in Defensive Gardening that she remembered she had meant to ask Samantha about that.

Guess I’ll have to ask tomorrow.

In Defensive Gardening, they wrapped up their unit on the hallucinogenic moss, and this time, they didn’t get to take it home. It was a controlled substance, and they needed a special license to be allowed to own it. Plus, in terms of defense, it was not like the tanglethorn where they could train it not to harm them. If the spores went off, they would affect everyone in the area who didn’t take any countermeasures.

Intermediate Unattributed Spells and Basic Magical Combat were the same as the day before. Elise and Liam continued their silent feud, and she and Attalya continued their silent friendship. Elise briefly considered testing her theory about {Suggest} mimicking cosmetic illusions on Liam, inspired in no small part by Oberon’s plan to seduce Franz Luger, aka Robert Robertson, but she soon scolded herself. As much as she felt he deserved it, she wouldn’t allow herself to play with anyone’s emotions like that just to get some petty revenge. Probably. The memory of him ordering his guards to knock Sophie’s teeth out made her resolve waver, and she felt that he still needed to be taught a lesson after that.

After her last class got out, she and Sophie met with Jessie by the fountain again. As usual, she had gathered a small crowd of secret admirers due to her aether, but it seemed that the perception that Jessie’s male form was together with Elise was enough to keep them all at a distance. Elise was fairly certain that if not for her, Jessie would have been asked out by a few girls already.

At the Grays’ house, Jessie changed into her base form and a new set of clothes and completely let loose, as she had gotten used to doing. She and Nick had formed a bond as well, and he had gotten into the habit of pouring her a glass of whiskey and ranting together with her about their higher-ups. Bianca didn’t seem all that comfortable with this, and always made sure to cling to Nick’s arm as they talked. Elise knew that neither Nick nor Jessie saw each other in that way at all, but she could completely understand Bianca’s feelings, given how Jessie looked.

After dinner, the five of them—Irylax remained upstairs in her room—spent some time in the sitting room, reading and chatting until Elise got too impatient to wait any longer, and she and Jessie went upstairs to her room.

“So, your friend,” prompted Jessie. “You want me to try and heal him now, right?”

“Please?” asked Elise.

“Of course!” said Jessie. “Though I don’t know how far we’ll get. My Skill is strong, but I can’t use it for very long. It converts my regular aether into divine aether, which is super costly.”

“That’s fine,” said Elise. “As long as we make some progress.”

“Sure. You said you had him in stasis, right?”

“Yes, but before I bring him out, I should warn you that he’s not human.”

“Oh,” said Jessie. “Well, what is he?”

“He’s… a Jagaur.”

“A jaguar?”

“No, a Jagaur. It’s kinda like a centaur, except he has the lower body of a jaguar and the upper body of another jaguar.”

“...Doesn’t that just make him a jaguar?”

“No. He has six legs. And he’s shaped like a centaur. Like imagine a centaur, but replace the horse body with a jaguar body. Then replace the human upper body with a second jaguar body. So he’s got six legs, but the top ones don’t usually touch the ground, so he uses the top ones as arms. Except they’re still just regular jaguar legs, so they don’t work as arms.”

“That sounds… really adorable actually.”

“...It is,” Elise admitted. “But he’s pretty big, and his teeth are very sharp, so I figured I’d warn you. He’s a really nice guy though, so you don’t have to worry about him attacking you.”

“Works for me,” said Jessie with a shrug.

“Alright, I’m going to take him out then,” said Elise. “I need to channel divine aether from my goddess first though, just in case your Skill doesn’t work quite right. I can at least keep him alive if I do that.”

“Sounds good.”

As Elise sent her silent prayer to Titania, she briefly worried that there would be no answer, because Titania might have already died. That thought died quickly as she felt her body flooded with divine aether, proving that at least Titania was still alive, since her automated prayer response was working.

Immediately, Elise summoned her wings and started using {Fairy Dust}, then summoned Jag from Astrid’s Star. As soon as he hit the ground, Jessie’s eyes widened in shock, and Elise felt a strong wave of horror and worry from her as she fell to her knees and placed her hand on Jag’s body.

That can’t be good, thought Elise.
