Goldie looked to them, and said, “You two need to take this more seriously.”

Farix said, “I preferred you when you were bubbly and drunk at the party.”

“And I preferred being that person.” Goldie said, “But needs must, and all that shit.”

“When this is over, I’m turning hermit.” Lapis said, “Far away from everyone. Catch me teaching a few good students every year like Quilatalap, or something.”

Farix said, “That won’t be enough to satisfy that Quest we saw.”

“I’ll figure it out.” Lapis said, “I’m sure this is just another trial of Our Dark God. We can survive this and come out stronger on the other side.”

Goldie said, “I’m going to end the wars in Nelboor. That should be acceptable for a few thousand good deeds.”

Farix asked, “How are you going to do that without killing?”

“That’s easy.” Goldie said.

Erick waited.

Goldie didn’t elaborate. Farix didn’t pursue the rest of her answer. Lapis had her eyes fixed to the north, where crashing wind sliced the sky with shockwaves, and lines of darkness carved through kendrithyst towers, lopping off tops to then crash down into the darkness below.

Goldie said, “I’m heading further up, and then I’m vanishing for the fight. I’ll help from the shadows.” She stepped upward, flashing darkness, her voice trailing away as she vanished from sight.

Lapis nervously chuckled, again, and said, “I’m… I’m going to…” Her voice trailed off. She stepped up, into the sky, past the illusions of false planets hanging up there, going further and further until she was barely visible.

Erick realized, with a start, that the illusion had changed. The sky used to be a mess of worlds, surrounded by a thick Mana Ocean, but almost all of those myriad worlds were gone, now. Belatedly, Erick realized that when the Red Smash had happened, three seconds later, an illusionary world of buildings and architecture vanished, like it had never been. The deaths of the Shades killed their illusions.

With a bit of dark humor, Erick realized that he might actually get to see which illusion was Fallopolis’s, if only after the fact. But that was for later. For now...

Erick looked to Farix, and at the black band on his wrist. “What’s your plan?”

Farix took a moment. He breathed, as though going through scenarios in his head. He said, “I will summon some helpers.” Farix cast a bloody dot into the air that became like a gravity well, sucking up ambient mana. The bloody spell drifted away, then hovered at a far distance, while a faint tendril of intent connected it to Farix. The Shade summoned another, then said to Erick, “I look forward to working with you all if we survive this.”

“How is this supposed to work when none of us have worked together before?”

“Just don’t worry about hitting teammates.” Farix said, “Try not to take any direct hits, either. I imagine that Tania will stop using area spells once she comes this way, just so she doesn't risk hurting you and causing a deviation in her core.”

For a brief moment, Erick wondered if he could solve all the world’s problems by making himself vulnerable. And then his brain started working again, [Hunter’s Instincts] seeming to poke his thoughts back on track.

Farix summoned another three bloody orbs while Erick had his moment of thought. Those orbs now floated around him in perfect formation. Erick looked to the man, and wondered when, exactly, he would betray them.

Farix noticed Erick’s glance, and said, “Thanks for agreeing to this. I know we sort of shoved this at you without much notice, but I’m glad you decided to trust us, at least a little.”

Erick was still running [Hunter’s Instincts], and had been running it this whole time. With his Regeneration, and with the Health Cost reductions of his boosted Dexterity, [Hunter’s Instincts] cost almost nothing to maintain. Almost nothing.

But the Skill had a habit of warping his perceptions of reality, of seeing danger everywhere.

It had served him well when Hollowsaur was trapped inside glass, and then later, when he had freed the orcol. Erick got no perceptions of danger from him. But here, alone with Farix, there was a danger.

So Erick decided to test the waters, exposing a fact he had kept to himself until now, as he said, “I know you orchestrated some of that hit upon me; that shit with Poriti. I don’t need Lapis to point that out. Not that she’s any better, with her human experimentation to make those new Stat trees.” As Farix flinched, Erick continued, “You couldn’t get the Stat fruits you wanted, or something? Perhaps it was the rings themselves on my fingers, that were the big prize. They unlocked every Stat, and they’re artifacts. That makes them at least as good as those elemental dice that Toymaker showed off. I could see some sort of many-pronged scheme to take them from me, though threatening my family was in poor form.”

Farix casually summoned another blood orb, and said, “Do you really want to do this right now?”

As if to punctuate his statement, a part of the world 35 kilometers away was swallowed by a black orb. When the orb vanished, the tops of the towers that had been there were now gone, as though they had been scooped away.

“No.” Erick said, “I would like to not do this at all. But then you all invited me into here for this Feast, and started this chain of events yourselves. I am only thankful that whatever schemes everyone else had planned on days four through ten are likely as dead as their planners.”

After a long moment, Farix lied, “Tania forced me to participate in that shit with Poriti.”

Erick would have liked to have been surprised at the attempt to lie, but he was not. His voice stung with sarcasm, “What a convenient set of circumstances for you.”

“Fine.” Farix said, “You want me to come clean?”

“Yes. I would.”

“I never wanted to be a Shade. I wanted to be a damned researcher. But the only way anyone survives this place is to get on top and stay on top. So I did what had to be done.”

“What does that have to do with threatening my family, and setting bombs in kids?”

“That wasn’t me. Not directly.” Farix scowled. He breathed deep. He said, “I gave my son, Poriti, to the Rollini Family thirty years ago. He found out I was his father when he was 16.” Farix said, “He sought me out, and won my respect. I told him I would help as much as I could, but I would not shield him from his consequences. He was a good kid, but I was not a good father, for I couldn’t be. The rest of the Clergy would have killed him just to see what I would do. So he laid low. For a long time, he was a part of the White Market of Truedark, and he would tell me what was happening in the criminal world of my Arcanaeum.” He sighed. “And then… Either Lapis gave him the Charisma Fruit, or he got involved with her some other way. Things went downhill from there. I always told him I would never protect him if his schemes caught too big of a fish, and he never tested me against the Clergy, but I ended up helping him out of way too many problems. In the end, I couldn’t help him survive his encounter with you.”

Erick nodded, as several wriggling thoughts slipped into place. “You didn’t care about the bombs in the kids at all, did you?”

“Of course I cared about that.” Farix declared, “I won’t kill kids. How the fuck do you think that Poriti knew of that fucking fact? I told him one day! Stupidly told him. Fuck.”

“Well…” Erick decided, “With any luck, you’ll be able to make up for all the shit you’ve done.”

“… yeah, yeah.”

“It’s too bad that power is so necessary to this life.” Erick asked, “Have you ever considered that all your problems stem from a need for power?”

Farix snorted a laugh. “Yeah. And all of the solutions come from the same place.” He added, “This is a world of monsters, Erick. If I wasn’t in the Clergy, I would have died to the stragglers that make it past the walls and down into Truedark, or to those who kill more than I killed.”

“Then maybe there shouldn’t be any monsters.”

“There are always monsters.” Farix said, “Behind every corner. Under every bed. In the forests and in the deserts.”

“You misunderstand. Maybe Melemizargo shouldn’t have made the monsters in the first place. That’s what this whole Shadow’s Feast is about, isn’t it? The First Triumph of Melemizargo against the Script. The creation of the monsters.”

Farix scrunched his eyes at Erick. “Melemizargo didn’t make them. Rads have always formed inside all living creatures, even back in the Old Cosmology. Back then they were a lot more dangerous than these days, too. After the Sundering, Melemizargo’s First Feast was a result of asking the monsters to fight for him, to tear down the Script that had imprisoned him, and them. He barely had to ask. Every single creature with a rad in their heart knew, instinctively, what had been done to them. That’s why the monsters and the ancients still fight, to this day, against anyone who has Matriculated into the Script.”

Interesting way to view the facts, but Erick instantly latched onto a problem with his argument. “What about the slimes?”

Farix laughed. “Don’t fall asleep with a slime in the room. No matter how bouncy and cute they are, they’ll still try to suffocate you and eat you alive—” He looked across the Dead City, and muttered, “Shit.”

Erick gazed down at the bright crystal towers of Ar’Kendrithyst, and watched as three detonations of magical power rocked the land. With a glance down to the Ophiel near the map, he saw that two of those three detonations had happened on Fallopolis’s side. Only one of them happened on Tania’s side.

“Why isn’t Tania just Judging everyone?” Erick asked, feeling a rising panic. Fallopolis was alone, now, and she was coming this way.

“Limited use, I’d imagine, otherwise we wouldn’t have time to have this conversation. I’m not too sure how Tania’s Champion magic works.” Farix stepped up, higher into the sky, dragging his bloody orbs with him as he ascended, saying, “Try not to aim at us, Erick. We’ll do the same.”

As Farix went out of sight, into the sky, Erick considered the facts in front of him. Maybe Tania needed someone else to kill Fallopolis? That made more sense than a limit on her magic. Fallopolis had survived a Judgment already, after all.

Fallopolis stepped right in front of Erick. Her hair was wild, her kendrithyst staff was broken. Her flouncy black dress was scorched and burned, along with her flesh underneath. She smiled, wild and crazy as she spied Erick. “Oh! HELLO THERE! Fancy meeting you in this place.” She cackled, and said, “I hope you’re ready!”

Another Fallopolis stepped into the air, not too far away.

There was a surreal moment.

Fallopolis looked at Fallopolis, and then the second one’s eyes went wide, as she said, “It’s the Witch! Kill the bitch!”
