"It means someone other than the Overseer has the ability to trigger the reset."

Pressure in this mental chamber builds up so much that Lucian struggles to breathe and almost falls to his knees. Samir activates enough mental commands within his armor to alleviate the pressure but still does not dare to move a muscle or speak out of line again.

The Imperial Family Head raises a hand, and white wisps of energy follow like they're alive.

"No more games. Personally deal with the threats, or I will seal your zones out of the final paradise to mitigate risk. I'm activating the Imperial emergency systems in the Lower Realm and Green Zone to cleanse them of all remaining dangerous life."

Before either family head can respond, the mental link is severed, with only lingering disappointment ingrained in their psyches.

Samir Vanguard turns around and calmly walks out of a chamber deep below the sea.

He takes an enormous elevator up over a hundred billion kilometers to reach the top of the sea.

Here there are very few waves. The rise and fall of ripples in the sea barely rise more than a kilometer or two at most. It is basically calm and flat considering the size of the structure he now stands on.

There is an enormous base of operations made of black stone, with three enormous towers filled with troops, weapons, and facilities to make technology progress in testing ether commands and soul weapons.

Each one of the Towers is easily 10 billion kilometers wide, and over 200 tall. They are megastructures rooted to the bottom of the zone and scan trillions of kilometers of the sea for data collection all throughout the Dark Blue Zone.

The instant Samir leaves his chamber and reaches the surface, thousands of mental messages from lookouts, research centers, and data labs hit his consciousness, giving visuals of the threats and their approximate power levels and abilities.

He happily accepts this data, but as he looks out into the open sea, he feels the clash of celestial energy himself. The Royal Vibrations he's infused into his own soul weapons give him a perfect description matching all of the readings he's already being shown.

Samir sends a message back. "Very good. I will be taking care of this issue immediately. Tower one, I need your full attack squad to come with me. Tower two, bring an analysis team as well to surround the battlefield for close-range research. Tower three, release the amplifiers. I'm going to have to activate my True Royal Form to eliminate this threat."

All three towers start to ripple with dark blue divine threads, and complex ether commands begin activating all over them as teams of Demons begin following orders.

Tens of thousands of Armored Demons begin floating out from tower one in a battle formation. Many of them hold enormous soul weapons and give off an ancient aura of war as though they have been fighting since the day they were born. A much smaller team of Demons comes out of Tower two on flying artifacts that do not look battle-ready but are covered in glyphs and arrays that are taking in information about their environment.

The third tower releases two orbs of white light that burst out from its top and begin shooting off toward the battle in the sea.

–

Meanwhile, Maria and I both watch the devastating wounds of the Hydra and Tortoise we just landed heal before our eyes.

In fact, the eruption of anger and primal rage that fills them makes them feel even stronger.

When I stare at the heads of the hydra I destroyed, and truly look deep into its essence, an old memory pieces itself back together in my mind.

It's of a time long ago back on the human world... near the start of our journey when we were all first learning of Qi for the first time, better known now as unrefined ether.

I managed to find a set of strange red stones in an auction, and it gave me a temporary buff called the Red Hydra's Rage.

It acted similar to soul energy... tapping into the same kind of power but had very strange effects on the body and system itself. It only lasted a limited amount of time, but whenever Ember spoke of this Red Hydra, he spoke of it the same as he did other Divine Beasts... Or Overseer races of the past.

As I'm struck with the energy wave of this Hydra, I start to feel an extremely similar aura and wonder how exactly a beast like this has managed to get itself trapped in the Dark Blue Zone.

As far as I'm aware, the Wyverns were the last Overseers, and it was Elves before them.

If this is the last remnant of a Hydra Race showing itself in this sea, it raises far more questions than it answers. It also turns my head to the bronze Tortoise that is screeching and standing its ground just as easily, making me believe this must be an ancient extinct race as well...

All of these questions and realizations only take up a small portion of my brain. The more active parts are already charging up more attacks to finish the job we started.

Eight fireballs the same size as the one I threw before begin to summon into thin air around me.

The same happens with Maria; she summons three spears of ice but grows them over ten times as large as her last attack. This time she does not want to crack the shell; she wants to obliterate it.

The sentinels' open mouths are glowing rust and bronze-colored, as they're trying to counter, but our fire and ice fill the sky with light.

Another explosion indents the sea to create a deeper crater than before.

The shockwave is so enormous, we can even see down to the bottom of the zone.

All of the Sentinels' desperate counters as they send attacks back are suppressed and overshadowed by the raining balls of fire and ice spears.

Each one of the hydra's heads is hit by a separate fireball, and it incinerates each one down to its body in an instant. The buildup of its rust-colored essence only adds to the explosion as it destabilizes.

All three of Maria's spears hit dead on in a triangle pattern in the center of its massive spiked shell.

It's as though there is zero resistance at all. The arrows blast enormous holes through this giant beast, one of them even disintegrating the tortoise's head that's been tucked into its shell.

The shockwave after impact infests all of the remaining pieces of its shell and turns them to shattered ice.

Even the sea of pure Celestial Energy itself gets caught up in the wave, and large amounts of the raw energy are overpowered and integrated into Maria's aura.

The same goes for my flames.

The Hydra's body disappears in fire, and my aura soaks up its Celestial Energy. Even the sea turns crimson.

Both of our True Royal Vibrations increase in power with every passing second.

Not only does every shockwave and exposure to more Celestial Energy make our Soul Energy Cores stronger, but it widens our depth of perception. Seeing more of reality and conquering large areas of space builds our willpower exponentially. The feeling is pure euphoria, absorbing so much power without any limitations on our bodies, minds, or souls any longer.

The only strange sensation I feel is the fact that we've destroyed these creatures, but no system notifications ring in my mind. To compound on this fact, I can still sense their presence somehow.

There is no actual energy present to see or feel, but it is that odd sensation that brought us in this direction in the first place. The presence of soul ties.

An invisible weight is still present in the center of gravity where these two sea monsters once stood.

If all my senses were shut off, and I was blind, I would be certain they were in front of me out of pure intuition without a doubt.

I turn to my right, seeing Maria stare back at me a few million kilometers away with the same look in her eyes. "They're not dead yet..." she sends via telepathy.

"You're right..." I send back while we both turn our heads forward again.

A wave of Royal Vibrations washes through the air.

It's seemingly come from nowhere... but the readings I start to sense are as though two monstrous beasts are still before me.

Something very strange is happening.

The outlines of the monsters start to reform before my eyes.

Dark black stone-like material begins to summon into existence from thin air. It's kind of hard to see at first, like only thin threads are holding the outline of these beasts together, then it becomes large areas, and eventually, they take their physical forms as if they were never destroyed.

I can hardly believe what I'm seeing.

A sixteen-headed Hydra materializes from thin air and ripples with the same rust-colored Celestial Energy as before. The bronze tortoise's shell grows back one spiked section at a time, and its sharp beaked head pops out with glowing angry eyes.

Seventeen beams of Celestial Energy come blasting our way with exactly the same intensity as they did at the start of this fight.

My mind is racing for answers as I activate a defensive array.

I feel the gears in Maria's mind turning as well as she puts up a shield of ice to bond with my fire.

The attack bounces off like before, and we absorb over half of its Celestial energy, yet I can't understand what I just saw.

As our array dissolves, and we charge another counter up, I don't even know where to aim.

They don't have cores... brains, hearts, or really any weak points...

I don't even know how they managed to resummon their unique Celestial Energy.

There is a hidden mechanism here that is a complete mystery to me.

I send 16 fireballs the Hydra's way, and 5 massive spears of ice fly toward the Tortoise... but I'm almost at a loss for words and thought.

That was so strange. It has something to do with the heavy soul bonds I felt, and most likely a power of its wielder. I need more power and a closer look.

As I spread my aura out to try and watch what happens once these next fireballs collide, my eyes widen for a different reason.

I sense tens of thousands of Demon shaped objects holding the same Royal Vibrations moving our way. We're being surrounded.
