This challenge has been divided into distinct phases.

The 1st phase will begin in 30 seconds.

The opponent for this phase is: Mechanical Beasts.

Good luck.

Some fascinating dynamics had been alluded to in that message, including that final line. None of which Kenji had time to contemplate now. Fortunately, an endurance trial was one of the scenarios they had prepared for, and Team Earth already had a plan in place.

First step, prioritize defense until we know what we’re dealing with. Then tweak our strategy based on what we learn and adapt as we go. No matter what dynamics the first phase involves, it will only get harder from here on out.

Kenji had divided the forces of Earth into four squadrons, each led by an elite warrior with military experience. Each squadron was comprised of ten units, which were subdivided into individual parties. Most of the parties had climbed the tower together, which had bonded them into a cohesive fighting force, and the others were cobbled together to be as balanced as possible.

It looks like the Guardian will make an appearance before unleashing the first wave. Good. That will give us time to refine our formation. They were prepared to face enemies arriving by a variety of mechanisms. Given the size and the circular nature of this battlefield, he expected opponents to come at them from multiple directions at once, although he wasn’t taking it for granted.

He gave the order, and the squads assumed a circular formation, each assigned to a quadrant of the tower. The parties began casting defensive magic and activating auras. Conferring with the leaders of their unit while performing one final check on their gear. Everyone was nervous, but Kenji knew they were ready. When the enemy appeared, Team Earth would fight and die for the future of their people.

Boom. Boom. While the squadrons established their perimeter—the frontline curving to form a circle—the pounding grew more intense, as something incomprehensibly vast climbed the final few feet of the tower. It must be one of the giants we saw scaling the shaft while crossing Blackmist Bog.

He was afraid that they would have to fight the titanic construct head-on before he remembered that the quest’s description had mentioned distinct phases, and the first was composed of mechanical beasts. Thank god. Now let’s find out what all the fuss is about.

He didn’t have to wait for long. Less than five minutes after the booming began, the Guardian of Darkstone Tower crested the rooftop.

“What the hell is that?” someone cried out. When Kenji turned toward the voice, the source of the vibrations became clear as day. Because rising from the side of the tower was a colossal face.

The Guardian was a machine of staggering proportion, with features molded into incredible detail. It had two eyes the size of football fields, carved from gigantic rubies. The giant wore a stern expression—lips pressed tightly together, like it was disappointed to find the defenders of Earth spread out across the roof.

Don’t let the theatrics distract you. Wait for the enemy to appear and don’t hesitate for a heartbeat. While Kenji kicked his tactical brain into overdrive, two immense hands came into view, stopping with their open palms facing the defenders. At the same time, dozens of smaller protrusions rose from the rim of the tower that were made from the same type of metal. There look to be roughly one hundred of… whatever the fuck those are.

The cylinders locked into place at even intervals, forming a circle around the rooftop. He gave the signal, and the squads advanced, crossing half of the distance between them. By now, he was certain that regardless of the specific mechanism, the devices would release the mechanical beasts the System had mentioned.

Now that the defenders were in position, it was up to the unit leaders adjust their tactics to tackle the emerging threat. Kenji would still offer whatever guidance he could, but once the battle was joined, it would be difficult for his army to disengage or reposition. Instead, he would focus his efforts on directing the elite unit that were presently in reserve—ready to help defend or press the attack as needed.

When the last canister snapped into place, utter silence descended upon the rooftop for the next ten seconds. At which point, the containers opened as one. The interior plates retracted to reveal a gleaming sliver portal housed inside each cylinder. Thanks to his incredible new body, he could make out the details from here.

Unlike the others he had seen, these portals were contained within a ring of metal, the surface of which was engraved with the images of clockwork beasts. If the portals have a physical component, that means we can break them. He was certain in that moment that he needed to destroy the devices. That the longer they were in operation, the more enemies his forces would have to contend with.

He gave his final order to the army as a whole, directing them to attack the rings. As a battle cry rang out from thousands of throats at once, the defenders of Earth launched their assault. Before they made it halfway to the periphery, clockwork critters emerged from all hundred glowing gaps in the fabric of space. Kenji catalogued the details while preparing to make his move. Twenty enemies per portal in the first wave.

The beasts came in a range of forms—from hounds the size of their earthly counterparts to towering mechanical bulls. Half the constructs fanned out to guard the shimmering apertures, while the rest stampeded straight for Team Earth.

After that first wave, the beasts stopped coming through, but Kenji was certain that more were on the way. The dynamics of this challenge were becoming clear to him. We don’t just need to hold out for an hour. We need to disable the portals before we’re swarmed and buried in a tsunami of mechanical creatures.

A bare second later, the charging constructs collided with the vanguard of each squadron. Screams and explosions filled the air as the fight of his life began.
