“…Well, Chaldion will give us what we need in expectation of something in the future. That’s good enough. And we can fund the rest of it.”
“How? Is the inn that profitable? I know Liska’s, like, earning half our profits by the door alone.”
Liska was, in fact, the star employee of The Wandering Inn right now and accounted for more sales via the door than her brother. It was a fact that Liska had brought up every day for the last month to Ishkr.
At this point, Yelroan broke in.
“The same way you’re going to fund your inn, Miss Solstice. And I may say that, at some point, you need more profit incentives. This is going to wipe out all the money I was earmarking for your new inn.”
“What, three hundred thousand gold pieces to start the inn? That was never going to happen.”
Erin waved that away. But Yelroan cleared his throat.
“We could have begun that this month. You mentioned wanting to get ready for the Winter Solstice. I’m afraid you can spend money on the inn—or spend it on all this Christmas funding.”
“How? How much money is The Wandering Inn making?”
Erin whirled around, and Yelroan consulted a sheet.
“Last month? Eight hundred and thirty-seven gold coins in net income. Not gross income. Wonderful terms, by the way. Gross income was two thousand five hundred and two gold pieces.”
Lyonette almost shrieked in horror.
“We’re spending over a thousand gold pieces each month? On what?”
Yelroan ran down the list.
“Well, you were buying supplies for the kitchen, which isn’t that expensive…but the markups on food bumped up prices a lot. Buying Ashwheat from Noelictus, Miss Solstice’s rare materials for cooking, accounted for almost a hundred gold coins of the budget. You’re paying employees, including the Thronebearers’ stipends, which is four hundred gold coins on a full staff.”
“Four hundred—”
“Allowances for Lyonette, Erin, Numbtongue, Bird, are also included in that number.”
“Oh. Well…Mrsha needed new clothing. For the winter!”
Lyonette turned red, and Erin gave her a sharp look, wondering how much of that four hundred had gone into Lyonette’s expenses. The [Princess] hurried on.
“And the other half?”
“Free food for your guests—which ended this month. Donations to Garry’s shop. Erin Solstice’s funding for Zeladona’s injured—”
“Her what?”
Erin Solstice saw Yelroan glance up at her. The [Innkeeper] turned to Lyonette.
“I gave everyone who lost a limb some gold, Lyonette.”
“You—Erin. Some of them surely had—the Pallassians too? I’m sure the army took care of them.”
“I know. And I gave them what I could. To adventurers, too. Ceria gave me names of the ones who went to the Village of the Dead. Yelroan’s been helping me give them something. Only a few gold coins. Ten.”
But there were a lot. Yelroan saw Lyonette and Erin exchange a look, and the [Princess] backed down slowly.
“Alright, alright. We are making a profit and…but where is all this extra funding coming from, Yelroan? Especially if Erin’s giving money to…adventurers? Why is Captain Stan’s family listed…oh. Captain Stan’s family. Oh, dead gods.”
She put a hand over her chest, and Erin nodded. There was another marker on that list that said ‘Gerial’s family’ as well. Yelroan had actually helped facilitate getting the money to people that had been hard to reach. Yvlon’s former teammates…
“There are substantial backers of The Wandering Inn. I have a shortlist of names, Miss Lyonette, Miss Erin. To name the most generous—it would be the Horns of Hammerad, who have left gold with Erin for a number of reasons. The Players of Celum, who have sent a lump sum at the Merchant’s Guild from First Landing. And…the Forgotten Wing Company and Khelt.”
Lyonette swallowed hard suddenly, and four big, big names suddenly equalized the massive deficit of Erin Solstice’s expenditures.
“K-Khelt? And the Forgotten Wing company?”
“They’ve both indicated an interest in funding Erin’s new inn. If she asks, I believe Erin can get funding for her projects. But she will need to come to a formal arrangement.”
Yelroan peeked at Erin above his lists. He had made a budget, and Erin gulped at the number. She had never, in her life on Earth or here, seen a six-digit bill before.
But if that was what it cost—she nodded.
“I’ll chat with Niers.”
“No.”
“No, Erin—”
Both Yelroan and Lyonette interrupted at the same time and grinned at each other. Lyonette put her hands on the table.
“We’ll have a formal request for something like this, Erin. To King Fetohep and the Titan. To Three-Color Stalker, actually. Let’s do that now. As for Normen—”
Yelroan raised one paw as Erin turned to him.
“Can he get moving if we have gold on hand, Yelroan? Just one village?”
He thought about it and nodded slowly.
“I’ll ask Ser Sest to find horses, then. And charter one of the Driver’s Guild wagons. Chaldion can get a first shipment done, or rather, his people can. We will have them roll out on the way.”
Erin took a huge breath.
“Then let’s do this.”
 
——
 
They had to move fast. Erin knew that the moment she got the Santa-letters, but her hurry became a full-on sprint as the day began in earnest.
She hadn’t realized the urgency of her task. Of people starving or facing freezing weather, but the import was rammed home in her first meeting with an actual expert on relief aid.
“Erin! Hurry up and send your [Knight] if you’re going to! You’re not getting help from me. Need any warming potions? Right, you have your lame soup. But I’m not going to help, got it? I’m going on a cold trip right now. Are you meeting with the old man about—”
Saliss kicked open the door to her private rooms, and the completely naked Drake stopped. He had no clothing on, but he’d put on a stupid red hat, and he looked like he was ready to head out.
He was an expert on this kind of mission. And so were the duo who gave him a long look. Niers Astoragon and Foliana of the Forgotten Wing company were having an official call with Erin Solstice.
“Huh. Those are not the nuts I’m used to. And I do hang around with Foliana.”
Niers Astoragon commented after a pregnant pause. Even Saliss hesitated for a long moment, and Foliana nibbled on a baked muffin.
“Mm. Saliss of Lights. Hello.”
“Well. I seem to have intruded on a delicate meeting. Hey, Erin. I’m off. Hi…Titan. Three-Color Stalker.”
Saliss slowly waved a claw. Unlike most people, his cheery grin didn’t really appear in the face of the two mercenaries. The Titan lifted a cup.
“Going out to those villages? Good fellow. We’re discussing funding. I’d like to send you a [Message] sometime, Saliss. Maybe when you get back?”
“Yeah, sure. Good luck meeting with the Smallest Warlord and the Nibbler of Lives, Erin. Hey, Foliana. What’s your favorite food?”
The Squirrel Beastkin woman blinked and looked at Saliss as he jabbed a claw at her. She thought about it.
“…The tears of my enemies?”
Saliss almost grinned, but he turned to Erin. His eyes were serious as Erin half-rose from her wheelchair. She hadn’t even asked, and the Named-rank adventurer had begun moving the moment he’d heard about the crisis.
“Hurry up. There’s no time to waste.”
Then he was gone. Erin turned back to Niers and Foliana.
“That was Saliss. Sorry, guys, but he’s—”
“Entirely right, Erin. You should try to get your [Knight], Ser Normen, moving as fast as you can.”
“Why? I mean, I know some places are in trouble. I have a first village for him to go to that needs food. Um…Rheirgest, and it’s not far. But if you’re helping pay for it, we can do—”
Niers was consulting a sheaf of notes, and he was organized, even more than Yelroan. More importantly, he could do things the [Mathematician] could not, and he politely lifted a hand.
Unlike when they played chess, Niers was all business.
“It’s 9 AM, Erin. If you can, have your [Knight] on the road in three hours. Less, if possible. I wish you had better vehicles. A chest of holding in a wagon’s slow…but you can’t do a string of horses loaded up with bags of holding, by the sound of it.”
“Mm. They’re not rich yet. The Wind Runner is fast.”
“Ryoka’s doing another delivery. Why am I hurrying, Niers?”
The Titan looked up at Erin.
“A storm’s blowing in. A bad one. It’ll shut down your roads, and it looks like it’s hitting everything from Invrisil down south.”
“It is?”
Suddenly, the time crunch intensified. Erin hadn’t known about the weather—it was snowing hard when she glanced out the window, but the Titan exhaled slowly.
“Whatever it is, it’s fast. Not natural—and it’ll make travel even harder.”
“I—I was going to spend all day getting Normen ready and send him out tomorrow.”
“Well, you have three hours. If you need me to, I’ll arrange as much as I can on our end, but we have limited agents in Invrisil.”
Foliana nodded. She wasn’t doing much of the talking, but she was adding in details now and then.
“That we trust, after the last one tried to kill Niers.”
“We—we can do it ourselves, Lord Astoragon.”
Niers looked at Lyonette, and the [Princess] bowed nervously. She felt very intimidated, and Niers opened his mouth—then nodded.
“It’s good practice. Alright. We’ll have the gold via the Merchant’s Guild, and we won’t take up your time. Foliana, you’ve approved this budget, right?”
They were offering Erin gold without much quibbling. In fact, they’d spent most of the ten minutes just asking Erin about her theatre. Foliana blinked her odd eyes at Niers.
“What budget? Oh…”
She looked disinterestedly at the number Niers pointed at.
“Yep. Whatever. Mm. Do you want more help, Erin? It’s hard to help over there, but you helped me with the curse, so you can have money. This is for Santa?”
“Yes. Thank you—I didn’t know we had to hurry. Lyonette, can you tell everyone to go now?”
Erin was feeling even more anxious with Niers’ warning. The Titan smiled.
“Just remember, it’s haste and pragmatism, Miss Erin. I quite agree that Normen is a good trial case. Launching a dozen efforts and losing them is just wasting gold. See how he shakes down the first route. Do you have snow-capable vehicles? How about winter protection?”
“I have…Corusdeer Soup. We’ll manage. I’ve sort of got to go, Niers…”
He was glancing to one side and grimacing.
“So do I. But I’ll be able to answer any questions you do have. Foliana, anything to add?”
The Squirrel Woman was resting her chin on her paws and inspecting Erin’s worried face.
“She’s starting a company. Reminds me of when we were young. Mm. Going to be very hard.”
“Knight Order, Foliana.”
Niers corrected Foliana, amused. The [Rogue] shrugged, unconcerned.
“Same thing. Paying people in armor to beat up other people you don’t like. Or monsters. Good luck. If you need help, I can send…a reindeer. Perorn. She’ll take maybe a week to get all the way north, but I can tell her to wear antlers.”
Niers almost snorted his coffee out his nose at the image and the thought of how Perorn would respond. But Erin just gave Foliana a distracted smile.
“Thanks! But I’ll, uh, hold off on that for now. I’ve got to go! We’ll get Normen out today, Niers. Sorry! Thank you for the help! Just—got to roll!”
She began to head out even as Ishkr leaned over to turn the scrying orb off.
Now they really had to hurry.
 
——
 
The inn’s preparations became a flurry, now, and their sourcing of goods, proper wagons, and everything else turned into a focused effort. What could they get by today?
A winter storm? The snow was coming down harder, big, fat flakes, but if Niers was right—it wouldn’t be mere snow for long. So Erin was now rushing to do what had to be done.
The irony for all of this was that Normen was not doing much. When he heard he was heading out soon, he was ready. But—
“Sest will get the horses. He knows horses, and they’re going to have a wagon. You’ll just deliver the goods, Normen. We might even get a [Driver] to get there fast enough.”
“Very good, Miss Lyonette. What will be my job?”
The [Princess] hesitated and turned to him with a smile.
“…Delivering the food, Normen. Make sure it gets there on time. There might be bandits. We’ll have to load the carts, pack everything properly, maybe put a preservation spell on it—but you just worry about the journey. It might be difficult.”
It might be very difficult. And yet, Normen found himself standing around while a bunch of people rushed around and assured him he would be needed. He felt out of sorts—and because he did, and mindful of what Erin had said to Lyonette yesterday—
He began to inspect the potential recruits for the Order of Solstice.
He might be the one who decided who became a [Knight]. What a terrifying thought. So Normen went straight to the first candidate.
“Runner Herove, right? May I ask you what brought you here? Just to ascertain why you’re here, as it were.”
Normen awkwardly strode up to one of the people helping haul boxes of dried grain from Pallass’ door. Liska was shouting with annoyance at having to deliver so much via Pallass, but it was already coming through. The Cyclops of Pallass was organized, even if no one else was.
“Me?”
Herove jumped, nearly dropped a box, and Normen helped him carry it down the hallway. They’d have to stack up a wagon in Invrisil, so it had to come through from Pallass—and then go back out the door to Invrisil.
No wonder Liska was grumpy. But there were hands aplenty. Word of what Erin wanted to do was spreading, and people had come to help.
“Reminds me of when we gave things to Esthelm. I just wish I could leave the company. If you gave me more notice—I’d be able to go!”
One of the Drakes was hauling boxes over and laughing. Menolit could only put an hour in before the next Liscor Hunted operation, and Normen gave him a frown. If he wanted to be a [Knight], would he still run a company?
“It reminds me of when you gave things to Esthelm.”
Another Human woman laughed, and Menolit blinked at her.
“Who’re you?”
“Anthese. From Esthelm. I remember when the Antinium came marching at us. We thought it was an attack! Now, here we are.”
She had come from Esthelm to lend a hand stacking boxes. She and Menolit began chattering as Normen continued his conversation with Herove.
“What brought you to the Order of Solstice, Mister Herove? A number of folks have reached out to me about joining—but you came from farthest.”
So certainly, too. He’d said it was his destiny. Normen tried to smile at the young man, but something rubbed him slightly the wrong way. Because Herove gave him a huge smile, and he looked so confident.
