“It’s hard to explain, Mister Normen. I mean, Ser Normen. I should learn how to speak like a [Knight] if I’m going to be one.”
“…You’re very certain.”
“I saw it in a vision. There was this—[Soothsayer] who showed me a bunch of my possible futures. And one showed me being knighted. When I saw it—I knew that was the future I had to seek out. So here I am.”
A soothsayer? Normen’s brows rose. He’d heard of the class, but never met anyone like that. He got an abridged tale of how Herove and a few friends of his had met a real [Soothsayer] at a traveling carnival.
That explained his confidence. But what Normen didn’t like was the way Herove took it for granted.
“It might be dangerous, Runner Herove. And Miss Solstice has expressed great fears her [Knights] might be challenged dearly. We don’t have any armor for you at this moment.”
“Not a problem. I’m a City Runner, and I’ve seen a few scrapes.”
“Killed your fair number of monsters?”
Herove gave him a flashing grin.
“Over a dozen! I’m a fairly good shot with a wand, and I can outrun anything.”
Normen opened his mouth.
“—Could you take on a group of [Thugs], sir? Say, five? Have you ever taken on a group like that?”
“Five? I could take five with a bit of luck. And armor! But I’ll get a sword first, right?”
The young man laughed nervously, and Normen stared at him too long before adjusting his helmet and lifting another box up. His reservations increased because…
He didn’t like that answer one bit. If he had been gratified by the idea of someone coming all this way just to try and join the Order of Solstice, two things bothered him. The first was Herove’s presumptuousness that it was a given just because he’d seen it.
The second? That conversation had just established something in Normen’s mind. It got worse when he interviewed Roreh, the Gnoll [Guardsman].
“Monsters? I could handle a few. I saw fighting when Skinner attacked. I could kill zombies, at least.”
“How many? What about Ghouls and if you had armor, do you think, Guardsman Roreh?”
“Three? With good armor like yours, Mister Normen. But give me an enchanted sword and I’ll get at least five!”
The young Gnoll laughed nervously, and Normen saw the older Drake with a missing tail, Menolit, glance up and scoff silently. Someone passing down the corridor also glanced over.
“Hey, Roreh, get to Senior Guardsman before you run your tongue about killing Ghouls. Remember, the Watch doesn’t want heroes.”
Senior Guardsman Relc frowned as he strode out the door to work. Roreh raised his paw.
“Sorry, Guardsman Relc! Wait, is it time to sign in already? I’ll be right there! Mister Normen, I’ve got to go—but tell me when you’re doing your delivery! I can go if I ask for time off!”
“Me too!”
Herove looked excited. Normen nodded to Roreh and stepped back. He began to see what Erin had feared. And clearly—what Relc and Menolit had noticed.
They were failing a test. And it was not a test of the Order of Solstice, but a test that the Brotherhood of Serendipitous Meetings ran.
It was a test to keep young men from dying.
The question ran like this: you went up to a young fellow wanting to put a hat on and make a difference. You asked him questions about honor and right and wrong, and obviously, he could learn and he’d smarten up and be quick or be dead.
But one of the things that Crimshaw had once asked Normen was whether or not he could take three lads in a fight. He had said yes, if need be, he’d do it right now; Crimshaw had looked him up and down, smiled, patted him on the shoulder, and said he was an earnest young man.
Then he’d walked off. Normen had waited for more news for nigh on a month before he realized his application had been rejected. The next year—he’d been a lot humbler and had more scars from running alone. When Crimshaw had asked, Normen had vouched that he could take on one fellow on a toss of a coin. Then he’d been accepted.
It wasn’t their fault. But every young man, in the back of their head, no matter what they said, thought that in a fight, if they were lucky, they could take down five blokes if they had a hammer.
Two with your bare fists, assuming you got the right shots in. At least one Ghoul, even if you didn’t have armor. With armor? Five, Roreh had said.
Normen wondered if Herove or Roreh had ever had to punch someone out with their bare fists. Not with a wand or with a club or in a squad, but physically lay out another man or woman just with your bare knuckles.
It wasn’t easy. A grown man could punch himself tired before he could knock someone else down for good. Fighting was hard work. And—taking on five men?
Normen, at Level 28, in full armor, would not take on five men without levels if he had the choice. That wasn’t cowardice. That was the kind of thing that came from being that overconfident young man—until you saw someone being held down and stomped into the ground.
Taking on a group was the kind of thing a [Spearmaster] like Relc did. And he didn’t brag. Five Ghouls?
Five Ghouls might kill a Gold-rank adventurer if they got the drop on him. In fact, one of the men lifting boxes without a word—who hadn’t stopped and had shown up the moment he heard it was going to the people in need—grunted.
“No one can take on five Ghouls easily. They’re stronger than everyone thinks. Bronze-rank teams get cocky, pincushioning them from afar or taking them on together. Then one gets close and pulls the head off their [Warrior], armor and all. They’re strong.”
“Seen that happen?”
Menolit grimaced as the [Bowman] placed another box on top of the others. Halrac, Captain of Griffon Hunt, turned.
“Yes. And I’ve seen [Knight] corpses in caves filled by low-level monsters. No one should fight alone.”
He gave Normen a side-long glance, and the [Knight] ducked his head slightly.
“Just as you say, Mister Halrac. Do you have any advice for any recruits or this delivery, as it were?”
Halrac thought about it, then grunted.
“You’re going down snowy roads? That wagon better have good wheels. The hardest part might be getting to villages. My village of Windrest was…I know what a bad winter delivery is like. It won’t be [Bandits]. But it might be monsters. The hardest thing will be the cold. Make sure you don’t lose the road.”
Normen nodded slowly. He hesitated.
“Would you—be interested in helping deliver the goods, Captain Halrac? I know you’re working under contract—”
But having an expert like him would be a huge boon. Halrac hesitated one long second before shaking his head.
“I’m already committed. I can’t.”
“Of course, sir—”
The [Bowman] clarified.
“I’m running another delivery. The Unseen Empire has been doing the same thing as The Wandering Inn on a local scale. Emperor Godart is sending my group out. Durene, Beniar—we’re all going. Even Witch Alevica. If we finish our routes, we’ll come to the inn.”
“Oh. Oh. Thank you, sir.”
Halrac waved it off, embarrassed. He met Normen’s eyes again, and his gaze lingered on the door to the common room.
“Erin is doing a good thing. Just don’t die out there.”
Menolit joined in, smiling. He nodded to Normen, and the Drake was grunting as he lifted another box.
“Ancestors, what’s in here? Rocks? Oh. Potatoes. Miss Solstice is on the right track. And if she wants a [Knight]…if I was younger, I’d say I could take at least two Ghouls. In armor. With an enchanted blade. But that’s still probably one too many.”
He laughed ruefully and swept his neck-spines back as he straightened, rubbing at his back. Then he turned to Normen.
“If—if she’s looking for the best, I might not be the one. But this is the kind of thing I like. Is she worried about coin for the wagons and such? I can give some money from Liscor Hunted. Should I give it to Yelroan? The glasses-Gnoll?”
“I…that’s very generous, Mister Menolit. But you’re doing a lot already with your time.”
The [Veteran] looked embarrassed and waved this off.
“It’s not much. I make a small fortune with Liscor Hunted, you know. We have nearly a hundred [Hunters] running ‘tours’ every single week, even in the snow. In fact, we’re scouting other miserable places. The worse, the better. That’s our motto. Our clients love freezing their tails off because they can say they survived a real experience.”
“Really?”
Normen had heard of Liscor Hunted of course, but he wasn’t much of an outdoorsman, and he had only heard about Sir Relz and Noass nearly dying to a Rock Crab, which had popularized the entire thing. Menolit grinned, somewhat sadly, and looked at the inn again.
“Well, when Erin…passed…I had to do something because the inn was closed. I was sitting in bars, listening to a bunch of out-of-work bastards like me. [Hunters], you know. It’s a common class around Liscor with the Floodplains, but it’s not steady work, and the Rock Crabs and Shield Spiders make it dangerous. So I thought—‘why not give them a more profitable job’? This way, even if we don’t bag anything, we’re making coins. And then I hired more people, and now it’s a hundred folks with jobs. Two hundred by the spring.”
“Two hundred?”
Halrac was deeply impressed, and Menolit looked embarrassed.
“That’s an estimate. Don’t spread it around. It’s all Pallass and now Invrisil. The nobles want to feel like they’re in the wild, fighting like adventurers or [Hunters]. Of course, it’s hell on us because we have to be ready to drag them out of a Shield Spider nest or chase off a Rock Crab. No one’s died…yet. By the way, I could afford my own armor if Erin was willing to give me a shot.”
He turned anxiously to Normen.
“I think I could make a good difference. I really could. I’m not the best fighter, but I saw that Knight, Ser Solton, and that guy’s pushing close to fifty and not that fast with a sword. If he can do it…maybe I can be worthy of it. Do you think there’s a chance?”
Normen looked in Menolit’s eyes for a long moment, and the [Veteran] looked nervous and hungry like Normen. The [Knight] smiled and nodded.
“I’m sure, Mister Menolit, that if anyone had a shot, it was you.”
The Drake’s smile bloomed—and Normen bit his tongue on the first lie he’d ever told as a [Knight].
 
——
 
He went for a walk after that. It was disgraceful to abandon the job of loading boxes, but Normen had been told to save his energy.
And he had to go for a walk. Because he had met three prospective [Knights]…and none of them would do.
He would choose. He and Rabbiteater. Now, Normen dearly wished the other [Knight] were here. Because he had just realized that Menolit, Herove, and Roreh were not ready.
And Menolit might never be.
Was he crazy? He paced down the hill, stomping through the snow to the gates of Liscor. The [Guards] let him pass, asking about Erin’s crazy Santa initiative. They seemed supportive.
There was a crowd at the gates, preparing to head out. They were laughing, a bunch of Drakes with their odd helmets.
Oh, Yoldenites. Normen stood to one side, thinking. It seemed the Yoldenites had decided to return home, and they were chatting loudly.
“Yayde Re, what a fun city! Everyone got everything? We’re not leaving stuff behind? Everyone got your helmets?”
“Doine! I forgot my souvenirs! Wait, I need to buy something!”
“Buy one of them acid jars on the way out. No dawdling! We’ve got to get this to Big Wall so the settlers can head out! Alright, ten minutes and then we’re rolling, and anyone who’s left behind gets to walk! Let’s have a song!”
They began singing their anthem, somewhat to the chagrin of passersby, but the Yoldenites had a fanbase. Including at least one Antinium who joined in singing. Normen smiled mildly and thought they were hardy, tough Drakes.
If one of them had volunteered to be a [Knight] of Solstice…in fact, Major Voita strode over.
“Yayde Re, Mister Knight! Are you the fellow recruiting for that Order of Solstice? Can Drakes join?”
“Are you interested, Major Voita?”
The leader of the Yoldenites shrugged, and her insanely tough helmet moved slightly as snowflakes accumulated on top of it.
“Ah, meriden, it sounds fun. But I’m an officer, and…some of the lot here were interested, but it’s New Lands or the Order of Solstice here, and a big thing. They’d have to talk it over with the families—but if we come back, would we have a chance? We’ve got nice helmets, but not so good armor everywhere else.”
“If you come, I’m sure Erin Solstice…we’ll think it over seriously, Major Voita. Species doesn’t matter.”
Normen felt unsure, speaking for Erin, but he was sure she’d back him on everything. Voita’s eyes lit up.
“Even us Yoldenites?”
“You’re all Drakes. I, ah, just meant…”
But she smiled hugely at that, and some Yoldenites shouted.
“He gets it! Hey, that’s right! We’re all Drakes! Pallass’ folk ain’t so different from us! And Liscor’s practically like neighbors!”
Councilman Lism, who was seeing off the Yoldenites, had a sickly look at that, but Normen just smiled. He watched the Yoldenites preparing to set off.
Yes, it didn’t matter which species they were. That wasn’t the issue. The issue was…
Herove and Roreh were not ready. They were not ready for a fight. Normen didn’t think he was, but he knew it.
Erin was right. A Knight of Solstice had to be a good fighter. Maybe there was a…[Squire] or someone who could join the Order and train up, but Normen thought of trusting his back to those two on the road if a [Bandit] group attacked.
He felt it would get him and them killed, just like how the Brothers would die if they took untrusted new blood into a proper fight with hats off.
Not them. Not yet. Perhaps not ever, but not [Knights].
That was one thing. But why then did Menolit not fit? The Yoldenites set off, singing and laughing in their wagons, and a few people trailed out after them as they began to head home, the long way across the Floodplains down the Bloodfields and into the foothills.
The reason for no Menolit was simple: Normen had thought he fit until he heard what the Drake had said about employing so many people and being so…successful. Liscor Hunted was a fine organization.
In fact, Normen poked his head into the building that they operated from in the 3rd District of Liscor with all the new buildings going up. Well, many were already up, and the Human population was swelling even more than ever.
There were lines, even in the cold, and Menolit was at least as capable as Niers in forecasting weather.
