The Worker was sympathetic, but he was a [Soldier]. An officer, and the [Guard] gave him a salute that looked half-genuine.
“Thanks, uh, commander. Heck of a strange thing. Who’d want to go with the Yoldenites, anyways.”
“Right?”
The other Drake grinned uncomfortably. Embraim just inclined his head politely.
“It beats living in the Hive. But Singy can’t go. We will take it from here. Thank you. Beriad, halt!”
He snapped as four members of the Beriad began to head off after the Yoldenites. The four, including Antherr, turned reluctantly. The [Guards] raised a hand.
“The Yoldenites are out of here. No need to tell them we have it handled. We can send a [Message].”
Embraim pointed, and the Soldiers slowly walked back. He turned crisply in the falling snow to the [Guards].
“And challenging them to duels of honor would be a diplomatic incident. Even if they deserve it. I understand. Thank you, guardsfolk.”
“…Huh?”
One of the two Drakes looked blank, and the other hesitated, mouth open. But the Antinium began to move back to the inn. Singy was still crying.
Antherr’s hands were clenched. Embraim strode next to him and admonished him.
“You are [Crusaders] in 2nd Army, 6th Battalion. You do not pick fights off-duty. The 7th Hive might be independent from the Free Hive, but it is also a place of command.”
“I’ll punch them.”
Antherr signaled back. Embraim tilted his head. The leader of Glory Battalion spoke quietly.
“The law is the law, and we are soldiers. I would have to stop you with all my available soldiers if you tried.”
“I’ll punch you, too.”
“You’re hot-headed, Soldier. Go have a honeyed milk and rest.”
Embraim turned away, but Antherr was angry.
If this was the Great Plains, he was sure Theikha would have said something. He missed his voice. He still remembered fighting all of Zeres. 
He had half a mind to catch up with the Yoldenites and fight after all. But he was angrier at Embraim. He seized the Worker’s shoulder, signing furiously.
“You do not care because you do not see the honor lost. Singy is hurt. This is not fair—”
He was about to yank Embraim off his feet, and the two Antinium looked like they might start one of the first actual brawls between Antinium in history. A slim Antinium with two silver swords was watching them, hands on his hilts.
But they were ignoring him. And Embraim? He grabbed Antherr’s arm with a too-tight grip. And the [Immortal] saw a glow appear.
“I don’t care? Watch your misinformation, Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus. Go back. Drink milk and be silent. Save it for when it matters.”
Then there was flame. Pink flame. Glorious flame. It sprang from Embraim’s grip and burned Antherr’s hand slightly. So even he felt it.
The [Immortal] let go. And stepped back. Embraim’s hand was aglow with flame. It burned in the Worker’s blank, multifaceted eyes. No pupils…but there was a being in that gaze that was so foreign to other species.
“Fighting will do you no good. Nor Liscor’s relationship with Yolden. If it did, I would lead a charge like we did against the Gargoyles and Eater Goats. Think about when to hit things. The Minotaur does.”
He strode past Antherr, almost close enough to bump shoulders. Then halted. Embraim turned, walked into Antherr hard enough to smack into him—stopped—turned again, and walked off.
“Hmph.”
The Beriad, Singy, and other Antinium under Embraim’s command all stared after the Battalion Commander and then Antherr. The silence was long and, somehow, ‘ugly’. Now, Antherr understood how silence could be a thing. The only voice that interrupted them was the idle, amused tones of Klbkch the Slayer.
He was chewing on a hamburger from the stalls, displaying his ability to eat gluten without issues. He sounded amused, and he had free time since he was no longer a Senior Guardsman.
“Once again, I am glad that Xrn and Pawn and others have taken the duties of managing the new Antinium. What a silly mess.”
He smirked with his mandibles, self-satisfied, nevermind the fact that he enjoyed telling stories from his past to the inn’s staff. He missed the pair of [Thieves] watching him from an indoor café.
But Klbkch didn’t miss Antherr, the Beriad, and even Singy all raising a middle finger to him. Then they walked off as one for some hot milk at The Wandering Inn.
Crusader 57’s methods were also catching on.
 
——
 
Normen didn’t see the Antinium’s anguish in its entirety. He had certainly seen the Yoldenites departing and noticed Singy running to catch up—but he wasn’t able to have a word with the poor fellow when he returned.
If he did, he would certainly have brought the Worker to the inn so Erin could have a word with him and perhaps lift his spirits.
Unfortunately, he was embroiled in a second fight. And this one had actually gone to the dirt.
Remember that conversation from earlier about young men overestimating their abilities in a fight? Nothing was as emblematic to Normen as the sight of another young man, slimmer, a Drake, getting the royal shit kicked out of him on the cold streets. Him and two buddies.
Every time one tried to get up, they got a boot to the chest or face. It was dirty fighting, and Captain Todi of Todi’s Elites was watching approvingly.
“Excellent form. Look at that shit. Did you see that tail stomp before she knocked him over? That’s how you fight Drakes.”
Of course, he was a master of dirty fighting, and so was Normen. The person doing the kicking was more like a talented amateur, but Normen had to haul her off the Drakes.
Her companions had been trying, but half had been inclined to let her continue. One, a Gnoll, eventually helped Normen yank the angry Gnoll off the Drakes.
“Gna. Gna! Enough! You’ll get yourself locked up—they’re allowed in Liscor. We’re technically at peace! They’re not even enlisted [Soldiers] anymore!”
The furious [Captain] had blood on her boots, and she rounded on Captain Wikir of 4th Company, Liscor’s soldiers.
“Peace? These bastards killed more of the Antinium in their cowardly attacks than anyone else! You recognized this one from Commander Olesm’s tent! He was the one with the Antinium they kidnapped, remember?”
“Yeah, well—so what?”
One of the other [Soldiers] was from 11th Company and backed up at Gna’s glower. The rest of 4th Company off-duty shifted, and Wikir lowered his voice.
“A [Soldier] of Liscor is a [Soldier]—but she’s right. Ease off, Gna.”
“Hectval turds.”
She spat one last time before a [Guardswoman] finally sauntered over.
“Alright, break it up, break it up. Thanks, Ser Knight. Serg—Captain Gna, you can’t start a fight with citizens of Hectval.”
“What about former [Soldiers]?”
Gna went for another final kick, but this time, Normen blocked her foot. She glared at him—but decided not to go for a man in armor. One of the other [Soldiers] who hadn’t served alongside the Antinium was whispering.
“We should thank them for getting the Ants. But our bugfriend here—”
“Shut up and get back to barracks.”
Wikir howled, and the voices stopped. Gna stomped off ahead of the others, and Normen caught his breath.
He hadn’t even had a chance to say hello. His friend from the Fellowship of the Inn looked—well, a bit unhappy. She had returned to her army, but it seemed like her class, or association with the Goblins and Antinium, had got out.
Even so, she was a fine example of the ability of someone who could actually back up a boast about taking on multiple comers at once. But as Todi had observed—Gna fought unfair.
“Ancestors damn this city! We never should have come!”
One of the angry Drakes was on their feet. They turned away from the rather unsympathetic [Guardswoman].
“This…this city is just as damned as everyone said. I’m going to Pallass. Damn Liscor. Damn home—look what we get for following you, Vess.”
“Wait—”
The Drake who’d gotten the worst of the fighting croaked, but the other two Drakes were already getting up and leaving him behind. He sat up, and the [Guardswoman] squatted down.
“Are you okay, sir? Can you focus on me? We may get you to a [Healer]’s if you need it. And I can write a report up and submit it for a potential fine. Though I will note your friend swung first.”
“She spat on us.”
“Mitigating factors, sir. I’ll have to run it through the Watch. Would you like to press charges?”
The [Guardswoman] was clearly unsympathetic to a Hectvallian…soldier? Normen had no idea who the kid was.
He was certainly a young Drake, but he looked woebegone and hadn’t put up much of a fight. Then again…Gna hadn’t let him pull out the wand at his belt.
“I’m okay. Am I going to get hit just for being from Hectval? I quit the army.”
“Maybe it’d be better not to bring that up, sir? Hectval must be at peace if you made the journey.”
The young Drake rubbed at his head.
“Liscor’s army lets civilians through. It’s not like we had any other choice but to go. It was north or south…and they cordoned the south roads. Hey, Mister Knight. Thank you.”
He turned to Normen with relief, and the [Knight] touched two fingers to his helmet.
“Not at all, sir. I think you didn’t deserve those last few kicks.”
Which implied he thought Vess deserved most of the other ones. The knowledge this was a Hectvallian [Soldier] made Normen regret his help—but only a bit. It wasn’t as if this was the Drake who’d shot Erin.
They were all dead.
“Why would you leave Hectval? Sir? Much less trust Liscor’s army for safe passage? Can we expect more of you pieces of—visitors?”
Vess gave the Drake [Guardswoman] an odd look. She was writing down notes for the Watch. He answered slowly.
“Why? Because the Alliance wanted to put me back on the front. Or in the army, at least. They’re drafting. This was the only way out. Not that everyone trusts Liscor to let them through, but I’ve been a prisoner before. In the war.”
“Another thing I would advise you not to say, sir. But thank you for cooperating with the Watch. Don’t fight Antinium in this city. Oh—and if you need a job, there are listings. We always need [Builders] and whatnot. Have a horrible day.”
The [Guardswoman] walked off, and Vess hung his head. He looked for his ‘friends’, but they had already stormed off.
“Wow. This was a mistake. Maybe I should have gone south. But then I’d be a [Conscript] in the front.”
He wiped at his bloody nostrils, and Normen felt compelled to extend an olive branch of mercy to him.
“Did you say you were a former soldier of Hectval?”
“Luldem, technically. But the Alliance is the Alliance…I quit. I’m definitely not fighting Liscor again.”
Vess shuddered. He stared at a group of Antinium in one of the Watch patrols who had come over to investigate reports of a fight and almost hid behind Normen. The [Knight]…thought that the Watch would stop him if he laid Vess out right there and then.
But that wouldn’t be the right thing to do. Normen distinctly recalled the Watch standing by when a few citizens wanted to teach him a lesson for trying to mug someone. He had deserved that—but that same lad had also become a [Knight], deserved or not.
What would Erin Solstice do? No…what would Ser Solstice do? 
“…Probably kick you in the nuts. Maybe that’s our signature style?”
Vess looked nervously at Normen muttering to himself. Before he could edge away, the [Knight] had him in a steely grip.
“Come with me, sir.”
“Wait! Wait, I don’t want any trouble! Please? I’m sorry! Don’t hit me! Don’t—”
 
——
 
Even when the bowl of soup was put in front of him, the Drake still flinched and expected someone to hit him.
Then again—Nanette did have Mrsha in a headlock, and the girl kept trying to swing on Vess’ legs. He was getting a huge glare from several guests, including Menolit, but Erin Solstice herself had okayed Normen’s choice.
“If anyone touches him—Tessa, punch them.”
“Okay.”
That stopped half the inn’s guests and made them reconsider. Lyonette threw up her hands.
“Honestly, Erin! He’s from Hectval!”
“Luldem, actually—”
Vess flinched, and Erin put her hands on her hips. She winced and felt at her front.
“My chest hurts, Lyonette. I know he’s from there. I’m not exactly thrilled, but Normen brought him in, and it’s a very honorable [Knight]-thing to do. Maybe Normen will level. Let’s focus on poor Singy. Oh, Normen, we’re almost ready to send you out. It’ll probably be as late as 3 PM when you get going, though. Hopefully you can find an inn along the way.”
“I could drive all night, Miss Solstice.”
She hesitated.
“It’s really snowy north of the passes. Even one of the Winter Sprites was warning us when Ryoka was leaving. You’re bound from Celum—we’ll try to get you somewhere close by for your first voyage.”
Normen straightened his back and nodded. Vess glanced up from blowing on the hot soup, looking blank, and Erin shook her head. Then she walked over to Singy.
In truth, Normen hadn’t known if Erin’s inn was the place to take Vess, but he’d gotten approval from an important source: the Thronebearers.
They looked approving, and the cost of a bowl of soup wasn’t that much. Erin had really been the person Normen was worried about, but as he went over to her to apologize, she confessed to him.
“Really, Normen. I’d rather let some kid from Hectval in the inn than Tyrion, so there’s that. He said he was a former [Soldier]?”
“He…might have killed some [Soldiers] from Liscor’s army, Miss Erin. Gna seemed to think so. I’m sorry. I can have him out as soon as he eats.”
Erin’s hands clenched, but she gently finished putting a candle in a cupcake for the sad Singy. She lit it with a little flame.
It shone blue with such sadness Normen looked away. A sad candle for a sad Antinium.
“It’s okay. He’s a kid, and [Soldiers] are soldiers. Is that heartless of me? Maybe it is, but I heard how badly Olesm slaughtered them. I have more pity for a [Soldier] under Tyrion Veltras than the man himself. And our wonderful allies, the Yoldenites, aren’t great. Here, Singy. Have a sad cupcake. Go ahead and cry. We’ll make sure you have a lovely place to sing. What about…what if you joined my inn’s staff? You can sing all day if you want.”
Singy almost refused the Garry-made cupcake, but he eventually took it and stared at the candle.
“I wanted to be a Yoldenite. Why did I have to be an Antinium?”
Poor lad. Normen rocked backwards on his feet and took a step back. Erin didn’t run, but Normen felt like he’d taken one to the jaw.
He’d heard that same sentiment before. Not in the same words, but that was why Erin Solstice was here. Now—Normen looked at Vess and felt it.
It was time to get out there and do something.
 
——
 
