A reminder that there were good folk and bad. Ser Solton of the Order of Haegris came striding down the street and did a double-take.
“Ser Normen? Are you about deliveries yourself? I’m afraid you’ll find little to buy up in Celum. It’s Invrisil or bust. Damn. I’ll have to go from there. Excuse me! We’re going to need to go from Invrisil.”
The wagon driver in the other wagon groaned and hopped down. Solton halted, and Normen glanced at him in surprise.
“I thought you were going back to Terandria, Ser Solton.”
The Haggle-Knight grimaced.
“I was. But I heard parts of Izril were in desperate times, and a conference with the Order determined I have a mandate here. I am aware the Five Families are rendering aid, and so is Miss Solstice? Of course she is. I’d expect no less from a woman who could found a Knight-Order. Intention springs from words spoken truly. I can’t do much, but I will be running deliveries from Invrisil. As many as I can.”
“By yourself?”
The [Knight] grimaced and shivered, despite the thick jacket he was wearing over his armor. His rosy cheeks and slightly balding pate under his armor—and own hat—had a serious look despite the frost clinging to his mustache. How long had he been out for that to appear?
He was in his forties, and he put Normen to shame. All Normen had done was wander about thinking about his Order while, apparently, Solton had been sourcing everything that Erin and her entire inn had found all day.
“I know the business, Ser Normen. I wish we’d pooled resources now I see you ready to go. You have food aplenty? Damn. My [Squire] would have truly helped if she were here. Young people can run about while I’ve lost a step. But not all my steps!”
“Maybe we could let you run a delivery. Pallass is supplying some of the food and goods.”
Solton hesitated and wiped snow from his mustache.
“Is it? Good on the Drakes, but that’s a bit political. I tell you what, if I can’t find anyone willing to sell me enough to load up a wagon, why don’t I take you up on the offer? Are you leaving now?”
Normen cast a glance around, and his [Driver] and Erin weren’t ready yet. She might be talking to Niers Astoragon, in which case he waited.
“I think I have at least thirty minutes…”
“Thirty will do! Follow me, and let me show you a Haggle-Knight at work, Ser Normen. You may benefit from this if you need to source anything for these missions of dire need.”
 
——
 
It was his first real lesson from Ser Solton. Normen told Mrsha that he was in Invrisil as she rushed back with a cloak, and so she insisted on following them.
In fact, so did Nanette. The endlessly curious little witch and Mrsha came into Invrisil and almost got away with it—but Ser Sest charged out the door just before it closed.
“Miss Mrsha, you can’t run off like that! Why, Ser Solton! What are you doing here?”
They caught him up as Solton marched into the marketplace and found the first likely [Grocer] with enough food to load his wagon up. He chose a large [Stockpiler] who seemed to have a vast inventory.
“I have a storehouse, Ser Knight. It’s a long winter, and I’m prepared to make a small fortune holding onto my goods. I could fill your wagon, but I’ve had offers for the New Lands expeditions as well as everyone else. Then again, for a [Knight]…I could sell you a bag of potatoes at four silver.”
“Bastard.”
Normen thought he’d said that under his breath as a rather self-satisfied man with too-long fingers rubbed his hands together, smiling at Ser Solton’s blank face. Four silver on a bag of potatoes? Even assuming winter prices, it was probably double what you could demand at most.
And to look at the size of the warehouse he’d pointed out, the man probably had ten thousand bags of potatoes alone.
As evidenced by every part of his personality, Normen was a polite young man—who had a temper fit to punch a bull out when he was roused to it. Most Brothers did. He had the urge to pull a Crimshaw—and haul the other man up by the lapels and threaten to turn his nose into a single nostril.
But that was not knightly. However, Sest’s careful study of his nails showed he was not impressed by the price-gouging either.
“But Master Realday, you must understand this is a mission of mercy.”
“I could do…three silvers and two coppers.”
“Creler-kissing goldtoad.”
The muttered insult was too quiet for Stockpiler Realday to hear, but it turned out to be Nanette. Mrsha looked very approving, and the two began roundly insulting the man behind his back.
However, Sest made sure the man couldn’t hear, for fear of fouling Solton’s sale. The [Knight] was looking right and left, sighing, his helmet off his head.
“How many [Merchants] might have enough to spare that you know, Master Realday…?”
The man gave Solton an unpleasant smile.
“Unfortunately, most of my competitors have sold a lot of their stocks. It’s a seller’s market, Knight Solton. By all means, come back once you’ve inquired around. We can haggle, but that’s where the price starts.”
“I could do one silver coin per bag, Master Realday. One—and consider each bag a life potentially saved.”
Solton wasn’t even really haggling but making an appeal to Realday’s heart. Which was looking like it was more and more of an unrealistic expectation by the way Master Realday laughed in his face.
“I think you don’t have a grasp of the market, Sir Knight. Come back later. And the Merchant’s Guild themselves would say I’m offering a realistic price.”
The streets of Invrisil, at least, were more crowded, despite the snow coming down. All the people in the packed City of Adventurers generated enough body heat to at least turn the ground to a treacherous slush. Solton looked around, but his armor and class had no respect in Realday’s eyes.
Solton slowly put his helmet back on his head.
“Not even for the children, Master Realday?”
“Business, Sir Knight. And I have customers. Excuse me—”
Realday strode off, or tried to. But Solton raised his voice as he slowly walked over to Realday’s store.
“Not even for starving children, Master Realday? I know I, a poor Knight of Haegris of Terandria, cannot offer much. But please—you cannot offer your food for starving people of Izril?”
His voice rose—and Normen, who had been considering letting go of Mrsha so she could punch Realday, looked up. Master Realday turned around.
“I’m—I’m sorry, Sir Knight, but my prices are my prices. Thank you for asking, but…”
He backed up to his store, looking annoyed and startled by Ser Solton’s voice. But the [Knight] was suddenly leaning, leaning against a wall as if he were having a heart-attack. He clutched at his chest, then looked up as some people turned, and his voice was even louder than before.
“Minarthe village will not last a week without provisions. And I see you have a bounty but none to sell me, Master Realday?”
“I said I would sell you, Sir Knight.”
“At four silver coins a bag of potatoes! I fear I cannot afford it!”
Ser Solton raised the bag of potatoes up as people looked around, and Normen frowned. The bag was half-empty. He glanced down—and Mrsha and Nannette were hiding potatoes behind their backs with sudden, huge grins. That tiny bag of potatoes at—four silver coins?
“That’s not a full bag of—”
The passersby were looking around, and some were asking what was up. Solton glanced around. Then he got down onto the street and, to Realday’s growing horror, put his head on the ground as he got down on hands and knees.
“Master Realday, I am on my knees, begging you for some charity! I realize it is difficult, but just—just enough that the children might make it.”
His voice wobbled, and Realday realized he was at the center of attention. Starving children—Nanette stomped on Mrsha’s foot so hard and pinched herself so that both girls burst into tears. The witch was entirely approving, and so was the little Gnoll girl.
After all—this was the same thing Erin Solstice knew so well. Only—Solton was a master of his own methods. In fact, he had more than just style.
[Virtuous Shame].
People were gathering in real time as Realday protested that he was just offering the prices he could afford! He could go down to two silver coins and a half, but—
Then Solton leapt to his feet.
“Ser Normen, hold me back—hold me back—you cannot. My class impels me to—stand to, Watchmen! Stand back, good folk! Whether I am locked away for this or not, I must do it!”
He threw off Normen’s hands, then drew his sword. Master Realday was suddenly backing away as Ser Solton aimed his sword at him.
“Wh-what are you doing? Someone, help! He’s gone mad!”
“Sir Knight, what are you doing?”
The Watch had arrived, but they were watching as Solton turned, like an [Actor] on the stage. Normen saw the twinkle, and his mouth was open.
With admiration. With respect. With…a question.
Was this what being a [Knight] was? Ser Sest looked horrified—but Solton clearly had no problem with anything he said, and his eyes glimmered like truth stones.
“Watchmen, I pray you, hold back until I am done, then I will let myself languish in jail. But I see no other way. For the starving folk—I must offer you, Master Realday, a challenge to a duel. I will give you a sword if I must, but I can see no other way to get food to those good people. En garde! For the honor of Terandria and the Order of Haegris, I will see them fed or this winter be my last!”
He advanced a few steps, and Master Realday looked around. Even the Watch seemed inclined to have Solton’s back, and the people were pointing to his shop and whispering about his prices. Four silver coins to a [Knight] for half a bag of potatoes? For a starving village?
His reputation and personal wellbeing were on the line. In a moment like this, when a [Stockpiler] was sweating and everyone was staring…
A wagonload of potatoes and food wasn’t that much, was it? Why, it was even half-price. Beyond a fair price! And then Ser Solton was hugging the man and lifting him up, extolling his virtues for the street to see. People threw Master Realday up and down like a hero and applauded him so much he found he had more to give.
That was how a Haggle-Knight worked. Solton walked over to Normen and clapped the stunned [Knight] on the shoulder.
“I’faith, Ser Normen, I could have probably paid six silver to the bag, but I would not be able to afford the next village. Some battles must be fought with words in civilized streets. That is what the Order of Haegris believes.”
“It was amazing to see, Ser Solton.”
“Yes, well, it works best when we’re not well-known and our tactics are unheard of. Though we will literally hire folks to harangue miserly hoarders day and night. There is a fine line between bullying and virtuous need. I’m off. You have your delivery to make. Let us meet again—but take a care to bundle up, Ser Normen. The snows pile high.”
Then he was off, riding on his own wagon into the snowdrifts and blizzard coming down, and Normen practically ran to his wagon where Zanze was waiting. Nevermind the cold. And Erin Solstice had a hot bowl of Corusdeer Soup for him.
“Sorry! I was making it up, Normen. This’ll have you for six hours! After that—bundle up. Do you feel [Knight]-like yet?”
She looked at him as the wagons began to roll, and Normen looked around.
“Not always, Miss Solstice. But I’m beginning to believe I could actually be one.”
She laughed—and waved him off as he watched the sun setting fast. They’d have to ride day and night to get there, and it might be best to wait till dawn—but they were upon great urgency.
“Go forth, Knight of Solstice!”
She cheered him, and Normen smiled. He lifted a hand, spirits rising.
Then the cold winds began to blow and blow.
And the snow rose higher.
 
——
 
Normen had never seen the wilds of Izril in its bare harshness before. He was a lad who’d bounced from city to city, town to village, scrapping in back alleys and claiming land without a flag.
He’d seen the road more than most folks, and he thought that Izril was settled. Certainly, it was no frontier—the wildest parts were just lands not fully settled. The High Passes, parts of the Vale Forest, the Ogres in the hills, but he would have laughed if you said that parts of Izril could be as wild as the New Lands.
The Great Plains, he might have said, were the most unsettled parts of Izril, because the Gnolls had kept it that way. But what the lad of Izril forgot was that he had never really gone far from settlements.
He had not stayed on those open roads during storms. He had never, really, seen a storm tearing a paved road to pieces, like white fangs sinking into flesh and flaying it to the quick. He had never heard a howl in the distance and stood with a fire at his back and a flaming torch in the other hand, watching glassy eyes stalk through shadows.
Today, Normen saw a winter storm without a roof to shelter him. It was the kind of thing only adventurers and [Drivers] regularly saw.
“Rhir’s hells! It’s coming down like a torrent! Ser Knight, we might have to turn back!”
Barely an hour from Celum, Zanze began to look alarmed. He was staring at the roads that the horses were trotting down—and it was getting hard to see them. The [Driver] was navigating via old wooden signposts stuck to the side of the road, which told you where it was supposed to be.
A bullseye lantern hung from the front of the wagon, swinging, as the man shivered with a blanket and a cloak over his two jackets, sweater, and thick wool shirt.
Shivered—Normen was feeling the cold, too.
Despite the Corusdeer Soup? If anything, that was the only thing keeping him from frostbite. He was realizing, for the first time, that Erin Solstice had made a mistake with some of her magical food.
She had been so concerned with getting it to a palatable, portable state that she had never actually needed to up the intensity of the effects. Few of her friends had ever needed to brave more than the snow in lighter armor.
 
——
 
The temperatures that a worried Kevin was measuring back at the inn had started well below 0º Celsius. He was guessing from memory…it was below -20º already, and wind chill was making it worse.
And it was going to get colder when the night came on.
Kevin was shivering to hell with the Corusdeer Soup active, and he was realizing that Normen would be in trouble. But he was trying to calculate how cold it was.
“Does no one have a thermometer?”
“That’s one of the things they don’t have. Can you calculate how cold it is, Kevin?”
He almost snapped at Ryoka, who had run two deliveries before the cold had forced her back to the inn. It was dangerous to fly in darkness too.
