It wasn’t that hard to cross, and you could do it with one hand on the ropes the entire time. But for a Golem or less-nimble monster, it was easy to plummet to your death. Children of Rheirgest would run across it without fear.
They were a hardy village at the edge of the north in a pocket of the mountains. Like Yoldenites, in their way. Though Rheirgest would have resented the comparison. They didn’t have a funny accent or weird helmets.
Everything here was compacted, for space. They had terraced farms in the old style of things. Big ridges where they could grow plants without wide, open farmland. Why would anyone live like this, rather than a plentiful lowland? Well—safety. They were higher than most monsters would like to climb and lower than the threats that lived higher up. While this was technically the High Passes, this part of the mountain range didn’t have the abundance of threats the central area around Liscor and the other pass through the mountains did.
Like many such places, they made a living on a natural resource no one else was willing to mine. Instead of magicore, which Yoldenites mined, Rheirgest exported bones.
Old Bone Mine was where they would carve away ivory, which was good for alchemical purposes, fishhooks, all kinds of tools—it wasn’t better than steel or some kinds of wood, but it was exotic.
And people liked ivory. They didn’t like people bones, but Rheirgest’s bone mines didn’t come from people or even monsters.
It was a ribcage. A big one, buried in the stone and cliffs. They were on the sixteenth rib, and the village had been here for eight generations. They had an entire other side to go.
Rheirgest had a complicated history with [Necromancers]. They remembered a time when [Necromancers] had come here and paid well for samples of the ivory, or tried—without effect—to raise the skeleton.
Even the Necromancer hadn’t bothered trying. But that might have been because the Goblin King’s rampage had met him before he got here.
It was supposed to be a lively, cheerful little village. Nevermind that Celum thought Rheirgest was full of weirdos—they bought the ivory. Times were harder of late. Drakes didn’t like ivory as much after the Antinium Wars, and now all the older folk were worried about Dwarves.
The damn Dwarves and Drakes were both exporting steel, and everyone knew there was a magic door at Celum that was making trade less profitable. Someone had suggested that after the next [Trader] arrived, they should send someone to Celum to see if they could sell the ivory for a higher price.
That was as much as Rittane had thought on the matter. It was a cold winter, and she spent most of her time peeking at the scrying orb they’d bought, which showed all the amazing parts of the world.
These days, it had been tuned to King Fetohep’s channel. No one said it, but Rittane had known there was a fun undead.
No one was a [Necromancer] here. Definitely not. People had checked, from Clairei Fields [Knights] to multiple nobles. And no one was a [Necromancer]…but Rittane knew her father was a [Corpseman] and her mother had a spellbook with a few basic death magic spells. It got cold up here. You could go outside, climb the terraces, and hoe the tough dirt and plant stupid wheat or potatoes, or your friend Alfren could do it.
He had a hat and overalls, and if a foreigner came to the village, Alfren would never be seen. Especially if the [Trader] noticed that ‘Alfren’ was bald. And skinless. And had glowing eyes.
That was Rheirgest, a city that most citizens of Celum, including Wailant, only knew as a place on the map. It kept to itself for safety as much as anything, and only Lord Deilan El or someone who wanted to know where their ivory came from ever bothered to investigate.
Then they conveniently forgot and harbored no suspicions because they needed nice ivory, damn it. Rheirgest ivory on the handle of your Marksman’s Automatic Reloading Crossbow, Mk. IV from the House of El had to be good, embossed with inlays, and have no faults or the Noelictus [Hunters] would throw a fit. Poor quality ivory cracked or couldn’t take the heat treatments or…
None of this reached Rheirgest. It was humble, but did well enough for itself. It should have been a fun winter, with the scrying orb. It should have been…until a stranger had come calling.
He had been friendly, at first, and no one had paid attention to him. Rheirgest got all kinds of visitors, and the half-Elf might have been a temporary guest like the folk who didn’t quite like the law.
As long as they behaved and paid, they could get a room. But the half-Elf had been friendly. Complimentary, even—until he saw the bones.
Then he had heard they had been carving it up and called them thieves and scoundrels and cursed them until he was driven off. The burning of the fields had happened the next morning, and no one had seen who did it.
But they did not exactly need to guess.
Now, Rheirgest, which should have been full of happy laughter and clattering of bone sandals on the streets—was silent.
The fields were being resown, and someone had tried to cast a heating spell to warm the soil enough for Yellats to live in, but only the dead could bear the cold.
Only the dead had the energy to go out.
Rittane, who was seven, slept a lot. She drank boiled snow water, which made her forget she was hungry. The flames had eaten both fields and warehouses, nevermind it had been bone housing their food.
Her parents didn’t say a lot loudly. They just checked on her and made sure she had ‘breakfast’ and ‘dinner’. That was water with a bit of…something. Flour or whatever they could boil up. Edible weeds like thistles or salt.
But they’d run out of salt. And they’d eaten the leather off all the gloves and boots they’d had three days ago. Then drunk the water from the boiling.
Rittane didn’t say anything about food. Her parents were looking thinner than she was. And her father had passed out yesterday. No one said anything, but Rittane had heard, between watching the scrying orb, them talking.
They had gone out and sold all the magic items and valuables they had to bring back six sacks of wheat, but theirs was not the only place with burned fields.
Now…some of the older members of the village were saying they should ‘go to Celum’. But they had not enough coin. So they had asked to take the field workers. It wasn’t as if they could grow anything.
If they ‘went to Celum’, there would be no going back. That was how these things began. The blizzard had cut short any thoughts of travel, though.
By the time it ended, there might not be enough people to go anywhere at all. But Rittane kept thinking there was a chance.
She’d sent a letter via a City Runner three weeks ago, in secret. She didn’t have any coins since the village had pooled their coins, but the Runner had taken her letter for free when he saw it was addressed to Santa. His name was Fals, and he said Santa might read it.
Christmas was a long time away. Fifteen more days…Rittane figured she could sleep for another week. It was just mid-morning, and she was too tired to get to the scrying orb to watch.
Snow was falling and falling, and she was drifting off into a hazy world where she wasn’t hungry. It felt like she was floating. Or slowly falling up into the sky. That was…pleasant. A hazy pleasantness instead of the pain that was eating her stomach away.
 
——
 
As the girl lay there, curled up in her blankets, a man sat at a table. He glanced down at her odd smile occasionally. But he was trying to…concentrate.
His hands were shaking. They were trying to hold a feather quill steady as he dipped it into the ink and wondered if either were edible. Cotton blankets, books—they’d even taken the leather bindings off them, nevermind the glue. There were…so many things you could try to eat if there was nothing left.
Rittane’s father was drafting a letter. He was marking it in an envelope for the City Runner, if he returned. Explanations needed to be made. Perhaps someone could identify the half-Elf. He finished writing and signed his name. Then, he spoke, in a voice that was too low.
In a house that seemed to be drowned by creeping silence.
“Rittane? Wake up.”
She didn’t open her eyes. The girl was smiling and sleeping, with light faintly coming through a window. Her father glanced over with a kind of quiet dread falling over him. He half-rose, and caught himself on the table. It took him more strength to rise, and he felt like he had to draw it from his bones.
Just to stand. The man placed the letter on the mantle over the fireplace, over pale, carved ivory that his grandfather had set there.
It was addressed: To whom it may concern. The first time he had ever written a letter like that.
The man looked over for his wife. She had been eating most—she had to, to keep the undead moving. But Rittane’s father was lightheaded. He heard…a great rushing in his ears. The snow falling and the blizzard outside, a downpour of silence, had turned into shouting this morning.
It sounded like shouting. Faint…and he was sagging against a wall as he tried to walk over. The last vestiges of his mind…?
Rittane’s father caught his breath as something odd happened. Unlike a regular voice in his head…the shouting had the spatial quality that made him think it was coming from outside.
Was it a visitor? The City Runner? It couldn’t be. Not in this snow. But—he hesitated and fumbled with the latch of the window. Then just went for the door. He walked past that still shape, and his wife whispered to him.
“Dorkel? Dorkel…I’m going to Celum. It’ll take three days.”
A woman raised her head in the kitchen, scoured clean of even salt and pepper. She gazed up as the man opened the door slightly, and her eyes were black. The pupils were wide, but glowing with death magic. And now, she had the look of the Necromancer about her. A woman who might do whatever it took.
But she would be too late. Even so. Dorkel said nothing to stop her. If she could have gone before the blizzard hit…he would not have stopped her. But he was chasing that sound as he opened the door and a freezing gust came in.
“…ello? Hello?”
“Who’s shouting that?”
“It’s coming from the bridge. Is it a Snow Golem? A large one?”
That was their first instinct. A Snow Golem, now? Normally, the largest ones appeared by the sixteenth month of the year, and some could literally step across the chasm. If one was here—
They were already dead. So Dorkel stepped out of his home, not even bothering to put on a coat. A street of ivory was almost covered in snow. But he thought he was definitely about to die.
Why else would he be seeing green? It seemed to be a burning flicker he saw through his neighbor’s house. Dorkel rubbed his eyes, then heard another shout.
“I’m falling! Save me!”
That moved him forwards. Perhaps one of the others had gone to check the roads and had slipped on the bridge? Faster now, the man stumbled forwards, and he saw something strange as he got in sight of the bridge.
It sat below the village, a perfect spot for someone to cut the ropes or shoot at monsters or dangerous visitors from. What the man saw, far below him, made his heart beat.
For he saw a wagon, parked at the end of the bridge. And there were…six people.
A young woman with a bone cat harnessed to the wagon, waving her arms as a [Driver] unloaded boxes. There was another young woman with a sword and an…Antinium? It had to be—they were trying to pull up a young Drake who was clinging to the ropes of the bridge, feet dangling.
The last member of the group had dared the rope bridge and, ignoring the swaying, was marching across. He had a bag of holding lashed to one of his arms so it had no chance of falling into the ravine. His expression seemed to indicate that if he dropped it, he would jump off the bridge to get it back. There was a desperate look in his eyes. Of a man fearing he was too late. He had fought through a blizzard and Snow Golems for this.
He was the flickering green flame who Dorkel had seen. He was…glowing.
Green flames were upon his armor, burning on the bright blue, azure metal. Dorkel feared he might burn the bridge, but the flames seemed to cling only to him. They burned without any apparent fuel, and the [Knight] strode faster as he saw Dorkel.
“Hello up there! We come in peace!”
“…Who are you?”
Right now, Dorkel didn’t care. He looked down and thought—traders. Or travellers. They had to have something to buy or purchase. But then he stared at the wagon and saw the crates…and the [Knight] broke into a jog.
He had something on his hat. A helmet, but he also had a stupid red hat—and it blew off his helm as a gust of wind struck him.
Even so, he tried to keep to Erin’s silly script for another second.
“We’re delivering something early on behalf of Santa to a little girl named—dead gods damn it, nevermind. Is Rittane here? We got her letter. I am Normen of the Order of Solstice, a [Knight]! We’ve brought provisions!”
Dorkel thought he was dreaming. He looked down, and he had no idea why his daughter’s name was coming from the [Knight]’s lips. Then Normen was running up the path. Running—he could have walked.
But he ran because it might matter. Ran, as that silent village stirred. A living voice, shouting as he came up the road, with more force than Dorkel had in his entire body.
Doors opened, and gaunt faces emerged. Terribly burdened gazes contemplating choices with no good alternative—gazed outwards. And there was a [Knight].
Not a friend. But in this moment—he was panting, removing his helmet, fumbling with his bag of holding as he came to a standstill. Then he set the bag of holding down and pulled something out.
It was a big crate, and he set it down in front of the man, who bent down and almost fell over.
“What Order did you say…?”
The skeletons were in the fields. He jerked upright, in worry and fear, but the sight of that lid—Normen looked around and seemed taken aback by the village of bones. But then he pointed back over his shoulder.
“Solstice, Mister…?”
“Dorkel. I’ve heard of that name, somewhere.”
The two men were working at crosshairs. Both tired, both…frantic. Dorkel began to pry at the lid. He had to see what was inside. He nearly snapped a nail on the lid, and Normen bent down.
“Let me, sir. It’s a new Order. I’m a new—[Knight]. We’ve brought provisions. We got Miss Rittane’s letter.”
“My daughter sent a letter?”
Normen glanced up.
“She’s your daughter? We just arrived, sir.”
“Through the blizzard?”
