Vess knocked Ama out of the way of an ice spike, and it cut the scales on his shoulder. They hunkered down as Ama stuttered.
“T-thanks!”
Jewel looked over, and thirty Golems were making a push through the opening the Snow Spider had made. She looked over at Normen and hesitated. She eyed Antherr, Vess, Ama—none of whom she knew as well as her team.
“They can’t hurt us. You, [Driver], get back and cover the ranged support. Keep those horses safe! Funnel them into the gap. Snow Golems are stupid. Hold them here. Can anyone wall?”
“I can do a [Bone Wall]!”
Ama shouted. Normen saw Jewel calling out, indicating the spot. Antherr turned to Normen, and the [Knight] found his breath. He was exhausted, but he pointed the mace forwards.
“We’ll hold them here. Hats off.”
Hats…? Antherr looked at Normen, and Jewel blinked. But the [Knight] was already running.
“Don’t leave anything left for the [Gravekeeper] to bury. All I see are dead men! GET THEM.”
Vess’ mouth opened as the most angry [Knight] he’d ever seen launched himself at the Snow Golems, the [Immortal] and [Swashbuckler] right behind him. Normen smashed into one face and then kicked another in the groin. It didn’t work—but the headbutt made the Snow Golem reel. Then the mace smashed its brains straight out the back of its head. And then the Drake and [Necromancer] were hurling spells behind them.
That was what the Snow Golems saw. Green flames were licking over the waystation, warming it from the freeze. They advanced into the waystation—then hesitated. Because it didn’t seem like they would be able to freeze the six figures fighting there. Even the cold animosity of winter faltered.
There they were. A [Knight] swinging a mace coated with green flames. A [Swashbuckler], fighting back-to-back with an Antinium [Immortal].
An [Arcane Warrior] and a [Necromancer], shooting spells through the gaps of the building, and a [Driver] laying about him as two horses kicked and bit. All of it engulfed in green flame.
Until the sun rose.
 
——
 
Ser Solton wondered if Normen had made it. He stood with his back next to the broken wagon, trusting the wood to have his back.
His breath was sprawling up into the cold night air. The storm…was making it so he couldn’t see more than fifteen feet ahead at most.
[Arrowguard Shield]. Another arrow curved and hit his shield. A small mercy that his foes had no Skills.
But their aim was good. And that was not what he feared. Solton was braced for another charge. They came in, fought, retreated.
They were trying to bleed him out. Letting the cold do what their frozen blades could not.
Undead.
Frostmarrow. He had heard they appeared in the cold. Elemental undead. But only Cenidau fought them regularly.
Had a [Necromancer] made them? Were they natural? It didn’t matter. Solton pivoted—
A skeleton came out of the dark, swinging an axe. It was coated with frozen blood.
The [Driver]’s. The poor man was lying somewhere in the snow, headless.
My fault. I should have hired guards. I was so focused on going fast that—
Solton only realized he was thinking, not swinging his sword when he felt snow on his face. He—pulled himself up—saw the gash on the skeleton’s frozen skull.
They’d traded blows. Solton had fallen over, but slashed the skeleton as it caught him on the chest. His chestplate felt a bit dented.
It was so much stronger than a regular skeleton. Tougher, too. He should have cleaved the top of its head off. But the icy bones were knitting in the cold.
And there were more.
The [Knight] plucked another vial from his belt. He had already used his potions. The last stamina potion was coursing through his veins—now, he hurled a flaming vial straight ahead.
The alchemical fire engulfed the skeleton, and it began to melt. Yes! It was weak to flames! Solton saw it collapse and almost smiled.
Then an arrow hammered his shield, and he flinched. He saw a glow of two yellow flames in the darkness.
“Kingdoms stand!”
He screamed—and the horseman rode down; the impact as it swung its sword sent him crashing into the wagon. The undead horse reared and kicked his chest. Rider and steed had no fear of his blade and only retreated as his last flaming vial bloomed.
It burned Solton, but it forced them back. He slowly got up, sagging against the wagon.
Undead. He had gone to Chandrar, prepared to fight undead. A Crusade against evil…now, he felt the fool.
Those yellow flames…had not a shred of honor, not even a hint of kindness or intelligence. They were nothing like the gaze of King Fetohep of Khelt after all. There was only a thoughtless hatred towards life.
The Haegris Knight heard clattering in the snow, muffled, but from around him. He thought there might be twelve. He had accounted for five, even surrounded. Was that a fine tally or poor?
It didn’t matter, did it? Slowly, Solton set himself for the final attack. He shouted into the cold.
“I am Ser Solton of Haegris! I have sworn to render aid or die trying. Come, foul undead. I will sell my life dearly.”
They did not fear his shout. The [Knight] saw them charging. Here he stood, a [Knight] dying in the cold for a wagon full of potatoes.
A worthy cause. Any man or woman who refused to clean their plate had never seen someone starve.
So few [Knights] saw it that way, though. Ser Solton fell back as a spiked club smashed across his helmet. He was on his back now, trying to get up, kicking as that horse trampled around him, a jabbing spear trying to find chinks in his armor. Skeletons hacking down and the thump of their footfalls around him.
For potatoes—
Solton stared up at those yellow flames in their sockets as the skeleton held his helmet and angled its blade to aim between the gaps in his visor. He tried to lift his arms, but—
A footfall like thunder he felt in his bones. Was it an undead giant? Solton saw the skeleton rider’s head turn—
A club hit the skeleton’s head, and it imploded in a shower of ice, magic, and bone. Solton’s eyes widened—and he heard a voice.
“Have at you! Are you alive, Mister Knight?”
He was gasping, unsure of where the voice was coming from—then a hand reached down and yanked him up without effort. The [Knight] was on his feet and shouted.
“Behind you!”
More skeletons. Solton raised his shield, and another arrow curved away from its target. He raised his sword, but the figure swung around.
He thought he saw a massive club, a greatclub, swing—and another skeleton vanished. Another skeleton charged forwards with a spear lowered. The metal speartip rammed straight into a plank of wood.
A tower shield, practically a door! No, it was a door, just reinforced with steel. That club swung again, and the third icy undead met its fate.
“Who…? Dame Merila?”
He thought, for a second, that it was the Dame of the Hills, the mighty [Knight] of Ailendamus herself. And that was impossible because she was on Terandria.
It was not her. The figure was far shorter—though she still towered head and shoulders over Solton. Her armor was less radiant, and it was a tower shield and club she carried. It was—
A Troll? No, she seemed more Human than that. Ser Solton stared as the young woman with skin that looked like granite smiled behind her own helmet. Then an arrow struck her in the arm.
“Argh! That hurts! Are you alive, Mister Knight?”
More arrows were flying, and Solton rushed forwards.
“[Arrowguard Shield]! Behind me!”
He took on the arrows, and the unknown warrior gratefully took cover behind him.
“They’re everywhere. I nearly didn’t make it in the snow—you’re lucky I was in another village when Laken spotted you!”
How could anyone spot him? Solton had no idea how this woman was here, but she had the strength to send another skeleton with a shield reeling back with a single blow.
“What is your name, stranger?”
“Durene! [Paladin]! Now—if they’re shooting arrows, it’s my turn. [Shield Art: Shockwave Slam]!”
She lifted the huge shield overhead—and brought it down. A rank of the Frostmarrow undead advancing on them braced—but the tip of her shield struck the ground, and the snow and ground heaved.
The undead fell back, stumbling, falling over, and Solton was running. Charging forwards, shield smashing into the first skeleton’s chest next to the [Paladin]. Two [Knights]. And he breathed and almost wept in the cold night.
He had almost forgotten. Even in Izril—so long as he drew his sword for what was right—
A [Knight] never stood alone.
 
——
 
The last Snow Golems didn’t flee as the day dawned. The blizzard was still coming down. They just came on with the single-minded intensity of an avalanche.
But there were fewer of them. Stragglers as opposed to an army.
Normen woke up from less than an hour’s sleep and watched one slowly hopping towards him. This one looked like a proper snowman. No one had put clothing on it, to prevent wild magic from animating the snow. Or maybe the clothing had been pulled off by a prankster or just blown off by the blizzard.
The less-than-intimidating shape of a snowman minus the carrot nose made him reach for his mace. But it would take another six minutes to hop close enough.
And the group at the waystation might be gone before that.
“Light enough to see by—but the roads are hell.”
Zanze reported. He was wild-eyed from lack of sleep, and he had terrible scratches and cuts and a black eye from the fighting last night. No potions for him—but he looked triumphant.
Normen himself…stood taller. He exhaled as he got to his feet and pushed the blankets off him. His green flames were extinguished—but it didn’t matter.
“The Snow Golems are still coming. We’ll have to fight them as we go. I’ll do that.”
Zanze looked at the [Knight] as he rose. A green flame glimmered on Normen’s mace as he picked it up. There was no ember, but he didn’t need it.
[Knight of Honor’s Ember]. Level 30.
He felt like he could take on another legion of Snow Golems—until he felt his aching shoulder. But the will was there.
Unfortunately, Zanze had to correct Normen.
“We have to go back, Ser Normen.”
“What? But we beat all the Golems! Argh. My back!”
Jewel was clutching at her shoulder and back. She’d swung her sword so many times that she looked exhausted. Vess was inspecting his wand anxiously; he was afraid he didn’t have much magic left even with his Skills.
Antherr was patting the horses as Ama pet her skeleton cat. The [Necromancer]’s undead were almost all smashed from the fighting, but a pair of skeletons were duking it out with some Golems still trying to get them.
She looked rather self-satisfied by her heroism, nevermind the fact that she was the reason the waystation had been in such bad shape. But in this moment, Normen considered them all great heroes.
“The roads are iced over and covered in no less than four feet of snow, Normen. Our brave horses won’t make it, even if we had Corusdeer Soup. For their sake—we need to let them get back. Unless we can shovel this lot or melt it.”
Normen groaned as he realized the issue. The horses! They looked miserably cold without the Corusdeer Soup, and after last night, he didn’t have the heart to push them to their deaths.
“Can we even make it to Celum?”
Jewel looked nervously out the window, because it wasn’t like the roads back were any clearer.
“Miss Solstice is asking for help melting us a path. Besides, once we get to Celum, we’ll warm up. I’m sorry, Mister Normen.”
“That’s the problem with living horses. Zombies and undead are so much better, especially in the cold.”
Ama laughed, and Zanze whirled towards her.
“You’re the reason why the waystation was destroyed, Miss! I’ll have the Driver’s Guild on you!”
“Hey, we helped out! It’s not like we were holding anyone up! We even fed two [Drivers] who came through and pretended we were running the spot! It’s not our fault all the damn Golems came at us!”
Ama defended herself as her coven, who had sheepishly arrived and begged for shelter after the fighting, hid behind her. Zanze spat.
“Are you the reason there’s ice undead around Invrisil?”
She gave him a huge scowl.
“No, that’s why we left. We tried to control them, but they’re too powerful! They’re Frostmarrow Undead. And I don’t do ice magic. We barely got out of there, thanks to Sillias.”
She looked vexed as she petted her giant skeleton-cat. Normen shook his head, then had a thought.
Ser Solton. 
He would ask Erin to check on him once they got to Liscor. But they were only a day away from the other village…!
There was no hope for it. Normen hung his head. Ama was right. Living animals wouldn’t have a shot in the thick snow. They’d freeze or just get exhausted. And it…
His head rose. He eyed Ama, who was trading barbs with Zanze. He stared at her cat so long she protectively shielded it.
“What? Coming after my cat, Mister Knight? I only helped because I felt a bit guilty, and I was cold. But I know your type. I’ve done noth—I’ve done very little wrong, and I have powerful friends. Mess with me at your peril!”
She drew herself up even as she held onto Sillias’ shoulder. She was clearly ready to flee, but Normen hesitated only a second.
It wasn’t knightly as Ser Sest or Solton might see it—but Erin had told him he could decide how the Order of Solstice worked. And Normen hated riding horses.
“…Can that cat pull a wagon, Miss Necromancer?”
Ama hesitated. Normen slowly dug around in his belt pouch and found some gold coins. Erin had said he needed to be paid, even if a [Knight]’s life was charity. How had Solton said it again?
“I’d like to buy your services, Miss. Er—won’t you think of the children?”
 
——
 
The village called Rheirgest had survived the first day and a half of the winter storm and the Snow Golem assaults very well. The Snow Golems had attacked here, too. But Rheirgest, at least, knew how to hold them off.
They were set up on the highlands, which rose upwards towards the mountain range that separated north and south. Their novel method of dealing with Snow Golems involved gravity.
Snow Golems would try to cross a suspension bridge and promptly drop through the air where they hit the ravine far below. It was nearly half filled up from falling snow and Snow Golem bodies.
And not because Golems were incapable of crossing a bridge—this particular bridge was so treacherous that most monsters and [Bandits] gave up on crossing it.
It was rope. All of it. Two long handrails, which doubled as supports for the lattice of old fibers that created footholds…and left huge gaps for you to drop to your death.
