Water ran across Demas Metal as he broke ice with that mace. It coated his armor, clinging to the magical Demas Metal.
But it was just water. Extra weight, and he had no idea how the metal was supposed to work. The [Knight] stumbled as a blow struck his helmet, and he almost fell until a [Driver] tackled a Snow Golem, swinging his club into its side.
Even the horses were on their feet, kicking and biting and screaming. The waystation was so cold.
Everyone outside it was freezing. The fled travellers—the road—
You couldn’t even find the waystation in the covered snow, even if you were trying. The lantern’s light was dying.
But the [Knight] got back up and kept fighting. He was hugging the lantern close, now, swinging the mace around in the darkness. Shouting Zanze’s name.
He didn’t want it to go out. He wanted to die in the light.
It was from the inn. It reminded him of…the [Innkeeper]. A little ember. And he knew it came from the same woman who had set him on this great path.
She had magical flame. They burned like memories. Erin Solstice had so many flames. He had seen them as she died. The painful blue, glorious pink. There were more that he had never seen, reflected in her smile.
I was so happy.
It brought him up off his knees. It gave him the strength to heave hundreds of pounds of ice off his back. He had held her hand.
The flames had touched his hand. Just like a little Gnoll—
He had never stopped burning. He just couldn’t see that flame.
The little lantern was lying on its side. The ember was almost out, and even the prayers of the little [Emberbearer] did nothing. It had no fuel. But the reaching hand of the [Knight] touched the little ember in its case at last, clutched it in his hand.
At last, the dying ember found something to burn.
 
——
 
A flame rose in the shadows. Zanze was lying on the ground—and he thought he was hallucinating. He was so cold he’d just fallen over. Normen was down…the horses were backed into a corner.
The ember was out, he’d thought. What was that…flame?
It was green. It was the color of a blade of grass in spring. It was a ripe apple, hanging sour upon a tree branch.
It was the bright color of flame. It was…erin green, the color ‘erin’ and the name. And it was more than a color.
The flame burned like the idea of honor. An uncertain glow that was lost, almost extinguished at times. Other moments—it was so clear and vibrant that only the man who held it couldn’t see it.
Normen’s head slowly rose as the flames made the Snow Golem trying to smother him recoil. It tried to smash the flame, and it covered his hand.
Even magic could die. But then something unexpected happened. The flames…spread.
They were burning brighter. They had a fuel that defied the ember or mere wood. They were burning—
On the [Knight]. Normen’s armor, the azure metal, was glowing. It caught the flames.
Demas Metal. The flames began spreading over the armor, as if Normen were a piece of wood being consumed by the fire of honor.
[Like Fire, Memory]. But the man was not being consumed by this flame. He slowly rose, and he felt…
Warmer. Now, his armor was aglow, burning from helmet to breastplate with green flames. When his mace rose—it was a torch of honor. The Demas Metal was alight with flame.
He was so warm that Zanze crawled towards him. And a bit of fire—caught—on the [Driver]’s hand. He didn’t even care that it burned.
It was more painful than glory, hotter than sadness’ blue flame. But it was so warm.
 
——
 
Then a flaming [Knight] was on his feet. The Snow Golems, fearless of his wrath and armor and weapon—they were backing away from the flame.
One swung an arm of dead branches at his face, and he parried it. He had his shield—and the sparks of green rose as he blocked the branch. The Golem retreated, trying to lurch backwards—
He buried the mace in its head, and the snow melted. Normen lifted the mace and glanced around.
“Flames.”
It was doing something to his eyes. He was burning hot—but the flames weren’t immolating him. They were…they made him feel alive.
As alive as when he threw his hat down for the right cause. To defend what mattered. Normen saw Zanze was rising—then the [Knight] looked down and saw the ember, which had all but died, on the floor.
Green flames were growing from the floorboards. Normen had an idea. He slowly put his mace to one of the walls. The waystation, made of wood and stone—began to burn.
The flame of honor cared nothing for whether the wood was wet. It only required its true fuel. And Normen…he was gratified to learn he had an abundance.
But the flames were doing more than just warming him up and coating his armor in a flame. The fearful Snow Golems attacked, trying to drown out the heat and light before it could spread.
They came at him like a swarm, and the [Knight] bearing flames, the green knight—swung his mace. But he was staring out into the distance.
His eyes!
He thought he could see something. As if—the flames that coated him were lending him a kind of sight.
That oblivion of night. That snowstorm ate all vision.
But the flames illuminated something, despite the snow and distance. He thought he saw…hundreds of tiny flames ahead of him.
So far it would take a day of travel. They still burned, some banked low, others bright. In a few—there was nothing at all. Just ash.
The flame of honor burned like a lighthouse from the [Knight]. On the unlikely [Driver] who had not run, Zanze, it was also bright. On some, it was a forgotten thing, bitter smoke. In this cold winter—some had found it, and the flames revealed themselves to Normen.
Honor was something you could find again. Again and again. It was something that provoked when you saw it.
It was a choice. If you saw it burning on a [Knight], fighting alone in a waystation—
It did not belong just to [Knights]. It sputtered out in a group of six hiding just half a mile away. Normen blinked as he saw six little flames, all tiny. Two ran, and their fires winked out.
The other four hesitated—and three stayed behind. But one grew as it came closer. He turned his head—and more flames were burning in the night.
Seeing the fire at the waystation. They were coming.
 
——
 
“It’s him! I see it! Go!”
The other teams had lost the road completely. But one group of volunteers saw the flash of green—and knew what it had to mean.
There were Golems everywhere. In the snow, hundreds of them. The blizzard had made them pop up, and they were dangerous in their element. One of them was actually spitting icicles, like an [Ice Spike] spell.
—But a glowing arrow blew apart one shard of ice before it could hit the woman running at it. Another trio of light spells sent the oversized Golem reeling, and the quasi-elemental shaped like a kind of Drake raised a crude fist.
Then—Jewel’s blade slashed the top of its head off. The [Swashbuckler] landed and pointed.
“That way! Go!”
Three figures ran through the snow without going back for reinforcements. Another Snow Golem tried to block their way—and charged with surprising speed at the group. A second figure ran at it.
The two collided—and Antherr Twotwentyonethree Herodotus smashed through the figure of ice. The [Immortal] staggered—and then kept running.
The Drake with the wand flinched at the sight of the Soldier, but then he was firing spells from his wand again. Vess didn’t know why he was here. But the [Knight] had helped him.
He was returning the favor.
This group of three was making their way to the waystation in the distance. Three volunteers who had been searching half the night for a trail, going farther and farther from Celum and following what they thought was a road.
Antherr, Vess, and Jewel. Each one had volunteered when Erin Solstice asked. She had made teams of people willing to help. Relc, Embraim, Klbkch, Grimalkin—each one was elsewhere. Jewel’s group was the one who had spotted the flames.
It should have been all of Glitterblade. But Toimt and Hilten had asked if this was a paid job, and Jewel had told them it was volunteer work. So she was here alone. Jewel had been worried she would let Erin down again. She hadn’t been able to spot the waystation until she saw that flash of green fire.
Now, the building was properly aflame. The Gold-rank adventurer pointed to it.
“Is that…Erin’s fire?”
Jewel was panting. She lifted her sword, swung it—
“[Light Arc]!”
Her sword flashed, and an arc of light slashed through another Golem’s arm. The three ran ahead.
They should have gone back for help, but Normen had been out there for hours, and Erin had lost him in the blizzard. So Jewel pointed.
“Get to the waystation!”
Vess wailed even as he shot more [Light Arrows], frantically keeping them from being caught.
“There are hundreds! We’ll be surrounded!”
Good. More to hit.
Antherr smiled. But he was aware of the numbers. Normen and Zanze plus these three made five. Five versus two hundred…
Or was it six? 
Someone else was fighting around the burning waystation, having seen the [Knight]’s desperate stand. The travellers who had fled had come back.
At least, one of them had. Jewel stumbled and nearly stopped as she saw the strangest of sights.
A leaping, snarling cat was biting the Snow Golems, ripping their heads off. A…
No, it was made of bone! The [Necromancer] hitting the other Snow Golems with weak flame spells was hiding behind one of the horses.
Ama and her cabal appeared out of the blizzard. They had come to Celum and been lurking here when the winter blizzards had led Snow Golems to attack the waystation they had been using as a base.
Half her coven had fled rather than fight. But more undead were appearing, a Gargoyle skeleton trading blows with a huge Snow Golem eleven feet tall.
Jewel took all of this in as Normen appeared, trading punches with an Ice Golem with cracks running all over its body. The Ice Golem was fast, belying its material, and Jewel saw more dangerous Golems appearing.
“Get to the waystation! It’s a giant Snow Golem shaped like a spider! I have it!”
The Gold-rank adventurer charged at the strangest Snow Golem yet and went for one of its legs. Her silver bell rang, and she almost sounded like she was laughing in delight.
At last, a chance to prove herself! She leapt—
[Swordswoman’s Dive]!
—And a blade cleaved through one of the legs, forcing the Snow Golem to lurch and try to attack her. Then Jewel was retreating, the Spider Golem floundering with two legs severed—and six figures were standing in the flaming waystation.
“What are these things? Snow Golems? I’ve never—”
Vess’ claws were shaking. He’d seen Snow Golems, but nothing like the army of them. They were terrifying, not the occasional Snow Golem that came to life when someone forgot to put a hat on it! He unloaded [Light Arrows] into one’s chest, and Jewel snarled.
“Rookie, hit the head! Hit the head or blow off a limb! They don’t die! Zombie rules!”
“Oh! Sorry!”
Vess shifted aim, and the [Swashbuckler] leapt past him. She was constantly on the move, leaping from foe to foe. A flying kick knocked one of the Snow Golems off Zanze.
“[Launch Kick]! [Whirlwind Followup]—[Piercing Combo]!”
Her sword slashed through another arm of branches, and she finished the string of slashes with a lunge that took another Snow Golem through the head. She was—grinning. Normen looked side-long at the miserable Gold-rank adventurer who had been full of doubts and nerves at the inn.
And he saw the Captain of Glitterblade in her element. She was scything around, drawing foes to her, then leaping away. Attacking another Golem menacing Vess from behind. The Drake yelped and dove behind a counter.
He might have been a weaker fighter, but he rolled up—and was bracing the wand on his other forearm to steady his aim. When he began snapping spells off, he looked like what he was. A sharpshooter who had seen combat. He ran out of the way of another Snow Golem lumbering at him.
Ama and Zanze were not so capable.
“Sillias! Save me!”
The [Necromancer] screamed as her cat turned from trying to bite a towering Snow Golem in half. She screamed as a Snow Golem dragged her out from a table. She had been shooting weak Tier 2 [Flamespray] jets out, and she froze up as she shielded her face.
“Krekh.”
The sound made Normen twitch. He was charging over—but Antherr got there first. The screech-click coming from his mandibles made the Snow Golem dragging Ama over pause—and his greatsword rammed through its chest a second later.
But not a killing blow. It let go of Ama, and another lurched over.
“Watch out!”
Jewel leapt over—and the Snow Spider came crashing through one of the walls. She and Normen turned and began hacking through its legs, trying to keep it back. Normen turned—and the second Snow Golem, shaped like a hunchbacked Human, raised a club-fist. It punched Antherr from behind, and a shield appeared, blocking the blow.
[Honor’s Shield]. But Antherr still stumbled a bit—straight into the first Golem’s swing.
A block of ice for a fist hit the Antinium in the chest. Antherr stumbled—then raised his greatsword in all four hands and brought it down.
[Honorable Immortal]. He bisected the first Golem and turned. The second Snow Golem backed up, still throwing heavy punches. Antherr caught one fist—and his sword cleaved off a second head. Then he struck his chest with his fist.
Come at me. [I Challenge You]!
Jewel dove sideways as the Snow Spider climbed further into the waystation. Every Golem was suddenly heading at Antherr.
“No! Don’t take them all on! Back off—”
She slashed with her sword, giving orders, but Antherr just stood there in the center, stomping on the ground.
They’re all coming at me? Good. No one else gets hurt. 
I won’t die.
Normen couldn’t hear his voice, but he saw his intention as the [Immortal] planted his feet. The Snow Spider was almost on him, dragging its torso with its remaining legs as it opened huge ‘fangs’ made of ice.
Then a cat landed on it. A huge cat—and the Snow Spider found the bone-claws digging into its icy brain from above. It tried to fight back—but it had no real way to attack above it aside from trying to shake the undead off.
Ama’s cat. Sillias fought as fair as the [Necromancer]. She and Vess had piled up a bunch of chairs and tables and were standing on top of them, shooting down at the Snow Golems.
“Get that horrible spider, Sillias! But don’t get hurt, my dear!”
The cat leapt away as the Snow Spider collapsed. Antherr looked disappointed—but then Zanze was stumbling back from a Snow Golem, a green torch of flames in his hands.
“Watch out! They’re spitting ice spikes and forming up! What’s our orders?”
