“I don’t know! Maybe if we put a cup of water at, like—one hundred degrees Fahrenheit out and did a calculation of how fast it froze? Do you know the math on that?”
Yelroan’s head rose as Ryoka shrugged helplessly.
“How would you even calculate that?”
Both turned to look at Yelroan as the math Gnoll got to his feet. A challenge at last?
Erin was busy banging away in the kitchens, trying to upgrade her Corusdeer Soup in a hurry. She was telling Calescent, audibly, to put something hot in there. But first—Kevin grimaced.
“Is it Celsius or Fahrenheit?”
Ryoka hesitated and scratched at her head.
“It’s probably Fahrenheit. They use American measurements. Except where it’s really stupid.”
“Oh? I thought everything was imperial. What don’t they use…?”
“Ounces.”
“Huh. So they don’t use it here like we do in the good old USA? So [Alchemists] and [Mages] use…”
“Grams.”
Kevin thought about that.
“Yeah, that makes sense. Ounces? Isn’t it a weight and a volume? But then—Yelroan. Do things ever get above a hundred degrees?”
The [Mathematician] was edging closer with a notepad, and Kevin was searching his laptop for information on how to calculate…cold via observation like how fast water freezes. Yelroan raised his brows.
Fascinating. Their unit-system diverged from Ryoka and Kevin’s in one area? It sounded like that was because it got confusing with the same unit being used for multiple purposes. But then the burning question neither Ryoka nor Kevin seemed to ask was—
Who had decided ounces were stupid? More crucially, who had known grams were the standard unit of measurement since…the earliest known writing?
Questions. But he answered Kevin, trying to remember all the salient facts on temperature.
“I don’t often hear people measuring how hot it is, other than expletives. But there are a few [Mages] who have unit-systems. [Alchemists] definitely use them. I think things get above two hundred degrees when they…boil?”
Kevin and Ryoka nodded instantly.
“Fahrenheit. Okay, so how cold is it in that, Kevin?”
He did some rough math and sneezed.
“Below 0º Fahrenheit—and it’s getting colder. I hope Normen’s okay.”
 
——
 
Thirty minutes later, they were out of Corusdeer Soup.
It wasn’t an accident. Normen swung himself down from the wagons and realized the horses were freezing.
Their coats were frosting over, and they had slowed, despite Zanze’s Skills. The [Driver] swore as he jumped down.
“It’s the snow!”
It was already up to their ankles and piling up higher. And this was the road. It was making the poor horses even colder, and Normen realized they were beginning to shiver.
He didn’t even know horses got that cold. Zanze felt at one worriedly.
“Damn. They’re too cold for this! I even got a covering for them, and they’re freezing beneath it.”
“Could we give them—Erin’s soup?”
The [Driver] blinked at Normen, then the two were rushing to get the Corusdeer Soup out. The horses barely wanted to have any, but once they felt the warming effect, they were drinking it fast as could be.
That got them moving, but now, Normen saw Zanze looking over his shoulder.
“Can we get to a rest stop, Driver Zanze?”
“Ye-es…it’ll be six hours away. There’s a waystation that’s good for it. But Ser Knight, we might want to turn around and do this in the morning!”
Normen considered it, but then he thought of that letter. How long ago had it been sent? How long…could people starve?
Would he wait a day or two and then arrive and find…
“If you think we can make it to the waystation at least, we go!”
He put a hand on Zanze’s shoulder, and the [Driver] shivered. But he was urging the horses forwards.
“Onwards!”
 
——
 
The sun was already gone. The blizzard was getting worse, and now, Normen and Zanze were howling insults at the [Mages] who had called this blizzard.
“It’s like the hurricane! This is magic in the air making the storm worse! Damn them! Damn the Winter Sprites! We have to turn around, Ser Normen!”
“Are we closer to the waystation or Celum?”
The [Knight] still thought they could make it, but now Zanze’s head was swinging back and forth, and the [Knight]’s hand on his shoulder was doing nothing to reassure him.
“Ser Normen—”
“There are children starving out there, Zanze.”
Normen tried to use Ser Solton’s tactic, but the [Driver] was trying to urge the horses around.
“We’ll never make it to them today! Even Termin and Chaoisa would think twice about this drive! Normen, I’m losing sight of the road!”
Then Normen caught the real note of panic in his voice and looked around. The wooden markers that Zanze was staring at…
They were beginning to be buried in snow. And each one was around six feet high.
These were not the Lantern Lands or a place with powerful lights to keep travellers on the straight and narrow. This was a poorer road, branching from Celum outwards. And the blizzard was so bad—
 
——
 
Salkis barely made it to the gathering point. When she arrived, she was freezing, despite the Corusdeer Soup. She’d given herself plenty of leeway too, and the horse rushed into the stables.
She arrived to find less than a third of the Bloodfeast Raiders had arrived, and there was a row brewing between the rest.
“How many of you cast weather spells? Six? Eight? I told you we had a [Mage] on it!”
One of the senior Bloodfeast Raiders was shouting at some of the ‘young’ [Raiders]. Their fearless leader was sitting next to a fire, and he just turned and motioned Salkis over.
She approached apprehensively, and another [Raider] shivering by the fire drew a sword.
“You caused this storm? We nearly crashed out of the damned skies! That flying carpet froze under us! If Siroi hadn’t landed us in a snowdrift—”
A fight began in earnest, and Salkis nearly jumped into it—but the [Bandit Lord], Korizan Reeles, lifted a hand.
“Let them fight. Salkis. You have some explaining to do.”
“I found out a lot, boss. And I didn’t reveal anything. It was all just me—”
“Lady Salkis, flashing around her daggers in the middle of a Drake-Gnoll war. Fighting with Goblins and the Titan.”
His voice was flat, and Salkis couldn’t keep her claws from touching the daggers hidden on her arms. But the [Bandit Lord] didn’t move from warming his hands at the fire.
“Stop flinching. You vanishing draws too much attention. Discipline? That’s another matter. Do you have anything to give us other than a story of how much fun you had? Because the Raiders have been cooped up all winter with The Wandering Inn causing trouble for us. And this raid is delayed until at least tomorrow, possibly until the storm breaks.”
His tone was warning. Salkis was sweating because discipline was almost as bad as being hunted as a traitor. She had been on the giving end of it—and so she tugged something out of her bag of holding far too quickly.
“I—I have this. It’s huge, a big discovery. You know the Wind Runner and her sword?”
“If you stole that—”
A note of actual anger entered the [Bandit Lord]’s voice—until he saw what Salkis was holding. The Drake grinned nervously, but with some confidence.
“Better. Remember when we ran into her at Celum? Take a look at this, boss. We didn’t pay much attention to it since it didn’t work, and I couldn’t unlock it for the longest time. But I found…”
A glow shone brighter than the firelight as the leader of the Bloodfeast Raiders motioned his subordinates back. Then he glanced over.
“Get Salkis a seat and something to eat. It sounds like she’s a beloved member of the pack after all. Tell everyone else to hunker down and get to us tomorrow. I’m not rescuing anyone in this cold.”
 
——
 
By the time night was fully struck, even Tyrion Veltras had decided to wait until morning. Only fools abounded on the road.
Or desperate [Knights] trying to reach people. Now, Normen was relieved about one thing.
I’m glad we didn’t send the others on this mission and tested me first. 
Also—
Is Ser Solton alright?
He was on Invrisil’s roads, and it might be better that far north. It had better be. Because right now, he and Zanze were fleeing for the waystation as fast as they could.
Not Celum, incidentally.
The road was gone. The snow was piling up six feet high, and the horses were fighting through the drifts. Zanze had broken out an emergency wand, and he was shooting [Flame Jet] spells ahead at the snow to help break it up and warm them.
Zanze had calculated they were actually closer to the waystation than they would be to Celum if they turned around. But faced with a cold waystation where they’d have to start a fire and Celum…
There were two reasons they had gone on ahead. One was because they had a guiding light forward, not back.
 
“Hurry, you idiots! ‘Tis only ten miles ahead!”
 
“Ten miles, she says!”
The green faerie was shouting at Zanze and Normen. Both men were too cold to wonder how Shaestrel had found them, but the faerie was taking them to safety.
The entire event was being watched by a young woman in a wheelchair. Erin Solstice, via the [World’s Eye Theatre], was seeing their journey. Even her voice was—
Fragmented. As if the magical storm were interfering with her. Her image would…glitch, fade out, or twist in an unsettling manner. Normen was deeply unnerved by it, but Erin had described the effect like a bad piece of technology from her world. She was shouting, cupping her hands to her mouth.
“…Normen! Are you going to make it? Ryoka can’t fly—sending reinforcements?”
“You’ll never make it down the road! We’ll wait in the waystation, Miss Solstice! We’re fine!”
Normen shouted back.
“—maybe!”
That was hopefully a reference to the reinforcements. Not their wellbeing. But as Normen turned back—he saw something that made him wish he had asked for reinforcements. The horses sloughed on faster, blowing desperate clouds of steam in the cold. Because they had seen what was behind them.
“They’re coming! Stay back! —mn it!”
Erin rolled over, shaking her fist, and Normen glanced over his shoulder. The [Innkeeper] made the advancing figures hesitate…but they had figured out she was just an illusion a while back.
What a cowardly thing for a [Knight] to flee from. All his big talk about fighting men and being worried if he could battle monsters. And here he was, running from a threat that even Bronze-rank adventurers could tackle.
…But there were hundreds of them. They were marching, dragging lumpen bodies out of the snow. No neat, cylindrical forms, these. One had an arm as wide as Normen’s torso and used it to propel a misshapen face of stone and icicle teeth forwards. It had no unearthly glow to its eyes like undead—that was the worst part.
It was just snow.
Snow Golems. The naturally spawning Golems were out in force, and Normen and Zanze had run straight into an army of them.
“Faster, faster, you two! That lot will kill us! Dead gods, they’ll bury us and let us suffocate or freeze, whichever comes first! They’re not supposed to be able to catch us! They’re slow!”
Zanze’s eyes were showing their whites with terror. It was true that even an army of Snow Golems would be easy to outrun unless they were huge—but in this blizzard, they were catching up.
Erin Solstice appeared after ten minutes. She had vanished and come back—Normen hadn’t noticed. He was holding the Demas Metal mace in hand, and he had taken his shield off his back.
He was so cold. The Corusdeer Soup was losing a bit of power or it was getting even colder.
“Normen! Keep going straight!”
“What? What about the waystation?”
“…gone! Snow Golems…survivors!”
Survivors? Dead? Alive? Erin flickered out, and Normen couldn’t ask for more clarification. Then he looked ahead—and saw more figures emerging through the blizzard. Slowly, he stood up in the wagon as it slowed, and Zanze’s mouth opened wide with horror. The [Knight] looked around. He hefted that mace.
He thought there were at least two hundred of them.
“Wh-what do we do, Normen?”
The [Driver] looked around. Normen replied slowly.
“Keep to the road. It’s the only road we can take. Keep going—I’ll fight any of the ones who reach us.”
He didn’t move. Not yet. Normen just sat back down, tensed. His head felt too light. He needed a hat. Now he was looking ahead and behind, holding his mace in hand. It might be more costly a weapon than he knew, but it was heavy. The shield gleamed, and his armor had caught a covering of snowflakes across it, as if he were half snow himself. He just waited—as the first figures tried to catch up to the wagon.
Normen leapt off the wagon and into the snow eight minutes later. He brought down the mace on a lumpy head and smashed into snow and ice. Then he realized he was practically mired in the snow. Zanze pointed the wand, and flames struck a Snow Golem as the horses screamed.
 
——
 
Hindsight. Hindsight was a wonderful thing.
In hindsight, the wagons were a stupid idea. You should have paid for a team. Twenty, thirty with shovels, flame spells, to clear the roads, and [Winter Guides].
A shame all these people were heading south. But they were needed here. Hindsight.
It shouldn’t be a single [Knight] on the road. The Wind Runner, Tyrion Veltras, and Magnolia Reinhart knew how to deliver goods across Izril. Perhaps you had to leave it to them, high-level people with artifacts aplenty.
Arrogance killed. And they were an arrogant lot, [Knights]. They thought they could do what was needed. Virtue and arrogance…just like haggling. There was a fine line between being the man saving coins so he could spend it elsewhere, where it was needed, and a bully using altruism to steal from someone else.
Ser Solton thought of these things as his wagon slowed and his [Driver] slumped. The [Knight] leapt into the driver’s seat and felt for the man’s…he looked up and shoved the man aside, urging the horses onwards.
The blizzard wasn’t so bad, here. But he was facing something worse. Arrogance. Hubris…the horses screamed and ran faster.
The [Driver] was grasping for his hand, and Solton reached for a healing potion—and looked over his shoulder. Glowing eyes in the darkness. He tried to uncork the bottle with one hand, then smashed it and let the liquid trickle down onto the [Driver]’s chest. Behind him—more arrows flew.
Poor shots. But—Solton counted. He saw sixteen glowing pairs of eyes and wondered how they had sprung forth. They were not—normal undead, either.
Frostmarrow Skeletons. They looked like they were made of ice, and they were in pursuit. He could lose the archers, perhaps. But the [Knight] stared back and saw the horseman, the grinning skull and pale blue ice head turning his way.
