Now came time for action. Now came flame in cold winter. Now began the Order of Solstice.
But it was not going to be easy.
 
——
 
A crack ran straight through Izril. Not the one caused by the Gnolls at the Meeting of Tribes. The crack was called ‘competency’, or perhaps ‘levels’, and it had always been there.
The Humans of the north, the Drake cities of the south, and the Gnolls, now. Was it…wrong that he had been proud that his people had been on the upswing?
For the first seventeen years of his life, Yelroan really had thought Plain’s Eye was the future. He had heard the stories of how his people had been depleted, seen how they were forced into lands the Drakes didn’t want, on the back-foot, but the Antinium Wars had not touched them half as hard as Drakes.
He had felt like, in a generation or two, perhaps even his, Gnolls would begin to reclaim more authority in the world. After all—their competitors on the continent had both suffered grievous setbacks.
For the Drakes, the Antinium Wars had been devastating both in lands lost and their authority. For the north, the Goblin King had wiped out far too many noble families and destroyed what was essentially their entire system of management.
Nobles collected taxes, patrolled roads, enforced order, built great projects…their absence could not be filled by Magnolia Reinhart and the new generation alone. This was the moment for Gnolls to rise.
Then he had seen how Plain’s Eye did not want to even consider a class like his. Then—he had seen that Gnolls too were waning. Of course, it was only recently that he had found out why and the shame and guilt became his.
The Wandering Inn was a chance to redeem himself. A chance to do what he loved.
But the crack was still there. Yelroan had no other way to describe it. A crack in the world was how he saw it. And you see, it was in him.
He had a critical flaw. A weakness, and it was this: he was a [Mathematician]. Not an [Organizer]. Not a [Secretary] or even a [Princess], who had Skills that were directly tied to management. He was good at his job, but his class had always been more than doing income sheets.
Yelroan knew it. He had learned how to be good at his position because someone had to be—but he was no legend of Salazsar. Now, sitting in The Wandering Inn during the morning after Erin Solstice’s proclamation that the Order of Solstice would take on a great charge—sending food and firewood to people who needed it—the blonde Gnoll was sweating.
And not just because Mrsha was poking up the fire and tossing logs into the fireplace beyond what was comfortable. She and Nanette squatted around the fire, trying to make it as hot as possible, children enamored with a game.
The [Knights], Lyonette, Erin, were all running around, sometimes at cross-ends. They were also arguing.
“What do you mean you don’t have a horse, Ser Dalimont?”
“We sold them.”
“You sold your warhorse?”
Lyonette was apoplectic, but Dalimont defended himself.
“Your Highness, half our steeds were wounded at the Meeting of Tribes. Once we determined we would be here longer than we anticipated, we sold the other horses. And they were not proper warhorses—the cost in feed and housing was too high, and we could hardly ride them around. None of us are dedicated lance-experts; we bought decent horses in the north. We will simply have to acquire more.”
“At this time of year?”
Lyonette was fretting and for good reason. The winter and everyone heading to the New Lands meant now was not a good time to buy horses. Yelroan, one ear twitching, wrote that down on his growing list of concerns.
I think I have a file with all the stables. We could run the market. Celum, Pallass, Invrisil, Liscor, and see what deals we get, but we’ll be paying out the nose for it anyways. Who can do that? Me?
Here was his great flaw. The Gnoll was not panicking.
Oh, there was a lot to panic over. Erin Solstice said, ‘we must give food to this village’. And the questions popped up instantly.
How much food? How was it going to get there? Who would bring it? What about protection? How were they going to pay for said food? Was it all one food, like Yellats? What about the issues of preserving it?
Also—where was this food coming from? Food did not just appear on trees. Well, it did, but you had to get it down from there. In the winter, you had to have a market with enough of a surplus to let you have it.
There were even more issues than that, and those were just with the simplest things like food. There were roads made inaccessible by snow. Some villages wanted for firewood.
He could handle it. He could! Yelroan had the experience of running one of the Great Tribes from behind the scenes. He had seen the numbers, helped prepare groups or even sub-tribes for marches.
He knew how to do this. His weakness was that he could not do it well. If that made sense.
“All the power of math in me and I can’t enforce it. Mrsha. Mrsha? Don’t touch that.”
The Gnoll was lifting an ember out of the fireplace with a pair of tongs. She and Nanette jumped, and Mrsha nearly burned her friend, who had a little burlap sack in her hands.
“What are you doing?”
Noooothing. What’s up, Yelroan?
Mrsha wrote back innocently. He gave her a long look, but leaned down and whispered to her.
“Is there anyone good at haggling in The Wandering Inn? Do you know anyone who’s good at…sourcing quality provisions? Analysis Skills? Any animal experts?”
Mrsha cocked her head from side to side. She wrote a reply slowly.
Forsooth, I believe Lyonette is the best haggler. As for food-people…Calescent? Garia? Ulvama eats a lot. And I believe the leading expert on the matters of nature is me!
She puffed out her chest. The Level 11 [Druid] gave Yelroan a significant look, telling him he’d come to the right place.
Yelroan put his head in his paws and groaned.
“Great. I guess we’re going to have to call on Erin’s friends and hope they can lend a hand.”
Mrsha’s indignant look was also hurt, but Yelroan was just speaking the truth. Here was his issue: he knew what to do, but the implementation was beyond him.
A Level 50+ [Secretary] like Salii could have done everything herself. She had the breadth of Skills and training to do it. Yelroan? He could find you a stable that had horses for sale.
But he had no sales Skills. And he couldn’t tell good horseflesh from bad. Any Level 30 [Hustling Horse Handler] would take him for a ride. He could send Lyonette out, but she was a [Princess], and besides, she wasn’t the best.
“What is the problem, Yelroan? You need someone to get the best deals? Do we even have enough money for what Miss Erin wants?”
Nanette was more perspicacious than Mrsha. The Gnoll girl had gone back to poking at the fireplace, and Yelroan tried to explain. When the little witch got it, she shook her head.
“I can help. I learned how to haggle—and it’s good to learn everything, Mother says. A witch should. But you need the best deals. Do we even have the coin for…”
She waved a hand at Erin. The [Innkeeper] was making Numbtongue tack up a map to one of the walls and putting pins in it. Erin was telling him how to set it up.
“Red pins mean they need something. We do green ones for places that we’ve fixed.”
The Goblin nearly stabbed himself with one needle.
“So…all red?”
“No, you put the silver ones into places Magnolia and Lord Lance-a-lot can help with.”
She did have a system. And she had her own style of organization. Yelroan murmured out of the corner of his mouth.
“Actually, the funding is the least of our worries, Nanette. But—you can waste a fortune very easily, and I don’t think we’ll get a second chance if we do.”
The little witch’s eyes lit up. Erin Solstice was standing back, staring at the board being filled with red pins, and hyperventilating a bit.
“Okay. That’s a lot. A lot of…Yelroan? Yelroan, let’s get started. And Lyonette! I want to send Normen out today. At least one place!”
She sat back down in her chair. Normen strode over.
“I’m ready, Miss Solstice. Where am I going?”
Erin turned to him and lifted a hand.
“Hold on, Normen. We have to get you a horse or transport. And we don’t have the food or…how are we going to transport it? Is there a bag of holding big enough? And Mrsha, what are you doing? Put that down!”
Everyone turned, and Mrsha froze. She was—Yelroan twisted in his chair and nearly dropped his quill.
Mrsha was holding a glowing ember in her paws. Lyonette rushed over with a shriek of alarm.
“Mrsha, put that down! Put that—huh?”
Mrsha wasn’t burning her paws. In fact, she was holding the ember with a great deal of satisfaction. The [Emberbearer] gave everyone a hearty smirk.
Look at my powerful Skill!
[Hold Ember]. She was a Level 2 [Emberbearer], and all this business about cold roads had reminded her of her powerful class.
“Mrsha, put it in the sack, the sack! Look, Miss Lyonette! Mrsha is going to bring some warmth along.”
“She is not going on those cold roads, Nanette. And—when did you get another class, Mrsha? Not [Princess]? Not [Lady], even?”
Lyonette was dismayed by Mrsha’s lack of ‘proper classes’ as she saw it. But Mrsha looked horrified, and so did Nanette.
“We’re not going? But I’m a witch!”
And I’m a good girl! We’re going with Normen!
“Absolutely not! This is no business for you two! It’s freezing cold and—and someone has to protect the inn. Erin isn’t going.”
“I’m not?”
Lyonette ignored Erin as she took on a more cunning tone. She bent down, nearly burned her hand on Mrsha’s ember, and whispered to the two as Yelroan listened in.
“The Thronebearers have to stay, and so do you two. And me and Erin, for that matter, Mrsha, Nanette. This is a matter for Normen and the Order of Solstice. You see?”
The two girls gave her a suspicious look, rightly suspecting she was finding an excuse for them not to go out. But on the other hand…they looked at Normen, and Mrsha hesitated.
This was the very reason that the Order of Solstice existed. In a sense, this was their first test. If they could not handle this, what was the purpose of the [Knights] existing?
When you phrased it like that—the conversation in the inn became less about how to manage this great affair and more of how to empower a single [Knight] present at the inn to take on so many responsibilities. What Yelroan concluded was…
They needed to recruit. Now.
 
——
 
“We’ll call them ‘probationary knights’. Or prospectives. Volunteers. It doesn’t matter what, but Runner Herove, Menolit, anyone who has time and the will—they’re the ones who will have to run deliveries, Erin. And we’ll need every volunteer we can get, from Krshia to…Ysara Byres. They’ve volunteered their time.”
For once, Erin didn’t object as Lyonette laid out the plan. The [Innkeeper] glanced over, and a beaming young man she didn’t really know, Herove, was standing next to a few people who had inquired into becoming Knights of Solstice.
She didn’t like it, but the lack of manpower was beyond evident when it came to delivering to a single village.
“Okay, but Normen’s the only guaranteed [Knight].”
“And the only one with armor. I’ve figured out how we’re going to do this, Erin. Plotting a route isn’t too hard. The Driver’s Guild can tell us which roads are clear—or which ones we have to take to get to each village. We send a [Message] telling them we’re coming or just go if they don’t have a [Mage]. Since Normen can’t ride and because there’s so much, we take a wagon.”
“One wagon?”
Lyonette nodded reassuringly.
“Loaded with a huge Chest of Holding, Erin. It’ll have the capacity of three. And three wagonloads of anything is as much as we can spare.”
“Some villages are starving. Their fields are burned—”
“Erin. Three wagonloads of grain is better than none, and you can either budget for one village to get everything or spread around as much as you can. Speaking of which, you don’t have me to thank for the Chest of Holding or that organization. Chaldion sent his recommendation for how to best deliver the goods, and he has offered us Pallass’ storehouses. At a price.”
Erin’s face turned dark, but Yelroan took over.
“You need to accept, Miss Erin.”
“Why? We can buy from Liscor and Invrisil…”
“You can, but at what cost, Erin? [Merchants] have been buying up all the food and firewood and supplies for the New Lands. Everything from water flasks to stamina potions to camping gear is at a premium. Food? Fuel?”
Erin bit her tongue and knew that was the exact reason there was a crisis and people had written to Santa or her.
“Well—how does Pallass have so much?”
Lyonette gave Erin a look as if it were obvious.
“Why, they’ve stockpiled. In case of siege. Pallass has vast reservoirs. And the fact that Chaldion is willing to let you have any is amazing.”
Now their conversation from yesterday made a lot of sense. Erin was both amazed by Drake city preparations—and dismayed. Because the fact that they had enough to sell her was an indication that they hadn’t used it before.
Hoarding Drakes.
“Okay, how am I going to pay for it?”
At this point, Lyonette, Yelroan, and Erin got up and moved the conversation to the private dining room. The [Princess] had one of the Thronebearers guard the door, because this touched on secrets. The [Princess] even lowered her voice.
“Firstly, by telling everyone the food comes from Pallass. Chaldion also says he’ll take the entire lot on credit unless you have something to give him…”
Erin’s face turned darker, and Lyonette whispered.
“We’re not going to get a better deal, Erin. Do you have something to entice him with? A fortress or something?”
She gave Erin the look many people did, of someone expecting miracles. Erin hesitated and whispered back.
“Lyonette…I know I did the mysterious act, but I don’t have unlimited secrets to go around. I have some like—squids. A lot of secrets and gossip. But I don’t have even three dozen <Quests> and—free wonders to give out.”
“You don’t? But you said you spoke to legends!”
Lyonette had fallen for the same act as everyone else, despite knowing Erin for a while. The [Innkeeper] gave her an unhappy look.
“I spoke to thousands of ghosts, Lyonette. But how many knew where buried treasure was, even if the world looked the same? How many had a legacy to give, rather than regrets? Only the greatest ghosts, and some of them didn’t tell me even if they knew. I spoke to the King of Destruction’s grandfather, and he had nothing. They were ghosts.”
So that was why she wasn’t posting a <Heroic Quest> every other day. And here, Lyonette had thought Erin was being coy. What Erin did know was hard to get to.
