“My team…has been visiting the Djinni’s Spoon often. I am well set, thank you.”
She hadn’t had more than a single plate, but the wine had been flowing freely, and Xitegen shuddered.
“Only a Named-rank adventurer can claim to visit Invrisil’s finest restaurants on the daily. I patronize the Haven, and I will be feeling at my money pouch…well, for personal finances. Nevermind. I’m not House of El. To business. Lord Tyrion Veltras is not acting, but you, Arcsinger, are fortuitously here. Will you take my request? It has the backing of more than just myself and the gold to match.”
A Golem produced a slip of paper, and Elia leaned over and inspected it with Toreel. One look at his brows told Capoinelia it was a lucrative sum. Yet her mother was uncomfortable.
“What about…complications? This is not under Erin Solstice…the [Innkeeper]’s direct aegis, but I have been staying away from her inn for this very reason. And I understand there are physical defenses as well as a number of fairly high-level Goblins. These are all obstacles.”
Xitegen patted at his mouth. Not dismissively, but with a keen eye towards the golden bow that Elia carried. Awarded to her by the Five Families, no less, for her deeds. Her class was another example of her deed, as was her greatest Skill.
[Line-Ender Shot]. Xitegen met her eyes directly.
“I expect you of all women can shoot through them. You have our backing. The fee is to do what must be done. If the [Innkeeper] comes after you, or there are reprisals from Magnolia Reinhart or any other traitors…let them stand up and be told. Ignore the [Emperor], too. He might see all, but eyes are useless without the limbs to enforce will. Move fast once you cross his borders. Times are changing, but we must make a point—”
He stabbed at his plate and came up with a fried pawn.
“—of things. I, myself, just finished a screaming match with Aunt Ulva for two hours. You will have my backing in two days. Plenty of time to perform reconnaissance or prepare.”
“You were shouting at the head of House Terland? Why?”
Capoinelia was so fascinated by that she broke in. Her mother gave her a sharp look, which the younger half-Elf pretended not to notice. Xitegen didn’t take offense and smiled.
“Oh, it was mostly egos, Adventurer Capoinelia. You see, for the first time since the Goblin King’s invasion, Golems are leaving Terland lands on the coast. As if they can’t be brought back if the need arises. We have Golem Knights and Battle Golems aplenty to maintain Terland security. My aunt has a literal army surrounding her. I am just taking my own, personal Retainer-Golems south where they will be far more useful. Especially in case Lady Arcsinger needs…backup.”
He made that sound so casual, but then he swung his eyes to Elia.
“To prevent an attack on a good Named-rank adventurer. The deed is to be Arcsinger’s Bows alone. A fine distinction, but one I am sure you understand, Lady Arcsinger.”
That, at least, was politics the adventurers got. Nobles and influential people could not war openly. This was a step removed, a cold war by proxy. Ugly—but the mention of Golems made them feel better about any reprisals. Elia raised her brows, interested in Xitegen’s personal Golems.
“Are those the ones I remember seeing guarding Lady Ulva during the siege of First Landing? More like the ones you have?”
She eyed the bodyguards, and Xitegen hesitated.
“Ah. Yes and no. Retainer-Golems is just a term to refer to personal Golems allotted to each family member. You could say they’re akin to heirlooms. House Terland owns them all, and in theory, Lady Ulva could demand them, but she has no real reason. The ones I am referring to are the kind that went with Lord Veltras. In fact, that was dear Tovestin Iectore herself—the name of the Golem. Ulva was fine sending her to war, but I can’t even take her cousins with me without her chewing me out like her [Food Tasters] eat her dinner. That’s politics for you, and I needn’t bore you.”
Xitegen said this as if all of Arcsinger’s Bows weren’t listening and figuring out if they could sell or use this information. Being an adventurer at their level was all political. You could run around like a lesser team or sit, wait, make an alliance, and earn ten thousand gold pieces cheap.
In this case, they might stand to earn that for an easy contract. Elia ducked her head.
“You have a deal, Lord Xitegen. But we will need…to scope out the issue. Two days may be enough time.”
“Excellent. You needn’t kill all the Goblins. Just make a point. Leave no home for them, more importantly.”
Xitegen stood, and he checked a watch-like object on his wrist. Capoinelia’s sharp eyes saw it was a tiny scrying orb, embedded in expensive leather. The image of a moving Golem, one of the war-Golems, showed them marching over the roads, followed by a huge Golem with a gigantic bow. He smiled tightly at Elia.
“I will be waiting anxiously for your results. And don’t worry about Lady Reinhart, assuming she actually wants to back madness outright. The Circle of Thorns was a gathering of damned fools. Proper [Lords] and [Ladies] should have taken them to task a long time ago, but I have not strayed from First Landing until the Haven went south. Now—it’s time to turn our eyes back south and away from scrying orbs.”
He strode out of the restaurant, his Golems pausing only to settle the bill. Capoinelia sneered at his back.
“What a pompous pig.”
“Capoinelia, be silent. He’s more dangerous than he looks. And he survived the Goblin King.”
Elia patted at her lips and glanced at the table.
“I’ll have another glass of wine if Lord Xitegen is paying. We should have funds for…”
She gave Toreel a quick look, and he hesitated. The lion’s share of profits went to Elia, but she did pay for the entire team’s salary.
“Enough for at least a month in Invrisil. More than enough if we travel to another city.”
Angest, their [Battle Mage], leaned forwards excitedly.
“Invrisil is almost dried up. New Lands? Is Elia Arcsinger going to take the new lands of Izril by storm?”
He was a half-Elf from Wistram. Elia hesitated.
“Not unless the price is right. A month you said, Toreel? I suppose we had better get to work. Have the area scouted, and we’ll come up with a plan. It should be quick—or it will be political.”
He nodded.
“There’s a few people we might have to get out of the way. At least a few adventurers, but the Goblins aren’t that dangerous. It’s just getting to them and getting out.”
Elia nodded and relaxed. She lifted a hand for the waiter, and her team sat back, asking for more details, debating a plan of action—and her daughter was excited.
No one noticed Elia’s look of discontent. She had a very good poker face—but she glanced at the sum Xitegen had written down.
He knew she was expensive and this was political, so Xitegen had pooled the cost of this action among fellow noble members to pay for her services.
Fourteen thousand gold pieces, rounded into a nice, even number.
A month in Invrisil? Things cost far…Elia sighed. At least it was easy.
All she had to do was kill Goblins.
 
——
 
These were the changing days of Izril.
As Major Voita rode away with the singing Yoldenites, they paused only for a moment, nigh on a mile out of Liscor.
There, they had a diplomatic incident. Voita wasn’t aware of it—everyone was singing their anthem loudly.
 
“They’ll look high and then look low—
But we’re higher than you know—♬”
 
And laughing. The Yoldenites had quite enjoyed their time in Liscor, and they’d bought plenty of good steel and all the things they had on their shopping list, both for home and their journey to the New Lands.
This alliance with Liscor had turned out well, hadn’t it? The Antinium hadn’t been as horrifying as everyone said, and they’d put Big Wall on the map. Doine, but the other Drakes were a bit stuffy! And the [Innkeeper] was lots of fun.
Voita was looking forwards to speaking with the intimidating Commander Olesm and asking if he had a plan—the Hekkies wouldn’t be licking their wounds forever, and Yolden had more interests than just the war with them.
But someone came up to her.
“Hey, Lieutenant! We’ve got a problem.”
“It’s Major, now. What’s up, Mithm?”
One of the Drakes ignored her fancy rank and pointed over his shoulder.
“We’ve got a…tagalong. He won’t go. What’re we going to do?”
Voita slowed on her pony and looked back. She had to ride back through the singing wagons, and she heard voices as she neared the tail end of their convoy.
“Go back, go back!”
“He’s not going. Doine! Is it a he? Isn’t that the one who sings with us?”
There, trundling along behind them, was an Antinium. It was jogging to keep up, but it had a pack on its shoulders, and…the Antinium was singing along with the Yoldenites.
Voita recognized him, of course. It was the odd Ant who sang, one of them Workers. The Yoldenites had been taken by the singer, and so it had been funny to let the Antinium sing with them.
…But why was it following them?
“I think it wants to come with us, Major. Should we let it run with us until it gets bored?”
Voita hesitated. They’d gone a mile already, and the Antinium was keeping up. Unlike her amused friends—
“What if it actually follows us back to Big Wall?”
“Hah! That would be—bad?”
Some of the laughing Yoldenites stopped guffawing and took the suggestion seriously. The Antinium had never actually come to Big Wall, as it was not a strategic target during the Antinium Wars.
But every Drake knew the Walled Cities’ stance on Antinium, and in general, being an ally to Antinium was dangerous. Each town’s [Mayor] had actually debated hardest on joining Liscor because they might make enemies for being ant-lovers.
“We can’t have that. Someone might scry us and think we’re letting Ants form a Hive. Hey, you, go back! You lot, stop singing! Slow the roll! Slow the—”
Voita galloped up, and the Yoldenites stopped singing as they heard what the problem was. They slowed, and the Antinium looked up as Voita shouted at him.
“Go back to your city! We don’t want you! We can’t let you come with us!”
“Here, what’s his name?”
“I don’t know. We just called him ‘Singy’.”
They could hear ‘Singy’ still singing as he marched after them.
 
“♪ Yayde Re—keep a helmet on your head!”
 
He wasn’t even the best singer, but he had a passion to it that made you want to listen. And the class, Voita guessed. But what made her focus on him was…he had a little fluffy cap for the winter on his head.
Just like the Yoldenites. He might be the first Antinium to wear nothing but a helmet on his head. He was raising his mandibles and waving his arms.
“Speed up, everyone. Speed up. Hey, you Ant! Listen, you can’t come with us!”
But Singy just ran faster when he saw the wagons rolling. He didn’t even seem bothered by their apparent attempts to leave him. And when they shouted and pointed, dozens of Yoldenites now—
He just sang louder.
It wasn’t that he didn’t understand. It was that Singy didn’t want to go. Now, Voita was sweating. The Antinium Worker would die in the cold or to monsters, and she was not going to have that on her conscience—or relationship with Liscor.
“We could ride back to Liscor and tell them to take back their Ant.”
Voita looked over at one of her [Soldiers].
“That’s a good idea! Send a [Message]! The rest of you, keep telling him to go back.”
Now, the other Yoldenites were understanding the potential gravity of the situation. So they climbed up on the wagons, cupping their claws to their mouths and shouting.
“Go back! Get out of here!”
“Get lost you—you damned Ant!”
This time, Singy slowed. His raised mandibles lowered slightly, and Voita seized on it.
“That’s it! Keep shouting!”
He hesitated—then picked up speed. Running harder as the ponies now tried to leave him behind. Voita looked around for something else—then someone leaned over the wagons and picked something up.
“Here! Maybe this will make him figure it out!”
The first snowball missed the Worker by a mile, but he flinched. Then the other Yoldenites leaned over and, with their slings, whirled more snow at him.
“Go back! Go back!”
Snow hit the Worker, and he slowed, then tried to protect his face. And still, he kept running. Now, he wasn’t singing. But the Antinium shouted.
“Let me come! I’ll sing! I can clean! I want to come!”
I want to—Voita saw a few whirling slings slow, and it was barely a dozen throwing snow. One of the [Soldiers] glanced over.
“I thought they didn’t say ‘I’. I feel bad.”
“Shut up and throw snow!”
She packed snow into a sling and whirled a ball straight into Singy’s chest. Instantly, the Antinium fell over and landed on his back shell.
Voita hadn’t felt that bad in—the Yoldenites’ snowballs slowed, and a great silence fell over the convoy. The Antinium was flailing on his back—and he was crying out.
“Wait! Wait! I want to—”
“Lose him. I can see someone coming out of Liscor.”
Voita ordered, and the Yoldenites moved almost into a gallop, urging the poor ponies over the frozen road. A deep, disturbed quiet fell over them, not their usual singing. Someone muttered ahead of Voita as she rode, half-turned in the saddle.
“He wasn’t that bad. Never bit anyone’s face.”
“I feel bad.”
“Shh—”
Still, for a good long while, they could hear the little Antinium shouting and running after them. Tripping and falling—until they finally saw his people catch up. Voita couldn’t meet the eyes of the [Guards] who halted in the distance. She stared ahead.
Too ashamed to look back.
 
——
 
The Antinium changed too quickly to keep up. One of the things that changed about them, individually and as a whole, was their ability to be hurt.
It was easier when they were faceless bugs who bled green. Harder, far harder, to hear Singy crying.
“Wait. I want to go. I want to…”
He struggled, but the pair of Antinium [Soldiers] had his arms, and the [Guards]…the Drakes and Gnolls who’d ridden out with the Antinium they’d asked to help them looked uncomfortable. But if they were uncomfortable…
It had just been the nearest Antinium, not any actual chain of command. So the ones who’d come over were off-duty soldiers in Liscor’s 2nd army.
As coincidence had it, Antherr was there with the Beriad, who were holding Singy back as he tried to get free and hit them with his free hands, and so was Battalion Commander Embraim.
Antherr could not talk, but he could hand-sign, and the Beriad were telling Singy he couldn’t go with the Drakes. It was Embraim who gave orders.
“Drag him back to the inn. Do it gently.”
