“There’s a blizzard coming in! It’ll be hell—so we’re offering a 20% discount to anyone who wants a hunt today! We’re not holding your tails when it comes to sleeping bags and gear, though. You bring too little, you freeze. Note the fees on if we have to rescue you. Here’s a tip—you want cheap warming spells? A certain inn might have a soup.”
The group of merry Pallassians, Liscorians, and even some people from the north were chattering away as they treated this like…a game. Or rather, as a miserable challenge they were allowed to prepare for. You had noblemen and women, including even a [Lady] and her husband.
“Ooh, Thomast! Maybe it’s that soup! Let’s go to the inn and see.”
Lady Bethal Walchaís was the kind of woman who liked the idea of Liscor Hunted. She had signed up to ‘hunt twelve Shield Spiders’, like it was an Adventurer’s Guild. If she succeeded over the course of two days, in the middle of what sounded like a winter storm, camping outside, she’d get a trophy plaque as a commendation and an entry in Liscor Hunted’s registry.
Menolit had discovered that everyone loved trophies, so he’d done a system like the Adventurer’s Guild, but more fanciful. There were Bronze, Silver, and Gold-rank challenges where you could take on hard requests. ‘Gold’ was killing a Rock Crab. But there was also Platinum-level difficulty, and he was weighing adding more in.
The gamification of this entire company was highly cynical, and the guests were rich and doing this for fun with people to mind them and, often, armed with emergency potions and artifacts.
Chevalier Thomast looked resigned to his wife’s whimsy, but in her defense, Bethal Walchaís had actually prepared for this trip herself.
“We’ll go to the inn and see if Miss Erin has some soup to sell, Thomast. She might give us some even if there’s a queue. We are sending…how many [Knights] to those people? Magnolia’s coordinating it. Pryde, Wuvren, even Ieka is making moves.”
“We’re sending twenty-four [Knights], Bethal. Are you sure you won’t freeze in the cold?”
She shivered ostentatiously and clung to his arm.
“We will have to stay together for warmth, Thomast. Perhaps freezing side-by-side in a tent! Huddling together, naked, for warmth. Oh, how terrible.”
Normen was so embarrassed by the two that he turned away from the two guests—and inspected the company instead.
You might think that the staff of Liscor Hunted would be unhappy, catering to richer guests. But they seemed remarkably pleased. A Drake with a patchwork of scars over his face was pointing at them as he lectured some respectful guests.
“—Got this from fighting Shield Spiders, actually. Liscor’s 1st Army, 6th Company. Monster Limbs. You might think an army’d never struggle with them, but we had to clear out a nest of a thousand Shield Spiders sometimes. I was in the front rank. Don’t let them swarm you.”
Normen strode over as the Drake clapped the nervous Gnoll couple on the shoulder and laughed.
“Excuse me, sir. May I ask about the company?”
The Drake recognized Normen and grinned.
“Are you that [Knight] that Menolit can’t shut up about? You’d better not steal him. I’m Craus. [Veteran]. Liscor’s army.”
He looked interesting. Normen knew the type of former soldier that Craus was. But the Drake had an odd feel to him. He had definitely seen better days. He might be pushing sixty years old, and he had looked like time and poor living had worn him down.
But it seemed like something was pulling him back up. He had newer muscle that was bulging in recently bought clothing, and he’d groomed himself for today.
“What about?”
“Did Mister Menolit hire you for Liscor’s Hunted, perchance?”
Craus’ eyes lit up. He pointed to several other Drakes and Gnolls in uniform, many of whom had the military stance of men and women who had the training. And the scars.
“That’s exactly right. Nearly a third of the staff here are [Veterans] or people Menolit knew. Most of us older than him! Either we got out of the army or had to leave because of…politics. Or we’re just too beat up to keep fighting. Did that bastard tell you he dragged me out of my cups when he first started? I was about to take a walk off Liscor’s walls, and now I’m watching people jump into Shield Spider nests and getting paid for it!”
He laughed hugely and then pointed out a bunch of [Hunters] showing routes to people.
“And we have [Hunters] too. It’s a nicer job than hoping you can bag a Corusdeer, even if you pay to hunt around Celum from Miss Solstice’s doors. Now Menolit’s eying being a [Knight]? He keeps saying it’s what he should do. Once a soldier, always a soldier. I’ll vouch for him if you want.”
…But the Drake’s eyes were appraising Normen, and the younger man hesitated. He looked around Liscor Hunted, and his feeling that Menolit was not right for his Order grew into a certainty.
Look at this place. Former [Veterans]? [Hunters]? There was gold here—all the counters were glossy, and the fake medals, the hall of fame, and the scrying orbs replaying moments that had been broadcast on Wistram News Network—
This was a success. This reminded Normen of Erin’s inn. What the [Innkeeper] had helped Menolit do, the Drake had taken and replicated for hundreds.
Had Erin ever set foot in here? Did she know? If not, he should tell her to come here, and she would be as proud of this as she was of Garry. And that made Normen realize…
“I don’t think Mister Menolit’s right for the Order of Solstice, Mister Craus. I’ll tell him myself. He’s the right sort. He’s a good fellow. Too good.”
The Drake exhaled, and Normen was relieved that he took his meaning. Then Craus tightened his claws on Normen’s shoulder.
“It’s good you see that, Mister Human. Yeah. Yes. Thank you.”
Neither man was being cruel towards Menolit. It was just that when Norman weighed what the Drake had created with another member of the Order of Solstice…
Should Menolit abandon Liscor Hunted to become a [Knight]? No. No…it seemed to Normen that Menolit didn’t fit because he’d already found something fine to do. If he died fighting a monster in the back end of nowhere, what a loss for Liscor.
This was something for people who needed a purpose. It was a calling. It was…a chance. While it might hurt Menolit, Normen felt like the Drake was doing more good where he was.
This was his conclusion, and he would stand by it with Erin unless she had a better conclusion than he did. Normen looked south towards the inn, pacing back and forth in the cold snow. He sneezed; his armor was freezing already. He needed to ask for a cloak or something.
It looked like a storm was coming across the High Passes, billowing snow. Wonderful. And if it was coming this far, how much snow had it dumped already? He cursed the Winter Sprites under his breath. But nothing would deter him.
He had to go. But at least he wasn’t alone. Normen just cared whether or not he could make a difference.
 
——
 
The thing to remember was that the Order of Solstice’s challenge was not upon them alone. As Lyonette du Marquin had said to her daughter, The Wandering Inn was not equipped to deal with a crisis of this magnitude alone.
But—they wanted to be, and so they were joining a kind of competition. It was not actually a competition. It was…a unity of purpose that sometimes showed them they could do better.
From the City of Adventurers in Invrisil, more of Erin Solstice’s friends, acquaintances, and enemies she kept alive were moving.
The first was the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. People pointed up and waved as the Wind Runner of Reizmelt, the Courier, the Windy Girl of Ailendamus took flight.
She was bundled up like a sausage attached to her glider, and her bag of holding was loaded with as much as she could fit in. She would have to make dozens of trips, even so, to keep up with what a loaded wagon could accomplish.
But she would be able to arrive there fastest and, crucially, assess villages and prioritize them in order of need. The fastest of Erin’s friends was on the move.
Almost coincidentally—the frozen roads being buffeted by tremendous winds and snow churned up. Few people wanted to be out, but a column of riders plowed into the snow—
Then began running on top of it. That ridiculous sight—and the rider in front, pulling an entire carriage behind him—was a [Lord]. Unlike usually, though, his two boys were not in the back seat.
It was too cold and potentially too perilous for Sammial and Hethon to join in. Ullim had charge of them. But Jericha was riding behind Lord Tyrion Veltras as he followed Ryoka Griffin out of Invrisil.
She made a hand-gesture from above. She pointed right—then gave him a thumbs-up before turning her glider and peeling east. Tyrion Veltras raised one gauntleted hand. Then he sped up.
The carriage he was pulling was filled with necessities, and his entire escort had bags of holding they’d loaded full to capacity. There was no way Erin Solstice’s Order could match that in terms of mobility or storage.
Same with the carriage that the shivering [Butler] was pulling, also loaded up. Reynold was cursing the inferior vehicle, but Magnolia Reinhart had sent five more, each painted pink, and he had his own route.
“Veltras is on the move, Miss Bekia! And the Wind Runner!”
He shouted at another driver, the Gnoll [Maid]. Bekia glanced up at Ryoka Griffin.
“Hrr. Yes, and they flirt like children. Let them go ahead, and stop racing them, Reynold. Let’s hope we have enough flame spells for the roads if we hit a snowdrift. I miss the enchanted coach.”
Reynold sneezed into a gloved hand miserably.
“Me too. It could fly.”
Nevertheless, he looked after Lord Tyrion Veltras and had to think—whatever you made of Ryoka Griffin and his acquaintanceship, she might well be helping him change for the better. A younger man, better in tune with his sons and responsibilities, perhaps, rode at the head of his convoy.
What no one would have expected was the red hat with the poof ball tip on his head. Someone had even bullied him into wearing a white beard, which whipped in the breeze. Despite the man having had a goatee for decades—it was the stupidest looking piece of fake hair that Reynold had ever seen.
The [Butler] wondered if people would even recognize him as Tyrion Veltras in that getup. But thence the [Lord] of House Veltras rode. Doing deliveries like a Runner.
Levelling as a [Lord].
 
[Diligent Lord Level 29!]
[Skill – Unit: Snowcover Riders obtained!]
 
——
 
Not everyone saw this as a good thing. Tyrion Veltras’ passage on the scrying orb was not international news.
Wistram News Network had had enough of Santa and Christmas for now, and this was a local broadcast. A scrying orb reflected the Wind Runner, then focused on Lord Tyrion as best it could.
But the man could not be individually scried, and soon, the coverage was lost. The restaurant, Djinni’s Spoon, one of the most famous in Invrisil, flicked back to a more boring news coverage of King Fetohep roundly shaming a Dullahan city for not having adequate housing for transient individuals.
Thence, a lot of the diners lost interest and resumed dining. Yet one man’s eyes followed the scrying orb, as if he could still see Lord Tyrion.
“Of all the men to turn traitor and forget his enemies—I never expected it would be Lord Tyrion Veltras. But then, love makes fools of us all.”
Lord Xitegen of House Terland sat there, eating his third plate. He didn’t lick his plates, but he did use a finger to mop it clean.
That was somewhat horrific to dining sensibilities, but there were good [Lords] and bad ones…and he was paying for the food. Xitegen certainly had an appetite, and he weighed twice or maybe even three times what the woman sitting across from him did.
As if conscious of the difference between their sizes, the [Lord] wiped his hands with a handkerchief. His Golem servants produced the bit of enchanted cloth; he only had two, but they were deadly and capable.
He was a strange man. One of those [Lords] who didn’t tend to the spotlight. Son of one of the great Five Families, but until now, Capoinelia had never heard of him.
Capoinelia, a recurve bow hanging off her chair, was the model of a half-Elf. Her blonde hair shone almost as brightly as her armor, and she sat in the company of a famous team of adventurers.
But every eye was on the woman who sat across from Xitegen. Elia Arcsinger, the Named-rank adventurer. Slayer of the Goblin King.
She was far too important to be summoned by any mere [Lord], but to Capoinelia’s surprise, Xitegen had known her personally.
“You have not changed a day, Lady Arcsinger. Ah, apologies. There are two Arcsingers now. Adventurer Elia sounds so…informal, though.”
The [Lord] nodded at Capoinelia, who floundered for a response, but Elia replied with the barest hint of a smile.
“It is quite appropriate for a man who knew me before I was a Named-rank adventurer, Lord Xitegen. Does Lord Veltras have some quarrel with you?”
Elia Arcsinger had a very quiet voice to people who didn’t know her. Often, she let her teammates, like Toreel Branchwrath, the [Elfwood Ranger] from Gaiil-Drome and their acting strategist, do negotiations.
But Xitegen seemed to put her more at ease. Elia’s team, Arcsinger’s Bows, were made up of bow-users with heavy warriors to block their enemy off and a few [Mages] at any given time. At the moment, they were a team of nine, and they’d been hunting down monsters in the cold and waiting for all the funds from the Village of the Dead raid to come through.
And they’d been robbed of what they should have gotten, like the Helm of Fire! Capoinelia was still angry about that, but no one had been able to argue with Elia’s decision. Why had she let that half-Elf, Ceria Springwalker, make that deal, though? Even if they were the same species…
“Veltras? We’ve barely talked. He’s a single-minded man. I just never thought he’d ignore Goblins. Especially after he dealt with the Goblin Lord. He was there when the Goblin King attacked…ah, how old was I when we met? The Goblin King…eleven years ago almost to the day. So I was thirty-three. You needn’t say you remember me. I quite remember you, and the cheering, though.”
“You’ve—recovered since then.”
Elia managed, looking faintly awkward. And Xitegen laughed deep in his chest. He looked oddly mobile in his chair. Capoinelia expected a fat slob, but he wore an archer’s bracer—without the bow—and he was spritely enough to walk around the city on his own legs.
“I weighed less than you did when you finally broke the siege on Terland’s keep! Which reminds me, have you had your fill?”
Elia raised her glass and smiled faintly.
