A skeleton rider lifted a sword, and Solton urged the horses onwards. Then he let the [Driver] grasp the reins and went for his shortbow. Undead in the cold.
The Haegris Knight said nothing as he nocked the first arrow, knowing how hard it would be to slow a skeleton with a bow. He feared he might never get to tell Normen what a fool he felt like.
 
——
 
But if you had to go—Normen shouldn’t have gone alone. He should have had…the horses were not able to move in the snow.
They collapsed when they reached the waystation. Just collapsed—and Normen and Zanze had to haul them indoors.
“They’re coming. We have to barricade the entrance.”
“With what?”
The waystation had already been breached. There were two holes in the walls where the Snow Golems had fought through.
Normen had heard of zombies doing this, but—the Golems? He was panting, wild-eyed, and sweat was freezing on his skin.
He thought he’d killed nine golems. Nine, after nearly forty minutes of fighting.
A poor record for a Brother who knew how to kill—but only a blow to the head that destroyed the truesnow would kill them. And they were tough. He was literally trying to bash through solid snow and ice.
However, his armor had saved him. Twice, they had tried to bury him in snow, literally falling on him because their blows hadn’t done more than make him stumble.
Suffocating in the snow was a bad way to die. What had really equalized the battle was the fact that Normen was unable to move fast in the snow—and the fact that he was so cold. His arm was frozen, and they should have kept moving.
Erin had been right. The waystation was breached. The warm, safe walls were letting the wind through. But the horses just collapsed onto their sides.
“They might have frostnip. They can’t move. We need a fire…”
“Golems are coming. You get the fire started.”
The waystation was a mess! It was dark, tables overturned, and Normen saw tangled bedsheets and a frozen mess on the ground. Zanze was swearing.
“This is supposed to be in good order!”
Waystations were a haven for travellers just like them. This one hadn’t been kept up. It was the duty of travellers to at least make sure the waystation was in as good a position as they had left it.
However, this one had been a mess before the Golems broke in.
The beds were all used, and to look at it—Zanze was howling curses.
“They’ve been chopping up the walls for firewood! That’s why the Golems broke through! Half the floorboards here—if I find who did this, I’ll kill them.”
Normen said nothing. At least the lack of bodies proved whomever had been here had made it out. At least, he hoped they were alive and not frozen or buried under the snow. If he had known where they were…
Right now, they needed to live through this themselves. Normen was wrestling a bedframe up—and he heaved it across one opening just before a snow-covered hand tried to grab him. The Golem began smashing against the wood barricade. Zanze hauled more frames against the other.
The stupid Snow Golems were less intelligent than undead. That was a mercy; when they reached the waystation, most just began hammering on the walls or trying to climb up with no success.
“I’ll start the fire.”
“Do that.”
Normen was walking over to the door. Zanze looked up, eyes wide.
“Wh—put that back! What are you doing?”
Normen was lifting the doorbar. The [Knight] turned at the door.
“They’ll get in sooner or later. There was a fight here, Erin said.”
He hadn’t seen her since her warning about the waystation. Either her [World’s Eye Theatre] was out of power—or the storm was so bad that even her Skill couldn’t get through. Either way—he was glad.
He didn’t want her to see this. The Brother lifted the doorbar and swung the door open. The Snow Golems were so stupid they didn’t even realize the door was an entry point.
Cold snow blew over him, and the [Knight] turned, wearing his Demas Metal armor.
“I’ll distract them. Get the fire started.”
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] wasn’t sitting still. But her friends had physically kept her from going to Celum. She…could only wait. She had placed her pieces poorly.
Her [Knight] was fighting alone for a moment.
Hundreds of pawns surrounding him on a white board of falling snow. Black skies. And only the burning in his chest.
He begrudged her nothing. He had always known he would be alone.
Normen knew he was a poor [Knight] in deed and composure. He had no elegance to him, he was not a thoughtful man.
He was not the best fighter.
His mace bounced off a ‘helmet’ of frozen ice. The snarling man grabbed a shoulder as teeth of frozen ice tried to bite through his wrist. He steadied himself—swung.
[A Heavy Blow].
This time, the mace cracked a skull. Like brains, the truesnow fell out and melted. He had done that to a head. Felt the life leave a man as he looked in those eyes and saw someone die.
This was better. This was just snow. Normen stepped back and shouted.
“Who’s next?”
His helmet felt warm. The only thing about him that felt warm. He was freezing, and it seemed like there were shapes everywhere. Lurching towards him.
It felt like Erin’s voice was speaking to him. He heard it, in between his labored breaths. Normen lifted the Demas Metal mace up, and his arm burned already.
 
“Old ways knew times when all that there was were memories. Shattered thrones. Dark skies and no kingdoms.”
 
He whirled, in the darkness, as one of them threw something at him. A snowball? It was two feet wide, and ice and rocks struck him, nearly sending him over. He lifted the mace, snarling—
 
——
 
No kicks worked on them. They barely felt his off-hand, punching and elbowing them. But he was a Brother.
[Brutal Headbutt].
His helmet made one reel. Every time he struck their truesnow center—or the mana crystals, their ‘hearts’ in their bodies—they suffered. Normen was shouting.
“Zanze! Can you ride?”
The [Driver] was throwing pieces of flaming wood from a window. The man looked out at Normen.
“Ride?”
“To the village!”
“The—”
A blow from the back. But Normen was used to unchivalrous blows. They tried to drag him down, three small ones at his waist. He brought an elbow down on one’s head, planted a thumb into another’s eye, and gouged out snow.
He was still thinking of the village. Rheirgest. They had to reach…
 
“A [Knight] is an idea. It is honor and duty and valor. It is a calling and a responsibility.”
 
Why was he wasting time here? He was cold. Beyond cold. But the [Knight] was still moving.
Normen was getting…
Angrier. It bubbled in him, the same rage that Crimshaw knew. Every Brother’s fire that took his hat off. But this was a purer thing.
At last, I have a cause. And I will—damn—you all before I stop—
This wasn’t for gold. Normen hammered his mace down on a shoulder, punched a frozen face. Twenty-one. So many more. This wasn’t for honor.
If only he had the strength to do more. He felt at his helmet, but he wasn’t angry. His hat held little wrath. Just…the burning desire not to fall. Then Normen tried to raise his arm, and it was harder than he could ever remember.
He was getting colder.
 
——
 
Zanze pulled him inside, and his wand was spent as it spat flames into the retreating Snow Golems. They flailed, afraid of the flame and the torch—but advanced as soon as they realized the flames were gone.
Normen was barely moving. His armor was covered with snow, and Zanze dropped him next to the sputtering fire.
“C-cold magic. They’re snuffing the flames. I’m trying to…”
He ignored the hammering on the walls and a hand of bent deadwood trying to push the barricades aside. Normen lay there as Zanze bent over the fireplace and blew, blew as hard as he could, adding more tinder and trying to rescue the flames.
Magic had its own law. Nevermind the cold—the Snow Golems’ presence was literally nullifying the ability for fire to burn.
So that was why the last travellers had fled the waystation. They had clearly put up a fight, but the presence of so many Snow Golems had forced them out. Cold had done what the Snow Golems themselves could not.
They’d fought for a long time by the look of it. No corpses. But lots of frozen footprints. Even what looked like gashes on the windows from claws. Gnolls?
Normen was so cold.
He tried to sit up and lift the mace. He’d begun swinging it two-handed, because he had run out of strength for the shield. But his fingers were physically incapable of gripping properly. He rolled close to the fire—the wagon’s goods were spilled over.
“Eat something.”
Zanze had plundered some of the food meant for the village, and he shoved a burnt Yellat at Normen. The man tried to eat. He wished it scalded his mouth. So cold…
Then the fire winked out. The [Driver] blew—and then saw smoke rising. He spoke as a horse shifted and whinnied in the silence.
“Too many Golems. The fire’s out. We might have a chance if they don’t break in, but we’ll freeze. If we take the horses—we might ride out. They’ll freeze before we do, but we could get ahead of the Golems. That’s what the last group did, I bet.”
Sacrifice the horses? Normen tried to push himself up.
“…The wagon will never get to the village without the horses, Zanze.”
The [Driver] turned. He had a terrible look on his face Normen knew, but he actually grinned. His hair was laced with ice, brown, and his eyes were a flint-and-violet mix.
“You’re really something, Ser Normen. You know—I took this delivery despite the danger because I wanted to help that Order of Solstice. I’m glad it weren’t for show.”
“Never.”
The two men looked at each other, then Zanze nodded towards the pounding on the door.
“Those idiots found out we have a front door. But the back sounds like not many are around it.”
“Could you take both horses out? If I distract them—I need a few minutes. To warm. Maybe you can leave, circle back.”
It’s a cold night. Normen had no idea what time it was, but even all the fighting he had done—he doubted two hours had passed.
Was it only ten at night? It’d be eight hours until dawn. Eight hours in freezing cold for Zanze and the horses.
But this waystation was getting colder—and it was a deathtrap. Zanze looked out the window.
“I can try. But they’ll be all over you, and there’s no way you’ll make it out without a horse—”
“Both need to be alive. Bring them back for the wagon come day. Miss Solstice will send someone.”
Yes, that was it. Normen was shivering so badly now—he looked around.
The Order of Solstice was more than one [Knight]. It wouldn’t end with him.
This was just the beginning.
“I need you…to do something for me, Zanze.”
“What?”
“Tie my mace to my hands. I can’t hold it right.”
Freezing. Numb. He was reaching for that righteous feeling, but Normen…he realized the Snow Golems were freezing them to death. He had to get out there and make an opening.
Both men stumbled over to the wagon’s contents, fumbling around for…for linen. Zanze wasn’t saying anything.
“I think…I should stay, Ser Normen. I won’t last eight hours. Nor will the poor animals.”
“…Maybe.”
He wanted to lie down. Ah, Miss Solstice. What would she say? How would she look?
She’d weep for him, and he wanted to…was there paper for a note? He wished she’d return so he could tell her to her face that it wasn’t her fault. This was his for not being ready.
She needed better warriors after all. She’d blame herself. Normen muttered.
“Every Brother will take my place, Miss Erin. Don’t you worry. Don’t you fret. I didn’t say it to you, not yet, but I wanted to recruit from them. They’ll be your [Knights]. They want to believe they’re good men. And you can make it true.”
Normen almost began to hum. He stopped himself—then decided he still was a Brother. He was also a [Knight]. It was no good, pretending he was one or the other or neither.
 
“The night’s been long and the bodies are wet,
But don’t you fret; be quick and ain’t not a guard who’ll be upset…”
 
He just wished he were warm before he went out. Normen had heard a man got warm before the end…and he feared this was it.
Because his freezing hands suddenly felt warm again. Just the slightest bit in the eternal frost around him. The dark waystation…Zanze’s quiet mumbling to the horses, trying to get them up so they’d have a chance on their hooves—
He even thought he saw light. Then Normen realized he wasn’t hallucinating. His fingers closed as he slowly lifted something out of the wagon’s contents.
“How…?”
A little something was still burning in the cold night. It was…
A lantern. A tiny, faded ember was still glowing in its wooden cage. It was Mrsha’s ember. Normen’s hands closed over it, and he felt his frozen skin warm ever-so-slightly.
“What’s that light? How—?”
Zanze turned and saw Normen holding the lantern in his hand. The [Knight] slowly turned, and he thought of the little Gnoll offering it to him. He saw her—and wondered who had written that letter to Erin Solstice.
 
Dear Santa,
Please send my village food this winter.
 
The words sounded loud as thunder in his ears. The [Knight] slowly lifted the lantern up and began to clip it to his belt. But it was warm—so he held it with his off-hand as he lifted the mace.
“It’s a sign, Zanze. Are you a good man?”
The [Driver] was shivering, but it felt like just the sight of that little light was warming the two. He was lifting a crude club, a [Driver]’s last resort, in his hands.
“I…who calls themselves a good man, Normen?”
He looked at the [Knight] and was about to say only Normen could claim that. Then he saw the delighted smile on Normen’s face. The Knight of Solstice turned to the door.
“Exactly. I’m sorry for putting you in this spot, Zanze. But there’s always a chance. We’ll fight here. And I’ll let you in on a secret: no man gets to know if he was a good fellow.”
He turned his head, and his ordinary, brown eyes seemed to gleam with the light of that little ember, a different color. Like a [Witch]’s hat.
“…but we can know if it was a good death.”
Zanze’s shivering grew terribly strong—then stopped. He smiled—and Normen lifted the latch of the door. He invited winter inside. He shouted, a roar, and the lantern glowed in the night. And he could hear her.
 
“I ask if you are willing to be a guardian of those in need. A protector of the small.”
 
They came in, frozen bodies shuffling forwards, seeking to drown out the disturbance to their icy homes. Two men, two animals.
But it was hard. One of the men had a light that refused to go out. It seemed like he was trying to warm this world with passion alone.
