The inn was abuzz with regular business and normal guests. It had helped load up a wagon in Celum, and Halrac was warming up as a Gnoll pestered him.
“So do you want to team up? Jelaqua is getting married.”
“…She’s what?”
Halrac stabbed himself in the cheek, and Lehra Ruinstrider blew out her cheeks.
“She’s getting married. Engaged. Whatever. So her team is, like, kapoof. And Shriekblade is loyal to the inn. I went to Invrisil, but Elia said she’s only interested in searching for the Crossroads or the City of Stars if I know exactly where it is. And she wants thousands of gold pieces each month. I can’t afford it! But your team is good. How about it?”
“I’m committed to the Unseen Empire for a period. Speaking of which…I have to go soon. We have a delivery. Apologies, Captain Lehra.”
“Aw!”
The Gnoll sank her chin onto the table. She looked at Suxhel, Elgrinna, and Emper and called out after Halrac.
“—But I need help. We can’t do this alone. We’re not ready to go solo as a team. Not yet.”
Stargazer’s Promise looked up, and the Named-rank Gnoll seemed to have come to a kind of conclusion. They weren’t ready to take on another Dragial or Erin’s quest. She needed allies. The problem was—the only willing volunteers were Mrsha the Wizardly and Nanette the Witch.
Lehra ignored the duo posing next to her table and stared hopefully at Shriekblade. But Tessa didn’t move for anyone. Just like Saliss—she had her own priorities.
In fact, even Erin Solstice couldn’t get her to run Santa deliveries. They’d had a short conversation, and the Named-rank adventurer had refused.
“I don’t want to. I’m not good at guarding things. I get lost. I kill things.”
“You don’t…want to help people, Tessa? Please? I know we don’t really pay you, but the Faerie Flowers—”
“Don’t take the flowers.”
The scarred Drake with black scales had snapped at Erin. Then—she quivered as she sat in a chair across from Erin in the [Innkeeper]’s rooms. Tessa spoke, slowly, with an edge to her voice.
“I’ll—protect the inn. Okay? Deal? I don’t want to be sent on missions.”
“I totally get it. I’m sorry. Are you…doing okay? Do you want to have another chat?”
“I don’t want to talk about my past. I’m fine. I’ll be guarding, okay?”
Tessa vanished, and Erin’s eyes traced someone going out the open door.
“Okay. But I want to speak with you at least tomorrow, Tessa. Don’t hide. And—let me know if you’re doing bad, okay? I wasn’t going to take the flowers away either way.”
Her greatest, unseen protector was her least-controllable asset. Which would be fine and dandy normally. In truth, Tessa could see doing whatever Erin wanted. She was free of her worries. She had been completely, utterly cured by the Faerie Flowers.
No more…pain. No more blankness. She felt again, and she had begun wanting things. She had begun eating more and enjoying sleep.
So what had provoked this sudden change in mood? It was unexpected. Unforeseen.
A letter. And the letter would have never been sent if it weren’t for the actions of one Goblin. But more specifically—Archmage Valeterisa.
You see, the Archmage of Izril, who was working on her transportation service, was starting up a number of endeavors. One she was offering and hoping to make widespread was—
Valeterisa’s Restoration Services. She and Montressa were trialing the spell for now, and since only Valeterisa could cast it and it took a considerable amount of mana, they were working out how to use it. But word was spreading.
That was a slow, slow shift in the way healing worked, and it would always be limited by magical power and access. But the immediate, real-time effect was that a certain Healer of Tenbault had returned to her city and realized a few things.
1. Magnolia Reinhart did not have her back. She had been kidnapped once. It could happen again.
2. Her security, even the famous Crowdcaller Merdon, was not enough.
3. She might soon be facing competition from multiple sides, especially if that spell was leaked.
The word on the streets was that the Healer of Tenbault was accepting twice as many people per day, but prices had also gone up. She had also been reaching out to her most lucrative clients.
One of them was Shriekblade.
In truth, Erin Solstice didn’t know much about Tessa, who refused to really share a lot about herself other than how she had killed her myriad foes. Nor did Erin know about Healer Hekusha, who, ironically, was a small part of Erin’s return to life. Rags had only mentioned her as being ‘underwhelming’.
But if Erin wanted to get a good idea of Hekusha’s entire personality and character, the letter that Tessa had finally opened would explain everything, from the Drake’s mood to who the Healer was.
Here was what it read. It was a simple letter and attachment, a literal attachment.
 
Dear Adventurer Tessa,
It is I, Hekusha, the Healer of Tenbault. I hope you have been keeping well in (Salazsar). I have been recuperating from my abduction, but I am pleased to let you know that I am offering my services half off for such a valuable customer.
I know you have been saving up for my services. By all means, come over to Tenbault, and we can discuss regular treatments even if you cannot afford the entire service constantly. I know how much you struggle, Tessa. But my magic is capable of curing all your woes.
In fact, I have even prepared a few of the recreational substances you like to partake in after being healed. My spells can undo any damage or addiction. Consider this a reminder that I am always waiting for you with open doors.
No matter how many times you fall, I will heal you.
—Healer Hekusha.
 
The pouch of powder was the kind of stuff that Palt refused to sell. Tessa had debated throwing it in the fire or, more responsibly, hurling it into a monster den for the last week. But she couldn’t…do it.
The reddish powder was called Selphid’s Dust, which mimicked a Selphid’s Rampage in many ways. It could ruin you, but it was also so effective—she had been thinking of it. Constantly.
The flowers had cured her. What would it feel like now? She had to throw it away. But the Drake’s claws were shaking, and she—
She barely noticed the [Knight], and the [Innkeeper]’s concern with her was split between the woes of Izril. Tessa hid in a corner of the inn’s common room and rocked back and forth, trying not to re-read the letter.
 
——
 
Sometimes you could distill things in the world down to good and evil.
At least, Normen liked to believe so. What Erin Solstice wanted to do was good. As simply as he could define it. If he could have read that letter Tessa clutched in one claw—he and Erin would have agreed some things, some people deserved a crusade on their doorstep.
But he wasn’t at the inn. He was freezing in Celum, and an anxious girl was offering him a second cloak.
“T-thank you, Mrsha.”
Dame Ushar was inspecting the wagon critically as she eyed Normen’s armor situation.
“We should get your armor lined with fur or something warm, Ser Normen. For now—you’ll have blankets, and let’s get you two cloaks. Miss Solstice has a [Driver], and it won’t do either of you good to freeze in the winter.”
“No, Miss Knight, it won’t! And I’m pleased to run a delivery for Miss Solstice! Just a shame the big rollers couldn’t do it for you.”
The [Driver] was a cheerful fellow, but he was no Termin or even a Rhaldon. He sneezed into his gloves as two horses waited, pawing at the ground.
Termin wasn’t able to do the delivery? What a shock!
Mrsha held up a card, and the [Driver] blinked at it.
“Right? Termin’s almost always everywhere, but I guess he’s getting old. And Chaoisa the Contempt of Man herself is rolling elsewhere. Good thing, maybe. She’s fast and tough enough for a blizzard, but she might kick your [Knight] into the snow.”
We can do this ourselves. Right, Normen?
Mrsha’s faith in Normen was boundless. But the cold [Knight] just looked at the road and bowed to the [Driver].
“It’s all Driver Zanze, Miss Mrsha. I’m just here to see things go well and fight. I feel rather useless.”
“Ah, you’re the man I need if we run into bandits. It’s an honor to do this for the Order of Solstice. Hey, can I get a knighthood if I do a hundred deliveries?”
Normen didn’t laugh at the joke, but he was ready for the journey. It would be two days from Celum—an ‘easy’ delivery. The village of Rheirgest was one of the first letters that Erin had read. The girl had asked for wheat or Yellats, even, for her Christmas present.
Erin would send her food—and she had hand-wrapped one cake on top of the rest. Mrsha was busying herself, checking the loaded crates and Chest of Holding.
“Miss Mrsha, don’t fuss around the wagon. And no hiding. I can’t take you with me or Lyonette will ride after you herself.‘
Mrsha sighed gustily, but nodded. Zanze nodded as he shivered again.
“The road’s not fit for a girl, even one with fur, little Miss. Dead gods! I need to step inside the inn a bit, Mister Normen, and get another layer and something hot in me. Look at that blizzard!”
He pointed ahead, and it was blowing over Celum. Normen eyed the snow, which blocked out the sun to the south. It was sweeping over the landscape, and all he saw was snow. The road leading east was only visible as a lower section of snow. There weren’t even wagon tracks.
“What’s causing a blizzard now?”
The [Driver] dropped down as a few more boxes were shoved onto the wagons. The gates were practically empty, waiting for them to leave. There was only one other wagon being loaded up.
“I don’t know. I’ve heard the Mage’s Guild claiming someone’s casting weather magic and throwing a blizzard across the region. Bastards. I hope they get lightning bolted. Who wants snow? Maybe it’s the same bastards who’re causing trouble around here. As if Celum needs more, after the Bloodfeast Raids.”
Mrsha and Normen looked up. Mrsha wrote furiously.
There’s more trouble? Like what?
“Graveyards being plundered. It happened last month—maybe some [Necromancers] are about. Celum ran off a bunch of figures, and now they’re hiding somewhere around here. But there are undead and Snow Golems on the roads.”
“Wonderful. Rogue [Necromancers].”
Normen muttered. Mrsha nodded—then held up a paw.
Wait, do any of them sniff? Are any of them cool, redeemable characters?
“Sniff? I’ll let you know if I find any, Miss Mrsha. I’ll be back, Ser Normen, and get another few blankets for the road.”
Shivering, Zanze ran for Erin’s door. He was a faster [Driver] than some, but he didn’t have weather Skills, and the two horses looked miserably cold. Normen was shivering in his armor, and Mrsha glanced around.
Who’s the other wagon?
“I don’t know. Perhaps Miss Solstice wants to send out Runner Herove and a few others of the Order of Solstice? I think we only planned one wagon—but we’ll need to run dozens, even with help.”
This was why completing this first delivery was crucial. Normen stamped his feet, and Mrsha gave him a solemn look.
Well, I wish you best, Normen. And to give you luck—I present you with my finished work of art! Tada!
She held something up, and Normen accepted…
A lantern.
It was one of the simple ones from the kitchen. Unlike the ones that Erin used with her depression fire to chill food, this one was filled with a tiny bit of warmth. He blinked and recognized the ember from this morning.
“Is this for me, Miss Mrsha?”
The little ember was providing a bit of warmth, and despite the cold, it wasn’t going out. The [Emberbearer] puffed out her chest.
[Lasting Ember]. Along with [Hold Ember] and [Increased Warmth: Ember], the Level 2 [Emberbearer]’s class really wasn’t that much of anything, nor had she used it markedly.
I was going to take it with me, but you should have it. It will keep you warm in any cold!
The wind blew harder, and Normen nearly froze his hand off despite the lantern. Mrsha shivered.
“—It’ll keep you slightly warm! It may be a welcome distraction as you freeze! Good luck!“
She hopped off the wagon, then hesitated. Mrsha stared solemnly up at Normen, then wrote a note and handed it to him.
You’re a brave, good [Knight] doing a good thing. Like Santa. I hope you bring everyone lots of food.
Touched, he smiled at her and then found a place on the wagon for the little ember-lantern near the front.
“And you are a little heroine, Miss Mrsha. Take care of the inn for me.”
She saluted him. And a little bee buzzed out the door standing in the snow.
Apista nearly froze her wings off in the first second, and the yowling cat, Reagen, leapt onto the cold street and tried to run back the way he’d come.
Both smacked into the door that Liska had closed so she could make more transfers. Reagen rolled in the snow, then sat up. Snow covered his orange fur, and he gave Mrsha, Apista, and Normen a look.
As if to say—it’s so cold. Why did I do that?
The [Druid], [Knight], and Ashfire Bee gave him a blank look in return. But Normen realized, to his increasing envy as he shivered with his arms folded, that Reagen was even warmer than Mrsha with her own coat of fur.
“Is t-that a sweater? Miss Mrsha, can you get me another cloak please? Even the one Zanze is going to get might not be enough.”
The orange tawny cat was wearing a sweater! A tiny cat-sweater, and he even had mittens on his paws! The knitted vest of green even had a cap to match.
So did Apista! Mrsha did a double-take as the bee landed on the wagon to inspect the ember.
Nice flame.
She gave Normen her own salute with an antenna, and she had the tiniest red wool vest on.
“Who’s knitting coats for pets?”
The answer came as someone opened the door to Liscor and grabbed both Apista and Reagen.
“You silly pets. It is too cold for you. Oh, poor horses. I wish I had a big knitted scarf for both. But I am only a low-level [Knitter].”
There he was. The monster, the evilest member of the Free Antinium himself. Beloved by pets, even more than their owners! Like Numbtongue, who tried to reach for Reagen and got a swat on his hand!
Furfur! And he had knitting Skills? Mrsha raced inside for Normen’s jacket. Numbtongue kissed Reagen, and the cat reached for Furfur as Apista buzzed into his arms.
“I’m almost ready to go, Mister Numbtongue. Can you ask Erin to send us off? Or else we might freeze for waiting.”
“Will do. Come on, Reagen. We have hot chocolate.”
Numbtongue towed the yowling cat back inside, and Furfur vanished with Apista, who realized she was not going to be Apisdolph, the red-flaming Ashfire Bee on Santa’s sleigh.
 
——
 
One man showed up as Normen was waiting, and he was a reminder.
