Dorkel looked around. It was still snowing—and this [Knight] looked like he had bruises, now that the man looked closely. His armor had scratches, though it was still beautifully bright, and he had cuts all over his visible face through the helm. But Normen just pointed back.
“We have a wagon, but we’re unloading—don’t panic, Mister Dorkel, but there is an undead cat who pulled it here. We couldn’t make it through the snow. It is completely safe, and we’ll keep it far from the village, I promise.”
He looked so worried that Dorkel would panic about the—the undead that the man almost laughed. But then, Normen finally pried the lid up a bit and cursed.
“Nailed shut. One second—”
He pulled, and at last the lid came up. Dorkel and his wife, who had emerged from the home, saw what was inside.
Of all the crates that Normen could have carried from the wagon—this one had stood out to him because Erin had scrawled on it and painted an edge red. It was not filled with packed goods labeled with Pallass’ internal sorting system from their silos.
This one…was just a box packed in straw. It had a note on it.
To: Rittane. From: Santa.
Slowly, Dorkel lifted the lid. He saw a banged up, frozen object sitting there. All the icing had been messed up from the fighting with the Golems. And there were a bunch of candles ready to be lit.
But it was still, unmistakably—the cake. Normen looked embarrassed.
“Oh. It’s been knocked about. I’m so sorry, sir.”
“A cake?”
“We’ve brought a wagonload of supplies. From Pallass.”
Rittane’s father just held the box as he smelled the sweet pastry. It smelled heavenly, like a dream, but so real his mouth tried to water and his heart flipped and flopped and…he turned to Normen. Dorkel almost dropped the cake—then carefully put the box down. The [Knight] was still trying to apologize.
“I’ll bring the rest over, but the bridge is treacherous. I’m sorry about the cake—”
Normen stopped as Dorkel put his hands on him. It was a weak gesture, but the man embraced Normen silently.
“Thank you. Thank…you.”
Only then did Normen look around and see people coming out of their houses, take in how thin the man looked. He halted—and someone called out.
“Is that…food? Please, won’t you sell it to us? We’ll give you anything we can.”
There were wands aimed at him. He could see them hidden behind robes, concealed in the doorways. And not once did the [Knight] reach for his mace or shield. He understood. Rittane’s mother called out, lifting her hands.
“He says he’s a [Knight]. He’s brought food. From Pallass?”
Voices rose, utterly confused. Then Dorkel was picking up the crate. He could barely lift it, but he looked at Normen as the man bent.
“My daughter’s in…”
The door to his home was open. Suddenly, the two were stumbling through the snow, lifting the box. Normen felt like he was swimming in slow motion.
He had to be on time. The [Knight] willed himself to move faster, and his desperation was only second to Rittane’s father.
“Rittane. Rittane!”
The girl was asleep. They shook her desperately, and she didn’t move.
Rittane was smiling, her cheeks pale, eyes closed, staring at a dream without end. Someone slapped her cheek, and she made not a sound. The silence crept from her. Not a sound.
“Rittane.”
Normen bent over her. The [Knight] knelt with her parents and wondered why he hadn’t run the moment he saw the village. Why he hadn’t been faster. He closed his eyes, then shouted—and his voice didn’t reach the girl. But he tried again.
Normen didn’t realize there was someone else watching as the [Knight]’s hands began to shake.
Someone else had appeared, halting the villagers of Rheirgest in their tracks. In surprise. Awe.
Fear?
A young woman. Her body was semi-transparent. She had appeared as silently as…a ghost. Now, she slowly walked into the house. And her face held that quiet knowledge of what she would see. A girl, being held in her parent’s arms.
Perhaps she had been ashamed to show herself first. But she had been watching. Of course she had.
Erin Solstice’s projection halted in the home, and she looked down with a terrible expression on her face. The girl wasn’t waking up, no matter how hard her parents shook her.
Her [Knight] was on his knees. Praying. Tears were running from his eyes. He had been too late. Too late…he had fought through the night. Stood against a storm.
And he was too late? Minutes, seconds? Impossible. That wasn’t right.
None of this was. Erin Solstice’s breath caught. She looked down at the girl, and she closed her eyes. Then she bit her lip so hard her teeth nearly met.
Somewhere, over a hundred miles away, an inn trembled as Erin pulled every strand she had to her. Her eyes opened, and hazel flashed. A hat made of flame burned over her head—and she lifted her hand.
Silence. She said not a word, and no one but Normen in that silent house looked back. He couldn’t have said why. Only that the [Knight] felt like he was standing before a great, warm fire. Normen turned—and the [Knight] saw his [Innkeeper] take a deep breath.
Then—Erin Solstice’s eyes flashed. She pointed—and reached across the distance between her and the girl. She pointed at the girl’s chest—and used a Skill.
[Boon of the Guest: Mrsha].
It felt like thunder without the sound. The Skill burned across the world and passed by a dead god reaching for a single soul. It glowed in the eyes of the Grand Design, and if it could have smiled—
It would.
 
——
 
Kasigna’s hand closed over nothing at all.
 
——
 
“Rittane. Wake up. Santa has a present for you. Good girls shouldn’t lie sleeping.”
Erin Solstice’s voice filled the cottage as the boon with the gift from the [Last Survivor], a guest of her inn, flashed from her fingertip. It touched the girl, and her parents looked up.
Normen held his breath and—he slowly saw two bewildered eyes open.
Rittane opened her eyes. She sat up, cheeks flushed. Gasping, as if she had been given a second breath before her end.
A gift from another girl who had known a terrible winter. Rittane stretched.
“I’m hungry. Is it time to eat? What smells so…good?”
She turned, and suddenly, her stomach rumbled. She fixed on Normen and recoiled. Then her mouth fell open.
“I know you! You’re Ser Normen! From the scrying orb!”
She rubbed at her eyes. Her parents looked at Normen, but he was holding that box in his hands. He slowly, timidly looked over.
“I—it’s an honor to meet you, Miss Rittane. We got your letter. Santa has sent me—”
He flubbed it. He didn’t have Ser Solton’s style, nor the smoothness of a lying [Knight]. The girl’s eyes went round nevertheless as he showed her what was in the box.
“Santa came?”
“Not just him. It was…”
Normen turned to Erin, so the [Innkeeper] could explain and be…he glanced around.
She had vanished. It was the first cowardly thing that Normen had ever seen Erin Solstice do. She abandoned her [Knight] so he had to be there. The little girl sat up and stared at the box of cake.
Then she began to cry.
Normen bent over, flustered, and she grabbed his hand—and her father found a knife and cut a slice of the cake. The biggest slice you could dream of. And Rittane asked if she was dreaming.
Then Normen felt water leaking from his eyes. And he realized he had made it just in time.
