With a [Portal], he arrived in space where one of Palustris’ many administrators were going from ship to ship and registering and issuing permits to land. Temporary passes of up to a decade were available for those not automatically approved for permanent residence, and according to the message the man's supervisor had forwarded up the chain of command, that was precisely what the administrator had tried to issue. It had even been a provisional permit that would have gotten the group's foot in the door and would have made it easy enough to get a permanent one.

According to that same report, the leader of the group, Rebecca Etha, had pitched a fit.

Dropping his perception down to Tier 20 levels, Matt looked at Rebecca, letting the weight of his gaze quiet her still ongoing rant.

Turning to his administrator, Matt asked, “Is there anything else you need in your report?”

The man flinched but shook his head. “No, my lord. I—”

He was cut off as Rebecca flexed her spiritual pressure harder, effectively shouting over him. “Ascender Titan, I expect this man to be reprimanded thoroughly. He was rude and denied me passage to Palustris.”

Matt just stared at Rebecca for a long minute, letting the silence ask if she was done speaking. “Firstly, do not interrupt me or my people. It is rude. Second, Dominic was assisting you. You are not rated for a permanent residence. The requirements are all listed. You do, however, rate a temporary residence permit and can work on converting it into a permanent one.”

Rebecca looked genuinely confused as she asked, “But why not a permanent one? We are fire bloodlines. We deserve access to a fire world like this.”

The entitlement in her statement caused Matt’s hackles to rise, but he stomped it down and inspected the group she had come with.

According to his [AI], Rebecca Etha was a Tier 15 phoenix bloodline offspring of a male phoenix and a human woman. Her father had officially severed parental ties, but it appeared that Rebecca’s mother had pampered the girl something fierce, resulting in a spoiled rotten brat who was wholly unprepared for her mom to never return from a delve one day.

Filling in the blanks regarding her public appearances since then, that had been something of a turning point for Rebecca, and she had been forced to throw herself into unfamiliar circumstances as she adapted to not having a protector. If the reports didn’t also explain the almost five thousand other people packed in the small fleet of time-worn ships in Rebecca’s convoy, he would have dismissed her. But for all her faults, Rebecca had something of a soft streak, and she had turned her loss into a drive to gather other misfits.

Somewhere along the way, they must have gotten the idea that Matt and Liz were offering something of sanctuary for fire bloodlines, because everyone with her were reportedly fire bloodlines who didn’t fit in with the more established powers of their bloodlines.

“You missed the apology.”

Rebecca blinked at him just like Liz’s phoenix form did when she was confused before looking at Dominic. “Sorry?”

Matt closed his eyes and counted to ten.

He knew he was making a mistake, but he couldn't turn away so many people who clearly needed a home.

So many people had helped him after his parents had died that he couldn’t leave them in the lurch.

“I will approve a temporary residency permit for you and your people Ms. Etha. If you can show you can be productive like everyone else, it will be converted to a permanent residency pass but your level of… entitlement is going to have to end. Here and now. And I understand you have a bit of a bone to pick with some of the more established Phoenix families, as do many of your people. But you and your people are going to need to put that aside and learn to, if not love each other, live on the same world. I won’t tolerate petty squabbles starting issues. Do you understand me?”

He wasn’t sure that she did, but after agreeing, he sent her on her way and turned to Dominic. “Well done. If she gives you trouble again, don’t hesitate to let me know. I—”

Matt stopped talking as he felt a pulse of spiritual perception probe him. It wasn’t a polite prod to let him know someone wanted to talk with him, but rather a forceful scan.

“Excuse me. Continue on as you were. I’ll handle this.” He added a quick commendation to the man’s file via his [AI] and left.

Flying over to a massive Tier 25 ship that was perfectly pristine and practically new out of the shipyard that made it, Matt punched his spiritual perception through the shields to scan the people inside who had scanned him.

A mixed group of fire bloodlines, with phoenixes and dragons seemingly in positions of power or prestige if the living arrangements were anything to go off of. Most of them were Tier 15 through Tier 30, but there were a number of fire bloodline passengers lower than that, though they seemed to be the exception rather than the rule. As a whole, they reacted to his intrusion with languid reluctance as they were pulled from whatever leisure pursuit they were occupied with, but none seemed worried or alarmed at his return probe.

The Tier 30, Ral’Ya smiled. “Ah, good to see you, my Lord Titan. You are exactly the person I was wanting to speak with. I was just about to send one of my men to inform you of our arrival, but this is even better. We wanted to let you know that we are here to set up an outpost for our faction of noble draconic families.” He must have felt the gazes of every other bloodline on the ship as he corrected with a grin. “Dragon and other fire-related bloodlines, rather. Do excuse the slip up everyone. This was originally a single house voyage, after all. If you could tell us which continent is ours, we will start to settle in immediately.”

Feeling like he had just had this conversion, Matt said, “I don’t process residency permits, and even if I did, there is a line. Also, you aren’t even on the list of pre-approvals for temporary residency. I know because I did make that. Second you, or any other single faction, sure as shit isn’t getting an entire continent allocated all to themselves.”

Ral’Ya waved a hand as if none of that was important. “You told Duke Taro, one of Duke Tiberius Maniake’s people, or rather Duke Dominus Maniake’s now, that you would have a space for us. We are a sub-faction under his wing, after all, so even if you refuse to allocate a continent to us, we deserve at least a large island or ten. Surely one of your caliber can do such a trivially easy task. Now we need to settle in quickly to claim the best lands so…”

Ral’Ya waved a dismissal as his ship tried to nose past Matt into the atmosphere of Palustris.

Matt didn’t move.

The ship didn’t stop.

Matt didn’t move.

The ship bounced off him, causing chaos as all of the lower Tiers inside stumbled or were sent sprawling from the sudden jolt. The higher Tiers were fine, as they had been watching and braced themselves, but every noble scion acted like he had just poured mud onto their outfits.

Ral’Ya shouted, “How dare you—”

Seeing where this was going, Matt didn’t hesitate to flex his Domain and freeze the ship. He was careful to not hurt the passengers, not even Ral’Ya, but he was done with them.

“If you don’t want me to banish you, let alone arrest you Ral’Ya, you should leave. The rest of you can stay until a duke-level noble comes and apologies for your actions. Ral’Ya, I don’t want to see you again.”

Getting to the guards who had already arrived, Matt ensured the uninvolved were escorted to a holding area where they could cool their heels for a few weeks. It was just an apartment building that wasn’t sold yet, so it was comfortable, but he was sure the noble brats would consider it worse than jail if the ship was the normal level of splendor and opulence they were used to.

He instead returned to his paperwork.

For the third time in what felt like just hours Matt was pinged as his [AI] alerted him that another group had arrived at Palustris and wanted to see him.

Unlike the last two groups however, these were people he was more than happy to see.

All of his extended family.

The Moore family had arrived in force.

Mara and Leon— clones, he was finally able to notice— were leading the metaphorical charge, mortal luggage bouncing behind them, clothes sticking out of them where the zippers didn’t quite close up.

Sam and his wife Annie walked like normal people, though Matt noticed how they were both scanning their surroundings in a way similar to what he was doing right at this moment. Their millennia in the army honing their paranoia even farther than his.

Leah, the second oldest Moore child, was actually the highest Tier. Still Tier 44 though, looking around Palustris like a kid on new year, her mana reaching out and running itself through the atmosphere like he ran his fingers through Liz’s hair.

Alice and Daniel walked side by side, pointing out things they could feel on the planet and whispering to each other in a way that Matt knew spelled mischief.

Erin had actually brought some of her harem with her; Matt recognized three of them but needed his [AI] to identify the remaining fifteen. Not that he minded. They were all Tier 20 plus and they had enough space on the world that fifteen or fifteen thousand wouldn’t make any appreciable difference.

Finally, Travis and Keith took up the rear as the lowest Tiers in the family. Tier 20 was respectable, but Matt intended to drag the couple through a few rifts when he had the down time.

It was good to see them.

He was about to welcome them to Palustris when Mara pulled out a flimsy tin cup and started rattling it around. “A place to stay for us destitute travelers.”

Sam's face palmed while Travis tried to pull Mara’s hand down. “Mom please, we are begging you not to do it again.”

Matt had to ask, even though he knew it was an awful idea. “Again?”

At the same time, he didn’t miss Mara pointing at herself and silently asked Leon, ‘I thought I was the beggar?’

Alice sighed and ignored the couple. “Mom and Dad have been working on a song and dance routine for the whole trip. Somehow, they keep messing up and having to start over despite that being physically impossible.”

Mara’s tin clacking sound changed tune suddenly and Leon popped his head out from behind his wife, looking from the flute in his hand to the tin sound. Each time Mara pretended to clang it, the sound changed despite him not blowing on the instrument.

“Huh, the cup must be broken.” Leon poked it with the flute, which caused a deflated honking noise.

Matt had to admit that sounded like the two of them. It would surely have gotten old for the rest of the siblings, but it sounded great to him.

He was at least polite enough to not ask them for a rendition right there, and instead, he gestured to the world. “As the local duke, I can confidently say that any unclaimed region is up for grabs. I figured everyone could get their own estates while we make a Moore family estate somewhere in one of the safe cities.”

Leon tutted. “We don’t need all that. We can just stay with you guys.”

His comment was immediately vetoed by all of the siblings in one unanimous “Nope!”

Matt had to assume that was a similarly rehearsed comment, but this time let himself laugh.

“Not a chance. I—”

Leah interrupted him by hooking her arm though his and spinning them to walk forward the way they had been going.

“Yes yes, polite turn down. Don’t bother. Just yell at them. They are like puppies. You need to be firm and stern in your rejection. Now, let's get on with the tour. This place is amazing. I feel so good with all the fire mana. I can feel my bloodline already starting to refine itself. Beautiful.”

That got everyone's attention, though Annie, Sam’s wife, asked, “Clarification for us non-elemental folks: Is it really that big of a deal? Just feels like fire mana to me?”

All the siblings nodded, though Leah answered. “It really does. There is a reason high-Tier aspected worlds are stupidly valuable. I spent time at Infurnt. A decade pass cost me a hundred at Tier mana stones a year, and the world was so full of people, the effect wasn’t half as good at this jewel of a planet here. As the highest-Tier sibling, I get first dibs.”

Travis snorted out a puff of fire. “Yeah right. We clearly need to start from the bottom. Keith and I get first dibs.”

Erin raised a finger. “We need the most space, so we need to get first dibs. It's obviously the hardest requirement to fulfill, so we disregard Tier and go based on need.”

“No way—”

Their bickering continued and morphed as they toured the planet, Matt [Portal]ing them from place to place as the siblings picked out the locales they wanted to settle down in. All of them had portable homes which they plopped down to settle their claim, and no one actually fought over any locations. As soon as any one showed interest, the others immediately backed down.

After a bit of debating, they decided to simply buy out a floor in one of the spatially-expanded skyscrapers that were going up in one of the secondary cities for their group house.

The Moore family had one on both Mara and Leon’s capital worlds, similar to their estate on the Capital itself. It was a bit redundant with everyone having their own houses on Palustris, but it would be nice to have when kids started to be born.

He and Liz hadn’t decided one way or another, but if they were to do it, they would aim to have their child with everyone else. And if they decided not to, it wouldn't be that bad to be the Aunt and Uncle who lived nearby, and that was best done in a group estate everyone could visit.

