"I can tell it's a good metal, but that's not why I was disappointed." I move over to the next crate and pick up another ingot, only to have my frown deepen further.

"Could you explain to me what's wrong? Maybe I can help you if I know the problem?" Grey finally moves out from behind his desk and stands next to Kervin. He genuinely looks like he wants to help me, but that could be a skill for all I know.

“I doubt that’s possible,” I say as I scan the closest materials.

"Could you tell us why?" Kervin steps in, "If I'm to get you more materials in the future, I need you to tell me what I'm supposed to look for."

Kervin doesn't appear to notice, but Grey is giving him a curious look.

“You don’t have the skills,” I flat-out tell him. I pick up the silvery metal ingot I was just examining and walk over to the two merchants. “Tell me everything you can about this,” I challenge the both of them.

Kervin flounders, but Grey steps forward and gently takes the ingot out from my hands. He scrutinizes the metal and periodically flips it around. "Bashite, water attuned metal. It’s soft and easy to work with. Discovered by Elizial Bash sometime a thousand years ago. Ore sells for 4 gold for a hundred pounds or 8 gold for a ten-pound ingot.” Grey confidently spouts off a few facts regarding the metal before handing it back to me.

“I can learn that in time,” Kervin quickly tells me, not wanting to be outdone.

“You don’t have to worry about that,” I stop Kervin from worrying. “95% of what he just told me was useless." Both Kervin and Grey look dumbfounded at me, and I hear a chuckle from Max in the corner.

I hold the ingot up and explain to them, “The only useful information he told me was it’s water attuned, soft, and how much it costs, and that information would only cover my broadest searches. I doubt either of you could tell me how good the metal is by yourselves.”

“What do you mean?” Kervin asks me before Grey can.

“If I’m buying already smelted ingots, I’m buying another person’s mistakes along with the metal.”

Grey steps in when he hears me question the quality of his goods. “I assure you, Miss Aaliyah, that we only buy expensive materials like these from reputable dealers. These ingots were all smelted with the utmost care."

"I believe you," I say to him before he comes to the wrong conclusion. "It's a decent bar of metal, no major fractures, and the metal looks like it was heated properly."

“But?” Grey urges me to continue.

I sigh, “But when it comes to the standards I need, it has some major problems. It has no major fractures, but I can see three microfractures that would jeopardize the internal structure when subjected to the forces a woman like General Pitz is famous for.” Both men open their mouths in disbelief.

"And that isn't all," I continue to explain. "The internal mana structure has been damaged. Most likely, the metal wasn't folded right, or something happened in the cooling process; either way, it won't channel mana as effectively as it should.”

A silence falls over the room.

Grey stares at the ingot in my hand. “You can see all that by just picking it up?”

I knew coming here that I would face this problem. I need to display a part of my abilities without giving everything away, so that they know I'm as good as they think I am.

If I undersell myself, they’ll think they can walk all over me.

But if I give away too many of my secrets, then they’ll tighten their hold on me.

“I was blessed with a good skill, that’s all I’ll say.” I evenly look into Grey’s eyes.

"Fair enough," He peacefully backs down. "If we factor in your requirements, are any of these ingots useful to you?" He doesn't try to extract any more information from me and moves on.

“They’re not completely useless,” I move to put the ingot back from where I got it and move on to the next one. “With the final products here, I can test the processed metal and decide which ores I need. Mr. Grey appears to know a few particulars of each of the metals, can you help me narrow down my search?”

“What are you looking for?”

I look back at the man. "I need a really strong metal for the arrowhead, a strong yet flexible metal for the shaft, and a few magical beast feathers that are durable. I've seen what my arrows can do in the hands of a level 50 archer, and the general told Kervin that my arrows were good enough for someone around level 75. I need materials that won't break after being launched from a bow using over 200 Strength."

Mr. Grey rubs his upper lip. "I can think of a few strong metals for the arrowhead, and I have a few feathers from an earth attuned magic beast, but all the strong materials I can think of for the arrow shaft aren't that flexible.”

“Let’s start with the arrowhead then,” I tell Grey.

“Give me a moment to gather them.” I watch Mr. Grey move around his office and grab three different ingots and a pitch-black stone the size of a large fruit.

He places the samples on a crate next to me and proceeds to order them to a standard that only makes sense to him. He points at the first ingot, which is dark grey in color. "These are the four best metals I could think of, all earth attuned. I ordered them from the most popular to the least. The first one we have is called Qucroyntine. Mined not too far away, Qucroyntine is the cheapest and most used metal for higher tired smiths around here.”

I pick up the ingot, and Grey waits for me to examine it myself. I don't have many examples of magic metals, so I compare it to the fire iron I used to make my sword. The mana inside the ingot is slower moving, indicative of earth mana, but at the same capacity as the fire iron. I need to quantify how well these metals absorb my mana, so I'll again use my sword as an example. I'll give my sword a four in mana absorption, and by comparison, the qucroyntine is only a three, maybe a three and a half if I’m generous.

I set the ingot down, and Grey continues. "Next is the critidem, comparable to qucroyntine, only more expensive because it isn’t local.”

Even though I already examined it earlier, I rate the critidem like I did the qucroyntine. Internal mana is slightly more than the Qucroyntine, but the mana conductivity is at a four, making it slightly better.

I put the critidem ingot back down, and Grey explains the next one. "Third is otrum, a tier 4 metal, unlike the first two. I grabbed this one because blacksmiths use it to craft expensive hammers.”

As soon as I pick up the reddish metal, I know I can't use it. The ingot is 25% bigger than the other two but over twice as heavy. An arrowhead needs durability, but I can't make it too heavy, or it won’t fly properly. Even so, I take note of its mana's quality. Otrum contains 30% more mana than fire iron, and when I pour my mana into it, it's absorbed with ease. I'd rate its mana conductivity at a six and a half.

It really is a shame that it’s too heavy, I complain to myself as I set it back down.

“I brought you the last sample more because I want your opinion on it. It was pulled from the ground in a mana intensive area and sold to my branch a few years ago. According to our appraisers, it's a tier 4 ore chunk, and it's extremely durable. We had a smith struggle to break a chunk off to test, only to learn it melts at over 2000°C.”

Mr. Grey reaches into his pocket and hands me a coin-sized chunk of black metal. As soon as it's dropped into my hand, I can tell the metal is leagues above anything I've ever worked with before. Its internal mana structure is messy, but the small chunk of metal in my hand has half the mana as my entire sword does.

I try to feed the black metal my mana, and it absorbs it like a sponge, a solid nine in magic conductivity.

“What do you think?” Mr. Grey asks me.

“I’d rather not say,” I playfully reply. “How much are you selling this for?” I place my hand on the rock, not wanting to let it go.

Grey glances at the rock and gives me a merchant’s smile. “I hear you make interesting arrowheads that you can unscrew from their shafts. How many do you think you can make from that chunk of stone?”

I'm not surprised he knows about my arrow design, but where is he going with this?

I scan the ore with Sense Mana to see how much of the ore sample is waste rock. Comparing the mana inside the ore to the chunk of metal in my hands gives me a rough estimate. “I’d say seven if I’m being conservative.”

“How about we trade?” Grey makes me a proposition. “This has been sitting around in our storage for years now. You can have the ore, but once you're done with the general's order, you make us three arrowheads in exchange.”

He wants something he can sell, and he knows I'll need every one of the arrowheads in the future. If the general likes the arrow, she'll want more. The first four would be fine, but to make the last three, I would need to renegotiate with Grey again after their worth is proven. Just because he wants to hand me the ore for free doesn't mean I won't pay for it later.

"Counteroffer," I try to show him I won’t be taken lightly. “I take the ore, and you give me a discount on the other supplies I need. And after I make the first arrow for the general, I make the next two for you.”

“Hugh,” Grey thinks it over for a minute before answering. "Wasn't your budget a large gold coin? I don't think you'll make any profit if you use materials like this." He looks at the dark ore.

"I don't need to make a profit on this arrow; I just need to break even or go a little over budget." I confidently state. "If she gets an arrow that she can readily use, it would be impossible for her not to order more. Kervin can tell her we spent more than we planned on the project, but we won't charge more than the quoted budget of 10 gold coins to earn goodwill. It would give her two reasons to be happy with the order and hint that we'll have to charge more in the future." I lay out my strategy.

Kervin's eyes widen at the implications, but Mr. Grey's reaction is more subdued. "That is an excellent idea, but I don't want to rush you making our arrows. Instead of the first two you make after the general's order; I'd prefer the last two. Agree to that, and we have a deal."

He’s good. The more I work with the new materials and practice; the higher my skills will rise. The first arrows may sell the easiest, but the last ones will be the best and worth more.

“You’ll give me a good deal on the materials?” I raise my eyebrow.

“The best,” Grey confidently replies. “Let me grab the feathers I know you’ll love.” He moves over to a different part of the room and picks up three feathers.

Like a jewelry salesman, he brings the feathers over and shows them off with his hands. “These are Fechin feathers. The birds nest in old mines and are notorious for their defensive plumage. When people hunt them, they die from internal wounds before their feathers are pierced. They're used in middle-class jewelry because of their appearance."

I have to agree with Grey; the feathers do look amazing. I pick one up to study it better. The brown feathers have lines that look like a quartz vein you'd find in a mine. The internal mana structure is good, and it’s a solid four for mana conductivity.

“Can I stress test the feather?” I ask Grey.

“If it’s only one, do what you have to,” He readily permits me to beat the hell out of the feather.

First, I try bending the feather in half. Even with my Strength stat, the feather does a remarkable job of resisting me. Next, I try pulling out individual sections of the feather and encounter the same resistance. It will be hard to work with it, but the feathers should hold up better than my melted carapace fletching.

“How much for each feather?” If they’re cheap enough, I might start using them, so I can reduce the amount of carapace I’m going through.

“4 silver coins for a feather,” I frown at his price. “You should be happy Fechin are hunted solely for their feathers,” He tells me.

I curse in my head. He did say they were used in jewelry. Kervin still doesn’t know how much he should charge for my arrows. If I used these feathers in my arrows, it would bump up their price by at least 6 silver, and for my usual arrows, I don't think that's worth it.

“I’ll need ten to work with,” I put the mutilated feather down. “Only the best ones,” I joke.

“That should be easy. Now, what do you want to do about the arrow’s shaft?” Grey brings us to the hardest part of the problem.

“Show me every metal you have that’s attuned to earth mana.”

“All of them?” Grey asks for conformation, looking around his office.

“All of them. I hope you’re not hungry; this might take a while." I smirk at Grey. It was his idea to have us come right away. I hope he doesn't go back on our dinner plans.

"I thought you were joking that it would take you a while," Grey complains from behind his desk.

Kervin is sitting on a crate, and even Max is starting to tilt in his corner.

"You're the one that wanted to appear all-knowing and invited us here as soon as we made it into the city." I give him a sly grin and turn back to the two ingots in front of me. These two samples are all that remains after me whittling down my choices.

I started with a modest seventeen different ingots attuned to earth mana. Five weren’t strong enough for my purposes, three had horrible internal mana levels, and another five had a mana conductivity of four or below.

That left me with four samples I needed to test.

After borrowing a hammer and seeing how they react to my strikes, I picked the two best metals I think could work for the arrow shaft.

