The one on the right is a tannish-yellow colored metal called kaglese, while the one on the left has the same color as sand and is called baprese. The kaglese has more flex than the baprese but doesn’t have as good a magic conductivity.

I have to decide which I should go with.

If I pick the kaglese the arrow will fly better but won’t be as receptive to magic as the baprese. Both are better than my steel alloy, but I can't predict what the general would prioritize.

Screw it, I'm hungry, and I can't stare at these all night, no matter how much I want to.

“I made my decision,” I tell the room. Grey and Kervin sit up in anticipation. “I’ll take the kaglese ore.”

“That’s great to hear. How much ore do you need?” Grey happily asks.

"Which crate is it?" Grey points at a box reasonably close to me. As I pry off the lid, I ask him, "You charge by the weight, right?"

“Yes, kaglese costs 7 gold coins per hundred pounds of ore." Hearing that makes me suspicious.

I open the crate Grey indicated and pull out a few chunks of kaglese ore. I don't need much to make the arrow shaft, and on paper 7 gold coins for a hundred pounds of ore is a steal. If only the ore in front of me wasn’t complete shit.

“What’s wrong now?” Mr. Grey asks.

“This is the worst ore I can possibly imagine,” I hold up a chunk for him and Kervin to see. “Over 99% of this rock is waste material. Do you know how long it will take me to process enough for me to craft the arrow shaft?”

“Kaglese is known to be labor-intensive to process; you can always shift to the baprese.” Grey sighs when he sees my indecision.

I stare down at the samples in the crate and notice a chunk a third the others' size in the corner of the box. I pick up the sample and realize I might have found a solution. "Do you have more kaglese in your storage?”

“I do,” Grey replies, looking confused by my question.

“Can you have more brought here tomorrow morning?”

“I can, but why?” He looks at me like he’s trying to figure out a puzzle he can’t see.

“If you’re charging by weight, it should be fine if I pick which chunks of ore I want.” Grey and Kervin don’t seem to understand what I’m implying. I hold up the smaller chunk of kaglese in my right hand and the normal piece of ore in my other hand. “This smaller piece of ore has 10% more kaglese in it than the larger chunk. I need to carry my supplies back with me, and I rather get more for my coin while I'm at it." I smirk at the two men.

Mr. Grey gives me a slow clap like a B-movie villain. “Your skills are truly amazing. I’ll have my people take back everything you don’t need and bring over the rest of the kaglese. We’ll discuss the price tomorrow after you pick out the samples you want.”

Grey stands up and starts walking over to his door. “Let’s go to dinner, my treat. I’m sure poor Alizio is wondering why I haven’t shown up for my reservation.” He grumbles to himself.

Grey politely rushes us, and I can't blame him; I'm starving too. This will be the first time I’ll be going to a restaurant since I was reborn.

I hope Mr. Grey is prepared for what’s about to happen.

I’m going to order one of everything!
