Acting like they were entitled to everything Grandpa built up in his life, those ingrates felt threatened by Yan’s adoption and turned on him without blinking an eye. When Grandpa stopped giving lessons so he’d have more time to teach Yan, his ungrateful family, spread vicious rumours about his sexual deviance and how, at a hundred and nine years old, he was too frail and feeble-minded to make proper decisions, but Yan knew better. Medical Saint Taduk had breathed new life into Du Min Gyu and the Sanguine Tempest stood ready to reclaim his place as a Peak Expert once again.

Due to their familial bonds, Grandpa did nothing to stop his nieces and nephews from seizing his fortune and properties, only taking action when they attempted to misappropriate his manor in Nan Ping because he needed a place to stay during the Grand Conference. This vacation manor and his main manor in Yantai were all he had left, his finances in such disarray he’d been forced to sell most of his possessions to keep afloat. Yan cared nothing for wealth, but it infuriated her to see Grandpa hurt by betrayal after betrayal. He’d known some of his family would turn on him when he adopted Yan as his granddaughter, but the extent of the treachery went far deeper than he’d expected. Out of dozens of blood relatives, none remained loyal apart from Grandpa’s student Du Kang Bin, the grandson of a second cousin who barely had any relation to Grandpa at all. Even Kang Bin’s father, a wealthy merchant who owed his success to Grandpa’s initial investment into his company, cheated Grandpa out of his shares and claimed sole ownership of the company. Kang Bin tried to make amends, but Grandpa didn’t care about the money. His family’s lack of love and loyalty hurt him far more than the loss of coin ever could.

Thankfully, all of Grandpa’s Disciples flocked to defend him as did several of his students like Ryo Da’in, but Grandpa asked them to leave things be and kept quiet through it all. He saw this as a cleansing of sorts, divesting himself of all the undesirable parasites who’d clung to him for so long. Soon, he would reclaim his former glory – no, he would soar higher than ever before, like the dragon he truly was.

Grandpa wanted to let bygones be bygones, but Yan would never forget those who’d wronged him, especially Cho Jin Kai’s family. Although Yan didn’t like the man, Grandpa saw Kai as a son and Jin-Tok as a grandson. After Kai’s passing, the family asked Grandpa to take Jin-Tok as his Disciple, but Grandpa refused. “Du Min Yan is my Terminal Disciple,” he told them. “I’ve few years left and no time or energy to teach another.” He offered to find Jin-Tok another Mentor but Kai’s family would not hear it and soon publicly severed all ties with Grandpa. Worse, they even lied and claimed Grandpa tried to extort them for coin in exchange for Mentoring Jin-Tok, lamenting at how Grandpa cared nothing for his first Disciple’s family.

So enraged by their slanderous lies, Yan wanted to challenge Jin-Tok to a duel to the death, but Grandpa wouldn’t let her, telling her to leave it be. “Let the people talk,” he said, waving her concerns away. “Strength is all that matters.”

Which if true, made all of Grandpa’s woes Yan’s fault. If she’d been strong enough to defeat Ryo Geom-Chi or Tam Taewoong when she first arrived, no one would have dared questioned Grandpa’s mental health or judgment, but she’d been far from capable. A year ago, she couldn’t even beat Mitsue Hideo and both Geom-Chi and Taewoong ran circles around him. Hell, even now she wasn’t sure if she could beat Hideo, and certainly not as readily as Rain’s handsome subordinate Dastan had. When her time to shine arrived, she faltered and lost to the stony Wu Gam, failing to prove to the Empire that Du Min Gyu was still sound of mind and had picked his Terminal Disciple well.

Stupid Wu Gam and his ridiculous, overpowering strength and handsome, stoic face. Hmph. For ending her dreams of a Hwarang Harem, he deserved what Rain did to him, the big, lumbering oaf. As for Rain, he was probably still asleep in his concubine’s arms, with that stupid, goofy smile pasted across his face. She was probably exhausted from all their passionate lovemaking and dreaming about his beautiful amber eyes and charming laugh.

...

Why were the pretty ones always so stupid?

Even if she were relegated to fourth wife, Yan wasn’t entirely opposed to marrying Rain. He was still her first love and probably still the same, carelessly-arrogant blockhead beloved by the Mother. Problem was, Grandpa didn’t approve of Rain. He never said as much, but Yan saw the face he made every time Rain’s name was brought up. Grandpa didn’t think him worthy of his only granddaughter even after the Legate crowned Rain the number one talent in the Empire, saying she’d soon surpass “that manner-less fool” by leaps and bounds after she formed her Natal Palace.

Grandpa’s dislike of Rain made it difficult to bring up the matter of marriage, so Yan long since resigned herself to comply with whatever arrangements Grandpa had in mind. If her betrothal could help recoup even a fraction of what he’d lost, she’d gladly marry the fattest, ugliest, sweatiest young noble in the world.

So long as she didn’t marry Jin-Tok. That’s where she drew the line.

“Morning to you, Lady Yan.” Striding across the street with parasol in hand, Ryo Da’in sauntered out of the Ryo family manor with a dazzling smile. “Is Teacher Du in? Da’in wishes to offer congratulations for his foresight. Father was truly blind to criticize his judgment and hopes Teacher Du will not take it to heart.”

Yan had no idea what Da’in was talking about, but she assumed it was more political nonsense. Still, she treated Da’in with courtesy, for without the Ryo family’s backing, Yan might not have even earned a place in the Hwarang, her challenges ignored and left unanswered. Unfortunately, that was where their support ended, as relations were strained between them after Grandpa refused to teach Ryo Seoyoon, yet another reason for Yan to feel guilty. “I’m sorry, but Grandpa just left. I don’t know when he’ll be back, but it should be before the festivities begin. You’re welcome to come in and wait. Our balcony doesn’t offer the best view of the harbour, but it’s rather enjoyable sitting up on the roof.”

“Why sit on the roof when our humble balcony has a clear view of the bay? Father tasked Da’in with inviting Teacher Du and Lady Yan to visit as honoured guests, so why don’t we head over first and Teacher Du can join us when he returns.” Taking Yan’s hand, she pouted in a charming and ladylike manner and leaned in to whisper, “You know, Chi-Chi can’t stop talking about your bout with Wu Gam and how you were robbed of victory. I think he’s smitten.” Without waiting for an answer, Da’in dragged Yan away despite her best efforts to fight free. She didn’t intend to refuse, she just wanted to show she could fight free, but no matter how hard she tried, she was unable to free herself from Da’in’s vice-like grip.

After passing through the Ryo manor gates, Yan finally stopped struggling and gave in. Smiling as she pulled Yan closer, Da’in linked their arms and said, “So tell me about the Undying Falling Rain. You knew him, yes? Grew up together?”

Ah. No wonder the Ryo family extended them an invitation today, but not yesterday. They wanted to know more about the new number one talent of the Empire. “Knew him but didn’t grow up with him. We haven’t spoken since I left though.” Unable to resist, Yan casually asked, “I was too injured to attend, but how was the banquet?”

“Oh you haven’t heard?” Placing her hand over her heart, Da’in sighed in admiration. “He was magnificent. The rumours don’t do him justice. After what he did last night, I almost walked right up and demanded to join him on his marital bed. I’ve never met another man like him, so bold and daring, talented and intelligent...”

As Da’in regaled her with the details of last night’s events, Yan’s smile grew wider and wider. Cutting himself open on stage sounded just like the Rain she knew and loved, a daft but lovable idiot lacking in all common sense.

And with his new status as Imperial Consort, perhaps Rain could finally earn Grandpa’s approval…

Chapter Meme
