Come to think of it, he should probably introduce the dreadshade to Izzik. He was pretty sure the two would do each other some good.

It didn't take long for them to find an empty dueling room—it was, after all, early enough that none of them were actually in use. Cale was fascinated to find that they were constructed out of a thick metal covered heavily in the same inscriptions that decorated the rest of the Astral Wing. These ones, though, appeared to be fueled by a different mana source. Probably so they would withstand stronger blows.

He would have spent a bit more time examining it, but he was excited to get to the spell learning bit for once.

Fortunately, that took no time at all. Cale learned to his absolute delight that draconic resonance did, in fact, improve his ability to acquire spells. It seemed likely that full integration of his first rank had more to do with being ready for the second, because the actual benefits of draconic resonance felt like they were in full effect.

His ability to acquire spells had been good to start with, considering he only needed to examine a spell to acquire it. [Spell Intuitionist] made sure of that. Now, though? With draconic resonance in play, all he needed to do was sense the spell, and a part of him just... understood.

You have learned [Pebbleblast]!

The pebbles clattered harmlessly off his barrier as Cale lounged back against a nearby rock, examining the new spells entering the list granted by the Gift with fascination.

Acquisition still only worked with low-tier spells, of course, but this was still an absolute boon. How many spells had he missed because he hadn't been paying attention? Now he didn't need to—in fact, he didn't even need to look in the spell's general direction. His mana sense was constantly active, and that meant that as long as a spell entered his range, he picked it up.

You have learned [Disorient]!

With draconic resonance in play, he could start accumulating spells just by walking around the academy. In no time at all, he'd...

Cale frowned. "Wait a minute," he said, narrowing his eyes. "Is this so easy because it's like I'm gathering spells for a hoard? I don't hoard things!"

"Um..." Damien blinked at him mid-spell, wisps of decay mana evaporating before being sucked into the academy's inscriptions. "Who are you talking to?"

"The Gift!" Cale gestured exasperatedly at the air while everyone else stared at him. "I'm not that much like a dragon. I should know! I tried to join a dragon nest once and they very politely kicked me out."

"Okay, so, I have like five questions about that," Leo said, raising a hand. Cale ignored him to glare into the air for a moment more before he subsided with a sigh.

"Is being compared to dragons that bad?" Damien asked hesitantly.

Cale blinked. "What? No. I just know if I actually let it get to my head I'm going to start bragging about it. You don't want me in a bragging phase, trust me."

He was flattered though. He just wasn't letting himself acknowledge it.

You have learned [Basic Acceleration]!

And there was the other benefit of his newfound draconic resonance—it served as an early warning system, even when he wasn't paying attention. Cale grinned. He wasn't surprised Syphus had more interest in the duel than in the conversation; the golem was rapidly speeding toward him, fully intent on mowing him down.

For a moment, Cale was tempted to deactivate his barriers and testing his "improved physical abilities," but he wasn't quite that foolish. Instead, he grinned and slammed a sloped barrier into the ground in Syphus's general direction, then watched, impressed, as the golem flung itself high into the air.

Good thing the arena they were in had a pretty high ceiling. Instead of crashing into the top of the room, Syphus tumbled into the air, then rapidly oriented itself toward the ground and—

You have learned [Conjure Sand]!

—conjured a massive pile of sand for itself to land on. Cale took a casual step back as a massive cloud of sand immediately burst into the air on impact, not that the extra distance made much of a difference. His barriers did, though.

When Syphus emerged, it was covered in a fine layer of sand and seemed inordinately pleased with itself. "Can we do that again?"

Cale squinted. "You realize you're going to track sand all over the academy, right?"

"Obviously," the golem said. "It would be an aesthetic improvement. More places and things should be covered in sand. Like the elves and their trees."

"I don't think the elves are going to like that."

Syphus stared at him blankly.

Cale grinned. "Yeah, good point. Trade you for two more spells?"

"Deal."

Cale was having a great deal of fun.

After the first few rounds, he'd started letting up on his barrier, if only because the onesided nature of three students casting spells at him was beginning to bore him. Besides, it wasn't like he was afraid of pain, and he liked exerting himself once in a while.

It turned out to be a fantastic decision. He'd discovered that labyrinth mana tasted a bit like a mix of chocolate and mint, for instance. Decay didn't have any more of a taste than the last time he'd tried eating it, though it had something of a smoky flavor without his barrier in the way.

"Sand mana just tastes like sand, though," Cale remarked, trying to get the last few bits of sand out of his mouth. Syphus was watching him with something like either amusement or appreciation; he wasn't sure which. Maybe it liked that he was willing to try tasting sand? It seemed very convinced that sand was the superior element.

"For the last time," Leo said, exasperated, "it's not sand mana after Syphus conjures it. It's just sand. Syphus isn't even using sand mana for the spell!"

"Yeah, but I wanted to see your face after I tried eating it," Cale said. Leo buried his face in his hands, groaning something underneath his breath.

Cale just beamed. That was entirely worth it, in his opinion. Besides, he'd eaten worse things than sand. And he'd learned a few more things about his new resonance besides!

First of all, his physical endurance and reactions were better. It would still be foolish for him to take on Syphus without a barrier, but he could dodge some of its physically-enhanced blows now. He could outright take a hit from Leo, and while the difference in mass sent him flying, the impact didn't actually hurt.

He could outright carry Damien around too, but the dreadshade didn't really have weight, so that didn't count for much. He'd just done it to see him yelp.

There was a final test he wanted to do. It was almost time for the next class—Cale fully intended to be exceptionally punctual for Graystalk, this time—but one of the spells he'd acquired he was pretty sure he could cast with minimal repercussions no matter what it evolved into.

He wanted to test the "improved mana control" that draconic resonance gave him. Maybe he'd be able to cast something at an even lower tier now.

Cale poured as little mana as he could into [Disorient], then waited for the Gift to take over, his eyes gleaming in anticipation. What sort of spell could his improved control grant him?

Cale entered his next class with Damien right behind him, both of them looking mildly mortified. They were very early indeed—so early, in fact, that no one other than Graystalk was in the class. The professor looked up at them as they entered, his expression impassive at first, then brightening as he recognized Cale.

Then his brows furrowed, puzzled. "Cale," he said slowly. "And you are... Damien, yes?"

Damien nodded timidly.

"Very well." Graystalk paused for a long moment. "Would you care to explain why the two of you are walking on the ceiling and covered in what appears to be sand?"

Cale shrugged helplessly. "I evolved a spell?"

There was a long silence.

"Now this I must hear about," Graystalk said, folding his arms delicately across his desk and doing his best to suppress his laughter. "Tell me everything."

"It's not going to help if I say it's embarrassing, is it?"

Graystalk's lips twitched with amusement. "No, I believe it will not."
