I guide her to the pile of roots we removed from digging out the grave, grabbing the largest piece from the top and holding it up for her to see. "I have no idea how these will burn," I tell her nervously. "They're mostly dead from the death and poison mana, but that doesn't guarantee they'll burn. This pile is a start, but we should walk around and try to collect as much as possible before I begin."

Roots had broken through the structure at multiple points, so we wouldn't need to dig for them, but that wasn't our biggest hurdle.

“That’ll use up a lot of energy," Tabitha notes with little emotion. And that was the biggest hurdle of my plan. Even partially dead, the roots were incredibly tough to cut through. Only Tabitha, with her sword, could do it, and gathering the amount of kindling I needed would be exhausting.

"I know," I frown.

"Is there any other way to make me a shield?" Tabitha asks calmly.

“Not anything that won’t break after the first hit," I tell her.

Tabitha and I exchanged looks; it was clear what we had to do. Without a shield, Tabitha wouldn't last five seconds against the winged serpent, and it went without saying that I wouldn't leave her behind.

She needed a shield, end of story.

“Then we better get going," Tabitha says as she stretches her recently recovered arms, her new scars shimmering in the glow of my light spell.

"Let's," I agree. “Oh, one more thing,” I suddenly remembered. Moving over to our bags, I grabbed our waterskins. Between the two, we had a few mouthfuls of water left. “I sensed faint traces of water mana while you slept. It’s probably stagnant and full of all sorts of things, but I’ll take anything at this point.”

"Smart," Tabitha nods in approval. “I can boil what we collect while you make my shield.”

“Sounds like a plan. We might even be able to brew some tree tea,” I suggested playfully.

“Tree—Tea?”

Tabitha looked confused, so I explained what my father taught me during the short time I worked with him. I told her some tree roots were edible, but we might use more energy digesting them than we get from eating them. My solution was simple: boil the roots in water, create a slightly nutritious tea, and soften them—you know, so long as eating them didn't poison us.

“Interesting,” was all Tabitha said after I finished explaining my idea.

"I figure it's worth a shot, though I'm surprised you didn't know any of this," I teasingly smirked at Tabitha, who barely reacts.

“You forget we don’t have many trees in Scholl, and the ones we do have, we certainly don’t eat their roots,” Tabitha deadpanned.

“Come on, just say it’s a good idea,” I nudged her side as we started walking down the ruined stone corridor.

"It was an acceptable idea," Tabitha reluctantly notes, keeping her eyes forward.

“Boo,” I jokingly jeered. "As my teacher and superior, isn't it your job to keep my morale up?”

"You do that well enough yourself." Tabitha didn't rise to my taunting, but in the flickering light given off by my spell, I swear it looked like she was smiling faintly—it must be my eyes.

Bantering with Tabitha was fun, and it did raise my spirits. The threat of death was literally looming overhead, but Tabitha's stone-like demeanor somehow made me feel better. No matter what we faced, she handled it with a cool head and a strong attitude. She was my emotional rock, and I couldn't thank her enough for being by my side.

Did that mean I would stop trying to chip away at her stony exterior—Not in the slightest. We were going to survive this together, and the first thing I was going to do once we were safe was hug Tabitha with all my might. I didn't care how she might react; I was doing it.

I would make it happen, and no wimpy lesser dragon was going to stop me.
