Technology was a prized possession in this world, even for the powerful mages of Wistram. True, they could do almost everything he could. Record sounds? They could use a spell. Take a picture? Spell. But the fact that Blackmage could do with ease what a [Mage] had to study for years to achieve was telling. Blackmage wished he could duplicate his iPhone somehow, but no [Blacksmith] could replicate the fine metalwork.
And Feor had told him that the [Repair] spell could mend, but not recreate. Creating new material, new, permanent material like duplicating components of Blackmage’s phone or watch? That was high magic even he didn’t have access to.
“Well, we shall just have to take advantage of what we do know. Movies for instance. I would quite like to see one showcasing Wistram’s splendors. Perhaps with commentary from a few select [Mages]?”
“Like yourself, Foulton? Hah!”
“If you have a complaint…”
“Forget movies for a moment. I’m more intrigued with all of these little cultural advancements. You know, I’ve had a craftsman working on a deck of cards. It should arrive with the next shipment from Izril. I would like to invite you all to a small session. Perhaps with wagering?”
Blackmage saw a few mages look up at that. He hadn’t just told the mages about technology. Things like card games and even chess had been of great interest to them. Especially since chess already existed in this world. Feor had asked many questions about that.
“Gambling already, Welaiat? I should have known a Libertarian would throw his money around carelessly. Just so long as your lot doesn’t want to waste Wistram’s resources, you can enjoy such trivial pursuits.”
One of the Drakes leaned forwards and smirked at the Human [Mage] who’d been offering the card game. The mood at the high table soured. Blackmage groaned as he anticipated what was going to come.
“Of course a Preservationist would lecture me about coin. Still saving copper coins, Failess? Or are your coffers not deep enough to afford enough spellbooks for your newest members?”
The Drake flushed and made a fist. Sparks spat out of his mouth as the mages sitting between the two leaned back.
“The very notion of spending recklessly is the exact reason why you Libertarians keep trying to drag us into continental affairs! You have to keep running back to those with deeper pockets to finance your spending! Whereas a proper, budgeted system—”
“Hah! You’d have us cut everything that attracts prospective students to Wistram! Food, supplies—this is what makes the academy thrive!”
Failess growled.
“And I should blindly vote to take loans to finance projects like these fanciful movies? Ridiculous! Spend what we have, don’t overspend!”
“A loan pays for itself. Moreover, debt is not something that need concern the academy. Any lender knows that what they give will be repaid with interest. It is not a debt, in fact. It is an investment—”
“Hah! Don’t mince words. How can any nation, any institution survive permanent debt? The very idea of being beholden to a band of [Merchants] is surely ridiculous.”
“Not according to our young guest. Blackmage, pray tell us what you spoke about when we talked about, ah, the economy of debt.”
Blackmage gulped. Welaiat of the Libertarian faction gestured at him, and again, the [Mages] stared. He hated this. The Drake known as Failess looked at him.
“Nations from your homeland truly endure crippling debt, Human?”
“Well…yes. It’s sort of how we operate. I mean, we try to balance the budgets, but we always spend more than we have.”
“How could that be viable? The instant someone called in their debts—”
“They don’t. They get interest each year. I think. And my nation keeps repaying debt and getting more, I think. They spend more money than they have to thrive.”
“Spend to thrive. You see, Failess?”
The Human Libertarian grinned at the Drake Preservationist. Failess scowled and replied sharply, but some of the other [Mages] were looking thoughtful. Blackmage sat back, sweating, afraid to even touch his food.
He didn’t think he’d explained the way America managed its debt well. The problem was that the [Mages] wanted to know everything about his world, and Blackmage, in a very real sense, knew very little about the underlying economic, cultural, or other structures of Earth. He told them what he could, and they used it in their debates. Archmage Feor smiled at Blackmage as the conversation turned into a hot argument about Wistram’s spending budget.
“Teura tells me you did not spot any familiar faces in today’s arrivals, Blackmage. Perhaps tomorrow will be different? It would be reassuring to see more companions, I am sure.”
“Yes, Archmage Feor. I, ah, well, I’ll do my best to mingle. Actually, I’m a bit full, so I might go and talk with the other students.”
“Of course. I imagine it’s hardly entertaining to listen to politics. Please, enjoy yourself.”
Archmage Feor watched as Blackmage excused himself. He looked to one side, and Teura rose silently. The other [Mages] watched Blackmage go. When he was making his way down the dining hall, they spoke amongst themselves.
“I wonder how aware he is of his position.”
“The Human’s young. Young, even for his age. Naïve, I think. Feor has him on a tight leash.”
“Let him. The Human’s of no interest to us. Whatever Feor learns we’ll learn in turn. The real trick will be if the search teams find anyone else. But filling the roster with our side will be next to impossible.”
“It’ll have to be a balanced team. Maybe even one [Mage] from each faction. Dead gods, imagine how we’ll have to explain it to the mages not in the know. The point is to get them here. And then…”
 
——
 
Blackmage wandered down the banquet hall, disconsolate. [batman] was right. Batman was always right, come to think of it. He was a pawn. There was danger in Wistram. There was danger everywhere, which is why Blackmage was still trying to find as many people from Earth as possible and bring them to the academy, but within these walls, he had very little power. Feor’s faction had him, and Blackmage’s only bargaining chips, his knowledge of Earth, were mostly exhausted. If he wanted influence, if he wanted freedom—
Secrets ran Wistram. Secrets were a currency here. If you had a big secret, you could trade it. Cash it in with secret brokers, or use it. Blackmage knew that some secrets were worth thousands of gold coins. His secret, the secret of why he was at the head table, was probably worth that much. He knew the students and mages were burning with curiosity about him, so he fanned the flames as he walked down the banquet hall.
“Mage Rievan, I’ll be one of the students in your class next week. I’ll be studying with the first-years. I hear great things about your, uh, teaching methods.”
Blackmage introduced himself to a group of Humans sitting at one of the tables. The [Mage] he’d addressed, a gaunt fellow who was always looking down his nose at people, looked startled.
“You are? That is to say, I look forwards to it. May I ask where you come from?”
“Oh, I, uh—”
Blackmage hesitated just long enough for Teura to step in. The half-Elf quickly nudged Blackmage backwards and not-so-subtly nodded her head. Blackmage moved back, mouthing an apology, and Teura turned. The smile she gave Rievan was entirely fake.
“Blackmage’s identity is a somewhat touchy issue, Mage Rievan. Please understand that he is to be treated as any other student.”
“Black—is that his name? Mage Teura, I’ve seen that young man sitting with Archmage Feor. I understand the need for privacy, but I think that if I am to teach him properly, I should—”
Rievan stood up somewhat pompously. He and the other Libertarians did not agree with Archmage Feor’s faction…or non-Humans if it came to that. But he paused as Teura stared at him.
“He is a student. His name is Blackmage. That is all you need to know, Mage Rievan. I would suggest that a mage of your caliber not ask any more questions. Or he might land himself in undue trouble.”
The Human man froze. Teura looked at him and then at his companions, all of whom suddenly found themselves ravenously hungry. He turned, and he sat. The other Libertarians stared at Teura’s back in frustration, but they dared not ask their leaders at the high table for help. They were out of the know. Teura turned, searching for Blackmage. By that time, of course, it was already too late.
 
——
 
The instant Teura had been occupied with Rievan, Blackmage had turned and swiftly walked for another table near the back of the great hall. Unlike the tables with formal seating, there were groups of more casual spots for those students whose body types did not easily squeeze into chairs. A ring of couches and plush stools sat around one table he walked towards.
Some centaurs were sitting at a table to the left, but the one he was moving towards was occupied by a pair of students. A Human woman talking with a Dullahan. The Dullahan had dark metal armor, and her head was sitting on the table, alternately talking and munching on food. Both [Mages] looked up as Blackmage approached, a smile on his face.
“Hi there. Mind if I sit?”
“Yes.”
Beatrice looked up flatly, and Montressa du Valeros, also known as Mons to her friends, looked up as the young man approached. Neither one was happy to see him. Interested males of any species were not whom Montressa wanted to share her table with. She saw the young man, younger than she was by a few years, hesitate.
“Uh—”
“This table is occupied. By us. Get lost.”
Beatrice was a Dullahan. Her dark, polished metal arms turned her head so she could glare at the young [Mage]. She was not hospitable to begin with and especially not at dinner. Montressa saw the young man gulp.
“It’s just that I was actually hoping to do business.”
Oh dead gods. Montressa tried not to roll her eyes. He had to be a first-year, fresh off the boats. Only a first year would be so blatant about wanting to sell or buy secrets. She was about to advise him to get lost and try Beatrice at another time or get blacklisted when she took a second look at his face.
“Wait a second. Beatrice. That’s him.”
Beatrice paused. She looked like she’d been about to draw a Rune of Pain on her napkin and throw it at the young man’s face. But as she frowned at the young man, she recognized him as well. The strange young man who’d appeared in Wistram. The one called—Montressa tried not to laugh—Blackmage.
“Ah.”
The Dullahan glanced around. So did Montressa. Then they moved over.
“Alright, sit. And keep your head down.”
Blackmage sank into one of the padded benches next to Montressa. He seemed nervous as Beatrice put her head on her shoulders and secured it in place. He didn’t look like he was used to seeing Dullahans. Montressa filed that information away. She inspected him from head to toe. So this was the strange newcomer who was attracting so much attention. Rumor had it that he was taking lessons from Archmage Feor. Personally. She didn’t see what made him so attractive. Her sense of him as a [Mage] put him at Level 20. At best.
“So what do you want…Blackmage?”
Beatrice stared at the young man. He jumped.
“You know who I am?”
The Dullahan woman rolled her eyes impatiently.
“I’m a secret broker. Of course I know. Little rats know who you are. Speak.”
Blackmage hesitated.
“Alright. I know you buy and sell secrets. And, uh, get things for people. You also do services, is that right?”
“I make connections.”
Beatrice’s eyes narrowed. Montressa winced. Her friend’s patience was getting dangerously thin. Beatrice had never managed to acquire even a shred of Calvaron’s easygoing air for all she had inherited his network of connections after he had…passed. That people still came to her was because she had a lot of influence, not because she was easy to work with.
Perhaps Blackmage realized he was stretching her patience, because he went on quickly. He kept looking around. Montressa rolled her eyes again as she cast several ward spells to hide their conversation.
“The thing is, I have a secret to sell. And I need something done. There’s this half-Elf who follows me around all the time.”
“Mage Teura. Part of the Centrist faction. Feor’s group. Say things outright or you can go.”
“Uh.”
Montressa couldn’t take it any longer. She leaned forwards and saw the young man lean back. He stared at her. Montressa had grown since the first days she’d stepped onto Wistram’s shores. She was no longer an apprentice looking around with wide eyes but a full student of Wistram, on the verge of being recognized as a [Mage]. Beatrice had long since passed her final test and was now an official mage of Wistram, a [Runeshaper] and one of the secret brokers of the academy.
“What do you want, kid? You want her to stop following you? An accident? If that’s your goal, you might as well give up. No secret broker will cross Archmage Feor’s faction whatever you’re offering.”
“What if I said I wanted her distracted for…twenty minutes?”
“Hmm. That would cost you.”
Beatrice’s eyes narrowed. She looked around. Now, Montressa saw the half-Elf in question. She swore.
“We’ve got less than a minute before she spots which ward spell we’re behind. Make it fast, Beatrice.”
She began muttering more ward spells, although she didn’t have high hopes of hiding from a mage as experienced as Teura. Still, Montressa had been helping Beatrice out for years now, and she knew her way around disguise and ward spells. Blackmage leaned forwards, whispering fast.
“Say that’s what I want. Can you do it? Tonight? Give me a window to slip away and prevent anyone else from following?”
The Dullahan traced a rune on the desk.
“I can do that. The question is how much you have to offer.”
“How about a secret?”
“It would have to be a truly massive secret. Doubt you have that. But give it to me and I’ll tell you what you’ve got.”
Montressa saw Blackmage hesitate. He reached into a pocket and pulled something out. A piece of paper? She nearly laughed. Any [Mage] could read what was on there! If they wanted to look. But she went still as she saw Beatrice unfold the paper. The Dullahan stared at what was written and then blinked. Twice.
“Huh. That would do it.”
“Are you serious, Beatrice?”
The Dullahan looked up. She immediately set fire to the paper and nodded at Montressa.
“He’s good for it.”
“Dead gods.”
Montressa blinked at Blackmage who was looking slightly smug. What kind of secret had Beatrice read? The Dullahan glanced around.
“Teura’s on to us. Human, you want this done now?”
“As fast as you can. Is it possible?”
“Give me five minutes. When Montressa finds you, go.”
