Beatrice stood up. Montressa got up casually, dispelling the magics around her. She could see Teura heading towards them. She left Blackmage behind, hoping he wouldn’t be obvious about what he’d been doing. Then again, it didn’t matter. They had a contract.
“He really gave you a secret worthy of that, Beatrice?”
“And then some. I’ll get a distraction ready. Can you help?”
“Point to whomever you want. What if he’s lying?”
“Then he’s blacklisted. But the secret—I don’t think so. How could he know?”
Both older Wistram students looked back at Blackmage. He was wandering around the banquet hall, doing his very best not to look their way. Montressa grimaced. Teura was following Blackmage closely, but she kept glancing suspiciously back at the two of them.
“She knows he talked to us. Bet she knows we’re secret brokers too. Let’s move fast.”
“Agreed.”
The two split up. Montressa and Beatrice walked around the great hall. The new students were gossiping at their tables, talking loudly while some of the older students went over to talk or introduce themselves. Montressa slid past a table of wide-eyed Selphids and found a group of older students, all in their seventh years. They looked up as she approached.
“Hey. Beatrice wants a favor.”
“Really? What’s she offering?”
“Anything you want. The mission is Teura. Distraction. Twenty minutes.”
One of the students, a Dullahan, whistled.
“That’s above our grade.”
“You’ll get help. She doesn’t leave the hall. Think you can do it?”
The students looked at each other. Then they nodded.
“We’re in. Signal?”
“You’ll see it.”
Montressa left them. She circulated the room, tapping other mages on the shoulders. In the hubbub of thousands of [Mages] and prospective mages eating, it was hard to keep track of her. By the time she strolled over to Blackmage, it was ready. She tapped him on the shoulder as Teura got slowed by a gaggle of loudly gossiping Lizardfolk.
“Go. Leave the hall through any entrance and then run for it.”
Blackmage nodded. He steeled himself and then began to walk speedily for one of the exits. Teura followed like a hound on the scent. She passed by a group of two tables of students and saw one of them raise their wand.
“[Force Beam].”
“[Sticky Webs]!”
“[Stone Barrier].”
A dozen students and [Mages] called out. Teura spun. She raised her wand and was hit by disabling spells from all sides. A shimmering barrier formed around her, blocking the attacks, but more wards and barriers were rising between her and Blackmage. He ran as she cursed and spun.
At the high table, Feor looked up. He saw nearly twenty [Mages] casting spells, some dueling Teura as she tore down the barriers. He frowned and pointed.
“It looks like an altercation has broken out.”
His words were pointed. Three more half-Elves rose. They instantly made a beeline for the fighting. Mages attacking other mages wasn’t exactly a criminal offense. The offenders would probably be hexed with something nasty or fined so long as they hadn’t attacked to truly harm. But there were a lot of mages casting spells, and even Feor’s experienced disciples struggled to overwhelm the quantity of magic coming at them. And meanwhile, Blackmage had vanished.
Feor hesitated. He half-rose, saw the other [Mages] watching him, calculating, and slowly sat. He waited impatiently as Teura and the others tried to battle through the ambush and find Blackmage.
Politics. And the two instigators, Beatrice and Montressa, were nowhere near the action. Beatrice had relocated to a far end of the room and was casually watching the mage duels while counting down in her head. And Montressa had vanished from the dining hall entirely.
 
——
 
Blackmage ran. He wasn’t an athlete, but the excitement gave him wings. At last, he was alone! Only, he wouldn’t be when Teura caught up. And she would be mad. So he ran faster, down a corridor and then down a long, winding passageway full of steps.
“I should’ve asked for…thirty minutes!”
He gasped as he tumbled down a flight of steps, dashed down a side corridor, ran through a room, slammed out the doorway, and found another staircase waiting. Wistram was a labyrinth even to [Mages] used to it. The further you went, the more convoluted it got. Even now, there were places that kept getting discovered. So many secret places—but the spot he was headed to wasn’t secret.
If the upper levels of Wistram were blocked off, the lower ones were less frequently used simply because of expediency. The dining hall was far away from the basement areas, and the proximity to areas like the crypts or dangerous zones where magical experiments might eat an unwary mage didn’t exactly make for good company. Blackmage wasn’t headed down that far, though. He was running to a section of tunnels without any rooms nearby. He’d memorized the route from the dining hall and had gone here twice as practice. When he finally reached the blank section of wall he was looking for, he was out of breath, but he was still on time.
“Fantstalidephoron! Dammit! Fantstalifepheron! Wait. Fanstali-delif-pheron.”
Blackmage recited the word from memory. On the third try it worked. The empty corridor glowed, and suddenly, part of the wall rippled and vanished. Blackmage cried out in amazement and then rushed into the opening.
“Oh my god! It’s here!”
Blackmage stared around the room. His first impression was that of dust. And cobwebs. Spiders and dust mites had infested this room, creating huge drooping webs. But even the spiders had died from lack of food. The layers of dust covered the chairs and tables and bookshelves. But even they couldn’t disguise the grandeur of the room. Or rather, rooms.
Expensive couches sat in the first one around tables that were free of mold or rot. Brushing at one, Blackmage saw the faint runes carved into the wood that had protected it. He sneezed, wished someone were here to clean all the dust up, and spotted the bookshelves. They sat at the end of the room, next to a fireplace that still burned with light. Magical fire danced there, providing warmth, while the rows of spellbooks and tomes stood in shelf after shelf. Waiting.
“Holy crap. And over here is—”
Blackmage ran into the second room and gasped as he saw a mage’s laboratory. Summoning circles drawn in melted gemstones on the ground, mana crystals lined up on shelves, glowing potions—he saw a bottle had cracked in one spot. A very large and very mutated rat was lying in front of it. Dead. Blackmage backed away.
“Holy crap. Holy—it’s real! It’s real!”
He shouted and threw up his arms, racing back into the library room. Library, mage’s workshop—and there were more rooms yet! Then his eyes travelled to something above the fireplace.
The massive magical fireplace roared with life even after the room itself had been forgotten. But it was magic that had made this place, and the magic remained. And above the fireplace, someone had written…something. Glowing runes had been etched in the brickwork. They shone as Blackmage stared up at them.
It was nothing in any language. Not in the common tongue. They were the words of magic, and Blackmage’s brief study wasn’t enough to help him read them. He frowned.
“It says…it says…”
“The Evermote Study. That’s what it says.”
Blackmage spun. Montressa stood in the entryway, staring. The young man looked at her in horror. Montressa looked at him and then the rows of books, pale with shock.
“You found it. The Evermote Study. It’s legendary. It has to be one of the most sought-after places in Wistram and you found—how?”
She took a step forwards, and Blackmage stepped back.
“Oh no. No, no, no! You can’t have followed me! This isn’t right! It’s all ruined!”
“Calm down.”
“Calm down? The secret’s out! You promised me—I thought no one would follow.”
“Beatrice was curious. Sorry kid, but that’s the way it works.”
Montressa shrugged. She’d used an [Invisibility] spell to slip out after Blackmage. He hadn’t even run that fast—not to someone who’d learned [Flash Step]. Her stomach clenched as she remembered who’d taught her the beginnings of both spells. She suppressed the feeling. She’d put it to rest for good soon enough.
“Look, I didn’t hear the passphrase for the room. I wish I had, believe me. It was a passphrase, right?”
Blackmage stared at Montressa, lips sealed. He glared at her. She sighed.
“Don’t be stupid. And don’t reach for that wand—I’ll hit you with a [Flame Arrow] straight between the legs if you so much as try it. I’ve studied magic for years here, and I’ve won more duels than you can count. Be reasonable. You’ll never be able to use a tenth of what’s in here, so you might as well make a deal now.”
“With you?”
“Hardly. You think Beatrice and I could shift all this? We’d get so many questions—no. With a haul like this, you’d have to talk to a big player. Someone like Archmage Feor. But why do I think you don’t want to let him know about this place?”
Montressa cocked her head, smiling slightly. Blackmage hesitated.
“You want to make another deal?”
“I’d like a finder’s fee, yeah. Teura’s going to be here any second. She probably can locate you even with the anti-scrying spells we cast on you. You’ll need someone to make contact, and I bet you she won’t let you out of her sight. So why don’t we walk out of here, close this place up—”
“It closes itself. I don’t need to say the password out loud.”
“I’ll bet it does. Thanks for telling me there is a password.”
Blackmage shut his mouth. Montressa laughed. She looked around wonderingly.
“Dead gods. One of the legends of Wistram. How did you know? No, first tell me who you want me to contact. Unless your entire plan was finding this place? No, not even a first year’s that stupid.”
The young man eyed her balefully. But he had no choice, so he nodded.
“I want to talk to someone. Actually, I was going to talk to Beatrice again. She’s a Revivalist, right?”
“That’s right. Wait—do you want to talk to Naili?”
“Naili—that’s right.”
“Huh. That is good luck. For you.”
Montressa narrowed her eyes. She nodded after a second.
“Works for me. I’m a Revivalist too, by the way. We’ve never been introduced. Montressa du Valeros.”
“Oh. I’m—Blackmage.”
“Yes, I heard. Afraid of someone learning your true name? It’s not that dangerous. Come on, we’d better get moving if you want to speak to Naili tonight. Not even Feor’s people will follow you that deep into Revivalist territory.”
“Okay. I shouldn’t trust you but—”
“You’ve got no choice. Don’t worry. Secret brokers are as honest as they come. If we’re not, we get into more trouble than it’s worth. Let’s run.”
Montressa left the room and saw the door close as soon as Blackmage stepped out. She whistled.
“Incredible. How did you know about this room anyways? It’s a legend in Wistram. You have to pay for the secret about the secret of the Evermote Study.”
Blackmage glanced at Montressa. For the first time since he’d met her, he smiled. This time in what she thought was genuine relief. He was sweaty, nervous. Just a kid. But not just another first-year.
“That’s a secret too. Wanna pay for it?”
The [Mage] glanced at the younger man’s smile and shook her head.
“I doubt I could afford it. Come on.”
She led the way at a run. Blackmage ran behind her. Montressa had to shake her head as she went. Secrets, new students appearing out of nowhere, and politics. It reminded her of her first years in Wistram. She bit her lip as she remembered. But that had been a long time ago. Everything was different now.
 
——
 
There was trouble retrieving Blackmage. He was gone for over an hour, which was far too long. Feor retired to his rooms before he received a [Message] indicating that Blackmage had been returned to his chambers. Feor wondered where the young man had gone.
It didn’t matter. He had made up his mind already. It was too dangerous to have Teura follow the young man around at all hours. A lock spell preventing him from speaking about confidential matters would do the job far more effectively. It would be complex, but Feor had set aside all of tomorrow to cast it with a circle of his trusted allies. They would do the same for the other Humans from Earth before anyone realized what had been done.
That was Feor’s plan. He meditated in his rooms on the spell before he slept and rose early to do the same. At breakfast, he patiently waited, dining on a light meal in preparation for the exertions to come.
Blackmage was not sitting with him. He had been escorted to the great hall, but allowed to sit wherever he pleased. He was sitting with a Dullahan and young Human woman. The same two he had visited last night. Secret brokers. Feor’s brow furrowed. If Blackmage was giving out secrets—he wouldn’t be that foolish. But then again, he was Human. And young.
It was past time to cast the spell. Feor rose and nodded. He had brought six of the experienced [Mages] from his faction, the Centrists, with him. They were all on Wistram’s council. They stepped away from the high table and walked across the floor. Feor kept his eyes on Blackmage. He saw the young man turn, and then someone stepped in front of him.
“Oh my, Feor. I hope I’m not in your way.”
The half-Elf looked up. He saw a smiling half-snake, half-humanoid creature slither into his path. She looked like a Naga, but while they were more powerfully built, she was slim. Her scales were light white and rose, and across her arms and back ran a pattern of glowing scales which shifted with bright blues and purples and yellows. The Lamia’s face resembled that of the Lizardfolk from which she had evolved from. But the brilliant power in her gaze was her own.
“Archmage Nailihuaile. I thought you were secluded in your private chambers, meditating on the theory of using rhinestones to bypass the material components of jewel spellcrafting.”
The Lamia beamed at Feor, and he cursed her timing.
“I was! But you know how it is with me and spellcraft. I sometimes want to move about and then I thought that I hadn’t eaten in days! So here I am.”
“Fascinating. I would love to speak with you, but later. I have business to attend to.”
Stopping to chat with the most talkative of Archmages was not an option. Feor stepped politely around Naili, but she slithered in front of him. This time, he stopped and sensed the trap. Naili bared sharp teeth at him in a grin.
“I know you’re busy, Archmage Feor. That’s why I’m here, actually. I was rather hoping to spoil your day. That little Human you want to take? He’s mine now.”
