Meanwhile, Thomas felt cold. Jo had hidden her child using her Gift, and Mariah was describing Light Elves. They had chalk-white skin, and elves in general were differently proportioned than humans, with longer arms. Clothing wouldn't fit great if they were wearing human uniforms.

"They weren't human," he said softly.

"Okay, but what's going on?" she demanded. "I heard more yelling—like a guy? Then they all left, and Mom wasn't anywhere. The living room was clean, too. Like, cleaner than we had it before. It's like nothing's happened except she's gone."

No wonder she had been hanging out in the truck outside. That was spooky.

Thomas had an explanation for that. "There are magic skills which can clean. They may have wanted to cover their tracks." Also erase some of Zach's blood because, no doubt, he had been part of some of the yelling.

"We're tracking down your mom, Mariah," Zach said. "I got one of those System skills, and I can tell you for certain she's alive. We're figuring out the rest."

She nodded, reaching up to palm away some tears. Ashton looked like he wanted to comfort her but hung back awkwardly, unsure how.

"In the meantime," Thomas said, "Let's get you somewhere safe. You can't stay out in your truck all night. How about we get you to your grandmother's place?"

Mariah just shook her head fast. "No, she's on the other side of town and... no, I won't go there."

Something was definitely being left unsaid. Thomas was trying to figure out how much to push when Ashton spoke up.

"You can stay with us. We're camping."

"Ashton, we're not camping—" Thomas started.

"It's in a dungeon," Ashton continued, warming up his pitch. "Zach can teleport, and if anything goes wrong, my uncle can heal. He fixed my little brother up just like that. You're part of the school's dungeon diving club, right?"

Dungeon Diving Club? Thomas felt the situation rapidly slipping away from him.

Mariah looked at the men, wary. "Mom's mentioned you two." She focused on Thomas. "You're the one who gave her the great makeover, right?"

Zach barked out a true laugh.

Ashton's head snapped to Thomas. "What? You're not dating Mariah's mom, are you?" He seemed both impressed and offended, like he'd called dibs on the family first, and now Thomas was making it weird for him.

"She's my teammate," Thomas said, flustered. "And it wasn't a makeover. She got poisoned, but--but she's fine! I pulled out the toxins, that's all."

Then he caught Mariah's smug expression and realized a second too late he'd just been outsmarted by a teenager.

"That's what she told me," Mariah said. "I guess you are who you say you are. So, you're going to take me into a dungeon?"

Jo was going to murder him.
