Vigilant, now, for the possibility of near-invisible tripwires, they continued down the alleyway at a much slower pace with one of Ali’s rats in the front just in case. They followed the alleyways through a maze of twists and turns, finding two more tripwires along the way before Mato suddenly stopped.

“Hide!” he hissed and darted back.

Ali scrambled for a dark doorway and dove through it as her rats careened in after her with Mato bringing up the rear. One of the rats stumbled and rolled into the room making a terrifyingly loud sound of clattering and crunching on the piles of bone inside the darkness of the ruined house.

A few moments later she heard the chirping calls of the Kobolds – far nearer. And then, as she held her breath in the darkness of the ruined house, two dark shapes passed by the entrance. A few points of mana drained from her mana pool, but she was too focused on not breathing or making any noise to be distracted by her difficult skill.

Instead, she used Identify.

Warrior – Kobold – level ??Rogue – Kobold – level 13

The Kobolds ambled by painfully slowly, their scaled tails swishing through the dust, occasionally knocking loose bone fragments flying. Their gleaming talons clicked on the stone with every step, sending sharp pulses of tension running through Ali’s chest.

Level thirteen! And the other one, the warrior, was so high Identify couldn’t even tell her the exact number; simply revealing it had two marks – anywhere between ten and ninety-nine.

As the Kobolds passed, and the chirping sounds began to grow quieter, one of her rats collapsed to the ground, twitched twice, and then she felt her mana reserve release. Ali turned immediately but there was no obvious threat.

Mato reached out and plucked something from the flank of her dead rat. Opening his hand, he revealed a dart like the ones from the tripwire trap she had set off earlier.

“I guess that answers the poison question,” he said soberly.

They decided to wait in the dark ruined house till the Kobold calls had completely faded, and then waited more just to make sure. Ali took the opportunity to summon a new rat, and by the light of her Grimoire, it was clear that the normal contents of a house were long gone, replaced by bones and some sticks, and even some kind of nest in the corner with age-darkened eggshell fragments. Behind the nest, Blackened Deathcap mushrooms sprouted, growing on the bone and even part-way up the wall.

It's so different to before, she thought, still struggling to come to terms with how old and ruined the city felt. A few days ago, she had been dodging throngs of people on the way to the library or the market, her head filled with the mundane worries of life, and the anticipation of unlocking her scholar class.

Dal’mohra felt wrong; wrong in a way that set her on edge. The darkness, the distant calls of monsters, the smell of age and decay, the deeply worn and pitted stone, unfamiliarity and fear tainting the home she had known her entire life. She rolled her shoulders, trying to ease the tension in her neck, but it had settled in, refusing to be dislodged.

Setting out together once more, Ali resolved – even more than before – to be aware of her surroundings. Taking the time to examine each turn for monsters or tripwires really slowed them down, but they eventually emerged from the twisted alleyways into a wider and straighter street.

One of the concentric arterial roads? While she didn’t immediately recognize this street, Dal’mohra’s architectural plan was simple and elegant; a circle with the Grand Library Arcana at the center, enormous radial boulevards cut through the terraced rings, and many concentric roads divided the districts. The road they had just emerged onto extended off into the darkness in both directions, and she could see just far enough to perceive the slight curve.

That means the center is that way?

As soon as she turned to look toward where the Grand Library should be, a loud clatter of bone and steel broke the silence. From a shadowy concealed alleyway across the opposite side of the street, two ungainly forms emerged.

Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level ?? x2

High levels! Both the skeletons were beyond her ability to Identify. Their stiff clattering charge seemed entirely too fast as they rapidly closed the distance.

Attack! She commanded her rats. “Run!” she yelled at Mato. To her surprise, the fight-loving Beastkin followed her directions without hesitation, instantly turning to flee with her into the nearest alleyway. They ran, heedless of the traps and twists and turns until Ali was forced to stop, her stamina entirely spent.

“Mato…”

The Beastkin boy stopped up ahead and turned to rejoin her, motioning to a darkened doorway into another ruined house. Carefully stepping over the dark black wire, Ali followed Mato inside and slumped down with her back against the wall, breathing heavily. Where are we? She was thoroughly lost, having entirely lost track of where they had been with all the twists and turns in the dark. She had sensed her rats dying as they ran, by the strange sensation of her mana reservation – the connection maintaining her summoned creatures – snapping one after the other in quick succession.

“I couldn’t identify them,” she told him.

“Good call,” he whispered. She could barely make him out in the darkness, sitting far enough away that she couldn’t reach him without getting up, but just close enough to see.

After sitting there in the dark for a few minutes, they heard the shuffling clatter of footsteps from somewhere outside. But though the noises grew louder for a while, they passed their hiding spot by what sounded like a street or two, never getting close enough to force them to run.

“I think we lost them,” Mato said eventually after silence had returned.

Ali nodded and began resummoning her minions.

We’re never going to get out of here like this.
