"Because you are comparing individuals harvested from an extreme, narrow, and limited data set. Think about this: how many people will reach the Legendary Tier at all? How many people stay alive at Legendary Tier for more than a few centuries, not even mentioning long enough to approach the end of their natural lifespan? And then how many people might be able to strive beyond that? Valor Thann might be an outlier among Legends, but still, all Legends are already extreme outliers. So, any conclusions you might make here are inaccurate regarding the generalities of any population. Frankly, I think you should confront the actual issue troubling you."

"And what might that be?" the Culturist asked, voice low.

"That you live under a mad tyrant God who refuses to allow you to change your morphology or twist your neurology and constantly bends you to his whims, strikes you down when you try to rebel against him, and basically makes you miserable for considering alternative modes of thought? That is my best guess." Hymn shrugged. "You are not alone here. I feel the same way about the Songbringer every time she demands sexual favors from me. You have any idea how hard it is to piece your shattered pelvis back together and to finally remove a long, burning rod covered with hooks and slick with baby oil from you—"

"Okay, yeah, enough detail!" Shiv interrupted. “Godsdammit…”

"My point is made." He shook his head and reached out over his messy table to squeeze both Shiv and Adam by the shoulders. "You have my pity, boys. You are now about to suffer the company of the only orc Legend who actually wishes to be a noble and virtuous person, and then bellyaches about it like a teenage girl with a sweet tooth she can't control every single time he fails. I suppose the incessant, self-pitying whining will be the thing that finally drives you over the edge into madness, Young Lord Arrow. You will find yourself brutalized, coughing blood, and then he will be healing you and telling you how the System is oh so cruel. How ‘this world is so determined to feast upon injustice, yet in its flattened state finds itself unable to cross that final threshold, because only the noble and just might be able to find the inner strength to master that final barrier’ or some such nonsense."

"Spare me your feelings. If you have the capacity to remove him, then do so," Adam nearly begged.

"Unfortunately, my pity is all I wish to offer at this moment. He is too much of a dangerous foe, and I am far too lazy to intervene on your behalf. I'm already trying to help one member of your sorry trio; the rest of you will have to deal with your own issues." Hymn looked the Culturist, who had his lips pressed together tightly, up and down and scoffed lightly. "Besides, he's not so bad. He hasn't killed either of you yet, for good. And he's also expressed a willingness to train you—in between bouts of incredible violence. That's not entirely a bad thing. You might even come to like him."

With every syllable that left Hymn’s mouth, Adam turned a new shade of red. "He literally shoved himself inside my soul and tore me apart. He ripped me apart. I felt every bit of that."

"Yes, and I'm sure it's exceedingly painful. However, so is life. So is being a High-Tier Pathbearer. I'm not going to say you'll like him specifically—"

“You literally just fucking did!” Adam practically shrieked in a seizure-inducing rage.

"—but eventually, you'll take what you can from this life. And sometimes what we get is a big, existentially challenged orc with god-issues and no fashion sense who likes to share his philosophical insights with people in between bouts of torturous or fatal training."
