Environmental mana was tantalizingly out of reach, even for those who could see it in the first place. Whenever anyone asked him about this ability of his, he would always point them to the foundation-tier skills Immolate and Refrigerate. Over the years, he had derived no small amount of amusement from the occasional fool who took one of them, hoping to imitate his power.

As if such garbage abilities could compare, he thought, eyes flashing with pride.

Raw Heat mana flowed into his body, filling his veins with fire as he flew along the path of the beam that was still enveloping him. That fire turned to ice as he circulated the mana through his spell, releasing it back into the environment. The balance was disrupted and started to spiral out of control. The sheer volume of Cold mana that he was producing began to displace the other elements.

The beam of light vanished abruptly, revealing Lightbreaker standing atop a pale disk that glowed like the moon. The man was wearing a gray uniform, emblazoned with the twin black fangs of the Empire. His black skin spoke of his Osaran descent, but his head had been shaved in defiance of tradition. He instead wore a neatly trimmed goatee.

Lightbreaker frowned, then the glowing platform shot forward and his arms were enveloped with blades of crimson energy. Bowcraig cursed and attempted to dodge, but he was too slow. He felt the impact of one of the blades on his arm as Lightbreaker flew past him.

Thanks to the charm, he took no damage from the Light magic, but he wasn’t ready for his opponent to realize that. He needed time for his conversion to work. He quickly feigned a look of pain, grasping his arm and trying to gain some distance between himself and his foe.

“Ouch,” he called over his shoulder, then laughed, his breath fogging the rapidly cooling air. “Well done, Lightbreaker, but you’ll have to try harder than that if you want to defeat me!”

Bowcraig was immediately engulfed by another beam of light, but he just smiled and pretended to be blinded. The temperature was well below freezing at this point, and it was continuing to drop. A second wave of fog formed in the air as one of the constituent gasses flashed to a solid. Bowcraig wasn’t a chemist and cared little for the mechanics of such things. All he knew was that no one had ever survived Thermal Conversion long enough for the air to turn to rain. That point was rapidly approaching. It would just be a few more seconds now.

He pulled on his Well, draining it completely, then summoned a pair of crystalline swords, one in each hand. With the temperature as low as it was, the magic came easily, as if it had its own will. The entire area was suffused with Cold mana now, with not even a shred of Heat mana remaining. Still, he did not stop, adding to the cold by channeling Froststorm. It was only a tier-1 spell, but it was well-suited for rapidly dispersing Cold mana.

Closing the distance, Lightbreaker swung at the Citizen with his blades of crimson light. Each time, Bowcraig would move his own blades of ice to intercept. He had trained against the Aspect. Compared to that, this was nothing. The man’s strikes had no weight.

“What’s wrong, Lightbreaker? No taste for swordsmanship?” Bowcraig said, then coughed, closing his mouth. The cold burned, even beginning to overcome his own incredible resistance. It wouldn’t be long now.

He redoubled his efforts, moving on the offensive as Lightbreaker started slowing down. The cold was clearly getting to him, his skin turning pale and starting to crack. Still, the Light Mage remained just one step out of reach. Bowcraig would have laughed if the air wouldn’t have damaged his lungs.

Fool. It’s already too late for you. You should have tried to get out of range.

Suddenly, Lightbreaker stumbled, almost slipping from the platform that he was standing on. Bowcraig’s face split into a wicked grin as the first droplets of liquid air started to fall. No one had ever survived this long. Lightbreaker was indeed a worthy foe.

The Citizen launched himself forward, icy blade seeking for his opponent’s heart. Lightbreaker didn’t even attempt to respond, toppling from his glowing platform like a frozen statue. A thrill of triumph rolled through Bowcraig as his blade pierced Lightbreaker’s body, meeting no resistance.

No resistance.

Lightbreaker vanished. In his place hung a tiny white orb, shining like the moon.

What? An illusion?! Impossible! The mana signature…

Bowcraig whirled, hunting for his foe. His lungs screamed for air, and he reversed his conversion. Even a citizen needed to breathe.

Another beam of light struck him, small, this time, no wider than a piece of straw. It glowed over his heart, blinding in intensity.

Bowcraig began to panic as he traced the beam to its source.

Lightbreaker.

The man was above him, far, far above. Bowcraig’s eyes widened as he saw the falling form of Citizen Timar tumbling through the air like a leaf.

No!

A sudden pain in his chest forced his eyes down. The beam of light was starting to burn through his tunic. Crackles of Arcane lightning started spreading out from the point of impact, oddly frozen in the air.

No…not Arcane. This is…

Before he could finish his thought, the charm’s protection broke completely. Bowcraig screamed in pain as his health began to drop more rapidly than he’d believed possible. The beam of light seared through all of his other defenses in an instant, piercing his heart. He canceled Flight, allowing himself to fall, desperate to get away. It was no use. The light tracked him, slicing spirals through his body as he tumbled through the air.

He was dead before his pieces hit the ground.

The man in chains sailed through the air above the city, standing upon a pane of hardened light. The two remaining Citizens were continuing their assault on the remains of the fortress, not yet having realized that it was empty. With a thought, he simulated the failure of yet another barrier. It was growing more difficult to maintain the illusion as the Citizens became less reserved in their attacks. He had to make it seem like they were making progress; otherwise, they would catch on.

The first few barriers had been real, of course. A chosen hundred soldiers had remained, honored to give their lives so that the will of the Potentate could be carried out. Their purpose was not to defeat the Citizens. The remaining force had been gone for half of a day already, having vanished into the trees to the east under cover of his magic. He would join them soon. For now, he would buy them as much time as he could.

He looked down at the barrier, smiling sadly. He was relieved that Fecht had not ordered him to bring it down. Even from this height, he could see the terrified faces of the residents staring at the destruction. One face, in particular, was the object of his attention.

A tortured screech tore his gaze away from the city. The Ice-Aspect Citizen was standing in the middle of the illusory fortress, howling in outrage. The man in chains let the Mirage dissolve, revealing the broken and blasted landscape hidden beneath. Hundreds of Lunar Orbs spiraled up to him rapidly, having been scattered throughout the illusion so that he would be able to fool the Citizens’ magical senses. As each orb sunk back into his body, he regained a small fraction of the health that he had spent to imbue the mana with life.

The remaining Citizens were not fools. They tracked the orbs to his position and launched attacks toward him.

The man in chains frowned, adjusting his trajectory so the hastily-launched projectiles would miss. He was unsure if he would be able to take down both of the remaining Citizens on his own, not with his mana as low as it was. He sighed and shook his head. It was too much of a risk. Had the army remained, they would have been able to defeat all four without issue. Unfortunately, that, too, was not worth the risk. If the DKE had sent a larger force, it would have been the army that was destroyed.

He caught himself rubbing at his wrists, then forced himself to stop, clenching his hands at his sides. The sooner that the Citizens fell, the sooner that the war would be over. The day that the Empire won would be the day that the killing would end. What was the pain of a life of servitude, compared to the terrifying void of death?

He stole one last look at the city, then veiled himself and guided his platform of light off to the east. Despite the pain in his heart, he was happy. His son was alive.

Stay safe, Val.
