Citizen Greenfield was a siege specialist. It would be her job to break any fortifications that the Adamant Army had constructed. She was an Earth Mage, and she looked distinctly uncomfortable. Bowcraig supposed that it must be difficult for her to be flying so high in the air, far from her source of power. On the ground, or more specifically under it, she was unmatched in the DKE when it came to dealing with stationary targets. Up here, she would barely be capable of defending herself.

Bowcraig shifted his attention to the last member of their party. Citizen Bluecrest didn’t look uncomfortable. It was hard to get a read on Citizen Bluecrest at all. He was a rare breed of fighter called an Aspect Elemental. In his combat form, he looked less like a man, and more like a scarecrow constructed of blades of translucent, razor-sharp ice. It was a strange fusion of Arcane transformation, secondary-elemental ice, and sword combat forms. It was startlingly effective for single combat. It shamed Bowcraig to admit it, but of the four of them, Bluecrest was likely the strongest.

[You may begin,] came the voice of Citizen Jarro over the link.

“Oh thank Melo,” said Citizen Timar, the rushing wind swirling to a stop.

Hastily, Bowcraig sucked in a lungful of air before it dissipated. It was a long way to the ground.

The platform wobbled, then started to fall. Below them, a volley of magic appeared from nowhere and crashed into the barrier covering the city. The telltale fog of Obfuscate was visible in the magical spectrum, masking any further detail.

Bowcraig smiled, then started casting, focusing on the general origin of the barrage. He didn’t need an exact target. Not for this.

This far in the air, he had plenty of time to cover the whole area. It would take quite a while for him to fall to the ground, though he was unsure precisely how long. At least a few minutes. Timar could probably have told him, but it wasn’t that important. He had as much time as he had, and that was that.

Meteor.

As he finished his first cast, a flaming rock the size of a horse appeared in the air beside him. He didn’t even glance in its direction, already beginning the process of summoning a second. Each cast only took 10 seconds, thanks to Quicken Evocation.

Meteor. Meteor. Meteor. Meteor. Meteor. Meteor.

The air around him began to thicken, and Bowcraig spread his arms to slow his fall. The Meteors passed him one by one, falling toward the ground in a line as he continued summoning more.

He was holding back. There was no point in trying to boost the spells outside of a ranked zone. Each was already powerful enough to reach the damage limit on its own. It was surprisingly efficient, as such things went. The longer that it took him to fall, the more of them he could summon.

Efficient did not mean cheap, however. He was forced to start drawing on his Well to replenish his mana. That was slightly regrettable, but it would all work out in the end. The mana that he was spending on this would not simply go to waste, even if the Adamants countered his opening salvo. He’d be able to repurpose it later.

Bowcraig was momentarily distracted by the form of Citizen Bluecrest zipping past him, the Aspect’s scythe-like limbs held tight against his body. He was closely followed by Citizen Greenfield, who had assumed a similar posture. As he watched, Greenfield actually caught up to Bluecrest, then passed him, accelerating faster and faster in blatant disregard for the thickening atmosphere. As an Earth Mage, she would be actively pulling herself toward the planet.

Stonevaulting is the strangest method of flight that I have ever heard of.

With no warning, the first Meteor that Bowcraig had summoned exploded into flaming chunks, shattered by a bolt of Arcane lightning. It looked like the Empire had noticed them.

Bowcraig kept casting, undeterred by the rain of flaming magma that he was now falling through. If such a thing could have bothered him, he would have hardly been worthy of the title of Citizen. The Meteors were mostly a distraction, anyway. It was a powerful spell, but slow. Against a fellow Citizen, it would be almost useless. Likewise, the Empire had their own means of dealing with such things, as the detonation of a second Meteor showed. The real threat to the barriers protecting their army would be Citizen Greenfield.

They called her Siegemaster.

The title wasn’t just for show. Not once had Citizen Greenfield met a wall that she couldn’t break, nor a magical barrier that she couldn’t shatter.

Seeing the Majistraal barrier in person, she was aching to test herself against it, but that would have to wait until after the Empire had been dealt with. Regaining control of the barrier stone was a secondary objective, to be completed only if it looked like it could be accomplished without risk of permanently damaging the artifact.

It was, in other words, a problem for later.

Still falling, Greenfield flipped over at the last second to dive face-first into the ground. Instead of leaving a bloody crater as might have been expected, she slipped into the earth with barely a ripple to disturb the snow.

Stone Swimming was a curious skill. It wouldn’t let her propel herself through solid rock—she needed to combine it with Rock Pull for that—but it did make the earth behave like water in many respects. As the stone flowed past her, she felt more and more resistance as her downward progress slowed.

Greenfield had heard that with water, there came a point at which you would no longer float back to the surface. With stone, that didn’t apply. The density and strength of the rock increased the closer you got to the depths, correlating with the increase in rank. For Stone Swimming, the effect of this was that the user would always be pushed upward.

If she did nothing, she would be flung back into the air at roughly the same speed at which she had entered the ground. There was some loss due to the resistance of the stone, but that could be mitigated with Rock Pull. Using both skills together like this was known as vaulting, and it was the Stone Mage’s answer to the conundrum of flight. The only difficulty was ensuring that you never ran out of mana while submerged in rock. That tended to end poorly.

The pressure of the stone was crushing, reaching its peak at the bottom of her dive. Rather than fight it, she embraced it. It was rare to reach this kind of depth without spending a ridiculous quantity of mana to haul herself down. Thanks to the boost from Timar, she hadn’t needed to.

Intrusion.

Spending twenty thousand mana in a single burst, Greenfield latched onto a narrow column of deepstone and willed it upward. Like a spear launched from the center of the planet, the deepstone column slammed into the barriers of the Adamant Empire from below. There was a massive crash of shattering magic as the sheer momentum of the rock punched straight through their defenses.

Greenfield was spat out of the earth, having adjusted her own trajectory to avoid slamming into the barrier. Some of her momentum had been lost, transferred into her attack, but she still flew plenty high enough to see the impact of her little greeting.

The optical distortion that the army had been hiding behind had vanished. Where before there had been only wind-swept snow, there now stood a fortress constructed of blackened bricks. The deepstone spear had punched a hole straight through the center of the fortress but was rapidly collapsing as the high-rank mana of the depths drained away.

To their credit, the Adamants reacted quickly, tearing down the stone pillar with their own Stone Mages. Using Mana Sight, she watched as they hurriedly patched the hole she had blown in their defenses. There was a flicker, and a second dome of protection formed outside the first.

“More layers won’t save you,” she said with a smirk, taking a deep breath. She considered the fortress as she reached the top of her arc, then drew deeply on her Well, and pulled herself toward the ground once more. Waves of magic flew toward her, but she ignored them. It was the fortress that had her attention. It was always impressive to see how quickly the Adamants could construct a fortification. How much more impressive would it be if she managed to tear it down in a matter of minutes?

The Aspect landed amid a flurry of ice and snow. It had come at his call, veiling him from the arrows and magic that had started tracking him during his descent.

The Aspect was not concerned by such things, but getting hit would have been an insult to his pride. His mind was cool and calm as he wove between the oncoming projectiles, dodging them by less than a hair.

Citizen Bluecrest would have been alarmed by the sheer volume of magic that was flying through the air, but Citizen Bluecrest had no place in this. This was a battle, and in a battle, there was only the Aspect.

Sliding between two arrows that had been seeking his heart, the Aspect whipped his arms forward. The icy blades covering them broke away with a mighty crack, shattering the air as they were launched forward faster than sound.

The snow swirled, and his blades were restored, as sharp and deadly as before.

The Aspect felt no disappointment when he saw that he had failed to penetrate the newly reformed barrier. His ally would have it down shortly. It was merely an annoyance. He hoped that the Adamants decided to send him a worthy challenger while he waited.

Needlelike teeth of ice made themselves known as the Aspect’s mouth widened into a malevolent grin.

A second stone spear had just slammed into the far side of the fortress, piercing the arcane bubble protecting the pathetic flesh of the humans cowering within. Fire rained down upon them from the exploding Meteors above as they scrambled to restore the barrier.

However, neither of these things were what had caught his interest.

His challenger approached.

An Incarn.

The strength of the Empire of Adamant lay in their numbers, Bluecrest whispered in the back of the Aspect’s mind. While no individual member of one of their armies could stand up to a Citizen, they had their ways. An Incarn was simply a member of the regular infantry, perhaps level twenty at most. However, that was before the enhancer magic took hold.

To become an Incarn was to die. No human body could withstand the combined magic of that many augmentations. Not for long. If not for the fact that they no longer felt pain, a soldier-turned-Incarn would have immediately gone mad from the mind-rending agony.

Fortunately for the Aspect, it took a little while for an Incarn’s mind and body to fail. He would get to have his fun.

Steel met ice as the Aspect parried the Incarn’s lightning-fast strike. He felt pain as the metal bit into his ice, the very substance of his body, but it only served to heighten his excitement. This was what the Aspect lived for.

The Incarn looked shocked as the Aspect’s second blade plunged into his chest. The magic that had wrapped and protected him was woefully insufficient against the razor-sharp shard of ice.

Naturally, this was not nearly enough to finish the battle. The Aspect parried the return strike, then ripped his blade out of the side of his opponent’s chest. Before his eyes, the wound sealed itself back together with chains of flickering magic.

The following flurry of strikes, parries, and evasions was a marvel to behold. Both fighters moved faster than the dull eye could follow, their blades ringing out in a never-ending song of ice and steel. The Aspect hissed with glee as the Incarn’s sword scratched a line of pain across his brow.

Of course, it could not last.

It was not that either of the fighters had become tired. It was that the Aspect had grown bored.

With no warning, he stopped holding back, tripling his speed in an instant. He danced around the Incarn, carving him apart with ruthless efficiency before ending it with a stab to the back of the head. The former soldier detonated like a fireball, chunks of blood and gore flying in every direction as the magic that had been enhancing him tore its way free.

The Aspect skidded back from the force of the blast, shields of ice forming automatically to protect his body from the chaotic magic.

Snow swirled, brushing the blood and gore from the Aspect as he uncrossed his arms. His mouth lolled open, releasing an icy fog as he hissed out a pair of words.

“Send more!”

Flight.

Bowcraig activated his own magic just as the last of his Meteors was blown apart. He guided himself casually through the hail of fire, pleased with the dispersion of Heat mana in the air. Pillars of stone were continuing to assail the barrier, and Bluecrest appeared to be enjoying himself. Bowcraig was biding his time, planning to strike as soon as the barrier fell.

A sudden searing agony assailed him. He was also blinded, the world going entirely white.

Bowcraig cursed. No fire would be hot enough to burn him like this, meaning that it could only be one thing. No, one person.

He’d attracted the attention of Lightbreaker.

As his health began to drop, he hurriedly reached into a pocket to retrieve a glass charm. This was an artifact made in Xiugaaraa by the fabled Illuminator-Smith known only as the Weaver of Light.

The Weaver had been dead for hundreds of years. For all that Bowcraig knew, this charm was the last of its kind in existence. Nobody alive knew how it had been made.

He shattered the fragile glass in his fist, and immediately the pain and blinding light vanished. The charm had been activated.

Ten thousand Light resistance—just over the damage limit in an unranked zone. It sounded so simple, but achieving it was anything but.

Lightbreaker would have no way of harming him for the next five minutes.

It pays to be rich, Bowcraig thought with a smirk. Who would have thought that I would be the one to finally kill Fecht’s strongest dog.

[Watch out, Lightbreaker can create illusions. Don’t let him fool you,] said a voice through the link.

[You think I don’t know that? Shut up and let me work,] Bowcraig sent back, then muted the link. He had Mana Sight active, and he could see Lightbreaker’s signature as clear as day. No optical tricks would work on him.

He concentrated, drawing heat from the air using Thermal Conversion. This was his most potent skill, hidden and known only to him. It was the culmination of his mastery of both Heat and Cold. It allowed him to change energy of one type into the other, including that which occurred naturally.

Such a thing was unheard of.

