The realization struck her like a bolt of lightning, revealing truths she’d overlooked along the way. As a slave, Song only needed to heed her teachings and wait for instructions on what to do next. A mindset which served her well when it came to early progress along the Martial Path, but now it was holding her back. Mama had tried to tell her as much several times before, most notably in Nan Ping when she asked Song to find something she loved and tell her all about it. She’d been trying to show Song not just how to truly live as a free person, but how to continue progressing along the Martial Path without instruction, a lesson which fell on deaf ears at the time. The Martial Peak was not something anyone could reach based on talent alone, for all the talent in the world was useless without ambition and drive to succeed. Song yearned to progress along the Martial Path, but she did so in a passive fashion, always waiting for someone like Mama or Teacher Du to point her in the right direction. Though she’d come far on the basis of her foundational lessons alone, it was long past time for her to move on and take the next step, but fear and uncertainty held her back.

Her Martial Path lay before her, and she already had everything else her heart desired.

She only needed the confidence to take the next step, confidence she found here today thanks to Rain’s confidence in her.

A flick of her wrist sent Yuanyin’s sword flying to one side, leaving him open and vulnerable to attack. He knew it, but he didn’t care, so confident in his body’s ability to withstand her blows. Settling back on her heels, she sheathed her sabre and took her stance in one fluid motion, so natural and familiar she hardly even had to think. The Energy of the Heavens flowed out from her Core, radiating throughout her entire body in a rhythmic motion like the roaring tides of the Azure Sea. It matched her breathing and heartbeat for a split second which stretched unto eternity, and Song found a peace and belonging she never even imagined might exist. One with the Sabre, One with the Self, One with the World, and One with the Heavens, there was no distinction between them as her Will carried her forward into motion, and she committed every detail to memory for future review. It all started at her toes, her movement and Heavenly Energy both, before travelling up her calves to her knees and beyond to her quads. It coursed past her hips and lower back in asynchronous routes, only to come together again once it reached the mid-point of her spine. Gaining speed, power, and momentum every step along the way, she Amplified her efforts even further to new heights, the timing falling perfectly in synch with her delivery of ‘Clear Temple’, which she muttered silently in her head alongside Mama’s dulcet tones.

Already, this was more power than Song had ever wielded before, but she wasn’t even half done as she surrendered to the flow and directed it ever forward towards her goal. Splitting again as it moved from her spine to shoulders, she watched like a passenger in her own body as she burst into motion and performed a perfectly executed version of her quick-draw attack. The blade hissed as it exited its sheathe, an eager cry celebrating its release, one that was drowned out by the silence of steel slicing through air as her attack moved beyond what her mind could comprehend, and almost beyond what her body could withstand. Her muscles screamed, but held firm and persisted, an accomplishment made possible thanks to the benefits she’d reaped from Medical Saint Taduk’s Body Refining baths, and she made a note to thank him later, for he was a good man the same as Papa and Rain. That made three that she knew of, which was three more than she once believed existed, and it was important she acknowledged this change in perspective.

Even with the benefit of her Refined physique, Song’s muscles threatened to snap and tear as she pushed them to their absolute limits, and yet she knew in her heart of hearts that even this was not enough. Yuanyin’s durability was the result of more than mere body refinement, but the beginnings of a Spiritual Heart. Or as Rain would say, a merger between the physical and metaphysical, which had never made sense to her, because she thought it was the same as saying nothing at all. Now however, she had an inkling as to what he meant, though she could not wholly describe it, for it was merely an impression sitting at the forefront of her mind, one that made sense to her and her alone. There was more to the world than what the human senses could perceive, information to be gleaned by those keen enough to grasp it. This much she knew from her own experience in Pan Si Xing and again here in Meng Sha, where she made use of her Spiritual Senses in a rudimentary manner, and now they were telling her that she was still missing one vital aspect which she needed in order to strike her foe down.

Conviction.

Outwardly, there was no change to be seen, but Song felt it and knew it to be true. Yuanyin felt it too, for his eyes widened in panic as her sabre hurtled unerringly towards his neck. No, not her sabre, but her attack, for she was One with the Sabre, and for the first time in her life, her Sabre was One with her. The weapon was more than just steel and Spiritual Heart, but a part of her in a way she could not explain, an inseparable component of her identity in the same way as her green eyes or auburn hair. If Yuanyin’s bones refused to yield, and the Heavens refused to grant her the authority needed to make them, then she would exert her own authority, the authority of her sabre to make it so.

With blade in hand, Song would carve out her own Path, for her Dao was the Dao of the Unyielding Sabre.

Blood sprayed as Song’s attack struck home. Hatred and denial spewed forth from the traitor monk’s eyes, a dark gaze that grew dimmer with each passing moment as his head separated from his shoulders and hurtled end over end through the air. Never one to do things by half-measures, Song delivered a follow up attack that split Yuanyin’s still-standing torso from shoulder to hip, and she readied to strike again if need be. Only after the robed corpse toppled over and she was certain there was no chance it would turn into a Demon did she allow herself to relax, exhaling as the tension flowed out of her body while basking in her achievement.

This victory was only possible thanks to her newly Developed Domain, though this marked a half-step along her Martial Path at best. One which came years too late, for she’d taken this same half-step before, all those years ago in Sanshu. Faced with the teleporting Demon Bei, Song had found her conviction and dealt it a grievous blow with this same quick-draw attack, only to immediately backpedal along her Path for a whole host of reasons, including but not limited to her restricted Oaths. What’s more, she recognized that she was still another half-step away from true success, for she’d read tales of Warriors describing their Domain as billowing outwards in all directions, but Song’s Domain was limited to her sabre alone. Doing more was beyond her current abilities, so she was not truly Domain-capable just yet, but this success was a vital one in terms of her Dao. For the first time in her life, Song advanced not because she was told to, but because she wanted to, a distinction that made a world of difference.

An exhilarating achievement, but one she celebrated for only a moment, for even as the soldiers of the Empire raised their voices to cheer, Song had already moved on to her next target, a nameless Chosen in black-and-red armour threatening Dastan’s unguarded flank as he dominated a Champion foolish enough to challenge him on the battlefield. With Yuanyin’s death, Song had successfully lit a minor beacon of hope, but it would not last long without more fuel for the flame, so she set out to headhunt Chosen Champions and Demons to test her newfangled skills.

After all, Rain had gone to all this effort to gift her with Heavenly Energy, so it would be a shame to waste it against regular Chosen…

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The cool breeze kissed her sun-scorched skin, and Yan immediately felt Rain’s presence upon her.

It was so intimate and familiar it couldn’t be anyone else, and she welcomed him with open arms. Figuratively at least, since she was embroiled in bitter battle against two Demons on the verge of cutting her down. Weaving effortlessly in and out of the battle, Yan’s opponents were seemingly built for speed above all else, and their darting movements made it all but impossible for her to land a decisive blow. Crafty creatures, these Demons were, using Defiled and Imperial alike as human shields to guard against Yan’s Wind Blades, while keeping well out of her reach at all times, until they finally saw their chance to strike while she cut down one of their other brethren.

And now their talons were hurtling towards her, and much as she would love to retreat and regroup, she was the only person capable of keeping them at bay. Without her, the Demons would be free to run rampant through the Imperial lines, which was why all three had targeted her at the same time. Honestly, it was almost flattering considering how similar Yan’s circumstances were when compared to Mataram YuChun, who was still fighting three on one against some Society Peak Experts. Fighting and winning, it seemed, as he sent an Imperial Peak Expert hurtling back through the air and off the battlements themselves, but this was no concern of hers just yet. Instead, she refocused her thoughts on the Demons surrounding her, while simultaneously waiting for Rain to unleash whatever miracle he’d been cooking up all this time.

There were no storm clouds in the sky or bursts of water exploding all around her, no Devouring force to scare away all the Demons, Aura to dominate them through fear and despair, or even Runic Cannons bombarding the Enemy army into oblivion. In fact, there was nothing at all, save for a lingering breeze dancing at the edges of Yan’s perception and Rain’s love and affection seeping deep into her bones. A fiery, passionate love that burned hot and bright, one that would keep for as long as he drew breath, because he didn’t know how to live without her, the same way she didn’t know how to live without him. He wasn’t just her husband and lover, but her also her best friend, a man who laughed at her jokes and challenged her to be better every day without treating her like a fragile little lady. He’d always been always there to support her whenever she needed it, and many more times when she didn’t. She’d only gotten so far thanks to his encouragement, for she would never have found the courage to leave home if not for his promise.

The memory sprung up unbidden, as it often did when Yan thought of him. They’d been so young and stupid back then, two teens in a tent, with her head on his shoulder as they laid side by side in separate bedrolls. “So what now?” she asked, knowing only that he loved her, and she loved him, and that their paths would diverge in the morning.

“We sleep,” Rain replied, his breath hot and heart pounding as he fought to keep his hands to himself, even though she yearned to feel his touch as much as he yearned to touch her. “Tomorrow, we part ways until who knows when. You live your life and enjoy yourself, meet new people, do new things, chase your dreams…” A pause as he swallowed and struggled to sound cheery. “Maybe fall in love, start a family, whatever it is you want to do. Then, when we see each other again, we will pick up our friendship as it is now, and tell each other all about our experiences.” His voice dropped to barely more than a whisper as he immediately contradicted himself. “I love you and wish you all the best, Yan.”

“I love you too,” Yan replied, and at the time, they both knew what they meant. He loved her, and she loved him, but he didn’t want to keep her from following her dreams, so he told her to go even though it broke his heart. That had always been his way, so self-sacrificing and supportive, and it was one reason why she loved him so. Without his encouragement, there would be no Du Min Yan, no Sanguine Whirlwind of Central, which was why she couldn’t keep her promise with him after all. When they met again, she refused to pick up their friendship where it left off, and instead set their romance back on course to where it should have progressed instead. A bold and daring act, to show up at his yurt unannounced in the dead of night, especially after she spent so many days avoiding him to keep Grandpa Du from getting embroiled in a prickly political dilemma, but after hearing about how he almost died to poison during his wedding banquet with Luo-Luo and seeing him so downtrodden at Da’in’s banquet, Yan couldn’t stay away any longer.

A good thing she visited when she did too, because when he returned home that night missing a hand and a foot, she discovered that he needed her just as much as she needed him.

The memories flooded through her and brought with them a plethora of emotions to lift her spirits, ones that washed away the foul taint in the air threatening to overwhelm her with despair. More than that however, the memories brought with them a fondness and affection that came straight from Rain himself, as if he were here beside her with arms wrapped around her waist and chin propped on her shoulder. There were no words exchanged, no advice or orders given, just a sense of contented fulfillment that said he loved her dearly and was here to help. He couldn’t fight at her side just yet, but he was here all the same, a fact which breathed new life into Yan.

Because with her husband’s love and support, there was nothing she could not do.

