Brimming with love for her husband and unwilling to let him down, Yan refocused on the battle before her. The two Demons had pincered her in place, and she’d initially thought to stand her ground, because the truth of the matter was that she had nowhere else to run. Left and right were no good, since the Demons were hurtling towards her from those directions, while forward held all manner of Chosen waiting to skewer her upon their spears. Back wasn’t an option either, or not one she was willing to take, because down that path lay Imperial soldiers sorely outclassed by any Demon, much less two. While Yan saw nothing wrong with leaving soldiers to do their duty, if she led the Demons into their ranks, then they would be but lambs to the slaughter, and she would still have to deal with them eventually.

But there was another option, one she never considered before Rain’s presence appeared, but now that he was here, there was nothing she couldn’t do.

The Energy of the Heavens surged through her and made the world come alive, as if she were seeing new colours and experiencing new sensations for the first time ever. She’d felt something akin to this whilst ensconced within her Natal Palace and deep in the throes of Balance, but now she was meditating yet not meditating at the same time. Another memory sprung to mind unbidden, of the time when she asked Rain for advice regarding meditating with the Runic Rings. A flimsy excuse she concocted with Alsantset so they could get him to talk about his troubles, and it worked, but now his words resonated with her in a way they never had before.

“Cultivating with the ring is nothing like normal cultivation,” he began, ever-vigilant as he scanned his surroundings for signs of Defiled, which was a good thing considering they were attacked soon after. “Without the ring, as soon as I slip into the State of Balance, it’s like a warm summer breeze while sitting in the cool shade. A gentle sensation that envelops me and makes me feel safe and cared for. Mediating is refreshing and invigorating, and I wake from it content and tranquil, feeling like I belong, wherever I may be.”

At the time, Yan had been indignant upon hearing this, because he made it sound like meditation was so easy, except now… now she understood what he meant. Before today, she’d only ever experienced a shallow form of Balance, one she had to focus and work for to maintain, but here and now, she knew what Balance was truly supposed to feel like, so natural and easy it was almost instinctive. The Energy of the Heavens flowed through her, alive and excited to have made her acquaintance, and oh so eager to show her what they could do together.

And what a show it was.

The light breeze lingering on the edge of her perception called to her, and she responded in kind, a working of Chi that felt as natural as breathing. The breeze intensified into a gale centred around her as she moved, but it was more than just Chi mimicking the movement of air. No, this gale was a familiar one, for it had emerged from the depths of her Natal Palace itself, invisible to the eye but as real as any wind, one unique to her and her alone. This was her Domain manifesting itself in reality, her metaphysical dominion brought out into the real world, and it offered her power beyond what she’d ever imagined. Partially because she was still a rank novice when it came to using her Blessing, but how could she not be? Even Grandpa Du had barely scratched the surface of what he could do, but Yan’s manifested Domain, the only limits were her Chi reserves and her imagination.

And so as the Wind swept her off her feet and launched her high into the air, the Demons could do naught but watch her escape their clutches, except escape was the last thing on her mind. The Wind changed course and sent her diving down atop the right-most Demon in a sudden burst of speed. Caught off guard by the unexpected reversal, it could only raise its six arms to block her first Wind Blade, one it expected her to deliver using her Battle-Fan or shield. It would have been better off retreating, for the second she closed the distance, it was now it was in her Domain, and she no longer needed her weapons to form a Wind Blade. She didn’t even need to point to direct it, for her Chi responded to her thoughts alone as a Wind Blade formed inside the Demon’s guard and scythed through its torso like a hot knife through butter.

Giddy with delight at her newfangled abilities, Yan wasted no time going after the remaining Demon, but this one had seen the fate of its comrade and immediately turned tail to run off the walls and back towards the safety of the Enemy lines. Not quick enough however, and this time, Yan tested out Grandpa’s new skill, one he called the Explosive Wind, but she refused to use the name herself. It sounded too much like something Rain would call a fart, and he’d likely make jokes about it being silent but deadly. Yan didn’t have the heart to tell Grandpa about his poor naming ability, but its odd name aside, the skill was most formidable indeed. With little more than an effort of Will, an orb of compressed Air formed in the space before her, one no larger than a grape. Given how malleable Air could be, it was difficult to measure the volume contained within the orb, but pressure alone was enough to crush stone into sand, for the weight of Air was something no one every considered, since they faced it each and every second of their lives. Twice the amount of air in an area meant twice the pressure, and there was much, much, much more than double the normal amount confined within her Chi working, far more than even what Grandpa could control. That was the crux of this skill, not power nor speed, but control, for only then could one compress and seal Air into a container so small without letting any of it escape.

A feat Yan accomplished without even needing to raise her hand, because she stood in the centre of the windstorm that was her Domain, where her Will was absolute.

The grape-sized orb hurtled after the fleeing Demon, and when the two met, the explosion rocked the walls of Meng Sha and sent a cloud of Ichor spraying in all directions. A good thing the Demon had been hovering over the incoming Chosen at the time, else Yan’s allies might well have been killed in the blast. Idly mourning the waste of a Demonic corpse, she idly gave the order to have the first Demon’s corpse brought to the docks, where Guard Leader Hua Lie could send someone to pick it up and see if Rain could absorb it. Impressive as her display of strength might be, she knew it was only possible thanks to her husband’s support, and she couldn’t help but wonder what it had cost him. Brilliant though he might be, Rain had a habit of getting too excited and not thinking things through to the end, and Yan had a suspicion that this might be the case here.

Before his most recent coma, he’d spent many a night discussing his findings with Grandpa Du and anyone else who would listen, and from what little Yan could glean from the snippets she was allowed to listen to, Rain seemed to think that using Heavenly Energy came without a cost, since Heavenly Energy was fueled by emotions and humans had an inexhaustible supply of emotions. While she couldn’t say for certain that he was wrong, she wasn’t so sure it was that simple, because if emotions were all that was needed, then surely there would be more Divinities. Besides, Rain himself was the one who said that energy cannot be created or destroyed, so if that was the case, then it stood to reason that there had to be something else other than emotions fuelling his workings of Heavenly Energy.

Something which Yan suspected might well be his soul, which she feared was not infinite and without limit.

Alas, it was only a guess, which was why she never brought it up with him before, because she knew it didn’t take much to throw him off his game. To this day, he still couldn’t consciously direct his sword with Guiding despite having possessed the ability to do so since he was sixteen. Hell, he’d fought off close to sixty Wraiths with his flying sword alone, yet he still couldn’t hit a target from twenty paces when trying to unless his life depended on it. Madness is what it was, but now Yan was regretting her decision to stay silent, because now Rain's actions might be costing him more than he knew.

Though she knew it was dangerous to split her focus in battle, she enveloped her shield in a ring of Wind Blades and threw it out to clear the battlements while contacting Rain through Sending to share her suspicions. “Beloved? Are you there?”

Long seconds passed in silence, but just as she was about to continue Sending for the sake of getting everything off her chest, he responded, “Hello my love. I see you’re doing well. Sorry I can’t get up and help you directly, but I am currently in a coma and strapped to a cot. Honestly don’t see why Mila enjoys this so much, but don’t tell her I said that.”

Leave it to Rain to make jokes about his condition in the middle of a war. “You’ve helped enough, and I appreciate your efforts, but you need to listen now.” Relaying her thoughts didn’t take long, and when she was done, she paused before asking, “So do you think it’s possible? Could it be that you’re expending your Soul, which is more than just emotion, to control Heavenly Energy? Maybe that’s why you can’t wake up despite your mind and body being in perfect condition, because there’s an imbalance in your soul.”

“…Um… possible… yes. Likely even, I think, because it’d explain a lot.”

Despite having possibly solved the mystery, Rain didn’t sound all too pleased, and Yan had a sinking suspicion she knew why. “I’m not the only one you helped,” she Sent, more of a statement than a question. “Who else?” Mila for sure, and probably Li-Li, but there was no way Rain would stop there.

“Well… um… let’s not get into specifics. Definitely too many people, but it’s okay.” A mental shrug followed, though how he was able convey that through Sending without a corresponding image was beyond Yan’s understanding. “Don’t worry about it. We’ll figure out the rest after the battle is won, okay? Don’t let me get in the way of you kicking ass and taking names, oh great hero of the Empire. Love you.”

“Love you too.”

Worried though she might be, Yan knew Rain was right. The damage was already done, so there was no point dwelling on it now. All she could do was end the battle as quickly as possible, so she set out to do just that as her shield ricocheted its way back to her. There was no planning or forethought, no fear or hesitation as Yan exerted her Will and had her manifested Domain carry her high into the skies, leaving the mostly cleared battlements behind. This was no true Cloud-Stepping, just a liberal dose of Lightening and gale-force winds powerful enough to throw her high up into the sky. A brief flash of panic coursed through her as she realized she hadn’t accounted for how she would land, but she would cross that bridge when she got there.

Assuming she ever did, for in her haste to end the battle, Yan had set her sights on a most formidable target indeed, none other than the fearsome Peak Expert Mataram YuChun of the Ten Thousand Spears.

Chapter Meme
