I am Legion, for we are many.

Heh.

In spite the dire circumstances regarding my current situation, I cannot help but find some humour in all this. Judging by the plethora of half-hidden smiles plastered across so many handsome faces, I know I can’t be the only one cracking wise in my own head. That’s how I deal with stress and nerves, I make with the funny and laugh at my own jokes, even if everyone else is too nervous to laugh with me. That being said, it’d be interesting to know how many others in the crowd came up with the same joke, and what all the non-smiling faces are thinking of. I am but one of thousands of Natal Souls who only just popped into existence outside our condo, all willed here by Prime Me parked in front of the PC. Interesting to note however is that while we are all cut from the same cloth, the moment of our creation is the moment our thoughts diverged, meaning that I am a unique version of Falling Rain unlike any of my gathered brethren. How many of us are going through this exact same thought process? At least some, I would gather, but not all, because despite operating on the same hardware and software, the very nature of existence means there are an infinite number of random variables that are impossible to account for.

Take the joke for example. How many of us used the misquoted ‘We are Legion’? Knowing me, I bet a bunch of us probably went another route and made jokes about masturbation or homosexuality instead, because that sort of humour is right in my wheelhouse. What about those of me who couldn’t get past the dark implications of our existence? I saw many half-smiles in the crowd, but no small number of dismal expressions as well. Some of us have conjured up bunnies to hug, while others went with dogs, wildcats, bears, and all sorts of other animals. Non-sapient entities one and all of course, since we can’t be wasting energy on stuff like that, but still telling in the variety of creatures I see here before me today, including one chubby, flat-nosed wombat who I kinda want to steal away. The me with the wombat knows this of course, and jealously guards his comfort floof from any and all comers, but I’m more curious than covetous at the moment, and we all respectfully keep our hands to ourselves.

Because let’s be real here, if we start stealing floofs, then there’s a damn good chance a civil war will break out faster than you can say, ‘Begun, the clone war has’, and that’s the last thing anyone needs.

Alas, woefully unaware of how she is courting disaster, my sweet wifey Lin-Lin runs up to the window for a better look at the crowd that just appeared outside the bedroom window. Her expression lights up in cheer and awe as she waves at us with her beautiful smile, greeting us en masse with all the love and enthusiasm she would have for her real hubby in the room behind her. I can say with the utmost of certainty that we all have to refrain ourselves from going over to hug her, though it’s tempting just to see if my memories of a hug match up to the real thing. Even though we’re all technically her beloved hubby, there’s no way seeing so many of us pop up around her won’t give her a scare, which is the last thing any of us want. That being said, we also don’t really have time for long goodbyes, or even short ones since time is of the essence, but after waving back at Lin-Lin alongside the rest of my brothers, I still can’t help but throw in one last joke before heading off to do what I was quite literally born to do.

“We who are about to die, salute you!”

Honestly, I didn’t think I’d be the only one to come up with this, but most of us have a good chuckle about it, as others reply with, “Are you not entertained?”, and “You had me at hello!”. There are a few dark looks from those of us who are concerned my thoughtless statement might make Lin-Lin concerned, or worse, clue Buddy into the fact that he’s going to lose his favourite person thousands of times in the next few minutes. Oops. Well, at least Buddy hasn’t left Prime Me’s side, because I can’t bear the thought of breaking his little doggy heart again. No worries though, he's unaware and Lin-Lin’s stronger than most give her credit for, including me in all my incarnations. I can confidently say that none of us care about how annoyed Prime Me is though, because honestly, fuck that guy. Dude is way too serious for his own good sometimes. I get that this was a difficult decision and that he’s dealing with some heavy, emotional stuff regarding our impending deaths, but c’mon now. What’s he got to be sad about? He gets to sit in our comfy office chair with Buddy curled up beside him and Lin-Lin in his lap while the rest of us go do the real work.

And go we must, exiting the Natal Palace in a prompt and orderly fashion to make our way out into the physical world, where the Enemy forces threaten so many of our loved ones on the field of battle.

Most of my brothers are cookie cutter Natal Souls, stamped out in quick order to get boots on the ground, but a select few were made with a set purpose in mind, and I am one of those lucky few. Perhaps even the luckiest of all, which might be why I’m feeling so upbeat about all this, because even though I am faced with imminent death, the nature of my task means I get to do something no other version of me is allowed to do, including Prime Me. He senses what I’m thinking and panics internally, but he’s got too much on his plate right now to stop me, not that he would if he could. He envies me for what I am about to do, because he wishes he could do it too, but unlike me, he has to live with the consequences of my actions, while I was quite literally born to die. Now that’s freedom, and I relish it for as long as I can, which is little more than the blink of an eye as I arrive at my destination, the section of the wall where my retinue is stationed.

Not a journey I make alone, for there are dozens of us here to ensure the best chances of success, since there is only so much help one Natal Soul can give to any individual person. You’d think that doling out usable Heavenly Energy like candy on Halloween would be enough to help win the battle, but a lot of it depends on how the recipient uses said Heavenly Energy. While it might be the power of Creation and Destruction, humans all across the Empire use it to regrow teeth each and every day, which is handy to be sure, but not an ideal use of my limited usable reserves. That’s where we Natal Souls come in, here to play the part of benign Spectre and help guide our hosts through the best usage of this gift, but unlike most of those other schmucks, I lucked out when it came time to pick assignments. Mine is one of the best by far, which makes my imminent sacrifice all that much more worth it. Yea, yea, all this is for a good cause and needs to be done, yadda yadda and all that, but it’s in human nature to want to help the people you care about the most, and I, unlike any other iteration of myself currently in existence, have the good fortune of helping the one person I do not dare admit I care for.

Yes, that’s right everyone. I, Falling Rain, am here to help the kind, benevolent, talented, hardworking, and dutiful Li-Li. Beautiful too, like a sword drawn and ready to strike, perfection in form and objective, a Warrior in her element as she deals a blow to Yuanyin which leaves the traitorous coward battered and bleeding. With or without my help, she is likely to eventually emerge victorious against Yuanyin, this much I believe, but at least this way, I can help her get there and tell her how I truly feel without having to feel guilty about it. Not that I should feel guilty about it, but I know how I am, and I love taking credit for everything that goes wrong, even matters beyond my control.

What a fucking idiot. Seriously. Sometimes, I hate that guy.

That is the last real conscious thought I have as I fulfil my purpose in this brief and ephemeral life, which is to give myself over to Li-Li in the form of Heavenly Energy. There is no awareness of the act, no gradual shift in my existence, for there is me, and then there isn’t as I divulge to Song everything that has been weighing on my mind and heart these past few years, without having to worry about the words to use or the consequences of my actions.

Ha. Sucks to be you, Prime Me.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Energy of the Heavens poured into Song’s body in an unprompted surge of warmth and power, and her spirits soared with glee.

A timely intervention, for she had all but emptied her Core in her extended exchange with Yuanyin and was fast running out of options. Avoiding his blows had become second nature, while her poems kept his chants at bay, but so long as she lacked the ability to deal a killing blow, all she could do was hold him off and quell her growing unease. More Chi was exactly what she needed, and while the pragmatic part of her wanted to set all her questions aside for later, she could not help but wonder how this came to be. The answer revealed itself even as she thought to question it, and for a moment, time stood still as she took it all in. Love and affection, as warm and heartfelt as anything she’d ever experienced, but built upon different foundations from what she was most comfortable with. It burned hotter than any fire, yet was gentle to the touch, an enveloping tide of pure emotion that threatened to overwhelm her while simultaneously keeping its distance out of fear and respect. Not fear of what she might do, but fear of what it might do to her, for it knew she was not yet ready to accept it, and that was fine. It reminded her of how Papa walked on eggshells around everyone, except this effort was done for her and her alone, and more to the point, it was because it understood her fear in a way Papa never could. There were no expectations attached to this love, only a yearning to share it, to tell her it would be there if she should ever want or need it. It was ineffable and indescribable, yet she understood it so well, almost as well as it understood her. It wasn’t easy revealing all this, for now this love was exposed and vulnerable, but it revealed itself regardless because it wanted to show her that she was not alone in her fears.

All this and more passed through her mind, but more than that, she felt it in her very soul, and knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that this was not a benediction from the Mother Above, but from someone she knew on a more personal level. This was Rain reaching out to her and offering a helping hand, while baring his heart and soul to her in the same breath, a sentiment delivered not in words but in emotions from start to finish. Though Song had always known he was enamoured of her, she never understood the depths of his affections and thought that his attraction was based on lust alone, but this… this was different and worth examining, even if she believed she would ultimately end up rejecting him.

A matter for later however, as time resumed with an effort of will, for she could not afford to be distracted from the true task at hand. Untimely as Rain’s confession might be, that was not the sole reason he’d made his presence known, for he had delivered unto her a portion of Heavenly Energy for her to wield against her foe. Her first thought was to question how she might use it, but she already had the answer in hand, for she had heard Rain and the Abbot discuss this very same matter more times than she cared to count. Chi and Heavenly Energy were but one and the same, a difference without a distinction, so if she knew how to use one, then she knew how to use the other, a simple enough concept for anyone to understand. With that in mind, she Honed her sabre and brought it around in a killing chop, one which scythed past Yuanyin’s raised sword and hammered home into the side of his bald head. His left temple, to be exact, but to her dismay, even using Heavenly Energy to Hone her weapon was not enough to break through his body’s defenses. Just like all her other attacks, this one glanced off the traitor monk’s bones and carved off a sizable chunk of flesh, so much so that it revealed a palm-sized section of blanched white bone.

Dejection and discouragement welled up from within, casting Song back into a cold and unending pit of despair and depression. This foe was beyond her, victory too far out of reach, her struggle futile and irrelevant to the extreme. How could she, a mere former slave, ever hope to defeat a foe so powerful? All familiar thoughts and sentiment, the wretched misery of inevitable defeat, one she’d been struggling with for some time now during her battle against Yuanyin, but it was nothing compared to Rain’s warmth and affection. She’d heard stories from the Stormguard about how he’d helped them in JiangHu, personally guiding them through Core Creation and setting them along their Path, but that wasn’t what he did here. No, instead, he’d given her everything in a single burst of emotion, bared his heart and soul to her in spite of his fear and shame, because it was the only way he knew how to help. He’d said it time and time again, that Heavenly Energy was drawn to emotion, and in sharing his emotions, he’d given her with a surplus of Heavenly Energy to work with.

And that’s it. Not because he didn’t want to help guide her, but because he knew she didn’t need his guidance, as if he’d come here only to hand her a water-skin and say, “You got this.” A calm and confident declaration delivered in his customary congenial manner, but what he left unsaid meant so much more, because he’d shown her the true Path forward.

