“I am the Master Smith of Clan Tannousin. I should have said so the instant I knew.”
“The King of Destruction wasn’t here. You were waiting to tell him—you couldn’t have known the Djinni were coming.”
Nawal tried to spit, but there was no water left in her mouth.
“I make no excuses. I only ask that he blame…”
“You?”
Teres stood. She kicked the chains and Nawal staggered as the reverberation ran through them. Teres pointed towards the open door.
“They left you! They ran while you stayed. This isn’t your fault, Nawal! You don’t have to do this. Do you think Flos wants you dead? Trey? You—these chains aren’t even locked!”
She pointed down. Nawal glanced down.
“…I couldn’t find one. It doesn’t matter. I am the smith who must forge Naq-Alrama metal. The responsibility was always mine to know it was faulted.”
“Your father made it.”
“He is dead. He was old. It was probably my fault as I made it.”
The young woman, the [Bladeswoman], reached out to shake Nawal—and stopped. She stood there. What good would it do?
“Is that what they told you to say, or is that really what you believe?”
This, of all the things, made Nawal hesitate. The [Smith] avoided Teresa’s look. She looked around the forge.
“…Clan Tannousin is gone. It may never rise again. Only the elders remember the Naq-Alrama steel. Besides, our reputation is tainted. There is no [Smith] with the levels or talent to forge it either.”
“Besides you.”
Nawal smiled as her lips cracked and bled. She licked at them.
“They told me I was born under an unlucky star. I should have been a boy. They told me I was unlucky, because I was talented enough to help my father when no one else could. I stole someone else’s class and levels.”
Teresa pursed her lips and spat.
“You don’t believe that. I know you don’t.”
She waited for a spark, the familiar cutting tongue, anything of Nawal when she had met Trey. But the hunched figure standing over the forge just shook her head.
“My clan’s great knowledge dies with me. How could I not?”
A horn blew in the distance. Teres started and half-raised her sword. Someone was banging on a war gong.
They were coming. In the distance, the terrible clash of metal and distant chanting echoed into the smithy. Teres looked outside and a single horn blew close by. Still, the young woman waited. She was not needed. Not yet. She looked at Nawal, fully sheathed her sword, and spoke.
“I don’t know what star I was born under. Where I come from, my world, we have no portents or signs. Or if we do—they’re silly. They don’t have magic in them. Few people believe in fate.”
Nawal’s head rose slightly.
“Where is that? Trey never…said. Which land?”
“The United Kingdom. London.”
“I don’t know…”
“Another world, Nawal. Not this one.”
The [Smith] looked blankly at Teres. It wasn’t exactly an earth-shaking revelation. She was just…tired. Teres went on after a moment.
“Our father raised us alone. Poor guy. We weren’t rich, but it wasn’t that bad. We weren’t…”
She looked around the forge.
“Special. And we weren’t bad. That was who we were. Twins. Trey and me. Then, we came here. We teleported into the King of Destruction’s throne room and woke him up.”
“Aaah. So that’s how.”
Nawal looked up, a flash of interest entering her eyes. Teres nodded.
“Luck. Chance. Fate. Whatever you want to call it. For a year, we’ve been by his side, or fighting for Reim in some way. Trey hates some of it. I do too, but I fought. I like Orthenon. Trey’s somewhere else. Wistram, I think. But Flos wouldn’t tell me his big plan. If…”
There was a crash. Something—a ram running into a door?—far distant. Both women went still, and Teres listened, but the roar in the background didn’t change. She went on.
“…he’ll be safe. I hope he will be. He takes bigger risks than I do.”
Nawal nodded. She looked at Teres.
“He hated what you did. He did not tell me why. But you two split.”
“Around slavery. Around following Flos.”
Teres nodded. She leaned against the doorframe, staring outwards. Then she turned back to Nawal.
“You can run. But you’re not going to. You’re so guilty about what you did—make the Naq-Alrama steel again. He will forgive you. There is redemption.”
“Not if Reim falls here. Nor if his wrath falls on us when he recovers.”
The [Bladeswoman] sighed. She scratched at her head.
“I didn’t like you that much when you were sharp-tongued and rude, Nawal. But I liked you more than now. Your father made this mess, not you. It’s your choice to take all the blame and sit here forging crap steel.”
“It’s not crap steel.”
The [Smith] muttered. She looked up as Teres kicked at a pebble with a boot.
“It’s far worse than what you can do. I know that. You’re one of the greatest smiths ever, a prodigy. Can’t you try?”
Nawal started laughing. She laughed—then choked on her dry throat. Teres fumbled for a water flask and Nawal drank greedily. She wiped at her mouth, nearly threw up as the water went into an empty stomach, and spoke.
“My class? I was a [Peerless Magic Smith]. Peerless. Peerless! As all Clan Tannousin Smiths must be! Now—now—it lies gone. The blood comes for me. I am disgraced. Even the fates know it.”
Teres inhaled.
“…I need to ask Maresar about that. But—”
She glanced outside. The shouting was getting louder. Nawal looked at Teres, and the two exchanged glances. Looked each other right in the eye, for the first time ever, it felt.
“You could run.”
Teres paused by the doorway. She looked at Nawal.
“What?”
“You could run. Trey asked you. You could not ride with the King of Destruction. You do not know his legend. This is not your death. You could run, or live without that in your hand.”
She pointed at the sword Teres had drawn again. Nawal croaked.
“Why?”
Teresa Atwood stood there, and looked blankly at the sword. She looked at her patched armor, which hid scars, and out towards the fighting on the walls.
Death. A final stand, waiting for a miracle. An officer had climbed up and was laying about him on one of the ladders. A high-level warrior—perhaps higher-level than her. Beyond him lay Nerrhavia’s hordes, countless soldiers for every one of Reim’s.
But she didn’t run, or hide, though she could have, could have not ridden with him. Teresa smiled.
“I didn’t ever say? It’s not very grand, like Trey. I know there are things Flos will do—if he lives. Terribly bad things. Brave and glorious. I believe in him. I like him. But it’s not just because of him.”
Nawalishifra waited. Teres looked outside. Her lips moved.
“…It wasn’t a bad life, back home. But it wasn’t a big one, either. We were one in a crowd of billions. We just were. Trey loves history. He’d read to me about figures from the past. Attila, Churchill, Alexander…you have stories like that in your world, don’t you?”
“Yes. The greatest [Smiths] of old. Heroes of Chandrar.”
Teresa nodded. She looked at Nawal and pointed outside.
“If. If you were there, back then. If you could follow them, for good or ill. Even if you knew how it would end, even if you changed nothing and history never remembered your name? Would you go?”
Nawal looked blankly at Teres. The young woman looked at her sword.
“This. This matters, for good or ill. No matter what, I was there. I couldn’t go back. If we ran away, we’d just be two people in another world. You get one chance, Nawal. I was lucky enough to land here. You weren’t meant to die chained to that anvil.”
She looked at Nawal. When she got no reply, Teresa Atwood strode out of the smithy. She jogged towards the walls, out of the courtyard of the palace.
The fighting was getting worse. Someone was cleaving around, taking down [Soldiers]. Maresar and Venith had command of their walls.
The [Bandit Lord] stood on one of the towers, shouting instructions as she loosed arrows down into the throng, avoiding the hail in return. Venith was engaged with one of the battering rams, hacking the attackers down as his people tore the device apart and dragged the scraps in.
The officer of Nerrhavia’s Fallen was trying to clear the ladders around him. [Soldiers] came up, held back by Reim’s experienced warriors, but there were so many.
All it took was one foothold. Teresa began to shout, then stopped. She looked up, slowed.
The [Lieutenant] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, blade shining crimson against the light. They stared upwards, towards the citadel that dominated the center of the city.
The fighting people of Reim, and even the [Soldiers] of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, looked up. Towards a balcony, where a figure clung to the stone.
Bandages fluttering in the wind. Stained red just by moving. Even his face wasn’t visible, but Teresa saw a flicker of red-gold hair. She felt his presence.
The King of Destruction. He looked down towards the walls and lifted his hand. Teres saw a flicker—
Flos Reimarch threw a javelin from the balcony. It flashed through the air, like a meteor of steel, thrown by the strongest [King] in the world.
The [Lieutenant] tried to dodge—then block. The tip of the javelin struck them in the chest and carried them off the wall. Teresa heard a scream—then a roar from the defenders.
She looked up, and saw the King of Destruction staggering, collapsing. Telltale red spreading across his chest and arms where he’d re-torn muscles. Servants helped him back as Teres took the stairs two at a time.
They threw the ladders back as the disorganized [Soldiers] milled and retreated, screaming as hot oil, rocks, arrows, and alchemical weapons were thrown at them from above. Even sewage water.
Teresa stood there, sword drawn, watching this wave flee and another come towards the walls. She didn’t know what Nawal was doing. Nor how long they could hold.
First [Soldiers]—then the civilians by the countless thousands behind the walls. Or would they let it happen? Teres looked back at children, frightened faces. She looked ahead and saw helmets glinting as arrows forced everyone to take cover. She sheltered against the battlements, and the air flashed as a tower discharged lightning.
Thunder split the sky. Teres dragged herself up as the first ladder slammed against the wall. She stood. Breathing heavily as her heart pounded in her chest. Teres looked around and laughed.
“Ha.”
It came out of her. Raw laughter.
“Ha. Hahaha. I feel alive.”
Then she raised her sword and brought it down.
In the smithy, Nawalishifra listened to the fighting. Her lips moved, cracked, and bled. Like her raw hands. She stared down at the empty anvil.
“I am Tannousin. I was born to make something beautiful. Something worth far more than I. My clan is dying. My father lies dead. I have killed my brother.”
She lifted her hammer and stared at it.
“I would sacrifice everything for this.”
Slowly, Nawalishifra looked around. Vaguely, her mind slowly forming. The chains around her legs dropped away. Food. She needed food. She needed…she swept the raw metal away, the forged ingots. Searching.
It was surely there, even if she had to trade something for it. Slowly, the last smith of Clan Tannousin began her final work.
 
——
 
Troy Atlas watched the news. His lips moved.
“It’s time.”
He made some preparations. Wrote a few letters. Went to pay a visit to a fellow student. Emirea, the little girl, and Goelv, the Gazer, both went to ask if Troy wanted to study magic together, but something stopped them as he talked with Carn, who sometimes wrote ‘Calac’ on his homework.
The two young students looked at Troy. Then towards the door to his room.
A four-foot tall figure stood there. Very tall…for what she had been. Much more well-defined. She even had a mithril sword.
Minizi. She was normally tromping about, sometimes with a grisly ‘trophy’, and no one knew quite where she went, but Viltach and Troy worked on her. She was peeking out from behind the door, one of her gemstone eyes visible.
That wasn’t that scary…when she did it at night it was unnerving. But she wasn’t trying to creep anyone out, now.
Rather…the two young students hesitated. Because Minizi was staring at Troy’s back. And…
Shaking. She looked—
Nervous?
Troy Atlas smiled as he took Carn’s hand. The young man shook it and smiled himself. It was rare to see him less than grumpy.
“I’ll see you later.”
“Or not. Best of luck.”
Troy ducked his head.
“Yes.”
The young man turned, and the Lifesand Golem fled into the room before he noticed. Troy wandered back into his room and came out with something.
“Where are you going, Troy?”
“I need to give something to…Elena. I can’t study tonight. I’m going to be busy. Sorry, guys.”
Troy smiled at them. The two students exchanged a look as he walked off.
The [Sand Mage] knocked on Elena’s room. He handed her two things. The first was a letter, with a request to read it later and think about it. The [Beautician] eyed Troy, then nearly dropped the next thing.
“Troy. What is this? Where did you get…? You never said you had one!”
“It’s not mine. I’m leaving it with you all so I don’t lose it. You should…watch what it says. And this. It goes with this. I’ll come back for it. Maybe. We’ll see. But I wanted it to be safe. Other [Mages] and all that.”
Troy saw Elena turn the object over in her hands. She looked up at him, stared down at the grit worked into it, despite the [Repair] spells. Something about the young man’s eyes…she looked uncertainly at the backpack.
And the camera.
“What’s going on, Troy? You’re weirding me out.”
He looked up at the ceiling, then shrugged at Elena.
“Just getting everything in order. Eldavin’s big address is in two hours, right? See you there. Read the letter by tonight.”
He nodded and stepped away. Elena looked at the camera. Slowly, she turned it on, checked the memory, went to the first recording…
And felt a chill as she began to watch. Trey walked back. He wondered if Eldavin’s big plan would get in the way.
They’d see.
 
——
 
“Young man, young man. Would you like to be part of Grand Magus Eldavin’s big plan?”
High Mage Telim hated running about. He even had a habit of casting [Haste] on himself—or [Slow] on other people—just so he didn’t have to.
That alone made him a [High Mage]. [Haste], a Tier 4 spell with a higher complexity than normal, such that some [Mages] called it…Tier 4.5.
Which went far in explaining why the new Grand Magus looked down so much on the Wistram of now. Telim himself agreed. A Courier—the redoubtable Mage Runner of Izril—could cast [Haste]. In times past? Why, you could fly. No one liked to admit it, but the Garuda had most Couriers beat until, oh, Level 40?
The young man in question turned, looking guarded, but he smiled when he saw Telim.
