“High Mage.”
“None of that, now. Troy, I’ve been tasked with finding you.”
“For what? Does the Grand Magus want something?”
Troy Atlas looked somewhat nervous, and Telim suspected…shenanigans. Which meant he was curious and sympathetic. Young [Mages], running off to play pranks or kiss each other in closets that turned out to be one-way mirrors. He and Sa’la had been young, once.
Youth. He smiled, but kept his tone hurried. Normally he’d jaw all day, but—he was part of a faction now. He’d escaped it all his life, but Terras came calling and…Telim knew how to ride a wave.
Or he had. Did they still surf along those shores of Baleros? Lizardfolk, the most naturally adept waveriders in the world thanks to those tails for balance?
Telim missed it, sometimes. Not the leeches. Or the piranhas. Or the crocodiles. Or the…wait, he didn’t really miss it. He just missed being young.
Youth stood in front of him now, fidgety, nervous, and…Telim brushed at his robes.
“Grand Magus Eldavin has a project. I don’t know what it is. But he wants a few of you lot—”
He waggled his brows at Trey, who got that Telim meant Earthers.
“—to participate. If you agree, I take you to get ‘ready’, whatever that means. He assures you through me it will be an occasion you do not want to miss. But, ah, also, he wanted you above most.”
“Me. I’m a bit…busy, High Mage. I don’t know if I can go with the Grand Magus. Even for a day of ceremony.”
Troy was reluctant. Telim sighed.
“Understandable. But—damn. What did Eldavin say? Oh, yes. ‘It was a shortcut for the thing you wanted.’ The spirit of those words, at least.”
Troy blinked. He looked sharply at Telim, and the High Mage noticed, once again, that Troy had that look.
The look some of the students who came to Wistram had. You had bright young people from around the world from relatively rich families. Then you had the ones who’d cut their way clear of a Manticore’s belly or something suitably dramatic. You put those two together and sometimes it was like children and adults, but their bodies had been swapped.
Troy Atlas thought, but in the end, he shook his head.
“I’m sorry, High Mage. Can you find someone else? I’m intrigued. But…I have something to do.”
Telim nodded, already calculating the most economical vector to another Earther or [Mage] on his list. He smiled, ready to brush it off—no one wanted to just stand in a ceremony for ages. Then he looked at Troy. Telim never said it as he bade the young man a hurried farewell, but he thought that decision had meant more than he knew.
 
——
 
By the time everything was ready, Terras knew. High Mage Telim, Teura, and his most trusted [Mages] knew—at least, part of it. They stared at Eldavin like he was some [Sorcerer] wielding a Staff of Mutual Annihilation.
Or some god of old.
“Huh?”
The Grand Mage’s breath caught for a second as he stood behind a floating curtain. He paused in adjusting his new robes and looked around.
“Eldavin?”
Teura was helping him put them on. These were no standard, monochrome or even lightly embossed robes. Eldavin had customized them himself, and they were robes that evoked fire.
Flame-red, crossed with white, green, and a void-blackness cut with blue along the interior to provide a relief of Wistram’s own sigil—that academy on an island.
Robes fit for an [Archmage]. Eldavin’s lips moved.
“Strange. It’s…nothing, Teura. Are the candidates in place? Hidden?”
“All sixteen.”
“The rest?”
“Ready to go. Thirty-four, prepared.”
“The Terras faction and others?”
“In position. I double-checked your ritual, but I couldn’t verify all the components…”
She was stressed. So Eldavin smiled, reached out, and gently patted her shoulder.
“My dear, I am only double-checking. Forgive me. I have everything in place, and improvisation is not impossible.”
Teura relaxed and smiled at him, and Eldavin—
Felt a pinch at his heart. He ignored it. But there it was again.
Something was off. Yet this was surely not the time to investigate it.
However, Eldavin’s chase within himself had found a thread which ran deeper than all the others, and he knew it just from that word. He stood there, absently tugging on his robes, as someone began to speak.
Archmage Nailihuaile. She was on the dais in front of him, in one of the largest halls of Wistram. The Council debated here, but they had forgotten its original purpose.
Before him and the floating curtain, he knew, there was a second ‘box’ of illusory spells hiding sixteen young people, half Earthers, half [Mages]. He was a bit upset that Troy had refused, but the young man also had a sense of the dramatic. He might accept…later.
Well, Eldavin would have to arrange it. Terras was also in place on the bleachers. So were the Libertarians, Centrists, Revivalists…
This would be a vote, as well. But the room was packed…because most of Wistram was here.
Few things could mobilize every [Mage] to come. It was worse than herding cats. The inauguration of an Archmage was one of the few things that could do it.
They all knew something was up. Little undead mice knew something was up. They could sense the cloaked magic in the air, and the other Archmages, even the ones Eldavin had bought, were waiting.
“…rare for such an august [Mage] to reach the heights of magic! Grand Magus Eldavin, via unanimous vote, has achieved that rank, and the Archmages present…”
Eldavin waited patiently for the demagoguery to end. Everyone knew he’d accrued enough political power to make himself an Archmage. He kept tugging at one sleeve.
“Like an ancient god. Or goddess. Or deity. For they came in many forms and sizes. So old, it was before my time. Before my parents’ time. And so long gone that my grand…grand…parents? Only knew stories from the mouths of those who had…”
He put a hand to his head. That wasn’t…right. That was three generations. Half-Elves didn’t live past a thousand most times. Death via unnatural causes. So short.
So short?
His lips moved, even as Nailihuaile’s voice dropped to the background and the other [Mages] speaking to complete the ceremony went on. This was all being televised on the scrying orbs, of course, but he knew it wouldn’t be well-watched except in the background. Not…not yet.
“We do not speak of them. Speak only of what they were. You will be told this once. Names, and their status unto the divine. Never again. Only that you remember. Tell no one. Tell no lesser races, but remember. Remember the way the world used to be. And why it—”
“—The Archmage of Memory, Eldavin!”
His head jerked up. The half-Elf’s gaze rose, and, for a second, everyone saw a look of complete surprise on his face.
There he stood. Newly minted, the Archmage of Memory, a title he had chosen himself. So…arrogant and telling it had half the old [Mages]’ teeth grinding. The other half shamefaced.
A half-Elf taller than any other, in the prime of his existence, hair naturally white, eyes mismatched heliotrope and cerulean.
 
——
 
“Hm?”
Rafaema stopped in chewing on cereal as Cire and Lyonette debated. She blinked at the image on the scrying orb in the background. She leaned closer, peering at…
 
——
 
Grand Magus Eldavin. No, Archmage Eldavin. He stood straighter, and his expression firmed. He began speaking smoothly, his voice echoing across the room as the magical camera panned around.
“Mages of Wistram. I thank you for awarding me this honor. The title of Archmage—even honorary—is a mark of esteem amongst [Mages]. I would not waste the world’s time with it, however. It is only a word. If I had the class, this would be a moment worthy of attention for that alone. Yet who now has this class? No one here. Wistram of old is dead. Many whisper it. I say it now, before you all, as Archmage of Wistram.”
The Mages of Wistram sussurated. Eldavin went on, striding left across the dais under a beam of magical sunlight. Viewers of the show began to tune in as they recognized Eldavin—who was, if nothing else, far from boring.
 
——
 
“Oho.”
The [Archmage]—or someone who had once held the class—turned his attention away from the separate scrying orb. He smiled, despite himself. He hadn’t had much of an impression besides a certain pomposity and arrogance in the chat, but he liked this.
Az’kerash turned up the volume. Toren crabbed over subtly with Healing Slime balanced on his head. The skeleton was grinning, despite having no context for any of this.
He liked this old guy.
 
——
 
Someone else was nearly assassinated by a Balerosian banana. The greatest threat to the mortal world, the magical nightmare only checked by the defenders of the world, one of Hell’s regents, the Death of Magic—
Finally got it down. Then she levitated the orb up with a wicked grin and saved that recording so she could re-watch the expressions of the other ‘Archmages’. She smiled—but only for a moment.
She knew Eldavin was right. But how did he?
 
——
 
The [Mages] of Wistram weren’t exactly taking to Eldavin’s speech. He should have been more diplomatic, but he was distracted. Chasing that thought.
“Attention.”
[Thunderclap]. The sound detonation deafened the people in the room as Eldavin clapped his hands together. He walked on, as if he were lecturing them, not being given a prestigious title.
“That was not a subject up for debate. Wistram Academy is not the vaunted institution it once was. We have changed. Once, we walked across the world and chose sides. We supported bravery, ethics in magic, and held this world together when cataclysm occurred. Once, magic died. Who relit the flames?”
He looked around and no one knew the answer. Some guessed, but no one spoke. Eldavin raised his voice.
“Wistram did! [Archmages] threw themselves into the void—the greatest [Mages] of their time. Centuries, millennia of knowledge. To rekindle magic itself. Do you know their names? Their sacrifice? I do.”
He looked around. Suddenly—his eyes were shining. Eldavin looked past them.
“The first to walk into that dark future was the Archmage of Sunlight. Ailet Sundrev, the last [Lady] of House Sundrev, of the dead Kingdom of Caonis of Terandria.”
He knew it was right. But how? Had he read that? Had he…
He saw it. He had seen it.
 
——
 
“How does he know that? Is that correct?”
Duke Rhisveri paused in taking tea, a tedious task, with his guests. The others looked up.
“I…do not know. That would predate our time. Azemith. Do you think those records exist in our libraries?”
“Maybe. That is an old, old time.”
Two of the Lucifen exchanged glances. Then all of those present turned to the oldest being here.
Fithea.
She blinked two glowing lights in her petrified wood body. The Dryad’s lips moved.
“First went sun. Yes.”
 
——
 
[Historians] around the world were trying to fact-check Eldavin. If they succeeded—they leveled.
Yet the Archmage was continuing.
“Once, Wistram’s greatest [Mages] died so that magic might live. Not once. Nor even a mere dozen times! You do not remember that. Yet remember this. When the world’s rot broke open. When the slumbering wound left across this globe burst and poured forth the greatest pestilence yet—the Creler Wars! Who joined the nations of the world in barring the gates?”
Now, his audience knew what their cue was. They echoed it, some rising with excitement, others…waiting.
“Wistram!”
Eldavin caught them there.
“Not alone. Every kingdom rose to fight. Let us not forget great sacrifice. The Charming Dancer, that girl, walked into hell to inspire cowards who slumbered and hid for the danger of it. Courage, to bring us to arms. But when we rose, Wistram stood at the fore.”
Who? The Archmage walked on.
“When each and every calamity struck, we were there. Who fought the Goblin Kings?”
“Wistram!”
“Who joined arms to drag A’ctelios Salash down to eternal slumber?”
A young man in the audience started. The [Mages] looked at each other, but the answer was written.
“Wistram?”
The angry old man strode across the stage.
“We have checked tyrants and driven monsters to their graves. We are not perfect—so I believe we should stop pretending to be. Wistram has always been petty. It has always been divided. But what we forget is that what Wistram does matters. We are not aloof watchers from the sidelines. We must have the conviction to fight for our beliefs. So, as my first act as Archmage, I put a vote to you.”
Here it came. Archmage Viltach and Nailihuaile exchanged glances, and their factions turned to them. Eldavin raised his hand. Everyone waited as he conjured an illusory spell into the air. What would it be? He revealed it with a word.
“Ailendamus.”
An image of Terandria floated into being. A vast, red stain across kingdoms being swallowed up. Eldavin saw the Terandrians in his crowd sit bolt upright—with sudden unease.
“Ailendamus. Kingdom of Glass and Glory. Or should I say…Empire?”
 
——
 
“Oh fuck.”
Ryoka turned sideways to stare at King Itorin II and the royal family. She slowly put down the bucket of popcorn and edged sideways. She had a feeling…this was going to be bad.
What was Teriarch doing?
 
——
 
“Ailendamus has swallowed nation after nation in a mere two hundred years. Now—it is the Dawn Concordat’s turn. Tomorrow, Pheislant. In ten years, Ailendamus might rule the lower third of Terandria. When that day comes—it will not be a matter of stopping them. The King of Destruction once took Chandrar. Ailendamus is in the process of taking the rest.”
“This is a political matter, Grand Magus Eldavin! Wistram does not take sides!”
An old man rose, wearing armor instead of robes. Eldavin snapped back.
“That is Archmage Eldavin to you, Verdan Blackwood. Wistram always takes sides, and the Iron Vanguard can attest to that! There are children from every nation here—some from nations that have suffered Ailendamus’ wrath! Although, I note…”
His gaze swept his audience.
“Few from Ailendamus. They have their own academies. They do not want representation in Wistram. They intend to replace Wistram. So shall we be so generous as to remain apolitical? It is a simple question. Will Wistram censure Ailendamus?”
The motion caught the others off-guard.
“A motion to censure? Do I hear you correctly, Archmagus?”
Eldavin snorted as Feor half-rose, uncertain.
“Of course. I do not propose Wistram declares war. We are no formal nation. But I would like a vote.”
His eyes glinted.
