The half-Elf snorted impatiently as he sat. Once again, Troy was in attendance, but this was no gathering of [Mages]. He sensed only burgeoning power amidst most of them, yet they were trying. Troy was ahead of all of them by far.
Except for the young man sitting far at the back. Eldavin bookmarked him, but he fixed the young woman in front of him with a steady gaze.
“Do not be coy, Miss Elena. It does not suit you. We are long past dancing around notions of Earth. You have weapons. You have a world without magic and technological marvels to equal magic…in some respects. Now, continue explaining your theory of space travel to me. Or, if you like, we can return to nuclear fission.”
She shifted uncomfortably. The Earthers looked at each other and Eldavin sighed.
“I do not intend to create city-killing weapons. We have enough of those already. Let me rephrase this for you children: I do not need to obtain what I already have. I would rather like to learn something new, even to my mind. Or—how to counter it.”
“Then you don’t trust Earth, Grand Magus?”
That question came from…George. Who raised his hand like this were a class. Eldavin sipped from a drink; they were in one of the rooms that could change to look like anything, and they had a quite lovely—if mundane—beach they were all sitting on.
It relaxed them. Somewhat. Elena was wary, and it was a shame. She was a bright young woman…but she’d been soured on Wistram before he met her. Eldavin eyed her.
It was so tempting to reach into their minds and pluck the answers out. The Archmages had been debating it. But…no.
Never.
Why did he think that? He agreed, wholeheartedly. But why…?
“What was that?”
“Why are you so sure Earth will be the one attacking?”
Eldavin snorted.
“Young man. Your world apparently employs city-destroying weapons on its own species. Which there is only one—humanity. Why would we trust you to be peaceful?”
“No one’s used a nuclear weapon since…”
“…The first times they were employed?”
“Well, why would we trust this world to be peaceful then?”
That jutting chin and question came from another young man. Eldavin forgot the name. He sighed.
“What a question. I would think neither side would trust the other. Rightly so. But as I suspect Wistram would be a priority target for your vaunted nations if any had imperialistic tendencies…I would rather have some safeguards in place. Don’t tell me, by all means. Let us talk about celestial bodies and physics. Simply know that I cannot help you if there is no trust.”
“And how would you help us?”
Elena watched his face. Eldavin smiled.
“We are already trying to find out how you were sent here. I would not keep you from your homes.”
A ripple of excitement through the young people and wariness on others. Some wanted to go home, had seen too much. Eldavin’s heart hurt for the girl who had lost her family to rats. He…meant it when he spoke to them.
“I will send you home, but not blindly. Not with warmongering nations—yes, among both worlds, you brat!”
The young man, Jacques, jumped. Eldavin pointed at him.
“However, one world is comprised entirely of Humans, and it sounds like one world would panic more upon meeting other species. I still don’t entirely believe that one species was there to begin with. Which begs the question what happened to the other ones…regardless, one world seems highly intolerant or, at least, unused to other cultures.”
Which, of course, was the wrong thing to say because the entire discussion turned into an argument on whether ‘Earth was racist’ for the next hour. Eldavin sighed. They missed the point. Everyone was speciesist. It wasn’t your bias, it was how you acted…
He noticed that Troy Atlas was quiet around the others. An outsider within their clique from another world. He was certainly included—but he stood apart.
The reason why was complicated, Eldavin suspected, but one of the factors was simply that Troy had seen battle. The others? Elena had seen something. Others had suffered traumas. Yet when Troy saw Saif and Leon arguing about whether or not Earth could take this world in a battle, magic versus guns and planes and industry…
He looked angry. At the two young men who talked so cavalierly about death on that scale. That was why he was Eldavin’s apprentice. He understood.
If we come to that, we have already failed.
Eldavin ended the session by clapping his hands and dispelling the room. Everyone sat in a blank, tiled room and looked at him as he rose.
“You all bear a weighty secret. I trust you will hold that knowledge tight. You already do with me—and that is well. But you cannot be ransoms of another world forever.”
“We’re guests of each faction of Wistram. That hasn’t changed, Grand Magus. We are learning magic, but that’s a long way from us being proper [Mages].”
Elena pointed out. Eldavin nodded. He swept the room, counting their levels.
“Yes. There are a few of you with adequate levels, but with Wistram’s authority…it is difficult for you to advocate for yourselves. That must be rectified. The strength to stand on one’s own is a foundation of trust. I will take care of it.”
He looked at them. There were three with levels high enough to even be counted.
Troy, Elena to some degree, and…
The young man ducked back. Eldavin saw a mop of untidy hair.
Aaron Vanwell.
Now, why did he avoid Eldavin’s gaze? He had been patently fascinated before, but something had shifted. Well, there were many normal reasons for that.
“How will you do that, Grand Magus?”
Eldavin smiled, a bit patronizingly, at Elena.
“For that, my dear, I hope you will attend my ceremony tomorrow. I have an announcement to make.”
She eyed him, but the others looked interested. Eldavin checked the time.
“[Astral Clock]…ah, I am late. I will see you all tomorrow, then. Excuse me.”
He hurried out of the room with brief farewells, and nearly ran into his next guest.
“Archmage Viltach.”
“Grand Magus. Or is it Archmage?”
Eldavin smiled slightly.
“Not yet. Will you walk with me? I apologize for the delay. Children and their discussions.”
“Naturally.”
The two strode along the corridors, and Eldavin refocused. The Archmages of now were not the powerhouses of magic as before, but they were still people and clever enough.
He did not like them. Verdan Blackwood, Valeterisa, Feor, Viltach, and Nailihuaile—as well as one or two more with the honorary title, who hadn’t even bothered to come to Wistram yet.
They didn’t deserve it. They were [Politicians] before they were [Mages]. Valeterisa was a true scholar of magic, but she was hampered by her environment. She would agree with him; none of them deserved the title. Let them call themselves by their actual classes until they rose to the honor of that class. If it hurt their egos…it was fair.
Yet Eldavin did pretend to smile and talked with Viltach with as much aplomb as he could muster. The other man was certainly…oily.
“I must congratulate you in advance on your advancement. It must be a record.”
“Hardly. There have been [Mages] who took this title within a week. Far more deserving than you or I.”
Viltach hesitated. He nodded, baring his teeth uncertainly.
“…Yes, well. I’m told you have some project you will announce concurrently tomorrow? With your title?”
“The Terras faction has been hard at work, yes. All this magic must go somewhere.”
He had been casting spells every day. His level of spellcasting, which, even without Skills, was potent indeed. When you had so much magic and talent, why wouldn’t you use all but a reserve?
Viltach and the others knew it, too. The Archmage of Terandria felt at his side.
“The…wand you presented me with is a very fine piece of work. Very fine. I’ve admired the craftsmanship time and time again.”
“Have you taken it apart?”
The Archmage hesitated.
“Yes…extraordinary. Self-assembling?”
“Self repairing.”
Viltach had to pull out the carved Joi-marble wand and look at it again. Eldavin had put some hard work into it, much less sourcing proper materials. It was a complex design—a bit too overengineered, but he had done it when Troy told him how much of a craftsman Viltach was.
Joi-marble was a treated magic marble that was actually a terrible conductor for magic. You used it for insulation, so Eldavin had turned the handle into a magicore resin, into which he’d run three ‘channels’.
Channels for a wand were to conduct magic around the core and alter the magical nature. So he’d done a thin line of literal magma, some purified water ensconced with Starshell Aquamarine, and a final line of void-element magicore.
Of course, keeping the magma hot, all three channels in multiple outputs along the wand—such that you could see fiery stone burning along the outside of the Joi-marble alongside water and a ghostly, dark substance that ate away at the light—all needed a barrier. All of it was powered by the source of the magic—in this case, a four-element reaction contained in a tiny dimension-sphere.
Live elements, feeding off each other. Rather like nuclear fission, actually—only with magical elements that the spells conjured into existence to enhance one another. Eldavin had been a bit cheeky; the wand was certainly powerful, and it wouldn’t fade in power…for about seven years.
Real cores that could last forever were hard for him to get, and he had to be a bit thrifty. Eldavin would also admit—it was sort of a bad wand.
Oh, it would certainly boost Viltach’s magic to an extent that Eldavin doubted any other wand would for a [Mage] of his level, short of a ‘Relic’ of this era. However…well, look at the channels.
Purified water? Magma? Void? Of the three, you’d get most use out of the water, and maybe boosting your geomancy-pyromancy spells, but who used void magic exclusively?
It wasn’t designed for Viltach’s own magic, but rather made to impress someone like him with Eldavin’s own abilities.
It had certainly got the Archmage agreeing to back the Terras faction. Viltach had also been very effusive over the gift, which made up for a lot of borrowed ingredients.
“Magnificent work. I don’t think I could create this, even with it as a blueprint.”
The man murmured, not able to conceal the chagrin and envy in his tone. Eldavin was careful not to sound superior.
“It isn’t for experience, I think. I’ve seen your work, and you are an adept craftsman. More patient than I…it’s simply for lack of tools and methodology. With the right practice, you could easily improve it.”
“You believe so?”
Eldavin nodded. They were concealing their conversation as [Mages] watched them walk together.
“This is what I wish to do, Archmage Viltach. Take Wistram to a point where these wands are, if not commonplace, accessible. For purchase! That would mean the truly inaccessible wands are the stuff of Truestone. Or bound light itself.”
“The age of myths.”
Viltach looked up, as if he could see it. Eldavin nodded again.
“That is Terras’ goal as a faction. That, and managing the Earth situation.”
“Improving magic…has long been the claim of Centrists, Libertarians, and most groups.”
Viltach, as head of the Libertarian party, was quick to point this out. Eldavin met his gaze directly.
“It has been. But I am placed to make good on the promise. However, like every faction, Archmage Viltach—Terras has a nuance that intersects with politics. In a sense, ours mirrors your Libertarian faction. Wistram has been the political, yet independent, party too long. The vulture who plays both sides. We must entangle ourselves. It is not a perspective Feor’s Centrists share, nor Verdan Blackwood with his…”
Eldavin snapped his fingers briskly, conjuring mana sparks as he searched for an appropriate word.
“Armored interests?”
Viltach suggested. Eldavin gave him a wry nod.
“Archmage Nailihuaile is reasonable in this regard. So I hope I can count on the Libertarians tomorrow in a snap vote.”
“Regarding your announcement. And that would be…?”
“To be announced tomorrow. So secret that I believe my faction will first hear of it from my lips when I say it.”
Viltach looked at Eldavin. A snap vote on matters Eldavin’s own party hadn’t heard of? And he was asking for Libertarians to vote on it? An unconditional ‘yes’?
Madness. In old Wistram, that was. It would never fly, but, because Eldavin was here, he’d calculated this would work.
If I tell him or my people, word will spread and they’ll jumble themselves up over it. They have to start running and keep running after me.
But he couldn’t swing the Council alone. Eldavin could do what he wanted, in theory, and let them censure him, but he wanted this to drag all of Wistram in.
Nailihuaile, Terras under Eldavin and Valeterisa, and the Libertarian block would have a majority no matter what Feor, Verdan, and the independents wanted.
Of course, it depended on both other Archmages putting all their political capital behind a blind deal. Insanity?
Someone watched Eldavin and Viltach. The man smiled, putting up his hands, just as planned. You could still read his lips…if you tried very hard to pierce the obfuscation spells.
I can’t simply agree to…something something. Eldavin put a hand on Viltach’s shoulder. The watcher hesitated as he saw Eldavin say something. Viltach recoiled as if struck, then stared down at the wand.
“Don’t do it, you fool.”
Viltach looked at Eldavin…and then nodded.
Archmage Feor cursed a blue streak. Eldavin smiled, took Viltach by the hand, and pulled something from his bag of holding. He handed it to Viltach, and the Archmage of Terandria’s eyes locked onto it. Then he strode away.
“…be seeing what happens tomorrow. I assure you, more will be coming.”
Eldavin proceeded ahead, slowing as a [Mage] waved a hand.
“Grand Magus! Grand Magus! Please, can I ask you a question about magic?”
“Shut up, you idiot!”
A nervous gaggle of students watched as Eldavin slowed. The half-Elf sighed, but smiled.
“Yes, young man?”
The nervous Lizardman was holding a spell tome. He was so surprised he nearly fell over, but then was leafing through his spellbook.
“I had a spell I was stuck on. I think you can make it…elastic? But no one says it’s possible. But I said that if anyone would know…”
“Ah, advanced spellcraft. Show me?”
The students all gathered around as Eldavin waved apologetically at Viltach, but the other Archmage had stopped. Eldavin hmmed and checked the student’s question against his spellbook.
They used to do that to Feor. Not that the half-Elf could stop for every question, but he had been known to do that.
Now?
“We had an agreement, Viltach. Whatever he’s up to, you were supposed to refuse. Are you insane?”
