Even a day afterwards, he was chuckling about it all. Not always in pure humor. Wry contemplation and self-introspection would be part of how he’d describe it.
If, of course, he held any counsel with his most inner thoughts. But Grand Magus Eldavin did not, even to his occasional companionship. He did not even think loudly, not here.
For even Wistram decayed was still Wistram. The half-Elf often looked up, in the entrance hall, and remembered, faintly, a glorious institution of magic. So grand that all would pay homage and seek to learn here.
[Archmage], [Queen], Unicorn, even Dragon and Wyrm. Species so rare they no longer existed.
Then his eyes would begin to mist, and he did not know exactly why. For these were times so long ago even he could not have lived them.
Yet he spoke as if he did. Grand Magus Eldavin stood in his lecture class, which had [Mages] and students alike, and spoke. Like a compulsion had a hold over his tongue.
“Once, there were teachers of every kind. Once, Wistram’s professors were not [Mages]. Here! Where I stand, there was no mere half-Elf!”
His audience rustled. Eldavin stood to one side and pointed down.
“Once! You would have learned geomancy—no, earth magic in its purest form, the power of nature itself—not from someone with a class, but from a Dryad themselves! Great [Mages] would beg knowledge from beings with a magic they did not understand, trade favors for the feathers of Phoenixes. This was Wistram as it was. Let those days come again. Or—”
And here a lump entered his throat, so he had to speak quietly.
“—As close as we can come to them.”
Why did he say that? Some [Mages] thought he did it to humble them, to impress his long memory and knowledge of pre-Zelkyr times. Some—the Archmages included—regarded him as nothing more than a threat.
Like a greater scavenger, come to the carrion of Wistram as it is. They surely saw every flaw and weakness of the academy.
Feor did. He had been trying to fix it. After months here, Eldavin gave him that. Wistram’s [Mages] were not incompetent. They knew they were reduced, but the way they solved it was so…so classically Drake-like.
They had a fine teacher. Feor’s method of solving the weakness of Wistram was to try to amass power. To reach a breaching point where his own knowledge, or influence, let him ascend to Wistram’s peak.
Drake-like.
Dragon-like? The half-Elf was so busy. Eldavin was teaching at least six different courses a day, even if they weren’t referred to as such. He’d stop by to educate the communication-branch overseeing the Mage’s Guild about encrypting [Message] spells, pay a visit to Wistram’s gardens, then teach his official class, have a chat with some [High Mages] who wanted refining in their spells, visit his few apprentices…
All to a purpose. Eldavin could spend a half-Elf’s lifetime refining every aspect of Wistram, but he was prioritizing what mattered.
So—communication. Wistram’s finances, for the trees’ sake! Damned things. Why did his people have that expression anyways? Trees. They sprang up, died, and if you kept them around too long you had Dryads acting like they ran the place and hadn’t spent the last thousand years sucking up groundwater.
“Finance is power, Mage Teura. If Wistram Academy offers a real, truly encrypted [Message] service, everyone wants it. That supposes Wistram is trusted. Which is a vessel we have been siphoning coins from…”
Eldavin looked meaningfully at the half-Elf, formerly of Feor’s faction. She nodded, ears drooping with chagrin.
“Yes, Grand Magus. But the solution…?”
The Grand Magus snorted. He was reclining on a sofa, levitating snacks towards him, and she was facing him the same way. A Chandrarian style of relaxing; Eldavin’s head was propped up on one arm. He liked lounging. He could remember doing it all the time. People were too vertical.
“Well, I would normally say lead by example. Impeccable conduct for a decade. Given Wistram’s state and all these [Mages] you’d have to corral? The opposite will work. We make ourselves indispensable. Offer magic no one can match—or, at least, make such magic more convenient. That is how Wistram has survived before. Sometimes by virtue, other times by power alone. I say—power it is.”
She nodded, and he realized he wouldn’t get any arguments or her gainsaying him. It made him a bit sad. She was enamored. Perhaps rightly so, if he was truly the last Grand Magus with magic predating Zelkyr. They had forgotten so much.
Yet he thought of his first real student, even though she’d never shown much interest in magic.
Magnolia Reinhart. And that little brat…no, the original one.
Ressa. Ryoka had come later. She was grown. It seemed so fast, like it always did. Eldavin walked and talked, moving from Teura to Troy Atlas.
“Combat magic. You are a [Sand Mage] and a golem-owner. By rights, I should have you practicing sandstorm spells until you can sleep in the middle of one before I teach you a single arrow spell. [Sand Mages] are good at one thing. And that would be…?”
The young man frowned, his dark brown-red hair shifting slightly as he scratched at it. Dyed hair, Eldavin knew. Not from magic, he just knew a bad dye job when he saw one.
“Using sand, Grand Magus?”
“No. Being aggravating.”
He laughed, but Eldavin launched into an example.
“Sand is not exactly a superior weapon. [Geomancers] will kindly hit you with a giant rock…or engulf someone in the earth. Which, I grant you, is a variation on all elementalist classes. ‘Hit someone with fire. Hit someone with more fire.’ [Pyromancers], pah. No nuance. Higher-level spellcasters do more than just that. I was chatting with a young [Cryomancer] who seemed to understand her class was more than throwing frozen water around…”
Troy nodded obediently, but Eldavin saw him shifting as he sat cross-legged. He noticed these things, so he amended his dissertation.
“…You are a [Sand Mage]. Your entire class has made a history of ‘fighting’ by conjuring a sandstorm and annoying enemy [Mages] to death. Pop out of the sand, shoot an arrow through someone’s head, hide for a week, repeat.”
“I’d…like something a bit more direct, Grand Magus.”
Troy fought to keep his face straight. Eldavin snorted.
“And that’s why you’ll be the first [Sand Mage] to die. No patience. But I concede the point. There’s a simple remedy: we’ll respecialize you along two schools of magic. You’re already halfway towards the other.”
“Which is th…oh. Light magic?”
The young man got a nod. If he hadn’t figured it out, Eldavin would have had to reprimand him.
“Light and sand go together.”
“With glass. Someone told me that sand and light were fairly complementary schools, once.”
Troy began to smile, then it was swept off his face. Eldavin knew that look.
“I take it this person is no longer with us?”
He asked, as kindly as he could. Troy looked up.
“He died. Recently. I’m sorry, Grand Magus.”
“Think nothing of it. We will begin with a light-based spell, then. Light is weaker, but infinitely adaptable. Fast, too. It suits you. Incidentally, where is your Golem?”
“Killing roaches, I think?”
“Ah, very good.”
Another lie. But Eldavin didn’t press Troy Atlas on the distinctly stronger Lifesand Golem he detected via the boy’s mana link.
He didn’t tell the other [Mages] he had more magic then they could even dream of. Yes, he told them long-distance teleportation was not a thing of dreams anymore. Yes, he said you could encrypt magic, learn to levitate, and even bind elementals.
Eldavin didn’t tell them he could see their little magic spells, read rituals like a book. He didn’t tell them how many Tier 7 spells he knew.
He didn’t know himself why he was so reticent—besides a healthy interest in keeping a number of secret advantages hidden, of course.
Something told him they weren’t ready. Sometimes he said things. Thought things.
Dragon-like. I have met Dragons.
The certainty grew over him. Eldavin stood on the balcony of his sumptuous apartments and stared at the bubble of controlled weather around Wistram.
It was raining. He had told the [Mages] that pure, clear skies were idiotic. In fact, it was more impressive thus.
Wistram rained. A squall, fierce and sleeting over the magic towers. Rain steamed away over the Everburning Tower of Rais. It began to freeze around another one; the droplets reversed direction and flew away from a gravitational field.
In other places, they just poured down the magnificent, scattered facade of the Academy of Magic.
A storm in a bubble. For the world outside of Wistram was as calm as could be. Such that the ships coming to Wistram looked into a place that obeyed no rules but those it made.
That was magic. 
“I have met Dragons.”
Eldavin said the words out loud after casting six spells to hide his voice. Just so he could hear himself say it.
He knew it was true. It was so true he wanted to shout the words. Yet…
“I cannot remember them. No…”
It was a faint memory. Slipping out of his grasp, even with memory spells. Memory spells existed, as he used them; even Valeterisa had them. Yet when he searched and the drawer in his head opened…
Nothing. As if what it had contained were gone.
Did I excise the memories myself? I must have—or they did. Did I lose some great battle with a nemesis, and am now a cripple? All too likely. Was it the Necromancer? Am I a puppet? No—no. I blasted that fool with fire; he is a skilled [Necromancer], but his adaptation to other schools is weaker.
Who else? The Death of Magic? She’s one of the few mighty spellcasters left in this world. But that’s so improbable I’d be alive. Djinni? Why would I be here? Who else could use such magic I’ve met recently? Regis Reinhart with an artifact? Hah! The only other person with comparable magic is…
“Duke Rhisveri of Ailendamus.”
It was surely him. Eldavin glowered. He had a name for a nemesis. It was not exactly hard to piece together. Well, he had been confounded by the long-range casting.
He had…lost.
He could admit that. Eldavin cast a spell.
“[Conjure Pebble].”
He then kicked the pebble over the balcony. It soared over the edge in a gratifying way. In a less-gratifying way, he heard the crash of pottery.
“My plants!”
“[Greater Invisibility].”
Eldavin thought to himself, invisible and inaudible, carefully ignoring the indignation coming from below. No, he had to have done it to himself.
Rhisveri. He knew who had taken Ryoka Griffin. Silly girl, always getting herself into trouble. She had some kind of Skill for it…except she didn’t. She had no class. He remembered being surprised by it.
But then—
Eldavin had no class.
That was what he didn’t tell anyone. The fact that he had given up levels and Skills. There were benefits, of course, but for the life of him, Eldavin didn’t remember why he’d done it. It had always been this way, and he supposed he’d given up on a class after living most of his life without one. A bit embarrassing to try now, eh?
“So why was I surprised by Ryoka? I remember it. As if…”
This was Eldavin’s problem. He remembered things and they weren’t quite right. As if something was shifted about how he remembered it. He had gaps in his memory. He…
The half-Elf felt a twinge. He touched his chest.
“Ever since Cognita. How hard did she hit me? Truestone. Damned unpredictable.”
He sighed. There was so much he had to do. But he had realized—Eldavin himself was his own biggest riddle to solve.
It would be so much easier not to care. So much easier to simply go back to the High Passes, retreat to his laboratory, and rest.
He could not. Eldavin had beheld Wistram, and it was too sorry to remain this way. Yet—he had also promised Ryoka to try and heal her friend. Valeterisa had inspected Erin Solstice—well, the inn—and been unable to even get through the garden.
He wished he could trust someone with the weight of his responsibilities. He had too many. Not just to Wistram.
It was that wretched girl…Ryoka, this time. She kept getting herself kidnapped. It wasn’t her fault—entirely.
“Duty is a heavy thing. It will be the death of me.”
The half-Elf spoke, and he wasn’t sure why that sounded so right. Only that he had once said it before. He lingered on the balcony. Then he smiled and chuckled again. There was one thing. It seemed he was not the only one trying to put the world right.
“A child. Forsooth.”
Eldavin laughed to himself. There was hope. People, young people, and fairly old, trying to do the right thing.
This world was dark. The Waning World, where the last remnants of great lights before were just flickering. In this last age—where another world interceded with theirs? Eldavin felt it. He clutched at his chest, his beating heart.
Fire. We must have fire. Flame beyond imagining. 
He was no fire mage. He disdained the [Pyromancers] of today, what few there were in Wistram. So why did he think that?
A burning inferno, to never go out.
 
——
 
“You’ll be named Archmage tomorrow, Grand Magus. We have an announcement planned. Do you have a name?”
Eldavin lay in bed. He blinked absently at Teura.
“Hm? What, my dear?”
“A name? Each Archmage tends to choose theirs. As Archmage Feor is the Archmage of Half-Elves and there is the Archmage of Izril…”
“Oh, my title. That’s often something one is accoladed, Teura. Don’t tell me people seed their own names?”
She didn’t meet his eyes. Eldavin sighed.
“Very well, I can think of something. At least until the will of the people chooses one for me. For better or ill. They can be quite cruel, but it is fair. Do you know what they used to call the Archmage of the Eternal Grasslands?”
“No?”
“The Archmagus of Seeds. It annoyed her terribly.”
She smiled, and Eldavin admired her form under the sheets.
“Do you remember that from your mentor, Archmage Eldavin?”
“Hm? No…no. I’m not sure…”
Eldavin frowned. He looked at Teura and saw her face, as mystified as his.
“I suppose when one gets so old, fact and accounts of history blend together.”
He chuckled, and she did likewise. But uncertainly. Eldavin began to rise, briskly. He did that when…to cover up his weaknesses. He could not show them any. Not now.
 
——
 
“Earth.”
There were only two great issues on Eldavin’s mind. Three, counting himself. But two. Four if you counted that young woman, but that was a side project.
Five, six, possibly seven if you included ongoing issues like Rhir, the King of Destruction, the Meeting of Tribes and that debacle around an entire species.
But two main projects he had to tackle. Take them one at a time. Solve one and you compounded your solutions onto the others.
“Yes, Grand Magus?”
