“—To declare Ailendamus an empire with imperialistic tendencies towards expansion. That their war on the Dawn Concordat is in fact a war of unwarranted aggression. To call other nations to check their danger. And to declare Ailendamus a threat to world peace, as once we did to the King of Destruction.”
The Council was not in uproar. That suggested they were shouting and throwing things. The Council was in stasis, whispering, looking at each other. And that was a good thing.
For Eldavin. It wasn’t…Nailihuaile whistled quietly and shrugged. Viltach frowned at Eldavin, trying to work the angles as the Libertarians argued—
Mostly in favor of him. In fact, Feor was watching his own party of Centrists agreeing. Eldavin had led them on an argument that pointed out Ailendamus’ danger; they had almost no total allies in Wistram, certainly none born of Wistram, but they were powerful. If Eldavin had demanded a motion to war or something far more drastic, he’d have…probably…failed.
Even Nailihuaile and Viltach couldn’t promise a rebellion in their ranks, and they too could flip. But this?
Censure? The [Mages] deliberated. We could do that.
It was like Eldavin could read their thoughts. He saw a snap vote called, the [Mages] beginning to argue, but Teura spoke.
“Archmage Eldavin moves for an immediate vote.”
“Without discussion?”
Archmage Blackwood argued. Eldavin raised his hand.
“Will you draw out Wistram’s petty politics before the world’s eye, Archmage Blackwood? If you would like, let us see where the lines are drawn.”
The Archmage of Dullahans hesitated. So did the Council; they’d seen how you could be embarrassed in front of the camera, and suddenly every [Mage] was checking their posture, robes, face for grime…
Teura went on.
“A snap vote for condemning Ailendamus. All members of Wistram’s Magic Council, please signal your approval, disapproval, or your silence via spell.”
Eldavin stood there, calm as could be. He knew the likely outcome, and it was only a gesture. If a powerful one.
Gestures mattered. They always mattered. A symbol was more than just meaning in the hearts of mortals.
They lived off symbols. Off of belief. Once, they had countless millions of followers and made mighty things. Great war, great mercy, great calamity. There were so many. 
But remember the greatest of them all. First, the God of Leaders and Rulers. Head of his pantheon, he who ruled over even his kind. Tamaroth. 
…He had a beard. What did he look like? Their faces changed. They wore many shapes. He had a beard. Stop asking questions, you little h…
Something fuzzed. Eldavin’s smile flickered. As if he were watching the vote. What was that next word? Little…half-Elf?
He tried to continue. Who was telling this to him? His teacher?
His mother?
Who was she?
“Next? Next…I suppose, among the most powerful, came the one who presided over death. Oh, yes. There was an afterwards. There still is. It used to belong to her. The Three-In-One. Goddess of Death. Goddess of the Afterlife, Kasigna. Most feared. Most beloved. Why beloved?”
Someone chuckled. Eldavin’s head turned sightlessly. He looked up, seeking a mismatched gaze. Such sad laughter.
“You will understand, someday. Imagine what that could mean. No? Feared and beloved for what she could grant. Next? Ah…ah. Perhaps now it is time to scare you. Don’t hide! You don’t even know what you’re supposed to be scared of, silly little Teri.”
“Who?”
Who?
The [Mages] rose, glowing lights flashing across his vision. Eldavin’s heart—he felt at it.
“Though you should be wary. Wary of what lies beyond. Not beyond the horizon, but further still. Some of them came from so far that they were foreign to even their kind—or so it was said. Such as the Deity of the Forgotten. First of the Lost. First of Nothing. Furthest. Traveller. God of Seekers. It was not male, nor female. It was not…known. They called it Norechl. Perhaps it named itself. That one, even the greatest feared, and not for strength.”
“Grand Magus Eldavin? Archmage?”
He stirred. The Archmage of Memory looked around and realized it was done. The Council looked at each other, and then at the half-Elf. They stood, condemning Ailendamus. Eldavin’s lips moved.
“Oh. Well, then. Good job, I suppose.”
His audience was slack-jawed. Eldavin blinked at them, and the words came out simply, those other words echoing in the back of his mind.
Names. One of them was so loud something stirred.
He who ruled Secrets, Magic, and Knowledge. God of Scholars and Magic. God of Studies.
Emerrhain.
A young man shivered in the back, watching Eldavin look about. The half-Elf’s voice was quiet, weighed down by something. Time, perhaps.
“Should I be amazed? We have censured Ailendamus. Well done.”
He clapped sarcastically. The sound echoed in the background. Eldavin looked about and shook his head.
“That is the most I could ask from Wistram. United we stand to throw words rather than spells.”
“You insult your own academy and peers, Archmage.”
Feor rose slowly. Eldavin glanced at him.
“Do I? Or do I say the truth, Feor? You voted, an overwhelming majority, to condemn a nation that threatens others. That makes war with terrible death. A vote is a vote, and you have done so in the eyes of the world. Perhaps—because they were watching. It is still only a vote. You speak your convictions as if that proves you hold them. I…”
He touched at his chest absently.
“I have no time for such things. I thank you all for joining my condemnation of Ailendamus. The Academy of Magic stands with the Dawn Concordat in spirit—a frail, useless, contemptible thing.”
The Archmage of Memory turned, and his eyes lit up. He raised his hand, and that silent box, that partition of hidden people, began to move.
“Now, with Wistram’s blessing, I shall be more direct. I am the Archmage of Memory. I am Eldavin, Lord of Flames! I call the Terras faction—to war.”
Eldavin saw Teura’s head rise. Telim swallowed hard. The other [Mages] hesitated. However, Archmage Verdan was in the weeds, and it was keep going or sink. So he sneered down at Eldavin.
“To war? You intend to sail to Terandria and enlist in an army, then? Or hire [Mercenaries]? How would you affect your war against a sovereign nation?”
The Archmage of Armor’s confidence died as Eldavin looked up at him. Feor was already taking cover; he remembered what Verdan had apparently forgotten: how Eldavin had first come to Wistram and introduced himself.
“[Refraction Barrier: Flame]. [Fourfold Arcane Barrier]. [Steel Scales]…”
Naili muttered under her breath. At last, she saw something happening. She looked down and swore.
“Oh, Nagas.”
The most skilled [Mages] sensed it first. Teura knew where to look since she and a few others had helped Eldavin set it up, but even experts in the field, like Beatrice, took a second. When she did see it, the Dullahan’s eyes went round.
“The floor.”
Everyone looked down. The tiles upon which the Magic Council had been set were…cracking.
Lines of force were snaking their way around, completing a vast circle, an intricate spellcasting pattern that put sweat onto everyone’s lower backs.
“Wh-what are you doing, Archmage Eldavin?”
“Sailing. Sailing.”
Eldavin muttered. He focused on Verdan, with a kind of pained air of disgust.
“Is that who we are, now? [Shipwrights] and [Sailors]? We are magic, little [Mage]. Nor do I need to explain myself to you. A faction will go unto war. Live or die—we will do what we believe we must. Terras of Wistram! If you gainsay it, if you disagree, meet me across the battle lines and challenge me in person.”
He pointed, and half the Archmages ducked. But no [Grand Fireball] came. Eldavin glanced around. Then he pointed.
“Ah, yes. I almost forgot to announce my second initiative. While the spell completes, please observe my new creation. I believe some of you might recognize the design.”
The curtains pulled back and revealed sixteen young men and women. Half were students. The other half—
“Flynn? George?”
Elena shot upright. Troy stared down. So that was what Eldavin—
Every head among the Earthers swung around. Someone had gone dead white. Aaron Vanwell’s lips moved. An angry dead thing was screaming.
“What has he done? What has he—”
“Archmage?”
They only got one look at it. A glowing spell circle had traced itself on the floor of the room. Old stone cracked, revealing…
A smooth floor, like glass or crystal. Semi-transparent, underneath of which lay a nimbus of glowing lights. Power.
Raw mana. The Archmage of Memory kicked a piece of the stones away dismissively. They forgot what rooms did.
It was, of all of them, Archmage Viltach who figured out what the spell circle was for. He looked down and freaked out, raising his voice.
“It’s a spell circle. This—this is a massive spell. This entire room is a ritual room! Get out of the radius! Get out of—”
The Libertarians went running, followed by the rest of the Council. They stampeded away from the edges of the glowing circle. On it stood members of the Terras faction. And the sixteen.
Ordinary people. Some Earthers with only a shred of magical knowledge, if any at all. But—Troy saw Flynn wave at him. Point down. Eldavin returned Verdan’s horrified gaze with a calm one. He took a breath.
My heart hurts. But he had learned something. This—this was going to be hard, even though this room was meant for such things. Yet…
I have no Skills. Somehow, though, I have a surplus of power. 
He drew from it now. Something—the room began shaking. The [Mages] on the ground looked up at him, but Eldavin didn’t need long. It was a mark of him that he kept repeating that word.
“Sailing. You fool. The age of magic comes and goes, and always, always we say, ‘this time it shall last forever’. But the truth is that it will always come back. Again! Again and again! Always differently!”
He pointed a finger as the air charged, lifting every hair, filling the atmosphere with potential and pressure. A wondrous force, pressing down on you—not on your skin, but the very leyline of your magic. Troy saw Eldavin’s lips move.
“I do not need a boat to get to Terandria. I am Archmage Eldavin of Wistram. Archmage of Memory. And what I remember are two words: [Grand Teleportation].”
The circle flashed. Eldavin threw up his hands and the [Mages] shouted—
Then the world in the circle blinked, and that flash of what had been there lingered in the air, like a photograph’s flash—only it was them. Fading, a memory of what was.
Travelling around the world in an instant.
 
——
 
Ser Greysten, the Summer’s Champion of the Order of Seasons, put up his axe, weary.
“Form ranks! Hold them!”
The Season of Summer formed a battle line. They were coming. A full legion of the Order of the Hydra, pushing towards Pheislant.
They were coming along the coast, and Pheislant was forming a full army with more [Knights]—but the [Knights] of Ailendamus were relentless.
Greysten refused to let them regroup and pursue Rabbiteater and the others. So they fought. The [Knights of Summer] did not laugh or expect an easy victory.
So many [Knights]. They spread out, cheering for their kingdom. Ailendamus. No Dame of the Hills, but so many…
Counter-levelling against the Summer Knights. Greysten tasted a bit of bile in his mouth. He set himself grimly for another battle.
He had not been checking the news. So when one of the Autumn Knights galloped towards him, he didn’t know what was happening.
“Ser Greysten! Something is coming! I sense a huge magical signature on our position!”
“Break! Break! Magical artillery incoming! Shield spells!”
The Summer’s Champion reacted with perfect reflexes, and the Order of Seasons broke instantly. Greysten looked towards the north. Had Ailendamus sent reinforcements? Already?
But then he saw the Order of the Hydra doing the same things. Their lines of neat halberds broke up, and both sides stared at the other breaking up and…slowed…
Then the world split in half. Greysten whirled and saw the sky open and, for a second, he locked eyes with Archmage Feor across a gap in the sky. He recognized that magic.
“Teleportation.”
But instead of a group travelling across the void as the Order of Seasons could do—an entire section of Wistram came hurtling towards them. Terrifyingly fast. Greysten’s horse screamed and reared, unable to process what it was seeing. There—a half-Elf was pointing—
Then the two dimensions collided, and the backblast knocked a [Knight] flying. Greysten saw Dame Voost try to twist in the air and hit the ground with a sickening crunch on her left side. More [Knights] were knocked flat.
The shockwave rippled through the air for a moment, visible as the dust and debris were thrown outwards. And then…
Silence.
The Order of the Seasons and the Order of the Hydra, soldiers of Pheislant and Ailendamus, looked at the figures standing there.
Less than a hundred. Less than a hundred, teleported from the Academy of Mages in the ocean all the way to…
“…What is going on?”
Greysten had drawn his axe and raised his shield warily. He didn’t know what to call these [Mages]. Most were gasping and looking around; several were throwing up, including a pudgy [Mage]. Were they here to reinforce one side or the other?
Or unrelated?
Then he saw the one person who seemed in control of it all turn. A superlatively well-muscled half-Elf looked around. His eyes rested on the Summer’s Champion.
“Ah, ideal. Excuse me, Summer’s Champion. I am Grand Magus—that is, Archmage Eldavin of Wistram. Head of the Terras faction. We are here to participate in the war against Ailendamus. Would you allow us the courtesy of the first attack?”
Ser Greysten stared at Eldavin. The Summer’s Champion had no idea who this was—no, a vague recollection.
A spell out of nowhere. A dubious offer. A strange half-Elf?
Greysten was still Greysten. The Summer’s Champion began to smile. He raised his axe and saluted the Archmage.
“I take you at your word, Archmage! I cede the honor to you!”
Eldavin half-smiled. He nodded, and rose upwards. Now, his voice magnified, just in time for the scrying spells to catch up. He raised his hands to the heavens.
“I am the Archmage of Memory!”
He shouted it at Ailendamus. The [Soldiers] and [Knights] were reforming, but their weapons trained on the strange half-Elf…moved upwards. The [Knights] checked their weapons, and then lowered them.
For Eldavin had begun to rise into the air. He floated higher, and the skies darkened around him.
This…yes. Eldavin inhaled.
This was familiar.
“I am Eldavin of Wistram. I declare war on Ailendamus! Free the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Those before me—flee or perish. Or I shall bring such battle as you have never dreamed.”
His eyes flashed.
