Feor appeared and Viltach jumped. He half-hid what looked like hand-written notes from Eldavin. Feor took a mental snapshot, but he didn’t see much.
“Feor! You were watching us?”
“It seems I should have.”
The half-Elven Archmage glared at Viltach. Look at him. He was Archmage Feor, but everyone looked at the real Archmage of half-Elves now.
It stung. Teura’s betrayal stung. His sudden fall from grace stung. Eldavin’s clearly masked scorn stung.
The worst part was that Feor knew Eldavin was a spellcaster who knew magic beyond his own. He looked at Viltach.
“You agreed. Nailihuaile agreed, but she’s a young radical who can’t see beyond her own tail. How much did you sell your vote for? For anything he wants?”
Viltach closed his eyes. He held the sheaf of bound papers in his hand and refused to look Feor in the eye.
“…Multiple-artifact casting.”
“What?”
The Human man opened his eyes and looked Feor straight in his. The silver-haired half-Elf…Viltach knew he dyed his hair. It was the kind of secret the top [Mages] shared about, paid for, so they could know. Viltach looked at Feor, then at the genuinely old being standing there, calmly lecturing students about ‘elasticity’ in spells. Something Viltach and Feor would have happily learned, stood there, if not for their egos.
Because they didn’t know. Because Eldavin was…too powerful. Too old. He knew too much. 
He was becoming Wistram. And it reminded Feor of the Drake who had done the same, but with Golems rather than magic theory alone.
Zelkyr.
“This is a manual on how to cast from multiple artifacts. Not just a wand in each hand. This is how I could hold eight staves if I had that many hands, or float them—and use each one to boost my magic, Feor. Without magical interference from each. Boosting—not linking them up for a minor improvement.”
The Archmage’s mouth moved silently.
“That’s…not possible.”
Viltach gave him a sickly grin.
“It wasn’t. It wasn’t—and now it is. Or do you think Eldavin’s lying? I don’t know what Nailihuaile sold her votes for. I don’t particularly care. You might be right. We might be dragged along in Eldavin’s wake, Feor, but you know what I think? You and Verdan missed your chance. If you were truly intelligent, you would have made a deal with Eldavin first.”
He turned on his heel and strode away. Feor looked at Eldavin, who had surely seen him, [Greater Invisibility] or not. The new, upcoming Archmage couldn’t be stopped. Feor turned away, rattled—and almost missed Eldavin as he bent down to take the young Lizardman’s claw.
Eldavin went sprawling. At first, everyone thought he’d tripped and gathered around to help him up—until they saw him clutching his chest, eyes squeezed shut with pain. Feor turned around as Eldavin slowly pulled himself up.
Wait.
 
——
 
“How long has it been?”
Eldavin didn’t respond. He grumpily lifted one arm, the muscles so fine against the skin without blemish that it didn’t seem real.
Of course, it was. A [Mage] with the right spells could make their body anything they wanted it to look like. Whatstheirface—the Ullsinoi’s leader—was proof of that.
Eldavin had just gone a step further to keep his body in pristine condition. It certainly impressed the woman inspecting it. She was trying very hard not to salivate.
Selphids. But she prodded him again as he sat, bare to the waist.
“How long, Grand Magus? I have to know. I won’t share the secret. I am in your faction and, besides, this is a [Healer]’s matter. Although I’m not a full one, so if you want me to get ours…”
“A [Mage] is more appropriate, Herbalist Sa’la. I believe there is a magical component, but self-diagnosis is hard. I don’t know how long, exactly. Three months?”
“Hmm. And your heart…hurts? Does it spasm? Does anything set it off?”
“…Not that I can think of.”
She gave him a long look. Eldavin sighed.
“Nostalgia. But that is an older man’s failings.”
“Ah. Well…that doesn’t sound right. Sympathetic pain. But it’s not like someone with a hole in their heart.”
“Perish the thought. I can perform that level of magic, you know. The heart is in perfect condition.”
The Selphid [Mage] frowned.
“Well, why do you need me, then? Alright, alright. Don’t glare. I can at least make you some of the remedies you want. It might simply be stress…although you can usually detect that.”
“I know. It is not. I would even consider you taking a look, but there is nothing…physically…wrong with me. Perhaps some vitality boosters.”
“Maybe it’s too much copious sex?”
The [Herbalist] grinned. Eldavin’s face was stony.
“If that was a serious advisement, I will take it under consideration.”
“It might be. That’s certainly an energetic endeavor. Why don’t you simply…rest? Don’t do the hundred things people say you do every day? No magic, no running about. For a week.”
“Hah!”
Sa’la rolled her eyes.
“You’d be so much easier if you were Telim. Very well—less of everything?”
Eldavin thought it over and gave her a grudging nod.
“Acceptable. It truly didn’t hurt that much aside from—nostalgia.”
“Which isn’t really a medical issue that I know of. I think…we’ll keep an eye on it. Come to me tomorrow, after your big ceremony everyone’s talking about. We’ll check in every day, agreed?”
“Very well. And secretly. Not that I can hide my first visit, but I can at least teach you some magic while we’re here.”
The Selphid woman smiled, but she watched Eldavin as he put his robes back on.
“Not everything is necessarily a give-and-take here, Magus Eldavin. Although, I will happily accept.”
He raised his brows.
“I know that. There are altruistic people in Wistram, your friend, Telim, being one of them, surprisingly.”
“He has a better heart.”
“And a bag of holding full of food. I saw him steal a table of ice cream yesterday.”
Sa’la laughed and shrugged. Eldavin nodded.
“I know Wistram is not entirely mercantile. But you all need to learn. So, I will take your remedies.”
She nodded, and began grinding up fresh ingredients for the first one. Sa’la glanced at Eldavin as he felt at his chest. That had been the most intense pain yet. He couldn’t hide his disturbed look—until he turned to her.
“What was that?”
“And what will we become, Grand Magus? What will we learn to be?”
For everyone could see he had a plan. The half-Elf exhaled slowly. He looked at Sa’la, and thought of his obligations.
He did not have to—but he had promised. That girl. It was always that girl. It always had been.
More trouble? You are always getting in trouble…and who did he think of? Not Ryoka, or Magnolia. Who…
To Rhir. To Hell’s gates. To the end of war or until kingdom crumbles. 
The half-Elf’s mismatched gaze turned, and the Selphid stopped as he fixed her with a look that she couldn’t describe. An intensity in it that she had never seen before. Far more than a [Mage] who had lived in the Academy all their days could manage.
Worthy of an [Archmage]. The half-Elf inhaled and spoke.
“A glorious people, Sa’la. Mages of Wistram. What you have always longed to be. The coming days will be a forging fire. Don’t miss tomorrow. I promise you it will be the stuff of Wistram of old.”
 
——
 
The fire was banked low when she stepped into the room.
Even so, it was still sweltering.
But everything was wrong. Despite the best efforts, there was a sooty quality to the air. No circle of runes on the ground.
Someone had to make do with a fire based off of charcoal. The kind of thing everyone used, but a terrible flame to some.
So…dirty.
“Ah.”
Now she said it like that, it all made sense. The obsessive, laborious, yet perfect routine. Containment and purity.
Even the tools were no longer as pristine as they had been. Someone kept trying, and they were so clean that another forge would have little fault with them. Only the faintest layer of debris, which only a truly intensive wash could remove, remained.
Filthy. Yet there were no more hands to help. No one to cast magic. No one else here, either.
The owner of this forge, Master Daiton, was upon the walls, weapon in hand. He had left this place to her, because he could.
Nawalishifra. The young woman stood there, her veil and clothing sooty. Burnt, as if she had scorched herself on the fire, set the dress alight. She stood there, resting her weight on the anvil.
That, at least, was a mirror. Obsessively polished, despite the metal and grit that would be hammered onto it. She…never looked up, her head hung. Something clinked as she shifted her feet towards a waiting pile of metal.
“What weapon?”
The visitor said nothing. Nawalishifra, Nawal, swayed. Her cracked lips rasped.
“…Armor? Arrowheads?”
No response. So, slowly, with too much effort, her head rose. Slightly glazed eyes focused.
Teresa Atwood looked like she had known better days. She wore metal scale over leather armor and plated leggings; mismatched but snug. It had saved her life already; there was blood worked into the cloth and dried on the scales.
She had a sword on one side, a single-sided blade. Enchanted; fine work. Nawal had seen it once. It hung in the sheathe, and her hand was on it.
Not for violence, but ready to draw, unconsciously. Teresa Atwood, like her brother, had dirty blonde hair when not dyed. She had been a young woman, eyes amber, gawking at the world around her, even when Nawal had first seen her.
Now? Now, she stood there, balanced unconsciously, breathing slowly, surveying the room, Nawal…a warrior. A soldier in the army of the King of Destruction.
“What order?”
Nawal croaked again. Teresa looked at her.
“None. They’re coming for the walls. The Crown of Thunder is running out of magic.”
Nawal didn’t know what she meant at first. Crown of…?
“The towers. The lightning stopped. I can hear it, even here.”
Teresa nodded shortly. They had been firing off and on for days. At first, the enemy armies had tried to block the lightning coming down, then tried to bait it with smaller forces. Only when they moved in bulk did the lightning strike from one of the towers around Reim, the capital city named after the nation.
Lesser forces had tried to take the walls, but they were cut down by arrows before they could get close. So…Nerrhavia’s Fallen did what it had done this entire war.
It bled.
Hordes of Stitch-folk, the poor Hemp, charged at the walls, looked up, and saw a flash. Yet they kept coming, bleeding the magic dry—or trying to.
“They keep coming. Again and again. They stopped for two days, and I think the [Soldiers] tried to rebel. We saw Cotton, even Silk, leading charges. [Mages]—some of them could block a shot. They had to.”
“Even Hemp will not suffer forever.”
The [Smith] of Clan Tannousin murmured. She stared at the anvil.
“What work?”
Teresa shook her head.
“You asked that. We don’t have any work.”
The young woman, the Human standing at the forge, laughed. She looked up and moved again, around the anvil.
Another clink.
She had chained herself to it.
“There is always work for a [Smith] in war. My father told me that. Nails. Arrowheads. Blades to reforge, armor to mend. What. Work?”
“We have no more wood for arrow shafts. They haven’t reached the walls, not yet. We don’t need more blades. Not yet. Everyone is armed. Even the refugees.”
They had come from across Reim. People settling the new villages, fleeing ahead of Nerrhavia. Or…coming to defend the capital.
Defend the King of Destruction. They came, when his vassals could not. Orthenon. Mars. Takhatres—Gazi, absent on her great mission.
All of them embattled, or so Teres believed. The last she had heard, Mars had challenged an army alone.
Takhatres was fighting in Hellios, protecting the Gnoll tribes and keeping the region from flaring up into outright rebellion. If there were anyone who might come in time, it was Orthenon—but he was far to the north.
And the armies knew the King of Destruction’s vassals would not let him die. So they were coming.
“Venith and Maresar are preparing for the first clash. They have some siege weapons, but they tried trading shots. One of the towers went down; we got the rest. Maresar calls it a good trade.”
Teres walked forwards. There was nowhere to rest, so she leaned against a wall. Nawal stared down at the anvil. Teresa wasn’t sure if she heard, but she kept speaking.
“Venith says they have battering rams and ladders. A few towers, and they’re making more. The towers will recharge. We’ll blow those to bits, so it’ll be ladders. If they take any part of the wall, we’re dead. He thinks they’ll come through the gates before the walls fall, reinforced or not. They want their chariots to come in.”
Nawal said nothing. Teresa went on.
“Right now, it’s the [Soldiers] in the army and the garrison on the walls. The people without combat classes will fight next. Daiton’s on the wall.”
“He should not be. A [Smith] is not meant to wield what they make.”
Nawal muttered. Teres paused, but there was nothing to say to that.
“Soon, they’ll arm whoever is willing to fight. Children. Mothers. Grandfathers. Some of them already have bows. Everyone will fight before they get through. Flos is in the castle.”
“The King of Destruction. Is he breathing?”
“He won’t heal.”
The [Blacksmith] wiped at her mouth. She stared blankly at the soot on her arm and tried to scrub it off. Clan Tannousin had a system. Each member worked to prepare the forge, keep everything as clean as possible.
They had fled when the revelation that the Naq-Alrama metal was flawed had come.
No.
She let them go, and stayed to take the blame. 
Teresa Atwood drew her sword. Nawal looked up. She nodded.
“Did he send you?”
The young woman stared at her. She didn’t flinch from the suggestion. Nor was she surprised. She just sighed heavily.
“Don’t be stupid. I came to set you free. You’ve worked enough. They keep telling Reim’s citizens to flee the walls. I don’t recommend it; I don’t trust them. But if you hide, you can surrender. They’re supposed to take prisoners.”
She stepped towards the chains wrapped around the anvil and stopped. Teresa bent down as Nawal shook her head.
“This is where I will die. Clan Tannousin’s shame cannot be repaid, even in blood. But it must be settled.”
She turned to Teres.
“If he asks, tell him I am here. If he asks.”
Teresa Atwood looked up at Nawal. She weighed what she would say next, but then her face firmed.
“…He doesn’t even remember, Nawal. He doesn’t care, not right now. Run.”
The [Smith] flinched.
“We are the reason he had no weapon to wield. All of this is our fault.”
“Not yours. Your father didn’t make the metal perfectly. Everyone told you to keep silent.”
