“Forwards. A new era dawns. Forwards, [Mages] and children. Show them the war of the future.”
He pointed, and the sixteen volunteers looked up at him. Uncertainty. Greysten glanced down and blinked.
“What is…? [Knights]?”
That was what he thought at first. They looked like it. He saw a young man slowly sliding a visor over his face. Such…colorful armor. It could have fit with the Knights of the Summer, if their armor were more pristine. It was different, though.
“The magic. The magic. What are they wearing?”
Ser Zulv muttered. The [Summer Knight] stared warily at the sixteen. Young men and women. [Mages]—but not strong ones. They had…it was like a backpack was built into their armor. The visors were strange, more like masks. Bulkier armor than a [Knight] would want, to be able to move, even backflip or run.
You’d never be able to ride a horse with that kind of ungainly armor, not well. Greysten didn’t understand. Then…he saw the first figure step forwards, and raise an arm skywards. A fist, rising upwards.
A gesture? No…Greysten watched as the lone figure in their strange armor stared upwards. Such an odd posture.
 
——
 
There should have been a cape. Ryoka Griffin wasn’t breathing. The royal family eyed her. They were waxy with shock, but the Wind Runner hadn’t been breathing for about a minute.
King Itorin II did not understand what that armor did. The…look. The look was familiar.
 
——
 
“Aaron, you fuck!”
Cara shouted. She pointed at the armor. The young man in armor—the Human—looked upwards.
Then, they began to fly. The figure drifted upwards and almost jerked in shock. Their gauntleted hands flashed as they spread them out instinctively, to catch themselves. Then they flew forwards hesitantly.
The other fifteen drifted into the air. Some leapt, others flew up and then descended. The most experienced ‘pilots’ flew higher. Cara saw the [Knights] on the ground staring up as armored figures flew overhead.
Warriors of the future. Some clutched staves or held wands. A few just pointed the strange gauntlets ahead. They began to unleash spells from the armor as she watched. The Singer of Terandria was white-knuckled.
The future of two worlds collided.
 
——
 
Powered armor. Super-armor. Flying warriors. The first spells were wildly out of range, but Ailendamus’ army didn’t know what to do. Arrows flew backwards—and those that even hit the figures drifting through the air snapped on the enchanted breastplates.
The children were not good at using the armor. Some knew how it should be used. The rest were still mostly ineffectual.
But they had a chance to learn. [Mages] were notoriously fragile in combat. Experts like Magus Grimalkin ate Wistram-trained [Mages] for breakfast.
So—a simple, clever man would figure out a way to give them a chance to learn. Take a project from Aaron Vanwell and…
Complete it.
Archmage Eldavin saw the Order of Seasons jerk into action below. Moving forwards to support the flying magic-knights. They would have a new name for them, soon. Perhaps new classes.
He hung higher. Ailendamus’ army was stunned, but still willing to fight. An arrow flew towards him, propelled by a high-level [Archer]’s Skill.
Eldavin ignored it. It struck a barrier and vanished. Not broke, not ‘disintegrated’, but vanished. He flew over the enemy army, and they scattered around him.
“Flee or perish. This is your last warning. [Pillar of Flames].”
The ground underneath him turned into an inferno. The Summer Knights looked up into a bonfire a hundred feet wide, in a perfect circle, raging upwards.
Where does this magic come from? How do I remember gods? 
My heart hurts.
So many questions. He wanted to go back to the High Passes and rest. But—Eldavin stared ahead. At those flags, waving.
That girl was captive of Ailendamus. He had vowed to keep her safe.
He did not forsake his promises. So the Archmage raised his hands. A spell gathered between them.
[Grand Teleport] captured the world’s eyes. It worried, stunned the other powers of this place. They looked at him and recognized him.
The laughing Death of Magic.
A furious Duke of Ailendamus.
A worried Necromancer.
Wondering who he was. Guessing. Countless more, who knew or not. A [Lady] clutching her [Maid]’s hand in a white-knuckled grip.
The armor was a signal. Arm them. Wistram would have an army. And an army to fear, no matter how few of them there were. A single [Mage] could turn the tides of a battle. Fifty suits of armor.
“You should have worn it, Troy. Or is it Trey?”
Eldavin drew on that unknown connection. Deeper, deeper…he gasped. The air began to morph around him.
So bright. 
The Archmage of Memory cast his spell, to show them the last of it. Like his [Light Bridge]—
 
——
 
They descended to earth, bearing regalia of another time. Each one perfect in detail. Horns engraved with sigils of old blew a tune only the dead truly remembered.
In ranks, a legion of their own, marching forwards, so perfectly done in face and guise that only the golden light making them up—no, gentle light. 
Sunlight—
Marked them as not real people.
“Silvenia. You could do scarce better. Who is that?”
The Death of Chains, Czautha, pointed at the warriors. Silvenia didn’t answer. She just listened, hands clenched, shivering with anticipation. She said the words as the half-Elf shouted them.
“[Legions of Radiance, the Sundrenched of Caonis]!”
A summoning spell. A thousand warriors charged as the Order of the Hydra looked up and quailed.
 
——
 
“Visophecin. Get me the Thief.”
Rhisveri spoke in the silence. The Viscount stood up.
“That’s your enemy?”
The Wyrm stared at Eldavin. His fake self vanished.
The Wyrm of Ailendamus hissed. He glared at the image.
“That half-Elf will die. Prepare more armies. We are taking Calanfer and crushing all of them. All of them. Do you understand me? All of—”
 
——
 
Then it was done. The remaining [Mages] in Wistram were merely an audience. They watched as the Archmage of Memory entered the war on Ailendamus. His faction was fighting, although it was a rout.
High Mage Telim, Sa’la, the rest. So that was what he meant.
They would level or die. This was the forging fire for [Mages]. A war.
The others were shaking. The other factions, each led by an Archmage or powerful [Mages]—they looked at each other.
Were they factions? Was there anyone but Eldavin worthy of the title of…
Feor was white-faced. He sagged against a wall. That damned Eldavin. He was ruining everything. There was no stopping him, was there? He could throw any plan into chaos. He was too powerful to stop.
Verdan had the same look on his face. The two Archmages had joined forces, but even if the others did—if they somehow persuaded Amerys to join them? If it was five Archmages versus one Eldavin, how were the scales balanced? Not just in power, but knowledge?
He was too dangerous. Too old.
Someone else agreed with them. As Feor tried to work saliva into his mouth, a hand tapped on his shoulder. He jerked, turned to tell someone else to begone—and saw one person not transfixed by everything.
Even though it was his creation, taken and refined…Aaron Vanwell had not joined the testing of his armor. He had a faraway look in his eyes.
“What? What is it? The Grand Magus—this is not the time to discuss…whatever it is, Aaron.”
The young man shook his head. He stared back at the Archmage of Memory in the scrying orb.
“He won’t be a problem, Archmage Feor.”
The Archmage stopped, about to step away, politeness or not. He looked at Aaron, and the other Archmages clustering to talk did the same. The young man spoke, his voice uncertain, but the words…
“Eldavin will not live long.”
It was such a ridiculous statement. So…so why did Feor’s skin chill? Why did the half-Elf look at Aaron’s gaze as the young man blinked and backed away? He turned back to the scrying orb. And…
Wondered.
 
——
 
It was time.
The Archmage of Memory made his move.
Great powers moved. In Chandrar.
Elsewhere.
Such silly powers.
It was time. Did you forget? However long it took, you should never…
Forget.
A mortal man—no, an immortal Dragon who thought he was a mere man?
The might of Wistram.
A nation as powerful as Ailendamus.
They were all dust.
Dust compared to the dreams of old. There lay the final resting place of the greatest beings who had ever walked this world. And each of them came here.
Dragon. Giant. [Archmage]. [Hero]. [Legend]. Monster. Tyrant.
All save for true nightmares.
All save for Goblins and their ilk.
All save for those that had already been…lost.
Yet even in the lands of the dead, the sun shone downwards. The memory of the sun, from the memory of an umbrella, stolen. Stolen!
The same for the sword, held aloft by the sentinels at the edge of Chandrar. Enough to keep the shadows and nothings at bay. Enough to stave off death.
Death had consumed one continent, but the rest of the bastions still stood. Indeed, in Chandrar, in the lands of Khelt as they had been and were now, there was great cause for celebration.
Someone was coming back. Or it might be possible, now.
Still, the young woman sat with her head in her arms. Grieving for the cost. Grieving…as an exasperated [Witch], her friends and allies, paced around her.
The other ghosts, kings and queens, were sympathetic, but made plans. All was going as well as could be expected. They had reached a stalemate, and it favored them.
The frustrated five could not advance into any remaining zone.
Five.
Each one had a name. Some people even remembered their names, but with no…
Faith…
In their hearts. Five. Some called the one with the beard the greatest.
That was all you remembered. The beard, because that was constant. A vanity? A way to remember.
They named him Tamaroth.
Another—they called Kasigna. She was the most powerful here, and the other four were wary—greatly wary of her growing power. Yet even she was frustrated by the defiance.
A third was named Emerrhain. Of the five, those three were the ones with power.
The other two were a man who looked like he danced with every step, a man to know and love and to speak to. The woman was always young, a hunter, a warrior, fierce and proud and always young, for what she represented burned bright and ended faster.
They hung around the other three like envious moths. Angry, jealous.
After all, all three had something. Emerrhain and Tamaroth had a…foothold. Safety. Strength from that.
Kasigna? A purity of power, especially here. All three were superior and knew it, and laughed mockingly at the other two, even as they traded aeon-old jibes, bearing grudges and feuds into the now.
If they cooperated, it was grudgingly, because they had to, to survive. Power was driving them apart, reminding them they were no longer dependent on the others.
Five.
Five.
…There had been six.
Know them. If he could remember, Eldavin would have known them. The other two were not the greatest of their kind. Great—but once, they stood among pantheons.
Even so, remember, if only for what they represented. The Gracious Dancer, the Lover, the Friend of the Divine, the God of Dance and Love. 
Laedonius Deviy. Two names.
And that young woman, always fierce? Always representing her champions, the ones she loved? She would stand by your side in the heat of war, bless you. You, who took up arms. Hunter of Glorious Souls. Patron of Valor. Goddess of War and Youth.
Cauwine. Armed with bow, the wandering deity who had only taken sides at the last.
“Cauwine. You pale. Does that Archer-King with a bow pierce your flesh?”
Kasigna mocked her. The huntress bared her teeth, but was forced to endure in silence. For even that one name was a power—it told much that Kasigna used it. Hungrily, the huntress lapped at it, humiliated, a moth drawn to a single lifeline in this dark place.
“You make much of yourself, Kasigna. For one who cannot control what belongs to her.”
The scholar, the spellcaster, returned from his errand, and Kasigna’s fury could have scorched even this place—if only there were power enough. The others chuckled, for it was true!
“Ware yourself, Emerrhain. You claim that which is mine. You and Tamaroth, grubbing in Izril for scraps.”
The bearded man’s smile was overly bright. Yet—they stood in the ocean, neutral ground, for it was true that each had claimed a ‘zone’.
By their power, Tamaroth and Emerrhain kept the others from their…places. Kasigna could challenge either, but everyone was hoarding their strength.
They were still so hungry.
Starving.
Famished.
So, their barbs stayed alone to words. They were frustrated. Angry. Wary—this had not gone as planned. Chandrar should have been theirs. Then, with that strength, Terandria would fall next, and then Baleros and Drath.
Then…
But it had not happened. Not, for a thief, not, because of one damned kingdom. Not, for the defiance of those who should worship.
It repeated itself. Some of the five saw it, others ignored, but few voiced it.
This was as it was. This was why it was now.
Time again.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice’s head rose. She had been weeping, ignoring the others. Angry and sad.
And hopeful. That was the worst part. She had been hoping, and knew it came at cost.
So glad…so glad, despite the loss. Despite the pain.
She wanted…
Califor stopped, her hand resting on Erin’s shoulder. Cawe, trying to cheer Erin up by making faces, hesitated. Gerial straightened.
“…What was that?”
Every ghost milling about Khelt looked up. Every single one—and there were too many to count in a lifetime—froze. Erin saw it happen as one.
She felt it herself. The [Innkeeper] looked up. Her heart was only a memory, but it wanted to pound.
Her lips opened.
“Something just happened.”
“Erin! Where are you? To me, rulers of Khelt! To me, and the umbrella and sword!”
Khelta flew through the air, shouting. The ghosts of Khelt flew after her, and every other ghost on these lands. Instinctively.
Had they come again? Had the six—no—five, tried another attack on the shores?
No. It didn’t feel like that. It had never felt like that. Erin flew with the others, seeking—going to see, but not knowing how she knew.
It was…
Instinct. The ghosts travelled as one, a vast distance, taken in a heartbeat in the way of this world, where time lost some of its meaning.
Towards the shores.
Yet—the wrong shores. Califor noticed it, as did the other [Witches]. Somilune, Califor, even a few other ghosts slowed.
“This is not the same shore as before. Where are we?”
“East. East—”
Some ghosts were along the south of Chandrar. Califor looked at the other Witches.
“Naught lies those ways. If it came from Terandria, or Baleros, or Izril, Wistram—anywhere else. It would be the north and west. East, for the very edges of Izril, perhaps. But…”
