What remained of the barrier couldn’t possibly withstand Zac’s strongest finisher empowered by his berserking skill. However, Naruk lived up to his role as a chosen zealot. His last two worlds exploded with Sacrificial Dao, and the spirit winked out of existence. The next moment, Zac felt Naruk’s soul appear on the barrier. He’d sacrificed himself to empower the shield.

[Arcadia’s Judgment] crashed into the shield, and the realm was painted in blinding gold. Zac was almost knocked out cold by the wails of a million souls being reduced to ash. After seeing Mox’s domain, he knew his attack was an act of kindness. Nevertheless, the cacophony confirmed his fear.

His strike was only enough to leave a shallow scar on the statue. The barrier was all but destroyed, but there was no sign of a second descent. Zac knew he had to keep going, so he activated [Empyrean Aegis]. This time, the wooden wheel stayed in place. There was nothing to interrupt its disruptive pulse, and Zac needed to channel all the skill’s energy to create a protective cocoon.

The gateway to Arcadia had closed after Mox successfully endured its punishment, but the attack had created deadly shockwaves. Zac relied equally on his defenses and the Void’s hidden pathways to make it to the statue before its defenses could recover. When he arrived, his body already churned with monstrous power.

Zac had already put away his weapon, and Haro had retreated into his ring. There was no point in them enduring the rampaging forces coursing through him. Zac's left arm glowed with opalescent splendor filled with possibility; his right was a desolate black hole. Cracks spread across Zac's torso to channel even more power from the fractals.

There was no refinement, no sign of [Extinction Event] or [Origin Revolutions]. When dealing with a supreme existence, Zac needed to bring out an equally supreme force. Only Chaos could create the miracle he needed. And yet, Chaos eluded him. Zac desperately tried to fuse the two opposing forces, but he couldn’t actually push his hands together.

Zac suddenly saw the answer in the energies about to disintegrate his arms. It was too orderly. Ironically, his increased understanding of Chaos had limited his potential. The delineated Dao of Creation and Oblivion were originally free from the influence of Man. When forced to mix with the cosmos, they were no longer pure. As such, they couldn’t return to their origin.

Zac’s eyes hardened. If the energies didn’t want to play ball, he’d simply force them to. Zac extracted the last of his Void Energy reserves while [Spiritual Void] squeezed out a concept he’d never used before—the Void of Conflict. The stream of attuned Void neither entered the imploding forces of [Extinction Event] or [Origin Revolution]’s opalescent swirl. It filled the gap between the two, replacing the unbridgeable delineation with the absence of struggle.

The Void of Conflict became a conceptual vacuum, effectively bringing the two forces together. Yin and Yang fused, and Primordial Chaos was born. Zac could vaguely hear the sound of shattering chains as he found the answer he’d sought in the Chaos of his making. His Evolutionary Path was the combination of purposeful design and random chance. Such a paradoxical fusion was only possible through the inheritance of Chaos. If he wanted to push his Technique to the point where even fate could be severed, he needed to infuse Primordial Chaos.

An urgent scream of danger pulled Zac out from the swamp of alluring truths. The Void of Conflict had only brought the two sides together. It wasn’t nearly enough to create a stable product. The ball of chaos was rapidly spiraling out of control, becoming as much a threat to Zac as to Mox. He desperately tried to hold onto the madness he’d birthed as he pushed it into the statue.

The last remnants of Naruk’s broken soul were snuffed out, and the churning ball of Chaos directly entered Mox’s chest. For a brief moment, there was only silence. Then, deep, chaos-filled cracks spread across the statue. Three arms directly exploded, and Zac was more than happy to be flung away by the shockwave. He’d delivered the payload, and his Danger Sense was going insane.

Chaos was the antithesis of uniformity and direction, so the ball of Chaos instinctively railed against being caged inside the statue. The cracks across the statue quickly spread, releasing deadly waves in every direction. The vast amounts of unstable Hope Energy were the perfect fuel to perpetuate Chaos, and a storm of uncertainty swept through the hidden realm.

The statue bore the brunt of the damage, but Zac didn’t fare much better. The backlash wasn’t as bad as when he smashed together the Origin Mark and Annihilation Sphere during his fight with the Qriz’Ul Goblin. He’d made tremendous improvements in every aspect of his cultivation since. The problem was that he was absolutely spent, and there was nothing left to shield him from the growing storm.

Zac didn’t even have the energy to overcome the [Fuxi Mountain Gate]’s rejection. The only thing he could do was stubbornly hold on while reality unraveled. He prayed the statue would explode before he did, and that it would damage the subspace enough for him to slip out. That didn’t happen. The statue suddenly stabilized, and boundless madness poured out of its wounds.

Mox had returned with double the fury, and not even Chaos could withstand her wrath. Mox rejected the memory domain’s efforts to bring an end to the scenario, and Zac was brought back to Mox’s sanctuary. He immediately realized the memory was being forcibly kept going by igniting the trapped souls of the Empire’s subjects.

Zac knew it was over, but seeing the special purgatories collapse brought him some comfort. Mox had been forced to sacrifice all her stolen faith just to deal with him. Even if he lost, he’d ruined the plans of an undying Supremacy. That had to count for something, right? It was at that moment a gravelly voice echoed through the Void, and the madness was cleansed by a surging tide of devout Faith.

“This fertile land is the Empire’s domain.”
