A field of nothingness interrupted the conversation, quenching the traces of Killing Intent that had appeared on both Zac’s companions. Esmeralda’s expression scrunched up, and one of the vats on her back bubbled. Her speed temporarily surged, transcending what should be possible within Hegemony without external aid. She crossed the desert in no time, at which point Zac wordlessly turned off [Void Zone] while stabbing the ancient dagger into his palm.

The blinding blue faded, exposing a moon so close that Zac felt as though he could reach up and touch it. It had elongated, like it was trying its hardest to touch down on land ahead of time. From Zac’s vantage, it resembled a vertical pupil of an unfathomable existence staring down on them. He prayed its influence didn’t reach the lodge interiors. It was already strong enough to kindle murderous impulses in his companions.

They would find out soon enough. Esmeralda rushed across the bridge over the final river at breakneck pace, yet the world itself was working against them. The river was powerful enough that not even the hidden road was immune to its influence. Zac felt as though they were trapped in a quagmire while his Vigor rapidly drained away.

It was at that moment that the river surged without warning. Not even his Danger Sense gave Zac an early indication that something was wrong, and it remained subdued while a gargantuan hand rose and gripped the illusory passage. Esmeralda’s eyes began glowing, and she released a deafening bellow. The starry river she had used once before to trap her doppelganger appeared and superimposed on the crumbling bridge, stabilizing it for another moment. Idiche was only a step behind in adding a set of pylons that seemed both real and illusory. They kept the destroyed pieces aloft just long enough for them to cross.

A distant roar made Zac’s vision go dark, if only for a moment. When he came to, Zac realized they weren’t standing on a patch of desert. They were inside a wooden outbuilding filled with stalls of different sizes. A large barn door presumably leading outside was right behind them, and there was a set of stairs leading to a reinforced door not far ahead.

“I’m sorry about that. I felt so frustrated all of a sudden,” Idiche muttered before looking around. “We were directly sent inside? Are these the stables? Did the dagger lead us here, or was it because of the commotion just now?”

“Who cares? We made it thanks to me,” Esmeralda said with a grin. “Where’s the world heading? Some random weasel thought they could catch a Grand Traversal Toad with a mere projection.”

“They would have succeeded if not for my timely intervention,” Idiche rebutted before giving Zac an inscrutable look.

“What?” Zac asked.

“Be careful. That guy on the other side really seems to hate you,” Idiche said with a raised brow. “Trying to force his way through like that must have come at a cost.”

“He must be jealous of my handsome face,” Zac said with a slight smile, hiding his true thoughts.

Was it really him that the entity was after?
