The wyvern lunged, beating its wings to keep itself airborne as it passed through the trees that should have stymied it. And Ranthia hurled obscenities at the monster as she moved, rapidly closing in on it. The distance that her shift bought lasted less than a second, between their efforts.

At the last possible moment, Ranthia quit holding back. An outside observer might have claimed that she was just jumping between trees and loose leaves, but to her they were the opening steps to a three-dimensional dance—something that she had practiced more than once after discovering she was capable of it.

The wyvern plainly hadn’t expected her to join it up there. There was no grace in the dragonkin’s fumbling attempt to snap at her with its teeth as she hurtled past. Her opponent had enough sense to flare its wings out and stop its flight, but she was still able to deliver a fully empowered strike to its knee without putting herself at risk.

The wyvern had risen too far for her to target the muscles that controlled its wings, but she was willing to settle for the injury she inflicted. She even managed to get her Void-kissed knife angled under the wyvern’s scales to deliver a deeper wound. Her blade had deflected off another scale, forcing it back out of the wound, but that was fine—the blood that flew when [Echoes of Devastation] triggered made it clear that she’d bitten deep into the wyvern’s flesh.

The wyvern made a pained snarl as it spun, though Ranthia wasn’t done either.

Dancing across leaves was an odd experience, but she had learned a few rules. Unless the winds were strong, a loose leaf or petal could only be used to maintain the momentum she already had—at most, she could hope to gain a touch of altitude from each. But even if the wyvern’s wings passed through the trees and canopy with ease, the wind force its powerful presence kicked up couldn’t be understated, even before it amplified the effect with its Gale element to better control its flight.

In other words, the wyvern gave her everything that she needed to change the rules.

Ranthia stretched her legs out to catch two different leaves with her toes, then kicked off from them to reverse her course. And for a precious moment, the wyvern seemed to lose track of her—she returned faster than it could spin.

She politely announced her presence by stabbing the monster somewhere around its stomach with both knives.

The wyvern roared as it tried to twist its legs to kick and claw at her, but Ranthia wasn’t stupid enough to just stay in one place. She caught the nails of her toes against the wyvern’s scales—for once glad that she still favored Reman sandals—and did what she could to accelerate her descent as she struggled to keep her blades from being knocked out of its flesh. There was a pattern to how scales were placed, yes, but there were a lot of scales and the pattern varied slightly as she descended.

She could only keep up both her meteoric descent and her attack for a matter of moments. All too soon, both of her knives were free. She immediately put her left knife back to work—[Sustained Chaos], amplified by [Adamantium Chaos], allowed her to launch the fully imbued weapon at the underside of the wyvern’s chin as she twisted herself to avoid a questing talon.

The monster’s tail came at her next as she moved past its body. Without a convenient leaf or similar foothold to turn herself, she was forced to try something a touch more reckless—she seized the wyvern’s tail in her left hand and used the appendage itself as leverage. [Void Edge] ignited in her remaining knife as she prepared to try and sever an arm’s length from the wyvern’s tail.

The wyvern was too quick and too powerful to allow that. Ranthia lacked experience with dragonkin, but wyverns were far removed from brutish dinosaurs—their tails were no crude implement.

And Ranthia learned that first-hand the moment the tail curled slightly, then flicked. A seemingly trivial movement that managed to impart enough force that Ranthia’s palm shredded as she was launched directly downward.

She hit the ground hard enough that she bounced, though she rolled with the impact as best she could. Which was always the right thing to do—the wyvern’s tail cracked through the air and a cleaving arc of Gale ripped into the ground where she initially landed a heartbeat after she was clear.

Ranthia sprang back to her feet, tasting blood in her mouth. She had probably cracked some ribs with that stunt, but she could still move. The wyvern’s tail continued to rain blades of Gale down upon her as she danced, forming images while she evaded the attacks.

Not that the wyvern paid them any heed. But that was fine—Ranthia had kept them still for a reason, after all.

[Adamantium Chaos] plucked the knife she had thrown back out of the air and brought it to her hand. There wasn’t even a scratch on the wyvern’s chin. Its scales were just too durable along its more heavily armored sections.

“Xaoc, I think you made these things a bit too aggressive.” The grumble escaped her lips as she watched the wyvern descend. Driving off monsters was simple enough in theory—even the stupidest animal would flee after they endured some pain. But only if there was nothing keeping them there. As such, she had hoped that injuring the wyvern would make it lose interest in her. She was tall for a human woman, yes, but she still had a fraction of the meat of any number of larger creatures. She wasn’t worth hunting.

Unfortunately, the wyvern seemed more determined than ever to kill her. Because wyverns were notorious for being one of the most territorial monsters on Pallos. Every book that mentioned them went out of its way to point that out, including the fictions that tried to invent worlds unlike Pallos.

She could practically hear the wyvern shouting “my territory!” with every roar that it made.

The wyvern abandoned its sharpened wind as it moved in for a landing, coming down hard enough that the ground shuddered beneath the predator’s might. And just as she’d hoped, it landed between her and her images.

Ranthia immediately activated [Reflections of Reality] while the wyvern concluded its ongoing roar.

The same moment the wyvern began its next attempt to kill her—another needle breath attack—Ranthia ordered [Submind] to begin its attack with the bulk of the images that she had created. She protected her head with her adamantium bracers and tried to dance clear of the attack, though the sheer breadth of it precluded her success. Worse, the wyvern only needed to make minute adjustments to how it held its head to match every step she made.

Through the pain, Ranthia focused on each moment she passed while she struggled to absorb as much information as she could about the attack. Her adamantium seemed to hold strong—thank Xaoc—though her armor was being ripped to shreds. Her body felt numb, though she had no idea if there was a paralytic in the needles or if it was just a side effect of her body being punctured by such a dense flurry of them, especially when each was the length of her finger.

Less than a second later, her perception warped. The wyvern hadn’t paid any heed to her images’ completely ineffectual attacks, and she rewarded it for its impressive focus. As her images spread out further, Ranthia drove both fully empowered knives into the wyvern’s unguarded flank.

She activated [Reflections of Reality] again the moment she concluded her strike. The wyvern promptly snapped at her with its powerful jaws, forcing her back. She evaded its second attack, then made a grand show of lunging for its body.

Just as she shifted to the opposite side of the wyvern and took the opportunity to sweep her knives together, with a digit of one of the wyvern’s talons caught between the blades. The wyvern’s bone proved more durable than she had expected, though her attempt definitely hurt the monster—it scrambled away from her with another roar.

Ranthia cursed when the wyvern beat its wings against the ground and launched itself back into the air. She really would have preferred it if the monster had stayed on the ground!

The wyvern barraged her and her images with cleaving slashes of Gale, though it wasn’t too hard to dodge those, she just needed to keep her [Divine Eye] on its tail to know where they would be directed. She replaced images as they shattered, waiting for the moment that the wyvern once again filled the air with displaced leaves.

Yet an odd sound reached her ear through the rushing winds, it almost sounded like—

Vlip.

FUCK! Ranthia’s [Divine Eye] left the tail and refocused on the brave, stupid bunny that had just reappeared on the wyvern’s back.

The distraction cost her—one of the cleaving bursts of Gale tore through the shoulder of her armor and split her right arm from shoulder to bracer. Yet she barely even noticed the mundane pain.

She only had eyes for the blood that flew from the wyvern’s back.

For a horrible instant, she was utterly convinced that Clover had been impaled by the ridge of spines that ran along the wyvern’s back. The truth was stranger—and a wholly different form of nightmare fuel.

Clover’s fluffy tummy had split open alright. And in doing so, she revealed a mouth filled with hook-like teeth that effortlessly slid under scales and tore into the wyvern’s flesh. With every bite, scales and chunks of meat fell.

The wyvern roared in agony as it flailed in the air, trying to dislodge the comparatively tiny ball of fluff from its back. Yet the rabbit that was filled with entirely too many teeth just dug her claws—suddenly reminiscent of a shadow cat’s—into the wyvern as she held strong and continued to chew her way deeper.

The wyvern stopped upside down. When its unlikely assailant still failed to dislodge, it beat its wings one last time—and launched itself at the ground with as much force as it could muster.

“Move!” Ranthia shouted at full perception. She might have been able to pull Clover away in time had she still been moving, but her utter shock had cost her the momentum of her dance.

Clover kicked off the wyvern with feet that were back to their bunny-typical appearance. She was soaked in their enemy’s blood, yet the moment that the final scales and bits of meat left the mouth that had replaced her stomach, it shut and seemed to fade away as her Bond’s ears twitched with discomfort.

In those moments, Ranthia found her rhythm. The wyvern smashed into the ground—spine-first—and she wasted no time. Before Clover even reached the ground, Ranthia arrived alongside the wyvern and tried to slam both knives into the monster’s neck.

Her left knife did as she hoped, but her severely injured right arm failed her. She just couldn’t get her right knife to her opponent’s neck in time.

The impact hadn’t stunned the wyvern, and it responded to her attack almost instantly, even as it scrambled to right itself. It was clumsy though, which gave Clover time to land and Ranthia time to activate [Reflections of Reality], targeting one of her few remaining images.

The wyvern managed to get on its side and began to furl a wing to get it out of the way. Clover tried to stymie its efforts. A scorpion-like tail that hadn’t been there a second ago pierced the membrane, yet Clover lacked both the strength and the weight to hold the wyvern—she didn’t even slow it down.

But the wyvern hadn’t noticed its mistake. Ranthia’s shift concluded and she found herself staring right at the monster’s exposed spinal column—courtesy of the damage her Bond had inflicted. Backed by [Sustained Chaos], she threw her knife with every bit of force her restored right arm could muster, activated [Adamantium Chaos]’ repelling force the same instant she let go, and further accelerated the Void-empowered knife with the same Skill.

Wyvern bone was one of the hardest substances she had ever tried to cut, but the wyvern had arched its back in preparation to launch itself back to its ‘feet’. And the discs that lurked between each vertebra were nowhere near as resilient as the bone itself.

Her Void erased the disc, and her knife buried itself up to the hilt between the vertebrae—right between the wyvern’s wings.

For a lesser creature, severing its spine like that would have rendered it utterly defenseless. The wyvern’s body shuddered as its movements became markedly clumsier, yet it still clawed its way back to its talons. The claws halfway along its wings sunk into the ground as the monster fought to keep its balance.

Too bad it put so much effort into facing the empty image that Ranthia had already abandoned—she’d activated [Reflections of Reality] the moment her knife struck.

The wyvern’s wheezing and abbreviated breath attack achieved nothing.

Clover leapt with legs thrice as large and powerful as her usual limbs, passing over the wyvern. The monster was unable to ignore her presence; it raised its head to snarl at the shape-changing bunny.

Which was the final mistake it ever made. It probably heard Ranthia leap, but there was no time to lower its head again.

She found the miniscule gap between the plate-like scales of the wyvern’s chin and drove her remaining knife through them, even as her right bracer poured adamantium sand down her hand to form a replacement for the blade she left in the monster’s spine.

Not that she needed it.

[*ding!* Your party has slain a wyvern [Jungle Wyvern] (Forest, level 1021), [Jungle Wyvern] (Spore, level 831), [Jungle Wyvern] (Gale, level 823)!]

There was a lot to unpack about everything she had seen and her first time truly fighting alongside her Bond, but it was hard to focus on anything except the notifications that followed:

[*ding!* Congratulations! [Diffuse Reflectance] has leveled from 762 to level 768! Per level: +5 Free Stats, +3 Dexterity, +3 Vitality, +120 Mana, +120 Mana Regeneration, +120 Magic Power, +120 Magic Control from your class, +1 Free Stat for being human, +1 Mana Regeneration and +1 Magic Power from your element.]

[*ding!* [Mirror Spirit], [Scattered Reflections], [Pure Reflections], [Persistent Imagery], and [Ideal Reflectance] have leveled from 762 to level 768!]

[*ding!* [Distorted Likeness] has leveled from 709 to level 716!]

[*ding!* [Reflections of Reality] has leveled from 580 to level 619!]

[*ding!* Congratulations! [She who Dances with Chaos] has leveled from 766 to level 768! Per level: +100 Strength, +100 Dexterity, +100 Vitality, +100 Speed, +8 Mana, +8 Mana Regeneration, +5 Magic Power, +5 Magic Control from your class, +1 Free Stat for being human, +2 Mana from your element.]

