“I know you stay in town, but right now I need to know that you’re safe more than anything. So please, don’t go anywhere. We’ll know soon enough what the situation truly involves, and you’ll probably be able to go back to going out whenever you like by the time I get home tonight.” Ranthia was kneeling across from her Bond while she tried to impress the urgency of her request upon the bunny.

Thump. Clover didn’t need to write anything with her claw to communicate that query. She wanted to know why Ranthia was going out if it was so dangerous.

“I’m an experienced scout and I’ve been doing this for a very long time, even with cunning adversaries.” Inasmuch as criminals or the shimagu were prone to cunning, at least. “Even if I’m the first one to find whatever monster is in the region, I’m just verifying its level and leaving. That’s all.”

Easy to say. She knew better than most that engagements were often difficult to avoid. And scouting out the target only worked so long as the monster failed to notice her first.

Thump. Nothing more than displeasure, tinged in worry. Their Bond didn’t allow them to read each other’s minds or anything like that, but… Well, it was still possible that Clover was more aware of the risks than Ranthia would have preferred.

“I’ll be sticking to the surrounding forest. Between the undergrowth and my shifting, I’m sure I can lose it, even if it does come after me. Assuming I don’t outmatch it in the first place.” Ranthia flexed her muscles playfully, trying not to think of her inability to escape the bear.

It was just a scouting mission, and she was just one of dozens of Hunters that were going after the payday for mere information. She would be fine.

Probably.

Ranthia failed to get a promise out of Clover, which bugged her while she crept through the forest.

After spending days in the somber atmosphere that had overtaken the City of Arts, she had almost expected the same fear to have gripped the forest as well. Yet nature was far more resilient than the fretful minds of elvenoids. Instead, monkeys chattered at each other as they played in the canopy overhead. Birds sang and insects chirped. And the firetrap mimics were open wide, patiently awaiting careless prey. Every sound and sight that she’d come to expect of the overly familiar forest was present, as though it were just another day.

Which wasn’t enough to make her drop her guard. The lively forest just wasn’t proof that there was no higher order predator in the region—the creatures that lived within were used to predators. When one came, they scattered or hid, then emerged as soon as the danger passed. Compared to an elf, every wild creature lived an ephemeral life, which meant they had no time or patience for fear—not when mere wariness was often sufficient.

As Ranthia progressed, she found herself frowning each and every time her armor rattled. The summer steel plate that she had commissioned seemed to be an exact match for the ruined segment that it replaced, yet it seized and clattered where the original never had. She knew well that her time with her Remus-made armor was at an end, though she still lacked the funds to buy a new elven-made suit that was custom-fitted.

And she refused to wear ill-fitting armor. Even outmoded armor that rattled every time she twisted the wrong way was superior to something that might get in the way at some crucial, life-or-death instant.

The two medium rubies would do a lot to fix that issue. Especially since the information she could provide would be superior to that of her peers—there was a good chance that the barkeep would pay a bit more to know the full extent of the levels and elements for whatever was lurking in the region!

And yes, dreams of wealth were preferable to worrying or wishing that Anthelleon and Neyvern were back. It had only been four months since her party members left the city, but she still missed the safety net of their presence. It had been nice to have people that she could count on if things went wrong.

Even if they would’ve laughed at her for freezing and looking around like a scared bunny every single time the canopy shook or a nearby bush rustled.

Gods and goddesses, even Solareon would have been clucking with amusement.

Frustratingly, her nerves were infecting and amplifying her fight or flight response. Every sound heralded a crisis and merely knowing that it was absurd hardly solved the problem; her fears were too primeval to be swayed by logic. Until she knew exactly what the threat was, she would continue to dread what it could be.

And Pallos had nothing if not a bounty of nightmarish beasts that could send her to Xaoc’s final judgment in a single moment. For all the splendor of the world, it was just as flush with horrors—and only some of them came from elvenoid hands.

Worse, Aegiomus had remained absent ever since the entire ordeal with Avyna and the Elf Hunters. And while she sat in the Lodge, struggling to finish her increasingly flavorless lunch, she had to listen to other Hunters whispering amongst themselves as they wondered just what would happen if the threat was too powerful for any Hunters left in the City of Arts.

What would happen if it truly was a dragon.

Borrowed nerves, she reminded herself. Not that her uneasy heart cared.

So much for distracting herself with thoughts of the potential windfall.

Even if she was haunted by her uneasy thoughts, she still kept moving. And the sun was hanging low in the sky by the time she neared the southwestern mountains. She had no intention of leaving the tree line, of course. But given that the creature had preyed upon at least one mountain lord, it seemed rational to assume the peaks were its preferred home.

It was possible that it was the same monster that had driven the loathsome bear from its mountain as well. She hadn’t forgotten about the unfamiliar roar she’d heard while they had explored the bear’s former territory.

Yet she reached the edge of the trees without encountering anything out of place.

“Ah well, there’s always tomorrow.” Ranthia quietly vocalized the thought, just to hear something other than the brisk wind that the mountains always created in… the southeastern region.

The thought had her pointing her [Divine Eye] upward, just in time to see something descend from the nearby peak. The creature’s powerful, leathery wings drove the winds into a frenzy—a localized tempest, just for the two of them. And amidst the scales of its body were spikes that blurred the gap between spine and horn.

For an instant, Ranthia was convinced that she was witnessing a dragon, but no. Her fearful mind gradually absorbed the differences. For example, there were no front legs—the beast’s forelimbs were merged into its wings, just like a harpy’s. And there was the obvious truth of the words that she had failed to parse until that moment:

[Jungle Wyvern – Forest] level 1021, [Jungle Wyvern – Spore] level 830, [Jungle Wyvern – Gale] level 821.

It was no dragon, yet wyverns were only a step or two below their legendary cousins. Either wyverns or sea serpents were almost undoubtedly the final mystical quasi-draconic that the gods created before they perfected the line with dragons. Wyverns were one of the deadliest predators on Pallos, even if they were generally considered to be bestial monsters. Also, the wyvern had a class tier on her across each and every class.

She couldn’t risk the battle. Thankfully, the wyvern hadn’t noticed her, but it was directly overhead, which left her with precious few options. If she moved, she would almost certainly be discovered. She had no appreciable stealth Skills and even if she dropped something to take one, a low-level Skill wouldn’t be of any use at their tier. And it wasn’t like she could shift far enough to escape notice.

The urge to run felt like a physical thing, pulling at her heart and mind as it strummed her musculature as though she was nothing more than an instrument, energizing every last nerve she possessed. Instead, she allowed her fear to root her in place.

If she held still, the wyvern might move on. There was a risk that another Hunter would find it and report before she could, but that was a risk that she would have to—

The wyvern was still descending.

The rational and experienced Adventurer in her head insisted that she needed to hold still anyway—no matter how low the wyvern got. Even if it landed near her, it might never look her way. And it hadn’t even reached the treetops yet. She still had cause to hope it would fly elsewhere.

The rest of her acted, driven by sheer instinct. She formed an image of herself at the tree line and had it run—directly toward the mountains. She was acting out of fear and in defiance of reason, but at least her combat instincts had the sense to provide her with a distraction.

The wyvern roared a challenge—the exact same sound she had once heard—and launched through the sky at speeds she would have never expected from its slow descent. It would reach her fleeing image in mere moments.

But the thought came too late. Ranthia had already thrown herself into a desperate, adrenaline-fueled run in the opposite direction. At her level, mere moments represented a comforting distance that she could traverse—it just had to be enough! Taking action seemed to clear her head too, which made it far easier to process her fear and think things through. The wyvern would reach her image shortly after she arrived at the large bush that she was moving to. With a bit of graceful care, she should be able to slip inside before the wyvern—

Her image shattered. From her point of view (well, her [Divine Eye]’s point of view), it looked as if the wyvern simply pointed its head at her image and it promptly ceased to exist.

In better circumstances, she would have loved to puzzle over how such a thing happened. The wyvern shouldn’t have been a canceller with its elements, nor was it likely that a mere beast somehow had some anti-[Identify] obfuscation Skill that affected [Divine Eyes in the Void]’s unique insights.

But it was hard to appreciate the mystery when she was barely halfway through her desperate dash to safety.

Don’t look this way. She silently pleaded, unwilling to even pray—just in case the wyvern somehow sensed the divine connection. Which was probably impossible!

The wyvern rose elegantly into the air and twirled as it spun around, only to immediately lock itself into place the moment its eyes landed on her. She had almost been within arm’s reach of her bush!

Unable to think of a cogent response, Ranthia forced herself to stop running and waved to the wyvern. Which was just about the combined opposite of every single idea and instinct that she possessed.

The wyvern roared. Of course it roared. What was she expecting?! It wasn’t like it was going to wave back and send her on her way!

Ranthia resumed her attempt to flee, redirecting to the thickest part of the surrounding forest. Trees were her friends. They hadn’t even slowed the bear down, but the wyvern was probably a lot slower on the ground. And it wasn’t like it could—

Against her expectations, the wyvern flew into the forest, passing through the canopy, and seemingly phased effortlessly through the trees, leaving them unharmed in its wake.

Okay, that was outright unfair!

Running away wasn’t going to work. With every beat of her pounding heart, the gap between them narrowed. The wyvern was much faster than the bear had been, at least while the wind remained beneath its wings. She had to hope it’d be slower if she could force it to the ground, but with the wyvern able to pass through trees as if they weren’t there, she had perilously few options. There were holes and gaps in the membrane of the wings already, so it wasn’t like she could just throw a knife or two and inflict enough damage to drop it—assuming its vitality was even low enough for [Sustained Chaos] to inflict meaningful damage.

With every moment, her options narrowed. Still, she delayed her next move until the gap between her and the wyvern became dangerously minimal. Only then did she risk taking her [Divine Eye] off the wyvern long enough to conjure an image—placing it behind a robust tree at the outer reaches of her range. Her Skills reported a flare of danger at the same moment she activated [Reflections of Reality], but it didn’t feel lethal.

She chose to keep moving while her Skill concluded its activation process.

The volley was halfway to her before she could allow her [Divine Eye] to snap back to the threat. From the wyvern’s mouth, a spray of needles—each so fine that they would have been invisible had there not been thousands of them in flight—ripped their way through the forest. There was no time to dodge or defend herself. All she could do was to duck her head down, just as the first needles reached her.

They weren’t metal, bone, or crystal. They were wholly unrelated to sewing implements. Instead, they were translucent, fine needles reminiscent of those she had seen on some of the plants in the war zone—an oft-vain effort to prevent grazing. Yet each and every one possessed enough raw force and momentum that they ripped through her armor’s steel as if it wasn’t even there.

Ranthia nearly stumbled as the barrage slammed into her. Her back bore the brunt of the attack, though her neck, arms, and legs suffered too—the attack was broader than she was.

Thank Xaoc, her shift concluded before the barrage did. In her fresh body, Ranthia tried to hold her breath, no matter how her body yearned to gasp and pant. The pain and strain were gone, yet their echoes screamed through her nerves.

Less than a second after she disappeared, the wyvern landed. The trees trembled as the powerful monster growled in frustration. At speeds suited to its level, it surveyed the area…

…And the wyvern stopped with its gaze locked onto her, as though it could see right through the tree.

Ranthia forced herself to delay until the wyvern started to move, yet it truly had found her. By scent, by the sound of her traitorous heart… gods, it was possible the wyvern could see through the trees or had some magic sense that could perceive her [Divine Eye]! She had no idea, nor did she have the space to experiment.

Escape wasn’t going to work. It was true that she still had a few tricks up her proverbial sleeve, but Ranthia’s speed hadn’t meaningfully changed since her encounter with the bear. Showing her full hand wouldn’t have allowed her to outpace the wyvern or bought her much more time. Instead, she saved the surprise for the moment she changed tacks.

Fight or flight. And if the latter wouldn’t work…

Well, Ranthia was damned good at the former.

