“[Immortality] would have been my first guess, too. But now…” Julia thought. She offered, “It’s something to do with our reasons for being here.”

“Oh.” Ezekiel stood straighter. “There’s a thought.”

“Either a potion or a magic,” Tiffany guessed.

“A potion.” Julia said, “Has to be.”

Tiffany said, “There’s lots of precedent for this being about a magic considering that we’re here to gain magical understanding for Scion Ezekiel.”

“Maybe it has something to do with spiders,” Julia guessed, sarcastically.

“Ha! No.” Tiffany, suddenly sure, said, “It’s potions of the New Stats! Hundred gold, bet.”

Julia’s eyes glinted as she said, “I think they’re after Tadashi because he’s related to someone powerful. Or there’s a connection there that will be made public tonight. Hundred gold, bet.”

“No bet.” Tiffany laughed, then said, “You can’t get anywhere in Nelboor without knowing or being related to someone powerful. Tadashi is no different.”

Julia went, “Meh.”

Ezekiel put out there, “Alchemists use spells to craft their potions, just as much as any other magical profession does. But those bandits inflicted Tadashi with the Antirhine Elixir and there was a whole building of alchemy supplies back in the bandit hideout. They had taken most of the things out of there when they fled, but I noticed an Alchemist’s Friend in the corner.” At Julia’s odd look, Ezekiel explained, “It’s a psychedelic plant that feeds off of almost all potions, and it especially likes the toxic ones; a garbage pail for potion failures.” Julia nodded. Ezekiel continued, “They inflicted the Elixir upon Tadashi thinking that this wouldn’t harm him in being or doing whatever it was that… he did, or was doing. And that thing involved potions, for sure, and—”

Julia rounded on Tiffany, accusing, “You saw the potion house in the bandit hideout! That’s why you bet on potions!”

Tiffany burst out in laughter. “Yup! Not sure what kinda potion, but it’s a potion. Got a bit of a glimpse at the place in the past, too, but nothing conclusive. Tadashi destroyed the mana’s memory rather completely. I didn’t see any Stat Fruits, either, but I’m still going with the bet that Tadashi invented potions of New Stats.”

Julia said, “Then I change my bet to a potion of [Immortality]. Dad’s been after that for a while.”

“Oh!” Tiffany glanced around. “That’s a good counter. I forgot about that. Ohh. Maybe...?”

Ezekiel said, “[Immortality] is too dangerous. No… This has something to do with Antirhine, for sure.”

Paul held back a smirk throughout their entire conversation, saying, “I’m sure we’ll find out tonight.”

- - - -

Magenta light resolved into the forms of Ezekiel, Julia, Tiffany, and Paul. They appeared at the Teleport Square nearest the bridge to the Alluvial District. Nearby guards were plentiful and on edge, and other small parties blipped in all around Ezekiel. Everyone wore nice clothes. No one seemed to care about the guards. They just walked on, toward the bridge, which is exactly what Ezekiel did, too. His people followed him.

There was no need to show off papers, or anything like that. The people between the Teleport Square and the bridge were already scanning everyone, and scanning them even more as they walked past, toward the arching bridge that connected Eralis to the Noble District, the island in the center of the Wanzhi River’s delta floodplain.

Ezekiel brushed off the danger in the air with an imperious attitude and his finger on the [Animadversion] button. He walked with an even gait, matching that of the people around him, though he was much more nervous than everyone else. Perhaps he was seeing danger that wasn’t there.

The four of them walked under a small arch of the Void Wall, the stone body of Rozeta arching overhead, and onto the first meter of a kilometer-long, white stone bridge. The first thing Ezekiel noticed about the bridge was the size; wide enough for a company of men, twenty by twenty wide, to march across it without impairing their stride. The gentle rise and craftsmanship was superb, but the view was more impressive.

The Wanzhi Delta was a magnificent orange and gold, with cold waters snaking between sandbars, turning deeper here and there. A dark chill flowed through the air outside of the bridge, but upon the bridge, was light and life. Wardlight lanterns shoved away the oncoming night, while small fires lit upon the bridge drove away the chill. The people upon the bridge were cast in a myriad of shadows and light, and they, too, drove away the darkness with their happy voices and their good cheer. Most of them seemed to be coming from some other, earlier party, to hear them speak.

It was easier to hear them speak, out here, past the Void Wall, where the Void Song was already fading in power as they left it behind them.

The second thing he noticed about the bridge, now that he was truly on it, was that he was walking faster than normal, even though he did not seem to be expending much effort, at all. In a minute, they had reached the halfway point of the kilometer-long bridge. The bridge was enchanted for speed of travel, obviously. It was a subtle enchant; impossible to notice unless he really looked with both [Mana Sight] and his normal senses.

He would have liked to have studied the bridge more as they walked toward the Noble District, but Ezekiel put on his game-face. He heard a potential problem approaching from behind. Tiffany’s reaction was a scowl, hidden under her veil.

It was the green man who called Tiffany a ‘fair giantess’. He was already slightly drunk, but not drunk enough to miss Tiffany, tall as she was. She wasn’t hard to spot, but still… Ezekiel didn’t want her bothered, and the man clearly bothered her.

‘Do you want me to get rid of him?’ Ezekiel sent.

‘Nope!’ Tiffany said, ‘I want to beat him into the ground, please and thank you.’

Paul snorted a tiny laugh.

“My fair giantess!” called the man, once he was five meters away.

In an act of simple grace befitting her dress and station, Tiffany rotated on her heel and faced the man. A few nearby people paused their walk to watch. A few smirked, wondering what was going to happen. Others kept going, wishing for some people to have better manners; that particular emotion was directed toward both the green man, and in one case, toward Tiffany.

The green man wiggled his bushy eyebrows at Tiffany, saying, “We missed out on our spar.”

“I’m sure I missed out on less than nothing.”

The green man’s party caught up to him. They were a woman and another man who both wore clothes of slightly lesser quality than the green man’s shimmering silk robe, but they also wore veils, similar to Tiffany’s. Behind those veils—

Oh. Odd.

But. Huh.

They were half-orcols, maybe.

Both of the green man’s people had outsized lower fangs, like Tiffany, but smaller. One of them had a green cast to their skin, while the other had a red-brown cast to theirs. And then Ezekiel noticed something strange about the green man. His skin was barely brown, but it was brown in a red sort of way. He was a half-orcol, too, but... None of the three people were much larger than any other tall human?

Ezekiel had never seen a half-orcol before. He didn’t know what to make of them, or if there was some cultural thing going on between him and Tiffany. Or if this was just normal harassment. It seemed like normal harassment.

The man laughed, then said, “I’ve got rings of [Alter Size]. My ‘nothing’ can be anything you desire.”

People on the bridge gasped at the impropriety of it all.

Tiffany stared down at the man, her eyes turning red behind her veil as her voice turned calmer. “Step off before you hurt yourself.”

The man stepped forward, one step. He looked up, saying, “We’re both going to the same party. Maybe you should teach me how to behave.”

Tiffany stared for a moment, all hard-edged and hateful, and then she blinked away the red in her eyes. After another moment, she calmly said, “No.”

The man eyed her, then frowned. “Sorry for bothering you.”

And then he walked around Tiffany, continuing on his way across the bridge, toward the Noble District. His people followed him. The veiled man bowed to Tiffany, quickly, but said nothing and then rushed to catch up to the green man. Ezekiel still didn’t know the green man’s name.

He didn’t know what to make of that whole event.

Tiffany breathed deep. Then she turned back to Ezekiel.

The four of them resumed the walk across the bridge.

They reached the Alluvial District without further incident, except when they stepped off of the bridge and truly entered the land of the nobility of the Highlands. They gawked. The other people on the bridge walked around them.

The mountains that stood up from the Wanzhi Delta and formed the Noble District of Eralis were not mountains at all, but mansions, towers, lands of forest and enchantment, some with castle architecture and some done with less solid style. Only one thing was constant: every mansion mountain seemed like a maze. Gazing down from the sky above showed this place as simple mountains and expensive houses. But the view from the land—

Ezekiel recognized what had happened. There was an enchantment in the air that changed how it all looked unless you were actually here.

The bridge led to a white road that wound through the district like a circling river, giving space to each monstrous mountain mansion but also unifying them all. Overhead, bridges spanned that ‘river’, connecting ‘houses’ at multiple levels. Lights adorned everything. Shadows and color were part of the decoration.

Ezekiel walked forward, off of the white bridge and onto the white road, and found the road similarly enchanted for speed as the bridge. His people followed.

Not ten meters into the district, past hidden guards and beyond several layers of [Ward]s, their guide for the evening appeared, along with his wife. Xue and Sikali wore matching red and black robes.

Xue gave a half-bow, then said, “Greetings, Scion Phoenix. Welcome to the Alluvial District of Eralis. I trust your time with the Songstresses was successful?”

“I will need to be killing some mist stone gluttons soon enough to pay their bill, but yes, it was successful.”

“Glad to hear it.” Xue gestured back the way he had come, asking, “To the Clan House, directly to the gathering? Or would you like a tour of the District? It’s much more impressive from the ground.”

Ezekiel went along with recognizing that he had spied on them, though not as much as they had spied on him, saying, “Seeing sights with your own eyes is always more impressive than seeing them through [Scry]s. Tell me, though: Are you here as a representative of your Clan, or are you here individually?”

“For Clan Star Song,” Xue said.

“Individually.” With professional cheer, Sikali added, “Enforcers try not to get political.”

Ezekiel allowed himself a small smile, for there was nothing more political than the threat of violence, and Sikali was making a joke with an edge. He said, “I would like a quick tour. This seems like a wonderful place you have here.”

Sikali spoke up, “It is. Welcome to our homes, Scion Phoenix.”

He walked with them, upon the white roads that wound through the Alluvial District, their speed quicker than should be, as Xue spoke of the mountainous mansions here and there, naming them for who they belonged to. Clan River Walker, with their power built upon the fishing trade, and their house on the edge of the Alluvial District where waterfalls cascaded from on high to join the Wanzhi River outside. Clan Gentle Judge, who oversaw lawful operations for many smaller Clans outside of Eralis, with a no-nonsense mountain crafted with grandeur on the inside of the district.

Xue continued to list Clan mansions and speak of exports and spheres of business, likely to get Ezekiel interested in trade and power and all of that. It was a good tactic, Ezekiel admitted. He was thinking of exports and trade, but likely not how the people here would be willing to trade. Candlepoint was full of shadelings, after all. Ezekiel had only heard the name of the Dark God of Magic once, while inside this land, and it was from a child to another child. That first child was quickly beat to a pulp by the second, and also a third and a fourth. The first kid was okay, of course. [A Child’s Protection] kicked on after the rest of the kids left, and the first kid was physically whole.

Until his mother got to him, then he got a rather red behind.

They did not like Dark Magics here.

Anyway. Clan mansions!

There were so many different mountains of which Ezekiel would likely never visit, but which he marked mentally. And then they got close to their destination.

“Here we have Clan Diligent Scribe.” Xue gestured to a mountain made of houses with green, curled-corner roofs and stately plazas. “With their power given to them by our own Clan Star Song, Clan Diligent Scribe is in charge of the education programs of Eralis and the surrounding villages and towns. They also have a thriving potion trade, like many other Clans of the Highlands.”

Well that was nice to hear. Education programs, eh? Maybe he missed those, since Darzallia was a party town.

Ezekiel stared up at the mansion mountain where Tadashi had lived until recently. “Is Alchemist Tadashi doing better at your Clan? Or was he moved to some less-[Ward]ed location?”

