Sikali answered, “He is doing well in a specialty-made potion house of Star Song. We’re taking good care of him, Scion Phoenix, but you will be able to see that for yourself at the gathering.” She gestured to the left, at one of the few mountains which had not been mentioned yet, saying, “The home of Clan Star Song, and our destination for this evening.”

Xue rapidly said, “Our relationship to Clan Diligent Scribe is still holding as strong as ever; you can see as much by the sky bridges that connect our two houses.”

Ezekiel saw those bridges, but he saw a lot more than that, for Star Song was one of the most powerful Clans in the land, and their mountain mansion reflected as much.

The sun set in the west, past the city of Eralis, painting half of the mansion in orange and the other half in purple, while the sky above was awash in a million glittering stars. Some of those stars seemed to have descended to Veird and placed themselves in lamps upon crenelations, in the trees that adorned the white road ‘riverside’ that wound between each property, and upon the many, many curled-corner roofs of the many twisting towers and structures of Clan Star Song’s home. The only normal structure to the whole thing was a many-sided pagoda-like structure at the top composed of several floors. A few bridges connected that top pagoda to smaller pagodas, separate from the main one, located on separate peaks of the same mountain mansion.

It was quite beautiful, and Ezekiel let his approval show on his face.

Julia said, “I’m really loving the architecture around here.”

Xue smiled at that, and much of it seemed as genuine as Ezekiel’s own emotions, as he said, “Thank you for the compliment.” He turned to Ezekiel and indicated the near-empty white road ‘river’ they walked upon, saying, “That concludes the tour, and it looks as though many people are already off the roads and have arrived at the gathering. Shall we also proceed to the gathering?”

Ezekiel consented, saying, “Lead the way.”

Xue nodded, and taking Sikali’s hand in his own, they led the way past Diligent Scribe’s home, toward the large gate that denoted the entrance to Clan Star Song. The six of them almost made it toward that gate, but something important caught Ezekiel’s attention, just to the left.

The white road wound around the entire Alluvial District, encircling houses and providing fast travel while one was upon them, but the mansion mountains were not perfectly organized. This meant that the ‘river’ grew wider and smaller in some parts, and especially wide at crossroads. To the left, directly in front of Clan Star Song’s mansion, was one such crossroad. Many such crossroads had sculptures or trees or even a little babbling spring, in one case. This one had a sculpture, and it was also the largest crossroad Ezekiel had seen at maybe fifteen meters across.

‘Sculpture’ would be a poor word, though. The island held an art installation. The main part was a perfectly normal pagoda-like structure made of air and stone in the center of the island, rising several meters into the air. The secondary part was the inclusion of four silver obelisks, half the size of the pagoda, that each stood equidistant from the pagoda, surrounding the pagoda like a square of silver. The third part was in the form of small bridges between each silver obelisk that arced from the white road, toward the pagoda in the center. This here was almost the same sort of structure as the Void Temple, with its four bell towers surrounding a much larger central building, except here, the bridges led inward, instead of from bell tower to bell tower.

And it reminded him...

Ezekiel tried to follow Xue and Sikali toward Clan Star Song’s gate, but he stopped and stared at the art installation.

From a certain angle…

The art piece was missing the full square of silver metal, but the obelisks did a great job of giving the impression of something that was only half there, and this way, one could see the art from any angle and they’d know what they were looking at. The main thing here was the pagoda made of air and stone in the center of the island. It had a distinctive shape. It was seven-sided, and there were no walls. Just curling roofs and plain pillars and many same-sized levels. This was a shape and style that Ezekiel had only ever seen in one place.

It was exactly like the pagodas of air and stone that he had seen beyond the Gate inside the Green Labyrinth, the Twisted Vision which held the only stable dragon culture on Veird. This art piece was missing all the people milling around at the market, but the structure of it all was exactly the same. This pagoda was entirely non-magical. Ezekiel already had his mana sense fully open and—

Xue’s voice brought Ezekiel back to the moment.

“What?” Ezekiel said as he turned to the man, more startled, than angry. “Can I help you?”

Xue was sweating. Why was he sweating? Sikali looked equally curbed, though less worried about the moment than her husband. Oh. Xue knew what this art installation meant. Sikali might be aware, or maybe not. Or maybe both of them had only heard part of the truth. Maybe they knew nothing?

Maybe they knew everything.

Xue said, “Apologies, Scion. I was commenting on the stone garden.”

Ezekiel asked, “How long has this been here?”

“Hundreds of years. The Elders refuse to have it changed seasonally, as we change all the rest.” Xue said, “I could ask around if you wish to know more.”

“Another time.” Ezekiel said, “Let us attend the gathering.”

Xue bowed, and this time it was a true bow of deference. His wife gave Xue a strange, appraising look, before she followed his lead. When they both stood, Xue led the way forward, into Clan Star Song.

The gathering had already begun. The scents of cooked rice and a hundred delicacies from savory to sweet drifted on the breeze as the sounds of stringed instruments filled the night. Odin sang in soft harmony upon Ezekiel’s shoulder.
