Anabelle didn't say anything as Ren opened the front door and left the shop. He ran down the street and around the corner to the restaurant. It was still quite early, so there was hardly anyone else around. Ren went inside the building and behind the counter. He opened the door to the small storage area, and saw the portal there. Ren equipped the red outfit that he'd made for visiting the Council chambers, and summoned Teepo. Teepo appeared at his feet, then flew up to land on his shoulder. A couple of minutes later, the portal shimmered and Nathalia stepped through and stood in front of Ren. Surprisingly, she was wearing her red outfit as well.

“Wow.” Nathalia said. “I didn't feel anything at all. It was just like stepping through an actual doorway.”

Ren nodded slightly, then hugged her. She hugged him back and looked around.

“It really is the same, isn't it?” Nathalia asked, and Ren nodded slightly again.

“Except for all of Mitchell's old inventory, the two places are identical.”

“You did a good job on the tables in the other place.” Nathalia said. “Are you going to do the same thing here?”

“Of course.” Ren said, and Nathalia helped him place all of the tables in the same spots. “I don't think we should put the tables outside here yet.” He said as he stored all of Mitchell's old inventory. “Not until we're about to open, anyways.”

“Oh, Ren!” Nathalia said, and took him into another hug. “I... I kind of thought it was only a fantasy, and that none of this was real.” She said. “I'm still a little surprised, actually.”

“Well, My Love...” Ren chuckled and held out his arm for her to take a hold of. “...may I escort you into a new fantasy land?”

“I would be honored to have you escort me, My Love.” Nathalia said and hooked her arm in his. Ren tapped his House Neram pendant, and Nathalia nodded, then their Auras merged into one and expanded to nearly 150 feet. They both held their heads high as they left the restaurant, and casually walked arm-in-arm down the street, and then around the corner.

“I can give you a proper tour in a little while.” Ren said as he led Nathalia to his business. “It's still a little early, and not much is open right now.”

“That's fine.” Nathalia said absently, as she whipped her head around to look at everything. Ren watched her as they slowly walked, and smiled as he remembered his first time in her home town. They arrived at the shop, and Nathalia's eyes widened at all of the different things he had for sale in the storefront window.

“You have this much available already?” Nathalia asked. “But you just opened up the store!”

Ren chuckled and opened the door. “This is just the display.” He said. “Wait until you see inside.”

They went inside and Nathalia marveled at all of the weapons, tools, furniture, and items Ren had for sale.

“You made all of this so quickly?” Nathalia asked and shook her head. “Of course you did.” She said and held his arm tightly. “You're amazing.”

Ren smiled. “I built the display models, but Tee-one built most of the customer's orders. The tools and a lot of the weapons I did make myself, though.”

Anabelle came over to them. “Hello.” She held her hand out to shake. “I'm Anabelle.”

“Of course you are.” Nathalia smiled and used her free hand to shake the one offered. She didn't let Ren's arm go, however. “It's nice to meet you. I'm Nathalia Neram.”

“It's nice to meet you, too.” Anabelle said. “Ren's description of you didn't do you justice.”

“Yours, either.” Nathalia smiled. “Red looks good on you.”

“On you as well.” Anabelle smiled back at her. “I think formal wear suits you quite nicely.”

“Thank you.” Nathalia said.

“Oh!” Ren said. “I better drop off the orders.” He took out the orders from inventory and placed them in the available space, making the shop quite crowded. “I think I have to finish the second floor.”

Nathalia chuckled. “If this is the orders you fill every second day, then yes; you are going to need a lot more room for it all.”

Ren nodded, then went up the stairs to the landing for the second floor. Since all that was there was support beams and cross members, Nathalia and Anabelle had front row seats to watch Ren work. They both admired him as he walked along the beams to the side of the building, then started laying down wooden planks. By the time he had half of the second floor down and secured, it was time to open the business. Anabelle excused herself and went to open the curtains and unlock the front door. She came back to where Nathalia stood, and politely asked her to go up to the landing if she wanted to keep watching Ren.

“Why do I have to move?”

“Because this place fills with customers almost right aw-” Anabelle's words were cut off; because just then, the front door opened and nearly a dozen women came in.

“I see.” Nathalia said. “I'll get out of the way.”

“Thank you.” Anabelle said sincerely, then turned to the women coming towards her. She was an expert at handling the customers now, and served them all quickly and efficiently. Nathalia had taken her advice and went to the second floor landing, and continued to watch Ren as he worked. Most of the floor was covered now, so she couldn't see into the store anymore. When the floor was done, Ren went along and made small shelves to hold stone bricks, that he enchanted with glyphs of the Illumination rune.

“There we go.” Ren said as he came back to Nathalia. “All done.”

“Why don't you show me upstairs?” Nathalia asked, and Ren nodded slightly to her, then led her up the stairs to the third floor. “Why is there a bed in the living room?”

“Anabelle sleeps there.” Ren said. “She was sleeping on the couch, but even though it's comfortable, you shouldn't sleep on it all the time.”

“Oh.” Nathalia said. “I thought she was staying in the bedroom.”

Ren shook his head. “No, that's my space.” He said. “I wasn't even going to let her stay here at first; but then I had to open the business and she needed to be close by, so...”

Nathalia nodded, then looked into the open bedroom door to see Elerlyth's phantom form laying there.

“We should be seeing her tonight.” Ren said. “That's usually when we don't have Adventurer's business and can take care of other things over the night.”

“Your life is so full.” Nathalia said. “Are other Adventurers' lives like that?”

“I don't know for sure.” Ren said. “If I was to take a guess, I'd say no.”

Nathalia came over to him and took his hand. “I'm glad that I became a part of your hectic life.”

Ren leaned in and kissed her lightly. “So am I, Nathalia.” He said and smiled. “So am I.”

“Since the business is open, can I get that tour now?” She asked with a bright smile on her face.

“Of course.” Ren said, and led her down the stairs. There was a lull in the amount of customers coming into the store, so Ren took the opportunity to refill some of the lingerie, dropped off a couple more suits of armor, and made his way to the counter. Anabelle didn't look haggard at all, and he smiled at her.

“Have you changed your mind about hiring someone else?” Ren asked her, and she smiled back at him.

“Yes, I definitely need another pair of hands.”

Ren opened the business menu, and posted a job opening for an assistant clerk, with experience an asset but not required, then added it as NPC and player available.

“It's posted.” Ren said. “Hopefully, we'll have someone come in by noon.”

“Thank you.” Anabelle said.

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “We'll be back in a few hours. I'm taking Nathalia on a tour of the city and to visit some friends.” He led Nathalia away from the counter and out the front door. The first place he took her was Sally's Shop. Since she had just opened herself, Ren didn't have to wait long for the single customer to leave.

“Hi, Sally.” Ren said, and Sally turned around after she put away a bolt of fabric to look at him.

“Hi, Re-” She froze in shock. “Wh-wh-wh...”

“Sally? What's wrong?” Ren asked, concerned. He took a step towards her, and she cringed as she held up a hand; almost as if to ward off a blow, then tears came to her eyes.

“Go wait outside.” Nathalia told him, and he hesitated. She let his arm go and stepped in front of him. “Go. Wait. Outside.” She said sternly. Ren nodded and left the shop.

*

“Sally?” Nathalia said. “It's okay. He's gone.”

Sally put her hand down and looked around. She started to cry and Nathalia helped her to sit.

“What happened, Sally?” Nathalia asked.

“That... that...” Sally sobbed and wiped at her flowing tears. “I... I saw... my dead husband...”

*

Ren stood outside and watched through the window. He couldn't hear what they were saying, but Sally was waving her arms, and making other gestures, and Nathalia stood in front of her.

I wonder what happened. Ren thought.

“She thinks you look like her dead husband.” Teepo said from inside the shop.

WHHHAATTTTT?!?!? Ren thought in shock.
