It didn’t seem like this disaster was a short-lived problem. The bugs were getting thicker. Whatever was happening, it hadn’t peaked.

The risk seemed like a dumb one when he’d be trading certain long-term mobility for possible temporary pain relief.

Just regular carrying then? Since she’s hurt, and I’m the strongest. Thenn-ar was burnt, and the other scientist was holding the bomb case.

“I can carry her?” Alden said.

They all looked at him.

“Normal carry,” he added hastily. “No magic.”

Thenn-ar nodded. She pointed to the woman’s leg. “Don’t —— it,” she said.

Don’t touch it maybe? Right. They avoided touching even the spots where they saw the demon damage.

But what did that mean for the injured woman?

Alden forced himself to let the putty ball fall into his pocket, then he lifted her, careful not to let his fingers brush against the strangely altered flesh. Still sobbing, she grabbed him around the neck and held on tight.

It was so much easier to carry someone who was helping out by holding on, but he had to remind himself not to squeeze her. He’d gotten a bit too used to gripping preserved things really hard, since they couldn’t be hurt and he was always scared of dropping them.

He was relieved when he took a step and felt his trait working. It meant the putty was still officially under his protection. He’d known it should be, but still… in a situation like this he was extra paranoid about getting it wrong.

When he got home, and the stakes were low, he’d start hauling all his preserved stuff around in a backpack to get used to it.

With the added burden, Alden had to be extra cautious about avoiding the demons, but the other two helped him. He walked in between them, and they pointed out things he might have missed. Including, once, a place in the road where the hard, flat earth had a large divot in it.

Anywhere else, that wouldn’t have been too concerning. But Alden had previously noted that Moon Thegund didn’t have a lot of variety in the terrain. He hadn’t seen a single pothole in the ground during his run to the lab.

When they reached the white block building, Alden set the injured woman down. She wobbled, leaning on him, and took a pen laser from inside her coveralls. It took a while, but the male scientist used it to burn off the door lock.

The interior was mostly private office spaces, arrayed around a central area that served as a break room. There were tables, chairs, a kitchen, and a sofa. They helped the injured woman into a chair, and Thenn-ar went to the sink. Water flowed from it readily when she touched her hand to the faucet.

She brought it over and washed the strange wound by pouring it slowly over the surface. A bloody pool formed on the hard floor.

Alden had no idea what else to do with himself, so he stood guard, keeping his eyes on the three demons that were drifting around the break room. He had an impractical urge to stand on his tiptoes, as if having even that much less physical contact with the ground would save him if one emerged beneath his feet.

The male scientist fiddled with the small television on the wall. It came alive with a crackle, and he ran his fingers over the touchscreen quickly, bringing up several different images. One of them looked sort of like it might have been a communications screen, and Alden gave Thenn-ar a hopeful look.

“Talk to someone?” he asked, pointing at the tv.

Just because the System wasn’t working, it didn’t mean everything was down, did it? The Artonans were heavily reliant on magic and magical equipment, but it wasn’t like they didn’t have satellites. Radio, cell phone tower, smoke signals…Alden would gladly accept whatever kind of solution might exist out here in the middle of nowhere on the worse half of what was apparently a very bad moon.

“No,” said Thenn-ar. “Maybe if —-?”

But the man manipulating the television shook his head. He flicked away from the comm screen and pulled up a map. Alden assumed, based solely on the usual function of maps and not any ability to read the logograms on it, that it was of their current location.

It was really plain as far as maps went. There were no lines to indicate the boundaries of patches of land, and there were few topographical markings. It was basically just some dots on a grey field, with a box out to the side that looked like it might be the key.

Then the scientist touched something, and patches of purple, pink, and red spread across the screen. It looked a lot like a weather radar map. Mostly it was purple, but a pink blob was at the center, and in the middle of that was a small bright red dot. We’re probably at the center right?

In the red dot.

Thenn-ar asked another question, and the man touched another part of the map.

The red expanded. Then expanded again. And again.

A forecast?

Alden hadn’t thought his mood could turn darker, but it did. The man swore. Thenn-ar closed her eyes.

“How many…?” Was it childish to say “hours” when he knew that wasn’t likely to be the answer? “How many days?”

They didn’t respond.

“The red is bad? There are many red days?”

“Many,” said Thenn-ar.

“Too many,” said the man.

“Someone comes to help?” Alden suggested.

“You were someone,” the man grunted.

Oh. Right.

So that’s how it is.

“—— the Contract?” the woman in coveralls gasped from the sofa. She was looking at Alden.

“It’s not here,” he said blankly. “No Contract in this place now.”

They all three stared at him with wide eyes. They hadn’t looked nearly as shocked when he told them the Contract was “bad” earlier. And that made sense, didn’t it?

Alden himself knew that even if you weren’t an Avowed, the System existing was a fact of life. He’d never once been anywhere where it wasn’t. It was like being told that something fundamental you’d taken for granted had vanished from the world.

“No Contract,” he said again. “Only us.”
