Ali switched spells to Disruption. It took every speck of her willpower to cancel it before it completed, recasting it immediately after, but in that instant, she saw Nathaniel’s Disruption and she knew she had successfully faked him out. Her second hurdle was cleared the moment her disruption successfully broke the Sacrifice death magic. Her heart crawled back up out of her belly and resumed beating – and only then, did she deconstruct the massive tree while Malika stood by, pulsing waves of healing out through everything.

The tree evaporated, and the remaining elves rushed through, vanishing in twos and threes as they reached the runic circle.

“I see the Telim Gor delegation,” Calen said, pointing to where several trolls were pinned down by some flying undead and an arcane elemental. Whatever they were doing, it pulsed with intense ice mana.

“I will get them,” Nendir said. “You and your friends evacuate the rest and get Lyeneru to safety.”

“Mato, come,” Calen said, and the huge oak twisted. The holy fire flickered out and the grasping roots vanished as Mato and Calen sprinted to the teleportation circle, guiding the last of the elves and carrying Lyeneru.

“To me,” Ali commanded, gathering her remaining minions around her. Three Ice Trolls fired at Nathaniel while she summoned barriers to protect her friends as they charged for the safety of her magic circle.

But right then, an enormous surge of mana flared from the Blind Lich, pulsing outward, shattering her barriers, tearing up the earth as hundreds of undead crawled out of the Well of Souls, tearing toward them, desperate to prevent their escape.

“It is done,” the Lich intoned, his voice triumphant.

And Nendir was too far to help.

“Get to the circle!” Ali screamed, raising her barriers and desperately throwing her remaining minions into the fray. Beside her, Malika pulsed her healing to keep them safe while Calen and Mato began attacking the horde of incoming undead, desperate to guard the teleportation circle that was their only route to freedom.

Suddenly, the Ice Trolls of Telim Gor charged toward them, shooting bolts of ice magic and wielding powerful shields, while Nendir flew in like an emerald meteor.

“Go!” Nendir shouted. “I’ll hold them off!” From his bow, a storm of energy and arrows surged downward to meet the dark apparition of the Blind Lich.

Mana surged in an immense raging torrent as the Elf unleashed an unimaginable power. But within the storm, a dark figure slowly rose. Arrows and magic hammered at the Lich, but he shed it all, diverting the flow around him with dense shields of pure darkness. The ground behind him evaporated in a smoking hole the size of a small town, but still, the Lich pressed onward, inching higher and higher against the onslaught.

Why doesn’t he move?  But Ali answered her own question immediately. Even as the Blind Lich gained ground, pushing Nendir’s power further and further back, he stubbornly held his ground – a last stand to ensure that the way out remained open.

“Run!” Ali screamed.

The Telim Gor delegation dove for the runic teleportation circle, followed quickly by Mato, and then Calen. Malika remained, keeping her safe from the fear.

“Nendir! Everyone is out!” Ali yelled. “Come!”

Nendir turned his head a fraction, a hint of a smile appearing on his face. “Get… out…” he hissed from between clenched teeth. And then Nevyn Eld reached him. In that touch, the deadly darkness of Decrepify punched through Nendir’s chest and his bow fell silent for one last time.

“Run…” he managed, a gurgling whisper before he slumped unconscious in the Blind Lich’s grasp.

Ali saw the Sacrifice formation and fired off a disruption using a stutter cast, but Nathaniel was quicker, breaking her magic, and all she could do was watch as the horrifying spell completed.

Nevyn Eld’s gaunt skeletal hand plunged into Nendir’s chest and ripped his soul from his body. The Lich threw his head back, his chilling, sepulchral laughter echoing through the battlefield over the screams of the spirit trapped in his grasp.

Ali fled, appearing suddenly and abruptly in the Novaspark Academy of Magic, surrounded by crowds of lost and weeping elves. A second later, Malika appeared beside her, and Ali released her reservation on her runic circle.

But to her horror, it failed to dissipate.

“The circle is still open!” she gasped, desperate to warn everyone. Somehow the Lich or the Archmage was holding it open, even without her mana to support her magic.

Calen instantly produced his bow, and Malika turned right as a banshee appeared in their midst, its eerie, terrifying wail of despair ringing out through the crowded room. Elves screamed, fled, or cowered, entirely overcome by the mind-breaking shriek of the undead spirit, but Mato roared, already shifted to the form of his Dire Bear, leaking trails and wisps of black void magic.

His claws sizzled as the void sliced through the air, tearing gruesome gashes through the incorporeal monster. It screeched as the magic of his strike ripped through its fleshless body.

A second banshee appeared.

The teleportation circle had to be closed immediately. They were seconds away from the Blind Lich stepping through.

But how? Ali’s runic circle wasn’t even using her own mana anymore, but she could see the trails of mana connecting it, fueled by the dark black and purple of Nathaniel’s domain slowly twisting and clawing its way through into the room.

I know my own spell.

She grimaced as the seconds on her recharge slowly ticked down to zero. As soon as it did, she formed her spell, sensing the mana of Nathaniel’s matching disruption forming from the other side – something that, without her enhanced mental speed, she might never have had the time to react to. She canceled her disruption, and recast it, but Nathaniel was again quicker, and he managed to pull off her own trick, canceling and disrupting it a second time.

He got her again.

Fuck, she thought, staring aghast at the new sixty-second recharge on Arcane Insight while Nathaniel’s magic continued to worm its way through the connected teleportation circles.

Yet another Banshee appeared.

Ali cast Arcane Recall. Transported abruptly to the Spirit Realm, she paused to collect herself in that familiar frozen state. In the gray of the locus room, she could see the full extent of the magical battle across the teleportation circle. Tendrils of black and purple writhed through the afterimage of her runic circle from the other side, seeping through the locus on this side as Nathaniel clawed his way through the magical connection. But Arcane Recall allowed her to ignore recharges, and in this space, there would be no time to disrupt her magic. She cast Dismantle, and time instantly restarted as the golden needles of her arcane magical formation shot through the channels Nathaniel had opened. It tore into the runic circle, ripping the formation to shreds as all the mana from her runic construct, and Nathaniel’s encroachment exploded in a blast of chaotically disconnected mana. She had a brief moment of satisfaction as she felt the Elder Wraith recoiling from the impact of the detonation before the mana conduit collapsed.

Shit, that was close.

Ali sat right there, in the middle of the locus, letting the sounds of screaming, crying, and shouting wash over her, trusting Malika to heal them. The entire city of Ciradyl had been destroyed. A city that had been old since before she was born. She had personally witnessed thousands of elves crushed, turned, or killed – wiped out by the casual malice of the Blind Lich. The Well of Souls was corrupted and in the hands of Nevyn Eld. And…

“Where is my father? Nendir? Where… where is he?” A scared, frightened voice pierced her horrible recollection, and Ali glanced up to see a pretty, young elf holding a bow at her side – an elf who looked at her with desperate hope in her eyes. “You were the last through the gate, do you know what happened to him? Please tell me he’s ok…”

“I’m… sorry,” Ali whispered. “He bought us all enough time to escape, but the Blind Lich got him right at the end. He did not make it.”

Her wail tore through Ali’s heart.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
