He wasn’t a bad sort, but Aoife knew damn well that he was always waiting for a reason to try and usurp any amount of power he could grasp. She even knew of his secret talks with some of the other clans heads that, despite his failure to reach Sainthood last time, he would make a better heir than someone newer, who would need more resources to elevate when her time came.

Through all of that, she knew he was generally loyal to the Clans as a whole, and he did usually work to the betterment of them all, even if he made sure he was taken care of first. Their issues were more on a personal level; she didn’t like the man and he didn’t like her, but the two of them got along better than most outsiders thought they did, which made him a useful bridge to her opposition.

Her other Tier 48 was a human golemancer, Jaxon, and a friend of hers who had backed her initial push into Tier 30 and her entrance into the political sphere of her clan, then later the Clans as a whole.

Jaxon was also universally hated by everyone else in the room, as he was an unrepentant radical humanist supporter, and wanted to tear down the established government for the betterment of humans in the Clans.

Still, he served a dual purpose and did it well. He drew ire and could suggest ideas she needed shot down before another clan could suggest them. Second, he fulfilled the tradition of having a human in the highest echelon of the government, even if higher than normal.

Tradition more than law was a razor sharp sword that hung over all of their heads, and while most understood its usefulness after Sword Saint Hastor’s rise to Tier 50 over the bodies of his critics and opponents, others had wanted to disregard the practice. Despite Sword Saint Hastor not being the first human Tier 50, nor pushing any sort of human-centric agenda, there was still a subset of the Clans leadership who had hated seeing a human become the most successful person in a generation of a Golden Era. They all seemed to forget how they sucked up to him while he was still in the Realm, or how he had ensured their Great Power remained to dominate through tide and tribulation alike.

Which made Jaxon a perfect relief valve, a job he happily did as it furthered his agenda of keeping the spark of human innovation alive, seeing another one of their own retaining a high position.

Interrupting the bickering about taxes that she didn’t really care about, she asked something she knew had been generally positively received.

“Putting aside the matter of taxes. What do you and yours think of the new skills in and of themselves? Has reality met expectations? With our… visitors, now is the time to check in and see if there are things to address.”

Sim Darlsan, head of clan Darlsan, and one of her strongest detractors, was the first to speak, and did so with an airy but deep voice. “What is there to complain about? The skills work as advertised and are as helpful as can be expected. If anything, they are too good, which is why we need to levy a tax on their creation to replace the revenue lost from businesses that are being replaced.”

Seeing her glare, he moved on from the mention of taxes with a flex of his bicep. His move made the Tier 46 armband flex and grow lighter as the metal was stressed to its limit, shooting a glare at Jaxon, who returned it without blinking. “With our greater strength, we get more out of [Physical Empowerment] than the humans. It's a shame it doesn’t scale well into the higher Tiers, but I have a few of my kin working on learning the methods behind these new skills, so there is hope we can discover something.”

Una MacLeoid, head of her clan by dint of being its founding member and raising it all on her own efforts, stood forward, her metallic braid nearly touching the ground. “My clan has spent several Tier 14 upgrade orbs on the skill, but so far, none of the upgrades have been useful for physical strength. Interestingly enough, the basic upgrade for the skill seems to make body modifications easier. There is an opportunity there, but we are instead working to modify the skill more and in different ways before we test any more upgrade orbs.”

Aoife nodded and generously did as she knew she was about to be asked. “We will have a hundred Tier 14 and twenty Tier 26 upgrade orbs withdrawn from the nation's vaults and delivered for further testing. Sadly, we won’t be able to provide more without concrete results.”

That earned nods all around, but she could tell that Una considered asking for more. And that was why Aoife had spoken first and taken the initiative. The Tier 14 upgrade orbs were valuable, but not so rare they couldn’t spare another few hundred. But Tier 26 upgrade orbs, or worse yet, Tier 38 orbs, which they had scant few of, were things she was unwilling to let slip out of her grasp. Who knew how many of them would be used for other ‘testing’.

Seeing she had gotten all she could on that front, Una continued, “The methodologies behind these new skills are strange and different from all modification techniques we have seen before. I believe it might behoove us to probe our contacts in the Sects. They seem to be taking to these methods with great fervor, and we could learn a thing or two.”

Aoife, having already reviewed those reports, just nodded, but Ailis Andarsan waved a hand in a sharp cutting motion. “I don’t see why we should expend those resources. I think contacting Legend Titan might prove more fruitful, and with him here, we can press him and see if there is anything else he or his people are hiding.”

Aoife didn’t quite believe what she was hearing and looked to Eimhir, then Jaxon for confirmation, wanting to make sure she hadn’t misheard Ailis. She was fairly sure that Legend Titan had simply been a vessel to pass on the skills anyway so she wasn’t sure why Ailis had latched onto that comment so forcefully.

Carefully, she asked, “Are you implying we should attack a foreign Legend who is in our territory as part of a Legend buyout?”

Ailis raised her lip to sneer at her. “No, I'm not so foolish. I simply think there is an argument to be made that the second group of Legends aren’t protected under those laws because they aren’t the named recipients of the buyout. Still, I’m not saying we do anything to them, but we could make it clear they aren’t welcome on our worlds and in our rifts unless Titan is forthcoming with what he has undoubtedly held back.”

Aoife looked to the others in the room, and thankfully saw nothing but variations of bafflement or confusion, indicating that this probably wasn't a coordinated move.

“Even if he had held things back, we have no right to them. As for his status of entering our lands and rifts, they might not have been part of the actual buyout, but as they aren't delving more than their allocated rifts, we have little reason to keep them out. Secondly, tradition and precedent have long been set, though rare they may be in such situations. Third, even if all of that wasn’t true, I wouldn't risk the condemnation, let alone the reprisal, of the other Great Powers when such came to light.”

Having worked up a full head of steam, Aoife growled out, “Ailis, keep your people, your clan members and agents alike, far away from the foreign Legends. If so much as a hide or hair is out of place with them when they return to a Tier 50 with past and future sight, I will not only throw your clan onto the Emperor's sword, but do so gladly.”

Ailis smiled as if she had gotten what she wanted. “So you are truly afraid of the Empire’s Tier 50. I think such cowardice makes you unfit for your position. The Clans need a leader who can stand up to upstart foreigners. Not one who cowers before them.”

Aoife looked to Eimhir, wanting to see if this was a move from him to elevate himself, but he looked genuinely stupefied. That might just be a clever ploy, but Aoife believed it.

For now, at least.

Ailis turned from Aoife and to the other clan heads. “Year after year, the Empire has encroached upon our territory, even when Hastor was in control. A human knuckling under to another human is to be expected, but yet when we have a proper dwarf in control, we still act like a beaten dog. Why are we tolerating such behavior in one of our leaders? I’m confused, I don’t understand why, but I know it's not okay. We accept things dictated at us instead of taking what is ours by right. Instead of attacking the Empire when we had the opportunity, Aoife squandered it under the guise of honoring the deal a human made. I find it unacceptable.”

Aoife didn’t bother with the clown acting out her show in front of her, but instead looked to the other clan heads. Most were visibly disgusted, but there were many who had carefully blank expressions, and several who were openly supportive.

The worst part of it all was Aoife agreed with a lot of what Ailis said. The Clans had been too meek for too long. Once they had pulled down the Federation and retaken their position as the undisputed strongest Great Power, they never should have been so… hesitant.

Sword Saint Hastor should have used his incredible power to knock down all of their opposition, but instead he had declared fewer wars than most leaders, simply wanting to focus inward. She disagreed on principle, but understood why he had stayed his hand, which was why she had followed his final plans.

Taking a breath, she let her voice spread through the room. “For all your gilded speech, you still advocate interfering with another Great Power’s Legends. I think you should carefully think over your histories.”

She didn’t look at Ailis, but instead other clan heads. They thankfully had the proper reactions or at least outwardly showed them, which was good enough.

Ailis sneered and broke through from Tier 46 to Tier 47.

Aoife hadn’t allowed that. The Clans technically had two free slots, but the blatant disrespect to her position and command over those last two slots was flagrant.

A weaker leader might have just accepted that, but Aoife had heard the stories of when Agatha had risen up in a similar fashion.

Except Aoife was no pathetic Tier 50, unable or unwilling to get her hands dirty. Ailis had signed her own death warrant with that move. Aoife just needed to decide how she wanted to execute it and her. There was no reason to let such a useful tool be discarded without extracting its maximum value. Though it did seem that she had been too politically passive since she had taken over if anyone thought she was so weak willed as to allow this.

The fool kept prattling on despite not knowing she was uttering her final words. “If we were as bold as dwarves should be, we would never have allowed things to progress this far. Would the other so-called Great Powers dare to question us if we simply asked a few questions of a guest in our lands? I think not. They wouldn’t dare, given our might.”

Aoife silenced the murmuring with a thought. “We respect tradition because it is what our forefathers did. It was their ideals which shaped us. However, we are our future generations' forefathers and must set good precedents with our actions. Blatantly attacking someone's people with whom we have a truce with is both shameful and stupid. And forcefully demanding secrets from a guest is attacking them. If any other Great Power did such to our peoples, we would undoubtedly treat it so.”

Having carefully set herself up in the position of historical precedence and therefore correctness, Aoife continued, deciding to push a few of the initiatives which had been stuck in discussion, but unable to move forward. “And I do agree we need to push our advantages. We are the strongest Great Power and should strive to remain so. I hereby declare we shall be increasing the birth rates for Dwarves by ten percent.”

Clan heads one and all clapped. Having bloodline cores meant the dwarves were always careful about their lineages, and that meant ensuring children weren’t produced unless there was a sufficient amount of elixirs to reinforce the bloodline. It was the greatest shame if a dwarven clan fell to a simple human status because they expanded faster than they could bolster the bloodline, ensuring the genetics were properly passed on. The sacrifice of the human form helped, but it wasn’t a perfect solution, and in the dark times of history such things had happened. Though such histories were also carefully scrubbed from the record books.

Sadly, the facts were the facts, and even with them giving birth in their dwarven form mainly with other dwarves, the slow and inevitable reversion to a baseline human was unstoppable without elixirs or substantial cultivation dedicated to the bloodline cores which would weaken their overall combat power.

“We will also be expanding our lands. I want our people, industrious as they are, to add another hundred thousand worlds to our holdings in the next five thousand years.”

That got another round of agreement with claps and stomps resounding off the stone.

Good, because she knew the next thing wouldn’t be nearly as popular. “To that end, I will also be instituting an increase in humans to be Awakened. I want to expand our human Awakenings to the top twenty percent of all unaffiliated humans instead of five. Our new worlds will support such expansion as well as feed the new branch clans who will expand into the new lands.”

There were more stoney looks, but there were a few perfunctory claps. Supporting the humans in such a way was risky, but such measures had been done before when the Clans knew they would need cultivators for future war efforts.

Combined with the new aura elixirs, Aoife knew she could create a generation of fighters, which was exactly what they needed.

