The other clan heads seemed intent to remain willfully ignorant of what the new skills, as useful as they were, when combined with the aura potions really meant.

The power balance in the Realm was going to quickly become a numbers game.

As seen by the Empire and Federation, just because you Awakened everyone, not all of them became successful. Still, as proven by the Empire, having a lot of people with the human randomness for Talents could prove damn useful, as seen by Legend Shadow whose Talent was so strong, she needed to be removed from the wars at only Tier 25 or see everyone slaughtered.

With their current social conditioning, Aoife believed that they could properly control such an increase in numbers. They had to. If they didn’t, they would start to lose their position even faster and to more than just the Empire, who seemed to be experiencing their own Golden Era, as heretical as that thought was.

Her spies in the Republic and Sects both showed they were also looking to start Awakening more of their populations. Both were moving slowly, but it was happening, and the Clans couldn’t afford to be left behind by the last Great Powers she would have considered willing to do so just a few thousand years before.

“Finally, we will officially declare war with the Republic in fifteen years. Use this time to prepare your armies. Use these battles as a way to sharpen your people, not throw their lives away.”

This time the reception was overwhelmingly positive, and that was when Aoife made her move.

Taking a step forward, she reached out and grabbed Ailis’ head and squeezed. Like an overripe fruit, the newly advanced Tier 47’s head exploded. With a resounding thud, the body fell onto the marble ground.

Front half covered in blood, Aoife looked at the gathered clan heads who had frozen mid-clap or stomp. “For attempted treason against the Clans as a whole, for proposing a course of action that would have led to our people’s annihilation, I declare your life forfeit as well as your clan cast down. I want a plan for a new clan raised before this session is concluded, as well as plans for whose clans will take over the Andarsan dependencies.”

Seeing she was letting them feast on the corpse of a once great clan, the other clan heads resumed their stomping with even more vigor.

Letting the blood continue to flow and make a mess, Aoife returned to her seat.

“Now, we were talking about the new skills and how they are being integrated by dwarven society. I’ve seen reports of marvelous adaptations of [Fire Weapon]. What are your impressions of the skill?”

Raghnall, Tier 47, a dwarf with rings and bands on every one of his extremities, smiled widely, but whether it was because of her question or because of the body lying behind him was anyone's guess. “The reports are anything but exaggerated. If anything, they are underselling the effect. Several of my kin, especially the smiths who are just starting their cultivation journey, have reported great affinity with the spells, as well as…”
