As parenting went, it was probably 2/10, but that was like an 8/10 for Tyrion Veltras, so Hethon actually felt better as his father nodded at him. A victory for low expectations!
Lord Xitegen raised his brows.
“Was that the scuffle and noise upstairs?”
“A false alarm.”
Tyrion assured him as Hethon bowed, mumbling more apologies. As ever, Lord Xitegen sort of scared Hethon. The man was imposing.
Well, he was fat. But he was also a man known to run; he’d even raced Ryoka, and he was an important noble of the north. He could rub cheeks with Tyrion and not lose for personality. But the main thing was his smile had that reserve to it.
It was a noble’s look that hid how he was truly feeling. Like how a scary member of the House of El would smile at you and ask how things were—and you were supposed to lie and never answer truthfully. And here, Hethon was smart enough to notice some of the things Xitegen did. The [Lord]’s eyes swung sideways to Tyrion.
“Strangely, Tyrion, my Golems didn’t pick up the communication spells of your speaking stone. Not that we were listening in. But Primera here is equipped with a simple device that routes all speaking stones and [Messages] to her. It’s dull listening most of the time, but I realized all of House Veltras’ communications have suddenly been absent.”
She had a what? Hethon only knew the two beautiful Golems by their names ‘Primera’ and ‘Seconda’. They were not originally named, but apparently were guardian-golems that had existed in Xitegen’s family a long time.
The first one had golden pupils in its porcelain face, and they flickered as Xitegen spoke.
“Primera, scribe the last five incoming [Messages] in a hundred feet.”
She wrote swiftly on a napkin he passed to her, and Xitegen eyed it. Grunted.
“Well, that’s embarrassing. But nothing from House Veltras. Why’s that?”
Lord Tyrion’s face didn’t change as he raised a cup to his lips. Coffee.
“One can’t say, Lord Xitegen. House Veltras always improves its security, especially after the Circle of Thorns. It is impolite to snoop.”
“Relic or magic? Can’t you share?”
Xitegen pressed Tyrion with a smile. Tyrion didn’t blink as he took a sip of coffee and patted his mouth. He was so good at not showing his feelings—in this one case, it came in handy.
Hethon glanced at Jericha. As far as he knew, she was the one who’d done all the ‘encryption’ through some new magic she’d learned. She hadn’t said how, but—
Too late, he saw her eyes widen fractionally, and Hethon glanced over and saw a round face and two sharp eyes on him. He jumped, felt his heart lurch, then sink, and Lord Xitegen sat back.
He glanced once at Jericha, then smiled at Tyrion, whose face still didn’t change.
“Well, we’re partners for this Solstice event anyways. House Terland would pay for anything House Veltras might share with its cousins. Quite handsomely. Of course, we did send a few Golems during the war, but that was a matter of standing together. How are the provinces holding up after all this strife? We could send you a Farming Golem or two.”
Tyrion sighed audibly. And his fingers drummed on the table a second.
“If we did have anything to share, Lord Xitegen, I would not trust in the methodology yet—perhaps just your personal house?”
“I’ve pulled three Farming Golems from my lands, and Aunt Ulva hasn’t threatened to do more than double my tithe. Four?”
“…Do you have a Golem that can perform manual tasks? Lord Swey was injured, and if one could operate the elevators he’s constructing around his plateau…”
“That [Emperor] is doing that, isn’t he? Drake machinery. I’ll send a nice stone one.”
The two [Lords] exchanged a glance, and Tyrion jerked his head fractionally.
“Jericha can meet with one of your [Mages] after our conference with Erin Solstice. Hethon, why don’t you and Sammial go to The Wandering Inn for breakfast?”
One look said that he didn’t want Xitegen grilling the two boys more, and the [Lord] of House Terland sat back, looking highly pleased.
Greatly relieved, and even more guilty about letting Jericha’s magic slip, Hethon nodded and stood there until he heard the patter of feet, and Sammial came racing downstairs.
This was the fun part of their extended vacation. Freedom, breakfast at The Wandering Inn—which had better food—even Lord Xitegen seemed to admit it.
“You know, I was endlessly impressed with the ‘mayonnaise’ until I realized it came from Liscor. The food here still beats eating something made by a Goblin, but I fear I’ll need to put my posterior where I’m installing the Golem heart.”
“I don’t understand your analogy.”
Tyrion returned calmly as Hethon caught Sammial and pointed out Ullim coming downstairs and sighing. Xitegen sighed behind his newspaper.
“Celum. I believe Blazehound might be my new abode, at least until I find permanent residences. I should live in the city I’m sponsoring. Maybe I’ll just steal Chef Imani. She was the architect behind the banana muffins that impressed me.”
Tyrion Veltras talked about matters of governance like a Golem himself. But his lack of any real insight into the world of cooking made him pause.
“…Banana muffins?”
“Yes. Delicious. From Oteslia; that’s one benefit of the inn’s door. Another reason for me not to let it get destroyed until Archmage Valeterisa sets up her delivery service. I had a half dozen and could have taken the tray…glorious. Actually, Golem Seconda, go and buy whatever is the special of the day—but only two servings. Budget: five gold coins. No, wait, two. Only edibles. No, wait. Only food.”
Xitegen waved at the Golem maid as Ullim told the boys to put on mittens and boots for the short walk through the snow. As they raced upstairs, Hethon paused, because it was always funny seeing how Terlands worked.
“Last time she bought me about ten bags of something that Centaur whipped up. Smokable hash or whatnot. I’ve accidentally bought two hundred pies with them before.”
Xitegen confided in Tyrion. The [Lord] nodded.
“How droll.”
Xitegen’s wince was a full-face effort that showed how fun it was to hang out with Tyrion. But Tyrion was still on the muffin thing.
“Banana muffins. I’ve eaten many muffins. I know bananas. I’ve also sampled mayonnaise. It’s not exactly a difficult dish to copy, so it was already in House Veltras lands before I visited the inn. But these muffins…where does the mayonnaise come in?”
Lord Xitegen hesitated.
“…You know, I didn’t ask. But they were damned good.”
“Does—do they taste sweet?”
Tyrion Veltras had faced down Crelers with less cracks in his demeanor. Xitegen beamed.
“Primera, go after Seconda and amend the order for a dozen banana muffins as well.”
Xitegen would happily treat his peers to a banana muffin any day of the week. Especially if it made Tyrion Veltras look uncomfortable.
 
——
 
It was so much fun visiting The Wandering Inn, but Hethon still felt that dread when he returned to his rooms and searched for his boots in the untidy mess of clothing.
Maybe he should have had the Golem clean up. Hethon yawned as he scrambled around; he still felt like this dream was in his head. Normally he forgot but this time he still felt a hint of that unease…
And the whispers. Hethon paused once more as he stared at his sheets. Someone—perhaps Jericha—had remade the bed, perhaps to check if there had been anything off after all, so it was just memories.
But he had been having that kind of dream for a while, hadn’t he? Maybe it meant something—
“Hethon! I’m leaving without you! Come on!”
Sammial’s shout made the older boy jump. He was standing in the doorway. Hethon found his boots and put them on hurriedly. When he clattered downstairs, Sammial raced out in front of him and headbutted a woman coming down the stairs so hard she nearly fell flat on her face.
“Lord Sammial! I am so sorry, Lady—”
Ullim was beside himself with chagrin. Tyrion half-rose as the woman caught herself; Sammial was howling, clutching his head.
“It hurts!”
“I should apologize to Lord Sammial. Boys run around so, don’t they? No offense is taken. Ah, Lord Veltras, Lord Xitegen.”
Then Hethon, mid-bow, noticed the woman was definitely a [Soldier]. Her posture, the way she addressed the two [Lords], the uniform that had the pearlescent white and blue look of House Terland, and their crest on her shoulder were all big giveaways.
But the other sign was the war wounds. She had a Golem hand, and what had made Sammial’s headbutt turn into self-inflicted damage was…
Clickclickclick—the sound was coming from the woman’s back. When she noticed Lord Hethon’s stare, the woman bowed.
“My torso is mostly that of a Golem, Lord Hethon. It makes it hard for one to stab me in the back.”
“An [Assassin] learned that the hard way this year. Magnificent design, incidentally. This is Automata Controller Lectara, who will be taking charge of my forces.”
“That would put you at about [Major] in class equivalence. Greetings, Controller.”
Tyrion Veltras translated Terland’s internal rankings into a metric that made sense for him. The woman sat down slowly as Hethon and Sammial stared at her.
“She’s part Golem?”
Ullim hissed at them.
“It is a war wound. Lord Sammial, Lord Hethon, don’t stare.”
The woman turned and waved with a smile, and Hethon wondered what kind of war wound you got that replaced most of your back and stomach. He noticed Lord Xitegen instantly ordering a soup instead of the food on offer.
“I am hardly an able commander of non-Golems, Lord Tyrion. But I will be leading House Terland’s mixed forces.”
“The class has always seemed disrespectful to your station.”
Tyrion frowned as Xitegen shrugged.
“It’s how a lot of the family view regular [Soldiers]. They’re there to support a Golem. Dig them out of the mud, repair them, or screen their advances and retreats. Hence ‘Automata Controller’. I agree, it’s not very apt, but I wasn’t the one handing out titles. Plus, you have to have a steady voice to shout orders at a Golem in the middle of a fight. How’s the condition of the reinforcements, Lectara? I was surprised to see Aunt Ulva sending in some real Golems. The Wind Runner and Tyrion’s doing, I suppose? She wouldn’t send them to me.”
The woman inclined about ten degrees and nodded her head; she seemed very stiff.
“Lady Ulva did indeed send some of House Terland’s main battle Golems. As for myself, I am eager to see the famous inn, Lord Xitegen. I cannot say how we will mesh with this coalition army until I hear the battle plans.”
Xitegen’s smile turned into a scowl.
“Well, the [Innkeeper]’s promised to tell us something about what we’re facing at last. Drakes, adventurers, a whole lot of irregulars—I even hear the Centaurs are riding north. Though that last part isn’t surprising if the Titan’s really besotted with Erin Solstice, as rumor has it. I hope they’re not in bed together, though; that sounds like he’d die the moment she rolled over.”
“Lord Xitegen!”
Tyrion looked amazingly uncomfortable as Lectara and Xitegen began laughing. But there it was again. He saw Ullim glance back, and Tyrion turned to regard his son.
A sense of unease sweeping through the inn. Then his father was lowering his voice.
“I have sent for the Oswen Marshrangers, and Lady Buscrei has just arrived in the city. She might be arriving for breakfast here. Aside from that, if you would agree to relocate your artillery Golems—Lady Magnolia has agreed to shelter my sons at her mansion.”
Xitegen grunted.
“I suppose I can do that…”
Shelter us at Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion? But Tyrion hated her. Why would he do that?
Unless he thought it was dangerous. Hethon remembered his dream. He looked at Lord Xitegen, almost hoping the [Lord] made light of Tyrion’s preparations. But Xitegen just flicked his fingers.
“You have my support. Put Terland’s forces where you wish, Tyrion. But I will control my artillery Golems. Don’t worry. I’ll agree to put the covering fire where you need it.”
“Agreed. Will you be staying at a remove?”
Tyrion’s voice was calm, but Xitegen steepled his fingers and sat back. Controller Lectara added in a calm, but pointed tone.
“Lady Ulva has instructed me to ensure you have the best vantage point, Lord Xitegen.”
“So she wants me where? On Liscor’s walls? Part of me insists on staying at the inn, despite all the Goblins and Antinium I’ll have to rub shoulders with. There’s nothing like being at the center of…whatever we’re at to make me fight like my life depends on it.”
“Lord Xitegen—”
“You’d do that?”
Tyrion spoke, surprised, as the boys hesitated. Xitegen looked at the [Lord].
“Well, I understand Lady Pryde will be there, and I cannot imagine she will retreat. With that Drake, no less. Magus Grimalkin?”
A flash of disapproval crossed Lectara’s face, and Xitegen shuddered.
“No accounting for taste. But she will be there. Lady Bethal Walchaís. You will take the field?”
“Depending on how the circumstances play out, yes.”
“Then I may take the inn.”
Lectara protested instantly.
“Lord Xitegen—!”
The [Lord] calmly stabbed the table and several plates shook.
“We cannot have four or more Flowers of Izril dying. No more! We have been pruned by the last great war. Like her, hate her, Magnolia Reinhart’s death would result in a power vacuum. You too, Tyrion. Even that strange [Emperor] fellow is an asset with his [Engineers]. Ah, Lady Ieka is about! Not one. Rest assured, I won’t treat the inn like Fortress Gallam. But I will be there to pull our number out if it goes south.”
If it goes south? Hethon licked his lips, and Tyrion Veltras hesitated. But before the two could argue further, more people swept into the inn.
“You’re going right back to Oswen! Palec, tie her to her horse.”
“Reneil, my boy, if you grab me I will put you over my knee and give you a spanking in front of everyone.”
“Mother, you can’t—”
Lady Buscrei strode into the Terland’s Favor so fast she nearly ran over Sammial. She caught the boy as he recoiled, grinned down at Hethon, and raised her voice.
“Hethon! Sammial! The two at last! It feels like ages since I saw you two together. Come here!”
She lifted Sammial, gave him a huge hug, and the two [Lords] beside her sighed.
“Hethon. Nice to see you.”
Hethon recognized two men following Buscrei. Reneil and Palec, the eldest and third-eldest sons of the sprawling Oswen branch of House Veltras. They lived in the swamp, and the two instantly clapped him on the shoulder in a familiar way.
