Soon, then. The days were now in a row and falling like dominos, and soon the chess pieces would be falling off the board. Only, they weren’t chess pieces and never had been. And Erin stood in the center of the board.
But she had always promised to be the queen. And sometimes…the queen went out first, before the game had ended. So Erin took a breath, let it out, and then she felt calm, in the middle of a storm.
“I forgot to write a will.”
She gave Ryoka a smile like an umbrella in the middle of the lands of the dead. A bright light, made brighter by all the darkness. And the Wind Runner was wiping at her eyes, crying now, and attracting attention like a kid. But Erin Solstice looked around with a rueful smile on her face.
What a silly meeting. She’d known they wouldn’t get it, not really.
Even she didn’t understand what she was facing, completely. How were you supposed to tell people they were facing literal gods? And brave and doughty as some of these people were—they had never faced overwhelming odds.
 
——
 
You had to be there to understand it. Erin had been there, and half of them didn’t even believe she had seen more than the weight of their military careers.
But some did. A Drake who’d stayed silent the entire meeting, despite his arguable seniority in this, his city, slowly got to his feet.
Olesm Swifttail was looking around with less of an eye for where to place new trenches or how to counter an undead attack. He even had less imagination than the Titan.
Most of the officers were imagining ten thousand Ghouls coming at them. Niers was imagining what would happen if they were all Draugr. Or worse.
Yet Olesm had some qualities of a leader. One of the people watching via the [World’s Eye Theatre]’s magical panels on the dome had noticed the Drake moving. Perorn Fleethoof was still riding, and she looked irked.
As if this briefing had been entirely unsatisfactory. It was the same look on Niers’ face, actually, though the Titan was speaking to Altestiel. He was glancing at Perorn, and she’d given him a nod.
Idiots. But now one of the Drakes was waving at her for attention. The Centaur shifted her gaze, and a Drake nodded to her.
“Commander Fleethoof! As one of the premier commanders for this event, would you care to join our conference? We were just laying out the field—”
Even Wall Lord Aldonss was warily respectful of one of the top mercenary commanders in the world. However, Perorn’s gaze found Olesm, and she smiled ruefully as she saw him speaking to Caoraz. Ignoring Aldonss completely, she muttered.
“I’m getting slow.”
The blurring background behind her slowed, and a strange, box-like city appeared behind her. Perorn came to a halt for a moment, looking into the scrying orb as the winter sun shone brightly on her face.
The Centaur shaded her brows, and some of the people watching her stirred. Wait a second. That looked like…
Aldonss’ head swung around.
“—Someone query Pallass. I thought we were waiting on the Forgotten Wing Company at Pallass?”
A nervous [Strategist] fumbled with a list of reports and [Message] scrolls.
“Yes, sir. We’ve pre-approved passports already. They haven’t been called in at the gates yet. But they’re on a priority to shift over. There are thousands of Centaurs, and we were warned that because they have a higher mass, they might have to go in trios and it would take a long time even with recharging. We told Commander Fleethoof. She’s aware.”
“Yes. She is.”
Chaldion muttered. The Centaur wasn’t even breathing hard. But she was staring down into the [World’s Eye Theatre].
It wasn’t Olesm she was looking at; well, not just him. Rather, the blue-scaled [Strategos] was tapping a Drake on the shoulder, and Lieutenant Caoraz turned mid-conference with elements of Pallass’ 8th Army.
“Can I help you—sir?”
Unfamiliar army or not, he recognized Olesm’s rank. Olesm glanced at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] was watching him too. Olesm jerked a thumb-claw away from the table with all the commanding officers crowding around it.
“Lieutenant Caoraz, I’m sure the next couple of days are going to be filled with strategic assignments of each force. Neither you nor I are particularly senior or the best picks for planning the battlefield.”
Caoraz opened his mouth to respond, then fanned his wings as he looked at the image of Niers high above him.
“…I’d protest anywhere but here, sir. Did you need me for something? My battalion’s pretty small. We’re not used to Liscor. If they’ve caused another incident—”
His head turned to Erin, and Olesm shook his head. Another jerk of his thumb.
“Let’s get a drink. I’ll introduce you to my subordinates. Belgrade, and there’s one of my sub-commanders who’s from the House of Minos. He’s staying out of the inn for personal reasons.”
“I—wouldn’t mind a drink if you’re paying. But I’m sure the Grand Strategist will be calling for a briefing any moment.”
Caoraz was still confused, but Olesm patted him on the shoulder.
“I know. When we figure out where we’re going, we’ll begin practice and doubtless coordination. But what I’m saying is—you’re with me.”
At his table, Grand Strategist Chaldion stopped lighting a cigar and turned. Caoraz was still laughing the request off.
“What? Sir, you must be Liscor’s 2nd Army commander. With respect, the Grand Strategist called for my battalion.”
“I know. I’ll ask him to approve it, and he will. You’re. With. Me. Liscor’s army doesn’t have the levels like some groups. But we’ll be close to the inn, I think. I couldn’t bring all my forces back. When we get into the fighting, your soldiers are going to be with mine. I want someone who isn’t going to flinch. Who gets it.”
Olesm prodded Caoraz in the breastplate, hard enough to actually make the Drake move a bit. The blue-scaled [Strategos] was younger and smaller than the [Lieutenant]. But his gaze was very direct.
Him? The [Lieutenant]’s fellow officers grinned until they heard what Olesm said. Then they looked at each other, about to tell this idiot how command structures worked—and then they hesitated.
Caoraz, of the many Drakes and Humans, hadn’t been the one scoffing when Erin had told them about the dead gods. He’d frowned, asked questions, and wanted to know information about the enemy. But he hadn’t blinked. He’d taken it seriously, even swallowed hard when Erin painted a picture of the undead.
Not grinned. Now, the Drake turned his head, looking around for guidance, and Chaldion’s gemstone eye flashed as Olesm twisted his head. The [Strategos] gave the [Grand Strategist] a cool look and dipped his head respectfully.
Chaldion blew smoke out his mouth and snorted. But he didn’t immediately censure Olesm. And another voice spoke up, louder now.
“Excuse me, Miss. You, sitting in the second row, Antinium side? Third from the left? I’d like to do this in person, but it seems I’ve lost a step with age. To preempt anyone else; I am Commander Perorn, known as Fleethoof, of the Forgotten Wing Company.”
The image of Perorn talked over everyone else, and every head turned as she signaled out an Antinium in the meeting. The Centaur bowed at the waist.
“Be it so presumptuous, but I would like to formally request the induction of yourself into my unit for the duration of the coming battle. If you agree, I would like to offer you amenities as soon as we set up camp to begin discussing battle preparations and establishing friendship, if possible.”
She stood, formally, favoring her back right hoof, in front of one of the Antinium. A brown Worker who’d been sitting with the officers like Tersk, Dekass, Belgrade, and so on with Bird’s group. Only, if you looked very closely, you could recognize all the leaders.
Tersk, Dekass, Olesm’s battalion commanders, were all very iconic Antinium. Except for this lone Worker with an ordinary brown-black shell.
Miss? Then General Duln nearly leapt out of his chair as the Antinium’s chitin changed.
An azure Antinium slowly stood up, and her head began to leak magical colors as Tyrion grabbed his sword and the nobles of Izril withdrew. Half a dozen Drakes drew blades—until Chaldion snapped an order, and Lulv raised his spear. He stopped dead when Perorn glared at him.
“You want to put me under your command?”
Xrn’s voice said she couldn’t tell whether she was amused or angry. Perorn nodded.
“I am one of the most senior commanders on the field. Frankly, I doubt any other commander will be able to synergize with the Antinium due to your species’ history. Whatever post we take, I would like to partner with your 7th Hive. Mercenaries should stick together.”
Xrn’s eyes glinted, and Perorn’s head shifted. Xrn spoke in a rasping, slightly accented dialect, but the word wasn’t English. She said—
“Agreed?”
“Yah.”
The Goblin’s tongue. And then Rags, the ignored Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe, got up and grinned with all her teeth. Rags walked forwards as Perorn’s finger pointed at a third person in the audience.
“You’re with me as well.”
Olesm cursed under his breath as Gershal of Vaunt turned white. The [Lieutenant] looked around and stared at someone’s midriff.
“M-me, Commander Fleethoof? I’m Lieutenant Gershal. Uh—uh—from the City of Vaunt! I have, erm, two hundred assorted…I have a report with our disposition—”
He forgot even his city as he stood, nearly knocking over a milkshake he’d been given. He looked like a mess, but Perorn answered the question before he made it.
“I know who you are. You have good synergy with mixed-species forces. And you don’t run. You, you, you. You’re with me.”
She tagged three more officers until someone cleared his throat. Tyrion Veltras slashed a hand, and Lady Buscrei halted as she levered herself up.
“Oswen’s forces will remain with House Veltras. I, too, would like to request auxiliary units join forces with my people. Emperor Godart, will you consider merging your forces and Captain Halrac’s Griffon Hunt with my soldiers?”
“…It seems like the best move. Though I don’t care for the repetition. Where are the Knights of Solstice? If we’re grabbing forces, I want them. Unless they’re holding the inn itself.”
Laken Godart grunted. And though the theatre was full, his voice was the only one speaking. This time, it wasn’t Erin doing it. Though the [Innkeeper] did roll her eyes, she was taking notes.
So that’s how you used your aura to get people’s attention and made sure no one talked over you. One of Pallass’ [Strategists] opened his mouth to protest until Chaldion spoke.
“Archmage Valeterisa has experience working with Drake forces. I am seconding her magic and Liscor’s forces. I will take charge of the city’s defense.”
“Me?”
Valeterisa looked around in surprise. Montressa hesitated—and Chaldion crooked a finger. Olesm had started something, and he turned his head as Perorn spoke up again.
“Not bad. I’ll ask Niers to put you on a wing we need held. If your army can hold in the middle of a rout. Can they?”
She turned her head, and Olesm found his tongue.
“We went up against Manus in the war. Ask Lulv if they’ll break.”
The Gnoll’s head twisted around, and Aldonss put on a confused face for the benefit of the audience. But Perorn Fleethoof just nodded.
“Good. I’m taking the Hundredfriend Courier and any other Couriers you’ve got. Seve-Alrelious? Compliments of your friends for the Yellow Rivers delivery. Is that Erek?”
A grinning Courier stood up. Half the people here hadn’t even realized he was going to stay and fight.
“Oh come now, Commander Fleethoof! Are you trying to poach all the talent in the room for your mercenaries? You’ll have the makings of a new Great Company on Izril if they stick with you after this battle is done. Which I, personally, would enjoy seeing. But not if you were hired by the Drakes, eh? House Terland would have to stridently object to this.”
Lord Xitegen stood, chuckling loudly, but his tone was warning. The [Lord] was as concerned as Wall Lord Aldonss by Perorn’s straightforward approach to grabbing talent. Which was to say very.
And he had missed the plot. Erin Solstice was still standing, somewhat forgotten, as the movers and shakers were planning for their war against the undead. Perorn tossed her head as the image of the scrying orb shifted.
A rank of Centaurs was at rest, halted on top of a hill, a column of them pawing at the snow, steam rising from their sides in the cold air. The hills…and valleys…and behind them was a stain of red partly covered by snow, stretching down the huge valley in the distance as the land descended.
The Bloodfields. At this, Olesm’s head snapped around. If that was where she was—
“She’s at the Floodplains! She’s at the edge—we can probably see her from here! How did she run—”
Someone squeaked in disbelief. Xitegen’s eyes swung towards a junior [Tactician] as he pinched the bridge of his nose.
“She’s the fastest [Mercenary] in the world. Shut up. Commander Fleethoof—”
“Do you think I’m focused on building a mercenary company, Lord Xitegen? For a man of your reputation, I’m disappointed. I’m disappointed by this entire conference. You are not taking this seriously.”
The Centaur snapped down at the officers present. One of Manus’ [Captains] snapped a salute as he rose.
“Rest assured, Commander Fleethoof, we won’t let you down if you wish to coordinate with Manus’ forces. We are prepared for the fray no matter what comes.”
Perorn’s eyes narrowed dangerously and zoomed in as she held the scrying orb close to her face. She barked back.
“Oh yes? You are? Then where’s Dragonspeaker Luciva? Have her meet me with the Security Council and Manus’ 1st by midnight. Ready? No wonder the [Innkeeper]’s letting you sort yourself by who’s expendable and who’s not! I’m on my way. Give me three minutes.”
The image of her winked out as the [Captain] was left gasping for a reply. And then everyone was standing, half of the voices raised in outrage. But Erin Solstice snapped her fingers before people could rush out of the theatre—and the viewpoint changed.
An image of The Wandering Inn from above appeared. It showed the city of Liscor, the digging Antinium, and columns of soldiers winding in and out. Then they stopped.
Men and women pointed and backed away from something in the distance. Slowly, the viewpoint altered—and Ryoka Griffin whistled softly.
A Centaur was racing over the hills and valleys to the south of Liscor, leaving a trail of snow in her wake. No, not just one; she was in the lead by far, but thousands of Centaurs were kicking up an entire blizzard in their wake. They surged up and down the hills so fast that they set the soldiers’ teeth on edge.
