Unlike House Veltras’ main family, the Oswens were personable, fun, and Hethon had stayed with them while Sammial was kidnapped. He liked both, though Palec was the one Hethon knew most; he’d taught Hethon more of how to ride in the swamps and how to shoot and hunt.
It had been fun, as worried as Hethon had been, those months of his father being at war. Lady Buscrei had gone with Lord Tyrion, though, so Hethon was shyer around her as she hugged him. She smelled like the road, snow, and still, that earthy odor of the marshes and Otterdogs.
“Dead gods, you’re growing, Hethon. It’s good to see you. Why haven’t you visited our swamp since you and Sammial got back?”
“We’ve, uh, been with the Haven and visiting Invrisil, Lady Buscrei.”
Hethon mumbled as Sammial shouted.
“I’ve grown too! What about me?”
Buscrei glanced down at Sammial and ruffled his hair.
“Nope. Still a runt. I have Otterdogs longer than you. And here’s my young cousin! Dead gods, it turns my hair to look at you, Tyrion.”
“Buscrei. Thank you for making it. Did you bring all of the Marsh—”
Tyrion got the words out as he rose, but she just put him in a headlock and rubbed at his hair. Lord Xitegen was laughing already, and Tyrion glared at Buscrei.
“Lady Buscrei!”
Jericha was horrified, but the [Lady] grinned.
“What? It makes me annoyed, seeing him this young. Xitegen, you rogue. My entire family wants your autograph after seeing you chase the Bloodfeast Raiders away. Marshrats, your thighs. Every time I see you, I want to hunt down an elk and eat venison until I’m sick.”
“Lady Buscrei, you are a rogue and nightmare to my cousins. Well met.”
Xitegen rose, and they exchanged a kiss on each cheek. Controller Lectara looked vaguely horrified by Buscrei, as one did when they met one of Veltras’ earthier cousins. They were as unhappy as Lectara with the state of things.
“Lord Reneil, Lord Palec. Greetings.”
Tyrion turned to Buscrei’s sons, both in their thirties, and they bowed. Reneil was the serious one, and he offered a formal bow to Xitegen as well.
“Lord Tyrion, a pleasure to see you. We have indeed brought the eighty-eight Otterrats Vanguard. As well as nearly three hundred of Oswen’s regular archers.”
“That many? I’m gratified.”
Tyrion murmured in surprise. Reneil nodded stiffly.
“We hope you’ll accept that—but in return, we must beg your forbearance. Lady Buscrei will not be joining your forces for the Solstice event and will be ret—”
Buscrei had been elbowing her eldest son, but now she gave him such a hefty buffet he stumbled.
“Ignore them. My boys have been after me all this ride to return home.”
“Are you needed in Oswen?”
Tyrion looked surprised, and his eyes flicked to Buscrei in concern. But Xitegen had sat back, letting the family drama play out, and Hethon felt his skin chill as Palec burst out.
“We will not let our mother die in this coming conflict, Lord Veltras. Reneil and I will take her place. We can cover most of her abilities with our Skills. We were warned by that [Innkeeper]—Swey’s lost his hand already, and Mother nearly got skewered by that Great General. The entire family’s agreed. If it’s going to be a charnel house, she cannot be there.”
The two [Lords] squared their shoulders as Buscrei raised a fist, looking readier to brawl than they were. She swung around to Tyrion.
“The day I thought I’d be treated like a damsel in need of protection by my own sons—they got a scare during the last war, Tyrion. Ignore them. You called, and I’ve come. Reneil and Palec can fall in with the others, or I’ll ship them home with tanned backsides.”
She stood there, glaring, and all eyes turned to Lord Tyrion. He looked troubled.
“It is within my authority to order Lady Buscrei to return, but I do not interfere with family politics, Lord Reneil. She is the head of her house. By rights, you should obey her orders. Unless you are attempting to unseat her. In which case, you would present that claim to me, formally.”
The sound Reneil made was like steam escaping a kettle. Hethon winced; Tyrion was probably the worst man to try and get to bend the rules. The younger [Lord] spread his hands.
“Then tell me, at least, Lord Tyrion, why you have called for some of House Veltras’ finest soldiers! This is no ordinary battle; you didn’t call on the Otterrats for the Goblin Lord! Why are we fighting around a Drake city, and what are we fighting against? If this is because of Ryoka Griffin, then respectfully, I’ll call that a breach of conduct on your end and defend it before the entire family!”
His voice rose, and Palec and Buscrei stomped on his feet. Tyrion went still and glanced over Reneil’s shoulder. He spoke slowly.
“…Today, we will be called for a briefing by Erin Solstice about the nature of the danger, and part of your answer will be revealed then, Lord Reneil. As to the other, I can personally state that while I am romantically engaged with Miss Griffin, I do not believe it is why Lord Xitegen or Lady Reinhart are here.”
“Perish the thought.”
Xitegen spoke, blotting at his mouth with a handkerchief. Reneil stared at Tyrion, and then his head turned, and Hethon waved guiltily at a young woman. Tyrion sat back down.
“However, if you would like to address the complaint to Miss Griffin, here she is.”
The Wind Runner was standing in the doorway of the Terland’s Favor, staring guiltily at Buscrei as Winter Sprites buzzed around her. Hethon stared at them, at Ryoka, and reflected that she really did have the worst timing. But all Ryoka Griffin said was this:
“I—don’t know how bad it’ll be. Buscrei. Reneil. Tyrion. I really don’t. I’m honored you came, but it might be bad. Really bad.”
She paused.
“It could not be, but it might be. There’s no telling, but the scale of how bad it could be goes beyond even the war against Ailendamus.”
Lord Reneil exhaled slowly as Hethon felt it again. He looked at the sky past Ryoka and thought he saw a shadow over the High Passes, in the south. Was it just his imagination? He looked past the mountaintops and thought he saw trees. Then he rubbed his eyes and they were gone. Hethon felt a tremor in his soul, and Reneil nodded.
“I was afraid of that.”
He sat down hard as Buscrei folded her arms, glaring at her sons, daring them to try. And Lord Tyrion looked at his cousin once and hesitated.
“So you know, Buscrei. I will not order you to return if your will is to command the Otterrats.”
Buscrei smiled, and her sons groaned. And Tyrion’s voice firmed.
“But. It isn’t their belief you are a damsel in need of protection. Children don’t wish their parents to die. I believe that’s true of most.”
Lady Buscrei stopped smiling, and Palec and Reneil’s heads rose. Palec nodded silently as Lord Xitegen lost his appetite and Controller Lectara wavered. Lady Buscrei stood there a second, and avoided her son’s eyes. Then she smiled like a hawk, resting one foot on the chair, resting a second, proud and weary.
“Tough luck. House Veltras doesn’t do it any other way.”
She nodded at Tyrion, and the [Lord] offered her a rare smile. Like someone drawing a sword.
 
——
 
The argument between Buscrei and her sons about her staying didn’t resolve in the next few minutes. They were ready to all but drag her away, but Buscrei warned them she’d lay both out before she went, and she might win a fight, even two-on-one.
In the meantime, Ryoka stood there. Tyrion went to greet her, and they spoke, awkwardly, as Hethon and Sammial watched. Then Ryoka turned with a too-big smile.
“Hethon, Sammial! Sorry I’m late!”
Ryoka Griffin was ever-so-subtly off. Which, for Ryoka Griffin, was normal, but the Wind Runner’s stress levels looked elevated. Even for her. It seemed she had the same feeling Hethon did. But the Wind Runner pretended all was well.
“Let’s get breakfast. It’s sausage minestrone.”
Sammial proved he was Tyrion’s son with the blank look he gave Ryoka.
“I don’t know what that is.”
Ullim knew everything and anything, and so the two boys’ heads swung over to him instantly as he clarified.
“A stew, Lord Sammial. Beans, vegetables, a pasta—very tasty.”
Ryoka nodded.
“On the beach. It’s gonna be a busy day, so I might have to eat and run, but you two can play with Mrsha, right?”
Play with Mrsha. Hethon felt a pang because he was fourteen, and he resented being treated like a kid. But then again, Nanette was thirteen, and there was all kinds of stuff to do at the inn.
Actually, Sammial seemed to resent the suggestion too as he folded his arms.
“I don’t like her. She keeps insulting me, and she bullies me.”
Someone bullies Sammial? Hethon, Ullim, and Ryoka all looked astonished. Ryoka leaned over urgently.
“Bullies you how, Sammial?”
His voice raised petulantly.
“I don’t know! She just keeps telling me she’s bullying me by handing me a stupid card!”
Hethon began grinning as Sammial showed Ryoka six, all of which definitely were proof of bullying. Even if the actual form it came in was in doubt.
It was fun at the inn. Mrsha, the crazy Gnoll girl, was crazy. There was Apista, a flying bee, Goblins, sometimes even beavers, and there was always something fun happening.
The beach, the theatre, and if they were bored of any of that, they could watch the scrying orb or run around with the kids.
There weren’t many Hethon’s age, but Nanette was a witch, and she was—sort of annoying, but Hethon liked her more than most [Ladies] her age.
It was just a shame that his father was still not welcome at the inn. It was a shame that it felt like this couldn’t last forever. All the adults were talking, and Tyrion kept glancing their way. But Hethon was watching Ryoka’s face as she led them down the straight. And eying the Winter Sprites.
“Um. Ryoka. Are the Winter Fae…talking?”
He couldn’t hear them most times. Or even see more than a blue blob, despite Ryoka assuring him they had more defined features. Ryoka blinked, looked up, and shrugged.
“They’re always talking.”
“Are they—”
Are they talking about me? That was such a crazy thing to say that Hethon bit it back, but Ryoka frowned.
“Be glad you can’t hear them most times, Hethon. Hey. That’s rude. Buzz off.”
“What’re they saying?”
Ryoka played it off.
“Nothing polite. They insult everyone. You should hear what they say about Tyrion.”
“I wish I could hear.”
Sammial complained. Hethon hesitated, bit his tongue, and then glanced at a blue blob that seemed to be hovering right over his head.
“Did they say anything about me?”
Ryoka hesitated again, then glanced at the air. She shrugged.
“Don’t take it personally. Like I said…they just said you had a bad memory. And sometimes they mention you have good eyes.”
She didn’t know why that suddenly made Hethon pale. Ryoka Griffin hesitated, then glanced back at the inn where Tyrion was staying, then ahead, and took a deep breath.
“Busy day.”
She lost track of whatever she’d noticed about Hethon. She was stressed, but even the Winter Sprites seemed nervous. And when they got to The Wandering Inn, the signs Hethon was feeling grew more obvious.
 
——
 
The first sign was a quarrel before they even made it into the inn. Five Drake [Soldiers], each clearly an officer by their armored and plumed helmets, were arguing with an [Innkeeper] that made even Sammial wipe his shoes on the entry mat and sidle to one side.
Erin Solstice.
“No one spat on anyone.”
“You spat on the floor in front of Inkpaper.”
“Erin—”
A worried Drake with purple scales was trying to defuse the situation. Erin Solstice pointed at a sign.
“See that? What does that say?”
“We can read. We were briefed.”
The Drake in charge had yellow-themed armor, which meant he was from Pallass. Manus would be orange or red, Oteslia green, Salazsar purple, Zeres blue. Fissival’s would probably just have robes on.
He didn’t look like a regular of the inn, or one of the old Drake’s, Chaldion’s, cronies. For one thing, he was arguing with the [Innkeeper]. A mistake.
“I was under the impression my soldiers would be allowed to visit this inn.”
“Not if they’re spitting at my Goblin friends.”
“I will speak to them, Innkeeper Solstice. Threatening them with violence is not acceptable.”
“What, this? It’s just a pan. I want an apology for Inkpaper.”
Erin hid the frying pan behind her back. Hethon was wincing half in anticipation. Here it came…
“I am not going to make my officers do that. We would appreciate non-Goblin servers. Non-Antinium too.”
The Drake crossed his arms. He had red-grey scales like a rock, two semi-translucent wings, and Erin’s eyes narrowed almost as dangerously as his.
“Most of the inn’s staff are Goblins and Antinium. Buddy.”
“Then we would appreciate those who are not, Innkeeper Solstice.”
Was she going to open the door under him? Teleport him into the waters of the beach? Use her aura? Call for one of her people to thump him? One of the [Knights]?
Hethon and Sammial waited in the horrified delight of something nasty about to occur. But after a second—Erin Solstice’s eyes flickered. She noticed Ryoka, Sammial, and Hethon, and her hazel eyes blazed—and she turned away.
“My floors are clean. Spit on them again and I’ll eject the Drake. Got it? If you want service, you’ll have to hope our few Drakes and Gnolls can get to you.”
“I’ll take care of it, Erin. This way, sirs and madam.”
Ishkr pointedly gestured as Erin stomped to her garden through a door that opened in a wall. The other regular inn-goers exchanged looks of incredulity as the officer muttered to his fellows and they followed Ishkr.
What was going on?
 
——
 
“Sorry, Inkpaper. I told them off, and they shouldn’t do it again, but they’re still in the inn. Can you—can you bear with it for a bit?”
“So long as they only spit, is good.”
The Goblin was reading a book, and Erin was already talking to him in the beach when Hethon and Sammial tumbled in and saw a Hobgoblin tending to a huge pot of minestrone with sausage. Calescent was serving the real guests, the trusted ones, in the beach.
The main inn was crowded with unfamiliar people. Lots of officers. Erin was checking on a Hobgoblin who didn’t look particularly bothered. He had an edge to his grin, but she had given him an hour off—and he was reading a book from Selys’ new library.
Erin patted him on the shoulder. Calescent spotted Hethon, Sammial, Ullim, and Ryoka and filled four bowls. He had a twinkle in his crimson eyes.
“You want death spice for their food, Erin? I can add.”
“No. Stay here, Calescent. We’re full up on pre-made dishes, so Ishkr can warm them up. Those idiots don’t even know who’s in the kitchen…leave it be.”
