“And we’re in Liscor? Just like that?”
The Gnoll nodded with a tired look that said she’d had this conversation a thousand times. But she stopped, eyed their green garbs that even resembled fronds and local fauna, and blinked at the Otterrats.
“Yep. Say, where are you from?”
A woman with one eye and a patch grinned.
“Oswen.”
“Never heard of it. Where on the map? Put a pin, see? Excuse me, sir. Don’t shove or I’ll forcewall you!”
The Drake was trying to get through.
“I’m supposed to be at the conference in ten minutes! I’m an officer of Pallass—”
“Oh, well in that case, come on through. But everyone else has to wait! I’ve been letting through soldiers from Pallass all day. You’re lucky I didn’t tell Alcaz to hit you.”
The Drake huffily stomped through as a man with a hat offered the Marshranger a ledger, and he wrote down ‘5’ and listed Lady Buscrei. Then the man pointed to a big map.
“We put pins in it if you’re from somewhere new. Where’s Oswen?”
They pointed to a small place where river tributaries met along south of the gigantic Vale Forest. Alcaz put a yellow tack there, and one of the Marshrangers grinned.
“Wow. So you’ve visitors from all those places?”
There were pins along the entire lower section of north Izril, and the same for the south, with sporadic pins as high as First Landing. Alcaz nodded.
“Yes, sir. It was a little idea. Makes people get a sense for what this is. Now, please read the signs before you head in. I imagine you’ll want to put down camp? You can get that free soup first. It’s already paid for.”
“How’s it free if someone’s paying?”
The Brother of Serendipitous Meetings gave them a twinkling smile.
“If someone else is paying for it, it’s free.”
That made them all laugh. The Drake officer signed his name and station while giving them all a huge side-eye. It was weird standing next to a Drake officer, but the Marshrangers were so distracted by Liska changing the magic door to Celum and beginning her rant that they could barely focus on any one thing.
They’d come via Riverfarm, not Invrisil, actually. Lady Buscrei and her sons had already transited over to Invrisil, and the few hundred members of Oswen’s forces had been told it would take all day for them to be teleported over. This first group of five had the unenviable task of setting up the camp and making nice with the others, but it came with some perks.
Such as getting to see the inn before it was full up. For instance, Alcaz was pointing out some hanging signs, and one of the Marshrangers nudged the others. Pointed.
‘No Killing Goblins.’ They’d heard about that famous sign, but it was hanging up in green paint, a bit sloppily done, and yet it meant something. There were other, neater notes, of course.
 
‘Antinium are guests. No fighting or discrimination allowed in the inn.’
‘The [Garden of Sanctuary] is not open for the general public.’
‘Spying will be penalized with penalties. You don’t wanna know what they are.’
‘If a little Gnoll girl tells you she’s starving, don’t feed her.’
‘The bee is a pet. It will not sting.’
 
Some of those tickled the Marshrangers so much one muttered.
“Wish we’d brought one of those scrying orbs so we could show everyone what we’re seeing. Are you sure we’re in Liscor?”
That got a laugh from Liska, and Alcaz tipped his hat.
“I’m just about to go on break. Why don’t I show you around, gentlemen, ladies? Sorret? All yours.”
A Gnoll had just walked in and sat down in his chair. Alcaz stood, and the Gnoll folded her arms and looked grumpy, but she nodded to Alcaz.
“There are more [Soldiers] than you can throw a stick at on the Floodplains, you know. Our [Shaman]’s pulling up the tents. Everyone but the warriors are going north. I might stick around to help you manage the room. Especially if it pays well?”
She sounded hopeful, and Alcaz nodded.
“I’ll put a word in with Miss Lyonette. Or Yelroan. Just remember, holler if you spot trouble. Otherwise, the lads have you covered.”
Sorret shuddered and, for some reason, glanced at the far wall behind the Marshrangers.
“No fear. I’ll just play nice with the antsy Drakes.”
One of the Marshrangers looked around and then swore. She tensed up as Alcaz led the others out the door; the Drake was already stomping down a long hallway.
“What’s wrong, Ames?”
“There were arrowslits in that room! Did you see where that Gnoll was looking?”
“What? Where—”
Even the Marshrangers hadn’t seen it. One twisted their head and saw the tiniest sliver of wood closing and felt a chill run down their spine.
Wait, were there more watchers than just that lone Gnoll? Arrowslits on the inside of the inn?
Suddenly, that entry room took on a new context. And forewarned, the Marshrangers noticed the odd cuts in the ceiling, ground, and sides of the hallways and grew wary. The Drake barely noticed as he hurried to the far end. Alcaz winked as he noticed their reluctance.
“Just some precautions. You must be fairly good, sirs and madams.”
“We have to spot things in the swamp. Does this inn see a lot of fighting?”
“Fair bit. Don’t worry; no one’s springing us. But it doesn’t hurt to be careful. There were a few lads with crossbows covering us in the other room, but they don’t have itchy fingers. They’d do my job, but people would get antsy if they saw some Goblins first thing.”
Goblins with crossbows? Dead gods! The Marshrangers crossed the hallway slowly, not happy at all to be walking down a kill-zone, but they heard lots of voices from the far end. And more people were passing outside: officers, Drakes, Gnolls with silver earrings—
More species than the Marshrangers had seen in months in a moment! Then again, Oswen was almost exclusively Human. You got half-Elves and Drowned Folk on holiday, but no one else.
This…this was like Invrisil. Actually, even more multi-species! A half-Giant held the door open as the Drake strode through, and one of the Marshrangers pointed.
“Hey, is that one of the adventurers who did the Village of the Dead raid?”
“Mage Moore.”
Alcaz tipped his bowler hat, and the half-Giant, wearing a massive fur-lined cloak over armor, looking more like some warrior of old than a [Green Mage], nodded to him.
“Alcaz. It’s getting busy. One second. I think the poor fellow’s coming back out.”
He sighed mournfully and motioned them back. Not to argue with a man nine feet tall, the Marshrangers halted, and Moore held the door open.
A loud roar had filled the common room of the inn seconds after the Pallassian officer had gone through. A chorus of voices with that elongated ‘s’ that made the Marshrangers certain it was mostly Drakes shouting.
“FAILED!”
Out the poor Drake officer came, tumbling back as he was ejected. Moore sighed as he caught the Drake from actually going head-over-heels.
“Back you go. Sorry about that.”
He patted the Drake on the shoulders, and the officer turned white.
“But wh—what did I—?”
Alcaz tapped him on the shoulder.
“I think you report to your camp in the Floodplains, sir. Shame about that. You missed the traps.”
The Marshrangers looked at each other. The Drake’s eyes bugged as Alcaz tapped one of the hidden traps, and he seemed to literally deflate in place. Moore shook his head as the Drake stumbled back the way he’d come.
 
—-
 
The Marshrangers didn’t get the same treatment as the poor officers, but when they entered the common room, they heard a roar of sound and saw over a hundred people sitting around the tables.
“Not one of ours! Send the next officer in!”
Sixty Drakes, all wearing insignias of some kind, were slamming their clawed hands on the tables and slapping the floor with their tails, in a very good mood. In fact, one of their leaders looked like a [General], and she bawled.
“Someone take over for Lieutenant Caoraz! How many of our officers are going to not notice when they have crossbows on them? That’s thirteen for Pallass, Ancestors damn it! Three for Manus! Two for Oteslia.”
“None of Salazsar! Oh, we build our walls of mountain stone—”
A Drake wearing the royal purple of the City of Gems leapt to his feet, and someone threw a bun at him. General Shirka barked back.
“You don’t count! The Wall Lord already told you what’s what. Sit down and shut up! Next! Who’re the Humans?”
Ames called back.
“Oswen’s Otterrats! Is Lady Buscrei here? Lord Tyrion?”
The Drakes fell silent a second and gave the Marshrangers an unfriendly glower. Well, some of them. A few nodded in recognition or didn’t seem that hostile, but the ones wearing Pallassian yellow or the orange-red of Manus glared in recognition.
The hackles on the Marshrangers went up a bit, but a cheer came up from the other side.
“Over here! More Humans!”
And the other half of the room had Humans in it. The Marshrangers saw dozens of mixed groups, soldiers heading out in clumps, but recognized several members of House Terland, a dozen [Maids], an entire squad of men and women carving slices of cheese off a huge wheel and sharing them with—
“Antinium?”
The Marshrangers recoiled, but the voices from the Human side shouted them down as if forestalling another reaction.
“Don’t throw a fuss.”
“Sit down! Unless you want to cozy up to the Drakes?”
“We need more Humans, anyways! There are too many Drakes arriving, even if they throw a quarter of them out for being too stupid to notice the traps! Where’s you from? Oswen?”
In short order, the Marshrangers were sitting as Alcaz sidled over and received a plate of cheese slices. They were introduced.
“So you’re soldiers? You can’t stay long; it’s officers only, but everyone’s getting some soup. Get some cheese while you’re at it. It’s from Vaunt.”
“The cheese city? Dead gods, Vaunt’s here? And Terland…House Reinhart?”
A friendly [Lieutenant] was orchestrating the cheese handouts, and one of the officers in charge was from House Veltras, a [Commander] Keirne that the Marshrangers had served with during the Ailendamus war. He was friendly.
“There’s even soldiers from the north. House Everight…no, the Everight lands I suppose now that Lord Toldos is passed. House Ulta—those are the huge ones—House Walchaís, House Sanito, soldiers from Reizmelt.”
“Has Lord Veltras mustered a levy on the cities? I thought it was just noble families participating.”
The Marshrangers had understood this to be a smaller gathering, but Commander Keirne shook his head.
“Lord Tyrion levied no one. They just—showed up. A debt of honor for Everight’s militia, they said.”
“Soup! Hello. What lands are you from?”
A Gnoll in uniform was circulating the room with bowls stacked up high. He put down a tray, handed out soup to the Marshrangers, and looked at them curiously as they introduced themselves.
Ishkr grinned. A clawed hand took a bowl from his tray as an old Drake snuck past him, and he frowned at the Drake before turning to the Marshrangers.
“Oswen? That’s far. You might want to secure a good campaign spot if you’re the first to arrive. Good spaces are going fast, or so I hear.”
“Argh. That’s right.”
None of the Marshrangers looked forwards to setting up camp in the damned hard snow. But Alcaz was waving them over, and they stood with the minestrone soup—which was really tasty and spicy, too, put heat in their bones—and pointing out a window.
“There’s proof you’re in the Floodplains of Liscor, folks. Word of advice? Don’t camp in a valley. Snow’s melting with all the camps, and you’ll be up to your ankles in water if you do.”
And then the Marshrangers stared over the most foreign of landscapes. Hills and valleys, up and down without end! Beyond them, the High Passes looming so tall that they couldn’t even see the top, just clouds from where they stood.
“Dead gods.”
They had seen the High Passes growing from afar, even gone up to the mountains, but never been in the middle of them. It was so foreign that it left them speechless—but then they saw the war camps.
“Five Families. Are those Antinium?”
Thousands of black-shelled Antinium were digging outside, making huge walls around the inn. It looked like a maze of dirt fortifications, and beyond them, a huge camp of Drakes was digging palisades. There were tents stretching even up to the spots where the mountain began, and Alcaz pointed right—
“The Human forces under Lord Tyrion are mostly that way. It might be a bit of a march just to get out there, I’m afraid. Miss Solstice is arranging a temporary gate to your camps, but until then, you’ll have to walk back to the inn.”
“Who’re we reporting to?”
Ames was in need of some guidance, and Commander Keirne cleared his throat.
“That’s me. Where’s the map? I have a spot for the Marshrangers…”
They got more precise coordinates and instructions on the command structure and where to report for food as more soldiers appeared. More and more…a flow from other cities, but one with a finite limit.
“Too many people are using the door, Ishkr. Liska says she won’t be able to keep working in two more hours.”
Ishkr grunted as he reappeared; he’d been flitting around the room taking orders and giving out the free soup, and he seemed to literally appear behind the bar when he should have been in another room.
“Liska’s lazy. Can you bring her a snack when you get back to work? That will shut her up.”
So many soldiers. The Marshrangers had finished their food and heard a bark as their second group came in with their Otterdog mascot, Webby, in tow. Instantly, a number of people had to pet the long half-Otter dog that was unique to Oswen. The Marshrangers made to go, reluctantly, and the inn called to them.
They hadn’t even seen the [Innkeeper], the white Gnoll, or the bee! They wanted to see the garden, and Ames had been dying to play chess with Erin Solstice. But…some of the ebullience of seeing this inn faded.
How many soldiers does this inn need? What the hell are we supposed to be fighting, then? Another Goblin Lord?
No one knew, despite them mustering. And the sight of so many soldiers put a pang in the Marshrangers’ stomachs. They were not the only ones wondering, either. Many of the Drake officers looked greatly discontented, and more than one caught Ishkr to ask where Erin Solstice was, or another commander.
But General Shirka just waited, one foot tapping, even as she twitched when Lord Tyrion Veltras entered the room to a massive cheer from the Humans and hisses from the Drakes. She looked at the Lord of House Veltras as he nodded at her, then turned her head towards a side corridor partitioned off with several chairs.
