The audience felt like a great breeze had suddenly swept through the theatre. It blew away sound, and words, until Erin’s voice was the only thing you heard, perfectly clear in a world of silence.
She stood there, and despite their misgivings, dislike, impatience, worries—they focused on her. And when they spoke, they found themselves waiting until she looked at them.
As if she were now in charge of a classroom, each person speaking so they could articulate their points, the rest waiting despite their personalities. No—not a classroom.
A war room meeting. Even the most angry officers from Manus fell silent, and a Fraerling’s eyes gleamed as he began to smile. Chaldion? He puffed harder on his cigar as Saliss slowly held up a cup of water and dipped the cigar into it.
What a waste of a [General].
Lieutenant Caoraz was first.
“Are you telling me we might have mobilized all our forces and the enemy won’t even show? What’s our likelihood?”
“…Fifty-fifty?”
The room susurrated. Lady Bethal waved a hand.
“Explain to me, please, Erin, what this is about? Magnolia just told me it was an enemy, but we’re vague on the details.”
“It’s hard to explain. They’re more like ideas. I don’t know their full abilities; no one does. But they’re like ‘war’ and ‘death’. Those are their natures.”
“That is the most unintelligible—”
The Salazsar [Major]. Erin glared at him, and here her vagueness became a veil. And she knew—Niers knew as he opened his mouth and lifted a finger—
She had to tell them. But the [Innkeeper] didn’t want to. She hesitated and closed her eyes, then looked up with a resigned look in her eyes. She cut the Drake off.
“They’re super Seamwalkers. Okay? They’re the things that ate the ghosts. That is the best way I can describe it. They’re more like ideas, but I can’t tell you their names or—or more because the more you know about them, the more powerful they get. Can you understand that? Please, is there any equivalent to this kind of thing?”
“A memetic threat.”
The whisper came from Ryoka hoarsely. The audience fell silent, and the Drake from Salazsar sat down. His voice was perfectly audible.
“A super Seamwalker? What does that even—has anyone ever fought one of those?”
Three voices answered at once.
“Yes.”
Seve-Alrelious, Niers Astoragon, and Chaldion. But they barely paid attention to the concerned looks on the faces of those trying to understand what a Seamwalker was—a hand waved energetically.
“Pick me, pick me—”
Archmage Valeterisa bounced up and down in her seat like a schoolgirl until Erin looked at her. And the Archmage spoke.
“This is wonderful. Terrible, I mean. I am familiar with memetic threats. If I may provide an example that soldiers may be aware of—is this similar to the Rune of Soyekol’s Madness that was drawn in the air? 4452 of the Era of Glass. It is not a perfect analogy, but every [Soldier] who beheld it was said to have gone permanently insane. However, due to the altitude the spell was cast at, it was, in fact, visible for over a thousand miles. [Archmage] Soyekol was unaware that even if the rune was too remote to fully see, the magical effect worked. The casualties were in the millions on the first day—”
Half the room blanched as Valeterisa brought up an example from ancient history. Chaldion stubbed his wet cigar onto a chair.
“You might not know that historical example, but here’s one you should know: Eyeslayer arrows. Once fired into a room, it targets anyone who beholds it. Worse were Mindslayer arrows employed to kill Selphids. Anyone who becomes aware of its presence dies, including the archer.”
Valeterisa was nodding, and Halrac hesitated as Erin pointed at him. He spoke reluctantly.
“I’ve got a last one. Bogleraums.”
“No, no, you idiot! Don’t—ah, shit.”
Jelaqua shouted and clapped her hands over Ulinde’s ears, but too late. Halrac just shrugged.
“It fits.”
“What the fuck is that?”
The [Archer] responded to Lord Xitegen, who was frowning hard.
“An adventurer story. I’ve never met one, but the tale is that it’s a kind of monster that, once you become aware of it, learns your greatest weakness. Just knowing it’s out there means it knows you and will hunt you down. If you’re afraid of spiders? It’ll lure you into a cave full of them. Afraid of fire? It’ll burn you to death. Named-ranks would be told of them and end up slaughtered by them.”
The room fell silent, and Erin opened her mouth.
“Yep. That’s the best example yet. You know about them? They get nastier.”
“Wait, and you just told us about them?”
Someone in the audience began freaking out, and Halrac sat down and crossed his arms.
“Well, they’re supposed to be dead. If they’re alive, you’re all now on their list. It’s a popular story among adventurers; a kind of rite of passage Gold-rank and Named-ranks haze each other with. And if one does exist, it means people work together to kill it. Even Rhir tells its adventurers and officers about it as an example of the threat, so it’s largely safe.”
Halrac went for a reassuring smile. It didn’t work. The audience was half-skeptical, but now understood what Erin meant when she was vague on the details of Kasigna and Cauwine. And as they were turning back to Erin, Niers coughed and leaned over.
“Captain Halrac. Rhir has a lot of policies in place that don’t exactly add to the life expectancy of its soldiers. I’d keep that apocryphal tale a secret, if I were you. Also, don’t visit Baleros.”
Halrac’s smile turned into a look of skepticism. He eyed Niers.
That was definitely a joke, right? The Titan…sat back in his chair and, after a second, poured himself a drink. He took a sip of that, then one from his cup of water.
“—Okay. That’s horrifying. I’m glad Mrsha isn’t here. So that’s why you can’t know about them. There are two—possibly six, but two are still—around.”
Laken Godart twitched as Erin went on. He had known two remained, but now he was going to have nightmares about Bog-whatevers and the other two. He wished he could pretend this was all a joke.
It sounded unbelievable, and Erin was smiling as she spoke. She almost looked relaxed.
“Why armies? Why summon us if the threat grows when people learn about them? If it’s two, call for Named-ranks or smaller squads. We can set up a battlefield, but why like this?”
Now it was Wall Lord Ilvriss’ turn to stand. He felt like it was something as yet unsaid and looked down at Erin.
 
——
 
Okay, yes. Why? Even Ryoka Griffin didn’t know. And she knew what was coming.
Kasigna.
Cauwine.
Two dead gods. Two beings who, while weak, had absorbed the lands of the dead and grew more powerful every Solstice. This was the moment when they’d be able to touch the living world, at least in theory.
Why…armies? Especially given Cauwine was the Goddess of Adventures and War. She was literally empowered by this kind of thing, and Kasigna was the Goddess of Death. Why not hide, or ask for Saliss to get a dozen buddies and get ready for a fight, or just run from them an entire day?
The answer Erin had was simple. She took a breath, looked Ilvriss in the eye, and said:
“Because, Ilvriss. I’m taking someone’s advice. And the advice I got was from the smartest people in the entire world, who knew their enemies.”
Ryoka’s head snapped around, and Niers’ eyes sharpened.
Gnomes?
That had to be what Erin was referencing. Now, the [Innkeeper] was walking forwards, talking faster now, all the secrets leaking out.
“This was the last thing they could predict—the first Solstice back. Why armies? Well—because when the Solstice happens, those two are going to get a lot of power. I could hide. I’ve hidden the inn, but I challenged them. These armies? All of you? It’s like a gigantic target on me.”
“And you’re drawing us into this…why?”
Xitegen raised his brows, but his leg was shaking, and he was beginning to smile, despite himself. The Goblins were starting to grin. Redscar blew a kiss at Erin, and she turned and met Rags’ eyes. Even the Chieftain was grinning. Erin turned, and she was terrified, but her eyes were alight.
“Because I can take it! If I don’t challenge them, especially Kaligma—that’s her name, go ahead and use it—she’ll go after everyone else. But you know what? They’re arrogant. When they come—you know the stories of someone who challenges an entire army? Like Mars the Illusionist, but not the enemy champion, the entire army? Or someone who attacks you right down the center in a glorious charge? That’s who we’re facing.”
Back to Lieutenant Caoraz, and he looked interested for the first time.
“Wait. We have training manuals about Terandrian armies, back in the day, when you had idiots who thought it was best to hit the enemy where they were strongest to show how strong they were. [Knights] who’d charge straight at pikelines. They’re not that stupid.”
Erin gave him a look.
“They are that stupid. If you think they’re not—I know it’s hard, but listen. When Cau…Cawy, the other one, appears, if she appears? If you say ‘I am the greatest warrior, I challenge you’—she’ll probably come after you.”
Now, even the nobles of the north were raising their brows. Even Tyrion Veltras was incredulous that someone could be that stupid. Lieutenant Caoraz just smiled.
“Sounds like we have a tactic. Bait them into mine spells and crossfire?”
Erin gave him a thumbs up. Then her smile flickered.
“The problem is, she’ll probably mince everything up she runs into. She is…better…than Zeladona, probably. If she’s at full strength, she definitely will be.”
“Ah.”
Another pin dropped, and the room went silent. And we’re supposed to fight that…Erin was lifting a hand again, though everyone was silent.
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart was listening now, and she was sitting with Teriarch; the old Dragon was in the form of Demsleth.
And trembling.
He knew the stories that Erin was invoking. He, more than anyone, knew the risk. That made Magnolia’s heart flutter. The Dragon was whispering to himself.
“No one can beat her. She could kill ten [Blademasters]—she did, back before classes were invented—what are we supposed to do?”
She had to have a plan. So wait. Magnolia captured Erin’s gaze as the [Innkeeper]’s head swung around. Now, Magnolia understood the nature of the threat…as well as the personalities they held. And she thought she saw it.
“The reason…the reason this works is because there’s only one of them that hates my guts. And that’s Kaligma. Cawy actually might not appear, but…death is coming. But here’s the thing. Here’s my advice: instead of dodging or running, I made a stand. I challenged her. And you know what she’s going to do? She’s going to send an army at me.”
And there it was. Of course! Magnolia saw an [Emperor] sit up and open his eyes, though he was blind, and she felt a little ‘click’ in her head.
Of course.
“Why would she do that if this…being is so powerful?”
Erin held up two fingers.
“Two reasons. One. She sucks at fighting or she does not want to. Even when I was dead and met her, she never ran. She never moved above a walk. She thinks it’s beneath her. If I throw down a gauntlet, she’ll reply in kind. That was the advice I was given. She was famous for it.”
“Yes. She did do that.”
Teriarch had stopped shivering. And now his eyes were on her. Erin went on.
“She’ll send a legion of the dead. That was her style. Those wisps? I’m pretty sure that was her doing. She will come right here, and that’s what we’re facing. The second reason I needed an army is simple: she’s a [Necromancer]. She’s like the archetype of all necromancers. She loves armies. So there’s your answer, Mister Spitting Lieutenant, Bird, Niers, Thigh-Lord, and everyone else. You’re preparing for an army of the dead. Undead.”
A great sigh ran through the room, at last, as Erin revealed everything. Then it made sense. Then…a certain [Lieutenant] stopped gobbling down bites of cheese, turned to an Antinium [Knight] he recognized, and Gershal shook Embraim’s hand.
Manus’ soldiers sat back, and Lulv began to grin. Ilvriss nodded at Grimalkin, and Pryde caught the Sinew Magus’ eye, and he nodded at her as half the Drakes glared at him. Tyrion half-stood, already reaching for a copy of the map of the Floodplains.
“Undead? Why didn’t you say so from the start?”
Xitegen complained loudly, but now he saw it. Walls. Walls, trenches, anything that could slow down a zombie or a Ghoul or…Chaldion was speaking furiously.
“Get me Truegold out of the vaults. And I want every [Druid] we can muster. Life magic disrupts death magic. I’ll fling salt and silverdust over them if it slows them a step. Corpses are also highly flammable. I want a count on how many mass-drying scrolls we have…”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice sat there and realized no one was asking her for advice. Fetohep was already making notes.
“Titan, I am writing in your [Message] scroll directly. I shall consult with a representative of the Drakes—Wall Lord Ilvriss, most astute, your handwriting is quite elegant—momentarily regarding historically successful tactics against Khelta’s armies.”
“Undead, huh? It’s always fucking undead. Where’s the Horns when you need them?”
Todi put his feet up, but even Shriekblade looked slightly happier as Saliss began scribbling notes for Octavia to brew up new potions in his workshop.
So that’s what was coming. Erin stood there, and Ryoka glanced sideways at her.
“Do you think it’ll turn out just that way, Erin?”
The Gnomes were dead and gone. They hadn’t seen everything. Erin whispered back, smiling, her eyes blazing with a suppressed fire.
“No. I think it might be a surprise. But they did know her. I’d expect that, if nothing else. You should go. Mrsha, Lyonette, Nanette, Ishkr—the only one staying in the inn will be me.”
“Nonsense. I’ll—”
Erin prodded Ryoka hard, so the Wind Runner recoiled, then Erin took Ryoka’s arm in a strong grip, but it relaxed after a second. The [Magical Innkeeper] tried to smile again.
“Just me, Ryoka. I’m ready. Someone has to defy her to her face. It’s almost time.”
She took a breath in, then let it out.
“I forgot one thing, actually. Good that I have a couple of days, even now.”
“What did you forget?”
Erin turned, and her gaze swept her busy, arguing inn, the chaos, and the gaps where people should be, but weren’t. Gone for their safety. On an adventure, waiting to return. And new people who had never met her but who were going to die here.
