Imagine fighting something that fast! Even the famed Tyrion Veltras looked impressed by Perorn’s speed. And she was closing on the inn so fast—Erin Solstice’s eyes locked on the figure as she galloped up the hill—
 
——
 
The Centaur slowed as she stampeded up the hill. Humans and Drakes were making way for her, staring up at her as she reached the doors. But they were already open.
A Gnoll was holding the door open, and Liska stared up wide-eyed.
“Are you another soldier?”
Perorn grinned. The sound her shod hooves made on the floorboards was loud. Hollow. She noticed watchers in the walls and didn’t miss the trapped hallway. But she was in a hurry, so she just galloped past Liska.
Goblins in the walls blinked as someone flashed past them. Then Perorn was in the common room, and nodded. Someone had opened the door for her. Another Gnoll.
Ishkr. The Gnoll was beaming and bowed.
“The [World’s Eye Theatre] is that way, Commander Fleethoof.”
He had never looked happier than when he met someone like Perorn. The Commander tossed her head.
“What’s your name?”
The Gnoll blinked and hesitated, caught off-guard by the sudden question.
“Ishkr, Commander.”
He tried to duck his head, but the Centauress tossed her head. She had braided her hair for travel, and she turned her head as a storm of hooves halted outside the inn.
“Basal, officers only! With me! Secure a camp to the south.”
She roared back the way she’d come, and three Centaurs stormed through the hallway after her. Perorn nodded at Ishkr.
“Surprise me with a drink, please. Non-alcoholic until the meeting is over. Then something refreshing.”
He bowed fractionally, and she turned around the room. The soldiers stared at her, and the Centauress trotted around tables and chairs, moving amazingly nimbly for someone who was half-horse, half-Human and larger than either.
She didn’t go to the [World’s Eye Theatre] right away. She made one final stop at a side door. Yanked it open.
Eight Goblins, six of them Cave Goblins, two, former Redfangs, stared up at Perorn as they sat in the killzone fortifications with crossbows, magic wands, and snacks. One of them was choking on a popcorn kernel. Perorn eyed them.
“You never managed to fire a shot. You’re all dead. Install some tripwires.”
Their jaws closed. She closed the door.
 
——
 
The Centaur was sweeping through The Wandering Inn as fast as her title. Erin Solstice felt Perorn enter the inn, like someone had loosed an arrow. Her only warning was a sound, the thump of hooves on carpet.
Then Perorn was riding into the theatre, so fast she nearly trampled Lord Palec, who threw himself to one side. The [Mercenary Commander] had arrived.
“Commander Fleethoof! Greetings.”
Aldonss still didn’t get what had ticked off Perorn. He paused as he noticed her flashing eyes. Perorn’s right foreleg pawed at the ground, but her Human half kept her arms folded, her back straight as she surveyed the room.
Her eyes found Olesm, Xrn, Erin, Ryoka, and darted around. When she spoke, it was in the same bark, a semi-roar in the enclosed room. As if it were the lowest volume she possessed.
“You are disgraces of commanding officers! If I were your superior, I would replace half of you. If I were your subordinate, I would be taking my cues from you and think this battle was a little skirmish against the undead. Haven’t you been listening? I will kick dirt into your graves, but I’d rather dance on top of beartraps than trust you with my flanks! What are you doing?”
Her bark provoked fury from both assembled sides. Controller Lectara leapt to her feet. She offered a clasped fist against her chest, a Terland salute, before calling out.
“Commander! This is hardly a polite way to enter this meeting. We have brought the fury of the Five Families south. The insinuation we are not regarding this event as serious is improper, I must say!”
The Centaur turned her head, regarded Lectara, then nodded at Erin.
“So that’s why you didn’t call this meeting. Better they were uncertain.”
She looked Erin in the eyes, and the [Innkeeper] hesitated. They hadn’t met, but Perorn spoke as if they had skipped all the introductions. Which they had.
“Yeah. That’s definitely why I did it. I’m Erin, by the way.”
Perorn Fleethoof descended down the stairs swiftly. She was in front of Erin so fast the [Innkeeper] jumped. She was as fast as Hawk!
“Perorn. We know each other through Niers. I apologize for the entry, but I couldn’t stand to see this. Let’s have a pleasant discussion later. Right now, I need you to turn it up.”
“Turn what up? Whoa—”
Erin had offered Perorn a handshake. Instead of the handshake, Perorn clasped Erin’s forearm in a tight grip. Then she pulled Erin forwards a step and hissed at her.
“Your aura. Your voice. All of it! Show them what the stakes are or you’ll have only a fraction of them you can count on. You called them here. Tell them how they’ll die or you’re stepping on their graves.”
She barked straight into the young woman’s face. Perorn was older, not as old as Niers and Foliana, but she had years on many of the officers here. She turned her head and glowered at Chaldion.
“What are you doing, Grand Strategist?”
Her snap made Chaldion stir. He flinched and sat up, as if stung. Before he could reply, Perorn was trotting around the room.
“I am Commander Fleethoof of the Forgotten Wing Company! You may not recognize my rank; in your terms, I am a foreign [General] of Baleros. I bring Fleethoof’s Gale, my personal unit of Centaurs, into battle. We have come from Baleros’ jungles to Izril. At the Titan’s request, I have elected to take my unit to defend The Wandering Inn. Here, we will plant the banner of the Great Company of Baleros. Here we die. But I expected to find Izril’s finest at my back, not a complacent bunch. Tell them again, Erin Solstice, what we’re facing. But say it correctly.”
She swiveled, and the [Innkeeper] jumped. Even Lord Xitegen was astounded at Perorn’s arrogance. He was on his feet, leaning on the back of another seat.
Say it correctly? How? Erin seemed about to say she’d been doing that all along. But one look at Perorn’s flashing gaze and she hesitated.
Kasigna. Cauwine. She couldn’t even say their names. She had tried to explain the threat like…like the concept of gods. The same way she’d told Fetohep. But maybe that was all stupid. No, it was.
She should have said it right. With the stakes first. With what they’d done, first.
How did you say it?
Erin Solstice closed her eyes hard and felt it. Not the thought of Kasigna, that petty dead god lecturing her, being annoyed by Erin’s playing of chess. Not them when they were humiliated by the Gnomes.
That was good. That was right. But if she listened too long to the laughter of Zineryr and his folk, she forgot who they were.
They were the reason the statues were just that. She…
Erin Solstice opened her eyes, and they were black. The [Innkeeper]’s head rose, and her hat, which had winked out, reappeared. Only now, it was black fire.
Slowly, she reached up and held the flickering hat in her hands. A [Witch], then, spoke. And her voice echoed. She should have been a [Witch], not an [Innkeeper]. She had not invited them to her inn just to relax and enjoy each other’s company. She had invited them, yes.
But she had invited them to die.
“She is the greatest Necromancer in the entire world. Forget everything I said. You are facing the three-in-one. The lady of death. Her name is profane. She died and came back. But she is the master of the dead. More than any other [Necromancer] you have ever known. Az’kerash. The Putrid One. Do you know them?”
Erin raised her voice, and every Drake and Human in the room froze. Now, the [Innkeeper] knew how to say it. Her gaze swung around the room, and a half-Elf slumped in his chair, a veil over his face—twitched. He had been mostly ignored, even with the perceptive people in the room. But his careful disguise and concealment spells began to crack.
A [Necromancer] paused as he tapped into this conversation via a hidden spell on the bottom of one of the chairs. His black eyes widened. And Erin Solstice said it in ways even he couldn’t ignore.
“She is the greatest spellcaster you will ever meet. She could roll over this entire continent with the dead. If you met her at full strength, even the Goblin King’s armies would look small compared to hers. And you cannot kill her with a single arrow.”
Now, Xitegen. He stiffened as Erin said that, and his teeth drew back in a real snarl. The [Lord] of House Terland rose to his feet.
“I have seen the Goblin King. His [Lords] plucked the Flowers of Izril and left us strewn and broken. His minions sieged my castle until my family died defiant. Watch. Your. Tongue, Erin Solstice. The Sacrifice of Roses put [Ladies] adorned in finery against steel itself. We never backed down.”
Lady Bethal’s eyes were blazing, and but for Thomast and Ser Kerrig, she might have jumped down and attacked Erin herself. She nodded furiously as Erin Solstice met Xitegen’s gaze.
“I don’t mock your family, Lord Xitegen. I never would. I am being serious. I would never mock the people who fought the Goblin King. Do you understand? That’s why it’s so unbelievable I tried to explain it another way. Do you understand?”
Xitegen hesitated. The embers in his gaze blazed up—and then he looked at her.
“You are mistaken. You have never seen a Goblin King. That—I allow—”
“No. I’m not. And that’s what should terrify you. I have seen Seamwalkers by the thousands. I have met The Putrid One. And she’s worse.”
Erin didn’t look away from Xitegen as the air between the two ionized. Gershal of Vaunt was ducking and accidentally touched a metal part of a chair. Lightning flashed, and he cried out as static discharged from his fingertips.
“Zeladona died fighting them. Remember that.”
Xitegen didn’t reply. As if he realized Erin were serious, but acknowledging the truth of what she meant would cost him something. His fingers tightened against the wood back of the chair he was leaning on.
The Drakes were watching the exchange with something like satisfaction. So Perorn’s voice cracked across their ranks.
“Are you smiling, Wall Lord Aldonss?”
“Merely with confidence, Commander Perorn. We are ready. The scope of the foe does not matter if we have taken every possible contingency.”
The Drake returned. He had his claws behind his back, and Perorn paced towards him.
“Well then, I hope for your sake you truly do have half your army where I can’t see it. Because if Dragonspeaker Luciva deigned to show her head, I’d caution her that she might lose it. Do you think the Walled Cities have brought an appropriate force? The Antinium rolled straight over your armies twice. Both times on your watch. You don’t look ready to die.”
The Drake hesitated. Before he could come up with a response, Perorn went on. The Centaur’s head turned, and her eyes flashed as she raised her voice in a shout.
“If you don’t think this is going to be hot, watch a recording of the dungeon monsters coming out or say you think this will be simple to someone who lost a limb at the Trial of Blades! Get your tails out from your asses and grab a drink. Then look your worst enemy in the eye and shake her hand. I don’t care if you lot minced each other during the last war. We’re dying on the Floodplains of Liscor. But I won’t be going out with a dry throat. Glory’s writing your name on her arrow. And she never misses.”
Her words were a bark that put a smile on Niers’ face and made him lean forwards as if wishing he could pull himself through the scrying orb. It made even the most reserved officers hesitate. And it provoked a cheer from several voices. Spontaneously—Redfang Goblins leaping to their feet and cheering her, a roar of approval from several members of House Veltras, and two Drakes leapt to their feet and began applauding.
Then looked horrified at their company. The rest of the room just took a moment. Something settled on them, and they stopped grinning. But Redscar kept cheering and laughing. Perorn was about to bite his head off, then turned her head.
“At least someone here looks ready to die.”
She turned, disgusted, and one of the Drakes from Salazsar couldn’t resist muttering, annoyed by the Centaur’s speeches.
“It’s an [Innkeeper]’s mortal enemy. What are we doing?”
They would never understand. Erin lowered her head. Ryoka Griffin, outraged, almost asked the wind to blow that idiot off their feet. Perorn?
She drew a bow from her back. The room saw her move. She wasn’t going to—
It was a warning shot or a graze, right?
Fleethoof’s bow twanged twice in quick succession, so fast they sounded like one note. She shot the officer through the thigh on his right leg, and as he staggered, the second arrow punched through his shins on his left leg.
The Drake stumbled, fell over on his back, eyes wide, staring at two shafts of wood buried in his legs. Straight through his armor. He didn’t feel the pain at first.
“She—she—”
Then he began screaming as the pain caught up with him.
“Commander Fleethoof!”
That was too much. Ilvriss was shouting, but Aldonss drew his sword. The Wall Lord’s scales crackled with lightning as his eyes flashed.
“That’s one idiot down. Next?”
Perorn met Aldonss eyes as the Wall Lord strode forwards. Lulv raised his spear as Perorn’s officers went for their blades. Basal drew two axes with a snarl as voices rose, Drakes drew blades, and the fallen Drake kept screaming.
Then the lights went out. Every light in the room, including the dome, save for the glow of the scrying viewpoints, vanished. The only illumination came from magic rings, the electricity crackling over Wall Lord Aldonss’ armor.
He didn’t care. He strode at Perorn, teeth bared. Snarling until he saw a flash of light. The Wall Lord pivoted, raised his sword—
And a flash lit him up like a hand striking a spark off a thundercloud. A bolt of lightning, a real bolt of lightning, hit the Wall Lord in the chest and bounced.
It glanced off Rafaema, trying to pull Aldonss back, ricocheted off the ceiling, and Primera, Xitegen’s golem, blocked it with one hand. The Golem rocked, and everyone ducked as the room shook.
The Wall Lord hit a row of seats hard. Even Perorn had flinched and aimed her bow at the source of the lightning. But as the lights came back on, Erin Solstice just stood there. Pointing at Aldonss with one hand.
Finger gun.
Someone tried to laugh at the sight as Erin Solstice lowered her hand. But the [Innkeeper] looked around, and her face was bleak. Aldonss was struggling to get up, mouth open. What—what—
