The [World’s Eye Theatre] was where they’d meet, and Grand Strategist Chaldion was there already. Erin Solstice had called for a conference to brief everyone at last.
Answers would be forthcoming. As the Marshrangers exited the room to secure their campsite, they heard a nervous voice from the side and turned.
A young woman with red hair and a dignified bearing, despite the apron she wore, was standing with a Gnoll with blinding sunglasses and two [Knights] in golden armor. She had clapped her hands, but what really silenced the room was her presence.
“Ladies? Gentlemen? We’re ready to begin the conference. Officers only, please.”
Lyonette du Marquin beckoned, and dozens of people got to their feet. The jollity became anticipation, even nervousness as they stood. Some went joking, others skeptically or annoyed by all the hullabaloo. The wise ones went quietly, like the blue-scaled Drake who nodded at an Antinium and Drake, and the trio strode towards the door. And more were still coming, even if Erin Solstice herself didn’t know it.
But she had to tell them what was coming. So when they passed through that corridor that defied the layout of the inn proper and passed into the dome of glass, the panes arranged like an eye, and saw the theatre full of plush seats and the young woman in the center, even the most boisterous officer quieted down a second.
The [Innkeeper] was a [Witch]. She had a hat full of flames, and they blazed pink today. She was smiling, silly, for a second. But her eyes spoke death and terror. If you only saw the smile, you failed.
Then they took seats as papers were passed around, and the factions eyed each other, and a Revenant appeared, his eyes glowing golden in one of the panes of the dome above. The Titan of Baleros, next, wearing a hat with a huge feather as he leaned forwards, as large as his reputation.
The Earl Altestiel, aboard a swaying ship. Magnolia Reinhart, sitting with an elderly fellow with white hair and mismatched eyes. And the Wind Runner strode down next to Erin Solstice and waited until she began to speak.
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] had—finally—called every single officer and significant player for a summit at her inn.
In her [World’s Eye Theatre]. Even distant individuals like Perorn would be using the scrying function to attend. The Centauress was galloping, and the landscape was passing in a blur behind her, but she was muted and all eyes were on the center of the room where Erin stood.
There were also figures like Fetohep who were invested, but distant. Unable to contribute hugely in a manpower sense. The meeting was organized, and there were maps of the Floodplains, troop counts, and everyone was in one room and ready to lay out battleplans.
But frankly, it might be far too late. This briefing was delayed far too long.
Only a couple of days before the Solstice? Two weeks would be preferable for coordination and planning. As one Drake pointed out angrily—
“We have no coordination with the other forces. Nor any idea if half of them can even hold the line, sir.”
It was the same officer who’d been arguing with Erin. He was not a Pallassian soldier attached to 1st Army or even the other armies who regularly rotated into the City of Inventions.
Which was probably why he was mouthing off to Chaldion himself. But even more incredibly, the Grand Strategist didn’t have the Drake ejected out of the room via his face.
“You have a valid point, Lieutenant Caoraz. But let me ask you this: is your battalion ready?”
“We’ve been dug in for four days and have adjusted for the Antinium’s fortifications, sir. My complaint is that we’re a single tail operating without coordination with any other limbs.”
The Drake was from 8th Army, which was Pallass’ border-keeping force as opposed to one who won wars or kept peace in the city. You could call it their least-funded force who operated on the periphery, but on the other hand, they had to prevent incidents from occurring, and you always saw trouble keeping peace in the entirety of Pallass’ claimed and allied sphere of influence.
Caoraz’s presence and his lack of ejection meant Chaldion valued his opinion enough to let him air it. The Grand Strategist was coughing as he tapped on a cigar.
“—Two months isn’t enough time for cohesion with the north, and we have too many odd pieces. Adventurers. Other cities’ militaries. The inn. We get a view of our battlefield, and we hold our section and organize such that if everything else falls apart, we’re ready to swoop in. Besides which, given the other species, I imagine discontent is high.”
“Yes, sir. No one’s happy about the Antinium or Goblins.”
“Deal with it, Caoraz.”
“Yes, Grand Strategist.”
The Drake stood taller and put his claws behind his back as Chaldion kept smoking, projecting an air of calm. He was surrounded by almost all the Drake forces, including Wing Commander Embria, a division of Liscor’s 2nd army, and even Spearmaster Lulv, Wall Lords Aldonss and Ilvriss, and Rafaema were listening politely.
However, Ilvriss’ back-scales were prickling hard, and he noticed the nervous look on one of the [Strategist]’s faces behind Chaldion, barely concealed. General Shirka and Duln, the two [Generals] attending this meeting, betrayed no emotion, but Ilvriss was highly rattled.
Chaldion’s explanation made sense; if you had a ragtag army, you had to put up with the disparate parts. But what he didn’t say was that this meeting was overdue, even so. Six days, or even a week and a half, would have been perfect for Erin to sit them all down and tell them what was going on, right?
Ilvriss, even in Salazsar, could have pulled more of the Rubirel Guard or even asked his father to send some of Ilvriss’ friends with him. As far as he had been aware, that had been the plan; Chaldion had sent a [Message] informing Ilvriss, Tyrion, and a number of other high-ranking leaders he’d pressure Erin into the briefing.
That had been almost two weeks ago. Ilvriss had assumed Chaldion had been having trouble or there were complications until Erin Solstice, of her own volition, had announced the briefing. When he’d asked why she’d delayed it so long, she’d told him Chaldion had never asked her.
And when he’d asked Chaldion…for a second, he’d seen a look of panic on the old Drake’s face.
A crack in the south’s armor was not how Ilvriss wanted to begin preparations for the Solstice. But even if Pallass was putting a good face on it…General Shirka was the one passing out documents.
“We have a list of questions we will have answers to, Lieutenant Caoraz. If you have any other mandatory questions, suggest them now. These are our dispositions of each force as of our intelligence this morning, and we will obviously request full clarity.”
She was taking over the briefing, not Chaldion. Ilvriss had heard that Grand Strategist Chaldion loved to speak and would micromanage every detail of a strategy room. From the way some of Pallass’ officers and Aldonss shifted—they knew it too.
“This isn’t how I envisioned visiting Izril’s second-most famous inn. No one mentioned the Goblins or Antinium as staff.”
One of the other Drakes joked lightly and got a cuff from a superior. A quiet chuckle ran through the group, and Ilvriss turned his head and saw their counterparts.
Lord Tyrion, Lord Xitegen, Lady Pryde, Lady Bethal, Emperor Laken, and a number of bowing officers standing around the seated nobles. They seemed to be focused around Tyrion, and a number were giving the Drakes dark looks.
Lady Buscrei and her sons were in the second row, below the primary nobles. Lord Reneil and Lord Palec were tense, especially as they noted how many commanders were here, but they, like their Drake counterparts, looked slightly disbelievingly at Erin Solstice.
Was this the woman who’d called them all here?
Buscrei didn’t blink. She was focused on Ryoka as much as Erin and noting the Wind Runner’s expression. But so many Humans…
One good Skill and a lot of their enemies in the north would be dead. It was so tempting—Spearmaster Lulv growled.
“I can’t believe we’re fighting next to the Five Families. I’m not sure which our [Soldiers] will hate more. Humans or Goblins. Ants are worst of all.”
A deeper voice corrected him.
“Antinium, Spearmaster Lulv. Try to act in concert with each other.”
“Easy for you to say, Magus Grimalkin.”
The [Spearmaster] growled as Grimalkin exchanged a glance with him. If you had progressive and regressive factions within the soldiers…they were all here because they had orders. But not everyone liked the orders.
Interestingly, Caoraz didn’t seem as stringently hostile as Manus was—they clearly did not regard this as their fight. But Rafaema stomped on Lulv’s foot, and Grimalkin retorted.
“If you don’t see the value of the door staying open, Lulv, look at it in the following ways. One. Any danger to the inn threatens Liscor, whose position is of paramount importance. Two. The presence of King Fetohep and arguably the Forgotten Wing Company proves this matter isn’t one of Izrilian politics. Regard this like a joint action on Rhir.”
“Is there a three?”
The Gnoll growled back. Grimalkin nodded curtly.
“Three. We’re seeing a new enemy in the field. First contact is the only way to know their capabilities. And four, since I refuse to order myself in trinities—consider the case of the Trial of Blades by Zeladona. You could level. Or we could all lose a limb.”
That did make the [Spearmaster] smile. There was more to say, of course, and Ilvriss wanted to talk to both Humans, Drakes, and Rags and all the others, if only to introduce himself.
There was Halrac the Grim, whom Ilvriss had heard was up for candidacy as Named-rank. Jelaqua Ivirith, the Order of Solstice—so many of Erin’s friends had gathered for this.
A few groups like Lehra’s team and the Silver Swords had headed south, but they had expressed best wishes and even offered to return—if Erin needed them. They wouldn’t sway the odds too much, Ilvriss hoped, because if it was that close…
There was only one group unaccounted for. No one had heard from them in over a week. The Horns of Hammerad. The Gnoll tribes claimed they’d been out of contact for the last four days…
But enough waiting. When Ilvriss heard Erin’s voice, he felt his heart leap in his chest. Time to see whether all this was overblown or whether she had any answers.
 
——
 
The [Innkeeper] stood in the middle of her [World’s Eye Theatre] and listened to the complaints.
There were a lot of complaints.
“I have been told that we are facing, and I quote, ‘war and death’, Innkeeper Solstice. Can you elaborate? Please? Because I have lent my own considerable weight to this battlefield on the understanding it is a battlefield against a mutual foe. I have even received reinforcements from the main family. House Terland stands with you here, but what are we standing against? We are not friends, and so I will have answers or I will respectfully fall back until I see what I am facing.”
Lord Xitegen was the first to bring up the real issue. He did it while Erin was still in the middle of passing out charcuterie boards. She paused, then glared at him.
“—and I have cheese from Vaunt, some really tasty meat cuts, and fresh drinks for all. And I thank you all for not spitting or fighting with each other.”
“We’re wasting time on food when we have two days until hell boils over. You delayed this briefing to check on some [Martial Artist] in Chandrar?”
Another enraged voice, from one of Salazsar’s officers. The north and south were united in their ability to complain. Ilvriss shot the [Major] a reproving look, but Erin had to admit, her two biggest allies in the room were Humans and Drakes.
There were Antinium and Goblins as the second-most numerous forces, and adventurers and Gnolls, but this really did sort of indicate the two major powers of Izril. And as of yet, Erin couldn’t just summon her allies from overseas.
If she could, she wouldn’t have had so many problems because the golden stare of Fetohep of Khelt made even the angry Drakes grow silent a second. His tone was icy.
“That ‘Chandrarian [Martial Artist]’ is named Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle. He battles a sovereign nation larger in scale than every Walled City that is or was put together. Would that he were here in your place. Be silent.”
His glower silenced a few officers, but you didn’t make [General] or even survive as a [Lord] or [Lady] if you couldn’t shoot back. Indeed, even a gently-rocking Antinium waved all four arms and called out.
“Hello! It is I, Bird of the Free Antinium. No, wait, Q—I am speaking for the Free Queen. Which means I am like royalty and therefore equal to you, Fetohep?”
That golden gaze swung to Bird, and Fetohep didn’t even blink.
“One would accord me the respect of a fellow monarch regardless, Revelantor Bird. Or we are all ignorant savages. A High King who condescends to a King is one who views arbitrary titles as more important than basic decency. And is proven lesser.”
“…Oh. I have been humbled. I think. I am not sure I was, but I am sorry. Your Majesty?”
Even Bird hesitated at that, and an angry voice rose.
“We’re wasting time. Is there an order to this meeting or—”
The Drakes wanted a system for people to raise their voices. One of the adventurers raised a hand.
“Yeah, and are we getting paid now or later? Also, who am I reporting to?”
Captain Todi might have had the lowest rank—since he wasn’t even a proper military captain—but he did have balls that were at least made of brass or something, because he beamed around.
“I’m happy to offer my support to whichever force pays me the most. We can put down forty-eight [Fireballs] in a single battle. But we do need a leader. Otherwise we’ll be the last line of defense. That’s Todi’s Elites if we haven’t met. Gold-ranks.”
A Drake about to shout at him to get out—hesitated, and someone whistled. That was pretty dangerous and a sign of why a Gold-rank team was wanted.
Erin was looking around, hands half raised, but letting people talk while she sensed out the room. Ryoka was more of a statue next to her, and everyone was waiting to see if she’d actually say something.
Tyrion Veltras, Niers Astoragon—there were famous military commanders here, and most of them were holding their tongue rather than taking charge. It was on the [Innkeeper]. It was a test. If she fell flat on her face, they’d pull her up.
But most of them didn’t expect her to fall. Stumble, maybe—but when Erin Solstice spoke, her aura did the talking.
“I don’t know if the enemy will even show up. Which is why I hesitated. If we dig in and nothing happens the entire Winter Solstice, I’ll have wasted everyone’s time.”
