Had she done that? It wasn’t a spell. That was real lightning. Erin Solstice looked around. The Drake that Perorn had shot had fainted, and Saliss was wrapping a cloth around his bloody wounds, stemming the flow. But everyone else was looking at Erin, and what she said was this:
“I can do that. I can also do this.”
She closed her eyes and lifted her hand, and a ball of flames the size of a pumpkin, bright and pink, burning like a glorious death. Erin held it up, admiring the blaze—then flicked it at Lulv.
The [Spearmaster] cursed and whirled his spear, repelling the fire that tried to cling to it, slashing it down where it burned on the chairs. But it ignored his spear, clinging to his fur, his arms, his armor—
It didn’t burn him, yet he froze as the [Innkeeper] looked at him. Erin’s eyes were glowing. She pointed a finger up.
“I can do this if I wanted to kill someone.”
Perorn’s eyes narrowed. She saw the tiniest sliver appear in the air and then—
Erin fired a lightning bolt straight into the ceiling.
This time, everyone did go deaf or blind. The [Innkeeper] had closed her eyes, but even she flinched. She stood there, and when the ringing had faded, she spoke.
“I can do that. And I still think I might die. I don’t know if she’ll come in the way I predicted. I don’t know how bad it will be. But I think it might be worse than I can imagine. That’s why I called you. I’m asking you to take it seriously. Please.”
The [Witch]’s head turned, and she looked around. At Ilvriss half-risen, eyes filled with uncertainty, Aldonss, eyes blazing. Lulv, snarling. Rafaema, uncertain. Xitegen, Tyrion, Tolveilouka.
A [Witch] spoke.
“If you can best her and it comes easily, dip your blades in her blood and count yourselves lucky. And you will never kill anything so wretched and terrible. But I don’t think it will come that easily. Do you think you are prepared for a new age? This is where you find out. Do you think you could be the hero that replaces Zel Shivertail? The next legend of the north? She’s coming. She has eaten the Hundred Heroes who founded Terandria. She has devoured Dragonlords. Your Ancestors.”
She looked at the Drakes, and they rose to protest, but Erin Solstice went on.
“She is the first and last Necromancer. If you think I am lying, if you think I’m a fool, maybe I’ll be proven to be one during the Solstice. But if I were you, I’d prepare as if I were telling you the truth. If nothing happens and on that day I’m left alive—I’ll post a <Legendary Quest> and give you something worth your time. But I don’t think I’ll see you all after that.”
She lowered her hand and gazed around. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes dimmed.
“The meeting’s over. No more fighting. Do what you have to do. I’ve told you all I can. Whether you believe me or not is up to you.”
She bowed her head, and Perorn Fleethoof suppressed a smile. So this is why the Titan of Baleros fell in love with a common [Innkeeper]. She exhaled, and Erin Solstice stood there in the silence, head bowed.
Even now. Even now, some of them just never saw it. And never would until the day they saw a hole in the world with their own two eyes.
Then it would be too late. But Erin Solstice’s head rose as she heard gentle applause and laughter.
Perorn’s bow rose, and everyone ducked along the Drake side of the room. But a beaming face refused to flinch as the arrow trained on his head. Was he crazy or insane?
The old Drake looked like both. His scales were grey and flaking away. And his claws trembled, but he still wore his armor proudly. He had shined it from his badge to his boots. But even the badge was black. The faintest bit purple, maybe, but he still seemed like a shadow.
The armor and his presence had been almost invisible this entire time. He was applauding, though, a huge smile on his face. When Wall Lord Ilvriss saw him, the Drake groaned. And even Wall Lord Aldonss’ voice held alarm.
“Major Khorpe?”
Heads turned as one of Salazsar’s oldest officers stood. And he was still applauding Erin Solstice. He called down with a huge smile on his face, his remaining teeth bared.
“W-well said. She’s coming for you. I see her.”
“Major Khorpe, what are you doing here? You’re needed in Salazsar.”
Nerul called out, voice papably worried. Someone had reported he was missing, even with the Last Defenders of the Wall now active. Had he made it here on foot? But the Drake [Infiltrator] was staring at Erin.
“I believe she’s coming. I’ve been dodging her all my life. But you? You’re the girl who became Sserys for a time. You’ve seen ghosts.”
“Yes.”
Erin Solstice stared up at Khorpe as he leaned forwards eagerly. The Drake was beaming.
“I am Major Khorpe. A [Rogue]. I have come…no one else would go with me. Not their time. Even Eschowar didn’t want to see his apprentice die.”
He stared down at Wall Lord Aldonss a second, and the Wall Lord opened his mouth. But when Khorpe bowed, he looked like a performer.
“I have come to die in Liscor at the Winter Solstice. To help you dodge death itself.”
His eyes were watery, and his claws shook, and he looked old. Senile, perhaps. But when his head rose, his voice firmed and was faraway.
“—I remember waking on that day when the Dragonward bells rang. I thought I heard a million voices calling to me to take arms. A war in the skies and even in my city itself. But I was afraid and hid. Just as I had gathered my resolve, a voice told me to wait. Wait, for the enemy would come here, next. Then I heard you call. There are a lot of children, here. They have never seen a true war. And some, only one.”
His head turned to Xitegen, Bethal. Then swept past the Drakes. Khorpe leaned on the balcony and looked down at Erin, and her eyes were full of tears. But he was grinning at her with a gap-toothed smile. When he turned his head, the officers to the right and left of him flinched.
“The days of thunder have come again. You have been warned. If, then, you stand there and are not ready, or hold your blood in your claws as it pools out of you, no one can say you were not warned. She is coming with sickle in hand, to clear the field. And we are stalks before her blade. But I chose where to fall and where to lie. Ancestors, it was all ever for me. I did it for none but I. My sins were always only mine…”
The Drake stood there and began singing Salazsar’s lament. Proudly, like the oldest of [Soldiers], a claw clasped to his chest, standing to parade rest. And that of all—Erin Solstice looked up at him and turned away, leaning on Ryoka Griffin, who stumbled, supporting her. Perorn Fleethoof lowered her bow and sighed.
Then maybe they believed, a bit.
 
——
 
It wasn’t their fault. In the end, those silly men and women. They had no conception of it. But if you had been there, you could take it seriously.
No one was really prepared for the world to end tomorrow. There would always be a part of you that hesitated and wondered if it was real. Even at the end. Until you were there and realized that was how it looked when the sky fell.
So you were forgiven for all of it. Even the silly parts.
Mrsha du Marquin sat there, still crying, even after a lot of hugs, and she’d been given sweets and hot milk with Magnolia-levels of sugar. But she was still trying door handles.
“Miss Mrsha, you know it’s dangerous. We shouldn’t get in the way of the soldiers. The battlefield is no place for a civilian.”
Hethon tried to reason with her, awkwardly, like his father would. But he saw Mrsha’s watery eyes turn to him.
I know that. Stupid. I know they’ll get hurt if I get in the way. It happened last time.
She wrote with a wobbly paw, scrawling the ink and still blinking tears out of her eyes.
“So…”
Hethon didn’t understand until Mrsha spelled it out for him, word by word.
I have to be there. I won’t get in the way this time. I’ll just wait in the garden with Erin. If it’s the very end, I’m going to be there, this time. And they’ll have to stab me first. I can’t run away. I’ll have nothing left. If your father dies, what was the point of being safe?
The words struck him in the chest. Hethon stepped back and almost punched Mrsha and the notecard—then it hit him harder.
“Mrsha…Lyonette won’t be there, I think. We can’t go there. There’s no point.”
Nanette gently took Mrsha’s notecard as the girl rattled a handle. Mrsha punched her hand, then clung to her, burying her face in her dress. The other children read Mrsha’s card, then Ekirra began to howl, and Visma and Kenva began sobbing. Ser Sest looked down at Mrsha as if he’d thought she was really escaping just for fun. And the Gnoll gave Hethon a look that made him think they had known each other forever when she wrote the next words.
I don’t want to be small and useless. I never want to grow up. But I don’t want this.
He hesitated. Then awkwardly went for a hug. He was half-hugging her when he realized he barely knew her. So the [Lord] sprung back. Stared at Mrsha. Then offered her a hand.
The Gnoll girl and Human boy shook hands solemnly as tears fell.
 
——
 
So, in the end, that was how Perorn Fleethoof came to The Wandering Inn. Like a storm. As the gathering in the [World’s Eye Theatre] broke up, people were planning more seriously.
But the Centaur was no [Strategist] to plan with level head and dry throat. She took a tankard from Ishkr and clinked it against a Drake’s hand.
Major Khorpe took down half the mug in one go to a cheering room. Centaurs were stomping their hooves, and he shouted.
“This is how it should be! Dead men are the thirstiest! Stand with me and level! Who’ll dance with death and take her hand?”
“I will! I have come from Yolden for the [Innkeeper].”
A Drake with a funny accent leapt onto a table. And they did laugh at him, some of the other soldiers. After all, they who faced death laughed loudest of all.
Khorpe and Perorn did not. She pointed at him.
“Then you’ll ride with me.”
And she passed like a fell wind, looking for people who would stand and hold the line even when the sky was falling. Of course the Goblins loved her.
Those with families to lose or who hadn’t realized what Erin Solstice had called them for—hesitated. Even Tyrion Veltras looked around and realized he should visit his sons.
Time at last. Upstairs, in her room, the inn felt empty. No silly Gnoll to annoy Perorn, or a bee buzzing around. The inn felt quiet, despite all her guests. Like it had been long ago.
Erin Solstice pushed a few pieces around on her chessboard and felt like she was waiting for Skinner to knock on her door. That eternal moment…she was always back there.
Always afraid.
Soon, Erin would stand and visit the hill of statues. Soon, she would introduce herself to Perorn fully and thank the many people and hopefully learn something about them. But for a moment, she played with a queen piece on the board, then set it down.
Enough procrastinating. Erin Solstice bent over her desk and picked up a quill. She began to write.
 
Dear Friends.
To Whom It May Concern.
To My Family…
It took her several tries, and she sat at the writing table for a while before she decided it didn’t matter. It did and didn’t. But if they opened the letter…Erin Solstice paused and wrote in as steady a hand as she could.
 
My Will:
If you are reading this, I am dead. The following is my will: whatever remains of my inn is to be given to the care of Ishkr Silverfang. 
 
Exceptions: Stitchworks and alchemy room are to be given, contents and all, to Octavia Cotton and Rhaldon Flemmens respectively. Any Faerie Flowers are to be split in half. One half given to Saliss of Lights or, in event of his death, Xif of Pallass with instructions to use them without reserve.
 
Any possessions in the Garden of Sanctuary, if accessible, are to be turned over to Lyonette du Marquin. All the effects of my room will go to Ryoka Griffin, to distribute as she sees fit.
 
Exception: My personal chessboard is to be given to Rags. My personal knife is to be given to Nerry, the Sariant Lamb, as well as a lump of metal in the second-lowest drawer to fulfill her task along with any flames still burning.
 
The sum of gold in my possession and the Garden of Sanctuary I will dig up and deposit at the Merchant’s Guild to be divided as follows. 
 
20% — Ishkr, for running the inn and to be divided amongst the staff as he sees fit.
20% — To Lyonette for whatever she needs and wherever she goes, as well as Mrsha.
20% — Nanette Weishart, to take care of any expenses and needs she has.
20% — To the Order of Solstice for their expenses and needs.
10% — To Tessa, and the other half of the Faerie Flowers in my possession in hopes she can retire from adventuring.
10% — To be divided amongst Kevin, Joseph, Imani, Rose, and Troydel equally.
 
It is my will and desire that anyone I know personally, be it adventurers, guests, or fellow people from home seek the protection of the following and that they offer them sanctuary, as much as they can:
 
Krshia Silverfang or Feshi Weatherfur in the Meeting of Tribes.
Niers Astoragon or Commander Foliana of the Forgotten Wing Company.
Earl Altestiel of Desonis.
Fetohep of Khelt.
Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction.
Magnolia Reinhart, the Lady of House Reinhart.
Cara O’Sullivan, the Singer of Terandria.
Archmage Valeterisa of Wistram.
Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters Tribe.
Demsleth.
Oberon.
Nerrhavia.
 
If I am dead, then Ryoka Griffin or Fetohep of Khelt are the last two carriers of my known intent and will and should be consulted. If both are dead or unavailable, then the Winter Fae or one ‘Oberon’ should be invoked. If all are unavailable, I have left a letter in my [Garden of Sanctuary] that explains everything. Only the Key of Reprieve will open the door where it is hidden.
If I am dead then tell my
My final words I will leave for the one who inherits the [Garden of Sanctuary], with my farewells. Sincerely, 
—Erin Solstice
 
She stared at the will, and it was terrible, and she couldn’t think of anything else. She was hungry and tired and empty, and soon…
After a second, Erin had an idea and scribbled at the bottom.
 
PS: I bequeath my [Garden of Sanctuary] to Mrsha.
 
Then she folded the letter up. She wasn’t worried about tears; they had stopped. Now, she was just a bit lost. Erin sat there.
“I hope it’s nothing. No—I hope it’s—I’m making such a—”
She didn’t know how to finish her sentence. The days were ticking down, now. A snowball rolling down a hill, getting bigger and bigger. If she let it, it would crush her.
