Khorpe had filled his canteen from the bar, and he snorted some of the drink out.
“That’s an old name.”
“Well, they call me Fleethoof as if that’s my name. But my name is Perorn Sadiluc. I’m pleased to meet you, Erin Solstice. Though I wish it weren’t under such circumstances. I’m…Foliana’s daughter.”
Perorn held out a hand to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] saw her pause at that last bit. Erin’s eyes opened, and she blinked.
“You’re what?”
“It’s a secret to many. But she raised me. Niers too, in his way. I was a foal when they were adventurers, and I’ve known the Forgotten Wing Company all my life. As mothers go—she’s an odd one. But it makes it easy to trot around and meet other living legends.”
Perorn favored Khorpe with a smile, and he glowered.
“Scary [Rogue]. Izril was lucky she never came to us. The Silent Antinium and Guild of Assassins were bad enough.”
“I had no idea. That’s—wow. I mean, thank you for telling me. And thank you for coming. I’m sorry I was so scatterbrained in the briefing. You got me to say it right. I should have. I just didn’t—didn’t know what to say.”
She hadn’t known, even when she’d tossed lightning at Aldonss, whether it was right. How did you describe Kasigna? Those incredulous faces…Perorn was shaking her head.
“Some of them won’t get it, like we said. You did your best. Foliana told me to check on you. I think she realized you’d be stressed.”
“Is it that obvious?”
The Centaur smiled as she looked around the garden, glancing at Erin.
“Only to me. Don’t worry about speeches or bold statements to get everyone riled up. It’s a difficult art, and even Niers curses and sweats before a big battle if he thinks it’s needed. He likes to say that as long as morale isn’t lower than when you began speaking, you did a good enough job.”
That made Erin smile because it did sound like something Niers would say, but she imagined the Fraerling would be kicking things and cursing if he thought he’d done a bad job. Perorn spoke of him like a person.
She spoke of him…like one of Erin’s friends would speak of her. It was that down-to-earth nature. And yet she also looked like she was ready to race into the fray.
Normen. She reminded Erin a bit of Normen, or Saliss. Casual. Intense. Hat on, hat off. And yet Perorn was older than any of them, and it showed not in her hair or limp, but in how she spoke.
“You memorize a few good speeches and then repeat them. Again and again. Different words, same meaning.”
“But you both sounded so good—”
“I practiced my speech.”
Khorpe added, and Erin and Perorn looked at him. The [Major] looked faraway and distant and present at the same time. He truly was old, but when he smiled, it was again with all his remaining teeth.
“You think of good things to say—afterwards. You remember you should have said this or that, then write it down and remember it. For next time. Good speeches are made of regrets.”
The [Innkeeper] was struck a second. And then she wished he’d been a guest far longer. Perorn as well. The Centaur glanced at Erin and patted her arm.
“You haven’t eaten food today, have you? You look pale as a feather. Let’s eat and you can rally.”
Erin got a bit annoyed at the matter-of-fact tone, as much as she liked Perorn and Khorpe.
“Do you—bully people into being healthy at the Forgotten Wing Company too? Niers? This is a very Lyonette thing you’re doing. Have you met her?”
Perorn got to her feet with a sigh.
“No, but I feel for the girl. Of course I bully the Titan. He doesn’t respect people who can’t tell him ‘no’. Come on.”
She jerked her head, and Erin sat there another moment. She looked up at the Centaur, and a bleak look replaced Erin’s amusement and relief.
“I hope you don’t regret coming. Everyone I asked. And after this…”
After this, Kasigna would still be there. This wasn’t a scenario you won, just survived. Erin’s face fell—and Perorn Sadiluc glanced at Erin. Khorpe was still smiling, plucking Faerie Flowers and tucking them into his pockets, and the Centaur murmured.
“Ah. So that’s it.”
She sat back down again, and Erin looked at her.
“This isn’t my first rodeo. I’ve been here before. It’s just—this time is bad. It keeps happening, and I…sorry, is that racist?”
“Insensitive. Let me say something, first.”
Perorn craned her head back and stared at the snow drifting down through the dome as Khorpe patted the grass. Both he and Erin waited, and Erin wondered if the Centauress even liked her.
It was hard to read Fleethoof, but when she glanced down, Erin had to believe she was being honest, at least.
“…I grew up with Niers and Foliana, with a lot of people who aren’t alive any longer. I won’t bore you with the stories right now. But when I was a child, they were surviving the Labyrinth of Souls, coming out as a new mercenary company and taking on all comers. These days, people talk about us as if we were a comet flying upwards, smashing through all obstacles, but it wasn’t that easy.”
“I’ll…bet.”
Erin murmured. She should have read more of the Titan’s history. Perorn tucked a lock of hair behind her ears as she nodded.
“Jungle Tails. They’re back, but they didn’t fall easily, either. There was a time when it seemed like the Nagas were dogging our every step, destroying our hideouts, and it felt like we’d never win. We’d win a victory against all odds and a month later be fighting tooth and nail, burying comrades.”
Khorpe was nodding.
“I served the Walled Cities all my life. There’s always another disaster. Zelkyr’s Golems go rogue except for the ones in Wistram, and we have to bury them deep. Pretend it never happened. What Golems? Naga Incursions. Antinium Wars. Now ghost-eating Seamwalkers.”
They were not making Erin feel better. Why were they telling her these stories? Erin’s head sank.
“So you guys won. But now it’s happening again. And again…even Jungle Tails is back, right?”
Perorn smiled crookedly as Khorpe laughed.
“Well, yes. That’s how it works. But it’d be a boring life if we just took our gold and ran. Niers would throw himself off the edge of the world within a year. I choose this. So did Niers and Foliana, for all they complain. They could have sailed into the sunset and retired. I could have done anything I wanted. But that’s no fun.”
That’s no fun? Erin looked up and amended her comparison. Perorn really was like Saliss or another adventurer. She lowered her head.
“Well, this isn’t fun for me, so I can’t get into the spirit of things.”
Perorn sighed.
“Not what I meant. I suppose what I’m saying is—I think it’s funny. Most people, even Named-ranks, don’t realize it. I’ve met hundreds of people you’d call stories. Big and small. Silver-rankers who make it big. Small folk who step onto the grand stage Niers always prattles on about. Lehras and Erin Solstices.”
The [Innkeeper]’s head rose, and Khorpe watched Perorn as the Centaur went on, straight-faced.
“They win a great adventure and come back changed. The world’s too small for them, and maybe they don’t fit. Most have scars. But they do win. Then comes a day when their enemies hunt them down, or another threat arrives, and they come out of hiding. For death and glory, vengeance and salvation.”
She paused. Khorpe passed Perorn the flask, and the Centaur took a long gulp, wiped her mouth.
“—Then comes the next time. And the next. And they say, ‘how much longer must I endure’? ‘When will this end?’ As if they expected never again to meet a challenge. I’ve heard a thirty-year-old Named-ranker say that to my face. I kicked him.”
The Centaur grinned, and a breeze blew around the garden. She fixed Erin with one eye, laced with sardonic amusement.
“What I’m trying to say is—is this only your, what, sixth great life-or-death struggle? You’ll grow a tougher skin. The enemy comes at you again and again. But they’re not invincible. They’re not endless. If they bleed, they die.”
She sat there, chuckling, and Khorpe laughed as if she had told a fine joke. Erin Solstice half-rose as Perorn urged her up.
“You’re crazy.”
She pointed at Perorn and Khorpe, and they laughed at her, harder now, until the [Innkeeper] was chasing them back into her inn. She shouted as she emerged into the chaos.
“They’re crazy!”
Erin Solstice stumbled into the common room of her inn with a hat that blazed with all her fire, and a Centaur trotted past a naked Drake who gave her a wary look and edged away, lest he catch what she was spreading.
And then the young woman laughed and dared time to touch her.
Then, Erin was readier. And she suddenly had a thousand questions to badger the old Drake with, and people to meet. The Solstice was coming. But there was time for at least one or two more adventures, right? At least begin them, so she had something to look forward to. The [Innkeeper] looked around as she spoke to herself once.
“It’s never the end. Ever after, no matter who knocks on my door. Though she knows it not, even after death—there will be something more. Enough. Enough weeping. I have two days. What a lifetime.”
Erin seized a chessboard and adjusted the knife on her belt. When she turned to her guests, it was with a smile on her face.
Ah. That’s how you were supposed to do it, she realized.
Erin had never felt more like an [Innkeeper] than today. She adjusted her hat and listened, but she swore she could hear the world waiting.
“Two days then. Then after that—it’d better be the best level up of my life.”
And she swore she heard it say—
‘Yes.’
A Gnome smiled and winked at her as Erin made a plan for after the Solstice.
