The [Innkeeper]’s eyes blazed faintly in her shadowy room. And she whispered it. She activated her first true Skill and held it in place. For the long two days, heedless of the cost. For each and every moment, just like she’d been trying all month.
“[Immortal Moment]. [Immortal Moment]. Let it count. Please.”
Her hands shook as she put the letter into an envelope and almost sealed it, then decided it didn’t matter. Erin shoved it into a corner of her desk, straightened it, and put a cup on top so it wouldn’t go anywhere.
Then she stood and burst into flames. The [Innkeeper] recoiled as they burst from her arms and raced over her clothing. The same multicolored flames she had seen only once before…
Erin snatched at them and was about to pat at herself, to extinguish the fire—then she stopped. She let the flames burn, then seemingly vanish. The blazing light faded, and Erin lifted her hands.
She still felt warm. But the cold winter was growing deeper. And she knew death was neither cold nor warm. Sometimes, she wondered if she’d ever woken up or if this was all a dream.
 
——
 
“I counted thirty thousand Drakes. A third for the Humans. Variance within a thousand, but I even spotted the Drake camps in the High Passes. Lord Astoragon, can you verify?”
“Not via scrying spells. But it squares with the spies on the ground and our estimates. I had my students running guesses, and one of them is getting a prize.”
Niers’ droll tone to Yameth, Perorn’s [Captain], belied his true feelings. He sounded amused, indulgent, and if you didn’t know him, you’d think he was having a good time.
Perorn Sadiluc bet he would have paid a million gold pieces to be here instead of her. But he couldn’t be, and so he was trying to keep hands off.
“I’m going to run more apocalypse scenarios with Chaldion. Maybe that will convince some of Manus’ lot to throw in more soldiers. At the very least, we can convince the officers who don’t get it to take this seriously. Perorn, need anything from me? Want me to yank an officer in the crowd?”
“I’ve made enough enemies for today. Leave it, Niers.”
The Centaur was conferencing with her people after the meeting. She had had a drink with Major Khorpe, another old story, and she was getting a feel for The Wandering Inn. It wasn’t like how she’d heard it described by Niers: quiet. Or like she had seen it on the scrying orb.
This was a more honest version of the inn, to her. This was a place she could believe had seen a real battle or two.
The Goblin with the crystal blade playing guitar around one of the fireplaces? The servers who kept food running without the signs of strain that should have led to a hundred broken plates or fights?
There was strain, but the inn didn’t buckle under it. And Perorn had seen even brave, courageous folk bend and break when war was upon their doorstep.
She closed the connection to Niers, then called Foliana. The Commander of the Forgotten Wing company answered in moments as Perorn’s officers shifted. Her going behind Niers’ back unsettled even experienced officers. Which just went to show why they weren’t ready to command; they treated Niers like he was actually in charge.
Only Basal kept steady. If he wasn’t a Lizaur, he’d have been commanding his own Centaur unit already. Ironically, the Drakes regarded him as the most ‘good looking’ despite his Lizardfolk heritage. They probably hadn’t made the connection yet.
“Perorn. Erin seems stressed. Mm. I didn’t watch the briefing entirely. Did you shoot someone again?”
Perorn ignored the smalltalk.
“I’ll find her. Foliana, I’m making a few observations of the north and south. The Drakes are here in force; Pallass is making up the bulk of the forces here, and they can shift their armies around rapidly. Plus, they have their standing armies. But Tyrion Veltras has strained to get even a third of their number here.”
“War weary?”
The [Strategist] nodded as she eyed the camps in the distance.
“He’s launched two major campaigns. I don’t know how much it’s costing to feed so many soldiers or get them here…Pallass has to be burning gold. The nobility and their personal retinues are making up most of his fighters, and cities who Erin Solstice has ties to explicitly. The south is doing better than the north; I’m hearing there’s a lot of burned farmland and mysterious sicknesses in the north. Garbichugs, even. Seems like the south is being hit less.”
Thirty thousand was a large mercenary company in Baleros. But compared to what the Forgotten Wing could swing, and for two major players, House Veltras and Pallass? She pawed at the ground.
“…They’ll do. There’s a lot of talent here. High-level classes. Seems like the [Innkeeper] is expecting that to matter as much as bodies. I’m going to have that word. Did you find a Scroll of Greater Teleport?”
“Nnnnnope. And I was outbid. Everyone got the ones from the Village of the Dead. Mm. Bastards. I hope I get a contract on someone so I can loot theirs.”
Perorn sighed.
“Then we’ll stick to our other plans. I have to go. Anything new from the front?”
“Jungle Tails is regrouping. Mostly it’s at sea. Dullahans, Terandrians on the go. But there are lots of ships moving. Lots of ships. Not enough [Scrying] spells to go around.”
Normally, you scried cities or people moving through predictable highways to get a map of an area. You couldn’t easily scry based on coordinates, unfortunately; you had to have a beacon or someone, and people were easier. At sea, of course, it made mapping terrain harder. Perorn paused.
“Sea lanes were clear from our reports?”
“Yep. But there’s blank patches. Places where [Scrying] spells are failing.”
That happens all the time if you have someone with the right Skills or magic. But Foliana’s voice was also too-casual. Perorn listened to what she wasn’t saying.
“Keep me updated, then. It’s not like we have any sea presence, and Tulm isn’t an idiot.”
“Nope. He’s slowing down. Okay. Go check on the [Innkeeper]. Give her a muffin or something.”
The Centaur closed the connection, turned, and gave orders.
“Basal, go make friends with the Drakes. Yameth, hold the camp, but I want our Centaurs playing nice. Socialize in Liscor with the Silverfangs, inn, other camps. Best behavior. If you see someone braying large, smack them. Tarath?”
Her [Lieutenant] looked expectant. Perorn jerked her head.
“In the inn with me. Play nice with the Goblins and Antinium. Feel them out. Break out some of our enchanted arrows if you have to, and if they’re chatty, get a feel for any tricks they’ve got. I’ll try to hobnob with the Small Queen after I talk to the [Innkeeper].”
“Are we cozying up to her or am I playing both sides with the Drakes?”
Basal wanted to know. Perorn gave him a flat look. Were they ever not playing both sides? He raised his hands.
“Okay, fine. Fine. It would be nice having a super-Antinium spellcaster on our side is all I’m saying. Shame we couldn’t steal the Archmage of Izril too.”
“We ally with the 7th Hive and we’re only taking anti-Drake contracts, Basal. That’s an entire hostile south and north.”
“Yes, but…Antinium magic. Enchanted bows. We could operate out of the Gnoll plains.”
“Find out if they have actual enchantments first, hoof-for-brains. Break!”
They were trotting away, and Perorn trotted back into the inn. Heads turned as she entered; a Centaur was the tallest being in the room save for a half-Giant or Minotaur or War Walker. They called her Fleethoof.
She wondered how many of the faces she saw would be gone in a few days. Perorn’s head turned, and she saw the blue-scaled Drake looking at her. She nodded to him. Then found the one-eyed Cyclops. Perorn saluted Chaldion and glanced at Tyrion Veltras.
He was holding the Wind Runner’s hand. She was still distraught, but he was actually holding her hand to Lady Buscrei’s vague approval. Ryoka Griffin stood with the Five Families, and even Lord Xitegen was listening to her.
Tyrion Veltras. Xitegen. Perorn rubbed her eyes, then offered them the same gesture; two fingers touched to her brows.
They seemed to be more vivid than the other people in the room. As if there were more color, more contrast to their faces. She looked left as an ook caught her ear.
“Commander Fleethoof, how about that drink?”
Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier, had the same look as the others. Perorn smiled.
“Give me a bit. I’ll find you.”
She turned her head, and they were everywhere. Ah, this reminded her of the stories they told about The Adventurer’s Haven. Only this was how the Haven must have looked in its heyday. It reminded her of the Forgotten Wing company when it was rising.
“She has good guests.”
The [Innkeeper] had the Small Queen sitting in one corner of her inn, across from Saliss of Lights. Like pieces of a chess board who’d decided to stop fighting for a day. She had Gold-rank adventurer friends like the Halfseekers, waving over the Centaurs eagerly, and more than one person had found their moment of glory in this inn.
Ser Normen, Ishkr—Perorn’s eyes roved around as the Gnoll [Server] appeared with another drink. She turned it down.
“Can you tell me where Erin Solstice is? I should offer my formal greetings.”
“Let me check.”
Ishkr vanished, and Perorn glanced at the Goblins. Goblins, and no one was trying to kill them. What would Velan have said if he could see this?
“Even Niers never got someone to share a drink with Velan’s lot besides our company. North and south. No wonder people want to kill her.”
If Perorn were a leader of Drakes, Antinium, or Humans, she would seriously consider assassinating Erin Solstice. Of course, that supposed it were possible.
They’d find out. But first…the Centaur waited until Ishkr came back. Then she trotted forwards slowly, wondering how to introduce herself to the [Innkeeper].
 
——
 
Erin Solstice’s hands shook after writing the will. She couldn’t go down to the common room yet. She kept holding her hands, willing them to stop.
She’d done this before. She’d beaten Skinner’s fear.
“Stop. Stop it. What’s wrong with you?”
Yet they kept shaking.
Ulvama kept coming to check on her. Erin knew she should have gone and talked to Ryoka. The Wind Runner looked like she was doing…as bad as Erin. Only she showed it.
Somehow, her tough friend could cry more than Erin. The [Innkeeper] stared down at her written will. It didn’t feel real. And it felt very real. She might have sat there for a while; it had already been forty minutes, and she was just sitting, thoughts dragging her around, but slowly.
Like a vast river overrunning its banks, flooding the land and destroying everything. Erin Solstice stared at the will—until she raised her head sharply.
“Wh—impossible.”
She stood as she sensed something in her inn. The [Innkeeper] turned, and a door opened. She reached for her knife. Impossible. She knew her inn was full of high-level people, friendly and temporary allies.
But even so—she stepped into her [Garden of Sanctuary] and halted.
In her personal garden, there was a rule against violence that even Erin couldn’t break. Tussling was fine, but harm? She had never felt in danger there.
But this wasn’t her garden. The grass was wider, wild, and weeds had grown tall and thorny. Erin stared at the walls of a huge fort that filled this garden.
She felt at the kitchen knife at her side. Erin’s feet trod the grass, and she whispered.
“That’s not possible. How did you get here?”
She hadn’t explored this particular [Garden of Sanctuary]. The gates of the keep were closed, and the oppressive fortress that was the entire garden—felt more justified, now. Because despite being a [Garden of Sanctuary], even one whose owner had passed—
Despite this being her Skill—
An old Drake was standing in front of the gates, claws clasped behind his back. He looked around innocently and gave her a smile that looked vacant—yet here he stood.
Major Khorpe.
He hadn’t been invited in. Erin stared at him.
“No one’s ever done that before. How?”
“I knew it could be done. I always wanted to try.”
The former [Infiltrator] looked endlessly pleased with himself. Erin sensed Ishkr looking for her and summoned the door for him.
“Ishkr, I’m here. What is it?”
“Perorn Fleethoof would like to meet you. Is…now a good time?”
Ishkr saw Khorpe and blinked. Erin turned her head.
“Sure. I’ll meet her in…Major? Want to come to my personal garden?”
She stepped into it quickly, and the Drake hopped around the door and then walked on through. Erin felt safer in her personal garden, but she was still unnerved.
“Seriously. How did you get in?”
“I picked the lock. There were stories about people who got into [Gardens of Sanctuary]. Ah. I can’t do any harm here, can I?”
Khorpe produced a crossbow and pulled on the trigger a few times as he aimed it around. Then he gave Erin a beaming smile.
“You have to break the door first.”
He knew about that, too? Erin’s skin crawled, but the old [Major] was peering around. Then he turned.
“I’m on your side. I mean it. Death keeps coming for me. I felt her reaching for me as I heard the bells ring, and it was so terrifying I refused to die. But then Zail had to remind me of a duty. Endlessly, we serve.”
“And you broke into my garden to warn me it was possible?”
The Drake chuckled as Erin heard hooves on the grass. Perorn had arrived, but the Centaur halted, as if unsurprised to find Khorpe here.
“Miss Solstice.”
“Hello, Fleethoof. I remember preparing for war with Centaurs when the Titan was rising. Preemptive strike! It’s always a preemptive strike with the Walled Cities. I broke into her [Garden of Sanctuary].”
Khorpe pointed at Erin, and Perorn raised her brows.
“Impressive.”
“B—you’re not supposed to be able to do that.”
Erin was getting genuinely upset now, and the [Major] patted her arm gently. But firmly. He gave her a long stare with his rheumy eyes.
“It was easier because I think you would have let me in. And it was still very hard. But unbreakable? Impregnable? It’s a Level 30 prerequisite Skill. It’s not impossible. They kept a blueprint of the key in Salazsar for the Drake who owned this one. Drakes never forget.”
He smiled with all his teeth. Erin thought of the broken garden and sat down in the grass.
“Thanks for the reminder.”
She was weary, now. Too weary to even say ‘hello’ to Perorn, but the Centaur seemed equal to Erin’s depression. She knelt in the grass, and Khorpe sat down.
“This is a fine way to meet.”
“I’m sorry. Hi—”
Erin looked up, and Perorn was stretching, massaging her back leg with her fingers and grimacing.
“No. I meant it. Hello. And to you, Major Khorpe. Gemsting.”
