Another not-Erin statement. Calescent’s grin faded, and Hethon and Sammial looked at each other. Then they realized The Wandering Inn was entirely off today.
There were over a hundred guests for breakfast—in the main room of the inn. Hethon turned his head and saw more than just the Drake officers. There were Pallassian [Soldiers], a red-scaled Drake eating with some Drakes and that Relc, who looked slightly uncomfortable as they traded loud laughs with another table of Drakes in Pallass’ armor…
Sitting exactly opposite them were a lot of Antinium, who ate quietly and regarded a lot of Humans, who seemed split between horror, disgust, recognition—that lot were eating cheese for breakfast—or who were too busy giving the Drakes and Goblins the evil eye to focus on the Antinium.
All of them were soldiers. The last group were Goblins, but they were in the beach; a bunch had red warpaint on, and they were squatting around, sharpening weapons.
This looked like an army camp. Then Hethon saw Erin’s features were strained. Ryoka was waving off her minestrone and looked vaguely sick as a few blue Winter Sprites and a single green one flew overhead.
Oh. The Winter Solstice is nearly here. Then Hethon saw Calescent’s grip on his ladle was too-tight and he was glaring at the Drakes. Until Erin patted him on the shoulder.
“Just for a couple of days, Calescent. Please?”
“If you tolerate it, is good.”
The [Chef] gave Erin a sideways glance. A testing one, Hethon thought, and he paused with his spoon raised. More than one Goblin had slowed, and their pointed ears seemed to perk up slightly. Erin didn’t look away from Calescent, but Hethon bet she had noticed too. Yet her face was calm. She nodded, meeting the [Spice Chef]’s gaze.
“They’re going to die here. I’ll tolerate it.”
Hethon felt a shiver run down his arms and back. Despite the warm beach, he suddenly felt cold. And the Goblin’s grin reminded Hethon of how the Five Families’ eldest members smiled at each other. Like Magnolia Reinhart smiled at Tyrion Veltras when they hated each other the most. His mother’s smile.
“U-um, Miss Erin. Where’s Miss Nanette? And Miss Mrsha?”
Hethon was surprised by his own voice. He had spoken up, maybe to pretend everything was well. When the [Innkeeper] turned to him, she wasn’t as serious as before, but he still flinched when she smiled.
“Oh. Right. I forgot you two were in the inn. Ryoka, I’m meeting at midday for the big conference thing. Want to go over our speech? Ullim, right? Can you take Hethon and Sammial to the kids?”
“Of course, Miss Solstice. Where would that be?”
Ryoka grabbed her untouched minestrone as Erin pointed back the way they’d come.
“They should be unpacking in Selys’ mansion. Unless Mrsha’s still causing a fuss. They’ll be staying there, or Invrisil. Ask one of the Thronebearers if you can’t find them. The third option is Riverfarm, but I sort of doubt it.”
Hethon and Sammial looked up from their breakfasts. They stared at Erin.
“Huh?”
 
——
 
Twenty minutes later, Hethon was back in Invrisil, riding in a carriage towards Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion on the outskirts of the city.
“Huh?”
Thirty-two minutes later, he was standing in a gigantic, pink mansion with a bunch of [Maids] and [Butlers] and one Gnoll girl silently screaming and trying to cling to the carriage and demanding to be brought back. Nanette was pleading with Princess Lyonette, who was handing luggage to Reynold.
“I have to go back and manage the inn, Mrsha. Ser Sest is going to stay here to take care of you. Please, be good. Reynold, I am terribly sorry about this, but I thought it would be better than Selys’ mansion—she escaped twice this morning already. It’s too close to the door and the inn.”
“Not to worry, Your Highness. We will watch her most intently. May I inquire when you will be joining us?”
The [Princess]’ hands bunched up in her apron.
“—Tonight.”
Reynold bowed smoothly, and his own prosthetic legs gleamed as he turned.
“Majordomo Ullim, are the [Lords] Hethon and Sammial also prepared for their stay?”
“Jericha will send someone with their effects. Their rooms were quite messy. Is Lady Reinhart present?”
Reynold bowed as Hethon and Sammial swiveled towards Ullim, and their mouths opened wider.
“I believe she will be attending the briefing, but her whereabouts until then are slightly confidential.”
“Very good, sir. Then I will remain with the boys and get them settled, then meet with Lord Veltras if you are also heading to the inn.”
Reynold nodded, and Ullim bowed slightly. Hethon and Sammial looked around and realized they’d been duped. Suckered. Mrsha was being restrained by Ser Sest as Lyonette walked out, and Nanette was staring around with a bleak look on her face. She caught Hethon’s eyes and rolled hers.
Possibly because Hethon’s mouth was open as wide as it would go. He looked around, and all he could say was…
“Huh?”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was closed for kids. There would be no theatre movie night. No running around the gardens. No more beach.
It wasn’t just Mrsha and Nanette, either. Hethon and Sammial didn’t really put up much of a fuss when they learned they’d be staying at Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion.
“But Father hates her. And she threatened to kill us, I thought.”
“She is…a woman of her word, Lords Hethon, Sammial. But remember: when the Five Families stand together, they do protect one another. Lord Veltras evaluated the places you two could go and found this the most safe. For the next couple of days. Please think of what that means.”
That was what Ullim said, and he seemed to be looking more at Hethon than Sammial when he said that. And the boy’s stomach began hurting.
A big cloud hanging over more than one city. Vast shadows that made all the fun and joy he’d been having suddenly feel inconsequential, short-lived, and dark.
Something was coming, and now that Hethon saw the [Soldiers], it made it real. He had studied as a [Lord], and there were a lot of officers for one spot. But he’d been seeing Erin Solstice preparing all this month.
What made it real was being told he was staying at Magnolia Reinhart’s mansion. Not just seeing Mrsha and Nanette there.
What made it real was when he saw a bee and a Sariant Lamb meandering down one hallway, followed by a yowling orange cat. And then three Humans.
Kevin, Joseph, and Imani were standing in open rooms on the second floor and looked—nostalgic. And worried, but Kevin was joking.
“I never thought I’d be back here again. It makes me remember…hey, Joseph, you want to trash your room again?”
“I’m so fucking embarassed. I was apologizing all morning. At least Troydel’s not with us. I can’t believe he decided he’s staying in Pallass.”
Joseph muttered. Imani shrugged.
“Do you want him with us?”
“…Good point.”
Even Erin’s regular guests had been evicted. Or rather, chosen to go in the Earthers’ cases. Joseph reached for Reagen and got a swipe for his troubles.
“Numbtongue’s cat is going insane. Maybe we should have left him with Octavia? Where’s she staying? Hexel?”
“Hexel’s in Liscor, remember? He’s been staying with, uh…Elirr, I think. His apprentices found lodging. Octavia’s staying at Timbor’s inn.”
“Maybe we should have stayed there? What about Solar Cycles, Kevin? And I have to coach the teams…”
Kevin shook his head.
“Forget about it, dude. Let’s just not work for a bit. Besides, someone has to take care of the pets and kids. Imani, what’s Palt doing?”
“He’s attending the briefing. He’ll tell us what Erin said. Let’s…let’s make sure Mrsha doesn’t cause too much trouble. Hey, you two! Want to explore Magnolia’s mansion and settle in?”
The fake smile that Imani gave Hethon and Sammial made the boys feel worse, not better. Only one person could fake things being well, and that was only because Lord Tyrion was hard to read at the best of times. Adults seemed to forget they weren’t gifted actors.
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart was no fool. She might be twisted, cruel, vicious, petty, and consume too much sugar…but she was no fool, even her enemies had to admit.
She might be bad with children, though. The [Lady] had not shown herself as the kids got checked into her mansion, but she did arrange things in a very lady-like way.
“Miss Mrsha, you have visitors. One Ekirra, Kenva, and Visma have all come to enjoy themselves for the day.”
A Gnoll and two Drakes were both staring around wide-eyed in the huge foyer leading up to the staircase by the time Hethon and Sammial rejoined Mrsha and Nanette.
Kids. They were kids, so no one was telling them what was going on, and yet they had to be ‘managed’, hence Mrsha’s three friends appearing. Nanette looked distracted; she was frowning and rubbing her head, and she’d been silent as the adults hurried around. Sammial was uncertain, so he was getting angry and bored, and Mrsha had finally stopped trying to break out of the mansion.
At least, her first round of attempts had stopped. Hethon didn’t know Mrsha well, but she was like—a girl who had done a lot.
She’d survived people trying to kill her, been on television, and she knew important people. She couldn’t speak, but she could write like some kind of [Diplomat], and she could cast magic and had a bunch of unique Skills. She was also amazingly fast and never seemed to run out of energy.
She was sort of an annoying brat, like Sammial, but Hethon liked her more because at least Mrsha had good reasons to be the way she was.
Well, better than Sammy.
He and she really hadn’t exchanged words, or letters, but Hethon and Mrsha vaguely knew each other. He had been impressed by her, in a way.
 
Mrsha Escape Attempt #1: Crash out a window, through the glass if need be, with her [Fur of the Fortress] Skill.
…The windows were made of enchanted glass, and Mrsha concussed herself for a few minutes.
 
Mrsha Escape Attempt #2: Open a window and then bail out.
The windows were also locked.
 
Mrsha Escape Attempt #3: Using her incredible gifts of stealth, cause a distraction via setting fire to a rug with her wand, then sneak out!
The mansion had automatic fire-extinguishing spells. When Mrsha tried to sneak away, every single [Maid] noticed her thanks to Ressa’s anti-[Assassin] training. She was made to scrub the soot from the carpet.
 
Mrsha Escape Attempt #4: Using her luck powers and Apista’s ability to fly, steal the keys off Reynold’s belt! Throw an orange at him, and when he slipped or something hilarious happened, grab the keys and go out a side door with sheer speed!
The luck powers backfired. Hethon had never seen an orange bounce like that, but it hit a banister when Mrsha missed, ricocheted up, and hit the Ashfire Bee, which made Mrsha do a running dive to save her. The orange bounced off Apista and into a bookshelf and dislodged a book, which brained Mrsha.
 
The fifth attempt was just sort of sad, which was Mrsha trying to beat up one of the weaker [Maids] and take them hostage on the basis that they couldn’t or wouldn’t hurt her. She’d almost knocked one off their feet as four non-combat [Maids] had been screaming for help when Mrsha was reminded of a salient fact:
Maid Bekia was a former Gnoll [Chieftain]. She also had no compunctions about violence towards children.
Mrsha was rolling around on the ground, holding her butt, when Ekirra, Visma, and Kenva found her. Nanette spoke up as Mrsha drew her wand for round two.
“Mrsha, stop it. We’re not getting out of here, and even if we did, what are you going to do? The Winter Solstice isn’t for a couple of days. If Miss Erin’s sending even Lyonette here, that means she thinks the inn isn’t safe. Don’t cause more trouble for her unless you have a plan.”
I do have a plan! She needs me there for my luck! I won’t let her be alone! I’m not leaving ever again!
Mrsha held up a card with trembling paws. Ekirra whined in the back of his throat like a dog until Visma nudged him. And Hethon felt breathless.
“So it’s happening. Something bad is going to happen on the Winter Solstice.”
Mrsha and Nanette gave him a look like he was stupid, and he flushed.
“Well, it is, isn’t it? Only, no one knows what. I thought—there’s a lot of [Soldiers] out there.”
No kidding, genius? Can you believe this guy?
Mrsha held up a card. She wrote as Hethon spluttered, a magical quill appearing with a flick of her wand and dashing across the paper.
“No, I just meant—my father is helping. But Innkeeper Erin’s called in so many people. Does she need that many? What’s going on—hey!”
No wonder he’s Tyrion Veltras’ son. He’s pretty dumb.
Nanette hid a smile as Hethon turned red. But then she grew serious.
“It’s…something big. I’ve never seen Miss Erin that worried. Not that I’ve known her that long.”
Neither have I. She never prepares for things. This is bigger than when the Goblin Lord came. I think. But that means we’re ready, right?
Mrsha looked around nervously, and Sammial stomped his feet.
“But what’s happening? No one tells me anything! I need to know! Tell me! Tell me or I’ll—break something!”
Sammial raised his voice, his face turning red, and shouted. He had grabbed the first vase he saw when Hethon glared at his brother.
“Sammial, I don’t know! No one knows!”
“Huh?”
The [Lord] hesitated, and Ser Sest, the only minder on permanent kid-duty, gently put the vase back on a stand.
“That would be correct, Lord Sammial Veltras. No one but Erin Solstice, and possibly Miss Ryoka Griffin, are aware of the nature of the—event. Only that it is coming. Details may be provided shortly, but I understand it has caused a good deal of consternation. The threat, the form in which it arrives, and how likely it is to actually occur on the Winter Solstice are all a mystery.”
He smiled, but with that reserve that suggested even the [Knight] was forcing it. Sammial looked around, and Nanette snatched a hand away from rubbing her head when she noticed Hethon glance at her. Mrsha sat there as Visma patted her on the shoulder, and Ekirra patted Mrsha on the head, and Kenva hugged her new friend.
And then Sammial saw Mrsha’s worried tears, and he looked around.
“No one knows?”
Even he began to look worried.
 
——
 
Oswen’s Marshrangers entered the Floodplains of Liscor slowly. Piecemeal.
“Five at a time! Then we have to charge. Welcome! Come on in—there’s some free minestrone soup if you’re one of the soldier-people. Just write down your name on the ledger so we know who to charge later.”
A tired Gnoll was at the door, letting in different groups in small numbers. An annoyed Drake was trying to call at her as some bemused [Rangers] filed in. One of the Humans raised her hand.
