It felt like this great—uncertainty.
It hung over The Wandering Inn. Or perhaps the entire region. Like a cloud had fallen, a black mass of snow that was too light to be anchored to the ground and billowed upwards, casting a pall over everything, growing with each day leading to—
The Winter Solstice.
Hethon Veltras hadn’t realized what he was feeling until the last few days, when it seemed to hit him suddenly. He would wake up and feel dread.
Like a hand wrapped around his throat. He would wake in a panic, tangled in his sheets, and then forget why he was worried. Even when he went to sleep, he would brush it off as nightmares or memories of being poisoned.
Then dream.
Hethon dreamed of numbers. He understood numbers. He could count the blades of grass and tell you how many there were in a patch, or see a flock of geese and say ‘there are forty-six of them up there’ in the blink of an eye.
Sammial didn’t believe Hethon could do that. Ullim told Hethon he needed to learn numbers, arithmetic from troop reports instead of counting manually like some [Backwater Lordling].
But the boy had been sitting in The Wandering Inn and watching Drakes march in by the thousands. Last night, he had seen five groupings of Civic Militia—the Veltras name for the local cities’ standing armies, which wasn’t very polite—making camp far to the east, away from the Drakes holding the center of the Floodplains.
Hethon Veltras thought he’d counted twenty-one thousand eight hundred and ninety-two Drakes on the Floodplains. He thought he’d seen more hiding in the High Passes; camouflaged rock-people who sometimes sneezed or shifted and revealed themselves.
Tyrion Veltras’ own forces numbered eight thousand seven hundred and eleven, and Lady Buscrei was riding with Oswen’s Marshrangers; the full Otterrats Vanguard, as they called themselves. Eighty-eight plus the [Lady] herself.
And more were coming. Lord Xitegen had brought less than four hundred troops, but a full quarter were Golems. In his mind, Hethon saw the scope of the armies; less than had been sent to kill the Goblin Lord, perhaps, but higher-quality.
The Antinium were digging. There weren’t ‘three thousand’ Free Antinium; he had counted over five thousand digging outside, though they looked the same, so it was a harder game for him. Already, their walls of dirt had risen nineteen feet high and climbed higher. Seeing them work without rest or verbal speech had truly made Hethon feel the terror of the Black Tide.
In his dreams, these armies lined up and formed one great army, Drakes hunched behind spearwalls, Human archers taking aim while Goblins flew overhead on Wyvernback, and Golems turned, their precise, controlled movements as alien as the Antinium standing in a black sea, illuminated by the flames of emotion’s fire.
But in his dream, a withered hand reached across the world and snuffed the lights out in a single motion. Fingers withered and rotten, like claws, plucked the formations and defenses out of the world, and an inn cracked before it. And the boy saw three women—or was it one?
Three women, one face, walking forwards, and the ground split, and he fell screaming into a void with no end. But that was somehow still better than touching her.
What would become of The Wandering Inn? Of Erin? Hethon didn’t know, but he kept falling and falling in that dream…
And this time, he thought he heard a voice.
 
“—not ready yet. Phaugh. I can smell her deeds even here. She’s ate the entire afterlife.”
“Eaten it whole! Like the greedy guts she is!”
“Shut up, Theillige. I cannot see anything of what that one does, or the insane warrior. Least the God of Magic is trapped. He’s as like the worst to have a trick we cannae predict.”
“Aye, Gnomes. But how long? We see little, Lady Shaestrel. Yon [Innkeeper]’s blasted bread leaves us both in shadow.” 
“Beaten by bread! How the Court of Winter must be laughing their arses off!”
 
A weird group of people were talking. Hethon could hear them. They had oddly…cold voices, most of them. As if winter itself were chiming in his ear. Though they weren’t speaking in his ears, in the dream. One sounded like spring, like shoots of grass under snow pushing upwards. But the cold voices were grumbling.
 
“The damned stuff draws from our power. Tricksy Human. She put some of our flowers in the bread! She’s not supposed to have them, Lady Shaestrel. I swear, I thought some of them were growing to adulthood, and if they do…is this place going to become part of Avalon?”
“Let it be. So long as it exists, those six cannot walk into her inn like last time. We know the lost one and the God of Rulers are still flying upwards.”
“Aye. Fighting the Last Dragonlord of the Void and Agelum. Foes too good for them. A battle they can never win. Someone should sing of it.”
“Not us. ‘Twill be a glorious death for all of us!”
“Shut up, Theillige. But I am blind. I sense nets closing in the dark and like it not. And…is something listening to us?”
 
The voices grew alarmed. The bright one, like spring, seemed to cast around, and Hethon was watching the battle again.
Three-in-one. And a new thought popped into his head as he saw her face.
G-G—
Goddess. The word seemed to write itself in his head then vanish, and the disturbance made the voices swoop in closer.
 
“Hark! A spy! No, wait, it’s the boy with good eyes.”
“Is he a dreamer? Damn classes.”
“No. Maybe his connection with Ryoka Griffin? He is dreaming of the Solstice, sisters. And he has a dark right of it.”
 
Death! Death! Death! A laughing maw opened, and a crone turned into a young woman who gobbled down soldiers, who fled screaming. The voices were silent as dream-Hethon screamed and went running for his father, Tyrion.
 
“…Dark as shite. Think that will happen?”
“Dunno. But he knew her nature a second. The old whatit thing the Gnomes addled, the work of that idiot, Isthekenous, is still at work. Erasing their names and nature for the ones of this land. Good thing, too, or they’d be close to full strength already.”
“Shush, idiot!”
“Why? He’s really dead. Dead dead. So dead half the others ate him. Gruesome it was.”
 
The bickering voices were silenced as the green one spoke again. Yes, green. Hethon knew her. Shaestrel. And she seemed to be swooping around him as the ground opened up, and he fell once more, flailing and shrieking. Hovering at the edge of his dream.
 
“Yes, but why is the boy dreaming of it? Let alone so close to us? Something isn’t right. Let’s pull him out of it. ‘Tisn’t a thing a boy should suffer.”
“Oh, there goes Lady Shaestrel again, always meddling and being kindhearted. This is just like when you gave fire to those poor idiots like some Giant of old—His Majesty will ban ye from mortal realms another ten thousand years!”
“Shut up. Something’s—”
 
A bunch of tiny hands were pulling Hethon up—and then there were screams. The ground caught Hethon and whispered in a voice like thunder.
“She is returned. ___ess of Death. Ruler of Kasignel. The cruel one. Without mercy. Without justice nor vengeance. She who holds us all. Three-in-One. No armies stand before her, son of House Veltras.”
The words rolled through his being, and dream-Hethon shuddered. He heard screams.
 
“Fecking Satyr balls! I thought they were dead!”
“They are dead! This is another stupid—”
 
Then they vanished. As if a curtain had suddenly been pulled across the world. And once more, Hethon was standing in front of The Wandering Inn.
Brave armies of mortals quailed as a woman walked over the earth. Hethon turned, screaming for Sammial, Ryoka. His father. He saw a [Lord] fighting to control a steed as a hand reached for him, the glorious pink flame of the Antinium [Knight] faltering. A half-Giant slumping over, eyes lifeless.
Mrsha, Moore, everyone collapsed in his dream, and Hethon was running from the woman. Then the ground opened, and he fell into it, screaming and shrieking…and the new voice whispered.
“Why do you scream? You alone would not die, son of Veltras.”
Falling, Hethon flailed, and finally, the dream-part of him wondered who was speaking. How was falling into the earth salvation? And the voice grew puzzled.
“Can’t you hear us? Take the seed. We have been calling. You are oathbound to the old pact. We warn you of her. Find us. Can’t you—HEAR US?”
Then Hethon Veltras awoke with a scream.
 
——
 
The boy would have tumbled out of bed and onto the floor, but he was snagged around his sheets. He flailed wildly as the dream vanished and, again, almost forgot why he was so terrified even within the moments of choking back a scream.
But this time it lingered, and he lay there, panting as if he had run a mile in a minute, looking around an unfamiliar room and remembering he was in an inn in Invrisil, on the third floor, and it was seven o’clock. Breakfast.
Not in the Adventurer’s Haven, that magical place with lovely beds, amazing staff as well as guests, and the sense that you were part of some grand legend and adventure. A place where you could see Mihaela Godfrey hanging out with Deniusth the Violinist—even if Mihaela was grumpy.
Instead, he woke up in a plainer inn named the Terland’s Service, so-called because it had impressed a Terland back in the day. Also, because it had Golems.
One was knocking this very moment, which was why Hethon knew it was seven.
“Hello…sir. This is your morning wake-up check at—seven o’clock. Are your rooms now vacated for…morning cleaning?”
“Um. I’m fine without cleaning.”
“Understood. Breakfast is being served…now. I wish you a fine day…sir.”
It wasn’t a very good Golem that greeted him from the hallway, and it had a polished wood ‘face’ and body that made it look more like a training dummy had come to life. It was, as Hethon understood such things, very cheap.
—Which still meant it probably cost hundreds of gold pieces for the chassis, and hundreds more for a Golem Heart capable of doing more complex tasks like remembering greetings and making beds.
In fact, it made the inn notable as very high-class. But Hethon had noticed the beds didn’t have any flourishes like folded covers, and the Golem didn’t understand what to do if it found something weird like a cat on the bed; it was programmed to just walk out of the room and hang a note that said it had been interrupted.
Still, a mostly-Golem staff meant no one had to do the cleaning, and so the [Innkeeper] had invested in the kitchens. Also, being affiliated, even loosely, with House Terland meant you got guests who sometimes brought their own Golems.
Lord Xitegen’s two Golem maids were porcelain, had set the table, did his rooms, and stood behind him as he ate. He was probably downstairs now.
Hethon Veltras’ heart rate was calming down with this new Golem-reality making his dream already feel part of the past. He shook himself. Just a dream.
The thing was…he remembered the faeries more than anything and resolved to ask Ryoka about them. Maybe they’d remember his dream? But Hethon Veltras didn’t tend to remember dreams that well. His mother had told him as a boy they were just things to be forgotten. Sammial was the one who disobeyed and probably had a wild imagination.
That went some way to explaining why Hethon Veltras was deliberately calming down, relaxing by the time he tried to roll out of bed onto the floor. But he paused, felt something on his arm, turned, and recoiled.
A hand was holding onto his shoulder. Hethon punched at it, calling out with a scream.
“Jericha! Jerich—”
One of House Veltras’ guards was in the room like a flash. Golems or not, Invrisil and the Circle of Thorns’ and Assassin’s Guild’s demise or not—he had a shortsword drawn, and Jericha had two wands aiming over Hethon’s head.
“Lord Hethon! To me. What—”
She found him rolling around, fighting with—Hethon saw Jericha tear at his sheets and reveal nothing. Just his bedsheets.
“Oh. I—”
The [Guard] strode around the room as Jericha hesitated, cast several detection spells, and relaxed. She spoke into a speaking stone that had lit up on her wrist.
“Code Itvern. False alarm. Checking.”
The [Message] spell waited for her to speak the decoding phrase before accepting Jericha’s words. Coded transmissions. Jericha pulled at the sheets.
“It was a nightmare. I’m sorry, Jericha. I thought someone was grabbing…”
Hethon was red with embarrassment, and Jericha gave him a sympathetic look. Now that he looked, it was just his bedsheets.
But for one second, he swore it had looked exactly like a hand of some kind. Only, Jericha unwound the sheets and gave him a small smile.
“The mind plays tricks, Lord Hethon. It looks a bit like a hand. And it was good you called. Even if it wasn’t something this time…better that you have that instinct.”
She was trying to praise him, and the [Guard] bowed. Hethon turned redder as he apologized. Here he was causing trouble again. Hethon pushed the dream out of his head as he saw Sammial flanked by six [Guards] asking what was happening and began to explain and apologize.
Yet the dream was in the back of his head. And that was how he started his day.
Omens. A voice. Every now and then, Hethon would brush at his shoulder as if expecting something to be there.
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen had his two personal Golems serving him breakfast by the time Hethon was downstairs. By now, the boy had apologized to several guests, the [Innkeeper], and he just wanted to leave, so he tried to go out the front door. Unfortunately, it was never that easy.
“Hethon. Where are you going?”
Tyrion Veltras spotted his son, and Hethon froze.
“Um. Ah. The Wandering Inn, Father?”
Xitegen glanced up from a newspaper and twisted his lips. His father’s head rose from a cup of coffee. He paused—and his stoic expression changed. His eyes narrowed one fraction, and he visibly frowned.
“Breakfast is being served here as part of our service.”
Are you wasting money? Hethon twisted inside, but he had a counter.
“Miss Ryoka’s going to get us breakfast. Me and Sammial.”
Pause two. Tyrion’s eyes flickered.
“—I will be visiting midday. Do not embarrass yourself. Also: wait for Ullim and your brother.”
He paused a moment, and his eyes focused on Hethon. One look at the dark black speaking stone, made of a river-stone polished bright, with a current of blue running through it on Tyrion’s wrist, and Hethon knew his father had heard of the false alarm this morning and turned red.
But Tyrion hesitated, and rather than bring it up, the now younger [Lord] seemed to notice Hethon’s discomfort. He paused and spoke slowly.
“Nightmares happen.”
