“It’s much better to answer now,” the young man added. “Saves everyone a lot of time.”

It pissed Viv off. Not catching her by surprise nor even the good cop bad cop routine, not even being annoyed while tired. What pissed her off was the man’s comment.

The silence extended awkwardly.

“Right, we’d like to know how it all started. We think you know,” the old man asked.

Viv measured her chances. Maybe it would be better not to cooperate to avoid any risks of saying something she might regret. Only idiots believed that they couldn’t get in trouble because they ‘had done nothing wrong’. On the other hand, they could give her lasting problems and possibly worsen her already fragile standing in the Academy. What she knew from investigator Tars back in Kazar was that they could sense the truth, so maybe there was an angle to pursue. It would still be risky. She wanted to try it. Ereska slightly elbowing her to answer comforted her in the belief that the right to remain silent wasn’t something that worked well on Nyil.

“What started?” she asked.

“The events that triggered the riots. I believe you were around the warehouse district yesterday evening? Some people mention seeing you move with black-clad people and a mysterious, heavily made up individual of great size.”

Hah. Worst description of Solfis ever. Viv considered her opinion and realized she felt truthful about the matter.

“I had nothing to do with the start of the riot.”

Viv considered that this was truthful because she had been a bystander. Tamar was the one who had devastated the warehouse. She’d been outside, running away at the time. She felt she was innocent. Responsible for being around, certainly, but in no way guity. Someone had tried to kill her for crying out loud.

The investigator must have felt the conviction in her words, but the prime investigator squinted, perhaps sensing she was not being entirely objective. It was probably a necessity considering the amount of monsters who saw themselves as innocent. ‘She made me do it’ and all that. Nevertheless, they had little to go on.

“But you were present at that time. What did you see? What started all this? You must have observed something.”

Oh, that was an easy one.

“Oh yes, I saw it well. It was started by several years worth of disinterested laziness by you and your entire government with the absolute belief that population needs to be culled and if it happens to the poorer members of society, well, tough shit. It was triggered when your collective lot decided it was easier to let go and maybe wait for the Hallurian warlords to solve your population problem for you rather than invest in expansion, fleets, frontier villages or even just birth control measures. Growing pains indeed. Chronic pain, you mean, a persistent crisis born from apathy and the belief either the next generation of rulers or the next generation of invaders will solve that issue for you. Yeah, I did see it. In excruciating detail.”

“Now now, there is no need for anger, Miss Outlander. Perhaps you have different customs where you come from but here we expect third step people to exert self-control — “

“Have you had a walk through the city?” Viv interrupted, her voice unnaturally loud thanks to a small magical boost. “Today, I mean. Maybe you should investigate that instead. After you dig out your twelfth dead child, you are welcome to return and talk to me about self-control and overreaction. In the meantime, I'm not interested. Not. Interested.”

Silence spread across the empty path. Ereska conspicuously examined the time on some bronze contraption, then she crossed her arms.

“The riots fragment the city. I believe we are warranted in wondering who, or what, set them off. This is merely caution. No need to be defensive,” the younger investigator finally said.

“And I told you I didn’t do anything to start them. It wasn’t me,” Viv replied, slowly measuring each word.

“Just like the young lady informed you earlier,” another voice came from behind.

Viv realized Sidjin had been smirking and she now figured out why. Garbed in crimson, holding a staff and radiated heat, the dean arrived. He was alone, but he was one of those people who didn’t need an escort. He seemed to fill the entire road. Rather than blocking the way in, the investigators were now boxed between two very hard places.

“Dean Tallit. Sir, good evening,” the older one said with an attempt at calm, but Viv could see sweat bead on his forehead.

“Yes, yes. Now, far from me to question why you would care so much about who triggered an event you yourselves considered inevitable in your latest reports, but there is a time and place and…”

Viv was suddenly standing in front of an oven. No, the desert sun. At dawn.

“This isn’t it,” the scarlet star finished.

The impression faded until Viv wondered if she had dreamt it. The two investigators stood unmoving. They did not say anything when the casters passed them by.

All four walked to the gates in silence. Only when they arrived did Viv finally say what she felt she had to say.

“Thank you,” she told the dean.

He sighed heavily.

“I’m not your enemy. I hope you have seen that now and since your lover is safe, maybe you can focus on your studies while we clean up the city. Your highness, would you stay for the night?”

“Just Sidjin, and yes, I’d love to.”
