She had promised, vowed to send someone to Erin after Goblinhome was done. She had hoped it would be Rabbiteater; if he had come back she would have sent the expedition at once. But he had made his choice to continue going north, to find more Goblin tribes and save them from the Humans. Still, Rags should have sent someone.
But…she saw Redscar nod ahead of them. They were heading to the canyon floor, moving out of the pass into Human lands. She wasn’t worried; they’d done this before. Hence, the invitation to ride. Redscar spoke thoughtfully, planning it out.
“Badarrow takes Carn Wolf. With Snapjaw. Takes three days to get down, get to Liscor careful and secret. Maybe five most. Search for…others. Go to inn. Why not?”
“Dangerous. Humans.”
Rags whispered the words. Redscar looked at her.
“Take thirty Redfangs.”
“No.”
“Thirty Redfangs and ten Hobs and seventy Goblins?”
“No.”
“Thirty Redfangs, ten Hobs—”
“No. Never enough, Redscar. Two is enough. But if they meet Erin, if she…”
She was alive. She had to be. Rags tightened her grip on the Carn Wolf’s back again until Thunderfur protested. She tried to explain to Redscar.
“She will try to protect. But she cannot. No one can.”
She had seen that on the Floodplains that day. Rags knew someone should look, on the off chance Goblins had survived. She wanted to go herself. She wanted to see Erin so badly. She was just afraid—it would happen again.
The circle. The cycle of Goblins attacking and being attacked. Only—it wouldn’t end. Not without Goblins having a way to defend themselves. That was the thing Rags had realized. Even if they didn’t attack, they would be killed. They had to break the cycle by being strong.
That was what Velan had known. He had tried for peace and they had slaughtered his tribe the first time. But only after he had been strong had he managed it. And then he had become a Goblin King and gone…mad.
All her memories of the Velan as the Goblin King were of all-consuming rage. So much that Rags could barely see what Velan was doing. She’d woken, screaming of blood and fury too many times from those dreams. Wanting to kill all Humans. The Playthings.
Even Erin.
That was what Rags feared. That she would bring about a second slaughter, by revealing that Goblins lived to Erin, or whomever would find out. Or that…something would happen to the one Human who had been good to her.
Redscar might not have read all of that on Rags’ hunched posture, but he knew enough. He nodded, turned forwards, and dropped the conversation for a moment.
“…Twelve Wyverns?”
Rags struck him from behind. Redscar grinned. Rags sighed.
“Really want to train Wyverns? Good idea, maybe. Wyverns can fly. And drop Goblins.”
“So? Wyverns could be good friends. Eater Goats too hungry, Gargoyles too stupid. But Wyverns smart. Nearly as good as Carn Wolves.”
Thunderfur wuffed a low agreement. Rags paused.
“…Can try. But big. Fat.”
“Hunt for them. Not that hard. Anyways, Wyverns hunt too when fed. And maybe help carry things. Very strong. Also, good defenders…”
Rags gave up.
“Fourteen. Shut up, shut up. If fourteen live. Three look dead.”
“Mm.”
The two rode forwards in silence. After a moment, Rags saw a regular thrush-bird scavenging in the evening light. She stared at it as Thunderfur panted. The bird tensed—so did Redscar.
“No, Thunderfur. Chieftain falls off.”
The Carn Wolf whined as the bird flew off. Rags snorted.
“Couldn’t get bird. Too far.”
“If Thunderfur pounces, could. But only a mouthful. Not worth the effort.”
Redscar informed Rags archly. The Chieftain rolled her eyes. [Beast Tamers] and their animals. Well, Redscar was a [Beast Master] now. Thunderfur had grown another size and he was certainly the alpha wolf—half of the new litters were his.
Soon they’d have little Carn Wolves pooping everywhere and begging for treats. Stupid, intelligent—Rags found herself offering a bit of meat forwards. Redscar fed it to Thunderfur.
“Plan, Chieftain? What next after rebuild?”
“If stupid Wyverns don’t come back? Or giant flesh-abomination? Or the thing with your face?”
“Or Rock Golems?”
Both Goblins sighed. Redscar nodded. Rags shrugged.
“Don’t know. Build fortress better for now. Stronger than Tremborag’s Mountain.”
“Good plan. But what else?”
“…Don’t know. Redscar, did you ever like female Goblins? Ever wonder?”
The Hobgoblin had to think about this. He was a mentor to Rags, in a way, taking up where Pyrite had left off. Well, he always had been, but now that Rags was older, he sometimes had conversations with her, assuaging her curiosity.
“Yes. Tried a few times.”
“And?”
“Eh. Can tell difference. Thunderfur likes females. Not me.”
The [War Leader] patted Thunderfur on the head. Rags nodded. When you knew, you knew, she supposed. Redscar winked at her.
“Chieftain would be first pick if did.”
“Hah. First pick would be Ulvama. With her…and her…”
Rags gestured. Redscar sobered.
“Mm.”
They both fell silent again. After a while, Rags looked at Redscar.
“I wonder if I can tell.”
“What does Chieftain wonder? Likes female or male Hobs? Go try. Many try with Chieftain.”
“No. I wonder…what I’m supposed to do. Everything looks like darkness.”
Redscar paused. He didn’t respond to that. Rags looked ahead, as they finally reached ground level. Leapwolf whistled softly as he waited for them. He pointed ahead.
“Careful. Gargoyles moving nests. Stupid rock-heads.”
The Goblins nodded. They kept an eye out and Redscar and Rags kept their voices even quieter.
“I don’t think Garen ever knew what to do. Always new plan, always…”
Redscar waved his arms in an offhand manner, indicating that Garen, for all his strengths as a warrior, had been a rather lousy Chieftain. Rags nodded.
“Chieftain is smart. If she cannot figure out what to do, no one can.”
“Everyone says that. Maybe everyone just stupid.”
Rags muttered. Redscar smacked her lightly on the shoulder. He pointed ahead as she blushed, embarrassed.
“Moody Chieftain not good for Goblinhome. Going to Eater Goat village. Humans. Chieftain can talk with Humans.”
Rags nodded. She knew that was their destination.
The Eater Goat Village. It had a proper name, but none of the Goblins bothered to remember it. It was the closest village to the High Passes, with naturally high walls—the villagers had built much like Rags had, trusting to geography and construction to keep them safe. The only difference was that theirs was a small village compared to Rags’ Goblinhome project with fewer traps.
Oh—and they were [Shepherds]. Of Eater Goats. In the entire world, only this village raised the manically insane Eater Goats. The ever-hungry monsters had been tamed and…no, never domesticated, but tamed to some extent by the villagers.
Even the Redfangs respected that. Rags and Redscar had visited from time to time, to trade for resources, and…just to listen. To learn.
It helped smother the rage that sometimes burned in their chests. The desire to go out and murder every Human in retaliation. The people in the village weren’t good or evil. They were kind and cruel, generous and stingy.
They were rather like Goblins, actually. But they treated Redscar and Rags like normal…so long as they wore the disguises.
Speaking of which, Rags realized she’d left her bag of holding in Goblinhome. She cursed. Here she was without her sword, buckler, or crossbow! At least she could still use her magic, but this was stupid.
“Forgot disguise. Have to go back?”
Redscar snorted, patting his belt pouch.
“Have disguises here. All fine, Chieftain.”
“Oh. Good.”
The two lapsed into silence. Rags saw a shifting figure high above, and the riders paused warily. But the Gargoyle wasn’t hungry or didn’t spot them; the Carn Wolves blended with the reddish-brown dirt of the pass.
When it was gone, Redscar looked at Rags. And he came out with the real question he’d clearly been chewing on this entire time.
“Chieftain. Why not go to inn? Goblinhome protected.”
Rags hesitated. She’d been wondering that herself. But she had an answer, or so she thought.
“It’s…too nice there.”
Both brows on Redscar’s face rose up. Rags clarified.
“When I go, I want to stay forever. Forget. No—not forget. But stay and protect. Protect her. But I can’t. Not just Erin. All Goblins die.”
“Ah.”
She was a Chieftain and this was her tribe. Rags would have to go back. But going back meant Erin was involved. And she could neither protect, nor shelter. Rags shook her head.
“Her inn is too small for all of us.”
“True. But…big enough for a few.”
Also true. Rags’ head bowed.
“I will not go. But send Badarrow and Snapjaw.”
The other Hobgoblin nodded. He patted Rags on the shoulder.
“Good Chieftain, good Chieftain.”
“I will bite you.”
The two were laughing. Riding forwards, as the Redfangs smiled and looked at their Chieftain. Small, but growing. Depressed, but striving. Humbled, but wiser.
They passed by a smooth section of stone none of them remembered. But it smelled normal, and the Goblins didn’t even seem to register the unusual bend in the road. They rode on, and Rags and Redscar rode past the spot. And the Dragon, sitting in the mouth of his cave. He looked at her, at the key she wore, and murmured.
Abruptly, Rags noticed a waft of hot air. She waved her hand in front of her face, wondering what that was. Then—she noticed they were riding past a very large, open cave. A spire of rocks with a yellow scarf marked the entrance. And sitting in the cave was—
A Dragon.
The Dragon. His scales ran like burnished gold in the evening’s light. And his eyes shone, one orb swirling heliotrope and cerulean. He was massive, three times larger than the Wyvern Lord, making minnows of the Carn Wolves, even Thunderfur.
For a second, the Redfangs on patrol looked right blankly, staring at the cave and Dragon which had suddenly become visible to them. Or rather, it had been there all along, but they had been forbidden from noticing. Then they froze.
The Dragon stared at Rags. Right at her. She froze. This wasn’t happening. Was it an invisible Dragon? How had it appeared? How hadn’t they noticed?
“Dragon! Protect the Chieftain! Run, Thunderfur!”
Redscar shed his paralysis in a moment. He leapt off Thunderfur and drew both swords. His companion whined, frozen, shaking, but Redscar pointed. He charged, both blades raised, towards the Dragon. Thunderfur howled as he leapt away, climbing the steep ravine. Redscar howled and Leapwolf charged after him—
“Interesting. A Phantomsword with a weak burning enchantment. Pause.”
The Dragon spoke. Redscar froze, mid-step. So did Leapwolf. Their eyes bulged and they skidded to a stop, their muscles locked. Rags felt Thunderfur halt, mid-leap. She clutched at him as he tilted. They would have fallen to earth, but something caught them and gently lowered them to the ground.
Rags swung off her saddle and gazed about. The other seven Redfangs were frozen in place, some holding weapons, others pointing. They weren’t able to move, but Rags sensed—she knew they were alive.
But they were frozen. And the Dragon hadn’t moved. He hadn’t even lifted a claw. He just regarded her. And then, he snorted. He drew himself up to his full height.
The Goblin Chieftain stared up at him. And she was struck by his appearance. He was beautiful. So flawless, it hurt to look at him. A creature of another kind, armored in scales, who breathed magic. He was what the Wyvern Lord was only a false copy of.
A Dragon. And without knowing his legends, Rags understood. The Dragon looked at her and she prepared to die. It was almost fitting.
But he did not open his maw and blast her to ash. Instead, the Dragon just sighed. He looked down at Rags.
“Your companions will be safe. I will return them to their…abode. So.”
He gestured. And Rags saw a shimmering circle transcribed with runes appear under each of the Goblins and Carn Wolves. They vanished. And the Dragon examined Rags.
“No doubt you sought me, as the one before you has. A tedious thing. Nevertheless, I shall respect your quest and entertain your presence a moment.”
He turned. Rags saw him walk back into the massive cave. She stared at his back. She’d sought…?
“Come in already, child. I have been expecting you.”
The voice echoed. Rags walked into the cave. Dark, rough stone turned into smooth, stone tiles. The room became brighter.
And Rags found herself standing in a Dragon’s hoard. The Dragon himself curled up in the vast cavern of space. Suits of armor, swords in racks, bookshelves, and every manner of magical object were neatly divided into categories and then thrown together in huge piles.
Rags saw a pile of gemstones, each shining with brilliant inner light placed next to…a block of gold. Just pure gold, three times her height and equally as wide. It was hovering off the ground so as not to crack the floor tiles with its sheer weight.
A Dragon’s treasure. And in the middle of it was the Dragon. He stared down at her as she walked forwards. Rags gaped around. She blinked up at the Dragon.
Rags was awed, stunned. She felt like this was a dream, more than Velan’s memories. It had happened so suddenly. Out of nowhere, a Dragon had appeared. And it had demanded the story revolve around it, as they did. And as he settled in place, the mighty Dragon spoke.
“So. You are young. No doubt, awed. You have come, following the steps of your King. But what you seek is not here. Were I a lesser creature, I would send you away with nothing more.”
The Dragon spoke. Rags started. His voice was so…normal. Deep, echoing, but precise, enunciated. Intelligent. He looked down at her as if she was a speck. And she was. The Dragon went on, raising one claw that was larger than she was and placing it delicately on the floor of his abode.
“But I granted your King an audience, and out of respect for that meeting, I have allowed you into my sanctum. Come and see a sight few have ever been privy to. Look upon me, inheritor of the Goblin King’s will. I am Teriarch, Lord of Flame. One of the last of my kind.”
Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe looked at Teriarch, the Dragon. She beheld him in his glory. His cavern, which was heaped with a ransom that no hundred [Kings] in this world could afford. A Dragon, a creature many thought dead from this world.
And she had no idea what was going on. Rags stared at the piles of treasure and then at the Dragon. The longer she looked, it seemed more like someone had been halfway through sorting his things; some of the heaps of treasure had yet to be subdivided. It still looked impressive. Just…midway.
