“Left? How many Dragons is left?”
He shook his head.
“Are left. And…I do not know. I stopped counting long ago, both the living and the dead. My people hid many of their young. And we are the mightiest of beings. Some may remain, even if they are young, ignorant. I do not desire to meet them. But of old?”
He stared around the room. And Rags knew—he could see the empty thrones filled. Just like she could look around and see Pyrite eating a snack on quiet nights. Teriarch shook his head.
“I remember ten thousand years ago, there were four true Dragons, four who flew during the days of Dragon nations including myself. Four. And I watched one fall during the Crelers Wars. And the other two…no. They were wounded so grievously—they may have hidden. But I fear…you may be speaking to the last Dragon who remembers the truth.”
Truth? Rags looked at Teriarch. He paused. And his eyes were terribly old. He looked down at Rags and whispered.
“Perhaps even now, you speak to the last of us. If so, remember this moment forever, little Goblin. That your descendants might remember it as long as Goblins endure.”
The Dragon’s words pierced Rags’ chest. She nearly stumbled with the burden of it, and caught herself. Then she grew angry. Her sorrow turned to anger. Rags was an angry Goblin. When she didn’t weep for the devastation, she raged. Just like she had at an [Innkeeper]. She pointed at Teriarch’s face and glowered.
“Sad. Is supposed to cheer me up? Don’t see the point. If Dragons died, how do Goblins live?”
The Dragon blinked as the tiny Goblin pointed up at him. He was affronted—and then he smiled for a second. He bent his huge head.
And Rags gulped. Two vast eyes stared at her. Straight through her, like he could read every inch of her. Her future, her past. They captured her. And the Dragon murmured, in a voice that made her bones shake.
“It is meant to show you what was lost, insolent little Goblin. Look. Behold what we had. Dragonkind was foolish. We fought amongst ourselves and were drowned by the small. We could not create a perfect sanctuary. Do you understand? This was our throne. But no Dragonthrone ever has but one seat.”
He indicated the other, empty thrones. Rags nodded, shaken, as his head retreated. Teriarch looked at her, his voice swelling.
“There is hope, child. Listen to me. There is hope for your people. For Goblins have not passed from the earth. They endure. And so long as they live in number, even in the darkness, there is a chance.”
He touched the scales on his chest, lightly, with one claw. Teriarch’s eyes glittered as he spoke.
“We never suffered a King. But Goblins—you have ever had a King. Ever since the first Goblin King. That is your hope.”
Rags stood up. She was shaking. Now, she wanted to believe Teriarch knew. How could you break the cycle? Velan had tried. She had walked in his body. She had seen how good he was. But he had turned into a King and died.
“How? Goblin Kings come, they get mad. They die! Everyone always kills Goblins—more after Goblin Kings! They don’t bring good things. How do we live? How—”
Teriarch’s eyes flashed with every passing word. He spoke, in a thunderous voice as smoke escaped his jaws.
“His legacy, you fool! Or do you not remember what Curulac of a Hundred Days left? Sóve, the Island Queen? Each one left hope! Do you not remember what they did? They died! But they knew their death the moment they became Kings! They left it for you! His treasure! Or do you scorn it? Do you not know what he gave up, for—”
The Dragon paused as the Goblin quailed in front of him. Rags’ heart was beating erratically as the force of the Dragon’s ire washed over her. Teriarch relented. He sat back. And then he looked at Rags. His eyes widened and his fury vanished in a moment. Suddenly, his voice was low, sorrowful.
“Ah. Perhaps even your memory fades. You do not know what the other Kings left, do you? You only know there is a treasure.”
“Yes.”
Rags whispered. Teriarch nodded. Then paused, shook his head.
“The Goblin Kings…are not just creatures of rage. Though it drives them to their death. To educate, the island your people claim that haunts the House of Minos? That was made by Sóve. You may not have known this, and perhaps even the Goblin Lords forget…”
He paused. The little Goblin was staring up at the Dragon. She made her mouth work.
“Of course. Island. Of goblins.”
“Yes. She left it with the fall of the Minotaur’s Age of Conquest. And it endures.”
Teriarch flicked one wing, gently. His voice was soft, recollecting the past. Rags listened, heart beating wildly.
“Perhaps they are small things. Curulac only left one thing, but the most precious to him in this world. And his daughter was slain within a decade of his death. But even she left…embers. And they endured until Velan the Kind rose. Perhaps they still glow. The other Goblin Kings have left something, for the future. If you must cling to hope…Velan’s legacy has yet to be found.”
He looked down at Rags. Not unkindly. Teriarch nodded.
“Velan the Kind saw his death. He saw the truth that I keep. And he succumbed to the madness of your Goblin Kings. But like all the others, he dreamed of one who might follow and succeed where he failed. His legacy is for that, to safeguard Goblins, or…to give them what they seek. And you hold his key. Do not scorn it lightly, child.”
Rags looked down at the little key hanging around her neck. She looked at the Dragon. It was such a small thing. But it seemed to grow warmer in his presence, at his words.
It was surely just her imagination. But Rags still held it tight. The Dragon gave her hope. And he raised his head.
“The High Passes are immense. So tall that even Dragons feared what lay above. Yet Velan climbed it, to hide his great treasure for one who was worthy. A test, rather than a gift, perhaps. But his treasure remains. And if you find it, you will know his will. Perhaps that may change the fate of Goblins. But perhaps your Kings always choose your fate knowing what will pass.”
The Dragon spoke the words softly. But with a…longing that sent chills down Rags’ spine. She looked up at him. And Teriarch shook his head. He gestured, spoke a word as he raised his claw.
The throne vanished. Rags was abruptly standing where she had been before. She stared around the cavern.
Which was no less filled with treasure, no less vast. But compared to the Dragonthrone, it was dingy, small. And Teriarch himself seemed to feel it. He curled up again, looking tired.
“Leave the treasure your King left, or seek it. I give you only my words, a vow kept. For those Goblins I have met who were worthy of my respect. I care not.”
He was a Dragon. But a poor liar, and Rags saw it. Teriarch breathed in and out, slowly.
“I will return you to your home.”
He raised a claw, pointing, and a circle of magic appeared at Rags’ feet. But she wasn’t ready to go. So the little Goblin waved urgently.
“Question.”
She raised her clawed hand. The Dragon blinked at her.
“I am weary. I do not entertain questions lightly. You have been granted a privilege. Do not presume, mortal.”
He raised his claw. Rags waved her hand urgently. Teriarch snorted.
“Why should I listen to your request?”
He snorted heat and smoke at her. Rags paused.
“What about the words?”
She meant the glowing poem written on the stone. Teriarch’s head rose and he stared at her. For a long moment he paused. Then he bowed his head.
“Ask. I do not promise an answer.”
Rags held her breath. Then she expelled it.
“What is the secret the Goblin Kings know? Of the world?”
Velan knew something. All Goblin Kings did. They remembered or knew…something. But no one knew what it was. Perhaps Greydath did. And perhaps Teriarch…
The Goblin saw the Dragon’s eyes widen. He opened his maw. Spoke.
“Ah.”
For a long moment Teriarch regarded Rags. And then he laughed. It was a soft laugh, but it was laughter. The Dragon laughed and then rose. He shook his head.
“I have had many questions. From arrogant [Necromancers], City Runners, ambitious young [Ladies]—and they were petty ones compared to the [Monarchs], [Heroes], and [Archmages] that once sought my favor. But only Goblins ever ask this question. The most valuable and terrible of secrets.”
He looked down at Rags. And he shook his head.
“I cannot answer you. If you become a Goblin King, you will know the answer better than I. And it will break you. But it is better left forgotten. I could only tell you if…”
The Dragon hesitated.
“If you spoke the right words.”
Rags stared up at him. She thought for a long moment.
“…Please?”
Teriarch’s eyes opened. He blinked a few times. He laughed, softly, old. And he shook his head.
“I do not think we will meet again, little Goblin. But go. Go and do as you will with your life.”
That was all. He gestured. Rags felt the magic circle below her ignite with power. She bowed, then, since there was nothing she could do.
“Thank you.”
“Go well, little Goblin. You were more pleasant than your predecessor. He was arrogant. You were not.”
Predecessor? Rags felt the magic picking her up. And she realized who that had to be. She shouted.
“Who? Garen?”
Teriarch’s head turned. The magic paused a moment. But it was in motion. He replied for a second, as Rags felt herself vanishing.
“That impudent little Chieftain? He challenged me when I granted him an audience for the key he held. I forget his name. But he stood here, briefly, before I removed him from my presence. You are at least more polite than he. Yes.”
He saw Rags’ look. And he bowed his head.
“You hold his will too. Go.”
And she vanished. Rags moved through the world in a moment. She appeared in Goblinhome, amid the chaos and worried Goblins. Well, not amid them.
Dragon spells were powerful. But sometimes they got things wrong. At least she appeared above the lake. Rags hit the water with a splash and sunk. But even as the Goblins surged around her, asking questions, preparing to run, to leave, Rags wasn’t sure.
If she was dreaming, let her wake up only in better days. But let her never forget that grand room. And the Dragon’s voice as he spoke to her.
The Dragon had met the Goblin King. A mortal worthy of his respect.
 
——
 
That night, Rags sniffed as she sat in a bundle of warm blankets. Goathide—she sneezed. She might be getting a cold. Or she might be allergic to goat.
In Goblinhome, a bunch of angry Wyverns were tethered. But a little Wyvern child was rather confused about how a green thing had made its leg stop hurting. And the others kept petting it. It didn’t like the muzzle that stopped it from biting, but it liked being stroked and scratched just so, in places it couldn’t reach.
Rags sat in Badarrow’s shooting spot. Goblins were hard at work, building another wall. Maybe they’d mount the ballista up here. Although if it broke or decayed…
The little Goblin was thinking. Thinking on her encounter, which she still wasn’t sure had happened. Maybe she’d eaten some bad mushroom and hallucinated the entire thing. But her body was still shaking with nerves.
She had learned things. Things she had never dreamed could exist, that Reiss and Garen and perhaps even Tremborag hadn’t known about. Well, perhaps Tremborag.
An island of Goblins. The legacy of Goblin Kings. Things that they knew that Dragons knew.
A lot and a little. Dragons were, apparently, longwinded. Somewhat pretentious. They told you a lot, and a little.
But this one had given her hope. Rags stirred as she looked up. The High Passes lay above her. Even Goblinhome was barely at more than the base of the mountains.
The Goblin Chieftain stared up.
“Pretty high.”
She heard a hatch open. Redscar climbed out of it, and then Badarrow, Snapjaw. Poisonbite wasn’t with them. She was drunk. But the other three joined Rags.
“Chieftain? Having big thoughts?”
Snapjaw looked at Rags. So did the others. Rags looked at them thoughtfully.
“Maybe.”
“Dragon say important things?”
“Dragon has bad breath.”
The other Goblins snorted. Rags paused.
“Thinking. Rabbiteater went north.”
“Far away.”
Badarrow paused. Rags nodded. She looked thoughtfully at the mountains, then pointed.
“North. Rabbiteater. South—inn.”
Badarrow stirred. He looked at Rags. She glanced at him.
“Inn important. But…small. Dangerous. Badarrow, goes. Searches for Goblins.”
“Me too.”
“And Snapjaw. But later. And maybe—make Wyverns tame. Going to have to learn how to fly. Maybe make saddles, rope in case fall.”
Rags was already thinking over the logistics, sighing. So much poo. And they’d eat so much. The other Goblins looked at her. Redscar grinned.
“Chieftain going somewhere? Inn?”
The Goblin Chieftain paused. She pursed her lips, and then she shook her head.
“No. Maybe. Going to find other Chieftains first. The two in the north.”
The others looked at her. Rags explained.
“Other Chieftains. Ones who refused to fight Reiss, join Tremborag. Strong.”
Snapjaw nodded slowly. She remembered. So did Redscar.
“The [Fighter] and the [Witch].”
The giant Goblin leader and the Goblin [Witch]. Redscar looked mystified.
“Why? Fight? Say hi and slap back?”
“Allies. To go up. And to find key.”
Rags’ eyes glinted. She couldn’t remember enough. Her tribe was too small. But—she looked at the key Garen had left everything for. So did Redscar, Badarrow. Snapjaw glanced up, following Rags’ finger.
The Goblin pointed at the heights of the High Passes. Redscar stared up at the hidden summit, behind the clouds. And he grinned.
“A challenge worthy of Redfangs.”
“Something to do.”
Rags agreed. She smiled. Badarrow looked at her.
“What about this?”
Rags patted the bench.
“Goblinhome? Goblinhome remains. And Goblins come here. Get larger, bigger. Safety.”
She nodded to them. And the others nodded. Rags yawned. She sat back, as Badarrow offered Snapjaw a blanket he’d brought. And she shared a drink. Redscar sighed as Rags closed her eyes. The four Goblins sat together. And Rags closed her eyes. She slept peacefully, for the first time in a while.
 
[Level 27 Steelflame Tactician!]
[Spell – Fast Fireball obtained!]
[Skill – Dual Shot obtained!]
 
The little, depressed, melancholy, hopeful, tired, genius, failing, growing Level 32 [Great Chieftain] of the Flooded Waters Tribe.
 
——
 
And the Dragon paused, after the little Goblin had left. He thought about their conversation.
Such a small thing, a whim. For him. But it had mattered. He looked at the Dragonthrone. And he shook his head.
“She was strong. For one so young. But then—they are so young. And even their Goblin Kings…”
