Poi looked to the air. After several moments, Poi said, “Rats will be here shortly with several types of loose diamonds that should total you no more than 50 gold. He will be paying this money out of the Army’s account, and then your account will be deducted this amount. This is the decision that Liquid has made.”

“Sounds good to me. Thank you. All three of you.”

Poi nodded.

Erick worked out his rhyme and what the magic required while he waited.

Half an hour later, Rats came walking down the path, carrying a small box. Erick was almost ready for him; he had [Stoneshape]d a large bowl and left it under a downspout to collect rainwater. He had tossed a full strength [Absorption Ward] across the temple’s interior, just in case of catastrophic spell failure. His rhyme was good to go and Insight said it might work. When Erick saw Rats, he retrieved the bowl, sloshing with platinum rain, and placed it on a table to the side of the temple’s interior. The bowl was three feet wide and about two deep, and completely occluded by platinum glows. The platinum glow might actually be a bad thing in this case, so Erick threw a [Cleanse] at the water.

The platinum water remained platinum.

Obviously nothing happened, because the platinum glow wasn’t a toxin. Erick was uncertain of the effects of the magical water on the gem he wanted to make. But. Eh. Whatever. He would leave it like that for now, just to see what happened.

Erick threw a hundred mana at the sky anyway, questioning this platinum addition to his spell.

A voice responded, ‘It might still work, but not how you intend.’

Erick frowned.

Rats walked over to him, holding out the box, saying, “Sir. Your gems.”

“Thank you, Rats.”

Erick took the small wooden box. Inside were seven small, fine-cloth bags. He opened them all atop another table, away from the table with the bowl of water. Diamonds were cheap on Veird, so there was no need to be careful with them; the ones Rats had gotten were no exception. Each of them were kinda clear; most of them were uncut. Three were cut into the most primitive spheres, likely made by someone who was using them for practice [Stoneshap]ing, before they got to the real gems. From what Erick could see, whoever shaped these still needed practice. It was obvious no one cared about these particular diamonds. Erick picked one of the clearer stones, and placed it in the bowl of platinum water. He couldn’t even see it at the bottom. That shouldn’t matter, though.

Erick focused on the gem in the water, on the process of crystal formation, on the seed crystal growing, and a usually hot, dense process, lifted up into magical ease. Of pieces of the atmosphere slip-sliding into proper order, using the water as a medium for easy growth and to keep out unwanted interlopers. Erick's spell would be like taking a box full of puzzle pieces and shaking it around, with luck turned up to 11 in some cases, and 1 in others. The cumulative effect should be growth, though.

And then he went small.

“Here we have a little gem

“the stuff of life, it does comprise

“an anointment for a diadem

“if only more would [Crystallize].”

As the water bubbled, a box appeared.

Congratulations!

You have created a new Basic Spell. Your spell has been added to your skills for free!

The spell you have created will appear in the Script after a year and a day.

Your spell is the alpha version, and will shift with time and use.

The spell that appears in the Script might be different.

Here is your spell:

Crystallize Diamond 1, close range, 1 minute per level, 25 MP

Cause a diamond to <grow in size>. <Results vary by growing environment>

Rozeta thanks you for enriching the Script.

+1 ability points.

Cute ~Rozeta

Erick waved the boxes away so he could look at his spell. The water bubbled; the air smelled of something vibrant. Erick couldn’t place the smell but it was probably oxygen, if he got the spell right. The platinum water was clearing; he could see the diamond, now. All the platinum glow in the water was falling into the gem. When the first minute passed, Erick let the spell end there.

The gem that went into the spell was pinky fingernail size and off-clear; maybe a little white. The one that came out was silver, like a piece of actual silver, but shaped like two pyramids stuck bottom-to-bottom, with the triangular sides full of extra, thinly-raised triangles. All together the gem was rather rounded.

And two centimeters large.

Rats said, “Ohh. That got big.”

“It certainly did!” Erick said, “And the water got clear, too.” He looked closer at the water. “Mostly.”

Erick held the silver gem in his hand and activated [Stoneshape], fine control, focusing on the gem, not trying to break it, or mold it to some other shape, but to shave away everything that wasn’t part of a perfect sphere. Silver diamond dust flecked onto Erick’s hand. He rolled the gem inside his power, curving the cut, trying to get it into a perfect sphere—

He stopped. He should invent another spell for this.

He threw another hundred mana into the sky.

The results came back immediately, ‘Perfect spherical gem polishing has already been invented; there’s only going to be one of those, too. That girl that invented it is already making a name for herself down in Nergal.’

‘Damn,’ Erick thought.

Erick went back to polishing his platinum diamond with [Stoneshape]. It didn’t take long to get something approaching satisfaction; maybe 10 minutes. When he was done, the gem was now only 1.5 centimeters wide.

It was still the biggest damn diamond Erick had ever seen in person. It wasn’t very pretty, though; it looked like a ball bearing. Erick set it down with the other diamonds and picked another at random. This new seed diamond was clear-ish, uncut, naturally octahedral. The water in the stone bowl was a bit cloudy, though, so Erick cast a [Cleanse]. A tiny bit of thick air spilled up from the water, into the temple and out into the rain. Whatever had been in the water, a side effect of the diamond process or platinum leftovers, it was gone now. Erick placed the new gem into the fresh, clear water, and cast [Crystallize Diamond].

The water bubbled again, but softer this time. Erick watched as the gem tossed and flipped in the bowl, as water swirled around and something seemed to soak into the gem, steadily growing it from a large grain of sand to something visible, to a centimeter across, to more, before the spell cut. Erick renewed the spell, and the gem kept growing.

He went to the table and picked out the closest gem. He moved it away from the others, setting in onto the ground, as he cast [Crystallize Diamond]. That one flipped as it touched the temple floor, wind moving around the seed diamond, causing it to jump like a flea without a destination. The floor-gem grew—

The water gem stopped bubbling. Erick renewed that spell; [Crystallize Diamond] leveled to 2. The spell would last 2 minutes per cast, now. Erick renewed the spell on the gem on the floor, which was still growing and jumping, but not as fast as the gem in the water. And then he went and did all the other gems.

By the time Valok and Krakina showed up an hour later, half an hour after the designated stop time, Erick had seven gems growing in seven deep bowls filled full of water. Growing the gems in the air was substantially slower than Erick's original growing plan.

Krakina paused when she saw the bowls. “What is going on in here?” She pointed at the bubbling, jumping water. “What is that?”

Rats laughed. “The devaluing of a gem.”

Erick glared at Rats, then said to Krakina, “I’m growing diamonds for enchanting.” He added, “I haven’t figured out color yet, but all that takes is some proper doping, I think. I can do platinum diamonds just fine, but none of us know if platinum diamonds are good or bad. I’m guessing they’re bad.”

While Krakina and Valok stood there looking confused, Erick walked over to a bowl of clear water that had stopped bubbling. He cast a [Cleanse] at the water, spilling thick air into the temple, then he Handy Aura’d the gem in the water into view. The diamond glittered in the light, a perfectly clear and internally flawless octahedral diamond the size of a fist.

“Holy gods!” Krakina rushed to the gem. “Can I hold it?”

Erick handed her the diamond. She grabbed it in her wing-claw hands, stunned. The outside of the gem was a mess of different growth plates, all triangles over every surface, but it still caught the light; some captured radiance showed through even such a messy outside.

“It’s beautiful!” Krakina asked, “And it’s diamond?”

“Yup.” Erick said, “We found out that one of the starter gems I used was not diamond, but I just broke off a piece from one of the real diamonds and started growing that, instead.”

“They’re too big for enchanting.” Krakina handed Erick back his diamond, asking, “What are you going to do with them?”

“Sell a few and buy some gems for enchanting.” Erick took back the fist-sized diamond, saying, “This diamond is completely out of my skill, but Ulrick might want to buy one. From there it’s learning how to enchant, and seeing what that can do for me.”

Krakina asked, “Can you do anything with these? At all? Besides cut them into jewels.”

“I honestly don’t know!” Erick laughed. “I’ll find out, though.”

- - - -

“I’ll give you two hundred gold.” Ulrick held a clear, fist-diamond in his hand. He stood behind his counter in the back of his shop, while the other six gems laid atop the glass. Three silver diamonds, and four clear diamonds, total. He set the clear one down and picked up the silver one. “300 for this one, just because I’ve never seen it before. I’m ninety percent sure that they’re completely unworkable.”

Erick scoffed. “At Ruby's Reds they had staffs with huge gems at the top. You mean to tell me that one of these couldn’t be used in a nice staff?”

Ulrick looked at Erick like he had said something that was so uneducated, he didn’t even know where to start calling Erick wrong. He sighed. He relaxed. He said, “I’ll trade you a rod of [Treat Wounds] for two of these gems. One silver, another clear. You need another one of them, right?”

Erick smirked. “Yes. I could use another rod. I’ll take that deal.”

“I feel like I’m getting screwed, here,” Ulrick muttered.

"And I think you doth protest too much."

Ulrick tried not to grin.

Erick said, "The only way you’re going to get any diamonds of this size is through me. Even if they’re useless for enchanting, they’re still a novelty that you’ll never get anywhere else.” Erick added, “For at least another year.”

“Yes yes.” Ulrick picked out his two gems, taking only the barest moments to decide. He took them into the back room, saying, “Be right back.”

Erick put away his other gems into one of the many burlap sacks he kept in his shoulderbag.

Ulrick returned with a filigreed steel rod of [Treat Wounds], and handed it to Erick, saying, “Those big gems on those staffs are not gems, but glass. They’re little more than aiming devices. I don’t know what specific staff you were looking at, but I guess they were staffs of fireball. Aura staffs don’t need to be aimed; the radiating gem needs to be protected. It would never be exposed like some ‘huge gem on top’.”

“I learn something new every day! Thank you, Ulrick.”

Erick smiled, taking the rod from Ulrick. He then handed the rod to Poi, who put the rod behind the metal thigh-guard of his armor.

- - - -

On the way home, Erick noticed something new along Market Street, besides the crowded streets that were easily twice as full of people as when Erick and Jane first walked into Spur. There was a peculiar addition to the floating business signs and the glows of street lamps.

Someone had hung Script-blue text boxes along the street, every ten meters and on both sides. Some people were reading the signs. Some people were talking about the signs as they walked away from the blue boxes.

“Are those new?” Erick asked Poi.

“Yes.” Poi frowned, lines of intent floating away from his head, as he said, “They went up while we were out at the farms.”

Erick stopped at the third blue box.

Attention, People of Spur!

Due to the increased threat of Daydroppers, and our ability to easily handle them, the city of Spur will be experiencing daily, random [Withering Slime]s in the near future, for the foreseeable future. All blank spots to Mana Sense will be investigated thoroughly, beginning today.

[Withering Slime] targets organic beings with 5g (10 mana) rads inside of them!

[Weather Ward] blocks this spell.

If you or your loved ones are suffering from Intestinal Rads, we urge you to make plans to get treated before this program is rolled out in two days, on the 28th of this month! The Interfaith Church, the Adventurer’s Guild, the Mage’s Guild, and the people at the Courthouse, can easily check you for Intestinal Rads as well as remove them, free of charge.

This spell will kill you if you are suffering from Intestinal Rads.

May all the Relevant Entities watch over us.

“So.” Erick said, “Okay. That’s happening.” Erick started walking down the street, saying, “I expected that, but there’s a difference between expecting it and seeing the signs for it posted all along the street.”

Poi nodded, staying 5 to 7 feet away from Erick at all times.

- - - -

Halfway home, Erick turned right, and went somewhere else.

- - - -

Erick caught Silverite in the hallway of the Courthouse, just outside of her office.

“Erick!” Silverite asked, “What brings you here?”

“I saw the signs, and I wondered if you want me to [Withering] today. Or if there’s something else I need to be doing.”

“They put those up already?” Silverite frowned. “I told them— whatever.” She shook her head, then paused. She looked to the air. She looked back to Erick, and said, “No [Withering] today, for Spur. But Viscount Helix spoke to me earlier requesting your services. I was going to visit you this evening to ask for your cooperation, but if you want… I think we can do this now.” She checked the air again; tendrils of intent faded away from her body. She was talking to at least 5 people. She turned to Erick. “Maybe in an hour. Yes. In one hour.”

“Sure. But...” Erick said, “I have a question regarding the use of [Conjure Force Elemental], and ranged spells, like my [Withering] aura. Is that considered a crime? It seems like it would be a war crime.”

