‘Are you okay, Jane? You didn’t call last night, again.’

Erick had awoken as normal; purple and gold stretched across the sky outside of his window. In the middle of swirling hot water over grounds of coffee tea into a large coffee pot, he decided to call Jane. There was no immediate answer, but that was okay. Erick left the line open and went about making the rest of breakfast for everyone. Rats was already up. Rats poured himself some of the communal coffee and was now sipping from his own cup in his seat at the kitchen table. He looked like he was talking to someone with [Telepathy]; two minuscule lines of intent were coming out of his head to fade into the surrounding mana.

Erick cracked eggs into a large bowl with his actual hands, using a pair of Handy hands to keep the freshly cracked yolk and white separate from the rest, to make sure the egg wasn't bloody. Erick had already experienced enough of that on Veird to know not to add fresh eggs directly to a full bowl. He also used his Handy Aura to turn the stove on and get the pans and butter into position. As he was adding the eggs to the hot pan, Jane’s voice came through.

‘Hey, Dad. Sorry about the delay. It’s been a busy night and I’m still in the middle of it.’

Erick smiled. ‘Don’t worry about it.’

Jane seemed to groan on the other side of the connection, like she was just sitting down for the first time in 48 hours. ‘I’ve been killing shadows for the last day trying to rescue a pair of idiots from the Middle Reaches, inside the Teleport Lock Zone, directly under the eyes of a Shade.’

Erick remained calm by virtue of needing to not burn breakfast; these were the last of the eggs. ‘Go on.’

‘Fallopolis— I told you about that one, right? She’s an old Shade who watches everyone who comes through the Crack. Well these two idiots I’m beside right now decided to piss her off, even though this is one of the specific things an Ar’Kendrithyst permit specifically requires people to acknowledge is a bad idea.’

Jane continued, ‘Fallopolis alerted her displeasure to another Shade, Porter. Porter, you need to understand, is capable of forcefully [Teleport]ing people into prepared locations. The other Shades contact him when they want to fuck over some adventurers in some unique ways. Which is what happened yesterday morning.’

The eggs were done. Erick pulled them from the fire and put a lid over them, as he listened to Jane.

‘Porter [Teleport]ed these two people into the Arena, which is a common punishment game overseen by a Shade named Gora. These people managed to beat the Arena, so now they just had to escape back to the Crack to make it to freedom. But Fallopolis was waiting for them and she kept them on [Teleport] lock. They were able to get a message to Forward Base, though. Somewhere in the middle of that, Fallopolis struck a deal with Forward Base: She would allow me and one other person to escort these people back to the Crack, and if all four of us managed to make it, she would let them go unmolested. Otherwise she was just killing them right then and there. Tormenting two people is not as fun as four, Fallopolis said.

‘Kiri and I are currently in the middle of this. We’re about 40 kilometers away from the Crack.

‘Fallopolis noticed your [Telepathy]. After some hectic bargaining regarding the exact wording of the rules she laid out, she is allowing us a break so that I may talk to you.’

Erick felt cold. He sent, ‘I’m sorry.’

‘The Shades are all horrific monsters, but Fallopolis is the most… Eh. Well she’s not honorable. But something like it. Don’t worry about it too much, okay? I have five more minutes.’

‘Uh.’ Erick stumbled. ‘Uh. What… I don’t remember why I called.’

‘Something to do with your Class? We can have a much deeper conversation later.’

‘Uh. Is this a normal event for you?’

‘This is the first time I have had to do this sort of thing, but other people tell me that it happens from time to time. None of the Shades have ever reneged on their sides of these sorts of bargains as long as we stick to the rules, so we should be fine. It’s still dangerous, but mostly there’s just primal shadowolves and umbral giants. We’re not on a set course; we’re just running through the Middle Reaches, avoiding the more dangerous parts of the city while Fallopolis watches and tries to force us into those more dangerous parts.

‘Please call me when you’re through.’

‘I will. I’ll talk later. I love you.’

‘I love you, too.’

Jane cut the connection.

Erick found that he was sitting at the kitchen table, over a plate of untouched eggs. He looked around. Rats and Poi were eating eggs and toast at the table with Erick, but Poi was watching him, worried.

Erick asked, “My daughter is currently being chased across the Dead City by Fallopolis. She and Kiri are escorting two adventurers back through the city, through the Middle Reaches, toward the Crack. How much danger is she in? Why is she doing this, and not a veteran?”

“I’m hearing about it right now.” Lines of intent filtered into Poi as he said, “There are risks, but Kiri and Jane should make it back to Forward Base without undue injury. Fallopolis does not usually kill except in error or exuberance. I don’t know about the people they’re escorting; apparently one of them propositioned Fallopolis in a carnal manner. The reason it's Jane and Kiri, is because those two are at the relative strengths of the two they’re escorting. And when the time came for someone to step up, both of them volunteered for the mission.”

Erick felt a sudden rush of pride, like a warm drink radiating from inside his chest. And then he tried to think about how he could help. “Do you guys use magical items in there?”

Instantly, Poi said, “It has already been decided that any Staff of the Withering Slime you produce will not be allowed to enter Ar’Kendrithyst, under penalty of the Shades actively attacking Spur.”

Erick paused.

Fuck.

Then he ate his eggs.

He cleaned up, silently.

He made more coffee, and then it was time to go to the farms.

After starting the rain, and failing to make a proper [Familiar]—

Summon Wisp, close range, 1 hour duration, 109 mana

Summon a wisp! It doesn’t do anything but think.

Erick looked at the spell he had created. He said, “That’s funny, Script,” as he crushed the box, separating the component spells back to their own corners. He really should have paid more attention to what he was creating. He really should be working harder to kill all the Shades. Right now he was in a reactive state, preparing for something bad to happen, feeling a dread for the unknown, waiting for the hammer to fall.

Erick stared out into the sky, watching the ebbs and swirls of ambient mana flow downward, alongside platinum rain from silver clouds.

He thought he was being proactive. He was getting to know his neighbors in preparation for turning the city against the Shades. He was creating new magic that would prevent specific threats. He was even thinking about visiting the Headmaster and enlisting the old dragon’s help; Maia kept dropping hints that the Headmaster would be more than willing to help Erick rid the world of Shades.

But then this Daydropper shit happened—

That reminded him; Erick pinged his Daydropper quest. A split second of intent shot out of Erick and the speed of light. One minute later, the Divine Scan returned 0 results, for 2500 kilometers around.

—And then this Daydropper thing happened, and he had to visit the other two towns and clear out their Daydroppers. And his new magic failed, and his Class was stripped to the bones.

The point was, is that he knew he should be more active. This morning’s talk with Jane reminded him of his goals, and that he still had at least one part of his plan to visit the Headmaster that he could salvage. Erick had responsibilities in Spur, but there might be a way to make it rain as needed, and also visit Oceanside, which was some 10 [Teleport]s away.

[Conjure Force Elemental].

Two white parakeets flitted through the air. One of them landed on Erick’s shoulder. The other landed on the table in the temple. Erick began threading a tiny stream of white mana into the one on his shoulder, aiming for the one on the table. He pumped them both with 100 mana each, then, through the one on his shoulder, he imbued 500 mana and [Exalted Storm Aura] into the second bird.

A gentle mist rose up across the farms, but it was hard to see under all the rain.

That would be the bird’s aura.

Erick cut off his own aura as he maintained the flow of spell and mana through the paired parakeets. To anyone on the farm, it looked like nothing had changed; the rain was still coming down, just as before. To Erick, with Meditation active, the parakeet on the table in the temple was the center of a storm of mana that rushed out in every direction, keeping the silver clouds full and raining. Erick remained physically still, but magically, he was prodding and feeling out his spell, making sure the connection held, and that he was flowing enough mana through the paired birds to keep the rain coming, and to keep the birds intact.

Poi watched.

Erick turned his own aura back on.

Two [Exalted Storm Aura]s flowed into the air, and that was okay.

Exalted Storm Aura, super long range, 1 MP per second ~{Favored Spell}~

Anoint the land with blessed rain, rapidly growing all <crops and pasture> to <harvest size> and restoring vibrancy to all other <desired> plant life and soil. If used in a <prepared field> <devoid of crops>, highly nutritious beans will sprout after <a full day of rain>.

Particle Mage Only

As a Favored Spell, it only cost Erick 900 mana an hour. He regenerated 6000 an hour with Meditation, as a Scion of Focus. But, as Erick looked out across the fields, the rain was coming down quite a bit harder than normal. Plants were suddenly growing faster. Erick dismissed the second aura. He’d ask the Farmer’s Council about doubling the rain before he deployed this method; if they thought it was a good idea.

He waited for his mana to tick back up a bit, then he imbued the table-parakeet with [Scry], and then with [Teleport]. The bird blipped white, vanishing, taking the [Scry] eye with it.

The parakeet reappeared a thousand kilometers to the north. Erick’s [Scry] still active. Looking through the bird, he saw that it was in the air and flying around. He waited a bit for his mana to come back, again, then he [Teleported] the bird another thousand kilometers north.

And again, and again. He had to reorient back toward the horizon before the last [Teleport]; the bird was already in the clouds.

Suddenly, Erick’s parakeet was flying in the sky over the largest mountain range Erick had ever seen. Craggy grey and green depths stretched up into white capped mountains in every direction. The parakeet tumbled through the air, buffeted by strong winds; it was not made for this sort of environment. Bits of white flaked away from its body as fast as Erick could pump mana into the bird, restoring the spell’s integrity. Erick quickly tested [Exalted Storm Aura] through the linked birds.

Four thousand kilometers from the farms of Spur, silver mist lifted up around a flying, near-frozen parakeet, before turning into a spell of life and growth, blanketing deep green forests with platinum rain. Erick held his magic open for a minute, making sure he could actually sustain this spellwork. He could. This was sustainable. Erick dismissed the extra aura, and the birds. He kept his [Scry] orb open for a little while longer, there above the green forests, watching the sky rain itself out.

Erick eventually returned to himself, back in the temple in the center of Spur’s Farms.

Just to make sure he wasn’t being an idiot about something that everyone else knew was possible, he tried to activate [Exalted Storm Aura] on himself twice…

Nope!

Auras didn’t work that way. Erick chuckled.

With that test out of the way...

Erick moved on to another part of another plan; his enchanting plan. He started with thinking up a rhyme, stringing together words and thoughts and physical science in his mind.

Now… how did diamonds actually work? He didn’t really know, but he did know that they were fully carbon with strong covalent bonds, which sounded like they were bonds that were fully integrated, but that was just a guess. Magic could probably fill in the gaps in his knowledge, if he gave it enough of a head start.

“Hey, Poi.” Erick asked, “Do you guys have coal anywhere?”

“… What do you mean by ‘coal’?”

“It’s a black rock that burns. You usually find it underground. It’s completely non-magical. Back on Earth, people used to throw it in stoves and burn it to stay warm in the cold months.”

Poi looked into the air. He said, “Yes. It’s considered useless, though. People use rads and [Prestidigitation] stoves for that, if they don’t want to burn wood or use a [Ward].”

Erick nodded, then turned away to face the rain. He had an idea in his head along with words and intentions and emotion, as well as physical structure and the strong, strong nature of a diamond, and about the compression of coal. Erick touched upon his Class Ability: Particular Insight. A hundred mana flowed away into the sky.

Erick’s own voice returned to him, but different: ‘The minor version of this spell has yet to be invented, but it won’t be invented this way because purposefully arranging specific atoms in a specific way violates the Infinitesimal Ban. You might be able to achieve your desired outcome with several spells layered on top of each other, but not by the way you have laid out. Find another way.’

Erick would have been disappointed if he hadn’t expected that answer. There were probably many other ways to get the carbon needed to make a diamond and then arrange that carbon; Erick just needed to figure out one of them. He shelved his idea of heat and pressure, and began to work on the problem from another angle. After a few minutes, he had another idea. Erick silently worked on a rhyme, a goal, a natural process that he would mimick that would not require heat and pressure, and then he tossed a hundred mana into a question.

The answer came back, ‘Clever. It would work. You’re not directly violating the Infinitesimal Ban. This is a grey area, but there’s already precedents for this kind of skirting the rules.’

Erick said to Poi, “Can you get Rats or Teressa to buy a few cheap diamonds in town, and bring them out here? Loose gems, poor quality. They have to be diamonds, though. Clear preferred; no color.”

