Silverite said, “There are many styles of fighting that give little Participation but great reward; summoning is one of these. If you wish to fulfill Helix’s request in this manner, I will not stop you. Many of Spur’s Archmages interact with society in this way.”

Erick thought, then said, “I’ll be back here in an hour.”

“Mog and I will meet you at your house.”

“You’re coming?”

“Yes. If you uncover more Daydroppers, I want to be there.”

- - - -

There weren’t many weeds in Spur, but still, some had managed to grow in Erick’s garden. When he got home he spent ten minutes weeding the garden with his Handy Aura, a little while watering the plants with a localized rainstorm, and then a little while longer preparing the back garden and making sure the [Scent Ward] over the compost pile was still functioning. He turned over the compost to ensure it rotted properly then recast the [Scent Ward]. Then Erick moved into the southern tower of the house; his mage’s tower, that he had yet to really utilize.

He had stored some seeds in a chest, and installed some benches and shelves with [Stoneshape], but for the most part, the tower was empty. The only real decoration in the room were the 9 planets of the Solar System Erick had carved when he first started experimenting with [Stoneshape]; those rested in individual holders attached the ceiling, frozen in time in orbit around a bright sunlight orb. Natural sunlight shone into the room through huge picture windows that faced south, toward Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick’s tower was in a good position to remind him of the enemy.

Erick laid out his 5 remaining fist-sized diamonds atop an empty bench. This was a good room for enchanting, so he might as well get started. But as he looked upon his huge diamonds, he knew that shaping them into spheres was going to be a problem; he wasn’t very precise with [Stoneshape]. How would he fix that if he couldn’t use a spell—

Oh.

You use a tool.

Duh.

Maybe he could make a lathe…

Yes! Lathes were the progenitor of all machine tools; you can’t make the complicated stuff if you ain’t precise, and the best way to ensure precision was to carve away from a stable spin. Erick wouldn’t put the diamond on there, though. Diamonds were simply too hard to spin on a lathe...

Eh. He’d try it anyway, once he got himself a lathe.

Then Erick had another idea. A better idea than spinning the diamond on a lathe was to create a perfectly spherical grinding cup and fill it with diamond dust and grind and grind and grind! Erick could even put the diamond onto a ‘pottery wheel’ and grind it from multiple directions at once. Hmm. Yes. That could work. Erick left the diamonds on the counter and went to find—

Teressa was right there, walking from somewhere to somewhere else. She would do.

“Teressa!” Erick asked, “Have you ever heard of a lathe?” He gestured with his hands, helping him to explain, “Its a spinning metal tool that holds a thing like this— and then it all spins like this— and then you use this action to cut a thing down in a controlled sort of way.”

Teressa sent lines of intent into the air. She answered, “Yes. They’re expensive. 400 to 700 gold for a good one, according to Liquid.”

“I need to go shopping for one. Maybe not today, though.”

“I’ll find out where to get one, sir.” Teressa looked away. Then back to Erick, saying, “But Guildmaster Mog and the Mayor are here.”

“Thank you, Teressa.” Erick walked away, down the hallway toward the front door, saying, “I guess it’s time to visit Frontier.”

- - - -

Okay. So. Maybe Erick misjudged Frontier the last time he was here; they were obviously rebuilding from Bulgan’s attack last time. This time, life had obviously improved in Frontier.

Erick sat at a garden table in a mostly open-aired, sand-garden courtyard, in the second to the top level of one of five castle towers. Except for some hallways and the rest of the castle, Erick could see Frontier all around him, in every direction but east. The castle to the east was a purely functional thing; all solid orange stone multiple feet thick. Multiple curtain walls and dozens of smaller towers dotted the outer walls; places where defenders might strike at forces both within and without. There was little care given to comfort in the castle; no ornate, green gardens, or thin flourishes of stone among the staunch strength of the castle. Nothing besides smooth, strong, orange rock.

The city beyond the rebuilt castle, to the north, west, and the south, was not much different than the castle. Thick walled houses were made with small windows pointed north, toward Ar’Kendrithyst, while larger windows pointed toward the open south; though there were some clear violations of this building practice. As for coloring, the city of Frontier was more orange than Spur, about twice as thick in all of its construction, and a lot, lot less green.

Though that last fact was probably due entirely to Erick’s rainy contributions to Spur. Both cities likely had the same access to underground water; a fountain bubbled up in the rocks in the center of the sand garden, but there were no plants here. Water was precious; the fountain itself was probably an ostentatious display. The garden around Erick was sand and a few outcroppings of rocks, along with decorative lines someone had raked through the sand in swirls and lines, with concentric circles radiating around the larger outcroppings of rock. This ‘garden’ was likely the only purely decorative thing in Frontier’s Castle; at least on the outside. Erick had not been inside the castle; they weren't invited past this sand garden.

That was okay. Erick liked the sand garden.

Helix walked in through a stone arch of a hallway, accompanied by the woman Erick had seen with him last time. Mog stood behind Erick and Silverite, slightly away from the both of them, who were sitting at the table when Helix appeared. At Viscount Helix’s entrance, Silverite stood; Erick stood with her.

“Greetings, Archmage. Mayor.” Helix bowed just a tiny bit, with only his head, before continuing his walk toward Erick and Silverite. “We are ready when you are.”

Erick said, “Sure thing.”

[Domain of the Withering Slime].

A white sphere of light slowly materialized five feet in every direction around Erick. Thick air flowed up from every surface. Erick turned toward the city of Frontier, watching as thick air turned into a slime monster that flooded out across the entirety of the orange city. Notifications started to appear almost immediately.

“Shadowolves— Mimics already?” Erick said.

Helix moved closer to the edge of the courtyard, to look out across his city. “It’s bigger?”

“Much.” Erick said, “About 15 kilometers in every direction, now.”

Erick watched as the slime slipped through the town, touching everything, and as he watched, he saw that it moved differently. More than just Aurify 3 differently. Before, it moved like water, rushing here and there to search out new places. Now, Erick's spell moved like caffeine overloaded slime. Thick air silently splashed across the city, racing with the wind, searching for monsters.

After a minute, Helix asked, “Nothing unusual?”

Erick looked through his notifications; it was all mimics now. Past mimic Z, the ‘numbering’ system was a little weird; it looped back around to A and then proceeded adding the whole alphabet again. Erick was currently up to ‘EB’, which, with a little easy math, equalled 132, but that number was still ticking up.

“Just mimics, now.” Erick said, “No daydroppers, or anything else, really.”

Helix smiled. He said, “You can cut the spell. Thank you, Archmage.”

Erick cut the spell. The white orb around him flaked away like dispersing ash. He asked, “Did you find out where those Daydroppers were? Who was growing them?”

Helix said, “Part of me was hoping that your efforts today would give us another lead to follow. The larger part of me is simply grateful that we have no more reason to fear those pestilential things.” He asked, “What is your total count?”

Erick looked up his recent kills. With a bit of math… “99 wolves, 146 mimics.”

Helix’s Girl Friday, still standing near him, held up a green stone, and said, “Agreed.”

“Thank you, Veil.” Helix nodded to Erick. “The rads will be remitted to Spur by tomorrow. Thank you for coming. Now, if you excuse me, the requirements of leadership are neverending.”

Silverite did a small curtsy as she said, “The pleasure is Spur’s. Call upon us any time.” She turned to Mog, and nodded. “We’re off.”

Erick gave a short bow to Helix, then walked over to Mog.

In a flash, the three of them were outside of Erick’s house again.

Silverite instantly cursed. “That fucking liar. He completely evaded your question.”

Mog frowned. “I thought so, too.”

Erick felt lost. He asked, “What?”

“You directly asked where they were, and who was growing them.” Silverite said, “And he gave some unimportant response about how he ‘hoped your spell would provide another lead’. Perfectly political response, and completely out of the place in a discussion about the tactical vulnerability of us all. And then he instantly changed the topic and rushed us out of there.”

“Yup.” Mog said, “That’s what I thought, too.”

“He sounded like a normal politician to me… Which is a problem. I see that now.” Erick asked, “Why do you think he had anything to do with his Daydroppers, though?”

“Because that is what humans and incani do,” Mog said.

Silverite said, “Because the Greensoil Republic saw a weapon of mass destruction, and didn’t care that it was part of a Kill and Exterminate Quest.” She frowned. “They’re going to use it against the incani, as they have before and will do again. And right in my own dammed neighborhood!”

Mog added, “All your spell really did, Erick, was confirm that their protections around their daydroppers are good enough to keep you out.”

“They’ll probably deploy soon.” Silverite spat, “Dammit.”

Erick asked, “What about what happened in Kal’Duresh? Was that also Frontier deploying against them? Or was that Kal’Duresh preparing to deploy against Frontier?”

Mog frowned.

“We have lots more to discover, and to decide. Do we want to step into this? It was good and right to step in to help clear their cities of shadow monsters, but this is the Quiet War.” Silverite paused. She said, “We have to prove that this hypothesis is true, before we do anything else. And then...” She frowned. “I’ll keep you informed, Archmage.” Silverite walked away, saying, “Be careful, Erick.”

Mog nodded one last time to Erick as she followed Silverite, moving to stand beside the Mayor as they both walked across the flat land of the Human District. A line of telepathic intent connected them to each other. After a moment, several lines of intent spilled out of both of them, floating away into the manasphere.

Poi stood in the open door to the house. “Welcome back, sir.”

- - - -

Erick was fucking tired of reacting to the problems around him.

It was time to be proactive, at least in his own way.

Erick sat in his mage tower, staring at Ar’Kendrithyst in the far distance, while the late afternoon sun draped in from the west, coloring the browns and oranges of Spur with pinks and yellows. He had smashed a clear diamond into fragments on the workbench in front of him, just so he would have more seed crystals. They glittered with sunset colors, while Erick thought.

Erick got up and went to the kitchen to make some coffee.

Soon, he was back at the bench, staring, brooding.

Thinking.

A tendril of thought connected to his mind, and all of Erick’s thoughts crystallized into pure relief.

‘Hey, Dad. I’m safe. Everyone is good.’

Erick wanted to smile. But all he could do was say, ‘Thank you for being okay, Jane.'

‘… what happened?’

‘What happened with you?’

‘Some stuff. But we’re fine. You don’t sound fine.’

Erick breathed. He said, ‘There’s a lot that happened since you helped with my Class Abilities. Yesterday, I got my first magic item, a nice ring for plus-10 Strength, and then today I made some diamonds using this workaround of the Infinitesimal Ban, and I think Frontier is planning on killing all of Kal’Duresh with Daydroppers. Silverite isn’t sure if the reverse is also true.’

‘Oh boy.’ Emotions like a person sitting down, flowed through Jane’s connection. She sent, ‘Tell me about this Daydropper stuff, first.’

‘It’s like this...’

Erick talked.

After a while, Jane understood Erick’s day, and Erick hoped, most of his problems.

Jane said, ‘What do you want to do about these undetectable Daydroppers?’

‘I want to kill them all, obviously.’

‘… that’s really not obvious to me, Dad, which is probably a good thing. Right now people aren’t treating you like a player. This is one of your greatest strengths, if you can leverage it without actually making a move.’

‘I’m not a player?’

‘No.’ Jane waffled back and forth, then said, ‘Well. Yes. But not directly. You’re a deterrent and a defense mechanism. You do not want to be seen as a player.’

Erick let that lie, and continued, ‘I see a lot of problems to solving this Daydropper crisis. One: Withering does not target monsters with 5 mana rads; it only targets those with 10 mana rads. Some daydroppers must be slipping under the radar, like the smaller slimes do. So, do I try and increase that radar and risk the spell targeting people? Or do I find some other way? Compounding this is that these Daydroppers are already invisible to the Divine Scan, probably because they’re behind antirhine.’

‘Combine your Domain with a close-range, powerful scanning spell. Something that can punch through antirhine.’ Jane added, ‘Or you could just call it lead.’

‘… I don’t think it’s possible for anything to pass through lead, least of all magic, so there’s no getting around this restriction.’ Erick paused. He said, ‘Maybe I could add something to the Domain that makes it eat through lead shielding. Like how I did with random chance striking CO2 into C and O2.”

‘Even if you did, it’s probably under a [Weather Ward] by now. The only reasons you found anything at all, was because they dropped the [Ward] so you could test their defenses. Kal’Duresh was probably also testing your ability to test them.’ She added, ‘If that is indeed what is happening here.’

‘Shit!'

