“Exuding one’s aura in combat, much less while crafting, has little effect usually, but that’s only if the aura is used without purpose and not as a medium to affect the world around oneself. The Legacy skill known as Pride of the Malefic Viper is built on this concept, but is far from a requirement to do something as simple as this.”

In the very next moment, the movement of mana could be felt all over the auditorium. Several crystalline bolts of mana appeared at each of the attendees, glowing with energy.

While doing this, the Chosen had also taken out a formation disc that he tossed into the air. It instantly drew a large formation that lacked only the required energy to activate.

“In the same vein that your mana can be summoned in a large area, so can this be done.”

Lifting his hand, the Chosen clenched it, making all the crystalline bolts turn to pure energy, and this energy then flew down toward the center stage. In an instant, it all gathered and entered the large magic circle. Every node was fueled at once, every ley-line infused in tandem with the rest, and mere seconds later, the entire magic circle was fully fueled.

It was all a display of power and competence that clearly no one would expect any of them to be capable of replicating… but it was surely enough to fully catch the attention of all the people present, as many were now interested not only because of the person speaking, but because of what he was saying.

“Evidently, I don’t expect you to be able to deploy any of what I talk about in practice any time soon, but I hope it can serve as inspiration for your Paths going forward. I realize one of the reasons why something like this is difficult, not only because many find it unnecessary, but simply because the vast majority do not meet the requirements to pull it off.”

With another motion of his hands, the Chosen of the Malefic Viper dispelled all the theatrics until it was once more just him on the stage with a thousand students looking at him with eyes of admiration and interest.

“This method takes a lot of practice and the right kind of talent and Path, but I believe that if you learn it, it will prove massively beneficial in the future for any aspiring spellcasters. So let us truly begin in earnest, and at the end of today, if you walk away with anything, let it be this: never underestimate the importance of the Perception stat.”
