Luna rolled her eyes as she sat down directly on the table. “No one is going to stop you once the crystal is used. Until then keep it well hidden. We’ll be having a separate conversation about you tapping out on willpower but I’ll assume you had a good reason to be pushed so hard. That said, it serves as an acceptable reason to delay making a choice in what item you want to convert but you need a plan and then we’ll ha—” Looking at Allie, the cat corrected herself, “We’ll use imperial intelligence channels to inform the throne and get Renaissance’s schedule cleared in case I’m wrong.”

Turning to the other three who’d already used the rewards, she tapped her claws on the table in a rhythmic pattern until coming to a decision.

“How much control did you have over the items you converted?”

Already having learned everything he could from the others, Matt knew the strange realms reward had been fantastic.

Most strange realms were inevitably compared to Minkalla, but few ever managed to top the all-devouring planet, but their reward might come close. Once the energy was pushed into their chosen item, the energy infused it and they’d been brought into a time accelerated mental space where they were able to tweak the growth item.

Each and every one of them had experienced something slightly different, but they’d universally had an incredible level of control over the item. If they’d wanted to waste the reward they could have turned the item's physical material into something rivaling a Natural Treasure but the more manufactured the item, the stricter the control.

Liz had done something that should have been nigh impossible and converted an alchemy cauldron made out of ichor iron still connected to herself into a growth item. As such the reward only allowed her to modify the cauldron in the context of it being an alchemy cauldron. However within that scope, she had substantial, if not total, control. Though every change consumed the rewards energy meaning someone indecisive could waste the entire reward if they changed their minds too many times.

Everyone in their group had managed to turn their chosen items into incredibly potent growth items, but Matt was particularly proud of what Liz and Aster had managed.

Liz turned her cauldron into a way to make herself stronger by refining her own blood, but even she didn’t truly quite know what she’d managed to create. She technically knew the powers of her new cauldron but without thorough testing, she wasn’t sure how close to her goal she’d gotten.

She set out to turn the cauldron into something of herself, that could be used to further modify herself. Thanks to replacing the original cauldron’s materials with ichor metals made from her own blood, she’d done exactly that.

If her theory was correct she’d be able to use the cauldron and its new growth properties to refine and strengthen a portion of herself. Ideally she’d be able to then after merging with the enhanced blood have the effects propagate. Then she could restart the process with a higher starting point growing stronger with every cycle.

Like Matt with his gem, they both wanted to dive into their new toys, but they were both holding off. They’d long agreed they both needed some time to just be a couple when they got back and intended to follow through with their planned break.

Aster’s chosen item showed another use case of the reward.

Where Liz had aimed to do something difficult, Aster aimed to do one existing thing incredibly well. From a nice but decorative cooling sash, the growth item was now so cold it could be considered a weapon in its own right.

Not that she put everything into the efficiency of the item, just as much reward energy had been spent on making the sash’s repair functionality strong enough she wouldn’t need to worry about anything short of total annihilation. Something that would be difficult because she’d used the item's Tier 25 effect to tie the sash’s durability to how cold it was, ensuring it wasn’t an obvious weakness.

Allie, on the other hand, hadn’t bothered to edit her items directly all that much, given they’d been masterfully crafted originally. She simply took what was there and ensured the scaling parts of her daggers were exactly what she wanted them to be, armor piercing.

As far as Matt was concerned that was the best possible outcome when he used it and why he agreed with Luna’s comment about time.

Taking one last look at the gem, Luna said, “Keep this under wraps. If you want to test your mana storage capabilities, Matt, wait until you can make a new sample. This is something we can’t retract once it's announced and you don’t want people to start thinking they deserve to study the real thing. That’s how people get ideas. Once it's been used, the scans will suffice. A lot of scans.”

First hand samples were good but following Luna’s example to her conclusion, he could easily see people arguing him getting another growth item wasn’t worth losing the sample.

From a purely logical perspective he could understand that viewpoint, but when it was his incredible chance on the line, Matt instinctively recoiled at any such notion. He didn’t let that make him backpeddle his intention to share, but he did acknowledge that it was better to avoid any such situation altogether.

It was less ideal but like with his mana itself, Matt was happy to share, happy to help. He was, however, far less happy to sacrifice himself for the greater good. The ‘greater good’ was a bottomless pit that would take everything fed into it and still ask for more.

The discussion then pivoted into more general affairs.

The duchy and his guild were both fine.

They’d taken a few hits over the past two hundred years but so had everyone else.

With so many higher Tiers leaving to explore chaotic space they had taken a large portion of the most profligate higher Tiers with them. After all, the people who were both willing and able to enter the breach, were typically the best of their Tiers and the largest spenders.

While he’d expected it, the economy had taken a downward turn, coinciding with the onset of the breach as the best of every tier left, leaving the service industries without their patrons to cater to, causing widespread repercussions. There were protections in place to keep the market stable, but most of them relied on the businesses having been able to take the hit in the first place.

As per their orders, companies that fully floundered were either bought by them directly as ducal assets, or sold off to more competent people if it was believed that the business itself was profitable. Thankfully there were less than five of that first category across their entire duchy. Being so new they didn’t have quite as many entrenched high Tier businesses resting on their laurels.

What they had was far worse, businesses that had still been trying to get on their feet after forming in, or moving to, their duchy. For those, Cato and Isabella had followed their economic downturn planning and helped the businesses limp along until their clientele started to return. Those loans weren’t free but they were generously lax.

Turning to Cato, Matt asked, “What are our funds looking like?”

Cato didn’t hesitate to give him the bad news, it was a good part of why Matt appreciated him so much. His affection didn’t stop Cato’s words from hitting him where it hurt though.

“We are well in the red and have been taking our own loans from the Imperial government. On both sets of accounts.”

Checking the files Cato flicked at him, Matt winced.

They’d run out of his mana stashes over a decade ago and that was with the deliveries Allie made being used to refill his own coffers mid-way. Duchies were not cheap to get off the ground.

Reaching out and taking Cato’s ring, Matt gave him what little mana he’d made since the Unsparing had teleported back to settled space now that Allie was teleporting relatively short distances.

Matt fully intended to help the Empire but they had Manny’s reserves and the Tier 50 made a lot more mana than him. They could wait until he dug his own duchy out of the red.

“I’ll handle that as my top priority.”

The bad news didn’t end there though.

The cabal, or what Cato suspected were agents of the cabal, had been using the economic downturn to try and infiltrate the duchy and guild alike.

Matt calmly noted everything down but now wasn’t the time to move. Soon, but not immediately.

Instead, he let himself enjoy the afterglow of what good news there was.

The economic hardship which was affecting the higher Tier economy wasn’t impacting the lower Tiers as it usually did.

In an unusual turn of events, despite being the economic heart of the Empire, the higher Tier economies' struggles had minimal impact on the mortal population. The lower Tier worlds across the board were improving, though some more than others.

Given the Empire’s various controls that made little sense, but Matt was half right when he thought he knew the answer.

The Tier 0 skills combined with every growing availability of aura potions meant delving was up in a big, big way. That in turn drove people to the normally undesirable lower Tier worlds for rift access, which in turn drove those same local economies. Combined with higher Tier planets taking an economic hit, they were less attractive to those not already living on one.

In fact there were reports that for the first time since Agatha usurped the throne, and allowed free movement, higher Tier worlds weren’t being treated as the end all be all destination for the ambitious.

Without the Path as an easy outlet for the restless youth of the Empire, there had been a brief moment where things were in the air as the economy on higher Tier worlds grew worse. Reportedly the Royals convened a meeting and implemented subsidies for young, low Tier delvers willing to leave higher Tier worlds, but Matt suspected Manny’s planning from the near unified response and reporting.

Initially the program floundered without much of an identity beyond a bus ticket to the boonies that few people accepted or wanted, and it looked like it was going to be a failure. It wasn’t until an enterprising Count meddled, that the program gained the direction it needed.

Aura potions for all their positives had a glaring downside.

The need to delve the rift on instance cooldown.

A world typically only had so many people willing to delve and the type of people who were willing, let alone capable of delving into the harder than average aura rifts, were rarer yet. However if the Empire had one thing, it was people. They simply weren’t where they needed to be.

Rather than following the original guidelines, Count Ragonet redirected the few Tier 4 through 6 applicants to his aura farm and put everyone lower Tier on a newly purchased Tier 3 moon to act as a way to get them to a useful Tier.

Far from upset, the applicants loved unlimited delving and the program took off as aura planets slowly became delving destinations and low Tier economic hubs. The initial start-up capital was high but those who entered early were already seeing massive returns as other worlds struggled as the higher Tier economy slumped.

Matt’s eye instead was caught on a line that said young cultivators had reportedly started treating aura planets as a gauntlet to pass before advancing forward.

At Tier 3 or 4 they should show up to an aura planet and sign up for three delves every two weeks. That was a delve every four and a half days, which was far more than most teams delved, which pushed many to their limits and some beyond. This led to an initial wave of deaths that eventually corrected itself, as the Empire came down on those rulers allowing the unprepared to throw their lives away as part of an officially sanctioned program.

Once appropriate tests were in place for those willing to enter aura farming worlds, deaths plummeted and the program's attractiveness rose, helping pull people from the crowded capital worlds.

At that speed it still took about a decade to reach Tier 6, but combined with the wages even a Tier 4 could earn, it was considered the easiest way for those without financial backing to afford an aura potion while profiting. Between delving that often and collecting aura, even after gear and healing expenses, most people came out of ‘The Gauntlet’ comparatively wealthy and a better fighter than their peers who delved the same rift time and time again.

The smart employers even started treating the aura potion as a signing bonus as a method to attract more people. The smartest used it to ensure the people they hired were competent enough to survive, or training them to that point. The dumber ones didn’t and were dealt with, depending on the severity of their lapses.

It was a new path to wealth for those not lucky enough to be born to immortals that wasn’t too dangerous.

While the original intent of the idea, to get lower Tiers to move and settle on low Tier planets, wasn’t a true failure, the program pivoted as more and more barons dedicated a portion of their planets’ rifts to aura potions. Few invested so much as to become an exporter of aura potions but the industry was a weed planted in fertile soil and impossible to stop as it spread as far as it could.

Matt savored every word as he read them.

The original program even worked, at least partly. People were people, and inevitably the young with newly found freedom found themselves pairing off and settling down close to where they were rather than where they came from. Not all, but those only became the success stories to drive the next generation out of the cities.

