Overall the program was still small and not seeing anything close to the numbers the Royals were hoping for, but with the overall economic downturn the program acted as an important cornerstone keeping the lower Tier economies moving.

Knowing he’d helped ensure that, even if he’d never planned for such, Matt let himself enjoy the moment. It was proof that his desire to share the information about aura potions had been the correct one.

Checking the numbers, he saw aura potion usage was up across the board and with more customers than potion, the industry was thriving and near self-sustaining as young cultivators delved the same rifts that made their potions.

As an Ascender he could inspire people to improve themselves, but he couldn’t do it for them any more than he could single handedly win a war. Seeing people take what he’d given them and run it with was addictive.

Which made the second bit of information all the more shocking.

Enchanting with aura.

Kees took over the conversation there. “The Corporations have been leading the pack with this new discovery but it's helping propagate aura rifts more than anything else, besides the aura potions. We've had a large uptick in groups reaching out for information about creating aura rifts. The same goes for people investing in totally new aura types, and how to make the rifts that create it.” Kees looked exhausted as talked about the queries but he didn’t elaborate, “If you look here, you can see there has been an additional six thousand percent spike in newly created aperology departments across every Great Power. It's one of the few higher Tier research fields not in a funding slump right now, except aura enchanting.”

Matt was still perusing the information as Liz asked a question, “What do we know about this new enchanting method? Broad strokes please.”

Kees smiled in reply, “We haven’t been sitting on our arses if that is what you are asking, Titan’s Torch has had nine new aura based enchantments released so far. Outside hidden faculties, we currently lead the field in efficiency based aura runes. By a large lead, in fact, but that’s in part due to basically every other company aiming for the secondary effects such as faster plant growth. Our aim has been to reduce operating costs across the board and get them out there before anyone else patents them.”

Matt started to frown but Kees indicated he was wrong. “So far the runes with special effects have all been the ones that were always rumored to have an effect. They are so old they are in every Great Power’s equivalent of the public domain. The Royals have already decreed that new variations can be patented but the originals can't be, and anything too close won’t be accepted. That’s where most people are aiming for, given that's where the real money is. The growth boosting light runes was only the start and everyone wants to recreate the market share they’ve captured.”

Reading on, Matt wasn’t entirely sure he believed everything he was seeing. It felt too fantastical. His plans of running their duchy as well as taking a break with Liz started to crumble before he stopped himself.

Liz smirked at him, having seen his interest.

Coughing slightly, he asked, “Two percent in growth speed seems incredible for only five percent more mana than a traditional light source. How are the other metrics such as longevity and repairability?"

Kees sighed, “That depends on who is designing the rune, Guild Leader. Look at the secondary corporations scrabbling for scraps of whatever market they are competing in. Most of their designs are either more expensive to run, not as efficient per unit of aura used, or have some other serious flaw. This new branch of enchanting is no different than any other, most designs simply aren't profitable or commercially viable. That said, yes there seem to be some flaws, aura control is hard and finicky. Some people simply don’t have the knack for it and struggle to develop such control, while others have an easier time than average. Notably your instincts were correct about the repairability of aura enchantments. They are much harder, though not technically impossible to repair. It either takes expensive equipment or great skill to manage, so it might as well be for ordinary people. Titan’s Torch has actually taken the lead with fourteen other research institutes and enchanting related entities, to form a dedicated team of people to try to simplify aura rune repairs and make such information public to avoid such expensive runes being treated as disposable.”

Matt nodded along, showing he understood and was listening, even as he looked through thousands of files and reports, letting Kees continue.

“That said, the effect of aura runes are obviously worth it in most use cases, making them a more expensive replacement. Which is exactly why we as a guild have been aiming for cost reduction properties in creation, usage, and repair. While secondary effects seemingly depend on the particular rune itself, upkeep cost has been an easier target and other teams have already successfully taken what we've made and applied parts to the secondary effect runes. I doubted you’d care about that market share.”

Matt didn’t and said as much as he caught up.

“You handled it perfectly. Damn, I wish I could meet them. The two who figure this out, I mean. I’d love to pick their minds about the process.”

Cato flicked his tongue at the comment before Kees could respond. “You and everyone else, my lord. The couple are two of the most sought after lower Tiers in the realm right now. Currently they’ve been hired by the corporation that bought their invention and before you ask about poaching them, it's not going to happen. In the latest Twilight-Horizon patent, the one for the two percent version you are looking at, they were both in the tertiary assistance line; which is where they put the people who did the actuarial work, as the first two always belong to the lead researcher and the Corporation in question. Whether they are doing actual work is unknown, but no one can contact them while they are 'researching'."

Matt sighed, knowing his best chance to meet them was asking Max when she returned from the breach herself.

Until then, he wasn’t going to think about it too often.

With a few other things to look at but nothing that needed the secure room, they exited, which was when Luna hit Matt with a surprise.

“Oh, you need to talk to Tim. I hired him as your retainer on your behalf after he came out of his fugue.”

Matt closed his eyes as he listened to what one of his students had gone through, trying not to get angry.

Logically learning about how to turn a Concept’s self preservation memory wipes into a method to keep a broken Concept from fully shattering was interesting, but not worth the price Tim had paid.

Trying to keep himself from interrupting Liz’s briefing, Matt forced out, “We can talk about Tim in a moment once Liz is done getting updated. I am ser—”

Liz slapped the table as she shot to her feet, “No need to wait. We can talk right now.”
