The Red Hunter opened her mouth to protest, then grimaced, understanding the danger they were in. She spun and marched out, gesturing for the rest of the delegation to follow her.

"Leave the contract," Kelegas spoke, and she hesitated, then let the contract flutter to the ground and continued leading the way out without another word. Kelegas frowned as the door swung shut, and didn't move until he felt through his senses that they had left the vicinity of his palace. Even then, he stayed mostly still and silent, his gaze fixed on the contract lying on the ground.

One of his guards eventually shifted and cleared his throat nervously. "Um, sir?" his asked. "Are you alright?"

"I am... fine, Steve, thank you for asking." Kelegas straightened and walked over to the contract, examining it one final time for traps before he picked it up.

In most cases, he would have found this fascinating. This was evidence of a potential second dark lord or lady, which shouldn't have been possible. His mind raced to understand how that might have happened and why they would be acting now—perhaps through some strange quirk of the realm, or the Red Commander's actions had somehow altered the conditions in which a dark one might appear...

But there was a greater problem than that. A trap that Kelegas cursed himself for not recognizing sooner.

The magical contract was a truce between the Red Hunters and Kelegas Thornblight, predicated on their ability to give to him an item that would allow him to complete the creation of the Eventide Seed. Now that the Red Hunters were no longer able to do so, he would be obligated to abide by the terms of that contract's breaking.

Which was to say, he now had to interfere with the Red Hunters. And while that would normally have been cause for celebration...

Kelegas was well aware that any such action on his part would almost certainly lead to war.

If the terms had allowed it, he almost certainly would have lent his forces to them simply to avoid taking action now. At the time, he had considered himself clever for avoiding putting his forces into the Red Commander's hands; now he cursed himself for his oversight.

But there would be time to recover. He would not need to act on his obligations immediately. If he could simply justify his actions as interference, he could delay escalations. He just needed the right justification for something that would still be considered interference, but not enough to spark a war.

His eyes drifted to the contract he held in his hand.

At face value, there was another dark one already interfering with the Red Hunters and their activities. Proposing an alliance with them would be sufficient to count as interference. And if they weren't a dark one, then he could destroy them, befitting the fate of anyone who made light of what his people had to endure.

Kelegas hoped for the first, but the second was far more likely. He tried to restrain it, but that ember of rage within him was already beginning to burn—

"Sir?" Steve spoke up, and Kelegas was so startled by the guard's sudden appearance that he was snarling before he knew it. That was enough for Steve to yelp and jump backward, sending the tea set he was holding flying into the air, then clattering and spilling all over the ground. "O-oh, no! Sorry, sir! Just, um, give me a moment—"

Steve blurred into action, and Kelegas watched as the strongest and clumsiest knight in his forces, the sole chronomancer in his employ, frantically reversed his local time until he was once more carrying a pristine tray of tea.

"I, um, thought you could use some tea?" Steve tried.

Kelegas snorted, amused. "Are you serving me floor tea, Steve?"

Steve's eyes went wide, visible even through his helmet. "N-no, sir! I used a time reversal spell, that tea never touched the floor, I swear! I-I mean, it did, but then it didn't, and this is the tea that didn't!"

"Hmm." Kelegas delicately picked up the cup with his claws—the thing was ridiculously small for him—and took a tiny sip. "And yet it tastes like the floor..."

"B-but that's impossible, sir! It didn't—it never—" Poor Steve was starting to hyperventilate, and Kelegas laughed, placing a friendly hand on his knight's shoulder.

"I am only teasing, my knight. Thank you. You are, as ever, a thoughtful companion and friend." Kelegas smiled at him. "Could you send for Emline? I believe I would like to spend some time with her. I am in need of some grounding, I believe, in addition to the tea."

"O-oh..." Steve seemed oddly disappointed, strangely. Some of the knight's quirks were opaque, even to one such as Kelegas. Still, he recovered and nodded rapidly enough for his visor to flap awkwardly around on his helmet. "Right away, sir! Um, enjoy the tea!"

He made to give the tray to Kelegas, seemed to realize he would have been asking his king to hold his own tea, twitched toward a nearby end table, realized that might take too much time, then awkwardly placed the tray on the floor and shuffled backward until he disappeared from the room.

Kelegas stared after him and laughed again, shaking his head. What a strange knight. He was a good friend, though, and Kelegas was certain that once he spoke to Emline, that knot in his heart would loosen enough that he could act mostly rationally.

Probably. Maybe not that rationally, where Emline was concerned. After all, even he had his vices.

And he was quite lucky indeed that he, too, was hers.
