My arrow divides 22 times, raining over two million projectiles across 70% of Scholl's forces.

Death rains down upon my enemies.

Pockets of Scholl's forces survive the bombardment thanks to a few talented mages throwing up shield spells in time, but that only saved a few.

The dead and dying are too numerous to count. I stare down at the worst thing I've ever done in my life. With one arrow, I killed thousands of people.

My men don't waste the opportunity I gave them and fire their own arrows and spells at the pockets of survivors. The survivors of my skill are forced to retreat over their dead comrades.

"Gods!" Cristopher stares dumbfounded at the carnage in front of us.

"Send word to open the front gate." I breathlessly order the communication mage behind me. I pull out a stamina tonic from my pouch and down the whole thing in a single gulp. I make sure to hide the fatigue that's quickly settling in.

I feel a little better as my stamina recovers faster, but inside, my body is screaming in pain. I hear our gates opening below us. I slowly make my way over to the side of the tower and watch our wagon train barrel into the courtyard. Once the last cart passes through our gate, it's sealed again immediately.

"How is such a skill possible? You could've defeated Scholl's army when they first arrived if you used that skill then!" Cristopher looks at me in disbelief.

"It doesn't work like that," I tell him. "The only reason my skill worked was that their strongest warriors were hiding in the back. My skill doesn't conjure arrows from nothing. The arrows become weaker the more times they multiply. If any of their high-leveled people were upfront, they could've easily negated my skill with a few precise strikes. That's why the barriers their mages managed to conjure in time saved a few of them." I explain to him.

"I'm going to rest here a while. Coordinate with the supply team and have everything emptied as soon as possible. Their army will be in shambles for the foreseeable future. We have until they recover to get as many supplies into the fort as possible." I wave away Cristopher and the communications mage.

As Cristopher rushes to follow my orders, followed by the mage, I move down the ramparts and sit on the stone steps. Rain of Arrows is the more intensive skill of my two tier 5 skills. Even if I had another arrow, I couldn't use my skill like that again for another month without risking severe harm to my body. Maybe if I was younger, I could risk it, but I'm not a spring Kip anymore.

I've never had the chance to use the skill like that before. I've used it to exterminate hordes of low leveled monsters and a few bandit camps, but never on a scale like this.

I feel the pressure growing in my chest as all the experience I just gained tries to settle in my soul. I just killed thousands of level 30 and 40 soldiers. I haven't felt experience gain like this since I actively hunted magical beasts. Tonight, I'll have to distribute the status points I just earned.

I enter a light meditative state to ease the pressure on my body.

I don't keep track of how long I've been meditating for and only come out of my meditative state once I hear our gates opening again.

After my quick rest, I've regained enough strength to launch myself towards the gate before the wagon train leaves. I watch as the last empty cart leaves the fort surrounded by their escort. With the gates closing, I turn my attention to the courtyard. Our much-needed supplies are scattered everywhere.

The food supplies take president, but a few soldiers sort the weapons and necessities while the food is taken inside the fort. I notice Cristopher walking towards me.

I can tell he wants to ask me how I'm doing, but I don't give him a chance to ask. "How are the supplies?" I ask.

He frowns slightly but answers my question anyway. "With the mages preservation magic, we can hold out for another three weeks with what we just got in. But more importantly, we got a larger than usual supply of weapons." Cristopher leads me over to the area the men are sorting the weapons.

"Apparently, a merchant stopped by earlier today and sold us a cart full of weapons. The manifest says basic weapons, but they'll be better than what some of our men are carrying now." We watch the men check each sword, axe, and spear individually.

Most are unmarked goods from low-level blacksmiths, but I notice a maker's mark on some of the spears. "Not all of them are basic." I point out to Cristopher.

I walk over to the man sorting the spears and watch him tense up as I approach. "Let me see one of those." I motion to one of the spears with a maker's mark.

The soldier carefully hands me the weapon.

As soon as my hands grip the spear, I freeze in place. After years of testing out different bows, I naturally try to expel a bit of my mana into any weapon I pick up. The ease in which I feel my mana circulate throughout the spear is astonishing.

"Is something wrong with the spear, general?" Cristopher asks me. Both he and the soldier look at the spears like they're worried they're cursed.

"You have the manifest?" I question my aid. Cristopher hands me the document detailing everything that was delivered to us and who sold it. Because the delivery was all weapons, I quickly find it in the manifest. Nathanael bought them… and for only 35 gold! A rare smile spreads across my face.

"General?" Cristopher looks concerned and takes a step back.

"Cristopher, bring our enchanter here. Quickly." He barely waits for me to finish speaking before he's running into the fort.

I only have to wait ten minutes for Cristopher to bring me our garrisons enchanter. The young mage looks worriedly at me. "Do you need me to check one of your magical items, mam?" She fearfully asks me.

"Take a look at this and tell me what you think." I offer the girl the spear in my hands.

She struggles to handle the weight of the steel spear with her meager Strength stat, but once it's in her hands, she has the same reaction I had when I first grabbed it. "This is an amazing piece of work!" She exclaims down at the weapon. Her eyes quickly travel from the one in her hands over to the others on the ground. She places the one in her hands down by her feet and moves to the others. Her eyes only get bigger as she inspects each one.

After she examines the spears, she moves on to the other weapons. It's clear not all of them were made by the same blacksmith, but she quickly pulls out a few swords and an axe that she claims has the same composition.

I turn to an astonished Cristopher and explain her enthusiasm. "Each of those weapons has a perfect structure when it comes to their internal mana. Even though they're made with basic steel, each of them can handle basic enchantments." I focus on our enchanter. "You can enchant them, right?" I question her.

She freezes when she realizes I was watching her the whole time she was assessing everything. "Yes, mam. I have enough engraving ink to enchant all of them." She replies with a new sense of confidence.

"See that you do," I instruct her.

While she asks one of the soldiers nearby to help her bring everything to her workshop, I turn back to Cristopher. "Scholl should be quiet the next few hours; message me if anything changes."

"What do you mean, General?" He gives me a worried look.

"I'm going to find the merchant who sold us those weapons."

"You're leaving the fort?!" He panics.

"Just for a moment," I reply. "Those are the best weapons we've seen in months. The other high leveled archers and I are running out of good arrows. He might be able to get us some more. I'll be back in an hour at most. After what I did to Scholl's forces, now might be the only chance I have to leave the fort."

I can't waste time arguing with Cristopher, so before he tries to change my mind, I use my skills to accelerate to my room. I grab my money pouch and switch out my bow and quiver. I have to use a weaker bow and arrows now that I'm out of my special arrows.

I have to grab one more thing before I leave. Moving over to my small desk, I quickly draft the parchment I might need.

With everything in hand, I vault out my window and quickly scale the walls of the fort. I jump off our ramparts and silently land below. With my incredible Strength and Dexterity, I sneak my way over to Teeburn.

I have business with a merchant named Kervin!

Kervin's Point of View:

"Boss, are you sure you should be ordering another mug?" Lurte asks from the seat next to me at our table.

"I'm fine." I snap at him. "I can handle my liquor, worry about yourself." That's the problem with high stats. You can't get drunk when you want to unless your willing to pay for the stronger booze. Not like a shithole like this would have any, I already asked.

"I know you didn't get everything you wanted, but you still made a decent profit." Lurte tries to console me.

I don't feel like explaining how much coin I probably lost on the deal earlier today. He gives me a worried look and opens his mouth to say something else, but he stops mid-way and turns his head like he's listening for something.

Lurte isn't the only one; Ryiba and a few other patrons in the tavern also stop and try to listen for something. My senses stat is nothing to scoff at either, so I try to focus on whatever they're listening for.

It's hard to tell, but it sounds like the tavern two doors down from us is going crazy with multiple people shouting. What's also weird is the bar between us is surprisingly quiet.

The waitress stops by our table and deposits another round of ale for us. I start sipping my drink when I hear the once quiet bar next to us, erupt in the same manner as its neighbor. "Maybe we should move our party next door." I sarcastically suggest to my bodyguards.

"Maybe they have the good alcohol." One of the passing waitresses scowls at me for a second before moving to help another table. Not like the night can get any worse.

"I'm looking for a merchant named Kervin." A female voice just loud enough to be heard by everyone in the tavern comes from behind me in the entryway.

"What now!?" I loudly complain only to notice everyone in the tavern is silent. Lurte and Ryiba sitting across from me, are staring behind me with wide eyes.

I turn my head and make eye contact with the woman who just shouted my name. As soon as our eyes meet, I immediately raise my hand to my chest and look down.

It feels like an arrow just pierced my heart and not in the sense bards sing about love. No, it literally feels like an arrow is digging into my chest.

When my body realizes I'm not injured, the pain slowly fades, but I shiver when I look back up and find the older woman staring down at me.

"Are you the Merchant Kervin?" I nod, my body affirming the woman's question before I even know what's happening.

Now that she's close to me, I feel like I'm face to face with the scariest magical beast in the world. She gives off the impression she could kill me with a flick of her hand.

"That's good; I was tired of searching so many pubs looking for you. I have questions about the goods you sold earlier today."

"Emily Pitz."

"The general."

"Why is she here?"

A few solitary voices echo through the tavern from the entryway of the inn. More than one person is trying to get a look at the woman through the entryway.

Their whispers make me notice the emblem on the woman's jacket and the bow she has strapped to her back.

Oh, gods! It can't Be!

"Emily Pitz," I mumble to myself.

"Yes, that's me. I need to talk to you about your delivery today." The world starts to spin as she repeats her request.

Was there something wrong with the goods I sold! I've heard of merchants being jailed for selling faulty merchandise to the army.

"Do you have a room here?" Again, my body naturally responds to her question before I can say anything. "Good, show me the way."

I unsteadily stand up and start shuffling over to the staircase leading to the room I rented. I turn to my bodyguards, pleading for help with my eyes.

The General follows my gaze and looks at my men. "Your bodyguards?" She questions me. Both of them pale when faced with her powerful gaze. "They can come too." She suggests offhand.

I watch them slowly get up and start following us upstairs. As we ascend the staircase, the whispers in the tavern begin to grow louder behind us.

We walk down the short hallway that leads to our room. I gently push open the worn out door that doesn't even have a lock on it. As soon as the General is inside, she waves my guards in to join me on the far side of the small room.

They take up position next to me as she closes the door. She then pulls out a necklace with three distinct sones from under her jacket.

The gem on the right flashes for a moment before she looks up at us. I can't hear the outside world anymore.

"I put up a soundproofing barrier so people can't spy on us." She explains. Now she can kill us without worrying about others hearing our screams.

I drop to my knees and bow my head. "I deeply apologize to General Pitz! I don't know what was wrong with the weapons, but I assure you I wouldn't have sold them to the army if I knew otherwise." I hear Lurte and Ryiba drop to the floor next to me and wonder if she already killed them. I don't dare look up at her.

Before I'm about to piss myself, I freeze when I hear laughter coming from across our room. I hesitantly look up and see the general holding her side laughing. I look to my right and left to see Lurte and Ryiba still alive and also clearly confused at the situation like I am.

"You think I'm here about faulty weapons?" She asks us, still laughing to herself.

"Yeeeessss?" I cautiously answer.

The general finally stops laughing and instead shouts me an inquisitive look. "Weren't you curious as to why you didn't earn much experience after selling your goods to Nathanael?" She gives me a knowing smirk.

