When I don't answer her, she confirms my earlier suspicions. "You sold your goods for a coper of what they were worth."

Being told that to my face gives me enough confidence to talk finally. "Might I ask what you mean by that, Lady Pitz?"

"Before I do, I wish to apologize." I'm shocked by the sudden apology. "Nathanael has worked under me for years and has an incredible gift when it comes to procuring goods. His only fault is he doesn't have any talent in regards to magic. He can spot enchanted goods with his skills, but he can't feel the mana inside an object. That means he didn't realize the value of the spears you sold him." As she explains the misunderstanding to me, an image of a young blacksmith pops into my head.

"Some of the goods you sold us were more than good enough to be enchanted. Those thirty spears you sold us, in particular, were worth the 35 gold you were given, by themselves." She laughs once again at the situation.

"May I ask why Lady Pitz feels the need to rub my failure in my face?" I try to hold my anger back, less she becomes mad at me.

"You should be happy; I decided to come by. You wouldn't have realized your mistake by yourself and likely would have continued to sell the weapons at horribly low prices." She says to me with a snarky tone.

She's right; if she didn't explain to me the true value of my goods, I would've continued to sell them as I was. Were all of Aaliyah's goods worth more than what I was selling them for?

Wait, something isn't right here! A general wouldn't leave their fort just to teach me a lesson. She must need me for something else.

I straighten myself up once I realize she has a job for me. "Lady Pitz is truly generous. Is there something I can help you with as a show of gratitude for your wisdom?"

"You finally stopped shivering, huh. Are you going to stand up now?"

I slowly get up from the floor, followed by my two guards, and address the 6th strongest person in the kingdom. "May I ask why the general really decided to pay me a visit?"

She gives me a predatory look. "The blacksmith you bought the weapons from, who is she?" It takes everything I have not to blurt out the answer to her question while under her strong presence.

"What makes you think it's a she?" I hesitantly ask.

"The maker's mark is too feminine for a male blacksmith. Is there a reason you're avoiding my question?"

"The blacksmith in question and I have a good relationship that revolves around secrecy. I won't jeopardize my future with them that easily."

"Future, huh? That means she's improving. She must be a young blacksmith if no one has heard of her yet. I'm even more curious now. Her work is already top-notch, and she just reached level 50 in her blacksmithing skill." I try not to show the shock on my face. How does she know all of that?!

"Don't be surprised; I noticed you sold me her work from before she made her maker's mark and the spears she made after reaching level 50 in blacksmithing. For you to find a gem like that around here, I'm impressed. Why don't you tell me where she is so I can send her an offer to come to the fort? She can help us win this war." The look in Lady Pitz's eyes becomes fiercer.

"I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I'm sure she has no desire to leave her village." Her eyes widen at the slip of my tong. I curse myself with every obscenity I know in my head.

"Is that so, then that means I'll have to have you act as an intermediary for me until I have the chance to meet her in person." She calmly states. Oh crap, this isn't good.

The General reaches into her pocket and pulls out a small rolled up piece of parchment and hands it to me. "What is this?" I ask.

"That is a note I want you to deliver to your company. It has my seal on it and states I want to purchase specific goods from your blacksmithing contact." She had this already filled out before she even came here. Word will definitely make its way back to the company's headquarters after what happened here today, and I can't pretend I never received a message from Emily Pitz. If she's giving it to me in person, she's forcing my hand, making sure I report everything personally to Silver Herd.

I'll have to tell Silver Herd about Aaliyah, making things even more complicated.

General Pitz sees the difficult look on my face but ignores it. "I need the best arrows your blacksmith can make. You can do that for me, right?" Her face says she knows I can't refuse her request.

"I'll send word to Nathanael about our arrangement. Bring me the best arrows you can, and I have no problem paying you full price for them." Lady Pitz touches her necklace again, and I once again hear the surroundings outside my room. The general flings then door open, sending three men scurrying away, tripping over their own feet.

Before she leaves my room, she turns to me one last time. "I need the arrows immediately. I expect the first shipment in a month. This matter involves the safety of the kingdom; I hope I've made myself clear."

"Crystal," I grit through my teeth.

She gives me one last wicked smile before she walks out of sight.

"Did that just happen?" Ryiba shakily asks me.

I ignore his stupid question and turn to Lurte. "I need parchment and a quill, now." In a slight daze, he nods to me and rushes out of the room.

I have to shoo away multiple people who come to ask me questions about why the General was looking for me while I wait for Lurte to return.

When he makes it back to our room, I shut the door and have Ryiba barricade it with his body. I don't have an even surface to wright on, so I use the floorboards of my room. I write out a quick note for Aaliyah and address it to Camden in Spotted Creek Village with instructions to pass it on to her. I need her to start making arrows as soon as possible.

I dig out three gold coins from the pouch at my side and hand them with the letter to Lurte. "Take this to the nearest postal station and pay for an express delivery. It needs to be sent tonight."

I sit back on the cheap tavern bed and watch Lurte run out the door once again. If it's sent now, it should arrive at the village sometime tomorrow, mid-day. Paying for a carrier falcon to directly take the message to its destination might be expensive, but I have no choice.

Tomorrow we'll have to head for the company's headquarters to explain myself to the higher-ups. Then I'm reminded about my promise to Aaliyah; I'll have to explain the situation to her once I see her again.

I fall backward onto the bed, worrying about what's to come.

Emily Pitz Point of View:

I sit and recline my feet on the table in front of me, sipping a bland cup of tea. I patiently wait for the information I requested to arrive.

I don't have to wait long, and soon a man in a faded blue jacket enters the room with a parcel in hand. "Lady Pitz, this is highly unprofessional. If the postal service finds out I did this; I'll be fired and put on the blacklist!" The man snivels in front of me, pathetic.

I lean over and slap five gold coins onto the table to shut him up quickly. "The parcel," I demand, holding my hand out.

He shakily hands me the parchment and explains. "It's just as you said, soon after you arrived here, a man came and requested an express delivery to a small village in the north known as Spotted Creek Village."

I smile as I open the tube that is supposed to be attached to one of the postal services birds. I skim the note and memorize the important information. She's in Spotted Creek Village, and her name is Aaliyah. The wording is vague, but the merchant is asking her to switch her production over to arrows.

As soon as I have some free time, I know which village I'll be visiting.

I down the last bit of tea and stand up. "Send the message on your best bird and make sure it isn't intercepted. If anyone asks questions, I want you to notify me immediately at the fort. Is that understood?" I use my Intimidating Eye skill on the man, and he nearly falls over.

"Yes! Yes, my lady, I understand!"

"Good," I walk past the man and out of the postal office. I use my skills to blend into the shadows cast by the falling sun on the buildings.

It took longer than I thought to find and talk to the merchant, but it was worth it.

I smile to myself as I speed back to the fort with the best news I've had in a long time.
