"We can offer each other greetings another time. I was told you have weapons to sell?" Lurte, Ryiba, and I all flinch under his colossal gaze. This man has to be over level 70. If he's not at the fort fighting, he must be in charge of the supply unit here.

I clear my throat and straighten my back before I have the confidence to answer him. "I do, sir, take a look." I motion to my men to help me remove the canvas covering my wares.

As we remove the canvas, I notice the captain's eyes focus on my goods. Once we have the cover lifted, his smooth voice causes the three of us to freeze. "47 spears, 81 swords, 26 axes, 42 bows, and 2,492 arrows, not bad at all." He counted everything in the 40 seconds it took us to remove the canvass! The arrows aren't even in the open; they're in boxes!

"No magical weapons, but everything is of decent quality. How much do you want for everything?" I freeze at his sudden question.

My Mind Stat franticly tries to help me organize my thoughts. Do I use my skills? Why couldn't I be dealing with an ordinary soldier instead of this old monster? Will he take offense if I try to haggle?

I feel the weight on my shoulders, increasing each second I don't answer the man.

The gods be damned; I've worked too hard to falter now. I active every one of my merchant skills and hope he doesn't take offense. Trading, Increase Price, Best Deal, Smooth Negotiating, Charm, and my tier 4 skill Loose Wallet all activate together. "It was hard for me to gather all of this. I need 50 gold coins for everything." Every muscle in my body tenses when the captain doesn't respond to my offer.

I feel the sweat gathering on my brow as time seems to stop. With all my skills applying their pressure on the man, I anxiously wait for his reaction. I wait to see if his merchant skills will activate or if he has me detained for offending him.

"That is too much." All at once, I feel the strength behind my skills falter. "30 gold is more than enough for these weapons." Each of his words cuts through my skills pressure, and I start to feel the immense weight behind his skills, rebuffing the effort of my own.

I feel an overwhelming desire to agree to his counteroffer. I haven't felt like this since I was a child learning under my parents.

As my mouth starts to open, I do the only thing I can think of.

I slap myself across the face.

The two other merchants watching us look astonished by my actions, but I don't have time to focus my attention on them. The captain's gaze is still drilling into me. Before the pain fades, I need to make my counteroffer. "I need 40 gold." It takes everything I have to say those words.

The man's stern gaze flickers momentarily, and a soft smile creeps across his face. "I'll do 35," He offers.

This time I can't fight the power of his skills, and I'm forced to agree. "Thank you for the generous offer." I hiss between my teeth as I lower my head in defeat.

I keep my head lowered, trying to hide the disappointment I'm feeling. I barely notice the captain pull a slip of paper out of his pocket and write something on its surface before offering it to me.

I reach out for the slip of paper, but it doesn't budge from his hand. I'm forced to meet his gaze once again, and I'm surprised to see his smile had only grown bigger. "You have quite a bit of talent. You're the first merchant that managed to offer a rebuttal to my first offer. If you come back again, mention that you're a friend of Captain Nathanael." Captain Nathanael loosens his grip on the piece of paper before he turns and walks over to another cart in the clearing.

A few seconds after he leaves, the female soldier approaches me once again, accompanied by ten other individuals in the same uniform.

She stops in front of me while the others swarm my cart and start to remove everything. "Don't lose that ticket; you can take it to our barracks in the city and collect your money there."

"Where exactly are your barracks located?" I halfheartedly ask her.

"Do you remember passing by a building with a lot of soldiers entering and exiting as you made your way here?" She asks me.

I vagally remember seeing a building like that. "I believe so."

"All coin transactions are handled there." That makes sense. It would be hard for them to keep track of every coin being exchanged with it being so busy here.

I look over my shoulder at the people striping my cart of everything I've gathered these last few months. I look down at my ticket and notice the '35 gold' clearly written on it. This is what I get for months of my hard work.

"I would like to thank you." The female soldier's voice brakes me out of my daze. "You came at the perfect time. Weapons have been getting harder to come by recently, and your delivery will save many lives." She offers me a soft smile and bows her head.

I can't say how disappointed I am with my earnings after hearing that. "Anything for the Kingdom of Olebert," I reply, hiding my disappointment in my heart.

Everything becomes much duller after our conversation finishes. My cart is soon emptied, and we're asked to leave to make room for other arriving merchants.

The trip to the barracks to cash out my ticket was slow and tedious. The pouch of gold coins they hand me feels light in my hands despite them counting it twice in front of me.

Lurte and Ryiba led me from tavern to tavern until we fond a spot for us to settle for the rest of the day with an open room for the night.

I kept my word and bought the first round, then the second…. and third. The cheap mead wasn't making me feel any better.

Sipping my grog, I pull up my status page.

LV:53 Experience: 174,819/229,837

Health: 1,890

Stamina: 916

Mana: 100

Vitality: 189

Endurance: 36

Strength: 39

Dexterity: 72

Senses: 119

Mind: 124

Magic: 10

Clarity: 10

Status Points: 0

Skills: Running (LV32), Writing (LV34), Mathematics (LV37), Cooking (LV17), Trading (LV61), Driving (LV50), Increase Price (LV53), Decrease Price (LV51), Best Deal (LV27), Smooth Negotiating (LV30), Charm (LV42), Loose Wallet (LV11), Danger Sense (LV25), Contract (LV7)

I've worked so hard to reach where I am today. My parents, bless their hearts, worked their hardest for my older brother and me to earn the skills we needed to be successful merchants. I wonder how brother is doing running our family's vegetable stall back in Blaiton.

Even with it also being the headquarters for Silver Herd, it's been years since I stopped by to see my family. Maybe I should take some of my free time and stop by to say hello.

I look at the almost empty mug in front of me. Alcohol always turns me sentimental.

Glancing back at my status page, I think about my run-in with Captain Nathanael. Almost every one of my merchant skills leveled after our deal concluded, but that's the only good news I can think of.

Doing some quick math, I noticed I only earned 26,482 experience from selling everything I brought with us. Any other day I would be excited about that much experience, but when you factor in all the work I put into this trip, I was expecting enough experience to push me into level 54.

The only time a merchant doesn't receive their proper experience is when they're screwed out of their deserved coin.

I can only imagine how much money I lost on our deal. And that old man had the gall to ask me to see him again the next time I come!

"Another one!" I shout at a passing waitress. The only thing I want to do is drown myself in cheap liquor for the rest of the day.

**********

Emily Pitz Point of View:

The sound of arrows releasing fills the air as I watch siege spells launched from our walls at the horde of Scholl soldiers down below. Their forces are spread out, mitigating their troops' damage while launching their own spells and arrows in retaliation.

I scan the horizon looking for their commanders. I spot them at the back of their army. They've learned their lesson and have moved all their prominent figures well out of my range.

Instead of relying on high-level warriors, they've spent the last three weeks using their superior numbers to whittle away our supplies with a prolonged siege. We've only managed to move the smallest amounts of food from Teeburn in the middle of the night during the lulls of battle. Food, weapons, daily necessities, we're running low on everything.

I wonder if Scholl's new commander planned on his strategy being this effective or if he just got lucky.

"Cristopher, how many more days can we hold out?" I ask the open space next to me.

My steward materializes next to me with a somber look on his face. "We have four days of food left if we stretch out our supplies. A few of our men know some minor blacksmithing skills and are frantically trying to sharpen and repair anything they can, but 10% of our forces have either no weapon or an improvised spear. If we don't get our supplies from Teeburn soon, we won't be able to hold Scholl's forces at bay. They'll take Teeburn, and we'll be stranded here alone."

I take a deep breath and contemplate everything he just told me. "It looks like I have no choice," I mutter into the wind.

"General?" Cristopher gives me a questioning look.

"Send word to Nathanael that he's to bring everything he can to the fort at once," I order Cristopher.

"But general, we can't push their forces back enough to guard that many supplies! We'll lose everything!" Cristopher shouts at me while looking pale.

"I'll handle it. Hurry along." I firmly order him to go and make the preparations.

Cristopher disappears in the direction of the closest communication mage. After a few months of us working together, he's stopped second-guessing me as much. Only at times like these does he second guess my judgment.

Without taking my eyes off the battle, I adjust my constitution and wait for him to return. Nathanael knows that he would be receiving the order to move out at a moment's notice, and I'm sure he can handle everything as quickly as I need him to. With the supply units' skills, the wagon train will make it to the fort in only an hour.

I have little time to get myself to my most optimum state.

I reach for the quiver at my side and draw the last of my specialty arrows. Each of the other arrows were used to slay the strongest members of Scholl's army and have acted as a deterrent against their most powerful forces. They might not know how many more I have, but even an incompetent commander would realize I don't have many more based on the frequency I use them.

Cristopher appears by my side again, looking at me restlessly. "The message has been sent and acknowledged; the supply wagons are on their way."

"Good, spread the word. Every soldier is to be on the walls in thirty minutes." Cristopher looks at the arrow in my hands and noticeably relaxes a little.

"It will be done." He vanishes once again, and our fort comes alive in a flurry of activity. Every soldier, even the ones sleeping and on their break, start arming themselves with everything they can and moving to the walls.

Time slowly ticks by as I watch Scholl's forces react to the growing presence on our walls. They know what's about to come. The only time we muster this, many of our troops are during supply runs.

"Shouldn't we have waited until nightfall, General? We still have a few days of supplies left." Cristopher asks me once he finishes notifying everyone in the fort.

"If we start rationing out food, it would weaken our soldiers mentally as well as physically. I only have one arrow left, and I need to make it count." I comely tell him.

"But their commanders refuse to come into range. How are you going to stop them from attacking our supplies with only a single arrow?"

"With my tier 5 skill, of course," I tell him matter-of-factly.

"Your arrows are strong, but I don't see how it will stop their charge."

"It seems you have forgotten." I give Cristopher a disappointed look.

"About what, General?" He manages to look hurt a little at my statement.

"You forgot that I have two tier 5 skills." I ignore his shocked expression and continue to focus my mind. One arrow to change everything.

As time slowly passes, one of the communications mages joins us up on the tower. "Word from Captain Nathanael, they're ten minutes out." The mage tells me, trying to hide his nervousness.

"Is everyone in position?" I ask.

The communications mage mumbles a spell before he nods his head in confirmation. Scholl's forces also look ready for a fight. They have squads in formation prepared to intercept our supplies. They have groups of mages prepared to counter any magic we try to throw at them.

I turn my head and stare into the distance. I see our carts on the horizon barreling towards the fort. "Send word to the wagons to pick up speed and not stop until they're in the gates," I order the mage behind me.

"Do you need me to summon the support mages again, general?" Cristopher offers from my side.

"No, extra magic will only hinder my skill this time." I raise my bow and activate my skills to draw my arrow back.

I make my final adjustments as Scholl's army erupts in noise. Those with a high-level Danger Sense can probably feel what's about to come, or maybe they're shouting to intimidate our approaching forces. It matters little to me.

My fingers release, and a shockwave hits my chest from the force of my arrow. All at once, the world becomes silent. Every one of our men in position watch the projectile soar through the air at an incredible speed. Scholl's forces panic as they try to predict where my arrow will land.

Once my arrow reaches its highest point and arks toward Scholl's army, do I activate my other tier 5 skill, Rain of Arrows.

My mana pool drops to 174 from 1,000, and 60% of my stamina drains away upon activation of my skill. My one arrow shimmers and divides in midair. One arrow becomes two, and then two becomes four, again and again, the arrows divide until the sky turns black as the countless arrows fall.

