Kervin's Point of View:

"From road to road, from trail to trail."

"Merchants roam, searching for a sale."

"Everything has a price, anything for gold."

"Our carts are full; everything must be sold."

"How did that sound?" I glance at my two guards Lurte and Ryiba.

"We're nearing Teeburn. It would be wise for you to remain quiet. We need to listen for Scholl spies that could be hiding nearby." Lurte warns me from my right with a straight face.

"I had no idea!" I pretended to look shocked. "We should warn everybody else." I wave to the other carts tightly packed around us, all heading the same direction. "If you don't like my singing, you can just tell me. I promise I won't be mad."

"We don't like your singing." Ryiba dryly says from my left.

"The two of you should be praising my singing for all the gold I pay you guys." I humph to myself and pretend to act insulted.

"We aren't paid to be tortured." I give Ryiba a quick scowl. The two of them are always criticizing my singing.

I won't get anything from arguing with Ryiba, so I look to my right at Lurte and switch conversation topics. "Lurte, how far from the city are we?" I can't see anything past the cart in front of me. The merchant I'm tailing has his cart stacked fifteen feet tall with crates. Judging by the smell, the boxes are probably filled with produce.

Lurte walks a couple of feet from our cart, pushing his way through the bushes and weeds outlining the road.

The plants and weeds should've died when winter arrived, but the war weather has changed the local ecosystem. Everything is wet and muddy due to the snow that falls one minute and then melts when sudden heatwave rolls in over it.

Bang!!

The sound of thunder echos overhead, as a flash of light streaks between the dark clouds above us. I've heard stories from older merchants about war weather, but this is the first time I'm experiencing it myself. It's said the weather around major conflict sites becomes more unpredictable, depending on the size of the battle.

The excessive use of magic in one area affects the weather leading to sudden downpours of hail, heat waves that scorch the earth, and gale-force winds that sweep carts on to their sides with little warning. If you have devil's luck, you can even be stuck by lightning that randomly discharges overhead.

How many spells are the two army's throwing at each other to change the weather this much? At least being nestled so tightly between the other carts helps reduce the weather's effect.

The closer we got to Teeburn, the more carts seemed to join us on the narrow road. Even now, my cart is hanging a few feet off the right shoulder to give room to the empty wagons leaving the nearby city.

"Not much longer. I'd say another 30 minutes before we're in the city proper." Lurte tells me when he takes up his previous position close to my cart.

"I bet every person with a few levels in Trading is here looking for some quick coin," I complain because of our slow speed.

This line would be moving faster if people were still going to the fort to trade their goods. Ever since Scholl started their attack a few months ago, only the craziest merchants would risk their lives bringing their products directly to the fort.

Now everything for the fort is purchased in Teeburn by the supply corps. The soldiers stationed in the city communicate with the fort and deliver all the goods they buy during lulls in the fighting.

"Is it ok for us to be here right now?" Lurte asks as we slowly shuffle forward.

"What do you mean? Why wouldn't we be allowed here?" I ask my faithful bodyguard.

"After the delivery to Spotted Creek Village, you wasted a week sending messages from Drey before you had us gather every weapon we've been storing at your house, and then we came here. How are we supposed to finish our route and find the magical items for miss Aaliyah in time? The company is going to reprimand you for not sticking to your assigned route." Lurte gives me a worried look.

"There's no need to worry." I calmly explain to Lurte and Ryiba. "The reason we wasted so much time in Drey, as you stated, was because I had to get in contact with some of the people who owed me favors in Silver Herd. Other merchants will make my stops for me while we're here. After we sell everything, we'll relax in Drey and gather the food for Spotted Creek Village and the items for Aaliyah. I have everything planned out." Lurte and Ryiba relax when they hear my explanation.

As we inch forward, I think about all the planning I've put into this trip. Ever since there had been whispers of war, I've been using my spare coin to buy weapons from my contacts. Trading under Silver Herd means I use their connections and coin to move goods around. Every three months, I have to submit a report on how much I traded and how much coin I made. All the profits go to Silver Herd, and I receive a bonus depending on how well I did. Of course, that only applies to the goods I bought and sold using Silver Herd's money.

Small deals here and there, and thanks to my trading with Aaliyah, I had enough coin to amass this cart full of weapons. I turn my head and look inside my cart at the overwhelming pile of arms neatly packed underneath a canvas cover.

The thirty spears I've bought from Aaliyah over the last two months and a few other pieces from her earlier work are my finest pieces. The rest are works I've picked up for cheap coin during my trade route. Overall, I've spent nearly five gold coins of my own money on everything. I should be able to quadruple my money by just selling Aaliyah's weapons alone.

I stop counting my future coins when I see the wall surrounding Teeburn come into view, cresting the cart in front of us. The line starts to pick up because the city guard is directing smaller carts over to a quicker inspection point. My cart isn't considered small, so we have to stay in place.

A soldier tells us to stop while the cart in front of me rolls forward and is inspected. The men checking the cart look tired, and many are dragging their feet. I've heard the city's population was dwindling the last two decades, and I doubt they have the human resources to properly handle the sudden influx of people.

The city was nearing its last leg, and if it weren't for the infrastructure invested in the city during the previous war, this place would've wholly fallen apart these last few years. Despite it being a large city, the population could barely classify this place as a medium-sized town.

Years of neglect can see everywhere, from the guards to the walls and the surrounding buildings. We've made it through the gate only five minutes, and I can see multiple builders trying to patch up the decaying infrastructure around us.

The war might be considered the luckiest thing to happen to Teeburn in nearly a century. The amount of money flowing into the city will only grow if our forces can hold the fort until springtime and more soldiers arrive.

After waiting ten minutes, the cart in front of me pulls onto the main road of the city, and the guards signal us forward.

"Name and goods being hauled." A city guard with a silver emblem of a tree on fire approaches us and asks for my information in a monotone voice.

"Certainly captain, my name is Kervin, and I'm with the Silver Herd Trading Company. I have weapons for the fort." I offer him a merchant's smile.

The captain raises an eyebrow at me. "You have identification on you? I know the three silver Herd merchants that make regular trips to our city, and they haven't told me about a fourth that would be coming."

I reach to my side and pull out my company-issued plate. This is the first time someone has asked to see my plate before. The people I usually meet are happy just to see a merchant and don't care who they work for.

"Here you go." I hand him the metal plate that has our company's logo along with my information on it.

While he's examining my plate, I explain why I'm here. "I managed to get a good deal on these weapons, and I decided to come here on my own time, so it's not surprising you haven't heard I was coming."

The captain nods his head in understanding. "Your identification checks out. I shouldn't be surprised by an ambitious merchant. You said you were hauling weapons, what else?"

"Only weapons here."

"No, kidding. Let me see the goods really quick." I hop off of my carriage and signal my guards to stay where they are.

I follow the captain to the side of my charge and untie the canvas hiding my cargo.

"Gods." The captain's eyes go wide when he sees the pile of weapons filling my cart. "This is the largest weapons delivery I've seen yet." That's good news for me. "Usually, people mix their cargo unless it's someone selling food. Give me a second."

I tie up the loose canvass while the captain stamps an entry permit for me. I'm confused when he hands it to me without asking for any taxes. "You don't need an entry fee?" I ask.

"We aren't collecting it due to the situation of the city. After a quick inspection, all merchants, laborers, and crafters are encouraged to enter and stay in Teeburn. We need all the help we can get. The city earns more money letting everyone in than we could with a gate toll. You're all clear, enjoy your stay in Teeburn." I give the captain a polite nod and usher my bivol forward.

"Do you want one of us to find an inn for the night?" Lurte offers as we make our way down the city's main road.

Each building we pass is either a cobbled together inn or a building being converted into another inn. "I don't think it will matter much in the end. No matter which one we choose, we'll have to be careful the sudden winds don't blow it down in our sleep." I point out the horrendous looking buildings as we pass them. Only a quarter of them look like they should be standing.

I steer my bivol, following the signs pointing us towards the location the army is purchasing goods from. "We'll sell everything and worry about the inn later. Who knows, maybe I'll make enough for us to rent out a house instead of one of these cramped inns."

"Like you'd ever waste your money on something like that. Just buy us the first-round tonight." Ryiba knows me too well.

"Sounds fair." I agree with him. And it's cheaper too, I think to myself.

We follow the signs through the city until we reach a clearing next to a sealed gate that leads to Fort North Ridge. The clearing is pure chaos with soldiers directing carts every which way while others empty the goods from other carts. Everything is being sorted into piles and loaded into heavy-duty steel carts with the Olebert symbol on their sides.

I see a soldier close to us, flagging us over to a spot between two other merchants parked off to the side.

After we pull into our spot, a different female soldier with a writing board in her hands approaches us.

"You with the Sliver Herd Company?" She asks me after she notices my bivol.

"Yes, Mam, the names Kervin. I have some goods you might be interested in." I use my most charming smile when I address her.

"Don't we all!" The man sitting in the driver's seat of the cart next to mine erupts in laughter at his own joke.

The female soldier ignores the man's outburst and focuses on writing on her board. She quickly jots my information down with little expression on her face. "And what are you selling today?" She asks me, finally looking up from her board meeting my gaze.

"Weapons… just weapons." I smile down at the woman.

I see only the tiniest bit of shock cross her face before her expression turns neutral once again. The man, still howling at his joke, chocks and looks at me in shock. From the corner of my eye, I see the man waiting on the other side of me is also sending me a curious look.

"Is that so. We'll have someone over here in just a minute." She informs me before turning around and walking off.

"Just like that! I've been waiting for over an hour, and he gets to go first!" The man in the cart next to mine starts throwing a fit. My guards tense up and slightly move closer to me. It's subtle, but I feel multiple angry gazes looking in our direction. I'm about to panic when I notice the murderous looks are directed at the man yelling to our side and not at us. The stupid man obviously doesn't notice the angry gazes the surrounding soldiers are giving him and continues to curse out loud.

"We'll get to you when we have the time. Until then, I suggest you silence yourself." The voice cuts short the man's whining and the surroundings go quiet. I search for the origin of the voice and notice an older man in an officer's uniform walking towards us from across the clearing.

"Certain goods take priority." The man is over 50 feet away from us, and yet his voice sounds echoes clearly in my ears without him needing to shout. The man carries himself like a golem, each movement precise and calculated. The medal on his uniform designates him a captain, but it's the embroidered crest next to it that draws my attention. Three arrows piercing a heart, that's the Pitz house crest. This man is a direct subordinate to General Emily Pitz.

The man finally notices the predicament he's in and pales in his seat. "I'm…I'm…. sorry." The man stutters as the captain nears him.

He doesn't even acknowledge the man as he passes him. I quickly dismount my cart and greet the captain before his ire turns on me. "I greet you, captain, my name is Kervin. It's an honor to be in the presence of someone from house Pitz." I don't dare use any of my skills on the man in fear he might notice and take offense.

Now that he's in front of me, I get a better look at him. He's 5' 10'' and has a perfectly straight posture. If you disregard the dirt around his cuffs and the bottom of his pants, his uniform is spotless. His black hair is short and well-trimmed with a few streaks of grey betraying his age.

