Erick walked through the Script-blue door to see Irogh sitting behind his white desk, like he usually sat. The orcol was as handsome today as he’d ever been, with his slightly greying hair and his massive muscles, lurking under an appropriate, yet sexy tunic, with the top buttons undone.

“Hello, Irogh.” Erick said.

Irogh smiled, as he lifted his hand and twisted two fingers through the air. The door shut behind Erick, as Irogh said, “Hello, Erick. Congratulations. I hear you made Archmage, in true.”

Erick took his seat, happily saying, “Thank you. I’m pretty sure Rozeta helped me along, though. There were clouds and a serpentine form hiding inside.”

“The gods help everyone, and what you made served a higher purpose than most.” Irogh asked, “So what can I help you with, today?”

“Another Ability Slot Quest, first.”

Irogh nodded. He tapped out across the air. The blue box for an Ability Slot Quest appeared in front of Erick, who immediately spent ten points to complete it. Irogh grinned, at that.

Erick said, “And now the Class Quests for Light Dedication and Force Savant.”

Irogh tapped across the air, saying, “Of course.”

Class Ability Quest!

Create a tier 7 or higher Light-based spell or skill.

Reward: Light Dedication

Class Ability Quest!

Create a tier 5 or higher Force-based spell or skill.

Reward: Force Savant

Erick accepted his new Quests, and considered his options for completing them. The first was easy enough, and Erick was glad that he had chosen to forgo creating the aura-version of [Domain of Light]; creating that now, would automatically complete that Class Ability Quest. With Light Dedication increasing the power and durability of all of his light-based spells and effects, Erick felt like Bulgan would at least have to try the next time they fought. Maybe it wouldn’t be so very one-sided.

The Force Quest would be slightly more difficult, but looking at the Quest, Erick already had a plan. He needed a base spell to later combine with [True Plasma Bolt], and this Quest would fit well in line with Erick’s somewhat-conceived idea for such a base spell.

He didn’t really need Force Savant, though. This Class Ability was just a choice he decided on, because all magic involved a little Force, since Force was the basis for all magic. A few percentage bonuses here and there on all of his magic seemed as good of an idea as any.

Irogh interrupted Erick’s thoughts, saying, “You’ve earned another possible Class Ability Quest, if you’d like to see it?”

Erick tore his mind away from his plans, and looked to Irogh, saying, “Yes. Of course. Oh! And that reminds me. If I were to ask for the [Greater Treat Wounds] quest, which version would I get?”

Irogh tapped the air. He answered, “You’d get the 50,000 people version.”

“… Really?” Erick was okay with that, since [Greater Treat Wounds] was more something of a passing idea, than a necessity. But he had to know, “Why? I know my daughter got, like, 50 people saved, and her previous saves were already counted in her Quest.” He added, “None of my Quests have counted anything I’ve done previously, or else Light Dedication would automatically be complete.”

“The Script was created to stop the abuses of the Old Wizards.” Irogh said, “Besides. You save that many people every single time you go out and use your spells to clean up problems, like the Ballooning Spiders that threatened our world just a month ago. Without your efforts, and according to all known precedent, we would have lost 350,000 lives.” He stressed, “Erick. You qualify for the Hero of Veird Class Ability ten times over. If there were a higher iteration of that Ability, you’d qualify for that one, too.”

Erick didn’t really care about the [Greater Treat Wounds] Quest discrepancy. He was glad that Jane was able to get that spell for herself for as cheap as she got it, and glad for the limits imposed by the Script. Truthfully, no one deserved the power that he had, or that the Shades had. Veird would be better off if every spell above tier 4 were eliminated, and all enchanting was destroyed.

But that was just his own thoughts on the matter. Just like nukes, back on Earth, archmages shouldn’t exist, either.

But. Eh. Archmages on Veird did a lot of good, too. It was only the outliers like the Shades that did all the damage. Most archmages hid and worked solely on defense.

Erick waved Irogh off, saying, “I don’t know about that Hero stuff. I’m sure other archmages are just as capable and have done way more than me. Opal saved all of Spur from the Red Dot when she cast her [Grand Shield], or whatever she calls it. That’s a quarter million people, right there.”

“You’re being modest. But I won’t speak any more on the matter.” Irogh tapped on the air, bringing a blue box forward, as he said, “This is the new Class Ability you’ve qualified for.”

Erick read, and breathed deep. “Oh. …Okay. That’s interesting.” He asked, “Is this an archmage, thing?”

Irogh shrugged. “Possible. I don’t know why some people get this and others do not. But you are not the only one to ever receive this honor.”

Class Ability Quest!

Complete a Quest for a Relevant Entity of the Script.

Reward: Quest Board

“How does this work?” Erick asked.

“Accessing the Quest Board would be like accessing any other part of your Status; just think of it. The Quest Board will appear as a series of blue screens.” Irogh read from the air, but mostly looked to Erick, saying, “It might look similar to any quest from the Adventurer’s Guild, or Mage’s Guild, but the Quest posters are all Relevant Entities, and the rewards range from minor boons, to major boons, to other such rewards. The most common reward is a point, or a percentage of a point. The Quests themselves are either sparked by a parishioner who prayed for help, or created by the Relevant Entity themselves because they see a deficit in the world somewhere. The goals of these Quests depend on the Relevant Entities, and shift from saving a parishioner from a threat, to solving a complicated problem. It is possible for you to give a Quest to someone else, and have them solve whatever crisis there might be, as well as gain whatever boon listed, though such a transfer of Quest would require clearance from the Relevant Entity, first.”

That was a lot to think on.

“… I accept this Quest. But I’m not going to complete it today.” Erick said, “I’m already much too busy for more responsibility at the moment.”

Irogh smiled as he pressed some invisible buttons in the air. “Very well. Good luck on Shadow’s Feast, Erick. You’re going to need it.”

Erick accepted the Quest, as he said, “Thank you, Irogh.”

- - - -

A knock on the front door of the house brought Erick out of his library, and into the foyer. He threw open the door, already knowing who it was. Ophiel had been outside, on the lookout, and seen the two older ladies come from down south.

“Hello, ladies. You’re both looking lovely this evening.” Erick stepped aside, saying, “Come on in.”

Ratchet and Arial smiled on the other side of the door, both of them holding covered baskets, both of them wearing nicer clothes than usual. Ratchet wore a flowing mage’s robe that matched her yellow eyes, and might have matched her scales years ago before they turned grey, while Arial wore a more comfortable salmon-pink dress/robe outfit, that went well with her green eyes.

“Don’t mind if I do.” Ratchet came inside, saying, “Glad to be here, Erick. Now where’s this ‘everything candy’?” She lifted up the edge of her basket, letting Erick peek at variety of frosted cakes and sugared fruits. “I brought more samples.” She handed them off to Erick.

Erick graciously took the basket, chuckling as he said, “I’ve lost all of my extra kilos, and I’m not sure I want them back.”

“You can afford some pudge,” Ratchet joked.

“Thank you, Ratchet.”

Poi took the basket from Erick’s hands. Kiri waited just beyond Poi, ready to receive the next basket, or assist where necessary. Erick hadn’t asked either of them to do that, but they did, anyway, and he was glad for their presence.

Arial came into the house slower than Ratchet, eyeing the dense air that held in the doorway. She slipped through the space, almost skipping into the house as most of her got inside of the [Prismatic Ward]. Her eyes went wide as she looked to the air. “Oh my. That’s a strange feeling.” She touched the dense air all around her, poking at it with a manicured talon, saying, “I don’t do Meditation unless I have to, but this… This is pretty great.” She lifted her basket, saying, “This is for you. It’s a bunch of the candy that we’ve made.”

Erick took the basket from her, and peeked inside to see a plethora of candies, all laid out in what had to be the top layer of three nice stone trays. “Thank you. I look forward to trying it all.” He handed the basket to Kiri, saying, “But with regard to the calmness you’re feeling in the air: All you’re feeling is the Restful part of the [Prismatic Ward]. It’s possible to make that spell on its own, though I haven’t tried that, yet.” He turned to Poi and Kiri, both holding baskets now, and said, “Ratchet, Arial: This is my guard and my apprentice, Poi and Kiri.” He asked Kiri, “Have you tried to make a [Restful Ward], yet?”

“Oh no no.” Arial shook her said, saying, “I can’t ask for an archmage’s secrets on magic.” She nodded, saying, “It is a pleasure to meet you, Kiri. Poi.”

Kiri nodded. Poi stood, stoic as ever.

“If you’re not taking up the offer, then I can.” Ratchet asked Kiri, “Is it just Meditation and [Ward]?”

Kiri said, “Yes. The combination is more difficult than most, but as long as your [Restful Ward]’s duration is a lot longer than it takes to regenerate the mana that it took to cast, then you have made a decent version.”

Ratchet said, “That’s good enough for me. I haven’t had a spell to make in a decade. Gives me something to do every evening.”

Erick gestured to the hallway, that led toward the chocolate room. “Care to see the chocolate process, now?”

Arial’s green eyes lit with a soft glow. “Oh yes yes yes yes.”

Erick had made little progress with tempering, but he had managed to make a bunch of other chocolate items in his experiments. One such item was cocoa powder, and cocoa butter. As Erick introduced the two ladies to the chocolate room, and their eyes went wide and they breathed deep the smell, Erick set to making hot chocolate. Ratchet and Arial watched and asked questions, as Erick took cocoa powder, milk, and sugar, and mixed them all together under a [Heat Ward]. He already knew the resulting drink would be a success, for he had already tried it, but seeing the greyscales’ faces relax as they tasted, and hearing their words of wonder afterward, was music to Erick’s ears.

He showed them the beans, the grinders, the concher, and the process, all while he spoke of the ideas behind the process. All the while, they drank their hot chocolate, sampled untempered bars, and tasted the chocolate at all the various points of creation. A short trip to the backyard grove showed off the cocoa tree Erick had created, and another four that he had grown since. All that only took half an hour, with the two ladies asking their questions and Erick answering them, while he asked his own, and either Ratchet or Arial answered.

Soon enough, they retired to the sunroom. Kiri had already set out coftea and regular tea, while Jane set out milk to go with a batch of chocolate chip cookies she had made earlier in the day. Those cookies joined a host of other desserts that seemed to come out of nowhere, but had actually come from Justine. She too, had been busy while Erick was outside of the house; she had figured out how to make chocolate ice cream. Along with some scoops of vanilla, Erick almost felt back at home, sitting on the couch, ready to turn on a movie for the night. But there was no television here.

… He missed movies. And TV shows. And the news. Entertainment and edutainment used to be so easy to find and experience, but now… There weren’t even newspapers on Veird, or at least no newspapers in Spur.

… Yet another problem of the missing printing press. Or rather, the fact that people chose not to automate printing, because to do so was to miss out on incentives from Rozeta.

But those were thoughts for another day. Erick spooned a bit of cookie and ice cream into his mouth, and savored the flavor and texture. Soft and chewy, vanilla and cold, with bursts of chocolate flavor, this was exactly as Erick remembered it being, back on Earth. He said to Jane, “This is great, Jane.”

“I think I did okay.” Jane smirked, saying, “I already had five. Justine’s ice cream is pretty good, too.”

Justine bowed, then stood, saying, “Thank you for showing me how.”

Ratchet and Arial shared a glance, as they sat on the other side of the couch. The two of them had been talking with Erick about every part of the process, but now, with their shared look, they turned to him. He could see it in their eyes: It was time to talk business. Jane and Justine saw their look, too, so both of them stepped away. In a moment, the only people in the room were Poi and Kiri, standing off to the side, while Erick and the two ladies sat around the coftea table.

Ratchet began, “We would be honored to be your flagship store, though we wish for you to be a silent partner. An investment of funds in order to expand operations, for which you will receive a monthly repayment, in addition to a monthly split of the profit.”

“Fifty percent of profit, after taxes.” Arial said, “Half the store dedicated to whatever dessert products you envision. We can push this chocolate. It will be a success.”

Erick considered their deal. ‘Of profit, after taxes’ was the usual manner in which a silent partner entered into an existing business, so that was nothing special. Arial’s quote of 50% was a large one; possibly too large. But they were giving him a fair deal, according to Erick’s admittedly limited knowledge of operating a business in Spur. But he didn’t care about the money aspects of this venture. Erick wanted chocolate to succeed, and if they had a noose around their neck of payment, then that was just another worry Erick did not want either them, or himself, to have. Besides, for him, money wasn’t a concern. For the rest of the world, money was a constant concern.

Erick gave them a lower offer, and while the two ladies gave some platitudes of ‘oh we couldn’t!’ he could tell that they were secretly happy for the lower price.

