She didn’t need to bow for him! Erick got out of his chair, stepping to her to put a hand on her shoulder and raise her tall, saying, “No need to bow, Kiri. You’ve helped me just as much as I’ve helped you.”

Kiri stood straight. “That’s… That’s just simply untrue.” An uncertain pain filled her eyes, as she said, “Please be careful in Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Erick was taken aback by the anguish in the young girl’s eyes. In that moment, Kiri did not look like the competent young woman he had known for more than half a year. She was in pain, and it was only going to get worse before it got better.

Erick pulled her into a hug, and Kiri gladly went, her head pressed against his left shoulder. He held the young girl in his arms, sad to see her cry, but happy, as well. She was troubled, but she would be okay.

Erick tried to joke around, saying, “I’ll be fiiine! I’m Untouchable, right?”

Kiri broke the hug and wiped a tear away with the back of her taloned finger, saying “Of course. Of course. You’ll be fine.”

“Now why don’t you show me how you came up with your Hermetic spells, and then I’ll try for them, and then I can show you around Candlepoint?” Erick added, “And then, perhaps, some more sparring?”

Kiri spoke with a bit more cheer in her voice, as she repeated, “Of course!”

Jane smiled, saying, “While you all do that, I’ll be out of the house again, today.” She got up from her chair.

“Where are you going?” Erick asked.

Jane stepped to Erick and wrapped him in a warm hug, much tighter than Kiri’s, saying, “Somewhere. Don’t wait for me for dinner.”

“Okay?” Erick held Jane tight for a long moment, saying, “Well be safe, wherever you’re going.”

Jane skipped out of the room, waving as she turned the corner into the hallway. Poi left too, saying to call him back before the two of them got back to dueling with [Familiars].

Kiri and Erick were alone in the library, with a pot of hot chocolate to share between them, and lots of magic to discuss. It didn’t take long before mentor learned from apprentice, and Erick added all three of Kiri’s spells to his own Status.
