He expected for Kiri to wipe the desert floor with him, and for his battlefield senses to inform him that he was going to die from a blaze of deadly fire, or some other suitably horrible way to go. Riding Ophiel’s senses was almost like being there in person, sometimes.

- - - -

The air was cool. The couch was comfortable. The sun shone outside the large, picture windows, revealing Erick’s varied garden in all its colorful bounty. Kiri breathed, trying to relax. Her scales felt good after a bath, and flames had ceased flowing out of her lungs almost immediately after the sparring ended, but she was still a little shaken. Erick had lost some of his edge in the months since they stopped sparring, that much was true, but he would quickly regain that edge. The first matches had gone way too well for her, but the later ones…

Kiri had almost lost more than once, there at the end. What if she actually had lost? Erick was now a true archmage, so there was no shame in losing to him, but she had never lost a martial duel to a mage before, and that was before she had Erick’s rings on her fingers. Jane had been right about how they almost made her a warrior. Any level of Strength past 50 was fantastic, and good for any warrior, but Kiri was far above that. In her occasional trips to the Adventurer’s Guildhouse, she had sparred with many different people, many of them warriors. Some of them were even comparable to the people she dueled back in Oceanside. She lost to some of the warriors, but never to a mage.

So what if she lost in a real mage battle?

… There was no shame in losing to an archmage in a real mage battle. Once Erick went all out, he should trounce her, with no doubt as to who was always going to win.

But a small part of her wanted to win.

But then again, if she won…

… Would that be a good thing? Wouldn’t a win for her mean that Erick was woefully unprepared for his obligation to Ar’Kendrithyst’s Feast? She had hid her worries well ever since she learned what Erick was poised to do in just three days, but a pit in her stomach threatened to open up and drown her in fear every time she considered she would lose him. And that pit was growing.

- - - -

Jane sat in a chair next to Poi. Books lined the walls and three cups of hot cocoa steamed into the air, one for each person present, as Erick laid back in his reclining chair, his eyes already glowing white.

As she activated her own [Scry] to view the chosen battlefield, knowing that her own eyes glinted with a dark blue light, it was still strange to her that her father’s eyes had turned white. His explanation of the change was lacking. ‘Falling in line with your chosen passion, having a spell of deeper magic, and spending lots and lots of mana towards your desired direction in life’, seemed like the Headmaster was blowing smoke up everyone’s asses. Maybe the Old Dragon’s truth was true, or maybe it wasn’t. But what also made sense, was that the only true part of the Headmaster’s words could be that ‘deeper magics left a taint on a person’. Turned them less themselves, and more into possibility. All magic was subjective, after all, and because all magic was subjective, and because magic was a path, a study, and a way of life…

To walk forward into the deeper magics was to taint oneself with said magics.

Much like how she couldn’t stop herself from seeing all of Erick’s mistakes when he was sparring with Kiri, she had been changed by her time as a warrior of Veird. Her father had also been changed, as he caused change in the world around him.

Jane had been having a lot of complicated thoughts ever since she developed her [Prismatic Body]. Being able to be a part of the world in a way she never experienced before was more liberating than the first time she took flight. It was even more focusing than the first time she picked up a real sword at a flea market, when she was 12. Well. ‘Real’ for a variable definition of ‘real’. At the time, she thought that stylized spike of metal had been a working, real sword, but years later, she knew it for a show piece and a work of art, something not meant for actual battle.

But anyway. Change.

That Erick had changed in his time on Veird was completely normal. Who wouldn’t have changed upon falling to another world, where magic and monsters formed the largest parts of life? Of course Erick changed. But not really. He was still a good man, except now he was a good man with a lot of power, and the willingness to use it when necessary. Maybe he had changed too much. She had already told him that she felt bad about urging him to ‘get with the program’ and kill some monsters, all those months ago. And now, seeing the Ophiels and the Sunnys take to the sky and form ranks, she felt that way again.

While she had not changed much, except for gaining the ability to live out her dreams of violently helping people, her father had changed a great deal.

- - - -

Erick, or rather Ophiel, hovered in the sky. Four more Ophiel flanked him.

Far ahead, Sunny held to the air, a short line of pawns arrayed before a queen. Their undulating snake-like bodies gently swaying in sync. They had activated [Evasive Stance].

Erick activated [Hunter’s Instincts].

‘Go’.

The word from Poi barely had time to sink in before five Sunnys each cast a single spell, each targeting a single Ophiel. Ophiel blipped backward, a meager 25 mana expenditure to each of Sunny’s 500. Erick recognized the spell Kiri used as it took hold in the air, like tiny portals to a place of fire and light. [Firelight Bolt]s streamed from those portals, effectively controlling the battlefield in a hundred yard direction, because—

The first bolts from the streaming portals passed through where Ophiel had been, but the portals reoriented. Kiri’s [Firelight Assistant] wasn’t a stupid spell; it was made with [Conjure Force Elemental], and easily saw Ophiel had moved, so it moved to compensate.

One second had passed. Each Sunny cast another [Firelight Assistant], opening more radiant portals, streaming more Bolts of power at Ophiel.

Erick countered with [Pure Reflection Ward] across each Ophiel, using up each global cooldown among his five. [Firelight Bolts] splashed across each Ophiel, only to rebound into an undirected way, scattering along whichever angle they happened to find, when they impacted Ophiel.

Sunnys flickered through the air, turning near-invisible. That wasn’t a spell. That was just an innate ability.

Ophiels flew left—

Near-invisible lines of solidly held air clipped through two Ophiel, their wings flapping themselves to shreds. The other three turned to light, to escape the trap; Kiri’s [Hermetic Razor], no doubt. It was a Particle spell, and though [Pure Reflection Ward] did a great job reflecting Bolts, it only partially worked against physical magic.

[Firelight Bolts] streamed toward the blobby lightform Ophiels, and passed through, harmlessly. [Pure Reflection Ward] didn’t do anything, but maybe it would later. Erick left it running. This was fine.

As light, Ophiel saw the Sunnys ganging up from every angle. They had first drained themselves of as much of their natural illumination as they could, and changed what little remained to be the background color of the sky.

Each Sunny turned to light, themselves, becoming vast fields of glowing substance, their five house-sized blob-shapes rivaling Ophiel’s three.

Ophiel was already light, though, so this next part came easy enough, for Kiri was on the backfoot; a global cooldown behind. The fight had been a jumble in the beginning, but now it was down to who could take the best singular actions with their allotted singular seconds.

All mage fights came down to Stancing, which was why, all those months ago, way back when Erick first met Kiri in Mog’s Remedial Adventuring Class, they practiced Stancing, first. One person said a spell, the other countered and advanced with a single spell, while the first tried to counter and advance with their next spell. It was all theoretical, back then. Simple words spoken at each other from two meters apart. But now, the theoretical had to be employed.

Erick knew what Kiri planned to do by shifting to light, but he got there first.

Three [Lightshape]s from three Ophiels ripped into three Sunny, tearing them apart with sundering force. Those three Sunnys turned to glittering green force dust; the result of a summoning ended prematurely.

Two Sunnys would have done the same thing to two Ophiel, leaving the one Ophiel to kill one of the two Sunnys, and then the remaining Sunny would end the final Ophiel. But each Ophiel was running both [Pure Reflection Ward], and [Greater Lightwalk]. Kiri’s own [Lightshape] might not work how she wanted it to work.

Erick wasn’t actually sure, on this point.

So it came as no small surprise, that two Sunnys cast a spell Erick had not seen before.

Or maybe he had, he just didn’t think to use it in such a manner.

Two house-sized blobs of light became perfect spheres of reflective brilliance. [Perfect Mirror], to occupy a large-sized space. Both Sunnys were still inside that space, for Erick had eyes in every direction, and Sunny had yet to gain another second to cast another spell. But Kiri’s tactic had cut off all possibility of Erick’s own [Lightshape] attack.

Two Ophiel cast [Spell Break], popping the spherical mirrors, revealing the lightform Sunnys within, while the third staggered his [Lightshape]—

He must have staggered too much, because both Sunnys had time to cast their own [Lightshape]s. One Ophiel went down in a blaze of rainbow light, [Pure Reflection Ward] interacting weird with [Lightshape]. The second Sunny targeted the Ophiel that had waited to cast his own [Lightshape]. [Lightshape] clashed with [Lightshape], each holding the other at bay.

Erick was still up one Ophiel, and his cast was up. [Lightshape] tore—

The targeted Sunny dropped [Greater Lightwalk], for it was possible to end spells whenever, but not to cast spells constantly. Ophiel’s shaping turned the air to white splashes, and nothing else, as Sunny turned his own [Lightshape] onto—

Following her lead, Ophiel dropped [Greater Lightwalk]. Green splashes filled the air; ineffective.

The Sunny and Ophiel who had been fighting with [Lightshape]s also dropped their lightforms.

One Ophiel cast [Shooting Star], bringing into existence a brilliant dot of white light that zipped off toward the nearest Sunny, ripping the sky as it moved faster than almost anything Erick had ever seen before. It laughed as it crashed through one Sunny, moving way too fast to be countered, or dodged and moved onto the next—

Only to rush into its own death, slicing apart on atom-thick molecular chains strung through the air, Wind whistled on those strings, as they had reached all the way to both Ophiel—

- - - -

Erick sat up in his chair. He breathed out. The entire fight took a handful of seconds, where each spell cast was either salvation or defeat, and sometimes both.

Jane said, “That was fast.”

Erick blinked, as he began resummoning his Ophiel, only to send them on their way back to Candlepoint. “Yeah. It was.” He yelled out, “Hey, Kiri! Good show!”

Kiri yelled back, “I got lucky.” The sound of her feet stepping across the stone floor heralded her arrival to the library door. With a hand on the doorway, she said, “I barely won.”

“I’ve seen that spell a few times now, but not the actual box,” Erick said.

Kiri smiled, as she handed him a box, saying, “You probably remember this one.”

Hermetic Razor, instant, medium range, 500 mana

25 molecular wires stretch through a medium-sized space, at your command. One wire does a maximum of 100 points of damage before breaking.

“But this is the one I debuted in the fight we just had.” Kiri handed out another blue box, saying, “We were talking of Variable Cost Variable Damage spells, but I hadn’t considered what that meant for me until I knew I was going to lose our fight, but then: Inspiration!”

Erick read the second box and felt a surge of joy for Kiri. He laughed, happy for his apprentice.

Hermetic Shredder, instant, medium range, 1000 mana + Variable

A Variable number of molecular wires stretch through a Variable space, at your command. One wire does a maximum of Variable points of damage before breaking.

“Good job, Kiri,” Erick said, smiling. “This is a good spell.”

“Sunny almost perished.” Kiri said, “I spent almost all of my mana on that spell to tangle both Ophiels and defend against your [Shooting Star]. The severed [Shooting Star] still hurt, but she was able to dodge most of that fast little ball.”

“You have another Hermetic spell, don’t you?” Erick said, “I saw you drill holes in a mimic before… I think?”

Kiri handed over another spell, saying, “Razor and Shredder are more impressive.”

Hermetic Bolts, instant, medium range, 300 Mana

A series of 5 wire-thick bolts launches forward in a small cluster, dealing physical damage.

Erick wondered, for a moment, at his own Particle Mage abilities.

Particle Mage

Spend 100 mana to discover if a Particle spell is possible, greatly reducing the risk of Errors.

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

Major Mana Shaping applies to all Spells. Altering ongoing Auras is considerably easier.

Double Base Mana

Double Base Mana Regen

Your ability to create new Particle Spells is Greatly Increased.

10% Spell Cost Reduction.

Blood Mana

<empty>

<empty>

More specifically, the ‘witness a Particle Spell’ part. He had seen Kiri use her various Hermetic line of spells more than once, and he certainly knew how they worked, but he had yet to gain them himself. Whatever the reason for this anomaly, it was probably the same reason why he couldn’t recreate spells he had seen that were higher than tier 1. Even though Erick was sure that he could use his [Greater Lightwalk] to recreate a simple spell like [Ice Bolt], like he had done with various Spatial spells, [Ice Bolt] was not a tier 1 spell, and thus, since Erick was not a Copy Mage, he couldn’t create that sort of magic without actually going through the creation process.

It was likely because of a reason similar to the restrictions placed on Copy Magic, that Erick could not gain Kiri’s Hermetic spells without going through the creation process, himself, since those spells were all above Basic Tier.

Kiri brought Erick back to the present, as she said, “I cannot thank you enough for showing me the Hermetic line of spells. For everything you’ve done for me.” She bowed to Erick, saying, “Thank you. Thank you.”

