A laugh burst from him. “I once had a delver piss me off so much, the only loot I gave him for nineteen floors straight was boots. All different, all valid loot by the accords, but he could only use one pair at once.” All at once the mirth exited Liam’s face as he looked Edmund dead in the eye. “You don’t want to be on my bad side.”

Edmund glared at him. “I’m actively trying to kill you.”

“A lot of people are. I’ve learned not to hold that against them.” Liam smiled once more and gestured towards the door with an open palm. “So, what’s it gonna be? Extra training and an angry dungeon, or a timely exit to the next challenge?”

Edmund bristled. “You planned this.”

“I gave up on planning shit centuries ago. It’s much more fun to react to things as they come. Tick tock, Eddie-boy.”

“Don’t call me that.”

Liam threw his head back. “Thrax, could you be any less fun? Just go through the fucking door. I promise you’ll get a chance to play with your new skill.”

“Fine,” Edmund grumbled. “I’ll see you down there.”

“That’s the Edmund I know and love,” Liam chimed. “Grumpy and sour as ever.”

Edmund didn’t pay him the dignity of a response. Instead, he turned his back on the obnoxious dungeon, made sure his gear, new and old, was secure, and looked up at the exit before him.

With a mixture of annoyance and excitement mingling in the shadows of his mind, Edmund rejected the distractions, inhaled focus and determination, and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab

Aspects Unlocked: 7

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 4 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 4 - Gain minor health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 4 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 2 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while alone.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.
