Edmund took a breath, wiping the sweat from his hands as best he could. With a gulp, he let his arm slip through his current ring, and swung for the next ring down.

He repeated the process once before his spear deposited him on the stone ledge. It was a small space, no more than five feet deep and four tall. Edmund left his spear hanging from the nearest ring as he crawled to the chest on the other side. Even in the dark of the tiny nook, he knew the gleam of silver.

Inside, crafted of the same deep black leather that seemed to stretch over the bones of the shadowhounds, was something he’d been sorely missing ever since he’d set foot in this cursed place.

Shadowhide Boots

Blends into darkness. Aids in quiet movement. Provides protection against poison damage. Vulnerable to fire and blunt-force damage.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to toss his old boots into the magma below, letting the worn and hole-riddled leather burn to ash as he donned his prize. It wasn’t until he’d left the silver chest behind and turned to plot his path back to the tunnel proper that heard the first voice.

“Hold up!” a woman barked, command in her tone. “There’s something here.”

“It looks like a spider leg,” a man replied.

“I’ve seen one of those before,” said a second man, his voice refined and elegant compared to the gruff dialect of the former. “It’s a loot drop from one of the earlier floors.”

“Show yourself!” another woman ordered, her voice young and full of the confidence of youth.

Edmund obeyed, peeking his head out of the darkness that enshrouded his ledge. He saw them at once.

There were five of them in total, a full party by the dungeon’s definition. Three wore dull steel armor and that seemed to be suspiciously missing some kind of tabard or house crest. The fourth was a priest of some sort, his spectacled face wrinkled with age and his white robes somehow pristine despite the general grime of the rest of the group. Edmund didn’t know enough about the pantheon to guess which god he served based on the robes alone.

The fifth and final member stood in front, her golden hair tied back to reveal fiercely green eyes, the only to directly meet Edmund’s gaze. She wore a set of matching brown leather armor, with a cowl thrown back over her shoulders. Two empty sheaths hung at her waist, no doubt matched to the wicked knives she held in each hand.

“It’s a waylay,” one of the armored men barked. Edmund took them to be guards of some sort, though without tabards he couldn’t guess whose.

“Or another delver,” the blonde girl said, a distinct note of command in her voice that Edmund found out of place from someone so young.

“Delvers don’t hide out in corners,” another guard argued. “Waylays do.”

“Maybe he found something,” the priest offered.

“Look at him,” the guard barked. “Looks like he hasn’t left the Depths in months. No respectable delver would—”

They were arguing, Edmund realized. Arguing over him. He tried, at first, to evoke his Madness for information, but it eluded him. Even the presence of these five brought The Recluse against him. With or without Madness, he knew these people were no ordinary delvers. They must’ve been impressive fighters, he reckoned, to have made it this far and still be so naive.

“You need to leave,” Edmund said, keeping his tone as even as he could. “Right now.”

“Told you he’s a waylay,” the guard said. “Wants us to turn our backs so—”

“You five are a full party,” Edmund snapped. “If you stay close to me, that makes—”

“Six…” the young woman breathed. “But we didn’t come in here with you. Does that count against the party limit?”

“I don’t know, and I don’t want to find out. You need to go.”

“I’ll check the accords,” the priest said, digging through his robes for a distinctly less bloodstained copy of the same pocket guide Edmund carried. “You watch him.”

“You need to watch your flanks, not me,” Edmund said.

The female guard laughed. “We can handle a few dungeon mobs.”

“How sure are you of that?” Edmund asked. “I felt something, thirty minutes or so ago, and I’m willing to bet that was you, entering the floor, raising the difficulty. You need to be ready for—”

The man’s scream cut him off.

Edmund and the party burst into action at once as the shadowhounds descended upon them. By the time Edmund had grabbed his spear and made his first swing, the priest and one of the guards had already hit the dirt. The other two guards stood with their backs to the young woman, warding off the beasts with their swords as best they could while their charge gripped her daggers, unable to find a target.

He turned to unlatch his spear from the ring behind him and move it to the one ahead. When he finally hooked it into place, only a single guard still stood.

From his vantage up above, Edmund watched as the girl plunged her knife into hound after hound, her blades coming up red every time. She was swift and efficient with her motion, displaying a grace Edmund couldn’t hope to ever match. Had his mind been free to think such things, he might’ve wondered why the rest of the party had kept such a proficient fighter locked to the backlines.

The final guard fell.

The hounds pushed the girl back.

She swiped with her blades again and again, but however many shadowhounds lurked in the layer of gloom, it was too many for her.

Edmund grit his teeth, swallowed back the knot in his throat, and did something remarkably stupid.

He let go of his spear.

He watched as it swung away from him, leaving him stranded dangling above the flowing magma from his iron ring. If this didn’t work, he’d have no way back to safe ground.

“Jump!”

No matter what she said, no matter the naivety in her eyes or the skill with which she fought, in that moment, this strange young woman earned every bit of respect Edmund had to give.

She didn’t question him. She didn’t pause to think. She didn’t turn her back on her foes until the last possible moment. With immediate decisiveness and not one shred of hesitation, she turned to face the magma flow, and she jumped.

The spiderleg spear swung wildly back and forth as she scrambled up it, climbing up and out of the shadowhounds reach with the speed of desperation. The creatures barked and whined and paced about, but none dared cross the magma, not when they already had a feast on the floor before them.

The girl looked away as the beasts tore into her fallen companions.

Edmund didn’t. He kept his eyes fixed on her as best he could, but the sound and motion kept drawing them back to the horror behind her. His stomach, which he’d thought long past such things, churned at the sight.

“They never listen to the warnings,” he muttered. “Why do they never listen to the warnings?”

“What was that?”

Edmund turned to face her. “What’s your name?”

“A-Amelia,” she answered. “Amelia… Wend.”

“I’m Edmund. It’s nice to meet you.”

She swallowed, her knuckles white as she gripped the spear. “You were right.”

“I wish I hadn’t been. I’ve come to expect the worst out of this place.” His eyes flicked to the nightmare behind her then back to Amelia. “You someone important?”

“What? No.” She blinked several times. “I’m just… I’m just a delver.”

“It looked like they were guarding you.”

“I’m an agility fighter, and there was no room to move. The front-liners were just doing their job.”

Edmund didn’t argue. If she wanted to lie, he’d let her. Survival was his first priority, and that meant keeping her alive at least long enough for her to pass his spear back to him. That said, preserving human life was his next priority, doubly incentivizing him not to let her die. Right now, that meant keeping on her good side, and it meant keeping her calm enough to not do anything stupid.

“Stick your arm through the ring, if you can,” Edmund offered. “It’s easier than holding on with your hands.”

“O-okay,” she breathed, scrambling up the few feet between her and the ring attached to the ceiling. Soon enough both she and the spear dangled from it. “That’s better.”

Edmund smiled gently, though given his disheveled appearance he worried the look came across as menacing.

“Do you have a plan?”

“We wait,” Edmund answered. “Soon enough those shadowhounds will finish their meal and move on, then we can get down from here and back to the dungeon. With your group mates dead, we’re back under the party limit, so I doubt we’ll be seeing anything like that again. Not on this floor anyway.”

Amelia nodded, the courage behind her eyes somehow sparking a sense of serenity down Edmund’s spine. He wondered how much of that was her and how much was The Recluse. “I guess we just have to hang tight.”

Edmund paused, Liam’s winking face appearing in his mind’s eye once more. He would’ve cracked up at that joke. Edmund didn’t. Instead, the best he could manage was a sharp exhale and a fake smile. “Yeah,” he said. “I guess we do.”

They dangled there for what felt like an eternity, but what couldn’t in fact have been much longer than a half hour. Amelia didn’t wait for Edmund’s go-ahead when the last of the dark shapes rounded the corner to leave their section of hallway behind. With all the grace of Agility itself, she jerked her body around the spiderleg spear to bring it into a swing, landing stably on solid ground beyond the magma flow. She looked expectantly up at Edmund.

“I need that back,” he growled, nodding towards the spear. “Can’t make this jump without it.”

Amelia scowled. “And what’s to stop me from taking your spear for myself and leaving you there?”

“I saved your life,” Edmund said plainly. His arms and neck ached too much from hanging so long for him to bother being subtle about anything. “You owe me.”

“I could argue you put it in danger. Your presence is what broke the group limit.”

“The dungeon did that. That’s how it works. He has to follow the accords, but he’ll use every loophole he can find to fuck you over.”

Amelia raised an eyebrow. “He?”

“Just pass me the Thrax damned spear.”

She did.

Edmund caught it and released his ring, his own landing sending him careening across the hallway and into the far wall. He caught himself on his hands. “Okay,” he said once he’d caught his breath. “Let’s get you back to the entrance.”

“No.”

Edmund scowled at her. “Your entire team just died. You hung there and listened as shadowhounds devoured their corpses. I could tell just by looking at you that you came in over-equipped, over-trained, and over-leveled, which means you were just strong enough to make it down here without learning what this place is really about. Now you know.”

“And I’m going to keep going,” Amelia said, an intensity filling her voice. “You’re not the first person to tell me I’m not ready for something, and you’re certainly not the first person I’ve proven wrong.”

“Your quest to prove them wrong got four people killed.”

“They got themselves killed. They’re the ones who insisted on coming with me, and they’re the ones who refused to listen to your warnings.”

“And now you’re refusing to listen when I tell you to leave.”

“‘Cause I’m not finished here yet,” she said, patting the blades at her hips. “I’m no lost little girl. I can handle myself. You’re right. I was naive to think the Depths would play fair. Now I know better. That doesn’t make me any less qualified than you are to push deeper. Now come on. I think the exit’s this way.” Without waiting for a response, she set off down the hallway, knives drawn and ready for a fight.

Edmund paused for a moment to weigh his options, stretching his elbows and rolling his neck to try and alleviate some of the soreness. They’d face greater threats if they stayed together, and he’d be without the benefits of Solitude and its confluences. On the flip side, could he really, in good conscience, leave this girl to wander the dungeon alone? If she refused to find the entrance and return to the surface, the exit would do just as well. She could use the entrance to the seventh floor as her way out.

With a sigh, Edmund unhooked his spear from the iron ring and followed Amelia down the passage, keeping his eyes and ears open for more shadowhounds.

They came from both directions at once.

Edmund spun to cover their rear the moment he heard the telltale sound of paws on stone. He lowered his spear and readied for their charge.

He dispatched his two opponents just in time to spin around and watch Amelia plant her dagger through the eye of her fourth and final shadowhound. She smiled at him as she wiped its blood off her blade. “Told you I could handle myself.”

“Good,” Edmund said. “Let’s keep moving.”

“Actually, I think we should take a break. We’re tired, we’re sore, you’re irritable. We’ll fight better with a bit of rest.”

Edmund gaped at her. “The floor isn’t clear. It isn’t safe.”

Amelia blinked at him as if he’d just spoken gibberish. “I… realize that. That’s what portable camps are for.” She reached into her pocket to withdraw an inch-long model of a luxurious tent. She tossed it in the air, and a wooden doorway appeared where it landed. She opened it to reveal a wide open space made of crimson canvas with golden embroidery. As she stepped towards it, Edmund moved to follow.

“Hold up,” she waved him back. “Rest in your own camp.”

Edmund kept his mouth shut and simply glared at her.

She sighed. “Of course. You don’t have one. You wouldn’t look like that if you did.” She shook her head. “Can you… I don’t know, clean up a little first? As you are, it’ll take months to get your smell out of the carpet, and that’s if it comes out at all.”

Edmund paused. “He didn’t send you, did he?”

“Who? Look, if it’s too much trouble—”

Edmund exhaled. “You wouldn’t know, would you?” He pulled the bath token from his pocket and held it up between his thumb and index finger. “I’ll be back in an hour.” Without explaining, he flipped the wooden coin through the air.

It never landed.

He found himself standing in a bare stone room, its only furnishings a standing mirror and a great copper tub from which wisps of steam gently curled. Edmund didn’t hesitate to strip down and step into the tub.

The hot water did immediate wonders for his sore neck, the pain seeming to leech away as he submerged himself. Conscious of his one-hour time limit, he allowed himself a few deep breaths to truly relax for the first time in a month before he grabbed the brush and got to work.

