No matter how much sweat and dirt and blood he scrubbed from himself, the water stayed clear and clean, a fact for which he’d be eternally thankful given the quantity of grime he’d built up over his time in the dungeon. Once he was clean and toweled off, he took a moment to appraise himself in the mirror on the floor.

An unfamiliar face looked back at him.

His raven hair had grown over his ears, and the hideous wisps of the patchy beard he couldn’t really grow clung to his chin. He’d grown gaunter, his features more angled, his brow harder set. His eyes had sunken back into his skull, leaving dark circles beneath them. He’d seen that look before on the faces of those who survived the Depths and returned to Harrowed’s Haunt.

His lithe figure had grown wiry with toned muscles. The greatest difference was the scars that littered his pale skin. They’d grown too many to count, but Edmund could pick any at will and explain the mistakes that had allowed it. He’d earned his lessons.

His body taken care of, Edmund set to work scrubbing his armor as clean as he could get it. His chitin cuirass and stone pauldrons were easy enough, but the uncountable nooks and crannies in the tree-bark of his Strethian barkbreeches made a complete laundering nigh-impossible in the limited time he had.

He was halfway through strapping his pauldrons back onto his shoulders when the stone bathroom faded away and the dull red glow of magma took its place.

Edmund leapt into action, letting his left pauldron tumble to the ground in favor of leveling his spear towards the floor and checking both directions for any sign of shadowhounds. None appeared.

As if on cue, the freestanding wooden doorway to his left swung open and Amelia stepped out, her armor clean and her weapons polished. “You clean up well. Wanna tell me where you went?”

“Bath token,” Edmund replied, rubbing the back of his neck. “Dungeon dropped it. Redeemable for a one-hour bath. I’d been saving it.”

Amelia blinked at him. “Alright, don’t tell me. Next time, try for a more convincing lie, though. We both know baths don’t fall under the accords’ definition of acceptable drops.”

“It’s a long story,” Edmund breathed. “Can I come in now, or are you ready to keep moving?”

“We can keep moving,” Amelia said. “We’ve gotta be close to the—what’s wrong with your neck?”

Edmund froze where he’d been rubbing it again. “I’m not sure. It’s been sore since the rings. The bath seemed to fix it but now—shit. I’ve lost The Island.”

“The Island?” Amelia furrowed her brow. “Isn’t that a Solitude confluence?”

“The shadowhounds have venom on their claws. The Island keeps me safe from it, but only if I’m alone. Apparently there’s still some poison where they cut me earlier.”

“You seem awfully calm for someone who’s been poisoned.”

Edmund shrugged. “It’s slow-acting, and I can always fix it by leaving you.”

“Or,” she offered, “you could come inside. Clarence made me keep medical supplies in my tent in case anything happened to him.”

“Alright.” Edmund nodded. “I promise not to stink up the place.”

With a grin Amelia stepped aside and gestured Edmund through the magical opening.

He emerged into the largest tent he’d ever seen, complete with king-sized four poster bed, a dining table, a crackling brazier, and a combined bathing and changing area behind a folding screen. He slipped his boots off at Amelia’s request, allowing the soft carpet to gently caress his bare feet as he stepped through the space. Lavender and vanilla mingled in the air, playing their gentle melody upon his nose. He smiled.

“This’ll hurt,” Amelia said as she held one of her daggers above the brazier. “I’m going to have to reopen that wound to get the medicine inside.”

Edmund nodded, sitting down at the dining table and clenching his fists over the chair’s wooden armrests. “Just do it.” He grit his teeth.

Fire and torment exploded down his spine, wretched agony beyond what he’d thought possible washing over him in waves. Somehow it pierced his soul deeper than the broken ribs or the spiderleg through his calf or the myriad other injuries he’d accumulated at the dungeon’s hand thus far. Without the adrenaline of combat to dull it, the pain of Amelia’s knife cut through all but the deepest of agonies. No physical wound could ever match that.

And then it was over.

A sense of coolness materialized at the site of the wound, followed shortly by the light pressure of a bandage. Edmund swallowed.

“All done,” Amelia chimed. “Bastrix root and heria leaf should neutralize the poison.”

Edmund looked up at her. “You really are overtrained.”

“No, you’re undertrained,” she countered. “Besides, this is just basic field medicine. I’m no healer.” She leaned back on her heels and grinned down at him. “Still think I need to run home?”

“Yes,” Edmund said plainly. “Why are you even here?” He raised his hands to gesture to the lavish tent as a whole. “You’re clearly not desperate for resources.”

“I’m here to prove myself. I’ve been training for years, and my father still refuses to see me as anything other than a helpless child.”

“Not a good enough reason.” Edmund shook his head. “Not for this place.”

“And yours is?” Amelia scoffed. “Why are you here then, Edmund?”

“Same reason everyone else is. To die. I’m just doing a decent job of making it take longer.”

“Great,” Amelia said. “So my reason’s not good enough, but you won’t even tell me yours. And for some reason you think that all my training counts for nothing compared to your… what, exactly? Experience?”

Edmund paused to take a breath before looking up at her from his seat. “If I die in this dark hole we’ve found ourselves in, nobody suffers. There’s nobody up there looking for me, nobody anxiously pacing as they wait for the bad news. Whoever you are, Amelia Wend, you’re clearly important enough to warrant a team of professional guards. There are people up top that care about you. Don’t do this to them.”

“I’ll just have to apologize to them when I get back. After I’ve proven my point by clearing… I don’t know… the fiftieth floor?”

Edmund glared at her, but his gaze somehow failed to pierce her confidence.

“Ready to go?” she asked, patting him on the shoulder. “Exit’s gotta be nearby.”

“Alright,” Edmund exhaled. “Let’s get this floor cleared, then we can talk about next steps.”

Once they’d left the portal camp behind and stepped back into the dark cave, Amelia simply snapped her fingers and the wooden door sprung back into a model tent. She picked it up and stowed it in her pocket.

Only a single pack of shadowhounds remained between them and the exit. Just like the previous one, they attacked from both sides, again in a group of two and a group of four. This time, Edmund found himself facing down the larger pack, fending off the four hounds with his spear while Amelia dealt with the two behind him.

He’d only managed to kill one before Amelia finished with hers and turned to join him. Again, she killed four to his two.

“We work well together,” Amelia said as they moved on. “We should consider partying up.”

“Not happening.”

“I know you’re invested in Solitude,” she argued. “That’s just a few levels lost. You need my supplies and training, and I could use your experience. We’d make a good team.”

“Not happening,” Edmund repeated. “Your tent is nice, but I can’t lose my Solitude bonuses. Besides, I’m not facilitating your suicide mission.” He knew it was a long shot, but if refusing to party with her had any chance of getting her to leave the Depths, he’d do it. He preferred framing his decision that way rather than revealing his dependence on Madness. Long term, he couldn’t afford to allow The Recluse to weaken his most powerful Aspect.

“You might not have a choice,” Amelia said. “We’ve fought together now. Dungeon probably considers us a party.”

Edmund sighed. “If it spits us out on the next floor together, we can stay together. Happy?” He hated to mislead her, but he needed to put the topic to rest.

“Very,” she said, patting him on the shoulder and continuing on. As she rounded a bend and disappeared from view, Edmund heard the familiar chime echo from the path ahead. He let out a relieved breath and hastened around the bend to find an open door and a silver chest. By the time he reached it, Amelia was already rooting through it.

“Got some kind of necklace, some coins, and a pair of vambraces.”

“Let me see,” Edmund said, peering around her to gaze at their loot. The illusory smoke came slowly, as if he had to tug at reality itself to conjure the words. Even then they hung thin in the air, weakened by Amelia’s presence via The Recluse.

Shadowclaw Amulet

Provides medium resistance to venom.

“You should take the necklace,” Edmund said immediately. “It’s venom resistance. The Island will cover me.” He stopped to look down at his bare forearms, scarred where a shadowhound had bit them. “I need those bracers.”

Shadowhide Vambraces

Provides protection against poison, piercing, and cold damage. Vulnerable to fire and blunt-force damage.

Amelia didn’t argue, looping the leather string around her neck and tucking the shadowhound claw on it under her leather chest piece.

Edmund talked as he strapped the simple black leather bracers to his forearm. “How come your loot all matches? I’ve got black, dark brown, and two different shades of gray.”

“Cause it’s not loot. I brought it with me. We sold all our loot back on the fifth floor since none of it was better than the stuff we came in with.” She patted the spot on her chest above the amulet. “This is the first actual upgrade I’ve found.”

“Of course,” Edmund exhaled as he shoved his share of the silver coins into his pocket. He shut his eyes to bring up his constellation, but thought better of it at the last moment. Instead, he looked towards Amelia. “What do delvers do once they’ve found their most resonant Aspect?”

“Planning ahead, are you?” Amelia laughed. “Most don’t make it that far, and even fewer keep going afterwards. If my own constellation’s any judge, it’ll take until well past the fiftieth floor before I have any idea what my Aspect is.”

“And once you do… what’s next?”

Amelia shrugged. “Combine as many things with it as possible? I think it’s optimal to combine it with as many high-tier Aspects as you can, but don’t quote me on that.” She shook her head. “I’d have to ask… nevermind.”

Edmund didn’t press her on it for fear of tipping his hand too much. Her theory, uncertain as it was, seemed to line up with his. With a nod he opened his constellation, selected his highest-tier Aspect that still had open confluences with Madness, and combined the two.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift

Level 1 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Edmund blinked, taking a moment to stare at the resplendent gold with which his newest Aspect resonated. He failed to see the connection between The Rift and The Island, but the former did seem at least tangentially related to Madness. Already anxious to test out his new ability, Edmund hastened to check his other Aspects for any changes.

As expected, The Island hadn’t visibly changed, but at level two its effects should theoretically be stronger. Madness, however, had a new effect.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness

Level 4 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal.

Edmund didn’t like the sound of that. Thus far the illusory smoke that helped guide had remained intangible. Physically interacting with something that didn’t exist felt like a greater leap into insanity than he’d expected.

“Anything good?” Amelia’s voice pulled him from his thoughts.

Edmund blinked his constellation away, but otherwise didn’t answer.

“Suit yourself,” she said. “Ready to go? Remember, if the dungeon keeps us together, you agreed to stay together.”

“I did.”

Amelia smiled. “Good. And no cheating! I want you to promise you won’t linger here too long after I’ve moved on.”

Edmund opened his mouth to argue, but Amelia didn’t let him.

“Promise!”

“I promise,” he growled reluctantly.

“Great!” she chimed. “I’ll see you down there. Oh, and in case I don’t—” She lunged forward, catching Edmund off guard as she wrapped him in a great hug. “Thanks. You saved my life back there. I won’t forget it.”

Before Edmund could overcome the surge of shock, discomfort, and strange sense of warmth that flooded him, she pulled away. She winked and grinned. “See you around.”

Edmund paused, took a breath, and, once he was sure Amelia had disappeared into the darkness between levels, called to the empty room. “You can come out now!”

Liam appeared in a plush leather recliner, a platter of cheese and cured meats on a small table to his left. He beamed up at Edmund. “That was a fun floor. Did you have fun? I had fun.”

“I want you to split us,” Edmund said. “Whatever floor she just landed on, send me somewhere else.”

“And here I’d thought you’d taken a liking to our wayward heiress.”

Edmund scowled. “Heiress to what?”

“That’s her secret, not mine.” Liam sat up in his chair. “Here’s the deal. Since you’ve asked so nicely, I’ll send you to a different floor. But, I’m going to hold you to your promise of not lingering here too long.”

“Why should that matter? If we’re going to different floors, she wouldn’t know one way or another if I hung back.”

“Let’s just say, I get the impression you two’ll be running into each other again.”

Edmund let out a breath. “Please don’t force us together again.”

“Oh, I don’t have to. Unless one of you dies, you will eventually run into each other. The further you go, the fewer other delvers there are to meet on the floors that allow it. You’ll find you end up with a cohort of others that wind up on the same floor as you over and over again. But—” He clapped his hands together. “Since you asked, I’ll keep your next few floors solo.”

“And if I break my promise?”

“I’ll punish you.”

“You’ll what?”

Liam grinned. “There’s nothing in the accords that says I can’t make your next five levels steel boxes. Without soil for your rootmother’s sigil, you’ll be right back to eating dead mobs before they despawn. I could spawn only constructs as monsters and you’d be forced to leave the dungeon or starve.”

