“Goodness, Lady Luo-Luo! Are ye all right?”

Assailed by the glaring sunlight and irritated by the noise, Luo-Luo squeezed her eyes shut and offered a wordless groan of displeasure. Why was her bed so uncomfortable, with her head pressed against a hard surface and back angled in an awkward position? Also, her blanket was doing a woefully inadequate job of keeping her warm, with the cold winter air streaming into the room and brushing over her bare, uncovered legs. Waving Anrhi (or perhaps Sorya, for they both looked and sounded alike) away, she rolled over to find a more comfortable position and go back to sleep, but her bed disappeared from under her and she came to with a start. “Mother in Heaven,” she exclaimed, her heart beating furiously within her chest even though she’d barely shifted in place. “Where... what...??”

The world slowly came into focus as her mind made sense of the chaos and her memories returned in full. She wasn’t lying nestled in bed and covered in blankets, but seated on the floor by the doorway where she’d fallen asleep last, covered only in a winter cloak meant only to keep her warm for a few brief seconds. Why? Because last night, she’d made up her mind to barge into Lord Husband’s room and demand he finally consummate their marriage despite his protests of waiting until after his marriage to Sister Mila, but Man proposes, and Heaven disposes. Unlike most nights where he idled the late hours away reading in his room, he spent the better part of the evening chatting with his parents in the living room across the courtyard, where all three of them had a direct line of sight to Luo-Luo’s bedroom door. Unable to sneak into his room without being spotted, she settled down to wait them out, but evidently fell asleep before their conversation came to an end.

The things one does for marriage...

“I’m fine,” Luo-Luo replied, waving aside her concerned handmaiden while trying to come up with an explanation for why she was sleeping by the doorway. Sorya and Anrhi were good people and hard workers, but they did so love to gossip. If Luo-Luo didn’t give them a proper reason for her current dilemma, then half the citadel would know about her strange sleeping habits by sundown. “I... my back was sore, so I tried laying on the ground.”

“...And ended up leaning against the door frame?” Anrhi’s tone (yes, it was most certainly Anrhi, for Sorya preferred white ribbons for her hair, rather than red) belied her disbelief, but the sweet girl didn’t let it get in the way of her work, already wrapping a warm quilt around Luo-Luo’s shivering frame. Only then did she realize how cold she was, and she clutched her sweet handmaiden close to steal her warmth. “Oh, you silly girl, you should’ve at least brought your blanket and pillow. Martial Warrior or not, you’ll freeze to death if you try this back home in the north.” Hugging Luo-Luo tight, Anrhi launched into yet another bleak tale of the North’s harsh clime, smiling as if she were proud of how the weather abused her so. Luo-Luo was not looking forward to seeing Lord Husband’s childhood home, which according to the twin handmaidens was as far north as one could get without leaving the Empire, a remote, secluded village hidden deep within the mountains. Even Tali and Tate’s tales were fraught with danger and uncertainty, though their youthful, innocent eyes didn’t see it that way. To them, giant birds of prey circling overhead or stumbling across dangerous predators whilst on a trek through the dark forest wasn’t even worth calling an adventure, but merely a part of everyday life.

A life, which to Luo-Luo, sounded like her nightmares made true. The world outside her Academy room was so vast and terrifying. What she wouldn’t give to be back in there again, safe from all the Demons, Defiled, assassins, and worse lurking in the shadows...

Between her inner grumbling over her failed ploy and fending off Anrhi’s well-intentioned suggestions for more comfortable sleep, Luo-Luo’s morning routine felt like it dragged on forever, but she eventually made it through unscathed and set out to join Lord Husband for a late breakfast. Granted, it was only late in comparison to the rest of the household, as Luo-Luo hardly considered nine in the morning late, but the Bekhai were an industrious bunch who started each day at an ungodly hour, long before the sun rose to greet them. Even Lord Husband was falling back into the habit now that his health had improved, so it came as a surprise to find the dining room empty and devoid of his presence. The animals were also nowhere to be found, so Luo-Luo was torn between playing the part of dutiful courtesan and standing by the door to await her Lord Husband’s presence or taking a seat at the table to rest her weary head.

He was probably still in bed right now, no doubt exhausted from his late night conversation with his parents and the subsequent visit from Yan soon after...

“Go on and take a seat, Lady Luo-Luo,” Anrhi said, pulling out a chair for her to sit in. “I’ll go see how Sorya is farin’ with yer breakfast.”

“Sorya?” Usually brother-in-law Charok cooked breakfast, or sister-in-law Alsantset.

“Yes Lady Luo-Luo.” Seeing her confusion, Anrhi lowered her head and explained in a whisper, “Master Rain woke up early and left to go make breakfast for Lady Mila, so...”

So they all forgot about Luo-Luo and left her to fend for herself. “Ah, I see.” Doing her best to hold back her tears, she took the offered seat with grace and aplomb, which was ruined when Anrhi leaned over to hug her.

“It’s alright Lady Luo-Luo,” she whispered, squeezing her tight for encouragement. “He’ll come around soon enough. You’ll see.”

Doubtful. Almost an entire year had passed since they first met, the anniversary of which was coming up on the first day of spring, and still he had yet to accept her into his life, much less his marital bed. Lin-Lin’s advice to let nature take it’s course had failed to bear fruit, and now here Luo-Luo sat, alone in the dining room waiting for breakfast because no one besides her handmaidens remembered her existence. How pitiful...

Sorya arrived soon after with a piping hot breakfast and while Luo-Luo appreciated the effort that went into the meal, she ate mechanically without tasting it. The day had only just begun and it was already ruined beyond all measure, because while she might have some answer for hostile sister-wives, tyrannical in-laws, covetous in-laws, and what have you, she hadn’t the faintest clue how to combat Lord Husband’s baffling principles and cold indifference. He said he wanted to get to know her true self, but he never took the time to bother learning, so what choice was left to her? Grow old and die alone, she supposed, though at least she’d have Sorya and Anrhi to keep her company.

So disheartened by her morning, Luo-Luo considered sending her handmaidens away so she could mope in her room, but then Sorya reminded her of their plans for the day. “It’s almost time to meet up with the others to go visit the farm, but do ye think I should pack us somethin’ to nibble on fer lunch?”

Right. The farm. They’d made plans to visit the Medical Saint today, a curious but pleasant man who didn’t seem entirely... there. “No need,” Luo-Luo replied, hurriedly finishing the rest of her breakfast for fear of being forgotten a second time today. “Lord Husband mentioned something about cooking lunch for his Teacher.” Though knowing him, he was liable to forget to bring enough for Luo-Luo and her handmaidens, so it would probably be best to prepare something. No, if he forgets, then so be it. Luo-Luo would go hungry and refuse all offers to share so he could stew in guilt and remorse. It worked well enough for Sister Mila, shaming Lord Husband into running off to make it up to her, so perhaps it would work for Luo-Luo as well.

The poor girl. To think, Lord Husband could be so insensitive as to forget the date for their marriage after only a single day...

With her handmaidens in tow, Luo-Luo stepped out of the manor doors just in time to see Lord Husband pull up at Lin-Lin’s manor, and she hurried over with as much haste as decorum allowed. “Morning,” he greeted them, holding out a large, bamboo steamer for her to take. “Sorry to keep you waiting for breakfast, but I’m out of practice and Grand Mentor’s kitchen is more compact than what I’m used to.”

“Oh. Thank you Lord Husband.” Feeling awkward now that all her earlier self-pity had been for naught, Luo-Luo accepted his goodwill with a warm smile and warmer cheeks. Would it have been so difficult to leave a note or ask the Death Corps to inform her of his plans? Still, at least he remembered, which was more than she’d expected. Opening the steamer to reveal a dozen piping hot meat buns, she offered them to her handmaidens before taking one herself, so pleased by this minor gesture that her cheeks were already strained from smiling. It was so absurd. Just over a year ago, she spent her trip from the Eastern Province to Central worrying if her future husband would be able to afford proper dresses and jewellery, and now here she was grinning like a madman over a greasy steamed bun.

No, not just a steamed bun. A fragrant, delectable, hand-made steamed bun made and delivered by her not-so-inconsiderate Lord Husband. Far better than cold jewellery or unremarked silks...

In retrospect, Luo-Luo’s worries about being left behind were unfounded, as one could always set their watch by sweet Lin-Lin, so long as the watch was an hour late. Despite it being her idea to set out early so Lord Husband would have time to cook lunch, the darling half-hare woke up late and took ages to get ready, even with Li-Li, Lord Husband, Luo-Luo, Sorya, and Anrhi all pitching in to help out. Nursing a meat bun in both hands while nestled in Lord Husband’s arms, Lin-Lin made for a captivating sight as they set out through the packed citadel streets, her eyes half open and cheeks stuffed to bursting as she alternated between nodding off and eating. While Luo-Luo envied their close relationship and wished she were sitting in Lord Husband’s rickshaw with them, she felt better knowing Sister Mila, Yan, and Li-Li, were also riding in their own vehicles, since Lin-Lin insisted on on racing once they arrived at the farm. It did make for a lonely trip though, with everyone sitting by themselves. At least Luo-Luo had her handmaidens to play games with and pass the time, but Mila, Yan, and Li-Li only had the animals to keep them company...

Ever the adventurous soul, Lin-Lin perked up as soon as they were out of the gates and the quins picked up the pace, hopping to her feet and standing with arms outstretched to take in the cold, winter breeze. Luo-Luo had tried to stand once while clutching the railings in a white-knuckled grip, and even then she’d almost been thrown off the jostling vehicle, but Lin-Lin made it look as easy as standing on firm earth instead of on an open carriage travelling at breakneck speeds. Nestled between her hare ears, Blackjack stood with head held high in a similar pose, and they both looked so adorable Luo-Luo couldn’t help but smile and shake her head. Half-Beasts were often derided for being closer to animal than human, and while her personal experience was to the contrary, she had to admit there was a kernel of truth to all the ugly rumours. They were undeniably human, yes, but their bestial traits went beyond merely ears and tails. It wasn’t just Lin-Lin’s love of wind and heights, but also Li-Li’s aloof, feline demeanour, Yan’s natural, graceful gait, Father-in-law’s wagging wolf tail, and even sister-in-law Alsantset’s powerful presence and predatory gaze. It was there, plain as day, every bit a part of them as their hands and feet, and it was clear to anyone with eyes. This didn’t mean Luo-Luo thought any less of half-beasts, but she also understood why half-beasts held a tenuous position in human society.

Because they were human, but also more than human. They were... different, and to some, that meant they were to be feared.

With having never seen a red-panda, Luo-Luo spent the better part of their trip imagining what those fearsome beasts might look like. Compact and muscular no doubt, with short tempers and surly demeanours if sister Mila and Ancestral Beast Guan Suo were any example. Deadly predators too, seeing as they were likened to both bears and cats, a mental image which had Luo-Luo shivering in fright. When she said as much to Sorya and Anrhi, they both burst into laughter, though they refused to say why and suggested she paint a red-panda without reference and see how it would match up with the real thing. It was all in good fun and Luo-Luo didn’t hold their laughter against them, but she quietly resolved to do as they said and privately compare the results before sharing her work with anyone else.

Or burning the painting to hide her shame, depending on how accurate it turned out to be.

There was no one waiting to greet them when they arrived at the farm, and Lord Husband had to stop and ask a Bekhai clansman for directions. A good number of them lived here, away from the cramped conditions of the citadel, and while Luo-Luo rarely experienced the press of the crowd herself, she could see why the fiercely independent Bekhai might prefer living out on this farmstead. When she last visited during the new year celebrations, there was little to nothing of note aside from a smattering of ramshackle structures thrown together for the party and a stage which she’d performed on. Those were all gone now, and in their place were more permanent structures which were functional and presentable, if not quite aesthetically pleasing, and all spread out in a logical, military manner. There were only six in total, but the only one she could identify was the mess hall, judging by the plumes of smoke billowing from the kitchens. It sat in the centre of the farm, with the other buildings arranged loosely around it, but the people themselves lived in military yurts which were scattered around the buildings with little rhyme or reason. Some sat clumped together, others off by their lonesome, and Luo-Luo even saw a half-dozen of the leather and canvas huts arranged in a small half-circle, forming a little courtyard manor complete with a fence made from leather pelts stretched on bamboo poles.

This was all entirely separate from the farmlands themselves, but it had the air of a cozy, tight-knit community despite the many Bekhai Warriors moving about armed to the teeth. If Lord Husband’s village was like this, then perhaps it wouldn’t be too terrible to live in.

The Medical Saint’s garden sat a few minutes east of the community, secluded from both farmland and Bekhai community by a tiny bamboo grove which Luo-Luo didn’t recall seeing here before. Though lush and leafy even in the heart of winter, the small grove was barely twice the area of Lord Husband’s manor in the citadel, with stalks thicker than both her arms put together and so tall even sweet Lin-Lin might think twice before scaling them. While bamboo was primarily favoured for its fast growing speed, it was only fast in comparison to other plants. These stalks were mature enough for their age to be measured in years, if not decades, but since Luo-Luo had some inkling of what the Medical Saint was up to out here away from the Citadel, she kept her questions to herself. Instructing Sorya and Anrhi to stay outside with the rickshaws and Guardian Turtle, she gathered her wits about her and followed Lord Husband in on foot.

Only a single dirt path offered easy access into the dense grove, wide enough for two regular people or one large, Martial Warrior to traverse. As soon as she stepped inside, it felt like she’d been transported into a different world, one of verdant shadow and mellow sunlight dancing before her eyes. It was so strange. If she looked left or right, she could see through the gaps and out at the plains or into the heart of the grove, separated by less than an arms-length of bamboo growth, yet when she looked straight ahead at Lord Husband’s back, Luo-Luo felt like the grove stretched out into infinity and encompassed the entire world around her. It was quiet here, tranquil and serene, with only the sound of shuffling footsteps and rustling cloth to disturb the peace, but underneath the silence sat a hushed, pleasing melody, one played by the wind twisting through the bamboo stalks and out the other side.

She loved it here in the shadows and silence, so calm and beautiful she could spend hours just staring at everything and nothing. There was something here, something indescribably transcendent about this place, as if the Mother Herself had planted this grove for Her children to bask in its spiritual glory.

And this was just the path in. What beauty awaited her on the other side?

The dirt path wound a circuitous route all around the grove, and halfway through Luo-Luo realized it was not only built for beauty, but security as well. The bamboo had grown so thick and leafy, it was all but impossible to slip through anywhere besides this one path, a path easily guarded by a single Martial Warrior standing at the entrance or exit. While it would not stand up to any sort of physical assault, it wasn’t built for that purpose, but rather to keep Concealed eyes from seeing what lay inside. A clever trick which could only have come from the mind of the Medical Saint, a brilliant and renowned Healer whose talent and generous deeds were known all across the Empire.

A lofty existence who was currently digging around in the dirt on his hands and knees whilst muttering obscenities beneath his breath. “Where are you?” he asked, oblivious to their arrival. “I know you’re in here somewhere. Stop hiding and show yourselves, you thieving rapscallions...”

Well-used to his teacher’s eccentricities, Lord Husband coughed to announce their arrival, but Lin-Lin didn’t even bother with that much. Bolting across the clearing, the sweet girl dove into the Medical Saint’s arms with a happy cry of ‘Daddy!’, a heartwarming reunion despite having only been separated for less than half a day.

“Hello my sweet Lin-Lin,” the Medical Saint crooned, coming to his feet to lift his giggling daughter into the air and twirl her about. “Daddy missed you so.” Touching as their affectionate greetings might be, it was almost too cloying to bear, and Luo-Luo found herself looking away from the spectacle to study her surroundings instead, but what she found was... disappointing. There was nothing in the clearing, not even green grass to stand upon, just loose dirt as far as the eye could see with the odd furrow or crevice scattered about. All done by hand, mind you, since it seemed like the Medical Saint scorned the use of gardening tools, but since neither he nor Lin-Lin cared about the dirt stains on his hands or her coat, who was she to say differently?

As the rabbits hopped about to explore their new surroundings, Lord Husband studied their movements with more scrutiny than usual. “Hi Teacher,” he said, embracing the Medical Saint in a warm hug without tearing his eyes away. “When I saw the bamboo grove, I almost thought you were holding out on me, but I guess I was wrong. Care to tell me how you got it to grow so fast? At the very least, we could use it as a steady supply of lumber.”

“Hmm?” Blinking in owlish confusion, the Medical Saint glanced around and asked, “This? Oh I see what you mean. I didn’t grow the bamboo little Rain, nothing so magical. I bought the stalks fully grown and had them transplanted here.”

“...Oh. Yea, that makes more sense.” Lord Husband took the explanation in stride, but Luo-Luo’s breath caught in her throat as she remembered Lin-Lin asking her to find a mature bamboo grove for sale some weeks ago. It was a strange request because most people bought their lumber after it was cut and treated, but the half-hare had insisted on finding a grove which had yet to be harvested, and now Luo-Luo understood why. What she didn’t understand was how the bamboo survived the month-long journey to the citadel without dying in transit, but perhaps the plants were hardier than expected.

Instead of focusing on the irrelevant details, she asked, “Medical Saint, might this one ask: who arranged the bamboo stalks? There was something about the path which this one found particularly soothing, so this one would like to know more.” So she might possibly replicate it once Lord Husband finally settled down somewhere permanent.

“The path? I made it,” the Medical Saint replied, and before Luo-Luo could gather her courage to ask for more details, he tilted his head and added, “But I don’t understand what you mean about a soothing arrangement. I just planted the stalks wherever they fit without really thinking. It is rather pleasant though, now that you mention it. Calm and serene, yes?”

Lin-Lin, Mila, Yan, and Li-Li all nodded in agreement, but Lord Husband evidently didn’t notice anything special about the bamboo path and simply waved the topic aside. “Yea, lovely nature and all that. Very nice.” Gesturing around the loose dirt clearing, he asked, “So your garden’s looking a little bare, Teacher. I know you said nothing was growing, but didn’t you say you were also trying to grow plants normally too? What happened to them?”

A handsome man with honeyed skin and a cheery smile, the Medical Saint transformed before Luo-Luo’s eyes as he scowled at the dirt around him. “I haven’t the faintest clue,” he declared, almost proudly without a care for face. “Not only is nothing growing, even the seeds are disappearing now. It’s not birds,” he continued, rushing to speak before Lord Husband could make some pithy comment or the other. “I had nets installed overhead and guards stationed here day and night, but they’ve seen and heard nothing. I plant the seeds in the dirt, and they’re gone the next day, vanishing into thin air.” Plopping down in the dirt with an audible harrumph, the Medical Saint grabbed a fistful of dirt and tossed it aside, grumbling, “It’s madness is what it is, sheer madness. How can seeds just disappear? It’s not like they can sprout wings and fly away...”

Stepping aside to avoid the dirt, Lord Husband wore a scandalized expression while offering his teacher a clean handkerchief. “Err Teacher, considering what you’ve been mixing into the dirt, I really don’t think you should be throwing it around, much less with your bare hands.”

“Bah.” Dismissing Lord Husband’s concerns with a wave of his hand, the Medical Saint snorted and said, “It’s just poop. Hardly anything to be concerned about.”

“Yea but –”

“But nothing. Poop is fertilizer, fertilizer is dirt, so what’s all the big fuss?” Grabbing another fistful of dirt, he tossed it into the air, and this time, Lord Husband wasn’t the only one to dart aside. Luo-Luo joined her sister wives in avoiding the fecal bombardment, after which poor Lin-Lin put on an aggrieved expression and set to brushing the ‘dirt’ off her coat using her handkerchief. Utterly oblivious to his precious daughter’s grievance, the Medical Saint continued, “What’s important is finding the damnable creature eating my seeds. It’s a Spiritual Beast no doubt, a small, crafty one, else there’s no way it could escape notice. I want you to trap it boy, then I want you to kill it and cook it. I don’t care what manner of creature it might be, I intend to eat and enjoy it for all the suffering it’s put me through.”

Doing his best not to smile, Lord Husband nodded along with the Medical Saint’s increasingly absurd requests while offering a few suggestions of his own. Seeing Yan back away towards the sequestered path, Luo-Luo quietly followed suit, while Mila pulled Li-Li away to do the same. Once there, Luo-Luo followed the path back out while enjoying the peaceful serenity of the bamboo grove which even blocked out Lord Husband’s conversation with the Medical Saint.

It was so similar to how she felt while playing ‘Rise to Glory’, as if she were the only person in the world with the music to accompany her, except instead of notes and melodies, it was wind and wood. She couldn’t quite explain it, but she felt lessened by the loss as she stepped back out the other side, and she could see the others felt the same way. “This one is not mistaken, right?” she asked, not entirely certain how to explain it. “There is something... something marvellous about the path, is there not?”

“It felt like finding Balance in the physical world,” Song murmured, and Luo-Luo instantly agreed, marvelling at her own stupidity for not seeing it sooner.

“It is a place of Enlightenment,” Mila answered, gazing wistfully back at the path. “One which brings nothingness to mind.”

When it became clear Mila had nothing more to add, Yan picked up the slack. “Grandpa Du had a garden like that, back in Yantai, paid a fortune for a Diviner to come in and arrange it. See, most Martial Warriors can find Balance anywhere, but some believe it is best to do so in an optimal location, where the natural four elements are in Balance as well.” Shrugging, she added, “I didn’t feel any different in Grandpa’s garden, but that grove...”

Was something the Medical Saint simply threw together. Truly a man standing at the peak of his craft, so utterly in tune with nature that he could accidentally create such a marvel.

Trading a quick glance, they all wordlessly came to an agreement and headed back into the grove. Mila stopped first, then Li-Li a little distance away, then once both were out of sight, Yan took Luo-Luo’s hand in her own. “Stay here and meditate,” she Sent, offering a small smile of encouragement. “Focus on nothing but awareness itself. Seek nothing, and perhaps you might find your Path, but if not, meditation can only be beneficial.”

Already lost in the splendour around her, Luo-Luo nodded until she noticed Yan had long since left. It was magical here even without meditation, as if nature itself was trying to whisper in her ear, but Luo-Luo couldn’t quite understand the message. Putting the world out of mind, she gathered her skirts, sat down in the dirt, and sought the warm embrace of the Mother. Balance came easily, easier than ever before, and she felt the rush of Heavenly Energy washing all her worries away. Where before it was always a trickle, Chi now streamed into her Core and filled an emptiness inside her she never knew existed. It was like hearing a prominent musician play for the first time, or a master artist revealing their work, a sublime experience which transcended words and sensations.

It was Heavenly, a description which said everything, and nothing at all.

Chapter Meme
