Considering their intensely murderous aura, they also didn’t share the same purpose as the Eternal Servants. The servants were meant to protect holy sites. They were holy defenders safeguarding the flame for eternity. These warriors were no defenders; they were butcherers, bloody avengers.

However, they were made following similar concepts. Instead of transforming one extremely powerful templar into an Eternal Servant, the empire had taken the Killing Intent of countless warriors and fused it into one unstoppable warrior. They were more like automatons than spirits, naturally lacking any soul of their own. All they needed were the blood-drenched swords in their hands and an enemy to train them on.

Zac couldn’t begin to calculate how many intents had been sealed inside this hidden graveyard to make a thousand Eternal Avengers. His thoughts went back to the layers upon layers of graves in the Hollow Chasm. Was this where the murderous intent went while the faith stayed to nourish the land? Why did the empire go to such lengths? Did they somehow know that Saṃghāta would come under assault far in the future? After all, the refinement only seemed to be in its earlier stages in the memory domain’s timeline.

Zac’s hair suddenly stood on end upon sensing a perception lock onto him. He’d stayed still until now, afraid to draw any attention from either side. These forces were too powerful, to the point Zac didn’t dare to make a run for it. Not that he could. Only his immediate surroundings were temporarily drained of Crushing Death. The pressure would come rushing back the moment he stepped into the region controlled by the Sangha.

He regretted his cautious approach now that one of the Eternal Servants was looking right at him. It was the one that emerged from the boulder Zac first cracked open. Did it sense a connection? After all, its alter ego inside the memory had deposited a significantly larger chunk of Killing Intent than any other Eternal Avenger. Thankfully, the warrior only spared Zac a glance before turning toward the remaining Buddhist apparitions.

“Glory Eternal!” the avatars suddenly roared as one, their shouts imbued with such intense conviction that the Dao of Samsara buckled under the pressure.

They rushed out as one, creating an expanding perimeter to counter the Sangha’s assault. Suddenly, their numbers expanded thousandfold. To match the sea of Buddhist apparitions, each Eternal Avenger conjured an army of their own. They were also made from Death, Faith, and Intent, though not nearly as strong as their creators.

They were more than enough to deal with the weaker apparitions while the leaders trained their blades at the larger threats. Their combined aura wasn’t a match for the boundlessness of the Dharma surrounding them, but they fought with unmatched brutality. Benevolent monks were cut down, Holy Beasts torn limb from limb. The Imperial War Machine gave no quarter, and neither did they.

With each enemy slaughtered, a wisp of Imperial Faith rose from the ground. The Eternal Avengers were reclaiming the Crushing Hell through bloodshed, growing stronger with each breath. Soon enough, they’d pushed the perimeters more than a dozen miles away, to the point Zac could barely hear the incessant chanting.

Zac breathed out with relief. The gradually climbing Imperial Merit in his seal confirmed they’d made the right call, and his role was over now that he’d set the stage. It was at that moment [Arcadian Crusade] ended, and Zac became painfully aware of the terrifying amounts of Killing Intent still deposited in his body.

Each sliver held much greater potency than the entirety of ancient resentment that he encountered in Centurion Lighthouse, more than enough to shatter his soul. Without the combative haze brought from his berserking skill to keep him calm, the sensation was the spiritual equivalent of a thousand nuclear warheads running through his body.

Adding insult to injury, the Crushing Death was rapidly recovering now that his surroundings were emptied of opposing forces. His Duplicity Core had managed to keep him safe from Karmic Entanglements throughout the ordeal, but it couldn’t hide the massive amounts of Killing Intent from the realm.

The problem wasn’t the “gift” left by his fellow crusaders. It was how it made the environment react. Saṃghāta’s death was drawn by the powerful intent, forcing him to endure the same treatment as the boulders had for countless years. As such, Tavza’s fear ultimately came true. He was marked by the sins of others and forced to carry some of their burden.

Zac’s body creaked as his bones verged on being ground to dust. His flesh was repeatedly torn and reformed in a cycle that he only survived on the grace of his newly advanced constitution. Still, he would be ground to dust long before the foreign Killing Intent was dealt with. Luckily, Zac had already come up with a solution now that his mind had cleared.

Since proximity was the problem, he just needed to add some distance. He couldn’t move himself or the Crushing Death, but what about the vast repository of Killing Intent? Better yet, he knew just where to put it.

Wasn’t his other body far out of Saṃghāta’s reach?
