He frowned. “Uh, I’ve mostly been exploring, I guess. As long as I don’t bump into anyone, I look solid.”

Daphne’s eyes narrowed at that. “Exploring? Around Magrath?” She took a step closer. “Around all the residents?”

“I didn’t drain anyone!” Callan quickly defended. He looked scandalized at the mere thought, and the emotion did seem genuine from what Daphne could tell. She hummed thoughtfully.

“So you’re not staying anywhere, not even at night?”

The ghost shifted uncomfortably. “I mean, it’s not like I need to sleep. I just kind of… wander around after dark.”

Daphne frowned. On one hand, the idea of a ghost hanging around the unwitting people of Magrath was disturbing. On the other hand, she hadn’t heard any news of drainings or even of mysterious illnesses or deaths that could be attributed to a ghost. There was a chance that Callan was simply very good at lying, but at least from their conversation so far, she got the impression that he was being earnest. Compared to Pyre, he seemed to wear his heart on his sleeve.

Even through the cloud of caution and suspicion, she couldn’t help but feel a little bad for the guy. Assuming he and Pyre were telling the truth, dying, then getting stuck as a ghost for the rest of eternity would be a pretty lonely existence, she imagined. She enjoyed her peace and quiet and took nighttime strolls sometimes, but what if every night she had no choice but to wander around alone while everyone else was sleeping? It was no wonder Pyre met up with him when she could.

Daphne frowned, mind churning. What was she supposed to do in a situation like this? If she told her uncle or John or any of the guards about Callan’s existence, they would kill him on the spot. That might be the safest option, but if he really was innocent, then she wasn’t going to stand by and let him be killed for no reason.

She could make Callan leave and return to the previous status quo, continuing her day to day as usual. That was equally unappealing as an option. It would be impossible to pretend like she didn’t know what was going on, and she didn’t feel good about Callan wandering freely around Magrath with no one the wiser. She definitely wouldn’t be able to act the same around Pyre as before, too.

Another option was to kick both of them out, forcing them to leave Magrath and go elsewhere. That way she could ensure everyone in Magrath stayed safe, but that also felt like she’d just be displacing the issue onto someone else. Plus, despite her lingering suspicions, a part of her still couldn’t help but hope that they were telling the truth, that they could form something of a friendship or at least an understanding. The thought made her laugh darkly to herself. She must’ve been more lonely than she’d thought.

The final option was to let both of them stay in the manor. She could get Pyre moved to one of the guest rooms in the main wing instead of the servant’s quarters, and Callan could hide there during the day. This would allow her to keep an eye on them and assess if they were an actual threat or not, but this could also mean putting the manor at risk.

Daphne frowned. If they were dangerous, she finally decided, then the manor had more protections than random people in Magrath did. The entire garrison was next door, and all the guards were ready to act at a moment’s notice. She would be in the most danger with this option, but she’d rather it be her than a random resident of the city.

It wasn’t perfect, but she wanted to observe the two of them a little longer before passing any final judgements. Daphne thought back to their conversation earlier that day. She owed Pyre that much, at least.

Her fingers clenched into a fist. If they did turn out to be dangerous, if they were lying—then she would deal with them herself. That, she swore.

Mind set, Daphne turned back to Pyre and Callan. The former was as calm as ever, casually leaning against a tree with seemingly no care in the world, while the latter looked like he was sweating bullets waiting for her to talk. The contrast was funny—decidedly human. She felt a little better about her choice.

Daphne cleared her throat and spoke in a clear, confident tone.

“I’m still not completely convinced you’re telling the truth,” she began, “but I’m also not going to pass judgment on you unless I know for certain you’ve done something wrong.”

Her gaze hardened. “So for now, I’m going to keep an eye on you. Both of you,” she added, nodding to Callan.

The ghost blinked. “You mean…?” his voice trailed, but he sounded hopeful.

In response, Daphne looked up, peering through the canopy at the inky night sky. The silver moon glowed softly above them.

“It’s late,” she said. She nodded at Pyre and Callan. “Let’s head back to the manor.”
