Nathan and the Heirs were there to catch them. Nathan grabbed the young man out of the air and gave him a quick punch in the throat to stop him from calling out. The man's throat deformed, and his mouth opened and closed like a gasping fish.

Fatal if untreated.

He delivered a chop to the top of the man’s head, feeling bones cracking under his blow.

Fatal.

The bodies went into a set of dimensional bags, and the Heirs were off before anybody could investigate the vanished patrol. They were on a timer now. Nathan’s antimagic should be able to frustrate most methods of tracking and scrying, but simply flooding the city with soldiers would present a problem for them, especially if they weren’t close to their target.

They moved a bit faster than they had before, first detouring sideways to find another thoroughfare that would take them to the central tower and their goal. Then they set off at a determined pace, headed straight inwards towards their target. It loomed in the very center of the city, a solid bulk of gray stone that showed nothing of the wonders beneath.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 839

Bottomless Stamina : 84192/84900

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 585

Regenerative Focus: 5950/5950

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 5

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 7

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 5

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
