“Now I can bury it.” Ren said and used the Staff of Earth to push the dirt aside. He went down about 30 feet, dropped the Forget It Box inside, then pushed the dirt back together. “There, safe and sound.”

Clint shook his head in disbelief. “Hank, store tha othah chest so we can git back ta tha othah tunnel.”

Hank did so, and the group of them ran down the tunnel to get back to the fork. They made it just in time, and saw the wall as it faded away.

Teepo? Ren thought.

“Nothing's there.” Teepo said and flew down the long tunnel. “There's nothing in this corner chamber, or down the next tunnel.” He flew down that tunnel. “There's a split here. One goes into another chamber, and the other is a tunnel that leads to another chamber.”

Ren told the guys what was there, and they ran all the way down to the split.

“It's all the victim's stuff.” Tommy said when he looked into the first chamber. “Clothing, leather pieces, and boots.”

“Should we take it?” Ren asked. “The families might want them as confirmation.”

“Tha's a good idea.” Clint said and smiled. “Ah don' suppose ya got a crate or anythin' on ya.”

Ren took out an empty crate and he and Tommy filled it with the items. Clint stored it, and they went down the next tunnel to the last chamber on that side.

“Nothin'.” Clint said. “We bettah head back.”

They ran all the way back to the collapsed cavern and came out into the sunshine.

“You sure get used to being underground fast.” Hank said and held his hand up to cover the eye holes in his helm. “The sun almost hurts.”

“Ren?”

“I got it.” Ren said and used the Staff of Earth to close off the left tunnel, then opened up the right one. Go for it, Teepo. He thought. Check what you can.

“Sure thing.” Teepo said and flew into the tunnel.

“Teepo's checking what he can.” Ren told the guys.

“He sure is useful, ain' he?” Clint asked.

Ren nodded. “I use him a lot more than I should sometimes.”

Teepo chittered in laughter. “What else am I gonna do?”

You can relax. Ren thought to his friend.

“I do that every time you leave.” Teepo said. “It's boring as hell.”

Ren chuckled.

“Wha's funny?” Clint asked.

“Teepo said it's boring as hell for him to relax.”

Hank laughed. “He needs to find himself a nice lady beetle, then.”

Hank says you need to find a mate. Ren told Teepo.

“I would if I could.” Teepo said. “The first side tunnel to the right is a dead end after 75 feet.”

Ren relayed the tunnel information, and Clint marked it on the map. Teepo checked the next side tunnel and flew into a large chamber.

“Ugh, this is... the... ah...” Teepo hedged.

Just tell me. Ren thought.

“It's the slaughter room.” Teepo said, and Ren didn't wince or react. “It's mostly just covered in blood from floor to ceiling, though.”

Thanks. Ren thought, then told Clint that the next side tunnel was where they cut people up for feeding. The guys all lost a bit of color, until Ren said it was just bloody. Teepo flew back and checked the first side tunnel on the left, and it looked like a nursery of some kind. When Ren relayed that, the guys lost almost all of their color, and Dillon held a hand over his mouth.

Teepo flew out and down the tunnel to check the last one, and stopped. “Um, Ren.”

Ren could feel Teepo's trepidation. What is it, buddy?

“I found... well, it's kind of hard to describe.” Teepo said. “You know how ghouls are made, right?”

I think so. Ren thought and remembered how it happened in another game he had played. They find suitable candidates, usually by kidnapping people randomly. They try to bite them and infect them with their saliva and poison, which corrupts them. After a day or two, if they aren't treated, they either start to change into a ghoul or they don't.

“That's it.” Teepo said. “Where I am is where the large ghouls are doing it.”

You have got to be kidding me. Ren thought and shook his head. “Oh, crap.” He said out loud.

“What is it?” Hank said. “I haven't known you for long; but, I'm pretty sure that was a 'we are in deep shit' 'oh crap'.”

“Right you are, my friend.” Ren chuckled. “We are in deep shit.” He stopped laughing like a switch had been thrown and looked at the guys with anger in his eyes. “Teepo just found a ghoul factory.”
