Though worn and bloodied, the Wanderer was a cruel bastard, and so he took his opportunity. He relished his victory. He twisted his lance before lifting his hand, and Shiv rose, but found himself so spent he didn't even have the strength to scream at the agony. A swarm of cartoonish, feathered snakes and puppeteer strings assailed Longinus from all sides, but they failed to break through his divine body. With a casual swat on the back of his hand, he struck Shiv and delivered a blow that was equal parts psionic and emotional, one that threatened to turn the Harbinger into dust.

Shiv’s greatest Legendary Skill almost broke apart on impact—and barely held together as Adam cried out—giving every last bit of Heroism he could muster to keep Shiv from total annihilation. But the same could be said for Uva, who was battered free from Shiv’s body. She was tossed into the air—and speared through as Longinus summoned a lesser lance to nail her to the ground through the chest with a casual gesture.

Unlike Shiv, she still had enough left in her to howl. And howl she did.

Hearing that made something in Shiv snap. “Motherfu—”

Longinus drove his spear in deeper.

Two of Shiv’s three remaining skills burst apart and scattered within his soul. The only things he had left were…. were…

Writing (Common) 16

Continuity Error (Unique) 227

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul (Unique) 265

Garden of Wounds and Broken Things (Unique) 115

Almost nothing. Almost nothing left of him at all.

“Oh, that’s sweet. Were you about to go Berserk?” Longinus giggled hysterically, physically sucking in Shiv’s despairing rage and ragged breaths as he held him at eye level. “She’s something special to you, huh? Same thing with the bastard hiding inside of you.” He whistled. “Rand. Come out. I know how you are. I’m gonna fucking do things to them, and you’re not going to be able to just watch it happen. You’ll come out, you miserable, noble shit. You’ll let yourself get fucked because your heart can’t take it. I know you. Let’s just… skip to the good part.”

The Wanderer waited for a second, blinking erratically as he tried to catch his breath. But then, a change came over his expression. His face twitched. His form thinned. Shiv saw Georges inside him, crying, muttering pleas and words of near madness for this all to end. And then there was Longinus himself, who somehow looked even more wretched. “I… I…” The god within the man trailed off as he stared down at his hands, the lance still holding Shiv aloft. “Fuck… I'm so sorry… I'm so sorry… I'm trying, but it's just not enough. I know you did all you could, I'm not… I’m sorry… You tried… I tried… But it’s not enough… It's not…”

"Shiv," Adam whimpered, barely able to hold his friend's crumbling Legendary Skill together. "Get up! Get the fuck up! I can’t… Please, get up!"

Shiv tried to move. The pain sent him to the borders of unconsciousness in an instant. He was broken, and broken bad.

“I know you did all you could. I'm sorry. I know. I'm sorry.” Longinus' true self sobbed in anguish. “But I was stupid, stupid to think this wouldn't happen, that I wouldn't end up like this. I don't carry my own legend. I'm attached to someone else's. Of course their soul overrode my own. Of course I became a monster. Their story ate me… The story of the Great One… False stories… Every one more perverse than the other… Until now… Until this…”

“W-what?” Shiv coughed up bloody spittle. “What… are you—”

“Bitch! The fucking bitch!” Longinus wailed. “Kathereine! My fall should… Even with the degeneration, I shouldn’t be like this!”

Shiv blinked. He didn’t understand.

Longinus grabbed Shiv by the face and pulled him close. Shiv peered into his eyes, and what he saw was terror and hatred. “She… she degenerated first. And then she… she knew. She saw… And she… she whispered things to us. All of us. She made us do things and altered our worship and changed us… Until we were all… predictable. Lesser. Horrible things. Not ourselves.”

“Why?” Shiv whispered.

“C-control,” Longinus said, struggling against himself. Shiv saw his enkindled flames shift in his mind. This moment of lucidity was fading fast. “She wanted to… to be the… Didn’t want the Starhawk to be the one… to…” Longinus stopped talking, stopped crying, and his eyes went vacant.

Shiv tried to escape again, but he barely managed a twitch. "Adam… get the hells out of here…"

"No!" Adam cried. "I’m not leaving—"

"I’m broken," Shiv choked. "I’m done. Take Uva and go—" And as he was saying those words, his battered mind remembered something. "C-culturist? Y-you there?"

The Legendary orc didn’t reply. Took too long to reply, and when he did, it was with absolute strain. "Barely, Deathless. I hit level 501 in my Skill fifteen seconds ago. I can stave off the Delve momentarily, but there are seconds left in me. Perhaps half a minute."

"C-can you make it faster?" Shiv choked. "Because I need it to be faster."

The Culturist grunted. "I can. But be sure."

"No other choice," Shiv breathed. "Got one last—" His words died into a hissing snarl as the lance piercing his chest suddenly twisted.

A hitched chuckle escaped Longinus as he raised his head once more, the mania and hunger back in his eyes. “Sorry… Kinda… lost track there. Where were we?”

“P-please,” Shiv begged, looking away from the god. The act was equal parts performance and desperation. He couldn't let him pay attention to the others. “Please don’t.”

“Don’t?” Longinus asked innocently, as if he wasn't sure what Shiv was referring to. He leaned down in the most predictably depraved way a cruel son of a bitch might. “Don’t what? Don’t do this?” He slid his lance further in and then drew it out of Shiv a little and laughed as the Deathless contorted in silent agony. He pressed his face against Shiv's own and breathed right into his bloodstained mouth. “What the fuck does what you want matter? You’re mine now, Deathless.”

“Please don’t… Do what you want… Just don’t take… Don’t take my mind.” Tortured, shattered, scattered of thought, and on the verge of blacking out, this was the best bait Shiv could come up with. Without the Harbinger to guide him—himself on the verge of destruction—he didn’t have the complexity to muster anything more.

But the thing was, Longinus wasn’t far from breaking either—was already broken mentally.

And so he fell victim to himself one last time. The Wanderer snorted and drew back his face just slightly. “Shit. You want me to let you keep yourself, huh? Well. That’s unfortunate. Because I wanna wear you. I wanna know what it feels like when you are taught who you belong to, when I mark you deep.” And with that, Longinus pressed a hand on Shiv’s skull—cracking his Vitae even more—and projecting his godly mind magic into his suffering consciousness. “Shit. You got a hard mind there, Deathless. Good thing I like tough and hard mea—”

A few meters to the side, Uva's body was twisting and folding in alien geometries as she tried to pry herself free from Longinus’ lesser lance. But while one of her skills was broken as well and she was pinned in place, her Psychomancy strings weren’t attached to her by nature, and so one snaked out, connecting to Shiv from below the ground. "Shiv?"

"Link the fucker!” Shiv choked desperately. “Culturist! Delve!"

The orc sighed. "With… pleasure."

Longinus read those memories too late. He tried to draw back, let go of Shiv in panic, but a string of Psychomancy bridged him to Adam’s Awareness just as he tried to break away.

“You MOTHERFUCKING—”

He brought a hoof down on Shiv’s head just as Adam’s uncontrollable Haunting Omniscience washed over him.
