The strangeness reached its crescendo as the Wanderer reappeared where one such whip existed. Its very presence flayed the rubble and wounds that made up the anomalous titan that Shiv wore, but part of the whips remained—absorbed injuries once inflicted by Longinus were turned back upon him. Absence wounds in existence became speartips. One such end passed through Longinus’ parting aura, for one could not displace a vacuum with a vacuum.

Reality wailed as it tore into Longinus, cleaving a clean strip through his divine flesh. A brutal gash ran along his sides; his equine form was flensed from sternum to flank, and the pain Longinus suffered was deep and true. A scream escaped the god, a scream that belonged to an upjumped mortal rather than a vaunted Divinity. Shiv had fractured him before by striking his demented mind and unbalanced emotions. But this was something else—for the first time, the absence projected by Longinus’ horn was turned upon him, and he proved no more immune to his own divine skills than any piece of matter.

The Ascendant wasn't the only thing that bled. As a spill of divine mana tainted the world, the vitality-infused membrane that stabilized Integration broke and burst as well. A cataclysmic manastorm was birthed within Shiv's Garden, and a wave of fire exploded outward, defined by the abstract characteristics of lightning. Forking bolts of flame spread through Shiv, setting his apocalyptic armor ablaze. He became a walking conflagration the size of a town, but this didn't hurt him either. It just nourished him more.

On top of that, beyond the levels he'd gained from fighting in this form, something settled upon him—a crown placed upon his brow by an almost reluctant hand of the System.

Garden of Wounds and Broken Things 107 > 109

Practicing Atheist (Legendary) - You have performed an act of unfaith, wounding a god using the powers of their very own Domain. Your insolence will not go unnoticed—or unrewarded. Your Magical Resistance has gained a new layering. Though the heavens might spit their edicts, you bear an apostate’s armor forged from your own deeds.

Feats [6/9]

The gifts that came with this new Feat manifested immediately. The Shapeless Tides that flowed across Shiv's form flared bright and burned a shade of dullest blue. An outer layering of armor formed over his soul, and suddenly all the unread Curses that the Princess of the Harvest had flung upon him earlier were dislodged at the cost of half his Overflow Tides.

Stray vectors vanished across Shiv’s body as he suddenly felt himself unburdened in ways he hadn't realized—but he didn’t stop to check what had changed. The Harbinger kept him focused.

And a good thing the skill did, for true death might have followed if he hadn’t reacted to what followed.

Though Shiv was imbued with resistance against the hands of the divine, it was tied to his Magical Resistance and thereby his Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides. But though the Garden of Wounds and Broken Things was an awesome skill in many respects, Shiv's vectors didn't circulate through it naturally. Instead, they were bound to his material form, which was also deprived of his full Magical Resistance potential without an Animated Skill Infusion.

As such, when Longinus finished his raging and shrieking, he charged again. This time, however, he did move; he commanded the world around him to drag the Garden away.

The world obeyed.

Existence folded like fabric, and even if the Garden and Shiv wanted to resist, they couldn't—for they were still subservient to the concepts of distance and spatial correspondence. At the same time, Longinus' horn became a prism, and he projected a beam of pure nothingness through the Garden, splitting it from its armored skull down to its chest, where Shiv's physical form resided.

And where his Harbinger, Severed Shadow, and friends made their stand.

The attack came faster than the team could react. Uva was the first to notice. She hadn’t been idle during the battle and had contaminated and gripped the minds of Longinus’ dimensionals and slaves. This allowed her to slot her stacks into more vessels, which further amplified her processing speed. She shouted a telepathic warning to Shiv. The moment he heard, he triggered Legion of Self.

But by that point, Longinus was already upon him, cleaving his vacuum tunnel downward, onto the spot between Shiv’s neck and left shoulder.

The attack struck. Something snapped inside Shiv. His Vitae cracked open as the warmth of his life essence spilled free; his Harbinger shattered ever more.

But he wasn't erased.

The pain was bad, but it was also manageable. Six out of ten, Shiv thought, mind accelerated beyond the constraints of time by his Legion of Self, and that realization invigorated him. I'm not dead. He didn’t break me. Not yet. Indeed, it was his Shapeless Tides that stopped the displacing powers possessed by Longinus. All of Shiv's vectors had been arrayed along that section of his torso, their tips pressed against an extended beam of nothingness that could be traced back to Longinus' lance-shaped horn. All of Shiv's remaining overflow tides were boiled away, and his innate vectors trembled to push the Ascendant back. He knew that, once his metaphysical protections were gone, nothing would hold the projected vacuum back from wiping away his physical form, like an eraser dragged over a pencil sketch.

And so, before that could happen, Shiv gripped the hollow beam with both hands and grappled with the god from afar.

Twin explosions of surprise went off inside him. Adam’s barely caught up to the situation; Uva’s thoughts went vacant with elated disbelief.

And she wasn’t the only one.

Shiv shook and let out a ragged cry of exhaustion. It felt like he was Pathless again and trying to bear the weight of a collapsing building on his back. But though the heaviness was bearing him down, his body was still holding it up. His vectors blazed in hues of midnight blue and vented blasts of waste mana into existence. A fiery lightning bolt strayed out from the mana storm pouring out inside Shiv’s Garden and skipped off his forehead.

The Deathless endured. If only for a heartbeat, beneath the powers of a god and mana rupture, he somehow held on.

"Shiv… how…" Adam gasped.

Shiv didn't even have the strength to reply. He did, however, have enough space to shrug Longinus' attack off to the side, just by a hand’s length. Just by enough that it missed his physical form. With a deafening roar, Shiv parried a god’s skill, sparing his soul from annihilation and the Garden from collapse.

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 540 > 548

Spots formed in his vision. His mind swarmed with utter fatigue, and thoughtlessness threatened to swallow him. Uva didn’t let him drown. She reached out and wrenched him back to awareness. "Endure!" Her words were buried in his psyche like a law, and he wouldn’t disobey. "Stand and finish the fight!"

It felt like she was lighting his mind ablaze from the inside out. It hurt, but it was a good kind of pain, an electric pain that woke him from the brink of blissful oblivion.

In that moment, he opened his eyes to behold Longinus staring at him from three hundred meters away. The Ascendant was gawking, and the fear chain between them was harder than ever. The Wanderer was consumed by utter disbelief, so strong that it tore apart his anger like a hurricane blasting a path between a forest fire.

“The fuc—” Longinus’s bark of disbelief broke into a scream as Shiv took advantage of the Ascendant’s lapse in focus. Over a hundred vacuum-tipped whips speared into him, turned him into a pincushion. More wounds opened across Longinus. He tried to blink away, but one of Adam's Shards of Exalted Flame smashed at him from behind, and this time Georges nearly snapped free. “NO!”

The Harbinger grew bright, and time came to a complete halt as Shiv launched himself forward. But even though he was still in the fight, his movements were anemic. Withstanding a blow from a god, even just deflecting it by a few centimeters, took almost everything he had. There were no overflow tides left to spend, and his innate strength had been sapped beyond what even his prodigious endurance could bear. If not for Uva forcing him to stay awake and Adam bolstering his soul far beyond his limits, Shiv would have sunk into a coma-like fugue—dead to the world, indifferent to his own fate.

"Mind, body, heart as one," the Harbinger rambled, clearly feeling his fatigue as well. "Where one crumbles, the other two will follow…”

A tidal wave of colors left Shiv's eyes. The Outside was being channeled out from him once more, and he barely even noticed. An ocean's worth of cartoon snakes jumped Longinus and began binding him with their own bodies.

The Wanderer, mauled from all sides and getting pierced further, was desperately pulling Georges back into himself, for a god couldn’t manifest in a dimension without a twin anchor: a Phylactery; an Avatar.

Phylactery. Avatar.

The Avatar was Georges. But the Phylactery…

"The Boiling Toad!" The Harbinger came to the conclusion before Shiv could sober from weariness. "This entire dimension is the conduit for his soul! This is his Perch!”

But in Shiv's mind, that revelation came second to the sight of Georges, trapped in a bubble of distended incandescence, writhing and struggling, trying to break free.

Something burned inside Shiv. He was beyond spent, but Georges was in danger.

And he couldn’t fail his father again. He couldn’t let him suffer or die again.

And where Shiv was empty of personal strength, he wasn't devoid of other skills either. Once more, the Garden came to his aid.

A riptide made from lacerations, punctured wounds, and broken streets slammed into him from behind. He'd used his Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides to protect his Garden. Now he used the Garden to carry him when his tides were spent.

Amidst a howling, world-rending mana storm, as arrows, vast strings of Psychomancy, time-freezing glaciers, and Outsider spawn bombarded the Wanderer, Shiv reached for his former mentor and concentrated the Unique blade of his cutting aura along his right arm. Please, please felling work!

He struck the bridge of divine mana connecting Georges to Longinus, and he cleaved deep into the magic with a silent scream.

Just not deep enough.

He was three-fourths of the way through when he came to a dead stop.

“Fuck! COME ON!” Golden mana sprayed out from the golden tether like a severed artery. Shiv gasped and choked, spending what fumes remained of his stamina before they could ever even become sparks again. He dug just a centimeter deeper before Longinus blinked once more.

This time, there was nothing left of Shiv’s Physicality or Magical Resistance to spare him from the Wanderer’s blow.

Georges vanished.

Longinus vanished.

They both reappeared, reunited, with the Ascendant’s horn buried through Shiv's chest.

Skill Damaged: Levia—

The world went dark.

Then the pain—and Uva’s cries—brought Shiv back to the waking world. A rattling chain of notifications spilled down his awareness like a waterfall, and even Shiv's incoherent state couldn't spare him from comprehending that almost every single skill he possessed had been torn asunder and shattered entirely by Longinus’ blow.

Besides his unreachable Unique Skills, he only had a handful left. The world blurred around him as he was dragged across existence. Space swirled and twisted as it moved, and suddenly Shiv found himself driven into the ground like a stake had been run through him.

All the air left his lungs. Blood spilled out of his mouth. The Harbinger fragmented—but held firm like a vase with its pieces lodged against each other.

Pressed against Shiv was Longinus, who was transforming back into his half-human form. Longinus, who was bleeding from so many gashes that he seemed more shredded meat than person, more torture victim than god. His transformation died down as he returned to his centaur-like state. It seemed that he couldn't maintain being a unicorn anymore—not with all the divine mana he'd lost, nor the psychosis that was taking hold as the shadowy fires of his heart tainted the waters of his mind.

But ultimately, what mattered was that there was still enough left of Longinus for him to take pleasure in this final victory.

“Heh… Finally… fucking got you… you little… little fuck. How’s it feel? Because this one is… is… Fuck…” The Ascendant whimpered as he gripped his mind. “You little fuck… got me… Got me good…”

Beyond Longinus, Shiv saw his Garden fall dormant and slowly recede. The many wounds and ruins that made up its body didn't collapse without a guiding mind. Instead, it was drawn back into its point of origin like a flower aging in reverse; every extension, every laceration, every crack along the asphalt was pulled back into the original seed—Shiv's broken physical body—before that form finally stabilized, and it dropped from the sky in pieces, dead for good.

Garden of Wounds and Broken Things 109 > 115

Inertial Overdrive 322 > 331

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 218 > 249

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 239 > 265

Pillar of Orichalcum 408 > 422

Fae in their tens of thousands were descending from the light-spewing spatial wounds to the other dimensions within Plum Blossom’s necklace left in the sky, riding upon their steeds or carried by wings of their own.

