…are among the main reasons we stand as the dominant peoples of Integrated Earth instead of the many species of monsters that exist.

Monsters, non-sapient creatures possessed of skills, have many natural advantages. They are biologically built for war. Who can think of a human as a fearsome warrior when placed next to a deep-sea Loch-Strider? And who would imagine an elf being a mighty mage after witnessing the Skyfall descend with lightning naturally encoiling their bodies and the wind dancing at their feet, carrying them like little gods of old?

In fact, of all the sapient races on Integrated Earth, it is exclusively the automata that possess similar natural physiological advantages, weapons built into their bodies. But even they are required to evolve in certain ways to achieve these, and thus understand the advantages that come with social unity.

Unity with the Pathbearers around you is required so that where you lack, someone else might carry you, so that craftsmen can build you the right armor, forge you the right weapons, grant you the right tools for any challenge, or the right antidote for any poison.

Civilization remains the greatest skill we possess, for civilization is made up of countless Pathbearers like you and me, dedicated through life to a different facet, covering up for all the places we lack.

But civilization is a monster in and of itself, for there is more than a little beast in all of us. We are ravenous when we are hateful, seized by uncontrolled emotions and guided by instinct alone. We become creatures walking two divergent paths, and as we tear, civilization tears.

The point of this class is twofold: to teach you the responsibilities of being a citizen of the Yellowstone Republic, and to teach you that this world is dangerous. Protecting yourself against Social Skills is necessary, as is understanding how to regulate your emotions so that you do not do anything that demeans yourself or damages the fabric of your community.

We struggle and evolve alone, but we live among others, and it can be a beautiful thing if you live rightly.

Remember, children: The most nightmarish hell possible in our society is one in which you are not a functional member of it.

So, to begin our first class today, I would like to offer you all a word: There is nothing wrong with being alone. There are many advantages to being alone. There is everything wrong with being lonely. A lonely Pathbearer becomes a dangerous Pathbearer, becomes no different, sometimes, than the monsters we send our warriors to hunt.

Do not let your hearts deform, children.

—Master-Advisor [Removed at Request of Inquisition], Charm-444 (Discontinued due to matters of national security)

353

Three Upon One [III]

Shaped from the detritus of devastation and physical maladies that delivered one unto death, Shiv's titanic form didn't march across the battle-scarred landscape so much as it tumbled forward like an animated avalanche. Pieces of ruin that made up his body shifted around, and he flung all of himself forward in a tide of devastation. He wasn't even moving this body with his Shapeless Tides; he was simply commanding his Garden to spread in a specific direction.

And spread it did, reaching out with an arm the size of a mountain to strike down a god.

The illimitable, interlinked lacerations that comprised his cape lashed out as a sea of descending whips. They snaked through the air and closed in on Longinus from all sides. But though surprised for a moment by the sudden appearance of Shiv's titanic manifestation, the Wanderer regained his composure, and he moved—though he didn't move immediately. The Cryo-Chronomantic frost Uva had inflicted upon him had to break before he could shift across existence. It seemed certain rules still applied when it came to his greatest skill.

Longinus was stymied just long enough for Shiv to sting him with a single whip, and though the physical blow inflicted no damage, the merest moment of tactile contact with the Deathless brought forth agony unrivaled. The wound-shaped whips were more than a physical weapon; they became injection sites meant to deliver Shiv's scorn and wrathful thoughts upon Longinus, and siphons that allowed him to pry away the Wanderer's vitality.

And even a fracturing god still had an ocean's worth of life force to give. Connecting Longinus to the membrane of the world came with catastrophic effects: a blooming of crimson essence stained existence for ten kilometers in a second, and twice again that in another.

A scream of purest agony escaped Longinus as his very essence was funneled out from him and into the firmament. A new emotion split the fury fueling the Wanderer down the middle—an onrush of fear that grew into an ever-widening chasm, and with it, Longinus' soul began to shift once more. His great horn ever brighter, ever purer, and the shifting collage of places and faces he'd borne witness to across his centuries of life blurred as if a rider was traversing them at unmatched speeds.

Then, without any warning at all, the eldritch cage around Longinus shattered as he blinked across the world and drove his unicorn form horn-first into Shiv's manifested Garden.

Where reality seemed like crumpled paper around Longinus before, now it became ruffled, like an article of woven cloth bundled up by a clenching fist. Distance became a concept beneath Longinus. The Wanderer no longer needed to concern himself with movement whatsoever, not even the illusion of it. He simply manifested to where he so desired. But even so, the world still reacted as if he had passed through it.

Everything went white.

Molecules, mana, space, and all things between were absolutely annihilated as Longinus struck.

His horn charted his path. The tip marked his destination. And a lack was made through Shiv's Garden of Wounds and Broken Things.

The Wanderer vanished at the same moment Shiv's Harbinger reappeared in a flash of gold. One moment, Shiv's Garden was whole. Then, in an aberrant instant, it was hewn clean through, bisected, and robbed of a good quarter of its mass. But the anomalous ruins comprising Shiv didn’t come asunder, even when bifurcated once and a thousand times again. Any hint of pain remained a distant prospect as well. Before, when Longinus tore into Shiv, he carved not only the substance of his flesh, but also his mana and the foundations of his soul.

Meanwhile, the severance he inflicted upon the Garden felt right.

The godly wounds Longinus left merged with the rest of the lacerations. The hollow gaps parting the Garden's body flowed away and were absorbed by a tumbling mass of crumbling buildings and splattering organs that fused over the missing parts. Instead, the hollow injuries provided by Longinus were connected behind the titanic body to the laceration whips that formed a cape of flowing red. The new extensions emerged at the very bottom, becoming hollow spots blemishing the face of existence.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things is delighted by this new devastation.

The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things is growing.

Garden of Wounds and Broken Things 104 > 107

Longinus continued skipping across reality within the Garden's body. He appeared inside the Garden's skull and thrust his horn up. The eldritch titan’s head unfurled into petals of bone and shattered concrete; glass and stone rained down from the sky as ruptured organs were rendered into bloody mist. But the Wanderer's blow went further still, creating a hollow path that went on for dozens of kilometers, striking deep through the other parts of the keep that contained the pocket dimension of the Boiling Toad. Chaos and discord rang down from above as Fae and other Pathbearers scrambled to respond to this internal attack.

“Ser Cuntus!” came Princess Plum Blossom's shrill cry. Her voice made reality tremble, and the depths of her emotional anguish struck Shiv like a tidal wave. Immense and powerful though the Princess of the Summer Court was, she handled conflict poorly and any threat to her impending delicacies poorer still. “What are you doing? What is the meaning of this? You’re—you’re ruining my pre-appetizers!”

Longinus mustered a response, but he was so consumed by fury and the budding fear that Shiv only made out cries of “shut,” “cuntcuntcunt,” and “bigbitchfuckshutfuckup.”

The Wanderer's frenzied storm of attacks betrayed how aggrieved he was. He blinked through every section of the Garden, carving its limbs off, severing it until it was only a torso, and shredding that as well. But the Garden didn't fall apart. The gaps didn't affect it like they would a natural body. In fact, wounds were just conjunctions to it, new joints to be added—new portions to a burgeoning titan of inimical horticulture.

Everything Longinus did only added another layer, another slab, another endowment of power upon the Garden, and through it on Shiv.

He could invoke the Garden, could channel it out from himself as a source, but he was just a seed from which the Garden was birthed. And his original, mutilated form remained buried deep in the apocalyptic human avalanche, surrounded by a dense layer of infected slashes and shattered glass.

Such was the best way of describing this skill. The Garden of Wounds and Broken Things was like growing a town-sized set of armor that feasted on devastation around himself. It was at once absurd, empowering, and insulating—and its sheer anomalous nature protected him even from the wrath of an Ascendant.

A sense of exhilarating invincibility threatened to overwhelm Shiv's rational senses. The Harbinger asserted itself, preemptively purging arrogance before it could flower. "Your physical form remains the gate from which the Garden spreads. Remember it is trapped Backstage, outside of the System's full reach, and should your physical body be destroyed or struck by Longinus, your soul will suffer damage. Your skills will crack. You will break. The gateway will close. Do not let that happen."

The world bestowed additional credence on the Harbinger's words. One of Longinus' charges came a fist's distance away from running Shiv's real body through. Even being in the vicinity caused him to suffer harm, caused his soul to tremble and crack. Longinus' very presence inflicted an ablative pain. The Wanderer was a God of Exploration, and with that came distance traveled and separation of places. Everything around him was displaced bit by bit, the smallest part of one's flesh from the greater whole. His newest skill transformation didn't just make him capable of shredding through anything before him; it also made everything around him separate from its point of origin.

It was like the fundamental laws of reality around Longinus had been changed. To exist beside the Wanderer, one had to wander in all their parts and pieces, in mind, flesh, and the soul. And in that moment, Shiv's Continuity Error triggered of its own volition, not to pull him Backstage, but to bestow a vision. A Glimpse of Perspective sprang to life in tandem.

The Deathless glimpsed at Longinus at the peak of his form and power—a glorious unicorn that rode unbound from the limits of distance and dimensions. But rather than being a depraved, degenerate glutton who feasted on emotions and inflicted his pleasure on the unwilling, he was a colorful spirit—a glorious, carefree chevalier who enjoyed the pleasures of adventuring.

The vision lingered for an instant but felt like it lasted a lifetime. As the imprint faded, Shiv beheld what replaced it: a wretched husk, a rotten leftover of someone special; a marvelous hero.

And if the echoing screams of anguish that kept slipping out were any indication, the remnants of that someone were still there, trapped within himself.

To exist like that was a hell Shiv didn’t even want to imagine. Finishing Longinus off wasn't just justice for Georges and everyone he abused, but also mercy for the man the god used to be.

Shiv jumped his Harbinger a half-second more into the future. This time, his goal wasn't to strike at Longinus, but to guard his physical body from any harm. Instead, he used the Garden against Longinus—and to keep the incoming Fae at bay. As Shiv could control every wound that made up his ruinous armor, he rearranged his internal layout. The now mountainous Garden shifted and transformed much as Shiv did via his Eldritch Physiology skill. At the same time, his whips launched up into the air, swatting and blocking off legions of armored Bread-Knights teleporting into the scene atop mounts of sentient foodstuff.

Legion of Self proved its worth once more as Shiv guided every individual whip with unparted focus. Though a good twenty percent of his wound cape was dedicated to keeping the Princess's guards at bay, the rest of its collective tethers were unleashed upon a single foe. The Wanderer was a hard target to pin down, mainly because he moved without traveling through physical space at all. The world folded around him, shifted him from place to place without any transition in between. There was no intercepting him, there was just guesswork—and Shiv lacked any Divination Skill to predict where his enemy was going to appear next.

But quantity offered a quality of its own.

Thousands of wound-shaped whips speared through the Garden's insides. The sight was uncanny, like a tattered cape impaling its wearer through his thick suit of armor. The metaphor grew even stranger as the cape and the armor were technically made from the same substance. Things that were broken, things that should've been deleterious to the world, to materials, to the human body. As such, the whips passed through Shiv's exoskeleton of destruction like water meeting water. They melted through each other, merged yet existed separately. The whips were at once assimilated and intangible within Shiv, like a set of limbs one could use to reach into their own body.

