It was, in fact, a fucking spider upon which the strangest humanoid Crest had ever seen waited. He knew this was a merl from description but, truly, he’d never met one in person. A kark woman on a large pakar arrived next, her thick black hair braided and red face showing nothing but hateful disdain. Crest still couldn’t believe that they were now wearing full plate. Queen Rosea was next, then a few northern city leaders, a couple of mages, very few people compared to the entire retinue Oleander had brought. They stopped at a good distance, in a half cycle relative to the Maranorian pack. They didn’t trust them. Well, Oleander had broken a truce before so he could hardly blame them.

He felt the other outlander arrive in his soul. Suddenly, Oleander’s all-encompassing aura was pushed back, toned down until Crest could almost feel his thoughts were entirely his own again. She landed in a spray of soil but without effort. She definitely had high physical stats to do all of it in heavy, silverite-engraved armor. Her dragon landed the same way. Her voice carried strangely. It was a skill, for sure.

“We’re long past talks. What are you even doing here?”

The irreverent tone annoyed Oleander. By Crest’s side, the Hopecrusher stiffened. It was like they couldn’t comprehend that an enemy to the death wouldn’t respect him like they believed he ought to be.

“I am here,” Oleander hissed, “to offer you a chance to spare the lives of your people. If you genuinely care about them, then submit yourself to death willingly. Your people will be granted honorable treatment. Even the non-humans you favor will be given a chance to leave in peace with their belongings. This is the best chance you have left. You cannot defeat me.”

But the woman shook her head, eyes filled with anger.

“You bring your sorry ass all the way here like you’re on a winning streak and can’t possibly lose. I know I’m wasting my breath on you but this is for your supporters. There is no destiny here. Fate magic entertains only possibilities, not certainties. You and your pathetic gaggle of idiots are going to learn this soon. This is not a saga; you’re not the main character; and the gods are on the side of logistics.”

“You cannot defeat me,” Oleander insisted, suddenly angry. “I am the Immortal. You can hit me with all of your spells, torch me with dragon fire, you can slice at me. It doesn’t matter. I will not die.”

“Now you’re threatening me with a good time. See you soon, loser.”

“Viviane,” a voice said.

Crest was struck with disbelief. The person who had called was Sangor, the King of Enoria.

He should have been silenced by Oleander’s aura after submitting to him. How could he show initiative? How could he even talk out of turn? His willpower must be insane! Crest almost gasped.

Oleander turned to the king who grit his teeth. He seemed to be at the edge of two opposing auras.

“I am sorry,” he carefully enunciated.

Oleander clicked his tongue. Crest knew what it meant: the old king was going to be replaced, maybe not before the battle, but very soon. Oleander could not tolerate disobedience in any way.

“Though we were apart for too long, our bond is one that cannot be broken,” the empress replied.

Her voice was sad, full of regret. Or at least it looked that way. Crest had never thought those two could be friends. It was a strange thought to be friends with another ruler.

“If you two fools are done? Viviane, I have been more than generous but you need to understand this. You cannot kill me and I cannot fail to kill you. Not when I have this.”

Oleander turned. On his shoulder rested the hilt of a sword, so humble in appearance, ancient, yet unmistakable when one looked at it for more than a second.

“Mommy left you a toy. Nice. Go ahead then. Strike me down. Right now.”

Oleander didn’t reply though his hand reached for the handle. The witch didn’t move. A wan smile emerged from under the dragon crown.

“Hesitating? Don’t worry. I’ll make you draw it.”

Then she turned and after a last, hateful hiss from her beast, she and the others left.
