The last humans to join the Paramese Alliance had been the Order of the White Orchard, Baran’s best knight order. They had crossed the last intact portal network line in a daring escape. They had claimed neutrality in the civil war. Some people had taken a long time to learn that Nero didn’t do ‘neutrality’. He was more of a ‘with me or against me’ kind of person. Now their glittering armor would join the Baranese battle lines. Viv really liked the knights in glittering armor, especially when they were on her side. Now she was floating above the capital under a layer of dark clouds, waiting for the last comers.

At least she hoped so. After midnight, she was starting to have some concern but eventually she spotted it: a private jet-sized green shape coming towards her. She flew down, and they made a circle, one flying after the other. It was a polite dragon meeting. Viv pushed her mind towards his.

It is good to see you, Cold-Gale-over-Spring-Meadow.

The large dragon was not as sleepy and withdrawn as usual. The way his wings beat was almost forceful.

Outlander.

Mother of the pesky ones.

My one name has perished, killed by treachery.

I will fight.

I will fight!

Well that went well.

Welcome aboard.

I will kill him.

Meadow dove to the ground where a line of fire already waited, next to the cavernous entrance of the Golden Scale Bank and Exchange. Viv was pretty sure she could smell grilled fresh fish on the wind. Arthur really knew her customers.

The waiting resumed, but not for long. A barely smaller black dragon soon arrived. She was a shadow over a shadow, making it hard to spot her, but not heard to hear. She roared when she spotted Viv.

What have you humans done!?

Viv closed her eyes. This was going to be frustrating.

Greetings, She-Who-Rides-The-Storm’s-Darkest-Cloud.

Viv started a flying greeting and after a few moments of hesitation, Stormrider reluctantly returned it.

At least you remember my name, simian creature.

Viv rolled her eyes.

I’m a human, not a goldfish.

Now stop it.

I hate that cheating bastard as much as you do.

A grunt of disbelief emerged from the dragon’s dark throat.

You are weak, and depend on your gods for everything.

Now look what your kind has done! Millennia of wisdom, lost!

“Believe me, I know,” Viv spat. “And I will fight him. Will you?”

Why would I place myself under the order of a lesser.

Viv exposed the anger and fatigue in her soul.

Then why have you come?

Just to complain?

I have a war to wage.

She bared her teeth, wings spreading out in a draconic gesture of challenge.

If you will not face him like I will, then depart.

ENOUGH!

The dragoness broke the dance. She approached Viv, then followed with a narrow turn. Gray mana kept her upright with a few beatings of her wings which was, to those who could feel it, an impressive display of power and control. Viv decided the timing was right to extend an olive branch so she would feel that she’d won.

Judgment visited me, using a fate construct to speak to me.

He said he chose this path because it could lead to a better future for all of us.

I will face the Champion of Maranor in battle, for this future he saw.

Join me, She-Who-Rides-The-Storm’s-Darkest-Cloud.

You do not have to obey.

Share your fire with me.

The dragoness did her equivalent of a harrumph, that grumpy old tart. Viv was almost fed up having to juggle skyscraper-sized egos. She only committed to the bit because it was her brand and also because fuck were dragons powerful anyway. Can’t look a gifted adult firebreather in the mouth and so on.

You have a spine; you have honor.

Although you have no wings.

“Not you too,” Viv moaned.

Is that fish I smell?

“Arthur knows how to be a good host.”

Very well.

Do not presume to order me around!

And when you fight, worry not, for I will rain fire upon your enemies!

Then she dove again. Viv watched the black dot land in a terrifying roar that scared the cooks because why not. The night was just starting. Viv sighed.

“What a massive fucking tsundere.”

***

It was time. The Maranorian army didn’t try to bypass the Deadshield Woods via teleportation, a daunting task that would have required control over Kazar. Instead, the army crashed through the forest on a 500 paces front along the old road, the surviving elites at the head led by the champion himself. They cut trees, destroyed traps, and killed countless monsters which ended up in the pots of the ravenous horde. Almost a hundred thousand strong, the largest formation in Nyil’s history steamrolled the eternal woods like the march of progress itself. The trees were used for the cooking pits or palisades, their roots torn off to dig kilometers of latrines. In the middle of the trip, the lake was detoxified and drunk in its entirety. Nero still had to have Crest keep portals open just to keep the army decently watered and fed.

They moved on expecting an attack that never came. After ten days of relentless march, the vanguard of the host arrived in Kazar at dawn. They found it entirely empty. No food, no wealth, no people, only rustic houses spilling over a long-outgrown wall underneath the purple tree. The vanguard gathered under its ancient boughs.

“It used to block the contamination,” Crest said. “Remember?”

“I remember. Burn it down.”

“What?”

“It no longer serves a purpose beyond being a symbol of Harrak. Symbols will burn, the tree, the palace, Efestar’s statue. They will all burn. Do it.”

And so, the tree burnt, purple leaves turning to embers, and the Maranorians moved on. The army deployed itself out of the forest like the wings of some city-sized vulture, their advance unopposed. After a brief hesitation, they traveled towards the capital of Sinur’s Gate forty leagues away.

There was no food to be found on the path. The Harrakans had left nothing behind but freshly seeded crops pushing through the early spring soil, taunting hungry soldiers with the promise of a harvest they might never see. They marched over plains and hills at a fast pace, and around noon, they found the alliance army.

***

Crest beheld Sinur’s Gate for the first time in his life just from a small hill near the road heading north.

Long ago, his expedition had bypassed the cursed city by traveling north instead. They’d been too far to see the way it merged with the mountains, or the lone path leading up on a background of distant clouds. Something about their ominous and unnatural formation bothered him until he remembered most of the Deadlands were still under such a merciless sky, and it did not detract from the city’s charm. Now restored, its towers and roofs shone like jewels in the pale winter sun. The contrast between light and darkness illustrated New Harrak’s idiosyncrasies to him.

Tents and fortifications dotted the road up to the gates; though if it came to that, then the battle was already over. Below that was the famous Plain of the Gods with its many temples including the large statue to Efestar, one that would crumble before the day was done.

And before that was the Alliance army.

“Holy Maranor’s Grace,” he whispered.

***

There were no tents large enough to accommodate the headquarters of the alliance. None had ever been designed with dragons in mind, and now eight stood, wings folded, their serpentine eyes inspecting their surroundings on the rest platform overlooking the valley. Of the hundreds of officers attending, only the Harrakans were comfortable in their presence. Some of the distant Baranese dukes kept glancing from them to the merl, yries, and kark representatives. Although the dragons were the kind to take offense at any perceived slight, the peace was maintained by the presence of Arthur. The now large dragoness quietly presided over the assembly with her cold presence. Golden chimes hung from her horns by colorful ribbons. They sang beautifully with every gust of wind. A heavy chain kept her pouch close to her chest. None of the dragons present criticized the choice of human garments. Rather, their attention would sometimes be captured by the shimmering reflection of dancing gold.

Viv was the last to arrive flanked by Sahin and Jaratalassi, the strategists looking like they’d not slept properly for their entire lives. She moved straight to the central table and its map.

Her gaze went over the assembled people. They were all here, silent and disciplined although the dragons probably helped with that first part.

This was it.

Fifteen years ago, she had been a starving, poisoned witch at the edge of civilization. Now she was ruler of a rising nation, part of a vast alliance formed for the express purpose of making life marginally less shitty. The gathering was a testament to her work. To her love. To the sacrifice of many friends starting with Jor who jumped off Fort Sky wall to save her from the undead, so very long ago, and ending with Judgment. Viv hadn’t stood idle. She had done her very best to leave a positive imprint every day she was here. And this was the result. Warriors, assassins, mages, even administrators represented by the ever sinister presence of Bes. Several nations. Several species. All of them might return to competing for resources soon but that was outside of her control. Defending the dream was what she was here to do, and they were here with her to do it of their own accord. It was enough to give her faith.

“Ladies and gentlemen. Thanks for coming,” she began.

Her casual tone relieved some of the tension. She wasn’t done though.

“You may all have your own reason to fight today, in what looks like a duel between two powerful outlanders. For most of you, the reason to fight isn’t me.”

People exchanged awkward glances.

“And I consider this my greatest success,” she continued, to some attendant’s surprise.

By her side, Sahin nodded knowingly.

“Oleander conquered two continents with an iron fist. His vision turned armies to his banner because it has the merit of being simple, and simple is attractive. To the question: ‘how do we live?’, his answer is: the way I tell you. It is powerful because it is simple, and because to many people, it is enough. I do not blame them. This is a harsh world. Some people are willing to forfeit agency for the sake of protection.

“But it doesn’t work for everyone. We’re here today because we searched and found a way to live that was honorable and good, and different. We’re here because Neriad was right to encourage us to find our own path to goodness. We’re here because a simple answer cannot satisfy the entirety of sapient life, and because no one, not Maranor, not her followers, and certainly not Oleander, can tell us how we should be happy and just. We’re here because our vision is strong enough to oppose his and he cannot tolerate it. So our visions will collide on this field in front of us. And we will crush his.”

There were enough nods that Viv knew her message had gone across. The alliance was of one purpose: to stop Oleander from usurping theirs.

“My role in this battle will be simple: I need to keep Oleander at bay. He’s monstrously strong. Your role is to send his army back home in coffins.”

“Aye.”

“I’ll leave the floor to General Jaratalassi,” Viv concluded.

“Hello everyone, and welcome back to yet another defensive battle where we hold the high ground.”

Now there were more chuckles.

“You’ve all been drilling so you may have already identified the forces in presence but since this is the largest battle in the history of our races, I’ll go over things again anyway.”

He pointed at the map which showed the Plain of the Gods and the city behind in great detail. The field was separated into large squares, some empty near the front, some covered in elaborate figurines closer to the cliffs.

“This is our battlefield. Due to the sheer size of our armies, each one of you will be responsible for their own sector, leading your own troops. That doesn’t mean that you’re without support, of course. I assume you’re familiar with your vestals by now?”

The bipedal members of the alliance signaled confirmation, but the dragons were obviously confused. Viv had to step forward.

“For our newcomers, vestals are special paths dedicated to the operation of a communicator. That is an enchanted device that allows you to speak and listen over vast distances.”

Why not roar?

“Because there is going to be a lot of roaring, and we want the right person to hear. We’re modifying helmets for you right now. Just give us another hour or so.”

She stepped back. Jaratalassi resumed his explanations.

“You are going to get communicators as well but only to listen. There are several channels we don’t want to clog. Your respective vestals know which ones to use. Now, if you see a threat or something that needs to be removed, or you need help, tell us. You can’t pick how it’s going to be removed. It will be decided at the highest level for the best use of our resources.”

Queen Rosea took a step forward so Jaratalassi stopped.

“Which are?”

Jaratalassi pointed at groups of figurines.

“Two circles of Academy family mages, one circle of World’s End mages, four artillery batteries split alongside the frontline, assassins, golem hit squads, gray mage flights, and of course, dragons if they can be so inclined.”

I do not want to hear your mouth orifices flapping when I fly, human.

I shall take to the skies and rain fire upon our enemies.

Jaratalassi turned to Viv who was obviously the local Draconic negotiation expert.

“You’re going to run out of fire long before you run out of enemies. Look in front of you. If you want to be cunning, there is another way.”

Your way?

Or so you will claim?

