“Our humans will recognize the other humans so we can point you towards the ones whose incineration will cause Oleander the most grief. Dragon fire is a potent weapon. It makes no sense to waste it.”

Arthur hissed.

Many humans are not even deserving of the effort to burn them.

I usually just throw a rock.

The black dragoness tilted her head.

You have a lot of practice killing humans.

I accept your logic.

We will fly to where we can be the most aggravating.

“Perfect.”

“For the remainder of the first day we will remain on the defensive,” Jaratalassi said. “Oleander has been unstoppable so far. We end this now. We need to make his troops doubt first before we can safely counter-attack, especially with their numbers advantage. As for our order of battle, the merl will take the left flank on the high hills and forests.”

Several of the officers nodded, probably having guessed why priests of Saradanal had spent so much time and energy to turn the rocky hills into decent forests over the past month: it was to give the merls their perfect battlefield.

“Then Baran under Queen Rosea and her cavalry. From our scout reports, we expect you to face off against Enoria.”

The sovereign seemed displeased at being on the side, but a glance was exchanged with Viv and she gave a nod of understanding.

“Then the northern cities of Glastia and Zazas on this ridge. Yries, religious orders and mercenaries will cover the road access gap here along the priest village, then Harrak front and  dead center. Finally, the Kark will cover the right flank up to the cliffs.”

“VICTORY WILL BE OURS!”

“And please wait before charging this time. Now, everyone has faster troops, your own casters, and elites in case you’re hard pressed, but remember to call what you see. We won’t know everything from up here.”

“Will you be staying there?” the queen asked.

Jaratalassi gave Sahin a glance.

“The two of us and our support staff, yes.”

“Forgive my concerns, general. Are you not concerned about mage flights or assassins?”

A few of the more knowledgeable people exchanged glances. To Viv’s surprise, the first answer came from Stormrider.

Human.

You expect other humans to contest our mastery of the skies?

They are ours.

Obviously.

“Hellow,” a masked, black-clad form said from the side.

Only the Harrakans didn’t jerk this time but that was only because they were immune to jump scares by now. Viv hid a smile. Not like it was beneficial for her to give her fellow sovereigns a reminder that she had hadals in case they got any idea in the distant future. Or anything.

“They are the ones who should be scared of assassins.”

He disappeared. Viv was honestly impressed he would even show himself in front of so many people. She would have to congratulate him later.

“I believe this answers your question,” Jaratalassi said. “I will talk to you via communicator whenever necessary, but otherwise all of you here are seasoned veterans, or advised by seasoned veterans. You know what to do.”

“One last thing,” Viv said before calling the meeting.

The group politely waited for her final speech.

“We obviously all hope that it doesn’t happen, but if I die, don’t panic. We have one last contingency in case it happens. The war will be lost but if you can hold out a little longer, you may sue for peace with acceptable terms.”

Arthur hissed her displeasure.

It will not happen.

“I think so too, but, just in case. Alright that is it. Now for my last compulsory political moment… Look, I’ve been here for fifteen years. This is my world now. No matter how this goes, I couldn’t have hoped to fight for a brighter future in better company. The fact that you’re all here today fills me with immense pride, because it means I must be doing something right. If you look around, you’ll see that Helock and parts of Baran are on the other side even though they’re officially members of the alliance. You will also see that the yries, kark, merl and hadals are here. We’re all going to bleed together today, and there is no higher mark of support so I propose that the alliance be opened to non-human races.”

“There is no need to delay,” Queen Rosea said. “I call for a vote. All in favor?”

The vote was fast and unanimous.

“Then it is decided. The Red Tribe and merl nation will be invited to formally join the alliance in its next meeting. As part of the Harrakan empire, the hadals and the concerned yries tribe are already members.”

“Alright everyone,” Viv finished. “We now join our people. May the light gods protect you.”

***

As soon as the soldiers had gone, Viv approached Arthur, who conveniently turned her large body to hide the view.

“Irao, please,” Viv said.

The hadal dutifully appeared like some specter from the shadows.

“Did you confirm Crest and Oleander’s position?”

“They are committed.”

“Very well.”

She turned to Sahin.

“Tell Solar he can begin.”

***

“The Empress tells you that you may commence at—”

“Finally.”

Solar stood up from his hiding place at the edge of a remote manor in the north of Baran. A casual observer might have noticed the higher number of guards, but even an idiot wouldn’t have failed to see they were far too heavily armed — and too high on the path — to be mere manor sentries. With him was a Sinur’s Gate bishop who had insisted on coming, a mage who would stay behind for the portal, and to his regret, his wife.

He had to admit it though, with her dark wavy hair falling over her thick gambeson, she was… distractingly attractive.

“Make haste, husband. I miss our children,” she demanded.

“Oh you can count on that.”

Solar walked towards the entrance at a brisk pace. Immediately, four guards turned to him. They were third step spear warriors from Helock. He focused, and cut.

The aura lashed out, destroying all of their weapons. To their credit, they drew short swords.

“Your courage is misplaced.”

He moved into them. A jab knocked the first, a kick sent the second against a nearby wall. The third moved to a bell to ring the alarm. Solar let him. Wamiri smashed the fourth in the temple, using the butt of her spear. He would live.

She gave him an indulging smile.

“I only stop killing because you asked so nicely, husband.”

“A good day to you,” the bishop said, looking down the dazed sentries from his incredibly hooked nose. “Neriad be with you.”

The men hesitated. Solar was pretty sure they didn’t speak Harrakan.

“Or,” the bishop said, pulling a sword, “Enttiku will be with you.”

The man wisely surrendered to the universal language of physical threats. Meanwhile, a furious ding turned the manor into a hive of activity. The third guard kept looking at Solar with the sort of disbelief that came with being still alive. Solar considered his options.

Wamiri socked the man in the jaw. He fell like a sack.

“Or that,” Solar admitted.

He cut the manor’s iron gates open, the two others close behind. The guards stood before him in loose formation with a single Baranese man in front of them. He was completely calm, exuding a sense of pure confidence, gauntlet over the handle of an old sword. Solar recognized the blade, and his heart beat faster.

“Get ready to execute the hostages,” the foe said.

“Wamiri,” Solar replied.

She moved forward, spear whirling in the wind.

“I like it when you take charge, husband. I will cut us a path through. Ready, bishop?”

“Right behind you.”

The enemy blade master tsked but Solar’s approach forced his attention back. Solar could tell he was a capable opponent, and the other Baranese returned the favor. In the background, Wamiri engaged, supported by the bishop. They broke through without difficulty.

“I will not insult you by telling you they’re not here,” the man said.

“Good.”

“But it does not matter. None of you will leave. Tell me your name, Harrakan, before you die.”

“You will figure it out,” Solar replied.

The man stood feet apart. He was wearing an elaborate Baranese armor marked with the late king’s sigil while Solar was still in tunic — for now.

“Hmph. I am Blademaster Selyen of Baran, Champion of the King, master of the arena. The dragonslayer reborn. And this…”

He drew the sword.

Pressure spread over the manicured garden. The air tasted of metal. Solar took a deep breath.

“This artifact is the Sword of the Dragonslayer himself, the first blade master to defeat an adult dragon in single combat. It was recovered from the mouth of the dead beast, still attached to its owner’s right arm.”

“Oh, I know. I remember.”

Selyen blinked.

“It was quite painful.”

Doubt and realization cracked the layer of self-importance. It was too late, of course.

Solar raised his right arm, the very same Viv had regrown fifteen years before when he had come to meet her as a very last resort. The Blade of Barran, treasure of the kingdom, flew to its own master’s hand where it fitted perfectly.

“My old friend,” Solar whispered. “Ah, my turn then?”

Solar saluted. Just the pressure of the sword carved a groove across the stone path.

“My name is Eron of Solar. The Dragonslayer.”

Selyen took a few steps back, mouth agape.

“That is…. impossible.”

“And I do not kill guards or soldiers because they are powerless. You, on the other hand, have power aplenty. And you used it for this.”

Eron was next to him.

Eron struck. He bisected Selyen, the trees behind him, and the manor’s outer walls. The shockwave traveled across the garden like the release of a long held breath. The sword sang in his hands. Finally. After so, so very long.

“You and your upstart master will regret the day you picked your path,” Eron told the dying man. “For today, the gloves come off. For all of us.”

The doors of the manor opened. Wamiri was here, supporting an exhausted but very much alive Archwitch of the Thorn alongside the bishop. Gil the Crown Prince of Enoria closed the march with blood on his sword. He dropped it.

“It’s you…. it’s really you. The legend.”

Unfortunately for Eron, the mood was ruined when Wamiri growled, stepped to him, then slapped his ass.

***

Crest stopped behind Oleander in the middle of the field, around half a league away from the Harrakan lines. With him was a collection of over fifty leaders of the kingdom with various degrees of legitimacy. The Hopecrusher was a given, as was General Terilasani who led the sparrows and most of the Viziman part of their militaries, and King Sangor of Enoria. A very reluctant participant. ‘King’ Marzak of Baran was also valid although his status was not. Some of the tribe leaders of the Shadowlands were a bit more iffy, but he supposed the volume was the point.

The Paramese Alliance wasn’t reciprocating yet. He could only assume pre-battle banter was a lost tradition. It did give him time to inspect the opposition though, starting with the infantry.

[Harrakan Heavy Infantry (Children of the Scale), second step of a path dedicated to line battle, close quarter combat journeywoman, undead killer, high morale.]

“She’s done it.”

Harrakan arts were thought lost to time but the inspect skill couldn’t lie. The girl had really brought them back from the dead. He’d traveled to the old capital long before and thought the old empire outside of mankind’s grasp. He’d been wrong. And they already had military tradition strong enough to be recognized by the system. He checked other formations, disbelief forcing every subsequent inspection. The Mountain Lords, the Iron Brotherhood. Linebreakers.

[Harrakan Heavy Infantry (Hightree company), close quarter combat expert, good duelist, human killer, undead killer, furious (will fight to the last warrior)]

Well obviously since they’d burnt their fucking tree down. A shiver ran up Crest’s spine.

This was fifteen years of effort? Fifteen years had led to this? How?

What had he done for the past century?

Then he found the heaviest armored ones.

[Harrakan Imperial Guard (One Hundred). Elite Infantry. Expert close quarter combatant. Full runic set gear. Morale: unbreakable, all sources (flagbearer effect).]

What the fuck. Those guys could stop the vanguard itself. And there were more behind.

[Witchpact Crossbow (Sister of the Eye). Elite sharpshooter. Decent close quarter combatant. Special bolts.]

More came: the Bitter Hearts, the Black Hands.

[Bullwark-class portable shield array.]

He’d heard about those but to see them in the flesh… so they were real. How could they even channel enough mana to function and move without depleting their cores?

[Liberator Flame Tank, mark II.]

What did that even mean? It was like the outlander had brought her war to this world. It scared Crest, but then he remembered it wouldn’t matter. Oleander was too strong now. He would kill her, then her army would crumble. Even those handsome knights he saw at the back would make no difference. He had to hope so because otherwise, this wasn’t going to be the quick battle everyone was hoping for.

Even the Hopecrusher lacked his usual bluster. Everyone could see the unwavering wall of black metal in front of them. It didn’t take an advanced inspection skill to know those strange constructs were machines of death.

“Horses coming,” someone said.

“Is that a fucking spider?” a tribe leader asked.

