“Once clothing is removed, it no longer functions.” Tatya said. The woman sighed and Ren felt her regret, then Tatya ended her story with how Jirqym had made her a liar and lost her Respect. “I had always believed that the private rooms were just that. Private.” She said. “The Respect I lost by being forced to become a liar was significant, and he told me to take it up with the Herd if I thought his treatment of me was unfair.”

The investigators exchanged looks and deliberated for a few moments, then looked back at her. “Your earlier Respect loss was due to your own prejudice; but, your duty as a delegate put you in that situation. Therefore, half of your lost Respect will be restored from that incident.” The new middle investigator said. “As for being discovered as a 'liar', we find it difficult to believe that you did not know that the rooms are monitored for deception, exchange of contraband, and people trying to get their stories straight.”

“I honestly didn't know.” Tatya said with regret, and they believed her.

“King Ren knew.” One of the women said.

“He has abilities far beyond...” Tatya stopped and sighed. “Jirqym has given you the list of the abilities he has discovered so far. King Ren is... he's not like anyone we have ever met before.”

“We have discerned that fact for ourselves.” She said and looked at Ren, then looked at the man that sat near the center of the table.

“Very well. Since 4 parties were involved in the incident, You, King Ren, Jirqym, and inadvertently the Herd, we hereby restore three-quarters of your lost Respect for the incident, which is the limit to our authority.” The man said. “You will need to get the remainder from King Ren on your own.”

Tatya's surprise was evident as she glowed slightly and tears sprang from her eyes.

“You have three months to accomplish this before the next selection for delegates is performed and a new caravan is constructed.” The man said and exchanged looks with his fellow investigators. “If there is no other business, I declare this session closed.” He said and slapped the table top three times.

The investigators stood up as one, and like a snake shedding its skin, they shook slightly and were no longer investigators and became people again. They quickly came out from behind the curved table and stepped down from the raised platform, and mingled with everyone as if they were at a party of some kind.

Ren deactivated and stored the Vasalor Statue as the guard once more went to the door and asked the attendants to come in with food and refreshments. One of the women that had sat at the table came right over to Ren and his group.

“This was a really long session, wasn't it?” She asked with a huge smile. “So much happened during this caravan's journey!”

“More than I thought was going to.” Tatya said as she came over to them as well.

The investigator put her hand on Hebzibah's arm. “I didn't know you went through that.” She said, and Ren felt her sincerity. “I'm not going to be stupid and ask why you never confided in me about it.”

Hebzibah took a quick breath and let it out. “I don't just casually admit to...” She stopped talking when Ren took her hand.

“It's okay, Hebzibah. Your friends are here to help you.” Ren said with a smile. “Both old and new.”

“Both...” Hebzibah felt several hands on her arms and shoulders as Artemis, Yuwen, Dilseffa, and Tiypahi touched her reassuringly. She looked at their faces and didn't know what to say. Ren's attendant came over to them and served them food and drinks and saved her from having to say anything.

“I'm starving!” The other woman said and accepted the food. “We were here so long that we missed lunch!”

The attendant blinked his eyes at her. “Ma'am, it's still several hours until lunch.” He said, and she stared at him with an open mouth, as did Hebzibah.

“Wh-what did you say?”

“You've only been in session for an hour.” The attendant said. “The other attendants and I have been wondering why you are all so hungry and thirsty today.”

“That's my cue to leave.” Ren said and stepped up into the air and quickly kissed Yuwen, then turned to Dilseffa. “I'll meet you back at your place tonight.” He said and kissed her. “I need to do the rounds and then go to the Fire Realm.” He said as he turned and kissed Tiyaphi, who slipped him a bit of tongue and made him chuckle.

“Don't have too much fun.” Artemis said and he kissed her.

“I'll try to restrain myself.” Ren said and turned to Hebzibah.

“I hope that... mhm!” Hebzibah caught her breath as Ren gave her a quick kiss and poured acceptance into her.

“If you decide that you wouldn't mind spending some time with me, send word to Dilseffa's home.” Ren said and turned to the woman he didn't know. “Hi! I'm Ren.” He said and shook her hand, and held in his laugh at her disappointment, then he turned to Tatya. “I'm glad you didn't suffer too much from things being so messed up.”

“Me, too.” Tatya said, and Ren stepped close and kissed her cheek. He felt a little sadness from her, so he surprised her and gave her a kiss on the lips.

“I heard that it was okay for friends to kiss.” Ren said with a smile.

Tatya wasn't sure how to respond to that, because she had never been kissed by her friends before.

“Can we be friends?” The woman investigator that Ren didn't know asked.

Ren chuckled and darted out of their little group and fixed Beholo's magical bracelet and the wand. He checked the All-Seeing Mirror, cast a portal and stepped through it into the town square of Eastlowen Bay, then made a Portal Gate there. He jumped to his mountain town and made the second one; but, he didn't activate it because he didn't want anyone there without his permission. With that done, he opened another portal and started visiting everyone that he hadn't seen the day before.

Ren visited them all and gave them a week each, starting with Anabelle. The only one he didn't spend a week with was Narhilda, since that was only a quick pop in and out, then he went to the Fire Realm for the day to spend it with his first daughter, the Deity of Fire.
