Shifting her eyes around, Pyre made her way around the corpse, inspecting the area at the same time. She couldn’t find any footprints, and there were no gaps in the surrounding walls, either. Wherever this was, there clearly hadn’t been anything living around in a long time. The lack of an entrance, even a blocked one, was weird, though. How the hell had a creature this giant gotten inside this cavern in the first place? Maybe the chamber had been constructed around it, she thought, or magic. She had a feeling “magic” was going to be the answer to a lot of weird shit in the future.

Don’t suppose you know what’s going on, Pyre thought absently at the corpse. She decided to call it Fred just because referring to it as “the corpse” or “the thing” all the time was getting repetitive. You’re dead, after all.

She paused. For a second there, she thought she’d seen something move beneath the creature’s skin. Pyre squinted and moved closer. Fred’s flesh was a dark grey, but she couldn’t tell if it had always been that color or if whatever was preserving the body had caused it to turn into that rock-like shade.

As she stood directly in front of Fred’s collapsed arm, however, she saw movement again. It was faint, but just beneath the creature’s skin, some sort of silver light seemed to travel down its body. But just as suddenly as it had appeared, it was gone again. Was that Fred’s blood? The light had seemed to be traveling down the general path of veins, but surely any blood would long be dried out by now.

Pyre grew a long, sharp bone, then promptly stabbed it into the corpse. Fred was dead, it wasn’t like it would feel it. It ended up not doing anything, though, because the bone wasn’t able to pierce through that hardened flesh. Pyre clicked her tongue in disappointment and retracted the bone. Oh well, another mystery to add to the pile.

She glanced around again. It didn’t look like there was anything more she could accomplish here. She couldn’t even find a proper exit, save for that hole in the very high up ceiling. Finding a way out would be fun.

For now, though, she decided to direct her attention to the one thing she actually could do right now.

Starter Quest: Escape the Flesh PitEscape the Flesh Pit and devour at least (30) other Flesh Lumps.Reward: Experience, 30 points, initial Tier 1 species evolutionBonus: You will receive (1) extra point for every additional Flesh Lump killed beyond the quest minimum.

[Starter Quest: Escape the Flesh Pit completed!][Would you like to accept rewards?]

Well, this was it, Pyre thought. Time to see what that evolution was all about.

She gave her surroundings one final sweep to make sure she hadn’t missed anything, then focused back on the notification and mentally selected yes.
