Ali glanced up from her book as Mato stirred and finally got up. “Good morning,” she said.

“Bleh,” he managed, rubbing his eyes.

“The bear emerges from his hibernation,” she chirped.

“Too early, Ali. Way too early.”

She left him to stomp around and returned to her story. Ryn, she reflected, was a genius at finding the best books, and the tiny collection in their library had more than doubled in size already. By the time Ali was done reading, Mato was chopping up strawberries and walnuts to put on top of the oatmeal he had just made for breakfast.

“What are you going to do today?” Ali asked, putting the books back on the shelf and joining him at the table.

“There are still many farms that need my help, but Eliyen gave me a couple of cheap potions that increase my regeneration, and that seems to make it go faster,” he said. “What about you?”

“I’m going to check the trash my Kobolds collected last night and see if there’s anything I can learn,” Ali said, wrinkling her brow as she mentally scrutinized her to-do list. “After that, I was thinking of reopening the passage down to the ruined city – the one that the Town Watch blew up. That way, I can reinforce my domain by connecting it to the top through a third area.”

“Sewer first?” Mato asked.

“Yup.” That’s where her industrious rogues had been dumping whatever they could lay their talons on.

“I’ll walk with you,” he said. Ali helped him clean up after breakfast and then the two of them headed out while she explained the details of her trash collection scheme.

“So, you’re the town’s trash collector now?” Mato said, his eyes crinkling with amusement.

“I guess so,” Ali answered, wondering if anyone would notice the town mysteriously cleaning itself overnight. She was glad to have his company – she’d spent most of yesterday hunting alone, and she was sure he was beginning to feel just as lonely as she was.

It was right as they approached the shrine in the forest cavern that she heard a mournful moaning and saw some shambling figures shuffling around in the light of the runes etched onto the stone.

“Zombies!” Mato shouted, transforming quickly.

“Again?” Ali said. “Where the heck from this time?” It took only a moment for her to connect with her Kobolds at the far south end of the cavern but, aside from a few piled-up bones and corpses, the Grasping Roots traps were clear, and her minions still lived.

Ali dropped herself to the ground and let her slime and Kobolds off as she resummoned her barrier to protect herself. Using the remaining capacity, she fired off two barrier shards, slicing into the shambling undead monsters, while her Kobold mage began to fire spears of bone that easily impaled rotting flesh.

Mato slammed into them with a huge crash, sending several monsters flying, and it was all over in seconds.

Your group has defeated Warrior – Zombie – level 2-7 x15.

Oh. No real reason for panic. Ali eyed the scattered and mauled corpses littering the Grove. “They’re obviously from the blighted forest, but how did they get in?”

“I’m not sure,” Mato said. “It’s a good thing they’re all low levels.”

“Give me a moment,” Ali said, and then hopped onto her barrier with a Kobold and levitated high above the trees. Using the eyes of the Kobold, she surveyed her Forest Cavern, her brow furrowing at the sight, and then flew back down.

“Find anything?”

“They’re everywhere again,” Ali said, “but I can’t tell where they got in. Strange.”

“I can help you clear them,” Mato said, but his expression was conflicted.

“No, you have a commitment to keep at the farms,” Ali said. “I can handle this.”

“You sure?”

“Yup.”

“Thanks, Ali,” Mato said, smiling at her. “Maybe try out your new bats?”

“That’s a good idea,” she said, summoning the barrier again and resuming the flight to the sewer. “Wolves can cover a lot of ground too; I might make some to help with cleanup.”

Mulling over her plans for how to deal with the mess in the cavern, she deposited Mato on top of the giant trash pile that had formed overnight at the bottom of the sewer grate and bade him good luck. As she had done the day before, she worked her way down from the top, deconstructing everything her Kobolds had collected.

Variant: Walnut added to Imprint: Wood.

Variant: New Darian Silver Crown added to Imprint: Coin.

She discarded several worthless imprints, including one for bread. For a town that was supposed to be struggling for food, it was surprising just how much of it she found in the trash pile.

Just then she stopped, her blood running cold at the sight of a blackened foot poking out of the pile. Gingerly, she deconstructed the trash around it, revealing precisely what she feared: a corpse.

What the fuck?

Her eyes widened at the mangled remains. Something, or someone, had removed this body’s skeleton – with extreme force. The flesh had been torn apart as if something had reached in and simply ripped the bones out. Struggling to keep her breakfast down, she deconstructed the remains. This town is awful.

There were no further surprises, and Ali’s stomach had settled by the time she disposed of the rest of the pile.

“Ok, you two, come with me, we have work to do,” she said, directing her voice to the two hidden Kobold rogues. Both of them appeared instantly and hopped onto her barrier with her Acolyte and Bone Mage, and she flew all the way back to the shrine before landing.

“Go clear the zombies,” Ali commanded as soon as she landed, and her two rogues vanished once more. Then she opened her Grimoire and began summoning monsters. She would have called her Forest Guardians to come clean up, but she hadn’t figured out how to get the behemoths up or down the library stairs. With Mato’s caution to keep strong minions nearby still fresh in her mind, Ali created a fresh Guardian instead.

There’s so much ground to cover, she thought, studying the cavern. Then, she got to work. For her first choice, she summoned five Timber Wolves, and then twenty of the much cheaper Starving Wolves. As she created each one, she sent them off into the cavern with instructions to hunt down the undead and protect her domain, but before long she noticed the wolves grouping up together. Each pack formed around the nucleus of a single Timber Wolf with four or five of the smaller Starving Wolves.

How does that work? They’re not even the same species. Ali studied them for a while, but finally concluded it was simply the wolves’ instincts to fight as a pack. Perhaps it’s because everything shares my mana? They feel like the same pack…

Whatever the reason, the wolves worked well in their packs, so she let it go and began summoning bats. Ali started with several Giant Bats and then a whole flight of the smaller Cave Bats, sending them out into the forest to help with the cleanup, and then she put her Grimoire away.

Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 29.

Neat. Ok, now where did you all come from?

She racked her brain for the answer, but no sudden revelations were forthcoming. If I can’t figure it out, I’ll just have to search, she decided, splitting her awareness into a few of the Timber Wolves and Giant Bats. I need the practice anyway. Sooner or later, her minions would run into the gap in her defenses, all she needed to do was keep watch.

Leaving the cleanup of the zombies to her wolves and bats, she flew off to tackle the next item on her checklist. Arriving at the northwestern area of the cavern, she set herself down by the giant rockfall that now blocked the passage to the ruined city gates. Someone had detonated something powerful in here to cause so much damage, but she had planted her Living Bamboo Forest all the way to the edge and her domain already extended deep into the rock, clearly visible with Arcane Insight.

She flexed her Domain Mastery skill, feeding it an enormous amount of mana, and then walked into the rockfall. All that shattered and broken rock flowed, receding from her path, withdrawing up into the walls and ceiling of the new tunnel she forged. With her Grimoire out, she augmented her domain skill with more robust stone variants, forming arches from Aether-Fused Obsidian and lining the ceiling with solid granite.

She stopped for a while, deconstructing rock to refill her mana pool and fill the ground with moss and mushrooms before she resumed her slow walk, boring through the rockfall.

Half an hour into her work, her tunnel broke through a jagged opening in the side wall. In an instant, the tunnel filled with low moaning as a thick press of zombies and skeletons spilled out of the dark crack.

Shit! The moment she saw the undead, she switched places with her Kobold rogue and shot out of the tunnel on a hastily summoned barrier disk, heart thumping rapidly. That’s where they’re coming from!

Calen had surmised that the cave system near this passage had somehow connected with the northern farms, resulting in the Kobold infestations they had to quell back when they had triggered the dungeon-break. Ali had assumed the rockfall had blocked them – but evidently not all.

“Help!” she called, summoning all her nearby monsters to herself as the rogue backed out of the tunnel, overwhelmed by the sheer number of zombies spilling through. As the tremor of her Forest Guardian rushing toward her shook the ground under her feet, Ali scrambled to summon barriers to block some of them.

Her Bone Mage unleashed its Bone Spears into the crush of undead flesh, filling her nostrils with the sulfurous odor of burning flame, as the first Timber Wolf arrived, howling for allies.

Wait… flame? She glanced at her Kobold mage, doubting herself for a second. But the steady stream of Bone Spears was better than Identify. I don’t have a Fire Mage…

She sniffed the air but caught nothing. No, it’s not me. She glanced at her Timber Wolf and suddenly understood; she was still splitting her awareness into the wolf, borrowing its senses – and the wolf, with its vastly more sensitive olfactory senses, could smell fire.

She slipped her awareness into her Luminous Slime, but it couldn’t sense anything unusual using its senses. Puzzled, she checked with the wolf once again, but the acrid odor persisted, overriding even the foul stench of the press of zombie flesh.

On a hunch, she swapped to a swooping Giant Bat and activated its echolocation.

A dark shape sprang into her mind, hovering about fifteen meters behind and above her, entirely invisible to all her other senses.

Someone is here! And not just floating about either; it was casting a spell that was somehow entirely invisible to her mana sight. The rapid-fire clicks of the bat picked out the shape of the person clearly. Hovering above their outstretched hand was a diffuse ball that had to be magic – a creation of much lower density that appeared tenuous and blurry to the senses of the bat.

But after so many times of using the spell, even with the unfamiliar perception mode of echolocation, she recognized the Fireball just by the size and shape, and how it twisted, roiling above the outstretched hand. And the stench of fire in the nostrils of her Timber Wolf.

Her heart pounded in her chest, but she forced herself to remain calm, deliberately facing the press of zombies and the crash of her Forest Guardian as it trampled the undead. Whatever she did, she wasn’t going to let the invisible flying mage know she had seen them. Clicking continuously with ultrasonic pulses behind her, she continued to study the spell.

Now! Right when she was certain the Fireball was about to complete, she summoned a barrier with all the reaction speed and haste she could muster. Drawing heavily on her domain mana, she infused her barrier magic with as much density and strength as she could, and the instantaneous glowing globe snapped into place around the flying mage, right as the Fireball left their fingertips.

The muffled detonation filled the magical sphere with sudden roiling flame and black smoke. Ali held the barrier spell in her mind, not relenting for one moment, even with the wince of referred pain from the detonation felt through the ears of her bat.

You have defeated Fire Assassin – Human – level 43 (Fire / Illusion).Grove Warden has reached level 50.+10 attribute points.Barrier has reached level 37.Martial Insight has reached level 29.

Panting from tension, she gripped her magic tight and stood in silence, still using echolocation to see if she was truly safe. But nothing other than her minions moved, and no sound broke the silence other than the squelching of zombie flesh under her Forest Guardian’s feet. That was far, far too close.

She released the barrier and grimaced as the charred remains of a person dropped to the ground with a sickening thump.

“He should have put some points into vitality,” Ali said, using draconic.

“That would have been wise,” her Acolyte said, nodding in agreement. Her Bone Mage just chuckled evilly.

Am I becoming desensitized? Ali thought, staring down at the corpse at her feet. It was her second human corpse today. Uncertain, she deconstructed him and his ruined gear. I just killed a person. And I’m making jokes with my minions. But while she didn’t immediately feel anything, her heart was still pounding, and she could see her hands shaking.

That’s quite an assassin. A Fire Mage with invisibility and a way to cloak his mana signature. Someone had gone to quite extraordinary lengths to kill her without being noticed. Without the Timber Wolf’s keen sense of smell, and her bat’s echolocation, she would never have even seen him before the Fireball hit her in the back. Even her slime hadn’t been able to sense him flying so high in the air. She had her new magic resistance armor, courtesy of Lydia, but she wasn’t certain that would have been enough to save her.

She had a million questions running through her mind. Who sent him? Why do they want to kill me? Is it just because I’m a dungeon? But most of it she already knew the answers to.

Lyeneru was right. I need to get stronger.

She grimaced, deconstructing the mess her Forest Guardian had made, and returned to her task of finishing the tunnel – this time keeping her Guardian closer, and her attention locked on the various senses of her minions.

Domain Mastery has reached level 17.

She reached the entrance hall to Dal’mohra without further incident, at least if she discounted the constant trickle of undead crawling out of the walls, but her minions took care of those. Ali breathed a sigh of relief when her domain connected with the work of her Spore Spreaders and Moss Creepers working hard among the ruins of the city. One more connection meant her domain was that much more secure.

