Now, zombies. Again, she could easily just close up the holes, but she just knew that was making a bigger problem for someone down the line. Undead never went away unless you took care of them explicitly.

On the Dal’mohra side of the new tunnel, in the ancient entry hall, she summoned rock, reshaping the shattered boulders and stone doorway into a narrow channel, just wide enough for a Forest Guardian to traverse, and then she filled it with Grasping Roots runic circles. It’s a good thing these traps don’t take mana.

Variant: Lavaforged Granite added to Imprint: Stone.

Oh, nice! Heat-resistant rock. It seemed that the ancient city gates had been well forged.

On the Forest Cavern side, she had a little more work to do. First, she lowered the ground and raised rock walls on either side, making a ravine or channel that extended out into her Living Bamboo Forest before flattening out. She filled in some more bamboo, making the forest a bit denser and then summoned some Bamboo Crawlers to hide there. Along the banks of her constructed ravine, she planted Luminous Glowcaps and Radiant Larches causing the entire length of it to light up like the main street during the Harvest Festival. At the bottom of the ravine, she created several more traps and then stood back to admire her handiwork.

Wait, zombies are stupid… Most of the lesser undead were not known for their dizzying intellect – how smart could a skeleton or a zombie really be with an empty hole or rotting mush for brains, respectively. Ali spent a good fifteen minutes digging three-meter-deep holes in the ground with Domain Mastery. Watch out, they don’t call me The Dungeon of Obvious Traps for nothing! You might trip over a rock and stub your toe!

Domain Mastery has reached level 19 (+2).

It didn’t take long before a zombie appeared to run her gauntlet. To her utter amazement, it fell into the first pit trap. It took three tries before one got as far as the first Grasping Roots before it got caught. The sniper Bamboo Crawlers immediately opened up, peppering it with thorny darts dripping with poison. It was not perhaps the most efficient match-up, given that undead were typically immune to poison, but the noise attracted the bats and the wolves, and in short order the zombie was dead.

And everything is cheap.

With the zombie incursion taken care of – or at least, managed – and her domain reinforced, Ali changed tack, planting patches of peacebloom throughout the Living Bamboo Forest on her way back to the Grove. When she reached the Grove, she planted more around the shrine. She decided she loved the little flowers and the ambiance they provided. Besides, they reminded her of Malika.

They really do have a lovely scent. I wonder what Malika’s up to right now?

Malika sat gingerly on the bench beside Rezan, her body aching and sore, and studied Hala and Basir circling each other in the ring. It was not that she was hurt – her own healing had taken care of that in short order – but her quick bouts against Hala and her lightning magic always left her feeling ragged and smashed. The girl was simply too fast and powerful for her to land a single hit.

She glanced at Rezan sitting calmly beside her. No, I’m too slow. I need to get faster.

“Begin,” Rezan instructed, and Malika glued her eyes to the match, studying the explosion of hasted movement from Hala and the deliberately solid stance Basir employed. She used both her eyes and her Soul Sight – now having grown her perception skill’s spherical range to cover most of the ring. Part of her difficulty with Hala was that so many of her most powerful attacks used mana and, even though she was making enormous progress on anticipating attacks with her Soul Sight, she was still blind to mana itself. This time, she focused on Basir instead – somehow the bulky, heavier rock mage had figured out how to anticipate Hala’s much faster attacks, and she wanted to unravel the secret.

Rezan, of course, insisted it was simply practice. He sat calmly beside her, and she expanded her awareness to include his energy as he had taught. It did no good to focus narrowly during combat and miss the surprise attack, so her awareness needed to be trained to register everything her perception skills showed her. It was tricky to achieve even just sitting here on the rough-hewn wooden bench, let alone in the cut and thrust of a tough match. She found it no problem during meditation, but everything was harder when you were being punched in the face.

She held both Hala and Basir in her awareness as they flickered and surged with the energy of their skills and added the Elder’s overwhelming presence beside her. In her mundane vision, he was quiet and composed, but her Soul Sight revealed an unbelievable well of energy that flowed through his body, pulsing with exquisitely controlled power even when he sat at rest. It was awe-inspiring that a human could achieve such a state.

Before she had unlocked Soul Sight, she would never have been able to perceive the vast gulf between herself and the Elder, and yet that thought did not fill her with despair or discouragement. She had taken the first step. She could see the path now – the path revealed by the translation of the ancient text Rezan had made her study, and that sparked a prickle of excitement for what she might become.

She continued breathing quietly, calmly expanding her awareness through the full extent of her Soul Sight, including the handful of students and spectators who watched Rezan’s disciples sparring. Basir used a defensive skill, his stamina shaping within him in a distinct form that Malika was learning to read, but in the corner of her awareness, like a tiny echo, she saw the same pattern duplicated. Surprise skittered across her deep pool of calmness, and she turned to see Sabri emulating Basir’s stance while keeping her utmost attention fixed on the fight. In the ring, Hala’s energy surged as she blurred into action, and beside her under the tree, Sabri’s form shifted. Malika’s breath caught at the echo of her father’s defensive footwork, the drills she had practiced for hours every day, and the foundation of her Divine Step skill.

No, not his… she copied me.

Hala’s lightning attack smashed into Basir’s chest, sending chunks of his rock armor flying into the air. He had dodged the wrong way.

But Sabri had not. Sabri’s unstructured nascent energy was clean and pure, and her movement almost perfect – although without skills to back it up, she lacked any significant power or speed. But she had somehow seen through Hala’s incredible speed, reacting without any perception or haste skills of her own, and had created the forms that would have moved her into a perfect striking position if only she had access to Divine Step.

No, she didn’t react, Malika realized in that instant. Sabri had moved before Hala had even begun to activate her skill. Which meant she had known which way Hala would move before she even started. She stared at the classless girl, her amazement growing as she realized that Sabri had ‘merely’ predicted Hala’s movement with her knowledge and intuition, entirely unaided by magic or skills. Not to mention that she had learned her father’s footwork by simply observing Malika’s bouts in the ring.

“Do you see?” Rezan said calmly, and if Malika were being uncharitable, she might have said a little smugly. “Do you understand now why I say you need more practice?”

Malika looked up to see Rezan watching her studying Sabri. Her time in Kezda under the Elder’s tutelage had been short and intense, and he had been consistently harsh on her for overreliance on skills. He had even forbidden her from complaining that Hala was too strong, frustratingly insisting that she was just not good enough to win.

And now… “Yes, I see it now,” she answered soberly. If it had been Sabri in the ring instead of Basir, with nothing more than Malika’s own Divine Step, she would have avoided Hala’s potent strike and landed a hit on the lightning-enchanted monk – something Malika had yet to achieve.

“Good,” Rezan said after watching her for a moment, a ghost of a smile creasing his lips. “You have learned the most important lesson I have to teach you.”

“Thank you, Elder,” she answered, bowing her head briefly to acknowledge his teaching and sat in silence, just watching Sabri emulate the two powerful fighters in the ring.

“She’s a genius,” Malika finally said, after watching her adapt the footwork to her copied impression of Basir’s fighting style.

“She studies every fight, and she practices hard,” Rezan corrected.

“She’s going to be an amazing fighter when she earns her class,” Malika said, wondering what kind of class might best suit the dirty, overly skinny girl who seemed to love martial arts as much as she did.

This time the wince flickering across Rezan’s features was obvious, and Malika’s curiosity would not be denied.

“What is wrong, Elder? That’s the second time you reacted when I spoke of Sabri. Is there something wrong with her?”

“No, there is nothing wrong with her,” he said, and fell silent again, but before Malika could muster the courage to push him on it, he spoke again. “She suffers from the misfortune of being born to a poor family, in a poor village, to a culture in decline. I would help if I had the resources to do so, because wasting potential such as hers is a tragedy, but the reality is most of Ahn Khen’s youth are forced to accept the natural class they are offered. No one can afford the thirty-gold fee to travel to Vertias and use the shrine there. She will be offered Laborer or Farmer for her class because that is what she helps her mother with, just for them to scrape by every day.”

The injustice of it ignited the burning fires of fury within Malika, shattering the calm of her meditative awareness in an instant. She had faced exactly this inequality in Myrin’s Keep. Never, never had she expected to see it here in Kezda – in the heart of the Ahn Khen lands! The wealthy controlled the shrines, granting access only to the wealthy, growing the divide between those who had the opportunities provided by powerful classes and those forced into lives of labor and servitude.

Why shouldn’t she be able to choose the class she loved? Malika wasn’t quite sure if she meant herself or Sabri. She had been fortunate indeed to meet Ali and have access to her powerful shrine, but Sabri would never have that opportunity, and her immense potential would be dashed forever upon the rocky shores of poverty.

I’m sorry, Ali, she thought. Ali’s secret was not hers to share, but she couldn’t let such a travesty go without trying to fix it. Besides, Rezan was too perceptive to keep the secret from him for long.

“My friend Ali has a shrine, and I’m certain she will let Sabri use it for free,” Malika said.

“The Fae girl?” Rezan asked, a ripple pulsing through his energy as he snapped his head to stare at her in surprise. “How does she have a shrine?”

“She is a… a dungeon,” Malika answered, her voice cracking despite her attempt at calm. Please forgive me, Ali. Much of Myrin’s Keep already knew of Ali’s class, but it was not her place to be sharing it. What else can I do? She did not relish the conversation she would have when she returned, she just hoped Ali would understand.

For the first time since she had met the Elder, she saw him speechless.

“You keep dangerous friends. I will not allow Sabri in a dungeon,” he finally said, a frown of disapproval creasing his face.

“Elder, I beg you to reconsider. I know it is hard to believe, but you have met Ali, she is a good person. I owe her my life many times over, and I owe her for the class I have. Without her shrine I would be a Thief or a Pickpocket. Her shrine is extremely powerful – it offered me six alternate class choices and the option to unlock my soul magic affinity. Is the dungeon prejudice worth wasting the potential of someone like Sabri?”

“Thank you, Malika. I can see your heart believes this is the right path, even if it is with a dungeon. I think you may be blinded by your affection for this Aliandra and willfully ignoring the danger.” His words were polite, but his face bore a frown of worry.

Malika’s fragile hope guttered and died. That sounded very much like a no – and even a warning that she was wrong to trust Ali.

But he doesn’t know Ali the way I do.

Malika fell into an awkward silence, studying Sabri as she practiced a new form under the tree, a new sadness filling her heart.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
