“I agree with Instructor Colibrí,” said Skiff, twirling his stylus nervously between his fingers. He glanced at the man with the black beard. “We’ve had access to all of 192’s application information. They haven’t. We can always make our own judgments now that they’ve put together the highlights for us. But it’s important to hear from people who don’t know anything about the student. That’s how it’s supposed to work.”


“Well, now you’ve all got me curious,” said the man in the lounge chair. He brushed sand from one of his arms. “But fine. I didn’t see any major issues. Just normal stupid new kid stuff. And less of that than most of the other squirts I’ve been watching this morning. Based solely on what I’ve seen today, I think he’s a solid choice for the hero track.”


“Based on attitude, the shielding ability, and the apparent potential of that human-freezing power, I’d say he’s a yes, too,” said the woman on the sofa.


<<I wouldn’t have minded having him on my team when I was doing that same exercise a few years ago,>> the boy in the library offered. <<So I say yes.>>


His girlfriend hesitated. “Since I’m the only one who thinks he’s a B-rank…”


“Why did you think that?” the other woman in the evaluators group asked curiously.


“He’s physically too weak for an A-rank guy, isn’t he? It seems like he’s low on stats. We haven’t talked about his earlier duels, but the fight with the Sky Shaper girl and the archer were more telling on that front. I guess he could have put everything into hidden qualities. Micro adjustments to senses…or a lot of Stamina. Maybe the System let him boost some Processing qualities outside the norm? But I’m not seeing A-rank stats. ”


<<You’re assuming he’s not a U. Or some unusual subclass that the Artonans gave peculiar starting stats.>>


She nodded. “Horses not unicorns, right, Instructor Klein?”


The stern-faced Torsten cracked his first smile. “You remember my lessons well, Robin.”


Robin’s boyfriend made a few hand gestures, and a second later, the display of the candidate’s highlights shifted to show a concrete chunk smashing into the edge of an umbrella and breaking into pieces.


<<That Brute looks like an A,>> he said. <<And that was a full strength toss. After bouncing off his shield on her run-through attempt, she decides to really try with the throw. You can tell by her posture. Maybe it was already a fragile piece of rubble. But the umbrella doesn’t even budge. None of the force is transferred to 192’s arm. That doesn’t look like a new B-rank’s talent taking a hit to me.>>


“I see that,” Robin said. “If he is an A-rank, I say yes. But even though I think he’s cool, if he’s a B, I say no. Sorry, I know that’s not really how we’re supposed to evaluate, but his main spell, or his skill if that’s what it is, also seems to have some kind of weird condition? He asked another boy on his team to tell him to pick the umbrella back up.”


“Starting powers are extremely important, but we don't have to evaluate based entirely on current limitations,” the man in the lounge chair said. “His mindset matters the most at this point. Especially if you’re right, and he’s an Adjuster. He just has to level enough, and he’ll have more decent spells to choose from. Whichever rank he’s at, the faculty can guide him toward choices that will increase his combat ability.”


Robin nodded. “I understand. I still feel like based just on what I’ve seen today, though, I would worry if he were a B.”


“So three yeses, and one conditional yes/no,” said Colibrí. “You all found his performance well above average in general and saw no major cause for concern. Is that correct?”


They all nodded.


“Excellent. If you’ll all please remember to take a few minutes and type up a quick evaluation for 192 to receive at the end of the day, then—”


“I say no,” said the man standing on the rooftop in a flat voice.


The other four evaluators looked surprised. “I wondered why you were dead quiet over there,” said the man on the beach. “Why didn’t you speak up sooner?”


“It’s really inappropriate for you to comment on this candidate, isn’t it?” Skiff interjected, staring at the fifth member of the gallery. “I wasn’t going to say anything since you were being quiet. But if you were randomly assigned to evaluate 192 you should have refused it and let someone else take your place. Obviously.”


The other alumni were wearing very curious expressions.


“Skiff has a point,” Colibrí said lightly. “Even if you offer an evaluation, Arjun, we can’t take it into consideration.”


“I’d like to hear what he has to say,” Torsten Klein said.


“Of course you would,” Colibrí replied. “But that doesn’t change—”


“He waited until everyone else had given their unbiased opinions to talk. We know what they think. So let’s hear him out.”


“If we know their unbiased opinions, I don’t see why we ought to hear biased ones now,” Skiff protested. “That’s not how it works for any of the other kids. Why should Thomas even be here when—”


“I slipped him into the group,” said a voice from behind them.


The interviewers turned to see Lesedi Saleh striding between a row of student desks toward the front of the classroom. “Because he wouldn’t stop bothering me once he caught wind of this student’s application. And he promised to volunteer his time as a guest instructor frequently and enthusiastically in the future. Hello, everyone. I wanted to hear this conversation. I’m sorry I seem to have missed the first half of it.”


“Who is 192 anyway?” asked the lounge chair guy. “Has he got important heroes for parents or something? And what’s with all the drama around his class?”


“I’m surprised Torsten hasn’t already spilled the beans,” the principal said, her hands gripping the back of a plastic chair while she looked at the assembled heroes.


“He was about to,” said Colibrí. “Skiff and I insisted on hearing their untainted opinions of the student first. I’ve recorded them all by the way. So those will be the official ones.”


Lesedi nodded. “I’ve been taking the occasional peek at him throughout the day. He seems to be performing well. How did our evaluators feel?”


“They said he was above average,” Skiff said quickly. “He was a ‘yes’ for most of them.”


“He wouldn’t have been if they knew his class,” said Torsten.


Skiff slapped his stylus down. “And he might have been if they knew other things. The point is for them to evaluate him without having the same information we do, so—”


“He’s a B-rank Rabbit,” the principal said.


Everyone looked at her in surprise.


“There, Torsten,” she said. “I did it for you. And no, he doesn’t have an influential family. His name’s Alden Thorn. He arrived on Anesidora seven weeks ago. This is his first time applying to Celena North.”


“It must’ve been one hell of an application if the school didn’t set it on fire when they saw his class,” said the man on the beach.


“It was an extraordinary one. His name and class are easily discoverable anyway now that you’ve seen his face. Naturally, we won’t be sharing the detailed information contained in his Avowed profile with you. The school makes an attempt to protect student privacy at least…”


“Not much point in secrecy, is there, when we’ve seen almost his full power set? Knowing he’s a Rabbit paints an entirely different picture of him as a candidate. Rabbits get one or two starter skills. And two crap spells at B-rank. He’s got the shieldy thing. It’s his only real trick if it’s strong enough to take that much of a pounding.”


“That’s a robust skill.” The woman gave her dog one last scratch behind the ears and stood from the sofa. She walked over to stare out at the glittering city skyline through her window. “But I wouldn’t have said yes if I’d known he was a Rabbit. The rank is bad, but not impossible to overcome. B-ranks can do good work. If they have realistic expectations for their futures, I think the school should be much more open to accepting them than it is. But that class…if the boy has miraculously found a good primary skill for hero work, fine. But what happens for him next?”


“I agree.” The man wasn’t lounging anymore. He sat up and threw his legs over the side of the chair. He was frowning. “I liked the kid. Appreciated his effort today. But how are you going to develop him from here? Even if that weird skill of his is a ten-top or better, and it takes him all the way to uni, what the hell is the college going to do with him in his last couple of years? What’s he going to do with himself a decade from now? Isn’t he going to be stuck at some point trying to choose between skills for toilet bowl sanitization and…I dunno…air freshening for his next upgrade?”


“Never mind that,” said the woman, “how is he going to hold a job?”


“With a custom-tailored tailcoat,” Colibrí said at once. “And white gloves. For a butler Rabbit vibe. Or if we have him tweak his Appeal toward the more adorable end of the spectrum—”


“I don’t mean, ‘How are you going to persuade a city he’s marketable?’ I mean how is he going to stick around in one place for long enough to actually do hero work? If you successfully run a Rabbit through the program, and he levels quickly and starts picking up new skills, he’s bound to choose one that the Artonans are hungry for at some point.”


“And there’s no long-term development path that will take him to the next level as a hero,” the man said in a frustrated voice. “Not unless the rest of you know about some Rabbit skills that are actually good for combat or rescue work?”


“I won’t deny that there could be some,” Torsten said, leaning back in his chair with his arms over his chest. “The skill list for the class is even more absurd than the System’s usual offerings. And grivecks seem to do fine with it.”


“Jesus, are we comparing ourselves to grivecks now? Even the non-Avowed ones can kill things the size of a grown man with their tongues. And they’ve been pals with the Artonans for more than a millennium. They know more than we do. I’m pretty sure the aliens like them more than us. And at this point, I’m assuming the wizards have gotten around to actually customizing some of their sillier sounding skills to perfectly suit their murderous needs.”


“I was just pointing out that I had actually considered the possibility that useful skills for hero work might exist within the class,” Torsten replied. He turned and raised an eyebrow at the principal. “But as I said the minute I received his application, we don’t know of any. Because of that, directing Alden Thorn toward such choices will be impossible. Our instructors can help him learn to maximize the skill he currently has. But what if it tops out at level five? Even if it’s a ten-top, or if he’s lucky, and it’s a few levels higher than that, it won’t be enough. As a B-rank, one skill won’t allow him to keep pace with other career heroes. At worst, he won’t even be able to level it far enough to meet the high school graduation requirement. At best, he’ll be stuck as a lifelong bottom tier supporter. Even if he’s satisfied with that personally, it’s not the kind of student we would usually accept at Celena North.”


The boy sitting in the library spoke up. <<If you don’t know what his skill’s maximum level is, does that mean he’s one of the only known possessors?>>


“That’s a good point,” Robin said. “If he picked Rabbit, and he chose a random skill nobody knows about…that’s not very serious-minded, is it? That doesn’t sound like someone who actually wanted to attend a hero program to me. It sounds like he wanted to be a Rabbit, and then he got an interesting skill and applied to Celena North on a whim.”


“I don’t think it was a whim,” Skiff said immediately.


At the same time, Arjun Thomas said, “He knew what the skill was before he chose it.”


Everyone looked at him.


He stared down at where his hands rested against the rooftop’s railing. His next words were spoken quietly. “I don’t know it for a fact, but it would be a shock to me if he’d accidentally acquired a skill with that sort of effect. But whatever Alden plans to do with the Rabbit class and that skill is irrelevant today. The boy can become a superhero if he wants to. Or not. As Lesedi knows, I’m objecting on the grounds that the hero track is an inappropriate environment for him right now, and even his presence on the gym floor today is proof that the school is overeager to accept him for some reason.”


“I’m not sharing his profile with you either, Arjun,” the principal said. “Your concerns have been noted. I’ve let you serve as an evaluator and cast your vote. Now you can write up an evaluation and use it to tell Alden why you don’t think he should attend your alma mater.”


She smiled at him. “I’ll send your guest lecturer schedule soon. But I think that’s all the time we have for this chat. The subject of our discussion should be done having a final, painful duel with one our S-rank prospects about now, and he’ll be coming in for his interview any minute. Thank you all for your time.”


Arjun opened his mouth.


“Wait,” protested the man on the beach. “You can’t just leave us dying of curiosity like—”


The connection to the alumni gallery cut off suddenly, and their faces disappeared.


“So even Arjun doesn’t know about the star then,” Torsten Klein said to the suddenly silent classroom.


