“He’s not well-connected anymore,” the principal said. “By choice. And he’s too ashamed to call Gemma Elber and ask what’s going on with the boy’s application.”


“Does she know already?” Colibrí asked. “I’m surprised. She’s so apolitical.”


“People tell hyperboles things even if they aren’t political creatures. She called me last week and said she hoped I would make sure Thorn was ‘well cared for at school.’ ”


“So even the Gloom wants him to get in,” Torsten said grimly. “I don’t know why we waste our time pretending to evaluate him at all.”


“I believe I told you why when you were placed on this committee. I don’t want applicants to receive overly obvious special treatment, even if some of them do have special circumstances. It creates too much resentment within the student body.”


“If he doesn’t want special treatment, he should—”


“Should what?” the principal asked, arching her brows at him. “Go to a different school? Do you think there’s one on the island where people will be better informed and less agog about his circumstances than we will be here?”


“A non-hero track program would be the best choice.”


“For so many people. And yet thousands of teenagers want to be superheroes. Including this one,” the principal said. “The boy has to attend school somewhere. He wants to try this. There is absolutely nothing he can do to change his class. There is also nothing he can do to change that commendation or the way terrible old people like us react to it.”


“He could change his own mind about what he wants.”


“Yes, I thought that, too,” said Lesedi. “It was another reason I pushed for the combat assessment instead of the private evaluation. And now he’s almost through with it, and he’s performing in a way that makes me think he is unlikely to abandon his ambitions in the near future.”


Torsten grunted.


The principal smacked him lightly on the shoulder. “You should be happy. I let everyone know he was a Rabbit for you. And they realize that something strange is going on with his entry. The evaluations they write him will be much more critical now. No doubt he’ll even get some kind of gloomy advice from Arjun, a hero he presumably has strong opinions about. Short of having your dour self hold up a sign as he walks into the interview room that says, ‘You shouldn’t really be here,’ I can’t do much else.”


“There’s no reason for everyone to take such a negative view of the kid,” Skiff protested. “He’s a survivor. He wrote an amazing essay. He’s a fast leveler. He—”


“I like him,” said Colibrí. “I’ve got four costume designs and two dozen marketing schemes in mind already.”


“I don’t have a ‘negative view of the kid.’ I have a realistic one. If the commendation isn’t just some head pat from an easily charmed wizard, then he’s very brave. Weak people can be brave. That doesn’t mean they belong at this school,” Torsten said. “He doesn’t belong at any hero feeder program. If he didn’t have that decoration beside his name, none of the rest of it would be enough. We’d tell him to level on his own for the next two or three years, give us proof of concept, miraculously find more useful skills in the home decorating class, and then come show us we were wrong at the uni tryouts.”


“That’s how it would have been,” Lesedi said. “But that’s not how it is. As long as he didn’t have a breakdown, insult the faculty, or leave during the middle of the combat assessment there was no way to reject him. You knew that, Torsten.”


She frowned. “And you may be underselling the value of bravery, don’t you think?”


“I’m still hoping he’ll reject himself after he reads the evaluators’ comments.”


Lesedi sighed. “Arjun is hoping the same. For different reasons. He seems to believe the only reason we would let the boy in would be because we’re ‘up to something.’”


“Why does he think that?” Skiff asked.


The principal was stretching out her shoulders. “It’s the timeline. You heard Arjun saying that his very presence here was proof we were overeager? It is. He spent much of the past year in what sounds like a horrific environment, even if you take the stripped-down description he gave of the event in writing at face value. The university was afraid that the good psychologist we usually use wouldn’t approve his readiness for hero track courses or combat after reading his application, so they hired a less good psychologist for this cycle. I’ve still had people watching him all day to make sure he’s all right.”


“I wish you wouldn’t make me aware of things like that when I can’t change them,” Torsten grumbled.


Lesedi shrugged.


“I can’t change that particular decision either. But if there was a problem, we would have pulled him. And anyway, Arjun doesn’t know what we all do. If Celena North rejects Thorn…”


“Nobody else will,” Colibrí said. She was rummaging through her purse.


The principal put her hands on her hips. “That’s right. If Thorn wants hero school with his special star, someone’s going to give it to him. The other two Apex high schools probably have people filling out forms with his name on them right now.”


“They can’t have him.” Colibrí pulled out a tube of lipstick. “I’m supposed to offer him direct entry into the university today if it looks like he isn’t going to get into the high school program.”


The other three fell quiet and looked at her.


“What?” she asked, rubbing her freshly reddened lips together and then smacking them. “We’re all being so honest about it. If he wants hero track, it’s better to start him in the high school. Academically he could probably handle uni, but he’s not ready for that level of combat training.”


“He’s not ready for high school level combat!” Torsten said in an outraged tone.


“We’d give him trainers and tutors. Call him a remedial student. Keep him out of regular heroing classes, and have him enrolled at the university level for six or eight years instead of four.”


“That is too shameless,” Lesedi said, her own voice harsh. “Admissions has been pushing us hard to accept him, but admitting him directly to university would make Celena North look awful. And it would make the boy look like a fool. It’s bad enough that some of the faculty and students here at High are going to resent his presence. He’d never socially recover from receiving years of flagrant handholding and favoritism in the university program. People would never take him seriously enough to work with him.”


“That’s why it’s so great that you’re not planning on rejecting him!” Colibrí said. “Although I don’t think we would look as bad as you’re thinking. He might, but we would just look like we knew the value of what we have on our hands. We’ve never had such a young student with a commendation before. I don’t know anything about commendations myself. I don’t get summoned, and I don’t want to, thank you. But the university’s cultural advisor is flipping out over that one.”


Torsten’s seat creaked as he shifted his weight. He didn’t say anything.


“Yes,” Colibrí said. “It’s something over the top. And I don’t just mean that General person’s rank number. They say we don’t even have record of an alumni receiving that particular wording on a commendation. The culture advisor thinks that one day after the boy has settled in, when the wizards swing by for a visit to repair the gyms and the other magical facilities, we just…trot dear Alden out to say hello to them. They’re going to see commendation plus kid plus educational facility, and great things will happen.”


“I hadn’t thought of it that way,” Skiff said in a stunned voice. “I thought the school just didn’t want to reject him because they were worried about offending the Artonans or—”


“You have to think bigger, my dear merman! The Triplanetary Government hasn’t been inclined to give the school wonderful magical presents for the past couple of decades, but that cute little Rabbit hits them in every one of their weak points. So…don’t try too hard to scare him off, Instructor Klein. Think of the needs of the many, won’t you?” She smiled at him. “You’re supposed to be a hero, after all.”


*
