Calruz turned. He glanced at Mrsha, visibly confused. The little Gnoll was peeking out of her cage. She hid the moment Calruz turned, but she had been looking at Ceria. The half-Elf’s heart pounded wildly. If she could pull this off—
“That’s right. She took in Mrsha after Ryoka rescued her. Ryoka and Erin both care about Mrsha. These Gnolls are citizens of Liscor. You need to let them go.”
“Erin. Ryoka. Where is Ryoka? The last we saw her—”
Calruz shook his head. Ceria spoke quickly.
“It’s a long story. But I’m sure Erin—and Ryoka—are concerned for Mrsha. If you let her go…”
A rumble of protest sprung up from the Raskghar. Ceria looked at them, wide-eyed. They were listening! Worse, they understood. Calruz glanced at them and the rumble instantly faded.
“My people spoke of the white Gnoll. They believe she is special.”
White fur. Ceria glanced quickly at Mrsha. The Gnoll was peeking at her.
“She might be. But Ryoka saved her. Ryoka did. And Erin’s been raising her. Calruz. You should let her go. And the others.”
Calruz had been slowly nodding. Right up until Ceria said ‘others’. Then he paused. He frowned and looked at the Raskghar. When he turned back he shook his head.
“No. I told you. They are my prisoners. I have a use for them. You—I told you! That is not why I brought you down here! You will fight by my side! Leave the prisoners alone!”
“No. Let them go and I’ll join you.”
Calruz swung back to Ceria.
“You don’t make demands. I lead here! This is not a negotiation! Obey me or you will share his fate!”
He pointed at the bloody Raskghar. Calruz loomed over Ceria. The half-Elf felt his anger. Her legs shook, but she made herself stand taller. She made a fist with both hands and braced herself.
“Never.”
Again she saw Calruz’ face twist with fury. He raised a hand and Ceria gritted her teeth. She readied a spell. But this time Calruz’ madness took a different turn. He threw his head back and barked another short laugh.
“You always were insubordinate! It’s what I appreciated about you.”
He shook his head and turned away. Ceria lowered her hands. She felt another shiver crawl down her spine. This was not Calruz! He went from fury to humor in the blink of an eye. The Minotaur gestured around the Raskghar camp.
“This is why I needed you. Someone who could speak back when needed. Not like these Raskghar. They’re nothing more than beasts for most of the month. Only when the moon is nearly full do they regain any semblance of intelligence. We must make as many gains as possible now. Come, I need to show you around the dungeon. I plan to launch an offensive with your magics to back up my warriors. Can you cast [Fireball] with that wand or do I need to find you a better one?”
“Calruz—I told you no.”
The Minotaur paused. He looked at Ceria.
“And I do not accept that. You will work with me. I warn you, Ceria. Do not refuse me again. Join me.”
Ceria wavered. She crossed her hands behind her back, flicked her fingers. A bit of light flared, invisible to Calruz. Then she shook her head. Calruz’ eyes turned red again.
“I will not be disobeyed! You!”
He whirled and pointed. One of the Raskghar sitting on the ground looked up. She—it was a she—stood, looking wary. Calruz pointed at her.
“Take one of the Gnolls. Any of them save for the white one. You may perform the ritual. Do it now!”
The Raskghar bared her teeth. Alarmed, Ceria looked at her.
“Wait—”
Calruz swung back towards her. Now the insanity lit up his eyes.
“You did this. You forced my hand.”
She didn’t know what ritual he meant. But the way the Raskghar smiled made Ceria terribly uneasy. She looked at the Gnolls. But he wouldn’t hurt them because of her, surely. He might be insane, but she had never known him to compromise his honor. She croaked as she watched the Raskghar turn.
“Wait, Calruz, I—”
Too late. The female Raskghar stepped towards the cages at the back. They weren’t the typical barred cells that Ceria had seen in Human cities. These were more like boxes, made of metal and wood and tanned hides. For all that, they were impossible for the Gnolls to escape. The Raskghar had taken one item from Liscor’s City Watch—iron shackles. Bound hand and foot, the Gnolls could barely move.
There had to be at least sixty of them in the cages. Ceria saw the female Raskghar sniff, and then look from face to face. The Gnolls tried to edge back. There were children, males, females—Ceria saw the female look at a young male Gnoll. She opened his cage. A terrible foreboding seized Ceria. She ran forwards but a Raskghar grabbed her. Calruz growled.
“Hold her down. Make her watch.”
A pair of Raskghar forced Ceria down effortlessly. She tried to blast them with magic, but the blow to her head made her dizzy. And the Raskghar were forcing her hands down. She couldn’t aim at them. She shouted desperately at the Minotaur as he turned to watch.
“Calruz! Stop! I’ll obey you! Stop! I’ll do it!”
He ignored her. The Raskghar held Ceria down but she could still see. The female Raskghar entered the cell after barking at the others. The Gnoll in the cell jerked and struggled as the Raskghar entered. One ripped the shackles from his hands and legs after unlocking it with a key. That gave the prisoners a chance. Ceria watched, hoping—but in vain.
The Gnoll fought wildly, but he was surrounded. Four Raskghar grabbed his arms and legs and towed him out of the cell. The other Gnolls howled, fighting their restraints. The Raskghar watched. All of the Raskghar in the room had formed a circle. Around—Ceria’s heart stopped—a slab of stone in the center of the room.
It was just a piece of rock, but it was stained dark red. Ceria struggled and the Gnoll did the same. The Raskghar paid him no heed. They were—crooning. Making a soft growling sound as they carried him. All the Raskghar were making the sound. It was low, ominous. Expectant.
The four Raskghar carried the Gnoll to the slab of rock. They slammed him onto the flat surface. The Gnoll groaned and then stiffened as the female Raskghar stepped forwards. She had a jagged bit of stone in her hand.
“Calruz! Calruz! Don’t do this! Don’t—”
A paw muffled Ceria’s screams. The Minotaur didn’t look back once. The female Raskghar looked at him and he nodded. She raised the stone and the crooning sound from the Raskghar stopped. The sudden silence was complete. Ceria could hear nothing, not even her voice screaming. She felt something in the air. Magic? It made her sick to her stomach. She saw the Gnoll struggling, his tendons bulging beneath his fur. Then he looked over at her. His voice echoed.
“Half-Elf—tell my family in Liscor—tell them I thought of them—”
The female Raskghar brought down the chunk of stone. The Gnoll screamed as it pierced his breast. He surged, fighting the four Raskghar holding him, howling. The female Raskghar twisted the stone and he jerked and went still.
Ceria heard a howl, long and loud. The Raskghar lifted the bloody stone dagger and licked the blood from the tip. The Raskghar around her howled in triumph. The four surrounding the dead Gnoll stepped back. The female Raskghar bent and, to Ceria’s horror, began to tear at the Gnoll’s chest. She was eating something.
His heart.
The grisly feast took seconds. The entire time Ceria was staring at the Raskghar. At Calruz, who was watching, expressionless, his left hand clenching and unclenching impatiently. The female Raskghar chewed noisily and swallowed. Something like a sigh filled the room. Something changed.
When the Raskghar raised her bloody muzzle, her eyes glowed with inner light for a second. The Raskghar’s body shifted. Ceria saw the Raskghar grow slightly, her fangs and claws lengthening, her muscles developing. The change was slight, but when the Raskghar straightened she was taller, more fearsome than before. But the worst difference was in her eyes. Again. Only the Raskghar wasn’t mad. Fierce, bright intelligence shone from her gaze as she looked around. She wiped blood from her fur and licked it.
The room was silent. The Gnolls clung to each other, staring at the Raskghar, wide-eyed. Calruz grunted. He strode forwards and the female Raskghar turned to him.
“Well?”
“Good.”
The Raskghar’s growling voice made Ceria jump. She stared at the female Raskghar in shock. This Raskghar looked much like the others to her, but Krshia would have recognized her as the very same one she had met in Liscor. The female Raskghar’s deep voice rumbled as she addressed Calruz deferentially.
“Old way works. Gnolls make us stronger. Smarter. More blood means more power. All Raskghar will drink. Grow.”
The other Raskghar growled expectantly. They stared at the Gnolls. Calruz shook his head. He raised a finger, raised his voice imperiously.
“One for today. One. I will select another worthy Raskghar to conduct this ritual. The best of the warriors. You will take command of Dailre’s Fist. I expect greater results. The Gnolls will not be touched until then.”
The Raskghar female didn’t like that. She licked her lips.
“Want more Gnolls. More—”
Calruz’s face twisted into a snarl. He lashed out at the Raskghar, swinging so fast that Ceria heard the crack before she registered his left arm move. The female’s head jerked backwards. She howled in pain and surprise and lurched backwards, her ears flattening along her head. Calruz glared down at her.
“I decide! You will follow my orders or die. Is that understood?”
The air was tense. For a second Ceria thought the Raskghar would lash out, but she clearly thought better of it. Her eyes flashed with discontent, but she bowed her head submissively. Her tail lowered.
“Yes, Chieftain.”
“Go.”
She bounded back towards the other Raskghar. They made way for her, sniffing at her. Ceria saw the female glance back at her. Then she disappeared. Ceria turned her gaze back towards Calruz. The Minotaur nodded and the Raskghar let her go. He let her get up and looked at her.
Insanity. Or was it just him, now? Ceria didn’t know. She stared dully at the Minotaur. Calruz spoke coldly.
“Every time you disobey my orders I will sacrifice another of these Gnolls. Follow my command and I will let a few go. Perhaps even the white one.”
He nodded at Mrsha. Ceria stared at the Gnoll. Mrsha had seen the entire thing. She was trying to hide in the corner of her cell. She stared at Ceria with wide eyes. Calruz looked at Ceria.
“Well? Do I have to make an example of her?”
“No. No. Please, Calruz.”
Ceria hung her head. Calruz grinned.
“Good! I knew I made the right choice. You and I—we’ll bring the Horns to glory yet. This dungeon is halfway conquered as it is. Isn’t it?”
He waited. Ceria didn’t respond. Calruz instantly turned to fury again.
“Answer me!”
The half-Elf looked up. Calruz took a step back. Ceria was crying. Tears rolled down Ceria’s cheeks. She stared up at him. Silently. Calruz wavered. The fury left him. He stared at Ceria and reached out with his left hand. Then he turned away.
“Follow me. We have work to do. Fourth Company, to me!”
He roared and a group of Raskghar sprang to their feet. They ran after Calruz. Ceria watched him stride away.
“Ceria! Follow!”
Ceria didn’t waver. Her feet moved forwards. Slowly. Her voice was defeated when she spoke.
“Yes. Captain.”
The Gnolls in the room watched her silently walk across the broken, domed room. On the altar, the Cave Goblins were swarming around the Gnoll with knives, rusted swords. Turning him into food. Ceria looked once at him, and then at the captive Gnolls. She whispered two words that they all heard.
“I’m sorry.”
She flicked her fingers again. A spark of light shone. The Gnolls saw a tiny butterfly made of fire and light flicker into life and then disappear. The half-Elf turned. She followed Calruz into the dungeon.
 
——
 
Mrsha sat in her cage. The shackles were tight on her paws. They hurt. She could barely move. And she hurt. A Raskghar had grabbed her, squeezed her and smacked her when she tried to bite. She’d thrown up. She was dizzy. Thirsty. And Lyonette was gone.
She’d tried to protect her. Mrsha remembered it. She saw the Raskghar burst through the front door again, saw Lyonette scream at her to run. Mrsha had run up the stairs, but the Raskghar was fast! He grabbed her on the stairs. And then Lyonette attacked him. Apista attacked him! But he hit Lyonette. Made her wrist bend and crack.
Mrsha could remember the sound. And he’d hit Apista so hard the bee had landed on the far wall. And then he’d run with her into the rain and she’d been dragged underwater, inhaled water and choked until he’d struck her to make her throw up—
And now she was in a Bad Place. A Very Bad Place. Mrsha knew it. She could smell the badness in the air. And the horrible not-Gnolls, the Raskghar made her shudder. She knew, just as certainly as she knew that Erin was nice and Lyonette was warm and that water was wet, that the Raskghar were her enemy. She tried not to remember what she had seen. But the Gnoll’s last scream echoed in her ears. Mrsha tried to bury her head in her side, feeling the shackles on her paws. Only when she sensed she was being watched did she look up.
A Gnoll was staring at her. He had dark grey fur, streaked with reddish-brown stripes. He looked old. Not as old as Urksh had been, but older than one of the Stone Spear hunters. He was a Gnoll from Liscor. Mrsha had never seen him, but she could smell that on him. Along with his fear. He was one of the oldest Gnolls in the cages and she could see the others looking to him. Mrsha sat up. The Gnoll stared at her and then looked around the room.
The Raskghar were agitated. Many were clustering around the terrible female who’d performed the ritual. The rest had followed the bad Minotaur out of the room. So had Ceria. Mrsha wondered why the Minotaur had captured her. She knew why he’d ordered the Raskghar to catch her. Her stomach turned over when she thought of that.
The old Gnoll was thinking the same things. He eyed the Raskghar. They were keeping away from the cages as Calruz had ordered. But every so often they would look over and sniff the Gnoll’s scent. They stank of blood and death and grown up things. None of them washed, Mrsha was sure. She edged her bottom away from them. The Gnoll glanced at her and then he spoke in a gravelly voice.
“Doombringer.”
Mrsha froze. She stared at the Gnoll. Her heart beat painfully in her chest and her stomach did another flop. The Gnoll shook his head tiredly.
