Erin looked around blankly. Zevara sighed and swished her tail before walking away. Erin stared at her door. The Raskghar had come right through that. It hadn’t been bolted or anything. Erin had been so sure they’d come at nightfall. She should have sent Mrsha into Octavia’s shop the instant her [Dangersense] had warned her. She should have raised the alarm and gotten Ceria out of there. She should have…
“We’ll find a way to get them out, Erin. The adventurers are working on a map and I’m contacting the Gnoll tribes for more information about the Raskghar. We’ll get them. The Raskghar can’t hide themselves forever. I’ll be working with the adventurers each day, and I’ll get you updates…”
Olesm was speaking to her, trying to reassure her. Erin stared at the unconvincing smile on his face until the [Strategist] had to stop. Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“Swifttail, why don’t you assist Watch Captain Zevara on the walls? And I’m sure Wing Commander Embria would appreciate an update. She has been on duty and I believe her input would be essential.”
“Oh. Sure. I mean, yes, Wall Lord Ilvriss. Erin, I’ll be back later, okay?”
“Okay.”
Erin replied distantly. She watched Olesm back away and then looked at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord studied her.
“Can you do anything?”
He hesitated, and then shook his head.
“If you are asking whether I will enter the dungeon with my people, the answer is no. I will double the reward for returning the missing citizens of Liscor. I can easily afford to pay that out of my own coffers. But that is the limit of my ability to help.”
“You won’t fight?”
He shook his head. There was regret in his eyes. She thought it was genuine. Either way, it didn’t matter.
“I am not an adventurer. Nor am I versed in detecting traps. As a [Lord], my abilities are split between diplomacy, economy, and warfare. I am…sorry. But we must trust in the adventurers.”
“Yeah.”
Erin looked at the bewildered Silver and Gold-rank teams. She shook her head.
“Yeah. No.”
She whirled, suddenly sure of what she had to do. Rabbiteater and Numbtongue were speaking to each other, standing next to the unconscious Cave Goblin. Erin strode towards them.
“Solstice!”
Ilvriss snapped. Erin looked back at him. The Wall Lord eyed her much as Falene had looked at Yvlon.
“I’ve heard about your past exploits. Going into the dungeon would be a death sentence.”
The young woman looked silently back at Ilvriss.
“I know that. I’m not stupid.”
She walked on, making a beeline for the Goblins. Wall Lord Ilvriss stared at Erin’s back and frowned. He tapped a claw on the table and looked around.
“Keep an eye on her. Don’t let her leave the inn.”
 
——
 
Selys jumped. She hadn’t realized that Wall Lord Ilvriss had noticed her there. She stammered and nodded.
“I’ll—I’ll try.”
Ilvriss studied Selys and nodded curtly.
“I must communicate with the Walled Cities. Until later, Miss Shivertail.”
He strode from the inn. Selys watched him go and looked around. The gathering was breaking up fast. All the adventurers were headed for the doors. All save for the Halfseekers, the Silver Swords who were going to stay the night until they could make sure that Yvlon didn’t run into the dungeon, and Halrac of Griffon Hunt. He’d gone for the doors, but Bird had stopped him.
“Mister Halrac. Everyone is very upset.”
The Antinium looked subdued as he clutched his bow worriedly. Halrac looked like the last thing he wanted to do was talk, but he let Revi and Typhenous go before him. He spoke in a voice roughened from shouting.
“Everyone is upset.”
“Oh. Is it a bad thing that has happened?”
The [Scout]’s eyes blazed.
“Yes.”
Bird rocked back and forth as he stood in front of Halrac. He looked uncertainly at the man.
“Is it…is it my fault?”
“No.”
The Worker brightened.
“Oh. That is good. I feel much better.”
He began to hum under his breath. Halrac stared at him.
“Do you not know what is happening?”
Bird shook his head cheerfully.
“No! I was in my room thinking about the bad thing I did. Then I heard many crashes. When I went to look, Lyonette was lying on the ground. So I looked for enemies. I shot at Raskghar. Who are bad. They are bad?”
He waited for Halrac to nod and then went on.
“I shot at them. Then Miss Erin ran up to get me. She said I had to come downstairs. So I did. Many people talked. But I do not know what they were talking about. Raskghar and a Calruz and more things about the dungeon. Revalantor Klbkch says that I do not need to worry about the dungeon so I do not.”
Halrac listened to Bird’s speech. He visibly wrestled with a reply, and then shook his head.
“I need to sleep.”
He stormed past Bird to the door. The Worker watched him go and then turned to Selys anxiously.
“Did I do another bad thing?”
Selys stared at him.
“No. Bird, right?”
He nodded.
“I am Bird. This all seems to be about the dungeon. And Raskghar. I am not worried about it, though. Revalantor Klbkch says that everything is going according to plan.”
The Drake bit her tongue to avoid screaming at Bird. She took a few deep breaths.
“You should worry, Bird. Mrsha is missing. So is Ceria. The Raskghar took them.”
“They did?”
Bird looked alarmed. Selys nodded. Had he not been listening? She thought of Bird and imagined him rocking back and forth, singing about birds. He had not. The Antinium looked visibly shaken.
“But Mrsha is a resident of the inn. And I am supposed to guard the inn. If Mrsha is gone, then I have failed. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no.”
He began to rock back and forth. Selys stared at him and took a step back.
“It’s not your fault, Bird. The Raskghar attacked when no one was expecting them. Stop that. Please.”
Bird stopped. He looked around wildly.
“Miss Ceria is gone too. I have failed twice over. She is a resident of the inn. And Ksmvr is gone. I have failed thrice over.”
“No, Ksmvr is here. He’s…”
Selys turned. She searched for Ksmvr, but the Antinium was nowhere to be found. Selys frowned.
“He was here.”
Bird moaned.
“I did not see him go up the stairs. Which means he is not upstairs or in this room. So he is outside the inn! He might have been taken by the Raskghar too!”
“No, he’s fine, Bird. I saw him just a few minutes ago. He’s fine.”
“How do you know?”
Selys had no reply to that. So she backed away. Bird kept rocking back and forth on his feet, muttering to himself about failing. He seriously creeped Selys out. The Drake looked around. She’d almost forgotten what she was doing.
“Drassi! Hey, Drassi!”
The [Barmaid] was cleaning tables. She looked worried and aimless. She jumped when Selys waved at her and then hurried over. Drassi was Selys’ friend. Normally it was impossible to shut Drassi up, but tonight, the Drake looked at a loss for words. Nearly.
“Ancestors, oh, Ancestors, Selys! This is so bad! Mrsha’s gone! And Ceria too! I thought we were safe with all the Gold-rank adventurers! What do we do? What can we do? If they can’t find Mrsha—if she’s hurt or—I don’t know what I’d do. I can’t think of it!”
“Drassi! Calm down!”
Selys grabbed Drassi and shook her sharply. She felt panicked herself. Drassi blinked as Selys lowered her voice.
“You need to calm down. I need your help!”
“My help? What can I do? I’m just a [Barmaid], Selys!”
And a [Gossip]. Selys still couldn’t believe that was a class. It didn’t matter. The [Receptionist] shook herself and tightened her grip on Drassi’s arm.
“That’s fine. Keep doing what you’re doing. But I can only rely on you. Ishkr can’t leave the city. The Council ruled that aside from adventurers, no Gnoll is allowed outside the walls. That includes The Wandering Inn. So I need you to be here. Make sure she doesn’t get into trouble.”
“Lyonette?”
Drassi looked worriedly at the [Barmaid]. Lyonette was still standing in the same place, white as a sheet. Selys glanced over at her.
“Right. Her too. I meant Erin. Don’t let her out of your sight. Sleep at the inn if you have to. But don’t let her do…anything. The last time Ceria went missing, Erin went into the crypt and brought her out. This time—keep her here. I’ll try to get other people to look after her too.”
“I’ll try, but—”
Drassi bit her lip. Both Drakes looked at Erin. She was talking to the two Hobgoblins. Selys groaned.
“I know you’re afraid of the Hobs, but try, Drassi?”
“Oh, I’m not afraid of them any longer.”
“You’re not?”
Selys looked at Drassi stupidly. The Drake [Barmaid] smiled.
“Not one bit! Erin had this amazing moment with them. They were dragging the Cave Goblin out of the inn—the other one, I mean. I think they were going to kill her when Erin made them play a chess game! Okay, let me tell you what happened. First—”
“Drassi! Now’s not the time!”
“Sorry.”
The other Drake closed her mouth apologetically. Selys breathed in and out heavily.
“This is a disaster. I need to get back to the Adventurer’s Guild and tell grandmother what’s happening. We need to tend to the wounded—help the adventurers get into the dungeon! I don’t know how many Silver-rank teams will even go back in. The Gold-rank teams are our only hope. They have to find Mrsha. I’m going to light a fire under their tails. You stay here. Get all of Erin’s magical food ready and make sure she doesn’t leave the inn! Got it?”
Drassi nodded anxiously. Selys turned. She felt like she was going to throw up. She had thrown up when she’d heard about Mrsha going missing. The thought of anything happening to Mrsha made Selys’ stomach lurch. She walked unsteadily towards the door and looked back at Drassi.
“The adventurers will save them. They have to. There’s no one else we can rely on.”
Drassi nodded. She looked like she was trying to believe Selys’ words. Selys was trying too. She wished she could. The Drake opened the door and walked into the rain, cursing it, cursing the Raskghar, and praying without knowing what praying was, that Mrsha and Ceria would be safe.
Only the adventurers could save Mrsha and Ceria. Only they could find the Raskghar camp. Selys had meant what she’d said. To her, the words had been true. But they were wrong.
 
——
 
Bird was right. Ksmvr had left the inn. But the Worker was mistaken. Ksmvr hadn’t been abducted. He’d left of his own free will. He marched down the streets, rain glancing off his carapace. Yvlon and Pisces were still in the inn, he knew. But Ksmvr hadn’t told them where he was going. Yvlon was unconscious and Pisces had left. Besides which, Ksmvr didn’t belong in the team anymore. All of this was his fault.
No one had said it because it was obvious. Perhaps they were being kind to him. Ceria and Yvlon were very kind. So was Pisces, at times. But the fact was that everything was Ksmvr’s fault. Ceria’s abduction? Completely and utterly his failure. After all, he had been right there. In the prime position to stop the Raskghar. He had charged in—and been knocked aside as if he were a fly.
Everyone else had done more. Yvlon had struck a blow and actually blocked the Raskghar’s axe. Pisces had chased the Raskghar, even downed another with his rapier during the pursuit. But what had Ksmvr done?
Nothing. He was a failure. Klbkch had been right to expel him from the Hive. Ksmvr knew it in his heart. Ceria was missing. Possibly dead already. So was Mrsha. Ksmvr felt far more strongly about Ceria. She was his Captain. His leader. She had given him a place. And he had failed her.
The streets were empty the further he walked. The adventurers heading to their inns were silent, but they disappeared street by street. At last, Ksmvr was alone. No one walked where he was going. Not even the Watch patrolled this street. There was no point.
The entrance to the Antinium Hive was a dark, sloping tunnel fortified with dirt. It looked like any ant hole, really, but made a million times larger. Ksmvr hesitated at the entrance. He felt afraid as he gazed down into the Hive. He had not returned since he had been cast out.
He would have rather have jumped in the water than entered the Hive. He would do it too, if it meant returning Ceria. Without his Ring of Waterbreathing. But life wasn’t that convenient. Life, Ksmvr had realized, demanded thought. Skill. Sacrifice.
“If that is what will bring back Captain Ceria, death is nothing.”
Ksmvr reassured himself with those words. Then he walked into the Hive. He descended down the dirt ramp and paused.
Though Ksmvr had been a Prognugator for mere weeks, he had been trained to the position by the Queen herself. He knew the Hive and its defenses. Thus, Ksmvr was keenly aware of the Soldiers hidden in alcoves. They would step out and disembowel any intruder. Or rather, crush them to paste since disemboweling wasn’t enough for some monsters. It was the Hive’s first defense against unwelcome visitors. And right now, that included Ksmvr.
Death was nothing. But a meaningless death was worthless. So Ksmvr stepped forwards cautiously. He saw the darkness move and stopped.
Soldiers appeared in the tunnel. A dozen of them, their fists raised. They stared at Ksmvr, clearly warning him off. The former Prognugator hesitated, and then raised his voice.
“Move aside. I have business in the Hive with Revalantor Klbkch.”
The Soldiers didn’t move. Ksmvr hadn’t expected them to. But there was no going back. Ksmvr drew his shortsword and the enchanted dagger. His cloak swirled behind him. Soldiers were tough. If he had to fight his way through he’d have to kill them or incapacitate them fast. So many would tear him apart in moments. The Soldiers tensed—and then paused.
The former Prognugator heard a whisper in his mind. Someone—the Queen or Klbkch—had sent an order. He saw the Soldiers straighten and stand aside. Ksmvr walked past them warily, and then strode into the Hive.
Workers and Soldiers streamed through the main flow tunnels. They moved day and night. They moved like the most perfect of dancers, though their only purpose was to move as efficiently as possible from destination to destination. Ksmvr ran into the tunnel and the flow stopped as a discordant note entered it. The Workers and Soldiers stared at Ksmvr. The Antinium shouted as he brandished his shortsword.
“Step aside! I must speak to Revalantor Klbkch! Where is he?”
The Antinium looked as one, Ksmvr felt a pang of dread as he slowly turned. Workers and Soldiers parted in a wave. Klbkch stood in the entrance of a tunnel. He alone was unique. He had two arms instead of four. His body was slender, lacking the beetle-like shell of the Workers and Soldiers. A pair of silvery swords hung at his sides, as did a belt around his waist.
