“The Hive has stockpiled a number of magical items. The scrying mirrors in particular are useful to the Queens during battle. Take care not to damage either artifact. They are the only two in the Hive’s possession.”
“What of the one possessed by the strange Antinium in the Queen’s chamber?”
This time Klbkch definitely twitched. He forced his hand away from the blade at his side. This was normal. For Individuals. He looked at Anand and injected as much frost into his voice as he could.
“Your inquisitiveness is an asset, Anand. Do not employ it in matters regarding the Queen.”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch.”
“Monitor the progress of the Soldiers. Analyze the monsters and traps and update the existing map of the dungeon with relevant details. I will commence the assault now.”
Klbkch strode down the tunnel before the other two could reply. He did not want to entertain any more questions. It was a relief to stride past the Soldiers who moved silently out of the way. Klbkch reached the entrance to the dungeon—a caved in wall that opened into a dark corridor. The same one the Horns of Hammerad and the Silver Swords had ‘accidentally’ stumbled into. That had been inconvenient in the extreme.
Individuals. Strange new Antinium who were not True Antinium, but were more than the half-made Soldiers and Workers that were what the world knew of as Antinium. Klbkch didn’t know how to deal with them. He had had problems understanding Pawn. By contrast, Belgrade and Anand were easier, but they asked questions that Klbkch was not accustomed to answering.
Drones, the mindless Soldiers and Workers, were easier. Klbkch paused at the entrance to the dungeon. The Soldiers stared ahead, patient as rocks. Klbkch unsheathed his swords and pointed.
“The first rank will follow me! Avoid designated spots and engage any monsters at will!”
The Soldiers snapped to attention. Klbkch led the charge into the dungeon at a run, the Soldiers following on his heels. He pointed with his sword to a spot on the right side of the corridor. Instantly, the Soldiers shifted left, hugging the wall, avoiding the trap.
Yes, this was easier. The drones the Queens had made weren’t True Antinium either, but they were close in many ways. They did not ask questions. All he had to do was order and they obeyed. They were part of the Hive. Not perfectly part of it, but close enough.
Behind Klbkch, a Soldier stumbled. He stepped onto the trap and vanished. Teleported somewhere, or perhaps just disintegrated. He was lost either way. Klbkch saw the Soldiers correct their footing, give the trap a wider berth. Klbkch didn’t waste time grimacing over the lost Soldier. Many more would die before the night ended.
The first group of monsters they came across was a patrol of enchanted armor. The metallic suits immediately charged the Antinium, not heeding exactly how many there were. Klbkch ran straight past them, hearing the crash and thumps as the Soldiers tore the suits apart.
Drones were useful. The problem was, these Antinium weren’t even perfect as thoughtless warriors. Even Soldiers and Workers who weren’t Individual developed…personality after living for a year or two in Liscor. They could be erratic, so Klbkch had requested freshly made Soldiers for this assault. They would not break or hesitate.
“How inconvenient.”
Klbkch sighed as he avoided another trap, leaping over the trapped floor tiles and then sprinting into combat with a group of humongous caterpillars which exploded as Soldiers tackled them. He maneuvered past the traps and led the Soldiers on automatically. His new body felt light and agile and he had memorized the Antinium’s map of the dungeon. Countless raids into the dungeon had allowed the Antinium to perfectly pinpoint all of the traps—by letting Soldiers and Workers run onto the traps in previous assaults. They had been costly. But this time Klbkch’s progress was smooth. The Soldiers trampled all the monsters he came across and soon Klbkch was at his first destination.
A treasure chest sat in the center of a small room, complete with running water and flowers. A bit of sunlight shone down, a final touch of irony by whomever had created the trap. It was so obviously a trap, but the allure of the chest was enough to overcome the sense of danger to most adventurers. However, the trap was deadly enough. Klbkch paused at the corridor and pointed.
“Soldiers will proceed into the room and attempt to open the chest. Move one at a time after the trap has activated. Stand clear until the preceding Soldier has perished.”
The Antinium backed up. Not just down the corridor—this particular trap didn’t just affect the room it was in, but both adjacent corridors. Klbkch pointed.
“Go.”
The first Soldier went. Klbkch heard it charge forwards, and then saw the trap activate. The corridor in front of him twisted. Klbkch heard a snapping sound and knew without looking that the Soldier had been wrenched violently in every direction, like Erin wringing out a rag.
“Next.”
The next Soldier ran forwards without hesitation. Klbkch waited patiently, hearing a group of monsters run into the Soldiers queued up behind him. He had time to think as the trap activated and the next Soldier ran forwards. By the fifteenth Soldier, they had to drag the bodies of their companions out of the way before attempting to open the chest.
The irony was that the Individuals, the five Workers, Pawn, Belgrade, Anand, Garry, and Bird, were actually better than the true Antinium Workers of the past. They could level exponentially quickly by Antinium standards—they were, in a way, closer to the Prognugators, rare autonomous Antinium destined to be leaders. But as for the rest? Klbkch shook his head.
“Individuals triumph as singular entities or small groups. But the true Antinium linked could still tear these Painted Soldiers apart.”
He felt that was true, at least as it applied to the Painted Soldiers of Pawn’s unique unit as they were. If they had ten more levels each? Perhaps. But the true Antinium Soldiers—the ones who were truly of the Hive and not replicas made by Queens trying to rediscover lost forms and techniques were stronger to begin with. And they fought as one.
Any [Drillmaster] would have been offended by Klbkch’s statement. After all, the Antinium Soldiers fought like the most finely-trained unit in the world. But in the past, Antinium Soldiers in Rhir had fought like a single thought. And it was impossible to break their morale. Their will was magnified a thousand times together, as was their ability to react to any situation. Whereas here…
It was possible to break Antinium Soldiers. Not easy, but Klbkch had seen it done in both Antinium Wars. When Soldiers died by the thousands or tens of thousands they lost their will to fight. They became aimless, rather than a disciplined fighting force. Again, not something the true Antinium had ever faced. They had lived and died in service to the Hives. Much like Klbkch himself, death was a necessity, not an end. Which made Pawn’s ideals all the stranger to Klbkch.
Speaking of which…Klbkch looked up. The forty second Soldier had returned. He was undamaged—and he was holding something in his hands. A pair of crystalline daggers, which shone bright pink despite the lack of light. Klbkch eyed them.
“Was there anything else in the chest?”
The Soldier shook his head. Klbkch did the same.
“Deficient. A trap that can only function forty one times before failing is no trap at all. Bring the artifacts to the Hive. You. Smash the chest.”
Another Soldier ran forwards as the lucky Soldier retreated. Klbkch nodded and set off at another dead run. There were two more treasure sites the Antinium had located that they hadn’t managed to plunder. He repeated the ‘trick’ again, waiting patiently as Soldiers went in and didn’t come out. Some traps could activate indefinitely, but most had a finite amount of energy they could expend before having to recharge. The breaks gave him time to think some more.
These Drones. Yes, they were convenient. Yes, they achieved objectives. But they weren’t as good as true Antinium. They just weren’t. He had to order them now along with sending the mental projections only he and his Queen were able to use. In the past, all Klbkch would have had to do was think and it would have been done.
True Antinium were broadcasters as well as receivers. They were linked, not tenuously held together like these half-Antinium. Yet, Klbkch thought of Xrn’s words and felt a pang. She was right. It wasn’t their fault that they had never known what they should be. It was not their fault they were ill-formed. The Free Queen had done her best. And they were still capable of becoming Individual. It was something.
Someone stood in front of him. Klbkch looked up and realized the third trapped treasure room had been cleared. The Soldier was half-dead. A pair of ghostly blades sprouted from his chest. He was bleeding, but he didn’t move. He held a handful of gems carved into eyes in his hands. Were they cursed? Klbkch would find a way to appraise them later. He eyed the Soldier.
“Return to the Hive with a companion.”
The Soldier turned and began running with another Soldier. He left a trail of blood behind. Klbkch studied it, and then did a rough count of the Soldiers remaining. They stood in rows, many damaged from encounters with the monsters or traps.
Five hundred and…twenty one. A good number considering his projections to Anand and Belgrade. And enough that Klbkch thought that it was worth pressing ahead. The Antinium had mapped out the dungeon in every direction, but progress without dedicated trap finders was slow. If he ordered the Soldiers into unknown territory they would die by the hundreds. Not to the monsters so much as the traps. That was why the adventurers were necessary.
But Ceria and Mrsha were missing and Erin cared for both of them. Klbkch made a decision.
“Soldiers! You will charge the next corridor. Move in waves, staggered ten feet apart. Avoid any traps encountered. Slay any monsters. If you come across non-hostiles, hold back and wait for my arrival.”
These Soldiers wouldn’t know what a Gnoll or half-Elf looked like after all. Klbkch checked the Soldiers, looking to see if they would break. They made no reaction to his statement. Good Drones.
And each one of these could be a Painted Soldier. Could be an Individual, like Pawn or Belgrade.
Klbkch paused. Where had that thought come from? He looked at the Soldiers and mentally shook himself. If he started valuing the lives of Drones over objectives, the Hive would surely perish. Pawn had his place, but the Antinium lived by sacrificing. These Soldiers’ lives didn’t matter.
And yet, Klbkch’s mind denied that logical conclusion. It reminded him of the True Antinium. Klbkch paused as the Soldiers braced themselves for the charge, for the unknown and death. Slowly, Klbkch walked in front of them. The Soldiers looked at him, expectant. The Revalantor of the Free Antinium looked towards the dark dungeon ceiling. When he spoke, it was not in the voice of command, but in a carrying, loud tone.
“What I am about to tell you probably will not matter. I do not believe many of you will survive. Perhaps none of you will. You are worthless as individuals. And I have no expectations of you.”
The Soldiers stared at him. For the first time in their short lives, they were confused. Klbkch went on.
“You will be sacrificed for the goals of the Hive. This is fitting. However…if you die here, you are dust. You will be forgotten. As if you never existed.”
The Soldiers were silent. Klbkch felt the most inaudible of ripples go through them. This was how you created Aberrations, even among Soldiers. He remembered the old tests he’d done with his Queen, trying to provoke Individuality among the Antinium. Failing. How had Erin done it? He went on.
“If you die, you are gone. You will not be remembered. Perhaps the Soldier next to you will remember, or the one behind. But they will die soon as well. You will be forgotten. You will be nothing to the Hive or to me. But. Fifty years ago, centuries ago…if you died, you would be remembered. By all the Antinium who lived. The instant you were created, you would know why you existed, why you fought. You would never be alone. Those were the true Antinium. And you are only copies. Fragments of what they were.”
The Soldiers were silent. Klbkch lowered his head. He remembered them all. He remembered them all. Every nameless Soldier and Worker and all the Queens and every Antinium who had lived and died. They were part of him. One of the last True Antinium. When he straightened, it was with the weight of his species on his shoulders.
“Those days are gone. They may never return. But for what might have been, what was, and what we seek to reclaim, fight. Fight, and show me what kind of Antinium you truly are. Fight and be remembered. Now. Charge.”
The Soldiers moved in a soundless wave. They made no sound save for the hammering of their footsteps on the ground. They rushed past Klbkch, into the darkness. Into death. Klbkch watched them go and then shook his head.
“A pointless speech. What flaws am I developing?”
No one answered him. Klbkch concentrated. He spoke out loud, projecting his thoughts to the only other True Antinium close enough to hear him. In ages past, Klbkch could have reached out and communicated to another True Antinium a hundred miles away with ease.
“My Queen, we have obtained our three objectives. Permission to send a second wave into the dungeon?”
It will be done. They will rally at the eastern entrance.
“My thanks, my Queen.”
Klbkch ran back the way he had come. He stopped only to skirmish with a pair of Face-Eater Moths. When he reached the dungeon entrance his blades were still wet with their blood. Over a thousand Soldiers and Workers stood ready. The Queen must have determined that they had Workers to spare. Klbkch raised his voice.
“Time to launch the counter offensive. Soldiers, charge the western tunnel! Avoid traps! Engage monsters! Avoid non-combatants! Workers, follow me!”
A thousand Soldiers raced into the dungeon. Klbkch strode forwards. There would be death tonight. Death. But the Antinium knew death. And this dungeon was a foe worthy of every Hive. Too long the Antinium had been on the defensive. Now, for the first time they were fighting back. Klbkch wished he could feel happier about it. But he thought of the Soldiers who would be forgotten. For the first time in aeons, he wondered if he were growing too old. Then he shook off his doubts and charged into the dungeon. And the monsters fled and died as the black tide flowed forth.
 
——
 
