He stood out from the others, an Individual among the many. Ksmvr felt his stump of a fourth arm throb. He was wearing a cloak and carried the equipment of adventurers. In his way, he was as unique as Klbkch.
“Follow.”
Klbkch turned and walked back the way he’d come. Ksmvr followed as the Antinium stepped aside to make a path. He followed Klbkch, nearly running, as the Revalantor strode down the tunnels. When Klbkch stopped, it was in a place that Ksmvr recognized.
The front lines of the Hive. The place where the Hive met the dungeon. It had changed dramatically since Ksmvr had lived here. The network of tunnels was gone, replaced by a fortified kill zone manned by Workers with bows and a group of Soldiers. Dead monsters were being cleaned up even as Ksmvr watched. A pair of Antinium Workers—Belgrade and Anand—were supervising the defenses. They turned in surprise as Klbkch stopped in the center of the open space.
“So. You’ve returned. I trust you have an adequate reason for attempting to enter the Hive?”
Klbkch’s voice was clipped. Precise. He spoke without hesitation, like the perfect Prognugator that Ksmvr had aspired to be. He terrified Ksmvr. But the Antinium refused to show weakness. He opened his mandibles.
“Yes.”
“Speak, then. Why have you returned? The Queen does not desire your presence. Nor do I consider you to be an asset to the Hive.”
“I know. I am aware of my failings. But my team—the Horns of Hammerad—need aid. The Raskghar captured Captain Ceria. And Mrsha. They are being led by the former Captain of my team. Calruz.”
“Is that so.”
Klbkch’s voice was flat. Disinterested. Ksmvr nodded desperately. He clicked his mandibles together.
“She must be rescued. She is an asset to Liscor! To Miss Erin’s inn! To the Hive!”
“I do not see the relevance.”
“Captain Ceria is—she is a leader! A kind and wonderful leader and mage and—and she will be saved! It is unacceptable that she die. Unacceptable! She must be rescued! I request—I demand that the Hive send Soldiers to locate and retrieve her unharmed!”
Behind Klbkch, both Anand and Belgrade stirred. They looked uneasily at Klbkch. The Revalantor looked up slowly.
“You may demand nothing, Ksmvr. You were expelled from this Hive for incompetence and failure. You are not of the Free Antinium.”
The words pierced Ksmvr’s chest like one of Halrac’s arrows. He actually staggered and felt cold despair—emptiness clawing at his very soul. If he wasn’t part of the Hive, what was he? iF HE wASn’T anTINiUm, wHAT wAs—
A vision of Yvlon flashed in front of Ksmvr. She was showing him how to hold his shortsword. He saw Ceria offering him one of her raw eggs, saw Pisces brushing his hair back and smiling before a lecture.
The world stabilized around Ksmvr. He stood taller, gripped the hilt of his shortsword. He was a Horn of Hammerad. Even if he had no Hive, he had a team. That gave him the strength. Ksmvr drew his shortsword and the enchanted dagger. He heard Belgrade gasp, and saw the Soldiers and Workers turn as one.
“Hold.”
Klbkch’s voice was flat. He studied Ksmvr carefully.
“What are you doing, Ksmvr?”
“Revalantor Klbkch. I challenge you for the position of Revalantor.”
Ksmvr was amazed at how steady his voice sounded. Klbkch paused. Ksmvr had never seen him surprised, but for a brief moment he thought the other Antinium was. Then Klbkch shook his head.
“The Antinium do not decide such matters by challenge.”
“I know. Nevertheless, I challenge you.”
“And if I refuse?”
Ksmvr shifted his grip on the shortsword’s hilt.
“I will attempt to kill you and take the position anyways.”
“I see. In that case, I accept your challenge. It is meaningless either way.”
Klbkch drew his silvery swords. The sound rang through the large chamber. The Antinium watched in silence. Ksmvr and Klbkch held perfectly still. They did not walk around each other. They did not speak. The instant Klbkch had drawn his swords, Ksmvr had tensed. He had one chance. And it was beyond slim.
There was no doubt that Klbkchhezeim the Slayer was far stronger than Ksmvr. He had led the Hive before Ksmvr had been created, long before. He was a master with the twin blades he carried. Nevertheless, he had a weakness. He had gone through the Rite of Anastases. He had lost his levels. Plus, his swords weren’t enchanted. Ksmvr’s were.
He had an enchanted shortsword and the Flamecoat Dagger. That was his real weapon, the one Ksmvr was counting on. One cut from it and he’d set Klbkch ablaze. And his cloak could probably take a blow from Klbkch’s swords. Ksmvr could use his Ring of Jumping—no, Klbkch would cut him apart as he landed. Keep it simple.
Ksmvr moved first. He lunged at Klbkch, jabbing with his shortsword. At the same time he swung his dagger, aiming for Klbkch’s leg. He was hoping that Klbkch would slice his arm off, give him a moment to touch the Antinium. One touch was all he needed. Klbkch moved the instant Ksmvr did. His swords rose and fell.
Fast.
The Antinium blurred. He blocked Ksmvr’s shortsword with his left blade, forcing the shortsword off-target. With his other, he batted aside the Flamecoat Dagger. The instant that the silver sword met the dagger, it burst into flame. Klbkch regarded the flaming blade in surprise. Even the handle was ablaze.
That was the gap Ksmvr needed. The Antinium cut at Klbkch’s chest, shouting desperately.
“[Quick Slash]!”
He had gained that Skill after the Face-Eater Moth attack. Ksmvr’s blade shot towards Klbkch’s chest. The Revalantor dropped his flaming blade, gripped his sword in both hands, and leaned back. Ksmvr missed. The Antinium saw Klbkch step backwards and his blade flashed. The silvery light was beautiful as art. It cut as deep as despair.
Klbkch cut twice. His blade sheared into Ksmvr’s carapace both times. Klbkch yanked his blade away. It was green with blood. Ksmvr collapsed. The Revalantor studied him and kicked Ksmvr onto his back. He reached for his belt and produced a bottle. He uncorked it, poured the contents onto Ksmvr, and turned away.
“Take this failure out of the Hive and leave him on the streets.”
On the ground, Ksmvr could only stare up in shock. The cold pain to his insides had come and gone so suddenly he was still processing it. But he knew what had happened. He had failed. But still, as the Workers scurried forwards to reach him, he tried again.
“Please—”
He reached for Klbkch, not caring about pride. The Revalantor stepped away from him, not even deigning to look down. Ksmvr collapsed. He wept and shook without tears. He was a failure. A complete, utter—
“Anand, how many Soldiers have been assembled yet?”
The [Tactician] straightened.
“A full wave, Revalantor Klbkch. Ready to attack on your orders.”
Ksmvr froze. Klbkch nodded, satisfied. He turned back to Ksmvr and spoke casually.
“We are launching an attack on the dungeon. This has nothing to do with your request.”
“You’re attacking the dungeon?”
Klbkch seemed to contemplate whether Ksmvr deserved an answer. He nodded abruptly.
“Of course. Now is the opportune time. For the Hive’s ends. The monster influx has drastically reduced and the presence of both the Raskghar and adventurers have thinned the monster population.”
“Then allow me to help. I will fight. Please—”
“No. The Hive does not need you. Go back to your team and serve them instead.”
Klbkch turned away. The Workers hauled Ksmvr backwards. He stared at Klbkch’s back until it was out of sight. Ksmvr did not dare to hope. If Klbkch was pursuing the Hive’s objectives, he wouldn’t try to rescue Ceria or Mrsha. But Ksmvr hoped anyways. He had nothing left.
 
——
 
When he was sure that Ksmvr was out of earshot, Klbkch turned back to Belgrade and Anand. He nodded as if nothing had happened.
“As I was saying. Belgrade. Your defenses are useful against the monsters. They will crumble against any kind of formation with a magic user in it. I want you to study Antinium pit traps and learn how to dig them efficiently.”
“Pit traps? Revalantor Klbkch? I mean, yes! What kind of pit traps?”
Belgrade started nervously. He was the more timid of the two. Anand, who was outspoken and far more assertive, stared at Klbkch and the trail of Ksmvr’s blood, clearly nonplussed. Klbkch ignored him.
“Antinium pit traps, Belgrade. It is unique to the Hive. A spiked pit trap or one that relies on gravity takes too long. Antinium pit traps were employed by the Hives during both Antinium Wars. A Soldier digs himself into the earth and waits for a target to pass above. With the correct timing and position, he will be able to slay most magic-users and lower-level officers.”
“I see. But wouldn’t that mean the Soldier—”
Belgrade paused. His mandibles pressed together, the Antinium version of a gulp. Klbkch nodded dispassionately.
“Naturally that Soldier would be sacrificed. Anand, I want you to attempt to create a better variety of bow for our Workers to use. Bird’s abilities would be invaluable to have. Our primitive bow designs have not been updated. Take a budget out of the Hive’s treasury and experiment with materials to create a cost-efficient bow and arrows.”
“Yes, Revalantor Klbkch.”
Anand replied promptly, but Klbkch wasn’t satisfied. He studied the Worker’s response. Body language, the way they shifted and looked at each other. It wasn’t something he’d ever imagined having to do before this, but Belgrade and Anand, these new Individuals were…different. Klbkch had never met Antinium like them before. They had personality like true Antinium, and yet they were not. They had…moods. They could disobey. They would disobey. So he watched and waited. After a second, Anand voiced what was clearly on his mind.
“Revalantor Klbkch, may I make a suggestion?”
“Speak.”
“Why are the Workers to be armed with bows made in the Hive? Would it not be more cost-efficient to arm them with bows produced by high-level craftspeople? And on that note, would not a crossbow be a simpler weapon to distribute to Workers?”
Klbkch considered the question. It was a good one. It spoke to Anand’s thoughtfulness. Klbkch had been working with both [Tacticians] of late to improve their effectiveness. And to impress on them what was important to the Hive. He shook his head as he cleaned Ksmvr’s blood off his blade. Klbkch stooped to pick up the other silvery blade, which was slightly blackened with soot. The enchanted dagger had surprised him. It showed that Ksmvr was learning. Good.
“I do not intend to buy the Hive’s arms. And the Drake cities monitor and prohibit mass shipments of weapons to the Antinium. If you are able to design and manufacture crossbows in the Hive, I will consider implementing their usage.”
“I understand.”
“Very well. Send the first wave to the eastern dungeon entrance. They will await me there. Have you any more questions?”
The two Workers paused. Anand delicately scratched his antennae.
“So, Calruz is the leader of the Raskghar? That is fascinating. Revalantor Klbkch, are we to make the Minotaur a target? It appears that his raids have significantly hindered Liscor and the adventurers’ progress in the dungeon.”
“That is so. However, I do not deem it necessary to target the Minotaur. Or the Raskghar for that matter. I will insist on stationing a guard of Painted Soldiers in Erin’s inn at all times, though. The assault on her inn could have resulted in her injury or death, which would have been unacceptable.”
Anand nodded. He hesitated.
“Erin does care for Mrsha and Ceria, though. Revalantor Klbkch, if I might add a secondary objective to your raid?”
“That will not be necessary, Anand. If I locate Mrsha or Ceria, I will do everything feasible to retrieve them.”
The two Workers looked at each other. Anand raised a finger.
“But you told Ksmvr—”
Klbkch sheathed his swords briskly.
“Do not mistake my words to Ksmvr, Anand. He is an asset to the Hive, although he does not know it yet. It suits the Hive that he learn from adventurers. Retrieving Ceria and Mrsha is a priority, if not the main one.”
Anand cocked his head sideways thoughtfully.
“Ah. So you lied to him. Why are you telling us?”
“It is important that you understand the goals of this Hive. As [Tacticians], you are responsible for more than just the security of the Hive. The Queen and I both desire you to take on larger duties. When you are ready, I will inform you of longer-term objectives. For now, it is enough that you consider Ksmvr an asset in development. And it is crucial that he not learn of this fact.”
“We understand.”
Belgrade spoke for the two of them. Anand turned.
“The Soldiers have arrived.”
A rank of gleaming carapaces followed his comment. Klbkch turned and saw a stream of Soldiers marching into the chamber. Their bodies were dark black-brown, gleaming, unscratched and freshly formed. New Soldiers, freshly made to serve the Hive. They formed into perfect ranks and marched down a tunnel past the Antinium. Klbkch nodded.
“I will commence the assault on the dungeon shortly. I expect to take at least 60% casualties.”
“Out of a thousand Soldiers. Devastating.”
Belgrade murmured uncertainly. Klbkch nodded.
“A necessary sacrifice. If I am slain, you will report to the Queen. Another detail. You will not tell Pawn of this operation, especially in regards to the number of casualties.”
Anand paused.
“A curious order.”
Klbkch’s voice was icy.
“I expect it to be followed.”
“Are you not afraid that we will disobey?”
For a second Klbkch felt his hand twitch towards his swords. What a question! If he had not known Anand, he would have assumed the Worker was an Aberration. He checked himself and then responded.
“No. As [Tacticians], you understand that Pawn’s actions are erratic. His abilities benefit the Hive greatly, but he is unable to sacrifice the lives of Workers and Soldiers to achieve an objective.”
“I see. Thank you for clarifying that, Revalantor Klbkch. I agree with your thinking.”
The Worker nodded. Belgrade looked at Anand uncertainly. Klbkch weighed the odds of Belgrade informing Pawn. If it happened he would deal with it. He moved on to the next point in his mind without dwelling on the consequences unduly.
“Stand by to send reinforcements. You will not be risked on this assault, but your abilities will be needed to analyze traps and the dungeon’s layout. An Antinium will be carrying a scrying mirror which you will use.”
Again, Belgrade and Anand were visibly surprised. Anand clicked his mandibles together sharply.
“A scrying mirror? I was not aware the Hive had such artifacts.”
