"I assumed a century. That's the standard we've seen for clearing a fringe world, and this definitely fits the classifications for one."

Chrona furrowed her brow.

"You've cleared over fifty worlds, so you've lived for over five millennia?"

Opal nodded. Chrona tilted her head,

"I don't mean offense by this, but you act childishly for someone your age. Why is that?"

Opal's cross curved up.

"No offense taken, and actually, thank you for the compliment. I try to keep my spirit youthful. That's something I've noticed with lots of millennials. They become set in their ways and lose their love for life. I never wanted to be like that, so I've fostered my sense of wonder and animism. I love to hear that my efforts aren't in vain."

Amara raised her gauntlets to Opal. Our Builder murmured.

"What makes you think that a carefully curated facade implies a youthful demeanor?"

She hugged her knees to her chest.

"You get to decide who you want to be and how you act. You can say I'm lying or being fake, but I think it's the opposite. I've created a harmony between how I act and who I want to be. That means you see what you get, which is a lot better than most people."

Opal's hair frolicked about.

"That's because most people are driven, at least in part, by their instincts. They say and do things they don't mean, and a lot of what they do is outside their awareness. I have had enough time to reflect on those subconscious factors, and I've made my habits reflect who I wanted to be."

Opal tilted her head at Amara.

"Besides, it's pretty idealistic to try to be someone. That's the definition of being young if you ask me."

Amara frowned, her teeth glistening in the sunlight.

"Hm. You carry more depth than the puddle you present."

Opal laughed.

"Never judge a light under the sun. What matters is how it burns in the dark, but look who's getting off-topic now?"

Opal turned to everyone.

"Ok, Dungeon clearing. If you're looking to expedite the clearing process, you might be able to get it down to five or six decades. Any lower than that is risky since you may leave patches of the world uncleared. I've seen plenty of empires try to rush the process. It never works out well for the populace that tries to move in afterward."

Opal's face wrinkled, the light overlapping over her.

"Entire towns just disappear because of some ancient horror. Dark stuff, I tell ya. That's why I never recommend trying to lower the time for a planetary clearing by going below the standard rate of one century. Like I tell my clients, you don't want the job done. You want it done well."

I sat down with her, and Chrona followed suit. I waved off Opal's concern.

"I'm going to mass produce golems and have them clear out the eldritch. I'll run around and get cities made in the meantime. It shouldn't even take a year, let alone ten."

Opal let out a giggle.

"I'll believe it when I see it, Harbinger, sir."

I flashed the radiant nucleus.

"What about this?"

Opal took a breath.

"I can't believe I'm the one who's supposed to be the walking encyclopedia of the group...So that's a, ugh, I wish they had grabbed Marcia. She's way better at this kind of thing."

Opal stared up.

"If anything I'm saying isn't super reliable, please don't bite me for it later. So basically, that's a weird blue core covered in leylines. Leylines were an old method that the system used to convert and control the mana flows of planets. They were disincentivized after the great war with Baldowah's followers."

Other Hod murmured.

"Why? And what is a leyline in detail? They sound useful."

Opal lightly tapped her head with her fist as if forcing knowledge out.

"A leyline is a naturally or unnaturally occurring series of runic formations. They can convert mana into specific subcategories that tend to be more stable. During the war, several methods of abusing the leylines were uncovered, making them easily exploitable to knowledgeable parties."

Opal's cross scrunched up, and her voice went higher and higher.

"This resulted in specialized, smaller eldritch or avatars of Old Ones that could wield the entire force of a planet using certain stones. These stones connected them to leyline conduits that enabled system-breaking powers that even Overseers and the like struggled against. This is why they were discontinued. That discontinuation of leylines was a containment strategy for the eldritch, and it was met with lots of controversy. So yeah, Schema punishes any guild or planet that uses them."

Opal deflated while spilling her words out.

"Since you don't see them much anymore, it's obvious who won out in the long run. You have a clear example of a leylines demerits right there."

She gestured to the nucleus. I held it up with two fingers.

"Then what's the biggest issue with eating one?"

She laughed.

"You'd explode for one thing. Most eldritch can't even do that, and their physiology has been corrupted and evolved to assimilate energy at outlandish rates."

My armor flowed over my face before swallowing the core. I put my hands on my hips.

"An explosion? If that's all, then let's get on to the next topic of discussion. So, Ghelid-"

Opal pointed at me.

"Wait a minute. Did anyone else see that?"

The group stared. Amara simmered.

"Obviously."

Opal gulped.

"Just, uh, making sure is all."

Amara left her gauntlets on an autopilot floating function.

"I, too, am curious about Ghelid's origins or how it came to be. It sounds insane."

Opal pointed at me.

"He swallowed the nucleus. Guys, he's going to explode."

Other Hod spread his large hands.

"He will be fine. What of this eldritch leader? Are they common?"

Opal sighed.

"Ok, uhm, they're not super unusual or common. I'd say you see them in one out of seven worlds, depending on the type. They can be aggregates like a hive mind. A Ruhl is a classic example of an aggregate eldritch. They can also come in a boss type, which is what Ghelid falls under. It was a single entity that controlled eldritch through force. That tends to be far more common than the other kinds."

Opal stared into the distance.

"They're also intelligent types that rule through subterfuge and manipulation. We call them deceivers, and they are extremely dangerous. Oftentimes, Fringe Walkers give up on planets that have a deceiver class nesting on them, and we'll even call in preemptive glassings. I've done it twice."

Amara's hair writhed behind her.

"You gave up?"

Opal gave her an eager nod.

"Absolutely. I know when I'm in over my head. Besides, you've seen my skills, and I'm able to handle myself. Still, if I see anything resembling a Ruhl or an eldritchified avatar, then I'm out."

I winced.

"Eldritchified avatar? That sounds horrifying."

Opal closed her cross, the glow gone.

"They're some of the worst enemies of all living things in known space. When you combine the wild power of an avatar with the endless hunger of an eldritch, then you get lost space."

Chrona leaned back.

"Lost space?"

Opal massaged her temples.

"It's like I'm talking to preschoolers. Ok, patience, Opal. Patience."

She peered back up.

"Look, a lost planet is when a perfectly functional planet suddenly disappears without a trace. When there's a cluster of these planets that disappear, it's called lost space. It's pretty self-explanatory."

I winced. It was a haunting term, one that fitted the situation well. I raised a hand, but Opal cut me off.

"Ap, ap, ap, I'm done explaining stuff. If you guys want lectures, we're going to have to spread this out over our time here. I can't keep doing this. Otherwise, I'm going to vomit."

Hod popped out of Other Hod.

"Fun snack?"

Opal drooped down like a wilting flower.

"Opal...You've chosen this for yourself. Of all things, this. By Schema, what was I thinking?"

Amara shrugged.

"You spoke of a promotion when we traveled."

Opal focused her gaze. She raised a hand.

"That's right. I want that pay raise after all these centuries."

Familiar thoughts clicked into my mind. I raised a brow.

"What's your salary?"

Opal furrowed her brow.

"1.5 million credits yearly. I also have a bonus for cleared planets, and I get royalties on cities I've established. It's 3% of their annual profits."

I scoffed.

"I'll double it if you work under my guild."

Opal stood up and gave me a salute.

"I'm in, sir Harbinger, sir. Should we discuss details before formalizing the contract?"

Chrona opened her eyes wide.

"Something I've noticed and am curious about. Why is it that you poach every high-standing member of any guild you come across?"

I leaned back in indignation.

"I don't do that. Name one examp-"

Other Hod raised a large hand. He counted on his fingers.

"Helios. Florence. Technically, you took Althea from Yawm. Chrona and Krog were aligned with Emagrotha. Tera was a member of the albony."

I turned a hand to him.

"Yawm had that coming, and it's not my fault that these empires have underappreciated talents. Besides, who cares about three million credits a year? That's chump change."

Opal stood with her heels together.

"It's actually a pretty standard rate. If it takes me a century to clear a planet, that's 150 million credits apiece. I usually get a 50 million bonus at that point, and then the royalties are more like, er, 40,000 to 50,000 credits a year? They weren't much to start, but now they make up most of my actual income."

Opal put a fingertip to her chin.

"So it ends up taking about fifty years before they've made up their investment, assuming you only count the initial clearing costs. I don't actually set up any of the infrastructure or buildings involved with establishing a planet. All I do is get rid of the amassed eldritch and set the dungeons up for standard clearings."

I nodded.

"Would you set up a course for future Fringe Walkers and be a teacher at Mt. Verner for a while?"

She raised her palms.

"I like my alone time. It helps me keep my sanity. I know that sounds weird, but if I'm surrounded by people for too long, I go stir-crazy."

I rubbed my temples.

"Huh. You prefer actual Fringe Walking, then?"

Her cross smiled.

"Yup. Sorry if that's a deal breaker."

I smiled back, a bit reserved.

"I'm sorry, but it is. That's the last thing I need. I want to set my guild up for other Fringe Walkers in the future."

Opal shook her hands back and forth in a flurry of movement.

"Oh, don't mind me. I understand you're just feeling things out, and I can respect that. Besides, it's important to communicate when you're trying to get employed. You need to know what I am willing and not willing to do. That being said, I can be a teacher for a few months and help set up a course for you if you'd like."

"How much?"

She rolled a hand.

"How about three million credits?"

I waved her off.

"I'll give you a ring instead. It will likely hold more value over the long term anyway."

Opal leaned towards me.

"Oooh, jewelry? Wait, Opal, don't get sucked into the charming ways of shiny rocks. Ooooh, but it's so hard. Ok, first off, how bright is the ring?"

Amara turned her hand to Opal. A ring of dark metal rested on her index finger.

"This is what they look like. They are not made for their aesthetic, but the stats they grant are immense. That, this gear, and his legacy are how I was able to survive in the forest with you. Otherwise, I would be paste."

Opal crossed her arms.

"They're that good, huh?"

I made one in real-time before tossing it to her.

"You be the judge."

Opal marveled at the band. She put it on before taking a step back. She let out a yelp as she grew half a foot in height.

"What in Baldowah's name is this?"

I frowned.

"It's not by or for Baldowah. It's a piece of my skin molded into powerful equipment. It carries characteristics similar to my accrued stats. And, well, I have high-ish stats."

Opal ogled the band.

"Wait, Amara wasn't being dramatic when she said she was talking about wearing your flesh? I thought it was some weird eldritch metaphor."

I gestured to Amara's equipment.

"Where do you think she got the gear from?"

Opal closed her cross.

"You...You make the gear? The golems? The cities, too?"

I frowned.

"Uh, yeah. You've seen it."

Opal put her face in her hands.

"Why do you even have a guild? What do they even do for you?"

I furrowed my brow.

"They organize my home planet. They create a reliable place with the social structures I want in place. They handle all the legal, economic, and informational issues for themselves. They give me a purpose beyond simply fighting to grow stronger. You know, a home to go back to."

Opal looked at the others.

"You guys. Guilds are supposed to support their leader. They enable the ruler and let them focus on strengthening themselves. It sounds like he's enabling all of you instead."

I propped a knee up and leaned my arm against it.

"I can't control my territories without them."

Opal scoffed.

"But why even own the territories to begin with? They can't give you new equipment, materials, or additional economic means. From what I've gathered, they drain you of your personal time without any real way of helping you. In essence, your guild boils down to a bunch of busy work taking care of people."

I raised my brow.

"That's what a leader does, isn't it?"

Opal stood up.

"Absolutely not. They usually establish a guild so that they can systematically extract wealth from a populace and the natural resources of a planet. They then use that wealth to build up their own abilities. This is the opposite. You're basically hamstringing your own progress so that you can build up a society."

I scoffed.

