Well, used to thrive as Chrona and Hod had cleared the area for their training. The flattened stone was surrounded by tall plant eldritch on all sides, and my two vanguard golems kept them at bay. At the center of it all, Other Hod flipped, darted, and ducked through different shadows. His fleeting form shifted in and out of every patch of darkness, even dodging out of Chrona's nostril at one point.

Chrona stood at the center, doing everything in her power to pound Other Hod to a pulp. She whipped her tail, flashed her fangs, and cleaved her claws until she blurred in my sight. Other Hod was far slower than he was against me since Chrona's time magic slowed him down. However, the few marks Other Hod left on Chrona ate away at her focus, the psionic poison dealing unstoppable damage.

Chrona rotated primordial mana through her body to fight the desert poison, but that left the psionic effects rampaging through her psyche. That crippling debuff prevented her from maintaining her magic's full strength. That created an unstable equilibrium that threatened to shatter at any moment.

They both continued until Chrona's tail made contact with Other Hod's chest. At that point, Other Hod tried dematerializing before having half the bones in his body shattered. He collided with the ground in a quaking boom. A crater formed, and dust plumed. I flew over.

"You guys don't look like you've lost a step."

Other Hod spat out shadowy blood.

"Ah, Harbinger. Excuse my sorry state. As you so aptly put it, Miss Time Dragon is vicious. Evil, some might say."

Chrona glared at him, and Other Hod chuckled. I immersed him in The Rise of Eden, bolstering his healing. It would take a while, but he'd be at full strength soon enough. After Other Hud chugged a health potion and devoured some mana-laden meat, his wounds recovered fast enough to see the tissues mesh together.

It was, oddly enough, a familiar sight. Chrona smiled my way, her teeth pearly and clean.

"So, where were you?"

I looked around.

"I'd rather tell everybody at once, if possible."

Chrona stood tall and peered at the forest.

"They should be back any-"

Opal and Amara rustled out of the underbrush, both of them covered in wounds. Amara held the shields I made for her floating beside her arms. The facemask and gauntlets also covered her face, giving her a menacing, eyeless appearance. That illusion shattered as she heaved for a breath before ripping the face mask off, falling, and vomiting.

Other Hod changed into Hod, who pointed at the pile of refuse.

"Can Hod eat-"

Other Hod's shadows swallowed their face.

"Only if you practice your magic today."

Hod popped out of the shadows.

"Yay. Hod sated."

I gawked at them, and not only because Hod's hunger outmatched my armor's endless drive to consume. Our eldritch Builder had a different figure, her body losing its emaciated, hollowed-out appearance. She gained lithe muscle all over herself, and it made her look far healthier. Her pale, dry skin smoothed out, her teeth having fallen out and regrown good as new. She even smelled better.

She'd had a glow-up, effectively.

Chrona grinned.

"Ah, there they are."

I inspected them. Opal was the same, but Amara's title had changed.

Amara, the Harbinger's Prime Mover | Guild: The Harbinger's Legion | Class: Builder | Level 9,910

I nodded at her, begrudging respect written all over my face.

"Nicely done."

Hod popped out of Other Hod.

"Hod know Hod do well."

I scoffed.

"You're eating someone else's vomit."

Hod changed back into Other Hod, who glared at me. He simmered his words.

"What? Do you have any idea how expensive feeding that imbecile is? If I didn't let him consume trash or vomit, then he'd sneak food from other sources. If anything, I'm lucky he doesn't like feces."

I shook my head while holding down a laugh.

"It would be a...Shitty situation then, wouldn't it? Eh? EH?"

No one laughed because it wasn't funny.

Other Hod stomped over. He glared up at me.

"You think this is a laughing matter?"

Obviously, I didn't because I was making bad jokes. Other Hod's glowing eyes went distant.

"The things I've seen. Th-the burps I've burped."

Chrona patted his shoulder with her tail.

"We all eat a bit too much bone sometimes."

Other Hod took a breath.

"Not like this. Not. Like. This."

Amara took one of the rotating shields, scooped the throw-up, and threw it to the eldritch outside. She snarled.

"Enough talk of vomit."

Opal fell forward as the lights on her body flickered. She took a breath.

"That was awful."

We rallied where the two of them had collapsed. I took a moment to let them recover before looking through my storage. I scratched the back of my head.

"Damn. I don't have any potions of any kind."

Opal stumbled when she tried to stand, so she gave up and sat down.

"That's ridiculous. Do you not need them since you're some weird healer?"

I furrowed my brow.

"More like I'm forgetful. Anyways, how did you level Amara so much?"

Opal gasped.

"It was tough work. She's so weak and, er, unprepared for most combatants. Their level isn't helping either, but your vanguards saved us from pretty much any sticky situations. And like, wow, there were plenty of those. Did you know the system had Amara's level reduced to the cap before we unlocked her class?"

I shook my head, and I gazed at Amara's title, her Builder class evident.

"I didn't know, but I can see the class. How in the hell did she unlock that?"

Amara murmured.

"By building."

Opal sat down.

"If I'm honest with you, I've never even heard of it before. It sounds old, though, like one of the big three that most people start with."

Amara tilted her head at us.

"It's obvious I would be given a profession based on my origin. How is this confusing?"

I reached out with a hand before pulling it back.

"Uh, so, it's...Hmm, it's like this. Schema has been very antsy about giving people access to the cipher. You have a class that revolves around using it and making the most of what it has to offer. If you think about it, you're an eldritch that's snuck into the system's purview, and now you've gotten an exiled class that's given to damn near nobody."

I shrugged.

"It's really unlike Schema."

Amara scratched a gauntlet across the ground.

"The system was designed to help your kind against mine. This is the least it may do to help bridge the physical differences between us. Still, what you said has a strange merit to it. Whenever I gained my class, I received notifications. Unlocking it stemmed from the silver-tier rights of your guild. Some tree called Schema's Champion."

I rubbed my temples, straining my memory.

"Wait a minute...Oh yeah, Schema's Champion trees. It's really nice that the tree lets us know when and where it's helping out."

Chrona nodded.

"Transparency is always appreciated."

Opal looked into the forest.

"We're just lucky that Amara has a lot of mana and has a tough body for her level. That eldritch half came in handy more than once, and this gear is extremely good. Like, too good. It's way beyond her level, so I'm kind of surprised the system is even letting her use it."

I smirked as Amara held up her hand. It held one of my rings. Combine its bonuses with her shield and facemask, and she carried immense power for her level. Amara murmured.

"I wear the flesh of the Harbinger. His blood is my strength."

Opal covered her mouth and coughed.

"Cringe."

Amara scoffed.

"You're hundreds of years old and still can't take a situation seriously? It makes you feel awkward, so you disperse the tension of my words by calling forth shame on me? Do you think I'll kowtow to something so benign? Pathetic."

Opal rolled her face and facial cross, the expression much like rolling one's eyes.

"Ok, monster lady. Say whatever you like. Anyways, let's talk about something else, like what did you do, Daniel?"

I detailed what I'd done since I left. Before I finished, Opal sat herself up and downed a stamina potion. She honed in on the story, and when it ended, her cross frowned.

"That's...Uhm, how do I word this...Improbable?"

I pulled out the strange core, and it resonated with a different reality. It called out for all to change to its rhythm, and its voice was undeniable. I gestured to it like I was in an infomercial.

"Well, here's your proof."

Opal gawked at it before reaching out with a hand.

"May I?"

I wrapped my hand around it.

"It has a powerful psionic presence. If you hold it, there's a good chance you're mind and personality will be washed away in the resentment it carries."

Opal jerked her hand back.

"Yeesh. Thanks for the heads up, and did you know I really, really hate mind magic stuff?"

I looked at the core.

"Me too. Either way, I wanted your thoughts on this and what we should do next. I'm conflicted on my path forward."

Opal snorted.

"Psh, what? You follow Schema's quest, obviously."

I crossed my arms.

"Why is that so self-evident?"

Opal leaned back, holding herself upright with her arms.

"Schema's goal is to strengthen us and have us eliminate the eldritch threat as much as we can. It knows how to make that happen in the most streamlined way, so following it tends to be a good decision. If you need to do something else, you can always adjust your path once you need to."

I furrowed my brow.

"I've only gotten like...Maybe four quests since I've gotten into the system. In fact, the few I got have always carried some hidden agenda that's more trouble than the quest is actually worth."

Opal scoffed.

"That's some heretical blasphemy you're spouting, don't you think?"

I leaned towards her.

"Ok, tell me this. Where was Schema when Elysium invaded?"

She tilted her head.

"He sent in armadas, gave us experience bonuses, extra trees, skill compendiums, and the AI even helped us with our evacuation. It did all that while offering us quests that gave us critical information about enemy movements. I had a few, and they were super wordy for no reason except to screw over Elysium."

I blinked.

"Well...That would've been helpful."

Opal's body glowed brighter.

"It's how all the other planets have fared as well."

Other Hod cracked his neck.

"I have helped Helios spill the blood of Elysium, and I promise you that they have received little compensation or assistance."

I peered up at the sky.

"Yeah, man, what the hell? Where was all that support when we fought Elysium?"

Opal threw her hands up.

"I don't know, but Schema was good to us. If Elysium hadn't infiltrated our guild after the lottery, then we would've probably fought them off. It would've been a hard-fought conflict, but it was doable, at least by my guesstimations. Schema is actually why we went to your planet. It gave us a quest to do so."

I rubbed my temples.

"Ok, we've had very different system experiences. Regardless, I could follow the quest, but I have other options. I want to make sure those are examined."

Opal shook her head.

"Schema's just trying to help you out, and you're finding a lamp in the dark and asking where it got its oil."

A weary smile traced my lips.

"What can I say? Old habits die hard, and every lamp we've found in the dark has been surrounded by a thousand eyes from monsters skulking in the darkness."

Chrona blinked.

"Why do we speak of lamps and the dark?"

I shook my hand in frustration.

"Look, Opal started the lamp analogy. I just went with it."

Other Hod tilted his head at me.

"But you're the one who took it too far."

I rolled my eyes at Opal.

"My point is that you have a lot of faith in Schema. That AI has already tried warping me into a black hole. I'm not about to forget that because of one quest or class unlock."

Everybody looked at me. I shrugged.

"I don't hold grudges unless I have a good reason. In my opinion, that was a damn fine reason."

Opal peered down. After a moment of thought, she met my eye.

"That...That's awful. I've never heard of anything like that happening to anyone. I'm sorry you've been through that."

Amara let out a cackle.

"Of course you didn't. The dead tell no tall tales. They drift into memory, and memory gives way to oblivion."

Opal shivered.

"Ok, well, if you don't mind, I think we should stay on the AI's good side for now since, you know, the rest of us will die if we're shoved into a blackhole."

I waved my hand.

"Fair enough. Now, assuming we follow this quest, how would you recommend conquering the Frostlands?"

Opal's fiery hair rippled behind her.

"Hm. If it were me, I'd probably focus on starting up a media campaign to advertise a Speaker-led program to clear the area. That's how it's done whenever you have a big empire. You offer up the land, resources, and eldritch as a reward for clearing a place out. Once that's done, you take taxes from the area while granting them some vanity title."

She furrowed her cross.

"You'd be amazed how hard people will work for that vanity title. If you call the same laborer a pauper, they'll barely work. Call them an Earl, and some of them will work themselves to the bone, even if they're effectively the same in social standing, freedoms, and responsibilities as the pauper. Actually, there are entire professions dedicated to that kind of, er, mass informational obfuscation. Ooh, big words. Anywhoo, the class is a variant of the Speaker class. What were they called? Hm, oh yeah, Advocates."

I grimaced.

"We called them politicians in our world."

Opal leaned back in horror.

"Even the word sounds evil."

I narrowed my eyes.

"You have no idea how right you are."

Amara hissed.

"Can we talk about the territory and its clearing?"

Opal leaned away from her.

"Ok, sheesh. For us, I would recommend we take the golems, go out, and clear dungeons. It should take a few decades at most and-"

I scoffed.

"Decades? Sheesh, what kind of timeline do you think we have?"

Opal shrugged.

