"Don't be so certain. My golems were made with their help. They were far more mindless when I first constructed them, and I worked alongside my guild to develop them into the monsters they are now. I gain perks for every planet I own as well, and they've added up enough to give me a solid boost in my stats. I've also learned a lot about different techniques from my connections built on having an empire."

I winced.

"And I wouldn't have gone to the lottery either. Even though I didn't enjoy the trip, it gave me immense gains in my personal abilities."

I peered at my guildmates.

"In that regard, my people have given me many opportunities. It's only right I return the favor."

Opal searched for her words as she spoke.

"No matter where I've gone or who I've spoken with, I've never seen a guild leader who has to be this self-sufficient or that coddles their people as much as you do."

I smiled with pride.

"Thanks. What you call coddling, I call decency."

Opal stuck her hands out to me.

"You're going to end up behind other guild leaders who are focused on their own personal strength. At that point, you're guild can be assaulted and taken over by a strong faction."

I allowed Event Horizon to skulk over her. I didn't eat her mind or mana, but simply allowed the weight of the aura to settle. I gave her a knowing smile.

"Do I feel weak to you?"

She chirped.

"Hm, yeah, it does sound kinda dumb when I say it out loud. You know what, forget I said anything."

I scoffed before hovering myself up.

"Honestly, it's interesting to hear a fresh perspective. But yeah, just to finish the conversation, I want knowledge, techniques, and general practices. The last thing I need is more fighting power. In fact, guess what the most valuable thing I've gained from the luminari has been?"

Opal's hair rippled behind her.

"Huh. I don't know."

I pulled out some lamps from my storage.

"These."

Opal laughed as I stowed them away. I held a hand out while pressing my fingertips together.

"It's this simple. I need a purpose. I need a home. I enjoy fighting, but I enjoy fighting for a reason even more. Besides, in the long term, these investments will pay for themselves. Now, I'm going to go out to the next zone to harvest another core for my armor. It's going to be a zone that revolves around heat and fire, and I was wondering if anyone wants to come with?"

Opal's hands flopped against her sides.

"I know I just criticized you for being generous, but can you be generous and carry me through that area? I think it would be good for my progress since inspiration will be all around me."

Chrona smiled, her teeth glinting.

"You're shameless, aren't you?"

Opal held up her hand, a tiny space between her fingers.

"Maybe just a little bit."

Chrona laughed.

"I like it. I'll go with you whenever you conquer the territory with time or spatial fluctuations. I think I'll uncover more depth to my magics there."

I gave her a thumbs up.

"Sure thing. For you, Opal, I think if we get the right circumstances, we can even get you that class unlock."

Opal peered down.

"I wouldn't bet on it. Fringe Walkers are notoriously difficult to upgrade, and I haven't been able to push for that even after thousands of years."

I gripped my hands into fists.

"Then let's change that."
