A list of objectives pooled in my head along with a bit of status work. Taking a moment, I allocated my attributes from the fight, finalized my decision, and inspected my status.

Things were looking good.

The Living Multiverse | Level 39,918 (Cap: 46,000) | Current Influence: The Rise of Eden | Class: Sovereign

Strength – 789,155 | Constitution – 796,314 | Endurance – 1,232,700

Dexterity – 532,312 | Willpower – 1,489,506 | Intelligence – 1,095,903

Charisma – 577,730 | Luck – 737,796 | Perception – 423,414 |Awe - 67,361

Health: 38.18 Billion/38.18 Billion | Health Regen: 9.348 Trillion/min or 159.81 Billion/sec

Stamina: Infinite +++++++++++++++++++++++++ | Ambient Mana 123,152 Trillion

Mass: 32.358 Billion Pounds(1.471 Billion Kilos~)

Height: 63'02 |19.25 meters | Actual: 63'02

Damage Res - 99.835% | Actual: 99.835% (Infinity) | Dimensional Res - 100%

Phys Dam Bonus – 1.298 Trillion% | Damage Bonus – 40%

The Rise of Eden - enhances base stats by 30%, increased to 40% for allies within the aura's radius

Mana Conversion(Elemental Furnace Count: 14) - 632.2 billion mana/min siphoned into runes and armor

Chapter Begin

Overall, my stats continued their steady march. Mana generation, physical damage, and my mass were the biggest winners overall. While the actual differences were significant, I couldn't help but feel stuck. I'd gained so many levels, stats, and skills. Despite those many accolades, I had to rely on quick thinking to handle Ghelid.

I could shatter several mountains with a single strike. What difference did destroying five mountains make versus seven? The enemy would either be vulnerable to that kind of physical power, or they simply wouldn't be. Therefore, I was at an impasse. I could spend an enormous amount of time and resources building my mana even further. Perhaps I would eventually snowball into some godlike being that could challenge the Old Ones.

However, I could just as easily run into a wall where my acquired abilities didn't matter. It would be like playing rock, paper, scissors, but only working on playing rock. I could have my rock move refined to an utter and absolute extent, one that defied all previous conventions for rock. The resilience would shatter all that existed, and it could crush through planets made of scissors, let alone a single pair.

But the game didn't care if I could smash paper. I would lose by the definition of the rules. In many regards, facing Kryaa felt that way, as did facing Ghelid in his domain. It was a matter of rules versus my execution of them. Instead of trying to get better at this game and how I played it, I needed to change the game I was playing, one that operated on fundamentally different underlying rules.

To that end, I established a set of goals for Amara, where we exchanged our cipheric knowledge. If she changed her outlook, we could level her up quickly before grinding out runes for a few months. The end goal would be to update my runes and elevate their bonuses beyond mere stats. I wanted them to rival trees, perks, and maybe even skills, but no matter how I handled that process, it would be a long road.

Even after months of research, I only came up with better rune carving methods. Quite a few, actually, but they needed more complex runes to work. In that regard, I had hit a wall. I couldn't construct a tree or perk using my runes, and the barrier between my knowledge and Schema's felt insurmountable.

Outside of system-like benefits, I had to get a grip on my dimensional abilities as well. Hell, every other conflict had the word dimension slapped onto it, after all. Being a living multiverse had given me a leg up, but I had to get with the program. Besides my unused potential, I relished another hidden bonus - Schema's involvement.

Ever since my return from L-7, Schema had changed his approach to me. Before, the AI acted stingy and selective. He hadn't handed out quests, restricted what counted as experience, and stopped me from learning skills. The worst element was Schema restricting my primordial mana for years. That crippled my progression at the time.

Nowadays, Schema handed out quests like candy, and they carried no drawbacks. Gone were the days when every quest set me against an evil faction or stopped me from leaving a planet. They actually aligned with my current goals and even offered direction where I had none. My current quest was a great example.

I had no idea what to do next after killing Ghelid. I would've returned to my base and tried to randomly fly around. The quest offered direction, so I knew how the planet worked, what needed to be done, and what to communicate to my guild members. It left me confident on a path, and I cherished that after having no guidance for so long.

At this rate, I might even have enough cores to donate some to my guild as rewards. At the very least, it would be a start. Speaking of, I took out the glowing core that Ghelid worked on. I tried inspecting it, and boom, the system actually did its thing.

Radiant Nucleus of Stillness | Enchantments: Cold, Hardness, Inviolability, Purity, Serenity - Ghelid strived to create a perfect stillness, and this radiant nucleus is a near-perfect incarnation of the concept. This object is an altered blue core. It has been covered by innumerable leylines gathered from nature or Schema. Ghelid held eldritch in place for centuries, and he channeled their life force and desire into this object.

It has become a corrupted core over time due to this influence. The leylines covering it stabilized this corruption, elevating this into a pseudo-magenta core. While lacking the enormous, solar-spanning powers of a magenta core, this nucleus can create profound effects on reality.

That was an interesting bit of information - the tier above blue cores was magenta, from the sounds of it. The enormous core on L-7 had been black like a blackhole, so that could be the next step up after magenta. Either way, I marveled at the marble in my hand. It carried an absurd potency, something I felt down to my bones, and even a casual psionic check verified what the status had to say.

Within this vessel, the desire for freedom effused from a myriad of eldritch. It also contained their pain and volition, a haunting reminder of its source. I stared at it with a sad smile. It was a resource that had a painful origin, and I didn't want to use it. At the same time, some part of my being longed for the energy this object held.

That desire manifested from my cells and bones alike, and my armor pulled over my face and drooled mana. My helm's jaws opened, wanting to swallow the core. I pulled my hand away before smacking my armor.

"Bad armor, bad."

It flowed back, but it left me wondering why I hungered for this thing. Before swallowing it, I stowed it away in my pocket dimension. I didn't want some residual piece of Ghelid infecting my soul or something, so a bit of research was necessary before I started popping pills. Or cores. Well, nucleuses. Nuclei?

My mind wandered to even more important topics before I prepared to harvest all I could from this situation. I wouldn't be left empty-handed after a fight like that. Scouring the area, I found the core that Ghelid said would take him to Earth and inspected it.

Minor Spatial Nucleus | Enchantments: Space Manipulation, Spatial Folding - Spatial nuclei allow the user to manipulate and fold space by using up the condensed principles within the core. This minor variant gives the user the ability to warp across planetary-sized spaces. This can be used in alchemical ingredients, armor, or weapons to spatially modify them.

I cursed at Ghelid and my poor ability to discern the lies of an otherworldly being. After a bit of thought, it was good that I took the situation as seriously as I had. Even if he hadn't reached Earth, Ghelid would have been able to warp to the capital. Unfortunately, I didn't know if the being could've gotten inside the barrier of the city or not.

It wasn't a fact I wanted to find out either, so I moved on, that knowledge in tow. After scouting the area for several more hours, I uncovered thousands of leylines but no more cores. Considering these leylines fed into this odd formation, I returned to where I carved Ghelid apart. Reality had healed, having been torn apart in many ways at this spot, but the echo of its pain remained, my own fabric rippling at the spatial carnage.

Stepping up to the phantom wounds, I pulled out one of my own blue cores from L-7. The radiant orb floated toward the center of the old subspace. The energy from the leylines siphoned into it once more. The eldritch howled far into the distance, and the workers continued mining ice mana.

I shook my head before taking the core out of the ritual site. I could harvest gains from here without having to lift a finger, but was it worth it? I wouldn't want to torture an entire region's life for my gain. It wasn't who I was or wanted to be. Instead, I snatched up the majority of the leylines here.

How? Well, that was one of the best benefits of leveling up - I gained mass. The more I weighed, the more I could store in my dimensional spaces. It was like upgrading encumbrance in a video game. Even if temporary, it was always, always worth it. After all, you could muscle through combat via skill. Encumbrance required time, and that was painful in and of itself.

After a while, another idea popped into my head. I carried a bunch of tiny dungeons with me, but they weren't actually small areas. They were the size of countries, and they could hold stuff within them. Taking advantage of their full utility, I took many of the central leylines and put them into the dungeon spaces.

As I opened them, I winced. My spatial clapping had left portions of two worlds destroyed. Cracks radiated across the endless plains of the firefly world, and a dying sea world still had tsunamis flowing through it that eclipsed the clouds. I wouldn't be using the clapping technique if any of my guildmates were inside one of these spaces, that's for sure.

Hours passed during my leyline harvest, and I grabbed nigh every leyline in

the Frostland's center. No one would stumble onto this hellhole and reactivate it unless they remade it from the ground up. Without anything sustaining the ritual site, the seven-walled glacier began collapsing, and the sluice ran across seven great rivers to different regions of Rebirth.

I smiled at my work. I worried about the glacier melting and creating a great flood, but instead, this torrent harmonized with the regions nearby. Life-giving water drenched several regions, and the creatures of each area lapped at the torrent. Once the vast glacial sheet melted, a few ruins dotted the lowest, unveiled portions.

Swimming through a filthy lake, I found a few broken, splintered remains of skyscrapers and an advanced society. Most of the metal rusted into red dust that painted the water a dull red. The stone powdered down into a fading echo of a once prosperous society, and no pieces of the technology remained.

I held down my disappointment, having hoped to bring amara something more substantial. After all this time, we found a planet that held Builders and other pillars of Schema. Watching it all fade to time and the endless proliferation of the eldritch, it left me bitter. Such a magnificent and grand society fell, one that held an enduring legacy in Schema.

And yet I hoped our planet would last forever. In that moment, I felt small.

I breathed, letting the sensation flow through me. It was something I felt, not acted on. In the end, I had killed a monster that terrorized a continent. It was a good day, one that I chose to remember fondly. Immersed in that contentment, I flew off to the capital of Rebirth.

This time, I took my bullet form and stormed across the land. More hours passed, and I reached the city. I slowed down and landed at its center. By now, the architect golems had completed the entire abode, and the city reminded me of a forested version of the albony's cities. Using Diesel's designs, the golems went with organic materials, and they even marked imperfections onto each material to achieve an aged look.

It felt like a city carved out of the world by nature, or like some benevolent god commanded the stone to mold into a metropolis. I enjoyed it, and I found my living quarters near the top of an inner skyscraper. I sat down in a room mirroring a modern suite before calling in an architect golem. They helped me find places for plants in the space alongside runes to water them at set intervals.

Because I would 100% let the houseplants die.

By the time we finished, it was a verdant paradise. Wafting in the scent of cinnamon and cedar, I shooed the architect golem away. I soaked in the ambiance for a few hours and collected myself. The trip through Ghelid's territory had taken far more than a few days. While I could endure decades of harsh labor, my best work was always done with breaks.

So I took one. For the rest of the day, I called and chatted with Althea, Torix, Kessiah, Diesel, Florence, and even Helios. It was fun to catch up. The next day, I strode out in pursuit of everyone. I found Chrona and Hod sparring outside the town. After the last obliteration of the capital, it was inevitable we'd have to move our fighting out there.

Even if the architect golems could restore the city to pristine condition, leveling the town every few hours wasn't exactly productive. The spar, however, was. They chose one of the transitional patches of ground between different elemental zones. Here, the manas meshed into the essence of life, and a jungle formed where strong eldritch thrived.

