"You're very welcome." Cale stood up and stretched, yawning; it was getting late, and the light from Utelia's moons were now shining through the windows into Akkau's office. "For the record, I'm not going to let you die that easily, especially if you're the one that arranged things so I'd be summoned here. If you try to let that scalerot take you I'm going to pluck your soul out of the afterlife just so I can give you a good scolding."

"Which one of us is the apprentice, again?" Akkau asked dryly. A note of his usual amusement had crept into his voice. He stood from the desk as well, moving to the window to glance out at the sky. "Do not forget to drink your potion, Cale."

"I won't!" Cale said cheerfully. He headed for the door, turning the knob just as Akkau made a strangled, choking sort of noise.

"Cale," he said. "What did you do to the—"

Cale slammed the door shut and strode off, whistling happily.

A few minutes later found Cale sitting back on his bed opposite Damien. The dreadshade was already fast asleep, though he seemed to be having some sort of nightmare; he tossed and turned repeatedly, letting out the occasional pained whimper under his breath.

Cale winced at the sight. It didn't look much better than some of the dreams he had to endure during his more restless nights. They came less frequently these days, but they were there all the same. Once a month or so, almost like clockwork, to the point that he'd gotten good at predicting exactly when they would happen.

He'd have to make sure he either slept outside or got some damn good wards before the next nightmare, but that was more than a week away. Well after they dealt with the Red Hunters.

As for Damien... Well, it didn't take a genius to realize he'd been through something traumatic regarding his decay mana. Cale didn't know what it was, but many of the dreadshades he'd met had similar stories—accidentally rotting someone they cared about or someone they loved. Entire villages of people, in some cases.

And even out of all those dreadshades, Damien had perhaps the kindest heart he'd seen. Most of the others had grown desensitized to death over time, but Damien? It felt like he was desperately trying to protect all the innocence he had left.

Cale sighed. He'd have to try to figure something out for the guy. As much as he could try to guide him, Damien didn't seem cut out for the role that dreadshades usually played in their realms. Finding a way for him to use that decay mana constructively was only the first step. A second core wouldn't be viable for a dreadshade, so maybe...

He paused, tilting his head slightly as movement around the bed caught his attention. Two tendrils reached up from beneath the bed to gently tug the corners of Damien's blanket back up over his shoulders. Cale blinked, opened his mouth, and then closed it again.

Now that was a sight he never thought he'd see. A monster-under-the-bed acting tender, of all things?

"...Be. Quiet." The monster grumbled at him, almost as if it knew what he was thinking.

Cale snorted. "I'm just glad someone's looking out for him, to be honest," he said. The tendrils stilled warily for a moment, as though unsure what to think, then tipped toward him in hesitant acknowledgement.

After that, they slipped back beneath Damien's bed without another word.

Those things fed on nightmares, didn't they? It almost certainly had some idea of what Damien went through every night. Maybe that was why it was so careful with him. It saw something in those nightmares it could relate to, perhaps, or it just felt bad for Damien in general.

The thought made Cale smile to himself. Millennia of life, and he was still encountering new things. Who ever heard of a monster like that caring about the person they fed on?

Flia had someone looking out for her, too, now that he thought about it, and Syphus had its connection with its Named creator to rely on. The only one that didn't seem to have a guardian of some kind was Leo, and at this point, Cale wouldn't be surprised if it turned out he had an angel or spirit watching over him.

If not, well... Cale would be there. He had yet to learn his lesson about getting attached, after all. Every life he told himself he wouldn't get attached, and every life it happened anyway.

Then again, he wouldn't really be himself if he didn't get attached, would he?

Cale laid back in his bed, staring at the ceiling for another contemplative moment before pulling out the vial Akkau had given him. He swirled it around, watching the cerulean liquid shine with power. The more he shook it, the more it lit up the room in rippling layers of light, like a projection of the ocean's waves.

There was a violence to it, though. A back-and-forth in the bursts of light that resembled a dragon's pride and ambition crashing against a cragged shore. No doubt about it—this elixir contained the distilled essence of a dragon.

Resonance. An entirely new form of magic, as far as he knew.

"Interesting," Cale muttered. He watched it for a moment more, then uncorked the vial and tipped the entire thing into his mouth, swallowing it in a single gulp. "...And weirdly fruity. Huh."

He did try to keep himself awake, more out of curiosity than anything else—he wanted to see if the potion had any effects he could feel with his mana sense—but he'd had quite the long day, and, well... he was tired. Before long, he found himself drifting off to sleep.

Hopefully that resonance vision would be relaxing.

When Cale opened his eyes again, he was sure of three things.

One, he was definitely having a vision. He'd experienced only a few of these throughout his lives, but they all had a very distinct feel to them—a little like the certainty of a lucid dream combined with a powerful sense of magic all around him. In this case, he could feel the might that was the essence of the draconic aspect practically burning itself into the vision.

Two, he was being carried by a dragon in their fully shifted form, though carried was perhaps a generous word for it. He was clutched in one of their claws.

Three...

"What kind of vision is this?" Cale scowled, kicking his legs as though it could free him from the dragon (it could not, but it did generate a bit of a breeze in the princess outfit he was wearing.) "Why am I the damsel in distress?!"

Far beneath them, a knight shouted, his voice full of righteous fury: "I'll save you, princess!"

"Not a princess!" Cale yelled back irritably.

The dragon carrying him—who Cale was pretty sure was representative of the entire essence of dragonkind—made a rumbling growl of amusement. "You wished for the vision to be relaxing," they said. "I merely obliged. Do not worry; your role will be quite relaxing indeed."

Cale narrowed his eyes. "...You better have some really good tea. And baked goods."

"Of course. After all, we dragons are famous for both," the dragon replied, amused.

Cale, for his part, found himself mildly irritated by the fact that he couldn't for the life of him remember if that was a lie.
