“Behind you, Veron!” Ailis called out and rushed in as Veron maneuvered himself to the left and around the skeleton. He blocked another sword strike and looked right where another creature held a spear that Ailis now grabbed with her left hand.

Veron focused on the monster in front of him, its strikes fast but weak. He slapped the next slash aside with his shield and stepped close, striking down with his mace. He felt the resistance, as if there was more substance there than just the bone. He struck again and this time, shattered through the creature’s clavicle and a few of its ribs. It still stood, so he struck a third time, breaking through its chest with the sound of cracking bone before it fell. Veron had to rip out his mace and saw that Ailis had pushed the other skeleton against the opposite wall. Elke and Isaac now came into the room, which blocked his way to Ailis.

He heard noise from the corridor ahead and saw something small and fast rush in. Veron ran towards the skeleton dog rushing at Elke, intercepting it with a kick of his shin that sent it stumbling to the side. He could feel the impact on his leg but his armor absorbed most of it.

He glanced left and saw Isaac shoot the spear wielding skeleton with one of his bolts, the impact shattering its chest, so Veron went for the dog, doing the same thing as before. He met the charging beast with his own run, stone winning out against bone as he ran it over, then brought down his mace with several heavy strikes. It stopped moving a moment later.

Veron breathed hard and checked the corridor ahead. A part of him expected a group of cursed rushing towards them. But there was nothing else coming.

He rested against the wall now, his breathing steadying quickly. Veron nodded to himself as the others gathered themselves and looked around. He slowly breathed out, feeling his heart beating in his chest. “That was a mess. Well done everyone. Our first fight in the Crypts.”

“Is anyone injured?” Ailis asked.

“I can feel my shin, but I think I’m alright. Can you check my back?” Veron said.

“A slight chip in the stone, but you’re good. It didn’t get through,” Isaac said.

“Good. Let’s calm down for a moment then,” Veron said.

They were all still alert, but slowly, they lowered their weapons.

Ailis checked the small stone shield he had made for her. Isaac looked down the corridor ahead. Elke looked at the bones.

“Alright then,” Veron said and pushed himself away from the wall. “Who claims what?”

“Claim?” Elke asked.

“The kills. We extract their essence. People claim the essence based on their contribution.”

“Oh, then I claim none,” Elke said.

“One warrior for me then,” Veron said. “You two?”

“I take the dog, I only finished off the warrior,” Isaac said.

“If that’s fine by you,” Ailis said.

“It is.”

“Good. You three stand guard while I extract, then we switch,” Veron said and knelt down next to the skeleton he had killed, or destroyed, he didn’t know what even animated them.

What Path would they belong to? Chaos? Or Blood?

He arranged the bones to make it look like the skeleton rested against the wall, then he touched its skull. May you find rest. His torch seemed brighter, the silence of the tunnels calling him deeper still. There was more lurking in the dark. He breathed deep, some calm returning back to him. His shin felt better when he stood back up. “Your turn.”

The others knelt down and said their prayers, the small almost featureless room briefly seeming brighter, part of ancient history, and purpose. Veron wondered who all had walked this path, had fought in here, had found shelter. And then the moment was gone, the stark walls returning to their mundanity.

“Three skeletons down,” Isaac said.

“Can we sell their weapons?” Veron asked. “I don’t suppose the bones are worth a lot?”

“I don’t think so. Though the weapons, maybe? A short sword and a spear. I’m not sure how much we’d get for that,” Ailis said.

Elke glanced around. “I think I know.”

“Yeah?”

“The sword is rusty, but it’s not too bad. I think we could get three to six silver for it. The spear is worth less, probably closer to fifteen iron.”

“That’s not a lot,” Ailis said.

“We have to make at least some silver,” Veron said.

“Fair.”

“We take the sword with us. Who can carry it?” Veron asked.

“I’ll take it, got enough straps on my pack, and I’m not fighting much in close quarters,” Isaac said.

“Good, then let’s discuss the fight. Everyone feel okay after this?” Veron asked, seeing them confirm. “Ailis, I think it’d be best if you move closer to me when we enter a new room, I go left and you go right, then we can have each other’s backs. Elke and Isaac, you wait and aim, and join in only when we call. I think it got a bit too crowded there, does that sound reasonable?”

They all confirmed.

“Great, then we move on. Slow and steady. Let’s keep it going just like this.”
