Orolononi brought the group to order, saying, “I would first like us to locate Markander and our other martial leaders. They ran away too fast, fleeing from embarrassment, but while the old-me would have been fine with this arrangement, the new-me desires to still make use of them, in whatever forms Our King has put them in. And I miss them more than I thought I would. In a more useful sense, they still possess centuries of knowledge to better help us get a strong grasp on our future.”

Coshena and Baranoli spoke, saying they would take this duty, while everyone else gave smaller agreements that they, too, missed the rest of their group. Even the ones who had chosen to stay in Ar’Cosmos, or divide away, once that option became available. It was a true masterstroke on Fairy Moon’s part to secure all of Ar’Cosmos under the Houses again, but that complaint had been beaten to death, [Resurrection]ed, and then beaten to death again.

Emprazala moved her thoughts onward.

Orolononi eventually continued, “Us other four will begin coordinating with the various others who have fallen away, and our own peoples. Take note of those established powers in Candlepoint and do not upset them, for Our King is busy enough, and we do not want to threaten him with our eventual power. Not yet, anyway. We will stay completely within his systems, and when we gain power, he will have nothing untoward to say. And besides that, there are a few people who I am very interested in making some sorts of arrangements with. In particular, we have Zaraanka Checharin. She is the current financial powerhouse of Candlepoint, and everything is swayed in her direction for her to keep that power. Work with her, not against her. She has heavy ties to the Wasteland Kingdoms, through that princess from… from…”

Narakaol spoke up, “Princess Weilux, of the West Bank, daughter of King Rashi.”

Orolononi ceded the floor.

Narakaol continued, “Princess Weilux was originally the largest supplier of most goods to Candlepoint, though Portal is rapidly outstripping her in all ways. She is floundering, and we can work through my contacts to boost her back to power, and ensure that we take over when she passes, as all mortals do.” He held up a hand to forestall the obvious concern, and then he voiced that concern, “Which brings us to a thing we have never had to consider before now; Our usual ways of doing things might not work here, for the mortals could be made immortal, for as long as Our King desires.”

Emprazala had been considering that situation for a while now, so while everyone else was still giving Narakol’s words the appropriate amount of consideration, Empralaza began, “If we cannot compete at the same level as the mortals, then we do not deserve to have the power Our King has given us. We merely have to be a bit more proactive than we usually are. Four day feasts might need to become 2 day feasts, and we should seek to hire competent forces, not merely forces that obey our every whim.”

Boisterous Baranoli laughed, saying, “How about a compromise of 3 day feasts?”

Narakaol added, “I have been hiring competent forces for as long as I have been alive. It is only all of you who seem to demand loyalty more than is good for you.”

“This brings up a good point.” Concerned, Coshena asked, “Does anyone else feel that they have been transformed in soul a little bit too much?”

Ah.

And now they were getting to the truly insidious topic.

Emprazala said, “Yes. I have. Only about a 15% realignment, though. Possibly as much as 25% on certain topics, such as the… Well I’ll just say it. Bright Smile. I absolutely hate her. But she doesn’t seem so bad anymore. I was terrified of Our King, and now… I am fine with looking up to him. Still don’t want to be near him too much, though.”

A lot of eyes wandered across the room, gauging the faces and expressions of others. There were a lot of similar feelings in those gazes, and they all recognized a reflection of themselves in each other, too.

Coshena decided to speak next. “This is the better outcome for us. And for Ar’Cosmos. I cannot tell why I feel that way, but… Well. No. I can tell exactly why I feel that way. I have always dabbled in Prognostication, and I suppose I can tell you this now.”

Orolononi gasped, and she was not the only one.

Geronial, who had been silent for a while because they hadn’t been talking about his preferred topic of magic-in-business too much, decided to speak on this subject. “That is dangerous, Coshena. You could have foreseen another dragon.”

“I know, I know.” Coshena said, “I practiced it safely. But now… I can openly practice it. Just ten hours ago I had a strange inkling to depart the party for a short while. And so I did. I had brushed off all of your questions afterward, your wonderings of why I had seemed to vanish for so long, but now… I sent a message to a certain contact. That contact worked through some of the lower levels of House Benevolence, and managed to get one of Our King’s meetings today looked at more closely. Someone had screwed up something far down the line in Ar’Cosmos’s handling of the meetings. I do believe that if I did not intervene, then there would have been a dragon fight right here in the borders of Candlepoint— Or. Well. Probably somewhere out there in the grasslands. Still! It would have been a hassle for all involved, and all involved probably wouldn’t have come out of that fight as dragons.” Coshena said, “They probably would have been reduced to mortality for a screw up that had nothing to do with them at all. I know not what became of them later, but…” She shrugged. “It is what it is.”

Geronial’s pale green eyes sparkled as he looked to everyone, saying, “I dabble in prognostication, too, and of the 621 Underworld cities that my Grand Speedy Barges services, 37 of them seem primed for something great.” His eyes sparked as he looked to everyone. “I have a remarkably good feeling about them.”

With her heart suddenly beating hard, Emprazala said, “I wish to invest.”

And she was not the only one.

- - - -

Burhendurur regarded the world from the depths of his bone pit, his senses extending far past the Death-laced dust, and past the monitoring systems his people had set up in the rooms beyond. He saw the world through a thousand subtly-flaming eyes inside lifeless skulls, he was worried. He had been worried about a lot, lately, and especially after all his people of Ar’Cosmos started showing up and building Weald on the southwestern edge of the lake. He did not imagine that the move would be as stressful for the people there as it had been.

But then Yggdrasil’s [Zone of Peace] went out, and everything calmed. People still hit each other, yes, but mostly there was just a lot of thick air getting thrown around. Erick had decided to keep that spell happening, for at least a while.

Burhendurur suggested that Yggdrasil should simply cast that spell every day from now until forever, but Erick had shot down that suggestion rather quickly, saying people shouldn’t rely on Yggdrasil to protect them in that way; they should protect themselves. Hence all the Denial Spheres now operating in every single major part of the Greater Candlepoint Area. There were three in Candlepoint, one in Gambler’s Rest, one in the Gate District, and 5 in Weald. All of those Spheres were working at full power, too.

He had expected all the new Benevolence Dragons to be a much, much larger problem than they were, though.

And that was where all his current worries lay.

Every single hour, it seemed like one of the new dragons was doing something odd, for yes, Burhendurur was keeping eyes on every single one of them. There was this one particular case that bothered him quite a lot. A dragon had been walking along in their human guise, using their might to help raise buildings for Weald, but then they stopped, calling a halt to the construction. The dragon then walked over to a man down the street who had been angrily staring at everything, like he wanted to burn it all down but he could not for a [Zone of Peace] was in effect. The man had been completely ignorant that a dragon was confronting him, for the dragon did not wear their horns out in the open (a problem which Erick still exemplified himself, but was also forgivable, since all of these new dragons were also still hiding themselves like they had to), so the angry man had had no problem telling the dragon off. There were a few smaller words.

And then the man began sobbing on how he had lost everything.

And then the dragon started talking to him about what sort of house he wanted.

Half an hour later, the man and his entire family was getting the house he wanted. Twenty minutes after that, the dragon went back to work on the houses they were building before the interruption.

Anyone without the Sight to see might have brushed off the ‘incident’ as some kooky dragon deciding to help an obviously-troubled man.

But the same sort of small incidents happened everywhere.

A dragon would drop what they were doing and go do something else nearby, and then go back to their original work. Usually it was just some small thing like with the angry man and his loss of house. Sometimes it was as simple as helping an old woman to cross the street so she didn’t break anything (followed by a letter sent to Erick later suggesting that the old woman be [Reincarnation]ed at his convenience, sometime in the next ten years; that incident stuck out in Burhendurur’s mind, too). Not all of the dragons were like this. One notable exception was when a dragon, standing on the second floor of a new construction and working on a window, turned and walked to the other wall, and then bumped a stack of stone. That stack of stone fell down to the alleyway below and broke the leg of a man sitting beside the wall, gambling with his friends.

A darker tangle of Benevolence, perhaps?

Whatever the case, all these tiny things added up into a disturbing new trend. Right now, Burhendurur was merely collecting information. He was making no waves, and disturbing none of Erick’s plans. But he was collecting information.

When he had a better grasp on what he and his Office of Enforcement were seeing, he would go to Erick with this information…

“And he will probably say that ‘yes, I see that. Glad it is working as intended’,” Burhendurur grumbled under his bone dust pile, “I can already tell—” He paused, and then he chuckled as he realized what he was saying. He finished his maybe-prescient thought, “I can already tell that this is going to end up in the courts, at least.”
