Goldie said, “Not the end, but it is your official retirement notice! Act in accordance with your Class, and without my Lord’s express call to action, then you will be cut down. Also! You’re mine, from now until forever. You may look forward to working on the same side, if you wish! I know I will be.” And then she vanished back into the ether.

Markander did not have time to recover.

For Erick made him an offer, “Rat out everyone else, accept a [Blessing of Empathy], and vow to work under Goldie from now until I deem your term of service over, and I will Benevolence you. Otherwise, it’s a [Reincarnation], and you still have to rat out everyone else. No [Blessing of Empathy] that way. You’re not leaving this place any other way.”

With no hesitation, Markander said, “I’ll accept the second offer.”

And then Markander began talking, and talking, and talking.

When he was done, and Erick felt he had truly given up all the information he could, Erick gave him a new body and Status through [Reincarnation]. Erick hit all of Markander’s requests, and the man wasn’t stupid enough to request to be devoid of emotions this time. Markander got a rather normal human male body, with a penchant for gardening and raising animals, and bisexuality.

The other three operatives of Emprazala’s group received mostly the same treatment, but with variations all around. Only one other person was an assassin, though. The other two were simply generals of small armies who had already moved to Ar’Cosmos. Those generals had been planning on rebuilding here in Candlepoint, but Erick cut that problem off at the root. On the Ar’Cosmos side of things, they were currently in the process of dismantling those armies and incorporating them into their standing forces. All those other people Erick never saw and would never know about, would have been something like loyal agents waiting for a proper time to strike, if necessary. Now, with their leaders gone, that whole plan was gone, too.

Erick would not be inviting those soldiers into Ar’Cosmos’s city by the lake, either.

Erick informed Burhendurur of all this, charging him with keeping eyes on them.

- - - -

After those first ten dragons were sorted, Erick felt it had gone rather well, and for many different reasons. Not only had no one even tried to fight him, but Fairy Moon’s recommendations had been appropriate, and prudent. A point back in the fairy’s favor, Erick supposed.

Fairy Moon was still rather deep in the hole, though.

- - - -

Four days later Erick was finished with the Free Dragon ‘crisis’ of Ar’Cosmos.

He had made the right choice, again. Probably.

The sky of his Gate Space confirmed that many of the darker tangles in the future were simply gone. Erick’s choice of becoming a Benevolence dragon and helping others do the same had apparently been a big deal, solving many future problems before they could manifest as anything more than simple shadows in the sky. Even the orbiting planets beyond the hundred-year-wall of problems looked clearer; more simply there, and less full of dark spots.

The entire sky looked rather clear.

So why was Erick worrying?

Perhaps it was the pure transformation of the world he and his House had created.

Through his power, Erick had transformed 58 people into Benevolence Dragons and 119 dragons into normal people. Quite a lot fewer than his initial estimation of around 300-ish expected dragons, but then again there was no real time limit for his offer. Erick had put a stop to the transformations, for now, but he also left the door open for more people to become Benevolence dragons later. Next year, perhaps.

And so, the current crisis in Ar’Cosmos was ‘solved’.

Still felt like it was only getting started, actually.

Many of those new dragons were now raising up dwellings of their own, either out in the green spaces Kiri and Mox had created between the lakeside and the first of three curtain walls a hundred kilometers out, or beyond that wall, using their breath and their Shapings to make cities out of sand, and forests out of nothing.

Many of the new-mortals had decided not to stick around, though. They simply scattered to the wind after they got a few safe levels under their belts, thanks to the actions and help of the Office of Enforcement.

Quite a lot of things were happening all right now. Erick wanted to be a part of all those happenings, but he was just one person, and he had work, and his organization needed more people, which all the Overseer Offices were already planning on hiring as soon as they could.

The first of Ar’Cosmos’s refugees had arrived at the greater Candlepoint area on the second day of Erick’s transformation. At the beginning of the third day, the city of ‘Weald’ had gained a thousand houses and half as many apartment buildings. Erick had time enough to add a Gate at the Financial part of the Gate District to the northern coast of the Forest, as agreed, and by that evening, Weald had doubled again in size. Burhendurur went a little bit crazy organizing all the security responses, and so Erick had simplified everything by having Yggdrasil cast [Zone of Peace] across the entire Candlepoint area.

With the big guy’s size modifiers and some proper Shapings, that [Zone of Peace] covered 50 meters above and below the surface, and nearly all the way out to the 100 kilometer wall, about 125 kilometers away from Yggdrasil in every direction. Erick did not know that Yggdrasil could actually do that, but he could. Apparently.

In that one act, Erick had turned Burhendurur’s job easy. No more spellslinging fights anywhere. Sure, people still punched each other when the anger of their exile got the better of them, for these refugees from Ar’Cosmos were not all happy at all. Most of them were able to deal with their evictions with aplomb, and some even happily welcomed the change. But those that did not welcome this change vastly outnumbered those who did.

Erick went ahead and had the other two refugee cities set themselves up at the same time. The Dicers got a small place to the northeast of Candlepoint, and soon they broke ground on Gambler’s Rest. The various Cultist and other miscellaneous refugees from all over Nelboor and the Letri Ocean decided to not make their own city, though, and simply move into Candlepoint, which Erick found he was very happy to hear. The former Cultists whom Erick had Blessed with Empathy were going to fit in well with the current Cultists of Candlepoint, under Mephistopheles.

And it all…

Seemed to be going…

Quite well?

Hmm.

- - - -

Emprazala lounged among her conspirators upon the finest couches, drinking the finest wines they could bring together, here on Veird.

It was so much better than their usual parties in Ar’Cosmos.

Because, for the very first time in her life, and while they were all in mortal form (though they had seen each other in dragon form, and sometimes most vigorously) they were together. Together, at last! Today was just yet another day of simple talking, catching up, but it was these times that Emprazala missed the most, and now, they could talk for real. About their real lives. The ones that they never got to share with each other. They had been working for so long with each other, but they always refrained from spilling actual secrets that could lead them to one another back on Veird.

And they didn’t have to do that anymore!

Emprazala was in her preferred body; a demi woman of large tits and copious cloth. She hadn’t always had this as her preferred form, but her time as a courtesan had left an indelible mark upon her life. So far she had shared most of that story, having spoken at length of her clan in the northern chilly lands of Nelboor, and how they survived against raid after raid from other clans, building power, and how she had been behind most of that power but always hiding from true sight. Almost no one in her clan actually knew who she was, for she was just the old woman down the street, or the courtesan talking into the ear of the current patriarch, or the nanny to the next generation.

Geronial appeared to be a brash young human man, but he was anything but that. He had spoken at length about working in the Underworld all his life, mostly in shipping. He figuratively owned Grand Speedy Barges, but the only time he had actually owned that business was when he founded it over 400 years ago. His pale green eyes shimmered with the color of his dragon form, as he sipped his wine, and listened to everyone else. He seemed to have a permanent little smile, now. Emprazala had one of her own. She was looking forward to working more directly with him, now that the Curse was gone from their lives.

Baronoli was perhaps the largest surprise of their little group. He was an orcol who lived in Songli, openly and as a full-time courtesan himself. His Blessing of Beauty was strong, and everything about his real life was surprising, for normally orcols did not go for that sort of open display. Emprazala’s estimation of the man went way up because of that; it was something that she had never guessed. But maybe she should have. There were many ways for one such as Baronoli to get as much information on the businesses of the Highlands as he always seemed to have, but she had always figured him for some sort of spy. A very dangerous line of work for one such as them, and especially in that part of the world, where Redrubyflare called her home, and killed all dragons who fought in her domain. After two days of talking, Baronoli finally divulged that yes, he had gotten in one or two fights there, but Redrubyflare and he had had an understanding. Based on Baronoli’s shining black eyes as he spoke of ‘understanding’ and joked of sex, it was easy to guess what that understanding had been.

Coshena was openly appalled to discover that Baronoli was such a harlot, and said as much every time Baronoli tried to tease her. This much was understandable to Emprazala, too, for Coshena was another beautiful orcol, but a woman, with sky-blue eyes the color of her new draconic body. Normally orcols were very physically reserved, and Coshena embodied that stereotype. And thus, Emprazala joined in on the teasing, saying that Coshena just wasn’t getting enough of the good times in life, and Coshena agreed, but she also vehemently disagreed with Baronoli spreading children around like he had to be. Baronoli took offense at that, saying he always used [Envelop Item].

Which led to even more crude, wonderful, joyful jokes, causing Emprazala to laugh with tears. Even Coshena had to laugh at a few of them.

Narakaol had been a recent addition to their little ‘draconic consortium’ about 150 years ago, but he, too, thoroughly enjoyed the stories of his good friends. The incani man wanted to get back to business, though, saying that he had quite a few contacts in the Wasteland Kingdoms, and that he wanted Emprazala and Baronoli to work with him to get Songli to allow Erick to create another Gate Network hub over there. His Wasteland interests wanted direct connections to Songli.

And so, the conversation turned back to facts and figures, though there were more ribald jokes here and there, and more secrets finally divulged, now that they could. The largest secrets came from their final member, who was perhaps the only one of them who wasn’t a permanent fixture of their group.

Orolononi was perhaps the oldest member of their group, who had originally organized the whole thing back in Ar’Cosmos, but she never participated as much as she could. Knowing that she fancied herself a goblin matriarch of the goblin city of Homeland explained all that extreme reluctance, though. She had always been big on the metal trade, but knowing now that she was only involved in the metal trade out of one city, and a very peculiar city at that, it was easy to see why Orolononi had kept herself apart. She, more than most, could not afford to speak too openly, or she would assuredly give away too much information.

It was a shame about Markander, though. And the other three, Emprazala supposed. Emprazala had never been too close with the others, for they were the warriors among their little cohort, and they never joined in any of the business dealings that the others enjoyed. But Markander had been an occasional lover when in Ar’Cosmos.

… They all had, Emprazala supposed, as she lounged on her couch and drank a nice 30-year-old wine. Really more like 300, though. It was from Phagar’s Vineyard; one of the only places in the world to openly use Time Magic…

Emprazala smiled brightly.

Because ‘the only places to openly use Time Magic had now grown by one’ and maybe—

Baronoli cut his joke short, saying, “Ohh! You already know this one! You should have said something, Empy.”

“I swear I was smiling for a different reason!” Emprazala made a shooing motion. “Continue with your joke. I am sure I will laugh at the appropriate parts.”

Light chuckles erupted all around.

Baronoli waved himself off, saying, “Then tell us your reason. I have talked too much, I feel.”

“I agree!” Coshena chimed in. “Yet another ribald tale. I say: no more.” She turned to Emprazala, asking, “What brings you extra delight this time?”

Emprazala smiled wider. “I was considering the Wizard’s extensive use of Time Magic, and how wonderful this wine is. Have any of you considered yourself a patron of the gods? In tune with Phagar? I would like more of this, and I would like less of the thousand gold a bottle price tag.” She added, “Alternatively, we could attempt to work with him and produce some wine for House Benevolence.”

Orolononi’s big green ears twitched. She pounced first. “I have considered asking for a Gate to Homeland.” She looked to Narakol, adding, “Or perhaps some sort of clearance to take part in the Songli Gate Network of Nelboor, when that finally gets set up.”

Narakaol nodded, saying, “Perhaps we should truly consider working directly for the man. He has given us everything we could have ever asked for, and if we showed competence with business and willingness to take over the Songli expansion… You don’t think he would go for that, Baronoli?”

Baronoli was shaking his head. He said, “Never. We could, perhaps, be a part of House Benevolence’s side of that structure, but Songli wants rather strict control over the Gates they allow in their lands.”

“Then let us plan for that possibility,” Emprazala said, “Because while I love you all dearly, we do have work to do. So let’s get to business a bit.”

There were a lot of nods around the group, and smaller words of approval. The party was over; for now, it was time to work.

