“Oh, dey REAL,” Eppie grinned, mimicking Cora.

The sound Renée made was not a word. She grabbed the CD with both hands and held it up in the kitchen light to see it better, her face flushed, her careful composure entirely gone.

+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality

Nice.

Cora, not caring who Kellie Noah was but understanding categorically that something wonderful had happened, began jumping on the spot.

Then, she produced the Lucia Lancet photos with the signature and message.

Cora remained her happy self, but Renée may have perished from happiness.

Denise laughed. She was still crying tears of joy.

+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality

Bring it in… bring it in…

Without a word, Denise pulled Eppie into a hug that had a mother's full weight behind it.

Over Denise's shoulder, Eppie looked at Simone.

Simone was watching her family. Her face shared the joy, but it was a weighted happiness, tinged with guilt and regret.

That was William’s power. Even in the purest moments of unadulterated joy, the shadow of his being loomed over all.

“If you want to talk,” Simone said, when Denise finally released her. “We can use Cora’s room.”

“You’re such a liar…” Simone said as she moved herself onto Cora’s bed.

Eppie clenched. “You’ve never been to Disneyland…” Simone’s voice was choked up. “You told me it was your dream to go…”

Eppie unclenched. No sis, I’ve been to Disneyland… every single Disney in the world. In fact, when I was your age, I went on weekends just because I felt like eating Dole Whip. Those Annual Passes were no joke…

“How’s work?” Eppie changed the subject so Simone would stop sobbing for a liar. “William give you grief?”

Simone looked up, her eyes suddenly wide.

“Don’t be scared,” Eppie put up both hands. “I am just asking because it's probably my fault. When I was in New York, I ran into Valorie…”

“Oh…” Simone’s paranoia was downgraded to realisation.

“Yeah… did you talk to Val lately?”

Simone shook her head. “She’s at her family home. She won’t be back until the 7th. I guess William was expecting to spend Christmas with her.”

“Yep, that was my bad,” Eppie kept lying as she explained her encounter with Valorie. She deliberately omitted the part where she told Valorie everything, including that Simone had to ‘serve’ dozens of old Asian guys at night. For now, observing Valorie’s reaction once school started was far more important than coordinating with Simone, who was the definition of loose lips sink ships.

Speaking of lips. She still couldn’t believe Valorie just pulled a fast one on her and managed to flip the whole script. Being obnoxiously pretty had its advantages, but Valorie’s UNO Reverse was on a whole other level.

Simone, sitting on Cora’s bed, which was her old bed, looked kind of ridiculous. The dancer’s long body was far too long for the tiny frame. Maybe they should swap the chair-versus-bed arrangement.

“So, what happened to you?” Eppie asked. “I mean, you look… nice.”

Simone was clearly looking for someone to finally open up her frustrations, and so she did exactly that.

She told Eppie that William started coming to the club daily, looking for girls. There was no shortage of gullible women, but he still seemed dissatisfied. He was antsy, short-tempered and not at all like his usual charming self. By the time Christmas rolled around, he was so irritable that some of the waitresses started openly complaining about their young master. During one of these gripe sessions, William happened to overhear one of the girls joking with Simone, and that’s when their eyes met.

“Uh-oh,” Eppie expressed her sympathy.

“He made me follow him around the place, serving drinks, bringing him food, taking away his trash…”

Which is in your normal job description…

“And then,” Simone’s complexion grew two shades darker. “He started getting handsy. He never liked me… like that, so I guess the embarrassment was the point…”

“Jeez…” Eppie wasn’t actually sure what else she had expected. If William couldn’t drain a random victim, then of course, he would go for an easier target. For someone so used to… a [Persona] of Valorie’s calibre, she guessed, not just anyone would do. As an [Usurper], satisfaction was both psychological and physical, and, most importantly, it had to involve karmic theft.

“Did you kick him?” Eppie asked. “With them gams of yours?”

Simone shook her head. “Uncle Lai caught him trying to…” The black girl crossed her legs. Eppie signalled that she did not need more details.

“He started shouting at William in Cantonese. He was swearing so fast. William looked bewildered, as if Uncle Lai were speaking Mandarin or something. After he finished, William tried to laugh it off and said something in Cantonese to him. They were talking about me, because he kept saying hei-mei, hei-mei. I don’t think he was saying nice things. Then Uncle Lai called out to the bar, and Uncle Bao came out from behind the counter…”

Eppie was ready to subscribe to Simone’s Patreon. “And?”

“Uncle Lai listened to his speech, then he called over Uncle Bao, then Uncle Bao told William to repeat himself. William pointed at me and said something very, very rude, because the girls standing behind them made this face, and then—”

Simone’s face was red. She was clearly quite excited and had been waiting to share this for a while.

“Then Uncle Bao backhanded him across the face. PA—! Like that! Then he told him to fall on the street in Cantonese. One of the girls said that he’s going to speak to Chen-ye about making the business look bad.”

It took Eppie a few seconds to find her jaw and reattach it to the lower part of her face.

“Did William fight back?”

“No!” Simone’s eyes were alive with… schadenfreude? “He just stood there like he forgot his script. He just… stood there.”

“For the whole night?”

“For about five seconds…”

“Oh…” Eppie rolled her eyes.

“I thought everyone would be upset, but instead, they looked thrilled.”

“And then?”

“He left.”

“He left?”

“He left.”

Eppie sat with this. Terrible Cliff. No Patreon for you.

“And he hasn't been back?”

“Not to my knowledge.”

Eppie inhaled and exhaled. Okay. It made sense. She side-eyed her Quest.

You have successfully disrupted the Usurper’s theft of Causality from others.

And

Your actions have reaped the Usurper’s Causality.

If William had a visible [System], he would know that he was losing [Causality] through each and every act, and that a foreign [System] was applying an endless stream of penalties and negative notifications to his [Potential]. It was karmic justice, in a way; the [Usurper] was now suffering from the same series of unfortunate events that he usually bestowed upon his victims.

Didn’t her [System] say that Simone had her [Karmic Causality] restored, while William had his reaped? That these abstractly deterministic quantifications could manifest so readily in real life was a study in itself, one that would fascinate the most esoteric of scholars, if indeed such a discipline existed.

“Okay, I got some good news and bad news.” Eppie’s wisdom, however, was far more pragmatic.

Simone stared.

“The good news is that Valorie is probably going to be very nice to you when the new Semester starts. The bad news…”

Eppie felt truly sorry for the Musical Theatre major. “...is that, on your life, NEVER be in a room alone with William Chen.”

She had dinner with the Goodes family, sans Denise, because the mother of three was going to head to work early and inform them that she was indisposed for the third and fourth of January. With Denise’s people skills, Eppie suspected she should have no trouble finding someone to cover her shift.

This time, Simone cooked. She was absolutely god-damn awful at heating lemon chicken, which was an effort in itself.

Eppie left while it was still safe, just after sundown, before the midnight creatures of the suburb came out to play. She rode the bus to a commercial hub, then caught another Taxi to the hotel Eric had arranged off campus with her bugout bag.

It was a Culvet City Sofitel, and for a minute in the lobby, Eppie toyed with the idea of asking Lucia Lancet whether her family business could offer her a discount for a week-long stay. According to her unsettled itinerary, Kiritani-sensei would arrive tomorrow, and she and Eric were on the hook to get the man to Tule Lake.

Lying in bed, she thought about the architecture of how William operated. Like Grein, William Chen had a specific scaffolding to his idea of control. It involved leverage, obligation, fear, and dependency. Each person in his orbit was connected to him by something he held over them or something they needed from him. The whole structure was interlocked and load-bearing, and each person's compliance locked in the next victim.

With Val gone for the moment, William had lost his principal outlet for what Eppie imagined to be some sort of psycho-sexual sadism.

With Simone sheltered by the uncles, William had lost his emotional punching bag.

With Eppie becoming the equivalent of a brick wall, William had no other outlet.

Did that make William more or less dangerous?

The thing about a parasite without hosts was that it didn't become peaceful. It became hungry in a different way. Hunger without an outlet…

She shivered. She had a bad feeling, but couldn’t place it.

Her January was already packed with hope and conspiracy alike

She had until the 6th before school started, giving her three days to find Kiritani-sensei’s peace.

School started on the 7th.

In the Pines and Dream a Little was on the 12th and 13th of January.

Titus cold reads were on the 15th of January. Followed by auditions on the 16-18. Both were a formality, for unless things changed, she and Val were the only girls fighting for the role, and Eppie had already been determined to be the Understudy.

After the 23rd, rehearsals for their roles would begin, and Eppie would spend at least three hours per day with Valorie and her friends, which naturally included William.

Then, between the end of January and the start of February, Mio was due.

On February 10th, she had Grammy night with Curon and Kellie, hosted at the Staples Centre, a local institution.

She pulled up her [Potential] and studied it intently, reading through every line and every description with care.

Satisfied, Eppie addressed herself with a slap on both cheeks.

“Happy New Year, Euphemia Fontaine”, she said to the ceiling. “Rejoice. For your revenge… has only just begun.”
