Peering down the crossbow, she saw carcasses everywhere. A vulture that had tripled in size was ripping into them, gobbling down the rotten flesh. Great. It’s bigger. She frowned and studied the dazzling runes that were surging around the carcasses. The vulture hopped forward, sunk its talons into a body, and turned to look at the door.

Looking into the bloodshot eyes, Kindra gasped. Oh, shit! She pulled the trigger, and the bolt sunk into its chest. The vulture’s wings flared, and she ducked down to reload. Ratcheting a bolt into place, she looked up, and the bird slammed into the door, furiously pecking through the slits.

Kindra stepped away from the door, stood, aimed, and fired. The vulture’s eye exploded, spraying blood all over her. The bird didn’t stop. It continued slamming into the door, its massive beak shooting in and out.

Just die! Kindra loaded another shot, put it up to the bird’s neck, and fired. The bolt blew through the neck, and the bird dropped.

Reloading, Kindra peered out. Sole survivor? It appeared to be. She unbarred the door and walked out, kicking and cleansing the carcasses on her way to the ramparts.

Looking out at the streets, she was greeted with a grim sight. Mangled bodies littered the place. The smell of blood was thick in the early morning air, and the remaining animals had become something more, making the prior killers look far weaker.

Peering down, she saw the sole, remaining cat. It had grown. Its form flickered like smoke, and it bit into some rat that shouldn’t have been standing.

Turning back to the immediate problem, she looked at the corpses on the roof. Did the runes get stronger? A body twitched, and she hit it with the counter-sequence.

Jumping to the next body, she repeated it while watching the magic grow. It surged, lighting the entire village and distant forest with an eerie icy blue. Oh, fork no. Dashing around the twitching bodies, Kindra triggered the sequence, and a lizard lurched up. It was still bleeding, and it was missing a massive chunk of its torso. That did not deter it. It somehow got up and turned toward her, its eyes glowing the same vibrant blue light.

Oh shit! Kicking it, she engaged the sequence, and it dropped to the ground like a cut puppet. In reckless disregard for anything else, she bolted through the group of rising undead, dispelling the magic that was bringing them back.

As the last undead on the roof dropped, Kindra turned and saw undead everywhere. A mound of rats came alive, forming a wriggling ball. Come on. Attack each other. They did not. Instead, they focused on anything still alive, swarming them in earnest.

A shiver of dread ran through Kindra. I should have run for the forest. She looked down. A small horde of undead swarmed the cat below. Swallowing, she aimed at an undead cow’s head and fired. The bolt soared and broke bone with a loud crack. The undead cow didn’t care a bit. It charged toward the cat and hit it with a loud thud. The cat flew and slammed into a building.

Loading another bolt, Kindra aimed and fired. The bolt missed its skull and staked a rat. The rat wriggled, tearing itself open until the bolt came loose. Waddling forward, the rat continued moving, leaving half of its body behind.

Oh god. Kindra blanched, her mouth dropping open. Watching the poor cat, it mauled and ripped into the nearby undead. The undead got up or disregarded it. A headless dwarf slammed its axe into the cat, sending a spray of blood into the air.

This is disgusting, and the crossbow won’t do anything. Giving up, Kindra walked inside, downstairs, and dragged chests out of the bedroom, shoving them against the front door.

Aika fluttered out of the bedroom with a look of worry. “Kindra?”

“No loud talking. That plague is bringing things back from the dead. Now we’re surrounded.” Kindra let out a long breath and rubbed her brow, looking over at Aika with a pained smile. “Get breakfast. We’ll figure something out.” She walked back into the room and grabbed another trunk, hauling a steady stream of them to the door.

Entering the forge, she put the barrels against the door before walking back inside the barracks. Now, what do I do?

Listening to the howling cat, she meandered through the place and stopped at the fire. The last of the coals were on the brink. Using the axe to split kindling, she gently brought the flames back to life, tossing on a bit of wood before turning toward the ruckus outside.

Now what? We’re surrounded by undead, and this crossbow won’t do shit… System, did you say that I could cast spells?

[You may use mana in combination with rune sequences to invoke spells. Such methods are less efficient and less effective than skills, but it is doable.]

Want to tell me how to kill the undead?

[Not how this works, and you already know the answer.]

It has gotten smarter.

With little else to go on, she pictured the runes in her mind while pulling on her mana. It coalesced like some other limb, and she drained all of it, letting it coalesce into a glowing ball in front of her. Well, now what do I do? She reached for it, and it exploded; a wave of magic washed over her. The sounds outside stopped abruptly. She grabbed her crossbow and walked up the steps while mana streamed into her.

Aika darted through the rooftop window, and Kindra followed her back onto the roof. Peering through the early morning gloom, she looked at the streets. The living creatures were going quiet, cut down by the undead that left the bodies behind. And they are building an army. That’s just great.

Aika turned. “I don’t think we can fight our way out.”

“We’ll find a way to break the siege.” Kindra turned and headed to the door. “Let’s get breakfast and level.” She walked into the barracks.

Aika flew inside. Kindra barred the window and walked down the stairs. She headed into the kitchen and to the meat barrel. Fishing a piece out with a fork, she ate it while Aika cut off more fruit.

“What do you think, Aika?” Kindra whispered.

“Kill them all?” Aika said, sitting on the shelf and eating.

“Fair, but I think I have to use magic for that unless I can make explosives.”

Aika nodded. “We could use the bodies and charcoal for that, but they’ll be primitive.”

Kindra nodded and leaned against the wall. Not what I imagined when I signed up to settle another planet… Then again, I am on another planet. She let out a long breath, blowing an errant strand of hair from her face. Maybe I shouldn’t have used all my mana on that spell. She paused and willed her mana up.

[Your mana has increased: 81.1 → 127.5.]

Her frown faded, and she debated. “System, what do I get for level four?”

[Skill Upgrades and Attribute Increases.]

Which skill upgrades?

[Not how this works, Kindra. You have to spend the mana to find out. I can tell you that your desires and actions will impact them.]

Kindra risked it, willing her mana into another level.

[Your mana has been reduced: 127.5 → 67.5.]

[Your level has increased: 3 → 4.]

[Your intelligence has increased: 4 → 6.] ‎ [Please select four attributes to increase.]

“What attributes should I pick, Aika?” Kindra asked.

Aika grinned. “I’m picking strength and speed—Oh!” Her eyes widened, and she started dancing, spinning, and twirling on the shelf. “Yes, yes, yes!”

“What?”

“I got to pick a specialization and got four options. The first one was to become incorporeal. I’d always be safe and able to give you information.” Aika stuck out her tongue. “The second said I’d get much stronger and resistant to heat, so that I could help you in a forge or something.” She made a gagging face. “The third one was that I could sacrifice my body to take damage you would take, turning me into a protector. It also said I could boost your mana a little. I almost picked that one.”

Kindra winced. She shouldn’t do that.

“But I got another one instead. I’m so excited.” Aika grinned. “I’m now a mecha-fairy!” She beamed, her grin spreading wide.

“What does that mean?” Kindra asked.

“I can make a mechanical suit for myself.” Aika rubbed her hands together.

“How?”

“Give me your magic and some materials.” Aika looked up with pleading eyes.

“Sure.” Fishing out another piece of meat, Kindra followed her into the dining room. Aika landed on a sword, and something tugged on Kindra’s mana. She let it, and ten mana drained away.

The metal flowed over Aika, becoming a metallic dress. She gestured and a tiny knife formed in her hand.

“You can make a mech for yourself?” Kindra asked, her mouth dropping open.

“The best mech ever. So, we need to level because I need a way better suit.” Aika laughed softly, eagerness glinting in her golden eyes.

Kindra chuckled. “I don’t like that look in your eyes.”

Aika giggled.

Turning back to her own notification, Kindra looked back at her notifications, and picked strength and speed.

[Your speed has increased: 2 → 4.] ‎ [Your strength has increased: 2 → 4.]

[Please select an upgrade for Enhance Item: ‎ - The duration of your enhancements is increased by 25%. ‎ - The strength of your enhancements is increased by 25%. ‎ - Your blood boosts enhancements by 100% (Up from 50%). ‎ - You may refresh your enhancements for 50% of the original cost. ‎ ]

Looking at the options, she debated them. The first two were nearly interchangeable. The third one required her to bleed herself but would give her the strongest boost, and the last one was useful for keeping them. I want all of them. She sighed and reviewed the list again, finally picking the one that would help her survive: the blood boost.

[Please select an upgrade for Transmutation: ‎ - Magic will compensate for your knowledge gaps, improving the results by 10%. ‎ - You specialize in part making, reducing the cost by 20% when dealing with metals. ‎ - Reduce the cost of all transmutation by 10%. ‎ - You may alter molecular structure if your knowledge is sufficient.]

She read and didn’t wait, instantly picking the last one and letting out a breath of relief. Finally.

“What?” Aika asked, a grin on her face.

“I can alter molecular structure now,” Kindra whispered. She smiled, mischief spreading across her face. “And it’s time to give the natives an explosive welcome.”
