The sky shifted as Erick brought his [Domain of the Withering Slime] into being. White light wrapped around him, as thick air rolled up from all around. A dense keening filled the air, coming from inside the monster’s long, reorienting, and now flailing body. Teressa reappeared in front of Erick; a grey shell wrapped around the both of them right before countless eyebeams zipped across the sands—

Blood poured from Teressa’s grey armor, as she sent, ‘Retreat.’

Erick grabbed for Teressa as yellow light cracked the grey [Force Shell] around them.

[Teleport].

- - - -

Erick fell with Teressa to the ground, back to where they first started this trek, right beside Poi and Rats. Erick held the large woman while Poi rushed over with the rod of [Treat Wounds].

No one said anything as Teressa’s breathing steadied under two more applications of [Treat Wounds]. She sat up on the sands. She sighed.

Eventually, Teressa spoke, “Eye beam wyrm. Not the most dangerous, but high up there. The Domain was only on him for a second; I’m not sure it did anything.”

“It was working.” Erick said, “I’ve never gotten any numbers off of it, but I heard that keening.”

Poi spoke, “That monster is a rookie murdering machine. We have to kill it. We know what it can do; we just have to prepare better.”

Erick said, “Right.” He laughed, nerves or deflection, he couldn’t tell, as he held onto Teressa’s shoulder. “That was awesome! You knocked its head up and away! Just— BOOM, deflected!”

Teressa started laughing. She relaxed, chuckling underneath her grey armor. And then she stood, and Erick let go. She said, “Let’s go again. Right now. We’ll lose it if we don’t.”

[Scry].

Erick looked upon the previous field of battle. The wyrm was not there. Erick looked around frantically, and then he saw it. The monster was headed south, stopping to eat every agave and mimic along the way.

Erick came back to himself. Teressa and Rats were looking at him, and at Poi. Poi’s eyes glowed blue as he stared off into the distance; he was probably [Scry]ing the monster, too.

Erick said, “It’s headed south, eating anything it can. The fish are gone.” He said, “New tactic. How about I [Teleport] next to it and throw down what I need to throw down, and then leave.”

Poi came back to himself, frowning. “A valid tactic. We might need to do that.”

Teressa said, “Those eyebeams are too much for me.” She spat out, “I’ve killed eyebeam wyrms before! But that one… It's too much for me. I can’t control that fight.”

Poi looked at Erick, asking, “Is your mana full?”

“Close.”

Rats muttered, “I should have gone for Focus.”

Erick said, “I gave you that Focus ring.”

“And I’m wearing it.” Rats said, “I’m just muttering, anyway. Don’t mind me.”

The cold northern winds blew, as Erick waited for his mana to return. It didn’t take long. “Okay. I’m ready.” He said, “In. Drop some spells. Out.”

Poi said, “No. I changed my mind. We can’t risk—”

“You have that wrong.” Erick stared at Poi, and said, “I won’t risk you three.”

Erick briefly checked the target with [Scry], turning on his Handy Aura.

[Teleport].

Erick appeared in the sky far above the beast.

It instantly noticed Erick.

In a flash, Erick was surrounded by teeth and flesh—

In another, faster flash, Erick was OUT OF THERE HOLY FUCK.

He landed next to Teressa, Poi, and Rats. They said nothing; they didn’t have to. Erick was breathing hard, holding himself upright, and those wet spots on his pants were not there before his brief experience being so close to such a horrific monster.

Erick turned to Poi, saying, “I am so sorry. I really should have listened to you. That was probably the stupidest thing I have ever done.”

Poi looked angry, happy, and terrified, all at once. He settled into a calm, slow nod, but said nothing.

Erick felt about the same way. He sat down. He [Cleanse]d himself. He popped out ten parakeets.

He said, “That wyrm is going d— down.”

It might have been a more powerful statement, had Erick not been so terrified his voice was cracking.

- - - -

Nine white parakeets flying in formation, each with a thousand arms of intent, descended from the sky around the yellow wyrm. The wyrm saw the birds and lunged, catching two in its maw; snapping and cracking its own bones, as it swallowed. Handy Arms ripped into the beast from the outside, but the outer shell of the monster didn’t seem to care. The arms were not strong enough to break or tear, and anything that did manage to come loose quickly regrew.

A billow of blue light flowed out from one of the birds; like an amoeba, the blue light attached to the yellow wyrm, flowing along its length. The wyrm writhed across the sands of the Crystal Forest, but kept chasing after the birds; it ate another one. The blue spell didn’t seem to slow it down at all.

A splash of thick air spilled out of one bird, crashing into the wyrm.

A dense keening filled the air, as liquid began to pour out from the monster; but the monster moved faster, and faster, snapping at one bird, then another, eating two in quick succession, flying— [Blink]ing away from the thick air, away from the blue air. The yellow, thousand-eyed wyrm vanished, and then it reappeared.

Chomp! Chomp!

Two more birds, gone.

A hailstorm of green bullets rained from the remaining two parakeets.

A flash of yellow filled Erick’s [Scry] eye, and his last two parakeets were suddenly not there anymore.

- - - -

Erick came back to himself, cross legged on the sand; the last parakeet of the first ten sitting on his knee, soaking up mana for nine birds that were already gone. Erick sighed.

Rats asked, “You didn’t kill it, did you?”

Erick shook his head.

Teressa’s helmet was off. With a tiny frown, she looked concerned.

Poi said, “That is an uncommon wyrm. You must kill it, any way you can.”

“Noted.” Erick said, “Give me a minute.”

- - - -

The sinuous form of the yellow wyrm writhed across the brown sands of the Crystal Forest, gobbling up anything it could reach. Crystal Mimics went screaming and crunching into its maw. True agaves vanished down its throat, tinkling like wind chimes before vanishing forever.

Nine white starlings darted from just above the ground. Half snaking left, half winding right. One staying right there, catching the eye of the monster as it erupted shot after shot of green, burrowing, slicing force. The wyrm crashed against the ground to chase the bird, who hovered just above the land, racing away, distracting the monster from the real danger:

Another bird, on the other side of the monster, glowed as a white sphere surrounded it, and thick air spilled up from the ground.

A different bird called to the sky, and the sky responded with dark clouds, threatening rain, thundering with power.

A caw went up from the flock as lightning struck the yellow beast. Tiny green bolts sunk into its flesh from every direction. Red and white and brown and yellow liquids poured from every broken surface of the writhing, sparking monster.

Yellow eyes began to glow, a thousand individual fires stoked from within.

Bright beams flashed in every direction; a hellscape of Force knives. Four birds died, even with evasive maneuvers. The white orb was broken; the white orb transferred to another bird, still dodging yellow [Force Beam]s. The sky darkened further. Rain began to fall as lightning sung from the sky, tearing across the monster, again and again and again.

Tiny green bolts splashed across the creature’s flesh, aiming for eyes, splattering them, Decaying the eyes and their sockets, preventing regrowth, preventing the beast's counterattacks. Every spot the green light touched, stopped automatically coming back together. A hundred eyes closed forever, and then the full thousand.

Blue light flowed through the rain, latching onto the yellow wyrm, freezing into its body. And then came another blue light, and another, alongside a constant barrage of tiny green lights. Frost formed as lighting tore into the creature, both spells worming inside the insane monster.

Only five birds were left, but they were enough.

The lightning ceased as electrical charges faded, but the white-orb bird held strong, wrapping thick air into the creature, as blue lights were renewed. Fluids froze as they left the wyrm. And slowly, slowly, the wyrm stopped moving. The birds circled like vultures, renewing blue lights, ensuring the power of the Withering Slime remained upon the beast.

When the beast finally slowed to nothing, all twitching gone, only then did the birds get closer.

While the White Orb bird watched, and the blue lights maintained their fascination with the beast, a Handy Aura bird went to work with slicing [Force Beam]s.

First, the wyrm was sliced in half.

Both halves came back together, instantly.

The slicing bird went to the head and sliced that off, pulling away the whole half-rotted skull. The head did not struggle to reconnect to the body. The slicing bird went down the wyrm’s form, slicing chilled sections of meat away from the body and then ripping those sections away before they could reattach.

One slice. Another slice.

Ten slices.

On the twelfth slice, there was a change. A brilliant orb of yellow light reflected the bird’s [Force Beam] right back at it, killing the bird instantly.

Another bird took over, more careful this time.

Careful, careful, slice the orb away, but don’t strike it with the beam.

The second Handy bird gave one more great pull, and the yellow orb came free from the wyrm’s frozen body.

The blue lights instantly shifted to the birds, freezing them out of the sky.

A hundred kilometers away, Erick cursed.

More birds eventually returned to the yellow wyrm, which was now fully falling apart, completely dead. One of the birds picked up the yellow orb, and with a blip of white, both it and the yellow orb disappeared.

- - - -

Erick blinked to return to his body. He was sweating and shaking. Poi was nearby, holding the rod of [Treat Wounds]. Erick waved Poi off; Erick felt drained, like doing a hundred math problems all at once. His mind had been stretched, and only now was he coming back together.

Teressa and Rats stood beside the yellow orb, ten feet away. The yellow wyrm’s yellow grand-rad was massive; at least a meter across, with countless rad-shards poking up from the whole thing, like some giant crystalline kidneystone. Rats poked it; the stone glittered.

Teressa turned to see Erick, smiling as she asked, “Only the one?”

Erick looked over his notifications; he had missed them while [Scry]ing.

“I got a kill notification.”

“Then you killed it!” Teressa laughed, asking, “What’s your Participation?”

“Just… Give me a minute.” Erick breathed, still coming back to himself. “One sec.”

Erick again, looked at his notifications. There were only 8 mimics even with all that stray damage. The goldfish only gave a few thousand experience, at 95% Participation. The big winner here was clearly the wyrm. Erick had leveled, big time, over that monster. He was level 39; now he was much higher.

You have slain Wyrm A!

95% Participaton

+313,037,160,931

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 45, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 41,094,088,475/183,631,190,300

Class: 6/6

Points: 16

HP

1260/1260

1440 per day

MP

1598/2400

12,000 per day

Strength

20

+22

[42]

Vitality

20

+28

[48]

Willpower

40

+0

[40]

Focus

50

+0

[50]

Favored Spell waiting!

“What if I said it was 95 percent?”

Teressa laughed.

Rats said, “I’d call you a damned liar.”

“I’d say you were marked by the gods,” Poi answered, finally giving Erick something to work with.

Erick quickly threw a hundred mana at the sky, asking, ‘Can I get a fake one of these Participation boxes, for like, 1%?’

His own laughter came back to him, along with the words, ‘This is not the intended use of this ability, but sure.’

Erick said, “1%”, as he showed his fake box to Teressa.

Teressa smiled, to say, “A journey of a thousand kilometers begins with a single step.”

“Unless you buy [Teleport],” Rats added.

"That's a terrible addition to a sacred saying, Rats," Teressa said.

Erick laughed.

Poi just looked at Erick, then nodded, ever so slightly.

“So we’re going to actually go kill a real wyrm, the good way, right?” Teressa said, “Because it’s utter shit that we ran into a [Force Beam] wyrm like that.”

Erick stood up from the sand, a little shaky. “We still have to inspect the rest of the body, right?”

Poi said, “Correct.”

Erick looked to the sky. “Gotta do this, too, though. I think I’m already late.” Erick popped out two parakeets and sent one [Teleport]ing back home. With four hops, and a final [Scry]-assisted placement, Erick started an [Exalted Storm Aura] far, far away. Valok was standing in the middle of the Temple, but at the appearance of the bird and the rain, he got angry for a minute, then visibly relieved. Erick came back to himself. “And now we go back to the dead wyrm.” He held out a hand.

He and Teressa [Teleport]ed to the battlefield; Poi took Rats.

- - - -

The smell was awful; Withering did not kill the wyrm, so there was no automatic [Cleanse]. Erick rectified that problem with several dozen [Cleanse]s, as the four of them got to work. Poi and Erick dug through the monster with [Telekinesis] and Handy Aura, slicing it up with [Force Beam]s as necessary, separating the body into pieces.

All of them searched the slices with [Metalshape] and manually, pulling out coins, armor, and the reason that they were digging through the monster in the first place: guild badges.

