Erick looked up [Force Beam Bolt] in the Script, as the whole group came to a halt.

Force Beam Bolt, instant, long range, 150 MP

A bolt of mana strikes for 150 + WIL

Erick laughed again, as he turned to Poi, and said, “I will keep my secrets, thank you.”

Poi smiled, as Teressa laughed loud, into the growing night.

Rats just said, “Well I’m a healer and I want to know what just happened.”

Erick gladly showed Rats the box for [Pure Force Beam Bolt].

Rats went, “Holy shit.”

Poi read over Rats' shoulder. “How did you do that?”

Teressa simply asked, “Will it help you kill a wyrm?”

“That is a high possibility.” Erick said.

“Good!” Teressa said, “We’re camping here.”

Poi asked again, “How did you do that, though? Mine isn’t that good.”

Erick smiled at the sapphire dragonkin. “So I guess you’re a mage?”

Poi frowned. He sighed. “Something like that.”

Erick just laughed, then said, “There’s a very close resonance between [Force Beam] and [Force Bolt]. Try matching those resonances when you make the spell.”

“… I guess that’s one way to do it.” Poi lost his frown. “Some other day. Not in the middle of a hunt.”

Teressa was already unpacking her massive pack, unloading bedding supplies. She cast a hand through the air, and grey cots appeared. Erick recognized the spell as [Conjure Item].

Teressa said, “What kind of perimeter do you want, Poi?”

“The usual,” Poi said. “I’m on it.”

“I’ll help,” Rats said.

Erick said, “I guess that leaves me with dinner!”

“I will help cook,” Teressa said. “It wouldn’t be a hunt without food on a fire under the open sky.”

Teressa got out the camping equipment; the [Prestidigitation] stove, some pots and some pans. Meats and veggies and spices and all that. Erick [Stoneshape]d a kitchen table from the dirt, and got to work along side Teressa cutting meats and veggies, as Poi and Rats set up a perimeter.

Under Bug, Temperature, and a vast field of Alarm [Ward]s, Erick, Poi, Teressa, and Rats, had steaks and potatoes, as the sky darkened. They talked of tactics, and Erick listened.

Erick took first watch, because Jane had yet to call. When she finally did, they had a nice telepathic conversation about Jane’s first night adventuring in the Crystal Forest with Savral’s adventuring team. Erick described how Poi and Rats had set up the defenses, and Jane declared them good. When that conversation ended, Erick went back to staring out into the star filled night, activating [Scent Tracker], [Perfect Hearing], and [Ultrasight] every so often, keeping his HP high, as he gained levels and efficiency in all three skills.

When it was time to switch shifts, they did.

Morning came, sure enough. Nothing happened all night long.

After packing up the tools of camping, and after a bit of rain to refill the canteens, they were off again, headed south; packs on their backs, sun rising to the left, snow capped mountains far behind to the north, the moons setting to the right, as open country spread out all around them.

They took breaks as needed, bathroom or otherwise.

It was a brisk stroll, but it wasn't rushed.

The Crystal Agaves and Crystal Mimics of the Forest were still sparse, the air was still cold this far north. Erick suspected that most of their journey would be a nice, cool trek across the land…

… Until it wasn’t.

- - - -

Another day passed with little to report, and a lot of walking.

Erick practiced his skills, but kept his HP high, just in case.

He was also sure to send a parakeet at the appropriate time back to Spur, to rain across the farms.

- - - -

Mid morning on their third day, Erick smelled a change in the air. It wasn’t carrion; he had been wary for that smell, and though the smell of carrion did appear occasionally, it always turned out to be a mimic munching on a dead thing.

This smell was like…

Teressa sniffed the air. She grunted, “Hmm.” She asked, “Anyone want fish? I don’t.”

Rats perked up. “You smell goldfish?”

“That’s fish?” Erick asked, still not sure what he was smelling. “Smells like… leather? Apple leather? No, that’s not it. Wet leather? But not in a bad way.”

Rats said, “That’s fish.” He looked around. He looked backward, to the right. “We don’t have to, but they’re coming this way. I’ll take one.”

The group turned. Erick saw nothing.

[Ultrasight].

Far in the distance, above the mirage of the sands, floated specks of orange.

Teressa’s voice took on a sharp quality, “They’re coming directly this way.”

“Bah!” Rats said, “No they’re not. They’re going to miss us. This isn’t...” Rats went quiet. “Maybe not?”

Teressa grunted. She took off her bag. “Everyone, get ready. They might be luring.”

“Are they monsters?” Erick asked. "Luring?"

Rats and Poi took off their bags. Erick removed his, and his heart beat a bit harder. They all seemed worried, but Erick hadn’t smelled any carrion.

“They’re not monsters.” Poi said, “Just native wildlife, floating along on air magics. But they have the habit of escaping monsters by finding the nearest adventurers and dropping those monsters onto the adventurers.”

Erick instantly ditched his bag, watching as the orange specks came closer. They were churning sand and dirt into the air, rushing past agave—

The orange specks were the same size as the agave they were floating by.

A chill rolled over Erick, as he said, “Uh. They’re rather big, I see.”

“Yup!” Rats smiled, licking his lips. “All we need is one!”

“Head in the game, Rats.” Teressa said, “They’re luring something big.”

Rats went still. “Shit. They are, aren’t they.”

Erick felt the ground rumble. Orange specks showed through the sand clouds. They were like goldfish, but with long bodies and billowing orange fins, riding the air like it was water, churning up sand and dust, hiding themselves from whatever was chasing them.

The scent in the air changed. Carrion, overpowering and all pervasive, the stench of dead meat filled Erick’s nostrils. He almost vomited up breakfast right there, but he shut off [Scent Tracker] and recovered.

Teressa spoke, and gave proof to what Erick had smelled. “There’s a wyrm chasing those fish.” She smiled.

“Fish are that smart?”

“Yes.” Poi said, “They should disperse when we engage the wyrm. Erick. [Absorption Ward]. Like we discussed.”

Erick dropped a 2000 point [Absorption Ward] for 8000 damage mitigation, long and low, across the party, but still 9 foot tall; large enough to cover all of Teressa. His mana would be back, soon enough. Teressa moved to the edge of the Ward, then several meters forward; she was planning on getting pushed back. A grey shield appeared over one of her hands as the other suddenly held a massive mace. She took to the sky, just a meter up; high enough to make her the largest, meanest looking target around.

Except for whatever was in the dust cloud behind the fish.

“[Weather Ward] forward, Erick.” Poi said, “To stop the sand the fish are churning.”

Erick cast and shaped a [Weather Ward] forward, creating a thin wall ten meters tall and two dozen wide, thirty meters forward, that should stop almost all of the goldfishes’ dust cloud. Erick was low on mana, but the monsters were far away; he could recover. Another thin [Weather Ward] stretched across the ground, but two feet above it, twenty meters in every direction; sapphire blue. Poi’s [Weather Ward] should tamp down any dust that would rise from the fight.

The ground thrummed from the monster tearing across the land behind the fish. Some churning, long thing; it ripped across the sands then leapt up, through the fishes’ cloud of dust, almost catching a goldfish that dodged forward at the last possible second. The monster’s head was as half the size of a fish; the whole creature had to be tens of meters long. 50? 100? Impossible to tell right now. Erick caught better glimpses of the beast as it rushed toward the party.

The monster, the wyrm, was yellow, but bleeding from countless wounds. White bones protruded out of the scaled hide. Limbs came out at all odd angles; some functional, some broken beyond repair, hanging limp.

“Positions.” Poi said, backing up, well behind Teressa. “Everyone. Positions.”

Erick took his position directly behind Teressa, quick as he could, even activating [Swift Movement] to get where he needed to be. His mana was recovered enough for this next part. He breathed, waiting.

Teressa sent to him, ‘[Telepathy] up.’

Erick linked to all of the party, all at once.

Teressa spoke, “We’re gonna be fine Erick. Calm your nerves. I can practically hear you shaking.”

Erick might have been shaking a little bit! So what!

There was a horrific, normally unkillable monster rushing at them!

His mana was above a thousand, already. The wyrm was still too far away to engage, maybe a full kilometer. He had time to relax and collect himself.

‘It’s just… kinda scary,’ Erick sent, to the group.

‘I agree.’ Poi sent, ‘But necessary. We’ll probably find bodies in the beast’s corpse.’

‘We might have to escape.’ Rats sent, ‘We don’t know what kind of unique magic it might have.’

‘We’re leaving if it's a [Dispel] wyrm.’ Teressa sent, ‘For everything else, we’re staying!’

Rats sent, ‘Is it weird that I want it to be a [Dispel] wyrm?’

‘Get ready, Erick.’ Poi sent, ‘It’s almost in range.’

Erick had not taken his eyes off of the swarm of goldfish or the beast following them, now only half a kilometer away. The swarm was hundreds of fish anywhere from three meters long, to the size of a housecat, flowing all over each other as they flowed across the sands of the Crystal Forest, dodging the wyrm in their dust cloud. Most of the time they succeeded in dodging. Sometimes they failed. The wyrm didn’t seem to care. Did it actually eat them? Obviously yes; the fish vanished from the swarm. But the wyrm was too hungry to ever be full.

Poi sent, ‘Erick: fire as soon as it appears then [Blink] back here.’

Erick waited for the monster to reach his [Weather Ward]; to come out of the dust cloud.

Teressa laughed. ‘It’s so damn huge!’

The goldfish, all dozens of thousands of them, crashed through Erick’s [Weather Ward], revealing themselves in all their golden, shining glory.

And then came the wyrm.

Events started to occur very quickly.

Every perfect, beautiful thing the goldfish were, the wyrm was not. It was a pus dripping, broken boned, flaking scale horror, that did not care for itself in any way, except to fill a stomach that was surely also broken. It caught one of the larger fish, swallowing it like it didn’t even matter, quickly snapping up four more, now that it was out of the cloud.

Erick peeked out from behind Teressa, taking aim at the monster.

[Pure Force Beam Bolt: Decay]. [Pure Force Beam Bolt: Decay]. [Blink].

Erick reappeared next to Poi and Rats, 70 meters behind Teressa.

The first bright bolt of brilliant green light ripped through a fish before it impacted the direct center of the wyrm’s face. Erick got notifications for killing a fish and for 370 damage to the wyrm; it had no critical points, it was a mass of meat. The second brilliant green bolt caught the monster in the center chest, drilling in for another 370 points of damage. Both of Erick's spells began ticking for almost a hundred damage a second, Decay magic working deep into the monster’s body.

The beast shifted course, straight for Teressa. A thousand bright yellow eyes, all along the broken yellow surface of the wyrm’s putrescent form, locked, all at once, all together, onto the person who seemed like they had shot it. It did not roar, it simply moved.

The eyes were terrifying, but the absence of a roar is what freaked Erick out the most.

Teressa laughed, yelling, “Come get me, fucker!”

Rats sent, ‘Fuck fu—’

‘Clear the line.’ Poi reprimanded. ‘Tactical discussion only.’

Pale red light flashed around Teressa; Rats was casting something as he hunkered down into the sand. Then Rats targeted Erick, and he realized what Rats was doing.

Overheal!

+125 False HP!

Another box appeared right after the first.

Overheal!

+125 False HP!

A series of smaller messages appeared. Overheals for 25 HP, spaced a second between.

The wyrm met Teressa with a bone crunching SNAP, as its head, jaws and all, went flying up and away, leaving Teressa behind, no longer floating, her feet sunk into the ground up to her knees. She had withstood the blow. She was stronger than a wyrm.

‘FUCK YEA!’ Teressa yelled, quick-stepping out of the sand.

Poi reprimanded, ‘Tactical discussion only.’

Teressa was a grey sentinel, never moving unless she wanted to move, and the monster had met its match. Goldfish swarmed up away in every direction; they had lost the monster chasing them onto Erick’s party. The yellow wyrm only had a thousand eyes, and they were all on Teressa.

But the beast’s body was a hundred meters long, two meters wide, and momentum like that doesn’t just stop because a stone appeared on the path. Sinuous muscle and a dozen arms, and claws, and legs, crashed around Teressa, smacking into someone who could not be moved. The monster wrapped around her—

She reappeared just inside of Erick’s [Ward].

Rats sent, ‘No sign of special ability.’

‘Too many eyes.’ Teressa sent. ‘Watch them.’

The entire wyrm glowed, each eye staring at Teressa, each eye flaring into brilliant yellow. A thousand [Force Beams] erupted from the monster, crashing together, toward Teressa.

A grey shell wrapped around Teressa; obviously some kind of [Force Wall].

Before the beams impacted, Poi sent, ‘Domain, Erick.’

