Jake did assume that, despite this being a Minor World connected to the ninety-third universe, it was still under some restrictions. Based on what the Shaman had said, they had tried to leave before by flying through the Boundary the same way Jake had entered, all to no avail. Perhaps the key was simply to travel alongside Jake, but hopefully, there were other restrictions.

“We can try,” Jake said after thinking for a moment. “But I’m not even sure I can leave the exact same way I came in. Tell me, how have you tried to leave in the past?”

The Nestmother looked a bit suspiciously at Jake, almost as if she expected him to just know how to leave innately, but she nevertheless answered. “I believe it would be a better question to ask what we haven’t tried.”

She proceeded to kindly explain some of what the Arachnecs had tried, and it quickly became clear they had done far more than the Venusians, likely because they could just throw unintelligent undead spiders into the toxic wall and have them keep going until they were dissolved by the ever-increasing corrosiveness of the Boundary.

Jake even learned that powerful A-grades would eventually be forced to return when they tried to travel through the Boundary, as it became too dangerous for them. It truly sounded like the Boundary was an infinitely stretching barrier of progressively increasing toxicity. This did make Jake a tiny bit afraid it would also be the case for him. Hopefully it wasn’t, but if it was, Jake could always just leave for the Seat of the Exalted Prima when it was time for the system event, or if he found himself forced to leave beforehand, it should be possible for him to make a teleportation circle, and with the help of Villy, go to the Order.

After listening to the explanation from the Arachnec, Jake nodded. “Alright, let’s try, but I will warn you that-“

Jake didn’t get further as the Nestmother suddenly raised her head and looked at the wall, the Archweaver doing the same. Her aura was suddenly unleashed, making Jake take a step back as she spoke, her voice full of venom.

“Venusians!”
