“Why do you seek the Dao?”

Delivered as more of a statement than a question, I can tell the Abbot isn’t asking me directly, but remembering a time when someone asked him. “My Mentor asked me this question often, and I never did understand why. I believed it was because my answers were wrong, and he wanted to guide me to the Right View without influencing my perception, but as I lay here and wait for death, I wonder what the deeper meaning to his daily query might be. Why do I seek the Dao? A good question to ask, one which I can no longer answer with confidence.”

The Abbot falls silent as he loses himself in his thoughts, his melancholic sorrow so heavy it’s almost contagious. Much as I would like to leave him to stew in solitary peace, I know better than most how addictive self-pity can be, a soothing balm for one’s woes that sets the stage for a future self-immolation of misery and despair. The only way forward I can see is getting him to open up and talk, because sometimes, that’s all it takes, having someone who will listen, even if they have nothing to add. The important thing is to air your grievances and get them off your chest, so after waiting an appropriate amount of time, I give him a little verbal nudge and ask, “What answers did you give?”

Still adrift in his memories, the Abbot smiles ever so slightly, his youthful features softening until he glows with childish mirth as the world comes alive around us. No longer are we sat across from one another in the monastery courtyard, but instead standing side by side outside the gates, except not the gates I know and recognize. Though they appear the same, this particular monastery sits on a grassy plain, one bordering the same shoreline I saw in the Abbot’s pleasant dream. Hundreds of peasants kneel in front of the monastery with their hands pressed together in prayer, their faces blurred and indistinct, but their clothing stands out more than anything else. Dull, ragged tunics, cut in a style I don’t really recognize, though calling it a style is a bit generous. They might as well have cut holes in sacs and called it a day, with a few having the added benefit of a twine belt to keep their ill-fitted robes from slipping off their emaciated frames, the obvious abject poverty standing in stark contrast of the bustling docks and prosperous harbour-front property sitting only a few hundred metres away from the monastery

Two faces stand out in the crowd, the first being the former Abbot, looking every bit as wise and elderly as he did in the current Abbot’s Kukku-induced dream. The second person is the only other distinct face in the crowd, that of a young boy standing by the monastery gates, not quite pressed up against the wall, but edging closer as if afraid to move too far. As the former Abbot turns away from his kneeling audience, he catches a glimpse of the young boy and stops in place before gesturing for the boy to follow. “I was eight or nine here,” the Abbot says, and there is not doubt in my mind that the young boy is him. “Mentor had just finished giving a sermon and reassuring the city folk when he saw me there by the monastery gates, waiting for the free lunch they provided each day. The monks didn’t have an endless supply of food, so they tried to serve those in greatest need first, but it was difficult to determine whose needs were greatest.”

Following the former Abbot into the monastery, young Abbot is brought into the dining hall where he’s given a small bowl of fried rice with scant vegetables scattered within, as well as a cup of weak tea. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” the former Abbot intones, and I can feel the sorrow and heartache in his voice. “Apologies boy. This monk knows you missed yesterday’s meal, but this meagre fare is all we can provide for now. Worry not, for this monk has an audience with the Magistrate later tonight, so with a little luck, there will be more food in days to come.”

“There wasn’t.” The Abbot chimes in, not the child but the aged one standing beside me. “A war was being waged between nobles who possessed more material wealth than they could spend yet still demanded more. And why not? It all came at the expense of those who had nothing, for the wealthy would never have to bear the true cost.”

Picking up on contextual cues and the Abbot’s smouldering anger, I ask, “Your parents?”

“Victims of the nobles’ war, alongside the rest of my village,” the Abbot replies, and though his tone remains calm and neutral, his shoulders tense and fists clench. “One fought not on the battlefield, but in city streets and village farms, spilling blood in the name of economic prospects. Instead of targeting shipments protected by Martial Warriors, the local Magistrate’s foes found it easier to slaughter peasant workers to create a shortage of labour, so that fewer fields could be sowed and a smaller harvest reaped. The Magistrate saw the lives of his people as numbers on a page, and thus believed the losses well within ‘acceptable margins’, because he could make up for lost profits by taxing the survivors even more. Thus, my Mentor’s attempt to dissuade him from this course of action was doomed to fail, and life continued in this fashion for many months more.”

A spark of anger ignites within the defeated Abbot, one I keep in mind for later perusal. Say what you will about anger, but sometimes, it can be enough to keep you going when things are rough, and that’s all I can do for the Abbot. Keep him going until he can find his own way forward again instead of just calling it a wrap and riding off into the sunset before his time. I can’t say I’ve got any better ideas yet, so I continue to watch and listen as the Abbot’s tale unfolds.

While young Abbot eats, the former Abbot brings out a block of wood and sets to carving, his hands moving with the deft surety of an expert at his craft. The young Abbot watches with rapt attention, unable to tear his eyes away for even a second as a fish all but emerges from within the wooden block, one that was trapped and is quickly being freed from its confines by the former Abbot’s seemingly magical touch. “Even now,” the Abbot says, smiling as he watches his Mentor alongside his younger self, “I am unable to match Mentor’s skill with carving, like seeing poetry in motion as he gave life to his works.” I’m hard pressed to disagree, recognizing the work now as a wooden fish drum, one similar to the one the Abbot himself uses, or the one the former Abbot used in the rooster-induced dream. “Nor can I match him in kindness or empathy, having noticed a single boy missing out of a crowd of hundreds only to personally ensure he was fed when he returned. I was not the first to benefit from his kindness, nor was I the last, and while few persevered long enough to take their vows, Mentor never minded those who left.”

“Charity is to give without expectation of profit,” the former Abbot says, breaking the fourth wall of this dream sequence to address us without looking up. “If you give expecting something in return, then it becomes a transaction, and therefore is not in accordance with the Right Effort.”

...No, no, that doesn’t apply to me. Sure, I’m here because I need the Abbot’s help, but I’d try to save his life even if I didn’t. I mean, I owe the Brotherhood that much, right? Hang on, is reciprocity also not in accordance with the Right Effort? Whatever. I’m not a monk, so who cares?

Although the Abbot has gotten a little off topic and directed my thoughts astray, at least he’s talking instead of getting all stuck up inside his head. I can feel the tremendous amounts of love and respect he has for his Mentor, the former Abbot of the Brotherhood, who doesn’t really look all that remarkable for a Mentor to two Divinities. That being said, nostalgia is a powerful drug, one that can be detrimental if indulged in too much, but considering the Abbot just told me he’s dying because he believes he has no reason to live anymore, a bit of reminiscing about the good old days might be just what the doctor ordered. Maybe I should have him conjure up a reclining couch to lie down on and a chair for me to sit in, so we can do word associations and ask him about his relationship with his mother.

Then again, as far as psychiatric help goes, I’m probably more of the pop up cardboard shop type of doctor, one not worth the five cent price tag, but I don’t see anyone else around to help.

Still engrossed in his memories, I stand with the Abbot and watch as his younger self devours his meagre meal. When the boy finishes, he looks at the monk with rapt attention, finally noticing the aged ascetic carving out a fish drum with what appears to be record speed. “I wont to be’n a monk,” the boy declares, with the bold brashness of youth, his rustic accent thick and heavy.

“Oh?” Without looking up from his work, the monk asks, “And why do you seek the Dao, young man?”

“I kin do chores,” the boy says, faltering a little because he clearly doesn’t understand what the monk is asking. “Sweep’n leaves, run’n messages, wash’n floors, whatever ye needs. All I’m askin’ is fer a meal like this every day... Every two days even.”

The former abbot says nothing as he puts the finishing touches on his fish drum, carving the scales with almost careless ease and making the fish come to life before my eyes. His work finished, he pulls out a rag and sets to polishing the piece while finally directing his gaze to the young boy. “Your parents?”

“Dead’n. Kill’t by the bandits three... four months back? Me brothers and sisters too.” Meeting the monk’s gaze with fierce determination, the boy straightens up and says, “I kill’t one of em. Plunged Da’s pitchfork right through the bandit’s chest I did. Put ‘im down screamin’, and got ‘em a few more’n times fer sure.”

“And how did it make you feel? Be honest now, for your answer determines my own.”

“Everyone ses I ought be proud fer avengin’ me Da.” Deflating in quiet resignation, the boy whispers, “But his face... the bandit, he looked so sad. So scared. Why’d he attack us then? We didn’t have much of nothin’, the fields barely sown much less harvested, but they still came like they said they would, and the Magistrate, he done nothin’ about it. Why?”

“Your village was warned of the attack beforehand?” The boy nods and the monk frowns, his expression one of pensive thought. “And your village stayed to fight?” Again, the boy nods, and the monk sighs. “Such pride, such sin. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.”

“They thought the Magistrate would protect us,” the boy protests, stubbornly sticking up for his village’s decision. “We sent Old Li to the city, and he told’n twelve different guards about the bandits, guards he knew from sellin’ his ale. They all said they’d see to it that their superiors would hear of it, swore we’d be looked after, but no one ever came.”

“Hmm... most distressing.” Still pondering the matter, the monk pauses to inspect his handiwork before passing it to the boy. “It must be Heaven’s will that we met then. Come boy, let us find you some robes then and start on your lessons. Pure though your intentions are not, your journey along the Dao begins today.”

Though scared, hope wins out as the boy follows the monk away, the scene fading away before my eyes only to be replaced by another. There young Mahakala sits, at a desk across from his Junior brother, the young boy now a young teen in loose-fitting robes. His bald head lowered in concentration, the teen’s brush moves with deft confidence as it moves across the stone slate, writing in neat, orderly characters, ones I cannot read for they are the same characters I see carved into the four pillars of the courtyard. Not so for Mahakala though, who looks even younger than he did in his Natal Palace, maybe somewhere in his early twenties as opposed to mid thirties. “Incorrect,” he says, pointing at the offending character the teen Abbot just wrote, though I suppose he isn’t Abbot just yet. “It is ‘Vah – Sei – Kai, not Vah – Suh – Kur as you have written here.”

The syllables mean nothing to me, but Mahakala speaks as if he understands it, and teen Abbot huffs a sigh of muted chagrin. “Honoured Senior Brother,” he begins, wetting an ink-stained rag and using it to wash the entire slate clean. “This small one understands his own ineptitude, given how he is still unable to memorize the Sutras in their entirety, but perhaps it would be easier if this one understood what the characters meant. To this small one’s eyes, these characters are merely symbols without meaning, unlike with Senior Brother who clearly recognizes what each one represents.”

“Recognition will come soon enough, Junior Brother, once you have memorized the Sutras in their entirety. Crawl before you walk and walk before you run, such is the way of the Dao.” Seeing the young Abbot’s sullen glower, Mahakala sighs and leans forward on the desk, losing the air of a stern teacher and slipping into a friendlier, more approachable demeanour. “Tell me, Junior Brother,” he asks, resting his chin in his hand with a smirk. “Why do you seek the Dao?”

“In search of Enlightenment,” the young Abbot responds, “So that I might make my way further along the Path to Nirvana and escape from the endless cycle of Samsara.”

“A textbook answer,” Mahakala intones, “But not a correct one from you. Failing marks Junior Brother. Try again.”

Resting his head on the desk with a groan of frustration, the young Abbot’s voice takes on an insolent tone, one only a snotty little brother can get away with. “It would help if I knew what sort of answer you and Mentor were looking for.”

