“An honest one, Junior Brother, that is all.” Patting the back of the young Abbot’s resting head, Mahakala chuckles and explains, “This monk feels you are lacking in ambition, but in truth, this is not so terrible a thing. Mentor and I ask because we are unsure of your heart’s desire, and seek to know more about who you truly are. You are clever and quick to learn, but have you ever asked yourself if this is the life you truly desire?”

“Why would it not be?” Lifting his head, the young Abbot flashes an impish smile. “I have Mentor and you doting on me, my friends to keep me company, more scrolls and books than I can read in a lifetime, and enough food to fill my belly each and every day. Were I still on the farm, I would work from dusk until dawn with only one meal, and usually go to bed hungry because the only other choice is to starve during winter. Even then, with the bandits still plaguing the farmlands, most of those poor souls will go hungry regardless, and I pity them for their struggles and hardships. This is a good life, better than most, even if some of the lessons are more frustrating than others, and I hope to one day help others the way Mentor helped me.”

“Honesty at last,” Mahakala begins, knuckling the young Abbot’s forehead. “And why can you not be this honest with Mentor?”

“...Because I don’t want to disappoint him.” Still resting his chin on the desk, the young Abbot raises his head to peek at Mahakala as if daring him to laugh. “It seems so... uninspired. I seek the Dao because to do otherwise would be to work hard and go hungry. Would he not think less of me?”

“You are like a son to him.” Rolling his eyes, Mahakala says, “Nothing you say or do can disappoint him, so long as it is done in earnest. When he asks you again, answer him as you did just now, but this monk already knows what he will say.”

“And what is that?”

“Life is suffering.” Offering a melancholic smile, Mahakala gestures at the door of the room, which I assume leads out to the courtyard. “Mentor, myself, your friends, even those books, all of it is fleeting and impermanent. Eat all you want today, but you will still be hungry tomorrow, and therein lies the rub. There will come a day when we both pass, or you part way with your friends, or you discover something in those books is incorrect, and then what will you do? Even simpler, what will you do if the monastery was no longer able to feed you?”

Though I can tell Mahakala is probing the young Abbot to see if he still holds a grudge against the bandits, the subtle nuance goes right over the innocent teen’s smooth, bald head. “Then I would become a farmer again,” the young Abbot replies, grinning in playful insolence, “And provide food for the monastery. There is a fascinating scroll in the library, one that details a more comprehensive approach to agriculture, and I have long since itched to try it, but Mentor said any personal projects will have to wait until I’ve progressed further in my training, else I will never have enough time to complete it.” Tilting his head, the young Abbot asks, “How long do you think my training will be?”

“A lifetime if you never finish memorizing the Sutras.” Pointing at the slate, Mahakala hides his smile and gestures for the Abbot to take up his brush and begin anew. “And even when your training is finished, know that your journey will have only just begun, for the Dao is everything, and there is no limit to what there is to be learned, so long as you have the ambition to continue ever onwards.”

“It was only recently,” the real Abbot intones, “That I finally understood the truth behind Senior Brother’s words, and I wish I could have seen it all sooner.” The scenes flicker to life before my eyes, the Abbot’s memories playing out at the speed of thought, yet somehow, I am able to remember and understand them as if I’d lived through it myself.

Upon his deathbed, Mentor appoints him as Abbot over his Senior Brother, and Mahakala’s eyes flash with the pained anger of betrayal. There is no victory or pride to be had in this appointment, for the Abbot himself never wanted or expected it. All he wanted to do was support his Senior Brother, but now the tables have turned and he has no idea why or what to do. All he can do is watch while Mahakala slips into decline, the anger of his perceived failure driving a wedge between the two brothers, one that inevitably ends in a parting of ways. “I must find a new reason to pursue the Dao,” Mahakala says, still the prim and proper Senior Brother. The Abbot is older now, though still in the prime of life, but I notice the monastery gates they stand before are not the same gates I saw in the first scene. Rather than the coastline, the monastery sits upon a secluded mountain pass, one which sees little to no travel at all. Carrying his spade and a small pack of clothes, Mahakala nods in farewell to the Abbot, and I can feel the man’s pain and misery. He wants to tell his Senior Brother to stay, offer him the mantle of Abbot and follow his lead, but the offer has been made many a time to no effect. Mahakala’s pride will not allow him to accept the role of Abbot, nor does he himself wish to go against his Mentor’s wishes, because if he was not chosen to succeed him, then there must be good reason for it.

What those reasons might be, no one could say, for until after his Mentor’s passing, Mahakala was the perfect monk of the Brotherhood, a man born to follow the Noble Eight-fold Path. That’s what everyone said, and how even the Abbot saw it, but alas, their Mentor thought differently. In hindsight, I think I understand where their Mentor was coming from, because if Mahakala was truly determined to follow his Dao, he would’ve done so regardless of whether he succeeded his Mentor as abbot or not. Still seems like kind of a dick move, but I suppose their Mentor had other reasons. Life is suffering and what not.

The scene shifts to one of the Abbot toiling away in the fields alongside his brothers, the lush and beautiful landscape surpassing anything I’ve ever seen. The monastery is once again in the same place, but the once barren mountains are now covered with cultivated greenery, most of which can be eaten. I see giant fields of rice, wheat, yams, cabbages, and more dotting the mountainside, but therein lies the rub. The Abbot sought to provide food for all who might need it, but in doing so, has stepped on the toes of wealthy nobles who fund their lavish lifestyles by taxing hardworking farmers, farmers who would have no reason to farm if the Abbot provided them with free food. Stupid is what it is, to try and block the Abbot’s efforts instead of adapting his superior farming methods for themselves, but stupid is as stupid does. People in power love the status quo, because it ensures they remain in power, and I can sense the Abbot’s sour dissatisfaction with the current state of events, knowing that this will be the last harvest before they will be forced to move again. The Brotherhood was respected when his Mentor was Abbot, but without a Divinity to speak for them, they had no choice but to bow to circumstance and leave before the Imperial Clan takes action against them.

Part of the Abbot yearns to stay and fight, but he knows his brothers will not stand for it, nor does he have any desire to spill blood or see it spilled in his name. Even his Mentor, powerful as he was, could not save the people from the Abbot’s hometown, all those years ago. Why did he think he could do any different? No matter. The monastery was merely where the Brotherhood rested, and they could begin anew elsewhere, so long as they could find somewhere that would take them.

A defeatist attitude, and one that shows exactly why the Eight-Fold Path is not for me. The Brotherhood’s intentions are good, but as soon as some sort of conflict arises, the monks fold like wet paper. What good are they doing hiding away in their monasteries, preaching the Truth to those few who will hear it? The world at large barely even acknowledges their existence, and while the Abbot might say it is because the Imperial Clan and empowered nobles will not allow them to do their good work without bloodshed, I believe there are some things worth fighting for. Life is suffering, and in suffering we find life, that is their mantra and their excuse for why they bow their head in defeat, because even if they try to do good, there is no saving the world because it is impossible to save.

So instead, they strive for something more than mere survival, and the Abbot turns his studies back towards ascension, but this time, without his Mentor and Senior Brother to point out his flawed reasoning. Once again, he seeks the Dao for the wrong reasons, which is why he makes little to no progress for so long. Decades pass, and the young man is now an old Abbot, one who stands at the Peak of the Martial Path, but a single, seemingly insurmountable step from Divinity. Day and night, he frets over the future of the Brotherhood, because he always believed he would have more time to find a proper successor. In his ailing days, he sends word to his Senior Brother, dependable Mahakala who once promised to always be there in his time of need. True to his word, the Senior Brother appears, but much changed from the man he used to be. His tall, lanky frame has been replaced with a bulky, bulging torso sat atop two tree trunks for legs and arms to match it, a body forged by over-indulgence and over-exertion.

And yet, despite having clearly slipped from the Noble Eight-Fold Path, Mahakala clearly found a new Dao to follow, for the man standing before him now was no mere mortal, but a Divinity in the flesh, just like their Mentor had been.

“Congratulations Senior Brother,” the Abbot croaks, his voice choked with emotion, so proud of his Senior Brother and regretful he was not there to see his moment of triumph. No longer does the Abbot stand at my side to watch his memories play out, but is instead immersed within them, playing the part of himself while reliving the moment. “I always knew you would succeed one day.”

“I have failed where it counts,” Mahakala replies, taking no pride in his accomplishment. “I did not follow Mentor’s teachings to achieve this success, and only now do I understand the folly of my ways.” Despite so many years having passed by, Mahakala’s anger has yet to subside, and it pains the Abbot more than his Senior Brother will ever know. “That is not why I came here though. You said this was a matter of the utmost urgency.”

“I am dying, Senior Brother.” Though he yearns to reach out and take Mahakala’s hand, the Abbot fears the rejection too much to try, because this is all the family he has left. “I have no successor to take my place, so I implore you to take what should rightfully have been yours.”

“...Fool.” Shaking his head, Mahakala’s eyes glimmer with tears even though he keeps his distance from the Abbot’s deathbed, a sight which fills the Abbot’s heart with hope for reconciliation, but Mahakala’s next words shatter that hope beyond repair. “That sort of thinking is the reason why Mentor passed his mantle onto you instead of me. I expected it, yearned for it, believed it was mine to begin with, whereas you never even wanted to become the Abbot, which makes you all the more suitable for the job. Thus he named you Akupara, boundless and immeasurable, or potential without limit.”

Though his reasoning was sound, it was clear that Mahakala still didn’t agree with his Mentor’s decision, nor did the Abbot himself. “And yet I have failed so miserably.” Despite having lived for over a century, before his Senior Brother, the Abbot feels like a child again, openly weeping and wanting nothing more than to be consoled, for he feels like his potential was wasted. “Banished from the thriving coasts all the way out to the Arid Wastes, in only a matter of decades. I was not meant for this life, never pursued it for the right reasons, and in my ignorance, I have brought the Brotherhood to ruin.”

“And why did you come here?”

“Where else could we go?” Wherever the Abbot opened a monastery, disaster would soon follow, the Imperial Clan’s insidious work no doubt. Honouring the letter of their agreement, to leave the Brotherhood in peace so long as they kept to themselves, but this agreement did not apply to the denizens of the outer provinces, who were always more than happy to win favour with the Imperial Clan.

“The world is large and much of it uninhabited,” Mahakala begins, before gesturing at the Arid Wastes outside. “Yet you came to this place of danger, where even I dare not traverse freely. How many of our Brothers were lost along the way?”

“Too many.” Four-hundred and seventy-seven, which left them with less than three-hundred total survivors, a far cry from the days of the Abbot’s youth when they had monasteries in every major city. Most left when Mentor died and the Imperial Clan made their displeasure known, and there were precious few initiates foolish enough to board a sinking ship. “But here, we are free to study in peace, and with you as the Abbot, surely we can bring new initiates in whenever needed.”

