“I will not be Abbot.” Finally deigning to kneel by the Abbot’s bedside, Mahakala moves to help him sit upright, and despite the pain and fatigue, the Abbot cannot remember the last time he’d been so happy, for his Senior Brother is here with him again, even if only for a little while longer. “You will continue to serve as Abbot, because you will not die, as you are far more talented than I.” Removing a pouch from his belt, Mahakala opens it up to reveal dried jerky, and the Abbot is shocked by the reveal, but he is appalled when Mahakala urges him to eat. “Do it. It will give you the strength needed to survive and ascend,” he says, and the Abbot almost obeys by reflex, until Mahakala’s patience wears thin. “Eat, or die knowing you have failed. These are the choices before you.”

And so the Abbot eats, weeping as he does, not just for his sins, but for the sins of his Senior Brother who must be suffering so. The thought turns his stomach even as the Abbot feels his body breaking down the meal and processing Energy of the Heavens contained within the flesh of this dead Divinity, no doubt an Imperial slain by his Senior Brother, for who else would dare strike at the Imperial Clan?

...I knew there was something magical about cannibalism, though I suppose it doesn’t have to be another human. Would I get super strong if I ate Pong Pong or Ping Ping? Hypothetically of course, since I have no intention of eating them, but still... it’d be nice to know. For science.

Though his weakness abhors him, the Abbot is ecstatic to not only survive for a few years longer, but also to have his Senior Brother back. A fatter, gruffer, harsher Senior Brother, but his Senior Brother nonetheless. With Mahakala’s guidance and help from the forbidden meal, the Abbot eventually ascends to Divinity, but not as quickly as he could have, because he knew that the day he succeeded would be the day his Senior Brother left again. He was right. They soon part on bad terms, arguing about the direction the Brotherhood should proceed, for Mahakala believes they should be more active in the outer world, but the Abbot sticks to his guns and the Brotherhood remains hidden in the Arid Wastes. To repent for his sins, the Abbot takes up self-mutilation, intending to repay the pounds of literal flesh he himself ate and return it to nature. The monks see this and follow suit, for they idolize their Abbot like he idolized his Mentor, and despite his arguments against it, he sees that this meaningful suffering has a beneficial effect, and studies it in depth.

And thus the Penitent Brotherhood is born, when they were once merely nameless monks serving in obscurity.

Time passes, and the Abbot transforms the sparse oasis mountain into the thriving forest I recognize, an effort that is decades in the labouring. Sometime during all this, a promising young monk proposes an idea that catches the Abbot’s interest, that of studying the Animal Path to better understand their own. Together, they set about raising chickens, goats, and other such beasts suitable for living in the Arid Wastes. A brilliant young man much like himself, the monk becomes the second Divinity of the Brotherhood and ascends to the rank of Wisdom, at which point the Abbot bestows him with a new name, Vyakhya, named for Clarity of Thought. Though they were not quite brothers, they were still the best of friends, and the Abbot was happy to have a like-minded individual to exchange ideas with.

Until Vyakhya shows just how unlike their minds truly are, by raising the man-eating tiger Rakshasa in secret. How many deaths went to fuel his experiment? The Abbot should have put an end to Vyakhya then, but how could he condemn another man for a lesser sin than that which he himself had committed? Vyakhya never partook in human flesh himself, nor did he kill a Divinity, and while he was arguably responsible for the lives lost to Rakshasa’s fangs and claws, the tiger would kill to eat regardless of any outside interference. Even Mahakala did not agree with removing Vyakhya, for he believed that while Vyakhya might have set out with the Wrong Effort, his intentions were good and the knowledge gained invaluable towards their understanding of the Dao.

“And so you now know the breadth of my failures,” the Abbot says, once again standing by my side as we watch more recent events unfold. “I compromised my morals and strayed from my Path, after building the foundation of my Dao on impermanent relations. And what do I have to show for it, after so many centuries of life? My Mentor is dead and gone, and it gladdens me to know he did not see all this pass. My Senior Brother has passed as well, before we could ever reconcile. Everything they strove to build has come apart under my direction, hastened by the actions of a man I once called friend.” Sighing as he shakes his head, he cuts short his reminiscence before I can see his battle against Vyakhya and Poppa Piggy, much to my dismay. Instead, he shows me a scene I’ve never seen, but one I experienced first-hand, me arguing with Han BoLao in the midst of the Purge.

“What’s this now?” I ask, as I watch myself hurl my sword into a dying man’s chest, cutting short his suffering by mere minutes at best. A futile gesture, but one I think I would repeat if given a second chance. “You were here?”

“That I was.” Patting my shoulder in a reassuring manner, we watch as I incite the soldiers of the Empire to violence against the suffering peasants, hurling our weapons into the suffering masses and feeling no better for it. “After learning of Vyakhya’s illicit actions, I took up the habit of wandering the outer provinces every few decades, and I happened to come across you in Sanshu. I myself yearned to stop the Purge and free those suffering souls, but to do so would go against the Noble Eight-Fold Path, not to mention go against the Brotherhood’s agreement of non-interfence with the Imperial Clan and their agents.” Gesturing at my tear-soaked expression, the Abbot explains, “This was when I decided to accept you into the Brotherhood, for you reminded me of my younger self, if only I had the courage and resolve to stand up for what I thought was right. I named you SanDukkha for Perpetual Suffering, because I could see that though you had good intentions, your path would be more arduous than most, for the righteous man suffers when the innocent are harmed, and our world is one that preys upon the weak. Yet your resolve to do right was admirable, even if your approach was flawed from the start, but I thought that if I could teach you and change your ways, then it would validate my own beliefs.”

With a wave of his hand, we appear in the courtyard, this time with the Abbot sitting where I first saw his Mentor, on the raised dais at the front of the courtyard, and me sitting before him dressed in monks robes, though I can still feel the hair on my head and the contents of my pants, so there’s that. “A selfish reason for inducting you into the Brotherhood,” the Abbot says, flashing a sheepish grin, “But an action guided by the Heavens themselves. Come, Junior Brother. Ask your questions, and I will answer them to the best of my ability, so long as I still draw breath.”

Mahakala had the same courtyard for a Natal Palace, so I’m guessing their Mentor taught both his students in a similar manner. I have no idea what benefit there is to be gained from using a standard template Natal Palace, but it raises interesting questions to be sure. I’m fairly certain the dais is the Natal Throne, but why was Mahakala so large he could barely even fit? Because his Soul was too big for his Natal Palace? Why couldn’t he just scale everything up?

“You spent months pestering me with questions,” the Abbot says, raising an eyebrow in amused question, “Yet now, with free rein to ask and limited time for answers, you waste precious seconds in idle thought?”

“What? Oh, sorry.” Snapping back to reality, I push myself to my feet and stretch, feeling like I haven’t moved in ages. “Er, don’t worry about the limited time thing. I’m pretty sure I can fix you.” Raising an eyebrow of my own, I ask, “Unless you don’t want to be fixed?”

“Ah, the bold confidence of youth. How refreshing it is to see.” Chuckling as he shakes his head, the Abbot explains, “My issue is not so easily solved, and I will not sin so heavily again. Before, I feared death and failure, but now it is clear I am not fated to succeed, so I’ve no longer anything to fear. Such is life, of which death is an inevitable part of, so I can only hope that I am reunited with my Senior Brother once more, in at least one of our next lives.”

“Sin? Oh, the cannibalism. No, that’s not it.” Not that I have a dead Divinity lying around, though it explains why so many Divinities spend their lives in hiding and why a bunch of them dropped by to see Guan Suo die. They weren’t paying respects, they were waiting for the dinner bell to ring. Then again, maybe some of them were there to stop the others from eating him in secret, though I doubt it. “If it’s a reason for living, I can’t help you there. I can list a whole host of reasons I think you should live, but it’s pointless because you clearly don’t agree. If it’s Heavenly Energy you need however, I have lots, which I assume is what you need to Heal yourself.” Removing a gourd from my belt, I double check to make sure its the right variety and present it to the Abbot, who is both intrigued and confused by the gift. “I have more, but for some strange reason, I couldn’t carry too much with me. We can just pop on over to my Natal Palace and I’ll have you fixed right up in no time.”

“...Do you know what you are asking me, child?”

“To risk the destruction of your eternal soul, yea.” Shrugging, I say, “You’re the one who said we’re short on time, but if you want an explanation, it’s easier to show than tell. Don’t worry though, I think we can go straight back to my Natal Palace without a pit-stop in the Void, but even if we do have to make a layover, I’m pretty sure I’ve Devoured every stray Spectre hanging about.”

“If only it were so simple.” Still holding the gourd without caring to use it, the Abbot’s attention focuses inward as he reflects on his sorrows and regrets. “I have lived a long life, longer than you can even imagine, and I am just so tired of my trials and tribulations. Even with Heavenly Energy to Heal me, my injuries are so great the Healing itself might be enough to kill me, for my will is simply too weak to wield it in the way you envision. Too much or not enough, the end result is the same, so no matter how many gourds you might have, I fear they will be wasted on one such as myself.”

Seeing the Abbot still hesitating, I give him a little time to wrestle with the decision, but I’ve little patience for self-pity when it’s not my own. “You think you have failed, that you’ve lost everything and have come to the end of your Path. Your Senior Brother felt the same way, but I always thought differently. You’ve both made mistakes, but who hasn’t? No one is perfect, but the only way to really fail is to quit before you succeed. So long as you keep trying, then you haven’t failed yet, which is something I wish I could’ve told your Senior Brother.” The memory returns to me, and I repeat Mahakala’s words verbatim. “He said that no matter what trials or tribulations I may face, the Mother always leaves a path to salvation, that I should not allow pride and arrogance to bring me low, and to trust in the Abbot and the people around me.” Extending my hand to the Abbot, I add, “Those were his final words to me, before passing out, words he believed would be his final testament. To know that there was always a path forward, and to trust you. I failed to save him, but I believe I have the means to save you, except I need your help to do it.” Shrugging, I add, “Besides, you don’t even have to send your whole soul, just make a Natal Soul and send it to test the waters. Probably would be easier anyways.” Again, the Abbot fixes me with a befuddled stare, and I remember just how unorthodox my Path has been, so I suppose it’s only fair that he would like to know what he’s getting into before risking his eternal soul. “Okay fine,” I say, settling back down in front of him. “You win. We’ll do it your way, so I might as well start from the top.”

And hopefully, we have enough time to get through the entire story, because that’d just be my luck. To finally have someone willing to entertain my questions only to have them die before I get any answers.

...I should probably give him the short version, just to be safe.

Chapter Meme
