“Two a day per imp on average. Which means that in less than two weeks, we’ll be producing over fifty a day. Assuming nothing goes wrong.”

Shiny’s orange eyes bulged. “This… This boom. Why no circle?”

“Exactly! I wanted to trigger this population boom as soon as possible. So, start thinking about how to best utilize your workers. Not in allocation, but management.”

Kairon already had some improvements in mind, but wanted to give the little monster a chance to think of his own first. He was training his best supervisor after all.

“Yes master! Will think!”

“Great. Now, back to work. I need to talk to Veron before our guests arrive.”

***

“How are you, my friend?” asked Kairon.

Veron was propped up in the tent, lounging in the cool tower’s darkness. He looked good. Really good. Better than he’d been in the last week.

“I still don’t know what to make of Sythara,” he muttered, looking over at the crouched demoness in the distance. She was on the opposite side of the room, mixing ingredients in a scavenged bowl. The scrape of stone on wood was actually quite a calming sound. That was assuming you didn’t consider what precisely was being ground up.

“But she knows her craft. Those veins have almost entirely receded, and that black mass under my arms is almost gone.”

He lifted up his shirt, showing Kairon the now fingernail sized tumor left. It still pulsed, black veins faintly visible, but it was substantially smaller.

“Good, good.” To Kairon, his investment in Veron hadn’t run dry. The time, food, and risk he’d taken into housing the man could still pay off. And, he just liked the guy. Veron gave good company. More than one night was spent idly chatting. As much as he cared for his beloved imps, it was difficult to really socialize with them. But with the merchant, he could.

“Would you feel up to meeting some newcomers?”

“The Valdrens?” clarified Veron.

“Indeed! I’m hoping you’d be willing to meet with them. Smooth over the rough edges our scales and claws leave, so to speak.”

Nodding, the merchant sat up. “Sure thing. You’ve taken care of me, and for that I owe you a debt.”

The demon stared into those eyes, trying to parse what his friend was thinking. Whether those words were genuine or not.

I suppose this meeting should test that.

“Perfect. No need to get up. Relax, enjoy yourself. Expect to convene later this evening. Maybe for dinner.”

“You’re going to feed those nobles the dried jerky we’ve been eating?”

“Of course not! I’ve instructed a few imps to hunt something fresh for tonight.”

Assuming this meeting goes well enough that there even is a tonight, that is. Kairon kept that thought to himself.

Dusting off his scales, he stood. “I’ll be back. And Veron?”

“Hmm?”

“Thank you. Truly.”

With that, Kairon set off.

Where is that oversized demon at? He was taking his sweet time getting back in time. But he should just make it before they needed to set out.

***

Sythara watched Kairon walk away, careful not to stop her mixing. Even once he left, she waited. The rock in her grip steadily grinding bit after bit of charred bone into powder.

In the distance, the receding thumps of a walking stick on stone echoed. Getting softer and softer. Once the sound disappeared entirely, the demoness added a count of ten. Just to be safe. Only then did she stop.

Shadows unfurling, Sythara rose. Striding over to the tent, she undid the canvas flap and found her belongings stuffed in the corner.

And, under cloak, canvas, and kindling… The essence.

Pale fingers grasped the two violet marbles, each thrumming with hidden secrets. They fit in her hand easily. As if they belonged. She poked one with a black talon, watching the tiny script bubble around inside.

“Thank you again. For saving me.”

She looked up, the prone subject pulling her from her thoughts.

“Don’t thank me yet, human. The process isn’t done.”

Veron grew tense. “What do you mean? The veins are gone, that disgusting growth is finally shrinking, and I feel more like myself than I have in… well, ever.”

Sythara stood, darkness pressing against the rays of sun lighting the tower.

“I promised the child I’d stabilize you.” A glint was shining in her sapphire eyes. One that Veron did not like.

“You also promised you’d save me,” he replied. The hunter rose, trying to gather himself.

The demoness smirked, taking slow, careful steps forward. Azure light burned on her skin, shifting symbols coming to life as they rolled over her body. Scrolling and interlocking.

“I am saving you. From yourself.”
