The instant my 2nd seal dissolves, the hot pressure building up in my head and around the inside of my body is instantly released.

In the same fraction of a second, I pull more borrowed stats to bring my total up to 15%, and waves of heat burst out from my body.

I feel the outer shell of ether commands I've been using to create a fake avatar in order to fit in while in the Grand Citadel completely evaporate too. The 5 grey crowns above my head disappear, and the suppression of my ether and noble vibrations is lifted a level further.

The refined ether in my body can finally meld properly with my mana control and demonic energy again, and my Greater Form grows tens of times denser as my true Soul Energy strength floods in.

At the same moment, I activate my Noble Human Form.

Yet, instead of shining bright with an ethereal glow, I allow all of the demonic energy I've stored in my Demon Lord's Core to flood out, suppressing the crimson aura that glows from my sword and covering the shimmering white body that grows from the center of my greater form.

My bones, muscles, and blood all expand, as my Noble Form is no energy manifestation. It is a real body transformation, pushing the weaker version of a 3rd Class Human into a Noble Being.

I grow from just over 2 meters tall in my base state, to over 20 meters in my Noble Form, and my Greater Energy Form saturated with Soul Energy grows by ten times as well, forcing my presence in the Dome to grow to over 600 meters tall almost instantaneously.

–

This Griffon's elegant greater form towered over me moments ago, and its burning hot claws were each wrapping around my Soul Sword, equaling it in size. There were dozens of ether-imbued wind crescents all converging at my back, each one larger than my entire greater form...

But now, a demonic roar erupts from the white burst of the Griffon's finishing move, its wind crescents hit my back and are instantly consumed like dry brittle leaves burning in a raging fire, and I push my blades forward as it grows, sending the Griffon flying backward as now I tower over it, double its size.

Horns grow out from my forehead, and I use my conceal skill to replicate all of the features that Drako Vermillion's greater energy form had back in the Lower Realm.

My 3rd and final seal still holds back my High Noble Vibrations, as well as the full activation of my final ranked-up buff, the Astral Form.

Yet, now as I release this power, I feel waves of Vibrations coming off me equal to the strength I released after my first few days training with Seraphel in the High Orc tower.

The waves I'm producing are no imitation or even suppressed version of the real thing—the aura I'm giving off is that of a True Noble Demon.

Every single suppression command in the Arena Dome is instantly activated... yet still, they make it through every layer despite being suppressed. The walls of the arena are blasted by my hot aura, and small amounts even leak out into the Grand Citadel's open air.

The crowds surrounding the arena feel it, just like Miriel's display when he showed up as a hologram before the fight began.

Some 2nd Class Lords start to feel weak, but no one passes out or loses their grips on the system. All of the suppression commands and defensive arrays in the Arena Dome are working as they should. Extra arrays are automatically activated outside the dome as well once my aura is sensed, and the issue is fixed in a matter of seconds.

Once it does, this results in a loud wave of cheers, matched with the Announcer of the event playing back this display over and over while the waves of demonic energy and white wind magic fill the dome.

The flying ring zone's movement commands are all disrupted, and many begin falling from the sky.

There are avalanches in the mountain ranges, and a few of the nearest trees in the massive forest crack like porcelain, and fall over.

Even the smooth ground beneath me shatters, and auto-mending ether commands begin repairing the cracks before my eyes.

–

Yet, surprisingly, the 1st Class Lord that took on the brunt of my unsealed aura shockwave is still alive.

When I register their movements coming toward me again, I find they're actually even more alive than they were moments ago. The Griffon has grown stronger, hotter, and the ether its pushing out more refined.

I let out a loud, deep, demonic laugh while fighting back, swinging my purple sword forward to clash with the hot white talons of an eagle.

Upon contact, I can feel Vibrations surging through this creature like nothing I've ever felt before.

Well... actually, it is similar to one thing I've witnessed.

A creation back on the human world, when I was first testing out my craftsmanship skill, imbuing random items with random skills. I found that I could imbue element stones with a plunderer skill too powerful for it to handle, and it resulted in a magic item that sucked up as much mana as it could until hitting critical mass and detonating to destroy everything in sight.

The Griffon's body starts to look very similar to this magic item, absorbing the raw energy of the ether commands in the atmosphere despite the backlash. All of the raw energy coming off my own aura swirls in toward the Griffon too, and I can even see it using its own soul energy and divine core as extra energy sources; sacrificing its lifeforce for a more powerful blast.

The creature's confident voice echoes in my head again.

"My contacts in the Lower Realm warned me of your arrival, but their measure of your strength was far lower than what you truly hold. No matter. My sacrifice will give us more time. The Upper Realm cannot be sealed!"

"Hey! I'm no Demon... Our goals are more aligned than you think!" I yell back through the link, feeling this monster's cores and energy pathways heat up more and more.

So much so, that the avatar commands connecting this First Class Lord to the Arena's teleportation arrays are starting to dissolve.

The explosion it's trying to trigger will actually kill it. At such close range, I might have to borrow double the stats I have right now in order to walk away unharmed as well...

"No Demon? With those Noble Vibrations? You think I'm naive enough to believe any other race could ever walk that path? You can fool the rest of the Grand Citadel that has already submitted to the Demons to live in their fake paradise here, but I will never trust a word out of your mouth. I'd die a thousand times over to have the honor of killing a Noble like you!"

I feel the monster core begin to vibrate uncontrollably, like it's triggering a collapse.

In less than a second, it will detonate itself, and no words I say back will stop it or make it drop out.

There is one easier option to get the same result. Eliminate this Griffon from the Arena event myself.

Though, it's not that easy. If I were to counterattack and break its cores myself, it would still detonate and kill itself. However, if I use far more precision, shattering its avatar and bringing its HP low enough to trigger a simulated death before it explodes... it could be teleported to a suppression chamber fast enough to survive.

I smirk, pull another 5% of stats, and concentrate to force my greater form to specialize in speed and agility alone. "Maybe if you talk to my friends, you'll trust me more. I'd rather you kill yourself taking out a real enemy then to waste it on me..." is all I reply back into our telepathy link before twisting out of the way.

Bright purple slashes glow in the air, cutting through weak points in the Griffon's greater form.

Its legs first, then its wings, then precise blows to slash through flesh and high-damage areas that do not collide with its expanding core or high-density ether pathways.

Some slashes look awkward, like pinholes slicing through small areas of flesh, while others are near fatal.

One attack runs straight through its heart, half a dozen more slice through its neck.

In less than 3 hundredths of a second, over 80 direct slashes blaze through the Griffon's greater form, and true body.

It goes from pure elegant white to a dark purple blur of sword slashes.

Like a spider's web, only avoiding a single small area deep within its true body's chest.

The Demonic Energy erupts outward as all of my sword slashes collide with each other, pressing inward with enough force to counteract the outward pressure of its detonation, just in time for a bright flash of light to teleport it away from the ring.

I laugh loudly while emerging from the attack, letting even more intense Vibrations slam against the inside of the dome from all angles.

No real system notifications ring in my inner ear, so I believe my plan worked... However, I shattered my fake avatar shell, so no more Arena notifications ring in my ear either. I did not receive a final kill confirmation.

–

My grinning demonic face emerges from the white and purple explosion in the spectate feed that runs live in the back of my mind, and on the leaderboards, my human face is the only entry left, with bright "Grand Prize Winner!" in bold text beneath it.

Even though I cannot hear notifications in the fake avatar shell I was wearing, the admins controlling the live feeds have made sure that all screens show I've won.

They can't let a Noble Demon Lose by a technicality afterall, it would ruin their reputation.

As I look up to the sky, the top of the green dome starts to grow dark again just like it did before the match.
