"Yes," Helix responded without any care or concern, "but that is fine. Emotions and Psychology are tertiary skills. You have Biomancy, my dear colleague, and that, is the most important skill a person can have."

Tulveg’s head dropped ever lower, and Helix scoffed. "But if you want to learn how to read someone and understand what their feelings are, then perhaps I might be able to show you a few things."

Shiv snorted with near laughter. Not friends, my ass. Guess beating the shit out of the First Blood works wonders for relationships. Try not to give him the Bully-Bait skill, Helix.

With that, he stepped through the static portal and appeared inside Gate Piety once more.

Waves of pressure washed over the Deathless. He anticipated the sight of the looming Asshole Tower, which now belonged to Adam once more, as well as Starhawk's Perch, which was now placed in front of said Asshole Tower. What he saw at the moment of his emergence, however, was a city in the process of transformation.

The mana core floating in the sky flared brighter than ever before, and everything was drenched in its azure radiance. There was a series of rivers running across the entirety of the Gate now. They flowed to a steady, calming rhythm, and Shiv could see that they passed through the water processing plant. He guessed Adam had fixed whatever was wrong there while he and Uva were on their sabbatical. Unfinished channels and aqueducts were being built near the large river running across the center of the Gate. Shiv wasn't sure why the river was there, but Adam didn't do anything without purpose.

The structural skeletons of numerous additional structures were rising within the confines of new district grids as well. Shiv had personally helped draw out and move the materials for one of these districts a few days ago, but now the building process was truly underway. Already, he could see several concrete longhouses toward the Gate center. Using his Atlas, he realized that most of Blackedge's surviving population was being housed there, near the Perch.

Then there were the changes happening near the surface gateway, opposite to where Uva, Adam, and he stood. The districts there had been redone. The separation between the refugees on the topside and the mercenary holding compound on the bottom was no more. Instead, the mercenary compound seemed to have been expanded, and the stable structures within the refugee district had been moved down. What stood now was a unified district, not a holding facility for prisoners, nor a temporary encampment for the needy and desperate. Everyone had housing there, and it was built in an outward circle with more and more scattered tenements and smaller streets, the structures dotting the exterior making it look like a small city center that scattered off into a peripheral suburb.

Shiv, Uva, and Adam soon found themselves hovering beneath the mana core, and the Gate Lord’s face was a mask of focus.

"Well, you guys have done a lot of remodeling while we were gone," Shiv said.

"We haven't even begun the actual construction effort," Adam replied. "But that's not all. During your absence, did you receive a Quest?"

"A Quest?" Shiv looked through his notifications, and he saw Uva doing the same as her eyes flicked about. When she shook her head, he said, "Nope, no Quest for us."

"Then it's only me." Adam fell silent. "The System has offered me a reward, but I can't quite figure out why."

"What do you mean? What does it want you to do?"

Adam pointed down, and Shiv found himself looking at the river once more. "It wants me to do more than build. It wants me to create a proper city. And it’s offering quite the reward for me to see it done. But… that’s not all. The Gate… It has a questionable new skill. Uva. Link us. Better if I just show the both of you."
