—[HYPERWAVE ENCRYPTION LOADED]—

To: Cortex Prime

We detected an incongruous mana signature. It entered the Stranger’s Garden at 2344. They entered through the Theta-374943-244 Mana Condensation Zone by creating a dimensional bridge between worlds via unknown means. As such, we suspect an infected entity on Integrated Earth has gained the knowledge to diffuse, stabilize, and tap into mana frequencies across Integration. The dangers and implications of this achievement speak for themselves.

That, however, is not the most alarming piece of information. Per our report a few days prior, the “Deathless” invaded the Stranger's Garden through another condensation zone along with an army of orcs. Also spotted with him was the Giantsbane, Legend of the Yellowstone Republic. Though the information and details recorded by our probes were limited due to the extreme velocities at which the aforementioned subjects were moving, we are certain that the Republic and the Challenger are working together in some capacity. For what reason, or to what end, remains unknown. However, we suspect that a full invasion of the Outside might be imminent, specifically of the Stranger's Realm. Furthermore, the displaced town of Blackedge has been recovered by the orcs. This might be a capture-and-contain operation conducted between the Tutorial and the Yellowstone Republic.

Why the Ascendants would be so willing for the Orc God to claim one of their Phylacteries is also unknown, but we strongly suspect that the Starhawk now lies in the hands of the Challenger. Perhaps this is a means to suppress any dissent. Other possibilities indicate that this might be an offering to secure an army of orc warriors in anticipation of the coming adversaries that will soon spill across their northern and southern borders.

Addendum: The Deathless has also emitted specific mana particles that present a 99% match to the Undying Tarrasque. As such, we believe that these two entities either share a creator, or that one spawned the other. Though we do not have hard evidence to support this theory, we do suspect that the Deathless and the Undying Tarrasque might be results of Transcendent-Contractor Udraal Thann’s experiments.

If this is confirmed to be the case, Lovecraft Station strongly suggests the Contractor be called in for in-depth questioning.

Finally, we ask permission to further observe the damage done to the Stranger's Garden and the Outsider God itself. It has sustained significant damage trying to engage with the foe, and that which has afflicted it seems retrocausal. Effectively, it has suffered damage in its past and present and is now unable to break out of a traumatic loop. This indicates that it has suffered at the hands of someone it faced before and lost to. The Pathbearers that have inflicted such a defeat on the Stranger number few—with the most likely candidate being Valor Thann himself.

Though our last update indicates Valor Thann still lay in scattered pieces thanks to Transcendent-Contractor Udraal Thann, we would like to request an elevation to Combat Alertness Orange and the formal mobilization of Strike Group Innsmouth for the ensured security of Lovecraft Station…

—Transmission from Lovecraft Station to Cortex

305

To Break a Curse [II]

It was a good thing for a man to learn about his body, but a man could also learn too much about his body. And a man could also learn too much of his body when that body was being used by someone else to do things to them.

Pillar of Orichalcum 292 > 295

A Glimpse of Perspective 73 > 75

A Glimpse of Perspective: What torment, what glory. She is a monster… A monster in the shape of a moon-skinned maiden…

Shiv's consciousness tilted between the misery of post-traumatic stress and the bliss of post-coital release. It was the best of experiences. It was the worst of experiences. It was an experience that he would likely suffer again and enjoy at times, but also find himself on the verge of a mental breakdown when the pain got too much after a vital part of him tore open.

A man truly could learn too much about his own body, but it was only in learning too much that he discovered the limits of his mind and the true endurance of his psychology. Through this blackest, most exotic, most depraved experience, Shiv came to a thrilling and agonized conclusion: if his flesh was iron, then his mind was adamantine. But if someone rammed a fist of iron hard enough into a cleft of adamantine, then the being of adamantine would still release shrieks of pain loud enough to reduce a hundred meters of woodland into splinters and dust.

A hearty chuckle escaped Uva. A snaking tendril of pleasure-pain climbed along Shiv's spine, coiling in place until it settled in the base of his mind. No more! one part of him cried. I need more! another part of him called out. And thus a man could learn that when his body felt both blissfully euphoric and absolutely ruined, he could love and hate the same thing, and fear and adore the same person.

Uva clung to his arm while her legs dragged behind, sliding across the dirt, unable to function even now. She tried taking a step every now and again, but it was like her lower body wouldn't cooperate. Shiv, meanwhile, favored his right leg more than his left, and the left leg simply wouldn't respond. It was likely a psychological wound that had physical manifestations. They were both crippled, both quiet, and both lost in their own minds. The psychic link between them had been cut, not only to give them a respite from all the time they spent sharing a mind, but also to let them process what happened individually. And there was a lot to process.

"That was a lot more rewarding and strenuous than I imagined,” Shiv rasped. “And I imagined quite a bit."

Uva's laugh was a thing of scalding warmth that trailed off into a series of hyena-like giggles.

Shiv didn't need to be in her mind to know what she was thinking. She was looking forward to the next time, and that made him swallow and also sweat at the same time. I gotta study more Biomancy, figure out how to move my flesh around without ripping it open…

"Quite," she agreed. "And I'm sure you'll be able to do it. Especially with all the motivation I instilled in you this time." She pulled herself up along his arm and breathed out, letting the heat of her breath tickle his ear. Shiv clenched his fist, doing all he could to keep one foot in front of the other to avoid toppling over and landing on top of her as he had earlier. "You know, a few times I thought you were going to call for a break. Or use the word."

"I did come close a few times," Shiv admitted without shame.

"So why didn't you?" she prodded.

"Well, the first time I blacked out before I could say anything, and most of the times after that, it just hurt too much for me to form words. Then it felt too good. Guess there's a metaphor there about life or something. That might be why my Philosophy skill leveled."

"Really? Mine too. Seems we both experienced some… revelations."

"Maybe me more than you," Shiv replied with a shudder.

She grinned like a fox staring down a lone, little chicken in its coop. "Definitely you more than me."

A shared sigh escaped the both of them as they made eye contact. Then what followed was a shared series of giggles until neither could stand and had to use the woods near the gateway to Piety to find their bearings once more and recover the ability of locomotion.

It took them a good while longer to reach it. As they slipped out from the treeline, they began walking along the Grand Obsidian Thoroughfare, as Shiv had learned the road was called, once filled with Cave Biters and slaver caravans. Now it was abandoned, the route severed from Compact control as Gate Theborn was no more. As the lovers grew closer to their home, however, flashing lights, a crushing pressure, and the shapes of spells flickering by overhead drew their attention.

Shiv squinted as he saw a chain of Biomancy spells. They were all interconnected, seeming like scars snaking their way through the air. Yet there was also a substance of Psychomancy leaking out from the center of the scar, and a trace of gold that glittered like dust behind. Immediately, he knew who had likely cast this spell: Tulveg.

And Uva wasn't far behind when she came to the same conclusion. A quiet but most ragged groan escaped her. She didn't want to face her mother's former paramour, and she most certainly didn't want to deal with any of the stress waiting for her back in the Gate. But some things were hard to avoid, and couldn't be avoided forever.

"You wanna hide inside my mind?" Shiv offered. "You don't need to deal with him if you don't want to."

All hints of bliss and mirth bled out from her expression. Shiv didn't much like seeing that. "No. No, we continue on. And I will resolve the matters between us when I'm ready. He will respect that."

"I had a talk with him about that," Shiv said. "Hopefully, my words sank in. How do you feel about him?"

She sighed. "Being honest, I try not to think about him, and I often actively make myself forget his existence. I don't like the fact that he knew my mother. I don't like the fact that he's probably not lying. I don't like the very real possibility that my mother has had interactions with him. I just have a hard time believing a relationship existed between them." The muscles on her face tightened, and she looked like an Umbral undergoing brutal constipation. "Mainly because he's a vampire. Mainly because he belongs to the Great Adversary. The ones that enchained us. The ones that abused us. They were always the enemy. But he seems to agree with me. He seems to hate his own kind more than I do, even. With that, I have to consider the very real possibility that my mother might have been playing along to have him defect or… or… or…"

"Or they were actually a thing," Shiv said, risking Uva's ire.

Her body sagged, her mood wilted. Rather than burn with outrage, she withered with discomfort. "Prejudice is hard to overcome, shameful as it is to admit."

He reached over and ran a hand through her short hair. "Well, I think you're doing a good job. You managed to get over your feelings about the Surfacers pretty quickly."

"How very clever of you to flatter yourself while pretending to flatter me," Uva muttered while fixing him with squinted eyes. He noted how she didn't shoo his hand away, though.

"Hey, it's not really a lie, is—What the hells is that?" Shiv's jaw fell slightly agape as they got close to the kilometer-high arch of the gateway. Uva was about to ask what had disturbed him so, but then she saw the same thing, and her response mirrored his as well.

Surrounding the gateway was a massive ring. It was not a ring made of hardened materials such as glass, concrete, or any kind of metal. It was a ring that was shaped by a specific lore of magic—Biomancy. And it was a particularly grotesque display of Biomancy, because said massive ring, wide enough to encircle the gargantuan archway, was made of writhing flesh. Writhing flesh that constantly regenerated. That seemed to lack any tumors. That was made from a specific kind of stock: vampires.

"Godsdamn it, Helix," Shiv grunted to himself. "I let you go have fun, and this is what you do."

Before them was a horizon that was being reshaped for war and a lasting siege. Multiple trench lines extended in layered rows. Between them were enormous Geomantic emplacements, slats of stone lined with gleaming steel that radiated a brownish mana. Shiv's eyes narrowed. He didn't know much about Geomancy, but he could feel the murderous intent in the air. The emplacements didn't have any obvious keyholes, didn't sport any glowing orbs or elemental constructs at their tops, but he knew they were meant for one thing: violence. Each one was fifty meters tall, a dense construct of material and magic. He suspected that at any moment, they either might explode, launching the metal held by the stone out in waves of slicing death, or do something else. Something altogether disgusting. Something only conjurable by the mind of an orc.

There were also faint, gleaming chains that connected these emplacements to each other. And in the rear row of emplacements, right before the archway, the chains curled upward to the height of the gateway, and there found themselves bound tight around the flesh of the wailing First Blood Vampires.

Only after Shiv took in all that did he notice the near-invisible air dimensionals gliding through the air, and the even grander orbs of blinking fire that hovered just beneath the sky-like heights of the cave that contained the Umbral Wilderness. The orcs had done a great deal of work preparing for any vampiric assaults, and they were clearly planning a disgusting surprise of their own if the First Blood was to approach.

Shiv's Atlas of the Flesh Scryer revealed about a thousand orcs manning the trenches. Most of them were focused on digging, and they were going in a new direction now, down rather than wide. They had formed a sigil-like pattern around the gateway, and they seemed to be creating tunnels that connected each line to each, one emplacement to another.

"Do you have any idea what your monsters are doing?" Uva asked with a slight huff.

A snort of disbelief slipped out from Shiv. "My monsters?"

"Yes, your monsters," Uva insisted. "They listen to you. They're here because you struck a deal with them. That makes them your monsters."

"Oh, I'm sorry. Maybe I should have just let you summon a million of the Dreamtaker’s kids. I think that would have gone much better."

Uva rolled her eyes. "Stop being petulant and go find out what they're doing. I don’t want reinforcements from the Order to suffer any surprises or unnecessary nightmares. Composer knows being assigned to this Gate has already been a hellish enough experience."

