It took little effort to locate Helix. The orc Biomancer stood right in front of the gateway, his body lit by the brightness of the static Dimensionality mana. Beside him, however, was Tulveg. The vampire had undergone a change of attire. Instead of his noble-like ensemble that left his chest exposed, he now wore a flowing coat made from pitch-black leather. It was like a dark reflection of Helix. Almost a parody. Shiv wondered what was happening between them because both the orc and the vampire had their arms folded as they were staring down, outraged and disgusted, at Adam. The Gate Lord gestured animatedly at the nightmare ring hovering over his gateway, and even from far away, Shiv could hear his cries saying, "What were you thinking? Gods, the smell! I think I'm going to throw up."

"Poor felling Adam," Shiv sighed.

"Ever does he suffer," Uva agreed. She clapped him on the back. "Let’s go save him."

As they crossed over the many trenches, the orcs digging down below whistled at their Insul. Their voices echoed forth from the deep delves of darkness, and they gave a common cheer: "Three whoops for the second-best Manifold Orc Meatball Chef in all Integration!"

The orcs whooped. Shiv's blood turned into boiling tar as he struggled not to kill all of them. "You know what? I don't even mean this sarcastically anymore. You should have summoned the Outsiders. I regret these pieces of shit already."

Once they got within twenty meters of the gateway, the mocking cheers of the Orcs were overwhelmed by another noise: that of the groaning, suffering First Blood members fused together in a ring-shaped cake of misery. Uva immediately began coughing as the foul smell of spilling organs and bodily fluids filled the air.

"And why are they all alive? If you're going to do this, then why didn't you just kill them? Why did you have to keep them alive?" Adam struggled not to scream every syllable at the twosome standing before him. He briefly flicked a glance at the newly arriving Shiv and Uva, but rather than seeming relieved, he just shook his head as if exasperated by their presence.

"It's for the fear-factor," Tulveg said.

"It's for our morale," Helix continued.

"It's to ensure we have an endless resource of blood and flesh to power the spell."

"It's also because this is what the First Blooded vermin deserve."

Tulveg nodded at Helix’s words with such vigor that Shiv feared his head might come off. The Legendary vampire shot the orc beside him a warm and prideful look. "Exactly," he said. "It's more than they deserve. If we had the time, we would do this right, and we would bring them to the brink of agony and beyond. They would be shattered, utterly dissolved of any sense of self for their sacrilege of the Blessed Blood."

Helix paused dramatically before adding anything right after, doing all he could to fan the flames of Adam’s annoyance. "You see, Tulveg understands, and he understands so well. So why can't you, Gate Lord? What is so hard for you to comprehend?"

"Alright, guys, what the hells is going on here?" Shiv said, landing just a few steps away from the group. He gave Adam a broad smile. "Morning."

Somehow, the expression on Adam's face reminded Shiv of spoiled milk. "...Morning? You two have been gone for three bloody days!"

Shiv's mind went blank. "What?"

"Three days!" Adam said even louder. "You were gone for three days. For three days, you two have been missing!"

"That… can't be right," Uva muttered. She looked around, trying to get confirmation from the other two. Helix took off his spectacles and rubbed them using his silken long coat. Tulveg simply didn't respond, seeming almost embarrassed on her behalf.

"Three days," Adam continued. "No, I'm not lying. No, I'm not trying to fool you or anything. It's been three days."

"Then why didn't you come and find us?" Shiv snapped.

A trembling, disingenuous smile cracked open on Adam's face. "Oh, Sister Ikki volunteered and went off into the wilderness. And what an adventure she experienced."

"Oh, Composer, kill me now," Uva prayed.

Unease churned in the pit of Shiv's stomach. "She's still out there?"

"No, she ran away screaming when she found you yesterday."

The worst part of this was that Shiv distinctly remembered hearing someone screaming oddly, at some point. And unfortunately, Uva did too.

Comedy 10 > 13

Shiv gulped. "Oh shit, so that was what all that screaming was near the end."

Uva looked ill, and it wasn’t because of the flesh ring above—though that didn’t help either. "I thought that was you," she said.

"Well, I thought it was you.” He frowned. “Wait, why did you think it was me? I don't scream like that at all."

"That’s untrue. Remember when you insisted we didn't need to lubricate? Remember how loud you shouted then? How the trees around us exploded?"

"Uva!" Shiv hissed. "Not in the present company."

Said present company showed a variety of responses. Helix seemed impressed. Tulveg was trying not to look at his former lover’s daughter. Meanwhile, Adam's gaze was vacant and distant at once. He was here in flesh, but not in mind.

"Adam," Shiv said worriedly, "you alright, man?"

The Gate Lord sobered immediately. "Ah, yes. I've developed a new ability thanks to my Psychology Skill Evolution. It allows me to dissociate from myself at will. Anyhow, you two are vile. Whatever you did, Ikki refused to even elaborate on it when she got back. She went straight to drinking hard liquor until she passed out. Ikki usually doesn't drink liquor at all, according to some members of your team."

"She doesn't," Uva confirmed, somehow both emotionless and still horrified. She clasped her fingers together and looked upward. "Composer, take me now. I am ready for the Stillfrost."

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: This line of dialogue only leads to further sorrow. I suggest that you distract Adam and everyone else by refocusing his annoyance on the atrocity hovering above us.

As if Integration had a sense of comedic timing, a bit of intestines spilled down on the ground a few meters to their left and splattered apart. A jet of red mist sprayed toward Uva, but Shiv took a step and intercepted the gore on her behalf.

Shiv said through gritted teeth, "What the hells is happening here? What's up with this ring?"

"This,” Helix intoned, raising his hand dramatically to point at the gore ring, “is the Torus of Unceasing Suffering. A construct that I have created through my vaunted mastery and Tulveg’s great power. It is not a thing either of us could have done alone, but now both of us stand proud of this child of vengeance, this engine of hate that we have shaped to ruin and defile the spirits of the First Blood."

"Kill us… Please, just kill us…"

Shiv ignored the pain cries echoing down from above. Instead, his attention zeroed in on the Legendary vampire and the Heroic orc. "Why does it seem like you two are actually friends now?"

Tulveg and Helix shared a look.

"Friends?" Tulveg said. "No such thing. We are simply motivated by a common duty, a common ideal, if you will."

"Our partnership is not based on an absurd notion of mutual acquaintanceship and commonly-shared experiences filled with warmth and wonder." Helix wriggled his potato nose as if friendship were a mound of shit he could smell. "Besides, how can I be friends with someone who thinks so little of Biomancy that they never bothered properly studying it in depth? No, this is a unified front. We are partners in this matter. His power, my wisdom. Together, the Torus of Unceasing Suffering has created scouts built from blood, from mind, and from time. If you have observed, you will have seen flickering spells leaving the Torus, gliding out in the distance, and expanding in all directions."

Helix gestured outward dramatically, and Shiv followed his hands, noticing the many glittering paths lingering behind, painting the air with a sense of wonder that originated at a source of unspeakable evil. "Those spells are charged with a single duty: To seek out any vampires, even across the ravine, to bombard them until their flesh shatters, until their minds break, and then to take them and see them fused in place. Sealed by a cage of time for more following spells to obliterate them forevermore."

"That's three separate things at least, Orc," Uva noted. "You’ve neglected your Math Skill."

"It's a figure of speech!" Helix seethed.

"No, you're just wrong," Uva rejected.

Helix’s nostrils flared. He bent over to better whine directly in Uva’s face. "I’m not wrong! I’m just—you have no idea what my Biomancy—Insul! Stop it! Stop your mate from mocking me! And stop shaking! Don’t laugh at me!"

"I'm trying," Shiv choked out. His body shook as heavy spasms worked their way through him. His mouth was forced closed, because if it fell open a slight centimeter more, he would likely break out in loud guffaws. "You just make it too easy, Helix. You might just be the most bullyable creature in Integration. Anyway, move the flesh ring somewhere else. We're gonna have people coming over. I don't need to traumatize them any more than you guys already will."

"And where do you expect us to move this, Deathless?" Helix asked, stomping his feet. He planted both hands on his hips. But despite his immense size, he resembled a schoolgirl throwing a tantrum against her father rather than a gray-skinned brute that liked to feast on the misery of his enemies.

As such, Shiv played the part of frustrated father. "I don't know, Helix. You made it. You're gonna put it somewhere else. And I'm telling you this right now, when we come out of this Gateway again, I don't want to see it no more. I don't want to smell it. I just want it gone. I want it to be the First Blood's problem, not ours. Right now, it's more of our problem than theirs. Change that."

Shiv took a step forward and planted his finger against Helix's chest, as if trying to deliver a threat. However, he also took that opportunity to send a telepathic message to the orc. “Just move it across the ravine. Blast the godsdamn vampire bastards for all I care. Also, it looks pretty cool. You need to show me how it’s made later.”

Helix played along, drawing his lips back in an animalistic snarl of frustration. "Oh, Insul, you never let us do anything fun."

A telepathic response left the orc leader, conveying his actual message. “You are a wise and mighty Pathbearer, Deathless, and I am glad to have met you.”

Finishing the interaction, Shiv hooked an arm around Uva's, dramatically shouldered Helix aside, and walked on. He also placed a hand behind Adam's back and slowly pushed him back toward the gateway. "They'll deal with this. Don’t worry about it."

"Wait!" Tulveg cried aloud. He took a step forward and awkwardly shuffled in front of Uva. She, meanwhile, seemed to want no part of this. "I believe we need to talk, Mettabon. About many things, and your mother especially."

"Oh, for fuck's sake," Shiv breathed. "Why is everyone around me so godsdamn emotionally incompetent and socially blind?"

Cold and still were the only words that could be used to describe Uva's facial expression and body language. A block of ice had nothing on her. "We will have that conversation when I decide I am ready, Vampire. Not before."

But Tulveg was a vampire on the verge of bursting. His face contorted in anguish. "My words were true. Everything I tried to tell you earlier was true. There are no lies. I—"

Shiv intervened, grasping the Vampire by his shoulders and slowly pulling him back.

"Listen, Tulveg, has anyone told you that you are absolutely shit at reading other people's moods?"

The Legend blinked, suddenly taken aback by Shiv's honesty.

"I… didn’t know," Tulveg said, looking down.

"Well, you are," Shiv continued. "And look, this is a really awkward conversation. You're right, we do need to deal with it at some time. Fuck it, I'll even help you talk to each other. I’ll probably have to, considering that one of you can't understand when the other just wants to be left alone. Now, we can do this right, or you can risk losing your only connection you still have to someone you cared about because you couldn't control yourself. And you don’t want that."

"I don't," Tulveg said quietly, his agitation melting into near despair.

"I know it's hard, and I'll help you. Both of you," Shiv reiterated. "I will be there when you two need to do this, if that's what you want. But right now, we all need to give each other some space. Tulveg, if you have problems, you come talk to me first. Alright?"

Tulveg nodded, but the way he looked and acted told Shiv he was on the verge of considering something immensely unwise.

Helix cleared his throat and gestured for Shiv to leave. "Tulveg," the orc called out, "I will need your help to see the relocation of our Torus. So that the Deathless and his feeble friends are not so burdened by the sight of magnificence."

Tulveg shot Uva a final glance. He reminded Shiv of an abandoned puppy. One that had blood-red eyes, snow-white skin, veins that pooled coarse with dark blood underneath his complexion, and hair that matched the color of deepest midnight. "Very… well, Helix…"

Tulveg and Helix went in one direction, while Shiv, Uva, and Adam marched in another. Uva immediately took the lead, intent on entering the Gate as soon as she could. Shiv didn't blame her, but he meant what he'd said earlier. There were things they all needed to deal with. As Shiv took the rear of the group, he turned back one final time and saw Tulveg and Helix talking at length, but not about the Torus hovering above.

"Am I really so socially and psychologically blind?" Tulveg inquired, his hurt feelings leaking through.

