“Okay, maybe it’s because you’re a [Necromancer]. Word’s spread and people like my grandmother, the Guildmaster, are a bit…unhappy.”
That was surprising and unwelcome news. Pisces scowled. Suddenly concerned, Ceria put her hands on the desk.
“Hold on, I thought no one had an issue with Pisces being a [Necromancer]. He wasn’t when we reformed the Horns of Hammerad.”
“Yeah, well, he wasn’t an adventurer until recently. And with all this news about the Goblin Lord and his undead army…”
“I should have known. It seems my magic is unwelcome wherever I go.”
Already Pisces was withdrawing, growing more hostile by the moment. Ceria turned to him and held up a hand. He subsided briefly, looking angry. She remembered that look from Wistram and turned desperately to Selys.
“I know Pisces’ magic is a touchy subject around here, what with the Necromancer, but he hasn’t done anything wr—okay, he hasn’t done much wrong.”
“I know, I know!”
Selys looked frustrated. She tapped a claw on the counter.
“Look, we’re not kicking him out. And we’re not saying he can’t practice necromancy. He just can’t animate, uh, people.”
“What? But that’s—”
“It’s the rules. I’m sorry. If we see him raising dead bodies—no matter what the reason—he’ll be arrested. Or worse.”
“So I am prevented from my craft. How wonderfully tolerant.”
Pisces sneered. Selys gave him a look.
“I’m just relaying orders, Mister Necromancer. While you’re in Liscor or around the city, you can’t use the corpses of people.”
“Of any species?”
“Funny you should mention that. I have a list. Let’s see…no using Drake corpses, Drake bones, Gnoll corpses or bones, the remains of Humans, Minotaurs, Centaurs, half-Elves, Dwarves, Drowned Women—or Men—the parts of Stitch People, any aspect of a Dullahan…not sure if they have bones, so that’s why the wording’s so…anyways, no Gazer bodies either…”
Selys ran down a very long list of what was probably every major known species in the world. She had to take a few deep breaths when she’d finished. Pisces was looking even more irate now, but Ceria had noticed an omission in the Drake’s list of undeadables.
“You didn’t have Lizardfolk on that list. Is that a mistake?”
“Oh, no. The city’s fine with using their bodies, if you find them.”
“How lenient.”
Pisces was clearly agitated. Ceria traded glances with Yvlon. On one hand she understood the city’s desire for undead to be kept off the streets. On the other hand, a blanket ban against all undead was…reasonable. But Pisces was part of their group. She hesitated, unsure of what to say.
Other adventurers were staring at their group, and most were eying Pisces with no small deal of hostility. The [Necromancer]’s shoulders were hunched. He was clearly aware of the staring and he seemed ready to snap. Ceria opened her mouth, unsure if she could defend him, when someone else leaned on the table.
Ksmvr. He cleared his throat and gently snapped his mandibles together.
“Miss Shivertail, may I state my objections to your restrictions on my fellow teammate?”
Selys blinked at the Antinium and eyed him for a moment.
“Uh, okay. What’s the problem?”
Ksmvr nodded. Oblivious to the stares, he raised his voice and spoke calmly.
“I feel that this restriction on the summoning of undead is unjust. You are restricting our tactical diversity with such actions. The raising of the dead is a key facet to the [Necromancer] class, and I for one object to the crippling of one of my fellow adventurer’s abilities. I am sure my colleagues feel the same.”
He nodded around the room at the shocked Drakes, Humans and Gnolls. There was a pause and one of the Drakes, a short fellow with black scales stood up.
“Not I! I’m glad I don’t have to deal with a [Necromancer], let alone journey with one! Who knows if he’d turn me into a zombie after I died! Would you like that, Antinium?”
There was a great deal of hostility in his voice, which Ksmvr seemed to completely ignore. The Antinium nodded calmly.
“I would be insulted if he did not use my body.”
The black-scaled Drake paused.
“What? Are you insane? Why would you want that?”
Ksmvr clicked his mandibles together.
“Animating a fallen teammate’s corpse is the only sound tactical decision to be made in a combat situation. Or would you prefer to let your comrades lie where they fall?”
Ceria found herself edging away from the Antinium a bit as he turned and spoke. She and Yvlon were biting their lips. Pisces was staring.
Selys coughed gingerly.
“That’s uh—not what we want, Ksmvr. In fact, that’s sort of why Pisces isn’t allowed to animate the dead in the first place. No one wants to end up as a zombie or ghoul.”
The Antinium turned, looking somewhat irate.
“But that makes no sense. I object most strongly to this rule. Are you implying that my corpse has no tactical value in combat?”
He leaned over the counter, addressing Selys directly.
“I can assure you that my deceased form is quite operable in many situations so long as it has not been dissected, disintegrated, incinerated, consumed, possessed, liquefied, or—”
“Alright, thank you Selys! We’ll be going now. Come on, Ksmvr.”
Ceria dragged Ksmvr back. She desperately signaled to Yvlon, and the female warrior helped Ceria pull the Antinium to the door. Ksmvr was still trying to lecture everyone on the benefits of his corpse as a tool of utility. Pisces was trying not to laugh, and everyone was staring.
They made it out the door and it slammed shut behind them. In the snowy street, Ceria looked around. Yvlon met her eyes, and then both heard a grunting sound. They looked and saw Pisces, trying not to guffaw. Ksmvr looked at him, and then at Ceria.
“Is Comrade Pisces alright, Captain?”
“Fine.”
Ceria sighed. She wanted to cover her face with her hands and get drunk. But she couldn’t. Instead, she pointed.
“Let’s go back to the inn.”
This was her team. Her terrible, mismatched, insane…team. She saw Yvlon smiling for a second as Pisces nearly choked on his robes and then how she caught herself and frowned at the [Necromancer].
Her team. Some days Ceria wondered if they were really a team, or if they would break apart. They were so fragile. Like glass. And they were so, so…weak.
 
——
 
Later that day, around lunch, Ceria was sitting at a table eating and reading from her burnt spellbook when she looked up suddenly and shouted.
“I did it!”
Heads turned. The Horns of Hammerad were in the inn along with Ryoka and the Gold-rank adventuring teams. They were having a day off, and Ryoka had come by to tell Erin the Gnolls were having a huge party in her inn later that day.
“You did what?”
Pisces raised his head up. He had been drinking again. It seemed like he was determined to enjoy Erin’s hospitality as much as he could, and he was having a second plate of pasta. Ksmvr, determined to copy Pisces, was doing the same, happily scarfing down gluten thanks to his enchanted amulet.
“I did it, Pisces. I learned the spell.”
Ceria sat back, her mind buzzing, staring in shock at the slightly burnt pages of the spellbook in front of her. And in her head was something else as well.
Knowledge. A…certainty. A revelation, the sense of a puzzle finally clicking into place. Certainty, in an uncertain world.
Magic.
“[Ice Wall].”
Ceria breathed the words. A sheet of ice rose in front of her table, cutting off Pisces’ robes and freezing them in place. It was a thin wall, but it was a wall, and as Pisces yelped and tried to free himself, Ceria felt the magic surging in her. She looked around and saw people staring.
“Ice magic!”
Jelaqua sat up, chortling and pointing. Erin rushed out of the kitchen and exclaimed when she saw the six foot high barrier of ice. It was cold enough that it wasn’t melting yet, despite the warm room.
“Oh! Wow! It’s that spell you told me about! The one your old master knew how to use! Did you learn how to do it just now Ceria? That’s amazing!”
“Amazing and cold! Free my leg, Springwalker!”
Pisces howled at Ceria and blew hot flames onto the barrier of ice before she could dispel the magic. The ice melted onto Pisces’ robes, drenching the young man. Ceria watched as Ksmvr helped kick the ice wall apart, grinning stupidly.
“It’s not as strong as some examples of the spell I’ve seen, but for a first time attempt it’s quite reasonable. Yes indeed, I am quite impressed.”
Typhenous smiled as he leaned forwards, hands on his staff. Jelaqua pounded the table.
“Hah! A [Mage] learning a spell’s another reason for a party!”
“Wait, so you just learned it?”
Erin looked at Ceria. The half-Elf smiled.
“I just did. Remember that spell I was working on? The one that that mage—Teriarch—showed me? It was [Ice Wall]. I knew how the spell worked and Illphres was beginning to teach me it but—”
There were tears around the edges of her eyes. The half-Elf wiped at them, feeling mystified and relieved at once. Pisces stopped brushing at the water on his robes and glanced up at Ceria. She looked at him and felt the past drawing at her.
“Ah.”
That was all he said. He eyed the wall of ice, half melted and broken in places and tapped it.
“Half a foot thick. As Typhenous has said, a quite passable first attempt. Useful in a myriad of situations I would imagine.”
“Yeah.”
Ceria grinned, still brushing at her eyes. She felt Erin hovering around her back.
“It’s—it’s great. I’ve wondered if I could master it, but I figured it out so quickly—”
“A Tier 4 spell. Worthy of any Gold-rank mage, wouldn’t you say?”
“Oh yes. Not my forte, but I know similar spells and have made use of them on many occasions.”
Typhenous came over. He nodded to Ceria, a smile on his face. Ceria was accepting his compliments, and Moore’s, when the door opened.
“Yvlon!”
The armored women came in, brushing snow off of her new armor. She had the enchanted sword and buckler at her side. When she saw the wall of ice she halted.
“What’s this?”
“A wall of ice. I just learned how to cast it.”
Yvlon stared as Ceria explained in brief. The human woman nodded brusquely.
“Good. Just in time. I’ve got a request for us at last. It’s just past Esthelm.”
“What?”
Ceria sat up as Ksmvr and Pisces both looked up from their position around the fireplace. The half-Elf frowned at Yvlon and opened her mouth. Yvlon looked grim, and a bit upset, although Ceria couldn’t have said exactly why.
Erin looked from Ceria to Yvlon with a slight frown on her face.
“You’re going on a request? Fighting? I mean, you’re going to hunt monsters and stuff?”
“So it seems. We talked, but I didn’t—”
Ceria realized the other adventurers were looking and coughed.
“Good job, Yvlon. What’s the request?”
“Bears. There’s three of them that have been bothering the people of Esthelm. Scaring [Hunters], going after people in their homes—it’s not worth much, but someone needs to get rid of them before they kill someone.”
The other people in the inn clustered around Yvlon as she explained. Apparently the cave had already been found and it wasn’t far. The request was a simple extermination one. The only catch was that the bears were all adult. And male.
Ryoka frowned. She was sitting at a table as Ceria, Pisces, and Yvlon sat around the table. Ksmvr had gone into Liscor to find them a transport.
“I was under the impression that bears—especially male bears—hunted alone. Wouldn’t they kill each other rather than work together?”
Ceria shook her head. She was pondering over a map of the region and trying to eye Yvlon while she spoke. The other woman was ignoring her looks.
“When times get tough, even bears will work together to bring down big monsters. It’s a tough world.”
“Sounds like a simple mission. Better watch out, though.”
Halrac came over. The [Scout] didn’t speak much, but apparently he was familiar with this sort of request. He nodded at Ceria.
“Make sure they’re not Mothbears. It’s hard to imagine a [Hunter] mistaking one for the other, but it can happen. Also check to make sure they’re not rabid.”
Jelaqua nodded.
“Or infected with Brainshrooms! We had to fight through half a forest’s worth of animals controlled by fungi one time. Not fun! I got one on my head and I had to get rid of my body before the mushrooms got me!”
“We’ll do that. I guess we’ll see what happens.”
Ceria mumbled as she looked from Pisces to Yvlon. He was frowning and Yvlon wasn’t staring at either of her teammates. Both adventurers looked concerned, for different reasons. Ceria was too. But she forced a smile for the sake of the others.
“I guess we’ll see. It’s just bears. How hard—”
She paused as Erin and Ryoka winced. Ceria gulped and sighed.
“We’d better get moving.”
 
——
 
“So, why did you decide to take the request, Yvlon? Without asking us?”
Ceria tried to keep her voice neutral as she covered herself with a cloak. She was sitting in a wagon as it bumped along the frozen ground. Pisces and Ksmvr both looked up from their seats at Yvlon. The armored woman glanced up at Ceria and shrugged.
“I got tired of sitting around. I’m as healed as—well, I’m better now, and we’ve got all these new artifacts. We want to be Gold-rank adventurers, right? We might as well start taking requests.”
“To hunt bears. Hardly an illustrious task, or so I feel.”
Pisces frowned. Yvlon glanced at him, and then away. Her regard for Pisces’ opinion couldn’t have been more plain. Ceria saw Pisces’ face harden and spoke up.
“That’s not what I mind. It’s just that we normally talk things over first.”
“We agreed Esthelm was a good place to look for contracts, especially since there’s not much work around Liscor or Celum.”
“Yeah, but—you know what? Never mind.”
Ceria sat back in the wagon. She wondered if this was how Calruz had felt when he was leading the Horns of Hammerad. He’d had to deal with annoying members of his group she recalled. People with strong opinions who made their own decisions. She’d caused him to lose his temper several times while they’d journeyed together.
“Still, I guess I was hoping our first contract would be bigger.”
Yvlon looked up and at Ceria. She shrugged.
“A Silver-rank team would have to prepare for a request like that. You think bears are easy to kill? I bet even someone like Halrac’d set a few traps before trying to bother them in their den.”
“True. I guess I’m too used to hanging around him and the other Gold-rank adventurers to think clearly.”
Ceria sighed.
