Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a large area. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

Blinding Shift, instant, long range, 110 MP

For 1 minute, your spells cast in a large area are naturally blinding to all except you.

Firelight Shift, instant, long range, 190 MP

Drastically empower your fire and light aspect magic in a large area. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark and water aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

Fermentation Ward, instant, close range, 500 mana

Support the rampant spread and life of fermenting yeast, in a small area. Lasts 5 minutes.

Segmented Light, instant, long range, 620 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a large area. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

Segmented Light will reassert itself, using up duration, unless dispelled with 10x cost.

Lambent Light, instant, long range, 1120 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a large area, without regard for the vagaries of distance. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

Lambent Light will reassert itself, using up duration, unless dispelled with 10x cost.

Effulgent Light, instant, long range, 1620 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a large area, without regard for the vagaries of distance or depth. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 10 minutes.

Effulgent Light will reassert itself, using up duration, unless dispelled with 10x cost.

The Lingering Light, instant, super long range, 2120 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a super large area, without regard for the vagaries of distance or depth or time. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 10 minutes.

The Lingering Light will reassert itself, using up duration, unless dispelled with 10x cost.

Those subjected to the Lingering Light are imbued with Light.

Domain of Light, instant, super long range, 5000 mana

Harken unto the Truth of Light. Let no authority diminish your brilliance.

Undispellable. Uncorruptible.

Lasts 1 hour. Effects last longer.

Lodestar, instant, close range, aura, 1 mana per second

Shine Timeless Brilliance.

All of your Light effects are supercharged, and difficult to corrupt.

All of your Light effects require 10x more mana to Dispel.

Your Light effects are uncorruptible and undispellable while they exist inside your Lodestar.

Privacy Ward, instant, long range, 50 mana

Disrupt all information leaving a large space. Lasts 1 hour.

Sealed Privacy Ward, instant, medium range, 500 mana

Disrupt all light, sound, mana sense, and life sense as it exits a large area. Lasts one hour.

When ended, Sealed Privacy Ward further disrupts all mana sense within the space.

Force spells:

Force Trap X, instant, close range, 10 mana + Variable

Place a trap that deals Variable force damage in a small area. Trap lasts until triggered.

Force Bolt X, instant, long range, 5 MP

A bolt of mana unerringly strikes a target for 15 + ½ WIL

Ice Spike, instant, long range, 22 MP

A bolt of pure ice unerringly strikes a target for 55 + WIL

Glacial Crash, instant, long range, 55 MP

A shard of pure ice strikes a target for 200 + 2x WIL

Force Beam X, instant, medium range, 25 MP

A piercing, slicing beam of hardened mana that deals 50 + 2x WIL for 10 seconds.

Pure Force Beam Bolt, instant, long range, 100 MP

A bolt of pure mana unerringly strikes a target for 250 + 3x WIL

Force Shrapnel X, instant, short cone, 5 MP

Sharpened forward blast of mana that deals 25 + WIL damage in a cone

Billiard Ball Aura, short range, 5 MP per second

Crashing balls of mana bounce erratically, inflicting 25 + WIL damage per hit.

Force Crash X, instant, long range, 100 MP

Rain small destruction in a medium area, dealing 15 + WIL damage per crash. Lasts 1 second. 15 crashes.

Force Bomb X, instant, long range, 50 MP

Launch a quick ball of mana that explodes on contact in a medium area for 50 + 2x WIL damage.

Force Wave X, instant, medium range, 25 MP

A pulse of rolling mana deals 10 + WIL to all around you.

Pure Fire Beam, instant, medium range, 25 MP

A burning beam of fire deals 3x WIL per second for 10 seconds, and WIL for 10 more seconds.

Flying Weapon, instant, close range, 100 MP + Variable

Create a nigh unbreakable weightless weapon that flies at your command. Lasts until dismissed.

Plasma Cutter, instant, medium range, 133 MP + Variable

Create a controlled, flying weapon of flame that deals weapon damage, and leaves burns for 3x WIL per second, for 10 seconds. Weapon lasts until dismissed.

Plasma Wrap, instant, close range, 599 MP

Wrap a target in fire, dealing 2x WIL damage a second until the target dies.

Endless Plasma Wrap, instant, close range, 1101 MP

Wrap a target in fire, dealing 3x WIL damage a second until the target dies.

Death Spiral Plasma, instant, close range, 17,009 MP

Wrap a target in fire, dealing WIL damage a second until the target dies.

Riven Light, instant, close range, 7 MP

Sharpened light blasts forward, dealing 25 + WIL damage in a cone. Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects.

Flash, instant, close range, 8 MP

Blind all seeing creatures in a forward cone, for ten seconds.

Broken Light, instant, close range, 7 MP

Sharpened light blasts forward, dealing 25 + WIL damage in a cone. Blinds for 3 seconds.

Breaking Light, instant, long range, 260 MP

Designated light breaks to pieces, dealing 25 + WIL damage per second to all in contact with the spell. Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects. Lasts 1 minute.

Devastating Light, instant, long range, 860 MP

Break a large area to pieces and explode the shrapnel in all directions, dealing 50 + 3x WIL damage per hit and littering the battlefield with sources of light that deal 2x WIL damage per second. Lasts 30 seconds.

Shadow aspect magic turns solid.

Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects.

Firelight Beam, instant, medium range, 45 MP

A piercing, slicing beam of firelight that deals 4x WIL and last 10 seconds, and deals 2x WIL for 10 more seconds. Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects.

Firelight Blaster, instant, long range, 900 MP

A line of firelight explodes on contact in a large area for 5x WIL damage, lasting 10 seconds. Leaves behind fires that deal 3x WIL damage per second for 10 seconds. Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects.

Carving Radiance, instant, long range, 2100 MP

A line of firelight carves and explodes for 10x WIL damage, soaking everything damaged with power, then further exploding for 10x WIL damage. Firelight shrapnel deals 6x WIL damage per second for 30 seconds.

Shadow aspect magic turns solid.

Deals double damage to dark and shadow aspect creatures and objects.

Radiant Bolt, instant, long range, 8 mana

A bolt of Radiance unerringly strikes a target for 25 + WIL damage.

Flying Striker, instant, close range, 250 MP + Variable

Create a nigh unbreakable weightless weapon that automatically Strikes opponents at your command, draining your mana for each Strike. Lasts until dismissed.

Fulmination Aura, instant, medium range, 26 mana per second

Rip and tear at the constituent particles of reality with a chaining bolt of lightning that surrounds you, dealing 25 + WIL damage and paralyzing all so touched. Deals more damage the more targets there are.

Blood Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana + Variable

A bolt of your power unerringly strikes a target for Variable damage.

True Plasma Bolt, instant, long range, 50 mana + Variable

A bolt of plasma inexorably strikes a target, imparting 2x Variable heat energy.

High Variables may lead to odd effects.

Inevitable Bolt, instant, long range, 15 mana

A bolt of inexorable Force eventually strikes a target for WIL damage.

Inevitable Bolts, instant, long range, 250 MP

Bolts of inexorable Force each eventually strike a target for WIL damage. 15 bolts.

Inevitable Bombs, instant, long range, 975 MP

Bombs of inexorable Force each eventually explode upon a target, each dealing 50 + 3x WIL damage in a medium area. 15 bombs.

Inevitable Bombardment, instant, super long range, 1475 mana

Bombs of inexorable Force each eventually explode upon a target or targets, each dealing 50 + 5x WIL damage in a medium area. 15 bombs.

Ethereal Force Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of ethereal mana unerringly strikes a target for WIL.

Ethereal Ooze Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana

A bolt of ethereal ooze inexorably slaps a target for 15 + WIL, and coats them for one minute.

Tangled Bloody Ooze Bolt, instant, long range, 25 + Variable mana

A bolt of ethereal bloody ooze inexorably slaps a target for 3x Variable, then deals constricting damage each second for one minute.

Mercy Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana.

A bolt of mercy inexorably strikes a target for 15 + WIL.

Air Bolt, instant, long range, 10 mana.

A bolt of air inexorably strikes a target for 15 + WIL. May cause suffocation.

Shaping spells:

Lightshape X, 1 minute per level, medium range

Move large amounts of light around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large amounts light around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Fireshape X, 1 minute per level, medium range

Move large amounts of fire around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large amounts fire around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Shadowshape X, 1 minute per level, medium range

Move large amounts of shadow around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large amounts shadow around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Stoneshape X, medium range

Move large amounts of stone and sand around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large amounts of stone and sand around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Metalshape, medium range

Move medium amounts of metal around you for 5 minutes. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move medium amounts of metal around you for 1 minute. Fine control. 50 MP

Airshape X, medium range

Move large amounts of air around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large amounts air around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Watershape X, medium range

Move large amounts of water around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large amounts of water around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Treeshape, medium range, 100 mana

Direct the accelerated growth of a tree for 5 minutes.

Tree of Light, medium range, 200 mana + Variable

Bless a tree with accelerated growth, the ability to repair itself, and the ability to thrive without the need for sunlight or water. Effect lasts a maximum of 1 week.

Summoning spells:

Conjure Force Elemental X, variable duration, close range, 10 MP + Variable

Conjure a number of force constructs under your command equal to spell level, or one Large summon, or infuse your constructs with mana. Constructs operate based on mana.

Summon Ophiel, medium range, 1505 mana + Variable. ~{Favored Spell}~

Summon an Ophiel to do your bidding. Maximum 10 Ophiel permitted.

Ophiel persist until killed or dismissed.

All Ophiel are the same creature; to know one is to know them all.

All Ophiel naturally have and regenerate mana based on your own mana and mana regeneration, which they may use to cast the spells that you imbue them with, at your own command or at their own discretion. Comes summoned and proficient with [Airshape], [Telepathy], and [Scry].

All Ophiel are able to change their airy shape, as they are wont.

Imbue your Ophiel with new spells, wherever they are. Variable

See through the eyes of your Ophiel. Variable

Communicate telepathically with your Ophiel. Variable

Mirage Slime, instant, close range, 750 MP

Summon a semi-sentient mass of [Cleanse] to clean up all messes. Lasts 1 hour.

Shooting Star, instant, super long range, 250 MP

Conjure a super quick fragment of starlight to crash through your enemies. Lasts 5 seconds.

Summon Jewels, instant, close range, 720 MP

Summon a creation of hardy stone that will retrieve a large amount of rads from as many monsters it can, while it can. Lasts 1 hour.

Summon Yggdrasil, medium range, 2500 mana + Variable

Summon a sapling of the World Tree Yggdrasil.

All Yggdrasil persist until killed or dismissed.

All Yggdrasil are the same creature, but only one Yggdrasil is the World Tree.

The World Tree has yet to be planted.

Summon Yggdrasil has as many maximum summons as the World Tree allows, with a minimum of 2.

Current Maximum: 2

All Yggdrasil naturally have and regenerate mana based on your own mana and mana regeneration, which they may use to cast the spells that you imbue them with, at your own command or at their own discretion. Comes summoned and proficient with [Grow], [Watershape], [Tree of Light], [Kaleidoscopic Radiance], [Control Weather], [Telepathy], and [Scry].

World Tree Yggdrasil’s mana and regeneration are higher than yours.

Imbue your Yggdrasil with new spells, wherever they are. Variable

See through the eyes of your Yggdrasil. Variable

Communicate telepathically with your Yggdrasil. Variable

Tricking Magic:

Intent Understanding, instant, long range, 8 MP

Fire a packet of intent at a target spell that becomes as though cast from the other spell’s caster.

Spell Crack, instant, long range, 9 MP

Trick a normal, minor spell into canceling. Has no effect on ongoing spells larger than 50 mana.

Spell Breaker, instant, long range, 301 MP

Trick a normal spell into canceling. Excess Spell Breaker might go on to cancel other nearby spells similar to the first targeted. Has no effect on ongoing spells larger than 1,500 mana.

Grand Dispel, instant, medium range, 50 mana + Variable

Trick the spells a target has cast into canceling, regardless of distance, by paying the Dispel cost. If you generally know the spells you are targeting, Grand Dispel first works on all instances of that spell. If excess power remains, Grand Dispel carries over into other magics cast by the target, starting with higher-cost magics first.

Alternatively, trick a spell into canceling by paying half of the Dispel cost. Excess Grand Dispel might go on to cancel other nearby spells similar to the first targeted.

Stone Breaker, instant, long range, 50 MP

Trick a spell of Stone into breaking.

Fire Breaker, instant, long range, 50 MP

Trick a spell of Fire into breaking.

Water Breaker, instant, long range, 50 MP

Trick a spell of Water into breaking.

