Ren put down the lantern and carefully dug out the diamond crystal with his pick, then examined it.

Rough Diamond Crystal (Clear)

This diamond crystal can be cleaned and refined into a diamond of considerable value by a Gemcutter. The higher the skill of the craftsman, the higher the quality and worth of the finished product.

“Sweet!” Ren said and dug up a few more and stored them. He saw that as long as the size was about the same, they'd go into the same slot. That didn't stop him from digging up as much as he could, however. By the time he had cleared the surface of the 30 foot area he'd been in, he had 12 slots going, with several diamond crystals in each. Ren tried digging down a little, and found there was even more diamond crystals. He picked up another one to examine, and got the same popup as before. He had the bright idea to use Appraisal on it, but it said that the unrefined diamond crystal 'couldn't be appraised at this time'. Ren shrugged and kept digging.

After several hours (and lamp refills), Ren had dug down only about 10 feet. He'd shoveled the dirt and rocks into piles along the edge of the 30 foot area, so he could push it back into the hole when he was done, but he kept finding more and more diamond crystals. He dug a ramp out of the hole and up to the floor, and walked back to the cave entrance. All those rocks that he'd stepped on while checking the place out, reflected back the light of his lantern.

“This place is just full of them.” Ren said, and Teepo chittered in delight. “I just hope the ones that I broke can still be salvaged.” In his enthusiasm, he hadn't been as careful as he should have been while digging down into the ground. He'd smashed a few with direct hits, and broke several others before realizing what he was digging into. He dug at a snail's pace after that. That's why it took so long to dig out such a small area. Ren squeezed out through the opening he'd dug in the cave wall, picked up the stone holding the cloth closed, and nailed the cloth into place. He wasn't going to be back until he could find a better way to carry the diamond crystals, and that might take a while.

“I could keep digging, but if I find any that are different sizes to the ones I'm carrying, I can't take them. All of my slots are taken up.” Ren had a dozen or so diamond crystals in each slot, though. “I hope there's a Gemcutter somewhere in Dornrach.”

“I don't know.” Teepo said. “There should be. I've seen jewels on a few different things so far.”

Ren thought back as he picked his way down the steep slope, but didn't remember seeing anything. “Where?”

“In the market that we passed through the first time, coming from the ship.”

“Oh, right!” Ren said. “You pointed out a big shiny piece of silver in one of the stalls.”

“That was it.” Teepo said. “It had a nice emerald in the center, but the peddler didn't look like he was getting anyone interested in it.”

“How could you tell?” Ren asked.

“He pointed to it several times as we passed, and the dwarves walking by turned away.”

“I think we'll have to pay him a visit, then. If only just to see where he got the emerald.” Ren said, reached the bottom of the slope, and started running. “I better tell Nathalia I'm coming back.” The ring glowed slightly. “Hi, Nathalia. I'm on my way now. I'll be at the tent in about 15 minutes.”

“Only 15 minutes? It took you half an hour before.” Nathalia said.

“I wasn't running full out before.” Ren said. “See you soon.” The glow faded and Ren poured on the speed. Teepo chittered in delight and Ren smiled.

********

Gloria Rayford was not in a good mood. It was nearing 11pm and she'd just got the transmission on the client's VW Bug attached. Normally she enjoyed working alone; but the thing had been a real bitch to hold in place, and tighten the bolts at the same time. She slid out from under the car on the rolling dolly to rub her aching muscles. Both of her arms were sore now and grimaced as she worked out a nasty knot from one of them.

I'll have to skip my workout tonight. Gloria thought and stood up. At least I don't have to study for that stupid engineering exam. She snorted a laugh. I could tell you the torque needed to tighten a bolt on a V8 in my sleep!

Gloria walked over to the bathroom and washed up as much as she could. She always had that last little bit of grime under the ends of her short nails, that you just couldn't get rid of no matter what you did. She dried off and locked the shop up.

If I wasn't allowed to work overtime like this, I'd never be able to afford the tuition fees. Gloria thought and hopped into her beat up '69 Mustang. She never made the mistake of restoring it to what it should look like, though. It would have been stolen faster than I could say 'gone in 60 seconds'. Gloria chuckled and pat the dash.

“Who needs to look good to work well, right baby?” She asked the car and turned the key. The engine turned over immediately and it purred as Gloria fed her some fuel. “That's it girl... take a big drink.”

Gloria shoved the car into gear, and peeled the tires as she left the parking lot. Once on the street, she slowed down to a respectable speed. The last thing she needed was another ticket. After a short 15 minute drive, she pulled into the apartment complex. It was run down, and sometimes the heat gave out, or the water was a little brown; but it was the best she could get on her paycheck, still eat, and go to school. She parked in her spot and walked up the three flights of stairs to her place. She unlocked the door, went inside, and set the deadbolt. After taking off her coveralls and changing into a pair of shorts and a clean t-shirt, Gloria sat down at her computer and checked her emails.

Looks like I better login tonight. She thought as she read the dozen emails she'd gotten while at work. She didn't bother responding to the emails; as she could easily send messages in the game, and it only took a quarter of the time. Gloria sat in the old recliner that she'd scavenged from the sidewalk and put on the cheapest VR headset available on the market. Once she'd figured out how to change the thing to work just as well as the high end set, she'd made a nice profit on the black market, and enough to start her engineering degree. That was a year ago. Now that the company changed the settings for one permanent user only, refurbishing the headsets had dried up overnight.

I might as well make some in-game currency. Gloria thought. There's surprisingly a lot you can have people do for you, for so little money. She smiled. I wonder what kind of job 'Emanon' has for 'Elerlyth' tonight?

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren arrived back and the tent and Nathalia had supper ready. She gave him a quick hug and they sat down to eat. Ren told her about his find, and asked her if she knew of any Gemcutters. She shook her head.

“I've never heard of one.” Nathalia said. “Da was only a tailor, and didn't make jewellery or anything like that.”

Ren nodded. “I didn't see anything like that in the patterns I went through and modified, either.” He said. “If your father did work with jewellery, he didn't write it down on them.”

Nathalia look at Ren in wonder. “I still find it hard to believe that you have all of Da's work up there.” Nathalia said and ran a hand through his hair. “Despite you contantly providing me with proof.” She said and chuckled.

She never ruffles my hair, and just runs her hand through it. Ren thought. Unlike everyone else. He smiled at her. “Well, when I find something that really interests me, I devote a lot of time to it, if I can.”

Nathalia laughed. “You don't have to tell me twice.” She said. “How many rolls did you make that time?”

“Over a hundred.” Ren said and laughed, too. “I was pretty sick of bread by the end of the week.”

Nathalia looked at him in surprise. “You... you ate them all?” She asked. “I thought you fed them to your mount.”

Ren grinned. “She didn't like them any more than you did.”

They heard Princess huff and they laughed together.

“I better feed her, too. Be right back.” Ren said and took some food out to Princess, then came back into the tent. “I think we better pack up.”

Nathalia widened her eyes. “Are you sure?”

Ren nodded. “My inventory's full, and I don't have much wood left to make a single crate, let alone enough to carry what I want.”

“I could take some of it.” Nathalia offered.

Ren thought about it for a minute. “I'll need 4 slots, I think.” He looked into his inventory. “I'll give you all of the small diamond crystals I have.”

Ren emptied 5 slots, one more than he thought he needed, and Nathalia stored them easily.

“How are you feeling?” Ren asked.

“I... I'm fine.” She said.

“It's not too heavy?”

“I can do it.”

Ren smiled and gave her a hug. “That's my girl.”

Nathalia's face flushed a little red and hugged him back. They broke the hug a minute later, and Ren stored the bed and the 2 springy trees holding up the top of the tent. The table was next, after Nathalia took the Sending Stone brick and the chairs, and they went outside. Ren untied the ropes and string from the trees, leaving them attached to the tent. He stored the tent and went to Princess, leading her out of the crate and putting on her harness and saddle, freeing up 2 more slots. He stored her food bowl in a saddlebag, seeing there were 4 slots on each side. He gave the reins to Nathalia and knocked on Ruck's cabinet.

“Hi, Ruck. Hand me the springy trees, please.”

Ruck did so with relief and Ren smiled as he turned around. “Hop on.” Ruck climbed on and Ren turned around to store the crate. He walked over to the protection barrier and stored the 2 Screaming Terror stones in one slot, and the 4 Warding stones of Concealment in the last slot. Ren walked to the other 3 stones he'd set around where the tent was, and stored them as well.

“I think that's everything.” Ren said, then looked at Princess. “Or not. Just a minute.”

Ren took out the table and some cloth, a bit of stuffing, and made a big comfy pillow for Nathalia to sit on. He stored the table again and took the pillow to Princess and put it on the saddle, then sewed a strap around it to tie it securely, and sewed it to the saddle to stop it from slipping. Nathalia passed him the Sending Stone brick and he attached that as well.

“My Lady.” Ren said and knelt on one knee, to let Nathalia use that knee as a step.

She put a hand on his shoulder and smiled. “Thank you, kind sir.”

Nathalia climbed up and sat side-saddle, then sighed at the comfort from the pillow. Then the reduced weight from the glyph enchanted on the saddle took effect and she smiled again. Ren was tempted to unload some things into Princess' new saddlebags, but figured with Nathalia and the added weight from the diamond crystals she carried, even with it reduced, was more than enough for Princess to carry all at once.

“Everyone ready?” Ren asked.

There were nods all around and he led Princess out of the clearing, and then had a thought. He went back and activated his Water Spray ring and gave a good rinse to the whole area, hopefully wiping away any trace that they were there. Ren led them to the road, and once there, he headed towards Dornrach.

“If we pick up the pace a little, we can be back in the city by nightfall.” Ren said.

Nathalia agreed, as long as the mount wasn't pushing herself too much, and Princess huffed. He smiled and pat Princess on the neck.

“Let's go.” Ren said and walked at a fast pace, making sure to not push Princess too hard. “Nathalia, you should call your mother and let her know we're coming back early.”

“That's a good idea.” She said and touched the stone as Ren led them down the road.

*

Gloria (Elerlyth, The Dark Elf) was still in a bad mood. Emanon's in-game message had given her the details of the job, and she didn't like it at all.

How in the world am I supposed to find this Mitchell guy, who could be hiding anywhere in a whole city? She thought in exasperation. I'm really tempted to tell him to take this stupid job and shove it!

Elerlyth replied to the message and said she'd take the job provisionally... she'd go to the city, sure... and if she happened to find Mitchell, she'd accept the job. That way, she didn't suffer any repercussions if she didn't manage to find him. The last thing she wanted was to gain a reputation for not completing jobs. She sent the message off and waited. A minute later, her idea was agreed to and she confirmed receipt.

Maybe I'll look up that cute little elfling. She thought and caressed the shiny breastplate she never took off. She'd lost count of how many offers to buy, and threats, she'd had about it. Ren was just a doll, to make this for me!

*

Ren and the Virtual Survivors made good time, and hit Dornrach's city limits just after nightfall. He led Princess to the intersection and then up the main street to the turnoff to the road for House Neram. It only took about 20 minutes to get to the gate of the house, and Ren unlocked it.

“Home Sweet Home.” Ren said and brought Princess into the courtyard and then shut the gate behind them. He locked it and then helped Nathalia get down from the saddle.

“The pillow worked great, Ren!” Nathalia said, turned around to show Ren her backside, and pat it a few times. “It's only slightly sore; but that's just from sitting so long, not from the saddle.”

“It definitely looks fine.” Ren said, then grinned as Nathalia blushed a little and turned to face him.

“R-Ren!”

“What?”

“You... you shouldn't say such things... in public.”

Ren stepped close and leaned down a little. “You're right.” He whispered in her ear. “I should wait until we're inside before telling you that your backside looks fine.”

Nathalia blushed and Ren smiled as he stepped around her to lead Princess to the stable, then took out the crate and set it back where it was before. Ren undid the Sending Stone from where he had it tied and stored it. He took Princess' bowl from the saddlebag, set it on the ground, then undid the saddle and harness. Ren handed the saddle and harness to Ruck, who stored them. Ruck climbed down to go to his cabinet, and Ren saw that he was riding really low on his legs.

“Ruck? If you're carrying too much, just pile it in the corner there.” Ren said and pointed to the corner by the cabinet. “You don't have to carry all of my stuff, all of the time.”

Ruck gave Ren the 'okay' gesture and unloaded all the bolts of cloth Ren had given him, stacking them neatly. When he was done, he wasn't nearly as low as he was before, waved, and then went into the cabinet. Princess entered her crate and plopped down. Ren pat her neck and smiled.

