“You did great today.” Ren said and rubbed the spots where the harness had dug in a little. “I'll make you something nice for breakfast.”

Princess huffed and Ren put the last of the food he had in inventory into her bowl. He closed the stable door and saw that Nathalia had already gone in. He went inside as well and saw the two women talking in the kitchen. Ren walked through the main room and into the kitchen. Narhilda saw him, put a hand on Nathalia's arm to end their conversation, and walked around the table. Ren watched her approach; and when she stepped close to hug him, he saw tears in her eyes and he hugged her back.

“T-t-thank you, Ren.” Narhilda said and ducked her head as she started to cry. “You don't know...” Sob. “...how much...” Sniff. “...this means to me.”

Ren looked over her head at Nathalia. She pointed to him, then herself, and pretended to tie a knot in the air. He nodded and smiled.

“I have some idea.” Ren said and took out a scrap of cloth to wipe Narhilda's eyes. “Getting married means a lot more here, than it does where I come from.” He said, leaned back and dabbed her eyes. “I also don't have a lot of time to provide everything that I need to.”

“D-don't worry. You'll do just f-fine.” Narhilda said.

“I'd do a lot better if you know a good Gemcutter.” Ren said and smiled.

“I'm sorry, I don't.” She said and took a deep breath. “I'm also sorry I broke down like that.” Narhilda smiled and let Ren out of the hug. “It's just... you saved this House... and knowing that my daughter has found a man like you...” She took his hand in both of hers. “...most of my worries have disappeared.”

Ren wiped the last of her tears off her face and stored the scrap of cloth. “I'm glad I could be of service.”

“Ren.” Narhilda said. “You're not providing a service...” She let his hand go and cupped his face with both of her hands. “...you're just being who you are.” She rubbed his cheeks with her thumbs for a moment and let his face go. “Everything that's happened to me and my family, is the result of your kindness.” Narhilda smiled. “I don't think we can ever repay you.”

Ren smiled and cupped her face just like she did to his, and rubbed her cheeks with his thumbs. “I think giving me your daughter, and accepting me into the family, is more than enough payment.” He said and gave her a quick, light kiss, on the lips. “It's much more than I ever expected when I came here.”

Narhilda blushed a bright red. “You... how did you know... the ritual... that you were supposed to kiss me like that... to cancel my Honor debt to you?” She said and turned to her daughter.

“I didn't tell him, Ma.” Nathalia said and held up her hands in surrender. “I knew you didn't want to be let off the hook so easily.” She turned to Ren. “How did you know?”

Ren smiled a crooked smile and shook his head, as Teepo chittered in laughter.

“You could have made her your servant for years, you know.” Teepo said.

I know... and now she knows that I know, too. Ren thought.

“Oh, Ren!” Narhilda said and gave him a bone crushing hug. “You shouldn't have done that.” She shook her head and her braid flopped back and forth. “I wanted to do penance for you.”

Ren chuckled. “I know you did.”

Narhilda let him go with surprise on her face. “Then why?”

“I have the upmost respect for women.” Ren said and smiled. “I learned that a woman works harder, faster, and better, than I ever could.”

“But...”

“I was practically raised by the best group of women there ever could be.” Ren said. “I won't have any woman reduced from a Lady of the House to a servant, just because she believes she owes me something.”

“You... you really believe that.” Narhilda said, surprised.

“Of course I do.” Ren smiled. “I fell in love with one of those women.”

“Lucy, you mean?” Nathalia asked. “She took care of you?”

Ren nodded.

********

Barbara sat riveted to the television screen. “I can't believe he told them about Lucy!”

“Shhh!” The other night nurse said.

********

It had taken Elerlyth nearly all day to get back to the starter city of Aurora. When she approached the newbie area around the West gate, she didn't get a popup to warn her away. She smiled and entered the gate.

“If I remember right, he spent time near the blacksmith's shop.” Elerlyth said and made her way over there. As she approached Donan's shop, she could see that everything was closed up for the night. “Damn, I'm too late.” She walked around and saw all the other shops in the Artesian District were closed as well. “I better get a room for the night.” Elerlyth said. “I won't find him now.” She shook her head. “I don't even know where he stays at night.”

*

Ren didn't explain why he needed a group of women to take care of him; he just said that it was Adventurer's business, and they let it drop. “Actually, I have to go and take care of some Adventurer's business right now.” Ren said. “I shouldn't be long.” He said and smiled. “Then again, depending on how things go, I might be out until morning.”

Nathalia and her mother nodded.

“Goodnight.” Ren said and bowed slightly to both of them.

“Goodnight.” Nathalia said, and her mother waved.

Ren walked through the main room and down the hallway. He entered Narhilda's old bedroom and shut the door.

*

“You see?” Nathalia said. “He's been avoiding me since last night.” She sighed. “I think I might have scared him a little, with how forward I was.”

Her mother smiled and walked over to her. “Dear, I think you're missing his motivation completely.” Narhilda said. “He's not scared of how you feel about him, he's scared of how he feels about you.”

“W-what?”

Narhilda put a hand on her daughter's arm. “He's afraid that if he lets himself feel anything for you, he'll be betraying how he feels about Lucy.”

“Oh.”

“Just give him some time, dear.” Narhilda said. “He'll come to see that there's all kinds of love, and that he can love someone new, without changing the old love that he has for someone else.”

“But... how does that work?”

Narhilda chuckled. “Everyone is different. It's not possible to love them all the same.”

*

Ren had stood just inside the bedroom door and heard every word Nathalia and her mother had said.

Is that true, Teepo? Ren thought. Can you love more than one person?

“Sure.” Teepo said. “It's just like Narhilda said. Everyone is different. The love you can feel for one person, wouldn't be the same as what you feel for someone else.”

I can't love 2 people at the same time, though.

“You love Lucy, right?” Teepo asked and Ren nodded. “Who else takes care of you?”

Barbara, Stella, Bonnie, and Denise.

“Do you love Barbara?”

Actually, yes. She's like the mother I never had. Ren thought and went to the bed.

“There you go.”

What?

“That's 2 different kinds of love right there.”

Ren froze as he climbed onto the bed. Hey, you're right! He thought as he flopped onto his back on the bed and Teepo jumped out of the hood. I do love Lucy... and Barbara... but it's not the same.

“You said Lucy was your first love, and will always have a special place in your heart; but that doesn't mean that no one else can have a place, too.” Teepo said. “You've got a big heart, Ren. Lucy didn't fill it up. She's just the only part that you can see right now.”

Ren smiled. Teepo is smart. Teepo is wise.

“Darn right, mister!” Teepo said and chittered in laughter.

Ren grinned. See you in a few hours, buddy.

“Bye, Ren.”

“Logout.”

********

Ren reached up to take the VR headset off, but Barbara beat him to it and smiled.

“You've had quite the eventful day, young man.” Barbara said and smiled.

“Tell me about it.” Ren said. “Barbara... Lucy and I...”

“I know.” She said and put a hand on his good arm. “I saw the X-rays.”

Ren widened is eyes.

“Nurses need to be told what condition the people they are caring for are in.” Barbara said. “Can you tell me how it happened?”

Ren told her how it came about, and how it wasn't Lucy's fault, and that he blames himself for not paying more attention.

“Ren. It actually was Lucy's fault.”

“Barbara! How can you-”

“It's our job to look after you. She's done it for just as long as I have, and I'd never... ever... put you in that kind of position for you to get hurt.”

“But...”

“Ren, the least... the least... she could have done was have you sit up before doing anything.”

Ren opened his mouth to speak, but Barbara kept going.

“She didn't, though. She forgot to treat you with the respect you deserved, and she hurt you by mistake.” Barbara said. “I think she shocked herself with how easily it could happen, even though she knew you could be hurt, and then made another bad decision right afterwards.”

“Then you...”

“I know you love each other, but sometimes...” Barbara sighed and had a sad look on her face. “...sometimes things don't work out right, and you just have to say goodbye.”

“But... Barbara...”

“I know. She's hurting, too.” Barbara said. “For her, it only just happened today, but you... you're working on your third day already.”

Ren looked at her with wide eyes. “What are you saying?”

“I'm saying that you'll get over her much faster by playing the game.”

“But...”

“She knows this, too.”

“What!?!”

“She told Denise that it would be better for you to find someone in the game instead.” Barbara said.

“She... she did?” Ren said, down-hearted. “I guess it's a good thing that I'm already engaged.”

Barbara sat down and smiled. “I saw that, too.” She said. “It was Denise's fault, actually.”

“WHAT?”

“When she saw what was going on with that dwarf, she called Lucy.”

“No way!”

Barbara nodded. “She didn't know what Lucy would do, though. She was just as shocked at Lucy's message as you were.”

Ren blinked a few times, and remembered his confrontation with Denise. “So... that's why she acted the way she did.”

Barbara nodded. “She doesn't think having an electronic relationship would be good for you, despite all the other nurses telling her that it would help.”

“You... you all told her that?” Ren asked, surprised.

Barbara nodded again. “People meet online all the time. Electronic dating services make tons of money. Texting, emails, voice chats, and now VR. It's a new age, Ren.”

“Barbara... Nathalia isn't...” Ren's face flushed red a little. “She's... not re-” Barbara put a hand over his mouth.

“How does she make you feel, Ren?” Barbara asked and took her hand back.

Ren thought about it. “I enjoy her company. She makes me laugh, sometimes for no reason. We can sit together and not say a word, and the silence is never uncomfortable.” He said. “When I'm with her... she... she makes me want to be a better man.”

“Then you can't get any more real than that.” She said.

“But...”

“Does it really matter if she's an electronic person, or just somone controlling that electronic person?” Barbara asked. “Either way, she's still an electronic person.”

Ren opened his mouth, and then closed it. “Well, damn.”

“Ren!” Barbara exclaimed.

Ren grinned and reached out his good hand. “A friend pointed something out to me, recently.”

“What's that, potty-mouth?” Barbara smiled and took his hand.

Ren chuckled. “He told me that there's all kinds of love, and then he asked me about you.”

Barbara blushed slightly. “And what did you say?”

“I told him that you were like the mother I never had...” Ren said. “...and that I love you.”

Tears came to Barbara's eyes. She tried to hold them back, but she couldn't.

“Ren...” Barbara said, wiping some of the tears away, but missing a bunch of others. “You're like the son I never had... and I love you, too.”

Barbara stood and tried to give Ren a hug without putting pressure on his bad arm; but after they tried and failed a couple of times, they eventually ended up laughing and she gave him an awkward one armed hug.

“I'll give you the hug you deserve in a few weeks when we get that bum wing working again.” Barbara said and chuckled. “By the way, I think your favorite actress is on the late show tonight.”

“No way!” Ren said. “Is she still with her girlfriend, or back with her ex-husband?”

“Both I think.” Barbara said.

“No way!” Ren exclaimed.

“Let's put it on and check, shall we?” Barbara asked and turned the television to the right channel. They watched the show, and the actress came out to roaring applause and the host of the show roasted her for a good 10 minutes before getting the scoop on her personal life.

Ren and Barbara watched in fascination.
