Sitting alone in the courtyard of their new manor, Mila ate her breakfast and tried her best not to pout.

It wasn’t her meal which had soured her mood, a delectable plate of egg-wrapped scallion pancakes, reheated fried rice with shredded pork and cabbage, as well as a healthy serving of stir-fried vegetables prepared by Sorya and Anrhi. Nor was the luxurious manor itself the reason for her low spirits. The colossal bedrooms and grand dining and sitting rooms were a welcome change from the cozy conditions of Mama’s suite, and Mila adored the stately bath house and indoor privies Rain had installed soon after moving in. Then there was the beautiful courtyard itself, sporting no less than four white-jade fountains, which ingeniously kept water flowing all day through what Rain called a ‘Heron’s system’, though what the various pipes and empty basins had to do with herons, he couldn’t say. Carved to depict dragons floating amidst the clouds, these beautiful fountains were probably the most ornate and expensive bird baths in the Empire, with one sitting in each corner of the courtyard and packed to the brim with Laughing Birds.

Beautiful as the fountains were, they were too fabricated for Mila’s tastes, and she much preferred the view afforded by their beautiful cherry tree, which served as the centrepiece of the courtyard. Lush leaves and ripe fruit hung heavy from its branches, as well as a ‘tire’ swing from the bough. Mila wasn’t sure what made the round, rubber ring a tire, but it was large enough for four people to sit on, or two bears if they hung on really tight, just like they were at this very moment while the tire swing rotated lazily through the air. It was a scene which should have put a smile on Mila’s face, especially since the rabbits and Laughing Birds had long since learned to avoid the area around the tree while the swing was in use, but amusing as Banjo and Baloo’s antics might be, Mila’s eyes were repeatedly drawn to poor, neglected Tawny One, who sat by the corner and stared at the manor walls all morning, every morning, just waiting for her beloved Blackjack to arrive.

Oh pitiful, sweet Tawny One, the only solitary bunny of the bunch. All of her siblings had paired up, not in a romantic sense, but a supportive one, as bunnies needed a friend to cuddle and groom with, for that was simply how the Mother made them. Mama Bun had bonded with Rain, but Tawny One bonded with little Blackjack, back when the Cloud Chaser Hare was only marginally smaller than she was. Now, Tawny One was easily five times longer than Blackjack, and perhaps ten to twelve times heavier, and the little hare was no longer so receptive to the golden bunny’s company. No, stupid Blackjack would rather sleep in with Lin-Lin before scurrying over to steal scraps from the kitchen and bring it up into the tree, where he would scarf down his meal as quickly as possible before bouncing about the branches to ‘play’ with the wildcats and Laughing Birds, all while Tawny One watched on.

It wasn’t so much playing as it was practising to hunt, but Blackjack was too lazy and well-fed, so all he could do was startle the birds a bit, and barely even that. The fledglings were already larger than he was, and the little hare was a faint-hearted predator, with a callous black heart to match his dark, satiny fur.

In a brief moment of honest introspection, Mila admitted she might be projecting her own feelings onto Tawny One and Blackjack, but the sweet rabbit looked so miserable all the time, and the scoundrel hare rarely came down to see her. Tawny One would do her best to follow Blackjack about, even braving the danger zone around the tire swing just so she could be closer to her beloved friend, and it was heartbreaking to watch her patrol the compound in search of a way up the tree or onto the roof to join him. A futile effort, of course, since she was a rabbit who was utterly unequipped to climb, but she yearned to do so anyways to be with the one she loved.

Just like Mila wanted to be with Rain, but he was always away on business lately, with no one but Song to supervise him.

Gathering the prettiest bunny into her arms, Mila snuggled Tawny One close, and the sweet rabbit returned her affection ten-fold. Giggling beneath the storm of bunny kisses and nuzzles, she cradled Tawny One and danced lightly about the courtyard. There was no one here to see her, since Sorya and Anrhi had long since left for the market and the Death Corps stood guard outside the manor doors, so Mila felt free to behave as foolishly as she pleased. “Let Rain and Blackjack do as they please, we don’t need them,” she whispered, planting a kiss on Tawny One’s adorable, twitching nose. “We have each other, don’t we sweet bun?”

Her words felt empty even as she said them aloud, but Tawny One didn’t seem to mind and enjoyed the moment for what it was, a joyous exchange of shared affection. If Mila put her down, Tawny One might immediately go back to moping, but for now, she was loved and contented, and that was all that mattered. Mila envied the sweet rabbit’s simple mindset, because even as she danced and sang with their fluffy golden baby in her arms, all she could think about was how she wished Rain was here to share in this moment.

No one ever warned her that marriage would be so frustrating. Though little had changed since their wedding ceremony, Mila’s perception coloured everything differently, and she had yet to adjust to this altered perspective. Gone was the young, independent woman she’d once been, and in her place was a familiar stranger, so oddly similar in so many ways save for one singular detail.

Mila had a husband now, and by the Mother, it was so wonderfully aggravating.

Like she said, little had changed. Everything went back to normal a few days after their marriage, except instead of going back to her room in Mama’s suite, she retired to her room here in their manor. Ugh, ‘their’ manor, that form of address came so naturally to her now, yet it still caught her off guard whenever she noticed it. ‘Their’ manor, ‘their’ wedding ceremony, ‘their’ fluffy golden baby, everything was ‘theirs’ now. Rarely did she think in terms of herself anymore, not without tying it back to Rain, and while there was nothing wrong with this, she felt a distinct sense of loss that had nothing to do with her incessant desire to hold her husband close and never let him out of her sight. That’s what made things particularly difficult, for even as she mourned her lost independence, she desperately yearned for his constant company.

Not just in her bedroom, which was ‘hers’ and not ‘theirs’, another contentious point Mila set aside for now. No, she wanted him by her side at all hours of the day, to hold his hand and see him smile for no reason than because the sight, smell, sound, taste, and feel of him filled her with inexplicable joy. This was all his fault, because he ruined her somehow, filled her mind with thoughts of him and nothing else. A few days after their wedding, he accompanied her back to the bamboo grove so she could meditate and seek Insight, but no matter how she tried, she couldn’t concentrate on the task at hand and kept thinking about what Rain was up to. Making medicine, flying kites, and unsuccessfully searching for groundhogs, apparently, and as silly and unimportant as all that information was, Mila asked him about every last detail, just because.

The worst part was, she knew he felt the same way, because she saw her craziness reflected in his actions as well. During meals, they sat with chairs touching and limbs entwined, taking forever to eat because this meant one of them couldn’t use their dominant hand and needed the other to feed them. At night, they would lie in each others’ arms and have meaningless conversations about nothing at all, because neither one wanted to fall asleep first. Even her dreams featured him more often than not, simple, uneventful dreams of going for a stroll through the market or riding out into the fields together, and she would wake happier than ever before.

In short, they had become that gushy, infatuated couple who everyone loved to hate, and Mila wanted them to be like this forever.

Except they couldn’t, because Rain’s stupid responsibilities had forced him to visit the stupid Central Citadel for a week, and now he was at the stupid Southern Citadel. Soon, she will have spent more time apart from her husband than together since their wedding, and his extended absence weighed heavily on her sanity. These precious few weeks were supposed to belong to her and her alone, because in less than one week’s time, Yan was joining their family as Rain’s second wife, and he couldn’t even make it back home before the ceremony in Central. Even with Luo-Luo living in the room across the hall as a constant reminder of Rain’s lascivious ways, Mila had somehow forgotten she would eventually have to share her husband and spend her nights alone in bed while he whispered about nothing with another woman.

It was ridiculous. Mila loved Yan, and had long since come to terms with this, was even excited about having a Sister-Wife to talk and share with, but now, she didn’t know how to feel. It was true, people turn Defiled for love more than any other emotion, because Mila’s emotions were a tattered mess thanks to her love of Rain. There was no burning rage or crushing depression, just crippling anxieties over issues which would probably never happen, like what she would do if Rain abandoned her to spend all his time with Yan, Luo-Luo, and Lin-Lin instead. He wouldn’t do that, would never treat her so poorly, but then again, he was also a busy man with plenty of work on his plate, so maybe his neglect wouldn’t be intentional, like with poor Tawny One. There was a time when Mila would have simply shrugged her shoulders and asserted that she herself had things to do, and they would find time for one another when they could. For example, right now, she should be riding for the bamboo grove so she could spend the day making corrections to her Natal Palace. She thought herself so clever when she duplicated the bamboo grove eight times to make a larger grove to sit in, but while each separate copy was in natural Balance with itself, when viewed as a whole, Mila’s entire Natal Palace was in complete disarray.

Well, perhaps not disarray, as it was perfectly serviceable as a Natal Palace, but once she knew there were imperfections present and improvements to be made, she couldn’t well let it slide.

Or at least, there was a time she couldn’t, but now she could barely even be bothered to care. It took a lot of effort to modify her Natal Palace to work properly, because every minuscule change set off a chain reaction that affected not just its immediate surroundings, but the rest of the bamboo grove as well. What’s more, she wasn’t even sure what benefits there were to be had from modelling her Natal Palace after a place of natural Balance, though she was certain there would be... something. What that might be didn’t matter though, because now she was too distracted when Rain was around and too despondent when he wasn’t to properly meditate, and thus had made little to no progress with her Natal Palace.

Still, Mila was never one to surrender without a fight, so once Blackjack arrived, she set off for the bamboo grove with all the pets in tow, save for Jimjam who refused to come down from the tree. Normally, Mila wouldn’t bother bringing all the animals with her since they were quite happy to spend time with Luo-Luo, Sorya, and Anrhi, but they made the lonely carriage ride more bearable since she couldn’t ride Atir. It turned out that the sweet quin had not grown fat during Mila’s extended absence, but was pregnant with a clutch of eggs courtesy of fat Mafu. Now, sweet Atir was bedded down in her den, the quin stables outside Mama’s building, being fussed over by Mafu and all the other older, female quins. Come next spring, there would be a new batch of quin pups for Rain to spoil, and truth be told, he already had more quins than he knew what to do with. Add in his cattle and Laughing Birds almost doubling their numbers these last few months, Mila was growing concerned for the future. It was a miracle the rabbits and wildcats had yet to breed, or at least Mila thought it was until Lin-Lin let slip that she’d asked her father to do something about it long ago. Easy to forget that the happy-go-lucky darling was as smart and insightful as any, if not more so considering her keen mastery of herbs and numbers. Lin’s issue was never a lack of talent or intelligence, only a lack of motivation, which wasn’t helped by Taduk, Rain, and everyone else spoiling her rotten.

Just once, Mila would love it if Rain spoiled her rotten, just to see what it was like. She would probably hate it and grow annoyed within the hour, but how could she be sure unless she experienced it herself?

After an hour-long journey, Mila’s carriage arrived at the new district and she overheard a raucous dispute going on in the streets. Calling for her driver to stop, she stepped out of the carriage before it pulled to a stop and sauntered over to see what all the fuss was about. There on the fields outside Orbei’s yurt, Mila found the leather-worker literally butting heads with Cixi, the dour Central merchant woman from the Chun-Qiu Consortium, while a small crowd gathered to watch while pretending to mind their own business.

“My husband, Sentinel Nakhu, owns this land,” Orbei declared, arms crossed and feet planted as if daring someone to bodily move her. “And I have the documents to prove it. What business do you have telling me to pick up my things and leave?”

