The merchant smiled, but there was nothing soft or pleasant about it, and the look reminded Mila of a wolf baring its teeth. “Notices were posted throughout the district fifteen days ago,” she said, in the terse, clipped tone of someone on their last nerve, “And I personally visited every household to inform them that work on the walls would begin today. The foundations have been dug, the areas marked, the materials in place, so all that is left is to put up the walls, and we cannot do that with people in the way. I spoke with you yesterday, the day before, and the day before that, and each time, I explained that we are not evicting you. We are merely asking you to vacate the area so we can work unhindered.” Pointing at Orbei’s yurt, Cixi added, “And technically, your domicile isn’t even situated on your land. It’s straddling the border, as evidenced by the marker outside your front door.”

“Bah.” Snorting in disdain, Orbei huffed and said, “My sister owns the land beside mine, and she does not mind, so why do you care?”

Cixi’s smile grew a touch more wolfish, and her eyes turned three shades darker. “Notice how not all borders are marked? Yours is, because that’s where we’re putting up a support strut, so the district walls don’t collapse inwards if someone sneezes on them.”

“Walls, Pei. The People have no need for walls to defend them, nor did we ask you to build them.”

“Perhaps, but Minister Falling Rain ordered every district walled, so walled they will be.” Her smile fading away as she saw Orbei had no intention to move, Cixi’s patience finally came to an end as she snapped, “Move or be moved. Those are your choices.”

A bad move if Mila ever saw one, so she stepped in before someone got hurt, but only because everyone else seemed content to watch. “Enough.” Unsure which woman she just saved from a beating, she glowered at them each in turn. “Orbei, stop making trouble for the sake of trouble. There’s plenty of space nearby to set up your yurt. I notice your sister packed up her things and left, so why can’t you? Or do you expect the workers to lug stone, set timber, and hammer nails with you and your children underfoot?” Turning to an all-too-pleased Cixi, Mila snapped, “And you. Threaten harm against one of the People again, and I’ll hang you by your ankles until you learn some proper manners. Actually harm one of the People, and I’ll just have you hanged. Are we clear?” Without waiting for an answer, she turned to the crowd and growled, “Where’s your blasted mayor, and why isn’t he here handling this?”

Once pointed in the right direction by the crowd, Mila shot Orbei a look which set her to begrudgingly packing her things and gestured for Cixi to board the carriage. To the woman’s credit, she did so without flinching at Banjo and Baloo, who were all too forward about meeting new people, even ones clearly as terrified as Cixi. “Thank you for your assistance, Imperial Consort Sumila,” she began offering a seated bow while Baloo sniffed her face. “It is much appreciated. This is a lovely carriage.”

“Stop.” Putting an abrupt end to the merchant woman’s lacklustre flattery, Mila dragged the bears away from Cixi while inwardly grumbling about her new title. It was all fun and games laughing at Rain for being known as a Consort, but now it was Mila’s turn and she didn’t much like it. She was also a Senior Captain of the Sentinels, but thanks to Rain’s lofty status, even if she were raised to the rank of Colonel General, she would forever be referred to as her husband’s consort. A problem for another day though, as she had more pressing matters to deal with today. “I understand your need to clear the field,” Mila began, peering out the open windows at the barrels filled with sand, gravel, and what looked to be ash all arranged in small groups, as well as the cast-iron poles and bamboo panels being moved into place, “But what I do not understand is why the entire district must be emptied before beginning work. This is a sizable area, meant to house hundreds of families, so it will take some time before construction is finished.”

“Three days.”

“What?”

“Three days, Imperial Consort,” Cixi repeated, bobbing her head as she added an additional, “Ma’am. My Lady.”

“Sumila will do just fine.” Furrowing her brow, Mila fixed the merchant with an inquisitive gaze and asked, “You mean to tell me you intend to have the district walled off in three short days?”

“Yes Imperial Consort Sumila,” Cixi replied, which apparently was the most informal form of address she felt comfortable with. “Three days, and we move onto the next district. This is just for the walls and guard posts, mind you, as the gates are still a ways away. It’d be five days if we were doing foundation work for the district interior, but the Minister left strict orders to leave it be and let your people decide what goes where.” Pursing her lips in obvious dissent, Cixi added, “Though I suggest you talk to the mayor and have him convince everyone that it’s in their best interest to follow the plans as best they can. Me and mine have had plenty of practice laying out districts, and you don’t want your sewage seeping into the groundwater or your bakeries next to your tanneries. That’s all I’ll say.”

Somehow, Mila doubted everything the woman just said, but she didn’t know enough to comment on the situation. This was all Rain’s fault for being so sneaky and deceptive about his plans. When he offered his lands for Sentinel use some months back, Mila thought her beloved was finally learning to accept the ways of the People, but then, he turned around and imposed all manner of restrictions upon them in the name of ‘urban planning’. Where to dig for wells and latrines was all fine and dandy, but now he wanted to tell them where to raise their yurts, stable their quins, build their cooking fires, and more, after convincing them to take on a loan to purchase land he offered to let them live on for free. The money wasn’t the issue, as everyone understood the need to pay for living space, but between the zoning issues, compliance concerns, and all manner of other rules and regulations, the People had more freedom to do what they pleased before becoming land-owners.

Which made no sense whatsoever, and the People were understandably not handling these changes well.

Worst of all, Rain couldn’t even be bothered to handle it all himself, nor did he think to put a proper member of the People in charge. Instead, he installed his old friend and unrepentant con-man as Mayor of the district, the barely literate Bulat, who was currently standing about in his ridiculously puffy shirt and doing his best to look busy while labourers and tradesmen puttered about around him. “Put yer backs into it now,” he bellowed, with thumbs hooked into a silver-buckled belt struggling to hold his growing belly back. “We’re on a schedule, we are, and ain’t none of us getting younger.”

“Mayor Bulat,” Mila snapped, her arrival having gone unnoticed by the portly former soldier. “A word?”

“Eh? Ah, yes of course, Imperial Consort, of course.” Mopping his brow with a handkerchief, Bulat scurried over like a lackey born, showing no sign of the steel she’d seen at new years, when he hurled some Society lackey off stage after Luo-Luo’s first public concert. Then, Rain gave the man a single War Bond at their wedding, which Bulat promptly sold to the highest bidder for close to eighty-thousand gold and immediately retired with Rain’s blessing. Ridiculous is what it was, these nobles fighting tooth and nail to obtain one of those useless scraps of paper, but Rain encouraged it by taking meetings with anyone who showed up with a War Bond in hand.

It didn’t even make sense. Aside from the paltry fifty copper fee he took to register the War Bonds under a new name, Rain didn’t see a single copper from the resale of War Bonds, but he didn’t care. “This is all about optics,” he’d explained, smiling like the most handsome idiot in the world. “If it encourages others to bid even higher for the next batch of War Bonds, then it’s well worth the effort ten times over. Plus, the more coin they spend, the less coin they’ll have on hand, the sooner they’ll start using War Bonds as hard currency, and the sooner my plan for Treasure Notes can come into effect.”

There was so much about Rain’s new ventures which Mila didn’t understand, and Mother knows she tried. Treasure Notes were one thing she’d all but given up on, but why did he feel compelled to plan out every district down to the last detail? His reasoning was that it was easier than leaving each district to figure it out on their own, especially with so many people involved. Efficiency, he called it, letting professionals do what they trained for, but Mila felt it lacked a true sense of community. Homes staggered out in groups of four along the farms, instead of gathered in one common living area for example, or having the district divided into separate regions and forcing tradesmen to live apart from their work areas. How were those tradesmen supposed to watch the children and work at the same time? Or have a midday meal with their families without wasting time? What’s more, this was Central, where there were many strangers about, so how were they supposed to guard their tools, products supplies, and workrooms from thieves or vandals?

Putting aside those concerns for now, Mila faced Bulat and said, “Cixi says the work will be done in three days. Do you think it’s possible?”

“Absolutely,” he replied, far too quickly for Mila’s tastes. “Saw the walls go up on the next district over, and old Bulat ain’t ever seen anything like it.”

Frowning as she took in the labourers around her, she saw smiles and determination a plenty, but that had to mean they were fresh, new workers. If Rain and Cixi were pushing their labourers so hard, then there was bound to be plenty of injuries, casualties, and burn out, so these poor fools probably only knew about the high wages they were here to earn, and had no idea what sort of torturous hell they were in for. A curious oversight on Rain’s part, since he would never allow good men to be pushed beyond their limits. No doubt because he trusted Cixi and her Chun-Qiu consortium too much, which meant Mila would have to ensure they stayed true to his wishes. Narrowing her eyes at the Central merchant, she said, “I will remain behind to watch and report what I see to my husband.”

“Wonderful, Imperial Consort Sumila.” Homely features lighting up in unmitigated delight, Cixi seemed genuinely pleased by Mila’s declaration. “I’ve been sending reports everyday and doing everything I can to keep us on track, but I heard Gwangjong is operating almost 25% faster, so I worried the Minister might think I was slacking. It’s the soil here, it’s looser and grainier, so it takes longer to settle than it does in the more central regions. It’s all bedrock over there, while this here is old sediment, on account of the Azure Sea once having stretched this far out. Thousands upon thousands of years ago, of course, which is what makes all this such great farmland, but it makes a big difference in construction. You’ll see.”

Again, Mila didn’t understand most of what Cixi was talking about, and from the looks of things, neither did Bulat, so she simply nodded and re-boarded her carriage to get out from under the glaring sun. With the windows open and the breeze in full force, the carriage was quite comfortable despite the oppressive Central heat, and she idled away the time with the animals while watching the labourers get to work. As she saw earlier, they were busy moving the cast-iron pole into place, merely sliding it into furrows which had already been dug all around the district. To her eyes, it looked like the start to some shoddy, half-assed fencing which, after sliding into the furrow, leaned heavily at an angle and barely stood over a meter tall.

Already, Mila sensed a disaster in the making, but instead of demanding answers from Cixi or Bulat, she took a deep breath and gathered her thoughts. Logically, Rain would have seen his district walls by now, and would know if the people he hired were doing shoddy, sub-par work. What’s more, Bulat also said he’d seen the walls go up at another district, so he would not look so confident if this was all a disaster in the making. Thus, it stood to reason that Cixi knew what she was doing, and what Mila saw here was merely preparation, rather than anything indicative of the final work. And most importantly, although she’d seen a lot of materials, she had yet to lay eyes on a sizable stockpile of stone or timber in place, which meant Rain was either building the flimsiest wall in existence, or he had come up with yet another odd and miraculous idea.

And Mila would bet good money on the latter. At this point, she’d be more surprised if her husband did something conventionally, rather than in some strange, whimsical, and frighteningly effective way.

