With this in mind, she looked around again and picked up on a few key details. The bamboo panels, which she thought were building materials, were in fact parts to a wooden scaffold, which had been laid out flat on the ground in an inter-connecting pattern of rectangular boxes. That was a mould if Mila had ever seen one, but there were no forges smelting iron or steel nearby, nor would a wooden mould be suitable if there were. Clay or mud bricks perhaps, but again, there were no forges to be seen, unless they intended to light a fire under their giant steel cooking pot after it was full, but that didn’t make sense. The pot was so large, even Mila would have trouble lifting it on her own, and she didn’t think Papa could carry it while full of sand, gravel, ash, and water, like it currently was. One labourer was constantly stirring the pot while Cixi watched the proceedings like a hawk, snapping off orders the other labourers obeyed with military precision, adding measured cups of ash, sand, water, and gravel until the mixture was finally to her tastes.

After a copious amount of stirring, Cixi waved seven soldiers over, ones Mila recognized as members of Rain’s old retinue, though she couldn’t put a name to any of them. Two carried long, iron poles, which they locked into place on either side of the pot before coordinating to lift the whole thing with four of their comrades to help. The seventh and final soldier used a bamboo prod to tip the pot ever so slightly until the greyish, granular sludge seeped out of the pot and into the mould. On Cixi’s instructions, the seven Martial Warriors filled the first mould and moved onto the next, while labourers behind them smoothed out the sludge with a flat, wooden stick, drove flat, wooden slats into each filled box, and scraped the excess sludge back into the pot, only to repeat the process once again as soon as the next mould was complete.

If Mila didn’t know any better, she would say they were making bricks, but then they made no move to fire, bake, or otherwise process them, save to let them dry out under the sun.

Elsewhere, one of Cixi’s subordinates was watching another group of labourers prepare a second, smaller batch of grey sludge, which they promptly poured into the furrows which housed the cast iron poles. Then, working with the speed of practised efficiency, they straightened the poles, brought out these curious, horseshoe shaped spikes, slid them through a slot in the poles, and them in place with hammers at the ready, but waited for Cixi’s subordinate to finish fussing with his odd, semi-circular measuring device and give the okay before securing the poles in place by hammering the horseshoe spikes into the dirt.

In less than an hour, the entire district was fenced in by cast-iron poles, and then came the biggest surprise of the day. After dismantling the bamboo mould and moving it to the next area, all that was left behind were hundreds of large, greyish stone blocks, each one sized at half a metre long and tall, as well as thirty centimetres thick. There were gaps in each block’s smooth surface, too small to fit a hand into, but spaced in intervals which allowed the blocks to be slid over the cast iron poles. Working in pairs, labourers carefully laid each block in place around the cast iron poles and used more of that miraculous, grey goo to plaster them together in a quickly rising interlocking pattern, while Cixi and her subordinates ran around taking measurements with all manner of strange tools and making small adjustments here and there.

Unable to resist, Mila wandered over and hefted one into her arms, amazed at how heavy and solid it felt and how many blocks they had in place. Already, the next batch of blocks were being poured out, and would be ready by the time the first batch were fixed in place, and even without the supports in place, this quickly rising wall seemed more liable to break than topple.

“This is how they built the Walls,” Cixi said, shocking Mila out of her stupor. Though sweating from the midday heat, the rugged woman beamed with pride and delight, a smile which took almost a decade off her appearance. “The old Walls that is, the wondrous Kang Shen, the impenetrable barriers of the Azure Empire. Knowledge of how they were made was long since lost to time, but the good Minister has revived it, or brought us one step closer, at least.” Seeing Mila’s confusion, Cixi continued, “With our mixture, if the blocks are over a certain size, the cement won’t harden and the bricks will crumble under their own weight. The Kang Shen obviously didn’t have this problem, but we have yet to agree on how. The Minister believes it may have been because the Kang Shen was built in layers, each one perhaps only a hand-span high, which explains how they accounted for windows, doors, and the like. Cao Cuo even says the Kang Shen once had an outer layer of brick or wood, but it crumbled or rotted away over time and was all but forgotten, leaving only the concrete shell behind. Incredible isn’t it?”

So this was concrete, liquid material which hardened into stone, a concept Mila once called ridiculous, yet Rain made come to life before her very eyes.

Too shocked to go meditate, Mila spent the rest of the day watching the labourers at work. At some point, Lin-Lin joined her with boxed lunches, and eventually ran off to play on her own, but Mila sat entranced as she watched the district walls go up brick by concrete brick. Once the base was finished, they installed a second set of iron poles over top the previous ones and set to hauling bricks up, using clever little block and tackle devices no doubt supplied by Rain. The support struts turned out to be more concrete bricks, arranged in a pleasing, pyramid-shaped arrangement to help shore up the wall, and by the end of the day, the work looked more than half complete, leaving Mila in complete and utter awe.

“That was incredible,” she gushed, speaking with a pleased Cixi and a bored Lin-Lin. “These walls went up so quickly, and with so few people working too. How durable is this wall? How much did all this cost? How did you come up with such an efficient system to make and set the blocks?”

Cixi gave Mila a strange look, and Lin-Lin giggled quietly at the side. “Your pardon, Imperial Consort Sumila, but I didn’t come up with any of it. The good Minister did, everything from start to finish. He showed me how to mix concrete, what steps to take, how to divide labour and train skilled workers to carry out certain tasks to perfection, and even what problems to account for, like cracks and structural integrity. Don’t be fooled by how solid it looks, it’ll be almost an entire month before the cement fully finishes hardening, but it’s good enough for our purposes for now.” Shaking her head, Cixi continued, “He had a few other ideas I couldn’t make work, like making hollow cement bricks we can just pack with dirt, or reinforcing each section with separate horizontal iron rods, but personally, I don’t see the point. Cement is cheaper than dirt right now, and will be that way for some time since he had us buy up the rights to more sand, gravel, and limestone than we know what to do with.” Shrugging as she patted the smooth, cement brick wall, she added, “As for the wall’s strength, well... I reckon a few Martial Warriors with Spiritual Weapons would make short work of it, but you could say the same for any sort of wall. This isn’t anywhere as thick as the Citadel Walls, but we’ll be putting down a second layer of bricks, angled outwards with a jutting overhang at the top. This way, if anyone breaks through the first layer, the overhang will fall and crush anyone standing underneath. Took some real work to figure out, and requires even more cast iron to keep it from crumbling under its own weight, but so far, our test models have held. Same can’t be said about our concrete buildings though, especially the roofs, so we still got a lot to learn.”

The woman had several more ideas, including uniquely shaped, interlocking bricks which would make the building process more labour and time intensive, but result in a stronger, more durable finish. This had staggering implications if Mila could apply the concept in other matters, so she sat down and chatted with the woman until it was long past time to head home. When Lin-Lin finally pried her away, Mila spent the entire trip back musing over new discoveries, pondering the aftereffects of this concrete, and wondering if the People were wrong to ask Rain not to design the rest of the district. Her mind made up, she resolved to talk to Mother-in-Law and bring her out to see the district herself, so she could rope her into convincing the People to be more accepting of change.

Specifically, change suggested by Rain, because it would be shameful to live in the past while he brought the Empire into the future. It was wrong to ignore his suggestions just because it was different from how they traditionally did things, and their lives were already much improved because they had yurts instead of tents, so Rain had more than earned the benefit of a doubt...

Much to her surprise, upon her arrival, she found her beloved husband waiting at the citadel gates with Ping Ping looming overhead. Oh how he looked so handsome, even in his bland, black shirt and pants, with his hair slicked back and his smile in full force as he leaned against the Guardian Turtle and waited. Granted, he would look much better in proper clothes and ornamented hair, but it wouldn’t take much, merely a longer shirt and perhaps a tasteful, understated circlet to hold back his lengthening hair. While putting on weight had done wonders for his health and appearance, so much of his allure stemmed from his demeanour alone. There was a time when he knew how to appear confident, but now, he had become confident, and it showed in the set of his shoulders and the tilt of his head. This wasn’t the cocksure arrogance of ignorance and youth, but the calm assurance of honour, integrity, and intelligence, a look which suited him greatly.

Perhaps she should have some clothes made for him, with her name sewn into the design, so he would never forgot his beloved wife no matter how many other women he had...

“Hello my loves,” he said as he slipped into the carriage and greeted them both with a kiss. A chaste one on the cheek for Lin-Lin, but Mila’s mind blanked as her lips touched his and were overwhelmed by his passion and hunger.

It was so wonderful, it took some time for her to regain her faculties. He had that effect on her now, and a small part of her hated it so much, but she was too weak to ever resist. “I thought you were stuck in the Southern Citadel,” she said, her arms tightening around him as if afraid he would up and disappear.

“I thought so too, but then I decided I was being dumb and left things in Xuande’s capable hands.”

“Why didn’t you send word in your last letter?” One she received last night and had been written the morning of. Being Minister of Finance meant he could seal his letters with his turtle stamp, and they would immediately become priority, sometimes arriving in Mila’s hand only a few hours after being penned. “I would have told your sister and invited them back for dinner.”

“Because I only decided to come home after lunch today.” With a grin that made her knees weak and heart flutter, Rain gestured at the lively Divine Turtle and said, “All this time I’ve been travelling by ship while Ping Ping swims behind me, and never once did I think to just hitch a ride on her shell. Even with all the traffic in her way, she made the trip from the Southern Citadel in record time while carrying me, Song, Kuang Biao, and the pets on her back.”

Melting into his arms, Mila basked in his presence and savoured his company for as long as she had him, unwilling to let go through all of dinner even with Mama and Papa there with her. Mila remembered them being far more open with their affections in front of her, so now it was their turn to squirm in discomfort, because Mila had her monstrously talented husband to herself for at least one more night, and she intended to make the most of it.

Chapter Meme

Bear and Tire swing
