Cale asked for permission first, obviously. It would've been rude to examine another mage's mana core in the level of detail he needed without asking for permission, especially since that degree of perception was easily felt. Professor Graystalk had given him a strange look at the request, especially since Cale refused to explain why, but had ultimately agreed.

So now Cale was absent-mindedly going over the third time he'd lost a limb to one of those exercises—honestly, the more he thought about it, the more certain he was that the Sage of Control was some sort of sadist—while peering closely at Graystalk's mana core.

One of the reasons he hadn't done this earlier was because of the level of trust that was required for this sort of examination. Mana core examination was tantamount to soul examination, and regardless of the pretext it was an inherently intimate act. Trust and some level of connection was virtually required to pull it off, and it was only now that Graystalk had loosened up enough for him to do so.

This particular curse was a nasty one, though. It stank of the energies of a lich. Cale couldn't help but wonder exactly how Graystalk had been inflicted with this curse; this wasn't the sort of curse that could be put on someone else in an instant. It had to have been done with the aid of someone Graystalk had trusted. The lines of betrayal were all there in the scars of his mana core, essentially a catalyst for the curse to latch on to.

There were two things strange about it. The first was that Cale was almost certain this was a divine curse, and if he was reading the mana signature right, it was one of Astiviya's, which meant Cale was going to have some words with the goddess when she showed up for their confrontation.

The second was the way the curse itself functioned. The scar acted like a parasite that latched on to any confluence of magic great enough for it to detect, which amounted essentially to spells above the first and second tier. It would reroute the mana that went into those spell constructs, effectively dramatically increasing their mana cost and causing the spell to fizzle out before it could be cast.

But that meant that—unlike most curses—that scar could be burnt out of the core entirely. Most curses were resistant to that sort of thing, since they were a mark etched into the mana core itself. In order for this one to function, the etching needed to separate from the core temporarily and attach to a spell instead, and that brief period would leave it vulnerable.

Fascinating.

It was especially convenient, then, that Graystalk would be delving the Bitter Path with them. Cale grinned to himself even as the professor looked up at him, ears slightly flushed from how thoroughly Cale had examined his core. "Are you done?" Graystalk grumbled.

"Yep," Cale said cheerfully. "Look, I know you just got done accepting your curse and realizing you could do lots of magic even with it and all, but I'm pretty sure I can break it with that thing we're gonna get in the dungeon. So, you ready to go?"

Graystalk stared at him. "...You told me you needed to examine my mana core for research," he said flatly.

"I did," Cale said. "Research on your curse."

Graystalk sighed. "Incorrigible," he muttered. "Oh, very well. Let us proceed, then. It is about time for class, regardless. Have you successfully calibrated your mana control, as it were?"

"Nope," Cale said cheerfully. "I kind of forgot while I was doing your mana core stuff. But we'll be fine! I've mostly got it. I just need to cast a few tester spells on the way."

"Please do not," Professor Graystalk said, but from the tone of his voice, he was already resigned to it. Cale just hummed to himself, delighted.

Time for some magic. And dungeons!
