Human. To Ceria, he was what she had expected. Yvlon’s mother on the other hand, was different.
“Mother—”
Yvlon was enfolded by a hug from the amber-haired woman. But what surprised Ceria was that the woman had ink-stained fingers. Also—a Terandrian accent, greatly faded, but recognizable to Ceria and Pisces at once.
“Yvlon. It’s so good to see you again. You didn’t tell us you were on your way! We haven’t heard from you for months!”
The [Armsmistress] had a guilty look on her face as her mother put her hands on Yvlon’s cheeks and looked her up and down, gently.
“I’m sorry, mother. Father—”
“Yvlon. It’s good to see you. Is this your team?”
Yitton Byres was staring at Ksmvr, Ceria, and Pisces. His eyes flicked to his daughter’s covered arms. And Yvlon’s mother was glancing at Yvlon’s shirt. She blinked at Ksmvr.
“Yes—let me introduce everyone. Mother, father, this is my team. The Horns of Hammerad. This is Ceria Springwalker, my captain, Ksmvr, and Pisces. They’re trusted companions.”
Ceria bowed, and Pisces swept an elegant bow of his own. Ksmvr held out a hand to Yitton. The man stared at him. The Antinium smiled.
“Hello. I am Ksmvr. I understand you are Yvlon’s father? I have no frame of reference for fathers.”
That stumped Yitton sufficiently that he just shook Ksmvr’s hand. The Antinium turned to Yvlon’s mother.
“And you are Yvlon’s mother. Hello.”
“This is Shallel Byres, Ksmvr.”
Shallel? Then Ceria remembered. Yvlon had said her mother married into the family.
“How do you do? Yvlon has written about her new team. It’s a pleasure.”
Shallel Byres was made of stern stuff, because she just smiled at Ksmvr’s open mandibles. She turned to Ceria and Pisces.
“Are you from Terandria, Lady Shallel? I mean, Lady Byres?”
“Shallel will do. I am. From a minor house—I was Guildmistress of the Scrivener’s Guild before I met Yitton. I apologize for the ink-stains.”
Shallel was a lot different from Ceria’s vision of her. She gave Pisces a firm handshake, asking where he was from, and then turned to Yvlon. The young woman was gently hugging her father.
“You didn’t tell us you were coming, Yvlon. We would have prepared a proper reception for your team.”
There was a note of reproach in Yitton’s voice. Yvlon sighed, furtively tugging her gloves more snugly over her hands.
“I…it was just a spur of the moment. I wanted to just say hi. I won’t trouble you.”
“Nonsense. You need to stay and tell us everything that’s happened. Ylawes said he left you injured.”
“He didn’t have to come, Mother—it was an over exaggeration, really. I uh—parted ways with him a while back.”
Shallel gave Yvlon a smile. She walked over to her daughter and Ceria had a moment of intuition.
“Oh, we’ve heard from Ylawes recently, Yvlon. He’s in Reizmelt for some reason.”
Ceria winced.
“That was our fault, Lady Shallel.”
“Well, Ylawes may do what he wants. He’s been Gold-rank for years now. But I would have liked to know my own daughter had reached Gold-rank. Much less been hurt.”
“Mother, I’m sorry. I’d be happy to tell you everything. Really. I just forgot…”
Yvlon was raising her gloved hands and smiling. Shallel was quick. The former [Scribe] pinched the tip of Yvlon’s glove and pulled.
“And would you explain this, young lady?”
One of her silver-flesh hands appeared. There was a gasp from the crowd. Yvlon paled.
Yitton Byres looked at his daughter, his eyes wide.
“Ylawes told us you’d changed. Oh, Yvlon. What happened?”
Shallel stared at her daughter’s changed skin and then hugged her daughter fiercely. Yvlon hesitated. She looked embarrassed, ashamed—but she embraced her mother.
“I’m sorry, it’s just—”
“Why don’t we talk inside? We have a lot to catch up on. You and your team. And no objections, young woman. Come with me.”
The Horns of Hammerad saw Yvlon Byres’ mother pinch her daughter’s fleshy ear. She pulled and Yvlon yelped as she was dragged towards the keep. She probably could have ignored the pain, but her mother would still have walked off with her ear. Pisces, Ceria, and Ksmvr saw Yitton Byres studying them. Ksmvr looked around and smiled again.
“I quite enjoy Yvlon’s home. Oh, Lord Byres. Thank you for the tree.”
Lord Yitton Byres stared at the Antinium.
“Tree?”
That was when Ceria sent the [Message] to Erin telling her friend where they were. It looked like the beginning of an adventure. Or at the very least—a lot of fun watching Yvlon getting mothered by her mother. Ceria would settle for that.
 
—-
 
And so, letters were sent. Letters arrived. Bearing all kinds of useful and useless information. You could get sick of it.
But it was a full-time job delivering them for some people, magic aside. In Riverfarm, Emperor Laken Godart stopped his argument with Master Helm about procuring the Unseen Empire’s own metal supply as someone galloped towards him.
“Delivery for Emperor Laken! Hey, it’s me! Your favorite Centaur—”
Dustrider Charlay had a letter for Laken. She’d born it personally, for two reasons. Firstly—it was a copper for every ten words by [Message] spell if you didn’t get a discount on big letters, on top of the sending fee.
Secondly, some things needed to be confidential. So Ryoka had endured Charlay joking about Ryoka needing the ‘better runner’ to deliver her letters.
“This is from Ryoka?”
Laken would have blinked if he kept his eyes open all the time. Since he didn’t, he just looked surprised. Charlay nodded.
“No idea what it is, but she said it was urgent.”
Ryoka had a way of adding to Laken’s list of burdens. And this letter certainly did just that as Prost read it for the [Emperor]. It took nearly thirty minutes for Laken to get through the very long letter. And when he did, the Unseen Emperor of Riverfarm had to massage his forehead.
“If I didn’t owe Ryoka Griffin a favor, I would pay Charlay to kick her into the nearest bush of thorns.”
He muttered. And then began to incorporate Ryoka’s plans into his own.
 
—-
 
But that was as far as letters went. They were good at laying plans, starting things—but at some point you had to stop writing letters. The world turned on.
Ryoka Griffin sat in the overnight carriage ready to take her north at speed. This was no regular carriage—she’d paid gold to hire one. And the driver was…special.
An underworld contact. They had their own ways of getting places fast. So for a fee, and if you knew the right people, you could ask for someone to get you across Izril faster than normal. Ryoka had paid for all of that.
The Archmage of Izril awaited. The curious thing to Ryoka was that she’d sent all her letters.
So…why was Fierre sitting across from her in the carriage? The Vampire girl glanced at Ryoka and adjusted her huge hat.
“I’m going with you, of course. I’ve had enough of being left behind while you go on an adventure.”
The City Runner protested, glancing at the closed panel for the driver. He was moving the carriage already. He hadn’t asked questions, just driven up and waited for her to get in. She didn’t even know if it was a ‘he’—the driver was wearing dark clothing from top to bottom with a single white scarf breaking up the color scheme.
“It’s not safe, Fierre. I know you’re—capable. But I’ve been in some dicey situations.”
“I know. But do you think I’m safer in Reizmelt? Remember Belavierr? I distinctly recall the needles.”
Fierre glowered. Ryoka bit her lip.
“Even so. What about your job? Your family?”
The girl shrugged.
“I can take time off. And I left them a note. Ryoka. I’m coming with you. I have a bag of holding full of useful items and my notes. And I think it’ll be interesting.”
She gave Ryoka a pointed grin. And then her expression changed.
“Besides. I want to see…what happens.”
Letters. Letters were good at starting things, conveying information. But they were a tool for prolonging events. You had to read letters before you could do anything about them.
But at some point, you had to act.
The Vampire girl took out the glowing vial. It was so small. Just a mouthful. It glowed viridian. The color lit up the inside the carriage. Ryoka’s objections went silent as her mouth opened.
“I thought about it. We could try copying it. But if you didn’t think Saliss of Lights could—I thought about my father. Or mother. But…I guess I’m a bit of a monster. I wanted to know.”
The Vampire looked at Ryoka, longingly. Slowly, with one hand, she removed the cork. Ryoka made a sound.
“Fierre—”
“I want to know. I trust you, Ryoka.”
Fierre locked her eyes with Ryoka’s. She tilted the vial up and let the liquid slide out of the vial. It left not a drop. Fierre swished the liquid once, swallowed.
“Hey, it tastes—”
Her expression went blank. Ryoka leaned forwards. She waved a hand in Fierre’s face. The Vampire girl didn’t blink. She sat there, motionless, eyes wide.
“Fierre? Hey, driver, stop the carriage—”
The coach slowed. Fierre sat there as Ryoka reached for her. She couldn’t open the door. It was still light out.
“Fierre? Is something—”
The girl opened her mouth as something within her activated. The flash of light sent Ryoka slamming against the coach’s walls.
“My chains!”
The coachwoman roared. Ryoka, pulling herself upright, saw the door fly open. The driver floated in the air, hovering off the ground. Her garb had been knocked aside. The bound Djinn stared at Ryoka, her hands and eyes crackling with fury.
“Those who attack the Unmarked Coach die—”
She hesitated, seeing Ryoka lying there. The City Runner threw her hands up.
“It wasn’t me! It was a healing potion!”
“A—”
The Djinn stared at Fierre. Ryoka’s head turned as well. The Vampire girl lay in the coach. The driver hesitated. She adjusted her clothing, landed on the ground. Both Runner and spirit stared.
Fierre’s pupils shone crimson as she opened her eyes in the dark confines of the coach. She sat up. And there was something fluid about the way she moved. As if, suddenly, the world around her was submerged in water. Ryoka had seen that kind of speed before. Relc—Gazi—
“Ryoka? I feel…”
The Vampire whispered. She looked at Ryoka. The driver. Then she moved. She snatched something up. Her bag of holding. Fierre opened it. Then—
Puked. Ryoka saw the Vampire girl vomit straight into her bag of holding. Fierre emitted a huge stream of dark liquid. Both the City Runner and driver recoiled. Fierre tried to say something and a second stream of vomit came out of her mouth and nose.
“Aw.”
Ryoka made a sound of disgust.
The Djinn driver stared at Ryoka. She looked at the puking Vampire, at Ryoka—and then slammed the door. She started the carriage again, grumbling.
“I hate my job.”
