“Yup. There’s two, actually. One from an ‘Erin Solstice’, and the other from a ‘Mrsha’.”
Ylawes glanced up. Ryoka blinked.
“Erin and—Mrsha?”
The two letters were passed over and Ryoka tipped well. The Street Runner disappeared with a grin on her face. And Ryoka read the letters with hands that shook a bit.
Erin’s letter was short and cheerful. The handwriting was clean, and it looked dictated. Mrsha’s letter was…different.
“Ooh. They must have paid to copy the handwriting. That’s pricey.”
Fierre peeked over Ryoka’s shoulder. The City Runner chased her away. She wanted to read this privately. Mrsha’s first letter? Ryoka read Erin’s first.
 
Hey Ryoka, it’s Erin! Bezale offered to send our messages through the Mage’s Guild in Reizmelt, so I paid for it! Mrsha wrote her own letter, and she worked so hard on it, so we had it copied! That’s like—something [Scribes] can do, apparently. Cool, right?
I’m good over here! We’re working on the you-know-what for the thing with my name.
 
Ryoka covered her face. Erin’s version of subtlety was banging two pots together without explaining why. But then she focused on the letter.
 
I’ve found the second person you want. So that’s two out of three! You won’t believe it, but it’s true! She was actually there when you were, but you never noticed her. Neither did I, until recently!
 
“Two? That’s impossible!”
Ryoka stared at the letter. She thought over everyone she’d met. But there was no one…her heart began to pound. Was this happening? Was Erin’s effect enough to warp reality?
 
Anyways, I talked it over with her and there are…complications. She might not make it…but we are trying everything. She’s a great person and I want to help out.
 
If she had time. Maviola El sat in The Wandering Inn, thinking. The [Lady Firestarter] was trying to digest a magical ritual, the fae—who were actually Winter Sprites—and the fact that Izril had a damned [Emperor] gallivanting about to the north.
“I don’t have enough time.”
Maviola El had made her peace with her end. But ironically, now—she had so much more to do.
She had one vial left. She’d just taken her second-to-last potion. It was time to…talk.
She was writing a letter of her own. The [Lady] was working hard on it.
 
Dear Olesm,
If you’re reading this, I’ve left. I owe you an explanation…
 
She didn’t want to do it like that. Maviola El would rather talk to the Drake, whom she had grown attached to. This was just in case. The [Lady] was conflicted, though. Perhaps it was better not to let him know at all. That was cruel—but what was cruel was sometimes best.
“Where do I go?”
Two weeks. She could linger one week more, perhaps. But soon—she had to go. Liscor was a beautiful place. A wondrous place. She could die here, loved, content.
But she was Maviola El. She wanted more. She wanted to see this meeting of the fae. But two weeks wasn’t long enough to reach the Solstice. More than that—before she died she had greater goals. The [Emperor] was tempting. Very tempting, to go north and see what manner of royal fool had trespassed on her continent.
Yet—the Antinium Hives called her. Ere she died, Maviola wanted to see all that could be seen. And bring a scrying orb with her. There were Antinium here. Were they the same as the ones who had brought war to the Drakes?
“Not enough time.”
The [Lady] pushed Olesm’s letter aside. She didn’t have to do that one—yet. She was working on a second letter. Insurance. And maybe a third to Magnolia? If only to tell her to smarten up and stop making Erin Solstice her enemy.
Oh, letters. They were such useful things. Messages that endured when she would not. But words on paper couldn’t convey everything. The [Lady] was so focused she barely noticed the Drake sliding into the seat opposite her.
“Hey, beautiful. Can I buy you a drink?”
“I’m spoken for.”
Maviola barely glanced up. The Drake grinned with that wide, wide smile of their species.
“Oh, come on. After we’ve done so much business together? Not that we’ve ever met in person.”
The [Lady] looked up. And she saw Saliss of Lights smiling at her.
Maviola dropped her quill. She caught herself, and tried to smile naturally.
“I’m sorry, Adventurer Saliss, but I don’t think—”
“Hey, Erin! Can I get a drink?”
“Get one from Drassi, Saliss! I’m busy helping Mrsha! And put your box on!”
The Drake glanced towards the bar as he looked around for his box with the ‘small nuts’ message he found so hilarious. Erin was busy writing her letter while Mrsha laboriously wrote with a quill, encouraged by Lyonette.
“Drassi’s gone! She’s working for Wistram, remember?”
“Oh—fine!”
Erin got up and stomped around the bar. She came back as Saliss shouted an order.
“Firebreath Whiskey for you, Maviola, and Rxlvn for you, Saliss. Um. Are you sure?”
“Super-sure. I love it.”
The [Innkeeper] dubiously slid over the black drink for the [Alchemist]. She eyed Maviola.
“If he’s bothering you—”
“No, not at all.”
The [Lady] gave Erin a forced smile. Erin nodded to Saliss.
“‘Sup?”
“Nothing much. Working with your flowers. I’ve found something, but I need more testing. Just hanging out.”
“Cool. Don’t bother people.”
Erin walked off. Saliss waited until Erin was gone, and then he looked at Maviola.
“For one thing, Lady El—you didn’t change your name. Any idiot knows red hair is rare among Humans. And I have this.”
He tapped one eye. Maviola blushed; it was a rookie mistake. She took a breath. Well, it wasn’t as if it was trouble if people knew…
“What do you want, Adventurer Saliss?”
“Nothing much. I just wanted to ask how many you have left. I count one or two vials left—but you bought my earlier work and the latest one. That’s about four weeks.”
The Named Adventurer sipped from his drink, proving that the concentrated Antinium alcohol really was potent if even he had to take it slow. Maviola took a sip from the fiery drink and coughed.
“…One left. I just took the other.”
“I see. You know—I’m glad you bought it. Too many middle-aged men of every species want to use the Potions of Youth for a week of fun. If I’d known—well, I’d still have auctioned them off. Money is money. But I’m glad to see it works.”
The Drake looked at her, and Maviola wasn’t fooled by the grin. There was a keen intelligence in Saliss’ eyes. Named Adventurers might be insane, but they were generally far from stupid. And she’d heard of Pallass’ famous alchemist. He had changed geography itself with his potions.
“I’m grateful, Adventurer Saliss. But I’d prefer not to make a fuss.”
Saliss nearly snorted his drink out his nose.
“Maviola El. Not make a fuss? I looked you up, Lady El. And your entire life has been fuss. I’m a huge fan, actually.”
Maviola had to laugh.
“Well, I have something planned. But it really is…”
The end. She looked at her arms, her smooth skin. And Saliss of Lights looked at her. He took a deeper drink from the black liquid permanently staining the wood of the mug and muttered.
“Two weeks is a short time.”
“It’s enough. I’d have settled for a day.”
The [Lady] had known this was how she wanted to die. Standing, running. If she died in an Antinium Hive or anywhere else—she vowed her last spark would be one the world saw. She only regretted the lack of time.
Perhaps Saliss did too. He looked at Maviola, leaning forwards on the table and glanced at Erin.
“You know, Maviola—I’m going to call you Maviola since I hate titles—I’ve been experimenting with magical flames. Erin’s got some that have useful…effects.”
Maviola glanced up sharply. [Like Fire, Memory]? Erin was too careless. The Named Adventurer was looking at her.
“I know you have a lot yourself.”
“They’re not for sale.”
She snapped at him. The Drake raised his brows.
“Not even for another Potion of Youth? Or two?”
The [Lady]’s eyes went wide. Saliss looked around and lowered his voice. He’d sprinkled something around the table, Maviola saw. Some kind of dust—without her even noticing.
“Sorry. Just need to be confidential. Think about it. I’m…having a few landmark breakthroughs of late. And Potions of Youth—well, they could bankrupt me if I tried to produce them wholesale, even with auctions.”
They were insanely expensive, Maviola knew. She doubted her fire, even if she gave him every flame she could make, was worth even a quarter of one. But Saliss was looking at her. And the [Lady] felt her heart beating faster. She hesitated and the letters unsent crinkled in her hands.
 
—-
 
Saliss of Lights looked at Maviola El. He had a letter too. They came from Pallass, for people in his profession.
‘Please, won’t you make this antidote?’ 
‘Consider this offer—’
With pain, he ignored those. Sometimes, he did charity work. But the Mage’s Guild knew better than to send those unsolicited messages to him. But after running screaming out his laboratory demanding more of Erin’s flowers—he’d used nearly half of her supply—he had sent one to Oteslia.
One had arrived for him. And Xif. The idiot [Gardener] who’d sent it had assumed they were working together, and Saliss had nearly had to deck the older Gnoll [Alchemist] after they’d gotten it.
 
To Alchemists Xif and Saliss of Pallass:
Initial cuttings of the flowers are germinating—with great difficulty. We would appreciate additional samples if possible for experimentation. We suspect the plant has an adult form not harnessed yet—
 
Saliss glanced at Erin as she finished her letter and Mrsha wiped ink into her furry cheek. He’d webbed Xif with a potion, and the other [Alchemist] was currently stuck to the side of the street which was why he wasn’t in the inn. The Drake looked at Maviola El and smiled.
 
—-
 
Erin’s letter went on.
 
You do your delivery. I’ll try and figure out this ‘big E dude’ and see what I can do to help. Everything is good here! Pelt—he’s the grumpy Dwarf [Smith]—moved to Esthelm and Numbtongue loves his new sword. He practices with it all the time. Sometimes with accidents.
 
The scream went through the entire inn.
“Numbtongue!”
The Hobgoblin was hiding in the basement. Erin and Lyonette had just found the gigantic cut in the wall he’d made by accident. Bird waved at Erin through the gap.
“Hello, Erin. I have a new roommate.”
Recriminations were had later, especially since [Partial Reconstruction] didn’t fix holes in the wall.
 
…And Bezale’s really helping, along with Montressa! Yeah, you’re cool, Beza, if you’re reading this. Anyways, the others from home are settled in and I’m running out of room on this page, so that’s all from me. Send us more letters when you get back and good luck with the thing!
 
–Erin
 
A nice letter. Erin had a way with words—not necessarily written ones, but she made the letters happy, fun to read. Ryoka realized she’d mostly been just…describing. Not writing for Mrsha.
She’d do better next time. But Mrsha’s letter awaited. It was, as Erin had said, hand-transcribed, which meant that some poor [Scribe] had written exactly as Mrsha had—minus the blotches. Well, Skills made it easier.
Mrsha’s letter. Somehow—it surprised Ryoka and it shouldn’t. Mrsha was mute, nothing else. Ryoka knew that Erin and Lyonette had been teaching Mrsha. Even Bird and Numbtongue.
 
“If it flies, it can probably die. Probably. With enough arrows. Give me a big enough bow and I can probably kill it.”
       –Bird’s Observations on Hunting Birds, Lesson #8.
 
…To dubious effect. Ryoka had listened in on that particular gem, and Bird showing Mrsha how to aim a loaded crossbow. He’d gotten in trouble with everyone for that stunt.
But Mrsha had learned how to write. The first line of the letter brought a huge smile to Ryoka’s face, much to Fierre’s suspicion and the other’s surprise.
 
Dear Ryoka, hello. This is Mrsha.
 
She had written it in cursive, which existed in this world for some godforsaken reason. Well, it was a sign the gods were dead for no loving god would have allowed it to exist.
Ryoka smiled though; the clumsy, laborious cursive had made ‘hello’ look like ‘hewo’. She tried to imagine Mrsha’s voice as if it had existed. Young, excited—or would it be shy? Higher pitched, growling as she wrote—
 
The days have pressed on, and one finds oneself wan of late. My dearest companions, Visma and Ekirra (of whom I have vouchsafed to you before), are passing well. I am currently recumbent in the inn, and my breaking of the fast has been quite fine.
 
Ryoka fell out of her chair. Mrsha’s letter continued as the City Runner pulled herself onto the table—Alber and Fierre were staring—now in an older, posh English tone of some man in his fifties.
 
I have just recently been quite entertained by Numbtongue, whose musical stylings are, as ever, delightful to the ear. Lyonette does not find herself so enamored, but one supposes taste is a matter of preference…
 
Erin was reading Mrsha’s copy of the letter to Ryoka for the first time after Bezale had sent it. The Minotauress was giving the Gnoll cub a very odd look. Erin looked around.
 
“Lyonette? Why do you teach Mrsha to write like this?”
“It’s proper form, Erin! You could send that to anyone in Terandria!”
The [Princess] was quite pleased; she’d helped Mrsha with the letter. Erin blinked at the next section.
 
It has come to my attention of late that my studies have allowed me to communicate in the written fashion. This first letter is addressed to you as I hold you in great esteem. It is still difficult to write, what with the difficulties of paws, but I know how and will continue to correspond with you as time allows. Please, continue to send more updates to The Wandering Inn, as I earnestly await your missives.
 
Ryoka wondered if she was having a stroke. She felt at her pulse. Nope, steady heartbeat, if elevated. The worst part—well, sort of—was that while she could see where a certain [Princess] had helped Mrsha with the flowery wording, the Gnoll had done a lot of the sentences herself.
“Dead gods. Erin, you have to do something about this.”
The City Runner shook her head. But the ending of the letter caught her eye.
 
Please come home soon. I miss you very much. 
Love,
 
And instead of her name, Mrsha had put her paw in ink and pressed it to the paper. The scribe had done his best to replicate it. Ryoka smiled. She folded the letter and carefully put it in her bag of holding. Then she stood up to run.
 
—-
 
