The other teams crowded a bit closer. A few stared at Ksmvr, but they were adventurers. Pisces got the most distrustful looks. But Ceria was friendly as could be.
“A bit. But mostly monsters. We fought a Face-Eater Moth swarm way bigger than this one. Nearly took down the entire city. Are you all local teams?”
By that, she meant teams who had a set area they took requests in. She got nods from all but one team. The Silver-rank Captains asked Ceria about Liscor while the others hung back.
“So Liscor’s dungeon is…Gold-rank?”
“Is that an Antinium? I thought there were no Antinium-adventurers.”
“You just took apart that swarm. Are you a [Cryomancer]? We have a [Curse Mage]. If you’d like to swap spells…”
Pisces hung back with Yvlon as Ksmvr walked around, shaking hands and unnerving the other Silver-ranks. But they were too polite to say anything. Or rather—the [Necromancer] distinctly heard them whispering.
“Bastards could have left us a few moths. There’s only tracking duty left now…”
“Gold-ranks. Just went charging in. No plan. Could have gone south…”
He eyed the speaker and opened his mouth. Someone smacked him on the back of the head. Lightly—but her metal finger still hurt. Yvlon looked at Pisces.
“Leave it. They’re just grousing. Can you blame them?”
The young man sniffed. He looked about to snap back, but then shook his head. He actually smiled, ruefully.
“Were we ever like that?”
“Yes. Don’t pretend we’ve been Gold-ranks forever.”
She nudged him. Ceria excused herself from the crowd of Silver-ranks.
“We’re actually just passing through. Don’t know how long we’ll be here. If one of you wants to take the moth nest—be our guests. Just watch out—there’s always more of ‘em. If you have the ability to make rain, I’d use that. Takes them right out of the sky.”
“Thank you, Captain Springwalker.”
Some of them sounded halfway genuine. The others were just sycophantic. But that was adventurer politics for you. A Gold-rank team among Silver-ranks was a lion among uh, cats. Or something like that.
The Horns of Hammerad walked into the village where a group of villagers were hard at work. The [Headsman] hurried over.
“Captain Ceria, we’ve nearly finished your chariot. You have our deepest thanks. Please—we have some gifts for you.”
“Oh, there’s no need…”
Ceria began, but the man was already gesturing. The villagers offered the Horns a keg, food products—the [Headsman] explained.
“We can’t pay the full bounty, but this is just a token of gratitude. Please, we insist.”
“We had better take them up on the offer, Ceria.”
Pisces murmured, eying a chain of sausages. Ceria gave in. The Horns had done a number of monster-extermination requests and they’d learned the same lesson as the Silver Swords. You could insist on full payment, or give discounts and get gratitude, which was sometimes empty, or other times expressed like this.
“At least we’ll have a housewarming present, right Yvlon? Ksmvr, stop eating the bread. That’s for dinner.”
The Antinium looked up as a frightened [Baker] offered him loafs of his favorite food. He began loading the chariot and putting some of the foodstuffs into his bag of holding. Pisces walked over with his bag of holding open for the keg of spiced mead. The other Silver-ranks watched enviously, which made Ceria flush slightly. She felt bad—and she’d been on their side of things.
“Maybe we should ask if they want to have a snack, Yvlon? Or share some of the money? It’s not much—”
“Do you think we’d have been grateful? Let’s just leave it, Ceria.”
The woman whispered back and Ceria nodded. There really was no help for it; they hadn’t been able to slow down and let the other teams take partial credit. Not with an emergency attack. She was just about to thank the [Headsman] and check out their patched-up chariot when the man’s eyes widened.
“Excuse me, Miss. Did I hear…your name was Yvlon? As in, Yvlon of House Byres?”
Yvlon’s shoulders hunched. She slowly turned back and smiled.
“…That’s right.”
The man’s eyes widened.
“I knew it! Your hair—but your arms! You’re Lady Yvlon! We heard you were far from here! And wounded!”
His raised voice attracted the village’s attention. They turned and exclaimed. Suddenly, Yvlon was surrounded. All the reserve of Yissirain’s Rest turned into sudden adoration. Ceria blinked as her team was forgotten.
“Lady Byres, you should have said! Of course it was one of House Byres who came to our rescue! Your brother slew a pair of Mothbears when he was just a Silver-rank adventurer, oh, years back! I still remember it. And here you are! And your arms!”
“I’m just—no, we were just passing through. It was coincidence, really.”
“Are you visiting your family? Of course you are! We must send word!”
“No, please don’t.”
The [Armsmistress] looked desperately at Ceria. The half-Elf sighed.
Yissirain’s Rest was one of the villages in the domain of House Byres. The Horns of Hammerad had been travelling towards Yvlon’s home. The sudden call for help had been a surprise. And to Yvlon—an unwelcome one.
“I really must go. Of course, I’ll tell my father to make sure the Face-Eater Moths are destroyed. But there’s no need for thanks, truly.”
“House Byres has always protected us, milady. It’s an honor. We’ll send thanks, surely!”
The entire village waved the Horns of Hammerad off nearly ten minutes later, when Yvlon finally managed to tear herself away. Yvlon practically leapt into the chariot being pulled by Pisces’ horses. Even that didn’t dissuade most of the villagers from crowding around her.
“Get us out of here, Pisces.”
The [Necromancer] drove them off with a smirk at Yvlon. He opened his mouth and Ceria elbowed him warningly. When they were a good minute away from the village—the people were still waving and cheering her—Ceria turned in her seat.
“So…Yvlon.”
“We’ll have to go home straight away. Or they’ll send a thank-you gift to the house and wonder why I haven’t shown up.”
Yvlon’s face was, while not exactly gloomy, exasperated. She had declined to mention why, but none of her teammates had failed to notice a few things. They all sat back in the chariot. Ceria elbowed Pisces. He looked at Ksmvr and the Antinium happily committed the faux pas.
“I notice, Yvlon, that you have not informed your family of your new class or return home. Is this one of the ‘good surprises’ I have heard so much about?”
The woman glowered at Pisces and Ceria who innocently avoided her looks. She sat against the chariot and sighed.
“I didn’t tell Ylawes because he’d make a beeline for me and insist on…I don’t know. My father and mother for the same reason. Since we’re in the area, I thought we could just arrive and get it over with. Now, I guess we have no choice.”
“They’ll be happy, surely.”
Yvlon glowered.
“I’d have preferred not for anyone to recognize me. Especially—this.”
She gestured at her arms. The woman was taking off her armor. And putting on a long-sleeved shirt.
“Maybe if we make it fast—pick up the pace, Pisces. We can beat the messenger and they might not even mention anything besides our heroic rescue.”
“Yvlon. You’re not going to pretend to—”
Ceria saw the [Silversteel Armsmistress] cover her metal skin as she put on some long gloves. Yvlon gave her a look.
“It’s easier this way. I don’t want to make—a scene.”
The half-Elf looked at the [Necromancer] who studiously kept his eyes on the road. Yvlon didn’t like talking about her arms to most people. And this only confirmed their suspicions.
As always, Ksmvr broke the awkward silence. He might have learned more tact, but he was more than willing to ignore all his social graces.
“I am looking forward to meeting Yvlon’s family in pleasant circumstances. I believe her father was last laying siege to Liscor, but I was unable to greet him at that time.”
“Yes. That. I have to have some words with father about that, too. Let’s just get this over with.”
 
—-
 
It was a new experience. They had been a Gold-rank team for a while now. But it still felt new. And after reaching Invrisil—at last—they were going to Yvlon’s home. After that? Face-Eater Moth swarms weren’t a threat any longer.
They were ready for the real missions. The big bounties. Ceria was excited. They had one quest already set for them—the Village of the Dead. Pisces hadn’t said why, aside from his usual cryptic hints, but Ceria was willing to try it.
They were Gold-ranks. Of course, they had yet to really push themselves and they had a surplus of new abilities and items and hadn’t worked out their battle plan perfectly. As that last fight had shown. Hedault had provided new gear like Yvlon’s helmet, repaired old items, and the team was ready for anything. Again…they just hadn’t found the quest yet.
It was a bit odd. They’d taken every monster assignment they’d run across, but Ceria had forgotten that not everywhere had a pressing monster attack or some great dungeon to explore. The reason they were headed to Yvlon’s family’s estate was because they hadn’t been able to figure what else to do on the road north.
Well, meeting Yvlon’s family was enticement enough. As they approached House Byres, Ceria saw that Yvlon’s family really was a noble one.
“Ksmvr, all that you see is Yvlon’s property.”
“Ooh. What about those trees?”
Yvlon pinched both of her teammates, looking amused and vexed.
“I don’t own it. I’m the third child of House Byres. And we don’t own the villages.”
Ksmvr nodded agreeably.
“They just pay you tribute. I understand the concept of nobility, Yvlon. You still have a claim to that tree. May I have it?”
He pointed at a few trees set into the low foothills. Yvlon sighed.
“Ksmvr. Well, why not? Anyways, I’m hardly a model [Lady]. I wanted to be an adventurer—that’s as good as renouncing my claim. My sister is the real heir. But we’re a small house. Poor. House Byres mines silver. See?”
She pointed towards the foothills, which were apparently ideal silver mines. Pisces snorted.
“And silver is such a worthless metal.”
“It was worth more a while ago. Being responsible for so much land takes money, Pisces. Look, my parents are very traditional. My father especially. My mother married into the family, so she’s actually more likely to accept you. Just don’t do anything too provocative until I can explain to father that you’re a [Necromancer], please?”
“Very well. But you should tell that to Ksmvr.”
“I am a model of good behavior, Pisces.”
Ceria snorted and Ksmvr gave her a hurt look.
“Sorry, Ksmvr. Oh look! Is that your home, Yvlon?”
The woman sighed.
“Yes.”
House Byres’ estates were not located in the largest town in their lands, which the Horns had passed by. Rather, it was a keep set near the foothills and one of the mines.
“It’s our ancestral home. Fortified, back when we had more enemies. There’s a tiny village around it—Pisces, go through the front. There’s a moat—see how it ties into the river?”
Indeed, the river itself flowed around the Byres family’s keep, splitting into two sides in a moat. Yvlon made them stop about a mile out and had Pisces turn his horses into bones.
“We’re walking. I’m not riding home on an undead horse. Now remember—no one talk about my arms. Pisces, no undead. Ksmvr, don’t talk about the Hives or declare war. The last thing we need is that.”
Everyone shuddered. They’d seen and heard about the Pallass incident. Ksmvr nodded.
“I will not start an international incident if it can be avoided, Yvlon.”
“Good enough.”
“What do I not do, Yvlon?”
The half-Elf grinned at Pisces and Ksmvr. Her smug look faded when Yvlon turned to her.
“Don’t shake any hands. Your aura still freezes everything when you don’t concentrate.”
Pisces smirked at her. The half-Elf aimed a kick at them and Yvlon sighed. She led the way towards the village and keep.
“Is that Lady Yvlon?”
They were spotted within less than a minute of walking. A group returning from the mines stared as they carted ore back to the village. Yvlon raised her hand. And she was smiling.
“Hello! Is that Gerrif? [Foreman] Gerrif?”
“Lady Yvlon!”
The [Miners] broke into a run. Ceria saw them waver when they saw Ksmvr, but Yvlon strode ahead.
“This is my team…are my father and mother here? Ylawes? Ysara?”
“Lord and Lady Byres are, Lady Yvlon! And—dead gods, but you look older! This is your team? I thought the Silver Spears were all-female. And I heard…”
Yvlon’s smile slipped. Ceria winced. But the [Armsmistress] recovered quickly.
“You know adventuring, Gerrif. I’m just back to visit the family for a day or two.”
“Lord Yitton won’t hear of it, milady! There’ll be a celebration! If you haven’t sent word—hey! You two! Run and tell the keep Lady Yvlon is returning!”
Yvlon opened her mouth, but it was too late. Two of the younger [Miners] ran towards the village. And Foreman Gerrif abandoned the carts of ore to escort Yvlon and the Horns to the keep.
It was a mark of how popular Yvlon was that they accepted Ksmvr’s existence. Although Ceria had noticed it was ignorance as much as Ksmvr’s status as an adventurer that kept mobs from turning on him.
He was simply as foreign as a Selphid, or Garuda. Northern Izril had fought the Antinium, but they had never instilled the loathing or fear as among Drakes or Gnolls. It would be like seeing a Demon, whatever they looked like, for Ceria.
As the Horns of Hammerad approached the village and keep, the doors were thrown open. Someone came across the bridge as the village turned out.
It was like being hailed as heroes, only this time the celebration was only for Yvlon. She looked surprised by the greetings; this was her home. She went around, shaking hands, trading gentle hugs in her case, exclaiming over people she’d met, or shy children.
No one noticed or commented on Yvlon’s long-sleeved shirt and gloves, despite the warm summer weather. Indeed, Ceria’s one-handed glove drew more looks, and that was just from one person.
The half-Elf hung back with Pisces. Ksmvr was shaking hands, three at a time sometimes. The [Mage] was more interested in Yvlon’s parents.
“Aha. So that is the [Lord] of House Byres. And [Lady].”
Pisces pointed. The crowds parted and Ceria saw Yvlon’s head turn.
“Mother?”
“Yvlon!”
There they were. Yitton Byres was somewhat like Ceria had imagined him. Grey-brown hair and beard, a solid build, in good shape for his age of early fifties. He looked somewhat stern, but more serious than anything. Someone who had raised Ylawes, who valued honor and virtue.
