Drassi stared at the bit of parchment she’d been handed. Her eyes widened as she saw Jecrass’ army charging.
“Wow. They’re going in—”
 
—-
 
“[Flicker Charge]!”
His army vanished and reappeared a dozen paces ahead. They crashed through the first line of Reim’s forces and hit the second. They were surrounded in a moment.
It caught the King of Destruction off-guard. His half-Giants moving to flank hesitated, as friend-and-foe milled around. Half of Jecrass’ army was now in a mill against Reim.
It meant retreat would be far more difficult. Raelt had never pushed this far in. It was fine. He had no intention of quitting the field until he was done.
His blood should have been boiling. The sound of his soldiers dying as they crashed against the Rustängmarder, the elite vanguard, chilled him.
But he was just cold. And tired. Raelt rode forwards. Not in the first rank. He was waiting.
“To me!”
Warden Emile was pushing left. Warden Winta and Sekirst right. They were leading their elites forwards.
“Mars the Illusionist!”
A voice from the side. Raelt turned. He heard the screaming before he saw her. The flicker of magic in the air.
She was coming. The [Vanguard] charged and the close-knit forces died where the King’s Champion attacked. Raelt looked around.
“[Trick Riders]. Buy me five minutes.”
“Your Majesty!”
One of his [Captains of the Horse] raised his sword and saluted Raelt. The [King] watched him plunge towards Mars, trying to capture her with ropes, slow her.
“Thank you.”
Raelt whispered. He turned and saw it.
The Rustängmarder were holding the ground. The elite infantry could survive lance-strikes to their chests and they rose after death. Jecrass had few [Lancers] anyways—but the Rustängmarder were still only a hundred strong. Even if they didn’t die—
You could still make an opening. The King of Destruction was fighting on his horse, surrounded by a royal bodyguard. As Warden Emile crashed against the Rustängmarder, Raelt saw it. He pointed.
“With me.”
He rode forwards. The remaining [Trick Riders] shot through the press of bodies. Their mounts did impossible stunts, leaping, sliding through gaps—travelling.
The King of Destruction saw him, of course. Flos Reimarch was laughing as he fought. He threw an axe—
Raelt slid sideways. Behind him, one of his [Trick Riders] disappeared. Raelt saw the Rustängmarder react to the danger.
“Close ranks around his Majesty! [Steel Curtain Formation]!”
Commander Ytol roared. The Rustängmarder seemed to merge. Emile’s forces slammed into them, unable to get past.
“My turn. [Trick Riders]—now. Warden Winta!”
The River Warden raised her wand. She aimed it up. The Rustängmarder braced, ready to block or even deflect a [Fireball]. But it wasn’t that. She pointed. And shouted a word as the [Trick Riders] abandoned their [King].
“[Step of Light]!”
Raelt Leysars of Jecrass saw the foothold appear in midair. He stood on his horse’s back as it was about to hit the press of bodies. And leapt.
“[Flash Step].”
The [King of Challenges] landed on the platform in the air. He vanished. Flos Reimarch’s head twisted.
Past the wall of the Rustängmarder, Raelt landed. Amid [Soldiers]. They twisted, seeing the [King]. He stabbed a [Soldier] through the face.
“Defend his Majesty!”
Both sides shouted it. Raelt heard a whoop and saw a [Trick Rider] land.
“[Flying Hooves]!”
The [Soldiers] went flying as more [Trick Riders] landed past the Rustängmarder, creating an opening. The [Soldiers] closed in; the elite [Riders] went down to thrusting spears. Raelt saw a woman slash around her with a spear, clearing a gap before they ran her through.
Dying, dying. To create an opening. Raelt saw it appear and dodged the slashing blades. He wove left, vanishing, blurring. [Evasive Leap] carried him left—
And there he was. The King of Destruction looked down at the King of Duels.
“Raelt of Jecrass. You’ve pushed too far in. You are alone.”
The King of Destruction’s bodyguards pushed forwards. Raelt nodded. He saw the River Wardens fighting forwards, trying to reach him. The [King of Challenges] flicked his rapier up and aimed it at Flos.
“I’m aware. But I’m tired. I’d rather like to finish this, Flos of Reim.”
“I’m not in the mood for a duel. I think you cheat.”
The King of Destruction’s eyes glinted. He motioned his bodyguard to the sides, moving to encircle Raelt.
“Although I’d be interested in taking you alive, I’m rather more practical than that. If you were hoping for a duel, Raelt—”
He stopped as Raelt dodged a sudden thrust from the side. He ran the Rustängmarder [Death Soldier] through the gap in his visor. Raelt pulled the blade back. His parrying dagger was in the other hand. He looked at the King of Destruction.
“I wasn’t.”
Something chimed softly in the battle. A golden bell. The [Fencer] stood, looking left and right at the King of Destruction’s bodyguard. Flos Reimarch stared. And then he laughed.
“Well said.”
He rode forwards as Raelt Leysars bowed.
 
—-
 
“Oh wow. Oh wow.”
Drassi was so distracted she forgot she was on air. She was peering at the picture with everyone else. She jumped as someone coughed.
“I-I think this is it. The King of Duels has now engaged the King of Destruction and his bodyguard in combat. Ancestors. He’s going to die—”
She watched Raelt stagger as someone tried to run him through. Only his enchanted armor saved him. He turned, hacking, as the King of Destruction turned his mount for another pass. He had an axe and shield up. Drassi looked around desperately.
“Are we recording this? Are we recording this? Someone tell everyone!”
Her shouting was audible in The Wandering Inn. Mrsha looked up from her ‘grand apology and niceness tour’. Maviola El stood up and strode for the scrying orb and crowd. Erin Solstice drifted over. She hadn’t really seen the King of Destruction before. War wasn’t something she wanted to watch. She heard an exclamation.
 
—-
 
Now, he felt alive. He had been a poor [King]. But a [Fencer]—Raelt spun, slashing, parrying blows. He wove among the bodyguard as they tried to stop him. Their numbers worked against them. For a moment.
“Leysars!”
The blow hammered him down. The [King of Challenges] saw the world black out. He slashed at the horse, scoring a scream of pain. Flos moved back to heal his mount.
So close. It ended here. One way or an—
A blow to the helmet. Raelt fell forwards and someone hit him from the front so he ended up back on his feet.
“Surrender.”
Someone shouted it at him. Flos? His people? The [King of Challenges] aimed again.
Eyeguard. He struck with his parrying dagger and lost it. It was all about—about—
He turned and saw the King of Destruction. The King of Jecrass charged. His bodyguard, his [Trick Riders] were dead. They had bought him this opening. His forces were encircled. All for his vanity. And he was too slow. Too many people in the way.
He should have thought of that. Raelt ran into a group of Rustängmarder. They advanced. He had forgotten. He had lost the duel. He had tried to redeem himself.
A voice. Warden Emile rode down on the wall of steel. Raelt had forgotten—the River Warden broke through the vanguard. He raised a ring and a bolt of lightning struck the [Soldiers] in front of Raelt.
“Your Majesty.”
The River Warden ran onto the blades, cutting down at the [Death Soldiers]. Another pointed her wand. Warden Winta. She blasted one of the [Soldiers] off his horse.
Emile died as Raelt ran past him. The King of Destruction was there. His bodyguards were knocked back by another spell from Winta’s wand.
“Flos of Reim!”
Raelt bellowed. The King of Destruction dropped the healing potion he’d been uncorking. He’d let go of his shield. He raised the axe, calculating, shielding his heart. Grinning at Raelt.
His warhorse reared. Neither man expected that. The poor animal, in pain, reared up, hooves flailing at Raelt. The [Fencer] saw the axe shift. He lunged, felt a blow knock him flat.
The King of Duels had lost his rapier. He scrambled around for it, bracing—and looked up.
Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction, stared down at the rapier’s blade in his chest. The bloody tip of the blade stood out in his back.
It had gone through his heart. He stared at Raelt. At a loss for words.
 
—-
 
The battlefield slowed. Fell…silent. The [Soldiers] in Reim’s army turned. They felt it.
The King of Destruction sat frozen in his saddle. Warden Winta shouted, blood running down her face.
“The King of Destruction is dead! Rally to his Majesty!”
Jecrass’ forces advanced. Reim’s army was frozen apart. Mars turned.
“Your Majesty?”
Zamea—Teres, standing next to Ytol —the world stopped for them.
Drassi, sitting at her desk, stared at the scrying orb. She looked around.
“Uh. D-did we just see the King of Destruction die? Is that—that—”
“Impossible.”
Maviola whispered. She stared at the silent figure on the horse. The King of Duels was being dragged away, out of the frozen army. The King of Destruction had been stabbed through the heart.
 
—-
 
A lucky blow. Changed everything. His rapier had gone through the armor. Raelt felt someone pulling at him.
“Your Majesty, retreat! To me!”
Warden Winta ordered one of the [Trick Riders] to pull Raelt back. The King of Duels was frozen. But the River Warden was leading a second charge. Reim’s forces barely put up any resistance. They were staring at their [King].
He hadn’t moved. Raelt had seen the place where the King of Destruction had been struck. It was his heart.
“The King of Destruction is dead. Lay down your arms.”
The River Warden rode at Flos’ body. She was aiming her wand, seeking a target. The [King] of Reim wasn’t breathing. She saw his hand on the rapier’s hilt. Warden Winta frowned. Had he—
The King of Destruction pulled the rapier out of his heart. Winta looked at him. He wasn’t breathing. She lifted her wand.
He ran her through with Raelt’s rapier. Let go. The King of Destruction’s face was dead white. He didn’t breathe. Jerkily—he reached for his belt.
Healing potion. He smashed the bottle into the hole in his chest. The potion and glass shards mixed with the oozing blood.
And the flesh began to heal. Raelt of Jecrass stared.
“No. That’s…”
The King of Destruction watched his chest close. Then—at last—he took one breath and fell from his horse.
“To his Majesty!”
Someone roared. Reim’s armies moved. The King of Destruction’s army began to fight. Desperately, as Jecrass’ momentum faltered. Both sides were watching that spot. And then—the King of Destruction regained his mount. In a circle of bodyguards, he inhaled a second time, coughing. He raised a hand. And his army roared.
 
—-
 
“But that’s not fair.”
That was all Drassi said. She looked at the King of Destruction, as he dismounted.
 
—-
 
“I cannot die that easily. Next time, aim for my head. Still, but for healing potions, I’d have died a thousand times over.”
The King of Destruction managed enough air after three minutes for that. Half of his army was clustered around him. The other side fought—but Jecrass was retreating.
“I will not die. Not—not that easily.”
The King of Destruction grinned. Blood ran around his mouth as his forces stared at him. He gestured at his heart.
“Still—it was a relief the potion worked. It was close. A heartless [King] would be a poor thing, eh?”
Laughter. He laughed, and Shepherd Zamea, Mars, laughed as if it was the funniest thing in the world. The Rustängmarder did not. They were kneeling.
“Your Majesty, we have failed our charge. Our deaths are yours.”
Commander Ytol knelt with help. The King of Destruction looked at the [Death Commander], mystified. He shook his head.
“I’d rather your life, Ytol. I should have expected that. The King of Duels earned his name again. But if you want to repay me—”
He panted.
“Give me one second. I need to catch my breath.”
For a minute, two, then six, he rested. Joking weakly, standing next to his horse more by force of will than anything else. For his army to see. Then he turned to his Rustängmarder. They rose as he beckoned them.
“You can offer your deaths if I die. But since I live—keep up.”
He grabbed his shield and a sword. The [Soldiers] started. The King of Destruction eyed the retreating infantry.
“A blade for a blade. To me!”
Flos ran, pushing aside [Soldiers]. At first, they were stunned. Then the momentum turned. The army began flooding across the field in a full-blown charge. Jecrass’ forces fled, the rearguard cut to pieces as the King of Destruction fought at the front of his army.
A warrior-king fit for his legend. He added to it that day. Jecrass’ army fled. And Raelt of Jecrass was alive.
 
—-
 
Emile was dead. Winta was dead.
He should have used poison. That would have done it.
But for one coating. One…Raelt didn’t hear the voices. Sekirst and the other officers took charge. The others helped him ride, helped him dismount. He found himself sitting in his tent.
The King of Duels sat there for a while. Then he rose. And when he did—he said only one thing.
“Let’s go home.”
They didn’t know what he meant, at first. But then…Jecrass’ army fell back. They abandoned their borders. General Lael abandoned her front and the armies of Reim advanced unimpeded. They only stopped due to the King of Destruction’s wounds and to fortify their hold.
 
—-
 
“According to these maps and the [Strategist] consultation um…Jecrass just lost twenty percent of the entire nation. It’s…a good move? I mean, Jecrass’ main army just lost a lot of soldiers. And they can fight closer to their main cities. That’s according to the [Strategist].”
Drassi spoke awkwardly to the viewers. She hesitated, looked around. No one was giving her any good cues.
“Folks, I guess what we’ve learned today is that it’s really hard to kill high-level [Kings]. Or [Warriors] in general.”
It would take more days to see the battle lines established. Control was more than a map. But the King of Destruction’s armies marched fast and moreover—it was clear Raelt of Jecrass was just leaving the borders, evacuating everyone who hadn’t already gone.
 
—-
 
“Abandon the front. I don’t care what Lael says. We’re not fighting him again. We’re just throwing lives away.”
Raelt rode ahead of his army. Abandoning it. He had to go home. He could still see his blade in the King of Destruction’s chest.
Unfair. No—he just hadn’t done his job right. And now—Raelt was returning to face his mistakes.
