Their fearless leader, a [Weather Ranger] who had Skills that allowed him to take advantage of most types of weather waved at their [Mage], who ironically specialized in hexes. Their dedicated close-quarters expert, a [Switchblade Warrior] with bow-Skills, raised his hand.
“If we don’t have reinforcements, I think we should set up some nets so we can shoot the moths. The trouble will be the small ones. If we get swarmed by them we’ll get torn up fast. Maybe we should have our Fire Cloak scrolls on standby…”
“I like that plan, Illsul. If there’s a good choke point, we could take on most of the swarm. This could be our biggest battle yet! Let’s have that escape route ready, though, Olphela.”
The Silver-rank team nodded to each other. Their [Rogue] nodded; she had smoke and dust-bombs which had saved their bacon more than once. The Silver-rank team picked up the pace. The challenge of fighting so many Face-Eater moths was great, but with risks came glory—
They were closing in on the village and could see the distant flying shapes now. The villagers were locked in their homes as the moths tried to dig through the roofs, assailing everything outside. The people were safe, having even rescued pets and a number of animals, but some of the moths were big. As large as horses. And there were hundreds of them.
Skylark’s Hubris gulped. Their leader held up his hand, eyes darting around.
“Not too fast now! Looks like we’re first on the scene. Let’s find a good vantage point and prepare to engage—”
The team was slowing when they heard a shout from behind them. The four Silver-ranks turned. They saw something heading their way. It was…
“Is that a chariot?”
It was. Someone had taken a wagon and modified it to hold a small group comfortably. And pulling it…Hexi turned pale.
“That’s—that’s—”
A pair of undead horses were pulling the chariot. The horrified Silver-ranks reached for their weapons. But they saw the chariot turn and go off-road. Their leader stared. There was a young man in white robes driving the vehicle. A [Necromancer]?
“Hey! You!”
Someone shouted at them. They saw a half-Elf waving her skeletal hand. She pointed at the distant swarm.
“Hey. You heading to this Face-Eater Moth raid too?”
The chariot slowed, but Skylark’s Hubris had to accelerate to keep pace. The adventurers saw a woman with silver arms calmly sitting at the back of the chariot. And next to her—
“What is that?”
A huge bug-man waved at them. The half-Elf grinned. Frost coated the place where she was holding the chariot. The leader of Skylark’s Hubris shouted at her.
“We are, but what is—who is—”
“Sorry, can’t talk! That village is in trouble! We’ll get things started! Back us up!”
“Wait! What do you mean? We haven’t prepared—”
The adventurers saw the chariot accelerate. Their horses reared rather than get close to the skeletal horses dragging the chariot forwards. Illsul paled.
“Oh, dead gods. They just charged in.”
“Stick to the plan—stick to—”
The undead chariot shot across the ground. Skylark’s Hubris nearly collided with each other in their panic. The other team was headed straight into the center of the village and the Face-Eater Moths sensed the prey. They turned in a huge storm. They were going to die—they were—
The Horns of Hammerad. The chariot didn’t slow or turn as the moths flew at them. In fact, it picked up even more speed.
“Ready, guys?”
The half-Elf shouted at the others and got nods.
The [Necromancer] was standing at the prow, resting one foot on the front of the chariot, robes blowing in the headwind. A woman wearing silver armor with metal arms dragged him back down.
“Stop that, you idiot. You’ll fall off if we hit a stone. Again.”
“It’s about the image, Yvlon—”
The two began fighting as the first moths dove. The half-Elf pointed.
“Now! Ksmvr! Covering fire, Pisces! [Ice Lance]!”
A huge javelin of ice shot from her wand and struck the first moth in the chest. Skylark’s Hubris saw the monster crash to the ground, dead. They stared as the Antinium leapt.
“Jumping. I am a target! [Focus of Ire]! Attack me, you snacks!”
Ksmvr flew upwards, Forceshield raised. He slashed with his dagger and shortsword as the swarm turned on him. He landed on a moth, crushing its back, leapt again. He landed and ran left, dodging the moths swarming around him.
“[Acid Orb]. Yvlon—now!”
Pisces hit the swarm converging on Ksmvr with a brown-yellow orb of acid. The moths dropped out of the air, writhing as their carapaces smoked. But the largest moths were still after Ksmvr.
The [Skirmisher] dodged back towards the chariot. The moths flew after him, single-minded. And the woman with silver arms leapt from the back of the vehicle. She planted her feet.
“Ksmvr—”
“Evading!”
The Antinium leapt past her. Yvlon Byres set herself and raised the repaired Sword of Weight. She tensed—
“[Sword Art: Curve of the Moon].”
The Silver-rank team saw the glittering arc cut through dozens of moths. The [Silversteel Armsmistress] plunged forwards after her Skill activated. She swung her sword two-handed, cutting down the largest moths. Another landed on her shoulder, trying to bite the metallic flesh—she grimaced, flexed one arm—
A spike of metal rammed through the moth’s midsection. Her skin had morphed in reaction to the attacker.
“What is—”
“Pisces! I said go around the village! Around! [Ice Wall]! [Ice Wall]!”
The half-Elf was shouting at the [Necromancer]. He was bellowing back.
“You try steering and aiming! [Deathbolt]!”
The walls of ice rose around Ksmvr and Yvlon, as well as a ceiling, funneling the moths who were still pursuing Ksmvr with his target-Skill active. Pisces unleashed a black bolt of magic that dropped a group of tiny moths. Ceria pointed.
“That way! No, watch out for the—”
They hit a rock. Skylark’s Hubris saw the chariot crash into a house. Two [Mages] emerged, swearing at each other. Ceria raised a wall of ice, stopping the moths ramming into each other. Pisces stabbed a moth with a flaming rapier.
“Arise, my Warbear!”
He pointed and bones rose. A huge skeletal bear tore into the swarm. Ceria gave up arguing. A moth landed on her back and she panicked.
“Get it off, get it off—”
“Relax, it can’t bite you.”
Pisces blasted it off with a pinpoint [Stone Dart] spell. Ceria felt at her back, but her new, snazzy enchanted robes had shrugged off the monster trying to bite her. She scowled at Pisces.
“This wouldn’t happen if you steered properly!”
“Well, maybe if you didn’t nag—”
“Shut up you two!”
Yvlon’s helmet flashed. The Sparkhelm blinded the moths around her as she cut down another. Ksmvr ran out of a clump of flaming moths, waving his Flamecoat Dagger.
“I believe we are winning! Let us not celebrate prematurely!”
He slashed a moth in half and calmly bit another with his mandibles before it could bite him. Ksmvr chewed and spat out what was left.
“Dead gods. They have to be a Gold-rank team.”
Skylark’s Hubris realized they were just staring. Lamely, they began loosing arrows. But the moths were focused entirely on the four adventurers taking them to pieces.
“Okay, ice aura! Activate!”
Ceria shouted. Pisces vanished, swearing, as the moths besieging Ceria suddenly flew off.
“I’m in your radius, Springwalker!”
He had frost on his robes. The [Necromancer] blurred over to a house, put his back to the wall, and promptly raised a wall of bones to take cover behind.
“Dawncallers, to the rescue! Ready for b—”
Skylark’s Hubris turned as another Silver-rank team they often competed with charged down the road. The light-based team stopped and stared.
The Face-Eater Moths were fleeing. Ceria shot [Ice Spikes] rapid-fire after them, and Pisces hit two more with [Deathbolt]. Ksmvr was aiming his enchanted bow at the fleeing moths, but Yvlon caught his arm.
“Not the magic arrows, Ksmvr.”
“Yes, Yvlon. Taste unenchanted steel, monsters!”
The Antinium switched to regular arrows and shot a moth before they were out of range. He could have used his crossbows—but each one was pre-loaded with a magical bolt and that was a waste of gold.
The Horns of Hammerad stood, panting in the village. Ceria clapped her hands to her head.
“The chariot!”
It was a cracked mess. And the undead horses were, well, powdered bones. Pisces sniffed as he picked around the wreck.
“The ah, horses are easy to fix. But the wagon…”
“What if I freeze the pieces together? We can fix it up—”
“I’m not getting frostbite again, Ceria. Maybe someone in the village is a [Carpenter]. Hello? It’s safe!”
Yvlon turned and called out. She saw a cracked window open further. The villagers of Yissirain’s Rest had seen the battle of course. They emerged, staring at dying moths and at the four adventurers.
“You have our deepest thanks, adventurers! We thought it would be at least another half an hour before someone arrived with such a large swarm…but who are you? And that—”
The [Headman] of the village emerged. He stared fearfully at Ksmvr; there were also eyes for Pisces, who was disassembling his Warbear, Ceria’s skeletal hand, and Yvlon’s metal arms. The half-Elf smiled as she strode forwards.
Skylark’s Hubris, who had approached with the Dawncallers, saw the captain of the Horns of Hammerad shaking the village head’s hand and giving him a quick speech.
“Sorry about the cold. I’m Ceria. Ceria Springwalker. This is Ksmvr. Yes, he’s an Antinium—”
“An—”
“A registered Gold-rank adventurer. Yes, Pisces is a [Necromancer]. All undead under full control. Also Gold-rank.”
“B—”
“My hand’s not undead. I just lost all the skin. Yvlon’s arms are a Skill. We’re happy to clear up the moths. Even look for the nest, although that might be a job for another team. All good? Ksmvr, say hello and don’t frighten the people.”
“Hello. I am Ksmvr. Perfectly harmless.”
There was a practiced feel to the way the Horns of Hammerad introduced themselves. They did it so fast that the stunned villagers didn’t really have a chance to object. They were kicking the moth bodies into a pile—the Silver-ranked teams jumped and grabbed at their weapons as they saw a few skeletons piling up the bodies.
“Undead! He’s using people’s bodies!”
A villager cried out in horror. She pointed at Pisces. The [Necromancer]’s sniff was loud and pointed.
“[Bandit] bodies, Miss. Perfectly acceptable.”
“Oh. But—”
The clear indignation in the young man’s voice made the villagers hesitate long enough for Ceria to speak over any objections.
“We need to burn the moths. There are always eggs and stuff. We need wood—if we don’t get that, we have to freeze them. Which I can do, but then you have a lot of dead moths lying about.”
“W-we have wood. Adventurer Springwalker, we can’t thank you enough. About the bounty…”
The [Headman] was still staring at the undead and Ksmvr, but he was now counting the dead moths, terrified of the cost of so many bounties. Ceria waved it off.
“We can talk that over. The Adventurer’s Guild has a bounty on monster attacks anyways. Actually—does anyone here know how to uh, repair wagons? Ours is busted.”
She looked around. The Silver-rank teams, villagers, all had the stunned look Ceria had learned to expect. She smiled as the [Headsman] looked at her.
“Excuse me. Miss Springwalker. But who are you?”
The half-Elf slapped her forehead.
“I always forget something. We’re a Gold-rank team. I doubt you’ve heard of us, but—”
She gestured to Pisces, relaxing while his undead did all the work. Yvlon, dragging a huge moth corpse towards the pile as Ksmvr snacked on one and carried an armful. The half-Elf grinned, and her pale blue-grey eyes shone in the sunlight.
“…We’re the Horns of Hammerad. Nice to meet you.”
 
—-
 
“Whew. I think we did a good job.”
Ceria Springwalker watched the burning pyre of moth bodies twenty minutes later. Cleanup hadn’t been hard once she’d gotten the village to help out. Pisces had even deactivated his undead; now he was enjoying a drink. He’d bullied someone into opening a keg for him.
“Good job? Our plan fell apart, Ceria. You two nearly broke your necks.”
A scowling woman in armor walked over. Yvlon Byres had washed the gore off her armor, but that didn’t change her disapproving expression.
“That wasn’t our fault. We hit a rock, and Pisces was driving—”
“Perhaps, then, our foe was so unimpressive that our mediocre tactics are still sufficient?”
Ksmvr smiled brightly. The Antinium looked content—and full. Ceria eyed the Antinium.
“You have moth stuff on your cheek, Ksmvr.”
“Pardon me, Captain Ceria.”
Pisces wandered over with a mug of something. He had two more and offered them to Ceria and Ksmvr—Yvlon didn’t like drinking. The half-Elf accepted the mug gratefully.
“Thanks, Pisces. Ooh. This is nice.”
“Stop making them serve you, Pisces.”
The [Armsmistress] scowled at the [Necromancer]. He gave her an indignant look.
“Yvlon Byres. We have saved this village. Surely some remuneration—”
“It doesn’t mean you get to order them around like servants.”
Someone started, but neither adventurer noticed. The two were about to begin bickering when someone nervously approached them.
“Uh. Excuse me.”
The Horns of Hammerad turned. They saw a group of adventurers all staring at them. Ceria smiled at Skylark’s Hubris.
“Hi. Thanks for the assist! Sorry we didn’t introduce ourselves beforehand—there was no time. I’m Ceria Springwalker. And you are…?”
“Idell. Captain of Skylark’s Hubris. This is uh, Omel, Captain of the Dawncallers, and…”
Ceria’s brows rose. Six Silver-rank teams had converged on the sudden moth attack, ready for danger and glory. All but two had arrived too late.
“Oh wow. You all were here for the raid? Um. Sorry for…”
She waved at the burning moths. The Silver-rank teams stared at the Horns of Hammerad, who’d nearly single-handedly disposed of the entire swarm.
Idell gave Ceria a pained and clearly fake smile.
“Not at all. Its first-come, first-kill, of course…we didn’t know Gold-ranks were in the area.”
“We’re new to the area. Just passing through.”
“I see. Er—any plans on staying? That is—where are you from? I haven’t heard of the Horns of Hammerad before…”
“Ah, well, we worked further east and then around Liscor for a while.”
“Really? Really? Were you at the dungeon, by any chance? I heard one opened up.”
The adventurers saw the Horns laugh or shake their heads ruefully. Ceria explained.
“We were there when it first opened. Believe me, that’s a dangerous dungeon.”
“You were first in? Any treasure?”
