It began with letters. A letter day—although they weren’t red. Nor did they come in envelopes—mostly.
You had to pay extra for envelopes and the ‘presentation’. Which was silly since a [Mage]-[Scribe] would copy out the letter anyways so why bother with postage and envelopes? Ryoka Griffin learned that you could even pay for different qualities of paper, handwriting styles—
Since it sounded like a pain, and because she could, she ended up going through Bezale. The Minotauress had offered the service when she’d heard Ryoka wanted to send messages back.
To The Wandering Inn. The City Runner had gone far away. But she had promised to return and one sign of this was the letters. She would not leave without letting those who cared about her know where she was, and how she was doing.
“Erin. This is for you.”
One day, Erin Solstice woke up to find Bezale holding a neatly-written letter. The [Spellscribe] saw the young woman’s blank look and explained.
“A letter. From Miss Ryoka Griffin.”
“What? A letter?”
Erin’s voice attracted Lyonette’s attention. Erin exclaimed over it.
“But how? I mean—is it a [Message]? Ryoka said she only knew a few spells.”
The Minotauress huffed as she handed the piece of paper over.
“The Mage’s Guild sent it through me. I am a [Spellscribe]. I don’t usually do cheap work, but it’s a favor.”
“Thank you! Did Ryoka say—”
“I just got the contents of the message, Erin. Read the letter.”
Bezale’s expression was a bit pained. She walked back to her table and Erin stared at the neat letter. And far to the north, Ryoka Griffin exhaled.
“Dear Mrsha…hey, wait a second! This isn’t addressed to me!”
It was, in a way. But Ryoka had decided to write to Mrsha. Erin blinked at the letter as Lyonette read over her shoulder. The [Princess] snorted.
“At least she’s sending letters now.”
Erin smiled. She began to fold up the paper to read with Mrsha, but Lyonette took it and began to read. The [Innkeeper] gestured at the paper.
“She promised she would. I’ll go get Mrsha. Where is she?”
“In the garden. Numbtongue’s playing. And she had better write letters or I’d have to stab her.”
Erin chuckled, but Lyonette’s face didn’t move. The [Princess] vetted the Ryoka-letter while Erin went to find Mrsha.
The door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] opened to a screaming guitar solo. Erin blinked. On the grassy hilltop, she saw a Hobgoblin playing as electricity grounded itself around him. He was grinning as he played and someone was slamming on the drums.
Kevin. There was also accompanying music—horns and other music coming from a laptop.
The two-man band had an audience. A little Gnoll and her two friends were waving their arms and bobbing their heads in the best traditions of the crowd.
“Mrsha!”
Erin had to shout when Numbtongue slowed down. The little Gnoll ran up to her, excited, as the Hobgoblin [Bard] wiped at his forehead. His guitar, always electric, now had a resonance to match. Hedault’s first pass through the inn had ended up enchanting the guitar—mostly because the concept had fascinated him.
“Sorry to interrupt, Numbtongue. But there’s a letter for you, Mrsha. From Ryoka.”
The Gnoll’s ears perked up. Her eyes went round and she dashed into the common room. Numbtongue nodded at Kevin as Ekirra and Visma waved to Erin—the band began their second practice performance for the stage Erin had promised them.
New guitar, new inn. Well, sort of. Erin passed by the kitchen and saw Ishkr gingerly heating up a pot of soup on a heating rune. All you had to do was say the word ‘ignis’ and it would ignite. In theory. But there had been complications.
“Ignis—”
A jet of flame shot up and the Gnoll swore and grabbed at the pot. Erin winced.
“Hedault will fix that, Ishkr!”
The problem was that Erin’s inn had too much mana in it. Hedault had been trying to limit the ‘draw’ of the runes with Montressa. He’d gotten several basic enchantments in place, but some, like the kitchen, were a matter of fine-tuning the spells.
“Hello, Mrsha. Here’s Ryoka’s letter. Do you want to read it now or…?”
Lyonette sighed as Mrsha tried to leap for the letter and grab it. Excitedly, Mrsha ran around, signing for Erin to read the letter now.
“Maybe we should make Mrsha read it, to test her reading skills?”
The [Princess] was clearly not as enthused as Mrsha and Erin about the letter. The [Innkeeper] laughed.
“We can let Mrsha do that later! Okay, Mrsha. I’ll read it if you sit on my lap and don’t bounce.”
The Gnoll and young woman ended up sitting by the fire as they read. Ryoka’s letter was beautifully written—Bezale had excellent penmanship.
 
Dear Mrsha,
I hope this reaches you well. I think it’s going through Bezale, assuming she’s in the inn. I tried to send it to her, so if it fails you won’t see this. 
I’m in Reizmelt. It’s been a mostly uneventful trip. I’ve uh, been kidnapped once, but Erin sorted that out. I don’t know if you heard about that.
 
Mrsha gave Erin a long look. The [Innkeeper] blushed.
“I forgot, okay?”
The two settled back. Some things were left unsaid. Ryoka had warned them about the Mage’s Guild. So the two imagined what was said in the letter.
 
I’ve gone back to the inn I was staying at. Mad Madain’s inn. He’s as insane as usual—he brought in a bear he killed the night I returned. Alber, Fierre, and I all ate there. And the Silver Swords, the ones who kidnapped me. It’s been, uh—
 
“I’m terribly sorry, again, Miss Griffin.”
“It’s fine. Please stop mentioning it.”
Ylawes was about to continue, but Dawil elbowed him as he reached for another helping of bear.
Actual bear. Ryoka stared at the cuts of meat. It was…not as good as you might think. Gamey. But the Dwarf was shoveling it down, in great spirits.
“All’s well that ends well! Say, this is great stuff. Come on, lad. And you too, Pointy! No sense in turning down dinner!”
He smirked; a decidedly green half-Elf was poking at her bloody meat. Falene looked around again, but Madain was preparing another cut of meat.
“I don’t suppose there’s—any side dishes?”
“Side dishes? Go to a fancy restaurant or tavern if you want that. In my inn, you eat what you get! Hey! Anyone want a raw cut?”
“Here!”
Dawil and Fierre both raised their hands. They stared at each other. The Dwarf grinned as he wiped at his beard. Ryoka winced. So did Ylawes. Fierre tried to hide.
“There are such things as parasites in meat, you know, Dawil.”
The armored man took another bite of his medium-rare meat. Ryoka nodded. She was sitting awkwardly with the Silver Swords, who’d insisted on buying dinner after the…debacle. It was a painful meal. Not because there wasn’t something fascinating about the trio of Gold-ranks.
No, it was because Fierre was trying to hide behind Alber every time Ylawes looked her way. Ylawes of House Byres.
Vampire hunters. Ryoka wished she’d chosen somewhere else to dine, but they’d followed her. Ylawes coughed and leaned over.
“I don’t think your friend likes us, Miss Griffin.”
“She’s shy. And sick.”
He nodded, smiling in Fierre’s direction. She looked ready to throw up. The man looked disconcerted; Ryoka got the impression he wasn’t used to provoking that reaction in young women.
“You’re putting her off, lad. Eat up! Anyways, tell us more about yourself, Miss Ryoka. We’ve heard of you, but we missed you all the time we were at The Wandering Inn. You’re a City Runner? I heard you bailed the Horns of Hammerad out once.”
“Um. That’s right. I do emergency runs for adventurers.”
“Well, that is noble of you. Few Runners do that, Miss Griffin. ”
Falene smiled, carefully levitating the meat off her plate and onto Dawil’s meat-bowl. Ryoka chewed on her bite. Really, it wasn’t bad. Just…carnivorous. She waved away the compliment.
“It’s nothing…well, I’ve been saved by adventurers. I couldn’t not run, if that makes sense.”
“Well, we appreciate it. And if we’re ever in need, we’ll ask for you.”
“Thank you. Uh—so Ylawes, I’ve met your sister…”
The [Knight] smiled.
“Yvlon? She’s doing well. I was worried for her, hence us going south towards Liscor. But she’s leveled.”
“Yeah. I saw her. Her new arms are amazing. I’m relieved that her class healed her arms, especially since—”
The [Knight] choked on his drink. Falene and Dawil stopped, food in their mouths and turned to Ryoka.
“Her class? What are you talking about?”
Ylawes stared. Ryoka opened and closed her mouth.
“Uh—she’s a [Silversteel Armsmistress]. And Ceria changed classes too.”
“They did what?”
It turned out that not only did her older brother not know about her new class, the Horns of Hammerad had neglected to mention a lot. Ylawes listened and then sat back. He looked relieved, exasperated, and melancholy all at the same time.
“She’s always been like this since she started her own team. She never tells me—I need to send a [Message] to the family at once. Falene, after dinner…”
Ryoka Griffin sat there, massaging her forehead. She saw Fierre glaring at her, clearly wanting Ryoka to get rid of the Silver Swords so they could chat. Ryoka had heard her sneezing; she thought Ylawes’ silver armor was provoking an allergic reaction in her. The City Runner felt at her bag of holding, which held the panacea.
The problem was…
 
I think they like me. They’ve been staying at the inn and seem to want to make Reizmelt their temporary base. I have to thank Erin for that. Fierre loves them. Alber’s just doing Alber, but he’s practicing boxing with me.
 
Erin nudged Mrsha, who nudged her back. Vampires. The [Innkeeper] winced as she thought about Ylawes and Dawil and Falene. But Ryoka wasn’t done. She described the bear-meat, and some things about Reizmelt, like the Pithfire Hounds and their dogs, but it was a short letter. She concluded with an enigmatic tone, out of necessity.
 
I’ve been taking care of some things here. But I have to go on my big assignment for Lady Ieka. Funny thing, actually—
 
Ryoka knew time was running out. But [Seamstresses] took time, and she needed to stock up.
“The Archmage of Izril? No one’s seen her in a decade. The island’s all the way to the north, in First Landing. Even if you take the overnight carriages, it’ll take days. Ryoka…if you’re trying to get all the nobles to attend the Summer Solstice—”
“I know. I know, Fierre. But what else can I do? I need to keep prepping. Can you get me that Scroll of Dispel Magic?”
“It’ll arrive by tomorrow. None of this is cheap—I’ll cover it. So…so…about this.”
They sat together, after Ylawes had left Ryoka alone to shout the news about Yvlon and bother his sister. In Fierre’s office, behind the enforced door. And even then—they huddled around the little vial.
“Do…you want to take it now?”
The Vampire girl hesitated. She eyed Teriarch’s panacea. She reached for it, hesitated again. Then looked at Ryoka.
“You won’t tell me who it’s from. Or how you paid for it. Despite rumors of Grand Mage Eldavin appearing for the first time in years as well. Decades, even.”
Ryoka kept her face straight, although the Vampire’s knowing look made her want to laugh. If only she knew…
“I can’t say, Fierre. But this is real.”
“It can cure me of everything that’s making me sick. Everything…that’s harming me as a Vampire.”
“Yes. But I was told—there may be other reasons contributing to your sickness. I don’t know what. It was just a hint.”
Something is making them sick apart from…what? Teriarch had let slip that the panacea would cure all, but only the symptoms, not the underlying cause. Ryoka wanted to investigate. But she had no time.
“I’m leaving tomorrow. I just need to send a letter—to Mrsha. Fierre. You can trust me.”
“I know that. I just—”
The Vampire girl smiled and then stared at the panacea. Her eyes flicked to Ryoka.
“How? And are you sure? It’s so…I mean, it looks real. But there’s only one dose? And—”
She gestured at the glowing vial. Her gaze flickered again and Ryoka realized.
She didn’t believe it was real. Why would she? And if it was real…Fierre was thinking of her family. They sat there, staring at the vial. Fierre’s hands twitched towards it. She coughed, muffling the cough with her sleeve. She looked more terrified of the cure than anything else Ryoka had seen. Even Ylawes.
 
—it’s been endlessly busy over here. I’m about to go on my big delivery, so wish me luck. I’m sending this letter to you the day before I go. So—I’ll be back soon. Tell Erin and Lyonette that I’m going forwards with the plan. 
I hope
When I
Love you and see you soon,
       –Ryoka Griffin
 
It was a letter that said a lot and nothing at all. Exasperating. Which fit Ryoka. Erin sighed when she finished it, but Mrsha was smiling. Something was better than nothing.
Letters. Erin saw the longing look on Mrsha’s face. And then she had a thought and asked Mrsha something. Something that changed it all. Or at least—made a little Gnoll smile.
“Mrsha. Would you like to send Ryoka a letter?”
 
—-
 
Ryoka Griffin was sitting in the Huntress’ Haven when she got the letter back from the Mage’s Guild. It had taken three hours for a reply and she was double-checking the supplies on the table.
“Scrolls…yes. Potions…yes. Rope—”
“It’s like she’s going on an adventure of her own.”
Ylawes commented as he wiped down his armor. The Silver Swords had made the inn their base, much to Fierre’s displeasure. But it was cheap, and the owner, Mad Madain, seemed to like the Gold-rank adventurers. Well, he had been one himself.
“Hah. She’s always doing shit like that. Crazy as a loon. Hey—you lot doing another mission?”
“We’re hunting a colony of Wailer Frogs. Apparently there’s a lot more and they’ve been breeding, Master Madain.”
The [Knight] bowed slightly to Madain. The former adventurer grinned.
“Fucking frogs. You know, Ryoka bailed out a team of Silver-ranks who got attacked by them? Idiots didn’t know how to handle them. But I know the marshes—can’t stand eating frogs, but I’d be down for some slaying. For old time’s sake. Why don’t I come along and show you rookies—”
He slung an arm around Ylawes’ shoulder as the [Knight] wore a pained smile. Dawil and Falene were coming up with a plan-of-action to rid Reizmelt of all local monsters. Fierre was sitting in a corner, grimacing at Ylawes. Alber was eating lunch.
“Miss Ryoka! Letter for you!”
A Street Runner gleefully skidded into the inn. It always amused Runners to deliver packages for each other. Ryoka looked up.
“For me?”
