The group met him on the road. The [King] stopped, staring. He should have known. He thought he had longer. But—Warden Emile’s lands were closer to Belchan’s border. And the war had not yet forced the evacuation.
It would now. But the River Warden would not oversee the defense of his lands. He was dead.
And his son had yet to be told.
The boy was sitting on his mount, staring at the silent [Riders] passing by his party. His escort looked pale and wan.
They knew. A River Warden would ride with Raelt. Sekirst was the only one left. But Emile’s son—what was his name?—was just a lad.
“Your Majesty.”
Raelt had slowed when he’d seen the boy. The young River Warden rode up to him, eyes scanning the men and women around his [King].
“My f—River Warden Emile isn’t with you?”
He knew too. There was a silent dread in his eyes. A nightmare a child dreamed of once or twice if they were lucky. Suddenly—reality.
“…Cantel?”
Raelt guessed. The boy shifted.
“It’s Canrel, your Majesty. My father?”
The [King of Challenges] closed his eyes.
“I’m sorry, Canrel. Your father—fell in battle. He helped me break through to duel the King of Destruction…”
He saw the boy’s face go white. A moan rose among the followers. Canrel swayed in the saddle. Raelt reached out, fearing he’d fall. But Canrel caught himself. He gulped.
“Did—is the King of Destruction dead?”
He clenched his hands on the reins. Raelt looked past him.
“No. I stabbed him through the heart, but—”
Those were excuses. The [King] shook his head. He looked at the young [Lord] and tried to figure out what to say. Canrel looked at Raelt, and realized the [King] was at a loss for words. He hesitated.
“Did my father—w-was he brave?”
Someone made a sound. Raelt looked at Canrel.
“Yes. Of course. He charged the King of Destruction’s vanguard alone. But for him, Warden Winta—I would never have made it.”
“I see. Thank you, your Majesty. I—”
The young River Warden was holding himself upright. Raelt realized he was sagging on his saddle. He wondered who was more the child now. He slowly raised his shoulders.
“I’m sorry, River Warden Canrel. Your father died a hero of Jecrass. He will be honored.”
Empty words. Canrel nodded. He was in shock. Raelt remembered when he’d learned his father had died, and that had been of natural causes. He tried to say something. That Emile had fought the Rustängmarder on his own? That he’d been so close? But for a single potion and the King of Destruction would have died?
It was all insufficient. He saw Canrel fumbling at his saddle, trying to dismount.
“Warden Canrel. Sire—your Majesty. What do we do now?”
A teary-eyed retainer of Warden Emile rode forwards. Raelt shook his head.
“Evacuate Warden Emile’s lands. We are—retreating. We’ll fight along the rivers. Dig in—we’re bound for the capital. I’ll send—take charge for now.”
The man bowed painfully.
“Yes, your Majesty.”
Canrel had dismounted. He ignored the others, trying to come to him. The boy looked up at Raelt. Then—abruptly—he knelt in the wild grass, at the side of the road.
“Your Majesty, I have a request.”
Raelt stirred. He looked down at Canrel. The retainers looked alarmed. They dismounted. So did Raelt.
“Yes, Warden Canrel?”
The boy was about…eleven. He looked up at Raelt, fumbling for the dagger at his side. He unsheathed it after two tries and held the blade up with both hands.
“Your Majesty, I will fight the King of Destruction. Please let me join your army.”
“What?”
The [King] stared down at the boy. Canrel’s arms shook. His face was still devoid of color. He had yet to weep.
“Please, your Majesty. I would like to take my father’s place in your army. I will avenge my father’s death. I swear it. In blood!”
He tried to cut his palm—the old retainer grabbed the blade.
“Lord Canrel—please!”
“Let go of me! Your Majesty, allow me to serve!”
The boy fought his escort. Raelt just stood there. Canrel was looking at him.
“You’re too young, Canrel of Desta.”
The young River Warden’s chin rose. He looked at Raelt, his eyes shining.
“With respect, your Majesty, I am a River Warden now. Not a boy. I must fight. My lands are being invaded. Please. Let me fight.”
Brave little boys. Wanting to fight like men. Raelt looked at Canrel. He saw the King of Destruction pulling the sword out of his chest. And the King of Jecrass tasted bitter despair.
The mortal man’s knees buckled. Raelt Leysars of Jecrass began to kneel, to weep. To break down.
His knees locked before he could topple over. The [King] refused to fall.
Never. Never, in front of the boy who looked at him to make meaning of his parent’s deaths. Though the sky weighed on his shoulders—he raised his head.
“River Warden Canrel. Your father’s bravery did me the greatest honor I could ask for as ruler of Jecrass. I would take a thousand such men again, if only they lived. Do you seek to take his place?”
The boy and his followers looked up. The retainers paled. But Canrel raised his head.
“I do, your Majesty.”
“Then I accept your service.”
“Your Majesty—”
Raelt looked at the man who’d spoken and there was silence. The [King] looked at Canrel.
“Your lands must be evacuated, Warden Canrel. The people made safe. I put you in charge of overseeing the exodus.”
Canrel’s eyes widened, and then he flushed with anger.
“But your Majesty—I wish to fight.”
“I know. But you are too young, River Warden Canrel. There will be another war. For now—serve your people and the crown. I need every hand, and yours is best used here. Your father was a brave man. A good man. I would not be able to forgive myself if I let his son die. Do you understand?”
“Yes. Sire.”
The boy whispered. Raelt reached down and clasped a tiny shoulder. He felt it shake.
“I’m sorry.”
Even then—the boy only cried when the [King] had left. Raelt knew it because he heard the sound before he rode away.
“Your Majesty. Your daughter is riding towards you. The other River Wardens—General Lael—”
They were all looking towards him for a miracle. The same one he’d pulled fighting the King of Destruction. And he’d done his best. But Raelt—he shook his head.
“Let them come. Bring me…bring me paper. A quill. And a [Mage].”
He let them fetch all three. The [King] took the quill, wrote while riding. His handwriting was poor, and the message brief. He sent his own letter, as he rode back. Enough of diplomacy.
“Send this to every nation who has contacted us. Now.”
The [Mage] bowed and took it. And the letter that was more than empty words and promises found its way to Queen Yisame, King Perric—the other monarchs. It was two lines.
 
I intend to sue for peace at any cost by nightfall. Respond if you wish.
       –Raelt of Jecrass
 
The letter moved thrones. Queen Yisame paled and broke off from her court of entertainment. She excused herself amid the flurry of Silk Stitchfolk.
“Send a [Message]. No—find someone who can communicate face to face! We must talk to King Raelt and convince him…”
 
—-
 
The Siren of Savere spat contemptuously, but her fingers drummed nervously as she checked the map. Nations lay between her and Reim. She turned.
“Someone send a [Message] to my sister. Tell her to visit me.”
But Rasea Zecrew, younger sister of the Siren of Savere and captain of the Illuminary, read few letters from her sister.
 
—-
 
Some monarchs took the news stoically, having planned it into their designs. Others made contact with Raelt, or just panicked. But the nearest [King] to Jecrass read the short message and his brows darkened.
“Unacceptable. Put me in contact with Raelt of Jecrass immediately. He must continue his war.”
King Perric of Medain rose from his throne. He ordered his [Mages], but they had to wait. Yisame was already entreating Raelt. And the [King] had little time for the Adventurer King of Medain.
 
—-
 
Letters. They were all sorts. News from friends. Updates. Important news, both terrible and good.
Rhir sent many letters on the same day as King Raelt sued for peace. Notices of death. As if the ghosts who had walked across the world had not been letter enough. Demands for aid.
The Deathless of the Demon King had returned.
Some days were truly like that. Dark. When it rained, it poured.
But as some people might have told you, rain wasn’t always a bad thing. Erin Solstice stood in her [Garden of Sanctuary] and looked up.
“Bird. What are you doing?”
On the hill, in the center of the dome, the [Bird Hunter] was standing in the rain. It poured through the opening that showed the state of the sky. It was raining, a brisk summer storm.
Bird stood in the rain, all four arms extended, as if trying to catch the rain. He looked at Erin.
“Waiting for water birds. They must be in the clouds.”
“Silly Bird. You’re going to catch your death!”
She laughed at him. Erin stood there, as water ran off Bird’s carapace.
“The rain is fun. So long as I do not drown, I will not die.”
He calmly replied. Erin had to own, that made sense. The [Innkeeper] hesitated. Then she walked up the hill and poked a hand into the shower coming down through the dome.
“Ooh, it’s warm!”
Bird smiled at her.
“Yes. And I am certain the little worms will like the rain.”
The young woman tilted her head.
“I didn’t know you care about worms, Bird.”
“I do not. But the earliest of birds eat the worms which love the rain. Therefore, I am happy the worms like the rain. The worms also make good snacks.”
“Ah. Of course. Um. D-don’t bring the worms into the inn, okay, Bird?”
“…I would never do that. No. Never.”
Erin peered suspiciously at Bird. He turned around so his back was to her. She edged around the rainy spot.
“Bird…”
“There will be no worms if you check tonight, Erin.”
“Yeah, there had better not be. I sensed your ‘secret hiding spot’ under your floorboards.”
“…I do not know what you mean.”
The [Innkeeper] sighed. But then she eyed the warm rain and decided it was fine. She hesitated, and then jumped into the shower.
“Aah! Oh, wait. This feels nice.”
“Erin. What are you doing?”
Lyonette saw Erin and Bird welcoming the rain. The [Innkeeper] laughed as she waved at her little inn’s family.
“Hey! It’s warm!”
Mrsha went racing up the hill to join them. Lyonette folded her arms, but Numbtongue decided he could use a shower. He stopped swinging his sword near the arid area of the gardens and walked into the rainstorm. He opened his mouth for a drink as Mrsha waved at Lyonette.
The [Princess] blew out her cheeks. But her exasperation was short-lived. She looked around for watchers and then ran up the hill.
“Oh fine. But you’re getting a proper bath after this, Mrsha!”
“Stop shoving, Mrsha! I’m going to fall! Hey, we need water guns! I should reinvent those!”
Erin was laughing as Mrsha ran about, trying to knock the adults down. Numbtongue and Bird decided to help and Erin went tumbling down the hill. She charged back up and knocked Numbtongue down.
“Hey, that looks like fun. Anyone got a bucket?”
The Earthers poked their heads into the garden. Mrsha looked put out—but only until Kevin charged up the hill with a bucket of water. Rose shrieked as Troy and Leon tossed a bucket of water over her and Joseph. The [Kicker] shoulder-charged Leon into the pond and a few beavers decided to retreat to their dam while the damn Humans played.
It was a moment in the rain. The only person who didn’t join in was Apista. The bee sensibly buzzed around the dry, safe parts of the garden while the idiots got wet. Wings did not mix well with water.
“This place has so much potential. Hey Erin, what if you, like, built a water slide into the dome that leads into the pond?”
Erin turned around to stare at Galina. Mrsha’s ears perked up.
“That’s a genius idea—”
“Oh no. I don’t like the sound of that.”
Lyonette scowled, looking up at the tall dome, even without reference to amusement parks. Erin was trying to explain how water slides weren’t as dangerous as, say, roller coasters, when the last letter addressed to her found its way into the inn at last.
“Erin. [Message] for you.”
Bezale stood at the door. She could have walked in, but the [Spellscribe] was trying to be polite. Erin, sopping wet, stumbled towards the Minotauress.
“Is it those [Lords]? Or Zevara? I’m busy uh, having fun!”
“No. I thought you’d want to see this. Here.”
Erin’s wet hand closed over the transcribed message. It was short. She expected it to be from Geneva after a second thought, or maybe Ryoka with some Ryoka-problem. But this little note made her smile.
“Oh wow. That’s great news!”
“Who is it this time, Erin?”
The [Innkeeper] waved the little message and smiled up at the others as they turned, curious.
“It’s our favorite adventuring team!”
Mrsha, Bird, Lyonette, all looked at each other. Numbtongue scratched at his head.
“…Which one is that?”
Erin threw a clump of dirt at him.
 
—-
 
They were a team of four. Adventurers. Two male, two female. And they were on their way to a distress call.
It wasn’t really a letter—more like an all-call to anyone in the area. A monster swarm had been spotted and it was bearing down on a village. A nest had been disturbed, or it was a migration—the point was that people were in danger and adventurers were needed now.
Of course, there was always the militia, a local [Lord]’s army, a traveller—any number of other groups that could fight if need be. But adventurers were generally the first ones asked. They were more mobile than most forces.
The village was known as Yissirain’s Rest and it was under attack. Or soon to be. A swarm of Face-Eater Moths was assailing the village. The damned things multiplied like crazy and produced these kinds of swarms.
“I heard it was from Liscor. Those monsters got everywhere. Damned Drakes. Can’t even kill monsters properly.”
The leader of the team grumbled as he led his group down the road. They were all mounted. They were a good team of adventurers. Silver-ranks. Soon to be Gold, really. They just needed their break and this could be it.
Skylark’s Hubris was a ranged-team, each of them armed with bows. Hybrid-fighters. They could cast magic as well as use bows.
“Boss. There are apparently a lot of Face-Eater moths. Hundreds. And you know how big those things get. We’re not going in without a plan, are we?”
“Relax, Hexi. This is an all-call. There’ll be other teams there. We just need to beat them to the punch. I think I’ll use my fire arrows first—we’ve got good sunlight for the fight. You just try to berserk the biggest moth.”
