Letters. Words. Lyonette and Erin were arguing about teaching Mrsha to write ‘like a weirdo’, according to Erin. Mrsha’s paw hurt from holding the quill for so long. It had taken her three hours and she hadn’t been able to write everything, even with Lyonette helping.
But she’d done it. The Gnoll looked around and felt…satisfied. Someone had heard her. She had put quill to paper and written her voice out.
It changed only a little.
It changed everything.
The Wandering Inn was better than it ever had been, to Mrsha. She was a better Mrsha. Older. S-slightly more responsible. But look. There was Maviola, talking to Saliss, who had the box on.
There was Belgrade, happily playing chess against Olesm, who’d come to pick Maviola up. He was allowed back in the inn and things were okay.
And there—was him.
 
—-
 
Grand Mage Eldavin looked down as Mrsha leapt onto his table. He immediately pointed.
“Begone, pest.”
An invisible hand flicked Mrsha off the table, but slowed her before she could land head-first onto the ground. Undeterred, the Gnoll leapt onto the table again.
Teriarch eyed her and sighed.
“What do you want this time? Begone. I am busy.”
He was leaving soon. And unlike the others, the Dragon didn’t waste time on anything.
 
Magnolia, I have enjoyed my forays, but they are quite tiring. I am going back to rest. Don’t bother me.
 
No signature—the Dragon made the letter vanish and appear in the collection zone for letters in Magnolia’s estates. He hadn’t lied, either.
He was tired. Being outside had been both entertaining and…the Dragon yawned. Well, he’d just walk outside until his simulacra was out of sight and dissolve it. Simple. He just had to get rid of the Gnoll first.
“I’m leaving now.”
The Dragon informed the girl sitting on the table. She waved at him, showing him her ink-stained paws. Teriarch saw her sign something and glared.
“That’s not proper language. Learn how to hand-sign correctly or don’t do it at all. I’m not in the mood to learn another language. Or write down what you have to say.”
That was the funny thing. The Dragon, even more than Lyonette, Erin—the people who loved and knew Mrsha most—always acted as if Mrsha had something to say. He didn’t forget. Mrsha blinked at him.
Write it down? It was so obvious. She sat, poleaxed, as the Dragon harrumphed and walked off. He collected thirty pounds of food from the kitchen, left the exact fee, and walked out of the inn. He might return…in a year or two. But for now—he left.
Still, even leaving, the Dragon changed everything.
 
—-
 
Mrsha laboriously scribbled on the piece of paper. Visma and Ekirra peered over her shoulder as, at last, Mrsha wiped more ink onto her forehead and shuffled the bits of paper. Eldavin had shown her the way.
Writing. Oh, what a convenient thing! Mrsha hadn’t known how to write or read—much—before she’d come to the inn. She’d been young, and Urksh had taught her sparingly. She could read basic things and do numbers, but Plains Gnolls didn’t need to read many books. It was something they learned if they wanted to.
Lyonette had changed all that. To the [Princess], reading and writing were facets of life. They facilitated so much about her class and way of living that she’d been horrified to learn that no one had begun Mrsha’s education already. Erin had agreed, and the two had created in Mrsha a very good writer for someone her age—especially given how Lyonette thought you were supposed to write.
“I’m just saying, it looks weird.”
“How would you know? You’re from another world!”
The two were still at it as Mrsha trotted out of her shared room with her two friends. She made a beeline for the kitchen where Ishkr and a female Gnoll—Merrisha—were fearfully staring at the heating rune.
“Hello Mrsha! Do you want something?”
Merrisha was a Gnoll with dark blonde fur. She was one of the ‘new’ hires, and of course, she’d been properly interviewed by Lyonette. One of the requirements for Gnolls was liking Mrsha. The female Gnoll bent down and smiled at Mrsha.
She was nice. Ishkr just kept trying to remove soot-marks from the ceiling. Mrsha looked at Visma and Ekirra.
“Is there something you need? Lyonette’s said no snacks without her approval.”
Merrisha warned the other two. But the normally chatty Ekirra and Visma pointed at Mrsha. The [Waitress] blinked.
“I’m sorry, but I don’t know Mrsha-language yet. Um—oh!”
She blinked at the piece of paper that Mrsha handed up to her. Ishkr blinked. Merrisha unfolded the paper, and read slowly.
“‘I am Mrsha the Great and Terrible, Bane of All Things. I hereby request a ransom of cookies, or I will forthwith deliver unto you great vengeance.’ Oh my, I think she’s serious. We had better do what she says, right, Ishkr?”
The [Waitress] laughed, looking at Ishkr. The [Head Waiter] looked at Mrsha and went back to cleaning the ceiling.
“Nope.”
 
—-
 
That was a bust. Ishkr was too responsible. Drassi, now—Drassi would have given them the cookies. Disappointed, Mrsha led the others back into the inn and stared at something.
A scrying orb. Erin had placed it on one table with a little container so it was unlikely to be knocked over. Some people were watching as always. More than most, actually.
“Oh, look! It’s our girl!”
Drassi’s mother, a Drake whom Mrsha had never met, hugged another male Drake as they stared into the orb. And there was Drassi. Mrsha peeked over the table.
“Is this on? Oh, right—this is Drassi! I’m filling in for Sir Relz and Noass as your [Commentator] today! This is the news. First off, it looks like another battle in Chandrar. The King of Destruction versus the King of Duels. We’ll bring you the coverage as it happens.”
For a second, the view in the smaller mirror in the shot flashed to two armies maneuvering at a distance. Drassi went on as a Gnoll nervously held up a sign behind Drassi for the viewers.
 
King of Destruction forces – 56,000. Jecrass – 82,000.
 
The first version of the news ticker pioneered behind Drassi as she went on, speaking fast, but as clearly as she could. She looked nervous, but excited as could be.
 
“Next—Yellow Rivers. We’re talking to some [Healers] in Zeres who have a different view of the outbreak, and then Baleros and Chandrar and Terandria to see what it looks like in port cities across the world…”
Mrsha was proud of Drassi. But the Drake was doing her own thing. Mrsha had her little sheaf of notes in the bag of holding she’d gotten for her birthday, and she intended to use them.
She got her first chance as she was playing in the garden with Visma and Ekirra. They were doing handstands. It was hardest for Visma since her tail threw her off; Ekirra applauded as Mrsha walked on her front paws.
So did Erin. The [Innkeeper] bounded over and joined the applause.
“Go, Mrsha! You’re so amazing! Yes you are! Yes you are!”
The little Gnoll heard the cheering and rolled onto her back. Then she scrambled up and fumbled for her bag of holding in excitement. Erin blinked as Mrsha handed her a scrap of parchment.
“What’s this? A note? Oh, how sm—”
She froze as she read Mrsha’s words.
 
Your mockery of me is hurtful and uncalled for. Desist at once.
 
Erin’s face fell. Mrsha waved a paw and Erin slowly handed back the parchment.
“I wasn’t mocking, Mrsha.”
A pause. Mrsha shuffled through the parchment.
 
Yeah, right.
 
The [Innkeeper] was stunned. She watched as Mrsha snatched her words back and marched off huffily. Ekirra joined her after giving Erin a long look.
The young woman from Michigan was the first casualty. She was not the last. Mrsha wandered into the common room later just in time for Rose to come in. She was aglow; soccer practice had given her money to spend and she’d just been in Invrisil shopping.
“Hello, Mrsha! How are—”
Mrsha preempted Rose by handing her a piece of parchment. The young woman from Earth read it, and blinked. Kevin read the note too and whistled.
“Whoa. Savage.”
Erin didn’t get to see what was read, but from the way Mrsha hastily shuffled it into her pre-written notes, she guessed it was exceptionally rude.
“Mrsha, I’m so glad you’re using your words, but there’s such a thing as being rude. Rose, what did she say?”
“Uh—”
Mrsha gave Rose a flat look and the young woman hesitated. Both recalled the centipedes incident. Without a word, Rose walked off. Kevin drew a line across his throat as Erin turned to him.
The [Innkeeper] narrowed her eyes. Mrsha was going around the inn, and suddenly—she had things to say to everyone. She handed a little card to Olesm, who blinked.
“What? A ransom? Oh sh—uh…here.”
He offered Mrsha a single fry. She narrowed her eyes, but the Drake glared at her, unwilling to part with his food. She grabbed a handful—he shot to his feet.
“Olesm! I’ll get you a refill. On the house. Mrsha!”
The little Gnoll ignored her. The next person she saw was Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin was resting his fingers and throat after a jam session. Worried now, Erin hurried after Mrsha as the Gnoll waved for the Hobgoblin’s attention and then began to select a proper response.
She shuffled through her cards and Erin peeked over the little Gnoll’s shoulder.
 
My vengeance will be swift.
You are stupid.
Give me food, pwease!
I am sorry.
I cannot reach that.
You are boring.
Upon reflection, I have never met anyone as insipid as you.
 
At last, she found the one she wanted. Erin sighed in relief as she read it.
 
I approve of this. 
 
She slapped it on the table. Numbtongue picked up the card and read it. The Hobgoblin smiled and propped it up with his drink glass.
He was spared her wrath. Few others were. When people realized Mrsha had learned another form of communication, they all wanted to get a card. At first. Selys hurried over, beaming.
“Can I get one, Mrsha?”
The Gnoll girl held up one paw. After a second, Mrsha handed Selys a card.
 
Merely adequate.
 
Mrsha walked off as Erin saw Selys’ jaw drop.
“But I thought she loved me!”
By the end of the day, people had learned that Mrsha’s actions did not match her internal thoughts—or at least, the thoughts they prescribed to her. Correspondingly—Mrsha learned that a cute face and sour tongue lost you your appeal. Or sour paw, as the case might be.
It culminated in a scene with Maviola.
 
You are in my way.
Please stop annoying me.
 
The [Lady] stared at the pair of cards; she’d been sitting in Mrsha’s favorite chair. She frowned as Erin explained.
“Oh, I’m in your chair, am I?”
Mrsha nodded, self-importantly. She failed to see how even Erin’s generosity had run out. Erin had received a ‘you smell bad’ card just an hour ago.
“Well, I would hate to bother such an important person. Please—”
Maviola stood up. Mrsha leapt into the chair with a haughty sniff. Maviola smiled at her. Then she grabbed Mrsha.
“Excuse me for one moment, Erin. Someone needs a lesson about watching their tongue.”
The [Druid]’s eyes went round. She struggled—then tried to get her wand, but Maviola was too quick. Ignoring the wiggling, biting Gnoll child, she walked into the kitchen. Ishkr paused as Maviola went over to the water buckets that were used for everything from drinking water to cooking. She dunked Mrsha’s head into the water.
The Gnoll came up, spluttering and making howling sounds. Maviola did it again. Then she put Mrsha on the ground.
“Hit me and you’ll regret it. Let that be a lesson to you: kindness opens more doors than rudeness.”
Mrsha hesitated as she raised a paw-fist. Maviola smiled at her. The Gnoll looked around for adult-support.
She got none. Lyonette held up a card and handed it to Mrsha. The Gnoll read her own handwriting.
 
You could do better.
 
Everyone walked off as Mrsha gloomily added nicer cards to her lineup. But the words…she had words now.
 
—-
 
Letters were good. Letters changed things. For good or ill. It just took a simple message.
“They’re coming! They’re coming!”
Lism raced into the Council’s meeting room. He was waving a brief, formally delivered missive that had just come by [Messenger]. The others, minus Elirr and Jeiss, had received his summons.
“Who, Lism?”
Krshia frowned, somewhat annoyed at being called from her shop. He could have told them all what was happening later. But she didn’t snap like usual.
Things were different. You could smell it in the air. Hexel was going around Liscor, designing the city—Elirr was often acting as liaison with him. People were coming to Liscor—
And now Lism was smiling.
“It’s our first guests, you idiot, Silverfang! Hectval is sending a delegation to Liscor!”
The others looked up. Hectval, the nearest city past the Bloodfields. Krshia sat up.
“That is good, you fool, Lism, you. When are they arriving?”
“Tomorrow. It’s not that far now the road’s done. They can ride towards Liscor quickly. Hah! They’re sending some of their city’s leaders! Their version of the Council. We have to prepare! This is the start of something grand! We should—have a soccer game? And show off some of our new accomplishments. Hide the [Architect]…they are a Drake city…it’ll be nice to have cultured guests for once! Those snobs from Pallass still haven’t visited—”
Krshia smiled as the Council burst into a furious debate. Things were changing. And—she glanced at Raekea.
The Meeting of Tribes was also coming. They’d have to leave soon if they wanted to arrive by the solstice. And that would be a gathering to remember.
 
—-
 
Shriekblade received another kind of letter. Well, it wasn’t the kind someone just wrote down and handed to you. And it went through no Mage’s Guild.
She saw the black letters tracing themselves on her arm. Her scales tingled. The Drake read slowly. Not that there was much to read.
It was just a few things. Target, location, bounty. This one mentioned working together, but the words were brief.
It always was from the Assassin’s Guild. The cold, calm, clinical part of her mind noted they must be after a big target if they were reaching out to her. Normally, they left the Named Adventurer alone.
Shriekblade might have been interested another time. It was a lot of what she wanted. But she was calm.
Beyond calm. She had drank too many of the potions. She stood at perfect attention, waiting for orders. Silently, she drew a black stone and touched it. The lodestone flashed and she spoke.
“I am working. No.”
That was all. She wasn’t part of it. From other parts of Izril however—other high-ranking members received the message. In other forms. They read, thought about the difficulty of this target.
