After a couple of minutes, Lisa spoke. “I knew he would enjoy going there, but why did you want him to go?”

“He's soon going to lose the ability to have sex with a lot of the women currently in his life.” Stella said. “The maids and Xuunah are pregnant, and it won't be long before he can't be with them. So...”

“...in order to keep him from utilizing the succubi, you want him to have another outlet, just in case.” Lisa said in understanding.

“You got it.” Stella said and took her hand. “Unlike Ren, I took your warnings to heart. Of course, I still chose having the succubi ancestor in the game; but, that gave me a unique perspective for the problem.”

“How does it feel to have everyone come after you?” Lisa asked with a smile.

“It's both very flattering and extremely scary.” Stella chuckled. “It's a great experience.”

“Yeah, I knew you'd like it for that.” Lisa said. “Your character's name is Experiment001 for pete's sake!”

Stella laughed. “I didn't want to use my own name, and then I couldn't think of one that I'd respond to, so... I defaulted to an easy one to remember.”

Lisa smiled for a moment, then yawned. Stella was about to comment on it, then she yawned to.

“Oh, no! You've caught it!” Lisa said and pulled her hand away, and that made Stella laugh.

“I think you need to take it back!” Stella said as she stood up and tried to grab her. Lisa leaned back out of reach, slid off her chair to the floor, then half-rolled and half-stepped to the side and stood up on the opposite side of the table.

“Too slow.” Lisa teased.

“Am I now?” Stella said and grinned as she took a running stance.

“Oh, crap!” Lisa said and tried to run.

Stella barked a laugh because Lisa wasn't a runner and bolted after her, quickly caught her and scooped her up, then tumbled onto the bed into a heap, with her on bottom and Lisa on top and they hugged each other. They were both laughing at how easily Lisa had been caught, then the laughter faded from Lisa's face.

“Can... I stay here tonight?” Lisa asked, her face slightly red.

“Only if I get a goodnight kiss.” Stella said with a smile.

Lisa's face flushed completely red, then she took a shallow breath and leaned down to give her a kiss. Stella was a bit surprised, since she had meant giving her a kiss after they had climbed into bed, just like they had shared the last time Lisa had stayed there. She didn't let that surprise stop her from kissing her back, however.

Lisa broke the kiss and her breathing was a little fast as her muscles tensed up for a rejection. “H-how w-was th-that?”

“It was perfect.” Stella said, then after a brief moment, kissed her. She felt Lisa relax, because she hadn't been rebuffed or discouraged. “Let's get under the blanket and get some sleep.”

Lisa nodded and they untangled themselves and got into bed. Stella held her arms open and Lisa cuddled in without needing to ask.

“Goodnight.” Stella said and gave her another kiss.

“Goodnight.” Lisa said, then closed her eyes and basked in Stella's warm embrace.
