A wave crashed, and the wind whipped some moisture against his cheek. He didn’t think about it. He was too busy silently praying that some trusting and good-hearted food truck owner kept a key tucked into the visor.

Then, he saw the shine of a thin layer of water crossing the street up ahead.

He stopped and spun. As far as he could see ahead of him and behind him in the dark, the ocean was oozing ashore.

“No!”

He gave up on the truck in an instant and ran as fast as he could down the street, Zeridee’s body a painful weight that he gripped in both arms to steady himself.

Nonono. Even the seaspray is enough to carry it? Is that how it works?

The same crashing wave that had thrown water up into the air just now and touched his cheek must have spread a fine mist over half of everything in sight. If just a speck of that Sinker Sender device’s remnants was enough to call water ashore to submerge whatever it had touched…

Alden hit a cross street and turned up it.

Don’t look back again. You and Boe always talk about how people who do that in chase scenes are just slowing themselves down. Keep running.

He didn’t stop until his thighs and calves were burning.

He didn’t stop until he was blocks inland and blocks northward, a little farther along than the place where he’d found the man in the tuxedo earlier. He collapsed onto a bus stop bench, gasping for air and clutching Zeridee to him, careful not to let her rest on the bench itself so that he didn’t lose preservation on her.

All right, he thought. It’s all right to breathe. That’s got to be far enough for now.

He leaned back and stared at the curved roof above him, lungs aching.

Sprinting with an adult is incredibly different from marathoning with a Kibby backpack. I knew that. But everything hurts already.

Just need a minute to catch my breath. Then I can keep going and keep yelling for help.

Telling himself that it was fine to take a minute to think here was at least a little bit of a lie. He wasn’t sure it was fine, but he was sure his body wasn’t going to cooperate with the panic pace he’d just tried to set.

So we know some things now. Water’s coming. Red halos seem to have left the area.

Wow, what an amazing job they did of helping all the sensible people get away.

Haven’t seen a soul except for stupid asshole murderers who were trying to take advantage of all the normal people being gone.

He blinked a few times.

Someone tried to kill me a little while ago.

None of the expected emotions were connected to the idea at all.

A man took a metal rod and tried to drive it through my back. He hit me on the back of the head with it, hard enough to crack open my skull.

The whole fight in the greenhouse felt like something that hadn’t really happened. Alden didn’t think he was blocking it out because it was traumatic. He remembered it all with clarity.

But the event had been so sudden and impersonal.

He’d realized something bad was happening. Then he was in it.

Then it was over.

Sitting here at this bus stop on this abandoned street with the System ignoring him and the water turning dangerous again was taking a bigger emotional toll.

He looked down at Zeridee, shifting her so he could see her face under the braid. Sometimes—usually, if he was being honest—the people he carried this way looked uncanny even to him. But she’d closed her eyes or blinked right before she was preserved. Her expression was soft, probably because she’d been in the midst of trying to comfort him with her loving lies.

If he didn’t think about the bloody gash on her head, she looked like she was asleep.

Actually asleep. Not “sleeping” like the guy with the stake through his brain.

“What a total badass,” he said. “They sneaked up on you and shot you with that thing, then they stabbed you, and you still beat them. I only helped a little there at the end. Do you do double duty as trained security for the ambassadors or something?”

She’d been scared.

What was that scream I felt, Zeridee? Are you a wizard?

She wasn’t dressed in the kind of clothes working wizards often wore, but that could have been her trying to fit in with humans. She also didn’t seem to have any of the stuff that adult wizards came equipped with, though. She hadn’t whipped out a wand or a pile of potions or an auriad. No rings on her fingers. And she definitely hadn’t cast any spells that Alden had noticed.

Did she feel me cast a spell?

He was under the impression that spellcasting might be detectable by people more experienced than him. He sometimes had a vague awareness of his own spells happening after he’d sent out the command.

It seems pretty subtle to me, but that doesn’t mean it is to everyone.

Normally he wouldn’t have worried. All Avowed did magic. Wizards did magic. If magical noise was a thing, then they were on an island full of it. But if you suddenly reduced the number of people in the area to almost nobody, could a wizard tell you’d cast something?

He hoped she hadn’t noticed. He hoped he’d managed to get away with using the auriad in public. The ambassador’s video monitoring all seemed to be focused on exterior locations, and he’d been inside a greenhouse full of wall-to-wall plants. He didn’t think he’d been filmed.

Nothing I can do about it now if I’m wrong.

He waited for his breathing to slow, and took another minute to search through his new medical kit. If he needed to take something in it, he didn’t want to have to be fishing around in his bag and trying to read labels while he ran. As he stuffed a different injector into each one of the pockets on his shorts, he became aware of a strange sound. It was distant, and he couldn’t quite tell where it was coming from.

A grumbling roar.

Not a sound that belongs here, he thought. Not a sound I’ve heard before.

I wonder…

If a lot of water came ashore, Alden thought it might sound a little bit like that.

“Time to go,” he said quietly.

He wrapped an arm around Zeridee’s shoulders and stood with a grunt.

“You really are pretty heavy.”

******

Alden walked for several minutes, periodically prodding the System and calling out for help. He passed another closed train station.

I just have to keep going. There will be other people up ahead. This isn’t Thegund. The similarities are getting extremely uncomfortable. But the System exists. I am in a highly populated location full of Avowed.

The world isn’t corrupted, and I’m not alone.

It felt an awful lot like he was.

Just a little while ago, I was talking to people and helping people. I was making signs that people were reading. They’re around. I will find someone.

He went a few more blocks. He checked three cars and a vehicle that looked like a homemade jeep, but they were all locked. He walked down the middle of a street, trying to stay highly visible, but the helicopter that passed far overhead seemed to have a task that didn’t involve looking for stray Rabbits.

And when it detected him with its sensors, the boxy food delivery drone he found sitting outside of a laundromat just repeated the same “Disaster Alert” messages he was getting from the System.

“I know I need to stay away from water!” he snapped at it. “I’m trying!”

He’d hoped that if he approached the drone and it saw a person where one shouldn’t be it would send some kind of message to emergency responders.

It’s fine. Every step I take makes us safer.

He was in a very residential area still, one that was under full evacuation orders, but he was out of the Punta de la Luna neighborhood. As he headed around the curve of the crescent, Apex would widen. The coasts would be more distant. Flood waters would have to travel farther to reach him.

I can—what’s that?

“That’s a headlight!”

Up ahead, coming toward him, was the single headlight of a motorcycle.

Alden leaped away from the drone and stood fully in the middle of the street, waving both his arms over his head in what he was sure was a universal symbol for, “Stop. I need help.”

Thank you, thank you. You’re going the wrong direction for some reason, but you’re going really fast. If you could just pick us up and carry us forward for two or three minutes, into an area with some people…

The motorcycle slowed down as the rider, a dark-haired woman in a soggy sweater and jeans, spotted him.

Warm relief mixed with excitement coursed through Alden. “Please, we really need a—!”

She shook her head, looked away, picked up speed again, and was gone.

“No!” Alden shouted after her. “No! Come back!”

The taillight turned a corner in the distance and disappeared.

What?

She saw me. She totally saw me carrying a hurt person.

We looked each other in the eye. She seemed to be thinking about stopping.

But she hadn’t.

Maybe…maybe she’ll come back.

His stomach clenched. He held Zeridee in a crushing grip as he stared at the place where the motorcycle had disappeared.

It didn’t return.

She’s probably got her own problems tonight. And no room on her plate for one more.

She could’ve been on her way to find her lover, her parents, or her friends. She might just have been a little too scared of him to stop. He was carrying a bloody, stiff Artonan down the street. Maybe he looked dangerous.

Alden understood all of that.

He didn’t know why it felt like he’d just taken the most devastating blow of the entire terrible night.

She looked like she cared, and then she didn’t.

I wish she’d tried to stab me in the back instead.

That strange thought was followed by another, even stranger one.

I was supposed to die months ago. I wrote a will with Alis-art’h. I thought I was saying goodbye to Kibby forever.

And then I made it back.

Maybe wanting to survive one more disaster is greedy of me. Maybe being the guy who pulls it off again isn’t in the cards.

He stared down at the pavement.

“Jeez,” he whispered. “Melodramatic and morbid, just like that? It’s not nearly that bad. So stupid.”

He ordered his legs to move him forward and they did.

At least that’s something.

******

Alden kept walking, trying to knock himself out of his sudden and very unhelpful funk by talking to Zeridee and jabbing himself with an injector that reduced physical pain.

“You did such a great job prepping the med kit. I’m glad it has non-total pain reducers in it. Those things are wild, but breaking bones and not even knowing you did it is overkill. I would like to live my whole life without ever being in a situation where I need something like that.”

He went on talking about nothing and looking over his shoulder every time he heard a noise that might have been the motorcyclist returning.

“You know, she’s probably already on her way back. Bet she took a different street so that she didn’t have to see us here struggling along…”

He trailed off.

There it was again. That strange roaring sound.

To my left.

He had been periodically marking sturdy structures with his eyes. Just in case. He’d just passed by the last one—a building full of rentable studio spaces for artists. It didn’t have ground floor windows and it had six floors. That was about as good as it got right here.

The sound’s getting louder, thought Alden. And it’s doing it much too fast.

******
