lush vines and the sweetest fruits on her surface, but the skys were blocked out by mile long thorns that leaked acidic fluids.Jellagon was a tiny rock, barely more than a moon, but his gravitational pull was so absolute that the more ruin in this universe that occurred, the more rapid his moon would become a giant crowned storm planet.All around her, lifeforms and forming fields of light represented all in her universe.She looked around and saw Alpha, a massive galactic titan formed of stars around a central core, his form wreathed in a powerful robe, a sword in one hand and a staff in the other. He was outside her universe... yet inside it.They should have clashed, but their efforts made them co-exist.Between them, distant ripples in the dark could be felt... Delta saw something slashing at the dark with a keen edge, the hand holding it not visible... while in the other direction, a hydra with heads of a dragon, goat, dog, cat, fish, and more continued to roar, entwined in sickly roots which pointed the beast this way and that at the behest of some unseen puppetmaster.Delta could only hold this state for so long so she focused on the white hole forming on the edge of her kingdom.She reached forward.---The GPS hummed in its completed glory, a sleek silver oval formed by two metal fang-like pillars crossing over each other, the space in the middle peeling back like a curtain. Five crystals of purified Mana coated the pillars, the fifth at the very top.No one saw... no one could see, the tinges of orange seeping into the pure whiteness.The only thing that was noted was that the portal was extremely stable by Fairplay’s standards, a good sign they all told each other.--Delta inhaled and returned back to her normal senses. She couldn’t quite absorb the gate or do much since it was outside her Dungeon, but what she had done was quite simple.Everyone who passed through the Gate would donate just a tiny portion of mana to the Dungeon.This would begin their seed conversion process before they even stepped in the Dungeon. There was a slight hiccup in some of the ‘safety’ procedures, but Delta was confident that it was fine.Absolutely positively, definitely sure...it was fine.---Caline watched the first of the proper teams of Fairplay arrive. Something was amiss, but he couldn’t quite put a finger on what it was exactly.“Did HQ update the uniform to have summer shorts?” one of his fellows asked and Caline blinked and looked down at the men and women walking forward, oblivious to the fact their uniform had shorter sleeves and trousers.It wasn’t just that... more than a few complained about the sudden experience of tighter, smaller garments.“Portal gave me a damn wedgie,” one announced.Why were their clothes shrinking in the portal?
