Much as Calen hated getting involved in arguments, this did not seem like it would resolve itself. And they were still in extreme danger. “You realize Tala abandoned us, right?” he interjected into the pause that followed.

Both of their heads snapped around to stare at him in shock. First time they noticed, he thought.

As they stared at him, he continued. “We’re trapped in this cave with only two health potions left, and I can still hear the wolves outside. We’re going to need to work together to have any chance of surviving this.”

His attention was drawn once again to the Fae lying beside him as she began to stir. Her eyes fluttered and opened, darting around in confusion.

“How are you feeling?” he asked, sensing Mato and Malika’s attention shift to the Fae girl, their argument forgotten for now.

The Fae girl looked at him for a long moment and then answered something unintelligible in a language Calen had never heard before.

Calen shook his head and shrugged.

The girl tried again, this time using something that sounded like an ancient Elvish dialect, and for the first time, Calen regretted disowning that side of his heritage.

The girl frowned, trying again with the guttural speech of the Dwarves, but all Calen could do was glance helplessly at his companions, entirely unable to communicate.

“I don’t think she knows Common,” he said.

Not only did that seem to be true, but she was growing progressively more and more frustrated.

I guess we do it the hard way.

“Calen,” he said, pointing to his chest. “Malika,” he pointed to her. “Mato,” he pointed at him. Then he pointed at the Fae and waited.

She cocked her head to the side for a moment, “Aliandra,” she replied in a soft, exhausted voice.

Aliandra

Is it… over?

Ali slumped back against the cold rough stone of the dark cave, her mind grappling with the bewildering array of fragmented memories. She had killed the rat. Somehow. And then the eyes in the darkness, the howls of wolves. Everything after that seemed to be a blur. She had definitely blacked out, at least a few times.

This new cave was quite small, seemingly formed from a single massive slab of rock that jutted diagonally from the ground, supporting a surprisingly dry open space beneath it, behind the narrow entrance. A few glowing mushrooms grew in the corner, and lying beside her on the ground was an empty glass vial that might have been a healing potion.

Her eyes found the Half-elf, Calen, who had clearly fed her the potion and saved her from bleeding out. And who, frustratingly, did not seem to understand Elvish. He sat nearby, chatting quietly with his companions – their words so close to familiar, and yet always just far enough from her understanding as to defy comprehension.

Perhaps Linguist is helping me? She had never encountered full immersion in a new language, so it was unclear what was simply familiarity with phonemes and what was her passive skill prodding her knowledge, but she began to Memorize their conversations, hoping that it might help her to learn faster.

Linguist – level 4You have enhanced proficiency with understanding and learning languages.Knowledge, Intelligence

The unfortunate truth, though, was it would likely take a month or more. She loved languages, but her trying day, and the sheer exhaustion, had pushed her beyond the point of frustration already and her brain was struggling to keep up.

Somehow in the time she had been encased in her mother’s spell, her home language had morphed from ‘Common’ into ‘Ancient Dal’mohran’, at least according to her status. That, along with the strange ‘Ancient’ title she had somehow earned, hinted at something her mind could scarcely believe. Time enough for a language to evolve. That had to be the answer.

A sudden surge of loneliness struck like a punch to her gut.

She forced her attention back to the conversation, listening to the big Beastkin boy, Mato, speaking in a surprisingly deep voice. She had several flashbulb memories of him charging the wolves and laying into their snarling faces with the blood-smeared mace that was now fastened to his belt. Shouting and bleeding; it had been him standing over her while the largest wolf charged.

Why did he save me?

It, and the thousand other questions that barreled through her tired mind, had to go unanswered. She couldn’t ask them. Couldn’t even make herself understood.

The dark-haired girl with the uncannily brilliant blue eyes spoke then, and another flashbulb memory popped into Ali’s mind. Malika. Blood pouring from grievous bite wounds, she had still rushed back, like an angel from one of her beloved hero stories swooping down to carry her away from the ravening wolves. She had been barely conscious by then, everything rushing by in a blur. But what she remembered were the teeth gritted against pain. The determination in her eyes. And the blood.

So much blood.

Her companions seemed to reach some form of consensus, and Malika rose to her feet, relocating to the blocked entryway and sitting cross-legged to face it. The other two settled down to rest.

At last, as the conversation faded, Ali slowly slumped over, her mind and body finally succumbing to exhaustion.

***

She must have fallen asleep because, next she knew, Malika gently shook her awake. Drawn by the sounds of loud grunting and groaning – primarily from Mato – she sat up and stared. Over at the entrance, the two boys were busy stacking some rocks.

Puzzled, but unable to ask, she simply watched as they worked. After a lot of pushing and shoving, and generally sweaty work, they had shifted some heavy boulders to create a small wall near the still-blocked doorway.

In the distance, beyond the cave, Ali could hear the chilling sounds of wolves howling.

What are they doing? Are they going to fight the wolves?

Soon, the Half-elf walked up to her and gestured for her to back away from the entrance. Calen. She repeated his name in her mind. She limped along after him and her worst suspicion was quickly confirmed as he readied his bow and indicated a rock for her to stand behind. A chill of fear touched her spine and she suddenly shivered.

Calen left her standing there with a few words, delivered in a kind-sounding tone, and headed over to join the others. With some obvious effort, Mato shifted the boulder blocking the entrance to the side, and Calen slipped through into the darkness beyond.

Time seemed to crawl by in a tense silence broken only by the sounds of their breathing.

A wolf suddenly yelped in an outburst of pain. Several howls echoed from outside.

Ali’s breath caught in her throat.

Suddenly, Calen burst back into the cave with the howling wolfpack hot on his heels. Just as he hurdled the low wall of piled stones, Mato deftly stepped in, fearlessly interposing his bulk and his mace to block the entrance. Then Malika darted in, weaving and ducking around the boulders they had placed, jabbing and kicking at the bunched-up wolves.

What do I do? They had not been able to share their strategy with her, nor could she tell them her abilities. Not that she had any combat abilities to speak of. Ali puzzled over their strategy while her heart began to race, fueled by a growing rush of adrenaline that had nowhere to go. Nearly all her mana had regenerated while she slept, but she could only cower behind her boulder while the others risked their lives.

It gnawed at her. She had only been able to watch while Armand had been cut down trying to protect her. And now it was happening again.

Suddenly, Malika dove back into the cave with an agile flip, drawing one of the wolves in with her. Ali’s eyes widened in surprise as, instead of blocking it, Mato let the wolf slip past him, keeping his attention on the rest. Calen drew his bow, squinting in the dark, and their plan finally became clear.

They mean to draw them in, one at a time, she thought, realizing that Mato was buying Calen and Malika time to take out the isolated wolf while he blocked the rest at the narrow passage into the cave. And she found something she could do. A little thing, but it was far better than cowering in this corner.

With a simple flash of mana, she conjured a small orb of golden arcane energy and tossed it up near the roof. And dim though it was, the light from her magic filled the cave.

Calen said something quick and short, a quick grin lighting his face as his shots suddenly grew more rapid.

For all the panic and frenzy of actual real combat, their strategy seemed to be working quite well. But right then, Mato’s urgent yelling drew her attention to the entryway, and the terrifying sight of a wolf leaping over his head. One of Calen’s arrows thumped into its chest, but it still crashed to the ground, knocking Malika sprawling, and the wolf she had been fighting wasted no time, lunging fangs first at her exposed neck.

No! Reacting by pure instinct, Ali threw a disk of crystallized arcane energy at the wolf. It was a tiny thing, no larger than the saucer of a teacup, and yet it materialized right between Malika’s neck and the sharp fangs. The fangs snapped shut with an audible crack and her creation shattered in the wolf’s mouth with a tinkle like fine glass, making the mana dissipate into the air in a cloud of golden sparks.

Malika’s reactions were incredible, dodging out of the way in the small window of time she had created, scrambling away and bouncing back onto her feet.

Ali released the breath she had been unconsciously holding.

Heart still racing from the close call, she searched underground with her plant magic. She did not find any roots in the soil of this cave, but she did find moss and mushrooms. To her relief, they reacted to her nature mana all the same, mycelium thickening and bursting from the ground to tangle wolf paws. Her skill was anything but powerful, so she directed all her focus onto one of the wolves, and as soon as she had some traction, Malika backed up from the struggling monster, drawing the other wolf away.

The wolf thrashed and bit at her delicate plant magic, but Ali doubled down on her focus, spending more and more mana to keep the moss and fungus growing, tangling the wolf’s paws as quickly as it tore the growth to shreds – but she was spending mana furiously and wouldn’t be able to keep it up for long.

Ali was so focused on keeping the wolf immobilized that she failed to notice when Calen and Malika killed the first one. She jerked back, startled when Malika rushed past her, and Calen’s arrows began whizzing past her head as they both switched to attacking her wolf.

With nearly two-thirds of her mana depleted, she released her control over the plants and took a break while Malika and Calen took over.

A big crash preceded a yell ringing out from the cave entrance. The heavy Alpha wolf rammed into the makeshift wall of rock, knocking it over, before slamming into Mato with the sheer force of its bodyweight. Mato stumbled under the impact, knocked sprawling to the ground, and all the remaining wolves burst into the cave in an explosion of chaos.

Ali could only stare, rooted to the spot as a huge snarling wolf baring large razor-sharp fangs bounded over the tangled pile coming straight for her. Desperately, she threw arcane magic into its face, but it shattered instantly, not even slowing the huge beast down. Just then, a flying kick slammed into the side of its head as Malika sprang into its path. Fletchings buzzing, an arrow buried itself deep into its flank, but the wolf had so much momentum it carried right past Malika, smashing into the ground and careening into Ali, knocking her flying into the back wall of the cave.

The impact drove the air from her lungs making her see stars for a moment. She gasped, winded, struggling to crawl away from the ferocious snarling wolf trying to have her for a snack, but right at that moment, Malika leapt in front of it and unleashed a vicious kick to the knee of its left front leg. Once she had its full attention, she stepped back, drawing it away as a second wolf tried to circle around and attack her from behind.

Relief welled up inside her at the sight of the ravenous wolf turning away, but it was followed instantly by guilt as Ali realized Malika had chosen to get bitten on her behalf.

Two wolves were far too dangerous to handle without armor, but Malika simply downed a healing potion and unleashed a storm of blows while the magic visibly repaired her wounds. A few punches and arrows later, one of the two wolves dropped and lay unmoving.

Ali levered herself up using the wall for support, her breathing still ragged and rough from being winded, but slowly recovering. Miraculously, she was alive, and nothing was trying to eat her.

Malika and Calen were still busy with one wolf, but Mato stood with his back to the wall over at the far side, holding off two, one of which was the huge, muscular Alpha wolf. Blood streamed from several serious bite wounds and gashes on his body, and he was obviously struggling, his movements slow and stumbling.

He needs help.

She didn’t have a whole lot of mana left, but if she could just distract it a little, maybe that could help – Mato certainly needed something, and soon! She conjured a disk of arcane magic right in the mouth of the Alpha wolf. Reaching below ground, she found the fungal mycelium again and twisted that around the paws of the lesser wolf.

The Alpha attacked again; a savage bite aimed at Mato’s face. Ali repeated her distraction, causing splinters of gold to burst from its mouth as its fangs snapped shut a hair’s breadth from Mato’s neck. The Alpha snarled its frustration, but Mato did not waste the opportunity. With a deft motion, he retrieved a healing potion from his belt, uncorked it with a flick of his thumb, and tossed the crimson liquid down his throat.

And as combat resumed, ferocious as ever, his wounds began to close, his vigor returned, and soon he was trading blows with the Alpha.

With a swish and a thump, an arrow flew past her, striking one of Mato’s wolves, and suddenly Malika leapt into the fray.

How do they still have energy? Ali was wheezing, her injuries ached, and she was very nearly out of mana. Glancing back, Ali saw three wolf corpses lying sprawled on the cave floor. With Mato hitting it with his mace and holding its attention, Calen and Malika had free rein to unleash their full power on the last of the lesser Starving Wolves and it quickly dropped to the ground, mangled and bleeding, with several arrows sticking up out of its neck and back.

One left, Ali thought, but it was the Alpha. And to her dismay, the dramatic healing of Mato’s wounds began to slow.

Calen yelled something, and Mato shouted a response.

