Something was wrong, and Ali didn’t need to understand the language to tell what it was. The Alpha was a level five monster, and nobody was producing a healing potion.

The giant shaggy wolf lunged forward, still agile despite the blood running from a half-dozen arrows sticking out of its flanks. As its mouth opened to bite and tear, Ali summoned her arcane magic, recklessly burning her dwindling supply of mana without hesitation. The disk shattered in the wolf’s jaws, blunting the attack just enough to leave Mato with only shallow scratches.

It howled, shaking its head in fury, and then lunged at Mato’s legs. But this time Ali had her mycelium grown around its hind leg. The power of the monster tore the fungus right out of the ground, ripping it with ease, but its momentum was blunted just enough to cause its powerful jaws to snap shut on air.

With her heartbeat pounding deafeningly in her ears, she focused on the Alpha, watching for the next attack. When it came, it was fast and powerful. Ali summoned another disk of arcane energy, but this time all she got was a tiny golden sparkle that popped in the air as her mana pool ran completely dry.

Oh no! She desperately tried again, but her magic was spent, and the Alpha wolf’s fangs sunk into Mato’s thigh, ripping flesh and spraying crimson blood. Mato screamed, but his mace came down with a brutal crack on the back of the Alpha wolf’s head. He pulled it back while Malika and Calen took advantage of his stunning attack to get in a couple of kicks and arrows, and then the mace came down a second time to the sound of bone crunching.

As the Alpha wolf dropped, a chorus of chimes echoed within Ali’s tired mind. She saw the book appear in her mind and heard the rustling as the page turned. Bright golden text shone on the page.

Ali simply stood there, staring in disbelief at the blood and unmoving corpse of the Alpha wolf, her body trembling in shock. Is it really dead? Mato sank to the rocky ground, holding his wound closed with a bloody hand. The other two went to check on him, but their voices seemed calm. At least calmer than she would have expected if he were dying.

Finally, she turned her attention to the golden notifications waiting for her.

Your group has defeated Starving Wolf – level 3.Your group has defeated Starving Wolf – level 2.Your group has defeated Starving Wolf – level 1.Your group has defeated Starving Wolf – level 3.

Your group has defeated Starving Alpha – Wolf – level 5.

Requirements met for class advancement.

Primary class slot available.Experience threshold reached.

Class: Arcane Scholar unlocked.This class will be permanently assigned in one week.Additional class options may be available at a shrine.

Ali stared at the glowing words, frozen in surprise. She shut her mouth and swallowed hard. So many times she had dreamed of this moment. So many nights, waiting for sleep, she had imagined how it would feel. And suddenly, without warning, it was finally here.

Slowly, she became aware of the excited voices of her companions.

They must have gotten theirs, too.

She studied the notifications, going over them all one more time. Arcane Scholar. Her natural path Class. It was as she had expected – even what she had told Maeria Runeweaver – a common arcane magic research Class would be a fine starting point for her. And without the shrine, she would have been able to build it up with hard work and study.

Although her dream of having her father conduct her Class ceremony would never come to pass, she had inherited his shrine. And that meant she could finally offer something to these strangers who had selflessly risked their lives to save her.

Carefully, she levered her tired, bruised, and battered body up and got to her feet.

“Come,” she said, grabbing Malika’s hand and pulling. Seeing the blank look followed by confusion, Ali repeated herself, pulling her hand again. There was a flurry of unintelligible speech among the others and eventually Malika got to her feet.

When the others remained sitting, Ali repeated the gesture with them, too.

This is really annoying, she thought, pinching her lips together and digging deeper for just a little more patience – being unable to talk was the worst.

At least they understood her quickly enough, and soon she led them out of the cave and towards the Grove where the shrine waited. It was not very far, and with the wolves dead back in the cave, Ali was certain they would be safe. However, her eyes never left the shadows, searching them relentlessly for danger.
