Calen

It was probably morning above ground, but such things did not have much meaning down here in this dark and dead underground forest. Calen rose to his feet from where he’d been keeping watch and began making the rounds to wake his companions. They had camped for a little over two hours – more than long enough to regenerate stamina and mana – but some things took more than regeneration and potions to recover. His gaze lingered on the pile of rocks Mato had heaped over Donavan’s exposed boots.

Malika was awake, sitting cross-legged and meditating, and her eyes sprang open before he even reached out to touch her. Mato and Tala had fallen asleep, catching a little more rest while he kept watch. He quickly woke them, eager to be on his way – if nothing else, it would take them away from the growing pool of sewage forming under the waterfall.

We’re very lucky we didn’t lose anyone else, he thought soberly, glancing up at the rope still dangling from the great hole in the sewer floor so far above, deciding it was safe to leave it there. It was quite a fall, and he could still vividly recall Mato’s injured body lying on the shattered rubble.

I don’t think I could have survived that, he thought. And what if the rats had stuck around to fight?

Calen glanced over at his friend – Mato was rapidly refilling his pack and securing his mace to his belt. He seemed fine now, but it had taken one of their precious potions to heal him. Calen’s mother had insisted on buying him a few for the trial, even though he was certain she couldn’t afford them. Not with her being forced to break ties with the Guild of Tailors for the crime of trying to start up her own private business in Myrin’s Keep. But she was never one to take no for an answer, and now Calen was grateful for her insistence.

Ever since they were young, he knew how impulsive Mato could be, and though he was certain his friend could hold his own against the kinds of people who used to bully them, monsters were an entirely different kind of danger.

Calen rubbed the skin at the back of his neck. Ever since he had climbed down that rope and into this cavern, he had felt an uncomfortable prickling sensation, a little like an imagined itch right beneath his skin. It set him on edge in the same way a premonition might – there was just something about the environment down here that made him uneasy.

Perhaps it’s the darkness and the enormous space, he thought, trying to shake the sensation.

His gaze shifted to his other companions. Malika was stretching off to the side. He had been unsure of her at first, she had no equipment and was obviously from the shady side of town with such a painfully obvious Street Rat title.

Shadier side, he corrected. You could find corruption and crime throughout most of Myrin’s Keep – it was a good day when you didn’t stumble across a corpse in an alleyway, or someone being mugged or robbed, often in broad daylight.

Malika was athletic and dirty and had clearly run afoul of some thugs before she had arrived at the Town Hall. Her curious blue eyes were strikingly intense against her dark skin and black curls, features that identified her as having been born in the northern reaches of Toria – the kingdom currently at war with New Daria – perhaps even descended from the Ahn Khen people. He had supported her joining their group only because Mato had a knack for picking honest and trustworthy companions.

He had to admit, though, that she had proved to be a competent fighter – she had excellent situational awareness, an instinctive understanding of her companions, and a sure grasp of strategy.

While Donavan had shown solid sword skills, he was a noble and had access to the best training money could buy. How did a Street Rat like Malika learn to fight so well? She must have had some decent unarmed combat training somewhere, but he didn’t expect she was the kind of person to share her story. Still, if she had some decent gear, she could be a powerhouse. As it was, she seemed to be holding her own beside Tala and himself, with nothing more than bare fists and a ragged t-shirt.

He wasn’t so sure about Tala, though. She was clearly quite competent with her daggers, but something about her seemed off and he just couldn’t place it. He had been trying to figure her out since the moment they had entered the sewers. Perhaps it was the calculating, almost cruel cast to her eyes or the edge of suppressed anxiety. He was certain there was something between her and Malika because Malika seemed wary of her and was obviously avoiding her.

Well, Malika is wary of everyone, he thought. But it was especially obvious with Tala.

As they finished breaking camp, he picked a path down the scree-strewn slope and into the vast space of the cavern.

They kept a slow pace, given the unfamiliar terrain, and having no idea what might be lurking in the darkness just beyond sight. Calen carried the group’s last remaining torch, providing light as they trudged along the damp, springy ground. The dirt underfoot was mostly overgrown with moss and the occasional bioluminescent mushroom. Everywhere he looked there were old and decaying tree trunks, with piles of bones strewn about like snowdrifts, none of which were helping him with his sense of unease. It all stank of slow decay.

After a while, they began to encounter monsters, mainly wandering spiders and prowling rats. They fell into something of a rhythm – Mato picking them up first, and then the three remaining members taking it apart from behind. But whenever he spied a group of monsters traveling together, he alerted the others to instead take cover behind a massive tree or a pile of bones. There were more than enough solo monsters to satisfy the requirements of their trial without taking unnecessary risks, in his opinion.

Suddenly, a high-pitched scream split the darkness of the cavern.

Was that a person?

They all locked eyes with each other for a moment.

“It came from over there!” Mato said, already turning to go.

The scream had come from up ahead, towards the far edge of the cavern, and they immediately began to run. They rushed through the darkness at a reckless pace, greatly increasing the chance of stumbling into a patrolling group of monsters. But all he could do was frantically scan the shadows, searching for danger.

About a minute later, they heard another scream – definitely a person – and the ominous howl of a wolf. Rushing around the bole of a massive dead tree, he suddenly stopped.

A rat hung in the air, dangling from thick gnarled roots, seemingly crushed to death, and not too long ago, either. Lying crumpled on the ground, covered in amber blood and dirt, was a tiny person, struggling to crawl away. She was almost three feet tall, with a petite build and slender features. Small elfin ears protruded from the long, matted and blood-soaked green hair that clung to the sides of her face. Her large golden eyes stared wide-eyed in shock and terror at an advancing pack of snarling wolves.

Could she be… without even thinking about it, he used Identify on all of them.

Fae [Ancient]

Holy crap, a real, live Fae? Down here?

Starving Alpha – Wolf – level 5Starving Wolf – level 1-3 x4

Calen stared aghast at the scene playing out in front of them. The five monstrous wolves were focused on the Fae girl, fanning out to surround her. He had always heard that the Fae were supposed to be these powerhouses of magic, but even though she had the Ancient title, inexplicably she was unclassed.

She doesn’t stand a chance! Calen knew it instantly, taking in the extensive injuries and enormous amount of blood already soaking the ground around her. It was a wonder she was even conscious at all. This ‘real live’ Fae was about to be really dead, really soon.

And then Mato shouted, “She’s going to die!” He charged into the fray, heedless of the danger.

Dammit Mato, this is not a schoolyard brawl, Calen thought, his heart immediately beginning to race at the nightmarish prospect of tackling five monsters at once, one a level five. But there was no heat in his thoughts. He knew this was who Mato was – for as long as they had been friends, Mato had never been able to leave someone who was injured, weaker, or being picked on by bullies.

No matter the odds.

This is going to get you killed one of these days, he thought, drawing his bow, and fervently hoping it would not be today. Both of us, he amended, realizing he was equally unable to let either Mato or the unknown girl die while he stood by and did nothing.

At a glance he scanned the wolves’ approach, studying their formation. Mato’s loud shouting and charge had already been noticed, and some of the wolves were peeling off to deal with his intrusion, but not all. He aimed and released, firing his arrow right past Mato. It struck one of the wolves mid-leap, knocking it sideways and barely saving the helpless Fae from its snarling fangs.

Now I’m part of this insanity.

As he drew a second arrow, Malika sprinted by, diving into the fray to back Mato up. It took a moment before her solo charge toward the monstrous wolves sunk in.

Where’s Tala?

He glanced around urgently, but there was no sign of her anywhere. With a sudden sour taste in the back of his throat, he realized the truth. She abandoned us. And in the middle of the most dangerous fight, too.

Later, he thought. He couldn’t afford to worry about it now, but it continued to gnaw at him in the back of his mind. How can we survive with just the three of us?

The Alpha howled and the entire pack rounded upon Mato, even the one Calen had hit got back up and started attacking. The wolves immediately shifted formation, allowing the Alpha to attack Mato head-on while the lesser wolves moved to flank him. Natural coordination born of instinct, perhaps. Malika arrived shortly after, and her presence took a bit of the pressure off Mato as two of the wolves turned to her instead.

Calen kept firing steadily, but the wolves were coordinating their attacks and Mato and Malika were already bleeding from several bites. They can’t keep this up for long. Mato has three wolves on him, and Malika does not have armor.

Calen looked around desperately, searching for anything. To the right, hidden in the shadows of the rock wall was a darker shadow indicating an opening.

“Mato!” he yelled. “Cave on the right!”

He fired a shot at the wolves attacking Malika, hitting one in the neck and burying the other arrow deep into the second wolf’s flank, earning a yelp of pain. Snarling, both wolves turned to chase after him. Knowing he wouldn’t be able to shoot effectively if he let them get close, he sprinted for the shadowed hole in the rock wall, trying to keep his distance while struggling to fire his bow accurately on the run.

Even though Malika bled profusely from several nasty bite wounds, she still ran back and scooped up the injured Fae girl before sprinting for cover.

Arriving at the entrance first, Calen squeezed through the narrow crack, spun around, and began firing off arrow after arrow to cover the others as they fled, heedless of how many he spent.

Malika punched the wolf trying to reach Calen, knocking it sideways just enough to save him from the rending fangs, and she fell past through the entrance with the Fae.

Mato struggled out in the open by himself, playing tag with the Alpha and the two remaining wolves. He almost tripped as they tried to hamstring him, and he scrambled back drawing them into an ugly running battle across the mossy ground. Arriving at the entryway, he somehow managed to maneuver the wolves so that they blocked each other, and he finally squeezed his large frame through the opening, despite a wolf trying to turn his foot into a chew-toy. He kicked it off with a curse.

Mato turned, blocking the doorway with his body and his mace, while Calen fired past his shoulder. Suddenly unable to flank them or attack more than one at a time in the narrow entrance, the balance shifted markedly in their favor. He fired into the crowd of snarling wolves jostling each other as they tried to cram their way through the narrow cleft. Strange spongy roots sprang from the ground to grapple and tangle the wolves’ paws. Glancing briefly down at the floor, he found the Fae girl had her hand outstretched towards the wolves, apparently casting a spell. However, she soon collapsed, spent, breathing shallowly.

It took hectic minutes of messy fighting with both him and Malika holding off the wolves at the entrance until Mato muscled a boulder across the entrance through sheer strength, and the wolves finally retreated, howling in frustration.

Well, that was great, he thought. We didn’t even kill a single wolf. Calen finally breathed a sigh of relief. At least we’re alive.

Malika, however, was not nearly as calm, rounding on Mato, her face livid. “What the hell was that? You can’t just charge in, putting us all in danger!”

Mato drew himself up to his full height, chin jutting forward.

Here it comes, Calen thought. Mato was his closest friend, and after all this time he had gotten used to his impulsiveness, but even he was sympathetic to Malika’s position. This had been an unreasonably dangerous fight and Mato really had just jumped in without thinking.

Healing first, he thought, choosing to stay out of the argument for the moment, while he rummaged through his pack for potions, handing one each to Mato and Malika.

“She would be dead if we hadn’t charged in!” Mato’s response was predictably upset and emotionally charged, but as much as Malika’s anger resonated with him, Calen could see Mato’s point too. The little Fae lay in a slowly growing pool of blood with glazed-over eyes and rapid shallow breathing, obviously beyond pain and only semi-conscious. It was clear she would likely have died if they had hesitated for even a few seconds.

She might die right now, he thought, quickly kneeling beside her, and raising her head so he could drip the crimson potion between her pale lips.

“You’d be dead if I hadn’t risked my life to save you!” Malika wasn’t letting up one bit. The potion was working quickly on her, and some of the more obvious wounds were visibly closing. Without any armor to protect her, the wolves had savaged her badly and she had been severely injured. Even her flimsy clothing was almost completely shredded – Calen wasn’t sure how she had even managed to run back to the cave.

“I knew I could count on you,” Mato said. “With the four of us, I was sure we could do it.”

“That was not your fucking decision!”

“You’re both alive, aren’t you?”

