She was using it to bring her vision onto the world. It wasn’t doing it for her. It was helping her accomplish the impossible.

“I bring momentum. I bring vision, and hope, and despair. I am the catalyst for my better world, and the black is my catalyst.

“The black is my catalyst.”

It was her truth. Nothing more, nothing less.

Viv’s body blinked out of existence. She was black mana, and black mana only. The mana could host her consciousness. It was the most natural thing in the world.

In this world, people were blobs of mana, the undead were another blob, connected between each other by a thick cloud. The ground was dull brown, the sky was dull gray, the clouds were dull blue. Bursts of power erupted when the mortals and their foes wrote their mark onto the world with their deeds. Here, one of them spoke colorless words that cut great swaths through the darker congregations. There, the colorless mana carried the will of its wielder, slicing mana and pretty much everything else with a single strike.

Do not lose yourself.

Enttiku’s advice woke her up from the shock of those new sensations. The magical and the mundane merged in her perception, anchoring her. Viv was her soul but not just that, and she ought to pay attention. The physical was just as real as the gorgeous view of so many colors on a wonderful canvas. She was just more used to the first. There was something urgent knocking on the walls of her memory.

Right, the undead.

Viv didn’t need destruction or defense right now. She was contesting an entity of unfathomable power for control over the very fabric of magic. She was going to need some serious legitimacy. Fortunately, she had just the tool. Her form stretched. The weight of the Crown of Harrak returned to the place where her head ought to be, though it wasn’t quite there for now.

[True Aspect of the Paragon.]

“I CHALLENGE YOU.”

Her claim spread through the deep cloud of black mana covering the battlefield. Viv was no undead, but she was a leader.

The foreign presence that led that horde to war stopped and faced her, really faced her, for the first time. Viv felt surprise. No fear though. She didn’t know if the entity was even capable of it.

Viv claimed the cloud. It wasn’t her, and thus not fully hers, but then it wasn’t going to belong to anyone else either. She didn’t have to control enough power to level a city if anyone ever had the adamantine will to channel it through a spell. She merely had to deny her opponent access to it. Her mind encompassed the black, pushing it in motion as a flux that no one would be able to harness, not even her.

The presence contested her, of course. It needed the dead to kill the living. Already, those revenants that hadn’t been finished off properly were rising again for a second attack. But the entity wanted the mana inside of the dead, and the dead were stale and stagnant.

Viv focused. Her consciousness expanded so much she might have broken her concentration were it not for the goddess’ gentle support. It was like playing with a ball inside of a room and then suddenly moving to a massive stadium. It was technically the same game, but the scale made it different. Now she had as much mana as a god at her fingertips, yet she wasn’t really in control. She played, though, because there were no other choices.

Viv focused. The black was destruction, thus it was the disaster that had killed Harrak and the dead that populated its decrepit surface.

The mind of the other touched her. It was cold and supremely confident, but also, strangely, in agony. The pain and horror swam under the surface through a wall so thick, Viv might have dreamt them. The mind was distant. Another touch and a vision filled her mind.

A ritual chamber, melted.

The empire from the top of the gutted ziggurat.

Horror. Wordless horror.

Punishment at an existential level.

The images faded. The other was control, and annihilation at a scale Viv could understand but couldn’t accept. It was a view of the black. Not an incorrect one either.

Viv knew what opposing the creature head on would result in. She wasn’t going to win this one by being the most bull-headed, for once in her life apparently. Instead, she contaminated the vision with her own. The black was the dead and also their end. It was annihilation and renewal through change. To the vision of dead Harrak, she replied with her own, of a reborn Sinur’s Gate with its towering spires clad in green vines, of the gurgling fountains, of the distant views of so many villages popping like desert flowers after a gentle rain. The cyclopean columns of the ravaged palaces were replaced by stella full of stories, courtesy of a very patient golem wandering through the reclaimed lands. The silence was broken by the laugh of children and their off tune songs, the clang of tools. The statement was the weight of a singular catastrophe. Viv’s reply was that anything will change given enough time and effort.

The entity was troubled. For all its might, it was also keeping something terrible at bay: its own anguish. Viv’s arguments must have struck a chord because it chose to retreat and fight her with sheer power. Viv had to wrestle against a much stronger opponent, but she had vision on her side, and mana followed will. She gradually took over.

The first undead fell under her control. She felt them like expansions of her will, semi-autonomous tools bound to her intent yet with automatisms of their own. It was disturbingly close to what playing strategy games with her friend Gevaudan used to be like.

The undead froze when she did. She could also feel them getting destroyed by her people. It wasn’t painful in any way.

Enttiku intervened here. She gently picked the bodies and just… unmade them, gently, respectfully. There was no grief in her, because what had made the revenants people was long gone. In a way, her actions were much more for the living than the dead: a question of respect for the self and those who came before. The human gesture helped Viv move on. She had one job, and she could leave the rest to those she trusted.

Her control expanded, first slowly, then more quickly as her concept contaminated the necromantic array. Clumps of undead fell under her grasp, and then to ash immediately after, then it was companies, and then entire swaths of the horde crumbled. Her enemy could no longer rebuild her relay beacons as fast as the dragons were destroying them by now. Something clicked, and the area she could control exploded.

There were still tens of thousands of undead on the plain, lining up towards her line. They all fell under her control.

For that one moment, Viv felt a vivid sensation of overwhelming presence, hers. Her perception, through her minions, expanded for kilometers. She could see everything she wanted, hear everything she wanted. All things and people around were close because she just had to extend a limb to touch it, and she had a lot of limbs to play with. It was like being a spider at the center of a very, very large web, and within this web, she was all knowing and almighty. It broke when Enttiku took it from her with patient care, like one carefully removes a knife from a child’s fingers .

It is not worth it, child.

“Sorry. I was surprised.”

There is no shame in being tempted, dearie.

I would have let you shake it off on your own, but I need to leave you now.

You are not strong enough for me to stay either.

Any longer, and your body will be damaged.

“Ah alright. Thanks. We won!”

Yes. Now you have one last hurdle.

Goodbye.

And she was gone, and now Viv was faced with several notifications.

You have unlocked an essential tool of the elemental archmage: true form.

While in true form, your body is replaced by pure elemental energy. Your mind functions as normal. While in true form, normal ways of destroying the body no longer functions. Your spell resistance is vastly increased due to the sheer volume of mana.

Keep it mind that specific attacks are particularly effective against this form.

Your ability to get into and out of true form depends on your soul sense skill.

Ascender: 3/5

Viv had a sneaking suspicion the kind of attack that would work well would be the kind of stuff Solar used. It seemed to cut reality at a level she didn’t quite understand. Better keep that in mind.

Alright, now… how to turn back?

Viv had no idea.

***

Brick was tired. She was also hungry. She was also sad because she had lost friends today.

The revenants were all dust now so it was over.

The good empress was floating above them, under the light of the moon. It was nice like this with the weird black form and the nice clouds behind. She found it very peaceful. The good empress was like a small spiky cloud with many ribbons attached floating there, above, moving too much because there was no wind. Brick wasn’t sure why she wasn’t in her normal body anymore or if it was good or bad. She was just Brick. The good empress floated there above them like a small piece of not-thing with green eyes. The dragon lady flew around her. She looked a bit worried. Maybe the empress needed help.

When Brick was small, her mother would sing to her. She would also say that Brick was loved by the gods because they loved simple people. So Brick did the only thing she knew how to do: she sang. And since Brick didn’t think the empress would like ‘Tonton ran after the squirrel’, she sang a soldier’s song instead. The others started singing as well. All of the others. That was a lot of people and that made Brick smile as well. When a lot of people sang, songs grew really touching. It was like sharing something all together.

We left our homes, we left our kin

Through all the hardships we have been

Through barren lands both foul and clear

But we’re still here. We’re still here.

Through forests green and far away

We lost our way and walked all day

We’ll march on top of mountains sheer

We’re still here. Still here.

We're tired hungry give us wine,

We pray to all the gods divine

Except for thirst we have no fear

We’re still here. Still here.

So come and get us bastards fiends

You can’t win through any means

With strength of arm and stalwart spear

We’re still here. We’re still here!

When Brick and the others were done singing, the good empress was back to normal. She was also singing with them. That made Brick very happy. Brick was also sad because some of her friends were dead and the battle was over anyway so it was alright to cry. So she did.

***

There would be no celebration that night because it was already 4 fucking AM and the thought on everyone’s mind was ‘bed’. Fortunately, home was fifteen minutes away and the wounded were tended by enough priests to pacify a rave. Viv flew her ass to her own bed chamber through the heavily warded window. She didn’t even bathe.

The next morning was one of relief, but the butcher’s bill came, and it was rather grim. Fifty-seven Harrakans had died that night despite how relatively brief the battle had been and how much they had prepared. The sisters of Enttiku’s elites also had fatalities. By comparison, there were very few wounded simply because Harrakan armor was so hard to pierce for the revenants. Most of their losses came from gut spiller acid, or the very few occurrences of necrarchs not being intercepted quickly enough. The undead abominations tore through even enchanted armor like it was wet paper, killing people instantly. Four of the One Hundred had fallen during two such breaches despite all of their skills and gear. Any thought of using her army to hunt the dangerous undead flew out the window for Viv. No amount of strategy could make it worth the risk.

There was a service for the dead, then Viv had to prepare for the next phase. She called a small council to announce her decision.

“I will be going alone. Well, almost alone,” Viv said.

Her council didn’t look too happy about it. Even Lady Azar bit her nails with stress, and she was always the first to yell at Viv.

“It’s not that I don’t trust you,” Viv explained, “but some of the dragons who came directly from the mountains to the north confirmed it: the mana concentration in the capital is currently so thick, it can be felt from the clouds. Nobody alive would survive it except for me. Even the dragons will stay at a distance.”

“Will you take Solfis?” Sidjin asked.

The question was a loaded one. He knew what they’d found out, though Viv hadn’t shared this specific piece of information with her people yet. Taking Solfis would be a gamble. The mana concentration was going to be so thick that he would basically just need to ‘vent’ his core every minute or so, and his reserves would improve by just standing there. It was the perfect battlefield for him, yet at the same time it was the first and only time she couldn’t be sure of his absolute loyalty. If the enemy was indeed the empress, or even someone who was a major authority figure, he would at least have to consider his allegiances. Solfis was hers by choice, but his choice was one of whom to follow. He didn’t have the opportunity to follow no one. If the enemy somehow managed to play with his hard-coded directives, Viv would have to face a sophisticated, ancient weapon specifically designed to kill creatures like her. Nevertheless, the choice was clear. After all, the Solfis problem had an obvious solution. His knowledge would also be invaluable.

“I will be taking Solfis. No one knows the palace or its denizens like he does. The dragons have decided to fly around the capital. Meadow agreed to help one more time.”

He was really deserving of his fish sauce.

“I’ll be going immediately.”

Some protests erupted around the table. An exhausted Abe asked her to reconsider while he prayed for more guidance, but Viv wasn’t having it.

