Orodan’s feet hit the floor before his mind caught up. Time was the critical factor here.

“I have many questions for you, but now’s not the time. You feel it, don’t you?”

“I do. Something in me… feels a familiar sensation. Velestok. We need to head to the Simarji lumberyard immediately,” Zaessythra said.

Vision of Purity, capable of covering all Alastaia now, confirmed her words.

Orodan really did have a lot to ask her. How had she survived the deadly abilities of those things? How could she feel their taint and find it so easily? Yet none of that mattered when those most important to him were in dire peril.

A Dimensional Step crossed the boundary between planes, and even during that brief walk, his senses were keen and quick enough to note that something was wrong.

The step took him from the bedroom of his hovel to a beautiful clearing within the Aenechean Forest surrounded by a ring of sharp-pointed trees. It was a serene place, and he’d often come here for training in his early loops.

Yet there was nothing serene about the old man who was standing in the middle of the clearing, facing him and Zaessythra. The smile, which seemed friendly on the surface, was far too wide and stretched.

It was not a smile which belonged upon the face of Adeltaj Simarji.

A glimpse at the madness that lay underneath.

And the old Simarji’s halberd was unfurled and discarded to the side like trash. From that alone he knew this was not his Adeltaj; his first mentor would never disrespect the weapon so.

Adeltaj’s mouth opened, and a language the System’s knowledge base failed to translate came out. Yet the words attempted to stir a cognitive disease in him too.

Orodan’s mind shrugged it off, and Zaessythra seemed entirely unaffected, but the nearby pair of house guard’s suddenly stilled…

…and began repeating the same unknown language.

A language that came from more than just them.

He noticed Zaessythra looking up sharply, those foreign words coming from the air too.

“The crows… they speak it too,” she hissed.

The deer in the woods were now speaking it as well, and if that trajectory continued? Nothing good could come of it. There was no more time to waste.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 191 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 192]

[Memetic Hazard Mastery 1 → Memetic Hazard Mastery 5]

The power of his Celestial skill shot outwards, its power spreading out towards all Alastaia. And with it, his newly acquired Memetic Hazard Mastery to guide it.

It was still early in the loop, but right away he felt multiple sites which required cleansing and had spread rather far. A testament to the frighteningly quick spread of this corruptive thought.

Karilsgard near Destartes’ office at Bluefire was a terrible sight. Unlike the lumberyard here where there were few things to corrupt, he sensed hundreds corrupted already.

Similarly, Novar’s Peak was in a bad spot, with hundreds corrupted and mumbling that wicked tongue which spread the corruption further.

But the most grim fate of them all was reserved for Guzuhar. Not any particular city, not any particular town… but the continent itself. After all, if an Eldritch-tainted God could corrupt all their followers… then what could this new taint do when Ozgaric was infected?

The answer was, a lot.

Orodan’s broom purged all Alastaia of that wicked corruption, reaching out through the divine realm’s boundary to get Ozgaric too, but the damage had been done.

Adeltaj fell to the ground like a puppet whose strings had been cut, collapsing in a heap. As did the two guards and the animals all around.

“He’s lost consciousness,” Orodan said. “His mind… is not healed either.”

The very thought which had implanted itself in everyone’s minds was infectious. Furthermore, removing it had only left a very apparent absence which… was not a scar exactly, but a very glaring hole where a thought used to be. Adeltaj’s mind was almost entirely unchanged save for the fact that whatever had struck it had forced the old man’s will to fixate on and become obssessed with that corruptive thought.

The image of that smile, an infectious thing which attempted to force even Orodan’s mind to auto-complete the thought over and over in an endless loop of madness.

Like suddenly taking an addictive substance away from the addled, the outcome wasn’t good. And unless he wanted to begin recklessly altering someone’s very mind itself, Orodan was caught in a bind. Hells, even the potential solution of using chronomancy to revert the changes outright was off the table since this was a new loop, and he’d need access to the time loop mechanism if he wanted to reach into the overall timeline of the loops themselves. He had no real ‘template’ of the old man’s mind from before the infection.

Domain of Perfect Cleaning wasn’t some convenient catch-all cleansing tool. Proper cleaning required at least some idea—either from his end or his recipient’s—about how the correct end state of cleanliness should look. And without knowing perfectly how the minds of the infected should be, Orodan did not want to cause further and potentially permanent disaster by altering them.

The non-loopers who were corrupted would be reset. But the loopers would not.

“The memory orb?” Zaessythra suggested.

He shook his head.

“The memories contained within it are not a full mind.”

“Are we without any recourse then? I refuse to believe that everyone was impacted.”

That was true. And Orodan had a feeling he and Zaessythra weren’t the only ones who had weathered this freak thing.

His Vision of Purity shot out, feeling farther and wider than it ever had before. At the Transcendent level what was a singular planet?

Like a sword thrust tearing through the air to find the foe, his Vision of Purity shot towards a particular direction.

Thazrivin.

It was… unaffected.

The High-Orast looked terrified and in the midst of making several preparations, but the woman was not corrupted by the sight of that thing.

Which left one more world.

Orodan’s sight went to Lonvoron, and right away some things were quite wrong.

Several sections of Fenton’s home planet were sealed in some form of energy. Strange barriers covering a particular military camp, odd barriers covering the place where Almyra herself resided at the start of each loop. And of course, the Prophet outside her abode, channeling power into its Administrator’s Mantle to shatter the barrier.

Finding Almyra under these circumstances wasn’t difficult for the zealot, especially when she was emitting energy like a beacon from all the sudden interventions she was performing.

[Dimensional Step 50 → Dimensional Step 52]

It was this scene which Orodan stepped into, ruining the Prophet’s plans to snag his fellow time looper.

“Foul craven! Your evasion of my grasp has led to you calling upon the Invaders themselves?! You shall face absolution and-”

A flare of power left Zaessythra’s hand, and the Administrator cried out in agony as its very soul twisted with miserable pain. But Orodan’s sword stroke was merciful, bringing an end to it almost immediately.

The barrier powered down the moment the Prophet’s head hit the ground, and a shaky Almyra ascended the steps leading down to her hidden lair beneath the ground.

“I’d normally celebrate the fact that you slaughtered that wretch again, but the situation is dire. The Transcendent rifleman that was with you in that chamber is infected, and he managed to corrupt his entire company before I could step in and place a quarantine barrier over the entire camp,” she spoke. “Whatever you did on Alastaia a few moments ago, I need you to do it here too. They will go unconscious, but we can salvage it from there.”

There was little talk needed after that.

Orodan’s broom hit the ground, purging Lonvoron of all memetic taint and Eldritch at the same time. But this was where he discovered something was wrong.

[Memetic Hazard Mastery 5 → Memetic Hazard Mastery 7]

It pinged in his awareness as something predatory and wrong coming through.

The memetic taint was gone. But whatever had sent it through… had finally crossed through the door. Not here on Lonvoron, but deeper in the void.

Who else would even be out that way?

Orodan thought for less than a second before coming to the answer.

“Stay here, fortify Lonvoron itself if you can. If whoever got corrupted is allowed to act freely… then all of System space might be doomed,” he spoke grimly.

Orodan’s Dimensional Step took him to the deep void between his own Athranos Galaxy and the Vystaxium Galaxy where Lonvoron was located. Just in time too, as he felt multiple spatial rifts and folds attempt to grind him down to pulp all while a terrible language and words which threatened madness were loudly being echoed through spatial rifts leading to various worlds.

This was no corrupt Transcendent. This was a corrupted Embodier.

Alagameth the Silent Oracle. An Embodiment of Space and quite possibly one of the worst individuals to face corruption due to its sheer reach. And next to it… a visitor he’d killed once already.

The spatial spider had not been in the chamber when Anomaly #3 had come through, so he wasn’t entirely sure how the infection had occurred. But that question mattered little when disaster was moments from occurring.

The first thing Orodan did, was channel all his raw power into a Time Reversal.

Alagameth did not react, but Anomaly #3 did. It was a predator whose emotions and feelings were entirely alien to what he knew, but surprise was a rather universal feeling it seemed, for the long-limbed being twitched as spatial rifts began closing and the very sounds, thoughts and corruption that had passed through them reverting backwards as though it had never occurred.

Orodan could not salvage any corrupted loopers this way, but he could certainly salvage non-loopers within the same loop via Time Reversal.

His broom then put an end to the corrupt thoughts within the spatial Embodier’s mind, followed by a gentle but decisive hammer fist to put the spider to sleep. Hard to corrupt anything via information when the mind was entirely shut off and incapable of processing anything.

Which left only him and one other thing.

Pale face, wide eyes and a smile which looked as though a mask was upon a mannequin too tight.

A horrible wail left the mouth of his foe. It hadn’t been expecting his arrival.

“Predator. Displeased that I’ve frustrated your hunt?”

“What is aberration? Not friend. Not human.”

“A warrior. And you’re not going to catch me off-guard this time,” he declared, rapping sword against shield three times in challenge. “If corruption of thought pleases you, then perhaps a taste of your own medicine is in order. You prefer your wily battlefields where you subvert the thoughts of those unprepared, then it is only fair you be dragged into a field of battle for which you are unready. Come, stand and face me toe-to-toe.”

[Memetic Hazard Mastery 7 → Memetic Hazard Mastery 10]

It was a calm demand, but one backed by Eidolon of Violence; specifically the Commandment of War aspect of it. He could see the insidious thought planting itself in its being. Unerasable… domineering. Compulsive.

Right away, it shrieked and howled like a mad thing.

It had run last time, but there would be no running for it now.

And toe-to-toe…

…its fate was sealed against him.

#

“You look miserable…”

“This is far from the sort of situation which induces smiling,” he replied. “And given our recent troubles involving smiles altogether… perhaps it is best I retain my characteristically angry look.”

“You look positively murderous and guilty in equal measure,” she commented, not accusingly, nor in a way which implied he should stop. “I will not tell you to cast away those feelings like some bloodless youth seeking to counsel a hard-bitten soldier… but know that it was not your fault.”

“But it was my responsibility.”

And that was the root of it. Orodan was the central time looper, he was the mightiest Embodier of them all. Everything he had done thus far had been for the sake of uplifting those he cared for. And now they had paid the price for his actions.

Zaessythra claimed it wasn’t his fault, but he disagreed. It was he who had dragged tens of thousands into the time loops. And it was he who had done so without seeking even a word of permission from anyone else. Thus, any consequence which was borne of that decision fell squarely upon his own shoulders.

Talasgan’s words had been very clear.

“Then you have doomed us all. They smell it… the increased power, the draw, the invaders smell it and create even more openings. I have been under the greatest pressure I have ever felt in all my billions of years of duty… and it is because of you,” the Warrior spoke calmly. “And when those things begin to enter en masse… you will realize that having tens of thousands of other time loopers is more curse than boon. I do not know how you have done it, or what you even are… but this is a problem beyond even my understanding now.”

This situation, all of it… was his doing.

He was not blind, nor a self-flagellating penitent in a temple. The situation had come with much to celebrate, yes, but the good did not erase the bad. And Orodan would not take a step backwards in the face of accepting accountability for it.

His inclusion of tens of thousands into the time loops had done something to make System space very vulnerable to external invaders. Predators such as Anomaly #3 were drawn to it; it had somehow whispered to the world core of Narictus, and through it infected the Lord of Night.

