And hadn’t that been a miserable sight? Forced to kill his own allies simply to stop further corruption from spreading and their minds from being infected at the start of the next loop.

A sin committed at the gain of nothing, for they were infected all the same.

And that fact couldn’t be more apparent than now, when all eight of the primary infected loopers were before him, still unconscious. Behind them, laid out in cots too, were seventy loopers who bore Blessings of Ozgaric and had been exposed right at the start of the loop.

It had been two days since the start of the loop.

The Department of Looper Affairs; despite Orodan thinking it was a stupid name, had done its work. Tegin and those gifted in the administrative facet of things had swiftly gathered people togethered, coordinated the building of relays to the other worlds of the alliance and also organized every single mind mage and relevant specialist to come forth to Alastaia.

Yet even then, the sight of all these unconscious people was a heavy weight to bear.

“Orodan Wainwright,” Alagameth spoke up. “You have slain an Administrator, clashed against Boundless Ones and given your all for us to bring everyone into the time loops. I have faith that you will let no harm befall us.”

Faith misplaced.

“You are not almighty,” Zaessythra said, nudging his arm as though sensing what his thoughts were. “You did not force anyone into choosing this path nor going along with their decision.”

“You are correct,” he simply said, leaving it there.

But inside he knew, that there was little point to all the strength he had if he could not protect those beneath him when the time came. If he was to be the pillar upon which dreams could become reality, then the shade of his strength needed be capable of sheltering all who harbored beneath it.

And he refused to accept a lack of power as a limitation.

The healing hall was quiet, beneath the gigantic branches of the wisdom tree of Ildisiar. They were on Eldiron of course, and Tegin and his department had argued that having a network of ancient trees with extensive knowledge might help remedy the situation. After all, on Alastaia, none were as good at healing maladies as the elves.

Speaking of Tegin, the halfling General’s small footsteps pattered upon the wooden floor, accompanied by Alovardo Balmento and the High-Orast.

“Mister Wainwright, hopefully the news I bring shall reset your exceptionally intense scowl to your standard angry look,” the halfling said. “Things are looking… optimistic. Lord Balmento, if you would?”

“The minds are… obsessed, not unsalvageable. The numbers see a path forward clearly,” the eccentric madman spoke and then swatted at a strand of System energy in the air. “No, it can be done, do not be so pessimistic!”

The High-Orast Valmarra Malvorra shook her head, her look serious, but not as severe as it had been two days ago.

“What he means to say is, our mind mages have found methods of slowly reversing the obsession. We are not entirely without recourse. I should know… I came frighteningly close to succumbing to it myself, but the information patterns are not so different from the notions behind words of power and my own Existential Speech skill. I was, if barely, able to counter that vile pattern of information with my own words. It can be reversed in tandem with mind magic, and… with the help of someone who we should have consulted far more extensively.”

“Information: subject experiencing regret. Solution: proactive movement towards future positive outcome to avoid fixation on prior user error.”

Physically, there was something quite out-of-place when it came to a metal-laden being walking halls of living wood in Ildisiar. But Orodan felt in W78’s soul, that greenery and nature meant something to it. Perhaps being out of the metallic planet of X2 was a good thing.

“W78, you’ve come,” Zaessythra greeted. “Have you uncovered any way of salvaging this?”

“Information: Anomaly #9 carried out cleansing mechanism upon afflicted sub-anomalies. Current odds of reverting sub-anomalous status - high. Proto-unit previously unaware of such possibility. Proto-unit is also… experiencing elevated surges in social sub-systems, section - gratitude,” W78 spoke. “Solution: express thanks to Anomaly #9, friend - Orodan Wainwright, for termination of Anomaly #3.”

Orodan simply gave his metallic friend a slow nod of acknowledgement. Anomaly #3 hadn’t even been that strong. But that being said, he was not blind to the numbering classification. It implied that there was still an anomaly #2 and an anomaly #1 somewhere out there. Who knew how powerful those would be or if they even fought the same way as that strange creature did.

“It fights like a weasel, avoiding direct battle. Slaying it was my pleasure. But the issue of our infected yet remains,” he spoke. “Can you heal them?”

W78’s lights beeped in a manner which Orodan had come to learn was the equivalent of a nod.

“Recovery procedure… initializing. Post-memetic exposure recovery protocol… beginning. Requesting aid of subjects - Valmarra Malvorra, Alovardo Balmento.”

With that said, W78 got to work. The High-Orast nudging them towards operating upon Destartes first, which he could not fault the woman for at all.

It was an interesting thing to watch. In theory, Alovardo and the High-Orast were both mind mages. Working together, they should have had all the tools to salvage the situation by themselves. Yet, the mind of Destartes was… twisted around something. An obsession which had been suddenly taken away and the thought entirely perished.

It was the sort of mind magic wound they hadn’t seen before. But… the madman of Arkwall seemed uniquely suited to dealing with one facet of it.

“Oh! It’s just like when I first learned about the numbers! Why, just a little tweak here, and an unfurling there…”

“H-hold! You’ll cause them harm if you… if you… oh.”

Trust a madman who lived with regular Eldritch taint within him to know how to bolster someone against the madness.

Furthermore, W78 was helping guide Alovardo’s mind magic probe with the High-Orast moving to a role of support and stabilization via whispering specific words using her Existential Speech skill at critical intervals.

It was incredibly high-level mind salvage work by three of the alliance’s best specialists suited for the task. Furthermore, even before the attempt, Orodan had watched the two of them poring over notes prepared by Almyra on her own research findings into mind magic.

Needless to say, it was work which he could not have replicated alone.

Orodan had cleansed the taint within them fully, but his Celestial skill was of Cleaning, not of reverting the mind back to perfect state without knowing what that perfect state should even be. For long had he known that the user’s perception of cleanliness was what affected the skill. Which meant that in a case like this where he wasn’t as studied on mind magic and its theory of the mindscape as a formal mind mage was… he would be a liability. He could not simply clean someone back to normal unless he had a proper idea of what the end state was. And filling in the gaps with his own assumptions on the minds of allies? A dangerous thought, especially with his power. Very dangerous, as it could impose permanent changes on someone’s mind.

Zaessythra had been right to caution that he was not almighty. But, it was oddly relieving to see that even without him, the alliance was not lost. Things that he could not do, there were others who could. His killing of anomaly #3 and his cleansing of the affected minds had paved the way for these specialists to do their work unimpeded.

He glanced up and to his right to see Zaessythra smirking at him.

“Have I something upon my face?” he asked.

“The lack of that miserable scowl for one,” she replied. “And for another… the realization that you aren’t alone anymore.”

“Hmmph… I already knew that when you woke up next to me.”

His Vision of Purity carefully tracked the changes, ready to call a stop to it if anything went awry or if he had missed something and needed to act again. A reasonable precaution, but one that ended up being unnecessary as he saw Destartes’s mind unfurl at last and return to its normal condition.

Furthermore, it looked oddly… fortified. The healing by those three hadn’t just cured the old wizard, but was actively shoring the mind up. His own Memetic Hazard Mastery was entranced with how W78 was guiding Alovardo into making minute defensive adjustments to the mind. Nothing which would alter the wizard’s personality, but would instead function as a barrier against any memetic assaults in the future.

A ‘sink’ of sorts, a breaker, to prevent that mad endless loop of thought and obsession.

Valmarra gasped as Destartes’s eyes opened. Their attempts to keep things subtle and secret were thrown to the side in such a situation, and Orodan respectfully averted his eyes and skill-aided vision to allow the two their moment.

So much for the two of them trying to outwardly keep it hidden.

He heard the tentative and unsteady first footfalls of a man who had been comatose for the past two days, and a hand clasped upon his shoulder.

“Orodan…”

“Old man,” he replied, turning around. “I hope the two days of rest were enough to rest those aging bones.”

“You… are the single most irritating student I have ever had,” the Transcendent mage retorted in annoyance. “I do not even age the same way any longer. Transcendence gives a well of endless lifespan.”

Under the standard System at least. One of those subtle but hidden benefits the System provided for everyone. Plus, the regular physical conditioning that Orodan put the old mage through and Eternal Soul Reactor also didn’t hurt matters.

“Hmm, I suppose you don’t look as rickety as I remember,” he allowed. “How fares your mind?”

“I… remember seeing something. I can’t recall what, as though it was yanked from my mind outright. Your doing I presume?”

“Correct. But your recovery after that was not of my hand,” he spoke, gesturing towards the High-Orast, Alovardo Balmento and W78. “And we have more people to help recover. And given the disastrous ending to the last loop, a new plan of direction.”

#

If morale was said to be a tree, then it was a sagging one, pitiful and bowing to the wind.

The invasion of Narictus was supposed to have been a turning point for the Alastaian alliance. An endeavor where they proved they weren’t prey waiting for the Hegemony to come to them, but hunters who could seek out their own destiny and seize it themselves.

Furthermore, to many of the newly anointed time loopers, it was their chance to prove themselves heroes in their own right. An opportunity to repay the one who’d brought them into the fold. And while Orodan found the notion discomforting, he could not deny its existence in the minds of many of these people.

“I do not understand… things were going well, we were winning!” Warden Varadian Rockwood insisted. “If this wicked thing from beyond System space comes again, we shall be ready this time!”

Adeltaj and Eldarion however, were a lot more subdued. The healing process had gone without a hitch for everyone, but the underlying question of whether any marks or scars remained had yet to be fully explored. And in seeing a look of hesitation upon the faces of two Transcendents, the remainder of the gathered junior time loopers became demoralized.

Orodan could sense the spirit flagging in all of their souls. The Guzuharan section of the gathering seemed to be in the worst shape of them all.

“Ready? Lord Ozgaric yet remains indisposed! How can you say we are ready?!” the northerner hissed. “Our people have paid a far greater price than you Inuanans!”

“And who was it that comprised a majority of the force within that chamber? Which factions contributed the most?” a Republican shot back. “We had elder Adeltaj and elder Destartes both in that room. Do not presume to minimize our contributions!”

“You humans are too arrogant. Blind are your eyes to the suffering Lord Eldarion underwent for your sakes! A non-combatant! And yet he still stepped forth, a testament to what Eldiron has been doing for this world for many milennia,” an angry elven warrior coldly spat.

One defeat, and people were already pre-emptively scrambling to puff up their faction’s own contributions to the battle. From there even the politically illiterate Orodan could tell the blame game was coming. The Grandmasters and below of the alliance; relatively young compared to the Transcendents, and not willing to shift blame upwards, were desperate to throw it somewhere.

“Tch…” Balastion sneered from next to him. “They jockey to highlight what their faction has done. It does not evade anyone’s notice that the barking dogs are all middling Grandmasters who must highlight their relevance somehow.”

“And yet, that worry does not come from nowhere, Balastion,” Orodan replied. “You are familiar with the Eldritch and recovered quicker than most. Adeltaj, Eldarion and Ozgaric, not so much. And these Grandmasters and below… they feel powerless to do anything in such a situation. What else can they do?”

Once upon a time he might’ve written them off as idiots, cowards and fools. And while the jockeying and finger-pointing which was in its infant stages was self-destructive, it did not emerge from a void. These complainants were also those who had not been so keen on committing to the invasion of Narictus in the first place.

For the outcome to have gone the way it did… it vindicated them.

