“I simply spoke my mind. The consequences of it and how they took it is their business.”

“Tegin says he’s seen measurable improvements in productivity since then. A rather useful institution, his Department of Looper Affairs. Even Eldarion and Adeltaj seem a little less sullen, and I hear Ozgaric actually made an appearance in public for an hour yesterday after that.”

Orodan rolled his eyes at her.

“You could have delivered said speech yourself. Better a many millennia old World-Queen than a warrior more used to blood than words,” he replied. Though he wasn’t complaining about the skill levels gained in Stubborn Persuasion.

“You and I both know they needed to hear it from you; Tegin agreed as well. Before that, you were the enigmatic and mysterious time looper. Always training, solving some problem or preparing for the next one. The times you spoke directly to all of them were… rare. Better they see you as a person than a myth and force of nature that’s written of in those chronicles.”

“I suppose being able to dampen the weirdly reverential culture around me is a good thing. Now that they know I can fail, perhaps they’ll be less… zealous in their defense of me.”

She let out a sharp and amused laugh at that.

“Oh, Orodan. If you thought that speech helped with that problem, then you’re even more of a rockhead than Gregory thinks you are.”

He frowned.

“Explain.”

“The ones who were weirdly reverential of you didn’t change in the slightest. If anything, from what Tegin tells me they’ve begun holding meditations on sections of your chronicles from time to time, to see how they could better themselves and what lessons they can learn from it.”

“You… you jest. This is no amusing joke.”

“A jest? The fact that it’s true makes it doubly amusing,” she said with a smirk. “You, Orodan Wainwright, have people giving sermons about you. Yes, they call it meditations or ‘character studies’, but you and I both know those lines are easily blurred. Especially if you see the looks on the faces of some of those who revere you. Your admission of fault was seen as a good thing in fact. Very honorable.”

“I hadn’t even intended for it to be seen that way!” he exclaimed, exasperated. “I just spoke the truth!”

“Well, try being a little less honorable and heroic then. Before all of this new chaos, you were a mighty warrior. One capable of some rather absurd feats, yes. But a warrior all the same,” she elaborated. “But with tens of thousands in the time loop who now regularly see what you do on a daily basis? You seem more of a larger-than-life figure, a myth come to life, than a man. Even with your supposed failures included, that does not change. In fact, your stint at accepting the fault has caused even the rather non-theistic sorts of the alliance to begin holding greater faith in you. Congratulations, you’ve successfully acquired even more followers.”

The palm of his hand met his face. What madness was this? He had not asked for any of that.

“And what am I supposed to do with this now? I have no interest in parading around like some deity.”

“Nor should you. I simply wished to tell you so that it did not blindside you at a later point,” she spoke, then the amusement in her pretty eyes shifted to something like sympathy. “Listen… I know that the time loops have been… rather volatile for you. Your entire interaction with the social order has been one of suddenly waking up from ground zero with ridiculous power carried over to each loop. People looked at you with more shock and wariness than they did awe and respect. Natural when their Transcendents were either your enemy, or saw you as a critically powerful ally. But now you have a rather sizeable base of tens of thousands of Adepts, Elites, Masters and Grandmasters who have seen you, gotten to know you and then benefitted from you. You’re not even that old in the grand scheme of being a Transcendent let alone an Embodier. It does not surprise me then, that this is new to you.”

“You’ve dealt with this sort of thing before?” Orodan asked.

“Very much. In fact, from what I hear the other Transcendents say, it’s quite normal. The Blackworth Collective even has a doctrine that forbids their Transcendents from enabling or allowing any worship of them. Why, back in my day, I was regularly prayed to while just a Grandmaster. Being World-Queen tends to have that effect,” she explained.

It lined up with what he remembered seeing on Vylrystia when he and Destartes had gone there on an expedition. Plenty of murals and temples which depicted Zaessythra and her rebellion, portraying her as either an apocalyptic force from the perspective of the tyrannical dragon purebloods, or as a savior and liberator from the perspective of the half-dragons.

Hells, entire sections of her newly restored citadel were shrines where her people could come pay respects.

In fact… even on Alastaia, the Tomb of the First Emperor in Novarria did a similar thing for Balastion. People came by, paid respects, said a prayer and sometimes even asked the first emperor to bless their efforts.

It wasn’t the same thing as praying to a God, especially since Balastion was still alive and very much not divine and thus incapable of giving out Blessings. But… were the two things really so different?

“You see it now? You are not so different from a God. Superior in fact. At high levels of power, the line between divinity and transcendence matters very little. You smite their enemies, heal their wounds, bring back their loved ones and protect them from higher order dangers which they cannot handle. Whether or not you lean into it, their belief in you remains, colored by your power and your deeds performed with that power,” she elaborated. “You are young, Orodan. And you also do nothing but train and run from one fire to the next, putting it out. Almyra and I speak often; she would be the first to tell you how exhausting it was in her early loops as an Embodier when everyone insisted on praying to her.”

“Of course… if even Transcendents are prayed to, then an Embodier would have it worse…” he muttered, and then looked her up and down, his eyes narrowing.

“Oh? Looking me up and down are you? You’ve seen me in far less already, no need to be shy,” she teased.

He felt his face hear for the most infinitesmal of moments before shaking his head to clear it.

“Not that. You. You’re not a Transcendent anymore, are you?”

“Me? Now what would make you think that?”

She was playing coy intentionally, because why wouldn’t she? This irksome dragon loved nothing more than getting under his skin and drawing him into ambush after ambush. Be it verbal or otherwise.

“Before your restoration, the last time I saw you fight, you were in full dragon form and still lost against Almyra. High-Transcendent perhaps, but nothing more,” he calmly spoke. “And now, since returning, you’ve caused an Administrator grievous harm on two occasions and even slew an Anomaly from beyond System space.”

“Well, I didn’t exactly get an Anomaly Slayer title for it.”

“Invader Slayer, in fact,” he corrected, her words confirming his suspicion. “You don’t have a System any longer do you?”

“Did I ever truly need one when I’ve been without for so long?” she asked, hand resting on the pommel of her greatsword which was point down in the dirt.

They were in the deeper woods of Eldiron, having stepped away for a minute via Dimensional Step to speak in private.

Good.

“I said to you at the start of this loop that I had a lot of questions,” he said, eyes narrowing with excitement. “But sometimes I think those are best asked in the universal language.”

“Then feel free to ask away,” she replied, her smile turning predatory.

Fighting on Eldiron wouldn’t do. Orodan quite liked the wisdom trees and the elves for they had taught him much.

He moved first. A simple spearing lunge of a tackle, one whose sheer explosiveness caused the nearby hundred miles of terrain to quake.

She was no embroidering princess, but a World-Queen forged in war. Even then, the sudden and brutal speed of it caught her just at the edge of her reaction time as his arms still managed to wrap around her legs.

[Dimensional Step 52 → Dimensional Step 53]

His Dimensional Step took them both into a familiar place… that same null dimension where he’d fought and slain the Prophet two loops ago.

He was mid-motion considering chaining grapples to get her into an unfavorable position when suddenly…

…he felt the single worst pain he had ever experienced across all the loops.

Something horribly twisted within him. Not just his soul, not just his mind, his… entire being, skills, levels, memories, philosophy, will… everything he was.

Turned inside out, turned against him. Pain, agony and suffering of a sort that threatened to make his mind go utterly and entirely blank. It was infectious too… and he felt that same creeping plague of corruption. Not the memetic sort… but the first wicked infection he’d ever faced.

Eldritch. Not entirely it, but a horrible pain which spread as virulently as it.

For a moment, he nearly lost himself.

And then…

[Incipience of Infinity 176 → Incipience of Infinity 177]

…his power flared.

Eyes blazing, soul energy erupting in a display which caused even this strangely durable dimension composed of absolute non-existence to briefly shake, Orodan threw off that horrid talon from within him. Though the cost of doing just that was incredibly high.

Zaessythra’s eyes were full of concern.

“I… hadn’t intended to do it that hard…”

He shook his head.

“No, this is good. Very, very good. I haven’t felt pain like that… in a long time. It feels like… that thing, a direct and unguarded hit from it,” Orodan said, recalling his brief brush with that sadistic Boundless One. “Heh… I suppose that answers my first question. You received a semblance of its power didn’t you? No wonder the Prophet sounded as though it wanted to die rather than experience a moment more of what you did to it.”

Zaessythra simply smiled, flicking her greatsword out to cause waves of sickening pink and purple/grey energy to erupt in arcs.

“More than just that. I… do not think I am entirely half-dragon anymore.”

“I didn’t see any anomalies in you from your restoration, your flesh and bone are no different,” Orodan noted.

“Yes, but my soul… it’s as though the fundamental substance I’m made of is no longer what everyone else is made of. I can call upon this power freely, while it does not harm me at all. And its sheer potency, if it can do that much to you of all people…”

“Little wonder you slew that anomaly then. And why it called you a sibling,” Orodan finished. “Well… this is some of the best sparring I’ve had since the loops started. I doubt anyone in the Alliance, neither Alagameth nor Almyra can push me quite as far as you have. I have only one question then…”

“…shall we continue?”

#

“I see you’re still quite well… somehow. You have a talent for escaping trouble which befalls everyone else.”

“Though I’m afraid cannot say the same for you. You look as though someone both beat you like a misbehaving pet and then presented you a gift afterward.”

Could Orodan be blamed for that? One moment he had been fighting Zaessythra and had her on the backfoot. It was an excellent spar. Her natural style of using pain to draw him into feints, traps and goading him into charging over and over was… frustratingly effective. If anything, there was nobody else whose entire style was tailor-made to counter him in melee the way she could.

She was truly mighty and without a doubt the second strongest member of the Alliance. Still, he held the one major advantage of having endless power. Eventually, he would win, and he had been slowly but surely pressuring her into a corner and towards exhaustion. Or so he had thought until he had tried Wrestling once more to finally end the battle.

That had led to a most dishonorable and underhanded victory for her. A fact driven in as he he pointedly avoided her far too jubilant gaze from across the room while she spoke with Almyra.

“That is… not an inaccurate descriptor,” Orodan admitted shamefully.

Talricto looked at him for a moment, and then shivered as though comprehending something vile.

“Crass two-legged beings…” Talricto muttered, the spider’s frame shivering in repulsion. “Moving past that, thanks to your premature end to the last loop we did not get the opportunity to venture to the place I wanted to visit.”

“Ah, right. Forgive me. Before I do anything else this loop, we should set out,” Orodan replied.

“Good. See that you do. There may be interesting things where we are going that even a brute such as you would appreciate,” the dimensional spider replied.

“Given the recent problems we’ve encountered, can we afford such a thing?” Alstatyn asked, walking up next to them. “How long will that venture take you? What are the risks?”

“The venture will take less than a few hours. Even shorter if we are received… poorly,” Talricto answered. “No risks when my favorite oaf of a student will be tagging along.”

Orodan still didn’t know exactly where Talricto wanted to take him, but he would not pry unless the spider wanted to say.

“I see, forgive my worry. The recent events which have impossibly carried over from the last loop still have me rattled. The thought of permanent consequences which persist between loops is… disquieting,” the King of the Collective admitted. “And to now think that we might have to sally out far beyond our known galaxies…”

