“We cannot lose heart!” his disciple Zukelmux declared, stepping up. “One setback, not even for our own failings, does not define us. We were winning, we would have won, if not for factors beyond our control. Why, I even slew the enemy Wight Lord in honorable one-to-one combat. If that is not proof of our rising strength and latent potential, then I do not know what else to tell you.”

Zukelmux had won then? Of course he had. He was Orodan’s first disciple after all.

Still, more people than not were discomforted by the notion of what had occurred.

“I… do not know if pressing for more attacks is the right choice.”

“The pain of death has made me realize that the warrior’s path is not for me.”

“I saw what happened to the corrupted… I don’t want to face that. I refuse!”

“We’re not all like you, goblin! And even you would be no match for that wicked thing which corrupted our elders!”

Finally, it was Almyra who whipped her hands out, causing a sharp pulse of power to hush the room.

“Enough.”

Her eyes swept the entire gathering.

“We are, for better or worse, now in the time loops. And the inclusion of so many of us has caused hungry things from beyond System space to seek entry within,” she directly spoke causing the fear to grow thick in the room. “It is what it is. Like the plague invasion of the Blackworth Collective and the Eldritch Avatar’s approach towards Alastaia, it is a fact we must live with. Something which forces the simple question… of how we will confront it.”

“Well, I for one have decided… I’m out. I want no part of it,” an Alastaian warrior said. One of the former corrupted. “I didn’t sign up for this. Nobody asked me whether I wanted to be part of some grand time loop and then see something horrid which still has my mind feeling stretched in a painful way. Keep your enemies and your invasions and your anomalies. I want none of it.”

Shocked exclamations immediately came forth. Understandable.

The woman who wanted to quit had no family, no loved ones, no real stakes. But plenty of loopers in the gathering did. Lost family and friends had been brought back by the alliance’s corps of soul mages and chronomancers, and past that? By Orodan himself. Furthermore, regardless of what any other group received from him, the Blackworth Collective were more than a little absurdly loyal to him. As were the Vylrystians whose world he had brought back and whose World-Queen he loved.

These two groups were not at all happy.

“Soft-spined little louse!” one Blackworth Collective riflewoman howled. “He fights for us and you won’t fight for ‘im?”

“I spit upon all Alastaia if this is the loyalty they show their champion,” one half-dragon growled, making a show of dirtying the floor. “If the humans of Alastaia will not fight for Orodan Wainwright, then the dragons of Vylrystia shall step to the line.”

It was a little ironic and somewhat touching that the Collective and the Vylrystians would be more openly loyal towards him than his own homeworld of Alastaia, but such was the reality. And the Alastaians could not be blamed for it when they hadn’t had their lived as irrevocably altered as the former two groups did.

Accusations turned to promises which then turned to proclamations.

They were proclaiming it to him as much as they were denouncing the unfortunate woman who just wanted out. Something that should have been the words of an individual had now become multiple factions throwing their backing towards him or arguing why they were best suited to aiding him and guiding the alliance. Funny how that worked when they were all supposed to be part of a union that should have been working together to begin with.

Hard to fault them for it entirely though. Especially when they had been shaken by what had happened and this was their own way of reclaiming some agency.

Within moments the gigantic gathering hall they were all arrayed in became the site of a cacophony of arguments, blame, deflection and posturing by various individuals to imply that they and their factions could have prevented this tragedy. That the solution lay in following their path and not others.

Furthermore, neither Tegin nor Zaessythra moved to intervene and restore order. Orodan was utterly uneducated on politics, but perhaps it was better to let them air their grievances?

“They swoop to capitalize upon the recent failure like carrion-feeders diving for the freshly slain,” Balastion muttered, a sneer on his face. “I thought I would be spared the sight of such petty politics once this alliance formed, but it seemed I was wrong. I would speak up and silence this rabble, but ‘tis not my place. One can only wonder why Her Majesty and the General have not brought order to the proceedings.”

He need not have wondered that too much longer himself, for a glance where their eyes met told him that she and the halfling General were expectant… of him to step in.

“And that is why we of the Collective are best suited to handle this issue. Our time looper, Lady Almyra, successfully contained the infection from spreading and held out until Lord Wainwright himself arrived,” an anxious but animated captain of the Collective argued.

One of the Magocracy’s leaders then spoke up as well.

“Do not forget us mage-lords of Thazrivin so quickly! The High-Orast was one of the few in that chamber to withstand that wicked corruption! Our world required no additional aid or containment.”

Which was followed by a half-dragon thumping her chestplate with a fist before loudly proclaiming her own piece.

“You humans forget the majesty of our World-Queen who fought alongside her beloved to slay one of the foul invaders herself. It is clear that we dragon-blooded stand at the very apex of power. Who else can lead from the front but us? When the warriors of Alastaia faltered in the press of battle who was it that stood and fought the werewolves of Narictus toe-to-toe and won?”

Many of the Alastaians clearly bristled at this remark, but in the faces of a number of them, the shame was evident. Orodan wanted to say that there was no stain in losing in honorable battle, but to these warriors, the half-dragon’s words cut deep all the same. Still, even among the factions of his homeworld there was a schism.

A Novarrian commander stood, face red with anger.

“Group us not with the soldiers of the Republic and the East, nor with the elves of Eldiron! Behold how our Emperor stands, tall of stature and straight of back! He was corrupted yet remains strong and ready to do battle once more! And lest any forget, it was Lord Balmento of Arkwall whose hand provided a critical aid in healing the afflicted. I say Novarria remains strong! We remain unbroken, our spirit unbent, our soldiers ready to stand alongside Lord Orodan Wainwright!”

The arguing Grandmasters did not dare insult any of the other factions’ Transcendents directly… but the implication was enough. Adeltaj, Eldarion and Ozgaric, though healed… were not exactly in good spirits. Hells, Ozgaric was still in his own dimension, recovering and wanting some time to himself after that horrid ordeal.

It was entirely understandable too. But from the perspective of the Grandmasters and below here… it made their respective factions look weak.

And in emphasizing the success of Zaessythra, the survival of Thazrivin’s High-Orast and the swift containment orchestrated by Almyra, the speakers were indirectly leaving a question open.

What had Adeltaj, Eldarion and Ozgaric done besides get corrupted and then fail to stand straight afterwards?

The loopers from the Republic, the Eastern Kingdoms, Eldiron and Guzuhar were not happy about that insinuation in the slightest. And from the sudden narrowing of many eyes and swift reddening of some faces in anger, it was evident that the situation might even escalate to drawn weapons and offers of a duel to defend the honor of their Transcendents.

But Orodan had heard enough.

“I died tens of thousands of times.”

His words were not overly loud, though the weight behind them silenced the hall.

“My lord, that is a different matter,” the Collective captain who argued earlier defended. “The chroniclers’ records are clear. Never once did you falter, death after death. Your faith in your friends, in your comrades and the debts you held yourself to… not once did it shake. How can that be compared to this woman’s insistence upon withdrawing after a single setback?”

“You defend me more than I would defend myself, captain. I too have faltered. That dark pit of endless will I nearly lost myself to when facing true death for the first time long ago, it struck fear in even me. I am not some almighty God the way you all seem to view me.”

“Better you than a God who hides in his own realm! I’d rather pray to a shrine of Lord Orodan Wainwright!”

“He fights for us! He dies for us! He gives our loved ones back to us! If I’ll pray to any God let it be the man who isn’t even divine!”

“Ozgaric at least went forth to face the foe! One cannot fault the northern God for fighting fair and true even if it ended poorly. Where was Malzim? Why do we have temples for the God of Death if he won’t even stand before the worst of our foes?! Where was Halor? Why was he not in that chamber?”

“Aye! We of the north weep as our God remains in solitude, why should we be the only ones bleeding? Where were the soft Gods of the south?!” Yarostov Iron-Bear angrily demanded, many Guzuharans agreeing and savoring the opportunity to defend their honor.

No matter what he said, these people had three or four counters for it. Orodan wasn’t sure what Zaessythra and Tegin expected of him here, but those among the loopers who supported him weren’t about to change their minds all of a sudden. If anything, this was only entrenching them further in their beliefs.

Words and persuasive arguments were not his strong point. And to sit here and use Stubborn Persuasion felt… wrong. He needed something at least, a base upon which he could be right, to stubbornly argue against them all. Here… he could not even blame them for thinking as they did.

Malzim, nearer to the back, with his domain of Death wrapped around him, could only lower his head and accept the words as they came. As did Halor. Even the proud elven divinities seemed angered, but subdued, the beginnings of shame upon their faces.

“Enough,” he said, silencing the clamor. “I… will not seek to change anyone’s mind. But know this. I would not be where I am today without Malzim helping me at a critical juncture. I would not have been able to learn many of the important things I did without the Blessing of Ozgaric long ago, or without the help of Faraine against the Eldritch Avatar. Adeltaj was my first mentor and Eldarion an important ally without whom many of these recent Transcendents would yet remain Grandmasters. Does a single defeat erase the good they have done?”

At this, the crowd looked… contemplative, so he continued.

“When I faltered, Zaessythra was there for me. When many of you faced bottlenecks in your advancement who was there for you with a gentle word?” he asked as he pointed a hand to Eldarion. “Which old halberdier stood in the front rank to face the worst of the enemy’s Transcendents so you did not? Which God of Death helped bring your loved ones back? Which northern God took to the field on the front lines to strengthen his followers’ Blessings? Trampling upon your allies’ integrity when they falter… is pitiful.”

[Stubborn Persuasion 8 → Stubborn Persuasion 12]

Murmurs of assent began. Some who had been loudly critical found themselves with looks of shame upon their faces, guiltily glancing towards those they had tried shaming. Others met them with looks of regret and the beginnings of newfound respect.

“I did not bring all of you into the time loops so you could waste your time and potential with pointing fingers. The entire purpose of this was so that all of you could seize your own destinies. If you have time to point fingers, then you have time to better yourselves. And if people wish to fight no longer, then that is their choice, do not shame them for it. The loops were never meant to be a cage, but an offer,” he spoke. “And if you must blame anyone for this… then blame me. I was supposed to have protected you from this, I failed. I shall not flee accountability for this failure.”

Some looked shocked at the notion that he could be at fault for anything at all. It was a notion he was growing increasingly uncomfortable with, but could do nothing about.

“But my lord… you… you cannot be blamed… you’re… you’re the-”

“The time looper? The stubborn idiot with more desire for battle than sense in his head? The rockhead who Gregory Hannegan wants to beat over the head with a stick?” he asked, breaking some of the tension. “I am not a God. And we have seen that even our divines are no less vulnerable than we are. No… I am just a man. One who has struggled and bled and been given something nobody else had until recently.”

“I cannot abide by this! You have given us so much! My daughter is returned thanks to you! To lay any blame at your feet would be…”

“Ungrateful? Then ask why you would lay blame at the feet of those who’ve helped you all this time and have only now stumbled,” he said. “I have failed. I have been failing for a long time now. But failure is not the end, it is instead, another barrier to surmount. And personally…”

“…it’s one I intend to crush with good training.”

[Stubborn Persuasion 12 → Stubborn Persuasion 15]

#

“For someone who claims to know nothing about politics, you certainly did deliver a rather rousing speech.”

