As if on cue, Almyra whipped her hand and caused a gigantic canvas to descend onto the table. There was… a lot of detail. Over three-thousand galaxies altogether. And at the edges, a strange shimmering barrier.

They were within the war room of Anthus. Not an entire gathering of all loopers this time, but a smaller group of just those in the cosmic know. To discuss findings and then present them to the entire lot of them afterwards.

“Courtesy of your student, Parthus Edrosic,” the previous looper spoke. “This, is a map of the known cosmos. Or as we know it, System space.”

“And these,” Zaessythra said, pointing to several breaches in the shimmering barrier. “Are now our problem. Or rather, a problem we have grossly amplified beyond the Administrators’ ability to handle. As our resident expert, Alovardo Balmento says, a majority of these breaches are quite new. All caused by the sudden inclusion of tens of thousands of time loopers. Some perhaps even caused by your original takeover of the time loop mechanism itself.”

“We’ll have to around plugging each breach then?” Orodan asked. “I could potentially use my Domain of Perfect Cleaning to seal the barrier.”

“That is one option,” Almyra nodded. “The other, is to continue developing the abilities of your disciple, Fenton Penny. Or even Parthus himself, whose skill continues to grow at a ridiculous speed. We are not without options. Even Gregory Hannegan may be capable of contributing to sealing the breaches with enough support. But the sealing is not the issue… the Invaders are.”

Invaders.

Anomaly #3 he’d slain had been one of them. Predators from outside System space altogether. And if that weird thing had been any indicator, who knew what others of their ilk would look like?

“Ordinarily,” Alagameth spoke up, hanging from the ceiling. “The Administrators should be capable of dealing with breaches and Invaders. But the Custodian who is primarily responsible for sealing breaches, has been entirely absent. Your theft of the time loops has likely kept him busy. And with him nowhere to be found, the others face an uphill battle.”

“The Reject hates the System,” Orodan began. “And I slew the Prophet recently. Which means only the Warrior and the Mage are left to handle the mess. Damn… this truly is a problem of our making.”

Was that why the Prophet had been so insistent on taking back the Administrator’s Mantle from Almyra across all these loops? So that it could bestow it upon a worthier recipient and perhaps get some help in the task of defending System space?

The more he learned, the more such actions made sense. Even if Orodan hated the zealot and took grim satisfaction in separating its head from its shoulders, he had to admit that it was a critical part of the System’s defense.

“It’s up to us then,” Orodan declared.

“And of course, the Alliance will still be concurrently resuming their invasions of Narictus and their general activities in self-development and funneling resources towards your training. Our work does not suddenly bring a halt to theirs,” Almyra spoke as she tapped a finger on a specific node on the shimmering barrier between System space and the outside. “But for our part… we shall have to make for Glyphbreaker Node. One of the central fortresses on the barrier from where the Administrators and their hired mercenaries and other helpers who do not wish to see System space fall often convene.”

Orodan looked forward to it.

Especially if the drawing of the figure atop said fortress was accurate.

For a long time now had the two of them fought or been opposed to one another. Yet, given their common goal of protecting System space and the innocents within it, that needed not occur.

Perhaps…

…perhaps it was time to start working with the Warrior instead of against.

All for the shared purpose and new goal of defending System space.
