Ranthia paused to shift out of her armor—mistweave undergarments stayed on—and carried it through the curtains. Avyna was sitting at a desk, so Ranthia busied herself with racking her armor. One salute to mage-rock later, she was ready to see what her lover was up to.

“…You’ve been busy.” Ranthia noted as she took in the pile of scrolls.

“Of course, my love. Those scrolls should address your colleague’s queries—though I had to consult with some books to assist with the wording. But at the moment I am penning a response to your friends’ letter. Pandia asked a particularly fascinating question that I have been putting some thought into.” Avyna explained while she favored Ranthia with a brief, beautiful smile.

But only a brief one; her focus returned to the neat, efficient script that flowed out of her quill and across the Reman scroll. Ranthia narrowly stopped herself from asking who Avyna was talking about. By context, it was obviously Tertia’s wife—seriously, she really should have absorbed that her name was… …that. Instead, she stepped closer so she could read over her lover’s shoulder.

Her face felt like it started burning. Of all the questions, Avyna was trying to write an entire scroll about that?!

“You can’t possibly…!” Ranthia gasped.

“Have I misused a word?” Avyna asked—a flash of annoyance colored ‘misused’—though she didn’t even slow down on writing.

As if that was the problem!

Ranthia was determined to burn that scroll.

Ranthia wasn’t quite certain how she ended up agreeing to it, but in the end, each and every scroll that Avyna wrote—along with Ranthia’s own scroll to Tertia—ended up bound for Remus.

But she learned one very important lesson—Avyna was a far better negotiator than she was!

A particularly brutal heat wave had arrived. They were deep into summer, and nature seemed to have decided that they deserved an oppressive example of the true horror that summer could become beyond Remus’ lush lands. The [Healers] were inundated with civilians—and even lower-level legionary classers—that had suffered burns from their own equipment. Each individual case was easily healed for only a few mana, but there were hundreds each day as the temperatures climbed higher and higher beneath the oppression of the sun. Worse, the rocky terrain absorbed the heat, which baked the baseplates they existed on top of.

It was overcoming the heat dissipation from the enigmatic classers that fortified the base with their Skills and auras. A few [Mages] were helping as they could, but it was proving to be a miserable time for most people in Remera.

The dwarves were eager to laugh at those who sheltered in place from the heat. Not only had many of them worked in forges at some point in their lives, but the depths below Pallos could get unexpectedly hot in places—which wholly discounted that dwarves almost certainly had significantly higher natural vitality than humans did. Still, Ranthia and the handful of legionaries that could take the heat were happy to compete with them as they tried to shoulder the burdens of everyone that was forced to largely shelter in their tents.

It was bad enough that Sentinel Grace’s assistance had been formally requested by the base commander to help with patrols. They took up the bulk of her day—the night patrols were easier on the mid-grade classers—but she still saw little. The terrain around Remera was even deader than usual. The few insects and creatures that made their home among the mesas sought to avoid the hateful sun.

Ranthia only saw the remains of those that failed to return in time. Naturally, there was still no sign of the shimagu.

Which worried her—she suspected that ogres could endure the heatwave better than humans could. It felt like a great time to attack… so where were they?

Two and a half weeks into the heat wave, clouds covered the sky to the immense relief of everyone. The base came alive as people eagerly escaped their confines as the temperatures rapidly declined to acceptable levels of warmth. Avyna had a line of customers throughout the day and spirits were bright.

At least until the clouds released their heavy burdens that night.

The rains were torrential and continued seemingly without limit. Worse, the winds became dangerously powerful as they swept between the mesas—strong enough that several tents came undone and collapsed from the gales. Two civilians and a young legionary on his first post were the first casualties for Remera. Killed by tents that had some defect so minor that they passed muster until nature reminded them of their hubris.

Three nights into the deluge, Sentinel Aurora’s [Starship] descended somewhat unsteadily from the thick cloud cover as low as it dared before Sentinel Bulwark leapt down from it. In a rush, the man surveyed what the local [Mages] and [Analysts] had done for drainage and windbreaks and dubbed it good enough—at least for now. With that, he barely spared time to trade salutes with Ranthia before he returned to the [Starship] and moved on to the next base.

He looked so weary—the storm must have been far larger than Ranthia had expected.

“There is nothing to do.” Avyna complained.

The rains had continued for over a week by that point, practically without ever stopping. Sure, there had been a few brief interruptions, but their world was mostly a dark, damp gray.

“Bored of me?” Ranthia tried to joke.

“My love, I enjoy what we do together. But I need other pursuits as well.” Avyna groused.

They had a dearth of games or other activities to do—beyond the obvious physical ones. It was something that they had both overlooked when they were shopping for their home back in Coalition City. But Ranthia knew the real reason for her lover’s mood…

“You’re just irritable because I’m your only customer.” Ranthia pointed out the obvious.

The elf grumbled, but she nodded her agreement a moment later. It was cute how surly she could get when Ranthia understood her a little too well—Avyna liked to pretend that she was mysterious and difficult to read. But they had been together for quite some time and Ranthia learned more about the woman she had fallen for each and every wonderful day.

“Well, this might not be too much of a distraction, but I thiiink I am finally ready to show you something I’ve been working on.” Ranthia offered.

The elf perked up from her armchair, her eyes touched with curiosity.

Ranthia smiled at her lover, swallowed her nerves, and sent out the image that she had spent the bulk of her personal time working on.

A young woman appeared a few paces away from the chair. The base used Ranthia’s sixteen-year-old self, but Ranthia had worked her creativity from there. Her hair was a few shades lighter than Ranthia’s own. Her eyes were Avyna’s natural pale blue color, flecked with the dark brown that Ranthia missed from her own eyes. The horns were similar to Avyna’s, but they were short enough that they didn’t quite curl in front of her ears. The physique was a blend of theirs—Ranthia’s height, Avyna’s litheness, with musculature that was similar to Ranthia’s own, though the image had slightly more emphasis on the upper body. She had Ranthia’s nose alongside Avyna’s cheekbones and chin. Without a better idea for what a half-human/half-elf’s ears would look like, Ranthia just split the difference and reduced the length a touch and made them a bit rounder.

The young woman was dressed in a light dress based on one that Ranthia had seen in an elven clothing shop in Coalition City.

Avyna gasped with delight and hurriedly found her feet. She circled the image and drank in every detail. After a few rotations, she slowly reached toward the cheek and hesitated until Ranthia gave her a nod, then she cupped it gently.

“Oh, my love, she is beautiful! May I see her move?” Avyna asked, her voice awed.

Ranthia tapped [Submind] and fed it some instructions. Her conceptualization of what their daughter might look like beamed a bright smile up to Avyna and gently hugged her. Avyna squealed in delight and clung to the image.

“Careful love! I’m not in that image, if you squeeze too hard, it’ll break.” Ranthia warned.

Avyna knew that her images were just that—but there was probably some psychological discomfort involved in destroying something meant to represent your nonexistent child. She had always felt a need to be extremely gentle with it, at least, while she worked on the fictional girl.

[Submind] helped—a lot—but it was remarkably difficult to make the false child move in a way that subtly drew from both of them, but was also unique. Every movement—and every detail—required deliberate thought and effort. It was easily the most bizarre puppeteering act she had ever attempted, even with the experience and familiarity she had developed over the years.

“So, this is why you had taken a more… medical interest in elven anatomy recently!” Avyna was practically purring. Her eyes stayed fixed on the image, but her smile made every moment of struggle worth it.

Ranthia still winced a little at the reminder. She had previously had difficulty imagining how horns would connect to the head and, ultimately, asked Avyna about it. That night, she had learned entirely too much about elven horns, including the ridiculous fact that Avyna was somewhat self-conscious of her own because their mounting point was ‘unusually placed on her skull’.

They were gorgeous and perfect and Ranthia refused to entertain any notion that some elf or another—with zero sense of taste—had ever found them off-putting! Ranthia adored those horns.

Soon after, Ranthia and Avyna were snuggled up on their plush bench thing while they watched their fictional daughter dance around the tent, her movements based on Ranthia’s recollection of her own rough early efforts.

“Thank you for this, my love.” Avyna whispered.

Ranthia smiled at the woman she loved and gently kissed the nearest horn—the mineral oil from the last horn massage was probably absorbed by that point.

“…You know, I expect there will be many children conceived during these days, especially if the rains continue much longer.” Avyna abruptly declared.

Ranthia blinked at the elf, momentarily confused by the sudden topic change.

“There is little to do for enjoyment and leisure in this base. Most of the games are simplistically repetitive and made interesting only by gambling for currency or favors. Storytelling is an art, and few here seem to have mastered it—let alone possess a large wellspring of material. Our tent cannot be the only one where the occupants have turned to sex every time conversation has run stale.” The elf explained.

Ranthia nodded hesitantly.

“At least for the humans and dwarves that found themselves in tents with mixed company. It’s dangerous out there, so I doubt too many people are trying to slip out to visit prostitutes.” Ranthia pointed out.

“There have been lulls, my love. Boredom can cause a type of… desperation, as well.” Avyna smugly retorted with a grin.

Ugh, that was fair. If Ranthia was alone—Xaoc forbid—she definitely would have sought company after so many days. But she wasn’t alone, and she had found something special.

Ranthia just fell silent and sought Avyna’s hands. Her arms were already wrapped around the elf, but she wanted the added intimacy of their fingers intertwined. As one—as if they had planned it—they returned their focus to watching their pretend daughter while they cuddled.

The rains were… well, they weren’t gentle, but they were far less oppressive than they had been for almost two weeks straight. The storm was likely winding down, which meant that the base commander was eager to resume patrols. Several of the legionaries that were tapped weren’t conventional scouts, but they needed people that could handle the flooded terrain more than they needed traditional scout skillsets.

It wasn’t like Skills for tracking footprints meant a thing while there was water running across every surface.

Ranthia was—ironically enough—carrying lidded barrels of water between the nearest well and their home. Their tent’s water reservoir had gotten fairly low, and it was normally sheltered from the elements—which kept mud, sand, and dust out of their water supply. At least the drainage had more-or-less held out, so she wasn’t sloshing through much water while she carried the barrel back and forth.

Everyone else that was out and about had to deal with sodden armor or tunics that stuck to them and got in the way, but Ranthia’s mistweave tunic wasn’t affected by the rain. She was soaked, but her mistweave fluttered about her just the same as it would on a dry, sunny day.

Gods and goddesses, she missed dry and sunny days.

She was two, maybe three, trips away from done when a horn blew—rapidly picked up by the others as the sound travelled across Remera. Ranthia cursed and hurriedly put the barrel down before she sent an image up on the wall and—she wasn’t wearing her armor, shit—replaced it with another image and shifted to it.

“What’s going on?” She asked the soaked legionaries, her eyes fixed on the horizon.

“Sir! One of the patrol groups is under attack, can’t see much from here, but there’s plenty of water being slung around and I saw Skills!” One of the [Warriors] reported.

Ranthia spent a heartbeat weighing her options. Her armor was on its rack—newly oiled to reduce the damage from water if it was needed—back in her tent. She could get it, but it would take time even with her shifting and stats. But the legionaries were struggling for their lives, and any delay might cost them another life.

“Have [Healers] on standby for wounded! Get a rescue team assembled and tell the base commander to increase readiness, just in case this is about to get big!” Ranthia ordered while she sent an image beyond the wall and started to shift.

She never heard the legionaries’ response; her perspective changed to the flooded terrain outside the base almost the same instant as she finished speaking. Ranthia willed her adamantium to start forming her knives—the rain wasn’t a substantial hindrance to that process, thankfully—even as she began her own dance across the water toward the conflict.

“Fuck! Fall back!” Someone shouted moments after a large splash of water transformed into a frozen sculpture that almost resembled a simple flower.

The white frosty ‘petals’ were tinged with red.

Four legionaries were trying to escape, two were wounded—but the hale ones were trying to support the man with the mangled, half-frozen leg. The other cradled her bloodied arm, but she was running under her own power.

