“They aren’t. But you know how people are. You don't fit in, you're seen as strange, have to work harder to be accepted. Non-combat focused Path, different colored skin, horns, pointy ears, a voice that is too high or low pitched, you get the point. Plenty of powerful elemental path adventurers out there and anyone with experience won't give you a hard time but especially at lower levels, devotion paths far outnumber everyone else. At least in adventuring.”

“Thanks for the heads up. I'll try not to let it get to me.” As long as he wasn't outright attacked or entirely disqualified from joining whatever Guild adventurers were part of, he didn't think it mattered a whole lot. Perhaps it would be more difficult to find a team that accepted him but he would figure it out when he got there.

“Thanks for the meal, Warren. I'll relax for a while and then head out again.”

“Good to have you around, Veron. Looking forward to your next find.”

He didn't find any herbs that afternoon.

The next day out with Ivera was uneventful and so, the day after, he went out again in search of plants. For now, he kept using his Focus on his earth harmony, hoping to soon break through to the next level, whatever change that meant for him.

He went towards the northeast this time around, crossing over the small stone bridge a few hundred meters away from the inn. He wondered who had built it, wondered if one day he would be able to build a bridge of stone as well. Did they only use elemental paths to build things like this or were they using more conventional means as well?

Tapping the stone, he went onward on the small dirt road leading up to a forested and hilly section of the broad valley. He really wanted to see a town, wanted to see how magic intertwined with everyday life, and how the different paths employed their abilities.

Maybe I should leave before winter. And if I get better at finding herbs, I could make a bit of money to maybe join a group of travelers and to start out in a town.

His first self-given quest had been to find shelter and to find people. Now, he knew a few things about this world, could wield a bit of magic, and started to feel semi confident whilst out in the wilderness. And yet the more he learned, the more things he wanted to discover.

He looked at the bright green nature around Eyra, taking a moment to appreciate it all. He felt the weight of his shield and spear, the stone comforting in his hands as he felt a warm breeze flowing through. And then he focused on the task at hand. Finding the elusive herbs that Warren had sent him out to get.

Where to explore first?
