"And we were instrumental in crafting our killer. There is poetic justice in our demise here, a fitting end for us. We've created the coming of an apocalypse, something untenable or justifiable. I've denounced our research in my mind and soul after seeing the fruits of our labor. It is my greatest regret."

Torix turned to the final pages,

"To believe that once, I was excited to come here. This is a room of torment, a museum of horrors. The defectors are fed to hybrids, fueling the experiments they helped devise. Something changed in the leadership at some point. He lost all sense, his mind lost to madness. He plays games with us. He walks in the middle passages, whispering to himself. I've seen what he's uncovered and what he toils with."

Torix got into the reading, adding gravitas to his words as he spoke them,

"It is the advanced, runic language found in a dungeon rift. The lead researcher has lost himself in the depths of the markings. They've stolen his soul, and he has stolen ours. It is now too late for me. I am a forgotten relic of the quarantine's creation. I evaded death to this day, but I am here alone now. No guards. No prisoners. No food or water. Alone. Alone. Alone. I will not starve here."

Torix turned to the final paragraph,

"He has done it. They finished the hybrid's creation, a sentient mass controlled by the lead researcher himself. As a display of power, he showed it throughout the facility. As one may expect, it is now rampaging above. The pride of one man ended us all. I can hear the creaking above. Its blows ripple through feet of carbonized steel. It will come for me. I only ask that it kill me swiftly, though I no doubt deserve no such fate."

I winced as Torix finished,

"I would tell you, reader, to inform my family that I loved them and will always love them. However, I will not drench their name in infamy for my own petty sense of redemption. I helped create the thing above. I will die to it as I decide.

I will die bravely, not as a coward.

Goodbye."

The group was silent as Torix finished. As the quiet passed, Torix and Althea looked back up to me. Torix pointed at me, "That runic language you write in carries quite the set of risks. Not accusing you of anything as I've deigned to turn myself into a lich. I'm rather curious, however. Why do you work with it?"

It was a fair concern considering what he just read. I raised my palms to them, "It's powerful, and I already avoided exile from it, so now there's no real point in not using it. I'm not descending into madness because of the inscriptions I'm carving either. That lead researcher was weak in mind. That much was obvious by how he had his critics killed instead of trying to listen to them."

Chrona tilted her head to me, "Is this runic language why your mastery of gravity is so profound? It's rather rude not to share that knowledge considering I shared my own techniques with you."

I shook my head, "No, well yes, partly I guess. I can promise you that this isn't something you want to deal with though. These inscriptions are very dangerous just to know about, never mind actually write with them."

Althea pursed her lips, "Is that what you're writing in your grimoire all the time? Sounds dangerous."

I shrugged, "Yeah, it can be, but I'm not convinced it's inevitably dangerous. I've been writing with these for years now, and I haven't noticed any side effects so far. I understand them pretty well now though, and there's probably a few reasons people go 'mad' when using them."

She crossed her arms, "Well that makes me feel better. So, uh, what is it that drives people mad?"

"If I was to take a guess, it would be because of the mana requirements. Once I finish the iscriptions and try to implement them, my mana is drained until the process is finished. If someone tried doing that without the proper amount of mana, they'd face extreme levels of mana deprivation."

Torix raised a hand, "Ah, that explains quite a bit. Mana deprivation is like starving the mind. It leaves lasting repercussions, which is why most mages never approach the ends of their mana pools. It's far too risky."

"Exactly," I pointed a hand at myself, "My mana regeneration means I've never had that problem. Not yet at least. There's a few other reasons someone could go insane though. It could be a case of too much pressure."

Krog huffed, "Pressure killing someone? If anything, younglings could use a bit more adversity. They falter because they've never experienced true difficulty."

Eh, sort of," I said while tilting a hand back and forth. "Knowing this code has put a target on the back of my head. Powerful people want to know how to use it, and there's a lot of risk just knowing it. I imagine someone who wasn't much of a combatant, this lead researcher for instance, would be panicky all the time."

Torix waved a hand, "You mentioned exile as well?"

I nodded, "Yeah, I was exiled the moment I gained the skill. A Speaker helped me back into the system right after, but it was terrifying at the time."

"Perhaps that is part of why the researcher was so unstable," Torix mused. "He was exiled from Schema's system then dealt with no real out to his predicament. Combine that with the isolation of this environment and the nature of his work, and his mental instability was inevitable."

I walked up to a few of his runes, placing a palm on a poorly written one, "Yeah, and these runes are anything but crisp. The lines aren't straight enough, the depths between different portions of the carvings are too uniform, and you can tell he's too weak to be carving into rock to begin with."

I winced at a particularly nasty messup, "Like here, he's trying to write the rune for something like the word eternal. I can tell by the framework. It's not coming across right though, so it ends up bleeding into something more like consistency or stability. He's a begginner, so coming up with dual meanings is an easy way to destroy yourself."

I went on, having more to say than I thought I did, "It's an easy way to fuck up the runes. He also is working with rock, something too hard for his hands. You need something soft enough to work with. Even then, the material has to be mana tolerant enough to handle massive flows of energy. A hard, dense metal works best from my experience, though you can disperse whatever your writing through a larger framework to make softer materials work."

Torix looked up, "Hm, is that what that eldritch, what's his name again....ah yes, Baldag-Ruhl. Is that what he did perchance?"

"Yup."

"Then that explains how he managed to work such a complex ritual," Torix said.

"Yeah, I'm not quite at his level yet though." I said. "It's difficult to manage to be honest, because he was gifted in more than just his technical refinement of his runic work. He was a master of conceptualization as well. He was ambitious as hell too, his work profound."

Althea raised an eyebrow, "You almost sound like you admire him."

I shook my head, "No, I do admire him. Sure, he was a twisted, monstrous hivemind hellbent on bending my soul into a new carrapace, but that doesn't mean he wasn't talented. Same with Yawm in some ways. Yawm had this presence I haven't seen anyone else match yet. He could pull you in, and that's even while knowing he was a genocidal maniac."

Chrona glanced between us, "Who is this Yawm?"

Torix raised his palms to her, "We'd rather keep the details sparse. It's something of secrecy for us. I'm sure you understand."

Krog narrowed her eyes, "Secrets between allies breeds distrust and animosity."

Althea tapped his armor plating, "And he made you armor to help protect you on this mission. Have you ever seen this kind of metal?"

Krog glanced at his black plate mail, "Well...no."

Althea shrugged, "That's because it's rare. If he's willing to give you something like this, then surely he's got his reasons for secrecy."

She gave me a frown, "Though I'm not the biggest fan of secrets either."

I waved my hands, "Hey, I have my reasons. I didn't want you guys to get curious and end up exiled like I was. Besides, these special runes are less unstable for me because I have unique circumstances. I'm much more careful than most too. I've worked with the basics for years now."

I let my hands flop against my sides, "I even have a few bonuses from a few Old Ones, one of them no one knows about besides for me essentially. Cut me some slack."

Althea sighed, "Ok. I believe you. Just...just make sure you tell me if something's dangerous. I want to be able to help you out if the worst happens."

I grinned at her, "Of course. I've got it under control."

"Then it's settled." Torix placed a hand on Althea's shoulder, "Daniel's words carry meaning. He doesn't use them lightly. Now, there's a creature nearby that needs culling, and we're the team to do it before it unleashes itself onto a vulnerable world."

Althea let out a deep breath while shaking out her hands, "You're right. Let's focus."

I raised a hand, "Let's finish this."

The group's resolve came back to full throttle as we turned back towards the end of the treasure vault. As we paced up to another vault door, Althea took a deep breath while creating a hand claw. She slit the hinges of the gate, letting me pull it out with a gravitational well.

We found a hallway made of brown rock, covered in elementary gibberish written in the dimensional cipher. It looked like my notes from when I began using the forbidden code. As we passed it, I read out a few shaky translations of the butchered work,

"Harness. Stable. Create. Destroy. Augment. Hybrid. Collapse. Mind. Sacred...That lead researcher really did lose his mind. This makes no sense."

A droning sound ebbed into the massive corridor, sounding like the lamenting of someone fallen from grace. Krog and Chrona's eyes dilated at the menacing hum, their nerves shot. Chrona growled, "I'm hearing things. I must be."

Krog grumbled, "Me as well."

"Perhaps sharing what it is that's bothering you would help us in our search?" Torix pondered aloud.

Krog shook his head, "It's nothing."

Torix waved a hand, "We won't know until you've said what it is-"

Krog glared at the lich as he snapped, "I said it's nothing."

Torix crossed his arms but said nothing. Krog shook his head, shaking off his sudden nervousness. Chrona looked between the two,

"It's deeply personal for us. Please excuse him for his outburst."

Torix sighed, "I didn't mean to pry. Keep your secrets. Schema knows I have plenty of my own I harbor."

We reached a vertical slant, leading upwards. The droning rang in my ears like the hum of some fallen angel. It was drenched in some wicked despair as if life itself was pain. I know that sounds melodramatic, but it wore down my own sense of calm as we paced uphill. Chrona and Krog restrained a palpable sense of grief. Despite their lack of an explanation, a haunting suspicion in the back of my mind was rising up to explain why.

As we reached the top of the corridor's slope, all was explained. There was a vast corridor reinforced by orichalcum bonds and magic. All kinds of monitors were plugged into the floor, powered by something beneath the facility. If what I guessed was correct, this thing fueled the entire facility. Screens all shapes and sizes detailed the vitals of one of this entity, it's full body hidden.

Inside the room, a lone figure stood in the darkness. This pulsing creature stood as tall as I did, its body draining the pit of its liquid contents. It wasn't the source of groaning, however.

Inside the pit, a mound of moving liquid gasped out in a deformed, straining voice like some specter desperate to die. It was the sound of anguish and misery, a lamentation more profound than I could know. Beside me, Krog and Chrona cried out in a voice similar to the pits, though lacking the deformed gurgling.

Krog wheezed out, "That voice. There can only be one..."

It all clicked in my head as Chrona cried out,

"Emagrotha...What have they done to you?"
