Mountains were visible in the distance in both directions—more easily toward the north than the south—and the chairs were staggered so that everyone would have an easy view while still being able to interact with those near them.

The long table was set up for communal dining, and so the family settled in, enjoying the views all the while.

Their server came a few minutes later, bringing water without ice for all of them, along with hot tea and the start of their meal.

Empty plates were set in front of each of them and dishes laden with food were set all along the table around them. Rice was in abundance, both plain and fried, and most of the main dishes consisted of variously glazed or seasoned—sometimes both—meats and veggies, intended to be eaten overtop of, and with, the rice.

There were also large tureens of soup with a thin—yet delectable—medley of egg, broth, and greens.

Overall, it was a glorious spread. The only complaints—jokingly given—were that the family wished that they had been warned such fare was going to be offered, so they might not have had quite so many sweets and treats from the market beforehand.

No one was truly upset, obviously, but it started playful comparisons such as, ‘this chicken almost makes me wish I’d eaten one less cream-puff, just so I could fit another bite.’

Each such proclamation began a teasing debate, usually consisting of those who had had the treat in question, either agreeing or disagreeing with the original speaker.

The result was a lot of laughter and good cheer rippling back and forth down the table throughout the entire meal.

Tala and Rane sat at opposite ends of the group, in order for both to interact with more of the family, and to not be drawn into their preferred companionship—that of being with each other—but she still stole glances down the long span at her husband, a smile tugging at her lips whenever she saw him laughing or leaning in to listen intently to those around him.

Terry, for his part, added to the fun by flickering all around the table, as the young ones had realized and renewed Tala’s old game with the terror bird.

They tossed out random bits of food, and Terry caught them. Every. Single. Time.

The parents went out of their way to explain to the kids that this was a ‘one time’ thing, and that they weren’t generally allowed to throw food while at the table, but they didn’t outright disallow it.

Tala was grateful for that, as she wouldn’t have wanted to play peacemaker between Terry and her siblings. As much as he liked them, he was rather fond of the game, and of the littles. It was good not to put those various likes in competition within the terror bird.

For her part, Tala was seated next to Osip, so she plied him with an easy, standard series of questions about his time at the Academy and his hopes for the future, following Master Nadro’s example and doing her best to keep him talking most of the time.

In that way, lunch passed in a wondrous milieu.
