Ian had told him that Elemental Paths, especially those with the Earth affinity often helped build and maintain structures in larger settlements. The teen was not familiar with the specifics and while Veron had the feeling that Ivera knew a great deal more about the different Paths, he had not pushed her for more information, only asking to make sure he wasn't doing anything majorly wrong.

He had wondered how an earth elemental path would help in the construction and the maintenance of buildings and now he had his answer, at least partially.

He immediately wanted to try it out again, to find out the limits and possibilities of his newfound ability but he knew he would have to wait for at least half an hour, preferably an hour.

Looking inward, he learned about the change that he knew to be there.

Elemental Path [Feeble]- Harmony of Earth [Beginner I]- Hidden Harmony [Faint I]- Hidden Harmony [Faint I]

Two months into my training and I'm finally a beginner.

The thought amused him for a moment before he was once again thinking about his new possibilities. He also didn't fail to once again notice the two hidden harmonies that had yet to reveal themselves.

He had learned from Ian that they would have to be some sort of elemental magic, as his Path was the Elemental one. What he would unlock, he didn't know, but he knew deep down that it would be part of him like the connection he felt towards the deep reaching earth.

He didn't worry too much as his Focus wouldn't increase with more Harmonies. Having more options available was beneficial for sure but at the same time he would have to either split his attention and Focus to train all of them or make a choice about where he would use his limited training time.

But while his work so far had consisted of feeling and analyzing his connection to the earth below, he had now affected an actual change in the element. Of course, it depended on how exactly and to what extent he could affect change within rock and earth but at the very least, he could now perhaps offer simple repairs for the farmhouse, maybe even for the barn.

In terms of broader applications, he could perhaps even mold tools from rock.

Or weapons. Weapons and maybe even armor.

The thought excited him. He assumed that more specialized gear and tools made from metal, leather, and cloth would likely be more effective, lighter, and more durable, but rocks were lying around all over and more importantly, he could make things with his will and Focus alone. No mining, no leather working, no animals or any other materials and tools needed.

Let's not get too excited for now. It may only extend to shaping small rocks or even just leaving them slightly altered.

He contained his excitement but deep down, he knew that his assumptions were correct. He felt it, more than anything, felt the changes he could affect.

He joined Ian for work and an hour later, he set out to confirm it.

There were five around fist sized rocks lying on the floor before Veron.

Ian watched him with interest.

“Why did you gather rocks?”

“Just wait and you’ll see,” Veron said. If his previous attempt was anything to go by, he had around 15 to 30 seconds of magic in him.

First, he touched the stone on the far right. He could tell that there was no way for him to even attempt a connection without physical touch. He wondered for a moment what he even wanted to make and then decided to test his shaping skills themselves rather than thinking of an object. Focusing on the rock, he started to form a connection. It took nearly five seconds and he could feel immediately that this was more exerting than simply feeling the earth around him.

Once he felt the connection, he smiled and started pushing down on the rock to try and flatten it. The rock obeyed, slight cracking sounds coming from the fist sized chunk as it flattened out. Without pause, Veron willed the object into a rounder shape, perhaps a handle or the tip of a pole.

Sweat dripped down from his brow, his Focus quickly waning. Not about to waste any time, he grabbed the second rock and held the two together, forming a connection to the new object when he realized they wouldn't join. Just before he was out, the connection formed and he willed the two together.

Veron felt the strain of magical exhaustion, breathing hard as he looked at the joined handle and rock. He smiled broadly and grabbed his creation, raising it up with reverence as he looked at the silent and wide-eyed Ian.

“Behold, a hammer!”
