Ah, now I’d done it…

The boy quickly kowtowed and apologised profusely, not even daring to clean the spoiled fruit on his face.

He looked like he was on the brink of crying, but only held himself together out of propriety.

Clicking my tongue, I signaled for him to follow and come closer. He did, and I wiped the fruit off of his face.

“It wasn’t anything against you. The fruit just tasted… Interesting.” I’d said that in the most polite way I could have.

So what if it was a spiritual fruit? It didn’t change the fact that it didn’t taste like anything a human should be eating.

“I apologise, Miss. I should have known better!” He apologised for something that wasn’t even his fault, and I couldn’t help but feel pity for him.

A child no older than Shu Xu Ning was acting as a servant to the Reaper Sect, and whoever had trained him had traumatised him to such an extent.

I shook my head and rustled his hair. Sadly, he flinched.

“Ah, sit still, kiddo. I’m not going to kill you.” I scolded him, and he stopped struggling.

“Look, I’ll give you these fruits if you bring me something that tastes good. How about that?”

Hearing that, he shook his head. “Servants like us aren’t allowed to eat such expensive fruits.”

I sighed. “Boy, just do as I say; nobody is going to find out.”

“Ah, y-yes, Miss.”

He walked out, leaving me alone.

I really hated sects that did this to children. Just because he had no talent didn’t mean he had to work all his life as a servant. Especially not like this. He could have been a farmer or something more honorable.

Instead, he was forced to do such work for oftentimes awful people.

Even if I did try to change that, nothing would come of it. Cheap servants were the backbone of any sect and country.

That didn’t mean I couldn’t have pity on them. Maybe this boy stumbled upon a cultivation technique he could use and broke out of the cycle and potentially led the Reaper Sect to its destruction after being wronged one too many times…

Right, as if such a scenario would happen.

Well, it could. Although he was just a kid and was still fairly innocent. He probably hadn’t had any issues with guests before, or maybe I was his first guest.

First guest, and I spat on his face…

I ought to have been ashamed of myself. How could I have done that…

The boy came back, bringing me a platter of normal fruits.

He set it down on the table,e then sat kneeling in front of me.

I put the tray with spirit fruits next to it and nodded toward him. “What’s your name?”

“Huh?”

“Name, kid, you have one, right?”

“Ah- Lin Shao, Miss.”

“Hmm. Lin Shao.” The name rolled off the tongue really well. “I see. Where are you from?”

“Huh? Er… I am from Golden Arch City, Miss. I grew up there… Well, the outskirts anyway. I grew up around it.”

“The outskirts? I didn’t see any outskirts when I went there.”

“Ah, that’s because they got rid of us. They said we were in danger, and I could see it; many of us disappeared. I don’t know where they went, but the adults always told us not to venture too deep into the forest.”

“Adults?” I repeated. “Do you not have any parents?”

“No, I’m an orphan. Both my ma and pa died a few years ago.”

“I see.”

A likely story. Such cases weren’t exactly isolated. Many other people were in a similar situation. The city probably had to clean up the outskirts, and some of the people that didn’t belong anywhere ended up being sold to sects for cheap labor.

Still, treating a kid like that…

“Has this place ever given you a chance to cultivate?”

“Cultivate? Me? No. I hear they’re supposed to determine whether or not we can cultivate soon.”

“What? They haven’t done it yet?”

“No, Miss.”

I groaned internally. How could they have forgotten about something so important? Did they really just throw potential cultivators into the role of servants so casually?

This Reaper Sect seemed to have neglected their duties as a sect because of this tournament, and that was giving them the benefit of the doubt.

I couldn’t believe that they’d do something like that.

Still, that did give me an opportunity.

And I did feel bad about spitting on him, even by mistake.

I grabbed my bag of holding and rummaged through it. I had to have some sort of technique to give him, since I wasn’t poor in that regard.

I did steal a lot of stuff from people I’d killed in the past. If I were to give him something, it would have to be an item that did not have any karmic bonds.

If, for example, I were to give him a technique only used by a certain clan, then if they found it, he would not be in a favorable situation.

That immediately removed about half the techniques I had, and I threw away the other half for being too poor quality.

The rest that I did have… Well, there was no issue with them.

I swished my sleeve and used Qi to bring him closer to me, grabbed his wrist, and put my Qi into his arm.

“Don’t resist, I am going to check what sort of talent you have.”

“Huh? But Miss…”

“Shh.” I shushed him and made my way through his meridians. They were fairly wide, which meant that he would have an easier time absorbing Qi.

Aside from that, hmm… He did have an interesting physique, but nothing out of the ordinary. Not as far as I could tell anyway.

I was curious if he had some sort of hidden bloodline, but stuff that, like, wasn’t easy to figure out just by injecting Qi.

Making my way toward his dantian, I saw something interesting, which also made me a little jealous.

He already had a seed. I didn’t know if something like that was possible, but this young child had a seed pre-planted inside his dantian.

I realised then that I really had no idea how cultivation worked in this world. It seemed to be more accessible than in my past life, considering that there were no roots to speak of, but one required a lot more resources to advance.

Still, what did it mean if someone already had a seed?

Well, it didn’t matter to me. Analyzing it, I didn’t detect any particular element affinity from it.

Which meant that a simple technique would do just fine.

Pulling myself away from him, I tapped my bag of holding and handed him a cultivation technique that would teach him mostly everything he needed to know, as well as a jade bottle full of pills.

Consider that my good deed of the month, and definitely not because I was feeling guilty and pitiful.

“Lin Shao, take these,” I said with a smile, though he looked more confused than anything.

“Urhhh…?”

“Ah, child, just take them. Don’t use them yet; wait for the sect to do the talent reveal, and once you get accepted as an outer disciple or even a servant, start cultivating. You will achieve great things in the future, I’m sure of it.”

These last words were meant to encourage the child, though maybe they would turn out to be true.

I could not wait to see what he would do.

“This is too much. I- I can’t accept this.”

“I’ve given them to you now, so you can’t accept them.” I stuck out my tongue to make him see me as more than just a cultivator. “Besides, if you were to ever encounter any demons, you could kick their ass for me.”

“Huh? Demons?”

“You’ll see in the future. Now eat those fruits before they go bad. Their Qi should be potent enough for you to keep some stored until the tournament is over. Or I can freeze them for you if you want.”

“Huh? But I don’t even know how to cultivate. How could…”

“That’s why I’m giving you these things. Now do as I say, and go fetch me some tea.”

“Yes, Miss!”

◈◈◈

The second day of the tournament had finally arrived, and I could only imagine Meng Mao’s face when he was drinking with the elders. Many were probably mad that someone like me made it so far, or maybe they were even questioning why I was participating with my strength.

But it wasn’t that far-fetched… I was pretty sure Peng Li was second in strength to me, and I wasn’t even taking things seriously.

However, after talking with Elder Su, I knew how important it was to enter the secret realm first.

More time meant a higher chance of passing, and also being able to actually find the secret place she was talking about. If I didn’t have time to explore, then there would be no point.

Damned once-in-a-lifetime opportunities and how annoying you were to get.

The rest of us that still had to fight made our way down toward the arena, while the others did… Honestly, I had no idea.

It seemed that we’d arrived a little too early,y though, as the betting stalls and guests were still getting settled.

Meng Mao was not amongst the people present, not yet anyway. Not that I missed him.

It was a shame that the odds were probably in my favor now, so there was no more money to be made.

It was fine, though; I was already pretty rich, even by sect standards.

I wasn’t even sure what I would do with so many Spirit Stones, but I would figure it out… Eventually.

I wasn’t thrilled about waiting, though. The morning wind was chilly,y so at least there was that.

Thankfully, everyone had arrived within thirty minutes, es and we were basically ready to start the very short day two of the tournament.

And the first fighters were… Number Ten Jiang Chi vs Number Eighteen… Fa Xiaolan.

Seriously, two days in a row. Can a girl not catch a break?

Needless to say, I mopped the floor with the twin rather quickly. At first, I wanted to check out how their ability worked, but even after pushing their buttons, they didn’t go all out.

I’d decided then that it wasn’t worth my time and just smacked my opponent on the side of the head.

The match ended right then. Thankfully, I didn’t kill anyone, but it was probably very painful.

And just like that, I’d won another match… How surprising.

The next match was Fah Xing against Lian Shu. Considering they’d both made it this far against generally though oponents, that wasn’t very surprising.

Actually, Lian Shu had the advantage of cheating, so even after a fairly long fight compared to my own, he’d lost.

Fah Xing was also way more aggressive, which made it so her opponents had an even harder time against her.

Well, she could have also just had a grudge against Lian Shu; who was I to know?

The next fight was one that I was actually looking forward to, as I’d wanted to see Peng Li in action.

Just as they were about to enter the stage, I noticed Meng Mao walk in with a few elders, his expression grave.

Come meet me, quickly.
