Jane had tried to make heavy armor like this, before now, but it never worked, so Jane had abandoned all hope of ever wearing heavy protection. But she had succeeded this time, even if she hadn’t done it on her own. She had made something wearable. Something that made her inner, childish paladin turn flips, and her stomach roil with butterflies.

As she took it all in, understanding what she had made, and felt good, a blue box appeared.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you already have Conjure Armor, here you go:

+1 point!

Jane laughed—

Ah! Her face was fully covered by translucent force, but there had to be holes down in the overlapping scales around her neck. She could still breathe just fine. This was awesome.

“Good job, Jane,” Erick said, looking like the happiest father in the world.

“I was never able to make my armor this fast… It always took ten seconds, or a quickened construction. But this… This is good?” Jane said, “This is good.”

He asked, “What else do you want to make?”

“We’re on a roll! Let’s try aura-armor.”

Erick smiled.

Ten minutes later, Jane had created the first spell she was proud of since she made [Invisible Rejuvenation], all those months ago, in her first experiments in magic on Veird.

Mutable Aegis, instant, self, aura, 10 Mana per second

Coalesce ethereal armor onto your body. After supporting Mutable Aegis for 10 uninterrupted seconds, you may choose to substantiate your aura. If you are already wearing conjured armor, activating Mutable Aegis will turn your armor ethereal.

Jane stood apart from her father and the furniture of the room, and turned on her new aura. Ethereal blue darkness took hold across her skin, like jagged, scaled plates, made of almost-invisible glass. It looked funky, almost like a craftsman took way too long stringing together plates of glass. But it felt good. She moved her arms, and rolled her shoulders. She twirled one leg in the air, then the other. There was no resistance.

The strange, crystalline [Conjure Armor] Jane had made when she remade the [Conjure Armor] spell had been as easy to wear as heavy clothes, and slightly more restrictive than her usual gambeson, but [Mutable Aegis] was like wearing nothing at all. It felt great.

Ten seconds passed. Jane flicked her armor solid, with a thought. Near-invisible glass turned into solid, dark blue plates, overlapping and protective. Her total ease of movement turned into something lesser, but still acceptable. Jane grabbed the air, and flexed her arms. She kicked. She stood tall.

“This is good, Dad.”

“You still need some sort of Prismatic spell or skill, right?”

Jane dismissed her armor, saying, “Yeah. Still not sure what that would look like, though.”

“That’s fine. We can work on that, too.” He clapped his hands together, saying, “But for now! I want to see all your new Familiar Forms! It’ll be a dress up party, like when you were ten— Ohh! Jane! Do you remember your little dragon costume I made for you when you were eight? You were so cute!”

Jane groaned, but smiled, as she held a hand to her face. She did remember that little green costume with the sequined scales and floppy wings. She giggled, then said, “Sure! Dress up party!” She pointed at him, saying, “I want to see what your [Conjure Armor] looks like, though!”

Erick stepped away from leaning against the kitchen table, beginning to glow, as he said, “I barely ever use this spell. I like your armor, though. How’d you envision it all?”

“I didn’t plan on it, it just happened. I’d have to test the scales in combat before I start really using my armor that way.” She conjured a divide in the center of Windy Manor, saying, “I won’t be showing off flame ooze, though. That would burn this place down.”

Erick flickered white. Solidifying mana rushed across his shoulders, simultaneously wrapping over head, forming a hood, as it flowed down his body, around his legs and arms before flaring outward, turning into draping fabrics as it coalesced into leather-like boots and gloves. Metal curled around the stiffer shoulder pads, while small feathers and unmoving eyes accented his gloves. He was an indistinct white glow under his hood, with his eyes brighter than the rest of him. And then he cut his [Lightwalk].

Jane withheld her judgment, for the moment.

His smile returned, along with his gentle eyes, as he pulled back the hood of his [Conjure Armor]. He poked his own clothed chest with his not-leather gloves, saying, “I was thinking about that graphene stuff you talked about, whenever-ago. I think this armor came out okay?” He conjured a knife in one hand as he pulled taut the robes over his chest with the other. He poked the robes, but the knife did not go through. “Seems okay?”

She said, “That’s all rather loose and billowy. It looks good, but as armor? I’m not sure.”

Erick dismissed his mage armor, revealing his normal clothes underneath. Today, her father wore a plain white shirt that was practically a tunic, plain tan pants, and the same Earth shoes he fell to Veird wearing, with their rubber soles and bright white leather exteriors. Jane couldn’t blame him for the shoes. She’d wear her own pair of Earth shoes if she wasn’t transforming all the time. They were comfortable, after all, but for now, they were in a lockbox in Spur’s bank, along with her phone.

Her father, though… For all his money and power, her father certainly didn’t dress as well as he could. Jane almost said something about the rest of everything he was wearing, but she held her criticism to his armor. Flowing robes were not good armor.

Erick said, “Maybe you’re right. I’ll try again.” He shooed her off to the divider she had summoned, saying, “You go change, too.”

Jane went behind the divider—

“Oh yeah!” Erick said, “I learned this spell called [Clothe]. You take off your shirt and set it aside, then you pick it up and activate your Elemental Body, pulling the shirt into the effect. Then you put it on. I shredded my shirt once, but then I made the spell.”

Jane had already discarded her clothes in a quick shift to shadows, but now she looked down at the small pile, asking, “Is that all you did?” She picked up her shirt. “Because I’ve done the same thing.”

Beyond the divider, a white flash came down, as her father asked, “You have? Then you should have gotten it, too?”

Jane was a hundred percent sure she had already done what her father had suggested. Quick changing clothes was one of the first hurdles to learning how to be a Polymage, if you were the shy kind of person. Some guides even listed [Clothe] as a good utility option for those embarrassed or afraid of being caught naked out in the world, but those words certainly did not apply to Jane.

But another free spell would be nice? Why not?

Jane put on her clothes, exactly how she had done many times already.

Her shirt appeared on her body, while a pair of blue boxes appeared in the air.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you do not already have Clothe, here you go:

Clothe 1, instant, touch, 25 mana.

Touch a garment you have worn and wear it again. Maximum transferring range of 10m.

“Well that’s just fucking weird, is what it is,” Jane said, already discarding her shirt back to the floor. She called out, “Looks like it worked this time. Strangely.”

“Good!” Erick said, “I want to see your metal slime!”

Jane smiled, as she shifted. Flesh and bones became bright silver liquid metal, as the world got much larger, and Jane shrunk down to an eighth of her original size. Eyesight turned indistinct and greyscale as she began to sense the world in every direction more with vibrations than with any true sight.

She rolled out from behind the divider, plopping and flopping while doing a little fashion twirl in between. Coming to rest a few human-sized steps from her father, Jane spread two pseudopods into the air, like two tiny arms, as most of her attention faced the blobby shape that was her father.

“Ta-da!” she said, with [Prestidigitation].

Erick chuckled. “That’s really cute. But… It’s not too small, is it? You’re the size of a watermelon. A small watermelon.”

Jane mocked offense, “This is a perfectly good form! It’s tiny and basically indestructible. Perfect for most smaller missions. I don’t like having the core, though, so maybe I’ll upgrade to ooze in the future. But not right now. Eyesight is pretty bad, but [Greater Shadowalk] takes care of that.” To prove her point, she flickered shadows into the house, saying, “Now— Oh. That’s much better armor, Dad!”

Layered white fabrics, like Jane’s armor but softer, covered her father from his hooded head to his thick boots. He looked ready for a battle, or for infiltrating a snow-covered base hidden in some mountains somewhere. He’d stick out like a sore thumb almost anywhere else, though. But still! This design looked a lot safer than his first creation.

“Looking good,” she said.

“I modeled it from yours.” He dismissed his armor, saying, “It’s a bit stuffy, though. I’ll work on that.”

“Armor is stuffy. No way around that, but aura armor kinda helps.” She rolled back toward the divider, saying, “Next form: Unicorn!”

Erick giggled a little, as Jane transformed.

He gasped as Jane’s twisting, prismatic horn appeared above the divider, followed quickly by her rainbow eyes. She walked out, fully into view, taking center stage in Windy Manor like she was the most majestic creature for a hundred thousand kilometers. A long, white mane flowed down a graceful neck. Powerful hooves, capped by thick, fluffy fur, clomped across the wooden floor. She was pure white, with bright eyes and a flickering tail. She stood proud.

Erick said, “Beautiful, Jane. But that’s just the hidden form, isn’t it?”

Jane nickered a horsey laugh, then said, “Oh yes.”

She transformed, again. Glowing light turned into devouring darkness, as everything about Jane went negative. White fur turned black. Rainbow eyes turned into hollow pits. Shadows gathered around her hooves and her tail and her mane, as a normal horse mouth turned into a slashing, slippery nightmare of tentacles and fangs.

Erick went silent. He breathed. He said, “No.”

Jane laughed again, and this time it was full of unintended terror, with slapping tentacles and gnashing teeth.

Erick repeated, “No.”

“Okay okay!” Jane flicked her horn, imperiously, then turned and disappeared behind the divider.

Erick demanded, “Something cute this time, please!”

Jane laughed again. She heard her father shiver, as she transformed again.

Fur turned to feathers. Hooves turned to hands, to wings, and also to clawed feet meant for grasping onto buildings and carrying away cows. Her head poked above the divider. With eyes a foot across, but locked forward, Jane turned her head to see her father. He looked less than thrilled to see a giant bird poking up to stare at him.

Ophiel, however, took to the air, twittering in happy violins. He blossomed out to a much larger size, to take up a decent portion of the airspace of the house, but Jane was still larger than him, by far. She giggled, making chirping sounds that did not match her size, either.

Ophiel chirped back. Chirp chirp chirp!

Erick said, “Beautiful bird, but… It’s… Big.”

“Yeah.” Jane did not move from her spot; she didn’t want to tear up the wooden floors with her talons. She was already visible, anyway. “I also didn’t take into account that barely any birds are able to move their eyes independent of their head.”

Erick connected some dots, and said, “So if you’re going to get rid of that form anyway, then why not turn it into a flying form mantle, or whatever you’d call it?”

Jane tilted her head back and forth, thinking.

Ophiel decided to mimic her, turning himself over and back, his wings and eyes flowing across his mutable body as he kept up with Jane’s motions.

“Oh gods.” Erick said, “That’s making me sick.”

Jane laughed a frosty cackle, then purposefully twisted her head all the way upside down. “It’s not that bad.”

Ophiel’s eyes widened, as he chirp-chirped and then tried the same movement, but he had to flow his wings back into a proper position in order to stay aloft; he could not fly upside down.

Erick’s eyes went almost as wide as his [Familiar]’s. “No,” he said, emphatically.

Jane laughed again, as she transformed back to herself, behind the divider. When she was back to human-mode, she took a moment to use her new [Clothe] spell. It was slower than just using her shadows, but it was still a free spell. Maybe there were useful higher tier versions of [Clothe]? She’d research that later, but for now, she stepped out into the light, to see her father. She chided, “That’s a pretty weak stomach, Dad.”

“[Polymorph] is freaky! I don’t understand how you can do it!”

Jane laughed again. She said, “[Polymorph] is great! I...” Her voice trailed off, as she thought, then said, “I really like [Polymorph].”

Erick smiled. He thumbed at the darkened windows, asking, “Hungry for something besides cake?”

She teased, “Don’t you have to get back to your minders?”

“Actually, the Headmaster pinged me. He invited us to dinner whenever we were through, here. If you want to go?” He joked, before Jane could, “Want to go get eaten by a dragon?”

“Haa! Yes.” Jane said, “Let’s go tempt fate.”

Erick nodded, sending off a streamer of intent into the air. After a moment, he said, “Let’s take ten minutes, then go.”

“I’ve got to put away the cake, anyway.” She added, “And sober up a bit.”

“Not too much, though.”

Jane agreed, “Not too much.”

- - - -

The Azure Room was the entire top floor of one of the business towers, in the northern crescent of Oceanside. It was not the largest tower around, for that designation belonged to North Tower, one of the three classroom towers of the city, but it was certainly still rather tall. The Azure Tower, and the Azure room at the top, were as cream-colored on the outside as all the rest of Oceanside’s buildings, but on the inside, the Azure Tower absolutely lived up to its name.

Erick and Jane blipped onto the seventh floor. The floor was cerulean stone. The wardlights were blue crystal chandeliers, adorned with white glows. The walls were cream, with blue accents, while lifelike paintings of ocean life occupied central positions, and blue stone vases and sculptures sat atop cream-colored stone pillars, separating the paintings from each other. A curving staircase of blue stone, much larger than the one staircase back in Erick’s home in Spur, swirled up from the ground in front of Erick and Jane.

