Jane almost ended the conversation right there. She had been using [Lightwalk] for almost three months, now. A lot of that time was spent asleep, but before and after that she had been using all of her Elemental Body skills as much as she could. What did he find out about [Lightwalk] that she didn’t already experience through trial and error?

But Jane could not end the conversation, there.

Instead, she…

First, she saw how much her own, obviously visible emotions, affected her dad. Erick lost his smile, completely. And that hurt. She didn’t mean to do that.

She said, “Sorry. It’s just...”

“I can understand.” Erick said, “I don’t know why I seem to have it easier, either. I really don’t. But I want to help you, if I can.”

Jane nodded, then she forced herself to say, “What’s going on with [Lightwalk]?”

And then Erick dropped several bombshells on her. “I’d tell you about the Spatial Magic remake Quests I’m working on, but those will kill anyone without years of schooling or without a [Familiar] like Ophiel—” Ophiel twittered on Erick’s shoulder. Erick patted him, eliciting more tweets, as he continued, “So I won’t tell you about those, but I can and desperately want to tell you about how to remake the seven foundational Basic Tier Force spells; Bolt, Beam, Bomb, Shrapnel, Trap, Crash, Wave. It took me one day to remake all seven of those. I got seven points for my efforts since I already had those seven spells. I even went to the Registrar and got another Ability Slot for my Class, too.

“Briefly, here’s how I did it:

“So you got [Lightwalk]. You’re light, but you’re also one step closer to the Mana. It’s like…

“Pretend you’re on the beach, near the ocean. The beach is like being in the physical world. The water is the mana. Except you’re more sand and… You’ll figure it out. Anyway. When you [Lightwalk], or [Stone Body] or whatever, you are a being of stone that steps into the water, diffusing yourself around into that water, letting you direct your body —which is still stone, in this scenario— into affecting what the water does.

“What each Elemental Body does is put us closer to the Mana than we naturally are, as beings of flesh and blood.

“Al tried to help me ‘find my aura’ a few times, but it didn’t really work. [Lightwalk] let me find my boundary right away. Proper mages use their aura in these remake quests, I think, but you can shortcut finding your aura with an Elemental Body skill, or other things I’ve heard about, like Blood Magic and Soul Magic.” Erick finished, with, “Oh yeah. And I can control the weather now. It’s a fun spell. Got minor rains happening around Candlepoint so I don’t have to ever show up in person again. I hear there are trees growing everywhere in that dark city, now. I did the same thing for Spur, too. Rains come like they would anywhere else in the world. We had to expand the Lake. Everyone seems to be happy but Al has already complained about having to reroute the sewers.” Erick smiled. “I helped him a bit with that. It was fun.”

Jane blinked a little. Words tumbled out, “I heard about the rains.” She didn’t know what to say about all the rest of that. So she didn’t.

Silence.

Ophiel twittered a few tiny notes, but then silence came back, deeper than before.

Erick asked, “Have you heard from Delia? I heard that—”

“How do you remake [Force Bolt]? Or any of them!” Jane almost shouted, “How the FUCK have you—”

Erick, nice as he possibly could, asked, “Hey? Why not try this?” He held up his hand, conjuring a small, white dagger made of hardened mana into his grip. “Take your [Conjure Weapon] and flow mana through it—” He dismissed the dagger, only to have white mana flow through his hand, like a tiny fountain of knives. “And you listen to the notes made.” He offered, “This one sounds like violent force applied to a violent task. I’m sure [Conjure Item] would sound much less harmful, but be a lot more complicated, so we’ll stick with [Conjure Weapon] for now.” He flickered white, activating [Lightwalk]. “And then you sort of twist yourself, and thus the mana, into the shape you heard, sounding out—”

A radiant length of white force condensed into Erick’s hand, then condensed further, elongating out the bottom of his grip. Radiance flashed up and down as Erick held his hand out, away from the kitchen table. When the magic was done, her father held a simple staff; a simple weapon meant mainly for defense, but it was still two meters long and perfectly sized to him. His eyes were wider than before.

He glanced at the white staff, then at an empty space of air. “I did not expect that to work so well, or to get a staff. But I guess it did.” With his free hand, he gestured the air toward Jane, revealing a blue box.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you already have Conjure Weapon, here you go:

+1 point!

Jane didn’t know what to say to that.

She said, “I don’t know what to say to that.”

Erick said, “It’s not nearly as easy as it looks, because between the Elemental Body and spell re-creation there’s aligning mana in order to guide it into the proper form. It took me several hours to make [Force Bolt], but [Force Wave] was the simplest— I mean…” He dismissed the white staff, saying, “There’s emotions and harmonies to put into your recreation, and if you don’t match it perfectly to what’s already there in the Script, then you don’t make the spell. Maybe there’s a margin of error, though? There probably is.

“But I have noticed a discrepancy. You should be able to use this method to create higher tier magic. To make an actual [Fireball] spell without going through the tiers. But I don’t know why that doesn’t work. I’ve tried remaking my [Glacial Crash] a dozen different ways, but nothing happened. At first, I thought the problem might have been with using the wrong Elemental Body, seeing as all I have is [Lightwalk], so I first made a [Radiant Bolt] which was [Force Bolt] and Mana Altering for Light. Then, I tried to remake it using this method.

“That didn’t work. Maybe because I already had the spell? I don’t know.

“So I tried making a [Radiant Crash] which is the same combo but with [Force Crash], without making the spell first. This gave me much the same result, which was nothing.

“And then I tried making one of Kiri’s new spells. She’s real big on this Firelight thing I made a few spells ago, so she’s gone all out on all of that, and one of the spells she made is called [Firelight Defender]. It’s this shield that hovers at her back, pouring out firelight when not in use, empowering most of her close range magic, but it also moves out like a sapient [Force Wall] to defend her from any rear attack.

“Long story short: I couldn’t remake that one, either.

“I’m missing some key factor here. Maybe it’s my Class? I’m not sure. This method is not good enough to make the Spatial Spells either; those require something more than just harmony, intent, and skill. A lot of the more complicated Basic Spells require something that I just haven’t found, yet, like [Conjure Force Elemental]. I’m guessing that one requires knowledge of soul work.

“Don’t go trying to make Spatial spells, Jane.” Erick’s words turned harder. “I mean it. You could die. But I’m still telling you because I think it might help you with other aspects of your magic, maybe. And if nothing else, it’s free points!

“Anyway, besides all that, I think this is how Shade spells work. Maybe they’re not empowered and limited by the Script, so they can go in any direction? I’m not sure.” Erick said, “I also believe they do every one of their spells freehand, every time they cast. There’s nothing helping them but pure skill and knowledge of how magic works, at its base, which is apparently something that the Script cannot stop from happening? I’m still not sure on that part.” He finished, “There’s a lot of ifs and maybes in all of that, but the base Elemental Body functionality does work like this.

“There’s also apparently Blood Magic and Soul Magic, in order to remake Script spells, and then you have my method of singing at the sky. So. I’m right about these uses of Elemental Body, but not completely right.”

Jane listened. She held one hand loose on her fork, while her other hand touched her plate. Her cake sat half eaten, because for some reason, it started to taste like ash. Or maybe it was just fine, and Jane herself had turned rotten.

Most prominently, Jane felt a deep resentment at having to be shown the way. A palpable anger rocked through her chest with every beat of her heart. She tried to keep that anger off of her face, but she was sure her father had seen it, though he kept talking, hoping to drown her pain with the gift he was giving her.

And it was a gift; freely given and with the hope to help her through her own difficulties.

But still; Anger.

And so, understanding her own emotions, she listened to her father. A choice formed, as she heard his words, and felt his feelings. A path opening up before her. A myriad of ways suddenly seemed to illuminate her world, like she had been stuck in a dark forest for a long time, and someone had turned on a light.

It was a simple choice.

She could give voice to her anger, to give power to that primal part of herself that accepted instruction and help from everyone else, because they knew what they were doing, but not from her father, because she had looked out for him, for most of her teenage years. She could tear down what he was trying to build. She could be mad.

Yet, even as she felt that option form, she recoiled from it. She would not be mad at her father for studying magic and making his own, while she fucked around with exploring the world, gaining skill, and piling on traumatic stress. It honestly did not matter that he had figured out how to work [Lightwalk] much better than she had figured out any of her own Elemental Body skills. What mattered, was that her father was making himself stronger, and he was offering her help so she could become stronger, too.

She blinked, then brushed away a few unruly drops of salty water from her eyes. She laughed, once, then twice. “That’s pretty amazing.” Brushing a hand through the dense air all around them, she added, “Amazing that you can make spells inside this [Prismatic Ward], too.”

Her father’s smile returned, as he said, “Of course you can make—” He paused. A look of dawning realization came upon his face, as he looked up, saying, “Huh.” Turning to Jane, he said, “I made this spell [Clothe], inside of this dense air, rather easily. Only took me two tries. [Force Bolt] and all the other ones were made out in the desert. It took me a while to make those… Multiple tries… But that was my first time trying out [Conjure Weapon]?”

Jane smirked, saying, “I hope you’re recording all your experiments, taking down every single measurement, and then keeping that book somewhere very safe.”

Erick got a far off look. Then he flickered into light, and held out his hand. After a moment of holding onto the air, he reverted back to his human body. He said, “Still no luck remaking Kiri’s spell.”

Jane asked, “How about [Lightshape]?”

He smiled, then flickered back into a glowing version of himself. He stared off into space for a long moment, then he looked to the windows.

It was basically noon at Windy Manor, if not a little after. The large picture windows that made up the western wall of the log cabin showed a brilliant blue sky, gardens tended more by the groundskeepers than by Jane, and the sun coming down at a slight angle, into the house. The sunlight changed at Erick’s transformation into the human version of a glowstick. Ribbons of light went dull, first one space, then another, like someone had poked foot-wide fingers into the light. Where those interruptions touched the space, glitters held in the air above the interruption, like rain bouncing off roofs, or lasers bouncing off disco balls.

Ah. Jane could see it now; what her father had done.

Her father had pressed a meter wide version of his hand into the light, trying to touch the sun. His fingers twisted in the light, trying to hold intangible beams. Whatever he was doing certainly didn’t look like a [Lightshape]; that particular spell was more like sculpting with glows, almost like constructing wardlights. Erick cut his spell. Sunbeams snapped back into position faster than Jane could see, as her father turned back to his dull, human self. He smirked at the sun beams.

Jane asked, “Did that work? [Lightshape]?”

“Nope,” Erick said, more contemplative than anything else. “Still missing something.”

A spark of inspiration crossed Jane’s mind. She smiled. Maybe she could help her father here? She said, “Maybe you don’t get [Lightshape] from [Lightwalk]. That seems really weird to me. But. Well. Here:” Jane set her fork down on her plate, then held her hand to the side. Shadows split from her own, forming a secondary hand that reached for her fork. The shadow hand picked up the metal utensil, holding perfectly steady under her control. And then she crunched the fork into a ball of scrap, using her shadow. Another twist of darkness placed the fork back in her natural hand, where a dark blue glow [Mend]ed the fork, twisting it back into its normal shape. Jane said, “I can only do that with [Greater Shadowalk]. For larger attacks, I can use [Shadowshape] to grab a larger portion of darkness. For every other Elemental Body I have, I need to supplement my grips with [Telekinesis], or partially transform. I’ve lost hands by partially transforming, so I almost always choose to fully transform, and supplement my grip with [Telekinesis].”

Erick was smiling, but at the mention of ‘lost hands’, he winced, sucking in air through closed teeth. He shivered, then said, “This is the truly dangerous part of being a mage, Jane. I’ve seen so many warnings about Spatial Magic— I’m working with some Wayfarers and their guild to try and make [Gate], you know? They had a book for me, but they only gave it to me after I proved that I wouldn’t kill myself using the techniques listed in there.” He said, “Ophiel’s taking on all of the danger, there.”

