Everything looked like it cost way too much. Jane felt underdressed.

Erick said, “I feel underdressed.”

Jane giggled, then said, “Let’s go. I hear music playing.”

Erick nodded. Ophiel was already dancing on his shoulder, as he said, “I hear it too.”

Jane led the way up the staircase.

Faint musical notes became clear harmonies and sweeping rhythms. Beyond the staircase lay solid blue crystal double doors, that were already opened. Beyond the doors was a goldscale manservant, wearing something resembling a dark blue tuxedo.

The room beyond was a thirty meter wide decadence of high class culture, and half blue. Blue gems encrusted the walls, and the high backed chairs that surrounded a central cream-colored wooden table, laden with elaborate silver sconces, while blue gem chandeliers hung from the ceiling. Blue-robed musicians played on a small dais set to the side of the space. Massive picture windows gave a full 200 degree view of the west, including the northern crescent arm of Oceanside, and the ocean itself. The sky was dark, but lights illuminated civilization, and the deep depths in the center harbor of the volcano-ring city.

The goldscale waiter greeted them with a short bow, saying, “Greetings, Archmage Flatt, and daughter Jane Flatt. The Headmaster awaits your arrival.”

Her father took the lead with Jane falling in behind, as the goldscale led the way down a short flight of stairs, to the gem-inlaid, white marble floors, to the only table in the room; a round wooden antique, for sure, with two empty seats and one occupied.

The Headmaster remained seated, as Erick and Jane walked his way, looking every part like an old emperor with his immaculate gold-white robes. He had been watching them since they came into view, at the double doors to this room, but it was only now that he spoke, “Welcome, Erick and Jane.”

Erick said, “Hello, Headmaster. Thank you for the invitation.”

Jane said, “Hello”. She almost asked why there was only one table in this huge room, but she was certainly a hanger-on, in this scenario. The Headmaster likely only invited her to get to her father.

Erick added, “This is a lot more upscale than I thought it would be.”

The goldscale man gestured toward one of the chairs, then pulled it out for Erick, while he moved on to the next, for Jane. When he had completed his job, he took two steps away, and waited.

The Headmaster smiled gently, saying, “The Azure Room is generally booked for months in advance. Sometimes years. But today’s guest has come and gone, and we are lucky to have the location for this night.”

Oh. This place always only had the one table.

Erick sat down, saying, “Glad to know I’m not putting anyone out.”

Jane sat down; silent, listening.

The Headmaster said, “I am glad we are able to have this talk, but also glad to finally have a reason to come here. They make the absolute best, well, anything! One of the few ten star restaurants on Veird, with Harvesters that scour the world for only the best ingredients, and Cooks, each with their own Perfect skills; Perfect Bake, Perfect Grill, Perfect Fry, and more.”

The goldscale man waited for the Headmaster to finish, before stepping back to the table. Single tablet menus appeared in his hands. He set one down in front of each person, before standing straight, and asking, “Would sirs and madam wish for any specialty drinks?”

The Headmaster ignored the menu, as he said, “A bottle of Eidolon Violet Red for the table, to start, and whatever my guests are having.”

“I don’t know what that is, so I’d try it,” Erick said.

“Same,” Jane said.

“Two bottles, then,” the Headmaster said, adding, “And I will be employing security measures.”

Jane smirked as the Headmaster confirmed this as an important conversation. The goldscale man bowed, then stepped away. The Headmaster flickered gold, causing a barely-there bubble to encompass the three of them and the table, and another two meters out. The sounds of the quiet band continued to fill room and the interior of the bubble.

The Headmaster said, “It’s a one way bubble. They can’t see us perfectly, or hear us at all, but we can see and hear everything that happens outside of this space. I don’t expect us to speak of anything too important, but the option is there. If you wish to change this precaution, then let me know and I can put up something stronger.”

Jane felt some dark joy in her heart, as she said, “Nothing to speak of?” Jane had not planned on poking the dragon, and certainly not literally poking the dragon, as she was about to do, but with those words from him, she couldn’t help herself. “I just learned that you can remake Basic Tier magic from the Elemental Bodies.”

The Headmaster smirked. He said, “That is a secret tightly kept, you know. I hope you won’t go telling everyone.”

“But why?” Erick asked, clearly interested in the answer.

The Headmaster asked, “Are you not in touch with the Wayfarer’s Guild right now? Learning how dangerous it is to make Spatial Magics? That is why. Spatial Magic is only the most egregious offender; remaking Spatial spells kills more young people in more magical accidents than any other single branch of magic.”

Jane said, “That is half a truth.”

The Headmaster smiled wider.

The goldscale man returned, carrying two large glass bottles into the bubbled space. No one said anything, as the man uncorked one bottle, and poured for the Headmaster first. The Headmaster sipped, declared it good, then the goldscale filled everyone else’s drinks and took their orders. Jane barely looked at the menu before deciding on ‘Fillet Evereach’; it was some sort of pastry-covered meat thing but she wasn’t quite sure. The goldscale left with their orders.

The Headmaster agreed, “It is a half truth.” He said, “Here is the full truth: the Copy Mages and Spellthiefs of the world gain a huge variety of power, but the Class is a dead end. Stolen power creates stagnation, and for some reason, breeds more Hunters than you have ever seen. That is the true danger of the Copy Mage, and of the Recreation Quests you have begun to complete.”

“But can’t Rozeta just make those Classes harder to get?” Jane said, “I was able to make my first decent tier spell in a long time after learning this knowledge.”

The Headmaster frowned a little, but his expression was not of displeasure, but more like someone who gazed upon a set of numbers and saw that they didn’t add up. He asked, “You did? Congratulations, but at the same time, would you care to show me the spell?”

Jane handed over the box for [Mutable Aegis]. The Headmaster read the box for a moment, then looked to the air. He hummed.

The Headmaster dismissed Jane’s blue box, as he turned to her, saying, “That is strange. The series of events you are describing is how it happened, but correlation is not causation. More promising mages have fallen victim to their own falsely held ideas, than to too much work to ensure that their ideas were true.”

Jane asked, “Were you looking at my Status?”

“Oh no.” The Headmaster said, “I would not do such a thing without your consent, and certainly not in a location like this. But I do have [Witness], and you just described a most peculiar series of events, so I had to check myself.”

“Oh.” Jane said, feeling slightly foolish. “Yes. Of course.”

The Headmaster said, “As a suggestion, with the recreation of three spells, you’ve likely unlocked Spellthief. I would caution you against choosing this Class. You have expressed difficulty in creating spells before, but you seem to be having a breakthrough of some sort. Choosing Spellthief would erase that growth and lock you to whatever you have right now.”

If Jane was the skeptical kind of person, which she was, she would have thought the Headmaster’s words another half-truth, but she was also a prudent sort of person, and she didn’t want to be a Spellthief anyway, so she said, “Good to know.”

“It is no trouble. I am here to help students of all kinds.” The Headmaster said, “Ah! And here comes the meal.” He smiled, adding, “They are so quick here, too! Utterly delightful.”

The goldscale server pushed a silver cart out from the doors to the kitchen. Three plates occupied his cart. In an expertly delivered minute, Jane was sitting in front of a pastry-encrusted, fist-sized hunk of meat, a mash of orange root vegetable, and long, tender shoots of some green not-carrot. The butter was copious, and the smells divine. She looked over to her father’s plate.

Erick sat in front of a large, roasted bird, like it was Thanksgiving and he had ordered a whole twenty pound turkey, just for himself. He chuckled, saying, “Oh this looks great.”

The Headmaster said, “The roast aer’delard is a fine dish.” He looked to his own three smaller plates, filled with various tapas-like vegetables, and meats, and even tortillas. It looked absolutely spicy, and smelled even hotter. Jane could almost feel her nostrils twinge from the red scents coming from his plates. He said, “But I always get drits and flats when I come here.”

Jane asked, “Where does that come from? I need to visit these places that cook with these things.”

The Headmaster laughed a hearty chuckle, then said, “The Spice Coast of Nelboor for these kinds of flavors. Or you can try the Spice Islands of Archipelago Nergal. They tend to add sugars to their dishes, though.” He lifted a hand to the air. A gold blip brought their waiter instantly to him. The Headmaster gestured to Jane, saying, “My companion would like to sample some spicy dishes of the Spice Coasts.”

Jane felt her heart swell. She smiled, as the goldscale man stepped away.

Dinner was good.

Jane abandoned her initial meal and took up with spicy foods from all over the world. Her father eagerly traded for her ‘beef wellington’; it was one of his favorite specialty foods. His roasted bird got split up between the three of them, much to Erick’s joy, but Jane could tell there were going to be leftovers.

The Headmaster spoke of monster invasions, while her father negotiated pricings for [Cascade Imaging]s, while offering help for any Ballooning Spider attacks that had yet to touch down around the world. It wasn’t long from there that they started talking of the weather, but instead of it being a casual discussion of average rainfall, they had spoken of desires, needs, and how to create artifacts.

Broadly, the Headmaster suggested looking into Grand [Prestidigitation] Stoves for inspiration on how to create a [Weather Control] machine. Her father wanted to make something hand held, but the Headmaster said that such an item would be rife for abuse; better to make a complicated stationary machine than a sword easily wielded for war.

It wasn’t long till dinner was over, and dessert came out on fluted, gold dishes. Three scoops of ice cream, or ‘icies’ as they called them on Veird, rested in each dish. One scoop was light pink, another was light teal, while the last was caramel colored, while cut fruit supported the scoops from below. The scoops were too uniform to be scooped out of anything, though. And they weren’t that directly cold, either. Maybe they weren’t icies?

“What is it?” Jane asked, “Icies?”

The Headmaster smiled. “Almost. I apologize for ordering dessert for you, but this truly is the best item on the menu, and it hardly ever gets ordered.” He held his silver spoon up as he said, “They’re called ricies. It’s a sweet rice dough-covered icie. It is considered a commoner dessert, which is why no one orders it up here in the Azure room, when you can get them to-go at the shops on the streets down there. You usually eat it with your hands, but this version has fruit and sauces.” He stuck his spoon into the teal ricie, revealing a thin, almost translucent layer of rice dough, covering a bright teal core. “It’s much better to have it this way.”

“It’s mochi-covered ice cream,” Jane said, smiling. She stuck her spoon in the pink scoop, revealing a deep red center; an icie made of berries, no doubt. “I love mochi ice cream.”

“I am glad to hear.” The Headmaster teased the rest of the world by agreeing with Jane, saying, “It’s so hard to find someone with good taste in desserts.”

Conversation turned to talk of Candlepoint. Jane mostly listened to the two of them talk, but she almost raged when she heard about Valok.

The Headmaster said, “They hardly ever torment people with spectres of the dead, but it does happen. There’s a reason it’s called the Dead City.”

“… Oh.” Jane said.

Erick just stabbed a ricie, clearly unhappy. He said, “How are they able to do that? Was it really Valok?”

“Of course not.” The Headmaster said, “Resurrection doesn’t exist.”

Erick stared at the Headmaster.

The Headmaster said, “Life goes one way; to the End. Never backward. Never repeating. Death is death, and to consider otherwise is to put yourself under the power of another who is trying to take advantage of you in some terrible way.”

“Change of topic,” Erick said.

The Headmaster nodded.

Erick said, “I want to learn [Duplicate] to try for [Gate]. Would you be able to provide assistance?”

“Yes.” The Headmaster said, “But this is a greater discussion than what we were having. This would be transaction on the level of a bargain of trade, with an overarching necessity that you do not spread this information around, to anyone.” He looked to Jane, saying, “Anyone.” He turned back to Erick.

“I get it.” Jane said, “I think I ought to leave you two alone for a bit to talk more spooky Spatial Magic, anyway. Any suggestions on how to make a [Familiar]? Dad says he won’t let me know that Spatial Magic until I have one.”

Erick, surprised, asked, “You want a [Familiar]?”

Ophiel, on his shoulders, echoed that surprise with a faint trilling.

“No. I don’t.” Jane said, “But I might need one.”

The Headmaster said, “I would not help you make a [Familiar] if you do not wish to have one. It would be foolish for all parties involved.”

“There’s the verdict, then. No Spatial Magic for me.” Jane turned to her father, saying, “You’re just going to have to make me a ring of [Gate] someday.”

Erick smiled. “That’s one of the plans.”

“Good.” Jane glanced down at the scattered remains of her dessert. It was mostly just a creamy puddle of some blueberry-adjacent fruit she did not like. She said, “I am utterly full.” She slid her chair back, as she stood up, saying, “But I have magic to make, and you two seem like you need to talk. This was a great meal, Headmaster. Thank you for the invitation.”

