“Anytime, Jane.” The Headmaster grinned, as he said, “Good luck with your Prismatic ability.”

Jane said, “Thank you.” She turned to her father, saying, “See you back at the Manor before you go back?”

“Of course!” Erick said, “See you later.”

Jane blipped away.

Dinner and dessert and discussion had drawn on for at least two hours, and it might go on for a lot longer than that. Jane was glad to be gone from there.

- - - -

Jane had been lost for a while, never advancing. She had killed an Ancient Unicorn, but that was only with the help of her father. If it weren’t for [Pure Reflection Ward] she would have died in that moment. If she didn’t make something like a [Physical Reflection Ward] she would certainly die going forward.

Her father would try to save the shadelings of Candlepoint, but he was on the chopping block with how much Bulgan had targeted him. Jane had truly kept her rage in check when her father had spoken of Candlepoint in the Azure Room, but now, free of propriety, Jane collapsed onto the couch and screamed into the seat cushions. She didn’t scream long, or loud. Just enough to vent some anger.

She was weak, and she knew it. With how easily Professor Tinawa had laid her out with three short [Strike]s the first time they met, Jane knew she would have died if she had ever found Bulgan, back when she was serving a stint in Forward Base in Ar’Kendrithyst, looking for the former-man. She would certainly die if she attacked him now, now that he was a fully stable and secured Shade.

Bulgan could attack Spur, or anywhere, any day now, and Jane would have to watch her world crumble under his fists.

So she asked herself: Why the fuck was she taking so much time with her Class decision? And what would be the best way to attack and/or defend against a Shade? A blade that cut through anything? Or evasion, so that enemy attacks could never hit? Or a defense that made an enemy’s hits meaningless?

Jane sat up, lifting her face from the couch cushion. A dark blue fire burned in her eyes, eclipsing her natural brown tones, as she decided, “Defense, to block and soak and evade; to keep the evil at bay. I already killed one Shade, but the only reason I didn’t die was because he toyed with me and wasn’t expecting a counterattack.

“I won’t be toyed with again.”

She stood up. Shadows wrapped around her, as she moved from the dense air of the living room, to the outside of the house, where gardens grew and grass extended to the edge of the cliff. She stepped once, and was at that edge. Salt-touched breezes flowed up from below.

Another step took Jane further away, to one of the many spots she had been before in her exploration of this place. Another step, not through shadow, but across scattered rocks, brought her to the water’s edge on a stone-filled beach, where the ocean stretched out to the west and cliffs loomed high above. The night sky was a dark omen, littered with points of light and the slivers of three moons, just above the western horizon. This place was empty according to her shadowy investigations, but Jane didn’t care if anyone saw what she did next.

With another flicker of shadow, every item she wore laid in a nice pile, away from the water, safe by the cliffside. Another shadow shift brought together several piles of driftwood that had rolled up onto this darkened cove some time in the past. Jane flickered to heat, turning her body into fire, as she stepped onto the driftwood, urging it to burn. As she stepped out of the flames, she turned to air, joining the sea breeze coming from the ocean. She briefly rode the wind upward, before diving down.

Wind shifted to water. Jane flowed down into the ocean, spreading her senses wide.

Someone had been watching her. There was a shadow in the sea. A density, just out of reach. It was no threat, though; it spurted ink, and the octopus zoomed away, fearful of the vibrations Jane churned in her waters.

Jane let the mana take her; let whimsy and flow guide her forward. It had worked for her [Conjure Armor], her [Conjure Weapon], and her father, so why not see what the world had to say about her Prismatic self? So far, she felt the tingling of a possibility, just out of reach. But she could strive for it. Maybe she could find an answer. Maybe she had already seen her answer?

To be mutable was to survive, wasn’t it? To change form to overcome any obstacle?

It was a good thought.

Jane chased that thought.

Jane smiled, and the ocean smiled with her, as she lifted from the depths and took to the sky as an owl. Somehow, she had ridden the waves out to sea, but she had not gone far. The land was right there, so she flew toward the cliffs, racing faster and faster, for what were cliffs, when one was already a part of the land?

Bird met rock, and bird became rock, flying into the depths on wings made of stone. Sight failed her in here, and feathers did nothing for her, so Jane twisted into a droplet of silver metal. Suddenly, the world turned radiant, opening up for her experience. She saw the wonders of the deep places. She spied the holes where people made their homes in the dirt, and the twists of metal deposited by old eruptions. She went deeper, faster, and saw the tunneled Underworld below, as she avoided other monsters that lived in these stony depths she trespassed upon.

She felt the bones of the island, for they were, perhaps, truly bones. Jane had read that Veird was made from the collected corpses of dead gods and dead worlds, but she did not think that there were truths to those tales.

Jane felt something primal swell within her as she witnessed the world below. How was she moving this fast? How was she seeing this far? But none of that mattered. The only thing that mattered was that she was exploring, and she was seeing, and that was everything to her.

A change of angle brought her up, back to the surface, near a volcanic vent, under the ocean.

Stone became water, and Jane changed again, into a droplet of water herself, but tiny water slimes were not meant to survive in these depths. She was uncomfortable, so she became an ooze made of flame. Water boiled at her presence, but she could be water and fire at the same time, so she was.

She boiled and bubbled her way back to the surface, becoming multiple conflicting things at the same time as she burst from the water and became something else. She became stone of flesh but fire incarnate to float above the waves as she dipped down and transformed yet again into a one-horned terror made of shadows and light that became something else, entirely, as she raced back to land, back to the beach where she had started her journey.

If someone were looking at her, they would have seen a unicorn made of ooze made of metal made of feathers, with eight legs and too many eyes, racing across the water and through the water and above the water. Or, if they were looking a second later, they would have seen a woman, racing on the water, made of prismatic light, untouched by the world, but also a part of everything around her.

Jane saw everything. She was everything. But she was also just a person. Her run slowed as she neared the cliffs. She stood on the water, just before the rocks. She stepped onto the darkened beach. Her hair floated around her head like she was underwater. A part of her still was.

Which was why, when a two meter long, bright white claw and the darkness it was attached to, descended upon her, all bright power and utter night, Jane did not move. She did think to move, for she was not really where she appeared to be. The claw pierced right through her unmoving body, followed by a four meter wide dragon’s paw and four other claws similar to the first that settled down, into the stone, crunching rock with its world ending weight.

Jane stepped out of the air, and the water, and everything else at the same time, to stand beside the dragon’s blackscaled foot. She was still glowing, still prismatic. Her eyes were fire, but her notions of Reality were not quite solid, at that particular moment. She had lost herself and gained herself on her run through a tiny part of the world. If she had been all there, she would have recognized something normally very bad was happening to the cliffside.

The claws and the paw that had descended onto her were a part of a much greater whole. That first limb ended in shadowy depths attached to the cliffside, but above that swirling darkness, there was more. Shadows gathered along the edges of broken stone, spreading out, becoming.

A person-sized snout, fifty meters up, poked from the cliffs, and kept coming, jaw and cheek, whiskers long and flowing, and glowing white eyes, fully opened, that illuminated the night like two full moons. Horns, curling and rough stretched behind a head larger than some houses, on a neck thicker than some trains. The beast’s mouth opened, revealing fangs as large as orcols that also glowed white, almost as bright as the Dark Dragon’s eyes.

He craned his neck out from the stone, stretching, stretching, covering the moons with his massive head and horns and fangs, covering Jane in further darkness. Out of the corners of her eyes, and perception, she saw wingtips slip from the cliffsides. The tiny driftwood fire she had created before her run was still there on the beach, still sending tiny glows into the night, but it seemed like nothing compared to the Darkness looming above.

The Darkness turned to her, and smiled.

Jane had enough strange presence of mind, to ask, “Where’s my laptop?”

Melemizargo chuckled. Cliffs broke. Waves crashed. Air thrummed. The tiny fire Jane had conjured upon the driftwood instantly gutted and the pieces scattered back into the ocean.

“The laptop is in the city of Kendrithyst. Strive to collect it, if you wish, my little Prismatic Paladin.”

“I’m not a Paladin, yet.”

“Not without a God’s Blessing, you’re not.” He thrummed the world, asking, “Would you like my Blessing?”

“No thanks.”

“A pity.” Melemizargo moved his head down toward the water, twisting to view still-glowing Jane on the beach, head on. All Jane could see were teeth, all she could feel was a hot wind blowing, as he said, “I could use a house cleaner.”

The dark sky returned as the Dark Dragon retreated, into the stone, away. Wings flapped but there was no wind. Stars twinkled up above. The moons shared their slivers of light with the world, once again.

What was she doing, again?

Jane blinked. She looked at her hand, and saw flesh made of light and shadows and everything in between. Recognition of the magic brought solidification, and also dissolution, as shadows peeled away and light faded. Fire and stone cooled to meat and bones as water and air became blood and breath.

A blue box appeared—

The massive paw and claws next to her, retreated into the stone, white claws briefly lighting the night before going pure dark, crunching rocky beach as the appendage slipped away, back into hiding. Jane broke out in a cold sweat, despite the cold night air and her complete nudity. A scream almost tore from her, but an echoing laugh came from the cliffside, demanding she keep her wits about her.

High above, something broke from the wall. Several tons of rock dropped down from above, landing not ten meters from Jane, crashing into the beach and the ocean.

And that was more than enough of that! Thank you very much! Time to go!

Jane ripped her pile of clothes into her shadow—

Something was inside the nearby shadows.

Touching her familiar magics was like stepping into a room and seeing it occupied by a stranger. Jane instantly switched to air, grabbed her clothes, then swished away, back home, away from the beach, away from the Dark Dragon lurking in the cracks of the world.

Back in the Manor, Jane panicked for a good minute. Then she made herself a nice, tall glass of Sunset Red, and downed the whole thing. Then she put on her clothes. Then she collapsed on the couch and checked her most recent notification.

Prismatic Body, instant, long range, 25 Mana per second + Variable

You are here.

Jane said, “Simple, but effective.”

The air blipped white. Her father stepped into the house, looking a little haggard in the eyes.

“Heeeey, daaaad,” Jane drawled, unsure of herself at the moment.

Erick said, “I’ve been conscripted for a few Ballooning Spider Horde drops that they expect to happen in a few days.” He glanced to the open bottle of Sunset Red sitting on the table in front of Jane. “Still drinking?”

Jane waved him off, saying, “I can barely get drunk anymore. This is basically just better tasting water.”

“That’s a lie.” Erick sat down across from her, picking up the bottle. He downed a shot straight from the source, then said, “Tangling with dragons is rough.”

Jane just smiled.

And then she told him what had happened to her, not ten minutes ago. He might have his secrets about gods, but Jane decided on transparency; it was the better strategy going forward, considering what was coming down the line from Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick had a minor shit fit. He also congratulated her on her new magics, but then he went back to sputtering anger and undirected worry. It wasn’t long before other people were involved, including a few Elites and the Headmaster.

The Headmaster was much more calm, simply saying that, “His last words are concerning. Do with his words what you will. As for the rest of your experience… This is also concerning, but not overly so. He usually appears to interesting individuals, and you two certainly qualify.”

Jane sent her father off, back to Spur, as the sun rose on Oceanside.

“I love you, Dad,” Jane said, hugging her father one more time. “I’ll be home, soon.”

“I love you, Jane,” Erick said, hugging his daughter, again. “See you soon.”

- - - -

In a well-protected room behind a Script-blue door, Jane sat across from a petite, older incani woman with large black horns and dull red skin, named Alanaria, while a large blue box of options hovered to the side.

Jane smiled as she saw what she wanted, near Polymage and Paladin, but right beside Prismatic Paladin. She said, “Prismatic Polymage. Yes. I choose this one.”

Alanaria nodded, then pressed the air a few times. The large blue window vanished.

A smaller blue box appeared, directly in front of Jane.

Class Quest!

A True Prismatic Ability, Skill, or Spell 1/1

AND one of:

Abandon your initial Familiar Form 0/1

OR

Acquire an aquatic Form 1/1

Acquire an aerial Form 1/1

Acquire a fiery Form 1/1

Acquire a grounded Form 1/1

Acquire a hidden Form 1/1

Acquire a mesmerizing Form 1/1

Reward: Prismatic Polymage Class

Jane smiled. She accepted the quest, and then she completed it.

A brief pulse of change rippled through her, breaking down barriers, expanding, expanding.

