Unknown Entity detected!

We see you!

Initializing mana integration…

Adult <Species: Human> detected!

Welcome to Veird!

Beginning adult <Human> registration.

Scanning…

… Unauthorized metaphysical influences discarded.

… No innate magical traits discovered.

… No historical magical influences discovered.

… No desire for magic discovered.

ERROR.

Higher priority requested.

Higher priority obtained.

Reorienting scan…

No approved influences detected!

Warning! As a <Species: Human>, registration is required to use magic!

Warning! Major physical damage detected!

Warning! You are far below 0 HP!

Warning! You are dying!

Sorry! We are not able to support your life choices at this time!

Consult your local priest or registrar for further assistance.

YOU ARE BARRED FROM MAGIC.

Registration paused. Returning to basic interface.

ERROR! Catastrophic physical damage!

A child’s assistance <Species: Human>: Casting [Greater Treat Wounds].

You are at 1 HP. You have stabilized.

A child’s assistance <Species: Human>: <The closest registrar has been contacted.>

<Your location is known. Someone is on their way!>

Reading such an old blue box brought back a flood of emotions. The fall through the sky. A walk through a desert of crystal plants, not knowing how deadly it was to get near some of them until much later. A giant black bug that tried to scrape open her leg to feast on her blood, then hiding the wound so her father wouldn’t see. Running from one of Melemizargo’s [Familiar]s, that Jane later found out was named Purodhalia.

Erick’s initializing box was different than Jane’s, though. Not that different, but different enough to matter. Maybe. She gave a small prayer to Rozeta, and got hers back, if only to look at the box again, but she already knew what it said. As she read it again for the first time in almost ten months, she felt a familiar anger take hold.

Unknown Entity detected!

We see you!

Initializing mana integration…

Adult <Species: Human> detected!

Welcome to Veird!

Beginning adult <Human> registration.

Scanning…

… Unauthorized metaphysical influences discarded.

… No innate magical traits discovered.

… Historical magical influences exceed allotted amount.

… Desire for magic exceeds allotted amount.

ERROR.

Higher priority requested.

Higher priority obtained.

Reorienting scan…

Your desired path exists, but it is not freely given.

Zero approved spells allotted at this time.

YOU ARE BARRED FROM MAGIC.

Registration paused. Returning to basic interface.

ERROR! Catastrophic physical damage!

A child’s assistance <Species: Human>: Casting [Greater Treat Wounds].

You are at 1 HP. You have stabilized.

A child’s assistance <Species: Human>: <The closest registrar has been contacted.>

<Your location is known. Someone is on their way!>

She handed the blue box to her father, saying, “I wanted too much, so it gave nothing, but even after learning more, I’m still not as successful as you.”

Erick read the blue box. First, he frowned. But then he read it again, seemingly contemplating the words. And then, instead of being sympathetic, or questioning, or anything that Jane expected, her father smiled, small at first, and then wider. He laughed.

She almost threw her drink on the floor, but instead she just spat, “What the FUCK, Dad? I pour my heart out—”

“No no! Jane!” Erick smiled, saying, “Everything you want, exists! This proves it! You shouldn’t have any problems, but maybe you just haven’t done what you actually wanted to do?”

Jane pulled back. “… I tried.”

“Yes! I know you tried, Jane.” Erick set down his drink, then asked, “But what was the very first thing you talked about when we dropped here?”

“That old, stupid idea.” Jane frowned, saying, “[Teleport]ing Paladin was a limit that I quickly realized was unnecessary to have. Heavy armor is a waste of [Conjure Armor] and monstrous forms are too powerful to ignore.”

Erick seemed almost hurt by Jane’s words. He said, “But you loved playing paladins? Warriors of the light and the good? You talked about it all the time when you were younger. [Smite]ing evil and ending necromancers and helping people?” He asked, “Whatever happened to that?”

Jane had no answer, besides the one she had already given.

He said, “If you got every Elemental Body, then you must have gotten every [Polymorph] form you needed for Polymage. So why haven’t you told me that you got the Class, yet? The Class you’ve been aiming for since you found out it existed?”

“Because you’re right. Polymage is not me. Not exactly.” Jane shook her head, saying, “I don’t want to talk about Polymage right now.”

“Okay. We won’t do that, then.” Erick offered, “How about we try for what a [Fly] spell would look like on a paladin?”

Jane barked a laugh. She couldn’t help herself. Paladins didn’t fly. At least any of the normal paladins she ever played...

… Oh.

She mumbled, “Paladins don’t fly.”

“Work with me, here.”

Jane said, “Fine. They’d sprout wings and glow.”

“Okay! Now we’re talking!” Erick turned back to the chalkboards where he promptly drew a stick figure with wings drawn in a loopy, childish manner. “Now your Polymage could just sprout the wings, couldn’t they?”

“… Yes. But I want an aura of wings. Not something sprouting out of my back that means I have to change armor all the damn time.”

Erick wrote her requirements on the board, saying, “I’m glad you want to keep the armor. I’d prefer you to stay at home with me, but I doubt that would ever happen.”

Jane snorted.

Erick continued, “So! Auras! An Aura of your Bird or something? Razorwing, right?”

“Actually, I got a Primal Frost Owl form just the other day. Silent flier, big as a truck and with the wingspan to match.” Jane smiled a little, saying, “Very fast, too. Naturally chills anything I touch, but I’d imagine that if I took Polymage I could get the Class Skill that would let me turn that chilling touch up to freezing, easy enough.”

“Have you considered totems, or spirits? Like an aura of your polymorph forms, that you can wear into battle without actually changing your form?” He playfully added, “Maybe that way you wouldn’t be naked all the time, out there.”

“I have considered that, and I don’t like it.”

“Why not!” He said, “You can still use your [Polymorph] forms if you wanted to, can’t you?”

“Nope.” Jane smirked. “Mantle Warrior, which is the Class you’re thinking of, requires you to consume your alternate forms to create your auras.”

“That’s dumb.” Erick said, “Make your own Class, then. You’ve done more than enough to get there.”

Jane said, “I’m trying.” As the thought came to her, but before she could put up her defenses that demanded she not speak to her father about such an idea, she asked, “What would a Prismatic Polymage Paladin look like to you?”

Erick immediately said, “Someone who doesn’t let stone walls or flying distance or lava barriers or oceans, or shadows or light, get in the way of defending those who need defending. Someone who rejects the power of their enemies, who breaks what needs breaking. Someone as brave and as strong, and as smart, as you, Jane.”

Jane smiled to herself as the sun touched the ocean, in the western sky. Shadows stretched into Windy Manor, but the lights of the house and the dense air made the house feel like a home, especially with her father standing not two meters away from her. She set down her drink, as tears threatened to fall.

She stepped forward, into her father’s arms. She hugged him tight, as he hugged her, their heads upon each other’s shoulders. It was only then, that she let her tears fall, but there were no racking sobs. She was not sad, she was just overwhelmed. Her father’s ideas could work, but even if they didn’t, she loved him all the same. She laughed a little.

He said, “The defensive Prismatic option is better than another [Smite].”

Jane laughed again. Erick chuckled.

Jane said, “And [Air Body] is basically [Fly], anyway.”

“Oh my gods!” Erick laughed, saying, “It is, isn’t it! Ha!”

The two of them stayed like that, for a while longer. Jane broke away as her father did. He had been crying, too.

Jane laughed, saying, “It’s so weird to see you look this young.”

Erick smiled, as he dried his face, saying, “I love you, too.”

“I love you, too!” Jane moved toward the kitchen, saying, “More cake?”

“Yes!” Erick stepped toward the kitchen with her, saying, “But when are you coming back to Spur?”

“Soon, probably.” Jane said, “And I don’t really need [Fly] with [Air Body]. I’ve just been jealous of your [Flight of a Thousand Hands] for a long time.”

Erick smirked. “It is rather Handy, isn’t it?”

She paused. “I set that up too well for you, didn’t I?”

“Yup! More cake?”

“More cake.”

More cake was had, and it was good.

- - - -

As the sun vanished below the horizon, Jane stood off-center of Windy Manor. Shadows licked across her feet and twisted in every darkened corner of the house, while Erick looked on, leaning against the kitchen table.

Erick asked, “Do you feel the mana?”

“I think so?” Jane said, “I guess I always have, but it doesn’t feel that much different than myself.”

Erick said, “I think what the [Shadowalk] is doing is spreading yourself out wide enough that your aura is interacting with the world on a much larger scale, artificially increasing your contact with the Manasphere. If you can control that point of contact with the Manasphere, you can coalesce something out of it, along lines already there in the Script.” He said, “Try channeling mana through [Conjure Weapon], and feel the harmony. I think this harmony is a way for the Script to interact with the mana, but I have no idea why the mana takes to the harmony like this.”

Jane held a hand out. Shadows thinned to nothing, as she cut that spell, and began channeling mana through [Conjure Weapon], and her hand. Dark blue light flickered like flames across her palm. A length of cutting force manifested in the mana display, humming with a sound of severed endings. Jane could hear that cutting end, for the first time since her father showed her his way.

She smiled. “I can hear it?” She said, “I think I can?”

Erick nodded, saying, “It sounds almost like mine, but yours is more of a cutting end.”

“Ha!” Jane said, “That’s exactly what I was thinking, too.”

Erick smirked, waiting.

Jane flickered with shadows, and magic, as she hummed her greater self into something sharper, something meant to end threats and—

A length of shadow twisted across her palm, expanding outward. She gripped the magic, holding it tight as Force coalesced outward into a length of darkness two meters long. The weapon was made of fractures near the base, broken except for where she gripped the darkness, and a single edge made of sharpness. It was almost the exact same sword she always summoned, but denser and thinner at the same time.

Special Quest Complete!

You have remade a Basic Spell.

Since you already have Conjure Weapon, here you go:

+1 point!

Erick cheered, “Wooo! Good job, Jane!”

Jane’s face almost hurt from smiling so hard. She said, “Thank you, Dad.”

“That was all you! I just helped a little.”

She opened her palm, releasing the magic. The sword vanished in a rapid series of crackling dark fragments. “That was more than a little help.”

“I respectfully disagree.” Erick smiled. “Now, to make [Conjure Armor]!” He added, “Oh! A thought! Make the original spell, then make an aura version, so that you don’t have to remake it every time you change [Polymorph] forms!”

“Ha! Good idea.” Jane sarcastically said, “It’s magic, right? Shouldn’t matter if there’s a physical barrier.”

With a serious tone, Erick said, “Magic can be anything you want it to be, Jane.”

Jane didn’t know if she truly believed that, but crazier things had happened, like falling to another world, for one. She smiled to herself, as she channeled mana through her upturned palm again. Sounds of defense and safety echoed from a thin blue-black layer of light that hugged the air just about her skin. She held onto that sound, and feeling, as darkness crawled across her skin. She grabbed the mana around her, and formed it into armor.

Simple as that. A notion, a form, a pressure, and it was done.

Erick laughed. “Now that’s some fantastic armor! Much better than a gambeson!”

Jane looked out through a clear bubble of Force that was dark blue at the edges of her vision, but didn’t seem to impede her breathing at all. She looked down. Dark scaled armor held against her hand, forming hard plates of blue-black Force that covered her forearms. Her chest and stomach was covered by thick, many jointed plates, but she twisted, and her ease of movement showed that the construction of her armor was beyond an instinctual understanding of how it worked. Jane conjured a [Scry] orb into the air, just to see what she actually looked like. She gasped.

Like a cross between dark, blue crystal and hard steel angles, Jane’s armor would have fit in with any part of the jumbled, dark kendrithyst growths in the deeper reaches of the Dead City, or in an artisan’s exhibition of heavy armor. Her pauldrons were thick with overlapping protection, but she moved her arms, and there was no restriction. She twisted her head around, and felt no resistance, though her helmet fully covered her head and neck, while ridges started behind her head to trail down her back, looking like jumbled crystalline spikes that tapered down to nothing just above her butt. That ridge, and the layered plate to both sides, looking more than able to protect her spine and her kidneys from most heavy blows. Her legs were fully covered by hard, overlapping edges, but as she jumped up and kicked out to test her range of movement, there was no restriction there, either.

She slammed her gauntleted hand against her stomach, [Strike]ing herself. Hardened plates of Force moved against each other, individual scales refusing to break, even though Jane had used more than enough force to fracture normal plate [Conjure Armor]. The ease at which plate conjured armor would break under normal stress was why Jane never used such designs. But this form here seemed to transfer the [Strike] across multiple plates, lessening the blow to her body by a considerable amount.

