Jane looked to Ophiel, who fluffed up, proud of himself. She smiled a little, then said, “A lot is happening over in Spur, isn’t it?” She looked to her father, and semi-seriously said, “And you should have channeled mana through [Lightwalk], and then tried to make [Greater Lightwalk]!” She switched to jokes, “How many other things are you doing half-assed? How come you haven’t solved the Crystal Mimic problem yet? Or ended injustice in the world? What about some Plus 100 Willpower crowns to cast your [Prismatic Ward]?”

He grinned, then smiled. “I haven’t killed any dark gods either, but the day’s still young!”

Jane laughed, then ate another bite of cake. Soon, both of them were having seconds, as they switched to harder drinks. It was sunset somewhere, after all, and their current booze was even called ‘Sunset Red’. It was the best liquor of all of those she had sampled at a liquor tasting in town, a few days ago. She also got the second best, and the third best, because why not?

They spoke of magic and gossip and bank accounts, with Erick speaking of the logistics of moving literal tons of rads across the Crystal Forest, and Jane talking about how her Mage Guild Bank account only allowed 100 gold withdrawals in some parts of the world, like the Sovereign Cities, and 10 gold max in some of the smaller towns out in the rural parts of the Greensoil Republic.

Talking about money was just Erick’s way of trying to offload some wealth onto Jane, though, but she wasn’t having any of that.

“I can make my own way, but thank you,” Jane said, sitting on the living room couch.

“I know you can! I just… It’s an offer, okay?”

Jane smiled, then switched the topic to how Oceanside did international questing.

“Angels and demons? With eyes everywhere on the world?” Erick sat up on the couch across from Jane, and asked, “And [Gate]s?”

“Heck yeah, [Gate]s! And prayers to angels and demons are useful, too. They might actually answer you with help. That’s the part I appreciate.” She paused, humming, then added, “Sort of.” Jane said, “I don’t plan on being an Elite, but the offer is tempting because the work is rewarding. Even if you, dear father, manage to make [Gate], you won’t have their sheer ability to find and categorize the threats on Veird’s surface. That’s the real draw, here.”

“That reminds me, I have to talk to the Headmaster about getting [Duplicate].”

“Why?”

“It’s for some failed way that they’ve tried to get [Gate] to work.” Erick waved a hand through the air, saying, “It probably won’t work for me, either, but I still want to try.”

“I finished my daily divulging of Earth’s Fake Magic two days ago, but if I ever wanted to talk to him, he said I could just go to the front office. Someone there would be able to contact him.”

Erick smiled. “Maybe later. I don’t want to be a hermit, but I also don’t feel comfortable out there on my own.”

Jane sat up, worried. “Why are you not comfortable out there?”

“Because death comes too fast, even with an almost 25,000 point [Personal Absorption Ward].”

“Oh.” Jane leaned back in her chair. “Yeah. That.”

His words were deeper than his usual. Her father had something he wasn’t telling her. Jane didn’t like that, but she had a lot she wasn’t telling him, too.

He changed the subject. “You were talking about condensation or diffusion of Elemental Bodies before, right? What’s all that about?”

“Killing intent. Do you remember me ever talking about that?”

“… No.”

Jane giggled. She said, “It’s this Fake Magic that is about taking your desire to harm something or someone and turning that into a supernatural edge that can harm by sheer force of will. Lesser versions inspire fear and paralysis.”

“Seems like Mental Magic to me.”

“… Nooo? I don’t think so. It’s more: ‘Look at me and despair’ sort of fear inducing. But I don’t think that has anything to do with the goal, here. I think the purpose here is more a honing of power into either an edge, or a strong defense.”

“The only strong defense I can think of is to not get hit in the first place.”

Jane smiled again. “Yeah. That’s why I think the diffusion option is more of a dodge tank sort of thing.”

“… Dodge tank?”

“Someone who soaks up enemy attacks by being up in their face, but also unable to get hit.”

“Okay. Gotcha.”

Jane said, “Anyway: Condensation into a concentrated attack. Diffusion into an evasive defense.” Jane said, “Once you have all the Elemental Bodies, except [Dragon Body], since Rozeta exempted that from the recipe… You’re supposed to be able to combine them into some sort of [Prismatic Attack] or [Prismatic Defense].” She added, “Professor Tinawa said that was the basis to plowing ahead with the Bodies, but also that such a dichotomy was a gross oversimplification.”

“It certainly sounds like a simplification to me.” Erick said, “But if I were you, evasion is the much better choice. You might be able to heal from… from a lot. But it’s scary to walk around out there. No one needs to hit harder, for sure.”

“Yeah… I’m… thinking on it.” Jane said, “I’m also working on [Melee Reflection]. Got any tips for that?”

Erick winced. “I don’t even have [Strike] yet.”

Jane laughed. “I haven’t made a single one of the spells I wanted to make, ever since we dropped to Veird.”

“What?” Erick gave a slight, unknowing smile. “How? What?”

“The seven spells I wanted since the beginning! Oh. I never spoke of them, at all, did I?”

“Not to me!” Erick frowned, a bit more serious this time. “You really need to call more, Jane. It’s not right for a father to have to track down his daughter all the time.”

“Okay! Okay. Yeah. You might be right about that.”

“You’re stalling.”

“… Yeah. So... Here’s the list, in an unorganized fashion, where I don’t know which one is more important than the others.” Jane said, “[Fly], because duh. [Disintegrate], to utterly destroy something at the molecular level. [Mana Generation], for obvious reasons. [Time Stop], for similarly obvious reasons. [Haste], but [Hunter’s Instincts] is pretty close, so I can leave that one. [Gate], which you’re already working on, apparently. And finally, [True Regeneration], to revive, whole and unharmed, from a single drop of blood.”

“Nice list.” Erick said, “Let’s work on [Fly].”

Jane teased, “Sure! Pick the easiest one, why don’t you! What do you think is the hardest?”

“I certainly have zero ideas on how to make [Mana Generation]—”

“That’s the difficult one for you?”

“Where would you even begin, Jane? Meditation doesn’t actually increase your regeneration, you know?”

“Yeah yeah. I read the theories.” Jane spouted off, “Meditation allows one to change themselves in order to allow the natural mana of the world to flow into their reserves more easily.” She poured the last shot of Sunset Red into her cup, and then her father’s, as she said, “I was hoping you knew how to actually make mana, itself. Or some other workaround to this problem. I don’t want to chug mana potions. I want to cast a spell and regenerate my mana.”

“I don’t think you can make mana. I’ve read about tests where volunteers have spent weeks inside sealed antirhine chambers to test how mana works, but the mana inside the chambers never changed density.”

“I read about those, too.”

Erick sipped his sky-red drink, then said, “[Gate] is known; I’m already working on that. You’re gonna need a [Familiar] if you want to learn, too. [Time Stop] seems like a Melemizargo thing, or a Phagar thing. [True Regeneration] is definitely a Phagar thing... [Disintegrate], though…? Hold on.” He looked to the air.

Jane looked up with him, and saw nothing.

And then she felt it. A brush of warmth. She instantly flipped on Meditation, and saw what her father was doing. Among the swirling mana and the illusions of monsters and harm lurking in the air of Windy Manor, there was a golden glow, like a cross between ocean currents and fire. It was not intent, or mortal magic; it was something much deeper. Erick had mentioned this before, but she had never seen it in person. Jane knew that she would have to chide Kiri, though, since Kiri’s description of the event left something to be desired. Erick was definitely communing directly with a god.

Erick said, “[Disintegrate] has already been made. You just need to get [Condense Particle] and then work your way up to it.” He looked down to Jane, saying, “And yeah. That’s another foible of the Script. The people who make the original spells get them at Basic Tier, but everyone else has to make them from scratch in the usual way. I’ve heard that people like the Headmaster and such already know this, but it’s not well known among the rest of us since the last time there were new spells was 1200 years ago. It’s a toss up whether it’s going to be this whole big thing, or not.” He said, “I’m pretty sure my [Call Lightning] is actually a tier 7 or 8 spell, but it’s gonna stay at tier 1, for me.”

That was all very interesting, but Jane pointed at the air above, asking, “So who is that?”

“… Uh.” Erick held his cup of red still, then set it down as he said, “No one.”

“Right.” Jane guessed it was either Atunir or… Maybe Rozeta, but Rozeta would have communicated in blue boxes, right? Koyabez? That was a large possibility. But her father would have just said if it was one of those gods, right? So it wasn’t one of them. Or maybe it was. Talking directly to gods seemed like one of those things most people would want to keep to themselves, unless they were priests of that god. So… Jane decided, “I don’t need to know.”

Erick smiled. “So? [Fly]?”

“Yes.” Jane’s eyes lit up. “[Fly]. And how about a few other things, too?” She asked, “Do you want to stick with the Sunset Red? Or move on to something else? I have a variety.”

“I like this Red. Let’s stick with that.” He asked, “And what do you have in mind?”

- - - -

They spoke of high level melee fights, where a warrior like Jane would, according to Professor Tinawa, best be served by the quick and perfect usage of various reflection [Ward]s, both magical and melee. This would, of course, occupy Jane’s single [Personal Ward], as she rapidly cycled through whatever was needed in order to reflect and negate enemy [Strike]s and spells.

Erick got way too excited. He leapt up from the couch, saying, “Oh my gods! Is that how high level warriors fight?” He began conjuring blackboards into the living room, muttering, “Oh wow. That’s perfect! I wondered how— It’s just so elegant.”

Soon, diagrams of light and molecules and refraction and reflections occupied black slate boards. Erick asked how Jane thought a [Strike] reflection would work. Jane had no idea. All her ideas never worked.

And so, a smaller discussion began regarding how Jane viewed magic.

“It’s just a tool,” Jane said.

Erick frowned. The Sunset Red in his cup showed the truth of its name, as the sun was beginning to dip down, outside, coloring the world in pinks, yellows, and reds. He breathed deep, then sighed, and said, “Magic is not just a tool, and I think this is the basis of your problem.”

Jane kept her tone light as she shot back, “But it is just a tool. Oceanside has built itself up on proving that magic is a tool, like any other. With levers to push and ways to work the mana, in order to create magic how you want to create magic.” She switched back to English, her words tumbling roughly out of her like rust shaking from an old machine, “The translation for our ‘magic’ in Ecks, is ‘magic’, but the meaning of their word for ‘magic’ is closer to our word for ‘science’.”

Erick switched to English, saying, “That may be trueth barth—” He made a weird face, like his tongue had cramped. Wiggling his tongue around in the air for a moment, Erick opened and closed his mouth a few times, then said, “I need to speak English more. It’s been a longth— a long time.” He spoke faster, saying, “But that’s another thing! You and I don’t have a cultural understanding of magic as science. You and I— You much more than I, have a cultural upbringing of magic as this fantastical force beyond our control—”

“But I like magic as a tool!” Jane said, “Magic as science doesn’t make any sense to me! Even if magic is, at its base, about condensing possibility down to reality, it has to follow rules, or else it’s useless! You can’t build a house on sand; you can’t build a world on ideas.”

She didn’t speak of how she loved the idea of the Script. How she had such high hopes once she found out how it worked. Even now, when she thought of how she felt back then, she still had some tiny hope that she could make her own way through the Script, but that hope was shadowed by the reality that she had failed to make any of her own spells. She brushed away an unruly tear, hoping that her father did not see, but he did. Erick didn’t comment on that, though.

He said, “Before the creation of the Script, all they had was sand. The magic of their Old Cosmology was nothing but ideas and areas of solidity that everyone collectively agreed upon. But this reality is too solid. They adapted, in coming here. Those who live now are more like you and me than how they used to be, but mana still exists, and the fantastical still thrives where it can, in souls, or in gods, or in magic.” Erick said, “You can’t go applying laws to the ethereal. You can only accept the Truth, and meet it in the middle.”

“Jesus Christ, Dad.” Jane said, “You sound like a Melemizargo cultist.”

Erick frowned, saying, “Even broken clocks are right twice a day, but I’m not stupid enough to believe all the rest of what they say.”

Silence held in Windy Manor, while Jane looked away, and her father looked to her.

He quietly asked, “Do you not believe in magic?”

Jane snorted, saying, “There’s nothing to believe in! Mana exists. It doesn’t need me to believe in it for it to work, more than the rocks need me to believe they’d support my weight.”

“… Do you remember what the very first blue box you ever got, said? The one that popped up for you when we fell to Veird. The initializing mana, one?”

“I don’t see what that has to do with—”

“We never talked about it, but it might be important?” Erick said, “Mine talked about expunging unauthorized metaphysical influences and how I had no desire—” He held a hand up into the air, manifesting a blue box for Jane to read. “Here. You can get yours back with a small prayer to Rozeta.”

