A front kick catches our seventh opponent in the chest and Baledagh is left facing our last opponent, the mouthy little fop with the flimsy sword. Trembling from head to toe, the wide-eyed brat backs away from Baledagh’s approach, panic taking over after watching us defeat seven of his peers without breaking a sweat. “S-stay b-back,” he stutters, his warbling sword held in two shaky hands. “D-don’t!” Playing things up, Baledagh stalks this last, frightened youth like a hungry lion, moving neither too fast or too slow. Tossing his weapon to the floor, the little fops shows both palms in submission. “P-please, I y-y-yield. Victory is y-yours.”

Lip curled in disdain, Baledagh kicks the fops sword back, the beautifully crafted Spiritual Weapon scraping across the marble tiles. “Despicable,” he says, his voice unmoved and unforgiving. “Pick up your weapon and fight.”

The fop’s eyes dart to the crowd and Shi-Woo speaks up. “Imperial Legate, this Servant -.”

“The match continues.”

Crumpling at the Legate’s refusal, the little fop falls to his knees and cowers behind his hands, saying nothing as he trembles in place. While I feel for the kid, Baledagh doesn’t share my sympathy. “Is this what you intend to do when the Defiled come? Throw your sword aside and yield? You’d be better off using it to cut your throat because the Enemy will not stop at victory. They will raze your lands and turn this city into a land of suffering and despair, because that is all they know. There is no surrender with the Defiled, you either fight, or you die.”

The fop refuses once more with a silent shake of his head, and Baledagh acts. With two quick, careful cuts, he leaves the fop’s arms all but useless, though in no danger of bleeding out. Placing our bloodied sword beneath the fop’s chin, Baledagh forces him to look into our eyes. All I see is a young man terrified out of his wits and I urge Baledagh to show mercy, but he doesn’t respond, staring into the boy’s eyes for long seconds.

When Baledagh finally speaks, his tone is casual and informal, as if chatting with a close friend in a private setting. “I admit, I’ve heard countless strange and fanciful rumours in my time, so half of what you’ve heard about me is probably untrue. Disappointing, I know, but we’re both victims here. I was told Central’s warriors were expert duellists, risking life and limb for fame and rank, but such is life.” Sighing, Baledagh shakes his head and continues. “They’re no laughing matter, duels to the death. It’s hard to explain how it feels to walk on stage with your opponent and know only one of you will leave alive. I still remember my first duel to the death like it was yesterday. My opponent was Teng Wei Chuan of the Baiji Sect, twenty-three years old and already a Captain at the Wall, defending the Empire from the Defiled hordes. I’m not a large man and back then I was even smaller, mostly skin and bones. Teng Wei Chuan towered above me, a warrior-born with broad shoulders, a barrel chest, and a voice like thunder. Once our duel started, he charged forward and I swear the stage shook with his every step. Sometimes when I close my eyes, I still see him leaping across the stage with fist cocked, ready to smash me into a pulp. I was so terrified I almost forgot to raise my weapons, a callow, seventeen year old boy fighting to the death against a seasoned Captain.” Even the little fop is caught up in the tale and the room is so quiet you can hear a pin drop. “With a single strike, Teng Wei Chuan shattered the solid stone stage, raising a cloud of dust which obscured vision for meters around us. If I’d been a half-step slower or he a half-step faster, I wouldn’t be standing here today, but luck was on my side that day. I avoided his strike and countered with one of my own, landing a fatal blow on his abdomen. Make no mistake, he had hours to treat it and any competent healer could have saved him, but it was a killing blow nonetheless.” Knuckles tightening around Peace, Baledagh shrugs and concludes, “So I cut his throat and watched him die, his body trembling as his life’s blood spilled from neck and stomach.”

Startled by the abrupt end of Baledagh’s tale, the young fop whimpers and backs away, but my little brother won’t allow it. Keeping Peace under the fop’s chin as he advances, Baledagh asks, “Do you know why I’m telling you this?” Without waiting for an answer, he continues, matching pace with the retreating fop. “Because I shouldn’t have killed him. True, he represented the Society who wronged me and my family, but Teng Wei Chuan was a magnificent warrior of the Empire. In these dark times, we need more men like him.” Stamping on the fop’s pants leg, Baledagh puts an end to his retreat and speaks over the young man’s pleading cries. “I regret killing Teng Wei Chuan, but I’ll never regret killing a snivelling little brat like you.”

“Stop.” The Legate’s command ends the match before Baledagh strikes the killing blow, but our opponent has already fainted. Of the other seven youths, only three are still conscious, but they're all alive and breathing. Putting his weapons away, Baledagh marches back to stand before the Legate’s throne and bows before giving control back to me. “Well done,” the Legate says, sounding pleased as can be. “Your reputation is well-deserved and your mercy much appreciated. You speak true, for the Empire needs every warrior it can find, though I'd hesitate to call trash like him a warrior.” Addressing the crowd, the Legate says, “My decrees stand. The Divine Turtle is not to be harmed and Warrant Officer Falling Rain will see to her needs and safety. I will hear no more talk on this subject.”

... Wait what? I didn’t agree to this. When did attendant become bodyguard? Wait, with Nian Zu, Yuzhen, and Akanai all staying in the Magistrate’s Palace, my three strongest supporters will be too far away to help. Fuck! Seriously, why is the Legate giving such an important job to a nineteen year old kid? Ask Nian Zu to nanny the turtle or something, this is way above my pay grade.

Adding a shit-cherry on top of my shit-sundae, Yuzhen reminds me to thank the Legate for this dubious honour.

I hope Guan Suo and Guard Leader come back soon, because something tells me I’m gonna need all the help I can get and more. Then again, the Legate did say I’m to be given ‘free reign to carry out my Holy Duty’, whatever they might be. With an Imperial Legate backing me, that means I get to be the arrogant young master and scream 'do you know who I am?'. I could have fun with this, or better yet, do a lot of good. I still don’t trust the Legate, but as long as he’s pretending to back me, I might as well make the best of a bad situation.

All I have to do is keep Ping-Ping alive. She survived thousands of years all on her own, so how hard could it be?

Chapter Meme
