 
Klbkch slammed his hands on the table, and the thieves moved. Vetn had been pretending to walk away from Klbkch, hoping the Antinium would give him an opening. Klbkch came to Garry’s shop every single day in the morning. For such a dangerous person, he was predictable. It was here or the beach—and Vetn feared Erin messing things up, so the instant he saw Klbkch’s hands rise, he went for it.He was closest. That was the deal with Bviora. Vetn was faster, higher-level, and she was the one paying him.
Steal from the Antinium. A suicide-theft to buy Tesy’s safety. The token of the Lightning Thief was already making its way to Salazsar to call the underworld bounty off.
All that remained was death or glory. They’d been prepared for over a week now. Planning their route, scouting Klbkch’s routine, that was easy.
They had a plan and had even gone to Raekea, a local smith, for part of the plan. They’d debated Pelt, but the touchy Dwarf might ask too many questions, and Bviora said they only had to be close enough to buy time.
If this worked. If it failed, she’d have to use her arm—the arm of the Lightning Thief himself—to buy time for them to escape. Bviora could use one Skill, just one, before the backlash hit her.
So it rested on him. Vetn had time to feel all the terror he’d had the last week every time he saw an opening. He could still abort as he turned in the snowy street and dropped the bag of cookies.
[Enhanced Reactions: Stolen Seconds of Theft]. He moved in a time out of time. The street froze, and even the Slayer had his back to Vetn, guard-down. Bviora could move as fast, but—
Now or never. Vetn began running. He was one of the fastest Gnolls at the Meeting of Tribes. He could outrun some Couriers.
He actually gave himself a sprinter’s pose and took off. He needed speed. His targets? Two swords. One on each hip, hanging from the Slayer’s belt.
Each one was made of an unknown metal of some kind. Impossible to break, or so it seemed. Unenchanted, but sturdy beyond belief.
The only treasures the Antinium respected. Hence the theft. The only other thing that would conceivably be worthwhile as ransom would be one of their Individuals or their Queen, and neither Vetn nor Bviora stole people.
About thirty paces to Klbkch and Garry’s shop. Vetn launched into the sprint, and his first few strides took him halfway there. He was speeding up already—
[Whirlwind Sprint]. [Quicksilver Paws]. [Assassin’s Presence].
[Thief] Skills were all based around one act. Some were pickpockets or lock-masters. Vetn? He was a [Renowned Masterthief of Treasures]. He could pick locks, scale walls, or hide in shadows, but he was known for his speed.
He had once stolen treasures under the noses of guards in the time it took for some clouds to cover the sun—and been away before they realized their valuables were gone. That was what had earned him his name:
Thief of Clouds. He felt like time was crawling so slow only Erin’s [Immortal Moment] was stronger. His entire body was transitioning from step to step, and his paws were moving as he sprang, hidden, reaching for the swords. A perfect ambush.
“[Flicker Theft].”
In his last ten feet to Klbkch’s back, the Thief of Clouds vanished. He entered into a world of blackness, a rushing torrent like being engulfed in shadows. His entire body was gone, and Vetn’s consciousness in that singular moment became a pair of hands, grasping. It was a kind of teleportation, virtually impossible to catch. He reached out, in the hours between each heartbeat, in a single flash of consciousness, and grabbed the hilts of both swords.
Momentum carried him past Klbkch, into Garry’s stall—but Vetn didn’t crash into the wood. He was ready.
[Redirect Momentum]. [Right-Angle Turn].
Two Skills, one high-level, the other low-level, a Level 10 [Thief]’s Skill. But they translated into a perfect turn, and Vetn was running left as he reappeared five steps away from Klbkch and Garry.
All in a moment. He had the blades! Vetn knew Bviora was right behind him.
Put them in the bag of holding and go! G—
He was fifteen steps away from Garry’s stall, still within his [Stolen Seconds of Theft] Skill, sprinting down the snowy street, when a hand grabbed his shoulder. Vetn’s head turned—
And Klbkch the Slayer was staring into his eyes.
“Curious.”
That was the only sound Vetn heard. He shouldn’t have heard it within the [Stolen Seconds of Theft]. And he didn’t. He was moving too fast for sound to catch up properly.
He heard that sound after he landed. After he hit the brick wall Klbkch threw him into and landed on snowy cobblestones, bones cracking, body screaming a thousand alarms. He lay there, and Klbkch repeated the word.
“Curious. Why would you do that?”
The swords. Vetn was still holding onto them. He tried to stand, place them in his bag of holding, but he barely sat up before Klbkch stomped on his chest. He pinned Vetn in place as Garry blinked.
“Klbkch?”
He was so fast that it seemed like Klbkch had vanished from being in front of Garry. The [Baker] looked around—and saw Klbkch standing on Vetn three dozen paces away.
“What—? Vetn? What are you doing?”
“I ignored you because you were Erin’s guest. Once a [Thief], always. Why did you steal my swords? They have little value. Did a Walled City put you up to it?”
The Gnoll couldn’t breathe. The air was flashing in agony as it finally caught him, tapped him on the shoulder, and told him he had a bill to pay. It was only getting longer as Klbkch pressed down on his chest, but the Antinium wasn’t grinding Vetn down. Not yet.
Klbkch reached down and grabbed one of his swords. Vetn tried to hang on—but the strength tore one blade straight from his grip. Klbkch reached for the other, and this time, Vetn locked his fingers around the hilt.
“Stop that. What an issue. I am a civilian performing an act of self-defense. You are Erin’s guest…should I sort this out unofficially or arrest you? Then she will be angry. Perhaps I shall sort it out at the inn.”
Klbkch mused, then realized he was dragging Vetn up. The Gnoll was clinging to the blade—Klbkch tsked.
“Stop that. Give me my swords. I will not kill you, but you will regret trying to steal from me if you persist.”
He shook the arm—Vetn refused to let go. Klbkch sighed. Then he grabbed a finger and pulled.
It cracked. Vetn twitched, but the hand refused to let go. Pain was banging on the door to his mind, presenting a growing list of its demands. But he ignored it.
Where was Bviora? Had she run? Had she—
Klbkch reached for another finger, then stopped. His head turned.
“Ah. So it’s a conspir—”
He twisted, and Vetn, taken out of his own speed Skill, saw Bviora leap at Klbkch so fast that it was a blur of motion. Klbkch let go and parried the flying dagger slashing at his chest. He took aim at her—then the dagger slashed again and nearly took his antennae off.
He ducked it as Vetn rolled away, and Bviora backed up. She had a dagger in both hands, and the one she’d thrown floated in the air. Klbkch had parried it, but it hovered there.
Dancing Dagger. An artifact. The Slayer saw Bviora lunge—and her right arm, the one with the gemstone hand, flashed at his side as the dagger cut at his head. Vetn was rolling to his feet—
Klbkch parried Bviora’s cut with his sword, caught the flying dagger with his other hand, and threw it through her thigh as she tried to back up. Then he whirled.
The sword cut open Vetn’s side, passing through his stomach, and then Klbkch had the blade half through Vetn’s left shoulder. The Gnoll screamed, then, and Klbkch held the blade as blood ran down the Thief of Cloud’s back.
“[Recaptured Sublimity]. You were very quick. I used to be quicker.”
The Skill was burning through Klbkch as Bviora gagged on the pain and tried to remove her own quivering dagger from her leg. Klbkch looked at Vetn, whose eyes were closed, and one of Klbkch’s blades was still in Vetn’s hand.
The other was in his back. Klbkch spoke calmly to the Gnoll.
“Drop it. I will wound you to the point where you can no longer move if you try to escape again. You have failed. Drop it.”
Vetn said not a word. He just turned his head, and Bviora gazed up.
“Vetn—”
“I know both your faces. I am a former Guardsman, and the Antinium will never let you steal my blades. I am being very nice. What were you thinking? There is nowhere you can run that I cannot find you.”
Klbkch spoke to Vetn like he was an idiot. The Gnoll’s brow was covered in sweat, and Xitegen shouted.
“You! What are you doing—?”
So fast. Garry wasn’t even out from behind his shop’s counter. Klbkch felt Vetn tensing through the sword’s tip buried in the [Thief]’s shoulder. He spoke slowly, wondering why the Gnoll was so desperate. He wasn’t giving up. What drove that level of bravery?
“You will regret trying to steal from me, Vetn.”
The Thief of Cloud’s bloody mouth moved as he bared his teeth.
“I know. [Impossible Dodge].”
For a second, despite himself and the incredible annoyance he felt—the Slayer’s mandibles rose in a smile. He admired insane courage.
 
——
 
Xitegen’s hand was raised, and his Golem servants were baring their blades as they focused on the Slayer. But they were at the edge of the range of the Golems in Celum, so his [Covering Fire] Skill wasn’t effective—and he wasn’t sure what was happening either.
Garry had his rolling pin, and his thought was to save Vetn. But he was just running down the street. Besides, the onlookers, from the Soldiers running to help Klbkch to the pedestrians?
They were just bystanders. This world of speed belonged to two [Thieves] and Klbkch.
The Thief of Clouds dodged. Or tried to. A sword was in his shoulder, but the dodge was, by definition, impossible. He twisted out of the blade, and Klbkch’s sword whirled up, flicked out in a crescent cut at chest-height, rotated, flicked down, and he leapt forwards and spun, deflecting the stab to his back.
If he’d had his second sword, Bviora would have died then and there. As it was, he just kicked her in the chin so hard her head snapped back and she went crashing to the ground.
A spray of blood landed on the ground, and Klbkch wiped some from his armor in distaste. Vetn landed as red rained down around him. He was already trying to drink a potion, but Klbkch saw him faltering and doubted the Gnoll had a potion good enough to take all the damage away.
Now the two [Thieves] were crouching there, and Klbkch turned lazily. His Skill’s timer was running out, but they had used theirs. He aimed at the [Thief] he didn’t know, the young woman with the crystal hand.
Run her through at least one leg. Vetn can’t run far with that much damage, even if he drinks a potion. Vetn tucked Klbkch’s other sword away in his bag of holding, and the Slayer sighed.
“What difference did that make?”
He was genuinely curious. He’d catch them. They had his sword, and he would have it back. The Antinium had lost the swords before, and they were always reclaimed.
That question was the one mistake the Slayer made. He was ready to attack, and he was faster than the other two, even if they had been able to reactivate their Skills. But it was still a mistake—because like how Xrn had never fought a [Witch]—
Not one of the hundred Centenium ever made by the First Queen had ever been a [Thief]. Of all the classes they had possessed, stealing was an alien concept to them. So Klbkch was surprised when Bviora smiled.
The Lightning Thief’s daughter was drinking a potion with her normal hand. But the other one? The one made of crystal glowed. A bright light, like a flash of lightning in the depths of night.
A glow that made Klbkch move, lunge with his sword aiming at her arm, not her leg. Across the street, a step and stab that should have struck home between the beats of a dragonfly’s wing.
The speed of the Slayer when he had been at his utmost zenith.
Still.
Somehow.
Too slow. 
The light from that hand flashed across the street, and Klbkch’s sword halted before it could pierce Bviora’s shoulder and cleave the arm straight from her torso. For a second, the Slayer saw it, the thing that even Vetn and Bviora missed when she used those Skills.
It looked to the Slayer like a man trapped in the light. A hand, holding the tip of his blade in a shining grip. A smile—and Bviora’s voice.
“[The Perfect Thief: A Successful Theft, An Hour of Repose].”
Klbkch tried to yank the tip of his sword back. He pulled—the Lightning Thief’s image laughed—and he felt someone, something hold the world in place. Then reverse everything back to where it was.
 
——
 
Bviora watched Vetn return to place, Klbkch and Garry return to the shop, and Xitegen’s hand lower as time…it didn’t rewind. But the people did.
They forgot. All but Bviora and Vetn. He stood where he had been—and then it resumed. But his wounds were still there.
So was the blade. The blade…she saw him look at her for one second, eyes wild with wonder and pain and desperation.
The easy part was done. Now they ran. The light from her hand faded, and she struggled not to black out. They had…one…hour…
Then the Skill ended.
 
——

