But then again…she’d tried to talk to the Horns, and the theatre had turned to static. Wherever they were, it was beyond her power as well.
Relc, for his part, just fist-bumped Klbkch.
“Hey, partner. You’d better come back with your sword so we can keep practicing in the morning. Alright? Don’t start the Third Antinium War.”
“I won’t. Relc, what must you think of me? I’ll be back. I am not going on my adventure! Yet!”
Klbkch raised a hand and walked through the door with his one good sword, the fake steel one, and just a bit of gold and provisions for a week. In that sense, he really had fallen off, lost his touch.
He really did think this wasn’t going to be an adventure. That was how the Slayer left, and Erin Solstice stood there a moment and wondered if he’d be back in time for the Winter Solstice.
The wind blew chill a moment, and she stood there, waving at him as he walked into the trees, and then Erin Solstice fled back towards her beach. To warmth and to cling to the remaining time before the winter grew its darkest.
 
——
 
Legends.
The Eyes of Baleros.
The Lightning Thief.
The Slayer.
It was old stories, unfinished stories coming back and meeting each other in this new age. They were drawn out by the changing world, by chance, or perhaps fate itself.
The Winter Solstice, the dead gods, all of it was part of one of the oldest of stories that only the Gnomes and Elves had remembered. Well, them and a few others.
Soon, very soon, these stories might come to their right and proper conclusion. At least, according to the Goddess of Death.
The Three-in-One stood in her domain, and it was hers, now. She had mastery of it, and with each death, she grew in strength.
Not enough. If she could have just eaten souls to close the wound in her self, she and the others would not have rotted eternities away. That was not how it worked.
But she was preparing for a zenith of power that both she and her enemies knew well. At that time, she intended to strike a blow across multiple locations that would put her ahead of her opponents.
Tamaroth, Norechl, Cauwine…whether or not Emerrhain and Laedonius Deviy were even in the running was unclear.
Kasigna didn’t even think of mortal irritants. They would be swept aside by a decisive move. Before the next stage of the game could begin, she would claim victory. She was preparing, preparing…but one thing bothered her more than the laughter that haunted her or the critiques of a single mortal architect.
Left. Right. She paced through oblivion, and there was not even space anymore. The ‘deadlands’ had been a perfect copy of the world before. Now, they were nothing. It was her, she was it. There were, of course, other domains, and if she had more strength, a body—she craved a body—she could enter places like the physical world or the Crossroads.
The rules bound her for now, so only here was Kasigna even powerful. She had no body, so she could walk what did not exist, peer through a veil and see the living world. Even try to reach out at the right times, weak though she was. Frustrating though it was to have to act through proxies, it wouldn’t be long…
One thing bothered her. More than the faeries trying to play games. The Faerie King was an old opponent, but he had lost his queen…his nation had suffered for their war of errantry on the wrong side, and his wounds had persisted, too.
No, she did not fear outside players at this moment. Every major door was as of yet sealed. She did not fear Emerrhain, who had fallen victim to his conceit; if he could have altered things and cheated reality itself, he would have. She did not even fear Isthekenous’ work. It was merely incomplete. Once she had her full strength, redesigning it would be her first priority.
Kasigna was bothered only by one thing. And it was not even her daughter, that eternal dissident. If the two fought, right now, Kasigna would triumph. She was made of old ways and pantheons. She had practiced sororicide. Familicide was unto godliness, the oldest of ways. If her daughter faced her, she would die.
No. One thing bothered her. And it was a thing and a place.
Rhir. Even now, she walked around the chunk of blasted land at the edge of the world, unable to set foot even in the dead version of it. It bothered her greatly.
“Are you there? Do you hear me?”
She whispered, unwilling to give name to the presence she suspected had fallen there. Countless dead…but there were only a few who might have fallen from the skies and landed in the earth.
She worried. Kasigna, the Three-in-One worried. For she sensed someone dreaming there. Someone with more force, with a body, weak and broken though it must be, lying in the dirt, refusing to rot, resting and gathering their strength. What Kasigna sensed, and worried over, was that the dream was changing.
 
——
 
Kasigna worried because the sleeping god lay there. And unlike the dead, this one dreamed. One long…long dream.
It had begun during a waking that was more terrible and fearsome than imagining. The twilight of divinity. The death of gods. A blow had shattered waking and thrown them down, down into the earth where they had been overlooked by the laughing folk, by their opponents wielding weapons of war.
When the world was torn by one of the final blows, it had barely missed them, and they might have risen, remade in strength—but for the Gnomes’ final trick. That gambit had killed them all—and the dream had been long and painful.
Yet it had flesh. The dreamer. So, unlike everyone else, it was trapped in a dream. And that dream became…a nightmare.
A pleasant nightmare, at first. At first, it was just thoughts. Random ideas. Then the sleeper had put effort into it, and the seeds of unreality had come together and formed a terrible thought.
Just a thought. Just a buried dream, so deep underground no one had found it. But the thought…leaked into the waking world.
And there the dreamer realized there was a chance. So it had begun many dreams, failed ideas, imagination—imagination was hard. It took a long time, and the bed in which they rested changed.
Sometimes people dug down and found the dreamer. Sometimes they abandoned this place. Sometimes they built great edifices and wards.
It didn’t matter. They could not purify this ground. They could not stop a dream.
Small dreams added up. Sometimes they were good. Other times, wonderfully horrid. Sometimes they were…surprising.
But every now and then, every now and then—the dreamer thought that it was time for a truly dark nightmare. When the world blossomed above and they reached upwards, grasping at what they were not allowed, the immaterium, the truth, or when they sensed the others grasping for life, the dreamer willed a nightmare into being.
Every. So. Often. And then the world rocked with it and grew silent. It took great effort, and the last time had been so recently.
It had dreamed of scuttling monsters with minds to worship it. It had dreamed of glowing eggs, creatures so hungry and malevolent they would grow and grow until they could eat nations—and they would dig the dreamer up and worship.
That last great nightmare had begun, you see, had begun because one of the other dreams had gotten out of control. A little dream had decided it wanted its own story, and it had become so vast and powerful it had threatened dreaming itself, begun to hunt down the other rogue dreams.
Unacceptable. So the nightmare had come fierce and strong, and yet it hadn’t managed to break the dream. Well…the little dream that had named itself and made a nation and people had passed every test and been granted the power of Isthekenous—but they had broken against the dreamer.
They were dying. And the dreamer had felt better and more awake than it had since the beginning of it all.
Something was changing. It sensed Kasigna, just as it had sensed ghosts walking down to put it to sleep for good.
So the dreamer was thinking of a new nightmare. One worse than all. It thought it heard someone whispering to it, telling it to hold back and relent—but there were no alliances. No pacts.
Just one long, twisted, haunting hallucination before it woke. Soon. It craved it. Soon.
Dig me up. Dig me up, and if you don’t—I will dream a new horror for you.
I want to wake up.
