“He has a good point. We’re a Gold-rank team, Colth is a Named-rank. Is it so dangerous that we can’t even explore a bit?”
Ceria chewed on her sandwich, and Wer gave her a mirthless grin.
“Good question. I thought the same thing when I first discovered it. And you know what? I’ve come close to death many times. I’ve fought Doomslayers and been hunted. That first month I gained my Skill at Level 40? I was cautious, I brought potions, supplies, and even hired [Mercenaries] one time. I nearly died twelve times. Look.”
He brushed at his shirt, realized it wasn’t fur, then pulled it up and revealed a huge, ropey scar on his chest and then another one down his arm. Part of his stomach looked slightly melted by…acid?
Pisces blanched and put down his meal. Colth inspected the wounds seriously as Satar turned pale.
“Those aren’t blade-wounds.”
Wer bared his teeth.
“No. There’s a thousand threats there, but I learned one invaluable lesson: stay on the road. It’s almost safe if you’re on the road and not in a dangerous region. The problem is—the road’s gone in a lot of places. The crossroads are in disrepair. But the instant you step off the road…it’s dangerous. It’s deadly. I hired Gold-rank [Mercenaries], and they went off exploring for an hour. I never saw them again. It’s a vast, dangerous land, and I think all these explorers that [Innkeeper]’s galvanized? If they find the crossroads, they’re going to die like flies.”
Did Erin know this? Pisces thought of Erin and shivered. Perhaps she did. She had challenged the world to her quest…and she had told them they needed to level.
“Hold on, though. Hold on. We have a door. Even if it’s dangerous, Wer, you already have the door. We could complete the quest—carefully—or get the jump on everyone. If you help—”
Ceria was feeling her way forwards, and Wer folded his arms.
“This is why I didn’t want to do it! You’re talking like I did, like Colth does. You think you can be cautious. Listen to me. I survived being hunted by Xherw for decades. I’m over Level 40, which is Named-rank by some standards. Do you think I was incautious? I’m willing to bet I was more cautious, more prepared than you can be, and I still got out by sheer luck. It. Is. Dangerous.”
He slammed a hand onto the bench and collapsed the entire thing to the ground with the force. Theikha picked herself up with a sigh as Wer groaned—the boba tea was all over his clothes.
“I think you should listen to Honored Wer, Horns, Colth. But Wer, I think you must try again.”
Wer ducked his head as Ceria bowed to Theikha, and he muttered.
“You may be right, [Shaman]. But I fear it. Not every place is utter death, instantly, but it is a strange, unknown world. I walk it only because I must. I fear not just that we’ll die…”
He looked at her and the others bleakly.
“I fear what we might wake up.”
Everyone looked at him seriously, and Ceria tried to smile.
“Hey. I’m aware of the risks, and I don’t want to lose anyone else on my team. But there is a chance we could find the Walled City of Stars, right? It’s supposed to be there. There might be other treasures. Lost cities.”
Wer just gave Ceria a flat look.
“Oh, there are. I don’t know about Mershi—but Imlerith is called the ‘City of Crossroads’. They might have founded the entire place or been one of the first cities to be built there. There’s also Lesegoth.”
“The City of Shields? Wait? The City of Shields is there?”
Colth sat up with a wild cry. Pisces himself stared, and Wer’s smile turned even more twisted, even more afraid. He bared his teeth and hackles.
“Yes. I have seen two cities in the Crossroads of Izril. Imlerith and Lesegoth. Or what remains of Lesegoth. Perhaps when you see what they did to the City of Shields, you’ll understand. Imlerith is a city I fear to enter. Lesegoth? I found a gate that welcomes you to the city. The ‘city’? It’s hundreds of miles of blasted, buried rubble and broken tunnels. A broken mountain across what they call the Hivelands, stretching all the way past Pallass. Perhaps a thousand miles of rubble you have to pass through—not that I ever dared. Whoever killed them blasted them with a volcano—and then I think they threw a mountain at it.”
Pisces swallowed. He had heard the stories of how the City of Shields fell. But a thousand miles of destruction? He began to feel that prickle of nerves down his spine, but realized—realized only now, somehow—that he really was insane.
That he might be a candidate for a Named-rank after all, because despite hearing this, despite hearing Wer’s fear and understanding it—Pisces looked at Colth, Ceria, and felt it in himself.
A desire, a burning desire to see that, be it horror or terror or ancient lands, no matter the risk. Satar stared at the wild grin on Colth’s face, Ceria’s smile, Pisces’ trembling lips trying to hold back the same, and Yvlon’s intent look as Ksmvr held a pigeon in his hands. Theikha nodded at Satar and sighed as Wer gave them an incredulous look.
“Adventurers.”
 
——
 
Suddenly, the Horns had a target, and it was immediately accessible—but oh, they had to be careful.
Ceria kept saying it, as if to remind them all, and Yvlon took it up.
“We can’t be stupid, everyone. Remember Liscor’s crypt? Never a second time.”
“Absolutely.”
Pisces agreed. Ceria folded her arms.
“If we need to, we get allies. We bail the moment we even sense a boss monster or a trap.”
“Indubitably.”
Ksmvr nodded repeatedly as they stood around, talking about entry. Colth steepled his fingers, looking serious.
“We go in full of preparations, even more than when we fought Facestealer. So…what were we going to do to prepare, oh great and mighty Captain?”
Ceria paused as everyone stared at her.
“…Well, that’s up to you, Colth. We’re teaming up, so what did you have in mind?”
He grinned. Aside from talking to Wer, the truth was that all the Horns had was Silvenia’s missive—and the knowledge that at least two Walled Cities had been abandoned in the Crossroads. Colth was making notes on a piece of paper.
“From what Wer says, there are multiple biomes in the Crossroads of Izril, and we’re actually close to one of the safest…not that he explores. I suggest we gather all the traditional supplies and load up—as well as prepare for all contingencies. I’m talking emergency house spells, potions, gear—”
Ceria nodded as she frowned, thinking about what they needed and raised a hand.
“Right, right. Not everything works there, though. You can’t teleport out.”
Their only way in and out would be Wer, which already told the Horns the danger was real. If he died…they might be stuck. Not that Wer wanted to risk it. He was willing to teleport them in and wait for them to come out, but he refused to go with them.
Fair. But the lack of intelligence meant that even an expert like Colth didn’t have much to offer, right? They had to prepare for everything and anything—
“Wrong.”
He chopped Yvlon on the head when she said that, and she glared.
“Are you testing my anger management?”
Colth smiled as her eyes flashed.
“Yep. But also—you’re working with me, Horns. I’m a bit better at this ‘preparation’ stuff than you are. We’re not going in totally blind. I have a solution.”
“Which is?”
Yvlon was unimpressed, but Colth was clearly trying to show his value. He folded his arms.
“Which is…teammate Colth, I think you wanted to say? Comrade Colth? Oh, great and mighty Colthei?”
“I think he’s fitting in pretty well.”
Ceria muttered to Pisces and Ksmvr as Yvlon turned red and raised a fist. The other two nodded in agreement. Colth winked at them.
“The key to old places like this is that someone always remembers them.”
“Even Satar and Theikha don’t. Then again, Plain’s Eye messed with their history, but if not them, then who?”
Yvlon was exasperated, and Colth winked.
“Oh, Yvlon. Think about it. If Silvenia remembers the Crossroads of Izril…I can think of at least two people to ask who might remember! Both living…well, one living. Can’t you?”
He had a great memory, and Pisces thought of Azam or Czautha—then his eyes lit up. Yvlon blinked, and Ceria started laughing, then looked at Ksmvr.
“No. Really? You think…?”
Ksmvr scratched at his head.
“Well. Miss Erin could ask.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was at the beach. She was indulging in some fun times, floating in an inner tube on the water, staring up at a false sun and relaxing. In the distance, she could see the resorts with their guests. People were playing on the beach. The inn was making money.
“Shark. Shaaaark!”
Life was good. Erin Solstice lay there until a shark passed by her, following a bunch of screaming people and Relc. She cracked one eye open.
“…Did Valeterisa summon a shark?”
The Archmage of Izril was playing ‘sharks and minnows’, but she didn’t know how to play properly. So she had summoned a magical shark. Erin was watching Relc throw down with the shark in the water—and lose—until Seborn came to the rescue.
Apparently, the Drowned Man knew a technique where he could literally grab the shark by the head as it came at you and flip it around in the water, rendering it harmless. Even a child could do it. Erin was watching everyone learn shark-fu when someone coughed.
“Erin? The Horns are asking if you can chat.”
Erin nearly fell out of her inner tube and saw Ishkr had opened up a door in the air.
“Ishkr! The Horns? I’ll be right there. Pull me up, please!”
He yanked her up, and she crawled into her inn, then got up.
“Whew. Beach life is great. I dunno how I’ll go back to winter after this.”
Her inn was pleasant, but felt cold and dark compared to the beach. Erin Solstice strolled through her common room and peeked out a window at a bunch of miserable people staring into the inn and demanding tickets to the beach. One waved a gold coin in her face.
“Let us in! Please? Don’t be stingy, you damn Human! We know you have room! This is preferential treatment! This is speciesism! You have to share—”
Erin closed the shutters on the angry Drake’s face. Then she turned to Ishkr with a frown.
“Do they stand in the cold all day?”
“They tend to leave, but more people come by now and then. The Horns are waiting, Miss Erin.”
“Right, right.”
 
——
 
“Ceria, Pisces, Ksmvr, Yvlon! Oh, and hey, Colth. You guys look great! How’s it going?”
Erin saw them all vividly in some hut in the Great Plains. They looked cold, bundled up, and Ceria squinted at Erin.
“…Do you have a tan, Erin?”
“Who, me? Nah. It’s just the magical effect. I’m blue on your side, right?”
The Horns gave Erin a dour look, and Pisces held up his arm for contrast.
“It seems sunlight and warmth agree with you, Erin? We do miss your inn. Hospitable as the Gnolls are, your inn is a constant source of entertainment and enjoyment.”
Erin’s face softened, and she smiled at him.
“Aw, Pisces.”
He sniffed heartily and smiled.
“On the other hand, I had a fine plate of actual quality spaghetti the other day. Truffles, grated onto what I believe was a fromage blanc sauce, with actual presentation, and might I add—”
Yvlon elbowed Pisces hard as Erin began to glare, but the smile reappeared on Erin’s face despite Pisces’ mockery. She missed them.
“Erin, Pisces aside, we have a request. We, uh—actually found something that might be a shortcut to your quest. Could you ask Fetohep and Klbkch if they remember…the Crossroads of Izril?”
Erin’s jaw dropped. She spluttered as they revealed that not only did they know where it was—someone had been using it for years!
“You have—well, the <Quest> isn’t done, so it’s not the key! But you can get there? Be careful! Ask Fetohep and Klbkch? Of course! I’ll get it out of them and tell you right away! Let me just call Fetohep up, now. Actually—I’ll get Klbkch and summon the gang, because all the Antinium will riot if they miss story-time. Give me half a day?”
“Of course. We have to buy supplies and make preparations too, Erin. Thanks.”
They waved at her, and Erin beamed at them and gave Colth some finger-guns, which he returned.
“Good to see you too, Colth. Oh, and Pisces? I’m sorry I can’t make your fancy spaghetti, but if you come back, I’ll try.”
He gave her an arch, fond smile.
“I shall condescend to whatever you make, Erin.”
She waited a beat, smiling, as he wavered between keeping up his false pretense and a heartfelt response. Then Erin’s eyes twinkled.
“Good, because you know—‘fromage blanc’ is just white cheese, right? Just because it’s in French doesn’t mean it’s fancy.”
Pisces’ face went slack, and the Horns and Colth began laughing at him like Gnomes as Erin vanished.
 
——
 
When Erin went to fetch Mrsha, the Gnoll was busy waiting to prove she too could rotate a shark in the water. Nothing, absolutely nothing, could be more important than this, and if Erin had a <Quest> or job, she could stuff it where the sun didn’t shine, because Mrsha was on vac—
“Okay, so you don’t want to go ask Fetohep for his knowledge? I guess I’ll have to do it. And Klbkch story-time doesn’t need Mrsha.”
Hold on, I’ve changed my mind. Fetohep, you say? Nanette! We get to talk to Fetohep in the theatre! Bring everyone we want to impress! Where are Silverstache’s spare mustaches? And Yelroan’s glasses?
Mrsha began to race around, proving that some things were more important than shark-flipping. Erin just laughed and thought that another exciting thing had come to her, for once.
This surely would have no consequences for her beach time.
And when she thought that, Erin decided she needed backup. Intelligent backup that could ask perspicacious questions. Who did she know who fit that bill?
“Hey, Erin, what’s this about you meeting a [King] and talking to Klb? Want me to get Klbkch? I wouldn’t mind meeting this guy in your theatre, too.”
Erin waved at Relc and Valeterisa.
“Oh, uh—getting Klbkch would help a lot, Relc. Thanks.”
“Do you need my help, Innkeeper Solstice?”
“No…thanks, Valeterisa. It’s not an interesting chat. Just little stuff.”
The Archmage and Relc gave Erin a long stare as she edged back, retreating. Ryoka Griffin jogged over, followed by Sammial and Hethon.
“Hey, Erin, are you talking to Fetohep of Khelt? I haven’t actually been introduced to him, which I think I should—”
“Gaah. Stop listening to me with the wind! How are people finding out already?”
Ryoka looked genuinely hurt.
“I didn’t do that. Shaestrel and Nerry both told me.”
Erin gave the duo a baleful look as a smug Sariant Lamb and Spring Faerie, the two most nosy beings on Ryoka’s side, gave her smirks. She backed away.
