Anyways, she and Anand were friends, which was to say she told him stories about other continents and taught him to gamble, swear, and drink, and he helped get her what she needed from the Antinium to be comfortable while they tried to make a workable ship.
It was a long, discouraging process, though, and aside from a few attempts that had gotten them to sea—like when they’d run into the Alchemist Irurx—their ships still sank. Even if they lasted one or two voyages, they were just not well-made enough to hold together for multiple trips, much less a full sea voyage.
So Torthe was allowed to be sad and gloomy, and Anand was hoping he’d be able to let her go soon. He wanted her to sail off and find her crew.
Then again, Torthe hadn’t been exactly jumping for joy when he talked about that. She often said that she’d rather never meet them again, especially with all her riches in tow, because they’d just take them from her. He’d asked about her family, and she’d remarked that they’d rob her naked in the night.
She…didn’t have many people she trusted. Or anyone. If anything, Torthe seemed to believe that getting rich by helping the Antinium make a ship might be her ticket to fame and fortune. Or at least, the latter.
At any rate, right now, he was hoping she could help avoid a war, and Torthe grew increasingly alarmed as he half-screamed the story at her.
“Whoa, whoa. What was that about a war? The Slayer’s blade? The Thief of Clouds? Isn’t he some Gnoll?”
“Yes! And the Grand Queen is going to burn down half of Izril to get it back unless I find whatever he wants to trade it for!”
“Half-assed shrimp. You never have it easy, huh? And I thought Antinium didn’t worry about things!”
She swore, but the thing about Torthe was that she never actually used ‘fuck’ or ‘damn’. Her swearing, which the Painted Antinium had learned, was a bit…funny.
“I need to find an artifact he says we have! Do you know what an Eye of Baleros looks like?”
Torthe was nervous and sweating, but when he said that, she gave him a wall-eyed look, then barked a laugh.
“Singing crawdads, that’s a joke, right? Did he ask for that? Then we’re all doomed like a whale on his land hand playing cards.”
“…Is that bad?”
Torthe had hurried over to her room and was checking her chest of valuables. She glanced up nervously.
“That’s bad. There ain’t no way in all the seas and underseas and Kraken’s underthings that you’d have one of them. The Eyes of Baleros? That’s not an artifact, Anand. That’s a legend.”
“Oh no. Swivel my gunnels.”
He tried one of her weird oaths, and she gave him a puzzled look.
“Stick to landfolk oaths, Anand. You don’t know how to talk like a searat yet. Tell that Grand Queen of yours that we’re becalmed in poop sea and full to the oars.”
“Tell her yourself! Please?”
“Me? No way. I’m not—wait, wait!”
 
——
 
The Grand Queen had no idea Drowned Folk shook so badly. She watched as Torthe tried to hide behind Anand and whispered to him. He translated her comments to the Grand Queen.
“Grand Queen, we don’t necessarily have this Eye of Baleros. Apparently, it is a highly-valuable Relic!”
“Ah, it makes sense they would demand that in exchange for the Slayer’s blade. If we do not have it, then we must recover the blade by force.”
She was happy about that, but Anand protested.
“No! Perhaps they’ll take something else, my Queen?”
She tilted her head, sighing.
“Negotiations. How tiresome. We could substitute the cost. Tell me what they look like, these Eyes.”
At this point, Torthe whispered loudly enough for both Anand and the Grand Queen to hear.
“If you had ‘em—and you don’t—you’d surely know. Each one’s a beautiful gemstone half as large as I am and round as can be! It’s an opal, some gemstone so magic that the whorls of it look like an eye, see? It’d have enough magic in it to power fifteen Drowned Ships’ barriers!”
“Oh. That does sound amazing. Grand Queen—”
“Yes, yes. I will ask.”
The Grand Queen forwarded the knowledge to the other Queens, then turned back to Torthe. Anand was curious now, about them.
“Why would we not have one? And why is it valuable?”
The Drowned Woman gulped. But the Grand Queen was eating, and she seemed to lose interest in Anand and Torthe, so the [Pirate] talked to Anand and the other Antinium.
“Because there are only two, Anand. Only two ever made—if they were made. If you had ‘em—hah! If you had ‘em, you could sell them to anyone for an entire armada and hang building it yourself! The Nagas would trade you any five Relics in the world for them, and every other nation’d trade you ten to not give them back!”
“Really? Why?”
Anand was wide-eyed, and the Grand Queen looked over with sudden interest. Torthe gave him one of her incredulous looks. She often was surprised by their ignorance.
“Swab my decks with maple syrup. Do you really not know even that story? I suppose’s it’s older, what with them being lost a generation, but it’s the tale o’ tales. One of the most famous!”
“I thought you said that the King of Destruction was a famous tale. And that I was silly for not knowing that. And the Blighted Kingdom. And the Titan.”
“Well, it’s another famous tale every child’d know in Baleros. Maybe not here, but surely—you’ve heard of The Lightning Thief?”
Oh! That was how he knew it! Anand knew the books—even the Armored Queen had the book series! Torthe tried to figure out how to distill the information simply and took a breath.
“Okay. Here’s what you’ve gotta know. The Eyes of Baleros—not the Great Company—the Eyes are two ancient Relics that belong to the Nagas, to the Lizardfolk of Baleros. They often go back to the Lizardfolk, and then someone steals them or they’re taken away. You could call ‘em one of the legendary treasures of the world. Because whenever they show up—wars start.”
Anand was greatly impressed.
“Really? So they’re more valuable than even the Helm of Fire?”
“They’re more valuable than a dozen Helms of Fire!”
Torthe pulled at her wet strands of grey-blue hair, trying to explain. She snapped her fingers.
“Anyone got them books of The Lightning Thief? Half of them are about him keeping away from the people trying to get The Eyes of Baleros back. That’s the overarching theme of the stories. He stole both to stop the Nagatine Empire returning and the pyramids awakening. But for him—and it’s a true story, mind you—we’d have seen the Lizardfolk going to war once more and sweeping the continent.”
One of the Antinium went to get the books, and Anand was puzzled.
“Really? But they lost against the Titan of Baleros. They are one of numerous species in Baleros, you know.”
The Grand Queen was listening to one of her Custodium with great interest, and she turned to Torthe with her full attention now. The Drowned Woman just laughed.
“Lost to—oh, sure, no tar on the Titan’s name! Him and Three-Color Stalker are legends, and the Forgotten Wing Company’s every bit the monster of Baleros too. But you think he could’ve toppled a Great Company of Baleros in a single generation? It’d take a hundred years of fighting, normally! It should have been a war to split the continent in half to topple one of the Great Companies. They were already weakened, and them not even being able to take him down with an ambush shows you that. Lizardfolk rise and fall, and those eyes make them stronger. When both are in their temples—that’s when you get Nagas landing on Izril’s shores.”
Oh, the Naga Incursions? That was during Az’kerash and Zelkyr’s time. Now, Anand was fascinated. In fact, he was more fascinated as Goat ran back with some books, and Torthe snatched one.
“You think these are all old legends? Look! The Titan’s part of the story! The Titan was a boy when the Lightning Thief stole the eyes—I wasn’t born when The Lightning Thief was a legend, but the story’s not that old. If Thivian Stormless had lived, he’d be some old man stealing from the King of Destruction! They say he might be, but no one’s heard from him in ages.”
She held up a book—and Anand blinked. He slowly picked up the tome and read the title.
The Lightning Thief and the Fraerling’s Treasure. A book written by Krsysl Wordsmith, one of the many authors who’d contributed to the apparently-factual accounts of the [Thief]’s adventures.
He skimmed the book’s summary and realized this was a story in which the famous Thivian Stormless attempted to steal a fabled treasure from the smallest folk in the world. Some ‘box’ that contained the world’s knowledge.
He failed, but in the ending, Anand saw a reference to a certain Fraerling [Strategist] who’d kept trying to capture Thivian then teamed up with him.
Niers Astoragon.
So this tale was contemporaneous of the modern day. Torthe ran commentary as Anand skimmed the book.
“Y’see, the Eyes had already been lost before Thivian was around. He just prevented them from being brought back. Stole ‘em right from under the Nagas’ noses as they were completing their ritual, and they hounded him across every continent. Great books. My ma has a signed copy by the man himself worth more than the entire ship. So you see, if you had even one Eye of Baleros, it’d be the biggest talk of the world. No one knows where Thivian hid them. He did it to safeguard the world from the Nagatine Empire.”
She looked proud and invested, like a girl who’d grown up with the stories. After all—Thivian had met every people. He’d had adventures with Drowned Folk, Gnolls, dueled in First Landing, and even broken into Samal on his escapades.
What a grand story. The age of heroes—at least, Thivian and the King of Destruction were cut from the cloth of that time. Thivian had strolled through the Waning World like a legend of yesteryear, capturing the imaginations of millions. Even the Grand Queen was mildly impressed.
“How interesting. No wonder it is equivalent to one of Klbkchhezeim’s blades. And it seems this Lightning Thief did try to hide the Eyes of Baleros well. It was buried deep in a vault guarded by Manus’ best. I believe Devrkr himself had to melt it.”
“Right, you see, that makes sense. He might’ve entrusted it to the City of W…what did you say?”
The Grand Queen smiled as Anand and Torthe paused. She rubbed her palps together.
“We have it. One of them. I remember it now. A very pretty stone. I do not think it looks like an eye at all, but then—I forget how non-Antinium eyes are, and it is quite large. Strategist Anand, you did well to bring your informant here. Another very intelligent move.”
Anand and Torthe stared up at the Grand Queen. Then the Drowned Woman began to panic.
“Y-you have—Krakens. Someone’s stealing a Kraken’s baby rattle. You’re joking with me. You’re tickling me with starfish. You don’t have it!”
“Yes. We do. If that is the cost to replace the Slayer’s blade—it seems steep. But I suppose we could trade it. It turns out Xrn was using it to power a lot of our [Preservation] wards, but we will be able to do without.”
The Grand Queen heaved a sigh. But Torthe began shouting.
“You can’t! You can’t! It’s never meant to go back! Nations have stolen them for great magic! And you—you can’t give it back! It’d throw Baleros into chaos! If the books are true—it’ll make the Nagas so powerful they’ll destroy all their foes! The last time, they fought onto Izril and nearly took a Walled City!”
The Grand Queen nodded.
“If I recall my learned history of the continents correctly, they also invaded Terandria. This ‘Nagatine Empire’ seems analogous to a lesser version of the True Antinium’s might. Giving it to this Thief of Clouds may well land it in the Nagas’ hands, correct?”
“If he’s a bastard, that’s probably what he’ll do. At the least—once it’s out there, the Nagas will do anything to get it back! You can’t do it! Aren’t they your enemies?”
Torthe seemed to realize who she was speaking to and flinched as the Grand Queen loomed over her. But the Queen just smiled as Anand felt his first sense of trepidation.
“Your logical argument is sound, Drowned Woman Torthe. But mine is sounder. The Lizardfolk are theoretical enemies of the Antinium. But we have never made war. At this moment, what is true is that Baleros is stable. Disrupting one continent may well lead to a lack of overseas support. Moreover, Lizardfolk and Drakes are longtime enemies. If one were to make war with the other or invade Izril…now I am minded to give the Eyes to this Thief anyways.”
Again, it was the logic of someone who had naught but enemies, and Anand understood it. Yet he held up his hands.
“My Queen, we have friends—Erin has—the unrest this will cause might kill many.”
“Many non-Antinium, Anand. If not for the thief, trading it for ten Relics is appropriate. That is the value, is it not, Torthe?”
“I—I was exaggerating.”
“One, then.”
The Grand Queen smiled. Anand waved his hands as he realized he had jumped out of one problem and straight into a bigger one.
“My Queen. I must insist we think this through. I cannot accept the risk of handing the Eye of Baleros over to a Thief if it might go to the Lizardfolk. As a [Strategist] of the Antinium—I insist we take time to deliberate any actions.”
She paused as he raised his voice. That was as close as he had ever been to giving her an all-out order, and the Grand Queen…stared down at Anand.
“You insist? I rule the Hives. The authority to decide matters of treasury and war is vested in me. You tell me I cannot do this? Curious. Is it…treason? Is this treachery?”
Torthe froze, eyes wide, as the Grand Queen loomed over Anand. He stared up at her as the Custodium stirred, and the [Strategist]…the [Strategist] spread his hands and spoke up, confused.
“Treason, Grand Queen? Why would it be treason? We are Antinium. There is no one to rebel against, is there?”
She paused. The Grand Queen stared down at Anand, and the [Strategist] was genuinely confused. After a second, she sat back.
“Ah. Oh. I thought…hmm. Well, not yet, then. Nevermind. I shall consider your opinions, then, Anand. Very well, very well. But I remind you all that retrieving Klbkch’s blade is of paramount importance.”
Anand nodded, confused, but began assessing what could be done if war and giving the Eye were both bad ideas. Torthe breathed out and retreated a few steps, looking at the Grand Queen.
Anand hadn’t noticed the Grand Queen’s odd wording then, but it occurred to him, later, that something the Grand Queen had said was odd.
