“It’s just dirt. I will need stone soon. Lots of it. We know it’s down there; we’ve already hit large pockets. We’ll have to mine it up, but we’ll put all of it to good use. It will be months before we’re even halfway to our target, but hopefully we will find a path down soon. Honestly, I would like to have to mine through the stone for at least a year, first.”
“Why’s that, Chieftain Feshi?”
She stood there, her fur painted with colors, smiling as she pointed to a fort of dirt, where Gnolls were busy building new ramparts—the ones not keeping watch with bows, that was. Then she turned to look at Ceria, and her eyes glinted.
“Well, because the Raskghar are down there, obviously. I imagine they can dig far better than even my Skill allows my people to do. Before we meet them, I will need a fortress of stone. This entire area will have to turn into a great killzone. I’ve asked my mentor, the Professor—the Titan of Baleros—for help. I may reach out to that famous [Architect] in Liscor, too.”
Pisces shivered, because her stare was intent, and Feshi had broken away from looking at Ceria. Then the Gnoll stared down at the ground as she spoke. Here was someone else planning a war, but Feshi seemed keenly aware that her tribe and Gnolls were not ready for another battle. She looked up from the ground and smiled.
“I hope, Horns, you will continue thinking of us as allies. We have been reduced by all the treachery and strife, but you will find no truer friends—and we need forces, both high-level and numerous, to support us. The Drakes have not vanished, and frankly, if that Goblin tribe were here, I would think of offering them safety in the Great Plains were it not for the reprisals.”
They really did need a third outside force to join hands with them, and it was either Humans or Antinium…and neither was very appealing. So, to the New Lands everyone turned.
 
——
 
“I wonder if we could join a tribe moving west. Plain’s Eye went that way, and the survivors are apparently in need of help. We could catch up with them. Colth, would you go west?”
Yvlon floated the idea later as Colth yawned and transcribed words Ceria was muttering. He was acting as her [Scribe] as she kept deciphering Silvenia’s hidden message. She’d had to take a break last night. Secret and exciting as it was—it was also a pain in the butt because the half-Elf had to tilt the crystal just right to get the right magnification and angle to read the text, which curved around the tiny shard of ice.
Colth’s Skills helped, and the two had traded off the last hour with Satar Silverfang, who was dancing to write this all down as a famous moment in her book of history. Colth glanced up.
“I’m with you Horns for a bit. If it leads to the New Lands—that’s my destination, anyways. Something tells me this missive might be more important, though.”
He nodded to the sheet of paper, and Yvlon glanced over.
“Is it almost done?”
Ceria shook her head.
“Almost. And it’s crazy. I can’t tell if she’s bragging or threatening us or both. But I think I know what we have to do next, with respect to the Winter Solstice. We can still do this and go there. I think. But how did she know?”
Colth snorted.
“She’s the Death of Magic. How doesn’t she know? I think you should be flattered she’s threatening you. It means she probably thinks you can succeed.”
The [Supporter] cheerfully patted Ceria on the back, and the half-Elf gave him a dark glower.
“Thanks. I think we’re done. Boys and girls, gather around. Who wants to show Shaman Theikha this?”
She held up the letter, and Pisces, heart palpitating slightly, stared at what Silvenia had left.
 
To the Horns of Hammerad:
I am Silvenia, the Death of Magic, and I remember the Crossroads of Izril. I was born during the Creler Wars, nearly three hundred years after Rhir was lost, as they poured across our world and each nation began to falter.
I remember the coasts falling, cities dying, and each continent—each—calling for aid and hearing only each other’s pleas. In those days, I was a girl and thought it so terrifying. I dream of those days and wish I had the power to go back and fight alongside real legends.
The ‘Deaths’ of the modern age would have been counted well among the many heroes of that time who held the line. A thin line drawn by sheer defiance in the face of horrors who laughed and drank the blood of Archmages like water and thought loud enough to kill even Minds. 
I wish you or anyone else could remember it with me. The kingdoms you call glorious today? They are wrecked shadows of the ones who fought in the last great calamity to tear this world asunder. It comes, again and again, you see. Not silly imperiums like Selphids or half-Elves or every species. World-ending disasters. Before Crelers? The end of magic. And before that…
I remember Walled Cities falling. I remember the Crossroads of Izril closing. I was a girl, then a soldier fighting across three continents before the war ended, and I returned to peace before Demons and a ‘Blighted Kingdom’ emerged. 
Once, the Crossroads connected all of Izril. And now someone else recalls them. But they’ve always been there. I wonder why no one’s opened them before that? It’s so delightfully interesting, Horns of Hammerad, and you are very, very close to one of the keys, or so I’ve been told by a certain [Empress]. You could step into them tomorrow or today. 
Yet even she and I do not risk it to travel by, which speaks to the danger. Well, I would, but she won’t let me. And I cannot be everywhere at once; the danger is too great on multiple fronts, even if it is my absence. I could only leave for a short while, for something I knew was worthwhile. Or for a worthy challenge.
So here’s my delightful offer: you’ll find more in the Crossroads than you bargained for, I’m sure. Horrible monsters. Secrets. 
Locked gates. Almost no one has a key, not even the [Innkeeper], but I make keys and magic. Just call for me, and I’ll open you a door if you find it.
But I want half. It’s a special offer because I like you, sister, and because I think your lot is a funny group that reminds me of adventurers I’ve seen who’ve lived. Take me up on it, please. And if you try to trap me, I’ll regretfully murder you and every army of the Blighted Kingdom they bring.
—Silvenia, Death of Magic
 
It was fascinating, horrifying, and Pisces wondered if it were serious.
“I don’t mean serious, more in that perhaps she’s offered this to a number of adventurers. We are not special enough to warrant her full attention.”
Ceria nodded as they sat around, eying the missive. Satar was trembling with excitement, but Colth caught her paw.
“Don’t write that down, Miss Silverfang. Not yet, at any rate. The Blighted Kingdom is everywhere. With respect to secrets—even Gamur would know better than to talk. This gets sealed, or we all die. The only other person who should hear about this is Shaman Theikha.”
Even Satar blanched at the injunction, and she nodded and ran to find the old [Shaman].
 
——
 
Theikha sighed tiredly, but she didn’t look old. The heart that had been given to her by the Earth Elemental beat like the trembling earth in her personal tent, and she felt youthful.
Not young, but like spring grass after deep winter. Pisces looked at Theikha as if she were a sign that age was just an idea. Certainly, the Gnoll had both age in her—and wisdom and newfound life.
All of that translated to a smack on Colth’s head.
“You do not stop bringing me trouble, Colth!”
“Ow! Shaman! I’m not trying to do it! This one is the Horns’ fault!”
Theikha turned the paws of wrath on the Horns, and everyone stepped back, but she pinched Ceria’s ear gently.
“True. I see one mischief-maker here, and I am glad she is smart enough not to rile up my people. But what a headache. I suspect the offer is genuine, even if it is dangerous. As for the key…I suppose it cannot be helped. Colth, you little brat—”
She grabbed his ear too, and Pisces saw a Named-rank adventurer and Ceria yelping. Ceria was either braver or dumber than Colth and tried to break Theikha’s grip with a frost-hand. The [Shaman]’s arm glowed and heated up, negating the cold, then she twisted.
“Aah! I give! I give! Stop, Shaman Theikha, it’s coming off!”
“She asserts dominance so well.”
Ksmvr observed Ceria pleading with Theikha to stop, deeply impressed. Silly as it might be—it did work. Even the Horns were very respectful as Theikha glared at Colth.
“You win, Colth. It seems prudence must be replaced with cautious speed. Satar, run and find me Wer. Colth is about to get his wish.”
Colth beamed as she let go. The Horns looked at each other and then remembered one of the last famous Gnolls.
 
——
 
Wer the Wanderer had white fur, a traveller’s longcoat, and his quarterstaff, and he was a Doombearer. He never spoke of where he hailed from—Theikha might know, but he was still private, despite the revelations of the Meeting of Tribes.
Other Gnolls treated him almost like the legend of Doomslayers that had preceded him; he had revealed the truth, but the truth had cost them greatly.
He was still a pariah in many senses, but Theikha treated him like a wayward son, and it seemed Wer was gratified by it.
Well—that and reminded why having family among Gnolls was a problem, because Theikha bossed him about like everyone else, and he clearly resented it.
“Shaman, I do have work back amongst my people. I cannot forsake all that—much less reveal all my knowledge to outsiders.”
“The time is past for secrets, Wer the Wanderer! Or do you think that the Doombearers get to have all of them? They would be another Plain’s Eye, then.”
Theikha and Wer had a loud, spirited argument, which Wer was definitely not going to win against the oldest [Shaman] of the tribes. He looked greatly offended by the suggestion.
“But my Skill—it’s not trivial. In fact, it’s so dangerous that as I said, even Gadiekh, Colth—the Horns and Gamur—and Garsine and you—would still be in grave peril! You do not know the risks!”
She swatted at him.
“Then we shall not risk all of us, Wer. I am asking you to trust only Colth and the Horns, and only as far as you care. But if it is inevitable others will find doors in—is it not wisdom to begin exploring the Crossroads of Izril first?”
Every head swung to Wer, and the Gnoll glared as Yvlon stared. He hung his head, muttering.
“It’s too dangerous. Let the Drakes and Humans and other idiots die by the thousands. You don’t know what you’re asking. I may not be Named-rank, but I’d put myself against a Gold-rank any day, and I know how dangerous it is.”
“Hold on. Hold on—you know how to get to the Crossroads of Izril?”
Wer, Colth, and Theikha turned to Yvlon. Colth raised one eyebrow.
“Yes. He’s got a Skill that lets him access it. That’s how he gets around so fast. Keep up, Yvlon.”
She nearly punched him, but Pisces, Ksmvr, and Ceria held her back. Wer raised his brows, and Theikha smiled.
“You see, Wer? We do not reveal all your secrets instantly. Will you tell them?”
Wer heaved a huge sigh.
“Since they know Mrsha—I thought she was the one who told everyone. For a child who can’t talk, she has the biggest mouth in the world. Very well, Shaman. Horns, this is sworn to secrecy. Satar Silverfang, Colth, Shaman Theikha, and a handful of others like Chieftain Feshi know this, but one of the powers I gained from my class is the ability to access the Crossroads of Izril.”
The Horns of Hammerad looked at one another. Then all four raised their hands. Ceria turned to Theikha.
“Do we get to ask questions?”
 
——
 
They had lunch in the Earth-simulation because it was both secure and fun. Wer looked like an albino man and poked several times at a piece of jello in his boba tea.
“This is horse bone. I don’t object to eating horse, but this is disgusting.”
“It certainly may not be healthy. I have been arguing with my people about how much sugar Earth eats. We do not need everything they make.”
Shaman Theikha lowered her sunglasses as they ate outside. Pisces basked in the sun as Colth, looking exactly like he did normally, fed a bunch of pigeons in a big park with Ksmvr. Everyone was listening to Wer, though. He ate, then hunched his shoulders as he sat on a bench and spoke, face dark and troubled.
“I levelled quickly after becoming a Doombearer. We all do, or die. Even Mrsha. My luck powers…I learned from someone else how to control them, and I decided it was my purpose to try and save as many ‘Doombringers’ as possible. I failed too many times. Far too many. But my class evolved around that. I needed to be good at fighting, but also—fast enough to get to those in need, able to slip through a wall or bypass a tribe.”
Theikha patted his hand gently.
“You have succeeded, Wer. The truth is revealed.”
“…Yes. But whether or not the others are safe? They aren’t ready to come out of hiding. I wouldn’t advise them to anyways.”
Wer’s face was dark. Then he sighed and went on.
“—The day I hit Level 40, I gained a Skill. [I Walked the Crossroads of Izril].”
Pisces’ head snapped up, and Ceria stopped fighting with Yvlon over a grilled cheese sandwich. Satar scratched at her head.
“Wait. But that’s not the Skill or—key that Miss Solstice mentioned in her quest.”
Wer agreed, nodding.
“No. I think there must be a more permanent way. I just got the Skill. In fact, I’ve met a traveller on that road. Just one. Recently.”
“Who?”
“The Witch of Webs. She was coming with someone else, and she scared me almost to death.”
Everyone fell silent, and Theikha exhaled slowly.
“Many paths to the same place. What else should a crossroads be? You gained it with Skills because you had the need. The [Witch] knows the old ways. Why don’t you use it all the time?”
“Come to that, why didn’t you use it to get Mrsha around? You could have gone back to the inn, gotten all the way to the Meeting of Tribes, without even needing to hide from the Doomslayers!”
Yvlon frowned darkly, annoyed by this omission of logic as she saw it. Wer just glared back.
“Because it’s not safe! I would have rather dodged arrows with Mrsha in my arms than taken her to the Crossroads. Especially a child who doesn’t follow orders. The Crossroads are so damn dangerous around Liscor that I could barely use them to travel more than a few feet without risking my life. There are safe…areas…especially around the Great Plains. But around Liscor? It’s even more dangerous.”
Ksmvr raised an urgent hand.
“I feel the need to clarify now, please. How dangerous are we talking? Can we quantify this danger? I often feel ‘danger’ is insubstantial.”
