“My Queens, the sword of Klbkchhezeim has been stolen by a…[Thief]. He is currently investigating the matter, but it seems the Free Queen is unable to pursue.”
One of the great Antinium artifacts—the only one, really—was gone. Four Queens listened to the Grand Queen respectfully—well, sort of.
The Twisted Queen was half-turned, clearly busy on a project. The Silent Queen was working in her laboratory, which was acceptable, but the Armored Queen was literally reading a book, and the Flying Queen was eating! Their reaction to this event was…
“One sword has been stolen? Again? Very well, very well. We appreciate the update, Grand Queen.”
The Armored Queen looked up from her book and saluted with an antenna. The Twisted Queen muttered.
“Wrymvr will. Be told. Understood. Send him?”
“I stand ready to retrieve Klbkchhezeim’s sword, Grand Queen! Should I dispatch my Silent Antinium now? To which area?”
The Silent Queen looked agitated, as she always did when Klbkch lost his swords. The Flying Queen rubbed her feelers together.
“Yes, yes. I, as well. I could send a thousand flier-jumpers this moment. Of course, it’s not war yet, but we must have the sword back. When was the last time they stole them? Eleven years ago?”
The Grand Queen mused a moment, keeping them all in suspense of her wisdom. She got annoyed when none of them were hanging on her words.
“Prepare sixty Silent Antinium, Silent Queen, and if the area is acceptable, the Flying Queen shall unleash a mere two hundred of her subjects. We will not provoke the Drakes unduly, but the sword shall be recovered. The Free Queen will have the location from Klbkchhezeim shortly.”
“Yes, my Queen.”
They chorused, and the Grand Queen lifted a feeler.
“On that subject, I have been thinking of improvements to each Hive of late, and I believe another census should be taken. Let us, in this moment, have an impromptu inspection of each Hive’s readiness. Flying Queen, report the changes to your Hive in this last week.”
All four other Queens paused. It was not as if this were unusual, for they had to stay in contact to work together. But the mirrors that let them chat meant the Grand Queen could—and had—been checking on them more and more often.
Mental communication from Hive-to-Hive was harder, so she didn’t do it as much. The mirror made things easier, and so the monthly, and sometimes weekly or daily, meetings for hours on end had become regular. The Flying Queen hesitated a good ten seconds, then flicked her gaze to the right.
“Oh. I, uh—I’ve suddenly been attacked by monsters. Horrible ones. Hundreds.”
“What an issue. Should I send reinforcements? The Hives stand ready to assist.”
The Grand Queen sat up importantly, but the Flying Queen waved her feelers.
“I have it all under control, my Queen. I will just need to go—excuse me!”
“Oh. Well then, the Armored Queen—”
“I have an engagement with Anand, my Queen. Excuse me.”
“Then the Silent Queen—”
“I should prepare my Silent Antinium for battle. They require my exacting orders as this is an important matter, Grand Queen.”
The Silent Queen and Armored Queen vanished, and at this point, the Grand Queen began to catch on that they were doing it on purpose. She felt embarrassment, indignation, anger, and wished she could share it with them mentally. But to save face, she spoke quickly.
“This is understandable and I release you two to go about your business.”
Both Queens bowed their heads and vanished. The Grand Queen was left alone with a final Queen. The Twisted Queen, who unsettled even her. The two regarded each other, and to her credit…the Twisted Queen made no excuses.
She just cut the connection.
 
——
 
Insubordination. The Grand Queen fumed for an hour afterwards, dragging herself around her chambers and wondering if she should require weekly meetings from now on. The Free Queen was the worst of the lot. It was her rebellious attitude that had clearly leaked back to the Hivelands once they’d graciously made contact with her.
Was she talking with the other Queens behind the Grand Queen’s back? It would be just like her. So un-Antinium.
As for Klbkchhezeim’s sword…well, even the Grand Queen couldn’t muster that much indignation about the issue.
Klbkch lost his swords. The Antinium got them back. It was inconvenient, but even the Silent Queen was more just morally outraged that it had happened. Someone stole the swords, the Antinium killed them.
In fact…
“Queen?”
Wrymvr arrived with a single thought-word, landing like an explosion above the Grand Queen’s Hive. She thought-spoke brightly to him, proud he no longer intimidated her as he once had. The greatest defender of Queens was at her beck and call, even if he was largely with the Twisted Queen.
It was good to know he was still loyal.
“Ah, Wrymvr. Klbkchhezeim has lost his swords.”
“Again.”
“Yes! They require recovery. Prepare to recover them. They may be around Pallass.”
Wrymvr acknowledged the orders with a subtle flick of his mind. He held still a moment, ruminating, and then asked one more question.
“Attack the Walled City?”
Here was the thing Vetn and Bviora might not have anticipated. The Antinium didn’t do escalation. As Erin Solstice well knew…the Grand Queen thought judiciously.
“Not…yet. But if they are outside of the city, go ahead and slaughter anything in your way. Try to avoid their soldiers. I have sixty Silent Antinium and two hundred Flying Antinium to support you. Just get the sword back.”
“Understood. Waiting.”
He took off. And the Grand Queen thought that, once again, she had proven her political intrigue and decisiveness that showed why she led the Antinium.
It wasn’t even an ill-thought-out order, either. She was just working off her knowledge of how other species’ politics worked.
Here was how the Grand Queen viewed the issue based on her understanding of Izril:
 
1. Klbkchhezeim’s sword was stolen. This was an act of aggression against the Antinium. It had happened in a Drake city. Drakes were likely responsible as they had been all the other times.
2. Any act the Antinium committed to regain the sword was acceptable because it was his sword. Attacking Pallass was too much direct escalation, and Wrymvr alone would not manage it, so they would avoid direct confrontation.
3. This all fell in line with previous thefts and reclamations of the sword, so it was unlikely to cause a fuss.
 
Where her logic fell apart from a non-Antinium perspective was this:
 
1. Not all non-Antinium were alike. In this case, a Gnoll and Human had stolen the sword.
2. It wasn’t war, so this would be seen as an unprovoked attack, especially if Wrymvr went after a Drake city.
3. No one had any idea the sword was stolen, for the general populace at least.
 
The Grand Queen was oblivious to these salient facts that only the Free Queen might understand and conceivably communicate. Well, her and Xrn.
It was one of the reasons why the Antinium were so difficult for the Drakes to deal with. Their regard for the Drakes often lacked nuance. What one Walled City did, they all did, which was either Antinium ignorance…or surprising prescience on their part.
At any rate, things wouldn’t escalate further if they had no idea where the sword was. The problem was that the Antinium had means and that the sword’s theft involved more than just the fate of Klbkch’s armaments.
The Grand Queen received a [Message] addressed specifically to her, and she read it in her quarters.
 
To the Antinium. I am the Thief of Clouds, and I have stolen the sword of the Slayer. I intend to cast it into the sea where it will be lost forever unless my simple demand is met:
Trade me the Eye of Baleros, and I swear I will return the sword. A relic for a relic.
Otherwise, the blade of the Slayer will be lost forever.
 
The Custodium who had delivered the [Message] was made in Klbkch’s image and bore replicas of his blades, albeit plain steel rather than the chitin of his blades. The Grand Queen’s sense of urgency heightened markedly after receiving the [Message].
“This is not appropriate. This is not good. Losing a blade is unacceptable; they can no longer be remade outside of Rhir. Wrymvr, prepare to attack as soon as we find the location of the thieves. My Queens, to me!”
She summoned them again, and all four reappeared reluctantly.
“My Queen? I am still fighting monsters—”
“I am. Busy.”
They began to make excuses, but the Grand Queen snapped.
“Be silent. This situation has escalated. I have just been threatened by the thief. They plan on tossing the sword into the sea unless we trade them some object in return.”
All the Queens grew alarmed at that. Stealing the swords had always been a Drake idea, but they’d stolen the blades to research or just lock them up or use them. Losing one of Klbkchhezeim’s swords?
That was a problem. Instantly, she had their focus, and the Grand Queen was happy about that.
“I shall send Anand over at once for strategic input, my Queen. Who is this ‘Thief of Clouds’?”
“Researching…my records indicate a Gnoll.”
“Hired by the Drakes? How many armies should we send, Grand Queen?”
She held up a feeler, thinking fast.
“Armies are slow. If this is analogous to the Courier of Izril situation, Wrymvr and a strike-force is mandatory. I will prepare a dozen Custodium to engage with as many Silent Antinium and Flying Antinium as can be mustered. Prepare ten thousand to swarm and your finest to accompany Wrymvr directly, Flying Queen. Your soldiers are too slow, Armored Queen.”
They acknowledged. At this point, the Twisted Queen could offer whatever unique forces she had, but she clearly felt like Wrymvr alone was the best option from her Hive. The Grand Queen nodded as she reassessed the situation.
“If need be, we will strike Pallass, but the odds are this ‘Thief of Clouds’ will head to the sea to effect the displacement of the blade. We will attack whenever they are located. I have sent a missive to the Free Queen apprising her the situation has now changed.”
The Queens agreed this was very good. But then the Armored Queen raised a feeler.
“What did the Thief of Clouds want in return, Grand Queen? Is it more effective to trade for the object requested?”
The Grand Queen clacked her mandibles, annoyed.
“Some object. An ‘Eye of Baleros’? I do not know what it is. I have asked if Xrn recalls. If we have it, I will trade it…consult your own treasuries. Perhaps we have it?”
She had no idea. The Queens began to ask what the heck this ‘Eye’ was anyways, and at this point, the Grand Queen was glad Anand was being sent. He might know.
She regarded all of her actions thus far as logical, measured, calm given the circumstances, and entirely justifiable given what was being threatened. So did the other Queens.
Anand was currently, right now, running and screaming at the Free Queen via a speaking stone, because the two had definite and serious understandings of what might happen if the Grand Queen’s plan went through. That screaming only got louder when it turned out that the Antinium knew exactly where Bviora and Vetn were.
The Lightning Thief’s daughter may have understood something of the Antinium, but she did not expect they were both more intelligent and more different than she could imagine.
 
——
 
In Liscor, Klbkch was wildly unaware of how far the Grand Queen was preparing to go. And unfortunately, he might not have cared if he knew.
He really wanted his sword back. It was the blade that defined him, which the First Queen had made. If you asked him whether war with the Drakes was an acceptable cost for getting his sword back? He might say, ‘how many Walled Cities’?
He was so furious that when he strode into the room where a blue Centenium was teaching her apprentices magic, even Xrn didn’t first lance him with a scathing remark.
“Klbkch. What is wrong?”
She turned, and a flickering light of many colors illuminated the room. The rock and dirt was stained with her magic, and her wound, the tear across her head that Facestealer had caused, leaked her magic.
Yet she was still Xrn. And she still had most of her old body.
“My sword has been stolen. By a [Thief] I have to assume was at least Level 50. No…two thieves. Both seemed weaker, but one was faster than I was with my [Recaptured Sublimity] Skill.”
Xrn, the Small Queen, processed the information. Then shrugged.
“Again? Klbkchhezeim, you should have let me enchant them to return to you.”
“Magic is visible. Your enchantments are not good enough. My blades deserve better.”
He was in no mood for the old argument. Xrn raised her staff to hit him, then took pity. He was having a bad day. She exhaled.
“I will find them. Give me a few minutes…do you think the Grand Queen will send an attack force?”
Klbkch shrugged moodily.
“I will go myself if I can. They escaped to Pallass. But I will use the tunnels if I must. Or perhaps Erin can move her teleportation door outside of the Walled City.”
“Are you going to cause an international incident, Klbkch?”
“They. Stole. My Sword.”
Fair enough. Xrn lifted her staff, and the Antinium watching her expected her to cast some great magic. A [Thaumaturge]’s weird power, a spell long lost. But Xrn did not do these things.
Part of the reason why Drakes had never managed to keep the Slayer’s swords and given up was because they were always located. Entrenched vaults had been broken into and looted during the Antinium Wars, and the Drakes had realized stealing the blades was more trouble than it was worth.
They had thought—like Bviora—that it was the Antinium’s Listeners that did the job. And Bviora and Vetn were not speaking about the swords, or Antinium, and keeping very careful to not even speak much if possible in case their voices could be monitored.
They didn’t realize Listeners weren’t good at focusing on a single voice in an entire city and that they couldn’t even ‘hear’ Pallass from here. Rather, Xrn took a far easier approach. She lifted her staff and began to expand her magical radius. That was what took most of her power. The spell?
The spell was easy.
“[Resonance: Chitrx Metal]. Searching…it may take me half an hour to scour the continent.”
“Very well. Thank you, Xrn.”
She smiled. Klbkch’s blade at his side began to hum, a sound that was faint, then grew until it filled the room. Its twin, across the continent, also began to resonate, and at that point, two [Thieves] began to get very, very worried.
“Are you going to kill them when you find them?”
While she tracked down the source of the other humming, Xrn made small-talk with Klbkch.
