“You’re not going through. You want a war with Pallass? That’s how it starts. Now, explain what’s going on!”
“I don’t know. They stole my swords—my sword, I got one back—and then used a Skill on me. Do not obstruct me, Erin.”
“I’m not obstructing you, I’m keeping you from entering Pallass and starting an international incident!”
Erin shouted back, and she meant it. Vetn and Bviora had a method that Erin was seeing now.
They could have gone to several places to escape Klbkch. Celum, Invrisil…but only one would actively stifle his pursuit.
Pallass. Klbkch couldn’t go through there, and Drake lands were actively hostile to a roving Antinium. But what was their plan?
“They have my sword. I want it back, Erin. It is…my sword. The First Queen made it for me.”
Klbkch’s voice was flat, dangerous. His hand opened and closed, and Erin looked at him.
“I know. I don’t know why Vetn did that—but I didn’t know. Don’t kill him.”
“I want my sword. I am going to get it back. I need…the Listeners will not be much use unless they heard a conversation. Excuse me. I need to talk to someone.”
Klbkch spun, and Erin wondered if Vetn and his friend were in Pallass…or if they’d kept running. For their sakes, she hoped they’d gone further.
This might be really, really bad. Erin had no idea what Vetn’s plan was, but even if you assumed he knew the risks, he clearly thought there was something he’d get out of this.
Here was the thing: he might think he knew the risks, but he didn’t know Antinium like Erin did. Klbkch’s sword was one of the few things they valued. Vetn hadn’t just made an enemy of Klbkch.
He’d made an enemy out of all the Antinium, and they didn’t escalate things. They started at maximum and pushed things from there.
 
——
 
The incident of Klbkch’s stolen sword would later be noted as a part of history because of what happened as a result. But in the moment, it wasn’t something that grabbed much attention.
“Hey, guys, guess what? Someone just stole Klbkch’s sword.”
Ceria Springwalker went hurrying to find the Horns after a very brief, frantic call with Erin, who was looking stressed again. She found absolutely zero of her companions in their tent where they were preparing for their journey. Just Wer.
“Where’s my team?”
He grunted.
“They ran off since you’re done preparing. You tell me.”
Ceria sighed.
Here was the thing about objectionable personality traits. Everyone had them. Absolutely everyone. Erin was almost all traits that you could love—if you weren’t on the receiving end of them.
For instance, she didn’t respect authority. People thought Ryoka was a rebel? Erin was uprising incarnate sometimes. In the same way, you had to admit that the Horns of Hammerad…had some annoying personalities.
Case in point, Ceria Springwalker. She was a [Prankster], a trickster, ate bugs, wore a circlet of dubious morality, and she was the person her team agreed was the best to be their captain.
Ceria’s issues were well-documented. But the Horns plus Colth had more issues still.
For instance, Pisces hadn’t actually gone off right away. Rather, he had been talking with Chieftain Feshi about buying gear when she’d, unprompted, asked if he’d toured the entire Meeting of Tribes.
“Many of the old tents and tribes are gone, but we have been working on a permanent set of buildings. Whether or not we will one day make them in stone—have you seen them all, Pisces?”
“I—cannot say I’ve toured them extensively, Chieftain Feshi.”
She grinned and pointed to one series of tents that Pisces saw had steam rising nonstop in the winter.
“Ah, then, we have been remiss hosts! You should try that tent—Gaarh Marsh set up a wonderful bathing spot. A natural hot spring, no less. We should have offered all the Horns a chance to use it.”
“Oh, how lovely.”
Pisces eyed the tent, then nodded politely at Feshi.
“I am sure we could use it soon. Perhaps before we go? Or after.”
“…We could offer you a moment now, Pisces. In fact, I think it’s been recently cleaned. A hot bath sounds delightful while you wait for your reply, yes?”
It did…but Pisces thought about it for a second.
“I don’t know if this is the moment, but certainly soon, Chieftain Feshi.”
She hesitated, and only then did Pisces realize Feshi wasn’t just making small-talk. The Chieftain inhaled, sneezed, and then gave Pisces a serious look.
“—Would it be hurtful if I insisted you use our services? I have not said much on…whatever happened last night, Adventurer Pisces, as Theikha assures me it is well. But I will say that it might help the tribes…”
And then Pisces realized that she was referring to his smell and turned beet red.
“I, er—I use [Cleanse]—and I assure you, Feshi—”
She gave him a big smile.
“I am sure you do! But perhaps cleansing oneself in a more thorough manner would help? We have soap and towels.”
“But I washed! Colth was there—and Gamur—”
Feshi gave Pisces a longer stare.
“Hrr. Indeed? How fascinating. I think only one person need use the bathing tents, though perhaps they could give you tips?”
Pisces’ face went slack, then crimson. That was, perhaps, the first time in his life that he learned that he didn’t know how to wash himself. At least, enough to fool a Gnoll’s nose.
 
——
 
The [Necromancer] practically ran to the bathing tent, which was how he and Yvlon ended up being missing. Yvlon decided she needed a bath in the female’s tent, because Berr wasn’t ready to train her, and Ksmvr was doing something Yvlon regarded as too boring to endure.
So, lacking the ability to train and without anything else to do, she decided bathing was as good a use of her time as any.
Aside from her issues in managing her temper, Yvlon Byres’ issue was that Gnolls did not immediately approach her with offers to do something if she was alone. And her problem, as Nailren had learned on their journey, was that Yvlon Byres was somehow…boring.
It was strange. But here was an example. When Yvlon, a seasoned Gold-rank adventurer with metal arms who’d murdered an Adult Creler with a broken sword—talked to, say, Chieftain Adetr Steelfur, she was polite and cordial. Then she asked, ‘if I’m not being offensive, how do you think the Steelfur tribe will do without your late Chieftain’s Skills?’
Which was…reasonable. But then she’d turn to Rose, who was right there ready to discuss the future of Gnolls, the power of technology, Krshia’s upgrade Skill, the inn, and say, ‘Rose, how have you found living among the Gnoll tribes? Is it different from living in Liscor?’
And the eyes of her fellow conversationalists would glaze over, and they would long for death.
It was actually amazing. Colth, when observing Yvlon’s actions, had decided to assign her a negative charisma score.
It was part of his system of numbers and values. He’d thought long and hard about it, but his conclusion was that Yvlon’s ‘charisma’, her personality as it influenced how people perceived her, was made up of multiple factors.
You could argue her level and status as a [Lady] offered her tangential benefits, but they were outside influences to ‘Yvlon’ herself, so he counted it as bonus modifiers. Yvlon Byres, as a woman, if you didn’t have the knowledge of why her class mattered, was one thing.
If you were a northern Izrilian, the [Lady] part mattered, but since it was down to cultural knowledge and individual preference, it was therefore a bonus.
He liked that logic. Yvlon, therefore, had a charisma derived from several values. Appearance was one thing. It was, despite what people liked to say. She was well-spoken, polite—
But she sometimes said the dumbest things imaginable. No, not dumb—boring. And she alternated between mind-numbingly bad questions or her temper. So he gave her a -2 score and left it at that.
It was almost as if Yvlon was afraid to be personable or she didn’t know how. She was quite charming if you got to know her, but that was one of her flaws.
Anyways, Colth was working on revising his system of numbers and variables because he and Rose had met, and she was telling him all about this fascinating system.
“So a score of ‘10’ is equal to 0. But 12 would be…”
“+1. I think. I only played a few games, but I think it’s because you have a range of numbers so it’s not just increasing with every single value.”
“Ah, I see. No, it makes sense. But explain to me why Wisdom and Intellect are there. What about creativity? Bravery?”
“I mean, it’s a game. How complex do you want it to be?”
Rose and Colth were wandering around the Meeting of Tribes, and the [Supporter] glanced up from taking notes.
“…More.”
That wasn’t his bad personality, by the way. The numbers thing that Colth preached was not the most annoying thing about him. It was…his crowd-pleaser aspect.
Unlike Pisces, Colth could properly wash himself. So the smell wasn’t an issue. But even then, he had noticed his bar-encounter had made Gnolls warier of him, reminded of who the Named-rank adventurer was.
The problem was that Colth liked being liked. It was an obsession with him. So, after sensing his social credit score had fallen—he had hurried over and asked to use a cooking tent and come out with a bunch of baked goods from Liscor.
Cookies. A banana cream pie. Milkshakes…all the stuff that he’d picked up from Erin’s inn.
All the sugary, highly addictive foods including burgers.
He had then proceeded to hand the food out to every Gnoll he met. Why was this an issue? Well, possibly because the Meeting of Tribes was still a place where you had work and lunch—and so a bunch of annoyed Gnoll [Cooks] found people weren’t hungry for the food they’d worked so hard on.
And a bunch of adult Gnolls were currently dealing with Gnollish cubs on their first sugar-high, causing havoc.
Theikha had sent Gamur to go hit Colth a few times.
 
——
 
The last member of the Horns was Ksmvr. He was currently returning to Honored Deskie’s tent with lunch. The [Magical Spinner] was surprised.
“Ksmvr, you do not have to keep knitting here, much less keep running errands for us. Your team is elsewhere, is it not?”
Ksmvr put down the huge basket of food and, after passing it out, sat down with his first project. He answered as he sat next to Deskie’s rocking chair.
“This is very true, Honored Deskie. But if Gamur, a Named-rank adventurer, did things for you, so should I because I am a mere Gold-rank novice and should learn from his example. Respecting your elders is a Gnollish idea I am new to. I do not respect my elders in Liscor. Mostly because it was only Klbkch, and I don’t like him anymore. I used to.”
The Gnolls eyed each other as Ksmvr bent over his task. He could eat and knit with his four hands as he chattered, an enviable ability.
“Therefore I do not have an elder to respect except Ceria, and she gets annoyed if I call her old. May I respect you, Honored Deskie?”
“Hrr. Mm. Yes, I believe so.”
She turned faintly red under her fur, then eyed Ksmvr’s work.
“You are learning quite well. But do you truly wish to learn to knit with your time?”
Ksmvr nodded happily.
“Knitting can make clothing or other textiles. Therefore it is a valuable skill to learn. Am I correct? Please let me know if I am incorrect.”
For a response, Deskie patted him affectionately on the head.
“What a good child. Are all Antinium like you?”
Ksmvr tilted his head.
“I do not know. But perhaps they could be.”
The Antinium had plenty of bad qualities, like his self-effacing behavior. His obsession to collect trees. His…
By the time Ceria picked up her team, the Gnolls seemed happy to be rid of the Horns for the moment. Except for Ksmvr, who was wearing a new knitted beanie with two holes for his antennae and was returned to her with strict injunctions that he come back safely. Or else.
The half-Elf regarded her shamefaced team and sighed.
“Okay. Are we done wandering around? Or are we ready to check out the Crossroads?”
The Horns looked at each other, and Yvlon hefted a pack, Pisces swept back washed hair, and Ksmvr nodded. Colth grimaced as he pointed to Shedrkh’s tent.
“Shame the armor isn’t fully done, but I’ve got the helmet, and we’ll take it slow, in waves. Let’s go.”
He nodded at Ceria, and they went to find Wer. Here was the thing about adventurers: they tended to have at least one bad character trait. Named-ranks had multiple flaws. But adventurers could put it all aside—at least, the ones that lived could—in order to do what they did best:
Survive.
The Horns of Hammerad and Colth the Supporter entered the Crossroads of Izril first.
It was no advantage.
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad vanished into the air. At the same time, Vetn and Bviora put themselves on the map.
Someone had stolen the Slayer’s blade.
That was the kind of news every single [Spy] clustering around The Wandering Inn was glad for. Finally, some actual damn news. Not the beach. Not reporting on whatever a boba tea was and having to take a cup to a local [Confectioner] and getting the recipe down for some hungry, trendy court nobles.
Theft and political drama. Thank you!
In fact, their reports actually preceded the Antinium’s awareness of the situation. That was because the Free Queen had to communicate via mirror whereas the [Spies] could just dash off a [Message]. Worse, the Free Queen had to endure the Grand Queen’s pettiness and break off her actually important research.
“They stole your sword?”
Xevccha tried her best. But the problem with mental communications was that sometimes your feelings leaked. It was more efficient and dangerous for the same reason because if you wanted to keep secrets, it was difficult.
So in this case, along with the facts she was getting from a very angry/upset/slightly betrayed Klbkch was the nuance that he felt like Erin was not supporting him, he was insecure about Fetohep replacing him as a wise old legend—which he seemed to believe was his image with Erin and the inn—and he was worried Xrn was going to make fun of him.
In the Free Queen’s case, she tried to be supportive. But she accidentally leaked…again? Really? This is rather inconvenient for me at the moment.
Which hurt his feelings. Sometimes, Xevccha reflected, it would have been better not to know Klbkch’s foibles and thoughts. Better to worship him as the Slayer beyond reproof or question, that silver blade of the Antinium.
Then again, these shifts in moods were new. There had been a time when making contact with Klbkch was like touching ice. A focused razor of intent.
“I shall inform the Grand Queen at once, Klbkchhezeim. Is it your intention to pursue?”
“I cannot. They are in Pallass. I must locate my sword—I am going to speak with Xrn.”
