“I see the Slayer of the Antinium has emerged once again to bring wisdom and grace unto the world…or at least as much of it as he can muster. Greetings, Klbkchhezeim of the Free Antinium, Revalantor of the Free Hive. I would offer you Khelt’s largesse, if you had the decorum to accept.”
Fetohep might give way to Erin, but not to someone who questioned Khelt’s age. Klbkch, just tilted his head slightly.
“Good day to you, Your Majesty of Khelt. Are you a Revenant Undead? I confess to being fascinated to be meeting you.”
Fetohep’s eyes flashed as the [Librarian] gasped in outrage.
“You may address me as such, crude as it would be to say. As I would label you ‘Antinium’ or ‘insect species’, such broad categories exist.”
Klbkch tilted his head right and left, unimpressed by the tone as Erin tried to push him off frame.
“Klbkch clearly got up on the wrong side of the bed. Fetohep, he’s a friend of mine…and normally…nice.”
She failed to move him one whit, and Klbkch had locked eyes with Fetohep.
“As I said: fascinating. You might be the sixth Revenant I’ve ever met, then. Terminology is so difficult, and the Antinium have no large view of undead as it’s difficult to raise our bodies with death magic. But I believe I have met five sentient undead with Skills, then. When I ventured out as an adventurer. I killed three of them myself.”
Oooh. All the Antinium stared and sat forwards as story-time progressed. Forget the beach! This was the real stuff!
Even Fetohep hesitated at that, but he was used to swinging egos, including his own, and sneered politely.
“A Revenant is no equivalent to a King of Khelt.”
Klbkch brushed at one arm with his fingers.
“Perhaps. But I do recall one had a crown, so the difference is lost upon me. It was, as I personally recall, a strange kingdom of undead bodies—I took them for another species at first, though communication was impossible even with the ‘king’ because we had no commonality of language. They did have Skills, though. A shame, or perhaps your ancient histories of greater kingdoms would let you recall who they had been.”
Oh snap. Erin gave up on the call and just stomped off to the side, grumbling about idiots. Fetohep’s golden flames reduced, the equivalent of him narrowing his eyes. He paused, then returned.
“Then I count upon you, Slayer, for a full and complete accounting of the Crossroads of Izril. Royal Librarian, take note. Nay, convene our [Scribes]! Let us write a more complete history now, based on the truest source and finest and most accurate mind. Enlighten us all as to the true nature of the Crossroads of Izril, Slayer!”
He stood, gesturing for his servants, and Klbkch—hesitated. He raised a hand as servants rushed about.
“The Crossroads of Izril are on Izril. I was on Rhir.”
“Ah, a learned scholar who knew much of the world. You, who predate the Creler Wars, surely know about some aspect of Izril we have forgotten to note. Tell me about the last Dragonlords and their politics that danced Walled Cities to their dooms. How did the Five Families first arrive on Izril?”
Klbkch’s authority within the Hive was waning and Fetohep’s beginning to wax as the balance of power shifted. Who had better stories? The Antinium were growing restless, and yet…
Could Klbkch rally? He was thinking hard and fast, and Erin was watching him while stealing jerky from Mrsha, to the Gnoll’s stupefied outrage. But Klbkch did brighten up. He theatrically found a chair and took a seat, crossing his legs and regarding Fetohep with the Antinium version of a smile.
“I may not have ever gone to Izril, but I am well familiar with dimensional travel. For instance, the Horns of Hammerad surely know, as do you, that casting [Teleport] within the Crossroads would be highly destabilizing if they even managed it. Which is why you certainly included that in your list of precautions?”
“…Indeed, it must have slipped my mind.”
Klbkch stretched his arms.
“Oh, of course. But as I remember, when I was taking Xrn through our own dimensional tunnel that was filled with damn eggs, they began to hatch. Whether or not they were ‘Face Eater Moths’, I doubt—these ones were more like dimensional moth-spawn. She attempted to use [Lesser Teleport], and the rift it caused began to suck everything into oblivion. Not to another place, you understand; she collapsed the entire dimension. Granted, it was a small one, contained in a single cube, hence the spawn flooding out from their safe haven, but doubtless imploding dimensions is an everyday threat. Which is why it slipped your mind.”
Fetohep drummed his fingers on his throne.
“Your concern, Slayer, is well noted. And your anecdotal accounts of another dimension are doubtless helpful…if anyone wanted to contrast wildly different experiences.”
“Wildly different.”
Klbkch pretended to look shocked. Then his antennae began to twitch, and he laughed.
“Well, I suppose it is. Though it occurs to me just now—some of the bodies we discovered were definitely from other nations. So I suppose I know nothing of the world after all, King of Khelt. And that giant flying lizard’s corpse was just some strange Wyvern. Not anything else.”
The room went quiet. Fetohep paused, and Klbkch folded his hands behind his head.
“Strange. If I recall correctly, it did have something like a key in its possession. A crest, though it was so old and it was so foreign I never connected it to the living Walled Cities. But perhaps that’s what a key looks like? It certainly unlocked the Dragon’s possessions.”
His head slowly turned, and Erin Solstice stared at Klbkch as everyone in the room turned to her. And Klbkch leaned forwards so far he nearly fell out of his seat, but theatrically.
“I’m sure the Horns shouldn’t look for a crest as opposed to, say, a physical ‘key’. Or a divot where it would rest and therein activate what is lost. This is all useless information, isn’t it, Your Majesty?”
Fetohep was darkly silent. Even he knew when he was taking horrific losses in battle, and Klbkch was only getting warmed up.
“Klbkch. You mean you actually saw a Dragon…?”
Relc’s voice was trembling, but Klbkch affected not to notice. He did turn and look at his audience.
“…I cannot say how old it was. For some corpses never decay beyond a certain point. What I can say is this: when we dug, we found layers. Layers and layers, as if civilizations had been buried and we were tunneling through them. Unsystematically, you understand. Since we had no conception of up or down, having never seen the sky, we went through some areas diagonal to their construction, so we would run across one corridor and then another that were from different eras or periods in time—we could have searched more organically.”
At this point, Fetohep sensed an opening and remarked in a snide comment, forgetting his authority rested on his regality. Like an overeager [Pikeman] charging into the fray for the first time, disgraceful, really.
“One would assume gravity would have provided a basis for direction. But far be it from me to lecture the Antinium on basic physics.”
Klbkch paused and turned as the Antinium oohed and looked at him. But rather than take offense, he just smiled.
“Gravity? The further down you go, the less your so-called gravity exists. I would expect nothing less from a mere king of six hundred years who has never delved more than a thousand feet underground.”
Oooooh! Valeterisa was almost falling out of her seat! How? Why? What was he talking about? Fetohep didn’t react visibly, but Erin could tell that one had landed. Klbkch paused, theatrically, then went on.
“That is not an ignorance of gravity, incidentally. Some of the Centenium mastered gravity-attacks, but Galuc once suspected the world would implode from the inside-out were it not for the reduced pressure. Too much damn water flowing down there. It certainly meant that we had less conception of direction at times—consider that if we believed gravity was lessening, we considered that ‘up’ and went the wrong way for centuries. Physics make more sense on the surface. The First Queen was quite put out when she realized we were in an exception. But I digress.”
He stood up and began to pace back and forth as everyone listened, enjoying his moment.
“Corruption? Simple decay or other species inhabiting the remnants of civilization is not unknown to me, an adventurer. The sentient Silverfish are a good example of what ignorants term ‘corruption’ overtaking areas. I would go as far as to say that Antinium are a new species born out of old ruins. It also made identifying what a place had been difficult. But that was how I found the corpse that might have been a Dragon’s, yes. Let me set the stage.”
He turned and produced a water flask, now speaking to the Antinium.
“Water. At that point in our history—millenia, perhaps, before the Creler Wars and Khelt’s founding—Galuc had just been created for the first true Grand Hive of the First Queen. We had encountered foes of such magnitude that it was clear mere stone, dirt, or chitin as we employed was no longer strong enough, and true armies of Antinium were being founded who could do a Centenium’s job. However, the issue of imperium became less about safety—but continued growth and maintaining so many numbers. And the thing that plagued us most was…”
“Water.”
His audience chorused, and Fetohep rolled his eyes, annoyed. Klbkch nodded.
“Unlike the leaks in my last story, which ended with me sinking through the sea before being rescued—”
“As unto an amateur adventurer.”
Fetohep muttered, and Klbkch raised his voice.
“—I was selected to take Galuc and other experts to source a precious, if later mundane, resource for the Antinium: purified water. I am sure Khelt also had access to an infinite supply of the stuff?”
He turned, and Fetohep stared at him as Nanette clapped her hands in wonder.
“Infinite? How?”
Klbkch smiled at the witch.
“Well, obviously, we found something that purifies water. We had long since found a stream that monsters fought over, but I was tasked with following it to the source. This was a dangerous journey; the other monsters and even not-Antinium of older ages fought over such resources, and so six Centenium and a thousand of our finest warforms were selected to back me up. But Antinium prefer to clear the way with elites, rather than, say, an undead kingdom that can only send armies of undead ahead and overwhelm via numbers.”
At this point, Fetohep was seriously mulling over local [Assassins] and bounty-standards in the area. Erin had a headache, and Klbkch was getting into it.
“The purified water flowed past a tribe of semi-peaceful moss folk. Perhaps Moss Elementals? Certainly, they were more powerful than just…Moss Golems if such a thing existed. But any step into their territory they regarded as an attack. Yet, I had made contact with them before and knew the way. So as they gathered, wary of such an army, I decided to offer peace; they did not pollute the water, and it could be shared, if we secured the source itself. So I took this very blade, which is older than Khelt’s entire kingdom many times over, and raised it over my head like so.”
Klbkch unsheathed his sword dramatically and lifted it over his head. Then he paused.
His audience had been watching Klbkch, spellbound, and Klbkch hesitated because…
The weight was mostly right. It was balanced well, as any good sword would be, but he knew his swords by heart. His blade was lighter. And the gleam of the metal was wrong. His blade was silver.
This one was steel. It had a gradient to it down both sides, unlike his perfectly flat blades, which curved near the tip, and it was less sharp.
How had he…? Klbkch stared at the blade, and an hour had already passed. The Skill’s window of effect was over, and he had just noticed the theft.
Memory flooded back, and Klbkch stared at the fake sword by his side—yanked out the one on his left, and saw his sword.
The other was missing. It had been stolen. He remembered what they had done.
Most of the audience didn’t even understand why Klbkch had frozen. Even Erin just frowned and wondered why his sword looked less shiny. But Fetohep of Khelt knew. He stared at the sword Klbkch was holding—and raised his goblet. Fetohep took a drink of his ethereal liquor and remarked in a carrying tone.
“My, that exact blade? I feel, even for a young king of a newborn nation, that must be inaccurate. That looks like an ordinary steel sword to me. Slayer, have your eyes grown weak with age? Pray tell—have you misplaced your sword?”
Klbkch slowly looked up and tried to smile.
“Aha. Will you excuse me? I just remembered I have someone to kill.”
He turned and spoke.
“Erin? Your friend Vetn stole my sword. I am going to, with respect to your guests—murder him.”
Then he began running, and Erin shot out of her chair. She had expected something—but this?
“He did what? Vetn did—wait, Klbkch! He stole your—? Wait!”
The room erupted into chaos as Klbkch took off running, and Fetohep sat on his throne as someone shot from his chair and shouted.
“Vetn?”
Tesy had been looking happier since the beach and his chance to show off his art skills. But he realized he hadn’t seen Vetn at the beach since—he got up and ran, and Fetohep, removed from it all, crooked a finger.
“Have the [Spies] report to me in real time what is going on. Fire any of the ones who are not aware something is occurring. Oh, and note the Slayer’s great lesson of history and this moment down. It would not do for his history to be lost. Publish a book once we have the full story on the theft of his sword. I am sure the Thief of Clouds might well be as popular as the Lightning Thief.”
 
——
 
One hour was a long time. Not long for some tasks, true, but for a [Thief]?
One free hour to escape in was…a high-level Skill that most would trade a fortune for, or a hand. It was everything.
In one hour, Vetn and Bviora had used every second of it well. By the time Klbkch came tearing out of Liscor and went to track them down, he was too late.
They were well out of Liscor. Not via any gate; they had gone straight to The Wandering Inn, and from there?
“Pallass? Are you sure?”
Liska nervously checked her list.
“Yep. They’ve been going every day. W-why? You, uh, okay, Guardsman Klbkch?”
He stared at the door, and the wary [Guards] in the checkpoint eyed the Slayer. Erin, who was clutching at her side and back, having run after Klbkch, gasped.
“Don’t go through there. Kel! Lock down! Klbkch’s pissed!”
“Lock down! Lock the—”
Klbkch spun on Erin, but the [Guards] instantly panicked. The gates slammed, and Erin pointed at Klbkch.
