 
Klbkch slammed his hands on Garry’s counter, making the shop rock slightly, then paused. Garry had retreated back for his rolling pin in case he had to fight for his life against an aggrieved customer—a danger that had never occurred to him before—when both paused.
Someone had fallen over in the street behind Klbkch. The Antinium turned, and all of the fresh cookies spilled out of a bag as Vetn sagged onto the ground.
The slim Gnoll had just keeled over. Klbkch turned as Garry’s antennae waved.
“Vetn?”
He was clutching at his side, and Klbkch strode over along with Xitegen. The [Lord] hesitated, then offered Vetn a hand.
“Are you alright, fellow?”
Vetn’s face was white under his fur, and he flinched—then Klbkch hauled him up with Xitegen.
“Be careful on icy roads, Mister Vetn. There you are. A shame about your cookies—”
“Th-thanks. I’m fine—”
Vetn backed away and nearly fell over again. Klbkch instantly went to steady him.
“Are you well? Sick? I could take you to the inn—”
“No, I’m—I’ll be fine.”
Vetn held himself against a wall and then began to walk off. He moved faster and was striding down the snowy street in moments. Klbkch paused, tilted his head, and went back to Garry.
“You see, Garry? That is a lack of proper gratitude for my concern. Which I feel like is similar to your attitude. If you recall, I helped you become an Individual, and some deference and support in my trying times would be appreciated—”
Garry put his head in his hands. All four of them.
 
——
 
By the time Relc and Valeterisa found Klbkch, Erin was speaking to Fetohep of Khelt. The bad qualities about both old men was that they loved telling stories.
“Ah, the Crossroads of Izril. Of course, Khelt knows of them. We predate the Creler Wars, after all. And since you have reminded me, it is within my authority and knowledge to speak of both the Crossroads and the Death of Magic. If you require more detailed texts, I shall convene my [Historians] to peruse our libraries. They have survived most cataclysmic events and should be replete with knowledge.”
“Right. So do you know anything?”
Fetohep hesitated as Erin Solstice stood in her [World’s Eye Theatre]. To the audience, sitting in the seats, he was reflected in the dome overhead, standing, adorned today in his customary robes of state.
Ulvama had appeared after all, but only because her broadcast had ended. And despite Erin’s best efforts, there were a bunch of Antinium in the seats, Mrsha and all her friends—and now Relc and Valeterisa.
Only trusted guests of the inn, but still. Fetohep was aware he had an audience and was displeased by Erin’s attitude.
“I remind you, Innkeeper Solstice, that you come to Exalted Khelt for a favor. Courtesy is not insisted upon, but requested.”
She gave him a bright smile that he really should have recognized. Erin still had some salsa on her, and she was worried about her friends, the Horns, going into a dangerous place. The insistence on decorum…Erin stared at the ceiling for a good twenty seconds as her lips moved. Then she fixed Fetohep with a polite, half-smile and inclined her head two inches in the barest nod. Ulvama noticed Erin’s back straighten and adopt a rigid posture, as if being hung from above.
Ooh. Interesting. Who had taught her that? Even her tone sounded suddenly more lugubrious and poised, precise.
“Your Majesty of Khelt, we apologize for our lack of decorum. Ere it be said less plainly: we are about the great business of boon companions in jeopardy of life and limb, as adventurers often are. We would consider it a fair boon between seats of power for you to indulge all and sundry of your great wisdom. A favor that shall be remembered, by the Flame of Memory!”
He hesitated as Lyonette sat up with great interest and Hethon and Sammial tilted their heads. Wait a second…Fetohep’s eyes dimmed a moment.
That was more formal, but she was addressing him in a stylistic tone befitting two monarchs talking! Erin gave Fetohep a dangerous look.
You want to play this game? I can play this game. Admittedly, Khelta would have given it a mere 6/10 and only for the surprise factor, but it worked.
Then again, the Eternal King of Khelt, Protector of Jecrass, Fetohep of Khelt who’d earned a 4/10 himself…backed down instantly. Fetohep retreated to his throne, sat down, and lifted an empty goblet theatrically.
“I have often said that an [Innkeeper] is a monarch unto their own domain. Often said. For an exalted heroine of Khelt, we should not stand on such time-wasting addresses, Erin. What do I know, directly? Well, this may be slightly tangential, but I can confirm Silvenia of the Demons would have knowledge of the Crossroads. She was born, as you say, during the last great conflict. And she had visited each continent in the world before turning fifty, an astonishing feat for a half-Elf of her time.”
“Oh, so she was telling the truth?”
Erin had gotten an abridged version of the letter, and her guests stirred at Silvenia’s name, but Fetohep didn’t find the Death of Magic as immediately terrifying as most. If anything, his eyes lit up in genuine pleasure.
“Indeed. That is not even mere supposition based on history, you know. She would have come during the era of Razzimir, who—”
“Pioneered his famous arrows after refusing to help. Yes, yes. He was very guilty about it. He wore bramble shawls with the names of the dead in penance for decades. I know, I know.”
Erin looked exasperated, and Fetohep paused.
“He…did?”
“Isn’t that in the history books? Khelt’s rulers love to talk about their history. Bramble shawls, pilgrimages to every nation where he asked people to throw things at him or take out their grief—it sort of feels like he overplayed things a bit, you know? What’s this got to do with Silvenia?”
It occurred to Fetohep that he really needed Satar or a [Historian] to get Erin’s own first-hand accounts of the rulers’ histories down in writing—and that he also might need to seal off the embarrassing parts. He cleared his throat after a second as Relc and Valeterisa sat down. She was taking notes. Klbkch just stopped outside of the center of the theatre, listening, as Fetohep went on.
“Ah, well. Without delving into the particulars of Razzimir’s long history, which, I confess, is so many tomes of knowledge that even my memory cannot contain them all to precise details…Silvenia did come to Chandrar as one of the many soldiers who went from nation to nation, fighting Crelers during the war.”
“She did? Wait, is it written down?”
Fetohep chuckled.
“Better. Her very handprint is in the Walk of Defiance, a corridor three floors down wherein every single [Soldier] who fought in the final battle to push Crelers off Chandrar was honored with a handprint or footprint in stone.”
They had her handprint? Fetohep looked exceedingly pleased and actually walked through his palace to show everyone.
The Walk of Defiance was, like Marquin’s tribute in Calanfer, a long path with the handprints and footprints—or hoofprints, in the cases of Centaurs and such—lined up on either side with a long written account of the war and the Crelers eventual destruction.
It had been a long war. Fetohep pointed to a small handprint with pride and tiny writing in silver.
 
Silvenia, [Prodigy Mage], ████.
 
“Wh—you have her handprint?”
Lyonette was horrified. Erin was confused.
“Why’s that part scratched out?”
Where she assumed the name of the kingdom should be, there was only neatly erased stone, whereas other names clearly showed the kingdom of origin. Fetohep looked displeased at that.
“When Silvenia became the Archmage of Wistram, this was a mark of pride. During the Death of Magic’s turn against the Blighted Kingdom, all statues, written works, and other tributes to her were destroyed. Even in Khelt, it was not…acceptable to even have such tokens. This walkway was not defiled; King Izimire made it clear any attempt would be met with harsh punishments, but he acceded to removing her kingdom of origin. A very controversial decision for later rulers. I, personally, believe it was giving too much sway to outside influence, but the tribute remains. At any rate, it is proof she truly was here, is it not?”
He returned to his throne room, looking pleased at being able to show off proof that Khelt had hosted a legend before she became famous, even if it was controversial.
He really was a showoff. Erin neglected to mention one salient fact: based on the length of the redacted word and the other names around Silvenia’s handprint, she could guess which kingdom had been Silvenia’s. Given that it was still around—she understood why it wasn’t something they advertised.
What a shock, eh?
 
——
 
“The Crossroads of Izril were already said to be, and I quote, ‘dangerous to regular travel’ before the Creler Wars occurred. My understanding is that the Crelers only exacerbated the issue by destroying ‘entrances’, but the Crossroads were functionally closed before the Creler Wars began.”
Fetohep’s knowledge of the Crossroads was, unfortunately, weak when you boiled it down to golden tacks, but he did have some salient information.
“The Crossroads had rules unto themselves, Erin. Inform the Horns that aside from the road tax levied by the City of Crossroads, they were considered perilous for some reason even before the City of Shields was destroyed.”
“Monsters dangerous?”
Fetohep was perusing a script so old that he had to use magic to move the ‘book’, which was keeping ancient pieces of text suspended in magic and preservation spells. He sighed as he put it aside and reviewed the transcribed notes.
“This book is so old that even preservation spells failed on it. And the book was based on recovered writings a [Ruinseeker Historian] had gleaned via Skills…[Librarian]?”
He turned to one of his experts, and a man fussily read out his selection of knowledge.
“Your Majesties, my brief fact-finding mission indicates the Crossroads may be dangerous in themselves. The notes refer to ‘waystations of safety wherein the effects of the Crossroads are mitigated’, indicating that the Walled Cities and other zones were considered ‘safe’. ‘Travellers did not stay long in the Crossroads, but could reach one end of Izril to another in record time even lacking teleportation magic.’ It seems the Crossroads were another dimension entirely.”
“Then they share the same qualities as locations such as the Port Isle. Perhaps that is part of the Crossroads—at any rate, I would advise the Horns to note the following: the Crossroads may well extend to the New Lands.”
Erin’s head snapped up as she noted this down.
“How? The New Lands are…new, Fetohep.”
The [King] raised one finger.
“New, but the Crossroads ‘stretched the length and breadth of Izril as they were made, despite the destruction and corruption of many sections. They are bound to the continent, and where wave meets land, the Crossroads end and the world grows treacherously thin—’, which suggests it is bound to the continent itself. Whether or not this makes the new part safer is anyone’s guess.”
The [Librarian] waved an urgent hand until Fetohep acknowledged him, then bowed to the [King] and Erin.
“Safer, Your Majesties, aside from whatever endemic effects are native to the Crossroads. That is my supposition. You see, the Crossroads were both affected by the referenced ‘corruption’ of the north, which actually has references to the ‘Reign of Blood’, whatever that event was, and the destruction of the City of Shields. Both events introduced great, great dangers, along with the fallen Walled Cities. So those are the loci of true peril.”
Reign of Blood? Wait, why was he saying ‘Your Majesties’? Erin eyed Fetohep, who coughed into one fist.
“These texts come from areas proscribed even to many of my trusted servants, Erin. If need be, I will have it researched…but secrets become dangerous. That is your information as it stands.”
“Thanks, Fetohep. Did the Crossroads have any artifacts or things you needed to bring?”
Fetohep turned to the [Librarian], who couldn’t be as helpful.
“Lanterns. Not magical ones, but apparently they lack for the same natural sunlight. And ‘preparations’ meant adequate provisioning, but again…”
“It’s a mystery. So keep away from the Walled Cities and whatever the heck the corruption and City of Shields’ death place is. New Lands might be safer. I’ll tell them right away!”
Erin was relieved to tell the Horns something of value, and Fetohep smiled as he sat on his throne.
“I shall continue searching for information, that it might help all those whom Khelt trusts, Erin Solstice. You do well to ask for knowledge where it is remembered.”
She gave him that one, though it occurred to Erin that if she was on buddy-buddy terms….she really should have asked the Quarass. But the woman had been described as dangerous and unpredictable to her by even Nerrhavia, and that was generally a bad sign in Erin’s mind.
At any rate, Fetohep’s smug superiority lasted about as long as it took someone to make a weird snickering sound.
“Knowledge where it is remembered…? For such a young kingdom, Khelt seems to make much of second-hand information.”
Erin’s head turned with actual astonishment—and Fetohep sat up as someone else walked into the projection.
“Who speaks so glibly about Khelt?”
“Someone older than Khelt’s eternities. I believe I can give Erin Solstice a true perspective from someone who remembers the Creler Wars.”
Klbkch folded his arms, and Erin stared at him as Fetohep laid eyes on the first Antinium to ever set ‘foot’ in his throne room.
“Uh, Klb, buddy? Whatcha doing?”
Relc cleared his throat nervously, but Klbkch was in a bad mood for reasons that probably related to Garry’s insubordinate attitude. He’d come at once to the inn only to see a bunch of his Antinium listening to Fetohep’s over-smug stories of Khelt as if they were attending his patented storytime.
Erin Solstice closed her eyes as she realized she was going to have a problem. Ulvama just handed a bucket of popcorn to Ishkr to fill as she cackled in delight.
“Old angry men swinging egos around like penises is funny. Especially when they no longer have them. Where that Teriarch? Someone get him, and we get all three!”
She cackled as Shaestrel started rolling around laughing. Below, Erin tried to stop an unstoppable force meeting the metaphorical immovable rock of ego.
