‘I rule the Hives.’ That was technically true. The Grand Queen had used to use ‘we’, imitating how she had thought a queen was supposed to rule. Yet she had never really said it that way, never intimated that she alone ruled the Queens, rather than being a first among equals, before.
Where had she gotten that idea? Much less—treachery? A book? Perhaps. But if not a book—
Who had the Grand Queen been speaking to?
 
——
 
“He did what? Why?”
Erin Solstice peered into the white-scaled Drake’s eyes. She looked at him with all the authority she had. Her hat was burning.
“I don’t know. Do you?”
When she turned that gaze on him, Tesy flinched and looked away.
“N-no. He didn’t tell me anything.”
Erin held that look a moment, then relented. Tesy was lying. But he wasn’t totally lying. Vetn had told the Drake something—Tesy just hadn’t known what.
Guilt and confusion were written all over his face as Erin tried to get to the bottom of what was going on. The problem was that she hadn’t spotted Bviora ahead of time. In hindsight, Ishkr had apologized and mentioned the moment when he’d noticed the girl with the crystal hand approaching Vetn at the bar.
He had an eye for such things, but he had assumed that Bviora would run into Erin in some hilarious, Jewel-like manner or something. He was clearly ashamed, but Erin had told him he couldn’t know.
Well, that was a lie, too. Erin shook her head as she investigated Vetn’s room.
Complacency. She had promised Qwera to look after her two wards and forgotten that they were the Golden Gnoll’s charges. Erin had assumed Qwera was exaggerating when she said they got into trouble.
Now, she was wondering if she had underestimated how much trouble the two had given Qwera. What was true was this: Vetn was gone, and he had been ready to leave.
His room was neat and tidy, unlike Tesy’s. He had left possessions like a toothbrush, some clothing, and other items around, but everything valuable had been on him. Like a good [Thief], he had been ready at any moment.
“I need to find him. Tesy. Stay there and don’t do anything stupid, got it?”
“But is Vetn alright? He—did he do it for me? Why’s stealing Klbkch’s blades—is he selling them to Salazsar? He said…he said he was trying to help me. But how does this do that?”
Tesy really was bad with secrets, at least when he was talking to you and not hiding as ‘Sellme’. Erin turned to face him.
“What else did he say, Tesy? Who’s Bviora?”
“I don’t know! Some [Thief]? I’ve never met her!”
That was honest. Erin narrowed her eyes. Then she went striding through her inn, leaving Tesy behind.
“[World’s Eye Theatre]. Get me Vetn, now.”
Erin emerged into the center of her theatre, and it activated, the glass eye searching the skies as she appeared in the heart of it. Her great Skill was so powerful that it could find the King of Destruction, Silvenia, anyone in the world.
Admittedly, it wasn’t perfect. Erin had tried to contact Nereshal, or at least spy on him, and then Silvenia again, and gotten only…static. It seemed that if you were prepared for it, you could defeat the Skill. The Quarass was also hard to reach for that reason; she had indicated that Erin could contact an associate of hers before being granted an audience. Fetohep let Erin contact him on purpose, as did Niers and her other friends.
But Vetn?
It was not the first time that Erin had tried to contact him today. She’d done it the moment Anand had begun screaming at her. But just like last time—
Something odd was happening. Erin felt a lurch of vertigo, then nausea as the world changed around her. Erin could only see a huge landscape below—a city?
Then Erin was falling, the world rushing around her, as the ‘place’ the [World’s Eye Theatre] was homing down on widened. It felt like she was falling to her death, and Erin had to concentrate not to try to hold onto the ground or leap out of the projection. She heard a flurry of voices.
“She’s trying again—”
“[Impossible Dodge]!”
“[The Perfect Thief: Unscryable, Unfindable, Come Catch Me]!”
And the Skill—missed. Erin caught a flash of what she might have thought were the two, and then the Skill was staring at only blackness. She shouted.
“Vetn! What are you doing?”
She shouted, hoping he could hear her. Erin heard nothing, but she shouted.
“Vetn! Let me help you! I promised Qwera I would! Why are you doing this? Can’t you hear me? Vetn—”
 
——
 
“—do you know what you’re doing?”
Erin Solstice really was terrifying. Vetn and Bviora flinched as she shouted. She was right there.
Or rather…her image was. A blue young woman, flickering, filled with static—not that Vetn had the same reference for it.
They had used their Skills against her, but even Bviora’s Skill was incomplete. Vetn had literally dodged the Skill as it came down, but the trick about [Thief] Skills was that they were not the might of [Kings]. They were—well, tricky.
If Erin had known how she looked right now, she might have understood just how terrifying her new Skill was. Because it was standing in the safe room, next to the vibrating sword of the Slayer.
Vetn and Bviora were tensed, terrified, ready for the Antinium to come after them, waiting for the Grand Queen’s response. They were made. The Slayer had to know where his sword was.
But they had been told the Grand Queen was ‘considering their offer’. So now it might be less of hide-and-seek…and more a game of tag.
Against someone faster than he was. The Gnoll still felt that silver blade slicing through his body. He was shaking—and Erin wasn’t helping.
She stood with a blindfold of lightning over her eyes. The Lightning Thief’s Skill, hiding them from her as she stood, shouting, turning her head right and left. He hoped she’d give up and stop trying to find him. It seemed her Skill had a cooldown once you ‘dodged’ it, but even so…
It wasn’t that which hurt.
“Vetn. Tesy’s worried about you. Klbkch is coming after you. I can’t stop him or the Antinium. Tell me why you’re doing this.”
Bviora stared at Vetn as the Thief of Clouds twitched. She widened her eyes as he got up. Vetn walked quietly behind Erin’s projection. He hesitated.
Was Tesy there? Was he listening? Vetn could have left, having helped steal the blades. Bviora had arranged for the token to go to Salazsar. He could double-cross her and conceivably get away. But there was something else keeping him in this.
“I’m a [Thief], Erin. A miserable [Thief]. I have only three friends in this world. And this is for him, that thoughtless idiot. And for me. I want to steal part of a legend. Sorry. You shouldn’t have trusted me. Tell the Slayer to give Bviora what she wants. He’ll never catch me twice.”
He whispered in the ear of the spectral [Innkeeper], and she swung around. Vetn thought he heard a voice.
“Vetn! Wait! Why—”
His friend rushed into being, and Vetn moved. He carried no blade for murder. He didn’t kill. But he still swung the dagger Bviora had lent him.
A Skillcutter’s blade. It passed through Erin’s back, and she gasped—and wavered out of existence. Vetn stood there, shaking, and then turned to Bviora.
“We’ve got to keep running. Come on. Just tell me the Eye of Baleros will win you your heritage.”
She gave him a long look. He was with her, now, and the girl, the young [Thief] with her father’s hand, flexed it.
“It’ll do more than that. It’s not just a game, Vetn. Some of them think it is. This…is everything.”
He nodded, and his fur stood on end.
“Let’s go, then.”
He strode for the door of the safe room as she snatched up the Slayer’s sword. And Vetn had only one glance back. He just wished—no, nevermind.
At least his silly [Painter] would be safe.
 
——
 
Gone. Erin Solstice wasn’t harmed by the blade, but her theater went dark. She had never experienced it being thwarted like this and stood there in silence as Tesy called out.
“He’s gone, Tesy. I have to think. I’m going to talk to Klbkch and Anand and Chaldion, again. You just—stay there. Don’t cause trouble.”
Don’t cause any more trouble, she meant. The [Magical Painter] flinched, but he really hadn’t done anything in this case. He was hurt.
Betrayed.
Vetn normally told him about all his heists. Heck, Tesy helped with a lot of them. They were partners in crime. A team.
Why had Vetn done this? Tesy kicked around the [World’s Eye Theatre], hoping it would reactivate so he could try again. Vetn would talk to him.
After fifteen minutes, when it was clear nothing was going to happen anytime soon, Tesy went back to the common room of the inn. He sat there as people continued going to the beach, as Erin kept reappearing, arguing with Chaldion, and didn’t know what to do.
Was he really safe? What did he do?
Why had Vetn let him down and abandoned him?
That was how Tesy thought of it. He sat there, getting angrier now, hurt. Was Vetn still mad at him for making that mistake? Why didn’t he tell his best friend anything? Why did he act like he was hurt?
Tesy really didn’t understand it. If Qwera were here, there would be violence, or at least, shouting. But Tesy just sat there, sinking into a swamp of discontent.
And Vetn knew Sellme well. So Tesy was drinking by the time a man slipped into The Wandering Inn, having flashed Liska a sign that gave him access.
Erin had a deal with the Ullsinoi through Palt, and more importantly, she had one with one gang in Izril. She didn’t talk about it much, and they didn’t move in the open—usually.
In this case, a man tipped his hat as Tesy looked up and jumped.
“Wh-who are you?”
He recognized a Brother of Serendipitous Meetings at once, but not the face. Tesy panicked, but the man just held out a hand with something held in it.
“This is for you, sir. Don’t mind me. I’m doing my job and just that. No need for concern.”
He raised his voice, and he looked a bit tense as he adjusted a bowler hat. Tesy glanced around—and a shadow moved in the corner of the inn.
“Get lost.”
Shriekblade. No wonder no one wanted to cause trouble here. The Brother bowed, smartly, and held the letter out to Tesy.
“This is for you, sir. Today’s the day I deliver it. Can’t say I was disappointed for the wait.”
“A letter? For me? Who’s it from?”
“Vetn, sir.”
“Vetn? He wrote me a letter? Today? And he didn’t just talk to me?”
Tesy snatched the letter greedily, but got angry and almost tore it up. The Brother just coughed and cleared his throat.
“Not as of such, sir. Let’s spare the names. I’m just a fellow for hire that Vetn contacted. My job was to hold onto that letter. He gave it to me, oh, weeks back. And my orders were to give it to you and no one else if a criteria was met. In this case being a hullabaloo or his leaving Liscor. It wasn’t hard to figure out when the moment was.”
He gave the inn an appreciative look, then lowered his voice.
“A real treat it is, coming in here, too. You think I could nip into the beach just to see it? A brother’s honor I wouldn’t cause trouble.”
“Get. Lost.”
Shriekblade hissed at him, and he retreated towards the door, raising his gloved hands and tipping his hat. But Tesy lurched to his feet.
“Wait, so Vetn planned this?”
“Perhaps, sir. Not my business to ask or know, but it’s a standard thing for a fellow who’s uncertain about the timing, but not the deed. Don’t you fret, I didn’t look inside the letter. It was a standard Deadman’s Drop, and we do follow the rules. It’d be a stabbing shame to be untrustworthy in our business.”
The Brother gave Tesy a tip of the hat as he retreated to the entrance corridor. Tesy’s claws clutched the letter.
“A Deadman’s…?”
The man saw Tesy’s face and smiled, but tightly. In that way of a man who knew hats had fallen to the ground and might not be picked up. But he tried.
“That’s just a turn of phrase, sir. It doesn’t mean…well, sometimes it does mean that. Were I you, I’d read whatever your friend sent you and count myself lucky. Few men in this world can get a clean slate, especially with a Walled City’s bounty on you. But the word is, it’s been called off. That was some favor.”
He spoke gently, but the look he gave Tesy…the [Painter] stared at him, then the letter, and then thought of what Vetn had said.
As he slowly opened the letter, things finally came together. Sellme looked down…and a [Painter]’s hurt feelings and wrath became tears like falling paint drops. He turned—
But the Thief of Clouds was long gone.
 
——
 
Today, as the snow fell, a few things happened. The Horns of Hammerad stepped into the Crossroads of Izril.
One of the Eyes of Baleros was discovered.
Someone stole the Slayer’s sword.
And Klbkchhezeim of the True Antinium left Liscor.
He did it to no fanfare, and indeed, he kept telling Erin and Lyonette and the few others that he did not want a party.
“I will not be gone long. I am simply going to pick up my sword. I will be back.”
Are you gonna start a war, Klbkch?
He patted Mrsha on the head.
“Aha. Silly Mrsha. Probably not. I am just going to violently attack a [Thief]. That’s all.”
“Klbkch…don’t go. Just let the Grand Queen trade for the sword.”
Erin looked at Klbkch as Relc waited to fist-bump his friend. The Drake looked worried, but Klbkch simply took Erin’s hands and shook his head.
“I doubt she has what is needed. To prevent her doing anything rash—I will just go in secret. Thank you for opening your door outside of Pallass.”
Erin chewed her lip. She’d opened the door in the place where she’d gone camping, outside of the City of Inventions, ages ago. Klbkch had a cloak on, and he might pass for someone else from afar—but this was crazy.
And yet, if it beat war with the Antinium—
There were no good solutions. Erin had no concept of what the Grand Queen was thinking of, and if she had, she would have realized that Klbkch trying to get his sword back was the best option.
And yet she felt it. Her senses as a [Witch] and [Innkeeper] both felt the precious days at the beach fading. Like a chain of dominos…things were unfolding, and she couldn’t tell where they’d land.
If she could have, she would have stopped the slim, white-scaled Drake who slipped through the door ahead of Liska, who was taking a nap while she waited for the goodbyes to finish. If she could have, she would have asked Vetn what he was doing.
She’d tried to use the [World’s Eye Theatre] to find him, but either he had a Skill or Bviora did, or they were using underworld tactics such that even she couldn’t locate the Thief of Clouds. At least she’d be able to follow Klbkch most places.
