“I’ve got it handled, thanks.”
Intelligent. Thoughtful. Perhaps even wise counsel. She had to fend Relc and Valeterisa off onto finding Klbkch. Ryoka was harder, but Erin had a trump card.
“At least let me introduce myself. I promise, I won’t make a fool of myself. We’re on the same side, right?”
Erin pointed a finger at Ryoka.
“He’s an immortal undead king. I know why you wanna talk to him. You stay back.”
Ryoka turned red and stopped long enough for Erin to leap through a door in her garden. That was a low blow, even by Erin standards.
But the truth was that the kids were bad enough, and a crowd meant you couldn’t get a good conversation going effectively. Erin had only sicced Mrsha and Nanette on Fetohep because he insisted on about thirty minutes of recap on how things were, latest projects, and showing off the new developments in Khelt. She figured the kids and the undead king would tire each other out enough for her to get down to business.
Fetohep, sometimes, had the same energy as Ekirra showing Erin a new ball—only he did it with buildings and art pieces, rather than toys.
Anyways, Erin’s ruthless assessment of her friends aside, she did know how to get their attention. Klbkch loved telling stories to Antinium, so summoning him to story-time was easier than asking him to meet solo. If he had a sit with her, he’d start complaining about Xrn bullying him or the lack of respect he got from Antinium.
Strategy. Now, intelligent people to bring with her? Erin had just the person in mind. Unfortunately…she was let down.
 
——
 
“Come on, Ulvama. I need your sage wisdom! We’re helping the Horns with the New Lands. And talking to Fetohep and Klbkch!”
Crunch, crunch. Ulvama stuffed another handful of baked chips into her mouth as she watched the television on the scrying orb.
“Latest fashions are still lace in Terandria, but there’s this entirely new style coming from Izril that’s being called ‘modernistic’. Trousers and leggings…on [Ladies]? I am [Countess of the Court] Fimila Merrimorn, fulfilling my role as your host for fashion commentary today. We have the honor of presenting Fashion Talks, Wistram News Network Channel 6.”
She was watching a fashion channel, balancing a bowl of chips on her stomach as Apista and Ulvama occasionally dipped the chips into a barrage of side-dishes in the rec room. Because everyone was at the beach, Ulvama had hogged the scrying mirror.
The dips, incidentally, included your standard salsa. It had guacamole made out of expensive avocados imported from Oteslia. Gnollish fish sauce, the pungent local Liscorian dish. Spicy chili oil from the north. Syrup. Mayonnaise. Ketchup, mustard…
The huge spread of dip bowls and giant chip bowl did not budge. Ulvama lay there, staring at the scrying orb.
“Ulvama?”
Erin tried to block the screen, and the [Shaman] kicked her.
“Go away. Ask your questions yourself. Be smart without me.”
“Ulvama. It’s important!”
“I’m tired. Shoo.”
The helpful, bullying [Shaman] all too willing to dye Erin’s hair and give her sage advice…was in a lazy mood today. This was the duality of Ulvama that Mrsha knew well. Erin was aware of Ulvama’s penchant for enjoying food, but she was dismayed by this.
“Come on, don’t you want to know—ow!”
The ow was Ulvama throwing a bee and clocking Erin in the face. Apista’s legs were sharp as she launched off Erin’s face. Erin debated kicking Ulvama, but the [Shaman] just waved one claw.
“I won’t be smart for you. Go use your head.”
“You’re not busy! It’s just fashion—”
“Yah. Which I understand and appreciate. You watch chess. I watch this. Don’t lecture me, hypocrite. Get lost.”
 
——
 
For once, Erin Solstice was both giving insults and taking them. This balanced lifestyle did not agree with Erin one bit, but after three more minutes of trying to get Ulvama to talk, she stomped away, wiping salsa from her cheek.
The truth was that Ulvama’s bad side was…her bad side. Everyone had one. It wasn’t always ‘one good side, one bad side’. Sometimes you were all bad sides with a few redeeming traits, or vice-versa, or a nuanced individual.
Like Saliss. He was all annoying unless he wasn’t. Unless it was dangerous, when he revealed that his annoying elements were largely manufactured. But the truth was that the part where he annoyed you was also genuine because he really didn’t respect you, especially if you were a Watch Captain or Chaldion or all of Pallass.
Good side, bad side. Or perhaps ‘objectionable personality traits’ was a better summation. Some people appreciated Ulvama’s sass or Saliss’ lack of respect for convention. Erin did, when she wasn’t on the receiving end of either.
Similarly, Fetohep of Khelt was a pontificator, a showoff—haughty, arrogant, and egotistical—petty, and filled with too much munificent largesse at times, and condescending—and that was when he was in a good mood.
He was also King of Khelt. So the instant he realized that the annoying white Gnoll girl who’d appeared in his throne room was not alone, he stood straighter and regarded the cluster of children.
“—you insolent albino rat plaguing Khelt’s sands—ahem. Ah. I see you have guests, Mrsha du Marquin.”
The King of Khelt sat upon his throne, and his golden gaze found Nanette and Mrsha, both wearing sunglasses and beach-clothes. And huge silver mustaches.
It was a…look. An incredibly silly one that only Mrsha would come up with. Indeed, Visma, Ekirra, and Kenva, Watch Captain Venim’s daughter, were all crowding into frame behind Mrsha, and they had been giggling and laughing a second ago.
Why, even Sammial and Hethon were there, having raced with the gaggle of kids to meet the King of Khelt. Mrsha was busy writing insults back to Fetohep—and introductions of her friends—but she paused when she realized no one was shouting.
“Your Eternal Majesty of Khelt. T-thank you for receiving my humble letter. I apologize for disturbing you.”
Nanette bowed and reached for a hat she didn’t have, snatching the mustache and glasses off her face. Mrsha looked around and realized the rest of her friends were hiding behind her.
Or trembling. Visma looked at Hethon, who managed a bow, and even Sammial copied it awkwardly. Ekirra’s hair was on end, and he was holding Visma’s claw tightly in one paw and Kenva’s in his other.
They were…petrified. Even the [Lords] barely remembered their manners, and Nanette!
He’s just a silly old man! Mrsha nudged Nanette—and got a stomp on her foot so hard that it sent tears to her eyes. Fetohep lifted a hand.
“Greetings, children of Mrsha’s acquaintance. Be at ease. I am Fetohep of Khelt. Mrsha. Is this a social call or a matter of greater importance? I do have the affairs of my kingdom to tend to.”
His eyes flashed, and Nanette blurted out.
“Your Majesty, Miss Erin Solstice asked us to talk to you! She—she has a question to you about the Crossroads of Izril! She asked us to speak to someone who would remember it—she’s coming. We’re deeply sorry for disturbing you without asking first.”
Fetohep relaxed instantly.
“Ah. This is well. Be at ease, children. We are acquainted well with Erin Solstice and take little offense. Prithee, whom do we address? We of Khelt know Witch Nanette and Miss Mrsha, but the others? You. Bring the Visage of Fetohep.”
He was even adopting the royal ‘we’! Mrsha raised a notecard full of insults—and Visma slapped it down!
The children were not reacting to Fetohep like Mrsha was hoping. They treated the foreign king like, well, a king. And that was because they were not Mrsha. Mrsha, who had grown up in the inn with a [Princess] for a mother and Erin for a mentor, had inherited some of their worst traits. Then again, she had eaten breakfast with Zel Shivertail and other living legends. She’d stolen food from the best.
Children who didn’t have that history saw Fetohep as both an undead and foreign monarch garbed in power. Indeed, Fetohep didn’t help as he lifted something from a pillow.
“We had forgotten this. But in light of our newfound publicity…ah. There. This is what our predecessors wore, that their decayed features might not scare children.”
He put on a golden death mask shaped like his face before he had died, and at this point, Kenva burst into tears and ran off. Mrsha slapped her face with one paw. Two burning ‘eyes’ shining gold through the cut pupils stared out at Mrsha through a smiling face made of gold, like the face of some Golem twisted into a stiff smile.
Yep. She was going to have nightmares about that tonight. She scribbled a note to tell Fetohep to take the mask off as Hethon introduced himself, voice shaking.
For once, Mrsha couldn’t wait for Erin to get here.
 
——
 
Klbkch the Slayer was still in Liscor. He had quit the Watch, and in his new body, he had regained some of his strength of legends.
The hour was now that once more Klbkchhezeim of the Free Antinium returned to his oldest roots as the adventurer. To the New Lands he would go, seeking the oldest mysteries of the world and hope for the Antinium.
Defiance against the eternal foe. Hope for The Wandering Inn and mortals. Redemption for the failure of even Centenium. A great change in how he had lived for the last decade.
Yes.
…He hadn’t left for about two months. In fact, Klbkch was currently standing at a stall in Liscor, harassing a poor shopkeeper.
“I believe I requested ladybugs in my pumpernickel bread, Garry.”
“I know, Klbkch—”
“Revalantor Klbkch.”
Garry paused, and even the friendly [Baker] had a decidedly narked tone.
“Revalantor Klbkch. Yes. We are out of ladybugs. I thought I had some in store, but it is winter, and they were eaten.”
“Who ate them? This is consumption of materials meant for a Revalantor. I was going to share some with the Free Queen, and therefore it is also denial of resources meant for the Queen. Who ate the ladybugs I wanted?”
“Someone. I have prepared a fine bread with centipedes in it. Large ones. You claimed to enjoy them last time.”
Klbkch opened and closed his mandibles.
“Whether or not I am partial to them, the fact remains that I ordered ladybug bread. As a [Shopkeeper], Garry, you might not be aware of this, but satisfying the customer’s orders—that is me—is tantamount to facilitating fair and honest transactions. I could refuse to pay or, worse, complain to the Watch about your lack of authenticity in our dealings.”
Garry stared at Klbkch. Even a few passersby were giving Klbkch odd looks. The Watch did get called on for matters like that…but who would have guessed Klbkch in his civilian life would act like that?
“Are you going to refuse to pay me or report me to the Watch, Klbkch?”
“Revalantor Klbkch, Garry. I will not, but that is because I am an upstanding citizen and a good person in general. I will take the bread. Here is your payment. Note the lack of a tip.”
Garry slowly handed over the wrapped bread, and Klbkch pushed the exact change over the counter. The [Baker] watched Klbkch open the bread and break off a piece before theatrically making a coughing sound.
“…This is the twenty-ninth set of provisions you’ve had me create for your expedition, Revalantor Klbkch. When will you be leaving?”
Klbkch paused and glanced up.
“In my own time. Proper preparation is essential, Garry. As a non-adventuring Antinium, you might not be aware of how important proper sustenance is on great journeys. I would not want to disrupt my stomach. Plus, Relc and Valeterisa are now dating, and I must thoroughly vet her for proper partnership with Relc.”
“They’re what? Partners?”
“Yes…it’s very displeasing, and Relc has yet to elaborate on the full details, but if he is going to become someone else’s partner, I must make sure Valeterisa is able to watch his back. And there is the beach to consider, and Erin Solstice and I haven’t talked as much. Perhaps after the Winter Solstice I will head out. The spring is ideal, you know. Though the spring rains would be an issue. Whenever I leave, I will be fully prepared, but tonight is movie-night, and I am told it is about ‘Ants’. With a ‘z’.”
Garry knew about movie-night as well, but he just stood in his warm shop, staring at Klbkch before he realized a pie was burning in the oven. He hurried over to get it, then came back.
“I…there are a lot of things I would like to say, Klbkch. The first is that I do not believe you understand what a partner is in the sense of Relc and Valeterisa. I wrote a book on the subject. Would you like to read it?”
Klbkch made a pskching sound.
“Garry. I am an expert partner. Someone needs to watch Relc’s back, and I was glad he found an Archmage who might be able to partly replace me.”
“That’s not what Valeterisa is watching.”
The [Baker] muttered. It was strange how Klbkch, the Slayer, had changed this much. And yet, somehow, this had always been a part of his personality. It seemed like his lack of focus was bringing out the worst parts, though.
This. This was the Slayer of the Antinium Wars? Visitors to Liscor who might see Klbkch like this would stop and stare and listen incredulously. Perhaps it made him more of a person and did wonders for the Antinium’s image as a species. It made it harder to imagine him as being a pure weapon of war without feeling or nuance.
In fact, Klbkch had several clandestine observers. Two Drakes from Pallass were just staring at him, eating Prelons. A [Lord] was slowly sipping from a smoothie he’d bought. Lord Xitegen’s stare was frankly incredulous, especially because he’d heard the entire exchange.
“If you wouldn’t mind moving, Klbkch? I believe I have customers.”
Klbkch stepped to the side as more people lined up for Garry’s food, but he refused to go.
“I am one of your best customers, Garry. I should not be treated this way. Why do you keep asking when I will go?”
“…Because you have to? You told everyone you were going.”
“Yes…but I also have to leave properly.”
“Everyone threw you a going-away party.”
“And I should thank them for that. I have hundreds of colleagues I know in the Watch. And Erin’s inn is here. And Relc. My Hive is here…and I may be gone for years. I am not saying I will be lonely or miss them. I would not, because I am used to solitude. I’ll take that pumpkin pie, incidentally. I will share it around the Watch House.”
Garry packed up the pie without a word. Klbkch had been visiting the Watch House almost every day. Zevara had been meaning to have a word with Klbkch about it, but she’d asked Garry to try in her stead.
Garry was about to ask Klbkch to his face whether or not he was going to leave before winter ended. But first—
“Oh, Vetn. Can I help you?”
