“One of them is Erin’s guest. She gets petty about her guests getting killed. I may chop the hand off the other one. She had a crystal hand which used the Skill.”
“Oh. How interesting. May I have it?”
“I suppose I could bring it back as thanks. Do you—do you think Wrymvr was told my blade was stolen?”
Xrn gave him a long sigh.
“Klbkchhezeim, you must stop caring what other Antinium think. You have grown faintly pathetic. If you had left about your task, you wouldn’t have lost your sword.”
He glowered at her as the Antinium apprentices bent over their spellbooks, pretending not to be listening in.
“I will have you know that I am an enduringly popular figure here. My stories are fascinating to the Antinium, and they would be very sad if I left. Very sad. I was just telling them about one of my great feats, you know. The ones I performed before you were even created?”
“Which one was that?”
Xrn was trying not to say what was truly on her mind, but her leaking light-presence was painting swirls on the far wall, like someone rolling their eyes. Klbkch grew even more annoyed.
“The story of how I gained purified water for the entire Hive? Which helped create you. You know the tale. It’s the one where I found the Dragon corpse—before we knew it was a Dragon.”
Xrn did know the details, and she paused delicately.
“You’re telling that story to the guests of The Wandering Inn? Isn’t your partner a Drake?”
“Yes. And so is his daughter. Relc Grasstongue.”
“And you’re telling that story?”
Klbkch wondered if Xrn was having memory problems from her injury. He spoke slowly.
“Yes. Why is that a problem?”
The Small Queen clacked her mandibles a few times.
“…So you’re telling a Drake a story about the time our people looted a Water Dragon’s corpse to purify our water?”
Klbkch paused for a moment as the Antinium looked up at him. He uncrossed his arms and rubbed at his eyes tiredly.
“Xrn, Xrn. You don’t understand how to tell stories clearly. That is the most uncharitable way of saying it.”
She gave him a slow nod.
“I see I do not know how to tell ‘stories’. It appears to involve a lot of selective editing and lying.”
The two coolly regarded each other as Xrn kept casting her spell, and after a moment, Xrn coughed into one fist.
“You know, I hear Wrymvr has a scroll of Greater Teleportation. Couldn’t he just teleport you over to get the blade? I sense…they’re south of Pallass. Get me a map, and I’ll approximate the location.”
Klbkch hurried to get one and tried to sound casual as he came back.
“He doesn’t have to waste it on a pure recovery mission when he can just fly. You, uh, know about the scroll?”
Xrn gave him a long look.
“If you and Wrymvr cause trouble, I will disintegrate both of you. How much did the Twisted Queen pay for…? You know what? I don’t want to know. I’ll tell the Grand Queen where the sword is. Now, wrap this up without causing an incident, would you? And tie those swords to your wrist or something. What kind of a Centenium keeps losing his weapons? I have my staff, and I’ve never lost it.”
Klbkch didn’t dignify that with an answer. He just took the location and began to plan how to get his damn sword back. The Grand Queen had sent him a [Message] saying she might trade for the sword, which was just…humiliating. But at least it wouldn’t cause much of a ruckus, right?
 
——
 
“They’re going to attack Pallass! We’re going to go to war! Run, ruuunn!”
Anand was screaming and running towards the Grand Hive as fast as he could with every Painted Antinium running after him.
Goat was frantically holding a speaking stone up, and Anand was screeching into it. He was the only person in the Hivelands who had a complete view of how bad this was.
In fact, he was so terrified he decided the most strategic and intelligent move was to give other people stomach ulcers and heart attacks.
“Erin, Erin!”
“Hey, Anand. What’s up? I’m so glad you called. Did you hear about Klbkch’s sword being stolen? Actually, one of my guests, Vetn, did it, and I don’t know wh—”
Erin Solstice picked up the speaking stone he sometimes used to talk with her, and her voice filled Anand with relief. He shouted at it as he ran.
“Erin! The Grand Queen is preparing to strike Pallass to get Klbkch’s sword back!”
The silence on the other end of the stone was long.
“H-hello? Did I hear that right? Um, is this Anand?”
He screamed louder.
“We’re about to go to war! Get me Chaldion!”
If it seemed like a bad move to ask for the Grand Strategist of the Drakes, well, Anand had a good reason. And that was that someone had to know why the Antinium might attack.
“Hello?”
“The Grand Queen is about to attack your city because someone stole the Slayer’s sword! Get it back! Get it back! She’ll burn down a Drake city because she thinks this is an act of war! Some idiot is threatening to throw it into the sea! That’s like—threatening to kill a Queen!”
Unlike Erin, Chaldion of Pallass only took a beat before he responded.
“Strategist Anand. Pallass did not authorize the theft of the swords. I can confirm for you within ten minutes whether or not it was authorized. The odds are it was an independent theft—”
“She doesn’t care! I’m trying to talk her down, but get the damn sword back or we’re all dead! Or get ready for Wrymvr himself!”
Anand’s approach to diplomacy was spreading panic. But he was still a [Strategist]. Telling the Drakes that Wrymvr might soon attack could be seen as treasonous to the Antinium.
But only from a Drake perspective. The Queens didn’t care. Wrymvr probably didn’t care. It was unlikely they could anticipate where he’d appear or stop him.
And everything Anand could do to avoid the rampage of Wrymvr the Deathless becoming a war was essential. If that meant telling Chaldion why the attack was coming—
“You must prevent this, Strategist Anand.”
“I am trying. Get the sword!”
“I will issue an alert. Stay in contact—can you convince the Grand Queen to delay any actions?”
“I’ll let you know! Running! Oh, hello, Erin. Please do not panic more than necessary. Which is to say, screaming and running around. Goodbye!”
He wished they’d call more often. Then Anand began running faster.
 
——
 
The one person not currently having a conniption across all the Walled Cities and Liscor was the Grand Queen. She was snacking on a giant sandwich when Anand rushed in.
“Oh. Strategist Anand. Hello. You have arrived quickly. I do not need you quite yet—Wrymvr is not in place for an attack yet. We know where the blades are. A smaller Drake city. I may ask for you to use your Skills once we begin the—”
“Don’t attack! The Drakes will take it as an act of war! Don’t—”
Anand nearly fell over as the Painted Antinium skidded into the Grand Queen’s room. She paused.
“They will? Why?”
The Grand Queen was not an idiot. At least, in matters of actual war. She listened to Anand’s desperate plea and explanation and tapped her feelers together.
“Ah, so they regard this as ‘unsanctioned’ despite it happening in their lands? But the Antinium are responsible for everything that occurs in the Hivelands. How…hypocritical, the word is.”
“That—may be so, Grand Queen, but it will be war if you attack!”
The problem was that the Grand Queen was also intelligent. She rubbed at her head with a feeler.
“Only possibly.”
“Possibly?”
“You are in communication with this Grand Strategist, are you not? And you have communicated that this is an intolerable act of aggression against us? The Antinium must maintain our reputation. If he is aware this is not an act of war, then Wrymvr is free to attack the city. It ‘may’ be war, but his awareness that it is not intended to be so actually gives me more inclination to strike.”
That—was the kind of logic Anand hadn’t anticipated. Worse, it made sense from one perspective. He understood the strategy the Grand Queen was employing.
Erasing a Drake city and getting the sword back? That was two positives, not one. He understood that strategy—it was like someone who played chess and thought of the pieces as just pieces.
But Anand had been a chess piece, and there was more to life than just numbers. More to strategy than just ‘hurt the enemy’. But the Grand Queen was literally playing a different game—diplomacy with alliances and trade and opportunity in positive relationships had never occurred to her because it had never been offered. True, the Antinium hadn’t reached out in friendship at the start either, but he could not allow this.
“My Queen—what if Wrymvr is hurt? What if the sword is lost? It would be safer, strategically, to give this Thief of Clouds what he wants. Plus, the Free Hive benefits from a peaceful relationship with Drakes!”
She was very put out by his comments.
“If this is the advice of my [Strategist], I am reluctantly listening. And the Free Hive…I suppose this is in the best interests of the Antinium as a whole. The loss of Klbkch’s blade would be unacceptable, but their demands are just…impossible.”
“Why? What do they want?”
The Grand Queen spread her antennae in a shrug.
“Some Eye of Baleros. Which I do not know if we have. I have been checking our vaults, but we have no idea what it is. And I am loath to inquire and risk presenting our ignorance. My Custodium have been checking our vault of artifacts for labels, but I doubt one is affixed. Do you know what that is?”
The name…rang a bell, actually. When had he heard of it? Anand was surprised he knew of many artifacts, but for some reason…
“I—do not, my Queen. But may I ask you to hold off on an attack while I investigate? We may deal with this very simply!”
“I would prefer to attack. It costs nothing more than a few Antinium and shows our strength. Whereas we have plenty of artifacts, but giving one up for a theft seems weak to me.”
“Please, Grand Queen? At the very least I could…find out whether this artifact is valuable! If we actually have it, we could identify another potential war asset for the Hives!”
You had to learn how to speak to the Grand Queen. The thought of identifying an artifact made the Grand Queen perk up.
“That is a good thought. Very well, Strategist Anand. I will tell Wrymvr to hold. Please investigate. Oh—but do not tell this Grand Strategist about the artifact. As far as I understand, the [Message] came in from the thief alone. I am not willing to inform them of the contents of our treasuries.”
Anand was dismayed by the order. It made sense—but how was he going to figure out what the damn thing was? Antinium had no knowledge of the outside world. If Xrn or Klbkch didn’t know what it did—
“Okay. Painted Antinium, huddle up!”
His followers made a big circle as the Grand Queen watched indulgently. Anand turned to Goat, his second-in-command, and the other archers, lesser [Tacticians], and Painted Antinium present. They were celebrities in the Hives, Individuals on par with Prognugators. Anand missed home, but he understood he was useful here, showing the Queens what they could be. A few Individuals were appearing thanks to the cultural exchange, and this?
Preventing a war justified his presence. As well as his shipbuilding project. Though Anand would have frankly rather just left and given up.
He had never failed at anything before, but those ships…
Those damn ships were cursed. Those soggy, ill-made pieces of flotsam that kept damn breaking even after a thousand iterations—
Ship making was too hard. Anand hated the water now. He hated the sea. He hated keels and tar and blueprints and rigging.
But he digressed.
“Goat, run and get every book you can on artifacts from the Armored Queen. Archer G11, if we can’t ask for outside help, go and ask the Silent Queen about the most valuable artifacts the Antinium stole during the wars. She knows all that stuff. You—go to the Grand Queen’s vaults. You three, the Flying Queen’s. I want you two to go to the Silent Antinium’s vaults, and you to the Armored Queen’s. I’ll go personally to the Twisted Queen if I have to.”
No one wanted to go to that scary Queen. But the real issue was…
“What are we looking for, Anand?”
“I don’t…look for an eye? If only we had someone who knew…Baleros. Baleros. Wait—belay the vault search. Goat, get the books. Everyone else—with me!”
There was only one person that Anand could turn to in his hour of need within the Hives. The Grand Queen indulgently watched as he led the Painted Antinium in a charge back towards the Armored Hive. Down and down…
Towards the underground lake with the boat trials and Anand’s only non-Izrilian friend.
 
——
 
Torthe Suorloks was half-stingray, and it gave her an odd, cape-like look to her back and skin, as if she had on a shawl or cloak of dark blue. Until you realized it was skin that hung down over one arm. She also had a hand, unlike some Drowned Folk who had a claw, wet tendril, or other appendage.
Her fingers were long and thin, and they were mini-stingers. It was an odd way the stingray had manifested, but Drowned Folk were seldom alike.
She was, at this moment, working on a steering wheel, the last having broken, and sanding a wooden peg. She was scowling and scowled more when Anand ran over.
“Torthe! Torthe!”
“What now, boyo? It’s not time for another ship, is it? I’m tired from the last one.”
She was prickly at the best of times and upset, possibly because her arrival into the Antinium Hivelands had been when Wrymvr attacked a ship at sea and abducted her to teach the Antinium how to make boats.
Anand was possibly one of her only friends. It would have been fair for her to blame all Antinium as monsters, and she certainly feared Wrymvr, but he was the one trying to correct the image of his people.
Part of that correction was in her clothing. She was dressed like some [Lady] with silk clothing, all enchanted, and had on a huge cavalier’s hat. Torthe also had a chest of gold and jewels, which he’d promised she could take back to sea.
The treasure did mollify the [Pirate] a lot. The Armored Queen was only too happy to fork over the largely useless treasures of the Antinium. The only use they had for them were as weapons or valuable artifacts or to buy with.
Torthe was someone used to living the hard life, which was how Wrymvr had found her; she’d been part of a band of Drowned Folk [Pirates] raiding from a small schooner off the coast. She had been unlucky enough to take shelter rather than flee when he split the ship and grabbed half of it.
