The day after Colth and Pisces destroyed an entire caravan from Roshal, it seemed like everyone had heard of it. At least, in the Meeting of Tribes.
Gnolls talked and listened. Even if it was a ‘secret’, keeping stuff like the Earther tent hidden was hard when everyone had the ability to hear someone talk from a hundred paces away.
Well, that wasn’t the only reason Pisces kept getting stares and people sniffing the blood on him. Despite washing, he felt like all the children were peeking at him, and the adults were giving him wary glances.
Colth? Colth affected not to notice too much, but he was working extra hard on ingratiating himself. But the other reason the two’s escapades had been leaked was…
Gamur the Axe.
A Named-rank among the tribes. He was a wanderer, like most Named-ranks, but well-respected and, Pisces realized, something of an atypical adventurer.
…In that he wasn’t noticeably or obviously insane. He was a skilled warrior, a risk-taker certainly with his lack of armor and battle technique, which involved him hurting his enemies so badly that he recovered. But along with the Champions of the Coast, he wasn’t visibly quirky like the others.
Then again, he did gossip for such a big and imposing Gnoll.
“…And there I was, listening to him talk with the [Slavers] like they were best friends of his. Then one took a swing at him, and he ran them through—cut the other’s head off, and spat flames all over the rest. Burned them to death. Then he called me an idiot for helping fight.”
“Wait, there he is. Hey, stop telling everyone what happened!”
Colth and Pisces finally caught up with Gamur in one of the tents. He was…complaining loudly to a bunch of Gnolls, mostly older women. The [Necromancer] slowed as he wondered where they actually had barged into, but he spoke quickly and urgently.
“Gamur! What are you doing?”
The huge Gnoll glanced up as he sat cross-legged, idly plucking at some pieces of wood. No, wait a second, he was knitting! And apparently, whining to a Gnoll who was picking apart a familiar fabric…
Honored Deskie was half sympathizing with Gamur, half inspecting the dress that Erin had sent from the inn. She glanced up as Colth and Pisces approached.
“Oh, and there the two troublemakers are. No more fighting in my tent or tribe, Honored Colth, Honored Pisces. Understood?”
“Never, Honored Deskie. But someone’s been slandering us across the Meeting of Tribes…a private affair. Gamur the Axe, what are you doing?”
“Knitting.”
Pisces stared at the Gnoll using the needles to move some colored yarn together. He blinked.
“You knit?”
“You don’t?”
It seemed the Named-rank had a multitude of aptitudes, even if his knitting looked a lot less focused than the other experts in the tent. Deskie poked Gamur and pointed.
“Run and get me some magical scissors. They’re in my tent. This dress…is atrocious, but the [Innkeeper] is right. The thread is magic, and highly so. I don’t know who made this, but they used something rare and beautiful in this trash.”
“Yes, Honored Deskie.”
Gamur got up instantly and trotted out of the tent. Colth and Pisces followed him.
“Gamur, why are you telling everyone about the inn? That’s private. If the Drakes investigate—”
“You think Gnolls will tell Drake soldiers or their Watch anything? The tribes deserve to know there’s a crazy Human on the loose. Besides, this is our ground. You cause trouble, and I’ll hit you.”
“You knit?”
Gamur stared at Pisces, who was still stuck on that part. This time, Colth elbowed Pisces.
“I knit, Pisces. You’re the only one who can’t, apparently. Hey, Ceria. You knit?”
“I what? No!”
Ceria had spotted them, and she trotted over with Yvlon and Ksmvr. Gamur and Colth exchanged a look.
“Weird.”
“Hrr. They’re just thug-adventurers. I expected more out of you though, Colth the Supporter. Less of blood-madness, more thought.”
“Everyone has someone they hate. How do you deal with Crelers?”
Gamur sighed as he found Deskie’s tent and ducked into it. He re-emerged a second later with some magical scissors.
“So that’s your weird thing. Named-ranks are all so insane. Someday I will meet one who doesn’t make my fur stand on end. Gadiekh and you both seem normal. So does Mivifa…you’re all crazy.”
This was one way to start a day. Pisces rubbed at his eyes, realizing they’d gotten off-track from the part where Gamur didn’t leak that they’d killed a bunch of [Slavers] of Roshal.
Then again, the Gnolls really didn’t seem bothered. Even Liscor would weigh the diplomatic consequences of that kind of thing, but Gnolls seemed pretty staunchly unmoved. That was a good thing for Pisces.
The argument was, apparently, not so much about Colth’s actions, but who was crazy or not. For breakfast, Honored Deskie fed the Horns, Colth, and Gamur on hot rice and some delightful slabs of meat.
“What’s this, Honored Deskie?”
Yvlon was eating hungrily as Ksmvr tried to learn how to knit, and Colth and Gamur both showed him how. Deskie smiled as Inkar put down some more food and hugged the old Gnoll.
“Horse, I think.”
Yvlon stopped eating with a look of vague horror, but Ceria brightened up.
“Oh, that’s on my list of things to eat! It’s pretty good!”
“Horse?”
It was not the kind of thing Humans like Pisces and Yvlon were used to, but Deskie rolled her eyes at their hesitance.
“We have thousands of horses across the tribes, and they die or go lame and need to be put down, even with the best Skills. What would you do? Humans.”
Inkar nodded, seemingly unmoved by the horror of eating horses as opposed to pigs or cows or other acceptable animals. She hadn’t come back with the Horns; rather, she’d surprised the heck out of them when they’d seen her walking around. But the Silverfangs were still maintaining a presence in both Liscor and the Meeting of Tribes, so Inkar had gone back with them.
So had Tkrn. The former [Guardsman] was still a City Gnoll in many ways, but his fortunes seemed to have led him here. He was carrying in more food from Earth as the [Spinners], [Weavers], [Knitters], and other thread-experts gave him orders and people to find.
They had no problems bossing Gamur around too, as if he were any other young Gnoll they knew, and for some reason, it struck Pisces as odd.
It struck Gamur as healthy.
“If I was too good to listen to Honored Deskie, who wove my first piece of armor when I was an idiot, who would I be? Fame gets to your head.”
“That’s what got Deni. Mihaela’s immune to it more or less, but hold on, is there no one sane in the south? Named-ranks, that is. I don’t know the southern counterparts as well. Let’s think.”
Gamur and Colth began tossing out names. And all the Horns listened with great fascination, as did the rest of the people in the tent. Colth ate from his bowl as he frowned at Gamur.
“Mivifa?”
The huge Gnoll was on his third bowl, and Deskie kept poking him and telling him to ‘stop eating like a Wild Wastes Gnoll’.
“Something’s wrong with her. I don’t know what, but she’s not normal. She likes Saliss.”
“I’ll take your word for it. And yeah, that’s proof enough. Gadiekh?”
Half the tent shifted, and Gamur growled.
“Famous traveller. He’s like Deniusth from what I’ve heard. He went to Liscor expecting to make a splash, and some Goblin kicked him around. That was funny.”
He grinned, and at this point, Ceria leaned in. Gamur was intimidating as any Named-rank would be, but Ceria made the plunge.
“Did you want to go to the Trial of Blades, Gamur?”
He just snorted.
“Me? I’m not fancy enough with the axe. Besides, I was hunting down Plain’s Eye traitors. They weren’t all at the Meeting of Tribes, and some of their sub-tribes were still crazy with revenge. Most of their Doomslayers gave up after Xherw died. Not all.”
The tent fell silent, and Ceria blinked.
“I had no idea. No one talked about that.”
Gamur grunted shortly.
“That’s because it’s no one’s business but ours. Garsine, me, and some others dealt with it. Garsine’s crazy.”
“I bet she is. Very impressive—but self-sacrificial? Reminds me of Eld. Eldertuin? Have you met him?”
“Once. Terland? Big shield?”
“That’s Eld. Anyone else?”
Colth drummed his fingers on his side as he knit one-handed, keeping the thread and other knitting needle suspended in the air with some Skill.
“There were a few that I thought were normal-ish. Ever heard of…Joriac Wavebreaker? He was an old man I had the privilege of meeting.”
Even Gamur looked impressed by the name-drop.
“Didn’t he journey with the Lightning Thief?”
“Yep. An old legend. He was an old, decent man. But whether he was normal? He certainly seemed haunted by something, despite being one of those lovable types. I think Deniusth copied him—you know, throwing money around, always flirting or living high?”
“Hrr. It’s different in the south. You know Zeter, the Swordsman of Six?”
“Normal? He’s married, so that might indicate it.”
“He’s an ass. Arrogant, one of Manus’ soldier-types.”
“Ah, one of them. Got it. I thought he was just bad at the Trial of Blades, but he’s always like that. Wonderful.”
Colth flicked his hand dismissively as Gamur growled, clearly not a fan of the Swordsman of Six either. But he went on.
“That’s how a lot of Drake adventurers go. Loyal to their cities. The ones from small cities are either loyal to their homes or get ‘absorbed’ into a bigger city, who court them. Tribes do the same, but some of the good adventurers become more neutral. Lehra’s like that. She’s not normal, though.”
“She’s a kid. Bigheaded—but I think the war took her down. She might even survive a decade. Okay. You?”
Gamur scratched at his chest, unbothered by the quick question. He indicated his bare fur and the axe he still had on his back.
“I go into battle without armor. And apparently, I knit, so I’m not a tough warrior. What do you think?”
Colth shook his head as Pisces turned red, and half the tent stared at him disapprovingly.
“Well, I’ll take your word for it. You know what? I’ve got a name. Cosmenaut. The Duelist of First Landing. He’s just a fancy [Duelist] who thinks you can honor-duel your way to victory in any circumstance. Pompous, doesn’t actually do monster-slaying as much, but wickedly fast with the sword.”
Gamur thought about it and growled to himself.
“…Huh. That’s so boring. Is he actually Named-rank?”
Colth thought about it for a while.
“He’s…good enough with a blade that he’s the best duelist in First Landing. But again, he got to that rank without slaying monsters. He’s a Named-rank against [Bandits]. He could probably beat you or me or most Named-ranks in anything but a deathmatch. But you heard about that fight in the north, right? One look at a mace covered in acid and he folded up.”
The Named-rank Gnoll shook his head sadly.
“What’s happening to Named-ranks these days? I still remember looking up to the legends in my day, and I feel like a Silver-rank. I’m not sure I could chew my way out of an Adult Creler’s stomach like the Fangmaster. Let alone survive the Crelers trying to hatch in my fur afterwards.”
Even Yvlon blanched at the notion. Colth just nodded and sighed.
“Old legends. How about that drink after all? I always wanted to meet the Fangmaster, you know.”
They were burying the hatchet from yesterday, or so it seemed. Gamur nodded, then glanced at Colth.
“While I have you honestly—there are two I wanted to know about. The Favor of the North? And the Champions of the Coast. Normal?”
Colth laughed.
“You mean Caleis Berkesson? His face is a handkerchief. He’s fairly stable given that—you can definitely trust his word. And he’s not actually as arrogant as Cosmenaut would be. He’s definitely a loyalist, though, but the north doesn’t hate Gnolls as much as Drakes.”
“Good to know. And the Champions? They’re married.”
Colth hesitated for a long moment, and the silence was telling.
“Teithde and Rasen Verithe. I’ve journeyed with the two of them, and I don’t actually know what makes Rasen crazy. Probably hanging out with his wife? She’s a piece of work, but something about the two of them rubs me the wrong way. I don’t know what it is, but I have a feeling even Saliss would back away.”
That was just his intuition, but it made Pisces’ ears perk up. All these names might be people he’d meet one day or another, and Gamur seemed to nod and commit it all to memory.
“None of them are hostile, though? Shriekblade is. Zeter will go for you if he thinks you’re a danger. He’s tried to kill me more than once.”
Colth’s brows rose, and his expression grew serious.
“Deni has a bad temper, and he’s on the warpath after getting stolen from. Watch out for him. Viecel the Gambler…is the unpredictable one compared to Eld. They’re fine when Eld’s around. The Champions, the Favor—all decent as far as I know. Anyone in the south to watch out for?”
Gamur just grunted.
“Anyone from a Walled City’s dangerous if you cross their home. There are a few of my peers who go wild. Mivifa is the most trustworthy, Saliss, Gadiekh…”
He rattled off a few more names, and Colth nodded. Then he stretched.
“If we run into anyone we know, we’ll drop your name. Hopefully we’ll make new friends in the New Lands. But I sort of feel like we’ll run into competition from overseas. I’m going to hate fighting our counterparts.”
Fighting our counterparts? All the Horns looked up in alarm, but Gamur just nodded, sighed, and put away his knitting. The two seemed to take it as a fact.
Named-ranks would come to the New Lands. And whether or not they were sane or friendly—they would definitely clash.
 
——
 
A lot of little projects were underway. Well, ‘little’ was like Honored Deskie’s inspection of seith-thread. It wasn’t showing results—yet.
Chieftain Feshi’s project was more eye-catching. The Gnoll Chieftain was excavating the very earth where the Meeting of Tribes stood.
It actually reminded Pisces, disconcertingly, of the dungeon of Liscor and how the Antinium had first dug the tunnel that led to the main entrance. Only, this time, Feshi and her tribe knew what they were searching for.
The Kingdom of Gnolls. Accordingly, they didn’t just set about a tunnel.
They were building from the dirt too. It was almost like a Giant had begun making dirt forts; Feshi had a Skill that allowed Gnolls to move dirt at a prodigious rate, but as she pointed out to the Horns…
