“That is wise. Should I avoid telling the Grand Queen, then?”
This time, Klbkch realized that Xevccha didn’t want to actually talk to the Grand Queen and hesitated.
“…I believe she will be upset if we do not. Tell her.”
“Oh, very well.”
That was not quite how they thought-spoke, of course. The Antinium were actually thinking in more nuanced dialogue than that, and if you had to translate it verbally, it would have come out in their native language. These days, a word would sometimes appear in the language of other species because they had no native translation for it, and they were beginning to think in other languages.
It was another distressing reminder that they had changed from being True Antinium. The Free Queen dwelled on the notion. Klbkch did not. He was genuinely furious. And, she had sensed, worried.
Someone had caught him even with [Recaptured Sublimity]. To her that was…nigh impossible.
Klbkch had not ‘mastered’ the Skill that gave him the old power of his body. Rather, he had described it as a kind of tradeoff.
If he needed to, he could regain his full combat prowess, but not perfectly. Rather, it was like remembering part of a painting, or the entire thing, but vaguely.
Klbkch could make himself faster, stronger, and tougher—or focus on one aspect of his old form, like the strength that had made Facestealer’s bones crack. Or the speed to catch Vetn. He couldn’t recapture it all. Not yet.
And still, the Lightning Thief had been faster. Of course, Klbkch lacked his Skills and old body’s perfection and tricks. Even so, it had rattled him.
It should have made Xevccha panic, that one of the three remaining Centenium had been bested in any way. But she was older than the new Queen who had seen her people sink at sea and washed up, alone and unable to hear her people, afraid they had lost everything.
She had experienced defeat. When you had fallen to the bottom, something like this didn’t hurt much.
And as for fear they would be outmatched—life had thrown her a boon at last in that pit. A shining ray of hope.
“I will need to speak to the Grand Queen momentarily. Continue the experiment.”
Xevccha turned back, and the Workers and Soldiers returned to their work. They were doing the impossible, or trying to. A singing Antinium was swaying back and forth on a huge perch, holding a handful of feathers. She’d made a huge, branch-like protrusion of a balcony because he liked it so much.
Anything to lure Bird down. He was not always in his tower, and despite being exiled and renouncing the Free Hive—he came by surprisingly often.
For a few reasons. First, because he was welcome in the Free Queen’s quarters. Second, because he sang and she enjoyed it. And third, because she bribed him and had need of him.
Right now—Bird was singing.
“I am Bird, and Bird am I. I sing and you hear my voice. And now you say…”
He looked down at the Workers and Soldiers and paused. And they said:
“Hello?”
Or rather, only two Workers said that. There were seven Soldiers, eleven Workers, and a few of the Soldiers tried to click loudly. One Worker waved.
The Free Queen rubbed at her body with her palps, tired. She reached for a huge ice cream milkshake one of Garry’s helpers had carted out for her.
“No, no. Bird. Please, stop singing. That is too complex.”
He stopped and turned to her as she sipped through a huge wooden straw.
“But you said singing was the most basic thing of all.”
She corrected him gently. You had to be gentle with Bird. He was a silly creature, sometimes on purpose, and she humored him. Because she liked the Worker. And because he was so valuable.
“Singing in the mind, Bird. Singing as Antinium do. You sing in ways Soldiers cannot. If they knew the song and joined in, it would be easier. Please…try something easier. What was the word you wished them to say?”
“Hi.”
Oh. The Workers and Soldiers below waved their antennae and nodded. So that was what he’d been thinking. Some had gotten ‘hello’ or the vague sentiment. But how had they gotten it?
The Free Queen watched, half-despondent, half-elated. It was so entirely frustrating. She’d sensed everything Bird was singing, but the other Workers and Soldiers had not.
And yet, they’d picked something up. Now, Bird tried to concentrate. Or pretended to.
“Unitasis…unitasis…[Unitasis Network]! I am thinking of a color. Which one is it?”
The Workers and Soldiers milled below as Xevccha leaned over excitedly. This was the foundation of True Antinium! This was how they rebuilt all! Minds in unison! Armies fighting as one! Intellect shared, willpower a sea of togetherness! Bird was the first Antinium to learn the Unitasis Network—as a Skill no less!
This was a day of great celebration, ever since the Meeting of Tribes had ended. It was—except for one thing.
“B-blue?”
The Workers and Soldiers argued and came back with a color. The Free Queen took a huge gulp of her milkshake and summoned a cow-sized steak. She was eating her feelings.
“No! Turquoise!”
Ooooh. The Workers and Soldiers lowered their heads as the Free Queen sighed. Their reactions were telling. Some had said ‘green’ or ‘blue’.
It was like they were poorly tuned to Bird’s thoughts. They were getting some of what he thought, but it was distorted. She blamed Bird, honestly. He came up with difficult concepts—and he was also Bird.
It was entirely possible that his unique personality made forming a Unitasis Network harder. But it had to be taught. If Bird could teach the Unitasis Network to one Soldier or Worker, just one—it proved the others could learn. And then the Free Queen could expand it, one by one if she had to, or more likely, learn what was needed and mass-transmit the knowledge across the Hives.
That was the plan. It had been the plan for about three months. They’d done this five times a week, every night except weekends, which Bird claimed he got off.
She had a headache. And so, apparently, did Bird.
“Free Queen, my head hurts. I’ve been doing this for an hour. May I go?”
“Please try one more time, Bird. One more color? Something simple, like red?”
Bird tilted his head.
“Okay. I will think red, then.”
“No…that wouldn’t help, Bird.”
Xevccha didn’t have actions like putting one’s head in her hands, but she did have existential despair. She clicked her mandibles, resisting the urge to poke him hard.
“Numbers, then.”
“Okay. What am I thinking of? One plus one is…?”
“That’s math, Bird. Think of a number, don’t ask them an equation.”
As one, the Antinium flinched. The Free Queen’s peeved snap was more familiar to them than anything else, and she caught herself as Bird’s happy smile turned downwards.
“I am…sorry, Bird. It is just frustrating.”
“I am sorry I am frustrating, Xevccha. Erin sometimes tells me I am too silly. But you should also apologize to your Workers and Soldiers.”
Apologize to them? The Free Queen stared at the group below.
“I. Am…sorry.”
It came out with difficulty, even for her. But it cheered Bird up, and the Free Queen did regard the Workers and Soldiers as more than expendable parts. Each one could, with luck or chance, become a valuable Individual.
But oh, how tiring it was compared to True Antinium where even Queens could die if need be. Rather than all being sacrificial pieces in an endless war, they had all become precious little gemstones, nay, seedlings to be nurtured and agonized over!
The nature of Antinium was sacrifice. Only the Centenium and the First Queen had ever mattered. This ran against the Free Queen’s wishes. In a way, it explained why it had taken a decade to get to this point.
She was realizing it. The Free Queen took a break to tell the Grand Queen about the sword. The Antinium had a new issue to deal with, and frankly, this was getting nowhere.
It was just so frustrating because according to Bird, he’d never needed [Unitasis Network] as a Skill at all. He had claimed the Free Antinium had spontaneously generated versions of the Unitasis Network while playing chess against Erin and again when they’d defended the inn.
When the Free Queen had heard that, she’d nearly flipped the Hive, and she had tried to reproduce the phenomenon because it meant that the Antinium had always had the power to form a Unitasis Network. But for some reason, while she could communicate with them thanks to her abilities, they were unable to communicate with each other.
The analogy Bird had made was something about ‘radio towers’ and ‘poor connection’. He was watching something called movies, and apparently there were analogies in Human culture, which fascinated and disturbed Xevccha. She hadn’t realized any other species was so advanced.
And yet…even Erin couldn’t reproduce that ability at random in her inn. Even Bird could barely transmit a color at close-range to a group of Workers and Soldiers thinking hard.
Why? The Free Queen listened to the Grand Queen berate her for ‘losing’ one of the swords until she pretended her mirror was malfunctioning and cut the call. She ignored the squawk of rage and decided today was an unpleasant day.
“We shall conclude the training. Bird, thank you. You are free to return to your inn.”
“Yay. Thank you, Free Queen. May I be paid for my work?”
Bird was getting a paycheck for helping rediscover the nature of the True Antinium. The Free Queen hesitated, because she felt like he had done this part on purpose.
Bird had argued that, since he’d renounced his Hive, he was no longer Free Antinium. But since she needed his help, he would happily work with her as a paid contractor. And at that point, Xevccha had realized he might be more cunning than he let on.
“I shall have some coins prepared, Bird. In fact, you should sit here. Klbkchhezeim is upon his warpath, and the inn is frantic. Sit, and eat with me.”
“I will take my payment in boiled eggs, then. Thank you! No, wait. I would like my eggs profane.”
Bird sat happily as the Free Queen, sighing, gestured for Runel, one of the two flying Antinium, to bring over a tray of deviled eggs.
The Workers and Soldiers watched as Bird trundled over and sat with the Free Queen, who lifted up her steak—and a huge, scurrying thing emerged from a hole in her room.
“Deferred Sustenance, there you are. Did you come out for my steak? You silly Rock Crab. Here.”
She broke off a piece, and the little Rock Crab snatched at it, then retreated into its hole after she patted it. A pet, a singing Bird, an easier Hive with all the traps…life wasn’t that bad, Xevccha reflected. Indeed, she thought of the Workers and Soldiers standing there, and such was her largesse, she came to an impulsive decision.
“Pisca. Runel. Bring out more food. In fact, select…yes, select a portion of Acid Fly lasagna that Garry made. All of it. I shall allow the Workers and Soldiers to eat with Bird and I in recognition of their labors.”
Whaaat? Even Pisca and Runel hesitated, then rushed into the kitchen and opened the magical walk-in refrigerator and began to heat up some of Garry’s pre-made food. Bird happily bounced up and down.
“Food for everyone? Huzzah! That is so kind and generous, Xevccha.”
“Isn’t it? Give some to the Soldiers on duty as well.”
She was feeling good about her generosity. The Soldiers and Workers felt…stunned. Awed. And hungry. These were not Painted Antinium or Individuals, just random ones she’d selected out of multiple groups to test whether there was some factor in learning the Unitasis Network from Bird.
The Soldiers guarding her at all times glanced up, and the smell of hot, delicious food wafted into the room. Deferred Sustenance scuttled back out of its hole, and the Free Queen smiled.
Then—she heard something. No, she thought-heard something. It was loud and came to her from nearly two dozen ‘voices’, each one faint, untrained, wild and young and naïve and precious—
It struck her, and she actually rocked in place as Bird sat up. His antennae went still, then they waved as crazily as the Free Queen’s.
Because they had both heard it. They had both just heard, unprompted, a single thought coming, not from them, not from Klbkch—but from the gathered Antinium. Workers, Soldiers, all thinking in unison. So loudly the thought connected each and every mind and reached the Free Queen.
A proto-Unitasis Network. And what was the first thought to come from the linked minds? It was:
 
‘Acid Fly lasagna. Yum!’
 
The Workers and Soldiers smiled as one, and each imagined a different version of the dish, trying to think of what it must taste like from their limited imagination of the world. Each single thought and idea overlapped, and then all the imaginations blended into the most beautiful thing in their heads, a combination of all the ideas of what it might be, might look like, and they realized that the other Antinium around them were thinking like them and happy.
They felt each other’s happiness—felt the wound on one of the Soldier’s feet he was hiding, afraid of telling anyone about in case he was killed for being useless. Felt the others’ worries and thoughts and realized they were not alone.
Then—two minds joined that hubbub of untrained voices, colliding thoughts. One was a silly, laughing mind that had sharp insights, joy, and song. Filled with images of birds and a world above and a resolve to protect his place and family.
The other was older, vaster, and carried with it the will and despair of a people a world away. It was not just one mind—it was like touching a falling nation, hearing a million dead voices and a flash of light.
The Free Queen, Xevccha’s mind, was filled with echoes of Antinium she had known. It was old, despairing, tired, and pained—with more pain that she had forgotten existed, from her bloated body ruined by having to bear the first generation of Antinium. With fears and intent—and yet the mind was honed, trained, and so powerful they learned something just from touching it.
Could you order your thoughts like someone ordered papers on a desk? Yes! Could you learn to think harder? Yes! She was a lesson, and yet her mind opened like a blooming flower, like dawn, with hope and excitement as it touched theirs, and she gave voice to what was happening.
Unitasis Network. It had formed.
They were connected. The Free Queen felt elation, awe, triumph, and the Antinium smiled and thought as one. Through it all, though, one thought bubbled up in their combined consciousness.
Lasagna? Food? That was the key? Xelchidrech kelc! What the f—
 
——
 
The Grand Queen was getting tired of the Free Queen’s mess ups. No one appreciated how hard she, the Grand Queen, had to work.
She ended the call with the Free Queen, then had to summon the other four Queens to an emergency meeting.
