And just as expected, my demand unites them against me, for they know the only mercy I can offer is the same mercy I offered Hideo. Perhaps it would be different if they weren’t clad in Mataram armour and captured while attacking an Imperial fort, but alas, the Empire is not known for its mercy to traitors or Defiled and it shows as the Clansmen raise their voices in defiance and charge headlong into the fray. There is little to no coordination between units, just a massed charge towards the closest foe who isn’t a Divinity, which is in every direction besides the docks where my wives and floofs stand.

An outcome I expected, which was why I ordered the Imperial Peak Experts and Demon Slayers to help hold the line while the Irregulars whittle down the Enemy numbers from afar. Perhaps it’s cruel to crush them all without leaving even a single path to escape, but this is the best way to ensure minimal Imperial casualties, even if the slaughter doesn’t sit well with me. The only consolation is that the Abbot will deal with the traitor monks, though I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t concerned about Monk Eyebrows and the others staging another coup down the line. That’s not my problem to deal with however, so I focus on what is, namely the struggle between Imperial and Defiled. It brings me no joy to see so much needless death, but I stand and watch regardless, because it is the least I can do after giving the order. Honestly, I should be down there fighting alongside my allies, but somehow, I can’t bring myself to do it. Not in a figurative sense, but a literal one, as in I know beyond the shadow of a doubt that if I were to go down there right now and take up arms against those desperate Clansmen, then I would be making a huge mistake. I know this in my heart of hearts, and it checks out logically as well. Either I personally slaughter the Defiled and hate myself for it, or I give in to my empathy and try to put an end to the slaughter, neither of which will end well. So instead, I keep my distance both personally and emotionally while stewing in anger and discontent, wracking my brain for a solution which I know does not exist. Even though I understand that these people must die, I still wish there was some other way. Hell, I even wanted to spare Hideo, or at the very least, find a good excuse to kill him so I could sleep soundly later tonight, but the stubborn bastard refused to turn Demon or throw Juichi under the bus, meaning even at the end, Hideo was still more human than Defiled.

And now, instead of feeling like an all-conquering hero, one only moments away from a monumental victory, I’m just a guy who killed some old guy’s beloved nephew and has to listen to him mourn and cry. Feels bad man.

How many others here on the battlefield are just like Hideo, sinners who could be reformed in time? Perhaps the Mataram Clansmen are not deserving of pity, but I don’t know that for sure, not really. It’s so much easier to wage war when you believe your Enemy is evil, but the conflicted nature of humanity means that true, unmitigated evil is a rare thing indeed, almost as rare as pure good. The problem is, Balance doesn’t care about good and evil, because in the eyes of the Heavens, the ends justify the means. In the eyes of Heaven, the Defiled are no different from a forest fire or raging flood, something meant to clear away the old and make room for the new, while the Empire is most certainly not a force for good, so what am I even fighting for?

Hideo had one thing right. Humanity should not kneel before the Heavens, because the cruel and merciless Heavens are undeserving of our devotion. Better if we rise up to conquer it instead, but I fear that is a feat far beyond my abilities.

Blobby’s agitation stirs me from my funk as Buddy growls in concern, reminding me to seek Balance and put aside my darker thoughts as I’m unwilling to push my limits and see what would happen if I fell into a spiral of depression. Maybe I’m overthinking things. Maybe another person could find a different rationale for all this or a better solution to the dilemma before me, but the only way I know how to put an end to all this meaningless suffering is by cutting the head off the snake. Once Zhen Shi is gone, then maybe, just maybe, the chaos and confusion will be enough to convince some Mataram Clansmen to lay down their arms and lose themselves in the crowd of prisoners who no doubt prayed for deliverance each and every day. Some might deserve far worse, but I would rather ten guilty criminals escape with a lighter punishment than put one innocent to death, even if I’d save more lives the other way around.

Is this a foolish way of thinking? Probably, but I was never really leadership material. I just want everyone to get along, so I can head home and live my life without constraints.

Sixteen minutes and forty-eight seconds. That’s how long the slaughter lasts, and I do not move from my post in the sky until the last Clansman falls, who I mourn alongside the Imperials who died fighting them. A triumphant cheer sounds out as the survivors celebrate their victory, but I find no joy in this senseless death and no accomplishment in having given the order. Mitsue Juichi has long since passed his message along and brought Hideo’s body away, and I hope the old man has the presence of mind to cremate his grandson before some Imperial Divinity puts two and two together and decides to see if Hideo’s flesh might have some Heavenly Energy to spare. I don’t know if it does, but I would rather not find out, so I belatedly wish Juichi all the best before calling a meeting to plan our next step. “We can’t waste even a second,” I begin, once all the Divinities and important Peak Experts have gathered, not just the people firmly in my camp. We’re short a few of the latter, as many ran away as the Demonic Divinity was forming, and I couldn’t be bothered tracking every last one of them down, but at least the Divinities made it back. “You all heard the Uniter. He claims he has all the answers he needs, which means he might now be tackling the final hurdle even as we speak. I do not know how strong he is, but suffice it to say he is formidable enough to demand the allegiance of no less than five Divinities, with more likely hidden in the wings.”

“What you did with the Demon Divinity,” Niu Mowang begins, looking mighty resplendent in his Runic armour even though I now see it for the weakness it truly is. “Preventing it from unleashing untold destruction? You can do that again, for all of us?”

“Yes, within limits.” No need to tell them too much, because even though it’s easier for me to stabilize reality than it is for them to destabilize it, I’m fairly certain that it’s a skill any Martial Warrior with a Domain could pick up, meaning the face of war will soon change once they all realize the Treaty is even more useless than it already is. Then again, I thought the same about Honed Domains, so what do I know? “I assume at least. I’ve yet to be pushed far enough to see those limits.” Though he tries to appear confident and nonchalant, I can tell the Ancestral Bull has decided to stay as far away from me as possible, given how blatantly I just whipped my metaphysical dick out by claiming how easy killing the Demonic Divinity was. It was easy, but mostly because I didn’t do much while Taddy did all the heavy lifting, but no one needs to know that. “How many Divinities are there in Shi Bei, and how many reliable ones can we call upon on short notice? Meaning immediately, since I intend to kill our foe before he has a chance to put the information he gleaned here today to good use.”

With no one better to focus on, I wait for Niu MoWang to give me an answer, but he responds to my query with a vacant expression until he realizes I’m specifically expecting him to speak. “I do not know,” he replies, offering a half-hearted shrug. “The Imperial Clan is responsible for coordinating the movement of allied Divinities, so it would be best if you spoke with your Imperial Dao Protector. I can contact the Divinities I am familiar with, but there is no guarantee they will come, for most are decidedly neutral in the conflict between Defiled and Imperial.”

Well… shit. My Imperial Dao Protector would be the baldy Xing Yong Wei, who I haven’t seen or heard from in forever, but it seems no one else was aware of this. Taddy already told me there are five Divinities friendly to the People in Shi Bei, so we’ll find out more when we get there, but that will have to wait a bit. “Gather your people and prepare. Peak Experts and above only.” Aside from the people I’m bringing with me of course, because they all refuse to stay here even though it’d be safest not to come with. “We set out as soon as I return.”

“From where?” The question comes from Situ Chi Gan, who has been eying my wifey in a none too friendly manner ever since she revealed her strength, and I have a sneaking suspicion it has something to do with his dead son who Lin-Lin may or may not have killed all the way back during our retreat from the Society Contest. If so, then the guy had it coming and there’s nothing anyone can do about it, but parents are rarely rational when it comes to the lives of their children.

“From the Azure Sea,” I reply, and though their eyes are full of questions, I don’t intend to reply, because some things are best left as a surprise. Besides, it’s not like I could explain it even if I wanted to, because I’m not entirely sure how it all works. See, Blobby is a metaphysical droplet of water, but I kicked him out awhile ago and he’s spent the last few months binding a good portion of the Azure Sea on my behalf, which raises all sorts of questions I don’t have the answers for, but whatever. If ever there was a time to use it, that time would be now, even if I have no idea what I’m doing.

Which, if history has proven anything, is probably not as terrible as it sounds. I’ll figure it out, or I won’t, so here goes nothing.

Chapter Meme
