Two years had passed since the defining moment of Hideo’s life, when he suffered a most humiliating defeat at the hands of a slave and traitor, and even after all this time, the memory still stung something fierce.

It wasn’t just losing which irked him so, but losing to such a disgraceful character in so public a manner. If their duel had taken place in a proper arena on sturdy ground, Hideo would have reduced his foes into meat paste with a single stomp of his boot, but out on the floating stage in Nan Ping Bay, he’d been fighting at a marked disadvantage. Not only was he forced to account for the bob and sway of the ground beneath his feet, but he was also restricted from killing his opponents outright, to say nothing of how destroying the stage would have been akin to spitting in the Legate’s face. All this and more meant Hideo was unable to use his greatest weapon, the Mountain Collapsing Stomp, which allowed the contemptible Dastan Zhandos to eke out a victory by the slimmest of margins.

If only Hideo had swung a little faster, aimed a little higher, stepped a little closer… If only… Was there any pair of words more poisonous than ‘if only’?

The day of the First Imperial Grand Conference should have been the day Mitsue Hideo made his grand entrance onto the world stage, but instead, it became the worst day of his life. A series of most unfortunate events set him on course for a dizzying downward spiral which led him to the lowest point of his life, which in time, also brought him to his current, soaring heights. Since the Imperial Grand Conference, he’d encountered trials and tribulations aplenty which would have broken a lesser man, for the Heavens were cruel and merciless indeed. During his isolated meditation, he’d succumbed to his earthly desires and done unspeakable things to Eri-Hime, but even in death, she loved him so and not only forgave him for his weaknesses, but helped him overcome them as well. He owed her so much and wished she were still here by his side, but her soul had no doubt gone into the warm embrace of the Mother Above, where she would soon be reborn anew.

Then, in Sinuji, his father revealed his true strength in an effort to kill Hideo with his own hands. Not because he hated his son, but because Mitsue Hiroshi was a flawed man and a failure of a father who could not understand or accept his son’s newfangled perspective. The man’s strength was betrayal most heinous and revealed his true character, for what sort of man could stand idly by while watching his son stagger beneath the too-heavy burden of the family’s future? It was one thing if Hiroshi lacked talent, but he, a dragon among men, did nothing while Hideo gave everything he had and more to stand out from his peers in a gruelling effort to secure the future of the family out of a misguided sense of filial duty and obligation. No doubt Hiroshi and Juichi shared many a laugh while watching Hideo’s desperate endeavours as he slowly crumbled beneath the weight of expectations, driven to succeed by a false calamity looming over the horizon when they both knew there was no need for Hideo to shoulder the Heavens.

This betrayal pained him all the more because he loved his father so. Despite his supposedly lacking Martial skills, Hideo never once looked down on the man who raised him and instead respected him all the more for having the courage and conviction to put aside the Martial Path in order to maintain the Mitsue family household. None of Juichi’s sons or daughters cared to do the same and instead behaved as if the family’s future had nothing to do with them, so the undesirable burden fell to the nephew Hiroshi, who then had to fend off outside mercantile interests seeking to bring the family low while simultaneously protecting Juichi’s ignorant spawn from their own spendthrift ways. How many times did an uncle or aunt arrive unannounced bearing news of some grand investment opportunity or insider knowledge of a fortune just waiting to be made? Too many times for Hideo to count, and despite being the only person keeping the family from succumbing to poverty, no one ever thanked Hiroshi for all his hard work. Hideo saw first-hand how much effort his father put in to keep the family finances afloat, visiting trading partners and prospective clients all across the Empire while his own family sat besieged on all sides at home. More than once, he remembered gritting his teeth while his aunts made some cutting remark about his mother’s fine dress or fancy jewellery, or the beautiful furnishings of the ancestral home which was more office than household in truth. They were always full of backhanded compliments meant to imply Hiroshi was stealing from the family funds, but never once did he stand up to defend his wife from those hateful accusations.

All this shame and indignity suffered, but for what? All so Juichi wouldn’t have to hear people whisper about how his own children were failures while his nephew was the true Rising Dragon of the Mitsue Family.

And as reward for all his hard work and humility, Mitsue Hiroshi died in disgrace on the fields of Sinuji before the world could learn of his phenomenal talents. This was a man who should have stood shoulder to shoulder with the Sword King Ryo Dae Jung, but the world only ever knew Mitsue Hiroshi as a bean-counting, copper-pinching accountant because he loved his son too much to do what needed to be done. Even Hideo hadn’t known of his father’s strength, but life would have been so different if he had, because then he would have mentored under his father instead. In spite of all Juichi’s strength and accomplishments, the old man clearly didn’t know the first thing about how to raise a competent human being, much less a Martial Warrior. Even knowing Hideo was walking a dead-end path by following in his footsteps, Juichi only warned him against doing so once, after which he more than happily accepted all the praise and salutations regarding the second coming of the Obsidian Shadow.

Worst of all, despite it all, Hideo still loved his father and the guilt ate away at him inside. Following Hiroshi’s death, Hideo was cast adrift in the world with nothing left to anchor him in place, and this weakness brought him to seek solace in the teachings of the Brotherhood. No, not even the Brotherhood, but the vagabonds cast out from their ranks, a pretentious and closed-minded bunch who refused to see any Truth besides their own. At the time however, Hideo was desperate for answers and too scared to seek them out on his own, so he accepted Vyakhya’s misguided interpretation in blissful ignorance, because a flawed answer was better than suffering with no answer at all. Though their conclusions were undeniably unfounded and unsound, the methods the vagabond monks used to guide others to those same answers helped Hideo find the real Truth, that everybody lies and the Truth was what he made of it.

And from that moment on, Hideo was a man reborn.

There were still trials and tribulations aplenty to overcome, such as his failure to overrun the District and capture Zheng Luo, or when Tong Da Fung drove him back on the walls of the Citadel, but Hideo navigated through these calamitous setbacks to emerge stronger and smarter each and every time, until he was finally ready to cast aside the lacking Martial Path and set foot on a new journey in pursuit of the Truth. With help from the Uniter, he’d been reborn as Heroic Heavenly Guardian Hideo, a Cultivator seeking to overturn Heaven’s Will and break free of the shackles restraining him to this ignoble plane of existence. Here in Meng Sha, he displayed his strength for all to see and was this close to overcoming the greatest foe he’d ever faced, the young and monstrous Ancestral Beast Mei Lin. Once he put her in her place, he would claim her as his own, and then he would’ve done the same to Zheng Luo, Sumila, Du Min Yan, and Li Song. Dastan Zhandos would’ve died somewhere along the way, alongside the rest of Falling Rain’s comrades and subordinates, and Hideo’s only regret would have been that the savage runt wasn’t conscious to see it all unfold before his eyes.

That’s how today should have gone, and Hideo had been mere moments away from his crowning glory, only for history to repeat itself as everything went wrong in an instant. The Heavens were to blame, for they conspired against Hideo to keep him from overturning their unjust laws and ascending to stand alongside them, choosing to support their chosen pawn instead of one who spurned their Path. It took two years for Hideo to reach his current soaring heights, but only two minutes for Falling Rain to undo all his hard work, and the runt had the gall to look tired and exhausted as he descended down from the skies with his Dharma Protector, the Medical Saint Taduk who likely did all the heavy lifting when it came to defeating the Transcendent Vyakhya.

A fitting end for that hateful hypocrite of a monk, one who abandoned all his beliefs in a moment of rage. Vyakhya’s star Disciple Monk Eyebrows was still here, standing slack and idly by at the wayside while his fellow monks looked to him for guidance, but there was none to be had from the once formidable man. Where he once stood tall and proud, Monk Eyebrows was now a defeated dog, his shoulders slumped and eyes filled with tears as he stared up at the sky where he last saw his Mentor fly off to, albeit in a monstrous Transcendent form which made a mockery of all the Brotherhood’s beliefs. The man’s faith was shaken, his confidence cracked, and Hideo found a sense of perverse pleasure in knowing there would be others who shared his fate, even if he wasn’t entirely resigned to it just yet.

This all happened because the Heavens were unjust. How different would things be if he hadn’t been born to a family embroiled in lies and deceits? How much stronger would he be if his Grand-Uncle and Mentor wasn’t a failure? How might things have changed if the Grand Conference had taken place in a landlocked city? Or if Hiroshi wasn’t a coward who hid his strength? If Hideo’s uncles, aunts, and cousins had been worth a damn and showed even a bare modicum of talent and ambition? What if Eri-Hime hadn’t snuck in over the fence that night, and Hiroshi hadn’t walked in on Hideo cradling her severed head? What if Vyakhya wasn’t a pompous, arrogant windbag who would brook no discourse or disagreement? Or if Monk Eyebrows had been honest with Hideo from the start? Or if Falling Rain had the common courtesy to die like the mongrel dog he was instead of stubbornly clinging to life and emerging triumphant from all his trials and tribulations.

So many things had gone wrong to bring Hideo to this low-point in his life, but one thing was for sure. Even if it was the Heavens which conspired against him, his hatred was reserved solely for their hateful tool, Falling Rain. If not for him, then Hideo’s star would have risen on that fateful day of the Imperial Grand Conference and brought him high into the Heavens, but instead, he fell to this most contemptible of lows.

Aside from the leaderless monks, there was no one left to stand with Hideo, no one besides the lowly grunts of the Mataram Clan who’d been left to die at the enemy’s hands. Hideo’s cadre had long since escaped even before Vyakhya was booted off the Razor’s Edge by Falling Rain’s contemptible sneer. The Divinities had been the first to flee the scene, followed by Mataram YuGan and the Transcendents soon after, while the surviving Peak Experts took to the skies in a seemingly futile effort to evade certain death. That’s how Hideo had seen it, which was why he remained rooted in place, but that wasn’t the only reason he stayed. Tired and spent though she might be, the monstrous Mei Lin’s predatory gaze warned him against trying to escape, twirling her weightless scarf about in her dainty little hands to set it to scything through the air with a keening wail. There was little doubt in his mind that the scarf was either a Spiritual Weapon or a Domain Plated object which would cleave him from shoulder to hip in a single pass, to say nothing of the fact that he was likely too slow to get away even if he tried. Why she didn’t use her scarf in this manner during their battle was a mystery to be sure, for he might well have taken a grievous injury if he’d been caught by surprise, but there was no accounting for how an Ancestral Beast might think.

And now, as the savage runt’s piss-coloured eyes met Hideo’s, he knew there was no longer any hope for escape, for in that hateful gaze, he saw anger and hatred aplenty. Of course Falling Rain would hate Hideo, for he rose to his current heights through hard work and perseverance, while the Heavens handed the savage runt everything on a silver plate. There would be no false mercy or meaningless forgiveness for Hideo, for the Heaven’s Chosen Pawn could hardly let a true Cultivator live. Doing so would threaten his power and prestige, for Falling Rain’s strength was given to him by the Heavens above, while Hideo had to fight and claw to make progress along every step of the way. Alas, overturning the Heavens was too difficult a tribulation to overcome on his own, but Hideo would die with his head held high knowing that it was better to try and fail than to live the dog life the Heavens had planned for him.

Wasting no time as he landed back upon the docks, Falling Rain plucked his sword out of the air and advanced upon Hideo with the intent to kill. Knowing these might well be his last words, Hideo sneered and said, “And so the savage comes to silence the Truth, but there will come a day when your lies can no longer be kept from the world.”

