Oblivious to Hideo’s inner turmoil, Grand-Uncle heaved a heavy sigh and continued, “As the years passed, our close allies predictably showed their true colours, which was disheartening to say the least, for all of my close friends and comrades proved to be snakes hiding their fangs. Only your uncle Ishida stayed true, because of his close friendship with Hiroshi, showcasing yet another way in which this old fool has failed.” Hideo’s stomach flopped as Grand-Uncle Juichi continued with a grimace. “We were planning to reveal Hiroshi’s strength on the front lines, but then that unpleasantness with little Eri-Hime occurred, and not even the combined efforts of both our families could uncover the culprit. To support his old friend, Hiroshi delayed his plans and stayed behind, but then circumstances in Sinuji demanded he make an appearance there, and then… well, you know the rest.”

There was pain and pity in the old man’s eyes, along with regret aplenty, but no anger, disgust, or even disapproval. He still didn’t know. He didn’t believe that Hideo had been the one to kill Eri-Hime, and that Hiroshi stayed behind to cover up his crime, even though he’d all but admitted it back at the Central Citadel. How could he be so blind to Hideo’s sins? How could he not understand? “What do you think happened in Sinuji?”

Blinking in surprise, Grand-Uncle replied, “Watanabe told me he arranged to have you join the battle against your father’s wishes, so we both presumed you were taken prisoner and your father died trying to bring you away.” His brow furrowing in confusion, a note of consternation crept into his voice as he asked, “Is that not the case?”

It would be so easy to lie, to say yes and let that be the end of it, but Hideo was dying and didn’t want to carry the burdens of his sins even a second longer. “No,” he whispered, unable to muster the courage to speak any louder as the weight of his conscience bore down upon him. “No. I snuck out to join the Enemy, because I knew I belonged with them, for I too am a monster in human flesh. I lost myself in despair after Dastan defeated me, lost myself and turned Defiled. Father knew, so he was keeping me close, and after I snuck out, he died trying to kill me. He was right to try, just as Falling Rain was right to strike me down, for I deserve far worse than mere death.” Tears poured down the sides of his face and he looked up at his Grand-Uncle in an effort to see the man’s reaction to this next confession, even though he was terrified by what he might find. “I killed Eri-Hime. I killed her and ate her, and I remember every sweet, horrific moment of it. It haunts my nightmares in sleep and tempts me in my waking moments, the sound of her sweet screams, the sensation of her warm blood, and the taste of her delicious flesh. Father covered up my crime out of misplaced love and misguided hope, but now I wish he’d struck me down in my madness so that I could have died never knowing the full weight of my sins.”

There was horror in Grand-Uncle Juichi’s eyes, dread and dismay as he was forced to confront the truth, but still he cradled Hideo’s head and stroked his hair, a sensation he clung to in order to cast out the voices in his head. “A true monster would not feel the weight of his sins.” That was all Grand-Uncle Juichi said, and the love returned to his eyes, though Hideo knew that love would forever be tainted by the knowledge of what he’d done. Still, the words helped ease his conscience a little, even though he knew Uncle Ishida would never learn the truth about what happened to Eri-Hime, whose only crime was trusting her big brother Hideo too much.

Falling Rain was right. Hideo was undeserving of mercy, but the soft-hearted fool granted it anyways, all but declaring that Hideo’s crimes were his own and unrelated to the Mitsue Family. This much at least was worthy of gratitude and recompense. “Tell… tell the Legate,” Hideo began, feeling his eyes grow heavy and his head light. “Tell him… the Uniter fears him, but only because he has his sights set upon his true foe, the Emperor hiding in the shadows. The Uniter retreats not to preserve his own strength, but the strength of his forces so that he can bring them to bear another day. Do not for a moment think him weak, for he holds his alliance together not through trust or camaraderie, but strength alone.”

“I will pass along your message, little Hideo.”

“I’m sorry, Grand-Uncle Juichi. Please… don’t tell Mother? Tell her… tell her I love her, and that I’m sorry.”

“She knows, little Hideo. She knows. I’ll look after her as if she were my own, don’t you worry. I’ll…” There was more said, but the fingers ran through his hair one more time the world faded to black around Hideo, and he prayed that what came next was the warm comfort of the Mother’s Embrace, though he knew he was more likely bound for the cold confines of the Father’s Maw.

But such is death, his trials and tribulations finally come to an end, and as Hideo exhaled one, last time, the weight of the world fell off his shoulders and as he found peace at last.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“You’re too nice hubby.”

With arms wrapped around my waist and cheek pressed against my chest, my sweet wifey pouts as she glares at the dying Hideo. “You should have made him turn Demon to show everyone how ugly and hateful he really is.”

Which had been the plan to start, but then Juichi showed up and I couldn’t go through with it anymore. Kissing Lin-Lin’s forehead and hugging her tight, I console my blood-thirsty Ancestral Beast of a wifey as best I can while still coming to terms with this newfangled information. Lin-Lin, the Ancestral Hare, a future Divinity. Seems almost obvious now that I think about it, but how was I supposed to know? “He deserves a thousand deaths for daring to bully you, but look at poor Juichi covered in sand and dirt. He’s probably been scouring the Western Province for Hideo ever since they had their falling out at the Central Citadel, hoping beyond all hope that he can ‘rescue’ his beloved Grand-Nephew and turn him back to the light.”

“He won’t thank you for your ‘mercy’ you know.” Too shy and prideful to throw herself into my arms, Mila puts up a paltry effort to fend me off as I pull her ever so gently into my embrace, and it’s adorable how she ‘unwillingly’ gives in. “You’ve made a powerful enemy, one with little to lose now that his family’s prospects are no more.”

“I can only take responsibility for my actions,” I declare, trying to sneak a kiss on Mila’s lips and settling for a peck on the cheek instead as she turns away with a huff. “What Juichi does moving forward from here is up to him, and I will deal with whatever may come.”

Bold and daring as ever, Yan throws herself into my embrace and locks her lips against mine, her arms wrapped so tight around my neck that she almost cuts the blood off to my brain. Granted, there might be other reasons my brain isn’t getting enough blood, one in particular which sweet Lin-Lin immediately notices and giggles about, but even I’m not so bold as to try something here, not with two father-in-laws looming nearby. Thankfully, Yan breaks off the kiss just before I lose all sense of control, and she headbutts me gently to warn me from trying anything too untowards. “How sensible of you for once,” she croons, as the sultry look in her eyes makes me consider just Cloud-Stepping out of Meng Sha with all three of them right here and right now, though I suppose I should handle all my business here first. “Striking down a Divinity in one blow seems like a paltry achievement in comparison to your newfangled grasp of the obvious.”

“Ah, well, that first thing really wasn’t much. Easier to attack than to defend, and Vyakhya didn’t do any defending.” It stings a little to know I’m no match for a Divinity in actual combat, because they’re too strong, too fast, and too powerful for me to contend with while doing anything besides keeping the Heavens from nuking us all. That being said, I can’t just admit that out loud since the soldiers of Meng Sha can still hear me, all of them too shocked by the sudden turn of events and unsure what will come next. There are still a good number of Defiled here in Meng Sha, enough to put up a decent fight, so the day isn’t exactly won just yet. Giving Yan, Mila, and Lin-Lin one last squeeze, I reluctantly part from their embrace and greet my sweet floofs as they pace and hop around us in demand of affection. Especially Ping Ping and Pong Pong who saved my ass with their water shenanigans, and I’m pretty sure the tiny turtle was ready to drown Meng Sha in despair if Hideo laid a finger on my comatose frame. Pong Pong isn’t great at showing affection, but he’s a real one for sure, and I intend to see that he gets all the shrimp and seafood he wants once all this is over.

Unfortunately, I cannot afford to spend the next week cuddling my floofs and must mix business with pleasure. “Commander OuYang Min Jun?” I Send, picking his unique presence out of the crowd with help from the Natal Soul assigned to him, still floating around due to the commander’s stubborn refusal to accept outside help. “This is Legate Falling Rain, informing you I am in good health once more and able to serve.”

The Empire, not him, but it feels like it would have been too on the nose to point that out, and the commander responds promptly with, “This servant greets Legate Falling Rain. Meng Sha is yours to command.”

“I graciously accept.” Annoying, but he seems like a stickler for propriety, and if there’s one thing I’ve learned in all my time here, it’s that there’s no sense in needlessly antagonizing your allies. Same goes for your enemies, but that’s a lesson I have yet to learn, as evidenced by what literally just happened. Twice. Almost three times if you count Hideo, but in my defense, I was planning to Devour him for Heavenly Energy once he finished transforming. “You’ve done a commendable job here, and I will see to it that you are well rewarded.” Right after I decide what a suitable reward would be, especially considering he didn’t really do all that great of a job. He didn’t fuck things up, which is about all I have to say, but to be fair, that’s still better than what most could’ve done in his place.

What comes next is a thorough accounting of our remaining forces, as well as an estimation of the Enemy’s forces still here in Meng Sha, including a fair number of Mataram Clansmen milling about the interior of the fortress with no idea what to do next. They’re not as decisive as the tribal Defiled, who either stayed to fight to the last or are hightailing it back west even as we speak, but this is a good thing. Confusion means they’re not sure what to do, which means they’re not wholly beholden to their Spectres like the tribesmen are, and still possess enough control to keep themselves in check. That’s important because fight or flight is instinctive, but freezing up is just human nature, which means those standing here in Meng Sha are all still human yet.

After greeting my floofs and waiting for the commander to wrap up his long-winded reporting, I awkwardly nod at Li-Li while wondering how I should greet Luo-Luo who stares at me with an expectant gaze. In the end, I settle with a stilted hug she is far too enthusiastic to receive and almost succumb to the warm embrace of her soft, bountiful bosom. Those things are almost unfair in how erotically destructive they are, but again, this is hardly the time or place, so much as I would love to get to know Luo-Luo better while burying my face between her breasts, I have more important matters to attend to.

I know I went on and on about Balance and expressing emotions, but that doesn’t mean I can do away with all shame and social awareness.

Passing a reluctant Mama Bun over to Lin-Lin since I can hardly demand a surrender with a bunny in my arms, I Cloud-Step into the air to address the Enemies still in our midst. “I am Falling Rain,” I begin, wondering if I should’ve changed clothes first, but then again, they all just saw me cut down a Divinity, so best to strike while the iron is hot. “To all Enemy combatants still in Meng Sha, your commanders and Divinities have fled the field. I urge you all to lay down your arms and surrender so that we might put an end to this needless bloodshed. I will not lie and promise to spare your lives, but I can promise you each a fair trial. I came West not to purge it of all life, but to give the province back to the people who still call it home, including those of you who took up arms against your own wishes.”

There’s no way the entire Mataram Clan was Defiled to the last man, woman, and child. Some probably fought because they were loyal to Clan and Patriarch without understanding the full scope of their actions, while others might’ve been pressured into it to keep their families and loved ones safe, which means I have no qualms about the Abbot whisking some of the less egregious offenders away, as I’ve already closed my eyes to how Monk Bones gathered up all his wayward brothers and disappeared while I was busy with Hideo. That being said, I fear that two years of struggle and conflict will have done away with most doubts and hesitations, and Defiled or not, the Mataram name has become synonymous with traitor and enemy. Even the most innocent Clansman here believes they will likely be put to death, so why surrender without a whimper when you can die fighting on your feet?

