Without hesitation, the savage runt drew back his blade and delivered a lethargic strike, likely to prolong Hideo’s suffering, but rather than slicing into the meat of his neck, the cold steel clipped him in the cheek with the flat of the blade and drove him down into the sand. “Oh?” Sneering ever so hatefully after delivering so humiliating a blow, the savage runt asked, “And what truth would that be? Let’s hear it. I’ve got time and I could use a good laugh.”

So infuriated by the runt’s actions, Hideo almost didn’t hear the question, nor did he truly understand what the runt was doing when his words finally trickled through the rage and fear. How could he be so nonchalant about all this? Falling Rain was an Imperial agent sent here to help cover up the Emperor’s lies, all so the Imperial Clan could keep the secrets of Heaven for themselves, yet now he was all but inviting Hideo to expose him. What game was he on about? Was he really so foolish, or was he just playing with Hideo and would strike the moment he gave voice to injustice?

Whatever the runt’s reasons, this was Hideo’s chance, so he took a moment to gather his thoughts and put them in a reasonable and coherent order. Where to begin? With Juichi and Hiroshi’s failings? No, the runt would only use this to mock Hideo as an ungrateful silk pants, for the world still saw the Mitsue Family as a strong and prosperous household. With his disgrace in Nan Ping which led to Eri-Hime’s death? The world wasn’t ready for that just yet, wouldn’t understand that Hideo had to fall so low in order to rise up again, and that he’d only been able to do so because of Eri-Hime’s love and forgiveness. With the flawed arguments of the Brotherhood Vagabonds? That would require him to explain the arguments in the first place, for most were unfamiliar with the Brotherhood’s teachings, to say nothing of the skewed conclusions Vyakhya operated under. How about the flaws Hideo uncovered in the Martial Path and the steps he took to overcome them? Difficult, truly difficult, for many of his flaws were personal and the solutions unique to him and him alone, for even if there were another man with these same flaws, the same solution may or may not be effective. Not to mention the fact that while Hideo could speak for hours on the subject of Meridians, Acupoints, Chakras, and the intertwining of the body, mind, and soul, there was also much about the subject which he still had yet to wholly comprehend, and he would look foolish if he couldn’t answer one of the runt’s insipid questions.

“Well?” Shaken from his thoughts, Hideo looked down to see the runt’s wide-eyed, exaggerated sneer as he mockingly said, “We’re waiting.”

It was all a trap, Hideo saw this now, a pitfall he almost willingly stepped into. “You know the Truth I speak of,” he declared, deigning not to play the savage’s games. “Mock me all you want, but history will prove which of us stands on the side of humanity.”

“Yes, of course.” Tone dripping with sarcasm, the runt feigned enlightenment and said, “How could I be so blind? The murderous cannibals are only invading to save us from ourselves and do away with all our misguided notions like empathy and compassion. Heroes of humanity, one and all, led by the greatest hero of them all, the Heroic Heavenly Guardian, Hideo. What a joke. Since you refuse to be any use even in death, then you can just die now.”

The sword slashed out again, but this time it rebounded off steel as someone appeared before Hideo’s eyes, a broad back that was smaller than he remembered and yet somehow still so vast and domineering. “Mercy, Legate. Hideo’s sins fall upon this old fool’s shoulders, for I failed to teach him right from wrong, and thus the punishment should be borne by me and me alone.”

Upon hearing that sharp, lyrical voice once more, Hideo was brought back in time, long before he was a Cultivator, or a member of the Hwarang, or even a rising young Talent of note. For a brief, fleeting moment, he was but a child once more, so happy and relieved to hear his Grand Uncle Juichi coming to save him from the adversity plaguing him so. It’d only been a few months since he last saw him, but the old man had grown even older in their time apart, his customary makeup and lacquered nails nowhere to be seen as he emerged from Concealment to stand before Hideo with his twin maces respectfully lowered yet still held in hand. His travel-worn robes were stained with sweat and sand, as if he’d spent weeks roughing it out in the desert instead of brooding back home in his manor, and though the dark birthmark clouding half his face was unsightly to behold, it was nothing compared to the white hairs and folded wrinkles he’d developed since their argument at the Central Citadel. Then there was his wizened frame and slightly hunched back which made it seem as if he had the weight of the world bearing down on him, a most unseemly appearance for a man who’d always seemed so grand and elegant in Hideo’s eyes, but the old man was still a Living Legend yet. With Grand-Uncle Juichi here, they could fight free of Falling Rain’s encirclement and escape back to the West, where they would –

The fanciful daydream died then and there as Mitsue Juichi, a Colonel General who dominated three generations with his Mountain Collapsing Stomp, cast his weapons aside and dropped to his knees before Falling Rain. Without hesitation, the old man fell face-first to the ground with his hands extended straight overhead, making no effort to slow his fall as he kowtowed before the savage runt with an audible thud. “This old fool sinned in raising such a stupid Disciple.” Pushing himself back up to his knees, Mitsue Juichi avoided the runt’s attempts to stop him from kowtowing again and fell to the sand with another thud. “This old fool did not teach his grand-nephew properly, and let him be led astray by his dark thoughts.” Though he tried to kowtow a third time, the runt would not let him, so the old man simply bowed his head repeatedly while refusing to get up off his knees. “It was this old fool’s fault, not Hideo’s, so let my life pay for his sins.”

“Get up.” Only when the old man and runt both turned towards him, did Hideo realize he’d been the one to make this demand. “Get up,” he repeated, unable to contain his rage as he watched his Mentor, his hero, his Grand-Uncle Juichi, debase himself before all of Meng Sha. “Get off your knees! You are Mitsue Juichi, the Obsidian Shadow, a Living Legend and Colonel General!” Pointing at the hateful runt who dared lay hands on such a hero, Hideo shrieked, “Who is he to deserve your kowtows? He is nothing and no one, a savage runt and hateful puppet for the Emperor pulling strings in the shadows. Where has your pride gone?”

“The kowtows aren’t for me, idiot.” Still holding Juichi up, the hateful runt glared at Hideo without even a trace of smug amusement as he spoke in low tones. “They’re for you. That’s why he can set his pride aside, because he hopes this will be enough to spare your life, but though I am a merciful man, my mercy is reserved for the repentant. Do you repent, Hideo? Should I kill your Grand Uncle in your place?”

Hideo’s fear urged him to fall to his knees and beg for deliverance, to accept the trade and let Grand Uncle Juichi die in his place, while his rage demanded he throw himself off the Razor’s Edge and find power in Transcendence, but his pride would not allow him to accept either option. Better to die on his feet standing for the truth than to kneel and reinforce the lies he so loathed, or worse, cast aside his humanity to become less than a beast. “I have done no wrong save for stand against a tyrannical Emperor whose greed knows no bounds,” he declared, but his inner turmoil robbed his tone of conviction even as he shut the voices out. “You may have won for now, but your lies and deceits will come to the light in time. Man was not meant to kneel before the Heavens, but conquer them instead.”

“Quiet boy. Please don’t make things worse.” Reaching out to pat Hideo’s hands while still fighting to drop to his knees, Juichi turned to the Abbot and bowed his head in plea. “Merciful Abbot, this fool begs you to speak up on our behalf. Hideo has erred, but who in this life is free of sin? No one is so far gone from the light that they cannot be brought back into it, is this not what the Brotherhood preaches?”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Hand pressed in prayer, the Abbot appeared every bit as pious as Wisdom Vyakhya had and was likely just as hypocritical. “Benefactor Juichi speaks true, but offering guidance to one who will not listen is no different from drawing legs on a snake; wasted breath and effort. You heard him yourself, that he admits no wrong, so how can this Abbot speak on his behalf in good conscience?” Turning to the runt, the Abbot continued, “Be that as it may, this monk will still say this; mercy offered is never wasted effort, even if it is undeserved.”

“Noted.” The runt’s eyes turned towards Hideo and his vision turned black as the world exploded into pain and misery, only for the agony to recede before the scream even left his throat. Glancing down in confusion, he saw the runt’s short sword protruding from his belly and felt the Energy of the Heavens seeping from his Shattered Core. All he could do was gasp and stagger in place, but Juichi wailed loudly enough for the both of them as he caught Hideo in his grasp. “For his crimes against the Empire, I sentence the traitor Hideo to death,” the savage runt declared, so full of self-righteous conviction as he recalled his sword to hand without Hideo feeling a thing. “Such is the full extent of my mercy, the mercy of a painless death and the time needed to bid one another farewell. More than what most soldiers of the Empire receive while defending their lands from the Defiled, but this I offer to Mitsue Juichi out of respect for all he has done.”

So shocked by the speedy turn of events, Hideo could hardly process what was going on, but the hubbub of the crowd died out as a Sound Barrier sprung up around him and Grand-Uncle Juichi, isolating them from the crowd of soldiers watching from afar. “Oh, sweet child,” the old man cried, tears pouring down his wrinkled cheeks and he gently laid Hideo down in the sand with a gnarled hand supporting his head. “I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry I failed you.”

Though there was no pain, Hideo could muster no strength and found it difficult to even draw breath, as if the air itself had grown too thick and viscous to settle easily into his lungs. The world dimmed as if he were seeing through a pane of off-colour glass, and he was wracked with uncontrollable shivers as the warmth fled from his body and a chill settled into his bones. He was dying, this much was clear, and though he could faintly feel the old man’s Chi pouring in a desperate and clumsy effort to mend his wounds, Hideo knew that not even the Medical Saint could save him now. Falling Rain’s sword had done more than pierce his abdomen, but severed the source of his life itself, and the Heavens were quick to reclaim that which he took with interest to boot. Death had come, and he could only accept it, so he sought out what answers he could before it was too late. “Why did you have father hide his strength?” he asked, still so bewildered by this unfathomable decision. “With his talent, he could have carried the Mitsue Family for another generation and scared off the wolves sniffing at our door, but you had him pretend to be nothing more than a weak, paper-pushing scribe with only a bare modicum of Martial Training. Why?”

Though Hideo could see his Grand Uncle was confused by the question, he didn’t care to ask why. “That was Hiroshi’s decision,” he began, stroking Hideo’s head as if he were just a boy again, here to listen to his famous Grand-Uncle’s war stories. “He said it would give him time to grow stronger and reveal who among our allies were worthy of trust. Like you, I thought his actions silly and meaningless, because with strength, what did it matter if allies could be trusted or not? Easier to trust in strength than to trust in the hearts of men, but Hiroshi was his father’s son. Your grandfather, my older brother, Mitsue Akihiko, the Ivory Flash, he was the true talent of our generation, but the Heavens were cruel and demanded too much from him too soon. Were he still here at my side, our family would have conquered all of Central before Shuai Jiao rose to prominence, but we were betrayed by a close friend and he died to see me out safely. Hiroshi knew all this, and though I had long since dealt with the traitor and those who spurred him, your father wanted to ensure such a betrayal would never happen again. That’s why he hid his strength and made note of those allies who remained true and those who took advantage, for true friends share in wealth and weal both.”

Hideo had never known about his grandfather, for no one had ever spoken of it, but it made him feel better about things because now he knew his suffering served a purpose. Still though, why hadn’t they seen fit to include him in their plans? If only he’d known, then… then…

Then what? What would have changed? Everything perhaps, or maybe nothing. ‘If only’ didn’t matter anymore, because Hideo was too tired even for regret.

