Mila watched Rain eating his meal, chatting with Huushal like they were best friends. He had lost a lot of weight on the trip, the injuries and travel rations taking a toll on his already slight frame. He shoveled rice and meat into his mouth, claiming to need [carbs] and [proteins], whatever those were. Sometimes the things he would say made no sense whatsoever. Mila worried for him, but the idiot hadn't even noticed. He barely even talked to her on the trip, spending all his time keeping the twins occupied and entertained. He would make a good father in the future, but most likely a terrible husband, with his philandering ways and ignorance in how to properly treat women. He had Charok as a role model, the perfect husband, but learned nothing from him.

Huu was turning out to be less desirable than she had thought as well. Now that he was all chummy with Rain, his true colors were showing. She had overheard them whispering, talking about their 'bath' and how effective his 'medicine' was. Rain was a horrible influence, corrupting pure, sweet Huu like that. It was simply appalling how easily he was fouled, a few gifted coins and a small pill, and Huu was running off to the prostitutes, wagging his tail. Men. Rain had even tried to get his hands on Adujan, trying to convince her to join him in the baths, the lech. Why did he even choose to flirt with her in the first place? Adujan hated Rain.

“Mi-Mi, you're gonna get wrinkles if you frown so much.” Lin poked her in the cheek, prompting a smile. “Don't let Rainy grate on your nerves. Like Daddy says, boys will be boys.”

“Hmph. I'm just aggravated by that idiot. I don't even know why you like him.” Mila turned away from him, to chat with her friend.

“Hehe, it's cause he's the best!” Lin beamed, placing some meat and vegetables in Mila's bowl. “We should go to the park later, it's supposed to be very lovely with all the trees just starting to blossom. Just us girls, ya? That sound good Yan-Yan?” The person in question was noncommittal, probably worried it would interfere with her training.

“I want to see the opera as well, Mama said the auditorium is fantastic and they're performing 'The Dark Lady'.” Mila delighted in the idea of leaving the boys behind. Let them be debauched together for the rest of their lives. What did she care? There were plenty of eligible young heroes at the Society, perhaps she would find one of them to court.

A peal of gongs interrupted their conversation, shocks reverberating through the room. “News from the battlefront! The Enemy has appeared!” A city Crier with an announcement, voice booming throughout the restaurant as if he stood next to them. Others would be doing the same, throughout the city. Everyone quieted down as he repeated himself, so that the Crier could grasp everyone's attention, dread and hope intermingling together in anticipation. The Enemy. It had been years since a major attack. Was the Bridge overrun? She squirmed in her seat, staring out the window, even though the crier was nowhere in sight.

“The Enemy arrived at The Northern bridge 16 days past. Over one million strong, they charged the walls of the Bridge, a frenzied horde of fanatics, intent on our destruction.” The Crier paused, Mila chewing her nails, horrified. One million Defiled, facing 350,000 soldiers at the Bridge, she could not even imagine it. “But the soldiers of the Empire held true! For ten long days, they fought back the dastardly scum, allowing the Enemy no purchase upon the battlements, killing them like plucking chickens.” A cheer sounded throughout the area, celebrating their victory. It took a long minute for the cheering to die down, for the Crier to resume his duty. “Throughout the battle, 209 Demons were confirmed killed, sent back to the nether, slain by heroes such as Exarch Bralton and Exarch Erien, the ferocious married pair who killed 4 demons each.” A cheer broke out again, ending quickly this time. “Colonel General Situ Nian Zu, who slew 9 demons with his famous mace, Shooting Star.” Another cheer, louder this time, for a local hero, one of their own, judging by the name. “But the crowning achievements of the battle belong to members of the Imperial Defense Forces, Captain Baatar and Private Gerel of the Iron Banner, slaying 10 and 11 Demons respectively, together accounting for 1 in 10 of the total slain Demons in the battle!” Thunderous applause broke out, Mila cheering and whooping. Baatar and Gerel had brought the People great honor, and the entire city cheered their new heroes. She smiled until her cheeks hurt.

The herald began listing the rewards to be given, as well other achievements of note during the battle. Baatar was to be promoted two ranks to Major, and Gerel to be promoted five ranks, from Private to Senior Captain. An incredible feat, Baatar now a field officer, with the authority to command up to 5,000 troops, and Gerel a top ranked Junior Officer. The Iron Banner Mercenaries could truly become a force for the Empire now, previously limited by their lack of a field officer. She looked at Rain, more jubilant than ever, Alsantset hugging her children, whispering of her father's achievements. Even Mama was glowing with pride, with the accomplishments of her disciple being lauded in the streets.

The news was not all good, however. Three mountain fortresses had fallen, large groups of unaffiliated Defiled using the distraction at the bridge to move through the mountains and mount an attack, clearing two paths into the province. A general call to arms was being announced, an army to be raised to hunt down the invaders, replacements required for the soldiers lost, stepping up the presence in other areas and higher frequency of patrols. One of the fortresses was close to the village, a few days of hard riding, a sobering thought amidst the celebrations. Mila worried for the village, and for those who stood with Baatar. How many would return in six months time, when their tour was over? An army of one million, this battle was far from over. The Defiled would regroup, reinforce, and attack again. She said a prayer to the Mother for the Iron Banner Company, and for the Empire, that the walls would hold and none of the Enemy slip past.

War was once again upon the Empire. Turbulent times lay ahead.

Map of where the Defiled broke through.    Author's note: Chapter of exposition, with more to come. Two more chapters after this, focused more on characters than straight action. It's difficult setting the scene, without going on an on, but I'm at a loss on how to skip it or fix it, sooooo..... maybe come back in three days.   On another note, I made a page for military rankings, because I didn't want to list it in story. I drag on enough as it is.
