Taking a deep breath, I dive underwater to watch Ping-Ping in action, though the doting Mafu distracts my attention. Floating beneath me on his back, my chubby quin exhibits his concern by keeping careful watch on his silly, frail human. Unable to resist, I dive down and hug the silly floof before turning my attention back to Ping-Ping. Also keeping a close eye on me, the giant turtle floats in the water and does nothing else, no longer sending quins spinning in her wake. Doing my best to communicate my wishes, I exhale through my nose and do somersaults in the water until I’m too dizzy to continue. Tilting her head as she watches me make a fool of myself, Ping-Ping continues to float and watch.

After unsuccessfully trying to get my point across a couple more times, I stop to check on Baledagh and Blobby. They’re both doing what they do with little to no change in behaviour. Maybe my little brother would like to swim around, but he doesn’t like me interrupting his training so I’ll wait until his normal break time to ask.

Tightening around my chest, my rope harness drags me upwards and I rocket up out of the water, clearing at least a meter above the surface before landing in the boat. Stumbling to keep my balance, I steady myself with Taduk’s help and stare at Guan Suo in confusion. “What happened? Was it a kraken? You see a kraken? It’s a kraken isn’t it? Why aren’t we moving? There’s a kraken in the waters!”

“Calm down.” Turning me left and right to inspect my face, Guan Suo furrows his brow and says, “You’re hysterical, but not out of breath.”

“Uh... okay...?”

“You just spent ten minutes underwater. I figured you ran out of air and passed out.” Lifting my chin, he pokes the sides of my neck. “You half-fish or something? I don’t see no gills or anything.”

Was I really underwater that long? Glancing at Taduk, he smiles and shrugs, unbothered by my unexplained water-breathing. “You say you spent a week underwater in Sanshu, so ten minutes isn’t so surprising. I would have told him to leave you be but you stopped moving for a bit and I got nervous.” Nudging me back towards the water, he continues, “Don’t concentrate too much on the how, I know you like to agonize over every detail, but sometimes, the Mother gives and does not explain, so don’t overthink.”

Plunging back into the cold water, I do my best to listen to his advice but to no avail. The press of water weighs heavily on my lungs as I try not to worry, but all I can think about is how I’m going to drown. Relax, calm down, and take a deep breath. Just do it, you were breathing fine before. God, it’s hard to force myself to breathe underwater. I mean, breathing is easy, I’ve been doing it my whole life, but underwater, I’m instinctively holding my breath and I can’t shake it. Oh god, I’m running out of air. I’m lightheaded, my lungs are burning for more, I need to surface for another breath. No, No, fight the instinct. You’re fine. Just let yourself go and bre-

Water rushes up my nostrils and into my lungs and I sputter and choke in panic. Struggling to the surface, I cough and breathe as Mafu floats up to support me, lifting me up onto his soggy belly. After emptying my lungs of water, I sheepishly shake my head and avoid eye contact, pained by the pity emanating from Taduk’s eyes. “Sorry Teacher,” I gasp. “I couldn’t not think about it.”

“Don’t worry, Rain my boy,” he says, leaning over to pat my head. “You’ll get the hang of it soon enough.”

Leaning back, I gaze up into the afternoon sky and organize my thoughts. This little fiasco shows I’m not actually ‘breathing water’, which means I’m getting oxygen some other way. It’s not Blobby’s work, which means I’m doing... something... somehow... If I can figure it out, then I’ll be one step closer to flinging bullets, blades, and shields of water. I’m so close I can feel it, information and comprehension just floating in the outskirts of my brain.

Lightheaded from exertion, I rest a little longer to catch my breath and clear my head. It’s beautiful out here, peaceful and calm, with only the sounds of the waves to keep me company. Almost drowning aside, I like it out here and it’s the perfect excuse to get away from all the bothersome things back on land. As long as Rustram finds someone to supply us with fresh food, then I can stay out here and avoid all the annoying nobles who will no doubt come to pester me in droves as they arrive from all over the Empire, not to mention avoid whatever the Legate has intended for me, at least for awhile.

It’s the perfect excuse. He's the one who told me to guard Ping-Ping, so he can't criticize me if I spend all my time out here.

Smiling, I knock on the boat and announce I’m ready to try again before diving down under the waves. I’ve got my own little piece of paradise out here, where no one will come to bother me. Hell, if someone tries, I bet I can convince Ping-Ping to capsize their boat and make others think twice. This is her domain and I intend to make the most of it.

Plus, if I can learn something about manipulating water, then even better. It's not fire or lightning, but it's something...

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Riding through the city gates, he found a cooler reception than he’d expected. There were no cheers or applause, with only a few scattered eyes turning his way, nothing like the glorious parades of his youth. Those watching lacked awe or recognition, with only meagre curiosity for his mount at best. They all saw an old man past his prime and nearing death, but soon enough, he would prove that his best years still lay ahead. Last time, he’d swallowed his pride and sat in silence when the Emperor passed over him for a commission, but never again. He was the Hero of the Hoplesh Rebellion, the Sanguine Tempest of the Central Province, and admired teacher of the Empire, Lieutenant General Du Min Gyu.

Mentally parsing through his steward’s Sendings, he smiled and shook his head. “Girl, it seems your old rival kept himself busy. He won twenty-eight duels in two days, a feat even you would be hard pressed to match.” Accomplished and hardworking as she was, her Chi and stamina were average at best. Her slender frame was better suited to explosive bursts of power and she required time to recover between bouts, but knowing her competitive nature, he sought to temper her expectations.

Bringing her quin close, she took his hand and squeezed tightly, flashing her beautiful smile as she Sent, “Don’t worry grandpa. Rain likes to think himself clever and cunning, but he can be dumb as a rock at times.” Glancing at every young warrior in sight, she assessed their skills and ogled their looks before dismissing them from memory, all unworthy to challenge her skills. “All he knows is how to work hard. Quality over quantity I say. Forget fighting twenty-eight trashy young masters, I’ll find the strongest talents and beat them into submission.”

“Good, good.” His chest swelled with pride as he gazed at this young woman who favoured too-tight clothes and had come to mean so much to him. His granddaughter and arguably the number one young talent in the Empire, Du Min Yan.

“Good.”

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 16 -
