Behind it, Lily saw the woman's body starting to convulse. Her skin was turning gray, and black veins spread over her arms, neck, and face.

However, before she could pay any more attention to her, the man's jaw dislocated into an inhuman scream.

It leaped up like a panther and dashed to Lily’s door, crashing into it with a sonorous thud.

Lily seized up and almost fell backward, looking on her kitchen counter for a knife or something.

The thing pounded the door a few more times, and then went silent.

Lily took her biggest kitchen knife and silently went to the door’s peephole again.

When she looked through it, that monster was nowhere to be found. Eerily, the woman, too, had disappeared. The blood, however, was still there, proving she hadn’t just hallucinated.

She fastened the lock before retreating toward the large window in her living room to observe what was happening.

Half of the city was now covered in smoke.

Suddenly, a falling star drew a white streak in the sky, tinging the smoggy canvas with a brilliant, mercurial streak.

“What is happening?”

Lily frowned as she saw the star suddenly burn brighter instead of dimming and disappearing. The shooting star seemed to suddenly change its course and detach from the sky as it sped through the city and phased through Lily’s window, resting just a few feet from her as a snowy globe of light.

“Your world is ending, Lily Ember,” the star said with a deep voice.

With a globe of opalescent light now talking to her, Lily started suspecting she was losing her mind.

“You’re sane, child. This is an invasion. A great monster from the multiverse grew so much that now countless planets are being infected by his spawn.”

Surrendering to the situation's craziness, Lily tried interacting with the light.

“So, you say the world is ending. Is everyone about to die?”

“Worse than that, I fear,” the deep voice spoke again.

Lily thought for a moment about what could be worse than death. Then she remembered the creature she saw outside her apartment—that… zombie.

“Why are you here with me, then? Who are you?”

“I am a friend. And I’m here because I have an offer. An exchange of old.”

If I’m going insane, I might as well listen to this thing rather than go out with that monster rooming the condo.

“Ok, what’s the offer?”

“You currently do not have the means to save everyone here. The monster I speak of invaded this place before magic could fully populate your world. No one will have a chance of surviving because it came before your people could have the tools to fight it.”

“Ok, and what’s the offer?” Lily pressed the light.

“I can give you a chance to save everyone, Lily Ember. You would have the tools to stop this catastrophe.”

“Stop it? Didn’t you say everyone’s doomed?”

The light paused for a second and spoke with regret.

“Yes, but only here and now. I would bring you back to a time and a place when and where the great evil can be stopped. But that means you would be gone from Earth forever. Everyone you know and love on this planet would never see you again, even if you managed to avoid this catastrophe.”

“I’m sorry. Let me see if I understand,” Lily started. You would bring me back before this whole…” She gestured to the city.

“Yes.”

“And I would have a way to stop it, but I wouldn’t be on Earth?”

“Exactly.”

Lily frowned and then started giggling. Then, the giggling bloomed into a full hysterical laugh.

She laughed like a madman.

“You’re a peculiar creature, Lily Ember. What is that you find amusing?”

“You know what’s the first thing I thought of?” She said to the light, brushing away a lock of blonde hair from her exhausted face. “The chemo outreach program. Do you have the power to make that work even if we go back in time and I never exist here anymore?”

The light stared silently at her, and then Lily heard a deep laugh coming from the light.

“Of course.”

Lily nodded and took a last look at her apartment.

“Will I ever come back?” Lily said.

“Never,” the light replied. “Once time and space unravel for you, they can’t be turned back. Even if you reached the apex of the universe, you’d never meet the same Earth that was attacked today. Such are the laws of time and space.”

“Fine with me,” Lily sighed heavily. “So, where are we going?”

“To a new world.”

Before she could say another word, the light expanded, and everything suddenly went white.
