As I crawled into the manhole, the sun crept up along the horizon, the first inklings of a sunrise cascading onto the rooftops. With that in mind, I dashed back towards our encampment while shutting oppression off. No need for it now. Once I reached the encampment, the vibrant levels of activity were a welcome sight.

The tents folded against a gust, the wind enough to send a stack of papers flying. As I reached deeper into the encampment, voices came into focus with ease. I didn't need to lean over and focus to listen. It was like the information was being fed to me instead.

"Over level 500...Wow."

"He's a monster."

"I see why's he's called a harbinger now."

A little sprinkling of pride was in my chest before I walked up to Torix's current hideout. No more homely furniture was in the room. Data points, charts with data on followers and enemies lined the walls. A map of Springfield with the moving dots was taking up an entire wall now, segments separated into specific sector names.

Torix wrote a giant ritual onto the floor, some of the runes familiar. As I walked in from the door's entrance, Torix looked up from a fly he had at the center of the ritual. With ink and other dust all over his robe, he patted himself down as he stood,

"Good to see you Daniel. I take it your roaming was successful then?"

"Yeah, I suppose so."

His eyebrow raised, "Level 565? That's...incredible. Excellent progress."

Noticing a shade of suspicion in his voice, I decided to stay casual about it. I shrugged, "Eh, I think it's the quarantine zone combined with this obliterator perk thing I have. It doubles experience from unique boss enemies."

He nodded, "Quite a powerful bonus then. Regardless, I thought over your previous messages and thoughts. I find myself agreeing with them more and more as I analyze the data."

He walked over towards the map on the wall and pointed towards a one of the dots. This happened to be one of the dots with an area highlighted around it. Each of these dots had different sized circles surrounding them of a different color, some green, others yellow and red.

Torix pointed at one of them, "This is a color-coded map. Each of these dots represents a dungeon. I tallied all the dungeons in Springfield, and I noticed a worrying trend. Each dungeon had missing parts of Yawm's jungle around it. This is due-"

I waved my hand, "To Yawm feeding the nearby population to the eldritch."

Torix raised a finger, "Precisely. Each dungeon has a varying size of missing forest depending on how ravenous the eldritch lying within are. I color coded them based on danger levels. Green meaning benign. Yellow meaning dangerous. Red meaning malignant. The shift in our current plans involves taking out the highest priority dungeons that we can before they spiral out of control."

I nodded, "Sounds good. I was planning on suggesting that too."

"Powerful minds find the same conclusions." Torix turned to the map, "You've taken out two of the highest priority dungeons already. But that leaves seven, very dangerous and very invasive dungeons left. If you can take them out before they can spread to far, then we may be able to turn Yawm's plans against him."

He pointed towards a giant tree etched into the map. Torix tapped it, "Yawm is stuck in here, trapped into absorbing the nutrients of the planet to feed and control his growing army. Our team will whittle away at what he has created, using them to grow stronger before assassinating each of his named, disciples, and followers. One by one. "

Torix sighed, "Hopefully, by the time we reach Yawm, You and Althea will have strengthened enough for us to cripple or assault him.Eeither way, we will have a sentinel's rights by the time we get that far into the plan. Perhaps that shall change things, unless the reward is deceptive. If the situation spirals out of control before then, we'll use the dimensional slicer rewarded to Sentinels to go towards our planned fringe world."

I clapped my hands, "Now that sounds like a damn good plan. That's what we've been needing."

Torix walked over towards the center of the room, "It's a solid plan now that we've gained enough information to infer Yawm's plan. That's what this is all for. I'm revamping my little spies so that we can continue to plan and adjust as needed, depending on the circumstances. It should give us the bit of oomph we've been wanting."

Torix walked over towards the center of the ritual's circle and pressed a palm into the ground. The complex runic inscriptions glowed with light, folding off the floor. They formed into a circle, shining a bright blue for a moment before collapsing onto the fly.

Torix stood, wiping imaginary sweat from his forehead, "That should enable greater clarity for future messages. I wouldn't want you all running into another follower again. Organizing these events will likely have certain timed intervals between the dates of them. Perhaps a week or so between them. Besides that, I believe Althea is tiring of this lifestyle. She needs some time to relax, otherwise she's going to fall apart at some point."

I walked up and put a hand on Torix's shoulder, "You're doing a damn fine job of this Torix. It's good to know I'm in the hands of someone who's knows how to handle this kind of thing."

Torix glanced up at me, "You are...taller...When did you grow taller than me?"

"Probably after defeating Gabriel. Anyways, I need to show you something else."

I moved my hand off his shoulder and pressed my fingers into my palms. The ascendant mana roared in my veins, turning my flesh and blood into pure energy. The rich, powerful force surged through my runes, resonating in the confines of them. There was wobbling in the runes, like an engine that needed some screws tightened.

The extra perception was already paying off. I couldn't even sense how my runes weren't quite right before. Now I could tell they weren't exactly right for my new mana. It was like an off-center wheel. It wobbled a bit, making the rune convert the mana less efficiently than it should. After tearing the runes earlier, a more flexible enchantment would be needed. Something larger and different for the larger flow and different mana coming in.

Torix would be vital in learning that. I raised a hand, the ascendant mana pouring from my palm. Several planks of wood cracked under my foot before I poured more mana into my silent casting. The wood sheared, letting take several planks of wood and circle them around me.

My mind exhausted at the sheer volume of magic done, I released the cast. The planks fell to the ground before the room returned to the normal morning light. I sighed,

"Hah, hah, hah...how was that?"

Torix pointed at the boards, "Was that...telekinesis?"

"Uh, yeah. I think so."

"And was that...augmentation you used to do it?"

I shook my head, "Naw. It was a new type of mana. I fused augmentation and dominion magic into something called ascendant magic. It works like both, with a few kinks here or there."

Torix blinked a few times, "Ascendant? Are you certain?" Torix reached out a hand, "Would you mind letting me control some?"

I reached out a hand, pouring the mana from my palm.

"Uh, am I doing this right?"

"Yes." Torix bended the mana before squeezing his fist. The mana sunk in before Torix grinned, "This is a potent cocktail you've made." He pulled the mana from him before pressing his fingers together. As he outstretched his hand, the planks all bent in the same direction, forming a spiral that completed a perfect circle of missing wood. His hand lowered as Torix nodded,

"This is much like an overseer's mana. Theirs’s is a mixture of origin and augmentation mana. It's less volatile, but this mana may carry even more power. Controlling it should be quite trying. Are you able to handle it?"

I weighed my hand back and forth, "Eh, more or less."

Torix shrugged, "Good enough I suppose. You'll gain a more precise handling of it over time. It's an excellent tool to have. Perfect for gravity wells. That's what I just used it for, a reverse gravity spiral. It's difficult to maintain without high constitution."

Torix's eyes narrowed as he looked me over, "That shouldn't be a problem for you however, being taller than me now."

I laughed, "Neither will a limit on my mana. With my armor, I regenerate it at a pace I doubt any mage could match."

Torix rolled his eyes, "Really now? You'd be surprised how many tools there are out there for enhancing the regeneration of mana. What would yours be per minute? A thousand?"

"Eh, eleven."

Torix scoffed, "Hundred? Nothing exceptional, for a pure mage of your level at least. Commendable for your warrior roots."

"No, I meant eleven thousand."

Torix leaned back, his face scrunched up. He looked pissed as he frowned, "Lies. Show me your status."

I opened it then twirled it towards him. The interface flew in a semicircle before stopping in front of him. Torix's jaw dropped. He glanced back up at me, then back down at the status. He whispered,

"40,000 health...11,000 thousand health regeneration...98% damage resistance...7 attributes totaling over 100. An enormous amount of bonus physical damage and stamina pool. Your aura, it's improved dramatically in strength. How...how have you gained so many tools and stats?"

I tapped my armor, "This gives me the bonus resistance, most of my health regeneration, and the aura. My obliterator tree basically doubles my stat points per level. My determinator bonuses give me a ton of extra willpower, endurance, and regeneration. Finally, my genesis of potential tree lets me unlock the level 100 perks for seven of my stats. It's a solid bunch of stuff I'm bringing, though learning how to use this mana better would be huge for me."

Torix blinked, stunned to silence for a few moments. He nodded a few times before laughing. His laugh grew until it was nigh maniacal. He met my eye and said,

"Yes, gravity magic will be perfect for you. After unlocking it and mastering your mana, you'll live up to your title."

He nodded, his grin growing till his grew almost evil,

"Except you won't be a harbinger. We'll turn you into cataclysm."
