“Senior Guardsman! That’s an important rank!”
“A Senior Guardsman, when you were a legend back in the army!”
Relc’s smile faded.
“I was a [Sergeant], kid. Don’t listen to those other idiots. I was just a [Sergeant]—hell, I got paid like one and never got past that.”
“A [Sergeant] who got awarded an enchanted spear for valor? Don’t lie. You were a hero. You could have stayed and been famous!”
A pained look flashed across Relc’s face.
“I was already famous. I wanted to get old, I told you. I retired—”
“No one just quits.”
“Right, they stay even when they’re wounded or old. That’s how your mother died.”
Embria’s eyes blazed.
“She died a hero.”
“Yeah.”
Relc didn’t meet his daughter’s eyes. He gripped the spear tighter. There was a creak from Embria’s chair and the table between them. Neither Drake moved.
“Let me have my spear, Embria.”
“Rejoin the army.”
“No.”
“Give it a moment’s thought.”
“I did. And I did last time you came by. The answer’s no.”
A spark of fury entered Embria’s voice. She tried to pull the spear back with both hands, but Relc’s single arm didn’t budge.
“You’re wasting away here! What are you doing, working with the Antinium? With the enemy? Do you know how humiliating it is to know you’re his partner? That you’re the only Drake from the army who—”
“He has a name. Klb. Klbkch. He’s my buddy.”
“He’s a monster. The Antinium are a threat to Liscor!”
“No, they’re not. They saved Liscor.”
“That’s not what High Command believes.”
“Oh yeah?”
For the first time, Relc met his daughter’s eyes squarely. He pulled, and her arms moved an inch unwillingly towards him.
“You think the Antinium didn’t save us? That we beat the Necromancer by ourselves? I was on the walls. I was there, kid. The High Command’s got it wrong. The Ants—the Antinium saved us.”
“They just did that to trick us.”
“Good trick. They could have let us die when Skinner attacked—or when the moths did. They’ve fought for us ever since then. For ten years. You wanna give them a bit of a break?”
Embria hissed.
“Forget about them. Just come back!”
“No. Give me my spear.”
“It’s not yours. It’s the army’s until I let go.”
Relc’s huge arm gripped the spear tighter.
“Then let go.”
Embria pulled back, setting her stance, gritting her teeth as her tail lashed the chair legs.
“Make me.”
 
—-
 
“What are they doing?”
Erin stared at Relc and Embria as they both held onto the spear. She edged over to the Drakes having fun and who were ignoring the weird tableau that was the subject of attention and at least five bets in the room.
“Psst. Ilvriss.”
The Wall Lord looked up as he paused in laughing at something Olesm had said. He sighed.
“What is it?”
“Speak to Wall Lord Ilvriss with respect, Human!”
One of the Drakes sitting next to Ilvriss glared at Erin, her tail curled around her chair’s leg. Erin gave her a blank look.
“Sorry, but I’m in a hurry. Besides, Ilvriss isn’t my Lord of the Wall or whatever. He’s cool. I’m cool. We’re on a level.”
The Drakes sitting around Ilvriss inhaled sharply. The angry Drake woman half-rose.
“The nerve of—”
The Wall Lord held up a claw and sighed.
“Enough. What is it you want, Solstice?”
Erin nodded to the father and daughter locked in a silent tug-of-war.
“Relc. And, uh, Embria. What’s their deal?”
“Hmm.”
Ilvriss stroked his chin and looked around the table.
“I don’t know that Drake personally—he’s a Senior Guardsman, isn’t he? Shivertail seemed to know him, but I don’t recall. Does anyone here know his history?”
He looked around. One of Ilvriss’ more military-looking followers sat up.
“I do, sir. That’s Relc Grasstongue. Former [Sergeant] in Liscor’s army. The Gecko of Liscor.”
Ilvriss clicked his claws together.
“That’s him! I knew I’d seen him before. And he’s a [Guardsman] in Liscor now? Oddities never cease in this city.”
“The Gecko?”
Erin had heard the name somewhere, but she hadn’t fully connected it to Relc as a title until now. She stared at Relc, confused.
“Is that some kind of fancy title? I’ve never heard Relc call himself that. And he brags a lot.”
She saw some of the Drakes at the table smirking. Ilvriss spoke calmly.
“It’s not exactly a compliment. Are you aware of what geckos are, Solstice?”
“Sort of.”
Erin frowned. In her mind, geckos were small, quick little things that ran away and shed their tails. And sometimes promoted car insurance. She could see why Relc resented the title.
“They run away, right?”
“Exactly. The Gecko—or rather, Relc Grasstongue—was a known figure in Liscor’s army for his speed and fighting prowess. He was one of their best fighters who ambushed enemy officers and then escaped before he could be caught. A valuable skirmisher in other words, but the title stuck.”
Ilvriss nodded as he recalled Relc’s history. Erin was impressed. If Ilvriss, who was a big shot, could remember Relc, then Relc must have been something! Then again, Ilvriss seemed to have a photographic memory where Drakes were concerned.
“Why’s his daughter mad at him, then? And when did he have a daughter? Why’d he leave his army if he was so great?”
“Ocelos?”
Ilvriss looked at the Drake who’d known about Relc. The officer sat up and nodded sharply.
“More details?”
“As much as the Human wants.”
The Drake drummed his claws on the table before speaking.
“The Gecko of Liscor. Relc Grasstongue. From what I can recall, he was never formally married but had a child out of wedlock with another soldier—a [Major]—when he was quite young. And my understanding is that this Wing Commander Embria grew up travelling with Liscor’s army, so I would assume she was raised by both parents, as Liscor’s army travelled from place to place. As for Relc Grasstongue himself, he had a notable career for over two and a half decades until he suddenly retired, an oddity among Liscor’s [Soldiers]. Considered highly dangerous…known for his speed which could match a Courier’s…what else? He never made it past [Sergeant], and in an army like Liscor’s, that’s telling.”
“Why’s that?”
Erin was curious. [Sergeant] didn’t sound bad to her. It wasn’t great, but…she saw Ilvriss motion for the Drake to tell her.
“Liscor’s army is unique in that they have an officer for every five soldiers. Generally speaking, [Sergeant] is a worthless rank in an army that has hundreds of sergeants.”
“What, really? Hundreds? Isn’t that too many?”
“It’s a tactic they employ to strengthen their army.”
Ilvriss shrugged as he took a drink. He grimaced—he was drinking water. Erin wondered if he’d be interested in milk instead. The knowledgeable military Drake nodded.
“It’s a trick, but a good one. Liscor fields a very small force—two or three thousand generally. They can rise as high as six thousand depending on whether they’re actively conscripting. But their strength doesn’t lie in numbers. It’s their officers, which buff their army to the point where they can fight against larger forces.”
“Oh. I get it. And Embria’s higher-rank, right?”
“Considerably. She’s a [Wing Commander]. That’s a variant of the [Commander] class that specializes in—you could think of her as being a few ranks down from [General], Human.”
“What’s her other class? Solstice, most officers have two classes. Sometimes they have just one, but many have two. Ocelos?”
Ilvriss looked over at Embria. She was still holding onto the spear, as was Relc, but the table between them was starting to creak. Erin thought she saw cracks forming in the wood. She wondered if she should stop them, and then wondered if that would get her stabbed. Ocelos pondered Ilvriss’ question for a moment.
“Her main combat class is…a [Spear Hunter] I believe, sir.”
“I’m not familiar with the class. Is it mobile?”
“Yes, sir. Specialized in mobile offensives—sometimes gained by [Hunters] specializing in spear weapons. It’s an upgrade to the [Spear Drake] class.”
“[Spear Drake]?”
“Our version of [Spearman]. Well, she’s not as adept as her father, then. Not that I’d expect her to be at her age.”
“Wait, how good is Relc, then?”
Ocelos coughed.
“Sergeant Relc…that is to say, Senior Guardsman Relc was known as a formidable [Spearmaster]. He earned the class by slaying another [Spearmaster] on the battlefield.”
“And that’s—”
“Yes, Solstice, that’s good.”
Ilvriss sighed.
“With his Skills and speed, the Gecko was a terror to [Strategists] and lower-ranked officers. I don’t doubt he’s just as formidable now as he was in the past. What was his level, Ocelos, do you know? Thirty three? Hm. A Level 33 [Spearmaster] plus a Level…well, at least a Level 20 [Sergeant] is a formidable combination.”
“But he retired. Why?”
Ocelos didn’t know. Ilvriss tapped a claw on the table.
“Dishonorable discharge, a desire to stop fighting…it could be any reason, which is his alone, Solstice. But his daughter clearly resents his retirement. It’s rare for Drakes to retire from military life to begin with, and Liscor’s army takes that example to the extreme. She probably wants him to return to his command.”
“And he doesn’t want to go.”
“You have it correct. Does that satisfy your interest?”
“Yeah. I just wonder, though, does she love him?”
“Who?”
“Embria? She came all this way for him. Does she love him?”
Ilvriss paused.
“I don’t know. Perhaps—”
He got no further. There was an almighty crack, and Erin’s head whipped around as she saw the struggle between father and daughter end at last. Relc pulled his spear towards his body, and Embria let go as the table literally snapped between them, sending shards of wood flying everywhere. People ducked, and Erin covered her face as Relc raised his spear.
“Hah! I win!”
Embria lay on the ground, staring up at him. She got up slowly as Relc lowered his spear. He looked almost ashamed as he offered her a hand.
“Hey kid, no hard feelings, right?”
She stared at his claw and knocked it aside. She stormed away from Relc as Erin rushed over.
“My table! Hey Relc, what was that about?”
“Stuff.”
The Drake sighed and kicked at a broken table leg. He looked around at Erin, at Klbkch, and grinned weakly.
“Sorry. I’ll pay for that. Embria and I were just…you know. It’s difficult. But hey. At least I got my spear, right?”
He tried to laugh. It didn’t work. Erin looked at him, opened her mouth, and decided not to ask. She pointed at his spear instead.
“That’s your spear? The one you kept talking about? Is it magical?”
“Yup. It pierces magic barriers like cheese! Soft cheese.”
Relc twirled his spear. It had a grooved tip, and the haft looked thick and made of a dark brown-grey wood. Besides that, it looked completely normal to Erin at first glance. She waited for Relc to go on.
“Wait. That’s it?”
He looked offended.
“What do you mean, that’s it? That’s great! I could take on any Gold-rank adventurer with this! I could have given that jerk Gnoll a run for her money and killed that Skinner dude with this! Okay, maybe not killed him—but I could have poked out one of his eyes! Besides, this spear won’t break! Check this out!”
Relc walked over to two more newly-made tables and tossed his spear on top of the gap between them. He leapt up and balanced on the spear’s shaft as both tables bore his weight, grinning at Erin. He hopped up several feet and landed heavily on the spear—both tables jumped, but the spear didn’t so much as bend an inch. Erin stared appreciatively at the spear.
“Cool. Now get off my tables! They’re brand new!”
“Okay, okay. I’m just telling you. It’s a good spear! And Embria brought it all the way here. She’s cool, that kid of mine. I just—”
Relc broke off as Embria stormed back towards him. The red-scaled Drake looked angry, and she ignored Erin completely as she stopped in front of Relc.
“Looks like I can’t bring you back this time. Keep your damn spear, Dad—no one else needs it.”
The Senior Guardsman looked hurt.
“Aw. Embria—”
“Save it. I’m going back to Liscor. I just wanted to say something before I left. Not to you—to the Human here.”
Embria turned towards Erin. Confused, Erin met her sizzling gaze.
“What’s wrong?”
“Half the things in your inn, Human. But those Goblins are the worst. Get rid of them. They’re a threat.”
The Drake nodded towards the Redfang Goblins. The sound in the room stopped as everyone looked up. Erin saw Ilvriss glance at the Goblins, and the Hobs immediately grew tense. She scowled at Embria.
“They’re my security! They work here!”
“They’re monsters. Don’t lie to yourself.”
Embria glanced at the Hobs, not a shred of compassion in her eyes. She looked around the room, speaking loudly.
“You might not be aware of this, but after General Shivertail’s death, all the Walled Cities are increasing their bounties on Goblins fivefold. Liscor’s High Command has agreed with that decision and made it a policy to hunt down Goblin tribes we encounter—as have the other Drake cities on Izril!”
Her voice echoed as she turned to face the Redfang Warriors. They sat at their table, the five of them, staring with crimson eyes at the red-scaled Drake. Embria’s voice was impartial, distant, as she continued.
“We eradicated two Goblin tribes on the way here. Small ones, not worth mentioning. The Walled Cities are doing the same, and a lot of ordinary Drakes have volunteered for temporary military duty to honor General Shivertail. And we’re not alone.”
She pointed towards the north, where the Floodplains and rains ended and the road led towards Celum and beyond.
“I’m told the Human nobility are mobilizing armies against smaller Goblin tribes. Once that Human with the large army moves, there won’t be a living Goblin north or south of Liscor for a thousand miles. These Goblins might be safe until they cause trouble, or until I can convince Liscor’s Council that they’re a threat, but soon enough they’ll have nowhere to go. Their tribe will be wiped out. The Humans are already purging the smaller tribes, just like the Drakes.”
Erin’s heart beat wildly. Rags! Embria kept staring at the Redfang Goblins. They met her gaze, and there was a bit of wild in their eyes, a bit of hate. She stared back as Headscratcher’s grip tightened on his mug until it cracked, as Badarrow held back Shorthilt and Rabbiteater. Embria pointed at the five Hobs.
“Run while you can, Goblins. And run fast. Because this time everyone in the world is hunting you.”
Then she turned and stormed out of the inn.
