Erin beamed as Relc came through the door. The Drake grinned weakly at her. Erin grinned back, and then froze as she saw another Drake enter behind him. She had red scales, shiny armor, a spear in one hand, and she was giving Erin a death-glare.
“Whoa. Is that your date?”
Relc choked. The Drake behind him opened her mouth angrily, and he stepped in front of her. The big Drake cleared his throat a few times.
“Erin. I’d like you to meet…my, uh, daughter. Embria.”
At that particular moment Erin was holding a stack of plates and cutlery. Which had no bearing on what followed, because Erin did not drop what she was holding, but she was very tempted to. She gaped, put her dishes on a table, and then threw up her hands.
“What?”
“She’s back from the army—”
“What?”
“Look, we just need a table and a drink.”
“What?”
“Did I tell you she’s a [Wing Commander]?”
“Wha—you have a daughter? Since when?”
Erin’s raised voice made every head in the room turn. Relc winced as he saw three teams of Gold-rank adventurers, Klbkch, Bird, Olesm with all his Drake and Gnoll friends, Krshia, the Horns of Hammerad, Lyonette, Drassi, Ishkr, the Redfang Goblins, Selys, and her grandmother look over. Mrsha poked her head up from underneath a table and stared, too.
“It’s, uh, complicated.”
“Tell me everything! Wait, this is your daughter? Isn’t she the Drake who was leading all those j—oh.”
At last, Erin realized where she’d seen Embria before. She paused and gave the other Drake a very sheepish smile.
“Um. Hi.”
The red-scaled Drake folded her arms. She stared at Erin and then pointedly looked away. Her eyes focused on Klbkch, Bird, and then the Redfang Goblins who were sitting at a table, still wearing their ‘Security’ armbands. Her eyes narrowed.
“We, uh, just need a table, Erin. Somewhere quiet? Please? And far from the, uh, Goblins? And Klbkch? Embria’s got a thing with them.”
The young woman’s eyes narrowed, and she stared at Embria, who returned the gaze.
“How bad of a thing? Selys’ grandmother already had a ‘thing’ with the Goblins and—”
“Erin. I really need this. Please?”
Relc looked pleadingly at Erin. She relented.
“I can put you over here. Next to the stage. Far, far away.”
She seated the two at a table ten feet away from everyone else. Relc ordered a drink, and Embria ordered the same. They sat in ice-cold silence as Erin bustled away. Relc’s tail swished nervously as he grinned at Embria. She did not return the smile.
“So, uh, this is the inn.”
“Those are Hobs. In an inn.”
“Right, right. But Erin’s got tons of other people in it! Drakes! You know that guy’s our [Strategist], right? And check out this room! It’s huge. Erin’s new Skill. Isn’t that—”
“Why are there three Antinium here? I thought you only had one partner. The Slayer. Or has the Watch started letting more Antinium in?”
“No…no. That guy’s, uh, Bird. He’s, uh…Erin’s employee too…”
“I see.”
Embria’s arms were folded. Relc desperately looked around, waiting for Erin. After a lifetime of one-sided conversation, she came back with two full mugs.
“Here you are!”
“Oh, thanks! Great! Hey Erin, what’s for dinner?”
“Ooh, we’ve got tons of stuff. We’ve got beef rolls, lasagna, pizza—”
“We’ll have the rolls. Both of us.”
Embria cut her father off as he began to brighten. Relc sighed as Erin looked at him.
“Yeah. Sure. Two please. And—”
He hesitated and lowered his voice as Embria stared at him. Relc looked longingly towards the kitchen from which tantalizing smells poured forth.
“Can—can I have a slice of cake?”
Erin’s answering smile was like the sun coming back up for Relc.
“Cake? Sure! I baked lots! In fact, you can have tons of slices! Only—ooh.”
She hesitated. Relc’s heart sank.
“‘Ooh’ what?”
“Well…let me bring you a slice.”
Erin hurried into the kitchen and came back with a slice of cake. Relc stared at it with dismay. It wasn’t that the cake looked bad—on the contrary, it was vanilla cake (Erin had yet to figure out where chocolate came from) frosted generously with rich icing. However, and this was the deal breaker, Erin had decorated the cake with miniature faces. Of Goblins.
Relc stared up at Erin with hollow accusation in his eyes as Embria glared at him. Erin could only shrug.
“We had this big parade and everyone was getting appreciated—except the Goblins. So I…y’know…thought it would be nice. Everyone likes it. Except Selys’ grandmother. And it’s really good.”
“Is there any cake without smiling Goblins on it?”
“Nope!”
“Right. Well, uh, I’ll have a slice. Embria?”
“No.”
The Drake watched her father accept the big slice of cake. Relc coughed and began eating as Erin brought out beef rolls stuffed to bursting with bacon, breadcrumbs, onion, and a spicy filling. She eyed the hot food, suspicious at how fast it had come out, but began eating. Her brows shot up.
“This is good.”
“Isn’t it? I love eating here. I used to eat here all the time before—well, now I eat here sometimes. Not often! Just—sometimes.”
Relc chattered nervously. Embria looked at him and sighed.
“I don’t mind you eating out…dad.”
“Really?”
“I know you can’t cook.”
“Hey! I mean, uh, you’re right. Can’t cook. Totally dependent on other people. I’d starve if I didn’t eat out.”
“But you could make an effort to eat at other establishments in Liscor! Not—”
Embria jerked her head to indicate Erin, who was laughing and offering Badarrow a slice of cake while the other Goblins tried to fight him for it. Relc hesitated.
“Look, Erin’s inn is special. Really. She only got the Goblins recently. I mean, they’ve been around a while, but there was only this titchy one before. And Erin likes Goblins. Dunno why. I got in trouble when I killed these other Goblins, see…”
“Good to see you’re doing your job, despite what the Human thinks.”
“Aw, come on. Kid…she makes good food. Like, really good. Try this cake! Here!”
Relc offered Embria a forkful of cake. She brushed his hand away, raised her fork, and eyed the sugary offering. There was a small Goblin head smiling at her. Embria speared it through the eye and lifted a bit of cake and frosting to her mouth. Her eyes widened.
“Ancestors, what is…”
“It’s good, right?”
“It is.”
It looked like it pained Embria to admit it. She shook her head as she began eating Relc’s slice of cake, much to his relief and chagrin. But at last she seemed to be relaxing. She nodded to Relc.
“So is this what you’ve been doing recently? Eating at this inn and guarding Liscor?”
“Um…yep. Same as always. What about you?”
“I made [Wing Commander] last year. I wrote you a letter. You never wrote back.”
“Oh. I read it. I just…sorry.”
“At least you remembered my birthday. Thank you for the message.”
“No problem. Hey, what’s the army doing now? Fighting around Zeres? Must be tough. Those guys don’t let up.”
“We manage. I was surprised to hear that Liscor needed help. I thought you’d be able to handle anything that popped up.”
“Well, yeah, but we’ve got a dungeon! And moths! And did I tell you about this Named Adventurer that turned out to be a fake? She was murdering people, and guess who helped fight her off?”
“Fight? You mean she got away?”
“Um…”
 
—-
 
“At least it looks like she’s talking to him now. There’s a lot of tension in the air, though. You could cut it with a knife.”
“Gee, you think? You could throw a knife over there, and it would stick in the air. Just look at the way her tail is moving! She’s really upset with him.”
“You think she’s mad because of me?”
“No.”
“Really?”
Selys rolled her eyes as she turned to Erin. They were peeking at the talking father and daughter duo from Erin’s kitchen.
“No, I think she’s totally fine with a Human [Innkeeper] who insulted her when she was giving a speech, asked if she was dating her father, and employs both Antinium and Goblins in her inn. That was sarcasm, Erin.”
“Yeah, I got that near the end. But why’s she so uptight?”
The Drake sighed.
“She’s part of the army, Erin. They’re the strictest hard-tail group Liscor has, and that’s saying a lot. They hate monsters—no surprise—but they also hate the Antinium. They refused to go near the city for four years when we made the treaty with the Antinium after the second Antinium War, and they’ve only been back twice since then!”
“Oh. That’s pretty bad, yeah.”
Erin stared at Embria. She still couldn’t believe that that was Relc’s daughter. She was Erin’s age! And she looked really good, with her red scales and so on. Erin would have loved to talk with her, but from the way Relc kept wincing every few seconds, she doubted Embria was in a good mood.
“So she’s Relc’s daughter. Does she like him?”
Selys shrugged.
“He is her father. But what a dad. I don’t envy her. Just look at her. And her name.”
“What’s wrong with her name? Embria sounds cool?”
“It is…no, it’s more embarrassing. Embria? Seriously Erin, that sounds like a name of some kind of Dragon. She can sort of pull it off with her scales, but I bet she got teased all the time growing up. Only Relc would give her a name like that.”
“Aw. Poor kid.”
Embria turned in her seat, and both Selys and Erin ducked back. Erin looked at Selys.
“So we haven’t gotten to talk much…”
“I wonder why not? Could it be the monster attacks, and everyone nearly dying?”
“You’re getting good at sarcasm, Selys. But I wanted to talk to you about all kinds of stuff! Not just work—”
“Good, because my grandmother’s here, and she’s going to kick your tail for getting me to try and register those Hobgoblins.”
“Your grandmother? Uh—do I have to talk to her? She’s scary.”
“You don’t know the half of it. Hold on—who’s coming through now? Is that…?”
Selys broke off, and Erin got up as she spotted a familiar figure entering the inn through the magic door. Wall Lord Ilvriss and twelve of his followers entered, all of them staring around the inn as if it was a dump. Ilvriss caused a commotion though—he headed over to Olesm’s table as all the Drakes sitting there shot to their feet.
Embria also rose and strode over to the Wall Lord. She saluted as Ilvriss turned to her.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss! Sir!”
“Wing Commander Embria, is it?”
Ilvriss looked mildly surprised as he saluted Embria in return. He glanced at Erin as she hurried over.
“Ah. Solstice. A table for thirteen. Next to Olesm’s table. This is a celebration in his honor. Drinks—water for me.”
“Hey Ilvriss! I didn’t think you’d turn up!”
Embria nearly choked on her tongue as Erin grinned at Ilvriss. He glared at her as his adjutants gasped at her effrontery. Undeterred, Erin looked at Embria, confused.
“Are you Embria’s boss? Sorry, Miss Embria’s. I thought you were in different armies or something?”
Stiffly, Embria turned to Erin.
“Drakes share a common command. We respect each other even when we are at odds. Wall Lord Ilvriss is one of the foremost leaders of Salazsar. He deserves at least a modicum of respect.”
“Exactly. A [General] is still a [General] regardless of which city he hails from. He should be accorded respect in war—not that Humans share our beliefs.”
Ilvriss smiled at Embria who returned the smile and then looked at Erin.
“The table?”
“Oh! Drassi! Ishkr! Table here! We’ll push it over. So you’re here for Olesm’s party?”
“I promised him I would attend, and I am a Drake of my word.”
The Wall Lord replied haughtily. He paused and lowered his voice.
“And I was told you were serving…cake?”
Erin grinned at him. The Wall Lord sighed.
“I would like enough for all of my followers to eat. Assuming you’re willing to sell me what you have left?”
Erin grinned at him wickedly.
“Oh, I’ve got tons. Only there’s a slight problem…”
When she presented Ilvriss with the cake with Goblins decorated on it, Embria stared at the Wall Lord, waiting for his reaction. Ilvriss eyed the Goblin drawn in frosting and sighed.
“Typical. Fine, I’ll pay for one for every Drake at my table, and whatever Swifttail’s bill is, I’ll cover for the night. No cake for me. It’s far too sugary.”
“Want some mayonnaise instead?”
Ilvriss sighed.
“Give me your menu, Human. And don’t push your luck.”
He went to sit down at his table. Embria returned to sit with Relc, wide-eyed.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss eats here?”
Relc grinned.
“Told ya. Old Zel ate here too, before…you know. People like Erin.”
“I can’t believe he didn’t take offense. What were we talking about?”
“You said you were ordered to come back here. Was it to see me?”
Embria looked frostily at Relc as he gave her a big smile.
“Hardly. I was ordered to return because my company had few wounded, and because we could be spared. I would have argued to stay on the front, but I thought I might as well return to give you this. Here.”
She reached behind her and picked up the spear. Relc eyed it, and his eyes widened.
“Hey, wait a second! That’s mine!”
She nodded.
“Took you long enough to figure it out.”
“I was looking at you! Hey, are you giving it to me? Did you do your old man a favor?”
“No. I’m just delivering it. The army doesn’t need your spear, and they’ve decided to let you have it since Liscor’s gotten more dangerous. You sent them fifteen letters—”
“Hah, I knew that would do the trick! Alright, my old spear! Thanks for bringing it, kid!”
Relc was overjoyed. He grabbed the haft of the spear and grunted. Embria hadn’t let go.
“Um. Kid? Hello? Embria?”
His daughter stared at Relc. Her arms didn’t move an inch.
“Dad. You should come back.”
The big Drake froze. He held onto his spear as he stared at Embria. His eyes slid past her.
“What? Nah, nah, I’m good, thanks. I retired, remember? They wouldn’t want—”
“I talked to my commander. He says you could reenlist. You’d have your old rank back. You could join our company in the city, and come back with me after the Goblin Lord’s dead.”
“Look, k—Embria. That’s a nice offer, but I’m done with the army. Can I have my spear now? Please?”
Senior Guardsman Relc tried to smile. Embria stared at him, unblinking.
“Tell me why.”
“I told you last time. I like it here.”
“Still?”
“Staying in one place doesn’t make me stop liking it, Embria. I like not being in the army more, now, actually. It’s restful, being in Liscor. Well, mostly. I get to fight and relax, you know?”
Relc tried to laugh, but Embria looked troubled. She shook her head as if unable to listen to him.
“You’re wasted here. You’re a [Guardsman]—”
