Ceria heard him complaining as he walked onwards. The crowd cheered wildly, not seeming to mind Halrac’s sour mood. In fact, they cheered him for it.
Next came the Halfseekers. If Griffon Hunt started the show in earnest, the Halfseekers embodied it. Moore was visible over the heads of everyone as he walked forwards. Jelaqua’s pale body and Seborn’s half-crustacean form attracted as many gasps as applause—until they too started performing magic.
Moore struck his staff on the ground, and flowers began to bloom in his footsteps. He raised his hand, and flowers of every color began to appear over his body, and vines grew from his fingertips, twining up his arms and chest. The crowd murmured in appreciation at the gentle spectacle.
The half-Giant left a trail of quickly wilting and vanishing flowers and grass in his wake. By his side, Jelaqua threw the bright flowers growing from his body into the crowd, laughing as people caught the magical plants and held them, exclaiming as the flowers quickly faded out of existence. Seborn walked next to the two, looking slightly uncomfortable as people eyed his crustacean half. Jelaqua nudged him.
“Come on Seborn, show the kids a trick!”
“I don’t want to.”
“We’re both doing our part! Just one?”
Seborn looked around and realized he had no choice. Reluctantly, he walked faster until he was in front of Moore and Jelaqua. The crowd waited with bated breaths to see what he would do.
Seborn took two steps, did a flip into the air, and unsheathed his daggers. They glowed as he slashed and then landed, rotating once and sheathing his blades before he touched the ground. Everyone oohed, and more than one child pointed excitedly to Seborn and asked if they could do that too.
Bringing up the rear were the Silver Swords. They followed the last groups of adventurers and received just as much applause. The sight of Ylawes, Falene, and Dawil was a fixture of the battle, and more than one story had been told of Ylawes slaying the giant moth. And true to their reputation, they didn’t disappoint either.
“Haha!”
Dawil roared with good spirits as he lifted the hammer over his head. He strode forwards, letting the crowd cheer him, shouting with unabashed good spirits.
Behind him, Falene rolled her eyes, but smiled and raised a wand. She flicked it, and the audience held their breath. When nothing happened immediately, Ylawes glanced at Falene, puzzled, until he heard Dawil cursing.
“You damn Elf! Put me down! Put me down!”
The [Knight] saw Dawil cartwheel past his head, weightless, flailing frantically with his hammer in hand. The audience cheered and laughed as Falene made Dawil fly just over the heads of the crowd. The Dwarf cursed her until he started to enjoy himself and pretended to swim through the air. Only Ylawes and the other [Mages] noticed the slight sheen of sweat on Falene’s brow.
“I believe Dawil would call you a showoff.”
“It’s for a good cause. If he’d stop flailing, I’d have an easier time not dropping him.”
Falene smiled politely at the crowd as they walked forwards. Ylawes smiled, too. He raised one hand and waved as he walked, causing a few Drakes and Gnolls to stare at him admiringly. The [Knight] had no special Skills to show off, but the sight of him walking down the street in shining silver armor was enough for applause.
As the last of the adventuring teams followed the Silver Swords, there was a hush among the crowd. An expectation. The streets behind the adventurers lay empty for a good minute, and then every ear heard the rhythmic sound. Footsteps marching in perfect symphony. The first black body appeared, and the crowd murmured as they saw a Worker marching at the head of a row of Soldiers, holding a burning censer in hand. The Soldiers marched in his wake, heads held high.
Silent. The marching of the Soldiers was perfectly uniform, and the cheering crowd that had loved the adventurers was silent. Pawn walked forwards, his censer swaying, his head bowed. A curious feeling stole over the people watching. They had no words for what he was doing, no memory or comparison for the scene they beheld. But the praying Antinium and the solemn procession spoke to them.
The incense wafted through the crowd as the rain fell harder. The Soldiers marched on, their bodies painted in every color. One had yellow splatters across his front, another a terrifying purple smile. Another one had leaves drawn in green as if he were some kind of tree. Yet another was simply marked with a crown of silver. One walking near the edge had no paint at all—until you realized the paint was a black pair of wings on his back, almost invisible in the wetness.
The people of Liscor watched the Soldiers march, silently at first. But then someone clapped. It was impossible to tell who it was in the rain, but it was immediately followed by someone else starting to applaud. More began to clap, and then the applause drowned out the rain.
In the crowd Erin stared around, wide-eyed. She hadn’t been the one who started the applause, and she’d been ready to. But she hadn’t been necessary in the end. Liscor began to cheer the Antinium, and as they marched, she could hear voices in the crowd around her. The Painted Soldiers were faceless Antinium, all created in the same image. That was true. But because they were painted, they were all unique. And for the first time, those in the crowd recognized individual Soldiers.
“I know that one! The one with the white circles around his eyes? He saved my shop!”
A Gnoll pointed at a passing Soldier. Erin, standing with Lyonette as the rain soaked her, saw Mrsha peer excitedly at Yellow Splatters. She heard more voices of recognition as she applauded, smiling and cheering for Pawn with all the energy she had.
“Hey, that’s the one who killed the moth breaking into our home! Mom? Do you remember? Mom? Mooom!”
The Drake child was pointing excitedly at a Soldier who had turquoise on the tips of his clumsy fingers and his antennae, nowhere else. Erin saw the Drake mother wave tentatively at him, and the Soldier turn his head just slightly. He hesitated, and then two of his four hands twitched, a tiny wave back.
The Drake girl waved excitedly. The crowds cheered. Erin stood in Liscor as the rain fell down, and for the first time in history, Drakes and Gnolls and Humans cheered the Antinium. It was a moment for history. She smiled until she thought she’d burst.
“What a great parade.”
 
—-
 
“Unbelievable.”
The 4th Company stared at the Antinium passing them in disbelief. They listened to the applause from Liscor’s citizens and practically spat venom when they saw a Drake child waving at a Soldier.
“Is this really what the city’s come to?”
“Antinium? Really?”
“What happened to pride? What about General Sserys?”
“These people, they don’t know what—”
Wing Commander Embria stood next to Zevara in parade rest, her face set, watching the Antinium pass by without a word. Zevara noticed the tenseness in her tail, but the [Commander] wisely kept her opinions to herself.
The parade ended with speeches, as all good parades did. Actually, the speeches were mainly for Liscor’s Council to award the adventurers and members of the Watch with some recognition, as many of Liscor’s citizens melted away. But after they’d offered Pawn a brief note of congratulations, the Council turned the stage over to Embria. It was, all things considered, a poor note to end the parade on.
“We are delighted to also announce that our 4th Company of Liscor’s Army has returned to safeguard our city! She and her soldiers have marched tirelessly to return to Liscor…ah, I believe Wing Commander Embria has a few words for us.”
The Drake announcing coughed nervously as he abandoned the podium. Embria stepped forwards. The crowd of citizens stared at her. Zevara could already hear the murmurs.
“The army?”
“Now? Are you serious? Where were they when—”
“…Better start going to taverns that don’t serve them. Too many damn fights when they’re drunk—”
“We’ve got the Antinium. Why do we need them?”
Zevara winced at that. She could see Embria twitch as she took the stage and feel the anger of the [Soldiers] behind them. But that was Liscor’s army. They had never had a good relationship with the city at the best of times. They brought chaos and didn’t stay long, which was good, but as a result, the citizens regarded them as, well, a nuisance.
Thankfully, Embria seemed to sense the mood, because her words were curt and to the point.
“Citizens of Liscor, we are delighted to return home after so many years! We regret that our company did not arrive in time to witness the heroic defense of the city. I personally offer you my sincerest apologies for our delay—we were unavoidably detained fighting for the glory of Liscor around the Walled City of Zeres!”
Silence. Zevara heard someone cough. Embria frowned.
“We are grateful to all who contributed to the defense of Liscor during her darkest hour. Henceforth, the 4th Company shall dedicate itself to defending the city against any threats to it, be it the Goblins, monsters from the dungeon, or—anywhere else.”
She didn’t quite look at the Antinium, but Zevara sensed the ripple in the crowd. Embria was not having a good time on stage, and Zevara dreaded the part where she was supposed to ask Liscor to cheer their returning heroes. She saw a number of Drakes and Gnolls break away from the crowd. And then she spotted a Human walking away with another Human and a Gnoll in her arms.
Maybe Erin didn’t intend to be so loud. But Embria had paused, and her voice was just a bit too carrying.
“Well, looks like it’s time to go. That parade sure was fun, wasn’t it? Ending sort of sucked, though. Hey, is that really the army? They look like jerks.”
Zevara sighed as Embria stared at Erin’s back. The Watch Captain slowly covered her eyes and groaned under her breath, a gesture seen by the entire crowd. On the whole, the citizens of Liscor agreed that watching their Watch Captain wince through the rest of the speech saved the parade. The army left with a few thousand patriotic Drakes applauding them, and Watch Captain Zevara finally got to get back to her desk to sleep.
And after Wing Commander Embria had finished dismissing her troops, she took a personal trip to a certain apartment in the city. She knocked once and didn’t have to wait any longer. The door opened, and the owner of the apartment stepped out reluctantly.
Relc, Senior Guardsman of the Watch and former [Sergeant] of Liscor’s army, emerged from his home, scratching the spines on the back of his head. He stared at Embria as she stood in the doorway, spear in hand, dressed in her officer’s armor. He stared at her. She waited.
“Hi…kid.”
“Father.”
She stared at him challengingly. Relc avoided her gaze. He looked at her, sighed, turned his head as if looking for help, and then gave up.
“Let’s get a drink.”
 
—-
 
Time went by. The day drew onwards towards night. Liscor, finished with its parade, celebrated or mourned in its own way. More than one tavern found itself with twice as many guests as normal, as Liscor’s citizens decided that eating alone wasn’t for them. They were equipped for the rush of course; any [Innkeeper] or [Bar Drake] worth their salt knew to stock up in advance, and every establishment was hopping.
So it was funny and slightly telling that Relc and Embria found themselves turned away from every inn and bar, even the ones that Relc went to nightly. They were recognized on sight, and while one or the other wouldn’t have made the establishments close their doors, the owners had learned to recognize the father and daughter duo like the way a [Herder] learns to recognize which bull is charging them across an open field.
“I can’t believe this. You’re a Senior Guardsman. I’m a [Wing Commander]. How many inns have blacklisted you?”
Embria stormed down the street as Relc followed, wincing. The normally upbeat Drake dragged his footsteps as he followed his daughter.
“I, uh, drink there all the time. I think they don’t want the two of us in there, after last time.”
“That was six years ago!”
“Yeah. But the tavern owner definitely remembers us. Why don’t we go—”
“No.”
The young Drake woman shook her head, glaring back at her father. Relc shrugged helplessly.
“Come on, kid. I know the owner, and she won’t kick us out.”
“She’s a Human. She insulted the army during my speech! And don’t call me ‘kid’!”
“To be fair, it was sort of funn—”
Relc saw Embria’s eyes flash and coughed. He shuffled his feet.
“Look, Erin’s a Human, but she’s cool! Really. And I sort of promised I’d go to this party she’s putting on. Klb’s going to be there…”
“Your Antinium partner?”
Embria hissed the word. Relc shrugged. He had a hard time meeting her eye.
“Well, yeah. We are partners. Sort of how it works. Captain Z gave me the day off and everything…”
“You were going to have a party at her inn? Was I not included in your plans?”
Relc raised his claws defensively.
“Hey, I didn’t know you were going to show up! I totally cancelled when Captain Z told me—look, we don’t have to go. But Erin’s got alcohol. And cake! She said there’d be cake!”
He looked longingly towards the western wall, where a doorway had been set into the side of the wall itself. Embria glared at her father and then relented.
“Fine. What’s cake?”
“Oh, it’s this great thing! You’ll love it, promise!”
Relc brightened. He led the way towards the door, talking excitedly.
“It’s really sweet. Erin’s coming up with all kinds of new stuff all the time. She’s got pasta, blue fruit juice—well, she doesn’t have it right now—hamburgers, pizza…uh, Goblins, tons of cool stuff like popcorn, ice cream—have you heard of ice cream? It’s this thing from Terandria, and she knows how to make it—”
Embria halted in the street.
“Did you just say ‘Goblins’? Watch Captain Zevara mentioned there was an inn that had monsters working as part of the staff. That’s the inn you’re talking about? Run by that Human?”
The Drake [Guardsman] groaned. He turned pleadingly to Embria.
“Look, she’s cool! The Goblins are…Goblins, but they don’t do anything. Come on kid, let’s get a drink? On me? I’ll introduce you to Erin—you don’t have to look at the Goblins! Or eat cake! I’ll eat your share!”
It was possible that Embria could give her father a more disappointed look. She turned her back, ready to march away. Desperately, Relc played his last card.
“Did I mention that General Shivertail used to eat there all the time? It was his favorite spot!”
 
—-
 
“Hey! Is that Relc? Welcome to the party! Celebration! Whatever! I thought you weren’t going to make it?”
