“Commander Embria, this is my city. Your company has come here at my request to protect your city. Your home. Only, it appears that your idea of protection is to start a war with the Antinium. Do you have any idea of what might have occurred if you had slain the Antinium Soldiers in cold blood? At the very least, you would have broken Liscor’s contract, which we have honored for nearly a decade of peace, and at the worst, you would have thrown us into a third Antinium War!”
Her words made Embria pale slightly. The Drake opened her mouth. Zevara noticed her tail had uncurled and was swaying uncertainly, though.
“I was acting with the best intelligence I had at the time—”
“By attacking Antinium Soldiers? Without hailing the city? They were standing watch, commander! If they wanted you dead, they would have been raining arrows at you with Workers! If the city had fallen, you would have heard about it! No! I don’t want to hear about the High Command. I’m concerned with this city, and up till this moment I have had to defend it with the Antinium’s help, with the help of adventurers, and Pallass and Celum’s help! They sent their City Watch to fight when the Face-Eater Moths were attacking. But there wasn’t a single Liscorian soldier on the battlefield.”
She leaned over her desk and felt a trickle of smoke come out of her mouth.
“Where were you two days ago, when we needed you most? Where was the army?”
There was nothing Embria could say to that.
“We were moving as quickly as we could. If we had been aware—”
“You would have gotten here yesterday. Too late. And now you have the gall to come into my office, into my city, and demand to take charge?”
Zevara hissed softly. Embria held her ground, although the air was getting hot around Zevara. Most Drakes would have backed up, but to her credit, Embria was no coward. And more to her credit—she wasn’t a fool either. She looked at Zevara and rapidly retrenched. Embria took a few steps back, hesitated, and spoke placatingly.
“Watch Captain Zevara, I apologize for my rudeness.”
Zevara paused. She waited as Embria paused and the room metaphorically and literally cooled down. The [Commander] nodded and studied Zevara as she spoke carefully.
“I would take back my rude words and offer you my sincere regrets if I could, Watch Captain. I realize my sudden arrival may have stepped on your tail. For that, I apologize. We were…hasty in our attack on the Antinium. However, we are here to help, to protect and serve Liscor. That has not changed, although the situation in Liscor clearly has.”
She gestured towards her armor, upon which was emblazoned a symbol of her rank.
“My company is at your disposal, and the Council’s. I will apprise High Command of the new developments, but I expect they will offer you nothing but support, as will I and my officers. I commend your hard work and, again, issue you a heartfelt apology.”
Smart kid. Zevara had to admit that she hadn’t expected such a neat turnaround. But this officer was intelligent enough not to want to make Zevara her enemy. She nodded as she felt her internal fires dying down.
“Apology accepted, Commander Embria. Let me also apologize for my statements.”
Which statements they were didn’t matter. Embria smiled politely.
“We are both protectors of Liscor, in our own way. I hope we can work together in the coming months to fulfill our duties, our pasts aside.”
She held out a claw for Zevara to shake. It was a good gesture and would have laid to rest their earlier quarrel. However, Zevara wasn’t yet sure she wanted to take the claw. She hesitated and then looked sharply at Embria.
“We respect the army, and I acknowledge your rank, Commander Embria. But let me make one thing clear first.”
She tapped the desk as Embria withdrew her claw.
“In this city, at this moment, I am the commander of all military matters. A Drake Watch Captain is second only to a [General] in her own city, and I won’t have any incidents occurring, especially between the Antinium and your soldiers. Are we clear?”
Embria was silent for a long moment, studying Zevara’s face. Then, slowly, she nodded.
“Absolutely, Watch Captain.”
She held out her claw again, and Zevara shook it. There was no posturing, no squeezing too long or staring contest like she had to deal with when she ran up against a male Drake of the same rank who didn’t like her position. But then, there were other daggers female Drakes used on each other. Embria smiled, but Zevara was still a little angry. She was missing her sleep when all was said and done, and she still didn’t trust Liscor’s army.
Dead gods, what will I tell the Council about all this? If I’d known they’d cause me more headaches I wouldn’t have bothered asking for their help in the first place!
“Let me show you downstairs, Commander Embria. I’m sure the Council will want to speak with you soon, and we can have a longer discussion with our resident [Strategist] when things aren’t so hectic.”
She led the other Drake down the stairs. Embria sounded surprised as she followed Zevara.
“Strategist? I was under the impression that Olesm Swifttail was a [Tactician].”
“Correct. But he recently gained the [Strategist] class. We’re celebrating that fact, among others, later today. Speaking of which, you might want to ready yourself now. I’m sure the Council will insist on your presence later today.”
“What for?”
Zevara halted with her hand on the door to the Watch Barracks. She stared back at Embria, only slightly annoyed.
“You’ve been gone from Liscor for a while, I understand that. But try to remember how we do things. We just survived one of the worst monster attacks in living memory. What do you think we’re going to do?”
Then she opened the door. Embria frowned as she left the Watch House. The [Soldiers] of the 4th Company were waiting for her, lined up, [Sergeants] and [Captains] awaiting her orders. The Drakes and Gnolls on the streets were giving them curious looks. The word was already spreading. The army was back! It didn’t exactly seem to be the most exciting news in the world to Liscor’s citizens.
“Commander?”
One of the [Captains] looked questioningly at Embria. She scowled, dropping her polite expression now that Zevara’s back was turned. She nodded to the soldiers under her command.
“Tell the soldiers they have leave for two hours. They can visit their homes or stow their gear in the headquarters. Get those on punishment detail cleaning the place out. Watch Captain Zevara says the place hasn’t seen use since we were last there. But I want everyone back here two hours from now with armor on and polished.”
“What’s the occasion?”
Embria turned. She sighed as she watched Watch Captain Zevara stride back into the barracks and begin shouting at the [Guardsmen]. She had indeed been away from Liscor for a while. Six years since the last time she’d visited, in fact. But contrary to what Zevara might have thought, she did remember how things worked. It was true of every Drake city, really. Embria eyed the drizzling weather and polished the breastplate of her armor with one claw.
“We’re going to a parade.”
 
—-
 
This is how they gathered. They came together, small groups of three and four, sometimes six and sometimes as many as eight. Seldom more. Seldom less. They clustered in their groups, talking amongst themselves. Many were embarrassed or a mix between pleased and embarrassed so close that there was no dividing line. But none were ashamed. They were proud.
They were adventurers. As Ceria looked around the gathering of Bronze, Silver, and three Gold-rank teams she noticed the rain had lessened. The canvas roof that had been erected overhead had to ward off fewer raindrops than before.
“Good. Less rain. Means we might not slip and break our necks while we’re walking down the street.”
“That’s hardly a concern. Falling might be, though. I’d watch your step. You don’t want to be the first to trip on an occasion like this.”
Ceria jumped. She hadn’t realized she’d spoken out loud until someone else addressed her. Falene Skystrall stood beside Ceria. Tall, glamorous, the picture of what half-Elves aspired to be—in a clichéd way—the [Battlemage] made Ceria feel short and ungainly. Still, they were both half-Elves, and so Falene kept talking to Ceria as if they were familiar.
Which they were, if you got down to it. There were certain things only half-Elves could talk to each other about. They supported each other if they could, generally. After all, if you didn’t look out for one another, no other race would.
That meant Ceria could talk with Falene a bit more personally, even if she did think the other half-Elf was stuck up. She made a face as she gestured at the rain.
“You’ve done this before?”
“Eight times.”
“Eight?”
Ceria’s raised voice attracted attention. She saw the other members of her group drift over. Ksmvr was nervous as he stood alone. Pisces, keeping him company, raised his eyebrows as he walked over with the Antinium. Yvlon was talking to another female Bronze-rank adventurer. Ceria addressed her friends.
“Falene says they’ve done this eight times before.”
Yvlon whistled, and Pisces raised his eyebrows. Ksmvr looked blank.
“Done what eight times?”
Falene smiled not-condescendingly, which made her a bit condescending.
“It’s not like we seek it out, but we have had our victories. But haven’t you done this?”
“Once. But it’s not like we rehearsed or anything. It just…happened. Not like this.”
“Ah, well, preparation is rarer. But Drakes like organization, and I think it simplifies things this way. All you have to do is walk. And again, not trip.”
“Not be the first to trip, is what you said.”
Falene smiled.
“True! Better not to trip at all, but there’s always a few who fall. It happens, and you’ll be laughed at, but the first to fall always gets remembered. Just watch your step—you will be the first to go out.”
The Horns of Hammerad looked uneasily at each other. Yvlon muttered as she adjusted her polished, slightly mismatched enchanted armor.
“I don’t understand why it’s got to be us.”
Pisces shrugged. He was wearing his usual white robes, not having made an effort to dress up. Ksmvr had—he’d donned his magical cape and oiled his body so it shone, and Ceria had messed around with her hair. But Pisces was deliberately casual, as if what was about to happen was just another day for him. Ceria had to admire his guts. And hate them at the same time.
“Politics, I suppose. I am a persona non grata in Liscor, nominally speaking.”
Yvlon frowned.
“A what?”
“Comrade Pisces, please ex—”
“An unwelcome person. That phrase is a remnant of old language, a curious addition to our lexicon which—”
Pisces looked around, sensed his only possible audience was Falene, and gave up.
“Never mind. It’s an expression. Allow me to clarify my statement. What I meant was that, since I am unwelcome, the city did not wish to honor me by putting me last in line. However, my contributions to the battle were substantial. I did call the rain.”
“Poorly.”
The older half-Elf smiled as Pisces narrowed his eyes to look at her. He sniffed.
“A spell of necessity that I had never had the chance to practice or cast before? I will accept a poor result if the salvation of Liscor is the price for my inefficiency. In any case, my contributions are recognized, but we are only a Silver-rank team at the moment—”
“So we get to go first. We’re special. I get it. Thanks, Pisces.”
Ceria rolled her eyes. Ksmvr nodded.
“Yes, thank you Pisces for giving us this opportunity. I will endeavor not to slip and embarrass myself.”
“Just relax. This is in honor of us, after all. And you are hardly the only team participating.”
“Exactly! This happens once in five blue moons, so enjoy yourself!”
A loud voice interrupted the conversation. The Horns of Hammerad turned with Falene, and Ceria saw a young Drake striding towards them, grinning broadly. She waved at the Horns of Hammerad.
“Hey guys, miss me?”
They stared at her. The Drake spread her arms wide. She had grey-green scales, a scar along the side of her mouth, and a fit body. Ceria was sure she’d never seen this Drake in her life. But Pisces just smiled.
“Ah. Jelaqua.”
“Jelaqua?”
The Horns of Hammerad jumped. Ceria peered at the Drake and realized the greyish scales weren’t just color—but a lack of it! The Drake was dead and her body—she stared into Jelaqua’s eyes and saw that internal intelligence staring back. The Selphid grinned.
“Aw! Pisces got it! I was betting with Seborn that you’d all freak out. Hey Seborn! I owe you ten gold coins!”
“Told you.”
A Drowned Man appeared out of the crowd of adventurers, and Ceria saw several teams respectfully part ways to let Moore walk towards them. The half-Giant had to bend over to walk without disturbing the canvas roof overhead. The Halfseekers smiled as they joined the conversation.
“Jelaqua! It’s great to see you. You got a new body?”
Yvlon clasped forearms with Jelaqua. The Selphid laughed, practically giddy with good spirits.
“Sure did! And just in time too, eh? I got this body, and it feels great. I can feel things when I touch them! I love fresh bodies. Hey, Ksmvr, poke me!”
Ksmvr did. Jelaqua laughed.
“It tickles! Ain’t nerve endings great? Hey Falene, where’s your team?”
“Talking with the others. I think Dawil and Ylawes are trying to get away from that team, Vuliel Drae.”
Falene pointed, and the adventurers saw that Ylawes and Dawil were indeed being mobbed by the female half-Dwarf woman and several other female adventurers. Ceria frowned.
“Vuliel Drae? Oh. The lucky team. I didn’t see them earlier.”
“Huh? Oh, me neither. They showed up with a bunch of wounds after the battle. Apparently, they got ambushed by the Face-Eater Moths and had to hide out on their way to the dungeon. Took down a lot of them by themselves by the number of heads they brought in. Anyways, check this out! I’ve got a tail!”
Jelaqua turned around and nearly swept Pisces’ legs from under him. He caught himself, and Seborn grabbed Jelaqua warningly.
“Hey. Watch it.”
“Sorry! I’m just really in a good mood!”
The Selphid grinned. Pisces eyed her tail with interest.
“Do you have to compensate for your new body, or is the process fairly automatic?”
“Hah, spoken like a [Necromancer]!”
Jelaqua had to think for a second as Yvlon and Ksmvr greeted Moore. The half-Giant was smiling, looking pleased at Jelaqua’s wellbeing. He’d refused to leave the stricken Selphid in the Adventurer’s Guild until now, Ceria recalled. She turned back to Jelaqua as the Selphid swished her tail and nearly tripped a passing adventurer this time.
