“Nah, it really does feel normal after the first hour. It’ll be harder getting back to a body without a tail, you know? Only problem is I might forget about it and get it ripped off. I did that to my last Drake body.”
The Gnolls and Drakes in earshot winced when Jelaqua said that. Ceria saw more than one team staring at their group with interest. The Horns of Hammerad, Halfseekers, and Silver Swords were pretty much the highest-ranked teams in this gathering. Jelaqua seemed used to the attention, though. She shrugged in answer to another of Pisces’ questions.
“Yeah, the tail’s weird, but I like the scales. Sure they get caught on things, but it’s better than hair. That stuff catches and tears my skin—hey, do you have anything to eat? I want to give these taste buds a workout before they start to decay!”
Ceria scratched her head.
“Not yet. But Erin’s got an after-party planned. She’s going to have cakes. Multiple cakes, according to her.”
“Whoo! Cake! Alright, let’s get this started!”
Falene interrupted Jelaqua as she headed for the tent’s opening into the street.
“Not just yet. We’ll get word once the City Watch finishes their march. And the Horns are going first, Jelaqua.”
“Right, right. Sorry. Forgot. Oops. Hey, don’t slip you guys! Otherwise, Seborn and I will laugh at you.”
“Don’t be cruel, Jelaqua.”
A large hand flicked the Selphid on the back of the head. She staggered.
“Aw come on, it’s funny, Moore!”
“Wait, one thing I don’t get. You’ve been looking for a body for ages, Jelaqua. Why’d you suddenly get one now?”
Ceria interrupted the two Gold-rank adventurers. Jelaqua smiled.
“Oh, that? That was thanks to the law, believe it or not! Remember, I was injured defending Liscor. According to the standing agreement with the Adventurer’s Guild, Liscor is required to provide me with a suitable corpse.”
She gestured at her body.
“This is from one of their [Guardsmen]. A junior one, I think. Just got the job. Her parents agreed to give it to me—they got paid a lot I think. Dead gods, I hope I don’t see them in the crowd, but I explained about how Selphids work, and I promised them—never mind. Selphid stuff.”
She sighed, losing some of her good cheer.
“It’s an ideal body. But that poor kid. She died of blood loss after a moth sliced the artery in her leg open. Lost her healing potion or didn’t think she needed it and died on the street. Amateur mistake.”
She shook her head sadly. There was a brief moment of silence as the adventurers all paused, remembering the heat of the battle. Few of them had died, but they were used to fighting and had magical gear. On the other hand, Liscor’s City Watch had paid a price for their defense of the walls. Their moment was broken when more adventurers walked over. Ylawes and Dawil, and the team of Griffon Hunt.
“Looks like you all made it.”
That was the first thing Revi said to the others. She, Halrac, and Typhenous looked no worse for wear despite Ceria not having seen them for a long time. She looked at them, trying to see if they were still in mourning over Ulrien’s death, but if they were, they kept it to themselves. Halrac folded his arms and grimaced as Typhenous greeted Moore and Falene.
“Hey guys. Halrac.”
Jelaqua nodded somberly at Halrac as the Halfseekers greeted Griffon Hunt. Halrac just grunted.
“Silver Swords?”
“That would be us. A pleasure to meet you, Mister Halrac. I realize this might be inappropriate, but may I buy you a drink later? I was shocked when I heard of your captain’s death. I knew Ulrien, briefly, and I regret that such a capable warrior fell to treachery.”
Ylawes stepped forwards and held out a hand. Ceria wondered if Halrac would tense up or leave—the [Scout]’s face had frozen when Ylawes mentioned Ulrien’s name. But he grudgingly extended a hand and shook it.
“He was an adventurer. Heard your team took down a mother moth.”
“As did yours. But we have the Horns of Hammerad to thank for ending the battle. My sister belongs to that team. I believe you’ve met?”
Halrac nodded to Ceria, who nodded back. The [Scout] eyed Pisces.
“Rain spell. Good idea.”
Revi rolled her eyes.
“I can’t believe no one thought of it beforehand. Why not? It’s so damn obvious but—good work. Especially for a Silver-rank team.”
She nodded at Ceria. Typhenous smiled as he stroked his beard.
“Indeed. You’ve shaped up to be a quite decent party.”
“Yeah! They held the line! Those Goblins and the Horns? Whew! I saw what they did when they pulled me back inside! Moth bodies stacked like firewood! Not bad for rookies, huh?”
Jelaqua threw an arm around Yvlon, laughing. The Horns of Hammerad blushed under the praise. Dawil, looking around, grunted with displeasure.
“Enough slapping each other on the backs! I can’t reach, and Ylawes has his armor on. Let’s get to the good stuff. Hands up. Who here leveled after the battle?”
He raised his own hand, and the Horns all raised theirs. Moore raised his hand, as did Seborn, and so did Halrac. Revi scowled.
“Dammit.”
“You’re telling me you all didn’t level?”
Yvlon stared incredulously at her brother, Falene, and the others. Ylawes smiled.
“I’ll probably level in the next week or month at the latest. But remember, most of us are past Level 30—”
“All of us, right?”
Jelaqua looked around, and Typhenous coughed politely. Falene smiled.
“A [Mage] never tells.”
Dawil rolled his eyes as he addressed Yvlon.
“Point is, this lot doesn’t level every time they go into a hairy situation. But if we don’t level today, it’ll be close. But what about Skills? I got nothing.”
He spread his hands. Halrac grunted. Moore shook his head. Seborn didn’t respond when Jelaqua nudged him, and the Horns all looked at each other and coughed.
“Aw come on, don’t be coy. Tell us! Or at least participate in the tradition!”
“What tradition?”
Pisces looked suspiciously at Jelaqua. She laughed, and it was Falene who answered.
“Tradition is that when adventurers gain their levels as a result of saving a city, clearing a dungeon, or so on, they show off any new Skills or spells during the parade.”
“Or just make a scene. Just fire off a spell and don’t reveal your newest Skill. I’m not showing anyone, Jelaqua. Leave off.”
Seborn got tired of Jelaqua’s encouraging elbow and stamped on her foot. She yelped.
“Agh! I forgot how much that hurts!”
“Wait, we’re supposed to put on a show?”
Revi sighed loudly.
“You’re adventurers. Of course you put on a show! Just do something to impress the crowd. We do it—it’s how you get people to recognize you! Unless you get your own personal parade. You want to be a famous Named Adventurer? This is one of the things you do! Honestly, newbies!”
She threw up her hands. Typhenous put a hand on her shoulder.
“Steady, Revi. Apologies—she’s just had to field too many enthusiastic adventurers today.”
“Too many admirers?”
Falene gave Revi a teasing look. The [Summoner] just glared.
“Says the big-shots who’ve gone through a parade eight times. We’ve gone five—that’s five total for me. I think Halrac’s at six?”
She looked at Halrac, who shrugged. Both teams looked at the Halfseekers. Jelaqua scratched her head.
“Yeah, funny. We don’t get invited to parades often, no matter what we do. I think we’re only two.”
“And the Horns are one. Well, let’s add another to the list. Remember, don’t slip.”
Falene cautioned the others with a teasing smile. She pointed—Ceria could see a Drake jogging towards them and waving at the adventurers in the rain. Her heart began to beat faster.
“Oh boy. I think this is us.”
“Break a leg!”
“Don’t.”
“You deserve this.”
“Enjoy it!”
“Good job, sister.”
Ylawes caught Yvlon as the Horns began to walk forwards. He nodded at her, and she smiled. The four adventurers moved to the head of the group of adventurers, conscious of all eyes on them. Then they walked out into the rain.
At first, it felt silly. Ceria felt a drizzle on her head, but didn’t see anyone. She stepped out onto the cobbles—they’d been put at the east gate, at the back of where the parade would start—and began marching down the street with Pisces at her side and Yvlon and Ksmvr following. No one was around, although she could hear fanfare and drums in the distance.
And then she saw the people. They were lined up on the streets, some covered by awnings, others holding parasols or cloaks in hand. Most simply let the rain fall. Drakes and Gnolls and some Humans, scattered at first. Then, suddenly, a mass of them. All at once the faces turned into a sea, and Ceria felt her heart beating faster.
There was noise in the air. Cheering, shouts—and a voice calling names out. Ahead of her, Ceria could see the last of Celum’s Watch marching. She spotted Relc, waving a hand and shouting at the crowd. The other Gnolls and Drakes were also marching, waving at friends and family, some still bearing wounds. Missing eyes, a broken limb—one Gnoll had to be helped along. His left leg was gone. But the crowd cheered them, their city’s heroes.
They fell silent as the Horns of Hammerad began their march in the parade. Drakes and Gnolls stared at Pisces. They knew him. They stared at Ksmvr, and at Ceria and Yvlon. Pisces was a [Necromancer]. Ksmvr was Antinium. As for Ceria and Yvlon, they had participated in one of the biggest expedition failures in recent memories. Ceria saw some of the Drakes hiss at Pisces and saw his shoulders go up.
“Give them a show.”
She muttered under her breath. Pisces looked back at her. Two images flashed into her mind. Pisces, standing in front of Wistram’s [Mages], shunned. And Pisces, walking down Ocre’s streets, a hero. He was both these things to Liscor.
“Think you can give them a trick or two? No Skills—just magic?”
She asked him challengingly, feeling her words were too loud in the silence. Pisces blinked and then smiled.
“You first.”
“Coward. Okay. I was going to show you later. Watch this.”
Ceria pulled a wand out of her robes. Conscious of every eye she raised it and pointed it to the sky. The grey skies were drizzling. Ceria concentrated.
“[Frost Bloom]!”
A chill condensed around the tip of her wand, a bubble of hoar frost held for one magical moment. Then it expanded and shot outwards. Ceria heard a gasp as her spell shot out twenty, maybe thirty feet overhead. The crowd cried out in surprise as the water droplets fell to earth as hail, breaking. The ground in front of Ceria was coated with a light layer of frost, a product of the chilling temperature of her spell.
“Not bad!”
Yvlon smiled, took a step, and nearly fell. Ksmvr caught her just in time, and Ceria heard a few chuckles. Pisces stroked his chin.
“Well, we can’t have that. Let me try.”
He raised his hand and green and gold fire shot forwards. The crowd oohed as the flames licked the street, turning the ice back to water. Then Pisces let the flames spiral upwards. They turned into miniature dragons which roared soundlessly before evaporating.
It was a powerful spell—and part illusion. Ceria held her breath as she tried to see if it had gotten the crowd on their side. She heard silence and felt her heart sink—and then heard someone yell in among the onlookers.
“Awesome! Go Pisces! Do more!”
Heads turned. Ceria saw Erin, waving wildly, laughing as Lyonette held Mrsha up beside her. She began to clap as Pisces, bemused, conjured another gout of fire which turned itself into a small horse which galloped through the air.
The Drakes and Gnolls stared at the fire, stared at Pisces, and then they started to applaud. Yvlon, grinning, tossed her sword up and caught it as it rotated back down. That wasn’t a Skill, but it was a good trick. Ksmvr waved all three hands. The applause grew louder. More adventurers followed the Horns down the street.
The crowd applauded more as Ceria and Pisces showed off their spells. Ksmvr leapt into the air, incredibly high, and passed through a hoop of fire Pisces conjured. The people gasped. Then they began to cheer.
The three Gold-rank teams saw the Horns of Hammerad begin to receive whole-hearted applause at last. Jelaqua grinned and punched Moore in the thigh.
“They did it! Told you they could!”
“Our turn.”
Griffon Hunt moved into place before the Silver Swords and Halfseekers. Halrac looked annoyed, Typhenous pleased.
“Let’s just get this over with.”
“The Horns did a good job getting the crowd interested. Think we can top that, Revi? Halrac?”
Typhenous pointed at the other Bronze and Silver-rank teams. They were also doing tricks with magic, if less showy than Pisces and Ceria. Some were trying to do tricks with their swords, but the parade was really a place where [Mages] shone. Revi rolled her eyes as she took something out of her bag of holding.
“Rookies. Stand back, you two.”
She held a large piece of amber with part of a moth’s wing encased in it. Halrac and Typhenous stood to one side as Revi strode forwards. The eyes of the crowd were on her. Already, many were applauding and calling out their names. Especially Halrac’s.
“Halrac! Halrac the Grim!”
“Griffon Hunt! Show us a spectacle!”
Revi obliged. She tossed the wing in amber up, and a flash of light stunned the crowds. Then there were screams. A Face-Eater Moth, glowing green, spread its wings wide, and the shocked Drakes and Gnolls stumbled back before they realized what it was: a summoned spirit. They cheered and booed Revi as she climbed on its back, and the Face-Eater Moth walked down the street. She waved at them regally, like a [Queen], as Typhenous and Halrac watched her take the lead.
“That Stitch-Girl will be the death of us both, I swear.”
Typhenous tugged at his beard, trying to hide a smile. Halrac just grunted.
“Let’s get this over with.”
“Just a moment. Appearances do matter, Halrac. My turn.”
The older mage walked after Revi. He tapped his staff on the ground and smoke billowed up, forming a cloud of Typhenous’ face. It loomed overhead as the [Mage] began to walk forwards, grimacing and making faces that simultaneously terrified and amazed the Drake and Gnoll children watching. Halrac coughed and walked along behind Typhenous, a scowl on his face. The crowd cheered him, though Halrac didn’t so much as turn his head to stare at them. He made it halfway down the first street before he grimaced and stopped.
Halrac paused, took an arrow out of the quiver at his side, and drew it to his bow. He aimed straight up and loosed. The crowd paused and watched the shining arrow fly higher and higher until it exploded with a dull boom and a spray of flames which went out in the light drizzle.
“Waste of a good arrow.”
