Trapped. Someone must have known where I was. But a hundred Ranks…he could cleave through them without trouble. Sacrifice his own Ranks and pick them off. It was the Faces—
There.
A figure stepped forwards, and the Blade of Harvests inspected them, then relaxed instantly. Almost laughed.
“Losmere. You’ve come for my head?”
Was she mad? The [Trainer] was just that—a [Trainer]. A washed-up Face who’d been decent in her prime, but was now just an instructor to new Faces. Barely Level 30+. He’d mince her in a second.
Unless she had company? But this was a duel among Faces, surely. The Blade of Harvests saw someone else standing next to Losmere.
A Drake who didn’t seem like a warrior at all. Her posture was bad. She wasn’t fit. And yet—
Selys Shivertail stared down at the Blade of Harvests. And she pointed.
“There you are, Blademaster of Harvests. I am Selys Shivertail, Guildmistress of the Assassin’s Guild of Izril’s north. I have put a <Quest> on your head.”
She—what? The half-Elf jerked slightly, and his eyes narrowed. A bounty on him?
He didn’t like that.
He didn’t like that one bit. The Ranks shifted, and he glanced around.
“What <Quest>? Show me—”
One handed him something. He snatched the paper, backhanded the Rank, and threw the paper down.
His name? She’d put his name out—!? The Guildmaster of this imposter Assassin’s Guild. They’d found out who she was, of course.
Selys Shivertail. Was she mad? The Blade of Harvests would kill her and Losmere. He began to walk forwards, lifting his sword off his shoulder.
[Clear the Field]. Then—[The Reaper’s Scythe]. If that didn’t kill Losmere and everyone present, he’d improvise. The Blade of Harvests ignored the Drake, incensed and ready to kill—until that prickling sensation down his spine grew worse. And he halted, overcome with a sudden…feeling.
Because the Drake, Selys, had raised her hand. She beckoned.
“—this is no challenge, Blade of Harvests. You’ve killed our members. Now, we’ve come for you. Everyone, show yourselves.”
Everyone? What did that m—
The Blade of Harvests felt the air rustling, and he spun. His greatsword swung around him, into a guard stance. And he felt, for the first moment, the urge to excrete. The sinking, twisting panic in his stomach.
He was not a gifted stealth master. And he hadn’t realized that Skills were keeping more hidden. Overlapping. 
A second wave of Ranks stepped out of the shadows. A hundred more, filling the gaps around the Blademaster of Harvests. His skin thrilled with horror.
I’ll have to break out and run. Run and trust that I can cut—
The third wave of Ranks emerged, and then the Blade of Harvests froze. When the fourth appeared, he thought it had to be an illusion. Because that would be—
Everyone.
He’d heard this rival Assassin’s Guild had a single shipment of [Assassins] from Chandrar. With casualties, they’d put the numbers at four hundred at max. Mostly Ranks. And they were all…
Here.
Ranks. Faces. He stopped counting at ten—they were lined up with the Ranks, silent figures surrounding the Blademaster of Harvests. Worse, he realized the ground was ever-so-slightly elevated. Just enough to create a depression. Ideal to avoid friendly fire if they attacked as one from a distance.
“What is this? An audience for a challenge?”
The half-Elf tried a laugh, eyes flicking back to Losmere. But the Guildmistress, Selys, just shook her head.
“A duel? What are you, eleven? That might be how the old Guild did it, but not ours. This is no duel. This is an assassination. An execution.”
All for him? He was the Face of Faces, but—the Blade of Harvests snarled. He pointed his blade at Losmere, who lifted her daggers warily.
“Is that it? You don’t have a Face who can stand against me, so you’re attempting to drown me in bodies? You aren’t my equals—none of you Faces are!”
None of them moved. Again, Selys spoke for them.
“Maybe not. But who cares? We’re not lone [Assassins]. This is a Guild. And a Guild fights and dies together. Teams. Assassin’s Guild—this is the Blade of Harvests, who has killed you Ranks and Faces alike. Show him how you feel about that.”
“I’ll face your b—”
The Blade of Harvests was trying to guess how many Faces he could take to buy time when he saw the Ranks shift. Then he was flatfooted, incredulous.
They weren’t going to—this was a challenge. He was a F—
The Ranks and Faces threw in a single motion. Almost all of them had a throwing weapon of some kind.
Throwing daggers, spiked stars, bolas, just the flash of a wand, or the thunk of a crossbow firing—individually, it would be silent.
Together, it was a storm breaking. The Blade of Harvests screamed. His sword came up—
 
——
 
The half-Elf stumbled, and Selys Shivertail counted.
“That looks like twelve wounds.”
Her face didn’t change. But internally, she felt almost disappointed. She had been told he was a Face of Faces. Then again, maybe he was.
But he hadn’t been good at detection, and even if he’d been, what, Redscar, could that Goblin have handled four hundred professionals striking at him at once?
He had [Whirl My Blade] or something that let him deflect weapons. But again, how many? They’d overwhelmed his Skill, and despite his attempt to dodge—
He was bleeding. The half-Elf had made it, and his Skill had, amazingly, let the Ranks around him survive. About…half. The Blade of Harvest’s deflection Skills had saved them. His voice was shaky now.
“Do you th—”
“Again.”
The Ranks and Faces threw, and there was a faint scream. The thunder became silence, the ping of blades. A soft cry—
One of the Ranks fell, beheaded. The Blade of Harvests had parried—again—and taken more wounds. In doing so, he’d killed three of his people. And the Ranks had still survived.
Nine of them.
They were gathered around the Blade of Harvests, and Selys was really impressed. How the hell had they survived—
Ah. She saw one of them shake something out and realized they had survived the most expedient way possible: they’d grabbed their comrades, living or dead, and used them as shields. The dead [Assassins] were pincushioned with metal.
Now, there was a silence as the Ranks and Faces turned to Selys. They had the same thought as she did.
This was so easy. The Blade of Harvests? No match for four hundred [Assassins], even lower-level than he was. It was just bringing them all to bear that was so hard. But together, who could stand against them?
Only Saliss of Lights. And funnily enough, the Blade of Harvests invoked the same name as he sank to one knee.
“Only Saliss of Lights. Only that. Level 50 is so…hard. We never had many of that caliber, even before the waste of the Antinium Wars. Hitting it—too hard for us, Guildmistress. Or we can die by the biting of gnats. Like this.”
He put his blade down. He was bleeding badly, Selys saw. A throwing dagger buried up to its hilt in his shoulder, but the old half-Elf barely flinched.
“I swear myself to the true Assassin’s Guild of Izril. I will sign in blood, if you have a contract.”
Oh, so that’s what he was doing. Selys had been confused and worried he was up to some kind of super-Skill. She tilted her head.
“Ah. You think my offer to turn sides applied to you. Funny. I worded it specifically.”
The Blade of Harvests hesitated, and she sighed. No one read carefully.
“I only offered amnesty to those who hadn’t spilled our blood like you. You’re a dead man.”
“—I’m the Blade of Harvests. A [Blademaster]. You need me.”
The half-Elf was staring at her. Selys’ blood was cold. She thought of Ribark.
“Maybe we do. Another Assassin’s Guild could have taken you. Not mine. You killed my Ranks. Ready—”
The Ranks and Faces around her drew blades. The Blademaster of Harvests’ hand grabbed his blade tightly.
“You can’t slaughter me so easily. I will cut your lines in twain. My deathblows will not leave enough of you to stand against the other Guild, and they outnumber and outmatch you! Be sensible—”
He wanted to live.
He was just a man.
Selys Shivertail gazed down at the Blademaster of Harvests and whispered.
“No wonder you never made Level 50. True myths die defying impossible odds. My grandmother would spit on your tail, idiot. Ag—”
The Blademaster of Harvests leapt up with a howl, and she jerked back, stepping behind Losmere as he began to charge. A high-level warrior died hard.
The Blade of Harvests aimed his greatsword like a rapier, targeting the Guildmistress to end her, if no one else. He raced forwards in all of a tenth of a second, then stumbled and twisted around.
“You—”
He slashed and cut the Rank behind him in half, from top to toe. But the figure had already buried their blade in his back. Another hamstrung the Blade of Harvests. His sword took another head off on the backstroke. But they were on top of—
Selys held a claw up as she poked her head out of cover.
“Huh. Hold—”
The Ranks. His ranks were swarming the Blade of Harvests. He lashed around, swinging his blade, but he had already been hurt, and they had covered him in stab-wounds.
Eleven—nineteen—twenty-seven? Several had gone straight into his brain. Sharp, poisoned blades piercing his body until he just…collapsed. But his arm had kept swinging even after he himself was dead.
Selys Shivertail walked forwards when the Blade of Harvests finally stopped moving. She was greeted by a trio of Ranks, one of them holding their arm.
None were unbloodied; they’d been nearly shredded by the storm of attacks, then they’d killed the Face in that desperate melee.
Why? Well, it was obvious.
They knelt. Selys eyed the blood spurting from one of the arm sockets of the wounded Ranks.
“I take it you lot want amnesty?”
The three wounded Ranks regarded each other. One of them spoke as he—she?—wobbled and placed their arm before her like an offering.
“And the position of Face, Guildmistress.”
Oh, wow. They had read the <Quest> despite it being posted earlier today. Selys’ lips quirked despite herself. She watched the Rank bleeding out, then reached out and tugged down their mask.
“Huh.”
A Drake stared up at her, his eyes narrowed, face pale with bloodloss. Selys patted the kid on the head.
“Someone tourniquet that arm before he dies, and keep the arm. We might be able to re-attach it. Welcome to the real Assassin’s Guild, kid. Well, the three of you are Faces. I didn’t think about multiple…bah, we’ll figure that part out later. Okay, pack it up!”
She strode out of the field as the [Assassins] approached the dead Blade of Harvests. Selys Shivertail breathed in, out, and spoke half to herself as much as the others.
“We’re a Guild now. Do or die—we’re a damn Guild, and this is what it means. When this is all over, I’m throwing us a party in a hot springs. Drinks and baths. That’s how you do it in Liscor.”
She looked around and saw Slashface and Losmere watching her. Selys reached out, and they supported her on the walk back to the carriage.
“That’s how you do it. Right, Grandmother?”
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was told that the Blade of Harvests had been killed with zero casualties on their side and three new recruits. He promptly found a bottle of champagne, popped it, and began bathing in the stuff.
Some of the Faces watched him as he danced around, clothing and carpet getting sodden in the downpour.
“You seem to think this has won the war, Lord Calidus. We just executed their best Face. The other Assassin’s Guild will come at us with everything, now.”
Losmere remarked sourly. She was polishing a dagger, having just completed a training session with the Ranks. It sounded…painful, but Calidus noted she seemed a bit more lively and talkative. He stopped dancing in champagne and offered it to her.
“I rather thought you’d all join me. Or wasn’t that half-Elf threatening to cut all of you Faces up, Losmere, Qissax?”
The two Faces he knew hesitated and joined Calidus, trying to appear cool and collected, which was their mask for all their real emotions, he was sure. It had half-fooled him at first. Now, he just understood they had all been born with Ressa’s poker face. They were just people. Sad, really.
“The Blade of Harvests being dispatched so easily is…commendable, Lord Calidus. It just does not seem time to celebrate.”
“Bah, Qissax, you simply don’t see it. I never was worried about the war itself. Oh, sure, we might win or lose, but I needed a Guildmistress once I realized I wasn’t doing it. And Selys is a talented individual—she is worth more than any six Faces! Before you get offended, it is because she is the Guild.”
Calidus was beaming, relieved. He’d seen it in her tears and how she’d taken the fight to the other Guild for the dead Ranks. He drank the champagne, then spat it out.
“Eugh, this is all bubbles. Anyways, the point is—she cares about you all. Ranks and Faces. More than I could. She can cry for you killers and, I think, won your respect. You might be too impassive to admit it, but who here wouldn’t leap into bed with her if she so much as wagged her tail?”
He peered around, and no one contradicted him. Which was probably just [Assassin] stoicism, but Calidus decided to believe it proved his point.
“They will come for us, Lord Calidus. If we bring four hundred Ranks to a single engagement, they will do likewise. Do you want to see [Assassins] in mass-combat?”
“Yes, actually.”
Calidus took pity on Losmere. He patted her on the shoulder.
“—But I don’t intend on wasting you all just for the fun of it. I will win this war, Losmere, Qissax. A Reinhart’s word on it. I’m not sure it’ll work, but I’m estimating it will—and the uncertainty is lovely.”
He beamed at them, delighted by the fact that he might not survive his plans if they failed. So he had to do his best. He had to run an experiment, do some prep work—oh, and figure out a routine.
But before all that, he threw out his arms.
“We have a new Guildmistress! Celebrate that if anything, you all! Or tell me—did you see a future for the Assassin’s Guild before this? Or just desperate flailing to ‘be’ the Assassin’s Guild? I think she has a future, and that is something to trust.”
They regarded him, and then Losmere took the bottle from Lord Calidus and drank a sip. She made a face, and Calidus laughed. He thought—
Dead gods, but this was sort of fun. It was one thing to set up a project or organization, another to make something that he actually thought might matter or last.
They had a 50% chance of making it. All down to a coin-flip on one thing working, really. Everyone’s efforts came down to that. But Calidus didn’t tell them that. Then he went to make Selys’ life more difficult.
 
——
 
