“Yup, the one having sex with Lyonette if all the damn scrying orbs are to be trusted. Eugh. I was forging! Nearly hit my own hand I was laughing so hard.”
Pelt was awfully casual today. He actually pulled up a chair and offered it to Mrsha.
“Found anything yet, Wall Lord? Mrsha, the inn got anything new for me?”
Uh, just aiolis.
“The hell’s that? Nah, nevermind. I’ll check it out. Sit, all of you.”
Selys interrupted, hopping from foot to foot and glancing at Ilvriss.
“Pelt, I have to run, and it’s urgent. We’re good business partners! If you’ve got anything or can make it—”
“Sit, Selys.”
She hesitated, and Pelt glanced at her. When she sat, the Dwarf stroked at his beard. He seemed…different. Or perhaps he’d picked up on the oddity of the moment. Pelt spoke deliberately as Emessa came around with some forged cups and lemon water.
“In a business deal with a master smith, such as me, you don’t run ahead of the competition. Forging isn’t that fast, even for me. You place your offer on the anvil, and the other does the same. Anything less devalues the work.”
Thank goodness for Pelt. Mrsha and Ilvriss relaxed. Selys grew stiffer.
“In that case, Pelt, name your price and I’ll pay more than they will.”
“Just like that?”
The Dwarf’s eyes gleamed for he was not immune to the lure of money. Selys jerked her chin at Mrsha and Ilvriss.
“I’m rich enough, and I hear the dig isn’t going well—I can beat a Wall Lord and the inn’s finances.”
Uh huh. That’s one bet I wouldn’t take right now.
Mrsha slapped the card down. But Pelt just lifted a hand.
“You know, it’s not always about the gold for me.”
Crash. Emessa dropped her tray of water cups, and he glared at her.
“Shut up, apprentice! I know the lot of you. I’m making gold! Let’s just say that I might have room for a project or two. Even a big one. Just depends on who needs it more. And go.”
He sat back, peering at them, and Mrsha and Ilvriss exchanged a look.
One of Ilvriss’ people nearly got smushed by a Bone Dreadnought. Ever heard of one of them? I haven’t. And he nearly got Hunter-Killered by Terland Golems.
“Highly unpleasant, Master Pelt. We are in the market for some armor.”
Ilvriss put in. The [Hammer of a Hundred Metals] whistled.
“Terlands? You’re as dumb as Erin. Dumber since she never ran screaming from one of them. Grandfathers—and you, Selys?”
He instantly ignored Ilvriss and Mrsha with his Pelt-ways, and Selys hesitated.
“I—can’t say. But I could use some armor or weapons. And my need is as urgent as Mrsha and Ilvriss’.”
“Can’t say? I assume I’m forging for you two Drakes as clients, but who does my work go to? I forge for the one who will wield it. Or wear it.”
His voice still had that too-pleasant cadence that had Mrsha’s fur standing on end. But Selys didn’t notice. She snapped, upset, as she glanced at Mrsha.
“Master Pelt, we’re business partners in Solar Cycles! You know I’m good for it, and we have an actual business relationship! Unlike Mrsha or Ilvriss! For the sake of that, please take my order! Ancestors, I’ll—you know what? I’ll give you 5% of my share in our business. How about that?”
She sat back, folded her arms, and smiled. Ilvriss felt uneasy. Solar Cycles was huge money even if they weren’t ever able to keep up with demand. But Mrsha was watching Pelt’s face, and suddenly, she relaxed.
Because the Dwarf just took a sip of water and turned to Mrsha.
“Is this about some other damn idiocy like the [Palace of Fates]? You’re not dragging her into that, are you, Wall Lord? Because here’s my hammer, and if you’d care to lie your head down on the anvil, I’ll give you a swing if you are.”
“No, no, absolutely not. Mrsha doesn’t even want to go near the place I’m digging. No Mrshas allowed.”
Ilvriss held up his claws. Pelt eyed him, then turned to Selys.
“Heard about the [Palace]? Or been back to Solar Cycles? I heard from that, er, Rinli there’s good projects happening. Nothing to do with me—bit interesting, but I hate gears, and they found a useful workaround.”
He nodded at Mrsha, and Selys frowned.
“What palace? No, I wasn’t there, Pelt. Listen—”
Mrsha broke in.
You’re a fan, Pelt? I thought you’d say ‘it ain’t real metal, so it’s all shite! Bugger it!’
He actually grinned at her.
“Why’d I do that, you half-baked chalk beansprout? Anything that doesn’t waste my metals is good. When Kevin makes it work and needs it made of real material, he’ll come begging.”
“Kevin? Pelt, Kevin’s dead.”
Selys interjected, voice suddenly bleak. Pelt just stared at Mrsha, and Selys’ eyes flicked from him to Mrsha.
“He’s—he’s dead. There’s no way. Was he actually—?”
Pelt stood and nodded to his forge.
“Too many eyes out here, and ears. Let’s discuss what you two want inside. I’m not smithing for an army, but I’ll see about something, Wall Lord. It’ll cost you, and I have some requirements, but—”
He was walking past Selys when she reached out and grabbed his arm.
“Master Pelt! Wait, what about my offer? I’ll beat anything they have! Didn’t you hear me about the shares?”
He glanced down at Selys. And still, too-gently, he patted her claw and took it off his arm.
“I heard, Miss Selys Shivertail. And I thank you for reminding me about our business. I don’t know the legal whatsits and don’t care to. But it strikes me that once I make Emessa sit down with Rinli, we’ll figure out a way to work it. Either we buy your contract out or we’ll just stop working together. She can always hire my forge direct, same with Hedault.”
“Wh-what?”
Selys blinked up at him, not entirely trusting her earholes. Then she paled.
“What are you saying? Pelt! You know me!”
She leapt up, and Pelt nodded. He looked her up and down, and now she saw the deliberateness of how he was moving and speaking. Like a slow hammer upon the anvil, but Pelt’s hammer was never slow. Yet he placed it now, just so.
“Yes. Yes I do, Selys. I thought you were just running up in a damn flurry, like Kevin or even Hedault when he has an idea. Until a certain [Knight] there sent Emessa a [Message].”
He jerked at Ser Dalimont, who executed a bow as Pelt continued.
“Then I thought to myself, ‘I should wait to see’. Haste ruins metals. A smith must be sure when he does not know, to not ruin everything. But I do see. We’ve known each other. I’ve liked your harassing, annoying ways as well as Erin. And in truth, I like this grub-stealing, annoying little pest less, even more now she talks.”
He pointed a fat finger at Mrsha, who raised a paw, then lowered it. But Pelt’s voice was increasing in volume ever so slightly. Like the rumble of a volcano.
“It’s one thing to quarrel. Another to lie to me or call on bonds of friendship forged when it gets in the way of another. Did you hear that Wall Lord? Bodyguard of his got stomped on by a Bone something? And a Terland Hunter-Killer?”
Selys’ eyes flicked to Ilvriss.
“That’s—bad, yes. But I need—”
“Bad. Bad? Even we in Deríthal-Vel know about the damn Terland Golems. We helped make them. Killing machines, and I know stories of the bastards coming at us in the mountains, slicing even Adamantium! Now, I’m no warrior. I don’t do charity. But when that girl comes to me and says it’s life or death, give me a weapon, I’ll listen, even if I curse her out! Yet you come here, to my forge and face, and say you can’t say why, only give me a weapon—”
“It’s as life-or-death as Mrsha and Ilvriss’ problems, Pelt!”
Selys shouted, but the Dwarf was getting louder. Face redder.
“Then why didn’t you damn well talk it out and figure out who’s closer to meeting their Ancestors first before running here? You’re not even looking at her. Since I’m no fool with clay between my ears, you don’t even know about the damn [Palace]. I wasn’t there, but you don’t even know. Not about Kevin, not about anything else!”
His voice was shaking the forge now. Selys was backing up, clearly ready to run because Pelt was getting angry. Cut her losses and go. But that last name caught her.
Kevin. She half-spun at the door. Pelt was fury, hammer in hand, and the two bodyguards she had were nervous, hands on their belt-knives, but she stopped.
“Kevin. He’s actually alive? He—”
For a second. Just a second, tears were in her eyes. Relief and joy, and Pelt’s wrath abated, and Mrsha turned. Ilvriss saw Selys faltering. Nearly fall over—
And then her head came up. Her eyes narrowed, and she spoke.
“She did that. Didn’t she? Erin. Is she back? Is it a Skill? Did she bring back Kevin, somehow? And not Tekshia? Did she dare to do that?”
She whirled to Ilvriss, Mrsha, Pelt, and all of them stared at her. Selys’ scales flushed.
“What did she do this time? I should have known she’d only reserve her miracles for her real friends, for—”
Whatever she was about to say next, and she was ranting, eyes widening, nostrils flaring, was mercifully lost to Mrsha. Mercifully, for Pelt walked over to his anvil and struck it.
However he did it, the iron rang like a gong, and everyone recoiled. Selys backed up, claws over her ears, and when Mrsha could hear, Pelt just stood there.
“Get out of my forge. I don’t have time for this. This is why I don’t make friends.”
He sat on the anvil, and Selys opened her mouth. He raised the hammer, and Mrsha felt like the High Passes shook before the weight of that simple mallet. Selys Shivertail gaped at him, then ran.
She was crying. But Pelt, Mrsha, Ilvriss, only stood there. Mrsha hadn’t told Selys she’d died. Or about the terrible, infinite worlds being made or breaking. Maybe it would have changed the Drake’s mind.
Right now, Mrsha didn’t want it to change. After a moment, Pelt beckoned them over.
“Right. Let’s talk business. Better that than anything about what just happened.”
After a while, Mrsha and Ilvriss nodded.
 
——
 
Pelt had a surprise for them. And it was this. After Emessa had come back with more water—and told the Watch the earthquake had been an accident—and Mrsha’s heart stopped beating so fast, Pelt hit them with a shock, probably to be kind. In his way.
“I levelled up.”
Ilvriss’ cheeks bulged—and he swallowed the water. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Pelt nodded.
“Must be catching. Like a damn plague. Well, I’ll take it. I am a [Hammer of a Hundred Metals]. Level 57. It’s secret, obviously. Tell anyone and I’ll break your kneecaps into three pieces.”
He’d once told Erin he’d never reach higher levels! He’d always seemed like he was at the peak of mastery—Mrsha wavered, then exploded.
Pelt! That’s crazy! What did you make?
Surely it had to be something extraordinary! But the Dwarf just hmmed.
“Aside from some magical gear with some flames? Teaching other [Smiths]? Nothing much. Made an Adamantium piece the other day. Just breaking in a forge to smith it. But it’s not been anything made of magical metal.”
“Then how? Simply accumulation over, what, a decade?”
Ilvriss broke in, and Pelt sighed.
“It’s not fun doing guessing games because I don’t respect your knowledge of smithing. I’ll just tell you. Recall that big event on the television? Pawn fighting a bunch of idiots in Chandrar?”
Mrsha’s ears perked up. Ilvriss nodded. Pelt tapped his chest.
“That censer he’s wielding. A few of the other items they carry? I made that. Me. Wasn’t hard in terms of pure craft, though I put my art into it. Wasn’t hard in terms of metal. But it was what was in the metal that counted.”
He stared at his hammer. Twirling it in one hand.
“Substance. Meaning. The thing he had. Forgemaster Taxus, the only Dwarf better’n me. I always swore I’d beat him with purity of metal. Well, I forsook that oath, and I suppose it’s not like I can’t learn. So there it is. I’m learning a new skill.”
He peered up, and Mrsha and Ilvriss exchanged a glance. Ilvriss croaked.
“When you say meaning in metal—”
“Oh, I reckon it’s all around us. In the damn charms that Lord Mireden talks about. The stuff Pawn has. Faith and whatsit. I don’t need it to use it. Not that I’m good at seeing it or moving it. Now I’m thinking back to all that bastard prattled about, and I’m just…searching for a challenge. So. Got any, uh, whatsit to forge? You provide it, I make something.”
Mrsha glanced at Ilvriss again. Ilvriss glanced at her. Both of them looked at Pelt, and the Dwarf paused. He eyed them.
“…You ain’t got any of it, do you?”
No, I’ve got plenty of luck or—witches have it in their hats!
“I’ll just, uh, you know, we might have something at the inn. In Erin’s room?”
Pelt rubbed at his forehead. Sighed. Then Ilvriss had an idea.
“Wait. Would a memorial for the dead with a bunch of painted faces, er, work?”
Ilvriss and Mrsha turned to him, and Ilvriss clarified.
“Not the actual works. I think Osthia would kill me. But perhaps there’s some stuff there?”
Pelt scratched at his beard.
“Stone. Damn hard to work just stone. But he did it.”
Mrsha threw up a paw.
How do you feel about broken pieces of lightning-blades from a [Garden of Sanctuary] where they were planted in the mud by the owner in some awesomely-cool tribute to the fallen?
The Dwarf leaned back in his chair.
“Get it to me, and I’ll work on something. Sword, shield—you have to ‘feel the intent’ to make the thing. Damn bastard’s got me speaking like a [Sage]. Alright. I’m hired. I think I’ll charge you as if it’s made of Adamantium and then double that.”
He beamed and held out a hand to shake. Mrsha almost raised her paw, then nudged Ilvriss.
He really didn’t want to take Pelt’s hand.
 
——
 
Okay, magical swords of both surpassing metal and meaning were all very well, but they were only hypotheticals. Ilvriss was very heartened by the arrangement even if he personally feared being murdered by Alrric and his father for how much he might pay.
But they needed something now! He didn’t want to return empty-handed, and partly that was to spite Selys. That had truly made him upset. He understood her anger, he did. Losing a grandmother…
But the way she hadn’t even asked about Mrsha and assumed Erin was behind—and her assumptions about who Erin would choose!
I chose. Not Erin. And if I had a choice, Tekshia would be on that list. Maybe not near the top, but Selys just assumed it was Erin. Assumed everything. I’m not dealing with her. Let’s just do your thing and talk about it later.
Mrsha was the angrier of the two. But she actually was out of ideas as they walked around, upset as she was. Ilvriss looked around.
“Do you have any last inclinations on who to approach?”
