When she said ‘new gear’, they listened. Even one of the Faces appeared to inspect the items.
“Guildmistress, nothing new to, um, report. J-just a few wounded adventurers. And we’ve been clearing monster requests like crazy. Some of the other regions have heard and actually sent over some requests. Should I…?”
“Put them up, Pilana.”
That pleased Selys. She strolled through the doors into the real Assassin’s Guild in the back. They were right next to the Runner’s Guild, and Selys had organized it such that the two guilds just met in the back. So the fake Runners and adventurers would be able to report into the real Guild.
It was pretty swanky if Selys said so herself. Lagrisse had described the old Assassin’s Guild like some kind of morbid cult. Black stone, huge themed chambers with shadows and macabre decorations. Timid underlings scurrying about while the [Assassins] moved in concert above them like a flock of ravens, living in the mystique and shadows of ancient stone.
Selys thought all that sounded stupid and hard to clean. She had copied Wishdrinks’ aesthetic. And the Merchant’s Guild.
Carpeted floors, rich wood tables, plenty of seating, a bar run by a very nervous [Bartender], food from the restaurant ready to be served, a lounge, rec rooms, even an ‘outdoor’ patio that was just cunning illusion spells. And the second floor, which was in progress, would be even more exclusive. Faces only. Selys would move her office up there and put the armory and even more good stuff in the top floors.
The Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus did that; Selys stole the design unabashedly, and when she gazed around and saw the organized desks where Lagrisse and his peers were waiting to assign [Assassins] to their targets, she felt proud.
It’s not what you’d approve of, Grandmother, but look, I can run a damn Guild! Selys walked over and leaned on the counter.
“Anything I missed, Lagrisse? Too important for our communication spells?”
They had encrypted [Message] spells which used black vellum—stylish, if sometimes hard on the eyes with the bright, white lettering. He bowed his head.
“Nothing aside from the casualties, Guildmistress. The Blade of Harvests intercepted the Ranks when they were pursuing enemy [Assassins].”
“Yeah, I know. Shame.”
Don’t let it affect you. Selys pushed them out of her thoughts. She was doing the best she could for the Ranks. She nodded to him.
“Try to keep an eye on him. Do we at least have the dossier on who this guy is?”
“Yes, Guildmistress. For your perusal. We have his old records—”
Selys snatched the papers, read idly, and snorted.
“Hapiie Leverleaf? Ancestors, what a name.”
“Likely a cover identity he stuck with, Guildmistress. His level—”
“Yeah, yeah. Level 47 [Blademaster of Harvests]. Perfect for mass-kills, sucks up his enemy’s blood—eugh, why couldn’t we have gotten him? Calidus better have a plan for him. Okay, nevermind all that. I’ve brought equipment. Wyvern armor, acid jars, high-grade potions—the works.”
Lagrisse’s eyes lit up with real interest.
“Truly, Guildmistress? I knew you were at Pallass and Invrisil, but I thought—it is hard to acquire that much material, even with gold. And the New Lands meant it was already scarce.”
She winked at him, ignoring Mrsha’s betrayed face which flashed into her mind.
“I’m good at my job, Lagrisse. Now, I want the Wyvern Armor issued to every Face, then we’ll assign the remaining highest-level Ranks. Save, uh, ten sets for our armory. Acid jars are for everyone, first come, first serve. We can buy more, and I’ve set up a pipeline. Do an inventory of potions, and we’ll probably allocate them the same way.”
“At once, Guildmistress.”
“Excellent. Oh, and if you and any of the staff you like see something you want, write it down and I’ll approve it.”
Lagrisse was dangerous enough himself, and rewarding the staff made them happy. The risks of uncontrollable Ranks were there—Selys smiled as the man paused, then offered her that slice of a smile he was good at.
Ancestors, I’m a genius. She stretched.
“I am tired from my trip. I’ll probably turn in early, then come up with a countermeasure against this damn [Blademaster] and check in with Calidus when I wake unless he wants me this instant. Anything else for me?”
“Nothing, Guildmistress. Here are the outstanding issues the Guild is facing—”
He held up a sheet, and Selys ran down the list. She stopped once and sighed.
“Oh, the wounded Ranks who survived that [Blademaster]. How many are going to make it?”
“His blade was poisoned, Guildmistress, and they’ve all lost limbs or were stabbed internally…one in five chances at most?”
“Are they on the way to House Walchaís?”
“They won’t make the journey before the poison kills them, Guildmistress.”
Selys cursed in annoyance. It wasn’t the first time this issue had come up. Even with Bethal’s [Healers]—who had weird new limits—getting someone to them before they expired was the issue.
“Damn, I want some of those [Healers] here, then! Send a [Message] to Lady Bethal politely asking if she’ll send a trainee or something. Or we kidnap them? So the wounded Ranks are dead?”
Lagrisse was as businesslike as she was.
“They’ll counterlevel and fight the poisons off or be dead by morning, Guildmistress. There is a logic to letting Ranks tough it out. It’s a free level or two if they make it.”
“I guess your Guild does have its ways for a reason. Then I’ll at least talk to them.”
Selys steeled herself. It said there were six casualties who’d survived. At least the Ranks seemed to regard their own deaths like, again, the Antinium or Goblins. She strode towards the infirmary and pushed the doors open. She saw figures lying in beds, one of them a crystal-healing bed purchased at extreme expense.
No access to easy healing potions. Calidus was trying to buy Antinium healing scrolls or get a [Restoration] mage, but they’d probably have to train up an [Assassin]-[Mage] themselves. So this lot had to just suck it up and heal naturally with the cruelty of needle and thread. Maybe they’d find a good [Doctor], but…
Selys didn’t saunter over to the wounded Ranks. She wasn’t heartless. But she approached in a brisk, businesslike manner. It was funny. They sort of respected that.
“Ranks, I know you’re on death’s door. I know you’ve been wounded against a superior Face. For that, the Guild will remember your deeds. If you survive, even crippled, I’ll have a job for you. I don’t toss away loyalty or bravery. So, survive. Level, and we’re going to win this thing. Got it?”
That was her offer to them—not compassion, not Erin’s endless outpouring of sympathy and grief, but just practicality. I will be a better future than you can imagine, if only by contrast. 
I am better than Roshal. Selys almost appreciated the slave-nation for lowering the bar so far, and she saw the appeal of their programs. They made it so easy. All she had to do was stop by every bed, touch a shoulder or uninjured body part, and ask their names, and they looked at her like she was some kind of [General of Mercy].
Selys smiled and took a paw. Talking about their bravery. Listening to a rasped comment about not dodging fast enough. An assurance this Rank would be back to work as soon as…
She didn’t feel a thing. They might all be dead tomorrow. The poison had drained their colors. Left them pale, dying shadows with no one to care for them. It was a foolish thing to care for…
She passed by a young man lying there, staring upwards, as bloody bandages covered his midsection. Then Selys turned.
“…Ribark? Is that you?”
The Rank lay there, a hole in his stomach—no, three. Two were shallower, but one had exited through his spine. The [Assassin], who favored a longsword, actually smiled.
“Sorry, Guildmistress. I should have stayed with the team. Just like you said. We had a combination Skill too. The Blade of Harvests stayed back from us.”
“You—you were in the patrol?”
Selys stood there. And she glanced around and didn’t see Slashface or Cirtle or—he was just one [Assassin]. Just one of the Ranks, but she’d made a team with him and the others. For that reason alone, a chance moment, him being one of the first, he stood out. The young man, denuded of his mask and armor, stared at the ceiling.
“He was too fast. Cirtle had [Dangersense], but everyone knows it goes off too slow. I should have stayed with them. Got separated fighting the other Ranks. Then he stabbed me.”
“Where’s your team?”
They weren’t among the wounded. Ribark turned his head.
“Slashface made it, I think. Not sure about anyone else. Jaahns—the Face cut his head off and reanimated him.”
“I’m…I’m sorry, Ribark. How are you feeling?”
His breath was coming slowly. His face was so pale, and Selys tried to remember if they had an antidote for this poison—
“I’ll live, Guildmistress. I’ll live and—if I don’t, I wanted to see you. Glad I made it back here.”
“Of course. I’m sorry I sent you out there. We didn’t know he—”
Ribark was smiling upwards. Smiling like a man seeing something Selys could not. A light shining down on him. But for some reason, his eyes were locked on her face. His teeth were gritted together in pain, sweat creasing his sun-darkened skin, and there was dirt on his forehead.
Didn’t anyone even clean him off? But he whispered at her.
“The Wishing Well is dark, Guildmistress. So dark, and we don’t even come from far down. Deeper and you forget there was ever a sky. We were really lucky, us Ranks. Not beautiful enough. Not useful enough to be anything else. It still…wasn’t fun.”
“I—I imagine.”
He nodded once.
“But you made it better. I had a drink three days ago, Guildmistress. A drink and the food that [Cook] sent. That round thing with layers.”
“A—a hamburger?”
“Yes. It was the best thing I ever ate. I was worried it was filled with herbs. So I didn’t eat it. I should’ve eaten one every day until today. I’m—it was—it was free, right?”
He stared up at her, and Selys sat down by his bed. The other Ranks lay there, listening.
“Of course it was. It’s just food.”
“Just food.”
He licked his lips, repeating her words as if they were silly for how novel they were. Selys murmured.
“Hey, listen. We’re, um, getting a hot springs. By the time you’re better, you can use it. It’s probably good for poisons and such.”
“Hot springs.”
Ribark was murmuring dreamily. He gazed up at her face, and Selys grasped his hand.
“You’re not that badly hurt. It’s just a hole in your stomach. I’ve seen Silver-rankers walk that off.”
“I can’t feel my legs, Guildmistress.”
“Well then, forget about your damn legs. I’ll give you a job at the desk! You heard me! I don’t waste talent, and you’re all talented.”
“We’re all flies sent at the rotting meat of our foes. That’s what they say in the Pits.”
Ribark’s voice was dreamy now. And Selys hissed.
“No, you’re not. You’re mine, now, and I don’t waste people. Ribark—”
“It was really fun, Guildmistress. You made it all better. We’ll die for you.”
Selys was blinking too rapidly as Ribark grinned upwards.
“I don’t need dead people. I’m just some Guildmistress, Ribark. I—I’m only throwing Calidus’ gold around. I didn’t do much. I sent you to your death. Don’t thank me for that.”
“Who am I supposed to thank, then? I don’t know who else. It felt better. Lord Calidus is funny. It’s better than the pit. It was all better. Guildmistress?”
He was breathing faster now, and she hoped it was a good thing, but Selys’ claws were gripping his hand so hard his fingers were paler still, yet his face—
“Yeah, Ribark?”
“They made me forget what my mother looked like. But I bet she looked a lot like you. Thank you.”
“Don’t you dare thank me. Don’t you dare. Ribark? Hello? Don’t close your eyes. Don’t—”
Selys saw those eyes close, peaceful, and he relaxed. He lay there until she shook him. Rattling his head around as it lolled, trying to get him to open those eyes, even in discomfort. For him to say anything—
“Guildmistress. Guildmistress—”
Lagrisse pulled her away. She didn’t know when he’d appeared. She shoved at the man, and then he spoke.
“Guildmistress, he’s dead. He needs to be processed before he turns.”
Then she couldn’t deny it any longer. Selys sat on the bed where the Rank had died. Just one of many. Just one who was special because she knew his name. She touched his face, and his skin was still warm. She tried to move those lips. His eyes were closed, but he was still smiling.
She tried to make him stop, because—it was wrong.
“Not for me. Don’t give me that look.”
The Drake staggered upright, and then she saw the other Ranks lying there, on their own deathbeds. They peered up at her, and there were tears in her eyes. Blurring her vision.
The Ranks gazed at the Drake, who wept for them. As no one else had. She turned, staggering around, then fled them.
Because their faces resembled Ribark’s. She stumbled into the Guild. As Ranks and Faces beheld her. Selys leaned on a counter and saw Tekshia Shivertail sitting there, for a second, at an empty desk in front of two solemn rats. The Drake [Heiress] inhaled, then screamed.
“I’m just a damn Guildmistress! I can’t save you. I can’t undo whatever they did to you. I’m going to send you again and again to your deaths. Why the hell are you doing it? Why am I?”
They had no answer for her. The killers of each species, gender, and age sat there, and Selys shouted more.
“I just hate it. Waste. Why do you all have to die? I’m so damn tired of sending you out to die. You go, and then you never come back. How am I—”
She clutched at her chest, as if she were having a heart attack. And she saw a young man with brown hair lifting a rapier. White robes whirling around him as he aimed his blade across a ship in a raging sea.
“How am I supposed to love someone who I know won’t come back some day? How can I love a monster when the world will erase them? Grandmother…why did you quit adventuring to watch over them when you know how much they die?”
Her tears touched the new, polished wood of the counter. Selys glanced around, but there was no one there.
Just a spear leaning against a wall. An empty seat.
A story of a Drake’s tail swishing across the frozen cobblestones.
An adventurer.
Just like the [General]. Just like the [Innkeeper], the [Necromancer], and everyone else she couldn’t follow. The [Heiress] lay there, weeping, until a tentative [Assassin] went to check on the woman.
“Guildmistress?”
