He was a Human man with a shadow of a beard on his face and somewhat unpatched clothes, but he covered the holes well, and he had on some kind of cologne, actually. He smiled, and he actually had a charming expression—for a Human.
But her files on him said what he was, and even if Selys hadn’t had the class written in red by Lagrisse’s hand, she would have known something was off from the way he regarded her.
Everyone stared at everyone. Selys was used to adventurers who’d eye you up, check out your chest and tail. But this man’s eyes would flick to her chest, groin, tail, or face, then away.
Like someone assessing. He’d smile when she noticed and pretend to be casual. He…made her scales itch. If she were alone in this room, she’d have armed her wand and been ready to draw it and put a bolt through his head, because he would not give her a second chance and be innocent as a Sariant Lamb until he showed her what he really was.
That was what her instincts told her. But Lord Calidus was beaming, and one of the Ranks stood in the corner of the room, still as a shadow.
So the [Rapist], Jourteben Rabeis, just licked his lips and smiled, even as his eyes flicked towards her. And Selys thought—
Him? She’d rather the Ranks. The Ranks were a kind of innocent for all they murdered. This man didn’t deserve to be an [Assassin].
So why was Calidus recruiting him?
“Level 22. Good prospects, I think, Guildmistress. Very good at, uh, sneaking around and such. You understand that revealing the Guild’s nature means death?”
“Oh, yessir, Guildmaster. I swear.”
Jourteben started as Calidus broke the silence and bowed his head. He looked nervous as he glanced at the male [Assassin]—he had no idea the Rank was lower-level than he was. Calidus beamed and clapped him on the back.
“Well, excellent! We’ll have you sign a contract in blood. Just a standard boil-your-ichor-in-your-veins-if-you-betray-us contract. Then we’ll have a lengthy training period, but as I said, you have potential, my friend.”
Yes, but for what? Selys’ lips were compressed as the [Rapist] glanced at her, then forced a smile.
“This contract, Lord Calidus. Do I need to sign exactly that or can I negotiate—?”
Calidus was all smiles. But there was an edge to his tone that Selys had never heard before as he leaned over, a bit too close.
“We are not some Guild, Master Rabeis. We are the Assassin’s Guild, and you came to us because you were desperate for a new life, a second chance. If you would like to refuse…”
“No, no, sir. Absolutely not.”
Calidus beamed and leaned back.
“Excellent! Then you’ll go through that door to sign—and do mind our Guildmistress. She’ll have you drawn and quartered if she doesn’t like your attitude once you’re a full member of the Guild.”
The man stood up and shuffled towards the door. He glanced at Selys once, smiled, and bowed.
“I’m very respectful to proper authority, Guildmistress, no matter what my record says. I’ll be on my best behavior.”
Selys was searching for something to say back that wasn’t true—because the true statement she wanted to say to the Rank was ‘kill him’. But Lord Calidus was there, and the [Lord] tapped the side of his nose.
“Ah, my friend, don’t be so coy. The perks of the job do accrue with status. Become a Face and you can do what you want. Within reason. Let that be motivation for you passing the training.”
For a second, Jourteben’s face went blank. Then he smiled. The door closed behind him, and only when it clicked did Selys lean over.
“That man is the third most disgusting Human I have met today, Lord Calidus. And because that’s saying something, you’ll explain what you’re doing or I’ll shove this entire clipboard somewhere you won’t find titillating.”
She was beyond upset. Lord Calidus stroked his chin.
“I quite understand, Guildmistress. But rest assured, I intend to use them as, well, pure fodder. Below Ranks. You are simply here, as I said, to pick someone out of the trash.”
“I’ve found no one.”
“Then that’s fine. Just allow me my insanity. They won’t be under your control.”
“You’d better have them watched.”
Selys hissed at him. He’d been interviewing and recruiting the kind of filth she had a hard time believing existed.
[Murderer]. [Rapist]. [Kidnapper]. Not just bad classes.
Crimson classes. Blood classes. The worst of the worst. The kind of people that an underworld gang would take one look at and say ‘hey, we have standards’.
She didn’t know how Lord Calidus had even found them! But the underworld networks could provide you with such people, from literal jails, if necessary. If you paid for them.
“Why is this worth our time? The other Guild—”
“My plan, Selys.”
“And if I tell you they will not be part of my Guild? That the Ranks are upstanding people compared to this scum and I will be dead before I treat any one of them with respect?”
Her tail thrashed the ground, and Lord Calidus smiled politely.
“That’s fine. I have a plan. Next!”
Selys ran through more candidates. It was thoroughly unpleasant. Neither she nor Calidus wanted to hear excuses; the man actually just wanted to know if they’d agree or not. Almost all did. The others were escorted through a second door—into what Selys strongly suspected was a shallow grave.
That was the door she’d prefer they all went through. She was almost about to tell Calidus to do whatever he was up to for the lot when the first candidate appeared who she decided to give a second chance.
“Name?”
“E-Estia Hepleaf.”
“Class?”
Selys was checking it off against her clipboard.
“[M-Murderer].”
“And how did you achieve your class, Miss Hepleaf? From—oh. Celum.”
Then Selys looked up and saw a different candidate than she was used to. She locked eyes with, well, a woman. A Human woman, barely more than nineteen, with faded scratch-marks on her cheeks, a rather unkempt look, bad clothing…
A [Murderer]. But not one that looked at Selys as if she were next. The woman shuddered, then spoke almost dreamily.
“I killed my husband. Th-they told me I tried to kill the Watch, but I don’t remember. I woke up in jail, and there were—I was in jail, and I met the Horns of Hammerad. Me! No one believes me. I swear I met them, though. Before they became famous.”
“I…see.”
Selys and Calidus exchanged a glance. He was eating popcorn and spoke.
“Miss Estia, we have a lot of applicants to get through. We’re not here to pass judgement on, uh, your class. Why did you decide to take our offer and join the Assassin’s Guild?”
The woman jumped and seemed to focus.
“I—no one wanted to hire me afterwards. Because they knew. They knew I had the class. It’s in my head. Red. I’m good at killing, now. B-better. But I don’t! I’m good and honest, only no one wants me. Not my family. My husband’s—they tried to kill me. In revenge. I had to kill them. The Watch knew it was self-defense! But they locked me up again. And then I couldn’t find work.”
“You didn’t want to become an adventurer?”
That was one of the few options Selys could see for the woman. Estia gave her a blank look.
“Me? Kill monsters? I’m not brave. I just killed my husband. I just—decided to kill him when I’d had enough. It was hard. He kept fighting back even when I beat him to death. Then everyone judged me, even though he broke every vow towards me. Ruined our marriage, ruined my life. There’s no work for me. Lord Xitegen gives food to anyone who’ll clean a Golem. But I’m tired of that. I was going to join a gang, but they didn’t want me. Thought I was soft.”
Her voice changed, and Selys’ scales itched. Whomever had thought Estia wasn’t worth recruiting…well, she didn’t seem like stable material anyways. However—
“You killed your husband because he beat you?”
Estia calmed herself, then smiled sweetly.
“Yes! And I helped the Horns of Hammerad. No one believes me. I did! I…I think I’d be good at the job, Lord Calidus.”
The [Lord] stopped shovelling down popcorn and eyed Selys. She hesitated.
“I…might have room for you in my Guild, Miss Estia. No one kills except when I say so, understand.”
“Of course, um, Guildmistress—”
“You’re a damned woman, Estia. [Assassins] don’t have long futures. If someone finds out who you are, you’re dead. You understand that, right?”
Selys asked, and she saw Estia’s innocent smile blank out again. And then she whispered.
“I know. It’s not the life I would have chosen, but the class is red. It drips in my head. What else am I supposed to be? Use me. I’m good at this, apparently. Show me what I am.”
Madness oozing from her desperate tone. She appeared malnourished. The Rank was eying her with more attentiveness than most of the others, even the [Rapist], but Selys Shivertail just locked eyes with Estia.
“Control yourself, Rank Estia. I’m going to mark you down for training. If you pass, you’ll be one of my [Assassins]. Then you’ll get a chance to start over. And if you survive, I’ll make sure you have a life you deserve. But you win it by surviving and being useful, got it?”
The [Murderer] hesitated, then calmed down. She smiled, trying to look sweet and innocent despite her trembling.
“Y-yes, Guildmistress! Where do I—?”
“Through the door on the left. Sign there, and then we’ll take you to Selys’ Guild.”
Calidus jerked his head. They watched as Estia left, and then he leaned over to Selys.
“You thought she was highly attractive too, right?”
She stared at him.
“She’s the only person I’ve even thought could make the Ranks, and she’s still weaker than they are, even if she has [Murderer] Skills.”
He shrugged.
“One Rank is still worth a few hours’ effort, Miss Selys. But I agree, one among fifty-five so far. Besides, I’ve always been fascinated by ‘red’ classes and what they do. Having her in our Guild will assuage that curiosity. Next!”
Selys growled at him as the door opened. In the end, she took two applicants.
Out of over four hundred. The rest she’d not trust with a sponge, let alone a knife at her back. Calidus wanted to double their numbers with high-level redline classes?
Insanity. She needed to get the Guild in order well before that if that was his plan. The Ranks could…deal with any new members he decided were finished training. And they’d be loyal to her, Selys decided.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart finished his recruiting drive and had the new red [Assassins] in training in a separate location he personally assigned Losmere and some Faces to. They were not happy, but Calidus did it without Selys’ help since she was highly resistant.
It took time and effort, and that allowed him to finish his tests. He reviewed the information the turncoats were delivering to Selys.
The other Guild was sprawling, and most importantly, Calidus now knew his rival Guildmaster was a problem.
“The owner of the Unmarked Coach himself? Damn, Grandfather clearly placed his trust in his most capable flunkie.”
Calidus didn’t like this other fellow, whose name he didn’t even know. It spoke to someone well placed in the old Circle of Thorns and the underworld. A powerful, experienced man versus Calidus.
He was probably outlevelled. Possibly at a 2:1 ratio. Selys was doing her best, but Calidus sat in his office. He played with something on his desk.
A black jar he had bought at great expense from Liscor. He was still more fascinated by The Wandering Inn and all that business than his Guild, to be honest. Selys was doing good work, but the rival Guild…
…They’d come soon enough. Lord Calidus Reinhart toyed with the jar, then opened it. Sniffed, once and wrinkled his nose at the odd smell and texture assaulting his senses. He poured it into a cup and oohed.
“So ominous. So…where have you been all my life, you darling woman?”
He decided to anthropomorphize the drink instantly. As if she were some sultry Antinium woman oozing out of the jar. Which didn’t sound appealing but he’d just gotten a sketch of this Bird the Huntress, and dead gods, it worked for him.
Calidus Reinhart admired the Rxlvn and re-read the warnings from the seller who had told him how dead he could kill himself if he took too much of it. He kissed the liquid.
“Who said the Black Tide gave Izril nothing? Zeomtoril? Zeomtoril, my friend. I have a drink to make our acquaintance!”
Calidus swept up a speaking stone and called his best friend to his office, where they cooed over the drink, admired her lines, poured each other sample cups, and tried to cut it with lesser alcohols because she was about to drown them in oblivion.
And he loved it. He, the Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild, sat there with the ultimate distraction at the worst moment, and his intelligent brain knew that perhaps this was a terrible mistake. Perhaps someone had even known he’d hired a Courier to send the drink to him and might wait for his inattentiveness if he took this stuff, which would send even his mind into another dimension.
He wavered, just once, as Zeomtoril tossed back the first cup. But Calidus Reinhart? He looked around.
“I hate it here.”
He knocked back the Rxlvn, and the world—
—went—
—out.
 
——
 
In the way of things, Calidus’ mind pieced together events after they had happened. Fragments of memory recovered from an alcoholic soup of consciousness.
 
Dancing on top of Selys’ counters naked. Trying to windmill his genitals and impress some of the Ranks, who gave him the flattest looks possible.
 
Backstroking across the hot springs as the workers were trying to fill it up. Somehow, incredibly, charming the Drake [Forewoman] into bed until she leapt out since he was so inebriated nothing functioned.
 
Running around in a circle with Zeomtoril, singing, because the [Polymath] fancied the world was an illusion and if they managed to do all that, they’d pierce the veil.
 
Trying to cast magic with Haldagaz while lying on the floor.
 
Twirling in place as Qissax burst into his rooms and snarled. 
“The Assassin’s Guild is under attack, Lord Calidus! They’ve come for—”
 
Oh wait. That last part was what he’d been waiting for, right? Calidus’ mind saw his memory of himself stop twirling and raise a drunk hand.
“Arm holster. You know, this was great. Having the most fun, Qissax.”
“Sober up and prepare to flee! They’re attacking the Guild, but they’ll hit the mansion n—what?”
The Naga was snarling, searching for de-toxins to use on the drunk [Lord]. Until he saw something strapped to the inside of Calidus’ left hand. He stared, tore the Potion of Sobriety free, and—
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart coughed, then spewed. He threw up for half a minute in a nonstop stream, gagged, then held up a finger.
