Selys didn’t feel better after executing the Blade of Harvests. A bit calmer, maybe, but never better.
You didn’t, according to her Grandmother. So she just continued on. She assigned the Blade of Harvest’s weapon to a Face, elevated the turncoat Ranks to Faces—and two were promptly unseated by challenges she allowed.
Not killed. There was no one really of Face quality among the Ranks yet, but they were levelling fast. If they survived a year, they’d have Faces and the foundation of a true Assassin’s Guild.
If they lived.
She felt shaky, now that the white-hot rage had left her. Empty. She had just organized a murder, a real assassination, and taken part in it herself. She was truly part of the Assassin’s Guild now.
She’d lost herself. Ribark dying like that had…not broken her. But pierced the gates she’d put around her heart. Let the floodwaters pour into her city. It was bitter, painful. But necessary.
Ancestors, but she couldn’t care about them. She knew what she’d been pressganged into, and she couldn’t care.
But they were just kids. Selys sat in her Guild, afterwards, and saw the Ranks talking. Many of them were actually very cheerful. Why not? They’d just eliminated a huge opponent, gotten vengeance, and two new Faces were elevated from their number.
We get to live for another day. Hooray.
“My version of the Antinium. Just like that bitch. No. That…Human? Egh. That sounds racist. That woman.”
“Guildmistress?”
Slashface limped over. She was still healing, but she’d lived. Ribark was dead. Selys turned to her. There was another mercy for her conscience: Cirtle was alive too. The Drowned Girl had been sent to House Walchaís for healing. Now, she walked over, and she and Slashface presented themselves to Selys.
“Your team’s dead. How’re you two feeling?”
“Relieved, Guildmistress. You took vengeance for us. Thank you.”
Cirtle answered, running her Human hand over her side. Apparently, she’d been gouged down to the bones—but since it hadn’t been the Blade of Harvest’s poisoned blades, she’d been mended with phantom flesh or something. Slashface had more scars, and her answer was revealing.
“I’m disappointed our squad was wiped out. We synergized well, Guildmistress. Will we be assigned new squadmates?”
Cirtle shifted subtly, and Slashface glanced sideways, then added with a twist of the lips.
“I’m sorry Ribark died. He was a good—friend.”
She said the word so uncomprehendingly that Selys’ smile was bitter.
“You don’t have to pretend you liked him. I know you’re Ranks.”
“Oh. Okay.”
Slashface straightened and, after a moment, added awkwardly.
“He did fight to protect the squad. They don’t teach us that in the Wishing Well.”
Selys put her head back in her hands.
“Ancestors, stop. The Wishing Well, where you’re trained, right? Where they take kids and make killing weapons out of them? I don’t want to know. I’m tired of caring. I was doing so well.”
What a strange [Guildmistress] they’d found. The two Ranks glanced at each other as the [Assassins] watched her. Selys wiped her eyes once.
“Emotions make you weak. Especially in this line of business, I’ll wager. Even in my old job, you had to be a bastard. My grandmother was never good at it. She always cared, but a good [Guildmistress] can send the right team at the job. Even if they don’t come back. To win this war, I have to do that. To not be killed for being weak, I have to do that!”
She spoke to the pure logic they understood. The [Assassins] nodded. And yet…what captivated them was the fact that she was so flawed, this Drake.
A pair of rats squeaked at Selys. One raced up a chair and leapt onto the table. Rhata curled a tail around Selys’ claw, and the Drake held her in her claws. Haldagaz was shyer. He sat there, and she gazed at him. Then saw a handkerchief tied around his neck like a little cape. She took it and laughed. Then she peered around.
“The thing about that theory is that it only works if everyone else is a heartless, thoughtless monster. And no one is. You know what? My grandmother was far from perfect. She was petty, made mistakes. And her Guild was never important until the end. But people respected her. Guildmasters all the way to First Landing knew her name. Maybe, in another world you can be a heartless monster and win. Not this one.”
She stood up on the table, Rhata and Haldagaz on her shoulders like little angels. Selys looked around the guild of bemused shadows. And her voice quivered, but she called out to them.
“Golems don’t earn levels. You level because you care. So—damnit. I care a bit. You two had better not die, Slashface, Cirtle! If you do, I’ll cry for you. Then I’ll wipe my cheeks and move on. A level higher. Or has a Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild ever really levelled? You just choose the best killer, don’t you? You idiots. You need an administrator, not another blade! Kill me if you think I’m useless. But if you can’t see my strength, then this Guild will die twice!”
She was unknowingly echoing Calidus’s threat. Unlike him…she saw Slashface and Cirtle glance at each other. New and old. One could remember the old Assassin’s Guild. The other had come from the origin of Assassin’s Guild, the pure hell of Chandrar’s sands and fount of shadowed blades.
Both bowed to Selys.
“As you will it, Guildmistress.”
Selys smiled waterily and wiped at her eyes. She turned.
“Good. I’m going to make this place the best damn Guild in the world. My ambition has no limits. That’s the difference between me and her. Less than I thought. But we’ll settle our debts someday.”
For now, she sat back, and then scowled as she had a stupid, inane thought.
“I’m really copying some of the things the Antinium did—but don’t tell me you’d want pets too.”
She returned, and Cirtle blinked at her. Slashface tilted her head, and it was Losmere who appeared, sitting on top of a table. She sat and casually glanced at Selys.
“We don’t have pets.”
“Phew.”
“…But we had a trained warbear. Animal tools to kill with. [Beast Tamer Assassins]. Dropbats. The evil cat species. I wouldn’t oppose a few.”
Selys just sighed. Then she got up and got back to work.
 
——
 
A Guildmistress with a heart. Calidus was still chuckling about it. He’d even had Selys’ speech written down, and he was having it framed.
Because it was correct. That was the thing he liked about challenging hidebound tradition. Sometimes you found it mattered. And sometimes you found a path forwards that no one had considered, that made everything better.
Things should be better. Calidus didn’t really care about the past unless it was lootable. That was why this Assassin’s Guild was so ironic to him. He wasn’t sure he would have revitalized it if he’d had all the power and choice.
“But it is needed.”
He was so inspired by Selys that he was actually doing work. Well, he’d been doing work and making plans, but that was all high-level, win-this-war-and-survive stuff. Since he had a plan…he did other kinds of work he hoped to soon push onto Selys’ plate.
One piece of work was reviewing assassination requests. Regis had sent the first ones over, but he was as adverse to work as Calidus, so he’d given Calidus the tools to receive the Guild’s clients and jobs.
Most of it was silly, gauche stuff. Leave a note in a tree stump after performing a stupid ritual every full moon. Or hand the right person a note and it’d go through channels to get to him. Calidus wasn’t in the mood to take many killing jobs on right now. The other Guild was probably monopolizing and monitoring such channels and trying to make themselves the de facto Guild in that way.
More fools, they. But he still read the requests and, more importantly, marked who they were from. Because the Guild should exist.
It was a counterbalance to the south’s power. It was a check on foreign powers, all that claptrap. It was also a counterbalance on the people who wanted it back.
The nobility. Even the Five Families had to watch their backs with the Assassin’s Guild around. Obviously, killing a member of the Five Families could lead to the kind of backlash that had broken the Guild.
“Who thought this was ever easy? The Guild has always had to walk a tightrope between powers. If they thought they could get away with not doing that, then they were complacent and failing.”
Calidus muttered. Here was the final way in which the Guild mattered that Regis didn’t think about, or the Five Families. Calidus put a request from one of the Wellfars away—already, they were coming to him, wanting what they’d destroyed. Then he picked up a note that was badly damaged. Re-scribed. It had come through far less well-established channels. But it made him stop and think.
It was a kill-request for…two [Knights] of the Clairei Fields. And two other ‘Vampire Hunters’. Calidus checked his notes.
“Hm. They’re still on about that? Getting worse, rather. How many can there be? And do I take it?”
The pay was good. Surprisingly good given what had been put down. He drummed his fingers on the desk, then placed it and two other notes in the ‘approved’ pile. Burned the rest.
The point of the Assassin’s Guild was to oblige all parties. Low and high. Because the low could rise, and you wanted them to remember you favorably. And because…this was bloody, messy work, and he imagined hauling a few bodies to be strung up and a sign posted on their corpse wouldn’t be fun for the Ranks. Especially in the rain.
—But if the Guild didn’t exist, then people took it into their own hands. Nothing scared the nobility more than commoners learning how to do things themselves. Calidus rubbed at his face as he rang a bell for Dorim.
“But Vampires? Really? The most alluring thing about Gnolls aside from the ears, fur, their lovely growling voices, and—you know what, one of the alluring things about Gnolls and Drakes is those canines. You look at that and you want to murder them? I get the whole parasitism or whatever the other bit is.”
He stood up, shaking his head, and made a note for Dorim to find him some reading material so he could be up-to-date. Calidus finished his thought.
“But trying to wipe out a species? Sure, it works sometimes. It goes so well, wiping out a bloodline to the last child or driving a people to desperation.”
He poured himself a drink. Was he the only sane man around here?
Did no one read stories? Ah, well. He had a thought.
“Now that we’ve killed the Blade of Harvests, we’re definitely winning. Can’t lose now.”
He was laughing to himself when Dorim came in.
 
——
 
The worrying thing was that after killing the Blademaster of Harvests, the best Face in the rival Guild, there was no response.
Not one.
Ominous. Selys really didn’t like that. She had Lagrisse searching for the enemy, and she did have the location of several bases the other Guild used from the turncoats.
But since they were almost definitely trapped as the enemy would know that she knew that they were there…Selys did nothing. She told everyone to train, tripled the patrols, and took in more turncoats.
They came, by the ones and twos, mostly, Ranks and even a Face. Coming for her <Quest>.
She didn’t trust them of course, but the Assassin’s Guild had blood contracts and ways of ensuring loyalty. And it seemed like the Ranks had come for a simple, even silly, reason.
“We heard your Ranks survive. Get…equipment. We want to live.”
The Drake [Assassin] with one arm was eying a prosthetic limb being attached to his shoulder as Selys sat with him. He was a Rank, who had no name, so she’d given him one.
“That’s it, Libak?”
He shrugged blankly.
“We were told it. So when we saw an opportunity…”
Selys eyed him. She’d given him a name sort of like Ribark. It didn’t mean he was her kid or anything. She just—well, she was here, now. Rhata and Haldagaz had stopped trying to bite her and begun scurrying around being helpful. As if they’d realized she actually meant it, a bit.
Doing this job. Selys leaned over and wiped at his face with a handkerchief; he had soot all over from killing and burning a Garbichug. While wounded, no less. If they ever managed to win this war, there would be a lot of very useful adventurers in the north. They’d be a net good.
If they lived.
“How’s that, Libak? Someone tells me that in your place and I’d assume it was propaganda, a lie meant to make me switch sides. What had you convinced?”
He nodded to her.
“We would have thought that, Guildmistress. Except that it didn’t come from another Rank. The Djinni told us that. The Unmarked Coach’s driver.”
“Oh? Why’s that matter?”
He shifted, as if surprised she didn’t know.
“Djinni lie to their masters. They tell the truth to other [Slaves], sometimes. She might have been telling the truth. Fifty-fifty chance.”
And a 50% chance of being told the truth and managing to turncoat successfully was better than the Guild he’d come from. It was pure logic, as the Ranks saw it. Selys patted Libak on the head.
“Well, stay loyal and I’ll give you that chance, Libak.”
“Yes, Guildmistress. Got any work for me?”
“No. Heal up. If you want to be useful, check on our hot springs guys, but don’t intimidate, just…I’ve got work to do.”
She hopped up as the [Limb Doctor] finished sewing the arm onto Libak and had him test it out. Waiting for the counterattack. Bed made. No matter what Calidus said, Selys thought she’d earned a death-sentence from posting that <Quest>.
Well, she’d taken the bet. This was her Erin-moment, then, only without a stupid speech or miracles. Selys just had to count on her wits, the [Assassins]. And Lord Calidus.
She wished she didn’t have to count on him. He did not inspire confidence.
 
——
 
He was no idiot. She had to assume Calidus was actually as smart as Zeomtoril and others claimed. Selys got a sort of Olesm vibe from Calidus, but without the lack of confidence and way more raunchiness. His ability to project weird chaos-energy was sort of Erin.
And he’d beaten Erin in a chess game.
Remember that. So he had to know this was where the other Guild came in for blood. What did Calidus do in the week they had before it got bad?
He recruited new [Assassins], which sounded great.
It was a bad idea. Here was why it was a bad idea: Selys Shivertail stood in a room with a [Rapist].
She had never met one before. Not one with the class. Oh, she’d heard about people being exiled from Liscor for bad crimes. Tekshia had once taken a Silver-ranker out back and broken his bones so badly he’d never been able to fight again.
But the class?
