“Hmpf. So Named or Gold-rankers versus Bronze-rankers? And my job is to both send them on contracts while maintaining their cover?”
“Yes, exactly. You see, it’s this rather ingenious—”
“It’s going to fail if they’re not actually adventuring. Other adventurers will notice someone walking in and doing a job. The Ranks have all the personality of lemons. Undead lemons. People pay more attention to adventurers than you think. If they’re going to do this, I want the authority to give them orders. And discipline them. Which means protection for me.”
She was again rewarded by Calidus’ hesitation, his eyes flickering. Selys feared he’d object, but he seemed to read ahead of the conversation and beamed.
“So you are doing your job! Splendid! Yes, whatever you need. It’s all very new, and I need my lovely [Assassins] to mind the protocols of the Guild. No challenging each other for a Face’s seat. That results in a lot of blood.”
She tilted her head.
“So how do they advance? How many Faces are there, and how does one win candidacy?”
The Ranks were sitting around the Guild, not doing much of anything. One had come back covered in blood in the morning and tossed down the head of a wolf; they’d done the request to hunt one. It was all wrong, but Selys was focusing on the important part first. At her words, she saw the Ranks go even stiller.
Listening. Calidus paused, and from the way his eyes ruefully flicked to hers, she saw he got it too. A smart man? She hoped so. He cleared his throat as he leaned on her counter.
“Excellent questions. Losmere? How many Faces are there? How does one advance?”
He and Selys waited. After a moment, Calidus sighed.
“Okay, which Face is following me? Name and appearance, please.”
Very reluctantly, someone stepped out of Calidus’ shadow. A Drake—well, Selys thought they were a Drake; their entire face was just a shadow instead of colors or detail.
“Lord Calidus. If I may have a word—”
“No, speak to our Guildmistress. Name?”
“…My nickname is the Creeping Shadow. A Face. If you are asking how many Faces there are in the Assassin’s Guild, the number has always varied. A Face is designated as one by the Guildmaster—”
“Or Guildmistress.”
Selys interrupted, and the Creeping Shadow went silent. She smiled politely at him.
“I’m sorry, you were saying? It is Guildmistress, or has it only been the Guildmaster?”
“The former Guildmaster reigned in their position for eleven years until he was overthrown due to his loyalties to Magnolia Reinhart. Then the current Guildmaster perished in the Guild at First Landing along with—”
“Dead gods, he didn’t even get out? And here I thought the head of the Assassin’s Guild was the highest-levelled.”
“I suppose you don’t outrun Tier 7 Spells.”
Selys and Calidus’ commentary was not helping the Creeping Shadow’s reputation, and the Face was getting…annoyed. Selys felt a queasy moment of fear in her stomach, and the shadows around her and Calidus lengthened. She jabbed a claw at him.
“See? That. That’s what I mean. No using [Fear] or Skills on me. I am the Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild here, and if you want this to work, Lord Calidus, you will give me control.”
Again, the [Lord] eyed her, then nodded and gave the Creeping Shadow the hardest elbow Selys had ever seen. The figure jumped an actual foot in the air.
“You heard her. Stop that. So it sounds like the numbers of Faces vary and it only requires impressing you to be made one. Or, I suppose, me.”
Selys nodded.
“I understand. That’s the way the system worked. Now here’s the way the system is going to work. Pending a complete survey of the number of [Assassins] in the Guild, we will operate on a 1-100 basis. One Face per one hundred members. We may shift the numbers around, but that is for open slots. Otherwise, a Face must be designated by you, Lord Calidus, or myself for outstanding actions. Or levels. Hit Level 40 and you will be considered a Face. Is that good enough to start with? Oh, and a Face will lose their rank if they are inactive too long, fail too many assignments, or the number of Faces exceeds a threshold.”
She knew they were listening. [Assassins], young and old. The Creeping Shadow protested.
“Lord Calidus, one does not remove a Face.”
“One didn’t until now. I agree. No, shut up. If any Faces object, materialize, and you should have spoken before now, instead of doing your annoying silent appearances. We need order. This Drake is giving us that.”
Calidus applauded. No one joined in, so he kept doing it until Selys cleared her throat.
“I have more. A Face is not subject to needing to take requests from the Guild. Everyone else is. A Face has access to premium rooms, gear, the best services of the Guild—we do have services, right?”
The [Lord] tapped a finger to his lips.
“Well, Zeomtoril. And we could get some [Blacksmiths] and dedicated [Alchemists].”
“The Guild has specialists. Some of whom are making their way here, Guildmistress, Lord Calidus.”
Lagrisse brought Selys another stack of papers and murmured. She nodded at him.
“Faces don’t pay for those unless it’s expensive. Faces eat anywhere in the town for free. They can call on Ranks to help them—all the old perks of the job. Agreed?”
“One question, if I may.”
Calidus was propping his chin up on his hands, watching her with a fascinated gleam in his eyes. Even the Creeping Shadow and a few other figures who’d materialized were watching Selys. Perhaps they too felt it.
Organization replacing uncertainty and anarchy. Selys spoke briskly.
“What? Also, I’m going to start calling out names. If yours is called, line up with Miss Pilana here. I’m going to give you your first requests—slaying monsters to establish your cover stories. And I’m going to have to explain how you take and turn in requests. No wolf heads. Skin the wolf or haul it to a [Butcher]’s!”
Drinks. They needed drinks and food. And if she had as much money as she thought, they could afford other amenities. The Ranks…they were like Golems, just standing there.
Or Antinium. Selys had a feeling that was important, essential to her understanding of this group. She turned to Calidus.
“What’s the question?”
“Would you care for a dinner at a restaurant I know after work, Miss Selys? It does a lovely—”
“No. Next!”
Calidus’ face fell. She pointed, and he shuffled off to one side. The Creeping Shadow peered at him, and Calidus winked.
“Respect the Guildmistress. I intend to.”
And Selys Shivertail…got to work.
 
——
 
“And who are you?”
“Ribark. Rank #311.”
“Is that…in terms of your entire Guild or something?”
“No. My batch.”
“Ah. Batch. Is that…how are you trained, exactly?”
The gravelly, disused voice of the young Human man paused for a long moment, and Selys tapped a claw on the counter.
“Answer, please. We’re not made of time around here.”
One of the four other Ranks replied for Ribark. A Drake with terrible scars across her face, ripped up scales revealing pink flesh. It hurt Selys to even look at her, but Slashface—an appropriate name—responded.
“They take us and put us in the training pit. We grow up down there. Fast. Learn to fight, to read, to hide, to—fight. If you survive, you’re a Rank. Then we go where we’re paid for.”
“I see. So that’s where most of the Ranks come from. Anyone here, uh, a volunteer?”
Silence in the rest of the Guild until one of the four Ranks raised a hand. A Drowned Girl with a horrible overgrowth of shell around her face and body—Selys eyed her.
“You signed up?”
She had more of an accent and personality, though the young [Assassin] stood very straight.
“Old Guild, ma’am. Street [Beggar]. I joined up, and they gave me training here. Same rules. You wash out, you die.”
“In First Landing? How many [Beggars] do you have? Er, Cirtle?”
Selys was astounded. The Rank just gave her a careful shrug.
“Plenty of people begging with nobles around. Come there to beg, even. Scraps from the Five Families’re better than scraps elsewhere.”
The [Receptionist] nodded slowly.
“I suppose that’s true. Right, well, thank you. Ribark? Here’s your card. Bronze-rank adventurer. [Warrior]. Be sure to use that longsword, not any tricks, if someone’s watching.”
The young Human man had a longsword, which was what she’d based his fake identity around, though her notes on his file said he was actually a [Singlestrike Killer]—a lower-ranked class than [Assassin], apparently. She imagined he swung that sword hard and fast at whatever he wanted dead, and if it wasn’t, he was in trouble.
For that reason, she handed out a second card to Slashface, who was a [Throatcutter Rank], and to the Drowned Girl, who was just a [Trainee Assassin]. The last member of the group was a Stitch-man, also blank-faced, who had a bow. [Poison Archer].
She’d have taken a [Mage] too, but they weren’t as common, and she had to do this a lot. So Selys smiled.
“The four of you are now a team.”
What? The Ranks had been eyeing their cards, shifting, clearly wondering why they had been called together. Selys gave them a thumbs up.
“I said a team. You’re registered as ‘the Mighty Four’. Ugh. Ew. Who came up with that?”
She turned, and Pilana shrank back; Selys had told her to make up team names, but clearly, the woman hadn’t thought they’d be used. It was Slashface who spoke up.
“As an identity, Guildmistress? I understand.”
She put her hands behind her back and stood in parade rest. Selys waved a claw at her.
“As a team, but also for this request to slay a Mothbear. A job which you’re all going to do. Now.”
This time, the Ranks did glance at each other, and she could tell they weren’t happy. But Selys just leaned over the counter.
“If you object, you can ask to form other teams. But you’re working together. I’m told you can do that.”
“Yes, but…”
But why are we doing adventurers’ jobs? Why a team? Selys’ rationale was simple. They had to maintain their cover stories. They had to, well, stop being faceless automatons. Slashface jerked a thumb at Ribark.
“I tried to slit his throat when we were in training. He gave me one of these.”
She indicated the scars on her face. Selys winced.
“Oh, painful. Well, don’t kill each other. That’s against the rules. Kill each other and I’ll have to discipline you.”
That made zero impression until she added, cheerful.
“Which means a Face gets involved. Or Lord Calidus.”
Silence. Selys glanced at them, then pointed.
“One of our staff will talk you through basic adventuring. Off you go. When you’re done, don’t forget to turn in the bounty for your pay. It’s quite generous; there aren’t many adventurers here now they’ve gone to the New Lands. Monsters are a problem. So you can spend it.”
“…On what?”
That question came from Ribark, and she saw the first spark of interest in them. So there were people in there. Selys just imagined it. Raised since children to become killing machines. Like Antinium.
She had a prop ready for this. Selys slowly pulled out a blue milkshake she’d had made up from Lord Calidus’ manor. He had Amentus Wine, so some of that in a milkshake…wasn’t great.
But Selys needed a damn drink already, and she saw them eying the beads of condensation on the milkshake in the warm day.
“Drinks? Food? I’ll have several shops in town where you can spend your money, and restaurants. You could eat a dozen high-class meals off of that Mothbear kill alone! No visiting other towns until you’ve reached a higher level. And you stop being so, uh, noticeable. You earn more privileges. Then we’ll have other things for sale. Better weapons. Enchanters. Gold pays for all of that. You want an artifact, not that longsword?”
She indicated Ribark’s plain steel longsword, and then she saw a gleam in his eyes. Boys loved swords. Selys smiled.
“That’s going to take a lot of gold and better requests. So hop to it! Next!”
She watched the four Ranks eye each other, then one took the request, pointed, and they actually ran out of the Guild so fast she was impressed. She turned, exhaling.
“Okay, give me another group, Pilana. Lagrisse, what are you doing?”
He peered up from handing a piece of paper over to none other than Qissax, the Naga. The Face took the piece of paper, put it down, and nodded.
“In the open?”
“Yes, sir.”
The Naga turned and slithered away without a word. Then Lagrisse came over. The man wore a very blank expression.
“Sending [Assassins] on official business, Guildmistress Selys.”
“Ah, assassinations. Don’t I review those?”
Selys really didn’t want to. Rather to her relief, the man shook his head.
“Lord Calidus has elected to approve all such…requests. I will dispense them to willing members while you maintain the Guild proper.”
“That could work. At least until I get things running.”
Selys agreed blandly. She still had reservations, but she was doing her best, and Lagrisse seemed to notice. He paused, and the careful man, who was apparently a [Deliverer of Secrets]—a fancy underworld class for what Selys strongly suspected was another version of [Informant]-[Receptionist]—hesitated.
“If I may say so, Guildmistress, you are adapting better to this position than one might expect. I had some reservations that Lord Calidus’ plan would bear fruit.”
“And that I’d be dead or try to run off within a day?”
She smiled sweetly at him, and Lagrisse nodded after a moment.
“With all due respect, this is not a job a regular person could handle.”
“Fortunately for you, I worked under Tekshia Shivertail with real adventurers. And I’ve handled the Antinium. There’s not much difference between them and the Ranks.”
That comment made Lagrisse pause, but he nodded again after a second.
“They are singularly focused after coming from Chandrar. Introducing them to vices tends to—acclimatize them. A fact Lord Calidus apparently picked up on his own. Providing them with the services of this town is a good idea.”
“Any other tips?”
He hesitated, and Selys offered him a toothy smile.
“From what Lord Calidus says, we don’t have long until this nightmare scenario falls apart. You might be waiting for a ‘proper’ Guildmaster who’s an [Assassin], but I’ve been counting the Faces, and not many of them seem to be over Level 40. Nor do I think you might like who takes the throne. I’m lower-level, new, but I can make it work. If you support me. Fancy wagering you’ll survive the next big fight?”
That decided the man. He leaned over, and she felt silence engulf her a moment.
