Normally, the Runner’s Guild would identify the requestee first, but again, you just had to pay a local [Informant] for a copy of the woman’s personal Runner’s Seal, and the Guild didn’t bother doing any more checks. In that way, it was easier than faking someone unimportant; the rich and powerful left too many things lying around a bad person could use.
Calidus spent the rest of the day waiting for the evening broadcast. He had it on good authority a certain Sir Relz had accepted a gift delivered to him with alacrity; it wasn’t going to be caught up in any spam mail piles, and he’d probably opened it right away.
It was almost a disappointment, then, when Calidus Reinhart, whose own chest was beating with excitement, turned on the news and then—
 
“What you are about to see next might disturb viewers. We have edited this recording for decency, but I insist on all minors and those unwilling to view explicit acts to turn the scrying orb off at once. This recording was sent in anonymously and appears to showcase a troubling, nay, scandalous affair. It raises huge questions about security for a Walled City, motivations, bloodlines—once again, this material is highly…lewd. I believe a word I was quoted by a certain Human was ‘pornographic’. Exceptionally so.”
 
Calidus beamed. Then, before the edited clip of the two actors began—of a [Princess] and Wall Lord meeting in a room, tearing each other’s clothes off and engaging in some rather provocative sex began—he lost his smile.
Walked out of the room. Then poured himself a drink.
That confused the Faces and even Zeomtoril, who was crowing.
“Calidus! Calidus, what are you doing? It’s all over the news! It’s hilarious! You did it, man!”
Regis Reinhart himself was sending Calidus a brief note of approval and a reward—more artifacts for his Assassin’s Guild. Losmere was on her feet with the Faces.
To them, this action was the most uncanny, most scary Calidus Reinhart had been. Even more than promoting a Rank to a higher class—they knew death and violence. But Calidus had, with minimal apparent effort, put something on the news.
Changed the world in that way that made the [Assassins] wary.
Soft power.
However, Calidus just drank, and when he glanced around, he seemed upset. Even…he took a huge gulp of whiskey, then shrugged.
“It worked. The old man’s happy.”
“And?”
Zeomtoril was incredulous, annoyed at the reaction, but Calidus just walked off.
“The rest is predictable. It’ll be a scandal; they’ll both deny it and fan the flames, and they’ll go hot. Salazsar will cause a fuss, and they might even call Wall Lord Ilvriss back; it’ll make a lot of their conservatives lose faith in him. The [Princess] will be entirely embarrassed, and I daresay we’ve ruined her reputation forever. Even with Calanfer spinning this as best they can, it’ll make her a slattern.”
“Right. Just like you predicted. Why aren’t you happy?”
One of the Faces asked, genuinely curious. Calidus just peered around.
“Oh, I am, I suppose. It’s just…I was worried Sir Relz would have a Skill. Would double-check it with the inn, even though I know he resents them and can’t find it. Or that I’d made a mistake or missed a variable. But it went off perfectly. Cheers.”
He lifted the glass, drained half, and put it down, and Zeomtoril sat as Calidus walked off. The [Polymath] folded his arms, and the Faces joined him on the couch.
“Bah, ignore him. He gets like that. A damned genius, and whenever he makes something like that happen, he loses all interest. We ran a scam in a casino one time. Took in sixty thousand gold pieces in one week, and he just quit. Walked off!”
“Why?”
Zeomtoril was the only person who understood Calidus, and he answered the fascinated Faces.
“It’s too easy. He hates it when things go well. He’ll curse a storm up when things blow up in his face, but I think he’s enjoyed having to run this damn Guild more than anything in the last decade. He’d be a monster even among Reinharts, but he loses interest. He stopped playing chess when he realized he was better than most people in the world without trying.”
They watched Calidus wander off. A strange, unconventional Guildmaster for the Assassin’s Guild. An amusing, waddling duck to pit against the killing condor of his counterpart. But in that moment, Losmere wondered if the duck was just so funny and placid because it hadn’t had a reason to try harder.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart hated how adaptable his darn liver was. It took him a literal bottle of whiskey to become anything like buzzed enough to while the night away.
When he woke up, chugged a hangover cure, and reviewed some notes with Dorim, he found one thing to amuse him: Selys was going to Liscor.
“Do you think she’s fleeing or trying to warn someone, sir?”
Dorim was nervous, but Calidus just laughed.
“She’s getting what we need. Leave her. She knows she’s being followed. I might have fouled what she’s attempting with my own scheme. Well, we’ll just account for that if she fails and not hold it against her. How many denials and scandals have spread from my trick with the Wall Lord and [Princess]…whatsherface?”
He rubbed at his jowls as Dorim consulted his notes.
“Several, Lord Calidus. Would you like me to read them?”
“No, just places and people. Skip the rest.”
Calidus already didn’t care about his victory. It was as Zeomtoril had doubtless told everyone: boring. Dorim began to read.
“Well, a denial from the Eternal Throne about this recording, casting into doubt its authenticity. An interview where an Archmage Viltach acknowledged that even if the recording is legitimate, events could be faked—”
“Doesn’t change the facts. ‘I saw it, therefore I can’t be fooled’. Go on.”
“Denials from Salazsar, House Gemscale, and Walled Families—”
Calidus lifted his fingers and mimed conducting. As if this were an orchestra and he the maestro of scandals. He’d heard that Ulva and Petria Terland had been musically talented, actually. Maybe he’d take the day off, find some accounts and headshots of the two Terland twins, and take some ‘Calidus time’. It probably wouldn’t cheer him up, but it sounded fun in the moment.
Dorim read on.
“Denials from the King of Avel for some reason, Fetohep of Khelt—”
“Good for them.”
“—Pallass’ Sir Relz has issued a full retraction and apology, Lord Xitegen has requested an investigation into the forgery, the Assembly of Crafts has nullified its vote to condemn the indecency—”
Calidus Reinhart blinked. Then his head snapped around. He pointed at Dorim.
“Say what now? Wait, skip to the bottom, they always have a summary—what does it say about public sentiment? [Mood on the Streets]?”
He glanced around, frantic, and finally found a bottle of whiskey he hoped he hadn’t peed into last night. He took a huge gulp, and Dorim read.
“It says that public sentiment is now turning on the recording being a fake, Lord Calid—”
The [Lord] tried his best attempt at a Winebreath Blaster, but it just didn’t work without spontaneity. Damnit, he’d always wanted to do one.
Then he sat there for a moment, eyes flicking, and leapt out of bed. He grabbed Dorim, and his eyes sparkled suddenly. Coming alive again.
“How? Show me.”
 
——
 
The point of the sex-recording had been to hit the [Princess] and Wall Lord with something that denials wouldn’t fix.
Denials didn’t change what people had seen. If they hid away, the furor only grew worse. Calidus had seen similar scandals and engineered the recording to linger in the memory. Humiliate.
It’d reflect on Princess Lyonette du Marquin a lot worse than Wall Lord Ilvriss, and no one would trust their account. Even if the entire thing was debunked in a month’s time by Archmage Eldavin himself, ‘questions’ would linger, which meant people refused to switch the viewpoints they’d already convinced themselves were true, even when presented with an abundance of fact.
Even a trained Calanferian [Diplomat] would throw up upon seeing this kind of attack hit them. So—how had the [Princess]…?
She was out in public. Calidus stared at a recording of her, and from the darker streets, it had to be in the evening. Rain and a few streetlamps going up—
Liscor. Evening. This had to be right after the broadcast was going on. His eyes widened.
“Is that…?”
The [Princess] was sitting by herself in a café, some trendy place called ‘Barehoof Kitchens’, in outdoor seating which was a dead giveaway because it was raining and miserable. People were visibly staring at her, pointing, but she seemed utterly natural.
Perfect, [Flawless Acting], really. But even so, this was a stupid move. Anything she did would surely only fan the flames. The scrying spell jostled a bit; amateur recording. Probably someone with a scrying mirror. Calidus watched as her head turned.
“It’s staged.”
“How do you know?”
Zeomtoril was bleary-eyed but curious. Calidus snapped back.
“Because there’s no damn Thronebearer looming over her shoulder. Shut up, Zeomtoril!”
He watched as Lyonette du Marquin spotted who she was waiting for and got up.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss!”
No way. Jaws dropped. Calidus’ own hung open as none other than Wall Lord Ilvriss came striding down the street. He looked a bit windswept. Possibly like a Drake who’d just ridden hell-for-leather to the portal stone to get here. But he raised a hand as she lifted a parasol and stepped into the street.
She was wearing, Calidus realized, a red dress with a low-cut bosom. He admired it, then frowned.
“Wait a second, that’s practically the spitting image of the one we had in our recording—”
The Wall Lord had the same attire. He adjusted a suit as he stepped over. What they said wasn’t audible until the camera-holder scampered forwards with most of the street. Then Calidus picked up on the words.
“—to see you, darling.”
“Er, yes, Lyonette. Delighted to see you after so long. Now the secret’s out, I supposed there’s nothing for it.”
“It’s such a relief!”
Lyonette leaned against Ilvriss, raising one arm and resting her palm against the side of his face, a coquettish move of the sultry [Princess] waiting to be swept off her feet.
Only, that was how she moved. Oh yes, her arm rose, and she placed her palm against the side of Ilvriss’ face and leaned against him while looking up, but here was the thing.
That was an advanced move. Calidus had never seen anyone but an [Escort] do that, and it required timing, grace, a confidence in oneself, and a lot of conditions to pull off just right.
Do it any other way and you’d look like, well, someone awkwardly shoulder-checking Wall Lord Ilvriss, who stumbled, then raising her arm in a very awkward motion and slow-slapping his cheek.
She stared up at him, and Ilvriss did his best to appear entranced by her. Which wasn’t working because the [Princess]’ simmering hot look of carnal lust was hampered by her not really having one.
She did her best. It might have actually been a [Flawless Attempt]. She smoldered up at him, and then awkwardly let her hand drift down to his collar.
“I can’t wait to get you out of that suit. R-rawr.”
Calidus saw a passing Centaur’s face actually try to pucker inwards at ‘rawr’. The Wall Lord’s cheeks bulged, and he cough-laughed so loudly it sounded like an explosion. Lyonette turned bright red and elbowed him. Hard.
“You’re as riveting as always, Lyonette.”
“Riveting being the word you want to use, Ilvriss?”
“Ravishing?”
“I don’t think you know what that—let’s sit down, Ilvriss. Waitress!”
A one-eyed woman with an eyepatch came over as they went to their table. Ilvriss sat down. Lyonette sat in his lap. She straddled one leg. Realized that made her look like a ridiculous, overgrown child, then swung her legs over so she was sitting across his lap. Stared up at him and then at the plates that Chef Imani was putting down, deadpan.
Ilvriss poked a fork into a piece of shrimp.
“Er…here, my love. Keep your strength up for tonight.”
She opened her mouth, and he poked the side of her mouth, and she recoiled. Ilvriss went to fetch a napkin.
“Damn, I’m sorry—”
“You’d better have better aim than that, my dear. Tonight.”
Lyonette was getting annoyed, and at this point, the [Chef] cracked and had to walk away, covering her mouth. Lyonette put an arm around Ilvriss’ shoulder, or tried to. She yelped.
“Sorry. Neck spines.”
“How the hell am I supposed to—there!”
She slung an arm around his neck, and everyone realized that Lyonette was too short. So it more looked like she was putting Wall Lord Ilvriss into a one-armed supplex.
At this point, Calidus Reinhart’s mind told him exactly what she was doing. But he just kept watching. His mind, usually shouting, was just…observing. Blissfully silent. Admiring.
“Well, I can’t wait for tonight. Your dress is just beautiful, Lyonette. I can’t wait to tear it off you. Can’t wait.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss cleared his throat a few times, and Lyonette du Marquin’s eyes narrowed.
“You’re saying it like you don’t believe it, Wall Lord.”
“No, I’d love to ravish you, my sweet [Princess].”
“Not that. The dress.”
The Wall Lord hesitated, then took a bite of his food.
“Looking like a tomato really becomes you. And your skin tone. Lovely choice to put red on red hair. Away the dress shall go, for the good of worldly fashion and my own unbridled lust.”
Lyonette sat up and nearly headbutted him. She squirmed off his lap and gave him an elbow to the chest that looked less-than-accidental, then sat down. She grabbed a cup and drank.
“I didn’t chose the—I think I wear it well.”
“Oh, of course, my dear.”
“You’re hinting I don’t. With your tone.”
“That’s just how I talk. You have your daughter’s eye for fashion.”
Lyonette kicked Wall Lord Ilvriss. He bent over, then she hissed at him.
“And you don’t tear off a dress! Do you know how much this costs?”
“I have full faith a refund is in order, my dear. Weren’t you going to say something nice about me?”
“I admire the rain doing a splendid job of replacing the cologne you applied in adequate amounts.”
The two glared at each other until they glanced around and clearly remembered they were supposed to be flirting. Ilvriss smiled at her. Lyonette bared her teeth. She put a hand out. He put a claw on top of it.
They stared at hand and claw, and at that moment, whatever illusion anyone might have had about the two’s chemistry was being ruined by that most dreadful of things: reality. Lyonette exhaled.
“Listen, you. I do l—like you. With all my heart. Here.”
She got up and tried to fuss with his suit. And that was real—and so was him slapping her hands away.
