She’d always been level-headed. Grounded. From the day she’d seen a confused Human walk in, Selys had liked Erin’s weirdness, fumbling for magic which she had learned how to create, but she’d needed Selys around.
Someone who knew how gravity worked, who understood the rules. Take their first meeting for instance. Erin sometimes liked to tell it, but she always omitted a key detail. She’d talk about how Selys helped her figure things out, taught her a bit about money, gave her advice—but never that a Gnoll adventurer had taken objection to her and chased her out of the Guild.
Selys had, of course, tried to stick up for Erin, but she hadn’t stopped the Bronze-ranker from running Erin off. He’d been looking for someone to push around, and Erin had stunk, apparently.
Selys had bawled the idiot out after, and Tekshia had told the adventurer to knock it off, but that was what Erin seemed to have forgotten. Or just never said. And Selys wasn’t embarrassed about it.
It was just her practicality. You did what you could, but you didn’t take excessive risks unless it mattered. Like Pisces; she’d worked on her grandmother, gotten the [Necromancer] in with the Guild subtly. Erin had tried it with her Goblins, and she had thrown them in the face of Liscor again and again. It still hadn’t worked. True, some could go around the city and not be tossed out, but only because everyone knew she’d be there, throwing acid jars if someone mistreated them.
Nothing changed in any real way. When Erin was gone for good, Goblins wouldn’t be welcome in Liscor anymore. Now, if enough people were convinced to like Goblins over years, maybe…but her method was all wrong. Selys would have put Goblins in trenchcoats and given them hats and illusion spells. The Watch might have known, but that would have solved most issues.
She’d even suggested it to Erin once, and the [Innkeeper] had been upset about having to ‘hide’ Goblins. And you know what? Also fine, at least at the time. Someone had to be the idealist. Selys was the practical one who knew what she could do, when to speak up, and when it was pointless.
She could guard her heart, unlike Erin’s, which bled everywhere especially when someone shot it with crossbow bolts. So that was why Selys was going to survive Calidus’ Assassin’s Guild as [Vice Guildmistress], even with a war between [Assassins].
You know how?
She didn’t let herself care when they died. The Adventurer’s Guild in Isbeut had fake windows that looked open, but let no one actually see inside. A chance visitor would see a small common room staffed by Pilana, but all the real action, and [Assassins], went through the back doors.
The living…and the dead. Apparently, it was standard to collect [Assassin] corpses. Lagrisse explained it to Selys.
“The bodies of fallen [Assassins], even the Ranks, may contain useful items or elements. Their gear, at least, should be recycled. The Guild should not be seen to fail, or at least, leave bodies behind. Bodies can be used in identification or tracking Skills.”
She kept staring down at the bloody Drake with arrows through both eyes. Precision shots. The broken black fletching was horrific—and a message. Someone had shot the Rank on patrol and left them there to show Calidus’ Guild exactly how outmatched they were.
The blood was staining a white linen shroud. Selys tugged the cloth over their face and saw how the broken arrowshafts stood up. Then she forced herself to turn, businesslike, to her staff. The Ranks were milling about, sharpening blades, waiting to go on more adventurer requests or be assigned to counter the enemy [Assassins]. So casual for people at war.
Antinium. You didn’t cry for Soldiers or Workers who died. Oh, sure, you felt bad, but unless it was one you knew…Selys didn’t feel bad. She just folded her arms.
“Elements? What are the Ranks, monsters? We carve them up for parts?”
“Close, Guildmistress. Galas muscle from higher-levels, blood—for toxins or antidotes, given how many of the Ranks gain immunities—and their bones can be used to make undead.”
“Really? Undead?”
Selys’ eyes bounced up and down. Lagrisse nodded. He seemed vaguely amused by this war. He had gone from understanding the odds on them all surviving were now low to a weird acceptance. The other Guild had a lot of staff and powerful former members. Faces. But because of that, he was one of the top dogs in Calidus’ Guild, and he seemed to think the tradeoff was worth it. If they lived.
“We used to have undead we would deploy, like summoned monsters.”
“What happened to them?”
“The Necromancer. I understand he summoned all the undead in the Guild’s vaults and made use of them. He slaughtered a number of Faces sent against him. Eventually, the Guild refused to take requests for him. There are a number of individuals with extant bounties, like the King of Destruction, that only a Face can even access. Or the Guildmaster. Few Faces consider such bounties unless they wish to win gold or prestige.”
“I think Calidus gave me some of those. There’s some retired Archmage south of the High Passes that Magnolia Reinhart wants killed, right?”
The man paused, and the [Deliverer of Secrets]’ fingers twitched.
“I…wouldn’t know about such a bounty. Fascinating. The Guild took it?”
“It’s a lot of gold. I’ll show you my files once this mess is over. Back to the undead. I understand why we stopped. Anti-[Necromancer] sentiment. Let’s start doing that again. Can we?”
Lagrisse thought about it, tilting his head. He never said ‘no’. Just…
“We lack for [Necromancers], Guildmistress. As well as holding areas. We could devote time to the project—”
“Egh. Put it in my long-term projects bin. Everything requires setup.”
“Most functions of the Guild do, sadly. The same for our tamed beasts and even training areas. Losmere is a fine instructor, and the presence of Polymath Zeomtoril has allowed us a decent variety of poisons, but the other Guild seems to have a number of our experts.”
Hence the corpses that kept coming in. Selys glanced at the dead body again; it was being carried by a pale-faced pair of staff towards a cold room with preservation spells.
The fourteenth in three days. No Adventurer’s Guild except one fighting off a literal dungeon or something had this kind of turnover. But they had hundreds of Ranks.
So it was not ideal, but emotionally? Fine. Selys went stalking back to her desk.
“What was this guy—that was a guy, right?—doing away from his squad? I told them to stick together! This is what happens without teamwork!”
She slammed a fist down on the counter, and the Ranks listened to her. They always listened to her, another thing she liked. Bronze-rankers were flighty, annoying—the Ranks obeyed.
Not perfectly. She got the sense that they did some things reluctantly, but her job was to win an edge. So Selys steepled her claws and spoke.
“Put five squads on patrol. No, make it three. Five squads on backup in hiding. Have them build hideouts in the forest in these areas.”
She stabbed several sections of the map so they were spaced out.
“How’s our response time on interception requests?”
Interception requests—her name for countering the other Guild by sending their [Assassins] to murder the killers. Lagrisse hesitated.
“It could be faster, Guildmistress. Ranks are not always present as a squad. They also require horses and supplies—”
“Okay, that’s a priority. Get someone from the Hostler’s Guild and as many darn horses as we can buy! As for food…hmm.”
Selys got up and strode out from behind her desk. She plucked something up as she came. A black card with a golden stamp of color along with her name on it.
A Merchant’s Guild card, the kind few people in this world had. Nigh-unlimited funds thanks to Calidus Reinhart and whomever was ordering him about. Selys smiled.
She liked this. Not the fear of death or being coerced into this, but this? Absolutely.
 
——
 
Speak and it would be done. People who listened to her. Even the ability to do stupid things like hand Pilana two rats and tell her to take them to every restaurant in the town.
“Which cook has the best food, you two? And cooks at good speed?”
Rhata had tomato sauce on her nose. She and Haldagaz nibbled at a name on the page, and Selys smiled.
“Itmont’s Eats it is. Sounds like a bad restaurant, but if you two liked it—”
“Guildmistress, are you really trusting rats?”
Pilana was horrified, but Selys flapped a claw at her.
“They’re as smart as some cats I know. And a bee. Also, they’re pickier than you think after so long touring the north. Hire the [Cook]; he delivers to the Adventurer’s Guild. And Runner’s Guild. Put a menu in place and run orders…better yet, just have a Street Runner or one of their apprentice chefs use a bag of holding to deliver the food hot and in bulk. Anyone who finishes a request gets a free meal.”
If the Ranks were like basic Antinium, she thought that would motivate them. Actually, that wasn’t a bad idea. Selys flashed her card at Pilana.
“Also, spin off part of the inner common room and make it plush. Couches, classy tables, upholstery—just one section.”
“Yes, Guildmistress.”
“I’ll do the horses. C’mon, Rhata, Haldagaz.”
They climbed up onto her shoulder, squeaking as she strode off. Haldagaz didn’t seem as happy by all these changes, but Rhata was full and content. And Selys—
 
——
 
“What do you mean you can’t get us enough horses?”
“I don’t got any. And holding a dagger to my throat won’t make ‘em appear!”
Like everyone else in Isbeut, the local representative of the Hostler’s Guild understood the [Assassins] were here and in charge. But the sandy-haired teen had a point, so Selys waved at Lagrisse. He withdrew the dagger.
She supposed even the staff of the Guild could kill. Selys smiled at him.
“I’m sure Lagrisse only thought you were being stubborn. Explain it to me?”
She understood the problem at once as the shaken [Horse Handler] told her.
“Horses come and go ‘cause we rent ‘em out. We can blacklist anyone we want and ask for more horses from the major Guilds, but only as many as our town needs. And as much as our stables can hold. How’d it gonna look if I ask for two hundred racers for this place? If they don’t laugh at me, someone’ll ask questions. Then I get killed for doin’ what you want.”
He braced, cringing, as the scary Drake pursed her lips, but Selys just smiled at him.
“Fairly explained, Master…?”
“It’s just Hornbel. Master Azat did a runner when the [Assassins] appeared. Buried him last week.”
“Ah. Well, we’re in the same boat here. I need to get the [Assassins] horses. I’ll pay for the stables to be expanded. But work with me here, Hornbel. How do we get more horses without attracting suspicion?”
“…Buy ‘em?”
“But if not from the Hostler’s Guild—”
The boy shook his head rapidly.
“No, I just mean buy them. Not rent them or have them sent. If Lord Calidus buys horses and lets us use them, it makes sense. Nobles always do crackbrained things like that.”
Selys clicked her claws together. See? And Lagrisse was just going to threaten the boy. You simply needed to talk to people.
“Perfect! Then who’s selling horses that we can make a purchase from?”
The kid and Lagrisse conferred and offered Selys a list. She grimaced as she ran down the locations; Jecrass or another major horsebreeder was too far. Then she paused, tapped a name on the list.
“…This one.”
“You’re sure, Guildmistress? It might attract some attention—”
“I’m sure. I have an instinct for important things. Send for horses from House Walchaís at once. I don’t care if there’s a blockade or whatever’s going on with Magnolia.”
She’d met Bethal Walchaís. The woman had always ridden excellent horses, and she was part of that connection that Selys and most Liscorians had learned to observe. The inn.
She sighed.
It always came back to the inn.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was fascinated by The Wandering Inn, which it seemed like he’d just found out about, a year behind everyone else. That and Liscor.
Selys didn’t want to talk about either, but he was her boss…and he insisted.
“Aunt Magnolia’s been trying to kill Bethal for a while now. No idea why; they were best friends. It’s a tricky proposition, Selys.”
“That’s Miss Selys or Guildmistress to you, Lord Calidus. And it’s simple. Her lands are the closest, and if she’s under some kind of embargo, she’ll be desperate for coin. Or do we have four months for a Jecrass shipment?”
Calidus winced.
“My calculations say we’re losing at about a 6% greater attrition rate compared to our rivals. So…no. House Walchaís it is. We need a good cover story, though. Even if her best people aren’t there, Aunt Magnolia is sharp. And [Healers].”
Apparently, they were losing a lot of Ranks to more than just death in combat. Selys frowned.
“They’re pretty good at stitching themselves back up. Remember that one who came in with her leg cut off? She tied off the artery and hopped back in here.”
A Drathian, or someone who’d looked a bit like Ryoka, although she’d been far more petite and not barefoot. Calidus sighed.
“She’s dead.”
“Oh. Um—damn. Poison?”
“Nope. Blood loss. She hopped back on pure adrenaline, lay down, and never got back up. The Ranks do know how to perform basic first aid, but when they’re badly hurt, they need a good [Healer], not some idiot who slaps a poultice on everything. Got one?”
“Can we kidnap the Healer of Tenbault? Or a [Mage] who can cast [Restoration]?”
Calidus shook his head.
“Anyone who can do that is too important to just grab. Damn. Well, add it to your list.”
She scowled at him. Calidus just beamed at Selys.
“I’m quite impressed with your style already, Guildmistress. This Guild is far cozier! And excellent vittles.”
He took another bite from the hamburger that [Cook] Itmont had delivered. The Faces might object, but they had the money for fancier eating. Selys noticed some of the Ranks she had met before, Ribark and his team, chowing down on the burgers.
Actually, it looked like they’d had four. Each. She shouted at them.
“You’d better be resting and not have a job coming up because all that food’s going to either come up or weigh you down!”
They didn’t stop eating, and she shrugged.
“I’m treating this like a Guild. And this lot like they’re people. If you object to me spending gold…”
“No, no, not at all. It’s what I wanted.”
He was a strange [Lord] alright. Selys hadn’t really met any besides Tyrion or maybe Earl Altestiel, but Calidus seemed to enjoy novel things. She snorted, then walked over to a wall where requests were hanging.
