In that sense, he had the Faces’ attention, because Calidus was asking the questions that resonated with them. They went silent, and even the half-Elf blinked as Calidus frowned at another recording.
“Hmm. Winter Solstice. Is that a furry elephant charging Aunt Magnolia? Dead gods, the stones on the woman! And you tossed her for Regis? Nevermind that. Right here. And someone pull up that image of Bird the Hunter shooting Wyverns.”
Both recordings were presented, and the [Assassins] gathered around. Calidus replayed it again on slow.
“Is that swordwork real? How about the impacts on flesh and bone? It’s a massed-melee. I assume it’s hard to fake that much and not have a single mistake. Anyone?”
“It…looks accurate to me. If anything, the blades seem to be bouncing too much. Though given how tough the flesh is—”
“The Wyvern one is real. That’s how eyes deform when arrows hit them.”
The bemused Faces had never had anyone make them play forensic detective. But they knew their craft, and all agreed it looked real to them.
“The Trial of Blades is absolutely real. See those cuts? We had a [Wiremaster] who was able to cut with metal that fine. That’s exactly how it looks when a limb is severed. See the ragged edges on that limb? Poorer blademastery.”
Calidus sat back.
“So it happened.”
He sat there and put Erin’s chess game, which he himself had participated in, with the rest. The [Lord] stood up.
“Compile all the reports. I’ll read the rest later. Let’s say I believe this all happened. Doesn’t Rhaldon deliver through Liscor? I’ll confirm with him. Selys Shivertail is from that city. She was a [Receptionist] at the Adventurer’s Guild during major events. She’s perfect to manage our Guild of Assassins.”
“Lord Calidus, with respect, the Guild used to operate—”
He slammed a fist on the table.
“The Guild does not have any of its systems in place!”
The Faces blinked at him, and he went on, voice steady.
“It has no control over its members. It has no existing membership with loyalty or a high-level Guildmaster who can enforce their will by might. What it has are hundreds of Ranks and new [Assassins] who have no real loyalty to the Guild and who we have no control over. I have been attempting to forge a bond of some kind with them. Because if we do not have that, then that little scuffle over requests? It is going to be that but a hundredfold for all of you.”
He looked the Faces in the eyes.
“Grandfather Regis is out-of-touch. He’s used to people getting things done, so he dumped this problem in my lap. If he fails, he’ll find someone else and do it again. Buy a thousand more Ranks until the Assassin’s Guild is working. He has time. We have only one life, and if I do not have the Ranks’ loyalty, then they’ll murder you all in your sleep for your titles.”
The Faces had been worried about just that. They went still now as Calidus sat.
“Selys Shivertail’s life is on the line. Let’s hope, ladies and gentleman, that she can take charge. So you were objecting to…what, exactly?”
He steepled his fingers, and the Faces peered at each other and then shifted.
“—She should, perhaps, have someone guarding her as well as monitoring her at all times, to begin with, Lord Calidus.”
“Agreed. Let her know you’re backing her up. I’ll make sure she speaks to me about anything needed. And have her take over the Runner’s Guild too; I’m not doing it. Get her lists of all the staff from the old Guild; she’ll need their help. Oh, and Zeomtoril. Nothing like a [Polymath] for making whatever you want in a hurry. Zeomtoril!”
Calidus went striding out of his meeting room, and the old man was not happy to be called out of his workshops.
“First we have these murderers breathing down our necks, now we’re running a Guild? This better not be because you’re sleeping with her, Calidus, or I am leaving!”
The [Lord] beamed at the [Polymath].
“Zeomtoril, they’ll find you in a second, no matter what kind of invisibility-teleportation-anti-detection nonsense you think you’ve got. We’re stuck together, so play nice, do whatever this lovely Drake asks—and I’m not sleeping with her, though it’s a novel concept, thank you for suggesting it—incidentally, did you know about the Winter Solstice?”
Zeomtoril eyed Calidus.
“…The mess down in Liscor or the undead that attacked Rhaldon?”
“Hmm. How accurate to the truth are the rumors?”
“I heard Oswen vanished, and it’s damn well gone.”
“Where was that in the—last question, Zeomtoril. Do you remember our Pyre Initiative plan?”
“Which crazy idea was this?”
Calidus exhaled and patted the man on the shoulder again.
“Good to know.”
He walked off, leaving Zeomtoril to cursing his back. Calidus moved into his study and poured himself a drink—of water. Then he sat at his desk, drawing with the water.
After a while, Dorim poked his head into the study.
“Did you need anything from me, sir?”
“No. Yes. How much do you know about that inn, Dorim? I know you were paying attention. A good [Majordomo] does. Wait, are you a [Majordomo] or did I hallucinate changing your class?”
The man jumped. He bobbed up and down.
“I was your chamberlain, sir. Although I had an [Innkeeper] class as well, um—t-then you changed it.”
“Upgraded. Right. Since you’re staying on until the bitter end, you might as well have a decent class of it. It was just messing with staffing.”
That’s all some classes were. Fulfill the requirements and they popped up, but sometimes if you got cheeky, they didn’t show up or altered. He liked the variances. But to Dorim, it had clearly shaken the man. He’d changed his very nature by a few of Calidus’ thoughts colliding.
It might well be Dorim who understood Calidus the best at the moment. Zeomtoril was still fooled by the act, but the [Majordomo] saw Calidus dipping a finger into the cup at his desk and drawing on the wood. A child’s doodles. But he had once looked over the man’s shoulder and seen the strangest and most intricate of writings soaked into the wood before it had dried away.
Notes for a mind which refused to commit anything even to paper, because paper could be copied by so many Skills. But try getting water from wood in the pattern it had soaked in. Hah!
In that way, Calidus was still a Reinhart, he supposed. The [Lord] kept writing as Dorim waited for instructions or insights into Calidus’ mind, then crept off. And the [Lord] was aware a Face might be watching him, even now, though they’d probably not understand what he was writing since he did it only for himself.
It didn’t matter. He was just…thinking.
He’d known about half of it. Of course, Calidus had known Maviola El had died. His drinking buddies had talked about that and big events in the news. That was how he found most things out, sitting and gossiping and being the last one to be filled in on things. If it mattered, he’d hear it from nobility or commonfolk or be confronted with it.
The same for the cracked moon and Goblin King, even the Winter Solstice. Calidus had known of lots of the pieces, and he’d kept tabs on that inn, mostly to see if the [Innkeeper] was up to something fun. But he had never put it all together like that.
It all connected. You might think it didn’t…but he’d seen more in those stories than even the Winter Solstice.
Belavierr the Stitch Witch lands in Izril. A [Witch] coven forms in the Unseen Empire. Belavierr is chased off by [Ladies]. Thus begins Maviola El’s final days.
The Unseen Emperor was at the Winter Solstice. A known friend of the [Innkeeper], who is a [Witch] and has visited the Unseen Empire.
Belavierr attacked that inn and participated in the Meeting of Tribes—where the Titan of Baleros was.
The Titan of Baleros plays chess with Erin Solstice.
Maviola El went to the inn. Her fire…the fire of that [Innkeeper]…the same Skill?
Chieftain Rags. Goblin Lord Ragathsi. Goblins at the inn.
The Meeting of Tribes. Doombearer child. From the inn. Wind Runner. Ryoka Griffin. Ties back to Magnolia, Tyrion. Ailendamus war?
All of it was connected. The more he worked, the more he realized he could trace almost every major event in the region to…the Horns of Hammerad, the Ruins of Albez, the Haven moving…the <Quests>? The New Lands?
He saw it, then. A gigantic picture that made him wonder what level that [Innkeeper] was. What…
“There is something else. Some other intersection here.”
Calidus peered at names he’d underlined. Joseph. Erin Solstice. Cara O’ Sullivan? Ryoka Griffin. He studied the names, remembered hearing about his aunt acquiring young people. The family had gossiped about it while they were stupid, and Aunt Cecille had made some joke about Magnolia preying on children. Now…Calidus turned.
“Face, Majordomo, whichever one of you is closest, I need an information lookup. Now. Does the family or someone in the Five Families or the Assassin’s Guild know about strange Humans?”
After a second, Dorim poked his head into the study and began to send [Messages] through Calidus’ channels. A Face coincidentally walked in a minute later, and Calidus sat there. A name came to him, since it was being spoken too often, too much. And again he saw it was not just Rhaldon, but everywhere.
“Earthers.”
Then he saw a greater picture, and he would have laughed or wept, but he just sat back, eyes opened wide as a second world collided with his and set his notions tumbling. He sat there, staring at it all. Then he just sighed.
“A shame it seems I’m not on her side. Tell me more.”
Some men were doomed to be the villains of the story.
Calidus hoped he’d just be the buffoon who got to see how it ended.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail had heard of Djinni wishes before. Where you made a wish and the Djinni, spiteful, tried its best to twist it into the worst possible variant. In a way, that was her life.
She had gotten her wish: she was now Guildmistress of an Adventurer’s Guild. Only, it was a front, her ‘adventurers’ were all [Assassins], and if she didn’t do her job right, or told anyone, they’d kill her.
And you know what?
It was fine.
It was! Not ideal, but Selys Shivertail knew she was trapped here, and if she panicked, she would die. The terrified [Corrupt Receptionist], whose name was Pilana, had shown Selys a piece of ground just outside the town in a copse of trees.
There were four mounds of recently dug soil. Four members of staff who’d ran for it or tried to tell someone.
Selys was surprised there were only four. But she supposed people weren’t idiots. Selys had done an inventory of her staff, and most were just…bad.
Dregs, she supposed, that this Lord Calidus had found. Pilana was one of the more competent ones, which sucked. But she’d been a good [Receptionist] in First Landing’s Adventurer Guild—just one who skimmed money off of adventurers’ jobs. Which made her scum.
Selys didn’t know what she’d done to get this job, but she’d also identified Lagrisse as talented; he had worked for the old Assassin’s Guild. She’d told both of them to report to her for her first day on the job.
And you know what? Selys was going to do her damn job, figure out a way to survive, and level. Because that’s how you dealt with Solstice events. Which is what this clearly was, even if she couldn’t figure out how Erin had messed with her this time.
Survive, wait a month or two for Zevara to uncover the Assassin’s Guild, and don’t get stabbed when Valeterisa comes flying down and starts blasting everything with Tier 6 spells. Good plan.
Perhaps that was Selys’ denial, but she had to cling to something. And she could do this. She talked to Rhata and Haldagaz as she laced up some boots she hadn’t worn until now. You needed boots in the Adventurer’s Guild. To stomp on people’s toes and because adventurers tracked in muck.
“I can handle [Assassins], Rhata, Haldagaz. I’m not keen on them, but if this Lord Calidus gives me actual authority, I can run a Guild, even an Assassin’s Guild.”
The two rats were standing on their hindlegs and giving her very dubious looks. They seemed worried—well, Haldagaz did—and he was nibbling on his own tail. But Selys just shook her head at him.
“Don’t give me that look. I’m a practical Drake. Erin would be all precious about them. Remember the Maestro and Symphony? She doesn’t have any give in her. She’s an idiot. Me? [Assassins] have been around way before Erin and her Ultra Moral Inn. They’re a part of our society, north and south! They have rules. There’ll be exceptions, but better rules than anarchy.”
She nodded to herself, thinking out loud.
“I wish I had help, though. Or that I’d actually bought a Djinni, but they’re so damn expensive! And you have to bind them, and I just knew Erin would get on my back about one.”
Wasted opportunities. She shook her head. It wasn’t like she’d ever wanted to get into [Slaves], but magical Djinni were different. A nuance Erin didn’t get. Even if you wanted to let a Djinni out of the bottle, it would kill you. In the same vein…[Assassins]. She could deal with them. They killed people. So did Named-rankers, and she understood you had to hush that up sometimes. Not that she knew if her Grandmother ever had, but this was the reality.
Selys Shivertail opened her closet to find a good outfit for the morning, and a blank-faced Stitch-girl was standing inside. Slightly hunched over to fit, but just…standing there.
She stared at Selys.
Selys stared at the [Assassin].
“Hand me that dress. The one in dark blue.”
The Rank handed Selys the dress. The Drake inspected it. Handed it back.
“No, it doesn’t work. I think the austere grey one. With the inkstains on the hem. Yes, thank you. Hang this one back up.”
She handed the dress back and received the grey dress after a moment. Selys closed the closet, straight-faced, and was rewarded with a blink from the [Assassin] as the doors closed. Selys pretended not to notice.
Yes, she could do this.
 
——
 
“Did you put the [Assassins] to watching me, Lord Calidus, or is that just their hobby? Because I object to both, especially if I can find one.”
Selys was rewarded by a blink from the [Lord] as he came to check on her after breakfast. He was all smiles, but she had noted how he looked around the Guild. Checking to see if she was panicking or doing her job. She was doing paperwork, reviewing the names Lagrisse had handed her.
“Oh my, you saw one of them? Tsk, tsk. I did put them on you, but how did you see…?”
Selys held up a claw and showed him one of her many protective rings.
“Anti-invisibility ring.”
“Ah. Well, they’re young. Ranks. Quite new. The Faces you never see.”
