“Who can be a Face? Anyone. With training, support—I do believe in that theory. Levels reward every action, every deed! There are [Drunkards] in this world, yes, wastes of space. Do you know what?”
He leapt up and spread his arms.
“Ever met a Level 40 [Drunkard]? I have! Terrifying in what they can do! Every person has a unique set of Skills, even if their class is the same! Somehow, through my bumbling around, drinking myself silly, chasing lovely ladies, I have levelled decently well. So yes, I am promoting you to see what you can do. No matter what, I hope I’ll be entertained, because the goal isn’t purely optimal, by-the-numbers success, Dirfang. If that were so, I’d say we should hire Antinium [Assassins].”
He smiled at his own joke and got a slight nod. She stared at him, and he stood.
He really hoped his pep talk worked and she spread it around. Oh well. He strolled towards the door.
“When you’re ready, inform a member of staff and claim your gear, Dirfang. Oh, and one last thing.”
He flicked a finger at her as a passing Rank dragging himself out of one of the healing rooms slowed. Dirfang froze, and Calidus felt the power there. It ran across the Guild, and the Faces peered up as the [Lord], the [Genius of Sloth], used a Skill he had been given.
“[Move Reality Like Chess]. [Copy Skill (Intellect): Promote the Pawn].”
He had to force that one. Use both Skills because one wasn’t enough. He felt his entire arm shaking, and he knew—he was laughing.
Laughing, because he had wanted to try this. But he didn’t have any pawns—until now. The [Lord] saw the young Gnoll woman half-rising. Alarmed—
Then the Guild flashed, and Selys Shivertail, getting into her magical carriage, spun and glanced around. If that was all, Calidus might have been disappointed.
But since he was currently flying out a window, he decided he was content. He calculated how many bones he was going to break as he tried to pull his legs up—too slow—
Losmere tackled him in midair and arrested his fall. Calidus landed in her arms and beamed up at her shocked face, a slightly dazed expression on his. A piece of glass pinged off his forehead.
“Ow. I’ve never seen a Skill with kickback before. But then—I’ve never tried to copy the Titan of Baleros’ Skills before.”
“You—how did you—? The Titan of Baleros?”
She put him down as Calidus Reinhart sat up stiffly and got to his feet. He waved at Selys and then, holding his back, hobbled into the Guild.
“Someone replace that window. Entertaining as that was, I hope that doesn’t happen every time. Or that the small bastard noticed what I did. Yes. I can copy most intellectual Skills, and so why would I copy anything else? You think I should copy [Recollect Fact]? Please. The beautiful thing about high-level, famous people is that they say their Skills to show off now and then. There’s entire books. Lovely, fascinating books. Has no one ever read them? Just me? It’s not exactly hard to intuit what his Skill does. Using it, now…excuse me, excuse me. I would love to meet Miss Dirfang. And I do hope she has some amazing new class or whatnot.”
He pushed through the Guild, wobbled up the stairs, and poked his face into the half-destroyed room where the [Assassin] was. Calidus took one look at the silver mask of a snarling Gnoll grafted to her face and her sharp-looking outfit, newly upgraded by a Skill.
He gave the astonished Dirfang a second thumbs up.
Then passed out in the middle of the hallway.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart woke up to find everyone gathered around him, that he’d broken a rib, and that there were even more than physical consequences for stealing the Titan of Baleros’ Skills. Delightful ones.
He struggled upright, mumbled about his chest hurting, and wondered why he’d done what he’d done. Looked at the lovely [Assassin] with a new, alluring face and wondered what Skills she’d gotten.
Then he realized something was wrong. He was…uh…what was the word for it?
“Inebriat…no, indelib…is that a word?”
It took him six minutes, and someone had to find Zeomtoril to come up with the word. He was incapacitated! Mentally impaired! Less smart!
Calidus wandered around with a huge smile on his face, shaking hands, asking about Skills, curious and excited like everyone else—and in need of his ribs being bandaged and some help with that, thank you—but no longer followed around by a clamor of ideas and insights.
He wished it would last forever. Sadly, it lasted for only four hours before he was back to normal. It proved that he was onto something, though. Copying a Skill at merely this level of price? Worth it.
Mind you, it might kill him to do a higher-value Skill, but if it left him dumb as an onion for a month, that was just all upside. A splendid day, even if Regis called that evening to shout at Calidus.
Which you’d assume would be typical, but Reinharts actually liked to go for neglect over direct abuse. Regis hadn’t cared about Calidus one whit until the day Calidus had demonstrated his intellect.
Calidus still regretted it. He’d been young, but still.
“You are killing the [Assassins] meant to be removing the north’s enemies, you buffoon!”
Calidus sat up groggily; he was in the Assassin’s Guild, and someone had swept up all the bits of glass. Someone else handed him a cup of water instantly; Dirfang.
Oho. Loyalty? He smiled at her, then shooed her off. When she took a step back, he sighed.
“Excuse me, Grandfather, staffing. Assassin Dirfang, go enjoy yourself. Me promoting you doesn’t mean you need to attend me as if you were a [Favored Slave].”
Confused, she moved back, and he gave her a thumbs up. She returned it, hesitantly, and Calidus levered himself up.
“Yes, yes, I’m killing the other [Assassins]. Why? Because they’re killing my [Assassins], and that’s strategy, Grandfather. A strategy you’ve forced me into. No, no, shut up. Don’t blame me for taking the most expedient route to victory. You wanted us to counterlevel? That’s how it works.”
Regis snarled in his ear.
“I ordered you to deal with that [Princess] and the Drake! The other Guildmaster was—foolish in trying to have her killed. Though I believe the mission was also to kidnap her ‘daughter’. You could participate in that.”
Calidus pinched the bridge of his nose.
“Grandfather, I like to sleep at night.”
“…And?”
“I’m not doing that.”
“You are the Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild. Are you incapable of doing your job?”
Regis’ voice went abruptly calm, and Calidus registered the change as pure danger. Probably Regis wondering if Calidus needed removing altogether. The [Lord] spoke, cheerful.
“There are things I don’t feel like doing, Grandfather, and if you want the superior Guildmaster to run your Guild, you’ll live with that.”
“You’re not doing better than your counterpart.”
“Ha. Haha. How many Faces has he created? Or even full-ranked [Assassins]? Don’t answer that, I don’t care. If you’re going to study our performance based on, what, a month of work and a week of operational activity from my side? You’re an idiot, Grandfather. I will win this war. But let me address your first point.”
Calidus spoke loudly as Regis tried to get a word in edgewise. He truly was dangerous if some of the things Calidus’ mind hypothesized were true, but he was also…family. And family dealt with family in precise ways.
“It appears that you believe the kidnapping of children is under my purview. How about child-assassination?”
“Do you think that’s not a task for an [Assassin]?”
“Fair enough. Baby killing? Good old stab in the cradle?”
A moment of hesitation there, because Calidus knew his grandfather. He was still a Reinhart, a noble. They liked to think they had principles. Calidus leaned on the counter and met Lagrisse’s eyes, using the man as a weathervane to see how the others felt about this.
“Surely a good Guildmaster of Assassins should do that. When you tell me to burn a city to the ground, do I say, ‘yes sir, how hot?’ When you tell me, as a Guildmaster, that you want better killers and to feed them all A’ctelios Salash’s flesh, do I do that?”
“Don’t be ridiculous.”
The room went still, and Calidus nodded at Losmere, who was eying him. He spoke with a purr in his voice.
“When you say breach the Minacien Wall, do I agree if I’m your perfect Guildmaster? Or do I, a capable, intelligent individual, draw my line? And which would you rather have, Grandfather? A lickspittle toad who has no direction but the one you draw for him, or one who has rules? The rules you set in motion?”
“You’ve made your point, boy. Enjoy your victory.”
Regis growled back, but there was a hint of admiration there. Calidus exhaled. One small victory for Calidus…he rubbed at his brows.
“Now you’re going to make me do something anyways, aren’t you?”
“I still don’t want that Drake to succeed. Deal with her and him. Occupy their time if nothing else.”
“What am I, your personal [Servant]? Get one of your precious Circle of Thorns to do it!”
Calidus complained. Regis responded after a moment.
“They are…significantly depleted. The rest are either needed for other tasks or insufficient to my needs.”
“Ah, they’re brainless little frogs hopping to your beat. See, this ties back into my first point—”
Regis hung up on him. Calidus sighed, rubbed at his face, then turned and brightened as he had an idea. It flashed into his head, and he beamed.
“Well, that sounds like fun.”
 
——
 
Take the [Princess] out. Deal with the Drake. Calidus had an idea. It dovetailed with his personal belief in not killing attractive ladies in case there was even a chance they’d ever meet. But it was also highly funny and fell in line with an event currently occupying Liscor that he’d read in one of the reports.
Namely, the scandal involving Krshia Silverfang and Lism Swifttail. Calidus had been reading a report with some very candid images.
“I can see why they’re together. Nothing like fantastic hate-sex, one assumes. And that Drake—look at that!”
He whistled and tried to show Zeomtoril; the [Polymath] recoiled.
“I am not looking at other men’s genitals!”
“Coward. Anyways, that’s my idea.”
Zeomtoril, arguably one of Calidus’ only friends in this world, gazed at the report, Calidus, and a file on this Wall Lord Ilvriss and Lyonette du Marquin. He tried to figure it out, but even he had noticed how Calidus’ mind was hard to follow.
“Explain it, Calidus.”
“Isn’t it obvious? Look at this Drake. Notice the purple coloration? Very nice, very royal. Iconic. Red hair’s easy on the [Princess]. Now, just parallel that in your head with this incident and recall the brothel I went to?”
“The Lubricated Abyss or whatnot? I don’t—”
Then Zeomtoril’s eyes narrowed, and Calidus beamed at him. The [Polymath] picked up a headshot of Lyonette and tilted it back and forth. Then cast around his neatly-organized workshop with so many inventions.
“Hmm. I was making up some facemud just the other day for your people. That sounds rather interesting.”
Calidus beamed.
“And funny! Let me just call some of my friends—”
 
——
 
Calidus knew a lot of sex workers. Sometimes as a client, but then you wanted to know what they were like. Sometimes, that ruined the fun. Sometimes, it got you a drinking buddy like the Gnoll he’d introduced to Damia.
They knew he paid well, and when he guaranteed anonymity and offered to triple what they made in a single night, he got plenty of volunteers. He only needed two.
Drake and Human. A young lady around the same age and build as the [Princess], and same for the Drake for the Wall Lord.
The rest was easy.
Well, Calidus didn’t do it, he just connected the dots. Zeomtoril had plenty of dyes and an eye for color. He also had a kind of mud you could apply to your face to make a nose look thicker or adjust skeletal features.
He’d developed it mostly to avoid [Debt Collectors]. Just throw that in a room with a scrying orb and…
It took Losmere a bit longer to figure it out, but the [Assassin] had never thought to blackmail someone with a scrying orb.
“We would do a picture, Lord Calidus. To his family? His own lover? Her kingdom?”
“Bah, Losmere, that’s so old-fashioned. Why bother with that when you can whistle up that handy Wistram News Network and broadcast it all over the place? It’s occurred to me, more than once after Dragonspeaker Luciva issued that obvious statement about truth spells, that the ‘news’ doesn’t properly ensure accuracy on all its reports.”
And this was scandalous. Calidus watched the two actors really get into the role; he’d done some writing of dialogue, but it was mostly a wordless performance after the setup, and they could edit the recording. Just so long as someone confirmed they weren’t messing with the image itself…you had a ‘Lyonette’ and ‘Wall Lord Ilvriss’ in a very scandalous meeting.
Throw it into Liscor, already spinning from one scandal, and he felt like it’d hit the news. Zeomtoril was very proud of his work. He’d only wanted to brew a [Lesser Polymorph] potion to play Ilvriss.
A few minutes later, Calidus told the embarrassed [Mage] to stop recording, ran the memory crystal to the nearest Mage’s Guild, and addressed it to Sir Relz of Pallass.
Getting it into the hands of the broadcasters was actually tricky-fun. He’d written off Drassi, regretfully; she’d never air it. He’d thought maybe to go via another news channel, but they weren’t as popular.
He could have tried Wistram—but they might backtrace the magic, and he didn’t understand the academy’s politics, nor did he want to risk an Archmage or someone using it for their own agenda or sitting on it.
That left Sir Relz or Noass. Simple. Of the two, Calidus had calculated Noass might open it on his regular ‘I Hate Everything’ broadcasts, or he could get it onto a broadcast of the ‘music videos’, but both events would probably have it censored fast. You might think, then, that Sir Relz was harder to get ahold of instead of Noass because he was higher-ranking in Pallass, but the opposite was true.
Lagrisse barely had to do any work with a local Pallassian [Informant] for Calidus to piece together exactly which eligible bachelorettes in Pallass had Sir Relz drooling after them. He picked a lovely Wall Lady that Sir Relz would be amenable to receiving correspondence from and arranged a teleportation to the Mage’s Guild, then a pickup via the Runner’s Guild and delivery under said Wall Lady’s name.
