“With respect, I can fix my own collar.”
“Don’t squirm, dear. It’s ruffled.”
“In which case, I rather think I can fix it. As the person the clothing was made for.”
“You have it ajar.”
“I’d be able to use that window as a mirror if you’d move out of the way.”
He glowered at her, then tried another smile. And Lyonette du Marquin…she’d gone for the sultry face-pat. The daring lap-sit. She made a come-hither motion.
He hesitated. Wait, me? She glared with her eyes, and he looked around at his audience, visibly lost. They stared back, like people watching someone get slowly run over by a wagon. Ilvriss hesitated, thought about it, and then reached for Lyonette’s right hand. He lifted it to his lips, smiling.
She yanked it out of his clawed hand so fast he kissed his own palm. Handed him her left one.
“I, ah, used that one to scrub the restrooms.”
Ilvriss elected not to kiss either hand. At this point, Calidus Reinhart was grinning, but in disbelief.
This is good. This is funny. This…works. But it cannot be all of it. One could easily point to this being staged. It was visibly an act, even if the pieces of truth were there. So how…?
Then there was a voice. A cheerful, loud voice. Someone obliviously interrupting the fake-real scene with the timing of an ox blundering through a ballroom.
“Lyonette! There you are!”
Lyonette twisted around and then froze. She leapt up.
“Pawn, I—”
Calidus Reinhart stiffened. So still he stopped breathing. And his mind began to collide with itself.
No. The file said—she wouldn’t. That would be—
The [Priest] was walking down the street. He lifted one of his four hands as his white robes, the thing that marked him out from other Antinium, shifted around him. Lyonette stood.
“Pawn, this really isn’t a good—are you back? From Khelt? I saw you there. Ilvriss, excuse me—”
“No, please, go ahead. And take your time.”
He was drinking coffee, watching. Utterly calm with the Antinium nearby. Lyonette stood, flustered, and met Pawn in the rain.
“How’d you get back so soon?”
“Faith provides, Lyonette.”
“Oh, don’t start with—I mean—I saw you. You were quite, um, brave.”
The [Princess] began to snap at Pawn, then glanced down at the ground. His mandibles opened.
“I wish I could have done more. The Prophet of God is very powerful. And King Fetohep is—”
“I know. I know you did your best. I’m just glad you made it back.”
“There was a lot of water between here and Chandrar. It was most unpleasant.”
He smiled at her. Lyonette gazed at Pawn, then stared at the water wetting his robes. She started, then dashed back to her table. Snatched up the parasol.
“You’re getting rained on. Here.”
She held the parasol over Pawn’s head. He went to take it with one of his four arms, and she slapped it down.
“Lyonette, it makes no sense for me not to carry the parasol. I have four hands to your two.”
“Pawn—just let me hold it. It’s not about arms.”
“Well, if you are so insistent on being inefficient…”
And then he fell silent. Lyonette looked him up and down. One-handed, she reached out and hugged him. Her arm barely went halfway around his back shell.
“You silly [Priest]. Why didn’t you tell me you were going? I know we’ve been fighting, but you could have died there. A continent away!”
“It was a debt owed. I didn’t want to alarm you. You don’t need more alarm after all that has happened.”
She slapped his arm. It made a loud thwack sound in the rain, and he jerked. She punched his shoulder.
“You fool! You might not visit, and we’re…it doesn’t matter. You will always matter to me. Always. Whatever happens, tell me. Okay? When that thing attacked you, I thought…”
She trailed off. They stood in the rain, and Pawn glanced around. He seemed to spot the crowd and smiled.
“It appears you have a lot of strange watchers, Lyonette. I am not ashamed, but they should be for eavesdropping. And some things of Khelt are secret. Would you allow me to take you out and have a drink? I could tell you what has gone on.”
“A drink? I was going to keep fake-flirting with Ilvriss—”
Lyonette wavered, and the Wall Lord held up his claws.
“No, please. Point made, I feel. If I have any more desire to do so, I’ll find a Rock Crab or something to take your place with the same level of acumen.”
She stuck her tongue out at him. Then threw up a middle finger. Pawn just took Lyonette’s arm.
“Lyonette, Wall Lord Ilvriss is a very helpful, considerate person.”
“Most times, Pawn. You clearly haven’t seen any scrying orbs recently, have you? Where, ah, where should we have a drink?”
“Wishdrinks?”
“I could do that. I notice…you were being close with a certain heir to Khelt. She seemed lovely. That’s very good for you, Pawn.”
He slowed and looked down at her. She glanced up at him, and after a moment, Pawn nodded.
“I may have danced. But I do appreciate you teaching me.”
“Oh? Kheltian dances are so slow. But charming. They feel like they have forever. Or used to. I’m learning some dances myself. Perhaps—do you remember the steps?”
She raised a hand, and he clasped it. Then they took a step down the street in an odd, non-perfect move. Antinium and Human, walking like it was a ballroom, trying to keep the parasol up, and both were smiling. Laughing, and Pawn said—
“If I do not, please, remind me.”
And then…someone turned off the scrying spell. Only then did Calidus Reinhart gasp for air and see it. All he said was—
“Beautiful.”
 
——
 
There were several levels why it worked. Ser Lormel, serving as Princess Ellet’s personal bodyguard and [Knight-Protector], had to break it down for the [Princess] when Ielane kept failing her for not getting all the nuances.
“It is not just that the [Princess] presented the audience with a truth that overcame the fiction, Princess Ellet. You did very well to notice it. But it was the inclusion of the Antinium at the end.”
“Is he really dating her? Really? I thought that was made up!”
Ellet jumped up and down on her bed, excited, and Lormel coughed.
“I could not say, Your Highness.”
“Ser Lormel, please—”
“That is not the point, Princess. Think on it. Why does it work?”
Ellet’s face screwed up, and she came to the conclusions Calidus had made in moments after some thought.
“Well, because…she looks like she actually cares for him. It’s because it’s a contrast. We see the truth in another way, right?”
Lormel smiled like he would at his own daughter, and her face lit up. He knelt.
“Not just that, Princess Ellet. Consider Drakes. The Walled Cities were wrathful at the idea of Wall Lord Ilvriss ‘selling out’ by sleeping with a Human, even a [Princess]. But what do they think when they see that?”
The young girl’s eyes lit up after some thought.
“They think…oh! That’s why they started denying it! Because if the [Princess] were even, possibly, one-in-a-million-chance seeing an Antinium—”
How could a Drake lose to that? Utterly preposterous. Literally inconceivable a Human would choose a bugman over Wall Lord Ilvriss.
In fact, to even insinuate that was such a huge insult to the Wall Lord in question that Sir Relz had personally issued a retraction. It could not be. Lormel smiled as Ellet puffed out her chest, delighted at reading all this.
And he was careful. Delicate, because he had to keep teaching the [Princess] despite everyone’s desire to maintain her innocence. Because she was still missing a few things, even if she’d mostly got it.
 
——
 
For one thing, the ‘accidental’ meeting of Pawn? Fake.
Fake all the way down. Pawn didn’t just happen to walk into Lyonette and Ilvriss like that. Would a [Princess] of Calanfer really be so unguarded like that with him and talk about clearly-private matters?
If you were like Ellet should be in Ielane’s estimation, you’d at least infer all that on first viewing. But if you were actually just…adequate, you’d realize the lie that got even the people who understood the other falsities:
That wasn’t Pawn.
A certain [Priest] was still in Khelt, still in Chandrar because ships didn’t move that fast, currently throwing a fit.
“I never would have said that! Who is that? I never object to her holding the parasol!”
A highly amused Pewerthe was observing him as he gobbled at the scrying orb, and Yellow Splatters had his face in his hands.
It wasn’t about him, as Lyonette would have told him directly. Indeed, she had helped write the lines ‘Pawn’ had spoken.
Once they’d finished their little charade and gone around a corner, Lyonette had stood on her tiptoes and kissed the actor on the cheek. She’d gone to the best one she could find, and it had been a shortlist of two.
In the end, she had to go with Rosencrantz. Because he was part of the staff, and because, well—
His name was literally Rosencrantz from Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, the Shakespearean characters. Of course he could act!
The other candidate had been Silveran, but Lyonette had bet he might break character to use that ridiculous accent. Rosencrantz shrugged his robes off.
“These are very wet. I do not know how Pawn stands them. I assume that will do it, Miss Lyonette?”
“Adequately, Rosencrantz. We’ll monitor and do something tomorrow if needed. Thank you for playing your part. I owe you a drink at Wishdrinks after all! Something which the real Pawn would never think to do.”
She sighed. She hoped it hadn’t upset him if he’d seen it. Well, she suspected the first video would be more upsetting, fake as it was. She’d meant it. Just—Rosencrantz tilted his head.
“Pawn has never invited you to the hip and very cool establishment that I, myself, have desired to partake of? I gasp.”
She snorted.
“Let’s go see what they have. Liska tells me we’re very popular there.”
They walked off, shaking their heads. Rosencrantz glanced back where Wall Lord Ilvriss was just relaxing after his long ride. He’d taken this entire gambit on faith, and Lyonette really hadn’t hammed it up that much, making their flirting bad. Some of his comments had just been—mean! She sighed, and Rosencrantz spoke after a while.
“Miss Lyonette, why was a fake sex video of you and Wall Lord Ilvriss put out on the news?”
“Oh, who knows, Rosencrantz? According to Rose, it was ‘only a matter of time’. Earthers. So pretentious. I don’t count our enemies, do you?”
“I do it to sleep, Miss Lyonette. It is very soothing.”
 
——
 
Just like that, it was done. Calidus Reinhart saw more fallout, but the entire energy had been taken out of his plan.
He sat there afterwards. Thinking.
“They erased it. Destroyed it. Not in a week, not with—they exploded the entire thing. How?”
That was—insane. Either Calanfer had trained one of the best dissemblers in a thousand years, or it was that phenomenon. He considered.
Then—smiled.
Smiled before he went to accept Regis’ grumpy condolences and pretend he was all bummed about it. Smiled in a childish way that made him look more charming than all his lies. Purely delighted.
He wished he’d gone to Liscor. And he wondered why Selys had left.
Now he was more than interested. He began to request more information on what this Wall Lord was doing and sent a few Ranks to monitor the situation.
Purely to kill the opposing Guild, of course.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss walked through Liscor the day after the ‘whatever the heck that was’ sex scandal video. It might be playing in other cities, he didn’t know.
But Liscor had absorbed the chaos, identified it as coming from The Wandering Inn, and ignored it. They had bigger fish to fry.
Such as…Krshia Silverfang. Gnolls were shouting loudly outside her apartment, and Ilvriss winced as he heard some of the things she was being called. ‘Traitor’ being the nicest.
“Alrric always warned me that Gnolls could be dreadful towards each other, but they’re a minority, so I’d never have guessed…”
Well, it’s complicated. No one likes Lism at the inn. I think it’s gross too. That’s why you and Lyonette aren’t very interesting but this is, to Liscorians.
“Fair enough. Politics.”
Ilvriss had a helper for today’s mission. Mrsha. She felt bad about not joining him in the Cowpat Plains, which she still steadfastly refused to return to, so she was helping him acquire what he needed.
Namely…armor for Osthia. Ilvriss had been rattled by her near-death encounter with the undead. He couldn’t lose her, and even if Zail had sent equipment for her squad, be it so terrible of him, but he’d pay for the best for Osthia that no one else could afford.
“For myself as well, frankly. I’m not nearly as well-geared as I’d like to be. Merely Gold-rank because that’s the best money can buy.”
Merely Gold-rank. Wall Lord Ilvriss, do you ever fear you’ve gotten out of touch with ordinary people?
“I don’t believe I’ve ever been in touch with them, Mrsha.”
Touché. They got along well, the two of them. Anyways, people stopping Ilvriss to apologize or ask about the video, the election, this was all background noise. The two were on a mission.
Armor for Osthia. Or gear. Ilvriss could use a weapon or two, and he’d heard there was a Lady Desinee El around? A Kaalblade for Osthia might do well!
 
——
 
Lady Desinee El was here. And she had plenty of time for a rich Wall Lord, but she was entirely apologetic.
“Wall Lord, I have just sold my entire line of Kaalblades except for my sample glaive. The, ah, buyer didn’t want that.”
She looked rather pleased at that because she did have taste. Mrsha wrinkled her nose at the ridiculous weapon, and Ilvriss sighed.
“Well, I’d love to inquire about your new line—”
“Absolutely, Wall Lord! I can actually visit you with some samples. They’re being sped down by Courier, but I just sold everything out! Ten minutes ago, in fact.”
“Oh, what a shame. It must have been a large buyer.”
Lady Desinee El wore the smile of a successful saleswoman—that would show her husband, son, and Deilan!
“She was, but I do apologize—let me just ask where you are and I shall swing by! Er, when you say ‘Cowpat Plains’—is there a specific area?”
“Near the one town apparently in the area. Just ask for the damn Drakes.”
They left Desinee as Mrsha insulted the craftsmanship of the Kaalglaive, and Ilvriss opined someone who didn’t want to actually fight anything might find a use for it. So they ventured onwards.
“Acid jars aren’t being sold at the inn anymore? Really?”
Ilvriss was incredulous, but Mrsha rolled her eyes.
