“What, ever?”
“Not that we saw, and we left this in the ground until it was so rotted—as you see the other half. It feeds one very little, but it is light—the part resurrected. It feeds House Walchaís, just as our [Knights] keep our [Ladies] safe.”
She bowed to Dame Welca, and the [Knight] just spat again.
“The horses are just damned horses. Let’s have them bought, Miss Drake. I hope you don’t plan on buying too many.”
“Why?”
“Lady Bethal could use the coin.”
 
——
 
Insanity. The citizens were all insane. They had taken to wearing black, and those altars were indeed everywhere. Welca commented.
“Some people give half of what they earn to the Goddess. Others pray and pray for her to restore their dead family, friends. I heard one even laid a babe on the altar.”
“Did—did it—?”
“No. And Chevalier Thomast forbade any such sacrifices, but here is House Walchaís, which has seen great miracles. Lady Bethal herself has changed least, despite her new class. She does not deserve a bounty of coin.”
Welca had realized that Selys was rich and planning on buying a lot, and she was getting more hostile, but it was fascinating because she was a [Knight] clearly in service to Lady Bethal! Selys didn’t get it, but since this was no act, she stopped before they reached the Merchant’s Guild.
“Dame Welca. You seem to hold Lady Bethal’s actions at Liscor in great contempt, and you were there. Why, then, do you still serve her if you’re so set against Lady Bethal?”
Dame Welca opened her mouth. Before she could respond, a familiar, airy voice spoke, like barbed thorns hidden under a pleasant flower.
“Why, because she tried that and she saw how well it went. Because she had nowhere else to go, and frankly, because it amused me. But if you’re going to get in the way of business, I’ll have you digging privies, Welca. Or fighting monsters until you meet the Goddess.”
Selys’ scales prickled, and she forced a smile before she turned. She bowed—and there stood Lady Bethal Walchaís.
She was, as always, flanked by Thomast, who stood like a perfect statue, his light brown hair subtly styled, his rapier unsheathed and held to his chest—on guard, even now. He wore an outfit that would have been fit for Terandria’s ballrooms and practice courts alike. In that, Selys’ vague memories were not betrayed.
But the look in his eyes spoke betrayal of many things. Guilt and a haunted disquiet and disgust, perhaps at himself most of all. For he was visibly thinner. Clothing and attire in fine condition, but despite his wife’s best efforts, she could not save the man himself from wearing down.
By contrast, Lady Bethal Walchaís had no visible guilt, nor had she changed. Her blonde hair had flashes of royal Terandrian red in it, and she wore it cropped just over her eyes in the front, short and equally styled, and there was a clasp at her neck with the symbol of her house on it—and red. A dress like a rose, a bloody exterior over black undergarments. She twirled as she stepped forwards, and Welca bowed—slowly.
“Do you like the fashion, Miss? I’ve established it as a new style, given the look of much of House Walchaís of late. I wish I knew which color my divine benefactor prefers, but she hasn’t answered my prayers. So then, all colors or none!”
“Lady Bethal, I’m delighted to meet you.”
“And I am delighted to have someone coming to buy my horses! That is what this is about, isn’t it? My [Business Sense] pressed me to come out.”
Selys nodded, and Lady Bethal was fascinated, eager to sell her horses, and just as quickly horrified to know where they were going.
“To Calidus Reinhart? That slob? He was always younger than us, but I do recall him. Intelligent and annoying. Thomast, did you ever meet him? Do you recall—?”
The [Chevalier] had always been silent before, but now he had been quiet as the grave. His eyes found Selys, unblinking, until he interrupted with a gravelly voice.
“She was at Liscor.”
Selys jumped and froze as Bethal’s head snapped back to her. Instantly, a pair of pink Knights of the Petal drew their blades, but Thomast’s sword was faster. He knocked both down, and Bethal inspected Selys.
“Not at the battlefield, surely—?”
“No. Just a visitor to the inn. Stand down.”
The two bodyguards did, and Selys saw someone inside the Merchant’s Guild relax—and lower a chair. They’d been ready to jump her? They did love the [Lady]. Bethal Walchaís pursed her lips, uncertain, then beamed.
“Well, I regard the inn quite fondly in my memories! To be back there, on that beach…I regret how it ended, I truly do. Do they, ah, still hold a grudge there? I could visit, but for Magnolia’s damned servants. She truly isn’t forgiving me this time, is she, Thomast?”
She turned to Thomast, and he said nothing, which clearly upset Bethal. He was just staring at Selys, and the Drake couldn’t meet his eyes.
Tekshia Shivertail had died when the Draugr came through the gates. She’d died, and it was because the fools outside hadn’t held the battle lines. Because—Selys hadn’t been there. She hadn’t understood the battle in its entirety, but she knew Bethal had betrayed everyone else.
That didn’t mean she was the reason the Draugr made it through the gates. Practical, be practical—Selys forced a smile on her face.
“I’m gravely in need of horses, Lady Bethal, and Lord Calidus is just a business partner at this time. Could I talk numbers?”
“Of course, of course! I would love to do so! And you should ride a few. They’re the finest in Izril! Tell you what, you shall dine with me, and—”
“Bethal. Just sell her the damn horses.”
Thomast interrupted, and Bethal’s face froze, then she was all smiles again.
“Of course, Thomast! Let’s get this done, and speedily too! Two comments in a single outing? It’s a record, I swear. He’s been upset at me, as much as Magnolia, Pryde, and everyone else. To be fair, I understand. I even deserve it! But would you have done differently?”
She turned to Selys, and there, just for a moment, was a single crack in her gaily upbeat personality. A mote of guilt leaking out—but just a crack. She was not that ashamed, Selys realized. The Drake [Heiress] croaked a reply.
“You got your sister back, didn’t you? I—I might have done the same thing.”
Welca turned away abruptly. Thomast stopped staring at Selys and glanced over her shoulder. A rat bit Selys’ fingers in her pocket. And Bethal beamed.
“That’s right. Do you hear that, Thricia? Don’t hide! She’s perfectly safe. No one will ever harm you.”
She called into the Merchant’s Guild…and then Selys’ scales were all a-shiver. A figure moved from behind the protective townsfolk, and Selys saw…a dead woman appear.
A girl. She was just sixteen, and everything that Lady Bethal was—fully grown, confident and mature—was still unrefined and growing in her.
Thricia Walchaís was even gangly, taller than her older sister, with less red and more brown in her hair, and a travelling dress in plainer colors. Her irises bloomed like flowers, orange-yellow marigolds. She walked forwards hesitantly, and flowers bloomed and died behind her, rising and falling from the wooden floorboards.
Selys stared. Lady Bethal threw a hand out.
“This is Thricia, my younger sister, and the [Lady] who shall continue House Walchaís if she ever finds someone worthy of her! Not that I intend to look for her; you should be so much more adventurous, Thricia! Do admire her lovely Skill that causes the flowers and her eyes! I thought the Goddess had made a mistake, but no—it’s her levels.”
“Bethal. What is a Drake doing in the north?”
Thricia’s voice was a whisper. But not a hoarse one like Thomast’s, clearly disused, just one of great discomfort. She put a hand on the hilt of her sword as she eyed Selys.
“She’s a customer, a customer, Thricia. We’re not as hostile with the Drakes anymore—at least, I’m not. Miss Selys, Thricia. Thricia?”
The younger [Lady] inspected Selys, then frowned.
“She has a rat in each pocket. They both seem strong. For rats. She herself is stronger than most. Her aura almost nonexistent. But a seed’s placed there. I wish I had more training. Mine own aura rages. I wish Lady Zanthia would teach me. I want to leave home, Bethal.”
Bethal blinked, and every eye turned to Selys as Rhata and Haldagaz poked their heads out of her pockets. That provoked a genuine expression of astonishment from Thomast. Bethal’s eyes flicked to him hungrily, drinking in the unguarded face as if she were dying of thirst. Then she spoke faster.
“Of course, Thricia! Drake lands! I should have thought of it! As for Zanthia—no. No, I don’t—I shall ask, of course, but she’s always been a harridan, that old woman.”
They were all out-of-sync. Thomast. Bethal. Thricia. Each one had a different emotion, a different reaction to the state of things. Thricia blinked, then rounded on Bethal, and her timidity turned into a shout so fast that Selys recoiled.
The Walchaís temper turned out to be hereditary. But not just that—Thricia snapped in a passable battlefield roar.
“Harridan? Harridan!? How dare you, Bethal!”
“W-what? Thricia, I only meant she’s always pestering and lecturing—”
Bethal drew back in astonishment, and Thricia’s eyes blazed. The flower petals of her eyes opened wider, and then vines were rising around her. Thorny ones blooming with flowers—Selys stepped behind Welca as Thomast held out his sword, but only moving a sprouting vine back from his wife. And Thricia’s eyes were filled with tears.
“Zanthia Okreis, the Tutor of Elegance, taught you, me, and every [Lady] of the Flowers of Izril. She is there. Right there.”
She pointed a finger, and every head turned, but Thricia was pointing at something else. A memory. Her face rose, stricken, and she gazed ahead. The vines around her burst into flame. Wilting. All fashioned purely out of her aura.
“She is the first one to step forwards and tell us what we have to do. The first to leave our safe mansions and walk at him. Her entire family, her sons and father and daughters—then Father tells Mother not to go, but she takes a step forwards. Then the Ultas. The Reinharts are wavering, saying that if we just have a bit longer, Magnolia will use the Crown of Flowers—but the gates will not hold another hour, let alone a day. When the Goblin King howls, she’s the brightest aura. Fighting with the others so he goes after her first.”
She turned, the youngest [Lady], and then Selys remembered who she was supposed to be. Thricia Walchaís. A girl who had died a decade ago. The youngest member of House Walchaís—who all perished in the Sacrifice of Roses.
Every last one but for Bethal. The older [Lady] was frozen, but Thricia’s tears kept falling. She spoke, voice breaking.
“I can see her. I can hear him coming and the howl of Goblins. How dare you, Bethal? How dare you?”
“Thricia. I—I forgot. It’s been over ten years, and—I am sorry. Forgive me.”
Bethal hesitantly walked forwards, trying to embrace her younger sister, but Thricia slashed with an arm, and Bethal backed up.
“Forget? Is ten years really enough time? Can you ever forget that monster?”
“No.”
Bethal whispered, and Thricia shuddered. She wiped at a dripping nose, then peered around. At Selys, blankly.
“It was just yesterday. You’ve yanked me, like a fish from a river, and placed me a decade ahead. Don’t you dare speak poorly of Zanthia or the dead or I’ll pluck out your eyes, Bethal. Just like he ripped mine out. All this—you should have brought Father or Mother back.”
“And left them alone? One half sundered? I could only choose you. You have the longest to live.”
Bethal grasped her sister as Thricia began to claw at her eyes, and the younger [Lady] whirled. Face alight with—
Selys had never actually seen Bethal Walchaís lose an aura clash. But the shower of petals and the air moving hurled Bethal back into Thomast’s arms. Thricia stood, trembling.
“My aura is rampant. My eyes—my levels—gifts for facing the Goblin King. I cannot just enjoy this strange life nor war with Magnolia Reinhart nor bear to see everyone else grown around me or how few flowers remain. Make your deal with Drakes.”
Her eyes flashed hatred at Selys, and Thricia turned.
“I am leaving, Bethal. I throw myself on House Terland’s graces until I can make sense of it all. Terland or Wellfar. Since we are so hated that nowhere else will take us.”
“Thricia!”
Bethal tried to race after her sister as Thricia whirled and began to run. Flowers sprouted from her steps, each one a black rose, and then Bethal Walchaís fell to her knees. Gazing at her sister as Selys Shivertail wished she’d taken tomorrow to visit. It took Bethal a long moment to stand, then she was giving orders.
“Go after her. Bring her back! I don’t trust Magnolia or—or anyone to not harm her! That is an order!”
“Bethal, let her go. She cannot stay safe forever.”
“She will never die again, Thomast! Go!”
Bethal screamed at her [Knights]. They glanced at each other, and one began to run forwards—until Welca Caveis walked forwards. She had a shortsword and shield. Calmly, she slapped the frosted blade across the face of the other [Knight]. Then, when the [Knight] jerked, slammed the edge of her shield against their head.
The unexpected blow didn’t down the enchanted Knight of the Petal. But it did provide an opening; Thricia Walchaís was racing away on horseback before the second [Knight] got around Welca, who had swung at them economically, with no real desire to kill.
Nor great skill, if Selys was a judge. She was just a [Knight]. Strong for her level, but no master or Face. Nevertheless, Welca’s face revealed great satisfaction in thwarting Bethal’s schemes. Right up until the [Lady]’s head snapped around.
“[The Vine that Broke Castles].”
The earth exploded underfoot, and Selys leapt away as a black vine shot up, grabbed Welca, then slammed her into the ground. She made a sound, sword sawing at the vine, and Bethal’s voice thundered.
“Traitor! I offered you mercy and a second life and this is how you repay me? Do you want me to take back Her gifts, Welca? Beg and I might let you live—”
“Unhappy your sister remembers how things should be, milady?”
Welca rasped. Bethal’s response was to hurl her into the wall of the Merchant’s Guild. Then her aura was black thorns in the air, so intense they began to shred even Welca’s pink, enchanted armor.
Levels. They’d all levelled up. Welca twitched as the thorns pinned her along with the aura, until Thomast spoke.
“Bethal, enough. Let her go. Sell your horses and leave Welca alone.”
Bethal froze. She rounded on Thomast, face filled with fury, then spotted Selys.
