“You never really know someone in our line of work, Selys.”
“Yeah, Grandma? Is this more sage wisdom?”
“Shut it. What I mean is—these cookies are terrible, what happened to the ones from the inn?”
“I bought you cookies, Grandma!”
“I like the ones from the inn.”
“You can’t even tell they’re different! These are fancier, anyways. Frosted and decorated. Erin cheaps out on her recipe.”
“That’s why I can tell. This is all frosting. I want the ones with oatmeal and raisins.”
“Grandma, don’t shred them! I swear—this is how we get rats. In our new Guild? Someone hand me a broom.”
“Nice to see you doing some work. Here I thought you were going to hire a [Cleaner].”
“Just because I think we should have some services doesn’t mean I don’t know how to sweep, Grandma.”
“Missed a spot. There and there. You never really know people, Selys. Not in our line of work.”
“…Is this going somewhere? Is this more sage wisdom about how I need to get out, give away my money, and get back to work?”
“I’m talking about adventuring. Don’t make this all about you, Selys. Yes, as a [Receptionist] or Guildmistress. We never know adventurers. We send them out on assignments we think are safe, and they wind up in a coffin, and that’s on us. We think a Silver-rank team can handle it, and then they’re names on the memorial wall. You recommend a Gold-ranker, and they butcher their teammates over a few minor artifacts.”
“The Tirez Sabres weren’t your fault, Grandma. They forged their papers, bought off that Guildmaster. They had no business in the dungeon.”
A long silence, then. And Tekshia Shivertail gazed straight through Selys. The [Receptionist] bit her lip. She had helped make funeral wreaths for the team. Tekshia had gone to tell their families. Apologize. She shouldn’t have. It only made them angrier.
The entire Guild had been silent for the last few days. Not empty; adventurers showed up, left. But silent. At last, Tekshia went back to rocking in her chair and pretended the moment had never happened.
“I’m not talking about them. I’m talking about adventuring, Selys.”
“Okay…we do our best. What else can we do, even if we can’t know anyone?”
Tekshia Shivertail sighed then, that longsuffering sigh of exasperation, as she leaned on her spear, and Selys waited for a thwack against her legs or a sharp comment. But the Guildmistress, the former Gold-rank adventurer, the [Spearmaster], just shook her head.
“We do not know each other, Selys. We make mistakes and do our job; that’s basic. If we couldn’t do that, we wouldn’t be fit to even sweep the streets. But we are part of the adventure. Knowing that we don’t understand the people we’re sending to level or die—that’s the point. Until their tails are against the wall, we don’t know if they’re Bronze-rankers wearing Mithril or Named-rankers. As long as I’ve done this job, I still miss them. That [Necromancer]…I thought he was nothing more than a coward. Look at him now.”
“He’s not all that. Pisces just got lucky. He had the Erin-effect. He’s…”
“Selys Shivertail, he fought his way through a death zone. Made it out of Chandrar and Roshal’s chains with barely more than a few scars.”
“What’s gotten into you today, Grandma? Are those cookies laced with Dreamleaf or something? Hold on, let me check. I’m positive I didn’t mix up my, er, other supplies—”
Thwack.
“Ow!”
“If you had Dreamleaf cookies, you should have given those to me! Brat. You don’t wear jealousy well, Selys. Shivertails don’t, by and large. Your uncle was just as bad.”
“Uncle Zel? I’m not jealous. We never were a thing!”
“Nope. You chose poorly. Rabbit over nose. Don’t throw that at me. I don’t like him. But I can see a fellow adventurer. You don’t know him. I don’t know him. It seems to me, though, that only one of us gets that this is a problem.”
“Okay, Grandma. I’m indulging in your mood. Let me follow your logic. If we can’t know the character of our adventurers, what are we supposed to do? It’s an impossible conundrum.”
“You can’t know them. If we were on the same team, adventured together a month, a year, we’d know each other. But that’s not how it works. That’s why the Guild wants former adventurers who get the job. You should have stuck to Bronze-rank adventuring for more than a month.”
“It wasn’t for me. Look, Grandma, if you really want me to take a few requests, I could buy some gear, get some time in. Is that how I get the vice-Guildmistress role? Because I’ll do it. But if you’re just going to be cryptic and—”
“Selys. The way you do it is—you change the Guild. Sometimes, even if it’s unreasonable, even if they’re pains in your tail, you bend over backwards to cater for one team. And they’ll never thank you. Other times, you have to war with them. Slap them around. Not back down. All the old guard from the north need more of that. No one’s talked back to Deniusth for an age. Remember when he tore in here wanting me to arrest Erin for letting those Silver-rankers go and blacklist her? I had to stab him before he even stopped shouting.”
“You stabbed—”
“He was a brave [Violinist]. Merdon was an amazing [Singer]. The Loud Lad threw himself in front of monsters for his team. Crowdcaller Merdon’s just some washed up has-been without a team who needs him. That’s what I mean. My Guild, the one I knew all my life, theirs…they just let us come up from Bronze-rank to Gold, or beyond, and supported us.”
“…But they should have done what? They didn’t know who you’d be.”
“No. But they were there every adventure. I remember the [Receptionist] who used to sit here. A timid Drake who’d stutter every third word. But he made sure to check we were geared up each and every time. Three times over decades that saved my life—when I forgot to pack enough healing potions, the right countermeasures. An extra bundle of rope. That’s the job, Selys. You bring them in, give them lip, and send them out. You’re almost a good [Receptionist]. That’s all. If you want to ever approach my class…you look at the ones you’ve got. Adventurers. Permanent Bronzers, the Named-ranker who comes in just once, and you don’t know ‘em. But you make something of them. You believe in them.”
“I haven’t seen you doing much of that.”
“No. No, I haven’t. The most I ever did was pay off a few debts for the original Horns. Clear a damn [Necromancer] for adventurer. Enlist a Goblin and Antinium as Bronze-rankers. Two Antinium, actually. Heh. Maybe those will be my finest accomplishments. What a damn thought. This Guild never had many prospects, Selys. We were a comfortable city with nothing going on. Now we need a good [Guildmistress], one with an eye for the future.”
“You mean…?”
“I mean me, obviously. Weren’t you paying attention? I’m going to write up some <Quests>. You figure out what you’re doing with your life.”
Then she turned and hobbled off. Selys bent over the cookie crumbs on the floor, then peeked up.
“Grandma. Grandma, wait. One more question. Grandma?”
She glanced around the empty Guild, closing for the night, and there was no one there. Then she knew she was dreaming, but she put down her broom and went running. Trying to catch a glimpse of those familiar purple scales around every corner.
 
——
 
Until she woke up, tears in her eyes. Selys Shivertail was in a new bed. A new town. She didn’t even know where she was. But she sat up, wiping at her eyes, and heard two rats chirping at her anxiously.
Every day was like this. Selys Shivertail didn’t know if she cherished those dreams of her grandmother. They were frequent, even if the image of the old, cantankerous Drake had faded in sharpness.
How long until she was nothing but a faded image? Selys didn’t want to think it could happen, but she didn’t remember her parents’ faces anymore. She’d been a child, of course, but not even the pictures Tekshia had or all her stories kept them sharp. Zel? Selys could still remember his weary, grim expression, his huge shoulders, and the claws that had cut apart every foe of Izril.
…But he wasn’t present. He wasn’t a ghost she carried with her. She hoped Tekshia remained longer. But then Selys slid herself up in the pre-dawn light, still on an Adventurer’s Guild routine. She splashed water from a basin into her face.
Alone but for Rhata and Haldagaz. She picked her rats up as she left another room in another inn behind without a second glance. And added another empty day to the list of things Erin Solstice owed her.
An uncle, a grandmother, a job and city—Selys Shivertail never looked back, not towards Liscor far to the south nor to anyone else. Erin wasn’t looking back. Why should Selys?
The door slammed shut, and the Drake walked forwards, searching for a place she fit, for what she was owed. Something to balance the debts.
After ten minutes, she slammed back into her room. She’d forgotten her bag of holding.
 
——
 
It was Selys’ habit, as she wandered from city to city in the north, to leave her inn at dawn, or a bit later if she had a hangover. Then she paid a visit to a few places.
An [Alchemist]’s shop to stock up on Hangover Tonics, any alchemical oddities she liked—each [Alchemist] had a specialty she usually bought—and scale-treatments or self-defense items since she was a young Drake on the road alone. Healing Potions too; if they were under a hundred gold and they looked like they weren’t knockoffs, she bought them.
Then she’d visit the trendiest cafe and buy her way into a seat to try their best item. She’d watch the news on a miniature television-mirror and feed her rats. Then apply at the local Adventurer’s Guild for their highest open position.
The last guaranteed stop in Selys’ day was the Mage’s Guild. She had a Scroll of [Messages], of course, but it was keyed to no one but her Merchant’s Guild representative and several other people who sold her things. Selys would line up at the counter, and every day, she’d ask the same question.
“Any messages for me? Any letters? Personal correspondence only, nothing else.”
She’d make the [Receptionist]-[Mage] on duty sort her inbox, impatiently, and ask if anything was from Liscor. Any friends. She’d try someone new each day.
Drassi. Fellow [Receptionists] from the Adventurer’s Guild, like Maviss. Or the Horns of Hammerad. Or—The Wandering Inn.
The green-scaled Drake with her trendy handbag, fashionable clothing, enchanted rings, and expensive scale-treatments that made her almost shine in the morning light would stand there, a dissatisfied expression creasing the recently-applied lipstick. She’d turn her head, neck spines flexing as her tail thumped the ground, dangling spine-earrings catching the light as gemstones flashed. And she’d grudgingly ask—
“Mrsha? Lyonette du Marquin? Ishkr?”
It was different each day, but Selys never brought up one name. When she got a final negative, she’d turn on her heel and walk away from the counter without another word as Humans glanced at her, bemused, a Drake alone. Then she would march up to another counter at the Mage’s Guild, look at a map, and rent a Wistram Carriage and go onwards. She’d do some reading in the carriage as two rats emerged and read over her shoulder—well, one read, the other did pressups.
Her grandmother said you never really knew someone. Perhaps that was true. She had never really known Selys, just had all these unreasonable expectations of her granddaughter, who could never be her. And Selys supposed, she had never known Tekshia Shivertail the adventurer. Just Guildmistress Tekshia.
On she rode, reading. She had her position in the Adventurer’s Guild, so what she read were accounts. Entries by the Guildmasters or [Receptionists] in logs, which she’d paid to be looked up and sent to her.
Messy scrawls, shorthand notes, the occasional gem when someone had a flair for descriptions, or small first-hand recountings of what had gone down. Two entries in Tales of Adventure and Woe. Even a short story by Krsysl Wordsmith. That last one had shocked Selys; it was dated before his famous Antinium Wars books and long out of print. It had not sold hugely well, but it had been published. The title was: The Torrential Spear, the Hunt for the Marwsh Killer by Krsysl Wordsmith.
The Torrential Spear or the Spear of Torrents. It was a funny name, probably based on Liscor. But Selys Shivertail had never known her grandmother had a title. So she read a long history about a Drake before she had retired to a backwater city where her daughter was raising a newborn baby girl. Riding onwards.
Searching for something to fill her empty, restless days.
 
——
 
Empathy was a terrible, necessary thing. It was the creation of civilization, the means by which you founded community. Law and order were what some people thought made nations; they were not. They were merely components of a puzzle. If everyone believed in the law in some kind of empirical, logical way, then they understood law was just there to maintain the façade, the illusion of safety. Such a people would break the law and only obey it if forced.
Empathy made neighbors. It was the reason you helped little old ladies cross the street and grabbed a bucket when you saw smoke coming out of someone’s house. It was a wonderful dagger to the heart. A self-inflicted weakness.
In principle, Calidus Reinhart liked it for anyone but him. He preferred people around him to be caring, thoughtful individuals. But he, personally, didn’t really do empathy. Or sympathy. He was a Reinhart; even before Magnolia’s binding, they hadn’t exactly had a history of caring about anyone else but themselves. It made you weak. And the family attacked weakness, like the vipers they were often compared to. Vipers amongst a bed of roses.
However, he tried now. He gazed down at the mutilated body of the Rank in front of him and pinched under one armpit. Bit his lip hard. Tried to think of something sad. No alcohol in the pantries. Or cellars.
“Tragic. Just appalling. A bright life snuffed out and—handkerchief!”
He dabbed at his eyes, trying to will some moisture up there. Blew his nose on general principle. Calidus gave up on the handkerchief and threw himself on the corpse. Half of it separated; she’d been rather thoroughly minced.
“On her first contract since leaving Chandrar! A child of, what, seventeen? All that potential! And I’ve let her down. Sweet summer’s child, adieu! Oh, lamentations!”
He cradled her cold flesh in one arm, blinking into the light for some more tears. He was doing his best, but at this point, even the Faces of the Assassin’s Guild—including the lovely Losmere—were eying Calidus.
