Aside from mandatory ones, none of the Ranks exactly jumped at optional requests. Selys eyed one that she’d told Pilana to put up Adventurer’s Guild style.
 
Interception Quest — Merchant Erill.
A kill-order has been put onto [Merchant Lord] Erill Fienst. Given his personal protections and bodyguards, a Face or a squad of Ranks will have been dispatched to kill him.
Keep Lord Erill alive. His own personal protective artifacts and bodyguards should enable his survival if the initial assassination fails.
Reward: 600 gold coins. See desk for details. Must be taken within week of posting.
 
A standard request, the kind of which she’d post in Liscor’s Guild. A few oddities, but that was a handsome gold reward.
Handsome…if you weren’t going to have to fight other [Assassins]. In truth, it was a hard damn request, if not Gold-rank by Selys’ standards, a killing request. Like slaying a nest of Crelers, even babies.
She knew the Ranks had seen it. And knew that even the ones on downtime didn’t want to do this. No Face had leapt at the opportunity; they’d barely left the Guild except when ordered.
Scared to die. Funny that [Assassins] were like that. Or if not afraid of their mortality, unwilling to risk it just like that. Selys smiled. She saw Calidus glancing at her and lifted up something.
A hammer. Okay, fine, it was still copying someone. So what? Selys Shivertail concentrated and used the power she deserved.
The power she had longed for. And, frankly, which her friend had never used as well as she should have. Selys pulled the paper off the wall, and then it shimmered. Then she began to hammer onto the billboard, and the Ranks peeked up.
Toc. Toc. Toc.
Three blows, and then Selys Shivertail stood back. She heard Calidus begin to cackle with joy and smiled herself. Because this is what the request, now re-posted, now said.
No.
The <Quest>.
 
<Rare Interception Quest — Save Erill Fienst!>
Details: A kill-order has been put onto [Merchant Lord] Erill Fienst. Given his personal protections and bodyguards, a Face or a squad of Ranks will have been dispatched to kill him.
Objectives: Keep Lord Erill alive. His own personal protective artifacts and bodyguards should enable his survival if the initial assassination fails.
Quest Reward: 600 gold coins, withdrawal of one (1) Grade C artifact from Guild vaults or restock of five (5) enchanted munitions of Grade C quality. Experience in [Assassin] class.
Conditional Reward: If a Face is present, foiling the assassination attempt or full kill of enemy Ranks will be rewarded by a <Blade> artifact.
 
There it was. Selys admired the glowing words on the <Quest> she’d posted. Her quest. And her powers.
She’d been so damn envious of Erin, the [Innkeepers], and then her own grandmother and Lyonette, who all had the power she felt like she could use and never did anything with it!
Dead gods, you could be creative! But Tekshia had been ‘traditional’ and hadn’t liked the motivating factors of <Quests> or the unpredictability. Also, Erin had destroyed her Guild with one, so she was probably reluctant to post powerful quests on her walls.
But Selys had gained a Skill, and her eyes glinted.
She’d personally authorized the reward of an artifact from the vaults of the Assassin’s Guild. It was good motivation, and it’d keep the [Assassins] hungry while powering them up.
But the conditional reward? The <Blade> artifact?
She didn’t know what that was. Only that she could post it. The <Quest> was promising rewards that Selys didn’t have herself. Things that might not exist.
And experience.
When she stepped back, Selys knew that the other [Assassins] were eying the piece of paper. More than one had gotten up.
Even Ribark’s team were poking their stomachs, clearly wondering if they could make a day-long ride, full as they were. Selys didn’t move but blocked the view of the board from most of them with her head. She smiled, then pulled down another piece of paper. She raised the hammer, and now there was a stir in the room. She inspected the request, then lifted it, and her hammer touched the nail again.
Toc.
 
——
 
<Quests>, food, even horses and healers, which turned out to come from the same location. Selys Shivertail herself ended up going to House Walchaís.
Because the cover story that Calidus needed for a buyer for horses was actually standing in front of him when he gave it a moment’s thought. Who had money, a desire to invest, and a willingness to ignore northern squabbles between the nobility?
Selys Shivertail. She found House Walchaís’ lands eerie.
Not just because an entire Terland force stopped her at the border and practically strip-searched her. When the outraged Drake complained, the bored [Golem Controller] snapped back.
“We have had over a hundred attempts on Lady Walchaís’ life! The Knights of the Petal will conduct the same searches, Miss. And I would advise you not to act suspiciously. House Walchaís is very protective of their [Lady]. Er, [Ladies], now.”
Selys had known…something about Lady Bethal and Magnolia warring after the Winter Solstice, but not about what. Bethal had betrayed everyone?
Well…she did what she did best and put any feelings aside. Pragmatism. She needed those damn horses, so she was prepared to ignore that fact.
However, she was not prepared for just how much the area had changed since Bethal Walchaís’ sister had come back to life. Or the [Lady] herself.
The villages and towns in House Walchaís had felt Lady Magnolia’s wrath. A trade embargo and just the ire of other noble families clearly hurt their finances; there were virtually no visitors as Selys rode into the town. And everyone stared suspiciously at her.
In fact, the first Rose Knight who found Selys nearly stripped her naked again! The pink [Knight] almost had Selys take off her undergarments until she blinked.
“What’s that in your clothing? What—aaaah!”
That was Rhata, who leapt at the [Knight] and nearly got cut in half. However, it saved Selys from further indignation—and once she was in the town, she stared around.
“Ancestors. What is that?”
There was a line of people walking towards what Selys could only describe as some kind of weird ritual-site. She had no words for it except that the raised platform upon which some were placing items, the way they bowed, put their hands together, and lined up?
It reminded her of Erin’s bier. Only there was no body there. Selys’ scales tingled as the Rose Knight who’d ridden in with her explained.
“It is an altar. A shrine to the Goddess. Most of the townsfolk are [Faithful], or more. Welcome to House Walchaís, which has traded its noble honor for faith and miracles.”
She flipped up her visor, revealing a very weary, even grimy face. Selys turned, and the [Knight] glanced at her.
“I will be escorting you throughout your visit, Miss.”
“Me? Really?”
“We have no visitors. Magnolia Reinhart’s servants have attempted to kill Lady Bethal numerous times or tried to lay down poison—I am Dame Welca Caveis.”
The name was somewhat familiar. Selys hesitated.
“Weren’t you at the Winter’s Solstice? Did you and Lady Walchaís…?”
Betray everyone? Welca avoided Selys’ gaze.
“We forswore ourselves. Yes. For Lady Thricia’s life, Lady Bethal swore an oath to the Goddess whose power now runs through our lands. Even if I note her blessings seem few and far between, aside from what classes and these Miracles grant.”
She spat a bit of blackness onto the ground, and Selys’ mouth opened. Welca seemed like she was more angry at Bethal than Selys was, but perhaps it was a ruse. Selys forced a smile.
“I…am just here on business, Dame Welca. I should like to buy a number of horses.”
“Doubtless you will have them; few others wish to do business with us. You will need to speak to someone in the city. This way.”
Selys took a moment to stare at the Humans bowing before the altar. They put things there. A basket of apples. The first finished product from a [Blacksmith]’s forge. A letter. Welca clicked her tongue as she rode a horse which clearly didn’t want to let her ride it.
“This way, Miss Drake. The altars are in every hamlet and village if you should wish to offer something yourself. Nothing comes back.”
“What do they do with the apples and such? Wouldn’t they rot after a few days?”
Selys was familiar with honoring the dead, and you’d come back to take whatever you put out for fear of [Thieves]. She had to do it for both Zel and Tekshia this year, she realized. And her parents. She stopped dead in her tracks, but Welca just unlatched the carriage door.
“Nothing. They vanish when no one’s looking.”
The Drake’s head snapped around, and Welca offered her a grim smile.
“You think it a joke, Miss Drake? It is no joke, nor the classes. We have what it seems only Antinium and this Prophet of God have. There is a power here who Lady Bethal and her people worship. I just said that she never does anything in return. The hand of the Goddess rests on Walchaís’ lands.”
And then she pointed.
“Smog’s coming. If your carriage is not airtight, we must ride around it.”
“Smog? What smog—”
Then Selys saw a billowing cloud of it sweeping ahead of them in the distance. Drifting from far away, and Welca lowered her visor.
“Lady Magnolia’s gifts.”
 
——
 
The smog never touched Selys in the magical Wistram Carriage, but the black soot covered the magical vehicle and left it stained and sooty. The effect on the land was even more pronounced.
Grass was visibly withered and died beneath it. Farms—Selys saw streaked farmland clearly abandoned, a few crops growing where the black ash hadn’t touched, but everything else was just dead. No one was attempting to get rid of it. There was no point, according to Welca.
“It’s some kind of mixture that eats sunlight. One would have to strain the land with water again and again to rid oneself of it. Once they failed to kill Lady Bethal, Magnolia’s people began to blow it across the border. The Terlands can’t stop them. It will clog even their Golems’ eyes and joints.”
“Dead gods. Is Lady Magnolia taking it out on the citizens?”
That didn’t seem like her, but Welca shrugged.
“The citizenry stuck with House Walchaís and Lady Bethal. Most.”
“Why? If she betrayed everyone at Liscor—”
“She did. I was there.”
Then Selys was fidgeting, trying to bite her lip on—calm, pragmatic, don’t engage—but Welca truly seemed bitter. She shrugged.
“We have always loved House Walchaís, even those of us who came simply to join her Knights of the Petal. The last, despairing, passionate lady who fought the Goblin King? How could one not love her and the ever-faithful [Chevalier], and not understand why she would give all to resurrect her sister?”
“S-so her sister’s alive?”
“Oh yes.”
One glance from Welca. She had a cloth mask over her horse’s mouth to avoid a spray from the smog reaching them, but she just rode through it with her visor up. Which was stupid because Selys could hear her coughing several times. But Welca did not look like a happy woman.
“Magnolia Reinhart regards the people as traitors as much as House Walchaís. Starving them is but one way to harm Lady Bethal. Sadly, it does not work well.”
“Sadly…why not?”
“Because faith creates Skills. Observe. We reach the City of Vaisme. Lady Bethal Walchaís’ ancestral home is not far from here.”
The city, the lone one in Walchaís lands, seemed to have fallen on equally hard times given the economic damage that Magnolia could inflict. However, the adaptability of classes and people…Selys stared out the window and saw more strangeness.
“Cursed artifacts. Five farms have died, and five broken homes reveal five black fates. You, visitor, will you buy a curse?”
A woman in black, sooty clothing looked like she’d walked through one of the soot clouds. So did the five lumps of…Selys slowed.
“What are those?”
“A piece of timber from each barn that collapsed. A piece of bone from the best livestock put down as the suneater ash choked their lungs, unable to be butchered. A prayer to the one who returned the dead to life.”
The woman had fashioned a strange amulet, the kind which reminded Selys of Lord Mireden’s projects in Liscor—she’d kept up with home and knew about the odd charms sweeping her city. But unlike them, this one was crude. A piece of bone hooked into charcoal-black wood.
“Did you say cursed? Who would want that?”
The woman lifted one of the hanging curse-artifacts and shook it at Selys. When she smiled, her eyes lit up, and Selys recoiled.
“Why, because it’s a tradeoff, Miss Drake. [Vitality of the Undead]. Each hour you wear it, you’ll have the strength of one with nothing left to lose.”
“And draw closer to that fate yourself, no doubt. Or find your lungs coated with the same ash. It’s a product of House Walchaís, Miss Selys. Cursed artifacts. Tradeoffs. Let’s be on our way.”
“I’ll take two.”
Selys hopped out of the carriage, and Lady Welca faltered and whirled. The woman just took Selys’ gold, and the Drake very deliberately didn’t put it on, but took the hand-written note on how to use it. Welca eyed her.
“Are you an adventurer or collector?”
“I have people who might need it. Are there more?”
“Oh, aye. Plenty more if you want them. Food too.”
This time, Welca led Selys into the city and seemed deliberately trying to not show Selys the best sides of House Walchaís. Certainly, when Selys gave an item of ‘food’ on display a look, she froze.
“W-what is…?”
A [Pumpkin Farmer] had apparently owned one of the farms hit by Magnolia’s smogs. You could grow a specialty crop even out-of-season. However, pumpkins needed sunlight, so he’d lost his entire harvest.
Nevertheless, a pumpkin was on sale. Half of it was rotten, literally shriveled up and almost liquefied it was so nasty; it was sitting on a plate as the [Farmer]’s eldest daughter tried to sell it to Selys.
The other half…rose above the ruined bottom part, and it was semi-translucent. See-through. Black.
“‘Tis a Dead Pumpkin, Miss Visitor. Buy it as a novelty. Or t’eat. It has half the energy of a real pumpkin, but it is all that remains now.”
“A Dead Pumpkin?”
The daughter nodded.
“It died on the vine, and we thought the crop lost until we prayed to the Goddess. She did not bring back the harvest. But a Miracle came in the night. And it was this.”
Ghost food. Or undead food? Selys wasn’t sure it was at all edible, but when she bought one and pulled out a seed from within, it was translucent. Rhata, who feared no pumpkin seeds, even from dead pumpkins, nibbled on it.
The rat’s expression indicated it wasn’t great. However, the [Pumpkin Seller] explained the value simply.
“It won’t rot, Miss.”
