You know how it is. You move the inn and there’s not as many Acid Flies anymore. Plus, people aren’t idiots. They stole everything else Erin made; acid jars were just a matter of time. I hear some of them even breed ‘em, or try. Acid Flies are dangerous! It’ll cost ya, but even Erin agrees it’s not worth an Acid Fly Queen attacking. And they’re big, you know.
“Huh. Well, they might not be great against bone, but we also have a toilet problem and—excuse me? What do you mean, ‘sold out’?”
Someone had bought up all the stock at one store. Two hundred and thirty-nine acid jars, each one accounted for. And another store. And—by the time Mrsha and Ilvriss reached the third seller, they exchanged a look. Shrugged.
“Weird. Is this a curse?”
I sure hope not. Okay, let’s go to Pallass.
“Pallass? For what? Master Maughin isn’t a Pelt, no offense to him.”
Ilvriss’ snout wrinkled up, but Mrsha gave him a patient look.
Not metal, dumbass.
“I object to the name-calling, Mrsha. We are friends, aren’t we?”
Sorry. Not metal, you ignoramus. Pallass has another type of armor they have an abundance of—and probably just finished manufacturing given how darn hard it is to work!
Ilvriss thought about it, and then his eyes lit up.
“Of course. Frost Wyvern armor.”
 
——
 
Lightweight, frost-resistant—obviously—perfect for a mobile flier like Osthia herself. Strong, hard to manufacture, which was why suits of the armor had been slow to hit Pallass’ markets even long after the Frost Wyvern attack.
And currently—
“You’re kidding me. Sold out?”
The Gnoll representing a [Tanner] was hugely apologetic.
“Wall Lord, you literally just came too late. My buyer swooped in—didn’t even haggle! I’m sorry, but we already signed, and she took out the other finished sets for sale! Gnoll, Drake, every species’ configuration! By the way, if you and that [Princess] aren’t a thing, do you think she’s seeing…?”
You ain’t got a chance, buddy.
Mrsha handed the card to the crestfallen [Tanner], and they stalked out. Ilvriss scratched at his head.
“Okay, no offense Mrsha, but I think we’re cursed.”
I swear I haven’t used my luck powers! I shouldn’t be in the negative!
Mrsha protested as they stood together in the street. They were a bit noticeable, white Doombearer and Wall Lord, but safe with Ser Dalimont running interference with some of Ilvriss’ people. Everyone could stare and point, but the two were used to celebrity. Ilvriss felt bad Mrsha had to be guarded like this at all times, but he growled.
“Okay, I need something for the dig site! Something to reduce injuries and deaths! Think, Mrsha, think!”
Why do I gotta think for you? Hey! I know! Octavia!
Ilvriss wavered.
“Do you think she’d sell Saliss’ potions? Because I’d buy them, no matter what, but he famously doesn’t sell his battle potions on the open market.”
Mrsha began to stride towards the elevators.
Listen, Wall Lord Ilvriss, Octavia’s the one we want. Not Saliss. Think on it. She invented the Yellow Rivers cure. She’s been having her training-arc under Saliss for a year now or something, and she’s stayed at the inn. Whaddya think, she can’t make potions with the best?
Ilvriss’ eyes lit up.
“She might have mold-based unique potions. Ancestors, you’re right!”
They hurried off, high-fiving because this wasn’t something someone could just swoop in and buy. Of course, Mrsha was right.
 
——
 
Octavia Cotton had levelled. She had levelled under Saliss. She had levelled for making the Yellow Rivers cure.
Not as fast as she’d thought, but she’d realized that she’d kept levelling as the Yellow Rivers cure was used across the world. Not everyone gave her royalties or credit, but the overseer of levels did.
…And enough attention still came her way. Sometimes, someone would just…send her gold they claimed they owed her for helping with their city or them. The Yellow Rivers mold was being used to cure diseases. She made money.
A lot of money. More than she could have dreamed in Celum, and she had put it right back into being the ultimate apprentice. Saliss’ helper.
Frankly, it was only between making his potions that Octavia could experiment. But that was fine, actually. She was learning from Saliss of Lights himself, the greatest [Alchemist] who was working with seith.
She could wait. And all the little potions she’d made to copy Saliss’ materials—with her own ingredients of course—his Potions of Blast, high-level Potions of Invisibility, poisons, antidotes, a grab-bag of alchemical weapons that would have been able to outfit ten Gold-rank teams to the gills and still be leftover?
She beamed at Ilvriss and Mrsha.
“I just sold it all! Good thinking, Mrsha! I’m glad you lot came to me; I even cut a sweetheart deal, because, well, it was a lot of gold. Even for me!”
Mrsha and Ilvriss’ faces fell. Then grew confused.
Octavia, how is this good? Someone’s been buying all the battle stuff we need!
Octavia blinked at Mrsha and Ilvriss.
“Um. Yeah. She said she was. And I gave her a discount, so you’re covered.”
“Covered? How are we c—”
Ilvriss was confused until he snapped his fingers. Who came through with that much gold and knew to buy all these things? Let alone from Octavia? Desinee, the acid jars, the Wyvern armor, that was coincidence, but he relaxed.
“Lyonette. Of course. Or Nanette, that impish fashion disaster. We’ve been chasing ourselves, Mrsha! Did one of them say they’d be helping out?”
Mrsha slapped her forehead, grinned, and relaxed. Then she frowned, shook her head. But Octavia Cotton just beamed and jerked her thumb into the back of the modest shop that Saliss occasionally opened.
“Hah, you two really are all confused with that weird video. Er, what’s it about? I just heard people talking about it. Sorry, I haven’t been out of the laboratory for ages, and Selys just made me come out to sell my stock. Selys, are you still back there? C’mon, I said I’d package it all up for you! Say hi!”
Mrsha froze. Wall Lord Ilvriss didn’t know what was going on, so he was still smiling when a Drake slowly emerged from the backrooms, stuffing a potion into her bag of holding. She had two helpers, blank-faced Drakes, who strode out of the shop. Ser Dalimont eyed them, and Selys tried to walk straight past Mrsha until the girl held out a paw.
What are you doing, Selys?
“Mrsha. I’m a bit busy. Got to go.”
Selys walked around Mrsha, and the Gnoll spun, and her wand flickered in the air.
You lied to Octavia? Where’d you go? What are you doing with all that stuff? We need it!
Selys swirled at the door as Octavia made a confused sound. Her eyes narrowed, and she spat.
“You need it? The entire world doesn’t revolve around you, Mrsha. Tell your mother—if you ever—see you.”
She slammed the door, and Octavia’s mouth opened.
“Wait, but Selys said it was for you two!”
“She did?”
Ilvriss had a sinking feeling in his stomach, but Mrsha had raced out after Selys. She stood in the street as Ilvriss stepped out of the shop.
Selys doesn’t like us anymore, Ilvriss. She left Liscor behind. Even the Fortress Beavers.
“Damn. Really? Well, it’s an amazing coincidence she beat us to everything. Today of all days!”
Ilvriss didn’t get Mrsha’s anger, or guilt, until he remembered Tekshia Shivertail. Then he and Mrsha stood there. They might have softened, then, or talked about what Selys was owed or wondered why she needed all that.
Then Mrsha the Extremely Suspicious’ eyes narrowed. Look, there were inn-coincidences and then there was…she held up a card slowly.
Ilvriss, are you thinking what I’m thinking? If you’re gonna get super-armor, it’s obviously that Relic-class item that Silveran found while sewer-cleaning.
Ilvriss raised his brows.
“I don’t think Lyonette described it as Relic-class, but Selys wouldn’t know about that. Good idea. Let’s go.”
They walked, rather fast, towards the door leading back to Liscor. On the way, Mrsha stopped to ask if Liska had seen Selys. When they were told they’d just missed her, the two exchanged a glance.
 
——
 
“C’mon, Silveran! I’ll buy it! How much?”
“Miss Selys, I do not know what ‘Relic-class’ item I supposedly have. If it is my cleaning spray, I would call it Relic-class cleaning, yes, but—”
When Mrsha and Ilvriss pushed the door open to Silveran’s Cleaners, Selys was grabbing Silveran by the apron he wore. She whirled as they came in, as if she’d known they were on their way.
Rather as if one of her assistants had been using a speaking stone and relaying everything another one of her people had been hearing. Say, as a Wall Lord and Gnoll girl walked the cities.
Ser Dalimont appeared disgusted with himself, but finding an eavesdropper in the crowds wasn’t exactly easy. Ilvriss was disgusted with Selys; this was pretty low even for corporate espionage.
Mrsha…didn’t look at Selys. She just stared at the Drake’s feet and whirled.
Okay, Ilvriss, let’s go.
“Hey! Damnit, that was a ruse, wasn’t it? Don’t blame me for doing the obvious.”
Selys shouted. Ilvriss saw Mrsha push the door open. She wrote in the air.
Sorry for the trouble, Silveran. Inn stuff. This Drake is just trying to snipe our ideas. Probably get some good people killed. We’ve gotta go before she messes more stuff up.
Silveran’s mandibles opened. Selys’ eyes narrowed, and she let go of him. Ilvriss hesitated.
“Mrsha! How dare you say that to me? I helped raise you!”
Mrsha ignored Selys until the Drake was reaching for her shoulder. Then Ser Dalimont barred her path.
“Excuse me, Miss. Miss Mrsha is busy.”
“Out of my way, you overgrown golden thug. Mrsha, I’m talking to you—”
Mrsha didn’t glance at Selys. She only stopped when Dalimont grabbed Selys’ arm and eyed the two helpers who had come up behind her. She turned and wrote.
She’s not worth it, Dalimont. Go away, Selys. You’re doing your thing, clearly. I dunno what you’re doing, and I don’t want to know.
She rubbed at her head.
Could be a lot of things. Some of them good, I guess. And I guess you’re pretty smart to know we’re gonna do cool things. You remembered that much.
She stared at her feet as it rained down on them, and Selys just stood there. Mrsha was talking to her like—
“You have no idea what’s going on with me, Mrsha. Not that any of you even thought to ask. You have no clue where I’ve been, have you?”
Touring the north with Rhata and Haldagaz? They’re not here, are they? Shame, they’re Calruz’s, not yours. Afraid they’ll run off if you brought them? Haldagaz is smarter than you think, Selys.
Mrsha held up a card. Selys was actually speechless for a second. How dare Mrsha say that to her! She’d raised Mrsha!
She didn’t know about the [Palace of Fates]. She hadn’t known about the Goblin King, and even that had been hard to swallow for Selys, who’d bet it was an exaggeration, something close but not quite—she waited for Mrsha to turn around.
“Mrsha? Mrsha, I’m talking to you, little miss! Turn around and don’t you dare walk away from me!”
Mrsha’s head did turn, there. Her glower made Selys’ heart skip a beat.
My mom is the only one who gets to give me orders.
“I’m your aunt.”
The Gnoll wrote slowly and deliberately in the air.
No. Right now, you’re some Drake who decided to steal from Ilvriss and me. All nice and legal. I dunno why, but I’d believe you were doing something important. If you’d come out and met us in Octavia’s shop. Hiding from Ilvriss makes sense. He’s an important guy. Hiding from a kid is just low.
She turned back around and walked off. Selys nearly started shouting then and there, but Wall Lord Ilvriss walked past her.
“Excuse me, Miss Shivertail. I am sorry about the death of your grandmother. I wish I had been there at the funeral, but I was attempting to catch Erin’s ship and didn’t return to Liscor in time.”
He nodded his head to her. Selys stared up at him, eyes around and huge. Then she—
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss had claw marks on his face and decided after a moment to sip the healing potion. Mrsha had said the inn had several and insisted he take more since Osthia hadn’t even had one.
“How did she get that good with her claws?”
“She is Zel Shivertail’s niece, sir. Mrsha, perhaps we should go back to the inn.”
Mrsha was stomping along in the rain, head bowed.
Can’t, Dalimont. Even if I want to, Selys is clearly taking gear. Who knows why? I literally don’t, but if we don’t hurry, she’ll buy out everything! She’s got the gold for it.
Ilvriss, wincing, had to agree. They were deploying secrecy spells now.
“What can we do, Mrsha? I need something! The charms I’ve heard about?”
Mrsha shook her head.
They’re not strong, not yet. Selys got a lot of stuff. Octavia’s potions legitimately might be the biggest win. Damn, damn, damn. It’d have to be…Pelt? But he never takes jobs, even from Erin! We have to try; Selys isn’t an idiot. Even without us, she’s worked with Pelt before, and Hedault.
“Let’s run, then. Hedault over Pelt? He seems more reliable.”
Yep. Fast as we can.
The two took off, Dalimont jogging after them.
 
——
 
Master Hedault’s shop was closed. Ever since he’d given up the wand to Ryoka in exchange for the obol, he’d not been out much—only to skateboard. He did have an arrangement to use the rooms in Invrisil’s Mage’s Guild as temporary meeting and workrooms. However, he’d soundproofed and locked it magically, and only by hammering on a doorbell he’d installed could they get his attention. When he finally did appear, he snapped.
“Selys sent a very inappropriately-urgent message to me this morning. I informed her of the same thing I told her representative. I have nothing I will show anyone. Yet.”
His eyes glinted, and Mrsha slowed and caught the whiff of—but she had already whirled.
Thanks, Hedault. Don’t trust Selys, she’s being a bad person. We have to run!
The [Enchanter] blinked at the words and then saw Ilvriss dash after Mrsha. He threw his hands up and slammed the door. If Selys had done that this morning, then they were too late. She’d already gotten to—
 
——
 
Master Pelt was sitting with his legs up in his folding chair by the forges, despite the heat of the day and the fires. Selys jumped when Mrsha and Ilvriss thundered up, but the Dwarf just stood.
“There you two idiots are. Took you long enough.”
Pelt, don’t sell to Selys if you’ve made an offer, she’s being suspicious!
Mrsha threw up a card, then eyed him.
Oh, you’re not. Ignore that. Damn pre-written cards.
Ilvriss nodded to Pelt.
“Master Pelt, Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
