Mildly unnerved. Which told Calidus he was doing something wrong. He stopped trying to wail and sat up after a moment. Brushed at some viscera and blood on his clothing.
“Not working? I felt like I was getting into the sadness there. One should mourn.”
“That is not the way of the Assassin’s Guild, Lord Calidus. Unless you intend to change things?”
He could never tell who said what with their damn masks. Calidus, dry-eyed, got up and paced around the body. He inspected the corpse again. Stabbed enough times her midsection had detached—with his accidental help.
“I’d like some more care and consideration, yes. It’s all part of my plan: don’t be murdered in my sleep when this goes pear-shaped. Which it is looking more and more likely to.”
He glanced around at the dozen or so Faces from the old Guild, all that remained, and blank-faced Ranks from Chandrar. Calidus smiled at Losmere.
“You don’t see it? Ha. Haha. Just me then?”
He knelt over the body and knew his life was on the line. Which did motivate him to some emotion, but he wasn’t a good [Actor], and he didn’t like himself that much. Tears might save his life, but Calidus just sighed. Genius, some called him. He certainly had the class.
[Genius of Sloth]. And he wasn’t purely analytical like Zeomtoril, his [Polymath]. He fancied he understood more of the world than if it were just a Golem’s logical place like Zeomtoril believed. So Calidus knew time was running out.
Still, he couldn’t cry. He just held the dead woman’s face. Her mask had revealed dusky features and freckles, which were paler than the surrounding skin; a fascinating thing. She might have become a feared Face of the Guild or so many things. Dead.
“I weep for the waste. Truly. Let’s all have a toast in her honor. Anyone know her name?”
He glanced around and sighed when it became obvious no one did. Calidus Reinhart toasted her anyways and got blind, stinking drunk. It seemed like the best move, really.
 
——
 
They were going to murder him. Calidus knew. He didn’t ask for this, but he could read the room.
Don’t get the Assassin’s Guild running? Old Regis has me murdered.
The Guild’s exposed? Same thing, and Magnolia probably kills me for my involvement.
Fail to keep it orderly and an [Assassin] murders me and takes over.
Fail to balance the Ranks and Faces? Civil war and killed for incompetence.
The only way he lived was the hardest and most narrow path: keep the Guild running and make sure it was a success. Not too much of a success or he was too powerful yadda yadda, but do a good job, in short.
No way out. Calidus had already calculated the odds of him escaping successfully, and at the moment, trying hard was his only option.
Mind you, trying hard for him was a few drunken speeches over the dead woman’s corpse, organizing her burial in a growing graveyard outside his mansion, and then drinking until he stumbled into bed and a delightful memory of—
He turned his head, and Losmere, the Human [Assassin] who seemed to speak and represent the old-guard [Assassins], was still in bed with him. She was highly attractive—to Calidus, at least.
Oh, she had claimed she wasn’t the most attractive woman under the mask, but what was a mask but mystique? Plus, she was exceptionally fit and scarred. She had a lot of knife-wound scars as an [Instructor] who taught Assassins, and there was nothing so alluring as a woman who could kill you.
Calidus’ recent memories were highly complimentary about her, and he smiled as he sat up in bed. She tugged up her cloth mask just enough to offer him a hint of a smile. He reached for a pitcher on a side table, poured himself a drink. Then sighed.
“You don’t seem much pleased given recent events.”
She had a purr to her voice that was so menacing it did wonderful things to the back of his brain, but Calidus’ damn mind overrode his baser instincts. He beamed at her anyways and handed her a cup.
“Oh, just grieving because it’s the last time we’re sleeping together, I fear. I do appreciate the effort, Losmere, and I shall kiss your fingers happily on farewell, but I do find that being slept with out of obligation takes the fun out of life.”
She was very well-trained, but [Assassins] were actually worse with social dissembling than they thought. It came from being good at murder, not talking. Just a hint of hesitation as she lifted the cup to her mouth, and then it stayed there to hide a reaction.
“A bold claim.”
“An accurate one!”
Calidus swung himself out of bed and began hunting for his pants. He didn’t look at her and dared to turn his back to an [Assassin] because he knew she wouldn’t kill him. He didn’t have time to be afraid of things that wouldn’t happen, which gave him that casual, even jaunty air that disconcerted them, he knew.
“What are you basing that on? I was quite—”
“Women don’t share the same bed with me after all is said and done unless they want something, Losmere.”
Another pause.
“You’re basing this purely on that?”
Calidus buttoned up his shirt, then glanced at her blank face. She was annoyed now, but he was casual. He knew he was right and began to elucidate his argument.
“I’m quite fine with it, you know. No hard feelings; I’m usually the result of a quite consensual agreement while we’re all shitfaced, and I like to think I’m good at pleasing my partners even so. But who’d stay in a bed like that? Once they’re done, most lovely ladies see themselves out or, at least, don’t care to sleep next to me. I snore. The bed is not that clean.”
He gave the rumpled sheets a pointed glance, and Losmere hesitated. Calidus kept ticking points off on his fingers.
“Furthermore, even if I assumed we were so enamored as to be laying on each other’s bosoms, you still wouldn’t be lying in bed with me. You are a trained [Assassin]; lying in a bed like that must go against your natural instincts. Third—is this the third point, I forget?—you woke up well before I did. Your tolerance for alcohol—if you even let yourself get drunk—is amazingly high, and a [Warrior] would be up for, what, an hour before me? You had to lie there, the entire time, to bring something up as we basked in the afterglow. No, you want something. You could just ask, you know.”
He sat down on the bed, and she shifted onto her feet, proving she really didn’t enjoy lying there. She sounded annoyed at herself, now.
“I told them I wasn’t good at covert missions. Understand, it wasn’t an attempt to subvert you—”
“Just get on my good side, yes, yes. And I’m inclined to listen, because, again, I need you. I die without you. I’ll take the romance and heartbreak, but go on.”
She stared at him, then shifted.
“This Guild you’re building. Work is…proceeding.”
“It’s not going well, but I’m organizing things. Go on.”
“We of the old Guild simply wish you to ensure we’re remaining as Faces. That the Ranks, these new fodder, aren’t elevated too quickly. And that our positions are protected.”
“You don’t want them challenging you and killing you in your sleep.”
Calidus translated, and she flushed before tugging her mask down and continuing to dress herself.
“We could slaughter them easily! However, if they kept attacking and came in numbers—”
“It’d be a bloodbath. Yes, yes. I’ll enforce your hierarchy. Tell the others I need cooperation, though, Losmere. No hazing the Ranks. No…do you rub their hair and dunk them in a well or something?”
She was silent, and Calidus eyed her. Losmere shrugged.
“We have been known to—test some recruits. Put them up against monsters or have them duel each other.”
“Ah, good old-fashioned hazing, then. None of that. Just do your job, and treat them professionally. No…asserting dominance. Understand?”
He waved a finger at her, and she hesitated.
“The Ranks are unruly. They’re still coming out of their training, and they’ll be obedient, but the cracks are showing, Lord Calidus. Give it a month at most and they’ll start developing personalities again. Within a year, they’ll be far more colorful, and we are inducting non-Chandrarian membership. If you don’t have strong leadership—”
“They’ll kill me or ignore me. I know.”
His eyes shone as he sat there, and she fell silent, her comments running into the Lord of House Reinhart’s too-calm expression. As if he knew everything she’d said. Calidus murmured.
“I’m trying to fix it. Thank you for the lovely illusion.”
She paused by the door, unwarrantedly uncomfortable. Losmere turned.
“For what it’s worth, it was not entirely—unpleasant to be courted.”
He smiled at her.
“High praise.”
He didn’t believe a word she said. The [Assassin] left silently to communicate to the others. Calidus? He just lay on his back a bit before cursing and getting up.
“Fine. Let’s try this damn thing.”
 
——
 
“Who killed the Rank?”
He wanted answers. He’d already put a moratorium on the [Assassins] just going out and taking jobs, but it seemed like it wasn’t working. It turned out Calidus was incorrect, though.
It took one of the Faces a while, but he eventually had an answer.
“It was not your family or a request through the Guild’s usual methods, such as they were, Lord Calidus. We have respected your commands while restructuring the Guild.”
“So the Rank just went for a walk?”
Calidus’ sarcastic tone made the Naga visibly stiffen, annoyed, but the [Lord] was more annoyed, so the Naga replied softly.
“This was a special request. Regis Reinhart demanded a spy to investigate…something. Three Ranks went. Two returned the body.”
“Ah, Grandfather. So he’s above the chain of command, I take it?”
“He is Regis Reinhart. The Assassin’s Guild has always listened to him. He is on a shortlist of targets we refuse to take. Three-Color Stalker being another famous example, worldwide.”
The Naga might have been from Baleros, or maybe he’d lived in Izril all his life. Calidus decided to ask.
“Are you from Baleros’ Guilds?”
“…As a Rank, yes.”
“Fascinating. I’d love to know how they do things.”
“Far more…unconventionally than here, Lord Calidus. Local chapters have secret passphrases and ornate rituals. Lizardfolk gangs who leave blood markings, and more formal groups in cities. They war with each other. One Guild in the north and south is far more preferable. And the north owes much to Regis Reinhart, we understand.”
“Despite the Circle of Thorns getting you all mostly killed? Regis is in there too, I’ll wager.”
Silence. The Naga slithered next to Calidus, and the [Lord] spoke.
“Right, well, he’s got the same sway in House Reinhart. No one goes against Grandfather except dear Aunt Magnolia. And he’s put me in a life-or-death situation fixing his mess. So here is my order: no one listens to him. Any request, any request goes through me or I expel you from the Guild and everyone who had knowledge of it. Understand?”
He raised his voice, and the Face hesitated.
“Regis Reinhart—”
“Don’t listen to me, go ahead! Just plunge a dagger into my heart! Go on!”
Calidus whirled and tore open his shirt. He chest-thrust himself at the Naga, who slithered back, recoiling. The Naga snapped, unusually disconcerted.
“What is it with you and offering to let us kill you?”
The [Lord] beamed.
“It’s because you need me. Until you no longer do, my life is the best card to play. You want to stop being hunted? You want a Guild? Grandfather wants it too, so in that case, what I say goes. No one overrules me! Agreed?”
He pointed at the Face, then to a few random shadows in his banquet hall. The Naga’s eyes slid sideways, and he murmured.
“Very well. Lord Regis’ requests are not exactly easy at the best of times. He may be unhappy, however.”
“Let him shout. Now, is my Guild ready?”
Calidus was already tired, but he strode out of his mansion and into the town and saw there was a fresh coat of paint on a building and a lot of rather unhappy people in plain clothes filing in. He beamed as the Naga sighed.
 
——
 
A Guild. That was the idea Calidus had had, and it looked like almost any Adventurer’s Guild in existence.
It did, in fact, say ‘Adventurer’s Guild’ on the sign. And the men and women of various species and ages inside lining up to register were also adventurers.
Bronze-rankers, mostly. Calidus himself watched the Naga be issued a Gold-ranker’s card and details. It wasn’t easy just creating someone at Gold-rank, mind you. There was a lot of paperwork to forge, and the other Guilds had their own records and didn’t exactly enjoy someone waltzing up and saying they had their own Gold-rankers, add them to a list.
Named-rankers were impossible to forge into existence without a lot of contacts, though Calidus had done his homework and had seen a ‘Regrika Blackpaw’ had been clearly forged as being Named-rank. But even she’d had to do it like he was doing now.
“When you put him at Gold-rank, pre-date all the records, oh, three years ago. You’re going to want about sixty adventuring entries here. Put them in sloppy shorthand. Then, when the other guilds ask for the file, send it over. Which we shall initiate by having a member complain their records aren’t being shown in another Guild.”
He was talking to the [Receptionist], who was a lovely young woman that had actually been part of the Adventurer’s Guild. Then fired for embezzlement. That’s what her file said, and Calidus didn’t ask how his grandfather had found her.
He suspected the Circle of Thorns or Regis’ ghostly maids were the real paper-pushers behind the scenes. Calidus had demanded a lot to make the Assassin’s Guild function again, and it amused him to think of the dreaded Circle assigning fifty [Secretaries of Darkness] or something to do what he needed.
Every organization needed quality staff. Unfortunately…a [Corrupt Receptionist] wasn’t exactly trustworthy. Which was why the sweating Human woman was very aware she was working for a bunch of undercover [Assassins].
Nothing instilled loyalty like the threat of death. Still…the Guild wasn’t exactly optimal, which was why Calidus was acting as the actual Guildmaster.
The Naga, who was very upset to show his rather handsome features, complete with a red patina of scales like a starburst around his mouth, glared at Calidus.
“This front is unnecessary, Lord Calidus. Our organization works optimally in secret. A more discreet headquarters could have similar organization and less showyness.”
“Yes, it could. But this provides you with a cover.”
“What cover? An adventurer who goes and kills—”
Calidus rolled his eyes.
