“When the north and south have warred, it tends to go that way. One finds the base of another and sends in the Ranks and Faces until the other side flees or fights them off. Then they intercept each other. Use informants and gain the loyalty of gangs until one finds another base.”
Bleeding each other dry of members. Only in this case, Calidus’ base had already been found. Selys cursed.
“Well in that case—teams, get over here!”
She began calling them over and giving them orders.
“New jobs. You’re on patrol and anti-assassin duty. Memorize each other’s faces. We’ll do callsigns and ways of identifying each other. But stick to your teams!”
That was the only thing she could think of; keeping the Ranks together instead of individual might mean they had a chance. Selys pointed to the Guild.
“We’ll get you whistles or horns. If you run into enemies, sound the alarm and a Face will defend you. Or get back here, got it?”
“We can’t just stay here and defend. We have to find them and kill their members!”
Losmere objected. Selys gave her a narked glance.
“Unless you have more sources of information, we have no idea where they are, do we?”
She twisted around to ask Calidus, but he had already hurried off. It was Lagrisse who shook his head, and he was troubled.
“We do not. And if I may say so, Guildmistress? I did wonder why not all of my co-workers were here. It felt like far too few had arrived, even given the bases destroyed. If they are working for the other Guild…”
“Are they better than you?”
Lagrisse licked his lips.
“There were senior members in information-gathering and denial, but I don’t know if they survived. If they did, locating their bases might be…difficult. Not many Gangs would want to sell out the Assassin’s Guild, even to a second one. For fear of what might happen.”
Wonderful. Selys drummed her claws on the table. Then she frowned at Lagrisse.
“Wait a second. But this other Guild is very noticeable, yes?”
“Oh yes, they’re advertising their services. Little black cards were found on nobles’ pillows, I gather. The Gangs were made aware that the Assassin’s Guild services were being offered once more.”
Whoever this second Guild was, they didn’t really want secrecy, they wanted to replace the old one in a hurry. Selys thought that was a stupid move; didn’t Lord Tyrion Veltras want them all dead along with a lot of nobles? But if the person in charge thought they had the backing of one of the Five Families or something—she had wondered why Lord Calidus was part of this.
Her eyes narrowed as she thought.
“I might not know how to deal with rival [Assassins], but I’ve been told about Guilds warring with each other before. This second Guild—they’re already taking contracts?”
“A number of high-profile deaths have been reported, Guildmistress. And I observe—some of the orders given to Lord Calidus were also carried out. Not by our members.”
For the first time, Lagrisse showed Selys a list of people to be murdered, and she felt a chill on her scales, because it was such a banal list.
Just names of people and places. A headshot of them, sometimes, or a description.
A [Merchant] in Invrisil. A young man in Thornvale. A…she pushed the papers back, feeling sick. Took a breath.
“Why do they want them dead?”
“The clients do not often say. In this case? I believe debts. This young man won the hand of a [Lady] over other suitors. This [Emperor] is wanted dead by multiple people, and as for the [Princess], the same—”
Selys’ eyes opened. Then she snatched the papers back.
“What?”
Laken Godart and Lyonette du Marquin were on the list. Both were marked with high, high bounties, and Selys’ blood ran cold.
 
Laken Godart, Riverfarm.
Lyonette du Marquin, Liscor.
 
She stared up at Lagrisse, and he clarified unhelpfully.
“Lord Calidus was ordered to sabotage the [Princess] as well, but declined to kill her for the attention it would attract. The same for the [Emperor]. He can refuse requests. He, ah, apparently has decided any lady he deems too attractive should not be a target of assassinations.”
Losmere rolled her eyes, but Selys was still having trouble breathing. That didn’t make her feel any better. Even if Calidus didn’t have them on a list, the second Guild—
Wait. Waitwaitwait. She inhaled suddenly, and color flooded back into her cheeks. She grabbed the list.
“Hold on, if this other Guild is taking all the requests, they’re going after everyone here, aren’t they?”
“Yes, Guildmistress.”
Losmere and Lagrisse blinked at Selys as her tail suddenly wagged, and she smiled. Her eyes rose.
“In that case, I have a bounty to post—right now.”
“On who?”
She stabbed a claw onto Lyonette’s face.
“Lyonette du Marquin. Alive.”
Neither man nor woman understood until Selys turned to them.
“Post a bounty right now, Lagrisse, and get me a list of stealthy Ranks or Faces! I want her alive and every [Assassin] who goes after Lyonette—dead.”
“You want us to protect—”
“Isn’t that what [Assassins] do sometimes? Plus, think about it! We know who this other Guild wants to kill. How do we find their members and take them out?”
Losmere began nodding slowly, and Lagrisse’s eyes lit up.
“We have done this against the south before, Guildmistress. Not in recent memory, since Magnolia Reinhart took over and tensions between north and south eased. Not since before the First Antinium War. I’ll have to find the old methods—”
“Do it! But get me counter-bounties—now!”
Selys shouted. She rose to her feet and felt unaccountably relieved. She didn’t want Lyonette dead, or Laken. Lyonette was a Todi-stealing bitch and monstrous woman who shouldn’t be raising Mrsha and was part of the problems of the inn—
But I’m not seeing you dead. I’m doing this because I’m a better person than you are. And because you’d do this for me, I suppose.
Selys took a shaky breath. Then—she grimly began giving orders. Within the day, she began logging the first members of her Guild coming in with wounds—or not at all.
Ranks fighting other Ranks hiding in the forest. Two dead, one who came in, sat down, and had a tourniquet they’d had to tie onto the stump of an arm with their teeth. She sent two squads out to guard Laken.
Neither one came back. Later, Lagrisse delivered a report; no less than forty [Assassins] dead in the Unseen Empire, all slaughtered by Laken Godart’s protectors. Half pecked to death by crows.
She pulled the Ranks back from entering the Unseen Empire and put them on interception instead. And watched them leave and come in. Sent them out and counted who survived.
That—
That was like her old job.
 
[Experienced Receptionist Level 27!]
[Experienced Receptionist → Vice Guildmistress Level 25!]
[Vice Guildmistress Level 25!]
[Skill – Assign Basic Quests Obtained!]
[Skill – Assign Rare Quests Obtained!]
[Skill – Assign Heroic Quests Obtained!]
[Skill – Conditional Bounty (Quests) Obtained!]
[Skill – Inheritance: Flicker of Talent (Clawfighting) Obtained!]
[Skill – Evasive Flip Obtained!]
[Skill – Enforce Orders Obtained!]
 
“Vice Guildmistress? Vice?”
She was entirely upset.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart called Roshal, a novelty. He didn’t know you could just ring them up, but they had a Mage’s Guild, and they transferred him to the Slaver’s Guild where a very polite, nay, sultry woman asked why he was calling.
“Would you like to report a lost [Slave], purchase one, or—”
“Calidus Reinhart calling on behalf of Regis Reinhart.”
“Excuse me, sir?”
“Calidus Reinhart by the authority of Regis Reinhart.”
“Is this in connection w—”
“Calidus Reinhart, nephew of Regis Reinhart.”
He repeated himself sixteen times, varying the volume and trying accents on until they connected him to the right person. Another smooth-voiced man.
“Lord Reinhart. I understand you have an inquiry into the members of our [Assassin] program?”
“I have a bunch of rival Ranks running around, and I want to know if mine are going to turncoat.”
Calidus didn’t care for all this oily pomp and pseudo-elegance. It was like a bad makeup job over what the Slavers of Roshal were, and he had taken a close enough look. He was not impressed by the man, who responded after a second.
“I have been apprised of the situation, Lord Calidus, and I deeply regret the incident. We, of course, simply cater to our clients who have the authority to purchase from us. It is a very select roster, and any complications of this nature are the result of client-error, not the training—”
“You don’t care. I bet you lot popped champagne when you realized you were going to sell twice as many [Assassins]. If you keep giving me lip, I’ll have you killed.”
A pause.
“Lord Reinhart, I am—”
“You gave me your name, and you work for the Slaver’s Guild. I have hundreds of Ranks. Answer my questions.”
Calidus took a draft of wine. You had to find some perks in a miserable day. After a moment, the man, sounding rather disgruntled, spoke. A touch faster.
“—The Ranks are highly trained in our programs to avoid disobedience. Some may shake their conditioning, which is inevitable in any batch, but they are heavily disinclined to turncoat unless they believe the odds are against them.”
“So no suicide missions. Understood.”
“Well, they are highly motivated. If you have observed their work in Izril, you understand there are quite a number of tasks they can be ordered to perform. Just not ones without any possibility of survival. The more you reward them—”
Less fun, again. Calidus pinched the bridge of his nose.
“Right, right. You’ve brainwashed them so well. Hear me applauding?”
“…I don’t hear anything, Lord Calid—”
“I’m asking if there’s a way to motivate them beyond whatever you’ve done to them.”
Right now the two Guilds were fighting each other. Calidus had done a bit of that, organizing the squads Selys had sent into ambushes, giving them advantages in a tactical sense. It was vaguely fun, but he was no commander, and his intelligence didn’t pay off that well.
What he needed was a strategic victory. He waited as the trainer or [Slave Master] considered the question.
“Motivating the Ranks? They will do any job you set them to, Lord Calidus. Motivating them beyond a high bounty, you mean?”
“Yes. Enthusiasm. Commitment to the job! They’re not [Slaves], so I can’t free them. Is there anything? Did you starve them for vegetables when you locked them in a pit and had them kill each other or something with your oh so impressive training regime?”
The other man was getting annoyed, but he tried to sound polite.
“I’m afraid, Lord Calidus, that our Ranks deliver their utmost already. There is no…secret motivating factor I could name. If you would like to buy more, that is surely the best way to overcome a potential adversary.”
Calidus rolled his eyes into his head.
“Wonderful. So your answer after wasting my time is ‘buy more [Assassins]’, the same answer you gave my counterpart.”
“Roshal is neutral in its dealings with—”
“How’s the port? Still dusty?”
Dead silence for a moment.
“Lord Calidus, with all due respect, the trauma inflicted upon Lailight Scintillation is no laughing matter. The Slaver’s Guild is not without redress to customers who—”
“Your customer is old Regis Reinhart. I’m his grandson. The old fogey’s put me in charge of all of this so you’re going to deal with all my comments and smile because no one likes you. That’s why you have to talk to all the clients. If you were good at your job, you’d be training [Assassins]. If you were powerful, you’d make someone else do this. Also, your current training regime and [Slave Masters] are substandard.”
“—subst—”
“I checked your records, and you delivered 433 Ranks in one ‘batch’. Historically, you’ve offered over seven hundred. Your methods are sloppy. I’m going to place another damn order because I have to, but I want you to write this down and report it to your superiors. They are failing my expectations. Which were low! But if you’ve gone from, what, let’s call it a 70% graduation rate to barely 40%? Sloppy. Embarrassing, really. All this time being the premier [Assassin] distributor because Germina’s out of the game and the other nations have lost their production has let standards lapse. They’re not even high-level. All but twenty were under Level 20. It used to be you’d get a few Level 30s in a batch! What am I even paying for?”
Calidus kept ranting into the speaking stone as the man on the other end went silent, and he was trying to work in a few personally hurtful comments as he tried to get someone to look up a few details on anyone whose feelings he could hurt.
Right up until someone interrupted his rant. A new voice took over the speaking stone. Well, there was a voice, an exclamation, then a shout of muffled pain and sobbing and then…Calidus halted, and someone spoke.
“You are, of course, correct. Four hundred? I could care less how many are sent, but under Level 20? Find me who is in charge of the program. Flay them and hang them up as an example.”
Another muffled voice.
“Yes, Lord.”
Calidus paused a second, then spoke.
“Oh good, management. And you would be?”
“Lord Pazeral. I quite agree with your objections, foreign Lord. I shall personally see our next batch of Ranks is acceptable. And throw in a gift or two. I can sense you are a man of exquisite taste.”
“I do love many a lady’s bosoms. And posteriors. Why must one choose?”
Calidus joked, and there was a laugh.
“Quite! I myself share the same opinions. There are men of good humor in this dreary world. Rest assured, I will be fixing matters—”
The ‘fixing’ comment came with a scream and more sobbing. Calidus almost heard this Lord Pazeral pulling the blade out of the man he’d stabbed and plunging it back in. He sighed.
“…Well, I’ll leave you to it. I don’t suppose you offer bulk discounts?”
Lord Pazeral laughed again at that, so Calidus joined in and noticed he didn’t get any damn discounts. Scary masters of Roshal or not—they were all damn salespeople at heart. As in they sold people.
He stomped off and hoped Selys had a better idea for how to resolve things.
As a matter of fact…she did. At least, he thought it was worth a shot since he was going crazy.
 
——
 
The reason that Selys Shivertail was going to survive was because she was practical. Not as intelligent, not as charming as some people. She fancied she had decent amounts of all that, but she had to admit, Drassi had more charisma.
Someone like Olesm was a bit smarter, at least at his specialty. Selys could admit that too, for all her ego. But she had a power no one else had: practicality.
