Black-clad [Assassins]. Etril Wellfar’s blood boiled, and he turned.
“Have the Pride ready to sail!”
“Etril, they’re inland and too far for—”
He nearly kicked the [Lady of Waves] out of the way.
“My mother’s killers live! To arms and damn you and the Krakens and the seas themselves! Wellfar, to me!”
 
——
 
His was not the only response. Magnolia Reinhart was studying Calidus Reinhart with narrowed eyes—but she was the only one.
House Veltras was in uproar as the smaller branch families saw the same threat that had nearly killed Sammial and Hethon, Lord Tyrion’s children, threatening another member of the Five Families.
Their blood boiled, and Lord Calidus was screaming, weeping.
“My people. My people—but I know them, Sir Relz. T-Thornvale. There, I’ve said it. Damn you all!”
He howled out the window, and some of the [Assassins] stopped, staring up at him. What was that madman doing? Calidus shut the window and barred it with his back. He was whitefaced, and Sir Relz was whispering.
“Lord Calidus, Thornvale? What—?”
“It’s where one of their bases is. I found it out. Don’t ask me how—the Assassin’s Guild is rebuilding. Thornvale, Reizmelt, they have bases in both places! If I’m dying, I’ll go out fighting! Take this and that—”
He made fists and threw a few punches, and when something cracked off the windows, the [Lord] threw up his hands.
“I repent! Oh, dead gods! Spare me!”
Back under the desk he dove. But his head poked up, and he spoke as his head rose, like a little Giant’s, voice resonant and carrying.
“The Assassin’s Guild is back. I will not be silenced! I, Lord Calidus Reinhart, am placing a bounty on every damn [Assassin] in the north! Five hundred—no, fifty gold a head! I’m forming—yes, I’m forming the Guild of Anti-Assassins! Killers who kill the hired killers! Izril forever! You can’t silence me! Izril! Iz-ril! Iz-ril!”
He jumped out of hiding and began waving a flag of House Reinhart around wildly. And Sir Relz just stared at the man until he had the sense to pivot to aerial scrying spells and…
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail actually laughed as she heard the barricades on the front breaking. The sounds of the attack were re-doubling, and she laughed at that silly, genius [Lord].
“Ancestors, he really is a genius! That might work—”
Might.
The other [Assassins] didn’t get it, but that’s because they had no political instincts. Selys sagged against her counter and explained it to the others.
“Don’t you see? He’s put the Five Families against the other Guild. He’s revealed them—but kept us hidden. He’s going to claim we’re the Guild of Anti-Assassins. The other Guild—they don’t have cover stories.”
They were dead men and women walking if anyone took a hard look at them, and House Veltras, House Wellfar, dead gods, they had so many enemies—the assassins were going to be slaughtered.
Some would escape, but Calidus had just put a giant crosshair on everyone in the north. Without revealing he was the other Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild.
It was genius. A kind of Erin genius that even she hadn’t pulled off. Selys laughed more.
“There’s just…one problem, Calidus. You can get away with it. I bet you can even not get killed for spilling the truth and beating your enemies. But we’re still here.”
Surrounded. Under siege by an enemy Guild with nothing left to lose. If they got out, they could rebuild. Pose as anti-Assassins, even claim they were hiring former [Assassins] and legitimize themselves.
Masterstroke.
…They weren’t getting out of this. Selys had no back door exit. Someone had turned off the teleportation magic around here. She stood in the Guild as it shook, and the Ranks and Faces turned to her.
The Guildmistress bared her teeth. She stood, and the two rats leapt onto her shoulders as she lifted the crossbow.
“Members of my guild…you haven’t been with me long. But you’re still mine. That’s a Drake’s selfishness. We are the Assassin’s Guild of Izril. Fight through them—and whoever survives, you are the Assassin’s Guild. Keep going. That’s all. Keep—”
She had a vision, for a second, of a quartet of broken people.
[Necromancer]. [Cryomancer]. [Wounded Warrior]. Antinium [Skirmisher]. Selys’ head turned, and she gazed across the faceless killers.
“Keep going. No matter what. And one day, you’ll be something so beautiful we don’t have words for it. Get ready. Ready—”
The barricades were cracking. She saw Calidus Reinhart collapse onto a desk as Sir Relz was commentating from above, watching as the Adventurer’s Guild was being broken into. A mob of black-clad figures from above.
This was it. We’re going to make it. I’m going to survive, no matter what. Selys lifted the crossbow with shaking claws.
If she told herself that, she could be less afraid. She touched Haldagaz’s head. Rhata’s as the rat snarled.
“Run, you two. Please?”
The rats didn’t run. Death before dishonor.
Selys Shivertail wiped at her eyes and began to chuckle again. She slid down the counter as Lagrisse drew a long pair of stiletto daggers. Slashface and three dozen Ranks were shielding Selys with their bodies. Loyalty for a woman who offered them a scrap of kindness. The Drake’s laugher grew higher-pitched as the first crack appeared in the final barricades.
The Faces took aim, and Selys dragged her crossbow up as the first [Assassin] breached the gap. Arrows and bolts erased the figure from existence, but there were a hundred more, and she whispered—
“Erin? I’m really sorry.”
The crossbow thunked in her claws. She saw an [Innkeeper] lying in the grass and tried to smile like that. Her claw worked the lever as the first [Assassin] breached the maelstrom of fire. An arm raised to throw. Falling—and then another, throwing a dart that took down another Rank.
More and more and—
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart smashed the scrying orb with a fist and dragged himself up. Then he laughed.
He howled with wit. Cackling, a gleeful hyena’s cackle fit for a madman.
They were coming.
House Wellfar like the tides. Veltras galloping in wrath. Even Terland Golems, El’s mercenaries, and his family, marching to save this silly [Lord].
But not the brave [Guildmistress] in her Guild. Not the Ranks nor Faces. Calidus saw Qissax turning to him with the blankness of a man who had learned his own value was nothing at all.
Calidus laughed in his face. He giggled in destiny’s smug countenance and held himself up on the desk. Couldn’t support his own weight, so he sank. A choking, madman’s mirth.
He forced this out of his lungs, the last trick. The last part of the plan. Lord Calidus Reinhart concentrated and summoned to him all his will.
All his desire for victory. A madman’s strength.
I shall not lose this. Not while I love it so.
He forced against the world’s order. Pushed until the blood vessels in his nose burst as easily as a soap bubble. Kept pushing until he was allowed to say the words that mattered.
The only words that mattered here and now.
The [Lord] whispered the words.
“[Move Reality Like Chess]. [Copy Skill (Intellect): Brigade: Castling the Pieces].”
His breath caught in his lungs. His heart stopped. He felt the world flash, but he held onto it. A perfect plan. Until he felt the world move—
Then he lay there on his desk until Zeomtoril rushed into the room and reactivated his heart with a shock spell. Grinning.
 
——
 
The [Rapist] had a name, and he appreciated if people used it.
Jourteben Rabeis. Not that it was his real name. He’d made it up, and his Skill, [Untraceable Assailant], had fooled even the Assassin’s Guild.
Good, very good. The man had big plans for the future. He didn’t appreciate the training, which was cruel and harsh even by his standards, but he’d realized one of his instructors was female and put her on a list.
The list was very long, and he liked to sort it by most-actionable targets to long-term goals. It helped him level. Once he had training and the position of the Assassin’s Guild…he’d have everything.
From a man no one would hire, and whom many wanted dead, to a powerful member of the greatest Guild. Jourteben was happy.
He was only annoyed that Lord Calidus had him sitting in some warehouse or something miles and miles away from the actual Guild. A secret training place, naturally, though one with a lot of food and more defenses than Jourteben had thought.
Well, it just proved he was valuable, and he’d learned that the Guild was in conflict with a rival one. Perhaps he’d change sides. The man smiled, thinking on how to use his Skills and abilities to best take advantage of the situat—
Pop.
The world shifted around him. One second he was sitting in a chair in the warehouse, in the vast, secured rooms in lovely shade, the next, he was sitting behind a desk. Staring down at an empty cage and little spinning wheel.
He felt…sick. Disoriented. He heard someone retch and saw a man he knew, a [Murderer], vomit straight onto the floor. Jourteben himself felt woozy.
“What’s going—?”
Someone croaked, but he was already going for the doors. Get out. Escape. He didn’t know what had happened, but his instincts were very good. His [Advanced Dangersense] was—
Boom. One of the walls opened, and the [Rapist] went deaf. Smoke billowed in, and then—he raised his hands and saw a black-clad figure leap into the room.
“Oh, good. It’s us. We’re new recruits.”
Jourteben began to say. Then he saw the figure whirl something up and throw. It was some kind of bladed—multi-spiked—it went into a man’s chest next to him and kept spinning. The lacerating blades were red with gore and sprayed the [Rapist] in the face with blood, and the man it had struck began to scream. Or tried to—it was more of a wheeze as air left his punctured lungs.
“Wait. Wait, we’re on the same—”
The [Rapist] was trying to slink away, down under the counter, but he saw more figures streaming in. A huge Minotaur wearing a black mask had stormed into the room. Someone tried to slash at him, another new recruit—he just brought something up. A battering-ram device which he pressed against a forehead—
Boom. A lever exploded forwards and blew out the contents of the figure’s head. The [Assassins] were charging the room and now—now—
Why, Jourteben felt like he’d been tricked. He fumbled for a blade as he pressed himself against the floor, hunting for a hidden trap door. A crevice, anything. But the [Assassins] were streaming forwards, slaughtering everyone, and when he looked up—
He saw a figure crawling over the ceiling above him. A lovely woman. The man added her to his list—right up until the Selphid dropped on him. Then he realized she had a Wand of Acid Spray, and he began to struggle as she put it up one nostril, and after that—
Well, mostly what he thought was pain.
Until the end.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart wept at the funeral for his people. He sobbed. He wailed. He threw himself on the ground and gathered the ashes into his arms.
Because he was on television. At some point, Selys Shivertail had to pull him back and help him up, and he promptly threw his arms around her and tried to kiss her.
She stomped on his foot. But she let him have a hug, because he had produced a miracle.
The Drake and a number of ‘new recruits’ to Calidus’ Guild of Anti-Assassins were standing at the funeral for the Adventurer’s Guild of Isbeut and many of the town’s citizens.
Hundreds of men and some women, murdered horribly. It brought a tear to the eye. Calidus himself had survived, miraculously, due to the Five Families converging on him, but he had sworn vengeance.
Down with the Guild of Assassins! He, Calidus, was spearheading a new Guild! A just one! He had galvanized support against the Guild of Assassins while it was flagging.
Why, Lord Etril Wellfar had himself erased the Thornvale base of the Guild of Assassins after confirming it had been trapped to hell and back and even had a few [Assassins] inside.
They were still here.
Dead gods, what a thought. Selys Shivertail glanced at the members of her new Guild, and they gave her the most innocent looks they could muster. She just smiled.
The man was a genius. He’d said his grandfather was not pleased, but Calidus had, in a single move, made it very hard to remove him without a lot of suspicion and put his enemy in check.
Not checkmate…but Selys had decided he was worth working for after all. She sighed as she rubbed at her neck spines.
“My hot springs. I just had the groundwork done.”
“We’ll have new hot springs made. And a brothel. One with Golems. You know, I’ve been accepting donations for the construction of my new Guild and town? And some people are actually donating?”
Calidus Reinhart stood there, blowing his nose, and Selys Shivertail just shook her head at him.
“I suppose it’s good, getting your name out there. You are mentioning that Selys Shivertail is your Guildmistress, right?”
She wanted it to be known. Calidus nodded at her.
“Oh yes, the redoubtable Selys Shivertail. Ready for her step into the future. Upstanding. And free this Lundas for a meal at a fancy restaurant…?”
She laughed and handed him a white rat.
“Take Haldagaz. He seems to like you.”
She walked off, and Calidus eyed the rat squeaking in his hands.
“Ah, well, good enough to start with. Come, my friend. We shall dine on the finest vittles in the restaurant I booked in great, if foolish, expectations!”
Calidus marched off, a smile crossing his face. Life was fun after all. Haldagaz agreed. This man might not be really honorable, and Selys might be…still lost in her way.
But she cared about something, like the Ranks she was walking among, giving little pep talks to, memorizing their names. Just so it’d hurt more if they went and died on her.
The rat chirped and then began to read a menu over Lord Calidus’ shoulder. So this was the Assassin’s Guild. He might not know much, but Haldagaz was a rat of honor.
He’d help Selys as much as he could, because someone should. But Haldagaz was mightily curious about who was pulling Calidus’ strings. The man was a careful, clever [Lord]—but everyone let their guards down about rats. Haldagaz would abide until he knew where honor should strike.
Just as Calruz had taught him. Then the [Lord] winked at the rat.
“And while we’re at it, we should introduce you to some lovely mice ladies in First Landing, eh? I know one pet store that sells them.”
What now? Haldagaz the Incorruptible stared at Calidus, and the [Lord] spread his arms and twirled around as he walked forwards.
“Life feels more entertaining at last! Wait, what was that Wall Lord doing in the south?”
