Dead gods, that was unpleasant. The Rxlvn had such a nasty effect he took a second hit of the potion. Wonderful, though.
“Phew. Are they here at last? I was having such fun.”
“The Assassin’s Guild has come. There are hundreds of Ranks and Faces assaulting—”
Qissax was wounded. His scales were burnt, and Calidus heard screams and explosions from outside. He walked to a window—he was in his office—and stared outside.
Fire in his town. The Assassin’s Guild was under siege. He saw something explode on the roof of the Guild, sending shingles flying, but the enchanted wood underneath…Calidus turned.
“Is Selys Shivertail alive?”
“She’s retreated inside and is holding the Guild with the Ranks. But we are outnumbered—”
“Yes, yes. Shut up, Qissax. Guard my office. I’m supposed to be off-limits, but my rival probably wants me dead. I would. If Zeomtoril’s still drunk, drag him in here. I need fifteen minutes. Then we can all die.”
Lord Calidus Reinhart walked over to his desk and sat down. He checked his clothing, then shrugged. He pulled open a drawer and put the contents on his desk. Qissax was ready to shout, but the Face saw Lord Calidus place the oddest assortment on the desk.
He had:
 
-A button-up white shirt with House Reinhart’s sigil in green on the silk breast.
-A new pair of pants.
-Underwear, briefs.
-A piece of paper with several lines underlined, written large.
-A scrying orb.
 
Last of all, a high-grade [Message] scroll of some kind. Calidus began writing in it as he ripped his shirt off and started unbuckling his belt.
“Go on, Qissax.”
“What are you—”
“Busy. That’s what.”
Busy? He’d been drunk an entire week, making a nuisance of himself, completely out-of-his-mind as Selys had been bracing for the counterattack and fighting off the first incursions! But now the [Lord] was just humming under his breath.
Qissax wavered, then went slithering through the mansion, securing the [Majordomo], the cowering [Polymath], and returned to Lord Calidus’ quarters, which were the safest and most reinforced parts of the mansion.
The [Lord] was re-dressed and speaking into a stone.
“Yes, right now. I’m about to die. I can see them outside the window. Here!”
He held up the scrying orb.
“Yes, I thought you could see through the scrying orb. I want Sir Relz, not that delightfully alluring Miss Drassi. You heard me! I’m weeping tears of blood here, but I insist on Channel 1 News! Okay, five minutes. Hurry up or I might be disemboweled or some such.”
He sat back in his chair, adjusted his clothing in a little hand-mirror—not to look better, but to actually open one button on his collar so he appeared more slovenly, and then he turned.
“Everyone out. Not a word spoken. Oh good, you’re alive, Zeomtoril. I think mixing your potions with the Rxlvn would probably kill us but for our Skill-livers.”
“C-Calidus, tell me you have an escape route! We’re dead!”
Zeomtoril was wailing. He was dead white, and Calidus smiled at his friend.
“They knocked out the teleportation spells in the area, didn’t they? I told you that your escape routes never work, Zeomtoril. Just give me ten minutes, Qissax. No, wait, fifteen, given I have a five minute-hold…it’ll be fine.”
He stood at the windows, watching as the Adventurer’s Guild took more fire. A black shape leapt down off a roof, and a dozen crossbow bolts feathered the enemy [Assassin]. Calidus just stood there, and when he turned to the uncomprehending staff, [Assassin], and [Polymath], he breathed in and out.
Then they beheld him truly. The mad [Genius], whose eyes flashed and who grinned with all the delight in the world.
“Don’t you feel alive? This is wonderful!”
He threw open the windows, vomited out of them again, and wiped his mouth on the sleeve of his shirt. Then he turned and picked up the scrying orb.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was some kind of madness even Erin hadn’t hit yet. He had vomit on his right arm’s sleeve. Discoloring his fine silk shirt—but it was already sweat-soaked and soot-marked.
Selys half-watched him as she loaded a crossbow. The inner Guild was filled with silence—except for the discharges of crossbows or the thwhap of bowstrings.
The [Assassins] fought around her, holding this place, with utter silence. Even the wounded. Pilana was the only member of staff who had been crying, and even she had a wand she’d been firing through the barricade gaps.
They were all dead. The other Guild had come in force to end this, and Selys knew it. But she watched Calidus because…they needed a miracle. Rhata and Haldagaz were in a cage behind her, squeaking. Once they came through the barricades, she’d make them run. No one killed rats.
They had time. None of the Ranks wanted to die; the moment one appeared in a firing zone, they were killed. But the explosions shaking the walls would cave the Guild’s walls in eventually. So Selys waited.
Calidus Reinhart, though…
What was he up to?
He was on Channel 1 News. Sir Relz had cut his broadcast to accept an emergency news story. And he was staring at Lord Calidus with the same confusion as the rest of the world.
“Lord—Calidus Reinhart?”
“That’s right! Winner of the Chess Tournament against the Grandmaster of Scales! Lord Calidus Reinhart! That’s C-A-L-I-D—I forget the rest! I must have the attention of the news! I say, am I on the news? I don’t see me there!”
The man’s voice was high-pitched and nervous. He was waving around a scrying orb with Sir Relz’s face on it. The Drake coughed.
“Lord Calidus, you are on the news. Live!”
“I don’t see—”
“There’s a five-minute delay, Lord Calidus!”
“Dead gods, really?”
“Yes, Lord Calidus! You indicated this was an emergency. We were just covering the war between two Terandrian kingdoms! May I ask what this is about?”
Lord Calidus’ shaken expression became one of dumbstruck incredulity. Then there was a boom, and he flinched.
“Aiiieee! That’s right, I called you because I’m under attack! It’s all my aunt’s fault! I recant my words! I swear! I’ll be good! Just don’t kill me! I’m under attack—from [Assassins]!”
“…What did he just say?”
Slashface stopped aiming a bow past Selys. The [Vice Guildmistress] narrowed her eyes as she rose. Was he…?
 
——
 
Regis Reinhart could drink mixtures fit for undead. Which meant he was capable of performing a Ghostly Winebreath Blaster.
He didn’t do that, much to the maids’ disappointment. It came all out of his nose instead.
“That brat—what is he—? Wait, is he under attack? That fool! I told him Calidus was off-limits!”
The war between the two Assassin’s Guilds hadn’t bothered Regis, but this did. Calidus was on the news, visibly terrified, and if there were rival [Assasssins] outside his window—Regis spun.
“If he speaks—”
He dies. The Faces knew that. Everyone knew that. The Assassin’s Guild would come to light in time, that was inevitable. But revealing who was part of it, who was masterminding it—
Regis’ ghostly heart began to beat faster in anxiety.
If he reveals me, then it will be truly problematic. Magnolia is not that much a fool. I will have him murdered horribly.
He began giving orders.
 
——
 
Qissax was listening, a blade in the Naga’s hand. If Calidus Reinhart spoke, he had a five-minute window to murder the [Lord] and cut the connection with Wistram.
Plenty of time.
The Face did not want to do that. He felt sure he’d be murdered with the other Guild attacking regardless of his loyalty. But Calidus could not reveal them.
Was the [Lord] just tossing it all to the winds as it collapsed around him? Surely not. He was smarter than that. So what—
The Naga was hesitating, appraising the situation as he was given orders from multiple sides. And now people were watching.
 
——
 
The Reinharts, eying the black sheep of the family who had made it to the news before them.
What had Calidus Reinhart gotten himself into?
Confused viewers, who vaguely recalled the [Lord] as the winner of the chess tournament.
But this was the first time Calidus had been spotlighted on the news. What did they see?
A slovenly [Lord], face white with fear, vomit on one sleeve. A drunk, a slob, a fool of a [Lord] screaming.
“It’s all Aunt Magnolia’s fault!”
“Sir, sir! Lord Calidus, calm down and explain what’s going on, please! Excuse me, viewers, this is Channel 1, and we have a [Lord] Calidus of House Reinhart, one of the Five Families claiming—what?”
“Claiming? Claiming? I’m claiming nothing! I’m under attack! The Assassin’s Guild of Izril is after me!”
Calidus sprayed spittle and panic into the scrying orb, and more than one person sighed. Oh, that was it.
He’d just signed his death sentence. Sir Relz’s monocle popped.
“The—what? Did I just hear you right, Lord Calidus? The Assassin’s Guild is destroyed, or do you mean the south’s—”
Calidus Reinhart had the expression of a man at the end of his rope, because he was. He stood on the precipice of life-and-death, and it gave him the strength of a madman. He shouted at Sir Relz.
“You bumbling Drake buffoon! You one-eyed hack of the Cyclops! You inbred lizard-spawn of Baleros! Can’t you hear me? Where’s Drassi? I’d lick her toe-claws for free. Anyone with a shred of intelligence instead of you!”
“I—what—toe claws—?”
No one had ever heard a newscaster insulted like that before. But Calidus’ face was crimson. His eyes were rolling, and he seized his silk button up shirt.
“They’re after me! The Assassin’s Guild isn’t dead, you fool! They’re back! They’re baaaaaaaaaaack! I tear my shirt—you tear your shirt, right? Argh!”
He ripped open his silk shirt, popping the pearl buttons off. They went pinging as Calius ripped his shirt apart, exposing a bunch of chest hair and fleshy skin.
Selys’ mouth was open along with who knew how many television-watchers. A [Lord] of the Five Families, ripping his shirt open in front of the horrified, dumbstruck Sir Relz?
A button pinged off the scrying orb, and Sir Relz flinched. Calidus waved his hands, and his voice went higher-pitched. He grabbed at his breasts, leapt up, slapped the side of his face.
“They’re coming after me, you buffoon of a Drake! All because I’ve been so open about my support for Aunt Magnolia! My hatred of the Assassin’s Guild! My undeniable sexual appeal!”
“You’re saying they’re after you because you supported—you’ve been anti—your what?”
Sir Relz, the poor Drake, couldn’t keep up. But Calidus Reinhart just kept going, shouting.
“I’ve been condemning the [Assassins] since the moment I heard about the Circle of Thorns! Everyone knows it! Now they’ve come to silence me! Aunt Magnolia, I throw myself at your feet! Save me! Saaaave me!”
He waved his arms at the camera, screaming, then swung it around and showed them his town in flames. The image revealed black-clad [Assassins] attacking, the flames—before it swung back to his face.
“I admit it, I talked a big game until it was my turn! I’ve soiled my pants twice in fear! Is that what you want to hear? Someone do something! House Veltras! House Wellfar! Send Named-rank adventurers! Send the army!”
What was going on? The innocent audience being shown the unfiltered Calidus experience was probably in a different kind of horror than Selys, Regis, and Qissax. But they realized…something was off. Calidus was speaking the truth, but a version of it—the Drake [Guildmistress]’ eyes swung around.
“What is he up to? We’re still damn dead.”
But she kept watching. Sir Relz was connecting the dots.
“So the Assassin’s Guild hasn’t been destroyed, and they’re after—you? Why you?”
“Because I’ve been so hostile against them? The Circle of Thorns? Ptuy! I spit on them!”
Calidus spat on his arm, then stared at the spittle. So did everyone else. Then the [Lord] looked around and cowered. He grabbed the scrying orb and hid under the desk. Everyone could virtually see up his nose and through his pores as he whispered.
“Or it’s, uh, my indiscretions.”
“Your indiscretions, Lord Calidus? I don’t follow—”
“My romantic assignations, Sir Relz! My bedpartners! The lovely ladies I have romanced, sir! Don’t be crude! I should have known I’d made enemies. There was that Wellfar [Lady]. Well, the last five. The Named Adventureress. One does not bed Elia Arcsinger without consequences! Or Lady Wuvren! Or half the Wall Ladies—you suck one tail and all the Wall Lords want you dead!”
Sir Relz’s scales colored. His mouth was open.
“Did you just say—Wellfar—Wall Ladies—”
 
——
 
Elia Arcsinger?
The Wandering Inn’s staff were watching the funny television broadcast when Elia Arcsinger caught that stray. She went completely still as Calescent poked his head out of the kitchen.
“I have never met—no, wait, I recall that name. Was he the one who sent both me and every female member of my team, including my daughter—that is a lie.”
She grew actually angry as she jabbed a finger at the scrying orb. But Calidus wasn’t done.
 
——
 
“M-maybe it was Lady Zanthia? It’s true, I propositioned her just last year!”
“Lady Zanthia? Isn’t she extremely elderly? With respect—”
“Don’t pretend she’s not a ravishing woman, man! What kind of blue-blooded man wouldn’t dream of it? Was it Cognita? I repent, Lady Truestone! The [Assassins] are here! Or are you denying I’ve a dagger to my throat?”
Calidus shouted at Sir Relz, and the Drake [News Anchor] was fighting for sanity in a sea of chaos.
“No, I see it, Lord Calidus—is that your Adventurer’s Guild under attack?”
Calidus was bare-chested, and he hefted the scrying orb up as he pointed out the window.
“Yes! My brave adventurers. My town—the [Assassins] are killing everyone! Oh, help. Help. Lord Tyrion Veltras, the Assassin’s Guild is still here, and they’re reformed. Izril, save me! Aunt Magnolia—”
He turned his face, and his desperate fear reflected across Izril. Then it seemed like Sir Relz finally grappled past Lord Calidus’ entertaining façade and found the truth.
Wait, the Assassin’s Guild was still around?
 
——
 
Lord Etril Wellfar had been steeling himself for another censure by the Admiralty and another attempt to strip him of command of the Pride of the Wellfar, especially after nearly losing it to Alchemist Irurx.
He’d been arguing with his family about the need to take a more active role in Izril’s affairs all year. Fighting with those who wanted to pretend things could be back to normal.
The [Lord] standing in his family’s estates, on the rocking docks, turned his head as the nobles of House Wellfar saw the same Guild that had slain the Guildmistress of Harbors in First Landing reappear.
