“Not for you to use your identities! I expect that’s what the mask is for! It provides you cover to move. Or do you think it’s easy just riding around like some kind of baleful shadow at night? People pay attention to shadows! The Unmarked Coach is overtaxed and not reliable, and as for the Guild…we’re sort of low on black carriages after most of them exploded!”
Transportation was an issue, and the [Assassins] hesitated. Calidus went on smoothly.
“The Driver’s Guild may not be that intelligent, but my aunt is. Anyone who wants to pay attention will notice someone using the Overnight Carriages. As for riding into a city—nameless travellers do tend to stand out. What doesn’t stand out is a Bronze-ranker searching for work. You head out, kill a Corusdeer, party in the city for a night, and then after someone has a tragic accident, leave after a week.”
…It wasn’t actually a bad idea. The Faces had taken similar covers before, and the Naga grumbled.
“We do not all need to be adventurers, though. Too many in the same occupation is obvious.”
Calidus slid out from behind the counter and jogged out the door. He popped into a neighboring building and rested his chin on his hands on the counter.
“Fancy a job doing deliveries?”
The Runner’s Guild next door to the Adventurer’s Guild was also very new; this town hadn’t had either. The Naga opened his mouth, and Calidus gave him a level gaze.
“I did mention you had a choice of occupations. You didn’t listen to me.”
The [Assassin] didn’t dignify this with a comment. Calidus leaned over the counter.
“The rest of the staff who worked at your old Guild are coming here to work. We’ll have a jolly little town filled with lowlife scum…and [Assassins]. I don’t envy you having to put up with your neighbors. I never had a very orderly town. Lots of [Drunks], [Gamblers], and [Wastrels]. Something about me just attracts them. We’ll have housing, plumbing, all that sort of thing under the guise of normality.”
“And when someone comes through and realizes it is not normal?”
Calidus’ patient expression became even more friendly.
“They will not. I expect you all to behave like people. I want people, not killing automatons.”
The Face glanced at the Ranks, who were lined up like Golems but clearly listening in. He glared at Calidus.
“We are what we are, said the scorpion to the toad.”
“I always thought that was a stupid story. What kind of scorpion wants to die by stinging a toad midway across the river? Scorpions blend in with the sand and dig. They know how to wait! If Grandfather wants just mindless killers, he’d be better suited to replacing you all with Golems.”
The [Lord] glared back at the Face, and the Naga hesitated. Then Calidus beamed at Losmere and blew her a kiss. He spoke cheerfully.
“One last thing. As proper people, I do expect you to pay your taxes.”
“What?”
“I need an income to fund all this! And it seems to me you all might have hefty incomes.”
He rubbed his hands together, delighted. Calidus strode out of the Guild.
“Let’s get things running! I want to see everyone here take a request today! We need to look the part! The Adventurer’s Guild is open for business!”
He spread his arms, then hesitated. Calidus jogged back into the Guild.
“The Adventurer’s Guild of…what’s this damn town called?”
The terrified [Receptionist] whispered in his ear, and he pulled a face.
“Isbeut? Dead gods. Isbeut. Is it a pun? ‘Is beautiful’, perhaps? Named after some unfortunate…Isbeut. Ugh.”
He slapped the Naga on the back and handed him his adventurer’s card. The Naga glared and waited for this to go bad.
It only took about an hour for Calidus to learn the joys of working customer service in any capacity.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail stormed out of another city. Well, rode out in her magical carriage. Her cheeks were flushed under her scales, and she was ranting. Mostly to herself, but also to her friends.
The two rats, Rhata and Haldagaz, who were staring at her over her handbag where they usually resided…without much sympathy.
“Can you believe that, Haldagaz? Some city. I thought it was worth a chance, but—how dare he tell me I should be working at Liscor!”
The Guildmaster had been friendly enough, until he’d started telling her of course he’d consider her for a [Vice Guildmaster] class—she was so qualified and obviously it was all true! But they didn’t have that much work with all the adventurers leaving and new teams needing to be trained up. If she was so good at her job, why had she left Liscor?
Which Selys hadn’t dignified with a response. And his Guild had been tiny! Only eight Bronze-rank teams, two Silver-ranks who were full time! Obviously Liscor’s had only been a bit bigger, but she wanted better prospects than some rinky-dink nowhere Guild.
Those comments seemed to have annoyed her pet rats. Selys got a nudge from Haldagaz, and she shoved him with one claw, irritably.
“It wasn’t the right fit. I want potential, not a backwater. There’s just no respect for my class or my accomplishments. Really, it’s no wonder I’ve not found anything if all the Guilds are like—ow! Haldagaz! Rhata, he bit me!”
Haldagaz leapt away as Selys yelped, and she gaped at him, aghast. Her lovely little friend never bit her! But he seemed distinctly displeased, and when she turned to Rhata for support, the bulkier grey rat headbutted her hands.
“Don’t give me that! That was a nowhere city! I came to make a mark, not work for a dustball! Look at Ryoka! She worked in Reizmelt, and it’s famous now! The Wind Runner’s city! But it was also…it had a lot of advantages because…”
Selys had bought a local encyclopedia of northern cities, and she hunted through it to validate her point. Reizmelt, filled with opportunity, and, uh—
She slammed the book shut after Haldagaz made a few snide squeaking sounds.
“She was a Courier. I need a good Guild! Maybe the south is better. Yes, next to the New Lands! It’d only take…half a week…if we stay in the carriage to get somewhere nice in the south!”
Both rats rolled over on their backs, indicating what they thought of four days of nonstop carriage travel. Selys’ own butt hurt at the thought, and she curled her tail up.
“One more city. One more city and I’ll seek work in the south. I don’t have time to waste, you two. I just need to find a diamond in the rough.”
The two rats stared up at her so pointedly that Selys stopped studying a map of Izril and the little city nestled in the High Passes. She shoved the book into her bag of holding and picked the two rats up.
“If you’re giving me attitude, you can go rest in my purse. Stop wiggling! Stop—”
They were her pets—well, Calruz’s, but she had fed and taken care of them for a year now! She was in charge, but the two rats seemed to have snapped. They were squeaking, making outraged sounds like they were lecturing Selys, and when she went to put them in time-out, she found that she’d never had trouble with them before.
And she really didn’t know how strong Rhata was. Selys slammed into one wall of the carriage.
“Rhata? Rhata, stop wiggling! Get in the purse or I’ll—how the hell are you so—Rhata!”
There were a few thuds, loud squeaking, and some travellers on the road eyed the rattling carriage until a Drake almost went out the carriage door as it unlatched accidentally. She was fighting a single, very muscular rat whose flying headbutt was too strong for an [Heiress] who didn’t exactly work out.
 
——
 
Betrayed by even her rats. Selys Shivertail sat in one corner of the coach as her handbag, bulging as two very angry rats squeaked and fought to break out from the inside, rolled around in the front seats.
Even they don’t like me. I bet Mrsha said something to them. Or maybe they were going feral without a [Beast Tamer] like Elirr. She could drop them off at the inn, then…then…
Selys rolled into the last town she’d chosen just because it was within a day’s ride. An even less likely town than the last one, barely more than an upgraded hamlet. There was some fancy mansion on a hill and a lot of day-drunks.
The [Heiress] eyed the one inn in the town and instantly decided she wasn’t staying there. Another mismanaged little town owned by some incompetent [Lord]. She’d seen that more than once. Good provinces had good nobles like Pellmia of House Quellae. A bad noble and you got this.
“Okay, let’s go to Invrisil. I’ll do some shopping, head to Pallass if Liska doesn’t make a scene, and then we’ll go from there.”
She was programming the magical carriage to do just that when she heard a tearing sound. Then a furious Rhata leapt from the handbag she’d ripped open with her teeth.
“Rhata? Rhata, I did that for your own good! Don’t—aaaaaah!”
Selys jumped out of the carriage and slammed the door in Rhata’s face. She saw the carriage door rattle as the furious rat hit it, then she backed up.
This day couldn’t get any worse. Selys covered her face as she stood in the street. Then peered around to see if anyone had noticed.
A few people glanced at the Drake and shaking carriage, but most seemed keen not to be on the street. Especially where she was. Selys turned, and a huge sign above her read:
Adventurer’s Guild.
She stopped and blinked at the fresh coat of paint. Then at the Runner’s Guild next door. It sounded like there was a fight going on inside.
Great, seedy little town, seedy Guild. Selys recoiled and was edging around the carriage to see if she could hop in the front seat when she saw a man exit the Guild.
He was overweight with blond hair on his head that was unkempt or something—Selys didn’t get hair—and a sauntering walk that seemed to radiate a complete indifference to how anyone saw him. Not a put-upon confidence or swagger, more like a walk that said, ‘was your shin there? Well, my foot was here, what a coincidence!’ He also had expensive clothing that was clearly two-days lived in and rumpled with a wine spill down the collar.
A nobleman, perhaps the owner of this very town. But what struck Selys was his expression. His eyes were green, a familiar green that many of his House had. However, his features were just…blankly calm. When he glanced around, he didn’t seem surprised by anything. But he also looked disappointed.
In himself? In the world? It was a level of cynicism that even Selys Shivertail had to admire. She thought she’d seen the depths of it in a mirror, but this man looked like he might end it all if he found nothing to stop him. Like, say, a generous bottle of wine.
Which, perhaps, was a harsh read of his character. Or not, because he was, at this moment, splashing a full keg of lantern oil around the outskirts of the Adventurer’s Guild. The distinctive fumes of the alchemical liquid stung Selys’ nostrils, and she watched, mouth open, as he poured it down one wall.
Then showered himself with the liquid.
Then lit a match. A match? How did he have—?
“Lord Calidus! Stop!”
A man wearing a servant’s outfit and another woman, scars all over her arms, that Selys thought she recognized came out and tried to wrestle with him, yanking the match out of his hands. Calidus tossed the man down.
“Not now, Dorim, I’m making an executive decision. It turns out I can’t do it after all. Scrub it all; tell Grandfather I tried, but I’d rather self-immolate than settle disputes. Farewell.”
“Lord Calidus, you cannot—he’s serious. Someone help me!”
The woman saw the man light a second match from a little box and shouted inside. A Naga, of all things, emerged, but Calidus just tossed the first match at the keg. It lit, and the Naga grabbed the keg, swearing, and hurled it. Calidus lit a second, and it glowed as he smiled.
“Plan C it is—oh!”
The last exclamation was a shout of surprise, and then Calidus’ legs locked together. He began to keel over as Dorim and Losmere, panting, saw his eyes cross. Then they saw the Drake behind Calidus who had walked over and booted him between the legs as hard as she could.
“You idiot! Are you trying to burn down an Adventurer’s Guild?”
Calidus didn’t respond as he held his family jewels, which were now in great pain. Selys kicked the matchbox away and then whirled.
“Someone get some water! This maniac is trying to burn down the Guild and everyone in it! Hello?”
She dashed inside, and Calidus heard the fighting between the angry Ranks grow louder, then a voice.
“[Listen to Me]! Someone get water and get out of the Guild in case it ignites!”
Hesitation, then a figure bailed out the window. Calidus saw Losmere recoil warily, and as he lay on the ground, agony replacing his desire to burn in a fireball, he saw the door of the magical carriage unlatch and a pair of little rats peer around from the inside.
He had never, ever seen nor imagined a rat could have actual biceps. The [Lord] stared at the rats, then started giggling to himself.
 
——
 
Ten minutes later, Selys Shivertail was panting as water washed away the oil. She had four people with stab wounds having first aid applied to them as a [Healer] was sent for, a lot of broken tables and chairs, a staff who seemed paralyzed by fear, and a madman of a [Lord].
…And she had no idea why she was here. Only that this Guild was pure insanity.
“They began stabbing each other over what? A contract? Not the reward for one, but a—a contract?”
“T-to kill a boar, Miss. Yes.”
A terrified [Receptionist] was standing behind the counter. She was quite attractive with reddish-blonde hair all in a fetching ponytail and a fresh uniform on. Something about her didn’t make Selys trust her.
She reminds me of that squirrely [Receptionist] who kept skimming coppers off of bounties a year before Erin showed up. It was just instinct, but Selys believed her; the woman was genuinely rattled.
“So not for the money. For who got the request? Are you that hard up on jobs?”
No response. The rest of the staff were peering at the ground or at Selys out of the corner of their eyes, utterly terrified…except for a white-haired man who was genuinely old. He had wrinkles on his hands—what she could see of them.
He had the oddest gloves in the world. They were finger-gloves, so they only covered the first two knuckles on his hands.
Who wears gloves like those? Selys’ mind supplied the answer after a moment.
[Rogues]. People who don’t like fingerprints showing. Seborn always has gloves on his Human hand.
He responded in a dry tone as he bent over a sheaf of paper, writing calmly.
“The four of them all wanted the same boar-request. Lord Calidus bade them all take a job, and there was a concern there were not enough requests for everyone. Hence when one tried to turn it in first—”
“They went to violence? What are they, mad?”
