Mrsha put her paws in the pockets of her kilt. She glared at the ground and then turned her head.
No. Sorry.
That was alright. Ilvriss felt bad for relying on Mrsha so much. So he did some thinking. They’d been damn well sniped! This was so corporate he felt like a fool, but he hadn’t thought he’d have a rival in Liscor!
Corporate…yes, that was Selys. So he had a thought and then smiled nastily.
“Mrsha? It’s been unpleasant having the shockwool pulled over our eyes. But what if we copied our opponents? It clearly worked, and if we’re decently smart, she might have an idea or two. Wouldn’t she?”
Mrsha’s head snapped up. Then she blinked, and they turned to Dalimont. The Thronebearer gave them an approving look.
 
——-
 
Finding Selys Shivertail wasn’t the hardest thing in the world. All they had to do was ask Liska where Selys had gone. Then you just had to trail her through the streets, and Mrsha’s nose, outside of the Cowpat Plains, could work even in a rainy city.
As it so happened, Selys Shivertail did have one final idea of where to go that Mrsha hadn’t thought of, mad as she was. And as it so happened, her absence from the inn had also jeopardized this particular crafter.
Honored Deskie had been polite, but insistent that she know exactly what Selys needed her threads for or that Selys bring someone from the inn if she could not explain. The Drake had been trying to think of someone to bribe or trick into helping her and stomping down the street when she walked past a trio of people.
Wall Lord Ilvriss, Mrsha, and Ser Dalimont walked past Selys into Honored Deskie’s compound. The Drake turned pale under her scales. She began to shout—then just whirled.
“Get me my carriage! We’re going back!”
She stormed off.
 
——
 
“You seem upset, Mrsha. I take it that was not a pleasant encounter, that Drake? Here, Wall Lord.”
He ate some silkap as Mrsha sat there, staring at Deskie’s looms. The Gnoll [Magical Spinner] was kindly, if clearly tired. She massaged her back.
“One could wish Inkarr had made an automatic back massager, not just a spinning wheel!”
They got those in Earth, apparently.
“Really? I should have never left the Meeting of Tribes. Ah, well, but I do like my bed and home here. Community is community; the Silverfangs who went north might be stuck to the old ways too much. Then again—I am merely old. So, you have come to me for a wondrous item, one which you do not know about, but you wish me to produce with a wave of my paws.”
She waved her paws, and Ilvriss blushed.
“I apologize, Honored Deskie. It’s just that I have urgent need and not much foresight.”
She popped some bread into her mouth and shrugged.
“Well, I have plenty of foresight and aftersight and not much vigor to run around. So you are in luck, yes? I will sell you a tunic. Hrr. Eighty thousand gold pieces, since we owe Salazsar a boon, and two crates as tall as I am of magical gemstones of my choosing.”
Neither Mrsha nor Ilvriss blinked at the price, which put Honored Deskie out a bit.
“…Are prices truly going up that much?”
“A tunic, Honored Deskie? May I hope it’s magical?”
For answer, Honored Deskie rose and beckoned them over to something. A spool of thread, which Mrsha found quite familiar. She stared at the vivid coloration and recalled the ugliest dress in the world. Erin’s find in a certain shop. Cormeng’s.
A long while back, it seemed. But Honored Deskie had been testing the thread. Only…there hadn’t been so much of it back then, had there? The Gnoll woman smiled.
“It is made of a gemstone. Which one, and the rest of it, I shall not say. Only to announce that I have levelled and answered a challenge thrown across the ages. This thread I call ‘ikarr’-thread. Because I can play the exact same game as that child.”
Her eyes twinkled. Mrsha reached out with a paw, then hesitated and asked permission. Deskie let her touch it, and Mrsha rubbed at it and made a face.
It’s a bit prickly.
Ilvriss had to agree. Deskie herself nodded.
“So it is. Hellish on fur. I have a patch—it’s covered in hairs, you see, because it just rips them out, even when I try to make it fine as can be. I’ll sew a lining on the inside, and even then, it’s better on a Drake because it will be so annoying. A shame. But, on the other hand, it barely breaks.”
Casually, she handed a furry patch to Ilvriss, and he glanced at her. Then asked permission to try and cut it with Ser Dalimont.
 
——
 
After ten minutes of watching Ilvriss and Ser Dalimont hack at the piece of cloth in the rain, which was quite amusing, they came in, and Ilvriss cleared his throat.
“A tunic, you said?”
“One imagines it might be quite stabproof. Even impact-proof; it ripples when struck. There’s too much hair on this sample, but I intend to make as much as I can. A tunic will get me a second level, I think, and practice. We’ll take a recording of people trying to cut it apart for advertisement. Then I’ll just sell a bolt of it to Nerrhavia’s Fallen and roll in a pile of gold.”
Deskie waited. Mrsha’s ears perked up, and Ilvriss sat up. A second—
When neither one burst into wild applause, Deskie’s ears flattened.
“Oh come now. I am over Level 50! Surely that merits a gasp?”
“Er, we just spoke with Master Pelt, Honored Deskie, and if our reactions are a tad bit—”
She threw a spindle at Ilvriss’ head she was so annoyed.
 
——
 
In the end, Ilvriss organized a semi-permanent contract with Deskie for gems, since every instinct in him was screaming for that, and she told him to send Osthia here so Deskie could take measurements.
“I won’t be able to make much, Wall Lord, and I am sure it has weaknesses—fur being one of them. It may, frankly, be better-used as bindings for armor, not the armor itself, given how expensive it is. But someone should have armor fit for legends, and Deskie the Spinner shall leave that mark. Arrogant as it may be.”
And that was that. Mrsha and Ilvriss high-fived and stood there.
“Magicthread tunic, magic item from Pelt.”
Ilvriss exhaled as he stared up into the rain. Mrsha nodded.
We did great.
After a moment, both of them regarded each other.
“So about Selys—I’m sorry—”
Selys was being crazy. Worse than Numbtongue in a way.
They stood there, and the triumph faded. Ilvriss wiped at his forehead.
“…Some days are like that, Mrsha. It reminds me of my father. Which I know isn’t complimentary, but—shall we get a drink? I’m buying. Wishdrinks?”
He jerked a thumb, and Mrsha thought about it.
Tails and Scales? Rufelt does a mean non-alcoholic cocktail, and his gravity drinks are awesome. Plus, the cooking’s better. Lyonette loves the idea of Wishdrinks because she likes the staff being pretty. She thinks food should come in half-portion sizes.
“I did notice that. You’re right when you’re right, Mrsha. She’s feeding you correctly, isn’t she?”
They trooped off in the rain with Ser Dalimont smacking his lips and thinking of what he’d order. Mrsha nodded.
Nearly starving to death has corrected her weird thing about me being too heavy. You know, I stopped stealing food when she finally fed me more? I actually was hungry.
“Astonishing. I should have a word with her about that. You want me to?”
Eh, she’s a [Princess]. They’re all malnourished. But I tell you what, I am going to slam the first three non-alcoholic cocktails. What a rough one.
They walked off, at least able to talk and joke in each other’s company.
Selys…
Selys went back home. To a Guild of Assassins. And death. It was just good she didn’t care about them, the Ranks. It was a good thing she was practical.
 
[Vice Guildmistress Level 26!]
[Skill – Organized Armory Obtained!]
 
——
 
Selys had banned the Ranks from mentioning anything about Kevin or the inn to Calidus. Not that she thought they even understood the context. Not that they deserved Selys doing that for them. But she was better than they were.
She was angry the entire ride back, which took over two days in Wistram’s carriage. Not that she spent it idle; she channeled her rage into her new job, which was levelling her.
She’d already taken the assets of her Assassin’s Guild and begun allocating them. Obviously, you kept an emergency stash, but Selys had spent large amounts of her own money and Calidus’—nothing like giving the Ranks and Faces some treats to keep them happy, right?
The Drake observed the four Ranks who’d come with her as bodyguards inspecting their new gear. Acid jars, Octavia’s potions, Wyvern armor and Shield Spider chitin shields and even a dagger. They ignored the one made of glossy black material until Selys commented.
“The dagger is as good as steel. It’s made of Shield Spider chitin, and it’s grooved to allow for maximum poison seepage when you stab. The artisan who made it said as much to me; not a tool for anyone but a poison-user.”
Then one of the Ranks took the dagger and added it to her belt. Happy. Like an Antinium with a mop. Happy to have something.
In the same vein, Selys kept giving orders. Casualties today? 14. Yikes. The rival [Blademaster] Face had sliced up another group of Ranks. Selys shook her head, assigned new patrols to investigate reports of enemies and made a few speaking stone calls.
“…Yes. Yes, I want a huge one installed in, uh…Lord Calidus’ estates. Look it up. Selys Shivertail, that’s correct. No, I won’t hold. Look me up. I’m Zel Shivertail’s niece, the owner of the Heartflame Breastplate? Yeah, I thought that would ring a bell. I am serious. And so is he. He’d love a huge installation in his town. Capacity? Let’s call it…three hundred in each section and all the small ones like Pallass has? Okay, tell me the budget. Okay.”
Selys listened. Then she spoke.
“Good, have your people heading out to us—okay. No, I understand it’s the spring. Busy times, yes, yes. Okay, I’ll double the price if we’re first on the list and you do a good job.”
Another pause. She rolled her eyes as she explained.
“We’ll get a contract done at the Merchant’s Guild. Quality work. No mistakes. You mess up, it comes out of your fee because I’m doubling it. You do it fast, without skimping, or I’ll have the Merchant’s Guild on your tail. If you’re honest, take the job. Double. Yes, double. Yes, the Merchant’s Guild would credit it on mine or Calidus’ accounts. Tell you what, you double-check, then get back to me. Forwards any questions to Lagrisse of the Adventurer’s Guild in Isbeut.”
She liked having useful subordinates. And Selys was also used to getting her way, even if her method to that was the application of lots of gold. Plenty of people wanted to rip you off or take your money and do poor work. The solution to that was to have someone else breathing down their necks. Apply more gold, not less, with no avenues for wastage and you eventually weighed down what you wanted with so much gold a quality result was squeezed out due to all the pressure.
This time, the Guildmistress noticed the Ranks eying her, though they pretended to be just inspecting their gear for the umpteenth time after her call.
“Interested? You—name? Go.”
She pointed, and the female Rank bowed her head slightly.
“Chaiste, Guildmistress. A…hot spring?”
“I thought you’d enjoy it. Chandrarians don’t bathe in water often, do they?”
“They do in Lailight Scintillation. Maybe Khelt or a rich place if it’s not on the coast. I have never had a…bath in hot water.”
Selys smiled at the dusky-skinned Human woman.
“Well, you’ll have full access after it’s set up. It’ll take time. Just another amenity. The Faces will have private baths.”
Silence. But the Ranks were changing. After a moment, Chaiste raised a hand.
“Guildmistress, question.”
“Go ahead.”
“Is a private bath…good?”
Selys thought about it and smiled.
“Better than having to share space with someone else? Of course. You can splash around, relax without feeling like you’re needing to be sociable, bring company—we’ll even have some fancy baths. I’ve paid for all of them. Some will have soap magic in them. Huge bubbles, wave action—they’ll be popular, I have no doubt. So Faces will be able to reserve what they want.”
Privilege was power. Another Drake concept—well, universal, really. The Ranks seemed intrigued by this idea, and they sat back, imagining what hot springs would be like. And Selys thought—got you.
“Like your new toys?”
“Yes, Guildmistress. The acid is very potent.”
“Liscorian specialty. This is just the first wave of gear, of course. For our fight with the other Guilds. Going to throw it at them?”
“No, Guildmistress. Ranks dodge.”
“Ah.”
“…It’s good for blades. [Coat Blades]. Or spraying it.”
“Nasty. I can see that being a lot more effective. And the Wyvern armor fits well?”
They really liked that. They kept shifting around in it, testing the mobility of the light, sturdy armor.
“It won’t let a regular blade stab us, Guildmistress.”
“Keeps you alive longer, right? Probably makes you way better than the Ranks the other Guild has. That’s why Lord Calidus and my Guild is the best. Tell your friends—er, the other Ranks. In time, I want this to be standard-gear for all the Ranks.”
More silence, and Selys added slyly.
“So imagine what the Faces get.”
All of them gave her that unsettling, blank-faced stare, but there was a shift in it now. A little bit of eagerness. She imagined it was like having puppy-Crelers or something. Or again, Antinium. Maybe this was how…that woman…felt with her Goblins. Raising them up so they were useful. Yeah.
Selys had been dealt a bad hand, but she was turning it into gold, just like always. She settled back in her carriage and kept giving orders until she rolled into Isbeut. Then she hopped out of the carriage, stretched out her back with a groan, and sauntered into the Adventurer’s Guild.
“I’m back. I brought a bunch of snacks. Here are the ones for the rats, Pilana. Rhata, Haldagaz, it was fun. Too bad you couldn’t come, but I had a giant white rat and a purple one harassing me. Well…productive. Anything new? No, wait, Lagrisse will tell me. Hey, I need hands to unload my carriage! Jump fast—you might get some new gear!”
The Ranks in the Guild stirred as she walked in, and Pilana, manning the desk in the fake Adventurer’s Guild, jumped. Two rats raced about the counters, squeaking insults that Selys ignored. They had little beds and cute little walkways so they could scamper around the Guild, and she’d had holes bored in the walls so they could race about.
Mascots, you see? And the Ranks did get up and begin to unload the carriages. Not just because they were going to do everything Selys wanted, but because they knew her.
