“The Assassin’s Guild is always political. Once the Faces don’t think the Ranks will rise up, they’ll fight over the best contracts, take sides. Even if they know there’s punishment, they have tempers and kill each other. The Guildmaster ruled by fear and having the best or majority of Faces on his side. You’ll need to do the same or convince them you’re better left alive.”
Her scales crawled, but Selys just sighed. She stepped out of his Skill, to Lagrisse’s surprise, and spoke, voice natural, but so everyone listening could hear, and she just bet they could hear.
“Politics? Please, I told you, I worked at the Adventurer’s Guild. So long as no one knifes me, I’ll let the best, most clever, or luckiest rise to the top and keep everyone earning gold and levelling. That’s my job.”
Another grin, as fearless as she could manage, and she thought the [Deliverer of Secrets] actually gave her a respectful look.
“Just as you say, Guildmistress.”
Selys Shivertail smiled and cracked her fingers. She could do it! She beckoned for a new group of Ranks as Calidus Reinhart strolled back in to check on the place. She was about to ask him about her pay when she saw eight more of the Ranks walk in.
These had black veils over their face, all-black clothing with a stylized dagger plunging through a rose’s stem written in silver thread on their, well, classic [Assassin]’s outfits. Selys raised her eyebrows as their heads swivelled the room.
“Uniforms? I don’t think that’ll work, Lord Calidus. What happened to the cover stories?”
Lord Calidus frowned at her, then turned to the eight figures. His face went blank, then he threw himself towards a table of Ranks. She blinked and heard a clicking sound. Then a tft.
Something hit her in the chest. Selys blinked down at a feathered dart sticking out of a glowing barrier as one of her rings flashed.
“Oh n—”
A throwing dagger caught her in the shoulder as Lagrisse’s eyes went round. He ducked, and the [Assassins] shot Lord Calidus a second before Losmere appeared and beheaded one. She shouted.
“Enemy [Assassins]!”
Selys really would have liked to get up—but she realized the dagger was poisoned. She lay there as Pilana cowered and screamed, white-faced, and the Guild burst into shouting. Then Selys Shivertail realized that despite her best efforts, she couldn’t deny her job being a tad bit more complicated than she wanted.
 
——
 
Calidus Reinhart was awake before he closed his eyes. Sadly, his mind wouldn’t turn off despite the pain, and he really objected to that.
[Genius of Sloth]. He wished he hadn’t lost his ability to turn his mind off with drinks, but since he did have his class, he used his Skills—especially when he was in mortal danger.
[Brilliant Insight (Weekly)]…no, no need for that. [Move Reality Like Chess]? Not applicable yet. [Calculable Insight: Copy Skill (Intellect)]…no. Just [Store Intellect]. Calidus thought of his mind not like a well holding water; that was too boring.
Rather, he imagined it like Zeomtoril’s experiments with gravity. Apparently, everything attracted each other, so intellect was unto an orb in Calidus’ mind. An ever-growing orb that grew and grew—until he reached out and siphoned a bit he had put away.
Not that intellect could be used in the same basic sense of ‘get smarter’. That, too, didn’t make sense to Calidus. Zeomtoril was a smart man, and he gambled his wealth and couldn’t hold down a relationship.
Intellect could make a mind faster. It could let you make inferences and jump to conclusions in less time. Like how higher-class Golems could perform a mental task quicker.
That was what Calidus did now. He called it ‘mind speeding’, where he played out scenarios and ideas in a fraction of the time it would normally take. He used it to beat Zeomtoril at chess. Now?
Why was I shot? Ranks with uniforms on. Can’t have been a rebellion already; the Ranks wouldn’t pay for insignia.
Stupid aesthetic. Like someone’s advertising they’re—
Oh no.
Has to be. In which case, they know about…? Word spreads. Internal spy? Traitor? Or—terrible suspicion—
Grandfather? Calidus thought about it. He concluded he might be right. In which case…he really hoped Selys was alive. What to do about it? Well, for one—
 
——
 
“…scrying orb. Need information first. Got to—wonder if I have a shot. Channel 2. Mm. Such a lovely Drake.”
Losmere thought it was a good sign Calidus Reinhart was talking to himself. She’d never actually seen someone talk in their sleep like he was, but as she watched him healing and Zeomtoril, sweating, finish applying the antidote, his wounds closed. She spoke.
“Calidus. Lord Calidus—are you—”
He sat up, eyes closed, and the [Polymath] leapt back with an oath.
“Undead! Und—”
Calidus opened his eyes.
“Oh shut up, Zeomtoril. Losmere! I’m so delighted not to be dead. Is it a rival Guild or just the south’s Guild objecting to us? Or Terandria muscling in?”
She opened her mouth and was reminded of why Lord Calidus had been chosen as Guildmaster.
“You knew?”
He winced as he glanced down at the bandages over his chest that had been keeping him alive before Zeomtoril could apply an antidote and a costly potion.
“No, but it was obvious. Who puts uniforms on an [Assassin]? Someone who wants to advertise they’re back. I think it’s tacky. A dagger stabbing through a rose? Please, it has to be a rival. The only question is who approved and funded them? Is Selys dead? How many did we lose? Also—”
He felt at his chest.
“…So that’s how it feels to be shot in the chest with a crossbow. I can’t say I wanted to know. I’m rather pleased to have so many anti-poison experts around me.”
He got up cheerfully, then his face discolored. Losmere had to grab Calidus to support him. He was weak; she spoke quickly.
“The attackers are dead. Sixty went after various members of the Guild. Faces and you and the Drake. I don’t know if she’s alive—we were chasing down the enemy Ranks—”
Calidus swore as she helped him sit.
“Well, find out or we’re in trouble! She’s important, damn it! And Zeomtoril, speaking stone! The one in my rooms, in the black box!”
“I knew it! I’m dead! I should have fled! I’m in a war between [Assassins]—”
The old man wailed until Calidus threw a shoe at him. Then the [Lord] lay there, panting, until Losmere returned to tell him Selys Shivertail was alive.
“She’s swearing a storm, but one of her rings was able to neutralize the poisons.”
“Interesting. I saw one of the Arrowcatch Rings go off, but who carries those and anti-poison rings? Most have a convenience ring like cooling or illusions or something.”
“Apparently, she saw her friend die to poison and invested.”
Calidus felt at his chest again.
“Smart. Or rather, connected. Erin Solstice once more…ah, there’s the speaking stone.”
He flipped open the black box, snagged the expensive speaking stone, and Losmere inhaled sharply. It was a black Bloodonyx with swirling depths and a Truegold holder, and she recognized it. The last Guildmaster of the Assassin’s Guild had carried it, and it spoke to the man who could command them. It had once been used to contact Magnolia Reinhart. Now…
“Grandfather Regis! Quick question—did you start a second Assassin’s Guild and order them to murder me? Because I really wish you’d had me killed in my sleep!”
Calidus barked into the stone. He paused.
“Oh, he’s not there, is he? Well, I suspect the old bastard’s listening in because he’s just figured out what’s going on and the mistake he’s made. SO IF I AM SHOUTING, GRANDFATHER, I WAS JUST SHOT. AND IF IT IS JUST YOU THERE, MAID THEMEKE, I DO APOLOGIZE, BUT I AM VENTING A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF SPLEEN, ASSUMING I HAVE ANY LEFT.”
He screamed, red-faced, into the speaking stone, and after he inhaled for breath, there was a voice.
“Calidus. Are you in private?”
“GRANDFATHER, YOU ARE AN IDIOT—”
The speaking stone hung up. Calidus stared at it. Then handed it to Zeomtoril.
“Is there an outhouse in use around here? Wait until he picks back up and toss it down there, would you?”
 
——
 
Regis Reinhart never apologized. Reinharts were bad at it, but Calidus’ ghostly grandfather probably hadn’t learned how to acknowledge he was wrong before dying. He did own up to what Calidus had already figured out.
“You intimated that you were unable to do your job, Calidus.”
“I have never intimated with any image of you, Grandfather. I shrivel to even imagine you. You thought the best answer to me asking for help was to start a second Guild?”
Calidus was annoyed, mostly because he saw Regis’ line of logic and thought it was flawed. It was classic conman behavior. Why bother with one bad plan when you could organize two?
It made no sense to him. Doubling a bad bet caused twice as many problems, but Regis refused to take anything lying down.
“Do not lecture me, boy. I did not order the other Guildmaster to assassinate you. That was overstepping.”
“Oh, you didn’t expect them to want to eradicate competition? Who is this Guildmaster, anyways?”
“A member of my organization.”
So that meant the Circle of Thorns. Wonderful, he’d appointed some idiot to the post. Calidus wished he’d given a name. Names meant someone was easy to track down and kill, but Regis had clearly realized this was a war.
“I intended to have one Guild in the end. Whoever is triumphant will have both levels and the ferocity Izril requires.”
“Or they’ll just be the biggest bully around. The old ‘survival of the fittest’ rule never made sense to me given the waistline of most [Kings] of Terandria, Grandfather. If you’re washing your hands of me—”
“I am not having you killed.”
Regis sounded a bit stressed, which in his case meant testy. He was probably worried Calidus would start screaming to everyone—he spoke quickly.
“I shall inform your counterpart that you are off-limits. This is a war between your [Assassins]. The same to you; execute the other [Guildmaster] and there shall be consequences.”
“Oh, more than being shot, Grandfather?”
Calidus was all sarcasm and snideness. Regis snapped back.
“I am indulging your injuries, boy. Do not test me.”
“Then give me more than just lip service, Grandf—ugh, I need to choose my words better. Terribly imagery. Oh, is one of your [Maids] laughing?”
Calidus brightened up. He’d tested his humor and wit on making them laugh whenever he had popped down to visit Regis. The old ghost ground his teeth together.
“What do you want? I will humor you.”
“Contact with whomever sells you [Assassins] in Roshal. More funding; if it’s a war where you want two hands fighting each other, then a war you’ll get. Pay me, damnit. Also, my own Guildmistress, Selys Shivertail, off-limits.”
“Who? Very well. Now, level or—”
Calidus walked into the bathroom and peed as noisily as he could. Then he sighed. Wonderful.
 
——
 
He didn’t tell Selys it was Regis; it was too much to explain, and the very upset Drake was literally hissing in the [Healer]’s bed. He ordered a healing potion be given to her; it was now more than clear he needed her.
“It’s a rival Assassin’s Guild. The idiot who came up with the concept clearly thought one side would win and absorb the other.”
“Who…has the gold to throw around to fund two Assassin’s Guilds?”
He sighed.
“I know. All that money could have been spent on other delightful things. But there is always money around rich idiots, and the Five Families abound for both. So! We need intelligence on who we’re facing, which Faces they have, and bounties on enemy Ranks. They’ll be attacking our people. Up, up!”
He chivvied Selys out of bed, or tried to, when a grey rat tried to bite him. Calidus caught the rat.
“Oh yes, your pets. Hello there! Have a piece of brie.”
He handed Rhata some cheese, and the white rat squeaked as Calidus put Rhata on Selys’ head. She stared up at him.
“I was just hit by a throwing dagger—”
“You’ll live. We’re all going to die if we don’t win this war. So—up.”
He held out a hand, and she groaned as he helped her stand. Selys hissed as she limped out of the healer’s room. When they entered the Adventurer’s Guild proper, both stopped.
All the Faces and the Ranks were there, waiting for Calidus and Selys. They looked like still shadows, many masked, but—uncertain. Calidus felt it. He smiled tightly.
“Well, we have unity, at least. Nothing like all of us being a target for some good, old-fashioned community.”
Assuming they think we have a shot. He and Selys locked eyes, and she nodded as she grabbed the counter and began giving orders. Calidus stood there as news began coming in, and they pumped informants for intelligence.
He didn’t like what he found.
 
——
 
Once you started looking, Lagrisse found the other Assassin’s Guild fast. It wasn’t like they were hiding that well.
“They are calling themselves the Assassins of Izril’s Roses. Here is a list of the Faces they are advertising working for them.”
“Terrible name. What happened to just the ‘Guild’? And advertising? Oh, wonderful, the idiot in charge thinks this is all cloaks and daggers, literally.”
No attempt at hiding. Calidus rubbed at his face. Losmere, who was sitting with them, paled as she read the names.
“They have Windblade? And Mantiz?”
“I take it those are Faces from the old Guild?”
Selys didn’t like how nervous the [Assassin] appeared. Losmere licked her lips.
“Windblade was retired. They must have found him and called him out of hiding. He’s a [Blademaster]. His ability is—”
“To cut the air with his sword, yes, yes. And I assumed Mantiz is some dagger-wielding woman? Judging by your reaction, they’re higher level than you are. Do we have equal membership?”
Losmere seemed quite offended by Calidus and Selys’ unwillingness to treat her like a being of myth. She shifted, hands falling to her own daggers.
“We are all Faces. Those two are simply…strong amongst us, yes.”
“Stronger than you because you’re a trainer. Don’t glare at me, Losmere. And their Ranks?”
“…Same as ours. A second shipment of them must have been paid for, in which case, their training and levels should be the same.”
Losmere had to admit the bad news. Calidus wiped some blood from his cheek.
“I’ll ask about them and call Roshal. Miss Selys?”
“I don’t know how to fight other Ranks. I assume they’re going to just—come here and start killing our members?”
Selys was still rubbing at her shoulder. Losmere nodded tightly.
