He just glanced up at her, and his expression was not like Calidus’, bored of life. His was a blank face that she had seen on some [Veterans]. Some killers who applied to be adventurers. She shuddered as the man replied.
“They’re new, Miss. Doubtless someone is grateful for your help. You should now leave. This is not the place for you.”
That annoyed her. Selys hadn’t wanted to stay in this rinky-dink town, but just for that, she drew herself up.
“Someone has to tell the Guildmistress of this place it’s being run to madness! Who’s in charge here?”
“That would be me.”
Lord Calidus Reinhart was holding his groin, but smiling as he eyed her. He appeared the slightest bit curious—then spoke.
“Miss Selys Shivertail, we meet again. What is a young [Heiress] doing touring the north?”
She jumped.
“How did you—?”
He sat down in a chair, groaning, as the very odd adventurers stood outside, listening.
“First Landing, the Lighthouse Bar. I noticed the rats. I didn’t put it together with your name until just now—fascinating. Are those rats magical or just empowered by a Skill?”
“Wh—they’re owned by my friend. One’s intelligent, the other’s strong. How did you—?”
She realized Rhata and Haldagaz were in another man’s hands, eating from a bowl. And drinking some wine? Calidus nodded.
“Put them there, Dorim, there’s a good man. Well, Miss Shivertail, you defused the situation in here quite rapidly. Thank you. But you also prevented me burning myself to death, so I hold that against you. Calidus Reinhart. Lord of these lands and Guildmaster of the Runner’s Guild and Adventurer’s Guild of Isbeut. Right up until I can find another match.”
He held out a hand, and she eyed his hand covering his groin and folded her arms.
“Selys Shivertail, as you well know. [Heiress]. What is a [Lord] doing running an Adventurer’s Guild?”
“I thought it’d be easy.”
“Hah!”
He didn’t take offense to the scoff, but just nodded.
“It turns out dealing with people in any reasonable sense of the word is far too much for me. Nor do the staff have any competency there. The ones too terrified to say anything versus the ‘originals’ who are…?”
He glanced pointedly at the old man, who looked up from his work and bowed, though he was so bowed over it didn’t really do much.
“Lagrisse, Lord Calidus. The policy of the Guild was to let members sort out such matters. Staff getting in the way tended to get killed.”
“Well, there’s a new damn policy in place. Based on respect! Appreciation for hard work! And—argh, it’s hopeless. Match.”
Calidus held out a hand, and no one gave him one. Selys watched the two rats crawl over the table to sniff at him. He eyed them, then her.
“My new Guild is not going well. Nor are my, ah, new adventurers that manageable, Miss Selys.”
“I can see that. You should have told them that if they can’t find work, there will be plenty later! You shouldn’t have them brawling in the first place—stabbing—do you even know them?”
She indicated the very odd, very silent figures lying on the ground and then had a thought. They’re not even crying out. She’d known Gold-rankers who screamed and carried on with a torn hangnail. Selys’ scales began to crawl, but Calidus just beamed at her.
“Not at all! I’m a friend to anyone with drink in hand, but I don’t do people well. Dealing with petty complaints makes me want to die.”
“Well, this Guild isn’t going to last long without a good manager.”
Selys glanced around, and even the old man, Lagrisse, nodded at that. She gazed at the silent figures and noted the too-blank expressions.
Very fit people. Most adventurers aren’t actually that fit-looking until they hit at least Level 20. They were fast too. Not many can actually stab someone else without being very angry.
And…she just had a sense quite a number of them were over Level 30. Way too many for some no-name Guild she’d never heard of.
A magnificent Guild in some senses. Full of potential, talent, and a lot of knives. And so Selys scooped up her two rats and backtracked to her carriage, smiling hugely.
“—But I wouldn’t like to lecture too much, er, Lord Calidus! I’ll just be on my way! Er, so pleased to meet you—”
She bumped into a Naga as she tried to back out of the Guild, and Calidus smiled at her. He sipped from the cup the two rats had been drinking from.
“I can see the cover of the Guild really doesn’t hold up to scrutiny. You might be right, Qissax.”
The Naga put a hand on Selys’ shoulder, and she froze. His claws pricked her scales at the lightest touch they were so sharp.
“Shall we arrange an accident, Lord Calidus? She is too important to go unnoticed. But a failure of Wistram’s magical spells a province or two over—”
“H-hey. Hold on, I have people who’ll come looking for me. The Wandering Inn—”
Selys’ throat closed as the Naga eyed her, and for a second, his eyes gleamed with that merciless amusement.
“[No False Threats]. No one knows you’re here, do they?”
She couldn’t say a word. The Naga casually put a claw around her throat, and Selys couldn’t breathe. Calidus Reinhart eyed her, chewing on some cheese, and then spoke.
“Qissax—lovely name by the way—are you blind, man? Here comes Lady Fortune herself, with her ample bosom of chaos, and you want to do her a disservice and throw away our gift?”
“Hmm?”
The Naga hesitated, and Calidus leapt to his feet. He spread his arms, embraced Selys, and pulled her out of the Naga’s grasp. Then he lifted her arm in the air.
“Ladies, Gentlemen, Faces! I give you…your new Guildmistress!”
He beamed as every face turned to Selys. She was pale, and her mouth opened to protest before Calidus leaned over.
“Just so you know, they’re all [Assassins], not members of the underworld. And if you run or send a [Message], they’ll kill you exceptionally dead. We’re in this together, Miss Selys. How does lunch sound? My chef does an entirely adequate spread.”
He beamed at her. She made a choking sound and wished, in that moment, that she’d gone south instead of north. She had no excuse for this one, really.
But she still blamed Erin for it.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart was a practical man. When coincidence served him a solution on a silver platter, he didn’t argue with it.
He just investigated to make sure this was a coincidence, not his aunt’s scheming. Though frankly, he thought this was all far too stupid, even for her.
“Hmm. [Heiress], lost her grandmother, a famous [Spearmaster] and Guildmistress of Liscor, in the Winter Solstice. Public fight with a [Princess]…wait, what?”
He was skimming a report as Qissax, Losmere, and a few Faces sat with him, reviewing his new Guildmistress. She was in the guild, taking stock; not like she had any choice.
He’d laid out the situation to her, and he gave her credit: she understood just what she’d walked into. Actually, she was too calm—he had orders to have her watched and had asked the [Assassins] not to kill her if she ran.
He needed someone to do this job, especially because she’d stopped him from burning himself and the Guild down.
Which had been Plan C, damnit! Calidus had realized how stupid his idea was and had been about to set himself on fire.
He’d calculated that if he was lucky, Zeomtoril could heal him and fake his death. After all, the old [Polymath] knew that if Calidus ever burned himself alive, it was a fakeout. At least, Calidus hoped he remembered the plan.
No doing it all over again; he’d lost his nerve, and living the rest of his life with that kind of burn scar wasn’t that appealing. But Calidus stopped as he read the report. The Assassin’s Guild had lovely reports; that fellow, Lagrisse, was a [Secret Broker]—actually, an employee of the old Guild.
“There’s a [Princess] in Liscor? And no one told me?”
Calidus’ outraged face made the Faces sigh. Qissax tapped the table pointedly.
“All of Izril knows the 6th [Princess] of Calanfer lives in The Wandering Inn, Lord Calidus.”
“Well, I don’t. I’ve had my head in a pillow, a bucket of drink, or some lovely lady’s chest nonstop! How attractive is—oh my. I think I need t—”
Calidus turned the page, then sagged.
“Children. Nevermind. Wait, she’s the one with the beach!”
He brightened up again.
“The Wandering Inn. I beat that lovely [Innkeeper] at chess, didn’t I? Damn her.”
He really was out of the loop in an amazing way. The Faces exchanged glances.
“Do you not pay attention to the news, Lord Calidus?”
“News? I’m all up to date on the New Lands. Channel 1 News. Those two Drakes are about as dry as Grandfather Regis’ back, but listening to them for thirty minutes keeps me up to date. I quite like the other Drake, but I don’t care to know what song the Singer of Terandria is playing next—nor how the war in Reim is actually going.”
Lord Calidus glanced around.
“…I can see I’m among people who prefer the news with some character. Fair, fair. So this Selys genuinely seems to have left due to fighting with her former friends. She’s talented; Liscor had a few nasty events. Well more than a few. Huh.”
He stared at a list of events and began to open up related pages, fascinated. He had no idea it had been that bad over there.
Ironically, Lord Calidus was not the sort of man who liked the television much. Unlike a certain Lord Moltin, Calidus would much rather be drinking, reading a book, or flirting than letting someone else dictate the flow of information to him. He’d had the thought that Wistram was probably spying on him via their scrying orb, so until the television became all-encompassing, he’d only bought a scrying orb to have it installed under a horse’s privy.
So he was one of the few people in Izril who didn’t know—nor really care—about The Wandering Inn. At least, until now. Calidus was muttering.
“Winter Solstice. Winter Solstice? That’s when Aunt Magnolia released us. What the hell does Draugr attack mean? Plural?”
His eyes flicked down the page. Then went back up. He checked the notes, then leaned over.
“Is this accurate? You don’t do hearsay, do you?”
“About what, Lord Calidus?”
He shoved the report over.
“That.”
The Faces read. They exchanged a glance. One of them, a Stitch-woman with a veil over her face, shrugged.
“I heard that happened. There are recordings, Lord Calidus. Incomplete, but that’s what the Five Families claimed occurred. There are doubts among many that the event was completely real, however.”
“Recordings. Of ten thousand Draugr coming down out of nowhere, a super-[Necromancer] and two Bone Giants—get me a [Mage].”
Calidus rose to his feet, and he was fascinated. He gazed around at them. The [Assassins] were doing their ‘too cool to be fazed’ thing, but he wasn’t above that.
“There was an entire war around Liscor, Drakes and Humans fighting side-by-side, and it has not swept the north?”
“It might not have occurred that way, Lord Calidus. Casualties were high, but given the magnitude, one would have expected Liscor to fall. It isn’t the first time the city has had something dramatic happen to it.”
Calidus gazed down at the list of attacks on Liscor again. He whirled.
“I suppose I’m the perfect example of why it’s not the center of all attention—I want confirmation on all of this. Did the Small Queen really storm Invrisil and fight the Assassin’s Guild in the streets?”
This time, Losmere eyed him, legitimately affronted.
“She did. I was there for that. How did you not see it?”
“I don’t really care what happens in Izril. Do you? I don’t care who’s the head of House Terland, who’s sleeping with who, and if the King of Destruction sweeps Chandrar or dies in a ditch. But dead gods—do you have a recording? That’s worth watching. That’s hilarious.”
He grinned until he saw every [Assassin] glaring at him. Calidus sat down.
“I mean, tragic. Yes, yes. Horrific, senseless [Assassin] violence. I’ll take every recording you have and a drink. Popcorn?”
 
——
 
Thirty minutes later, Calidus Reinhart wasn’t eating popcorn or even drinking more than water. He’d gotten too depressed.
“Maviola El! Maviola, Lady Firestarter herself!”
He was crying huge, blobby tears onto Qissax’s shoulder. The Naga eyed him as Calidus wept.
“She—she’s so beautiful! She was right there, and I—I never got a chance to flirt with her. In her prime! Dead gods, she’s incredible! Calidus, you fool!”
He ripped his shirt open, and the [Assassins] genuinely had no idea what to say. This man—truly lived a life contrary to everything they believed.
In truth, Calidus was hamming it up a bit to solidify his image in their heads. Better they thought him a silly man than dangerous. And…he gazed down at the orb, then flicked it to the next recording.
“There dies an El in all the true spirit of the Five Families. We poor successors shattered by the Goblin King are less for her absence. Gresaria Wellfar. I always liked her bellowing orders at ships and cursing them like a storm. Damn.”
He sat down, and one of the Faces spoke.
“She was responsible for the Guild of Assassins in First Landing being destroyed. I trust you are not mourning her, Lord Calidus?”
There was an edge in the half-Elf’s tone. He had a scar down one side of his face, a nasty one. As if magic had melted his skin; part of his skull was showing. Calidus glanced up.
“One would have thought a smart [Assassin] wouldn’t have put their Guild in the north’s most powerful city. Gresaria Wellfar switched my behind twice as a child for putting her docks into chaos and danger. I’ll mourn whomever I damn well please.”
The half-Elf’s eyes flashed. He bristled, and Calidus ignored him.
“I’ve said it and I’m getting tired of it: kill me if you’re going to. Otherwise, shut up and let me do what I want.”
There was a sound—Calidus glanced at Losmere.
“If he tries to stab me or whatnot, kill him. Or decide this isn’t working and start searching for a new base and more reasonable Guildmaster.”
She hesitated. Calidus ignored them all without even pretending to pay attention to if they were going to kill him. He had no time for them.
He was…fascinated. Much like Damia, Calidus was drinking in knowledge.
“She killed the Prince of Erribathe. Dead gods.”
“You truly didn’t know?”
“I saw the Terandrians were in danger and the Bloodtear Pirates were mincing them. The scrying orb kept cutting to crying nobility, so I turned it off. What would it have changed? Good for the [Pirates], I thought. But that—”
He stared at the image of a woman knifing Prince Iradoren through the heart. And Calidus leaned forwards.
“…What kind of knife cuts through enchanted armor like that?”
