Slashface had another scar across her mangled expression. She stood alone, a Rank, an [Assassin], but no longer one of the silent killers fresh-made.
She stood like a woman who had lost something that mattered. The last survivor of her team. Lost. Seeking answers in Selys’ tear-stricken face. The Drake’s head rose. And she saw it.
Just once. She inhaled, and a dreadful power filled Selys’ limbs. She spoke to Slashface.
“He killed your team. That bastard. Your brothers and sisters. You’re an adventurer.”
“No, Guildmistress. I’m—I’m just an [Assassin].”
Selys gazed into Slashface’s troubled eyes, then around at the others. Losmere, the Faces, the Ranks, watching her. She croaked.
“So what? You were part of a team. You’re part of a Guild. It has to matter. Even if you’re Ranks and Faces. Even if you’re [Assassins]. It has to matter, because you’re a Guild. Or else nothing matters and we’re all expendable.”
But we are. The young Rank was about to say it, but Selys heaved herself up, and Slashface saw in Selys’ gaze the same thing that Ribark had clung to.
Not to her. 
Not to me. Selys stumbled towards her office. She wrote, blood cold, limbs trembling, and then cast around.
“H-hammer.”
Someone gave it to her. She went over to the billboard she’d put up for assassination requests. And she began to hammer something into the board. There was no toc of great power. Just the thundering of her own hurt heart.
The [Assassins] watched, and Selys felt like she was driving a nail into Izril’s beating chest. And she screamed, just once.
For her grandmother. For her uncle. For the dead she had waved onwards and sent to their demises with a smile. So many teams. For Ribark and his friends who no one would mourn.
Only his Guild. That was the kind of place she had to lead. Or it was nothing at all. So, Selys Shivertail struck the final nail in the piece of paper, and this is what it said:
 
<Asssassination Target: The Blade of Harvests.>
Description: The Blademaster of Harvests, alias ‘Hapiie Leverleaf’, has slain our own. He has taken up his blade against the Assassin’s Guild of Izril. To all those who belong to the true Assassin’s Guild of the north—slay him. There is no quarter to give to those who kill us. No one to avenge us but our own.
Reward: One level in [Assassin] class. You shall be named a Face of the Assassin’s Guild.
 
And below that, a second quest.
 
<Rare Quest — The False Guild Dies From Within>
Description: There is only one Guild of Assassins in the north. Only one will survive. Give me the names of a base. The headquarters. Employees. Give it to me, and I will offer you a new life.
I am Guildmistress of the true Assassin’s Guild of the north. I shall grant any Rank or Face amnesty who forswears that Guild. They will throw you into a thresher without remorse. I shall never let you go.
Reward: Amnesty for traitors to the false Assassin’s Guild for information rendered. Scalable bounty on quality of information rewarded. I cannot lie in a <Quest>. I will grant absolution to all but those who have spilled our blood without end.
 
The <Quests> went out. Not around the world, and not even widespread. Just to those who could hear it. [Informants], [Secret Brokers], [Fences], who froze in their work as a voice spoke and delivered unto them the first <Quest> only they could hear.
A challenge. A mad Drake woman’s offer. A statement that echoed in the silence of Calidus Reinhart’s rooms as he read the <Quest>.
Then the [Lord] sat back and laughed. He had a splendid evil laugh because he had practiced it for fun. He giggled and howled with mirth. Because, for the first time—
He knew he’d win this stupid war.
 
——
 
There was something entirely alluring about a genuine, good woman. That might be relative to you, but Calidus certainly felt it in his loins.
Possibly his heart, if he had one in anything beyond the physical sense. Certainly, the Ranks and Faces felt something when looking upon their Guildmistress, even if they refused to admit it.
But Calidus—he was glad that the next day, Selys Shivertail didn’t appear recovered. She was red-eyed and had baggy darker rings around her eyes, much like Humans. A sign of ill sleep.
It was good. She didn’t seem well. Her hard façade had flaked away, revealing a bleeding heart, and you know what? It was damn refreshing to the [Lord] of House Reinhart and the hired killers.
Someone had to care, or what were they indeed? The [Lord] cleared his throat as he stood in front of the counter.
“I don’t suppose you’ve ever had someone suck your neck spines? I’m told by Drakes it’s a fascinating experience.”
Selys Shivertail stared at Calidus. Lagrisse seemed ready to eject the [Lord]. Calidus eyed Selys and consulted a Skill.
“No? I’m just saying in times of grief—okay, okay, don’t poke me.”
Even the Ranks were getting antsy, which told Calidus that Selys had won their trust. He held up his hands, smiling as Selys glowered at him.
“I have two announcements to make. Firstly, I am recruiting a number of candidates. This is in excess of the Ranks I have ordered from Chandrar.”
“Recruiting. What, locally? We barely have any [Trainers], let alone facilities for them.”
Selys croaked with a huge frown. Calidus smiled hugely.
“I know. This is my initiative, Guildmistress. I just require your time to vet any candidates for, ah, immediate candidacy into the Ranks. I’ll send for you. The others I’ll take care of.”
“I don’t think we should trust—”
“Ah, ah! I’m in charge. Now, the second piece of news.”
Calidus was relieved Selys didn’t have the energy to argue with him at the moment. She was gathering it, but he undercut her with the second piece of news.
“I have a location on the Blademaster of Harvests.”
Selys went still. So did the other [Assassins]. She stared at him.
“How?”
“I utilized my own connections. I do have favors among them, and some have further connections. He’s not exactly well-hidden, anyways. A half-Elf who had to be in range of Isbeut within the last few days with a showy sword? Someone bought a brothel out for one man—they do pay attention to that.”
That was Calidus. Friend of sex workers. It paid off more than you thought. He slid something over the counter.
“He won’t be alone, you know.”
“I know. Going to stop me?”
“Are you going to do something that will put my Assassin’s Guild in danger and possibly escalate this little war beyond any reasonable measures?”
He raised his brows, and Selys turned away.
“This is my Guild. Our own have been slaughtered. What do you think? If you want to stop me, remove me.”
Go ahead and try. Her eyes flashed defiance at Calidus, and she didn’t understand why the [Lord] beamed so hard. She really was a beautiful force. He swept her a bow everyone else thought was probably ironic, but the [Lord] just stepped aside.
“Milady Shivertail, it has seemed to me that the Guild of Assassins, famous and historically laden as they were, lacked for style when they were destroyed. A Guild should have style, not just history on its side. Let me see yours, I pray you.”
She gave him a blank look, then slammed a fist down on the counter.
“Lagrisse, Pilana, get me every [Assassin] in the region!”
She stormed forwards, and the [Lord] turned to watch her go. He eyed her swishing tail, then a rat bit him on the arm.
“Ow. Hey! I would never be so indecorous as to kiss or romance her without her approval. I can tell the difference, you know.”
He picked Haldagaz up and admonished the rat. The rat eyed him along with Lagrisse as the man hurried out from behind his counter. Calidus huffed.
“I told you all, it’s no fun any other way. We must have laws and decency. Or the rest is just…empty.”
He smiled like a reflection of the void itself. Until his eyes lit up and he sidled off to get to his own work. He only came back once to tell Lagrisse to take a recording.
 
——
 
The Blade of Harvests was a half-Elf who went by the name of Hapiie, and he looked like he was in his mid-fifties.
So guess how old he was. He had outlasted other Faces, other Ranks, even iterations of the Assassin’s Guild by virtue of this one fact: age.
When they burned, or when [Assassins] were in danger, he went to ground. Two decades of taking on a fake profession was nothing to him; he had endured centuries in the real world by virtue of his deadly bladesmanship.
Waiting.
Waiting for one thing. Not just survival. Not ‘retirement’; that was a joke. No [Assassin] ever left their craft behind. They were soaked in it. The Blademaster of Harvests had waited for the one thing he desired: status.
He wanted to be the greatest Face of the Assassin’s Guild. The one who stood at the top of that pecking order. But the Blade of Harvests knew how deadly and difficult it was to reach that apex.
Talent would not be enough. You had to be lucky, talented, and so many more things to stay on top for more than a second. For instance, you needed a vacuum where all the old Faces were dead or in hiding. Then, if you stood near the top of the others in levels, you’d be so vital that the Guildmaster would throw all the Guild’s resources behind you.
That was how you took the top and stayed there.
That was how you hit Level 50 without killing yourself in their job. Already he’d been furnished with over a hundred Drathian pills and armed in magical gear that was close to Relic-class. He had a hundred Ranks at his command, and because he was so vital, the Blade of Harvests reckoned it would be at least four years before anyone was even allowed to challenge his throne.
Level 50 was no dream with the new Guild’s ambitions. When he hit that…he could do whatever he wanted. The Blade of Harvests was only gratified it had taken a hundred and sixty years of waiting to get to this position. He’d been prepared to wait far longer.
In that sense, he was a true [Assassin]. One prepared to wait and let glory and immediate gain pass him by for his real objectives. This current rival Guild was not difficult.
Oh, there were a few Faces of note in the guild serving Lord Calidus, but his was more aggressive, readier to use the Ranks, and richer. His Guildmaster was a secretive man, newly elevated to nobility. A member of the Circle of Thorns in service to Regis Reinhart, no matter how much he tried to pretend he was his own man. He was even…changed.
The Blade of Harvests didn’t care if the man was part-monster and drank the blood of innocents like a Vampire. He just cared that the man was powerful. And how not? He was apparently highly-placed in this new Circle of Thorns. And not just any noble; he owned nothing less than the Unmarked Carriage.
This was an ambitious man, and one who needed a champion. Thus, the Blade of Harvests, Hapiie, had an accord.
…Though he wanted a new name. Thirty years he’d been ‘Hapiie Leverleaf’, and it annoyed him whenever someone snorted at his name. The half-Elf had even noticed the workers at the brothel seemed amused at the name.
So he’d killed three of them. He walked out of the bloodstained brothel and strode out of the town. He’d have the matter settled.
That was the power of being the first of Faces. No one would sneer at him anymore. No more worrying about being a ‘mere’ Face and suffering the challenge of an upstart. The Blade of Harvests was leaving the town, the two-sided greatsword on his shoulder.
It was slightly curved, but had two edges and a broad blade. An insane weapon for anyone without Skills to use, but he could swing it faster than belief. His name was because he could harvest lives like a [Farmer] did wheat. In fact, the half-Elf was strolling through a field outside the town, filled with Yellats instead of wheat.
Less thematic to his name, but he was about to unbutton his pants and take a piss when he realized that the escort of Ranks he was used to wasn’t present. The Blade of Harvests was mildly drunk from his libations at the brothel, but he felt that prickle down his spine and reached for a Scroll of Teleportation.
He yanked it out as he spoke; it was keyed to the Assassin’s Guild.
“Ranks, to me.”
Four squads appeared, leaping out of the brushes and his shadow. He nearly cut one down as they approached too fast. Only four?
There should have been six. The Ranks assembled around him, and the Blade of Harvests casually unfurled the scroll. It was pre-set. It’d take less than ten seconds to activate. No foolishness from him.
“Where are the others?”
“Not reporting, sir.”
A Rank whispered. The Blade of Harvests shrugged, then triggered the scroll.
“Make your way back to the Guild with utmost paranoia. If you engage the enemy, slaughter them. Do not allow yourselves to be tailed.”
He doubted any of them would make it if this was a trap. The Ranks hesitated, perhaps knowing this too, but the Blade of Harvests didn’t care. They were Ranks.
He felt the magic in the teleportation scroll activating as he waited, blade ready for the arrow or stab. For surely they were after him.
It never came. The Blade of Harvests smirked as he touched the Scroll of Teleportation. The magic flashed, and he—
Felt the teleportation magic trying to divide him in half. Rip him apart like a Giant would rip apart a little doll of cloth. The half-Elf’s eyes were growing round in the milliseconds of the magic activ—
[Anti-magic Slash]. He cut the scroll in twain and whirled away as it detonated. Three of the Ranks were too slow and vanished into the vortex it created. The Blade of Harvests leapt away, then steadied himself.
“This is the Blade of Harvests. I am under attack. Someone has compromised my teleportation spells. Send reinforcements. Now.”
He raised a speaking stone, spoke into it, and received a response.
“Zeomtoril’s little gadgets do work. I was going to kill him if it failed. Excellent.”
Instantly, the Blade of Harvests flicked the little speaking stone away and cut it in half. Just in case it was trapped. He had not recognized the female Drake’s voice on the other end.
“Form up.”
He snapped, and the Ranks shifted around him. Now, the half-Elf was unsettled. Someone had both intercepted his teleportation scroll and…?
“Show yourself. I am the Blade of Harvests, First of Faces of the Assassin’s Guild. Which Face has come to challenge me?”
He drew his sword and let it rest on his shoulder, casual, showy, but braced to swing it now, eyes sweeping across the Yellat field, the spiky green tufts of their leaves waving in the night’s breeze. Moths buzzing around, the blue moon shining…
Then a rustle. Shadows stepped forwards, emerging out of the darkness, and the Blade of Harvests saw a hundred Ranks appear in a circle around them. The itching on his back grew worse.
