Selys, who was trying to hide behind her enchanted carriage. Bethal hesitated, then smiled ruefully.
“Ah, Miss Selys. Why don’t we take care of our business first? How many horses was it? I do accept coins or Merchant’s Guild credit.”
When Selys Shivertail produced the little black card, Bethal beamed.
 
——
 
The incident in House Walchaís had Selys wanting to leave as fast as possible, and the one upside was this: Bethal needed the gold Selys was putting down.
Bethal haggled hard, but Selys was so rattled she just paid an exorbitant sum for two hundred horses and was riding towards the border as fast as could be.
Clearly, Thricia Walchaís and Bethal and these lands were—mad. Mad with loyalty towards this Goddess, and the one mercy was that her power seemed limited purely towards classes.
But what classes! Selys had a bunch of artifacts made with this divine power, and she reckoned it might give her [Assassins] an edge. But the final clue came when she glanced at the [Knight] lying across from her in the magical carriage.
Hilariously, Welca was still on guard-duty for Selys, and so the Drake had needed help bundling her into the carriage. She was making wheezing sounds.
Ribs broken. 
“What possessed you to do that? I thought you were loyal to House Walchaís, for all you complained!”
“I…just don’t want her killed by Magnolia’s servants. We still did…wrong. Thricia is innocent. She doesn’t…get what’s going on. She died a decade ago.”
Welca gasped. Her armor was ruined by the thorns, and she was struggling with it, trying to get the pieces off. Selys shook her head.
“Well, you’re clearly fired. If you objected so much, why did you stay?”
She was angry. Angry at Bethal and being too afraid to talk back to the dangerous lady. Angry at the judgemental look Thomast had given her, that traitor. So she took it out on Welca, but of all people, the [Knight] seemed amused by Selys’ question. She began laughing until she choked, and the wheeze-hiss of her breath filled the air along with the screeching of broken, now unenchanted, metal.
She tore her chestplate off, and Selys froze as Welca Caveis lay there.
“I didn’t stay. I quit the moment we reached House Walchaís. In shame. In disgrace. Sadly…Magnolia Reinhart thought it was too late for that.”
She had clothing on under her armor, but skintight, form-fitting so it didn’t chafe against the padded metal. Welca pulled up her tunic so Selys could see the grey-black scar more clearly. Her heart beat. Selys saw it pulse through the strange scar tissue. The cut that had gone through Welca’s chest had been a killing blow.
Or would have been except for—Welca lay back down weakly.
“There is nowhere to go. My own House forsook me. I am a twice-dead woman. Just like poor Thricia.”
“Magnolia Reinhart had you killed? How did—? How—?”
“Lady Bethal Walchaís found me a step over the border. She prayed for me. [Pale Mending]. The power of House Walchaís is in death, flowers, and faith now. For all the good it does Izril.”
The [Knight] lay there, one of her ribs visibly broken through her translucent skin. Then Selys Shivertail regarded what had become of one of Magnolia Reinhart’s greatest allies. The cost, or perhaps rewards, of treachery.
Her grandmother had died when Kasigna took Liscor’s walls. And the [Lady], one of two traitors at the Winter Solstice…
Welca’s eyes found Selys. Full of guilt and bitterness, and Selys Shivertail met them. Then glanced away, and she said—
“Turn the carriage, would you, Haldagaz? I have a second offer to make Lady Bethal. And, Miss Caveis. Would you like a job?”
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail hired House Walchaís’ services as [Healers] for Calidus’ [Assassins]. Their powers were astounding, if not all-encompassing. But Lady Bethal was only too delighted to take Calidus’ coin and not ask too many questions about who Selys intended to send to be given the power of miracles.
It wasn’t as good as Pawn’s healing, but it was beyond any other group in Izril. A huge boon, with the one caveat being they had to send people to House Walchaís—Lady Bethal refused to send her people outside her lands while Magnolia had the blockade running. Even so, Selys Shivertail congratulated herself about that.
Her arrangement didn’t come with the services of Welca Caveis, however. She would have made a fine bodyguard, given her levels. And she had no attachment to Lady Bethal, of course.
However, she rode north after Lady Thricia instead, to serve as the reborn [Lady]’s protector. She had looked Selys in the eye and flatly refused to work for the Drake.
As if she were judging Selys, that traitor.
Selys punched one of the pillows in the magical carriage until her claws hurt. She ignored the two rats sitting in the front seat; they’d had another fight.
None of this was Selys’ fault! She had to do what it took to survive! If she didn’t, she’d end up with her throat cut, dead in a ditch—if she had power, when she had the Assassin’s Guild’s authority and no complications, then Selys could consider settling debts.
I’m not going to end up like Erin, sailing through a sea of magical spells because I can’t bide my time! I’m doing the correct thing! The logical thing!
She was so mad that when Calidus Reinhart met her back in Isbeut with a bouquet of flowers, she took them and began stomping them into the street. He watched her.
“You know, I don’t offer this except to ladies I really like—I could happily offer myself in place of those poor flowers if it makes you feel better. Call it a first date?”
He fluttered his eyes at her, and she gave him a flat look.
“Are you serious? Me? Go date a Face!”
“Sadly, I believe most of them are keen on sleeping to get ahead, and I have strict rules about not doing that!”
He turned up his nose with a huge sigh. Selys opened her mouth, closed it.
“I’m not interested. You’re the scary Guildmaster. Threaten to have me killed to get your way.”
Calidus recoiled.
“Like some kind of rapist entirely typical within my class and noble bloodline? How dare you, Miss! I prefer to win my partner’s affections through that fascinating thing we call respect. There’s so little point, otherwise. You might as well just put some lipstick on a hand; it gets the job done.”
She stomped into the Guild. Selys threw herself into her seat.
“How many have we lost?”
“Th-thirty, Guildmistress. There was another raid.”
“Thirty?”
This was a disaster! Selys clawed at her face.
“Do you mean wounded? Because we have healing the enemy lacks—”
“No, Guildmistress. That’s dead. Wounded are—”
Calidus popped up behind Selys, hands folded behind his back, smile gone. He nodded after Selys finished listening.
“It was their [Bladesmaster]. We must do something about him—and just the fact that they appear to have more Ranks than we do. Or a willingness to commit them to destroy us, at any rate. I do have a plan to throw my opponents into disarray, you know. But it does require a location.”
“Of what, their Guild? Going to blast them with a Tier 7 spell?”
The [Lord] shrugged.
“If I had one, I’d fire it at First Landing instead and claim it was them. No, something that will either get us all killed or place us ahead in a hopefully incontrovertible way. But for that I require a location where they are. Even a single base. But it appears as though they tend to be winning most engagements.”
“Our Ranks need an edge. I’ve done what I can to get them logistics, healing—now they need gear. Got any?”
She snarled at him, and Calidus tapped at his lips.
“My grandfather might have some, but he won’t back a horse he’s not sure will win. I’m afraid—”
“Nevermind, I’ll deal with it. Like I need to deal with everything around here. Because you know what? I’m capable. Someone load up the magical carriage; I’m leaving, and I’ll be back within two days, tops! One should do it…does this card still have money on it?”
She waved the card at Calidus, and he raised his brows.
“I shall make sure it does.”
“Good!”
She stormed out of the Guild. Calidus admired the way her angry tail swept the floor like a broom. He sighed as he leaned against the counter.
“There is nothing quite as attractive as a lovely, intelligent lady who hates your guts. Winning her oh-so-unhappy heart—that’s real romance.”
He commented to Lagrisse. The [Deliverer of Secrets] stopped writing at the desk and glanced at Calidus.
“If I may speak, Guildmaster…”
“Oh, please! I am delighted to hear opinions.”
“I have always found that the most attractive beings to me are the ones eternally out of reach. The glittering blades that leave marks on Izril’s underworld. Faces of Faces.”
Calidus Reinhart paused, then patted Lagrisse on the shoulder.
“I can see you enjoy your job, my friend. I myself went through that era, but one can only claw at the wall so long before they explode—well, I suppose that’s the joy of it. You know, I actually got a letter back from Cognita Truestone one time? I have it framed in my study. I’ll show it to you sometime over drinks.”
Then he strolled out of the Guild as everyone stared at him.
 
——
 
Lord Calidus Reinhart wasn’t actually without a plan. He had a backup plan to arm the Ranks and help Selys Shivertail gain that advantage the Guild needed. It was just that Calidus wanted her to do her thing first.
Firstly, because she needed to do this herself or what was the point of her being the Guildmistress for him? Second—he was fascinated by her methods.
Apparently, she had intuited that House Walchaís was important, and not only picked up horses, but their unique artifacts and even healing! And it was because of The Wandering Inn.
Fascinating. Calidus was doing his part, incidentally. He’d set up what he hoped would be a fine move in the game against the rival Assassin’s Guild. But in the meantime, he went and found a member of the Ranks he liked.
She was, of course, female. He couldn’t help it! Plus, there was something about a Gnollish [Assassin] which tickled his fancy. She was lying in a cot, recuperating—they’d send the wounded to House Walchaís after this, but she had just returned from none other than Liscor itself.
“Miss Dirfang! That’s not a typo, is it? Direfang? No? Dirfang it is, delightful. And a splendid job on deterring that Face from killing—who was it?”
“The [Princess].”
Calidus sat at the foot of the bed as the Gnoll rasped. He felt slightly bad for her. Well, none of them had asked for this, but he had to own, missing a good chunk of your face was a rough one.
Sprayed with acid, apparently. A Face had gone after Lyonette du Marquin. They’d failed.
“You have done excellently, Rank Dirfang, and I only regret that our <Quests> weren’t posted when you took the job. Which is why I’ve come to personally reward you.”
“Are we having sex, Guildmaster?”
Calidus slapped his face and pulled his eyelids down.
“Dead gods. No. Only consensual—nevermind that. Listen to me. You did a splendid job. We didn’t know a Face was there, but you thwarted them.”
The Gnoll paused and rasped; he could see her tongue moving in what was left of her mouth.
“Didn’t do much, Guildmaster. Face left. [Knight] was there. And other Face. Fast one; no getting near the inn. Couldn’t even find it.”
Calidus nodded reasonably.
“It was cloaked, so they had to go after the woman when she entered the city. And she had bodyguards who seem to be well and truly competent. I understand that. Nevertheless, you did what was asked of you. And paid for it. We’ll get you a lovely mask fashioned. I think it’ll really enhance the look. Or just keep the, ah, burns. Nothing like that for intimidation value.”
He gave her a thumbs up, and she waited. Calidus sighed.
I really hope they develop some personality soon. He clapped his hands together briskly.
“I am promoting you out of the Ranks. You are a fully-fledged [Assassin] now. Your loyalty, Dirfang, is beyond doubt. You have bled for the Assassin’s Guild. Tonight you will claim Grade C weaponry and armor and a choice of Grade B artifacts from the Guild’s vaults.”
They had a number of items that Regis had either pulled from his personal vaults or salvaged from the Assassin Guild’s own stocks. Dirfang reacted for the first time. He saw her half-rise, despite the bandages covering her face.
“I’m not a Rank?”
“A full list of your new rights and perks will be given to you after this. Reading for while you heal up. Congratulations, Assassin Dirfang.”
He held out a hand, and she stared at it. Then the Gnoll hesitantly took his hand.
“It only took nearly dying once?”
Ah, well, you could understand the whole of her entire history from that comment, the shock and puzzlement on her face. Calidus Reinhart didn’t do the nice thing. He did the thing his brain told him to do and leaned forwards. Her brown eyes focused on him, and he spoke to her.
“In Izril, the rules are different, Dirfang. They’re my rules for my Assassin’s Guild. No one else’s. It’s not just for ‘nearly dying once’. It’s me taking a risk on you. I see your potential, and I want the Assassin’s Guild to thrive. We have a damn war to win, and so I am promoting you so the Ranks see what they can achieve. I want you to keep levelling, to heal up, and someday, if you keep giving me your best and not dying—I’m very keen on that—you’ll be a Face. And that’s what I want. Faces, not corpses. Understand?”
Her eyes focused on his face, and she was utterly confused.
“But I’m not even the best of my batch. There are plenty of people like me.”
Calidus smiled at her because she spoke a language he knew, that of practicality and pragmatism, but he felt like she hadn’t thought about it hard enough.
“That’s true, Dirfang. I could replace you and get the same results by not treating your wounds, throwing ten more Ranks at the problem, and just paying for more, couldn’t I?”
She nodded. That’s what they’d taught her. Calidus shook his head.
“That’s an idiot’s move. It sounds correct, but when you treat the world as expendable, it will do the same to you. Loyalty means something. Roshal doesn’t understand loyalty because to them, it is the click of a collar or crack of a lash. We’re Izrilian. We may be incorrect, and perhaps Roshal is in possession of the optimal methods. But I am operating under what I understand to be true, and as far as I can tell, Izril’s north is a lot bigger than Roshal’s single city. Who matters more? A single Face or a hundred Ranks used well?”
Silence. Calidus squeezed her hand harder, then let go.
