He was shy and awkward, though. He introduced himself without looking directly at any of them, and pulled the cloak more tightly over his head, despite his apprentice's best attempts to reassure him.

"I'm sorry," Marcus, one of his apprentices, apologized. "He has some trouble with new people. He'll open up after a bit, don't worry."

"It is not a problem," Professor Graystalk said, his tone warm. "Many of my colleagues are much the same. There is no disgrace in needing time."

Phlogis shifted slightly at that. "Colleagues?" he asked. His voice was quiet and reminded Cale vaguely of the tinkling of glass.

"Oh, yes." Graystalk chuckled. "Our academy doesn't hold many humans, so we all have to get used to one another."

"Not many... humans?" Phlogis repeated, like he couldn't quite wrap his head around the thought. "...Unusual."

"Indeed." Graystalk glanced at Cale, who shrugged. He appreciated the concern, but it wasn't like the reminder made things any worse; normally, people didn't even realize they were doing this to him. "So if you're worried—"

"Not... worried." Phlogis hesitated. "Do not want to disappoint."

"We keep telling you, you're not a disappointment," Marcus said with a sigh. Phlogis shifted to look at his apprentice, uncertain, but did not respond.

"Instructor Phlogis won't admit it, but he is one of our foremost experts in alchemical containment and reactions," one of the other instructors supplied, taking pity on him. "He's basically a walking alchemical laboratory, and he's responsible for building basically all the equipment in here. We should probably get the class started—you'll see what he's capable of when it's his turn. He's a little less shy when he gets to do alchemy."

"Of course," Professor Graystalk agreed. To their surprise, Phlogis and his apprentices chose to sit with them, near the back of the class; apparently Phlogis didn't like being close ot the stage until it was his turn to present.

Cale paid special attention as the lesson began, curious if he would be able to hear the song of these reagents as well. Mages of this era seemed to treat alchemy and spellwork as parallel systems, with alchemy being largely a way to contain a spell in liquid form. Many potions could be converted directly into spells, and vice versa.

"Mandalroot," Instructor Tajia explained, "can only be cultivated in environments of third-order symmetry or higher, though you can partially supplant this requirement through the use of mirrors. This makes any reflective plant an excellent ingredient to grow alongside it. Repeating grass, for instance, though you must be careful not to let their reflective planes intersect. We don't need another infestation.

"Both are useful for any potions or spells based in duplication or illusion, but be aware that neither of them tolerate other ingredients well. To make them more amenable to non-symmetrical ingredients, one must make use of a neutralizing, chaotic reagent, such as the bark of the bandit-tree..."

Tajia pulled out each ingredient as she spoke, and Cale concentrated on them with his mana sense. Just like before, each seemed to sing to him with its own note.

Cale's brow furrowed slightly.

No, he wasn't just hearing that in his mana sense. He glanced to the side.

Phlogis was humming along with each ingredient, almost subconsciously.

"You hear it too?" Cale whispered.

Phlogis jumped immediately, of course, in a startled clatter of tinkling glass that made Cale wince. Whoops. He probably should have remembered that Phlogis was probably not used to being spoken to while observing the class. Luckily, the instructor didn't seem too offended, just surprised.

"You... hear it too?" he asked. And then, in a lower, more urgent whisper: "Do you hear the other song? The bad one. The one that's coming."

Cale blinked. "I don't think I hear that one," he said carefully. "But... tell me more."
