Thomas' first reaction on seeing the triple bosses was pure glee. Three bosses meant three chances for excellent drops, even if he didn't end up getting a killing hit on one of them.

Wait… That was really messed up, right? Was this whole dungeon-diving thing changing him? Because that was not the reaction he would have had a few months ago before the System came to Earth.

Well, whatever. There was zero time to self-reflect.

The Light boss was the first to strike by raising an arm and bringing down a beam of white-gold energy. Twitch immediately stepped into place, raising his ivy-patterned shield to reflect it, which did nothing at all. The beam still hit him with enough force to make him skid back. But he didn't fall, and he wasn't outwardly hurt. Earth mana had some neutralizing effect on Light.

Twitch grinned widely, showing the braces on his teeth. "Nah, you ain't shit," he said and went for the thing, sword raised. Courtney joined him, baiting the boss, and then ducking back out of range with her extremely flexible body.

To the other side, the green Nature boss also waved a limb, and out from it spat a cloud of dark spores into the air. Thomas didn't need any healing instincts to know no one should be breathing that in. Luckily, Zach was already taking care of the problem. With a graceful motion that fit a dancer, he used his Sky mana aspect to shift the air currents and bring all the spores close together. That made it really convenient when he struck it with a lash of his fire ribbon. The spores went up into ash before anybody had a chance to breathe them in.

The neon blue Electric boss was a whole different matter and simply slammed a fist into the cavern floor. For a second, Thomas thought that the attack had fizzled out. He'd expected lightning or something.

Behind him, Sue screamed, "Holton!"

Thomas risked a glance back. Holton had been standing in one of the puddles that had gathered in the damp cavern. The Electric boss had used that water as a conductor, and now Holton was on the ground twitching, with one of his feet still in the puddle, which was smoking.

"Ah shit," Thomas muttered, as the need to heal the guy slammed into him.

He waited long enough for Twitch to take the next attack from the Light boss and see Jo's counterstrike of flying needles before Thomas gave in to the urge. He pulled the shield off his own arm and pushed it to Twitch. "Here," he said. "I'll be right back. Jo, cover me!"

Jo took in the scene at a glance and threw a larger blade at the Electric boss, which went right through its middle and distracted it long enough for Thomas to get away. Sprinting to the back of the cavern, he arrived in time to help Sue pull Holton out from the puddle completely.

His leg was so much worse than even Braxton's electric burn. It looked completely cooked, and not in the slang way his nephews used. Looking at it made his own leg ache in pure sympathy, and he gritted his teeth, pushing the pain and the rest of the burden down.

Thomas placed both his palms down on Holton's thigh. This would need more than just a healing crystal; Holton's flesh needed to be rebuilt with Living Architecture.

Behind him, the fight raged on, but he concentrated on rebuilding the limb as fast as possible. The second he was certain that it was as good as it was going to be and Holton was starting to come around, Thomas jumped back to his feet and ran back to help his team. His breaths came out hard: Pushing his healing that fast had taken a lot out of him, even though he was now a level four. He arrived just as Twitch took a light beam clean through his left shoulder.

Twitch staggered, almost dropping the mutable shield, which had turned into a mix of brown, green, and electric blue under the influence of his mana.

"Nah, I'm good," Twitch said as Thomas ran up to him, probably because he couldn't feel it thanks to his tank-like Gift.

Ignoring him, Thomas stayed behind him and pressed a hand to the back of his shoulder, still using the other man for cover as he activated his Living Architecture once again to seal the wound shut. He made the seal as firm as he possibly could in a flash, then grabbed his halberd from the ground, bringing it around just in time to see the Electric boss lashing out at Courtney.

Thomas didn't think and shoved the head of his halberd between them, sparking off his Severing Radiance beam. It sheared through most of the electric blast, but not all of it, and a portion struck the halberd. Electricity arced down the handle, and Thomas's hands locked up. It was over in a moment as Severing Radiance had taken the bulk of the hit, so he was nowhere near as bad off as Holton. Courtney, meanwhile, had flipped away without even looking over her shoulder at him in thanks. A moment later, Courtney engaged the electric boss again, swinging her sword at it in a competent stance that told Thomas she'd had professional training. She managed to slice off a sliver of the thing without getting electrocuted before she danced away. She would be fine.

Where the hell are Tiny, Sue, and Holton? Thomas thought in frustration. His team was being pushed, and it would be really helpful to have extra hands here.

Then his attention was grabbed by the green Nature boss. It was spitting out too many spores for Zach to easily contain. He had to focus on the spores instead of fighting the boss directly. If someone inhaled that crap, he would have to Purge them, and that would take them out of the fight.

However, Thomas figured he had extra built-in protection.

"I got it!" he called to Zach, right after the man had blasted another cloud of spores and sent an additional whip-crack of fire to the boss in retaliation. "Don't burn me!"

"Dude, what are you— No, Thomas, don't!" Zach yelled sharply.

Too late. Thomas had already run past him, straight into the next wave of spores.

Holding his breath, he squeezed on his core for all the higher-level healing mana he could. None of the spores went into his lungs, but they certainly burned like a sonofabitch when they landed on him.

This close, he saw the boss had several different scorch marks over it, courtesy of Zach, but those strikes had just been wearing it down slowly. It needed to be dead. Thomas brought down his halberd in a brutal chop, throwing all of his weight and every bit of the strength of his arms and shoulders into it.

There wasn't much resistance. It was like cutting a butcher's knife through a pile of moss. The green Nature boss dissolved into motes, not just the spores.

Thomas heard the clink of loot hitting the stone floor, but his lungs were burning and he hurriedly backed away, brushing at his arms and chest and trying to shed the burning spores. He caught a glimpse of his forearm and saw blisters healing right before his eyes.

Dots from lack of fresh air were starting to firework in the corners of his vision, though he made sure to get well clear before he breathed in. Zach stepped in and filled the now empty third of the cavern with fire.

One boss down, two to go. Unfortunately, the other fights were not going nearly as well.

The Electric boss had managed to shove past Twitch and Courtney and in a blink of electric power, zip across the cavern to smash into the group of Tiny, Sue, Holton, and the dungeon feed guy. Sue herself took a tumble that sent her yards away and Tiny spasmed for a few seconds as he was hit by a glancing electric blow before he collapsed to his knees.

Zach yelled out a warning and flung one of his teleportation daggers at the boss. It went through the thing's head as if it weren't there and missed Holton by inches, who stood to the other side.

Thomas had started for them the second the boss broke through, but staggered as a wave of pure terror hit him out of nowhere. He screamed, and he wasn't the only one, and started to turn to run away in the other direction. He didn't care if it took him into the arms of the Light boss; he had to get out of here. They all did. NOW.

As he did, the Electric boss fell upon the dungeon feed guy and sizzled him alive.

Hearing and seeing that was like a kick to Thomas's gut, and it took him a few precious seconds to realize that the terror was not his own. This wasn't coming from him, but outside him. Tiny was panicking, and his Gift had leaked it out to everyone.

Tiny was practically crab-walking away from the boss, and once it was distracted, managed to stand to his feet again. "Retreat!" he barked, as the terror mutated to desperation. "This isn't working! We have to go!"

"No!" Thomas shouted. "We can do this if we fight together. Tiny, you're broadcasting your emotions. You're—"

He stopped as Twitch bellowed in pain. Like the rest of them, he'd been taken by surprise and started to move the other direction when Tiny hit them with terror. That must have taken him within range of the Light boss, which hit him with another searing beam. Jo yelled something and slashed her sword into the Boss's back, making it disengage off Twitch.

Thomas started to move to help them—Tiny and his friends could just deal with the Electric boss on their own—when he heard Antonin cry out.

"No, no, I watch the exit! Watch the exit!"

Feeling like his attention was yanked back and forth, Thomas turned back again and saw that Tiny had a grip on Antonin's arm and was trying to haul him forward to the Electric boss, which looked like it was just finishing its meal. Antonin scrabbled uselessly against him, but he was like a child compared to Tiny's huge bulk.

Thomas made his decision and rushed forward to help. Zach was faster and sent one of the teleportation blades flicking out. It spun once and landed in the meat of Tiny's bicep.

Tiny yelled, but didn't let Antonin go... until Thomas slammed his shoulder hard into the man's ribs. Tiny's grip broke and Antonin lurched towards Zach, who quickly had his hands full dealing with the hysterical man.

Thomas kept himself between them and Tiny as he regained his footing.

"What the hell do you think you're doing?" Tiny demanded, as if Thomas was in the wrong. "This isn't working, we need to go! The bosses will chase us through the dungeon if they aren't distracted by lunch." The look on his face was ugly and so full of fear that Thomas wondered briefly if he was feeling his own emotions reflected in themselves like a crazy prism.

He almost felt sorry for him. Instead, Thomas squared his stance and pulled his old, trusty, curved dagger out of its sheath. He had dipped it in the potion Hathas provided that would put someone into a dreamless sleep, and had been saving it for a rainy day. Twitch, Jo, and Courtney had their hands full with the Light boss, which at a glance was trying some sort of wide-range attack, and Zach was dealing with Antonin. Thomas was on his own for now, but that was fine. He had his halberd that could disrupt mana and some sleepy-time potion. This was only a tiny problem.

"You're not thinking straight and broadcasting your emotions all over the place. We can take them if we all work together—Tiny, we need these drops to get stronger. The real fight is outside this dungeon."

Tiny's face contorted, and Thomas thought he saw the exact moment where he decided Antonin wasn't going to be boss chow: Thomas was.

"Sorry about this. Sue!"

The curved dagger was wrenched from Thomas's hand and flew off to the side, landing in Sue's grip with a smack. She must have some disarming Gift. Unfortunately, her catch was imperfect, and Thomas felt, through a sympathetic flash of his own hand, that she had been shallowly cut. That had been stupid of her.

Her power had also made Thomas drop the halberd. He had no time to try to pick it up again before Tiny stepped forward and swung a fist in a mean right hook.

Tiny was, as Thomas had noted, built like a professional linebacker. Thomas was not nearly as skinny as Twitch, but until he started dungeon diving, he was nothing special in the muscle department. Which was why they were both a little surprised when he got his arms crossed in time and managed to not only catch the blow, but shove him back hard enough to make Tiny stagger.

Wellspring mana flooded up from his core, and he could practically feel it infuse itself into his muscles, with a little extra funneling to reinforce his mind so he could take in additional details while in combat. Nice.

Then Holton came from the other side, clearly meaning to flank Thomas... except he hesitated while bringing his sword up, looking confused. "Tiny," he said, "I don't think we should..."

Thomas had healed him, after all, and that must have made it difficult for Holton to attack him in return. It was nice to see the Burden work on his behalf for a change.

Tiny had no such compunctions and surged forward with a roar, clearly meaning to wrestle Thomas over to the boss's jaws, if that was what was needed. Not like his team would go along with that, but maybe Tiny thought he could emotionally force them to do it.

None of it mattered because the second he got within grappling range, Thomas pressed a hand over his stomach and induced the Purge.

Tiny went suddenly still, his eyes so wide Thomas saw the whites all around them. Unfortunately, he absolutely blasted out a wave of nausea and disgust so strong that Thomas' own stomach lurched in sympathy. He instinctively stepped back and that was what saved him when Tiny doubled over and started to gag.

The man turned and fled out of the boss room. Holton, still staring at Thomas in uncertainty, grabbed a visibly wilting Sue and followed after.

Unfortunately, the Electric boss had by now fully finished its meal and decided to advance straight on Thomas.

"Ah fuck," Thomas said and bent to snatch the halberd up from where it had clattered to the ground when Sue did her disarming thing. But the weapon was steps away; he had to lower his head halfway to the ground to pick it up, and the boss was coming on fast. This was going to suck.

A hysterically screaming Antonin crashed into the boss with a shoving motion like they were playing contact football. He wasn't electrocuted, however. Toxic green spread out from where he touched, boiling the electric blue of the boss wisp. Then the boss started to scream in a high electric wail as parts of it began to dissolve.

Antonin backed away, hunched, with his hands pressed over his ears. Then he spun and joined Zach and the others as they tried to corral the Light boss.

The loot, Thomas thought, and, scooping up the halberd at last, rushed forward and drove the halberd's blade down over its head. Electricity buzzed up his arms, but not nearly enough to stop him, and the Electric boss fell apart in a shower of blue and green motes. The green motes stayed on the ground for a few more moments, sizzling like they were being eaten away by acid. Then they, too, vanished.

In their place stood a huge A-grade Wellspring mana crystal and an ugly green crystal that had to be Corruption.

"Thanks, Antonin," Thomas breathed, though the man had joined the other fight and couldn’t hear him. The Light boss was starting to boil green.

Corruption mana was a hell of a thing.