Our skills are clashing and I can feel mine being dominated like usual. Strangely enough, though, his skills aren’t making me want to agree. Is Mental Resistance helping me?

Kervin notices my unwillingness to settle on a price and looks confused.

His gaze moves over to my spears. “What about your spears? The normal 25 bronze enough for you?”

“That was for my previous work. These are all metal instead of a wooden pole. These are meant for higher leveled people, people like soldiers. I want 2 silver a piece for them.”

“That’s eight times higher than last month! I’ll go up to 85 bronze for each.”

His skill’s crush mine but I don’t let his skill influence my decision.

“I need one and a half silver for them. That’s fair and you know it.” I continue to challenge his prices.

We stare back and forth. Kervin starts trembling before he sucks in a breath of air. “Fine, 85 silver for everything.” He reluctantly says.

“That’s good with me.” I stick out my hand.

He takes my hand and snickers. “You got a lot better, care to see the ores I brought for you?” He obviously wants to get some of his coins back. “I managed to get a hold of some ‘Chasten Copper’ the stuff is purple; you have to see it.”

My heart skips a beat but I can’t waste my money right now. “No thanks, Kervin.”

He looks back at me with astonished eyes. “Since when do you not want magic rocks?”

I reach to my side and feel the bag holding my savings. “I do want magic materials… very specific ones.”

“Oh, you want to place an order? What do you have in mind?” He looks at me querulously.

“I need 5 ounces of mithril, it needs to be as pure as I can get.” Kervin’s eyes almost pop out of his head when he hears my request.

“You want magic silver!? Do you have any idea what that costs?” He’s looking at me like I grew another head.

“That’s not all. I need a small magic gem that has a low elemental affinity, preferably wind if you can find one.”

“Now you’re making fun of me! Do you think I can bring you samples of materials like that?! I would need to call in all my favors in Silver Heard just to see their magic gems and you want me to bring them here!?”

I unstring my coin purse and hand it to him. Kervin opens it and looks inside. “What’s this?”

“My entire savings from trading with you these last few years. Including what we agreed on for the cart of materials it should be around two and a half gold. Can you bring me something with that?”

Kervin looks shocked. “You’re paying me upfront?”

“I know what I’m asking for is a lot. Can you help me?”

“You trust me with this much money?”

“Yes,” I answer without even a pause. “Can you do it?”

He stands in front of me staring at the coins in deep thought.

Finally, he looks back up. “I get a 10% finder’s fee. Make sure you have enough weapons to cover it when I get back.” It takes a moment for me to realize what he said.

“You’ll take your cut later?” I hesitantly ask.

“Just this once.”

I can’t help but smile and rush in to give him a hug. I wrap him in a bear hug and swing him around. “Thank you, thank you, thank you.” I say rapidly.

When I stop spinning him and put him down. I notice his guards have their swords drawn. “What’s your guys deal today?!” I shout at them and take a step forward.

“Whoa! It’s ok. They’re just jumpy after hearing about the magic beasts.” He moves in front of me and uses his hands to make a lowing gesture to his men.

Once their swords are sheathed again, he turns back to me. “Sorry about that. I’ll find the best specimens I can get my hands on and bring them with me next month.”

“It means a lot to me, Kervin.” I move over to my cart and fish out a small jar. “Try eating this.” I hand him the jar.

“What’s this?”

“That’s some of the meat we harvested from the chameleon spider we just hunted. It tastes delicious and there should be enough here for the three of you.”

“Uhhh?”

“I know what you’re going to say, but trust me and try it. You can find me tomorrow if you want to buy some more for the road.”

“I’m sure I will.” He says sarcastically.

“Alright, let's empty my cart. My family is expecting me.”

Before I can start pulling everything out, Kervin stops me. “Let my men do it. You can help me finish the tea.”

“Sir.” I pause when I hear one of his bodyguards call out to Kervin. He looks worried about something.

“It’s fine. You owe Aaliyah an apology. Empty the cart for her, I’ll be fine.” Kervin grabs my arm and drags me back to their campfire.

He pours me another cup of tea and I figure I’ll check my stats while I’m waiting for my cart.

LV: 61 Experience: 57,248/ 449,563

Health: 2,030/2,030

Stamina: 1,178.21/1,343

Mana: 942.81/1,000

Vitality: 203.00

Endurance: 80.08

Strength: 120.02

Dexterity: 113.02

Senses: 60.20

Mind: 62.27

Magic: 100.28

Clarity: 75.19

Status Points: 10

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV77), Running (LV70), Axe Skills (LV55), Blacksmithing (LV55), Cleaning (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV48), Chanting (LV45), Mining (LV42), Drawing (LV37), Cooking (LV36), Trading (LV32), Dagger Skills (LV31), Acting (LV30), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV21), Sword Skills(LV14), Pugilist Skills (LV4), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV77), Double Step (LV53), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV39), Axe Arts (LV36), Hammer Arts (LV36), Writing (LV32), Mathematics (LV30), Intimidating Shout (LV30), Increase price (LV13), Lower Price (LV12), Dagger Arts (LV12), Marching (LV5), Sword Arts (LV3), Gourmet (LV2), Shout of Valor (LV1)

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV55), Mana Manipulation (LV47), Precise Strike (LV27), Double Strike (LV26), Weighted Strike (LV12), Flash Step (LV10)

Tier 4:

Inject mana (LV41), Mana Skin (LV40), Mental Resistance (LV38), Extract Mana (LV11), Magic Blacksmithing (LV5)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV28)

Increased Skill Levels

Blacksmithing (LV55) 2,750exp

Chanting (LV45) 2,250exp

Trading (LV27-32) 8,850exp

Sword Skills (LV10-14) 3,000exp

Double Step (LV53) 5,300exp

Measurement (LV39) 3,900exp

Intimidating Shout (LV30) 3,000exp

Increase price (LV8-13) 6,300exp

Lower Price (LV5-12) 6,800exp

Sword Arts (LV2-3) 500exp

Shout of Valor (LV1) 100exp

Mana Manipulation (LV47) 7,050exp

Precise Strike (LV26-27) 7,950exp

Double Strike (LV24-26) 11,250exp

Weighted Strike (LV9-12) 6,300exp

Flash Step (LV9-10) 2,850exp

Mental Resistance (LV38) 9,500exp

Extract Mana (LV7-11) 11,250exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV3-5) 3,000exp

Sense Soul (LV28) 14,000exp

Skill Experience: 115,900exp

Crafting Experience: 19,702exp

Fighting Experience: 8,643exp

Total experience Gained: 144,245exp

I reached level 61 and gained a new skill. Shout of Valor, probably won’t use it often. I got 19,702exp for making the spears and helping with Ronald’s bow. I got a decent amount of experience for killing the spider, I wonder if I’ll earn close to the same amount of experience every time we kill one?

My merchant skills also shot up like crazy after I disregarded Kervin’s skills.

I’ll have to distribute my stat points when I get home. A huge smile comes to my face.

Kervin’s Point of View:

Watching Aaliyah smile at a blank space makes the hair on the back of my neck stand on end. She must have gained some levels after whatever she did to my skills.

I was able to lessen her skills against me but it seemed like she completely ignored mine. She’s obviously stronger since I saw her last but she couldn’t have heavily invested in her Mind stat as well, did she?

I’ve known how amazing she was since she first came to trade with me. Her rate of growth is staggering but I can barely recognizer her since I saw her last month. Behind her smile I can see the weight of battle and a look that resembles the same one Lurte and Ryiba have.

Speaking of which, I glance over at the two. They’re rushing to empty Aaliyah’s cart but both of them are taking turns keeping an eye on me. I haven’t had a chance to ask them about the young woman sitting in front of me.

Aaliyah’s eyes refocus, she must have finished looking at her stats. “Would you like some more tea?” I offer her the kettle.

“No thank you. Sorry for spacing out.”

“Don’t mention it. Judging by your grin you must have leveled a few skills.” I try to pry some info out of her. I need to know all I can about what skill she used on me.

“A few, want to renegotiate our prices?” I feel like a beast is looking at me when she smiles and offers to renegotiate.

“I’ll wait until next time.” I look over her shoulder and see Lurte and Ryiba dashing back to my side. “Looks like your cart is empty.”

“Thanks for the tea.” She stands up and moves in front of me too quickly for me to react. Does she not notice how she moves? Her physical stats have to be all over 100.

I notice she’s holding her hand out for me. I slowly rise and move to shake her hand. Lurte and Ryiba reach my side as our grips lock into place. Her once smooth hands are grittier now. She doesn’t put too much force into the shake but her hands guide mine in a precise motion. If I tried to shift my hand at all I probably wouldn’t be able to move one of her fingers.

“See you next month.” She offers me one last smile and moves over to her cart. She effortlessly pushes it off into the distance, that’s another thing that changed in only a month.

Lurte and Ryiba relax a few minutes after she vanishes out of sight.

“How bad was it?” I ask my faithful bodyguards.

Ryiba steps closer to me. “She’s extremely dangerous.”

“Oh?!” That’s surprising. “Can you guess her level?” I ask him.

“High 50’s, maybe even 60.” I pale when I hear him.

“That’s impossible, she’s only 15!” I can’t help but disagree with Ryiba. Then again, he’s rarely wrong.

“Her mana has expanded a great deal alongside her physical stats.” I assumed she practiced some form of magic being an apprentice to a Stone Kin but Ryiba sounds shaken. It was amazing I found a free-lance mercenary that had a slight talent for sensing magic.

“Are you sure?!” I double-check.

“She’s not guarding her mana pool. Anyone who knows the technique can feel the magic radiating out of her body. It didn’t matter last time we saw her but her presence has changed, it’s sharper. She’s actively looking for threats around her and judging by her stance she was ready to draw her blade. She was focusing on the tree line but she was making us nervous.”

“Does that mean you believe she killed the horned hob in single combat?”

“Yes,” Both of them look at me seriously.

“Then that means I found the brightest gem around.” The two of them don’t look like they comprehend what I said.

“That girl will become someone great in the near future. All high leveled people need a reliable merchant under them.”

“Is that why you agreed to get her the materials?” Lurte asks.

“Exactly! If she or her master need materials like that, they must be doing something special with them. That girl will make me rich… so, neither of you better ever draw your swords on her again! Do I make myself clear!?”

“Sir!”

“Sir!”

They both loyally salute me. “Continue to follow me and I’ll make sure to reward both of you handsomely.”

They smile while I sit back and drink the rest of my tea. This village is turning out to be the greatest boon I’ve ever had.

A rising star, villagers clamoring for food, and a headman who will be asking for bigger deliveries.

The only downside is I’ll need to downplay this at headquarters. Aaliyah’s threat wasn’t to far off the mark. If one of the senior merchants catch wind of this I’ll be booted from this route.

There’s no way I’ll give up the opportunity before me. I’ll be an executive in the Silver Heard Trading Company soon enough.
