I softly close the door behind me and look around the workshop clearing. I see the empty cart sitting off to the side. I originally planned to have that cart filled with weapons for Kervin.

“Oh, well,” I say to myself. I glance at the shed containing the spears I made. Would bringing weapons to the meeting be a good or bad thing?

Everyone is carrying something to defend themselves with these days so bringing some weapons meant for the village might help. I move over to grab my work.

Inside the shed are two bundles of spears. I wrapped the spears into two groups of four with each bundle having two of each type of spear. I’ll sell one bundle to Kervin and give the other to Camden. I should quickly prep the cart before I leave for the village.

I grab one of the bundles and move it into the cart. Then, I start filling the cart with the chameleon spider materials I’ll be selling to Kervin. I knew he would be coming soon and I had the foresight to master about everything we decided to sell before we left on our scouting trip. Once everything is loaded, I grab the remaining bundle of spears and leave the cart behind. I’ll pick it up before I meet with Kervin.

With everything organized, I head back to the village.

When I make it back almost the whole village is crowded outside Camden’s house. His whole family is lined up next to him offering their support. He looks composed but I can’t shake the image of him panicking yesterday.

I can’t see my family but I do make eye contact with Camden. He lets out a deep breath and scans the crowd. Nodding to himself, he raises his hands and the crowd silences itself. Camden once again looks in my direction and I can tell he wants to ask me to join him. I hesitate for a moment before nodding to him.

He smiles and waves me over. The closest villagers notice me and slowly a path to the front is formed. I ignore everyone’s gazes as I take my place next to Camden. I can tell everyone is wondering were Del and Ronald are.

“Thank you for joining us, Aaliyah.” Camden thanks me loud enough so that the whole crowd can hear him. He looks questionably at the spears I’m caring but I only give him a nod of acknowledgment straight out of Ronald’s playbook. He takes the hint and moves his attention back to the village.

“Ronald and Del-Razen are tired from their scouting and couldn’t join us today.” The crowd whispers to each other. “The scouting party managed to slay another magic beast.” A few people look excited but others realize a ‘But’ is coming. “The three of them can kill the beasts one at a time… sadly it’s where they found this one that’s the problem.” The crowd immediately turns restless. “The closest chameleon spider to our village was only 14 hours away.” The regular villagers don’t understand the significance of his words but the hunters in the crowd sure do.

“It appears they are moving closer to our village and will soon start to appear in our hunting grounds.” Camden keeps a straight face while everyone erupts in panic. He chooses not to use any skills but waits for people to quiet naturally.

Once the crowd quiets enough, Camden continues. “I know you’re scared; I am too. We face a threat we can’t see and only a few of us can fight. We need to move with caution from here on out. Once winter passes, we can get the lords help to drive off the creatures. Until then no one but the essential people will enter the forest.” More than one person looks angry at the restrictions.

“How are we supposed to hunt for meat!?” One of the hunters shouts out.

Camden looks at the man. “Only one group of hunters will be allowed outside the village at a time and they must be accompanied by Ronald.”

“There’s no way we can get enough meat for everyone before winter like that!” Another hunter shouts.

“I’m aware!” Camden’s shout silences the growing cries of alarm. “My wife has told me we have enough in the village coffers to buy dried meat from Mister Kervin.” Kervin for his part was apparently not aware of that fact and pales when the crowd surrounding him stares at him. I see his bodyguard ready his hand on his sword.

“The village will purchase the meat and distribute it if we can’t make it through the winter. There is one more thing we must do.” Camden sweeps the crowd with a serious look. “Every tree within ten feet of the village will need to be cut down or notched at its base.” People start whispering to one another. The people who went with us on the goblin extermination in the crowd must realize we’re using the same strategy as the goblins.

“If the magic beasts get close to our village, we will be able to spot them based on the lack of the cut marks on their legs,” Camden explains.

“And what if they charge into our village!?” One of the villager’s shouts.

Camden’s face says he wasn’t prepared for that question. The crowd starts to move restlessly when Camden doesn’t respond, so I step forward.

I thought I might need to use my Intimidating Shout again but the crowd silences as soon as I take center stage. “Then we defend ourselves.” My words shock most of the people. “The goblins managed to survive against them, are we weaker than the goblins?!” I Challenge the crowd and swing the bundle of spears into my arms.

While people murmur between one another, I unbundle the spears and hand them to Camden’s family. “The goblins managed to defend themselves with sticks and bones. We have much better than that. Every other weapon I make will be donated to the village.” My oath startles Camden and the villagers. “We will be prepared if these oversized bugs decide to step near our village. Master Del, Ronald, and I might not be able to kill them rapidly but we can still hunt them as they get closer to our village. The hunters need to be careful now but the beasts shouldn’t reach our village for at least another month. They may be able to hide now but when the snow falls their bodies will stand out more in the falling snow.” I feel a rush of adrenaline as I address the crowd.

“We will not fall like mindless beasts!” I unsheathe my sword and point it up in the air. “When we work together, we are unstoppable!” The crowd starts shouting in confirmation.

I’m about to Inject Mana into my sword but stop myself at the last second. Almost got carried away myself.

“If we stay safe and listen to Headman Downs, we’ll overcome these beasts!” I use Intimidating Shout again but it feels different this time. My shout lights a fire in everyone’s eyes.

I sheath my sword and step back next to Camden. He looks at me with his mouth slightly ajar. I’m trying to breathe and calm my own heart that’s pounding in my chest. I give him a nudge forward to continue.

He takes position in front of the cheering crowd. “I’ll meet with most of you over the next couple of days. We’ll make a schedule for people to help mark the surrounding trees. Together we will beat the beast back into the woods!” the crowd doesn’t shout as much as when I was speaking but Camden’s words do their job. Many people approach Camden and myself while the rest start to disperse.

I turn to Camden, “I need to talk to Kervin. The rest is up to you, fearless leader.”

“Wait!” Camden reaches out to stop me from running away but I activate Flash Step. I appear a few feet away in the crowd and make my way over to Kervin. No one is approaching his serious looking guard that’s trying to escort him back to his cart.

I move beside them but take a step back when his guard slightly draws his sword. “I’ll meet you at your cart,” I shout at the merchant.

I use Double Step to outrun the crowd and make my way home. I need to pick up my money.

I practically throw my shoes off and don’t even bother putting my house slippers on. I rush into my room and push a floorboard up and out of the way that was hidden under my bed. In my hidden compartment, carved into the stone foundation, is my savings. I grab the bag of coins and move back to our entryway.

I slip back on my shoes and rush out the door. I fly through the woods back to Del’s clearing, I get behind the cart and push it towards the forest path. It may not be full of steel goods like last time but my increased stats make this load easier to move than last time. I make sure to scan the trees with each step I take.

I make my way carefully towards the front of the village and Kervin’s cart with my goods in front of me.

When I reach his campsite, I see a few people trying to negotiate prices with him. Most people do their trading the first day he’s here, so I can only imagine they’re trying to barter for supplies they think they’ll need now that our village is going into lockdown.

I scan back and forth the trees around Kervin’s campsite.

“I’ll be staying an extra day this time. If you can come back tomorrow it would be most appreciated. I have a meeting with Miss Aaliyah here.” With the mention of my name the people trying to surround Kervin back off and notice me. Most takeoff but one stops next to me and bows his head, I think he was from the goblin extermination.

“Aaliyah! Good to see you again!” Kervin opens his arms like he wants a hug. His two bodyguards are flanking him and lightly hold him back. For some reason, the two of them won’t take their eyes off of me.

“I’m happy to see you again too, Kervin. I’m sorry but I don’t have the weapons I promised.” I park my cart next to his.

“That’s ok, I understand. Come sit down.” I follow him and his guards over to their campsite and sit across from him on a log.

“Really?” I give him a look that says I don’t believe him.

He holds his hands up in defense. “I may be a little disappointed but I’m not heartless. I heard about what happened after I left last time. Goblins, magic beasts, and it sounds like you distributed your stats. I can’t imagine the month you’ve had.” He gives me his usual merchant smile.

“I take it my family warned you I have business for you. Is that why you’re so happy?” I narrow my eyes and he flinches away from me. “Are you ok?” I quickly ask.

“I’m fine.” He adjusts himself. “And to answer your question, I was told about your materials already.” He turns his head and licks his lips at my cart.

“You have some good business coming your way.” He stops eyeballing my cart and turns back to me.

“I’m being insensitive, aren’t I? Your village has gone through a lot and here I am staring at your materials.” He moves a pot at his side next to his campfire. “How have you been?”

“A lot has happened. I almost died.” I look up at the dark clouds moving across the sky.

“But you didn’t. You managed to slay a horned hob.”

I look back at Kervin. “You catch up fast. I take it people are talking about me.”

“A merchant thrives off of the knowledge he has on his clientele. Yesterday, people told me about your strength and bravery. Then of course I hear you helped slay not one but two magic beasts. I’m sitting in front of a hero.” He chuckles to himself.

I frown and his two guards tense up. What’s their problem today? “I prefer if you don’t call me that.”

Kervin stops smiling. “I’ll keep that in mind.” He pulls out two wooden cups and pours me a hot cup of tea. “Shall we move on to business?”

I take the cup offered to me and down the whole thing at once. The tea helps to fire me up. “Of course.” I hand him back the empty cup.

The four of us stand up and I lead them over to my cart. I reach in and unbind the spears. I grab one of each and carefully hand the longer one over to Kervin first.

He looks over the spear and stops when he sees my maker’s mark. “You reached level 50 in Blacksmithing?” I choose to smile without saying anything.

We trade spears and he examines the smaller one. He looks slightly impressed.

“Can I see the magic beast materials?” He looks at my cart like he wishes he had x-ray vision.

I place the spears against my cart and withdraw a piece of carapace. I hand it to Kervin and he examines the material. “Do you have anything other than the shell?”

I point at the three jars in the cart. “We couldn’t harvest any materials from the first spider we killed but the one we killed a few days ago had a few organs intact. We managed to harvest five eyes from the beast in the first jar. The second contains what we think is a part of the lungs. The third should be a heart. We also recovered five fangs from the beasts.”

“You don’t sound very confident describing the materials?”

“Do I look like a biologist?” I challenge him.

“A what?” He looks confused.

“Sorry, I meant an alchemist. Killing the beasts is hard and we don’t have the luxury to avoid their organs. If you can make a profit on them let us know and maybe we’ll have a chance to harvest them in the future.”

“Unknown monster parts are tricky to deal with.” Kervin folds his arms in front of me.

I recognize the challenge. Our skills activate and the fun begins.

“Don’t give me that. Everyone knows there’s always a market for magic beast materials. I’ll give them to you for a gold piece.”

“Gold! Were you struck in the head by the goblins? There’s no way I’ll make a profit on that, 60 silver.”

“Master and I already tested the materials and it’s wind attribute. We can use them if you don’t care enough to give me a decent offer, 90 silver coins.”

“Maybe you should keep them? If I can’t make money on them, I don’t want them. I’ll give you 75 silver for the lot of them.”

“Word will get out about our materials in the spring. I can wait until your successor comes and trade with him. I want 80 silver for the magic beast parts.”

