“Damn! They spotted us,” I shout.

The three of us rush towards the headman’s house. We circled the forest surrounding the village so we could drop the materials from the chameleon spider off at Del’s house. We were hoping without being weighed down by the materials we could easily make it to Camden’s house without being spotted.

None of us wanted to interact with the nervous villagers after the tense four days we spent in the forest.

News travels fast in a small village and by the time we make it in front of the headman’s house a tenth of the village is crowding around the front door waiting for us, with more coming by the second.

Once we get within arm’s length of the crowd we’re bombarded with questions. It’s hard to listen to any one person in a situation like this but I can guess they all revolve around the spiders.

“Let us pass, please! We need to report to the headman!” I try to shout over the mass of people. My voice is quickly drowned out by the crowd.

I notice the headman’s front door open and Camden steps out in front of the crowd. Camden immediately frowns when he sees the crowd blocking our path. “Step aside! Let them pass!” The surroundings hush. I can feel his skill reverberating throughout the crowd.

A path made by reluctant villagers, only a few feet wide, opens up towards where Camden is standing. The three of us don’t take the opening lightly and rush up to the open door. Camden quickly follows us inside and shuts the door behind us. I can still hear the crowd outside complaining. It sounds like more people are gathering not dispersing.

Right before we’re led into the drawing-room, the headman’s front door is flung open. “Are they back?” Braddon stands in the doorway and looks happy to see us. Behind him I see the still growing crowd staring at us.

“If you want to join us hurry on in and shut the door.” Braddon looks surprised but quickly realizes why his father is mad when he sees the crowd staring at him when he goes to close the door.

When we finally make it into the drawing-room, I notice Sarette and Nicolas already waiting for us. It’s later in the day, so mother must’ve gone home already.

“I don’t see any materials on your back, does that mean you couldn’t find any of the spiders?!” Camden looks between us, hoping for some good news.

Master and Ronald both turn away, refusing to meet Camden’s gaze and I can’t help but have a sorrowful look myself.

Camden’s smile quickly drops and I can see him pale a bit. “How bad is it?” He focuses on me since the men refuse to look at him.

I feel bad about having to give him the news. “We encountered the first chameleon spider only roughly nine hours away from the village. We’re faster than the average hunter so you can increase that time to maybe twelve or fourteen hours but either way they’re less than a day’s journey away from our village.”

All of Camden’s family look shocked at the news.

“They’re that close already!?” Poor Camden is sweating and shaking in his seat. “Are you sure this wasn’t a lone spider that happened to get too close?” He’s fishing for any good news he can get.

“We had trouble with the first spider we encountered. Master Del was injured and after we dismantled the magic beast we returned to our campsite to rest. The next day we searched the surrounding woods and found two more spiders near to where we fought the previous day. We discussed it on the way back and we agree the spiders will enter our normal hunting grounds in the next few weeks.” Sarette gasps and brings her hands to her mouth.

“So soon!?” Camden looks like I struck him across the face.

“You were injured, Master Del-Razen?” Nicolas looks worriedly at master.

Master coughs into his hand before he raises his head to look at Nicolas. “We had some trouble dealing with the magic beast in the rain. I was careless and got knocked on my ass… I’m fine now.”

Nicolas looks relived but I know better. Master’s darker skin tone hides his injuries but I can see the slight discoloration across his face. His head may not be bleeding anymore but I’m sure he still has bruises all over his body after a hit like that.

“I… don’t know what to do.” I hear Camden mumble under his breath. “No one is coming. How do I handle this?” That was loud enough for his family to hear.

Sarette gets up and moves next to her husband. She wraps her arms around him and mumbles something in his ear. It’s hard to see a man crumble in front of you. He’s older than my father but I would have to be blind if I didn’t notice the similarities between the two.

A part of me knew how bad the situation was on our way back. Seeing Camden’s reaction, I can only imagine how the rest of the village is going to handle this news.

In a few weeks, magic beasts will be hidden in the forest relatively close to our village. What happens when the hunters need to find food during winter or father needs to gather more firewood? What happens if they start hiding right outside our houses?

“Come with me, dear.” Sarette compels Camden to his feet. She starts leading him out of the room until she stops at the door. “Nicolas, inform the crowd outside that your father will address them tomorrow morning.”

“Yes, mother.” He responds looking a little nervous about addressing the masses.

“And Aaliyah, dear. Kervin arrived today. He already agreed to wait for you so you can take your time and rest if you need to.” With that, she walks her husband out of the room.

Poor guy, ever since the goblin extermination everything’s gotten worse for him. Our once quiet village is in turmoil and the local lord is preoccupied with a war on his doorstep.

“I’ll escort you out now.” Nicolas tries to sound professional but it’s a cheap façade hiding his nervousness.

Braddon rises and walks next to his brother. He slowly puts his hand on his shoulder, “I’ll go with you.”

Nicolas gives his brother a half-smile. “Thank you.”

The two brothers escort us back to the front door. When they open the door, I see over half the village waiting outside. My parents are off to the side and I see Kervin and one of his bodyguards amongst the crowd close to them.

I’m about to try pushing through the crowd but the people practically erupt when they see the five of us standing together.

“Please quiet!” Nicolas tries to quell the mass of shouting villagers.

“We’ll never make it out of here like this.” My frown mirrors the ones growing on my parent's faces. “I’ll give you an opening,” I warn Nicolas.

I walk in front of our small group and look over the crowd. I still can’t make out a single thing they’re saying. I widen my stance and take a deep breath.

“Excuse Me!!!” Everyone stops talking after I use Intimidating Shout. It may not be the same as the headman’s skill but I think it did the trick. A few villagers are shaking and others can’t look at me. “I’m tired and wish to be with my family. Step aside, please.” A much bigger pathway opens up than when we first came to the headman’s house.

I start walking down the cleared path that leads to my parents. The only two people who don’t directly move out of my way are Kervin and his bodyguard. “I’ll see you tomorrow,” I mumble as I pass him. Kervin has an awkward smile and his guard flinches when I look at him. What’s with that reaction?

I forget about their responses when I see mother and father ahead of me. Their smiles help calm my mind and I can finally relax when they both give me a hug.

“Ahem!” Nicolas doesn’t miss the chance I gave him. “As you can see the scouting party returned safely and I’m sure the three of them would like some time to settle down without being bothered. My mother and father are currently going over everything the scouts reported and will have a response for you in the morning.” More than a few dissatisfied murmurs can be heard after his response. The village would riot if they knew how the headman was responding to the situation right now.

I look over my parents’ shoulder and notice Ronald and Del walking to their homes avoiding the surrounding villagers.

“Can we go home, please?” I whisper to my parents. They release me and move to either side of me, trying to guard me against the surrounding gazes. I try to avoid the remaining looks from everyone around us as we leave.

“Are you hungry, sweety? We can have an early dinner if you are?” Mother asks from my right.

“That sounds nice.” A good meal together sounds amazing… and I have more meat waiting in Del’s shack. “We brought back more magic beast meat. Let me grab it from master’s house and I’ll be right back.”

“Alright, and while you’re there invite Del over. He looked tired and I’m sure our cooking will be better than anything he was going to make for himself.” Mother looks ahead and I can see master walking in the distance, almost at the forest line. He’s keeping it hidden well but he has a slight limp.

“Sure thing, mom. Meet you back home.” I activate Double Step and rush after master.

I follow him into the woods and easily catch up to him. “You’re stumbling, master.” I move to support him.

“I just need some time to rest and I’ll be fine.” He stubbornly ignores my offer of support. “We had to move too much in the forest which slowed down my Health regain. I’ll be back to a 100% in a day or two.”

“Sounds nice. I have to meet with Kervin tomorrow but a few days of rest after that wouldn’t hurt me either.” Some time set aside for light magic training sounds nice right now.

Master gives me a flat look. “What!?” I question him.

“I was thinking we have two different ideas on the concept of relaxing.”

…

“I don’t know what to say to that.” I hang my head in contemplation. I joked about it before but maybe I do need to take a day off without any training.

“Speaking about rest days, why are you here? You left with your family earlier. You should be spending the rest of the day with them.”

“I plan on it. I’m grabbing some of the magic beast meat from your house and heading back. Why don’t you join us?”

“Thanks for the offer but I truly want to rest.” I stop and take a better look at master.

“Should I get Anastasia?” I ask nervously.

“I told you, I’m fine. Besides, someone at Anastasia’s level wouldn’t have enough mana to heal me. People with a high Vitality can take more damage and heal faster than others with a lower Vitality and be able to function with higher degree of injury but when they receive aid through a healer or alchemical solution it needs to be significantly stronger depending on the injured persons Vitality. It would be wasteful for her to use her mana when I’ll heal naturally in a few days.”

“You can rest while having dinner with us. Mother will be sad if you refuse her offer.” I bring out the big guns.

“Your mother was it?” I nod to master. “Please tell your mother I apologize for my absence.” I stumble when I hear his words.

We walk in silence all the way back to master’s house. He doesn’t even say anything while I gather the meat I need for dinner.

Master positions himself on his bed and pulls the covers over his head.

I use one of his clean pots to store the meat.

Making my way over to his door, I turn around and glance at the lump that is master. “I hope you feel better, master.” A light snoring sound echoes out from under his blanket. Master only snores when he actually falls asleep.

I make my way back home. Praying master recovers without issue.

“I’m going to check on master. I’ll meet you in front of the headman’s house.” I tell my parents as I slip on my shoes.

“We’ll see you there.” Dad Shifts his axe onto his back.

“You’re not working today are you, sweety?” Mother questions.

“No, after the village meeting, I need to meet with Kervin but after that, I’m free the next couple of days.” I give a reassuring smile to mother.

“Give this to Del, will you.” Mother hands me the pot I brought the meat home in last night. I look down at a full pot of spider stew, yummy.

“I’m sure he’ll like it.” With that, I’m out the door.

The sun is peaking over the horizon and the whole village is stirring to life. I don’t want people to see me yet, so I use Double Step and run as quickly as I can without spilling mother’s stew.

I’m feeling better after a good night’s rest and I hope Del feels the same. We weren’t told we need to be present during this meeting, meaning Master Del and Ronald will probably choose to stay home. I debated whether I feel like attending but decided one of us needs to attend.

I knock on master’s front door, juggling the stew in one hand. “You decent?” I shout through the door.

“Yeah, why are you here so early?”

I open the door and see two eyes peeking out from a bundle of blankets. “I came to check up on you and bring you a present.” I place the stew on a table off to the side.

“Mother said she forgives you and wanted me to give you your portion of dinner from last night.” I motion to the cold stew.

“Is it poisoned?” Master questions still hidden under his covers.

“I’ll tell her how grateful you are… Master, are you coming to the meeting?” I hesitantly ask him.

“I’ll pass, are you going?”

“Yep. I figured I need to support my extended family. Sandra would be sad if her father was mobbed without any back-up.” I try to hide my insecurity behind a joke.

“We did our part. Camden isn’t going to roll over that easy.” Master sounds sure of himself.

“Alright, I’ll take your word for it. Enjoy the stew.”

“Yeah-yeah.” I hear him say. I leave master to his rest.

