Flashing me a flirtatious smirk, she hugs me gently. “Oh, that's good to hear, because I wasn't sure you even noticed me, what with you staring at Yuzhen.” Upon closer inspection, I spot the dangerous glint in her eyes and pray she's not as abusive as Mila. “A little look never hurt anyone, but try not to go overboard. I hear you're betrothed to Mila now, and only a few days after I left. Congratulations.”

Uh Oh. Why do I feel like I've been caught cheating? “Er... the betrothal with Mila wasn't really my idea, Akanai just sprung that on me with no warning.” Why am I making excuses?

Pouting adorably, Mila points accusingly while Yan watches on with a dangerous smile. “So what? Our betrothal is just an inconvenience to you? And to think, only yesterday you promised to keep your indiscretions to a minimum, and today I find you ogling a complete stranger, like a starved animal. You're incorrigible, beyond redemption. I don't know why I believed you.”

“I wasn't ogling, I was listening intently.” Was I super obvious? But I was so careful, keeping my head down, only glancing up now and then.

Turning to Lin for support, my cheerleader betrays me, her sad brown eyes looking up at me in heartache. “How many wives are you expecting to have Rainy? You need to show some restraint, don't be so greedy.”

“Enough.” My salvation arrives in the form of the bald, one-armed Gerel, his fierce glower scattering my accusers. “Adujan, bring Healer Taduk to your teacher and see if he can be of aid. Mila, the others are busy so make yourself available to settle any disputes. Rain, follow me, the Blacksmith wishes a word.”

Grabbing me roughly by the neck as if to make sure I can't escape, Gerel leads me out into the streets with an escort of Sentinels, coldly rebuking Lin who tries to follow. The poor girl waves sadly as we leave on foot, marching along as quickly as I can, my legs moving furiously to keep up with Gerel's longer strides. “Err... So what happened with your arm? I lost the same one too.” I kind of want to see his face when I tell him I fought a demon AND healed my arm on my own.

“I was careless. Stop talking.” His eyes continually scan the surroundings as we move, alert for any sign of danger, so I quiet down and do the same. I don't think the Society would outright assault us in the open, but then again, what do I know?

Leading us towards the heart of the city, Gerel brings me to a pub and after speaking silently to the bartender, we head down into the cellars. Moving through a winding path of connected buildings, we emerge in what appears to be a butcher's shop, the inhabitants showing no sign of surprise, barely even acknowledging the existence of a dozen armed men stomping out from his cellar.

After several more similar 'shortcuts', we finally arrive at our destination, a small, isolated forge room close to the outer wall of the fortress, hewn from the same material as the wall. Greeting me with a tired smile, Husolt lifts me into a warm embrace, squeezing the air out of my lungs in a massive hug. “Ah, Lad, greet yer Father-in-Law. I danced a little jig when I heard the good news. Welcome to the family.” Giving me no time to speak after putting me down, his two meaty hands clamp down hard on my shoulders, his glowering face held close to mine, forcing me to stare into his one good eye. “You're a good lad and this need not be said, but I'll say it anyways to be sure. You make Mila cry, and I make you cry, that's the way of it. Understood?”

Nodding respectfully, I swallow my fear and do my best to appear innocent. I'm dead unless Mila decides to break off the betrothal, that's the only way I see out of this dilemma. As nice as a harem is in theory, I am nowhere near competent enough to pull it off. One wife, two kids, and the cat. That's the new dream, abandon all hope otherwise.

Laughing ferociously, he claps me heavily on the back, the pain resonating throughout my body. Dear sweet Mother, that hurt so much, and he was showing affection. What will he do if I actually hurt Mila? “Now lad, last time you rejected my work, but I learned from my mistakes. It was too fancy and complicated, this time I went for something simple, yet still aggressive. A bit heavy, but you're a sturdy one, and you've got plenty of growing to do yet.” Leading me into the back room, he pulls off a cloth from atop an anvil, and I stare in undisguised longing at a round buckler shimmering in the firelight. Polished silver with white studs, a hand guard protrudes from one end with a pair of silver tusks affixed to it, almost 30cm long, a single edge honed on each end and sharpened to a double point.

At Husolt's urging, I fasten the shield to my left wrist, my hand resting comfortably inside the armored grip, the heavy weapon ringing faintly as I slowly move it in arcs. Glancing in confusion at Husolt, I shake my head slowly, overwhelmed by the craftsmanship. “This is for me? Did Baatar gift this to me? I can't accept another weapon from him, Akanai was clear about that. I need to earn my second Spiritual Weapon.”

“It's not from the pup, this here weapon is a gift from the little lass Adujan.” A second heavy clap on the shoulder turns me towards him, a dangerous smile on his face, not entirely friendly. “She's a lovely girl, that one.” After an eternity, the sense of danger fades away, and his grin breaks out from ear to ear as he glances at his work. “She brought a Meng-Zhua skull for me to work with, her teacher used his connections and got me a top-quality binding reagent, and I did the rest for no charge. You earned it boy, she's just repaying you for her own weapon.”

Now I feel terrible about our reunion, I could have at least smiled at her first or something. “I love it.” It's like a bladed glove and shield, a little short in the blade, but it compliments my sword well. The buckler is wide enough to cover my head and upper body, and it's heavy, thick frame make it perfect for slamming into my opponents. My wrist is locked in place, so I lose some flexibility there, but it's still incredible.

A cool stream of Energy enters me, Husolt doing a quick scan before nodding in approval. “Good, your core is much more stable than before, good, good. Hurry up and bind it, the trial is set for tomorrow morning and you might be called upon to fight.” The mood sours, his expression grave as he pats my cheek. “You don't worry too much about it, if things are looking too dire, we'll turn as one and fight our way back home. My wife will see us through this.”

“Hope for the best, plan for the worst, right?” His only answer is a knowing smile, leaving me alone in the cramped room to bind the weapon. After a brief review of what to do, I settle down to meditate. I am one with the shield, the shield is me, I am the shield. Cycling my chi, I dedicate my mind to the task at hand, ignoring all else.

The Energy of the Heavens rages around me, crashing against me in torrents, but I am unmoved and unyielding, a rock within the storm. Sometimes, to find peace, you need to exert some force, and that's why we are here, to show the Society that the Sentinels are not to be taken lightly. I wanted to be a defender, a protector, and this is my chance.

An ethereal opponent appears in front of me with sword and shield in hand, his face blurred and familiar all at once, eyes red as blood staring me down in open challenge. Charging forward, I strike with both weapons in perfect unity, leading with the shield, bleeding him with the sword, getting in close and personal to limit his options. Losing myself in the dance, I flow gracefully in movement, yet remain unshakable once rooted. Ebb and flow, give and take, a simple trade of blows, trusting in my endurance and healing ability to see me through to victory.

We exchange hundreds of blows in the blink of an eye, and a thousand more with every breath, neither one gaining advantage over the other. Without warning, a thunderclap resounds inside my skull as my mind unifies with my body and I burst into motion, batting aside my opponents weapons and stabbing him in the chest with both blades. Leaning in close, I see his face for the first time, a mirror of my own, twisted in death. His blood flows down my weapons and into them, my chi igniting within them as my double breathes his last, his red eyes staring at me hatefully as the light drains from them, leaving them dead and amber, with a small doubt seeding into my mind. I am victorious, but was I the original, or the copy?

Jolting myself conscious, my eyes open and I am seated, my chest heaving with exertion, my clothes soaked in sour sweat. My weapons sit in my lap, sword still sheathed and shield strapped to my wrist, no signs of any destruction around the tiny, cramped room. A small yawn disturbs my observations, and it takes several glances around the room to realize that I am alone. A familiar voice echoes inside my head, sounding as if he had just woken from a nap. “Hello brother. Where are we? Did you push Mila down and have your way with her? Tell me the details, or better yet, show me.”

...

Other me is kind of perverted, but I feel a little relieved now that he's back. With my new weapon and old friend, I'm as ready as I'll ever be.

It's time to kick ass and chew bubblegum, and I'm all out of gum.

Chapter Meme
