The man was loopy as a drunk sparrow flitting through the air, and so were the Bekkies who chuckled with him. Then again, anyone who saw an army of 20,000 Defiled as a gift was missing more than a few marbles. All she could do was close her eyes and pray Gerel’s confidence was well founded and that the stories of the Bekkies prowess were only slightly exaggerated. While asking for miracles, she also begged the Mother to split the earth and swallow the Defiled army whole, or to rain lightning down from above to save Sanshu and her people.

The minutes dragged on while the Butchers stood in place, their agitation growing by the second. Teeth gnashing and hackles rising, they chafed at their unseen reins, a jittery bunch eager for blood and death yet too cautious to proceed. Heart hammering in her chest, a ravenous howl in the distance sent a chill down her spine, while across the plaza, the flames leaped higher into the night sky, a growing inferno which gave no warmth or comfort.

Blasted Defiled, what are they waiting for?

As if in answer to her unspoken question, a massive creature bounded from the shadows, landing heavily between the battle lines. Bald and misshapen, the Demon was three horses wide and a full span taller, its tiny white eyes full of hatred and anger as it stared at Sovanna. No, not staring at her, it glared at Gerel beside her, though the realization brought little relief. Thick, yellow spittle dripped from its maw, revealing four massive incisors as it emitted a chittering cry of challenge. It took every scrap of courage for her not to edge away from Gerel, her throat closing in panic as the beast pawed at the ground, its claws churning through stone like butter.

A small snort drew her attention as she glanced at Gerel, his lip curled in a sneer. “The Father must truly be desperate to choose a mole-rat as one of His harbingers.” A chuckle rose from among the Bekhai and her bullies nervously joined, backing away from the Demon all the while. Shaking his head, Gerel lifted his colossal glaive in one hand, twirling the thick weapon effortlessly, the metal ringing as it cut through the air. “Remember, try not to scare them off, we need them to stay until Yuzhen arrives to cut off their escape.”

Without further preamble, the Bekkies charged, their roosequins closing the distance with a hop and a skip. Dozens assaulting hundreds and it was the hundreds who faltered, the Defiled falling back before the ferocious onslaught. Riding headlong into the Demon, Gerel struck once before moving past and diving into the Defiled lines, the Demon seemingly frozen in place. Several heartbeats passed before the creature lurched to the ground, half its head shorn clean off.

Gaping in disbelief, she blinked foolishly and glanced at her bullies, her incredulity reflected in their eyes. Shivering with excitement, she came out of her fugue and hefted her mace. “Attack, my bullies! Give em hell!” She bellowed, her legs exploding into action. “For Sanshu!” Her bullies followed suit as she led them into battle, coming across a wounded Butcher staggering from the Bekkie charge. Hammering it square in the head, her weapon bounced off the Butcher’s sturdy helm, its inhabitant reeling but unharmed. Cursing loudly, she lifted her mace and stuck again to the same result. Never one to give up, it took her five more strikes before her persistence was rewarded with the muffled crack of bone, the Butcher flopping to the paved road in death.

Wiping her brow with one hand, she watched as Gerel scythed through the Butchers with ease, his mount moving unhindered through the mass of bodies. Glancing at her first and only kill, she chuckled ruefully at her lack of skill before stepping forward to hammer another helpless Butcher. With Gerel and his Bekkies here to hold up the sky, the least she could do was aid in the cleanup.

After scant minutes of battle, Gerel gave the order to retreat and Sovanna jumped to obey, moving to jog alongside his ambling mount. Glancing behind them, she asked, “What happened? Did they send more Demons?”

“No,” Gerel answered, his face covered in blood. “The other barricades are falling back so we must follow suit. Wouldn’t want to get caught alone and surrounded.” Giving her a roguish wink, he almost seemed giddy from the battle, the whites of his teeth in sharp contrast to the dark, sticky blood around them. “It went well as could be expected, though the others took quite a beating. We’ll harass them through the night, force them to climb mountains of their dead to take every choke point. Once Yuzhen arrives, their escape and fates will be sealed, their lives offered as tribute to the fallen.”

Nodding sagely as Gerel continued to give orders, Sovanna’s shoulders sagged with relief. For the first time since learning of the Defiled army led by Yo Ling, she felt Sanshu had a chance. Thank the Mother for Gerel and his Bekkies, Sanshu would have been doomed without them.

Two days, just two more days.

Chapter Meme
