“Hmm. A library. The only thing I can think of is the Gilded Vault. I think they lend out books, for a fee. Anything specific you’re looking for?”

A fee? I can’t afford a fee.

“History books, but it’s fine. Got plenty of stuff here.”

Isaac gave him a long look but he didn’t pry.

The history book he chose was quite dry, and difficult to follow. Partially because of the style, and partially because of his reading skill. Veron didn’t know any of the mentioned names nor most of the places either. He set it aside after a while and found something new. A fable of sorts, it seemed, though with the existence of magic and monsters here, he couldn’t be sure exactly. The first few pages were interesting but then the knightly adventure quickly became more about the author describing people’s bodies, how luscious their forms, how shapely their butts and chests. Then it went straight to sex with strange Fae creatures. He kept reading.

“How’s the book? Should we leave soon?” Isaac asked.

“It’s not bad. There’s a lot of sex. The intrigue and the places described in between add a lot to it all. It’s just starting to get a bit repetitive.”

Isaac narrowed his eyes. “Oh, Kildran, yeah, most of his books are like that. I’m surprised there are so many copies around. He must’ve had a very wealthy patron. Though the thought of scribes copying his books time and time again does amuse me somewhat.”

Veron blinked his eyes, then looked at the book again. Right. This isn’t printed. I just assumed it was.

He gained a new appreciation for this place.

“So, history books?” Isaac asked with a raised eyebrow.

“I got distracted,” Veron said, which elicited a smile and knowing nod.

He paid for the tea and cake, five iron all in all, then they left. He would certainly return, but maybe next time, he would ask Ellie for book recommendations.

They met Elke at Parker’s, learning that Sonny had already left for a round of cards with some friends. Isaac seemed pretty happy about that, grabbing a bunch of wood, and getting to work.

Veron grabbed some rocks from a bag somewhere among the organized chaos and started shaping as to Isaac’s instructions. The man obviously knew what he was doing, and Elke soon joined to watch him work as well.

“You’re using magic, right?” she asked after a while.

Isaac looked up and smiled. “Yes. One of my aspects is that of the carpenter.”

“Was that what you did before coming here?” Veron asked.

Isaac focused back on his work. “Yeah.”

Veron nodded. They’d already finished a bunch of modified arrows for Elke by now. The main difference to the normal arrows they were making as well was the tip not being pointed but broader, heavier, and mostly blunt.

Veron took a break when his Focus was used up, instead looking through the items in the shop. He asked Elke if there was something he could help with but she said no. She’d tried to clean up before but Sonny had a way he wanted things to be, so her shifts here mostly consisted of some cleaning and running the shop itself, selling things to customers and buying from them.

“He trusts you quite a bit,” Veron said when she’d explained it to him.

“I suppose. But he’s got a keen eye. I think he would know if anything was stolen or if I bought or sold something for a bad price. I think he wants to play cards more, and do other things than run the shop all the time.”

“That’s fair. Well, I hope you enjoy going into the dungeon, instead of working more shifts here I mean.”

“Of course. The work here is just to support myself, and to have a place to stay.”

They watched Isaac for a little while, Veron finding a spot to sit after a while and closing his eyes to enjoy the evening sun.

“I thought about your question from yesterday,” Elke said.

He glanced at her.

“If you want to learn from me, about movement, and fighting, we could try.”

Veron smiled slightly. “If you’re fine with it, sure. I’d love to learn from you. Maybe on the next rest day, if we both feel like it?”

She nodded. “Okay.”

They finished more arrows and bolts, both pointed and blunt, then prepared the rest of what they needed for the next day. Elke would check with Sonny once he was back.

Veron said his goodbyes and then left for the Willard inn. He paid his silver both for dinner and for another night in the sleeping quarters, wondering if he might make enough soon to justify an upgrade to a single room.

He thought about his day and slowly drifted off. It’d been nice, meeting both Sonny and Ellie. He’d probably spend more time at both the shop and at the Reader’s Hut in the coming days and weeks. But right now, Veron was looking forward to go back into the dungeon.
