Matt didn’t miss several crew members mentioning the mana batteries when they said it was time to leave. Officially, everyone had been chipping in with Matt using his Domain to refill their mana pools, which meant the battery had enough left thatthey could safely spend another decade in chaotic space without refueling. But most teams always refilled their mana reserves before setting off again just in case the worst happened and they struggled to find another world.

It was unlikely that would happen normally, let alone during any breach, but it put the crew on edge not knowing Matt could keep the ship running if it came down to that.

Sadly, Rah was caught up in that lie, going as far to make sure Matt’s Willpower reserves were okay for an extended voyage. Matt loudly played up his final Minkalla floor, reminding people that his Concept was functionally free and stronger on himself so they didn’t need to worry.

He even went as far as to remind Rah, or rather the crew, that he was hardly spending his mana, so he’d take a few more shifts doing a more efficient transfer to get them back to full reserves.

That settled, the moment they got back in chaotic space, they resumed their journey pushing ever deeper trying to intercept the breach. They passed by a few more worlds but all but two were recently explored, so they didn’t bother to look deeper at the worlds.

It took a total of almost thirty years of constant full-powered travel from Minkalla, but when they found the tidal breach, it was obvious. Almost a quarter of the way in, what should have been the first layer chaotic space had started to get more and more dangerous. The average ambient levels of the energy increased, as well as the speed and duration of the winds.

At first, it almost felt like they were heading into a stormfront, but it was too dispersed and wide for that to be the case. The crew reported it being similar to a calmer area of the second layer.

Still, any ship solely built for first layer travel would find itself in serious danger if it tried to head in deeper.

Their ship, being Lila’s personal vessel, was a top of the line Tier 30 ship that she often used to explore the second layer of chaotic space, which meant they had no issues plowing ahead.

They did stop to once again repeat their tests of how damaging chaotic space was, wanting to get used to the new danger level.

Pressing his right hand through the barrier, Matt didn’t activate any of his buffs or shield spells. He didn’t even flood his body with mana, instead letting the chaotic space energies eat at his flesh directly. He even went so far as to not cast [Regeneration] to get a better baseline.

The moment his hand breached the mana shield, the outer layer of skin was torn away as the acid-like chaotic space energies washed over his hand. In slightly less than a minute, the muscles were stripped away and his bones didn’t last much longer.

After he felt that he had analyzed the second layer of chaotic space and its stronger destructive power long enough, Matt actuvated [Regeneration] and increased its throughput until his healing rate just eclipsed the damage being done.

He was intrigued as he felt the wound slowly losing ground and rebuilding his hand.

It was agonizing as his raw nerves were regrown, obliterated by the swirling chaotic space, and regrown again, but Matt didn’t increase the mana per second he was sending into [Regeneration].

Instead he analyzed every moment of his body's regrowth, hoping he could find some way to counter the corrosive energy.

He wasn’t successful. As far as he could tell, chaotic space really was just dangerous high energy, so when his hand was fully regrown, he cast [Archmage’s Presence] letting the body-boosting effect wash through him. It reinforced his body and made it stronger, strong enough his flesh became more resilient to the damage.

His body was once more under attack and sadly losing, but it was a much slower destruction than the last time.

The second layer of chaotic space was dangerous but, even with just [Archmage’s Presence], Matt was confident he could survive a few minutes if he was truly exposed.

He still wouldn’t want any of his physical armor to get hit with such destructive powers, but Matt wasn’t solely reliant on physical armor like most were.

[Cracked Phantom Armor]’s first layer covered him with a light blue layer of mana that looked as simple as could be, with no definition or substance.

Matt frowned as he felt the mana drain needed to sustain the spell.

His trusty armor had almost no resistance to chaotic space. He had been hoping its upgrade, which let it better defend against mana types it encountered, would apply to chaotic space but it didn't. That made blocking the chaotic space energy almost as draining as being hit by an area-of-effect void spell.

Except instead of a spell, the energies washed continuously against his armor.

After some calculations, Matt activated [Cracked Phantom Armor]’s second layer at half power, which finally put him above the threshold for the energies of chaotic space.

It would be unsustainable in an actual fight, but it did hold out in this relatively calm area of chaotic space.

Taken in and of itself, that was awful compared to the hits he normally took, but the fact Matt could theoretically travel though the second layer of chaotic space all on his own was a step above everyone. Even higher Tiers who had shield spells strong enough to protect themselves would eventually run out of mana trying to cross the impossibly vast distances between worlds in chaotic space, where Matt wouldn’t.

That didn’t mean it was safe for Matt, but whereas it was a death sentence for normal people, it was slightly less than that for him. One bad storm where the energies raged even further and Matt would be relying on [Regeneration] to heal him through the damage that inevitably leaked through.

None of the others figured out some way to bypass the corrosive energies but they all found a way to survive a brief minute or two of exposure to the second layer of chaotic space.

Matt, Zack, and Rah all tried to do some experiments in or about chaotic space but, like so many before, they just found the energies corrosive and impossible to directly manipulate.

Even [Telekinesis] could only shove the energies, with the force of the spell itself being eroded away by chaotic space.

As they reached the edge of the breach, they finally encountered their second explorer.

Its broadcast said it was a Tier 35 vessel from the Monster Collective but the ship was made out of Tier 25 materials. Their ship's scanners also couldn’t identify anyone over Tier 25 in the ship, meaning they were probably lying about their identity to seem scarier than they were. Their scanners could be wrong or a higher Tier could be deliberately hiding themselves and not giving off any fluctuations but that was unlikely.

Appearing weak to bait attackers was a tactic but one Lila had told them failed more often than not and so wasn’t worth bothering with.

As they were discussing what to do, they were hailed by the other ship. “Are you here for the exploration of the Rasdale breach?”

Allie rolled her eyes as she replied, “No, we’re out here for our health. Obviously.”

Matt expected a quick sharp rebuttal but instead they were left buffeted by the winds for almost five minutes.

The voice was far more stern when they answered back. “Then vacate the area immediately. The Collective has proclaimed dominion over this region of the breach and will not tolerate interlopers.”

While such things did happen, Great Powers did try to lay claim to anything they could, their ability to enforce their proclamation was another matter and would remain so for another few years until their main fleets arrived.

They had beaten the rush but they were fighting against the current of the breach itself for most of their trip, which had cost them some time, versus someone who had left at the optimal angle to intercept the closest point. According to Gideon’s initial estimates, they had another five to ten years before the first wave arrived and started hitting these outer worlds but that would be a matter for the future, not now.

Aster scoffed at the other ship. “Originally, we just wanted to check in and get any possible news updates but how about we kick your asses, take everything from the planets, then leave. All before your people arrive. How does that sound?”

A Tier 30’s energy fluctuations swept over them, confirming they did in fact have someone of that caliber but they weren't able to bypass their shields and defensive layers, whereas their scan gave away far too much.

If they only had a single Tier 30, they were no match for their group.

Thankfully, it didn’t come to that or revealing their identities. While that wouldn’t have been the end of the world, letting a Great Power’s scout ship know exactly where they were was dumb.

A moment later, another voice responded. “We’ve been out here for thirty two years. We were part of the first wave of scouts. We have less information than you do and even if we did we wouldn’t share it with you. Now leave our area or be repelled.”

At the same time, the ship activated its shields to their full power, prompting their ship to automatically copy the move.

Considering the other ship hadn’t outright attacked them, Matt didn’t mind when Aster continued in a calmer voice.

“Give us your telemetry and energy readings for a snapshot of things before we left and we can call it a deal with us leaving this region of space to go deeper. We left when the Tier 50s were meeting in Minkalla, so we have the freshest news possible. Take it or leave it, but we are going deeper either way.”

Matt leaned over to Liz. “Wanna bet they try to claim the entire portion of the breach all the way through?”

Liz shook her head, not taking her eyes off the ship's screens, “Suckers bet. No way. This dude clearly has a stick up his ass if he thinks his Great Power can just claim large swaths of the breach. Given that, he's probably young and arrogant. No way I take that bet.”

They were both proven wrong when a few seconds later they heard the man agree to Aster's request.

As it turned out, the data they got was worth every iota of frustration from talking with the Monster Collective ship captain. The ship had not only been sitting out next to the world's node where it was relatively safer, they were in communication with another ship a few hundred thousand miles to the side of the breach. There had been a third ship, but it hadn’t reported in for its last three checks and was considered lost until reinforcements could arrive and look for them.

That meant the collective ship had fairly solid data on the surrounding areas and had already tentatively mapped out three other worlds’ possible locations.

The nodes that moved through chaotic space were like rocks in a river. They were an obstacle and impacting them changed the surrounding energies which let the ships AI guess at what was out there.

More often than not, short timeframe analysis was fraught with noise from the turbulence of chaotic energy itself but, given a long enough timeframe, a sufficiently capable ship could get pretty good estimates on what was around them.

The ship they had met up with had three worlds fairly well triangulated and another four more they weren’t sure of quite yet.

Best of all, they had the prospective Tiers of the worlds extrapolated from the energy patterns.

Two of the worlds were lower than Tier 5 and the third was suspected to be at least Tier 10. But the real prize was in one of the worlds they had just started to sense a few months ago. If the readings were correct, the world was at least Tier 20.

After double checking the data wasn’t altered in any way and making sure their own sensors were identifying the same eddies that might indicate a higher-Tier world nearby, they shot off in the direction indicated.

Having gotten the information from a Monster Collective ship, they weren’t at all surprised when they arrived to find two Tier 25 Monster Collective ships fighting off a single Tier 30 Federation ship.

All of the ships had a single Tier 30 on board but with their ship’s material advantage, the Federation explorers were far more aggressive trying to get close enough to the node to enter real space.

The moment they arrived, both sides separated, creating a triangle around the Tier 21 world slowly drifting through chaotic space.

The Federation ship sent them a message a moment before the two Collective ships did the same. “This is Halvetic’s Exploration vessel operated by the man himself. I’m a seasoned explorer and with a dozen breaches under my hull. What do you say about the two of us team up and drive the other idiots away, then split the earnings of this world fifty-fifty. How does that sound?”

Matt didn’t trust the man at all. It wasn’t only that he was a long time Feddy but there was something about his tone that gave him the impression the man was lying about something. Possibly the lie was as simple as his identity but more likely than not, he hoped to try and recruit them to do the hard work of securing the victory just to stab them in the back.

That much would be obvious to anyone, but if their combined strength wasn’t enough to beat out the two Collective ships, they might have been tempted anyway.

Matt personally hoped it wouldn’t devolve to that and listened to the Collective’s message. “Gladstone's Exploration Packs, third and fourth Claws responding to the Empire ship. This isn’t a fight you want. Push deeper, or don’t blame us for fighting back. This is our find, and we aren't giving it up.”

