“I repeat, I have my cane. Are you sure you want to try being clever?”

Eleanor skipped over and kissed her aunt on the cheek. “I’m sorry, Aunt Helena, but I don’t believe you’ve ever hit anyone with that cane.”

Helena leaned her head on Eleanor’s. “You’ve caught me. I’m all threats, just like your father.” She lifted her head. “You go off to bed now.”

“Good night.”

As soon as her niece’s back was turned, Lady Serrs-Comtess stopped trying to hide her smile. She turned to grab her book but paused when she heard voices out in the hall.

“Eleanor!”

“Good night, Eddie!”

“Ellie, wait—”

She laughed. “I don’t think so.”

A second later, Edward stuck his head in the drawing room.

“All right, Mother. Who was she with?”

“Chief Inspector Lucas Haley.”

Edward came into the room and let out a loud sigh. “Well, I guess it can’t be helped.”

“These things do happen.” Helena picked up her book and turned around. “Edward, what’s wrong?”

The faint scowl on Edward’s face disappeared. “Not a thing.” He grinned. “Actually, I like Haley.”

“Edward Archibald Comtess, I forbid you from teasing her.”

Her son came forward and put an arm around her shoulders. “Don’t worry. I’ll keep my mouth shut.” He raised his head in the direction of the staircase, even though he couldn’t see it through the wall. “How do you think Uncle Erravold will take it?”

“I don’t know if it will ever come to that. There are a great many complications.”

“At least he can’t object to the man’s family.”

Helena eyed her son.

“What?” Edward said. “You think you’re the only one who noticed? I thought it might be worth asking a few questions. Can you imagine my surprise when I learned Taylor was already well informed on the matter?” He squeezed Helena’s shoulders, then let her go. With a sad smile, he said, “It’s good to see her happy, isn’t it?”

“It is.”

For some reason, Eleanor couldn’t fall asleep that night. She’d learned long ago there was no point in struggling against insomnia, so she tried to distract herself with a book, but her eyes dashed over the words without ever seeing them.

She put the book aside, pulled her knees up to her chest, and moaned.

If she couldn’t read, then she really was in a pitiable state.

No. There has to be something I can focus on.

There was that lonely ache in her heart. It seemed to be the only anchor in her entire body, so she turned to that.

Dominic. You idiot.

A flare of anger joined the sadness, and she knew what was important enough to gather her scattered wits.

She picked up the lamp and went over to her desk. After pulling out a sheet of paper, she began to write.

Dominic had been an idiot. If only he’d talked to her—but he hadn’t deserved to die like that. Not over those stupid invitations.

Eleanor didn’t write for long, but when she was done, she felt better.

She stayed in her chair for another few minutes, looking over her work. When she returned to bed, she took the page with her.

Eleanor read it again and again, even as her eyelids fluttered shut.

Her reading lamp burned until the oil was gone.
