“Eddie is sometimes cruel, but it’s because he’s thoughtless of other people. I got the impression that Ryder would be mean because he didn’t care all that much about other people—it…it wasn’t often. Please, I don’t—”

“Please, go on.” Haley’s voice was soft.

After a second, Eleanor obliged: “I knew he didn’t like me much. I think he was relieved when I refused his proposal.”

When Haley didn’t say anything, Eleanor looked over at him. “What are you thinking?” she asked.

“I wish everyone I talked to was as observant as you. May I ask you for another opinion?”

Lady Serrs shrugged.

“Tell me about Fitzmon.”

“Gervase is highly intelligent. And proud. Proud like my father. He didn’t mind me in the same way he doesn’t mind most people. He didn’t dislike me—it just didn’t matter to him whether I was there or not.” She put a hand to her forehead. “Which was so strange, because he talked like our marriage was already settled.”

“But you refused him.”

Eleanor shook her head. “Not like that. As we were courting, whenever he talked about the future, I was in it.”

“What about Penn?”

Eleanor laughed. “Ryce Penn is a rude little imp, a scofflaw, and every bit as much of an attention-seeker as you said. He deserves to be put in jail for at least a decade! All the same, I can’t help but like him.”

Haley’s hands went cold, and the air seemed to stall in his chest, but he still said, “And Winfield?”

Eleanor turned her eyes up to the sky. “Dominic was thoughtful. He had a quiet sense of humor, and he was respectful. He could be cynical…but of all of them, he was the one I liked the most.”

“Did you ever tell anyone that?”

“No. Edward might have guessed, but you’re the only person I’ve told.”

“Miss Serrs, I know that Fitzmon told you about the bet.”

Eleanor lowered her head. “I thought you might.”

“Did you ever tell anyone else about it?”

“Oh, no. That’s not something a woman is going to brag about—that the only way a man could be induced to approach her was through a wager? No.”

“Did you ever confront Massey or your cousin about what they did?”

“What would be the point?”

“Did you tell Winfield that you knew?”

“No.”

“Why not?”

“What would it matter?” She brushed away a tear. “It was over and done. He wouldn’t even look at me.”

Haley felt sick, but she was talking, and he knew he would probably never get another chance like this.

“Were you glad that Fitzmon told you?”

“I think it would be impossible to be glad. But I was grateful. I prefer to know the truth, even if it hurts.”

“Would it have mattered?”

“It mattered.”

“Is that why you refused to consider Winfield?”

Eleanor nodded.

They walked in silence. A whole street passed as a smear of gray and blue shadows while Haley tried to raise his heart high enough to say what he needed to say.

“Eleanor, Dominic Winfield loved you.”

She didn’t answer.

“He meant what he said. He fell in love with you while you were courting.” When there was still no response, Haley muttered, “I apologize, Miss Serrs.”

“It’s all right. None of this is your fault. What’s your question?”

“There isn’t one. I just…thought you deserved to know.”

“Thank you. I’m glad you told me.”

“Maybe not glad.”

She wiped the tears from her cheeks again. “But I am grateful. Things make more sense now.” She closed her eyes and let out a moan. “Dominic. You idiot.”

Eleanor opened her eyes and tried to force her voice to sound natural. “Mr. Haley, if we’re going to talk about the case, could we at least talk about a different facet of it?”

“We don’t have to talk about the case.”

“But I want to. Please. It helps to think about it…rather than feel.”

Haley could deeply empathize with that concept. “If that’s what you want, Miss Serrs.”

“What do you still need to know?”

“I would love to know who the culprit is.”

Eleanor laughed. It was tainted by sadness, but it was a welcome sound.

Haley went on, “There is one question I would have liked to ask Winfield, but that option is sadly out of reach.”

“What question?”

“I want to know if he thought Fitzmon would refuse you, had you gone to him.”

“Of course he would have.”

Haley stopped and turned to Eleanor.

She went on, “Edward told me that Gervase isn’t married, but I can’t imagine that he’d still be willing to have me after I refused him.”

She doesn’t know, Haley realized.

He’d forgotten that. Eleanor was observant of everything around her, but since no one had been willing to talk to her about the situation, her knowledge was limited to her experience. She knew almost nothing about the things that had been simmering around her for two years.

Haley explained. He told her about how Edward had formed the club, and about her father’s reaction to Massey’s brief foray into another courtship. When she heard what her father had done, Eleanor was so livid she trembled.

“And you think Gervase and Massey have been forced to wait this whole time?”

“I know they have.”

She covered her face. “At least they weren’t pining for me. That’s some bitter comfort.” She dropped her hands. “I’ll talk to my father.”

“Miss Serrs, now may not be the best time.”

“You’re right. When this is over. And I’ll have to apologize to them.”

“Do you think talking to your father will do any good?”

“Sometimes it does. He won’t admit it. He’ll rage and argue and fight, but once you leave the room, he starts to think about things.” Eleanor remembered the air of thoughtful sadness that had emanated from him the night she’d found him in his study. “Maybe he’s already regretting what he’s done.” She raised her head. “One thing’s certain, if he does change his mind, it was his idea and it was always his idea.”

“That sounds about right,” Haley said. They started walking again. “Did you know he initially refused to allow Winfield to court you?”

“Why?”

“I asked him that. He said it wasn’t really a refusal—that he needed time to think about it, and after he’d thought about it, he realized that Dominic would make an adequate son-in-law.”

Eleanor smiled weakly. “That does sound like he changed his mind.”

“As he can’t admit it, can you guess why?”

“I think it’s because he was getting desperate. It’s hard to get rid of a stubborn daughter.” Before Haley could think of how to answer that, Eleanor went on, “Have you asked Edward if Dominic thought Fitzmon would say no?”

“No, I haven’t.”

“You should. Dominic was fond of Edward. He talked to him about most things.”

Haley hesitated. “The baron didn’t make it sound as if they were that close.”

“It’s possible Dominic wasn’t good at expressing his attachments.”

Haley winced.

“Is there anything else you want to know?” she asked.

“I have more questions, but most of them are the edge questions.”

“I’m sorry?”

“Whenever I get to the far edges of a hard case, I run into these pockets of questions, little pieces of information, and if I understood any of them, I would understand everything. You know the joke, why is an item always in the last place you’d look for it?”

“Because when you find it, you stop looking,” she said.

“It feels like that. I don’t know if these questions are more difficult to answer than any others, but they feel harder because everything after that comes easy.”

“Tell me.”

“Let’s assume—and it’s only an assumption—that we’re searching for the man that Winfield was talking to on the phone and that he was somehow involved in sending out those invitations. If Winfield really did believe that Fitzmon would reject you, and if you didn’t tell him you knew about the bet, Winfield might have had good reason to hope you would choose to marry him. But what about the other person involved? Did they not care who you married? Did they know you wouldn’t pick Winfield? Or did they agree with Winfield and want to help him?”

“If they wanted to help him, why would they kill him?”

“You see my problem.”

“I do.”

“And there’s still the question of why this person would kill Winfield rather than confess to something that wasn’t a crime—but, also, why were the two of them working together when it all could have easily been done by Winfield alone? And why would they wait so long to do anything? For almost two years, everyone was content to leave the situation alone. What changed?”

“Did something have to change?”

“It feels like there’s some catalyst to all this. Winfield loved you, but if that was the only reason he sent out the invitations, why did he wait? You weren’t courting anyone else.”

“No.”

“If there was no immediate threat of you falling in love with someone, why would he suddenly become more desperate?”

“I see what you mean. It feels like you're standing on the edge of something.”

“I don’t suppose you have any suggestions?”

“One thing did occur to me. It’s about why they’d be working together, but it’s only an idea of mine.”

Haley motioned for her to go on.

“I don’t think Dominic would have ever done it on his own. I think he was persuaded.”

“You don’t think we’re looking for an accomplice, you think we’re looking for the instigator?”

Eleanor nodded.

As Haley considered her suggestion, Eleanor had the chance to look around. With mild surprise, she realized they were at the edge of Aubrey Park.

“We’re almost home,” she noted.

“Have any other thoughts occurred to you?”

“Yes, but you won’t like it.”

“I rarely like what goes on in a murder investigation.”

“If you’re looking for someone who benefits from my marriage, and if my father has trapped both Massey and Fitzmon, there might be a lonely woman out there who’s in love with one of them.”

The inspector grunted. “You’re right. That is worse than most. Am I going to have to track down and interview every eligible woman in society?”

“Talk to the matrons. They observe everything and gossip like birds.”

“Can’t I delegate the task to you?”

“Are you allowed to do that?”

“Why not? You seem determined to involve yourself.”

“I wouldn’t mind, but since I’m the one our poor bachelors are supposedly waiting for, I doubt the good women would be willing to tell me about my rivals.”

“I guess I’m stuck then.”

“There could be worse things than talking to a gaggle of society women.”

“Gaggle. Isn’t that the word for geese?” Haley looked over and saw her eyes glittering. “Ah. How appropriate.”

“Were you thinking of the loud honking?”

“I was thinking of the vicious hissing and the tendency to bite.”

Eleanor laughed.

“Thank you for sharing your thoughts with me,” Haley said.

“I’m glad you’re willing to talk to me about the case. Being involved helps me feel less impotent.”

They stopped outside the mansion’s gate and faced each other. Haley removed his hat.

Eleanor said, “I’m sorry that I was so selfish. I kept you out—”

Her apology was cut short when the inspector put a finger over her lips.

As he removed it, he said, “I enjoyed myself, Miss Serrs. Thank you for letting me come.”

Eleanor could still feel the unexpected weight of his touch, so it felt odd when her lips parted to say, “You mean that.”

“I do.” He replaced his hat. “Good night.”

“Good night, Mr. Haley.”

Eleanor watched him walk away, then opened the gate.

Haley resisted the urge to look back until he heard the gate shut. Then he stopped on the sidewalk and turned around. The top of the front door was barely visible through the trees. He waited until he saw it open and close, then he turned once more and headed home.

Inside, Eleanor hummed as she took off her hat and jacket and put them away. When she turned toward the stairs, she saw a light was still on in the drawing room. She went over to see who it was. Lady Serrs-Comtess was sitting back in her favorite chair, reading.

Eleanor smiled. “Good evening, Aunt Helena.”

“Ah! Good evening, Eleanor.” The baroness put a slip of paper in her book and closed it. “You’re finally home.”

“You weren’t waiting up for me, were you?”

“Child, Edward came home before you did, and I knew where he was.” Helena took off her reading glasses and looked up. For a moment, she seemed surprised, then the expression was gone. She said in a quiet voice, “You look radiant this evening.”

Eleanor’s cheeks went pink. “I’m sorry.”

“That was an observation, not an accusation. You don’t have to apologize.”

“Of course. I’m sorry.”

Helena rolled her eyes. “May I ask where you were?”

“Um. I was out walking.”

“For three and a half hours?”

“…Most of it.”

“Would you care to assure me there was at least someone with you?”

“Chief Inspector Haley saw me home.”

Helena raised an eyebrow. “Ah. A gentleman you can name. That is comforting.”

Eleanor studied the floor and wondered, once again, what possible evolutionary purpose blushing served.

Helena asked, “Has there been any good news in the case?”

“Some new information, but we haven’t solved it yet.”

“I see.”

Eleanor didn’t feel comfortable with the way her aunt was looking at her. Or the trace of a smile on the older woman’s face.

“It’s late,” Eleanor said, “and I’m rather tired. I think I’ll head up to bed.”

“A wise idea.” Helena took her cane and pushed herself to her feet.

“Unless you need any help?”

“I have my cane, Eleanor. I’m not so lame as that.”

“So it was the sewing bag that was so heavy?”

