“But aren’t my class and traits aligned by the actions I choose?” Ali asked. It had been her favorite theory of class growth back when she’d been studying.

“Indeed,” Azryet said. “Your class only favors deeds like saving novices because you train it that way, effectively.”

“I just earned a point of Authority for someone making a skill breakthrough in my library,” Ali added.

“Oh? How is that possible?” Azryet asked, the mana in his eyes whirling faster.

“The library has a learning enchantment around it, and my domain has a tithe for knowledge and mastery skills. I assume it has something to do with that.” She shared the details of her skill with them, and then, recognizing that she trusted everyone present, and he was her mentor, she shared the rest of her third-tier evolution.

“You have done well, little Fae,” Azryet rumbled after taking the time to study her abilities.

“Thank you,” she said.

“I do not think you fully understand,” he added, making her catch her breath. “How much Authority did you earn to be able to achieve not only a demigod ascension, but also a superior bloodline in your second evolution?” Azryet’s eyes were like pools of darkness she felt drawn into.

“Three hundred and six,” Ali said, seeing no reason to keep secrets with two gods in the room, both of which she counted as her closest advisors.

“Three hundred…” Azryet said, drawing up suddenly. Lira gasped.

“Is that bad?” Ali asked, her heart racing at their unexpected reactions.

“Three hundred is… well, extraordinary,” Azryet rumbled. “Forty to fifty is more normal for the second evolution.”

“I got forty-nine for my first one,” Ali said. At the time, she had thought that was normal, after all her friends had earned similar amounts.

Azryet coughed, a puff of void jetting out of his nose and deleting the saucer under his teacup, but he barely noticed. “Your achievements must have been extraordinary and extremely well-aligned with your class.”

“Lira always advised me to listen to my heart,” Ali said, and to her delight, she saw Lira’s eyes crinkling at the corners in a soft smile.

“One does not earn over three hundred Authority at the second evolution merely by following whim and feeling; it has obviously required struggle and deeds that have affected the course of thousands of lives,” Azryet said, staring closely at her. “You are truly an extraordinary person.”

Under such scrutiny and high praise, Ali’s cheeks heated up, and she was forced to look away. “I… I just hope I’m strong enough.”

“Now, now, Azryet,” Lira said, calmly replacing his missing saucer. “You’re embarrassing her.”

“Aah, sorry, little one,” he rumbled, leaning back a little. “To get back to your questions, that tithe is likely to be your largest source of reputation. In fact, the gains from your domain tithe are probably better than having followers – at least initially.”

“Really?” Ali asked, glancing up.

“Yes,” he said. “Don’t you have a whole town living in your domain, now?”

“I do.” In fact, it was much more than that. In addition to Myrin’s Keep, Ciradyl was rapidly being repopulated as pockets of refugees converged on the Well of Souls due to the realm notifications and emigration of the Elven refugees from Myrin’s Keep. Obviously, it was not as populous as it had once been, but still, it was rapidly recovering as a major Elven city. Several thousand Dwarves, refugees of Thorel Moldur, were now making their living in the ruins of Dal’mohra. Val’korr’s concerted efforts had already begun repopulating Aman Rak, collecting refugees of all tribes into an unprecedented cosmopolitan, ever-expanding village where the temple had once stood.

If any skill advancement boosted by her tithe counted, she might not miss the horde of followers the other gods seemed to amass. Still – she glanced at Lira – followers would be important for her aunt. “Wait, Aunt Lira, how did you jump to four marks? Weren’t you a bit above three hundred when… you know…” Ali trailed off, not wanting to put words to the horrible memory of Lira’s death.

“I believe that would have to do with her unique class,” Azryet rumbled.

“Indeed,” Lira said, putting down her teacup. “My class allows – allowed – me to hold Authority, and therefore earned experience, in abeyance, bolstering my forest instead of my own level. It was a unique ability that held immense potential. For centuries I waited, hiding in my forest and storing my experience in my trees and domain, perfecting my oaks, cultivating growth and hoping for the right moment.” Her eyes hardened. “I almost lost it all during the fall of Dal’mohra, and again when the Blind Lich’s servant sowed blight through my forest. If it had not been for you and your friends helping to recover those few acorns, it would have all been for naught. When you finally killed that shade and allowed Cycle of Rebirth to complete, I was reborn anew, but this time with all of that accumulated Authority incorporated into my class.”

“That was an awful risk, Lira,” Ali said.

“Yes, it was,” she said, her expression unreadable for a moment, before she crinkled into a smile. “But you saved me. Not once, but twice.”

Ali fell silent, digesting the revelation. How must it have felt to keep herself weaker so that her forest could be strong? What dread must have gripped her heart at the thought of losing it all when Alexander Gray had poisoned her forest? Or when she had willingly stepped forward to take the bolt which would have ended Ali for good?

Ali shook her head slowly and took a breath. It was all over now, and Lira was stronger than ever. And Ali vowed to protect her properly from now on.

“Do you have any other questions?” Azryet asked.

“Tell me more about how Authority interacts with mana…” she said, hanging on his every word. This, she was certain, would explain much of what had thus far eluded her from her mother’s inspired work on magic. She couldn’t wait to discover the truth.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
