Bast frowned. “Isn’t there such a thing as the true path? The one path that leads you into godhood, or whatever?”

“Wait, huh? I can become a god?” Rhys asked, startled. He raised his brows. The ultimate mage in this world? I was setting my goals too low! Why stop there, when I can become the true god of trash?

Straw’s eyes crinkled, and he laughed. “In all due time, perhaps, although no one has successfully ascended in so long that it has become a mere legend. Though I would point out to you, Bast… not all gods are identical, are they? There are righteous gods and demonic gods, gods of hearth and gods of war. So how could they all walk one true path?”

Bast raised his brows, then furrowed them. At last, he muttered, “Huh.”

“What about you, Bast? What’s your obsession?” Rhys asked.

Bast shook his head. “Not everyone has it as easy as you.”

“True, true. Now, do you want to learn this technique, or not?” Straw demanded.

Rhys stepped forward. His shock at the sudden bloodshed aside, this skill was exactly the kind of thing he needed. Fighting with a sword wasn’t for him. But fighting with any piece of garbage he found on the ground? Now that appealed to him innately. “I do.”

“Even if there’s some blood?” Straw asked teasingly.

“If it’s necessary, and our lives aren’t on the line, then I won’t waver again,” Rhys replied. This world had its own morals. He’d only hold himself back if he constantly held it to his standards. There were some places he refused to waver, but in the face of such great benefits? Once the initial shock wore off, he was more than willing to waver a little bit.

Straw looked at Bast. “And you?”

“I never turn down the chance to obtain a new weapon,” Bast replied.

“Good. Then watch me closely.” Straw put his birch stick down and picked up a blade of grass from the ground. He held it out to the boys, letting them examine it. Both Bast and Rhys investigated it closely, but again, neither one found anything off. It was an ordinary piece of grass.

Straw turned around and lashed out. A nearby tree toppled, felled by the edge of the grass.

“But you do something to make it deadly,” Rhys insisted.

“Precisely. I’ll repeat my actions, but slower this time. Watch closely. In particular, investigate the flow of my mana. I’ll drop the wards around my body, so you can watch it flow through my arms and into the grass.”

“You keep wards around your body?” Rhys asked, curious.

Straw nodded. “Most mages disguise their mana flows somehow. For some mages, that’s as easy as allowing their flesh to mask their mana. Others need wards or other supplemental techniques. It’s all about how you build your power.”

He snapped his fingers. Rhys extended his mana. Without whatever interference Straw had set up, he could clearly sense the flow of mana through Straw’s limbs. Once more, Straw drew back the scrap of grass. This time, Rhys could see mana build up in Straw’s chest and arms, and even in his legs and hips. His whole body shone as he put his all into one blow.

In the very last moment, as he lashed out, all that energy transferred from his body into the grass. The grass stiffened, empowered and reshaped from a fluttering strand into a stiff blade. Straw’s mana had fundamentally changed, too. As it emerged from his hand and into the blade, it turned from mana into some other energy. A sharp, blade-like energy. Energy that felt like a weapon itself, and transferred the property of the weapon into the grass blade.

A cluster of slender trees fell. Straw lowered his hand. Having expressed two strikes, the grass was in tatters. It drifted from his hand in tiny green pieces, torn to bits. “Do you understand?”

Bast squinted. He shook his head slowly.

“What is that energy? The mana changes into something, but…” Rhys squinted. “What?”

“Weapon intent. Most people call it ‘sword intent’ or ‘spear intent,’ or the intent of whatever weapon they choose to wield. What I’m going to teach you, is the generalized form of that skill. The ability to put weapon intent into anything. Most people train for years to develop this skill, and I expect it to be no different for you. It will be hard, but when you’re done, you’ll be able to fight anywhere, with anything, no matter the conditions. Are you ready?” Straw asked.

Rhys nodded. Beside him, Bast clenched his hands into fists, so excited he could barely hold himself back.

Straw plucked a new blade of grass and drew it back, assuming a sword stance. “Choose a weapon. I don’t mind if it’s a real weapon.”

Rhys hesitated, then drew the scrap of a sword he carried. Bast pulled out his knife.

Instantly, blunt blows landed on their legs, forcing them into a new stance. “Not like that. This is a weapon. A sword! Stand as if you’re holding a weapon.”

Rhys lowered his stance. He copied Straw to the greatest degree possible, watching his hands, his feet, even his hips. It took him effort to adjust his mana flows, given his slim grasp on handling them in the first place, but he forcibly schooled them to match Straw’s.

Another set of blows rattled his way. There was mana in these blows, and they pierced past his flesh to adjust his mana flows directly. “Not like that. Like this!”

Straw turned his attention to Bast, leaving Rhys to sweat and focus on maintaining the flows. He hammered at Bast, adjusting his stance, his mana, even his grip on the knife.

Rhys stood there, teeth gritted, his body smarting from the very first round of adjustments. This wasn’t going to be easy. But this was the only route to becoming powerful and launching fireballs from his fingertips. He wasn’t going to flinch now.

Straw turned back on him, a bright vicious light in his eyes. The beatings commenced. And like that, years passed.
