The silence lingered after that. Cale almost seemed lost in thought for a few seconds before he shook his head, sighed, and made himself continue. "I don't even remember the last time I was able to cast a real spell. Maybe I could, once upon a time, but it's been so long I have no idea what it was like." He stared down at his fingers, watching his mana circulate beneath his skin. "And I want to remember. I want to remember what it was like to do magic. To be a mage in more than just name."

In theory, he would have been able to do that sort of spellcraft in his earlier lives, but try as he might, Cale couldn't remember anything from that time. Akkau studied him in silence, the old dragon's expression unreadable, and Cale shifted uncomfortably under his gaze for a moment or two.

"Though I suppose true magehood involves far more than just spellcraft," he added lightly. "Which I am well aware of, just to be clear."

At that remark, Akkau startled Cale by smiling. It was a small smile, but it was real, and it was understanding in ways Cale had long since learned to stop expecting. Cale hadn't thought the old dragon capable of such a thing, with how cold he'd seemed.

"Indeed," Akkau said. "But your desire to cast is understandable, for what true mage could give up that power? At the very least, I believe you are sincere."

Then his tone became teasing. "And I believe we share an interest. Few others understand the true nature and complexity of baking spells."

Cale's mouth fell open even more, if possible, and his eyes gleamed with excitement. "You understand!"

"As any true archmage would," Akkau said, and he was definitely smirking now. "Perhaps you can help me convince some of my faculty of this fact. I have been unable to so far."

"Clearly, they haven't seen a properly cast [Baker's Domain]."

"Or a well-calibrated [Sourdough Starter]."

The two ancient beings exchanged a look of understanding. Then Akkau cleared his throat. "In any case, I have summoned an assistant to help you to your room. Please follow him. I will follow up with you when I can."

"Just like that?" Cale asked, surprised.

"Just like that," Akkau said. "Welcome to Kazix Brightscale's Academy of the Attuned Arts, Cale Cadwell Cobbs."

The moment Cale left the room, Akkau slumped into his chair, reviewing everything he'd just witnessed in his head. He still couldn't quite believe it—if it wasn't for the apple sitting neatly sliced in half on his desk, he might have assumed he imagined it all. An eccentric archmage was one thing, but the amount of mana he seemed to have... "What in the eight infernal realms was that?"

"Seven." Cale's voice came ringing back cheerfully through the doorway, almost making Akkau jump out of his chair. He had anti-eavesdropping spells on his door!

"First of all, don't eavesdrop," Akkau called back irritably. "And what do you mean, seven? There are eight."

"I blew up the eighth."

Akkau paused, then sighed. "Do I want to know?"

"It was an accident?"

"Just... just go to your room, Cale." Akkau shook his head as he heard the human's footsteps finally retreating from the door, then leaned back once more into his chair. He was silent for a long moment, studying a dormant crystal sitting on his desk. Tentatively, he reached out, channeling a small fragment of his mana into it.

Nothing. No word from any other dragon in any other world. The Great Realms were silent, and the few dragons that remained in this last bastion world of Utelia had all gone into seclusion, hiding themselves away from the thing that hunted them.

Cale was a gamble. With the amount of mana he apparently had, he was as likely to end Utelia as he was to save it, Thread of Fate or not. A more responsible dragon might have tried to send him away, perhaps, or bind him to prevent the destruction that would undoubtedly follow in his path.

Akkau had given up on doing such things long ago, and he bore no illusions about what would likely happen if he tried. Besides, in spite of everything, he found he rather liked the odd little human. He understood the true nature of baking magic, for one.

For another, his presence gave him purpose again.

Akkau glanced down at the pitch-black scale hiding at the base of his wrist, just below his palm amongst the brilliant red he normally sported.

Last of all, well... he supposed he couldn't help but hope that someone like Cale might have a solution for what was coming.

Far away, hidden in the shadows of a cave containing a still-glowing pit that once held two elves, something in the shadows squirmed with delight.

New world! it hissed to itself, cackling a soundless, gleeful cackle. The old one was so empty! But we followed the star, and what have we found? A feast! A feast of pretty magic!

But we must wait. A slightly different voice overlapped the first. We are still weak. We cannot allow the star to find us.

Yes, yes, we know! the first voice said, impatient. But... there is so much! A snack would not hurt, yes?

...Perhaps, the second voice acknowledged. Perhaps a snack may not hurt.

With that, it slipped out of the cave and out into the desert, eyeing the towers gleaming in the distance. It drank in a sip of the mana surrounding it, feeding and growing and learning. The history of any world was stored in its mana, and though it had to be careful, it could start simple: where was their star, and what was it doing?

It tasted the words, the history, and the dignity of the golden dragon named Kazix Brightscale. It found a name.

Kazix Brightscale's Academy of the Attuned Arts.

What an absurd name, the second voice muttered to itself as they slithered toward it. It is far too long.
