She laughed. “You are now. Fuck anyone who says different. Now, I’ve got my first order for you. Go get that damn useless sword. I’ll work on figuring out a story to explain our little…disagreement to the others.”

Rain nodded.

“Oh,” Velika said, laying a hand on his shoulder. “If you ever betray me, I’ll kill you, even if it means this whole city dies with the both of us.” She released him, then gave him a push in the direction of the water. “Now, go on. I’m still starving, and Mr. Lovey Dovey is waiting for me.”

Rain fought to keep his legs from trembling as he limped toward the water. His back was killing him.

What have I done?

Melka adjusted her grip on her daggers and shifted her stance. It was hard to stay ready for so long, but she knew that when the Citizen came out of the lair, even a moment’s hesitation could prove fatal. It had happened before.

The Watch had decided to make their move. They’d retaken their stronghold, displaced the nobles, and reactivated the suppression ward. Velika’s fate was sealed. She would never be able to overcome what was waiting for her out here, no matter how strong she was.

Melka’s hands quivered. She squeezed her daggers tightly until they stopped, keeping her focus on the swirling green magic filling the doorway. This was no time for doubt.

Almost the entirety of the Watch was here, and a good portion of the Guild as well. Even some of the nobles had been convinced to switch sides once they saw which way the wind was blowing. Those that hadn’t had been captured, or in a few regrettable cases, killed. There was no turning back from this. They were committed.

The moment when the Citizen emerged from the lair was their best shot at ending this farce without taking any casualties. They had one chance. One critical second in which the lair’s revocation of the damage limit would leave the Citizen vulnerable. She wouldn’t even have time to realize she was under attack before it was over. A single, massive strike from the combined forces of the city to annihilate the oppressor.  Fel Sadanis belonged to the Watch.

Unfortunately, the room that guarded the lair wasn’t big enough to fit everyone. All of the sentinels were in here, plus all but one of the Guild silverplates. The rest of the space was taken up by officers and bronzeplates with ranged skills. Melka was only allowed in because Talasa had intervened on her behalf. The Citizen was going to pay for what she’d done.

A silent ripple of excitement spread through the room as the barrier swirled. Weapons were raised, and spells flared to light. Someone was coming through.

Melka’s eyes flicked to sentinel Lamida. The red-robed woman had a fireball swirling above one hand. Her other hand was raised as well, signaling them to hold. Melka looked back to the barrier just as an armored leg came through. Rain.

The runes glowing across the ceiling dimmed briefly as the suppression ward kicked into overdrive, pouring mana into Rain’s armor as he emerged. He froze as he saw what was waiting for him. Melka noticed that he was carrying a body in his arms, but she’d hardly had time to register this before Phoss body-slammed him out of the way. The adventurer went flying, doubtless crying out in pain and alarm, though she couldn’t hear a thing thanks to Muffle.

The body that Rain had been carrying fell to the ground and an officer rushed forward to drag it out of the way. No, not a body. Looks like he’s just unconscious. They wouldn’t have bothered to tie up a dead man. It must be the intruder that the guards told us about. Don’t I know him from somewhere? She shook her head, putting the man out of her mind. If he was unconscious, he was of no concern. She winced as Phoss threw Rain across the room. An adventurer would not be so easily damaged, but that still looked like it had hurt. Nevertheless, she was relieved that Rain had come out first. She didn’t know what she would do if her first friend outside the Watch were to die in the crossfire.

Another form became visible through the barrier, and Melka tensed, but it wasn’t the Citizen. It was the red-armored noble. He was similarly blindsided by Phoss. Melka motioned urgently to Rain, signaling him to stop resisting the officers that were trying to hold him down. He broke free, then, to her surprise, responded in hand code.

“Danger.”

When did he learn that? She shook her head. “No,” she signed. “Massive attack. Vengeance.”

She didn’t get to see his response, as the officers had grabbed him again and were dragging him from the room. Good. There’s no time to convince him to join us. It’s best if he just stays out of it.

She turned her attention back to the barrier. She was a melee fighter, so she wouldn’t be participating in the strike, but didn’t mean that she could lower her guard. Her heart was racing, and blood was pounding in her ears. Each time a form came through the barrier, it had a chance of being the Citizen. Each time it wasn’t, it only heightened her nerves.

Finally, chance became certainty. She’d been counting. Rain plus seven others had come out, including the unconscious man. Normally, that would have been it, but the guards had said the Citizen had breached the barrier somehow. She was in there, no doubt about it.

“Be ready to strike immediately. Do not let her react,” Lamida signed. Clearly, she had been counting too.

A foot emerged from the barrier, and Lamida threw her fireball. The other mages launched their magic as well, and those with ranged weapons opened up with whatever skills they had at their disposal. Force, Mental, Heat, Arcane, and Chemical magic mixed and combined, only Cold missing from the elements that the Watch had at their disposal. Citizen Sadanis disappeared in a maelstrom of magic. Muffle was overwhelmed, the roar of fire and the crash of thunder echoing through the room. Still, the Watch didn’t let up. If the first strike hadn’t ended it, their only hope was to pour on enough damage to finish the job. Five seconds. Ten. Twenty. Finally, Lamida raised her hand, signaling everyone to stop.

Silence and darkness returned as the magic faded. Melka’s eyes burned as she gazed at the inferno, but she wouldn’t look away. She needed to see this with her own eyes.

The Citizen was gone.

Where she had been standing, there was nothing but melted rock and swirling ash. Even the arched entrance to the lair had been destroyed by the heat, the stone dripping like wax. The green barrier remained visible through the melted hole in the wall, unharmed. It would take much more than that to damage a lair.

Still, she didn’t relax. The Watch had trained for this. You never knew what tricks a powerful awakened would have at their disposal. At the level of the Citizens, almost anything was possible.

Cautiously, Lamida walked forward, heedless of the heat radiating from the stones. Melka’s eyes widened, but there was no time to cry out a warning, nor would Lamida have heard her if she had tried. In fact, by the time Melka realized what had happened, Lamida was already dead.

The Citizen’s colossal sword had shot through the barrier like a bolt from a ballista, impaling Lamida and blasting her out of Melka’s sight. In her place stood the furious Citizen, holding a wicked, black-bladed katana in one hand, and a matching wakizashi in the other. Her armor was charred and broken, the skin below bloody from numerous lacerations and burns. Her right leg was a complete mess, the armor burned away completely. Damn it! She retreated inside. We struck an instant too soon!

The Citizen stood, motionless, a furious expression on her face as she stared at the Watch surrounding her. Melka didn’t see who fired the arrow, but the result was predictable. The room erupted into chaos as the Citizen attacked. The mages launched their spells, but the Citizen was already gone, slicing into them as their attacks shattered the stone where she’d been standing moments before. For whatever reason, Muffle was able to keep up this time. The lack of sound made the entire scene seem surreal.

Melka raised her daggers and charged. There was no time to think, no place for hesitation.

She had taken no more than three steps before her body jerked, and she fell, suddenly unable to control her legs. She looked down in horror, seeing red rapidly spreading from a razor-thin slice in the armor across her torso. Sound returned to the world as she toppled, and she realized that she was screaming. She hit the floor, as did the three other officers who’d been standing next to her. One of them had been the one to cast Muffle. He had been killed instantly, by the fact that the enchantment had broken.

Melka toppled forward, shielding her head with her hands as she hit the floor, her daggers clattering to the ground. My legs… She twisted, feeling for the wound with her hands. Oh no… Not again…

It was bad.

Fatal.

Whatever the attack had been, it had come only a hair from severing her waist completely.

Melka felt tears well up in her eyes as she struggled to stay conscious. Over the sound of the battle, her panicking mind latched onto the frantic ringing of bells, echoing down through the stronghold from the surface. What? She felt her strength slipping away faster and faster as her blood drained out onto the stones.

No. Not yet. She extended a hand, reaching for her fallen dagger. Her fingers closed around it, the cool metal comforting and familiar in the palm of her hand. Her eyes locked on to the Citizen, and she snarled. She began hauling herself toward the battle hand-over-hand, her useless legs flopping as her guts unspooled from her stomach. The pain was unimaginable, but she would not give in, not while she could still fight. Not while she still had a chance to kill her.

However, determination was not enough. Not against the reality of death. The world was going black, and there was not a thing she could do to stop it.

I’ll never make it. I’ll never make it. I’ll never…make…

With a wordless cry of defiance, Melka levered herself up and used the last of her strength to fling the dagger at the woman who had killed her. The blade tumbled through the air, but Melka never saw if it hit. The light had already faded from her eyes.
