Chapter Seven - The Kind of Work That Makes You Happy“You should be happy working, because work IS happiness!”--Sunshine Outlook: Global HR, 2035 slogan***Coco landed her van in the same dank and stinking spot where we’d found it earlier, then the bunch of us leapt out. I decided to keep the mask on, at least until we were filing back into the Barber Shop from the back and I felt like it wasn’t dangerous to remove it.I noticed Rac doing the same, ripping off the full face mask and shoving it into her pack as a tangled mess of straps.“That was a pretty clean job, guy and girls,” Garter said. “Uh, Cat, was it? I’d usually be all for paying you for the help, but it’ll have to be something of a group decision, you know?”“Huh? Oh, I don’t mind skipping the credits,” I said.“Are you sure?” Coco asked.Spider: She didn’t do anything.“He’s right, I didn’t do anything,” I said. “Besides, it’d take some of the credits you did the work for and it’s not like you expected me to ride along. I really don’t mind. If things had gone pear-shaped and I had to save your asses, then I’d gladly accept your pay, but... yeah, that was a clean gig.”“I don’t mind taking her share,” Rac said.Garter snorted, then ruffled her head. “Cute, but no luck, kid,” he said.Rac pouted and glared at the ground, and I was pretty sure I was the only one that picked up her whiney “I’m not a kid, dammit.”We filed into the main floor of the bar, and I noticed that the dancefloor had gained a few more patrons since we left. The music was still the same, ancient jazz and swing with some heavy synths and electronics overlaid atop them. There was a new lady singing, a big chick with a big voice crooning in French about her big problems.Garter led us back to the same booth we’d started in, and when he sat down it was with a big, weary sigh. “Alright, let me get everyone’s pay sorted out, then the first rounds on me.”We all slipped into the booths as well, with Rac and I sitting on the edge. I didn’t figure I’d be staying here for very long. Garter did as he promised, and the mood improved noticeably as Coco and Jerusalem got their pay. Even Rac was grinning wider. Then the conversation turned to guns, and Garter and Jerusalem started to argue with the same kind of tone I’d expect from an argument that had been had before.“So,” I said to Rac as I leaned back. “Is this how it usually goes?”She shrugged. “Only been at it for a few days,” she said. “But... yeah, usually. I like to stay and eat after, but then I always get back home and back to work. The credits are good though.”“Yeah, I can see that,” I said. She was probably making more than any line worker. “Risky.”“Just a little. Garter picks good jobs. Millennium Animal doesn’t have bad clients,” she defended.I nodded along. “Alright. Well... yeah, I guess I’ve seen what I had to see. Would you mind walking me to the door? I might get lost on the way out.”She glanced at me, then at the exit, which we could see from our seats. “Uh, okay?”I said goodbye to Coco and Jerusalem, shaking their hands and going through the usual pleasantries. Garter kept a hold of me when I shook his hand though. “Hey. If you’re ever looking for work.... Well, Raccoon hasn’t said too much, but she might have mentioned that you saved her from a lot of trouble, and it looks like you came here today because you were worried.” He smiled, warm and honest. “We can use that kind of person in our team.”“I’ll think about it,” I said. “But I’ve got my own sort of work, you know?”“That’s fair,” he said. “Stay warm.”“You too,” I replied before ducking back.Rac followed me, but not without pointedly leaving her stuff at the table. She didn’t say anything, not until we were out of the bar and had moved to the side, where a passerby would have to go out of their way to get within hearing range. “You’re going to have me stop working with them?” she asked.“No,” I said.“You... don’t want me to work for you anymore?” she asked next.I shook my head, then smiled. “Rac, don’t worry so much. I really did come out here because I was worried for you. If I was worried for you, then obviously I’m not going to kick you to the curb.”Unauthorized content usage: if you discover this narrative on Amazon, report the violation.“Then... what was all this about?” she asked.I shrugged. “I’m on vacation, and I was worried. It’s not much more complicated than that. If you want to keep being a merc, then yeah, go ahead. Just be careful, alright? And maybe pick your jobs? We might be having words if your next job is less about robbing a corp and more... I don’t know, blowing up an orphanage or something.”“I wouldn’t take a job like that,” she said, arms crossing.I grinned, then rubbed her head, because it looked like fun. At least for the one doing the rubbing, Rac twisted out of the way and looked hilariously offended.“If you need more ammo for that big gun of yours, don’t hesitate. And maybe try to get some armour? I don’t know if I have a catalogue that has any, but... maybe I can look into it. Oh, and... I’ll have Myalis give me a catalogue with some basic cybernetics. Get your augs replaced. Yours are kinda shit. Your team, and you, will appreciate having better gear, trust me.”Rac hesitated for a bit, then nodded. “Alright,” she said.I patted her on the shoulder. “Go back, get that free drink from Garter before the offer expires, yeah?”“Okay,” Rac said. She paused. “Cat?”“Yeah?”“Thanks,” she said.I grinned. “No problem! Oh, and Rac? He’s way too old for you.”Rac flushed, glared, then darted off without saying anything. I laughed, then spun on my heel and headed out. I figured that counted as my good deed for the day.Are you serious about that blueprint?“Can’t cost that much, can it?”That’s true. I’d suggest getting something in the two to three hundred point range, it’ll give you several options for augmentations and consumer cybernetics on par with the best commercially available options. Also, if you want to prioritise Rac’s safety, then perhaps an under armour blueprint catalogue? You have gone through a few sets yourself. It would only take a half dozen more for you to start saving money with the blueprint.I sighed. Myalis was probably right, though, and we did have some resources to spare. If any of the other Kittens decided to start running around the city causing trouble, then I’d want them to have the bare minimum gear with them too.“You know what, that sounds really fair, Myalis.”Thank you! We can discuss budgets if you want. Though that depends, what are you planning to do with the rest of your day?“What do you mean? I’m on vacation, aren’t I? I’m done for the day, I think. Though... maybe it wouldn’t hurt to plan for tomorrow’s disaster on the walk back.” My bike was a good ten minutes away by foot.Certainly! Which issue did you want to tackle tomorrow, then?“Right so... far as I’m aware, there’s the mayor that needs to do some explaining for me. Then there’s the sewers. Shit, might have to take care of those sooner rather than later. The more we leave them alone, the worse they’ll get. Oh, and the prosthetics thing. I started to set that up, then got distracted.”I see. Let me draw up a schedule for you. But first, a few more minor details. Did you want the mayor’s visit to be done on official terms?“Hmm... yeah, send him a nice warning that I’ll be visiting him. Make it like, right after he’s supposed to be done for the day, and tell him that it’ll be ‘wherever he is at that time.’” I cackled to myself. Making politicians sweat was just fun and proper.Very well then! Tomorrow, the sewers. The day after, you’ll have an appointment with the mayor. And then the day after that an appointment with the people setting up your prosthetics charity?“Eh, we can do the mayor thing and the charity thing on the same day. Telling the mayor off can’t take more than a couple of hours, right?”Yes, I’m certain you’ll be able to navigate through complex politics without any issues.I rolled my eyes. “Come on, have a little faith in me. It’s hardly complex politics. It’s me threatening someone. I can do that in my sleep!”***
