Ameliah sat beside a small fire at the edge of the camp, fiddling with a spoon as she considered where to begin. Across the fire sat Tallheart and Rain, the latter with a tiny Crystal Slime passed out in the wooden bowl resting in his lap. There was no one else nearby, but they were still close enough to the camp to hear the occasional groan through the trees. The march had been long and hard, and Mereck and Tahir would be winding their way from campfire to campfire for hours yet, treating blistered feet and sore muscles.

Tomorrow, they would have to slow down—there was no denying that. There just weren’t enough riding animals to be shared among those who couldn’t walk for long periods. For now, however, despite the complaints and the lingering terror of pursuit, the mood in the camp could only be described as relieved. True dusk had fallen hours ago, and the assault on their perimeter had been laughable compared to what everyone had grown used to. They were well into the woods, having left the outlying farms behind, and it looked like they’d soon escape the ranked zone entirely. The trees were close around them and the canopy overhead was low, but with the guards posted, campfires lit, and the generator reassembled and running, it felt...

It felt safe.

It wasn’t, of course. No one was fooled into thinking that the Empire couldn’t swoop down on them at any instant. But for now, things were calm. Peaceful.

Ameliah tightened her grip on the spoon she’d been playing with, then set it aside, resisting the urge to reach for her helmet. It was time.

She looked up, seeing Rain and Tallheart watching her expectantly, though they both remained silent, not pushing. Never pushing. Silently, she thanked them for that, then began to speak.

My father was in the Guild.

While he could do no wrong in the eyes of a child, I know now that he embodied many of the faults that come along with that profession. We moved around a lot, but to me, it never really mattered, not having a home. Or a mother. I didn’t even have friends, but the adventurers I’d find myself left with filled that hole, just as they filled me with wonder, what with their stories of monsters, exploration, and magic.

You see, when I was little, my dad would just leave me at the local Guild branch, going off with whatever group he’d managed to find, only to return weeks later with another story. And then we’d move on. As I grew older, he even started taking me along with him on some of the easier missions. I loved those times. Loved him.

Elric, the adventurer. My dad.

It was on one of those trips that I achieved my awakening. It was something I’d dreamed of since I’d first understood what made my dad different from everyone else. My awakening, though, wasn’t anything that he’d planned. We were on Karmark at the time, not in the great city, but that’s where we started. My dad took us to the Ter so he could fight in the tournament. He was only level thirteen, but he was sure he’d be able to make the thousand. Sure he could...beat the odds and win us a place there. He was so sure that he bet on it. When he lost in the first round, well...

Forget the thousand. Forget the ten-thousand. If you aren’t even ranked, there’s not a lot you can do. You can’t enter the high-city. You can’t go below into the fiery mountain to get out of the cold. Hells, you can’t even improve your rank until the next tournament. Technically, you could challenge, but why would a Numbered agree to fight an Unnumbered without a hefty pile of Tel to balance the scales? They’d have everything to lose and nothing to gain, not even pride.

Anyway, we were stuck there, in the frozen low-city, unable to afford teleportation or Goldship thanks to my father’s debts. My dad, my hero, a powerful awakened, got trapped in the foreign ring with the destitute, the beggars and the whores. With no one willing to hire him and my father too proud for common labor, he decided to make his own work.

Barred from the mountain and its riches, we left Ter’Karmark completely. We made our way out into the foothills. Even there, the competition was fierce. The Guild in Karmark has no jobs for Unnumbered, no matter their level. We had to go far, far out into the wilds. Into the deepest ranked valleys, shrouded by freezing mist and filled with monsters no human has ever seen.

The hunting was good, at least. There were Tel to be made.

It wasn’t exactly safe, though. Humans aren’t the most dangerous predators on Karmark. Far from it. Far from the great mountain, far from the protection of the Ten, we were just asking to get ourselves killed. Dragon pride is a myth; let no one tell you different. Dragons are just about the only things on Karmark that don’t care what your number is. To them, a meal is a meal.

I, the child, had no fear. Not even when my father had us huddled in a hole in the ground while the shadow of wings soared overhead. I thought it was fun. I knew my dad would protect me. Somehow, I was never proven wrong, and when we stumbled across an essence monster, that just cemented my beliefs.

My dad was a genius, and this had been his plan all along.

Never mind the hundred times we should have died. Never mind the pain, the struggle, the suffering, and the hunger. I was awakened. Awakened at six years old with a cap of seventeen, and it was my dad who had earned it for me, all on his own.

If that’s not a story deserving of a place in the thousand, I don’t know what is.

Anyway.

With me being awakened, things became more manageable. My dad could leave me on my own, away from the deadly monsters and secure in the knowledge that I wouldn’t die from an errant breeze. I didn’t invest in any skills yet, for reasons I’ll get into, but I did boost my stats, bringing myself up to the level of an adult. It didn’t help much, but it helped.

Before long, my dad managed to finally pay off his debt. We bought passage on a Goldship bound for Bellost. Dad kept saving for a little while, but then he went right back to burning the spoils of his adventures on women and wine. That’d been what he’d always done before we went to the Ter, and no, I didn’t know it at the time. He was good at hiding it from me. I was six, remember?

Anyway, for all his faults, he always made time for me. He started to teach me, determined to get me the class that he wished he had. He was a Jack. Just a normal, uncommon Jack. I would be a True Jack, he swore, if only I followed his instructions. He knew the way, though it had been too late for him by the time he’d discovered it.

I, the dutiful child, did exactly as he told me. I spread my points evenly. That’s the easy part. The other requirements were harder. One by one, we met them, some of them even before we left Karmark.

There was one, though, that could not be rushed. To become a True Jack, you need to wait. Two years to be precise. Two years without picking a skill to prove to the system that your indecision is the stuff of legends. Ha. When I finally unlocked my silver class and saw the name the system picked for me, well... I’m getting ahead of myself. There was bronze to deal with first.

It was toward the end of the second year of waiting that things changed. My father grew...frustrated.

Like I said, he wasn’t a True Jack. He couldn’t change skills as I can now. He found himself stuck, even with his cap boosted just like mine, so he started bringing us to more dangerous places. Eventually, after no luck and many failures, he took us to Xiugaaraa, the City of Lights. The wonder of that place almost shattered my young mind, but the novelty wore off quickly. Within a day, my dad left me at the Guild as he’d done when I was younger, this time surrounded by people whose language I didn’t speak. He was gone for over a month.

When he came back, though, I forgave him instantly. When he came back, he was silver.

As a child, it took me a long time to realize that that isn’t the kind of thing that happens by chance. I still don’t know who in the Bank he made a deal with to finance his trip to the Great Delving. I do know that getting to silver didn’t help my father in the slightest.

As he grew in level, we fell in means. We went from using the teleporter network, to using carriages, and then to walking. The debt he’d taken on was too much this time. Bank agents started appearing after each job, taking whatever he’d earned and leaving us with coppers. He was silver, but he couldn’t deny them. They’d just have sent Enforcers if he did.

My dad...got angry, outraged at our situation. Then he got stupid. He heard a rumor of a lair, unclaimed by any power. That’s what brought us to Brightside, just a few months before I was due to unlock my class. He was convinced that he could find that lair. He went out into the chasm, again and again. Alone. I already told you how he died for it.

The piece I haven’t told is what came after, not in detail. I might have...omitted a few things. I don’t think you’ll blame me for that once you hear it. I’ve never shared this with anyone. Partly because of how much it hurts. Partly because of how much of a monster it makes me seem. And partly... Partly because I’ve never had anyone to tell.

...

No, sit down. I’m fine. Just give me a minute. This next part is...hard. Please, just... Please.

...

I was left alone. Eight years old and alone, trapped in the depths with no way out. The first few months were the worst in some ways, but they were also the easiest. I was orphaned, classless, stricken by grief over the loss of my father. It was easy to take pity on me, even for the bitter, hopeless souls that live in that forsaken place. Light is one of the most precious commodities in Brightside, on par with clean food and water. Finding a lit place to rest, finding food, finding people to make sure nothing kills you while you sleep... All of that was easier when I wasn’t seen as competition.

Once I unlocked my class, the goodwill blew away like smoke, never mind that I was just a kid. I told you how I took Purify and how I made that my focus. I knew I wasn’t strong enough to fight, so I made myself useful in other ways. Purify to fight off the poison, Healing Word to mend wounds, Attract to gather resources—even Message. Unlocking that one was only possible thanks to True Jack. Anyway, eventually, I had all the utility a party could need. You would think people would have loved me for that, but no.

Nobody living in Brightside stayed there by choice, except Arden, the asshole bloodplate who ran the teleportation platform. The rest were the survivors of parties that had come to challenge the crack and failed. They were those left behind, like me. Awakened, but with caps even lower than mine for the most part. Those that could hunt, hunted, but Brightsiders don’t go far out into the mists. The outpost survived off the fresh spawns that prowled outside the defenses each night. If people had just worked together, we could have taken over that valley, pushed back the darkness. That wasn’t how it worked. Those that did band together would begin to earn more, and then they would escape, leaving behind the most selfish...the most wretched...misanthropic examples of adventurers that this world has to offer.

I was one of them. I became a guide to the parties that came down from the surface. With Purify, I was good at it, which just made the others hate me even more. The cute kid with the perfect spell for holding off the toxic mist. Not good enough to convince a party to take me with them when they left. Assholes.

I...barely survived. My path to level seventeen was slow and agonizing. I was often on the brink of starvation, most days eating nothing but tasteless moss, taking whatever jobs I could snatch away from the others and trying to live off whatever I could scavenge in between. Even had I been an adult, I wouldn’t have been strong enough to go out into the chasm to hunt. Not alone. Not unarmed. I had to trade for proper food and water. Had to pay Arden rent just to sleep in the light. Things are expensive down there, even more expensive with everyone else trying to pull you down.

...

To this day, I’m sure that the rumors about Brightside were the Bank’s doing. Teams would come, paying the Bank for the privilege to use the platform. They would stay, gathering Tel and Crysts as they hunted for that damn lair. Then, they would go, not having found it. Again the Bank got their due when it came time to teleport out, and Arden made a point to scoop up all the equipment from the fallen. Every time one of the survivors managed to earn enough to pay the fare, it was just another profit for the Bank. We were basically slaves, being squeezed for every last drop of wealth we could claw from that damned chasm.

Calm down, Rain. You might as well get mad at the sun for all the good it will do you. Trust me, you can’t break the Bank by yelling. I’ve tried. And besides, it wasn’t impossible. Looking back, I’m surprised things were as civil as they were. After all, nobody actually went as far as trying to shank a child in their sleep. I guess it helped that they knew I had nothing worth taking. Things did improve. I learned what worked and what didn’t. Some of the locals became my...not friends. Rivals? Comrades, perhaps? Comrades in suffering?

Anyway, years passed. I grew from a girl into a budding woman, finally coming into my pools. It was a slow process, but I gradually unlocked skill after skill, leveling each one before moving to the next as my father had taught me. I began to save...

And then one day, he came.

His name was Lerith. Freelord Lerith Singer.

He came alone, with no entourage or followers. He told me how he declared himself Freelord, denounced his family, and set out on his own. He liked to talk. To tell stories. In them, he was strong, funny, brave, and...well. Beautiful. The last, I didn’t need his stories to see. My eyes worked perfectly fine. Sorry, Rain.

In my inexperience...I had no defenses against him. All I’d had in the darkness were my dreams, and Lerith, well, he set my heart on fire. He was a splash of color in the smoky, dreary tedium of my existence. Oh, and he was a Healer, so there was that. A real one, not like me or the woman who had failed to heal my father all those years before. It was no wonder that I fell in love.

Lerith came to Brightside planning to offer his services to those who came seeking the lair. He’d hoped to capitalize on their need to rebuild his own fortune, now that he’d cut himself off from his house. What he’d failed to realize was just how impossibly stupid his idea was, especially since he was only level sixteen and not much older than I was. He got stuck, just like me. Should have done more research, I guess.

