Time passed, and we grew close, or so I believed. I’m not sure if he ever loved me like he said he did, or if he was using me from the very beginning. Regardless, together, we worked. We became a team, and by watching out for each other, we both began to claw our way free, getting ahead of the others with our teamwork. Still, it wasn’t enough. We could see freedom, and we began to chase it. We started looking for the lair.

With Lerith’s guidance, I used the last two skill points I had, and with them, salvaged something usable out of the disorganized mess I’d made of myself. Without access to weapons, I used my fists, training in Bear Kata and becoming stronger by the day.

I can hear your doubts. Two teenagers, levels sixteen and seventeen, going out into a toxic chasm ranked higher than the Ashen Jungle?

Well, first thing, there weren’t any reaper-class aberrants down there, and second, most of the monsters relied on Chemical attacks, something that, for better or worse, I’d built myself to counter. Really, though, it was Lerith that made it all possible. I don’t think I can convey just how good he was. His healing was leagues beyond anything I’d ever seen. He wasn’t just a normal healer, either. He was able to change people.

Denser muscles, tougher skin, boundless energy, or even the ability to breathe the poisons in the chasm. That last one was critical. Purify and resistances can only do so much, and my mana was far from infinite. The changes didn’t come from Enhancer magic or anything like that. Lerith used skills meant for restoring missing limbs and removing scars. He’d somehow found a way to twist them to his own purposes, making the soul remember not what it had been, but what it could be.

Lerith had a way with words.

His voice, like everything else about him, was beautiful. When he worked his magic, he would sing. Some people do that with Chanting, but this was different. Something about his class, inherited from his family—or stolen from them, to hear him tell it.

Anyway, the body follows the soul, as Rain here is proof. I can see you squirming over there. Calm down. As I’ve said, there’s a difference between something your soul wants and something that’s been forced upon it. The changes Lerith made then were never permanent, particularly if one were to resist.

Back then, I wanted it, and that made things easy. Lerith would sing until my soul realized my body was broken, and then he would use his magic to help it heal. He made me stronger, obviously, but it was more than that. He could make other changes too.

He made me taller, my bones cracking and reforming to support ever-expanding muscles. Fortunately, he had skills to block the pain. He changed the tone of my skin, which was far too pale from years spent underground. He changed my eyes to emerald green and altered their shape, saying they were too Bellosian for his liking. Hundreds of tiny things, he tweaked, shaping me not only into the peak of human performance, but also into his vision of beauty.

I loved it.

It made me feel strong. Perfected. I wished that he could make the changes permanent, hating the scrawny, wretched thing I had been. I became dependent on him. Dependent on his magic.

Now, I see it for the manipulation that it was, but back then, I was blind to what was happening. All I knew was that I loved the way it made me feel. The power he gave me was...intoxicating. It wasn’t enough, though. To change my body so drastically required lots of energy, and that meant lots of food, specifically meat—an expensive and time-consuming problem to have in Brightside. We sprinted forward in power, only to remain firmly stuck in means.

Eventually, though, we got our chance. A party came, unlike any that had come before. A named party. The Heroes of Wix. I laughed at the time. Storybook nonsense, I thought.

Then I found out that they were mid-silver. They were seeking the lair for its accolade, not for a blue like so many others. That’s important. It meant they were strong enough that the chasm was barely a problem for them. They had a Diviner who’d made finding lairs his specialty, and they had done their research, so they already had a way to deal with the poison too. That was a problem for us. They didn’t need help, never mind there were only four of them. Not even the best spell ever changed their minds.

That’s where Lerith came to the rescue.

As should be plainly evident by now, he could be persuasive. He spun a tale of how we were shunned by the others, forced to heal for them and to live in poverty. He told them my story, told them how I’d been trapped there since I’d been a child, and how he’d been the only one to look out for me. He bent the facts to suit our needs, playing on their sympathy.

If the name wasn’t enough of a clue, the Heroes of Wix saw themselves in a certain light. Viewed themselves as saviors. Not real saviors, mind you. Like all the rest, they wouldn’t have lifted a finger to help us if Lerith hadn’t read them like a book and manipulated their emotions. He didn’t ask them to save us; he just asked them to give us a chance. With a blue, or even an accolade, we would free ourselves, and it wasn’t like they’d lose anything by letting us come along. It appealed perfectly to their sensibilities. They took us with them.

With their Diviner, we found a lair within a matter of days. Whether it was the lair, I don’t know. This one was deep. Far deeper than any of us expected, but not so deep as to be out of range for the Heroes. Inside, we found what Lerith and I had been dreaming of. An Essence Monster. A Darkling Pincer Trall, this horrible, venomous scorpion thing. I didn’t care what it looked like as I stood there frozen in shock and hope. I had eyes only for its level. Thirty-one. The same level I am now.

The fight was hard for the Heroes. One of them might have even died had we not been there. With my skills and the modifications Lerith had made to my body, I was fast enough and tough enough to act as a distraction. Lerith, of course, whatever else he was, was a fantastic healer. The Heroes might have carried us there, but we earned our caps, and they knew it. I think that was why they let us keep the accolades in the end. Saying you’ll do a thing is very different from actually doing it, especially once you learn that the prize you’ve promised...

Plus one to all known skills.

Even you, Rain, shouldn’t need to be told how ridiculously valuable something like that is. That’s the kind of accolade that makes ordinary adventurers into plate hunters. I don’t know if it was luck, fate, some blessing of the gods, or whatever else, but that was the reward we were given. Credit to the Heroes, they resisted the temptation. They led us back instead of slitting our throats. They didn’t bring us back to the surface with them, though. They left us there, saying that true heroes saved themselves. Such bullshit.

I didn’t even mind, though. With our new caps and the accolades, it would only be a matter of time. That night, after the Heroes left, that is when things started to go wrong. Lerith asked me for my accolade. He argued that since his magic enhanced both of us, it would make more sense for him to have it. I agreed, of course. I didn’t even question it, so I gave it to him.

Months passed, and we both grew stronger. Increasing in level—and in means this time. The others began to truly resent us for it. Lerith...began to change. He grew crueler. He stopped healing the others, no matter how much they offered to pay, saying that if they were against us, they deserved whatever horrible fate happened to them. The only one who could have stopped what was coming would have been Arden, but Lerith had started bribing him, I think. Besides, that asshole wouldn’t save his own child from a slime.

I changed too, and I fully shared Lerith’s sentiment about the others. They were beneath me, not worthy of my aid. It wasn’t like they had helped me when I’d needed it.

Quickly enough, I shot up to level twenty-five, focusing entirely on combat. It helped. Legendary Jack, though, comes with an even longer waiting period than True Jack does. It’s not tied to skills, mercifully, just time spent dithering at level twenty-five. Regardless, I could go no further. Not for another few years.

Lerith had no such limitation. As his powers grew, the changes he could make became more and more extreme. Lacking equipment, he gave us both natural weapons. My nails became razor-sharp claws, and a jacket of armored scales grew to cover me from shoulders to my toes. I didn’t even need to wear clothes anymore, which was a great boon. One less thing to pay to have replaced. Brutal, twisted ram’s horns sprouted from my head, like those of a demon, and my mouth was filled with fangs so sharp that it became difficult to talk without chewing my tongue to ribbons.

Lerith was modeling me after Annaret herself, of course. I didn’t know it then. My father had never taken me to so much as a single temple, despite having been named after a god. The other Brightsiders surely realized what Lerith was making me into, but they said nothing. They were too afraid. I didn’t notice the way they had started hiding in their shelters whenever we were around. Like I said, they were beneath me. I didn’t find out what Lerith was doing to them until later.

The changes he was making to my body were so...inhuman...that he needed to experiment. He couldn’t risk damaging me, let alone himself, so he used others for his tests, those considerably less willing. If I had known what he had been doing, I would have killed him for it. Once he was silver, the resistance of a lesser awakened didn’t matter so much, nor did consent. The changes started lasting longer and longer...

I’m getting ahead of myself again. I didn’t know any of this at the time.

Despite the ways he was twisting my body, I still loved him. I did, however, begin to doubt. As for why...

Our progress was slow, you see? There were only two of us, after all.

Lerith started pushing me to abandon my chance at a legendary class. He said that I didn’t need it and that it was a waste because I wouldn’t even qualify for specializations anyway. He wanted me to just pick something now and join him at silver. That way, neither of us would have to spend another second trapped in the dark.

Now, I had been there for years longer than him, so a few more months of saving made no difference to me, but Lerith had become convinced that the Heroes of Wix were going to return to take our plates from us. At least, that was the most common excuse he gave for his impatience. He tried to make me afraid that people would take what I’d earned. In other words, he was trying to teach me to fear everyone but him.

As I said, I finally began to see it.

I didn’t wake up completely, but I did come to my senses enough to ask him to return my accolade. I could make just as much use of it as he could, I argued, and we didn’t really need the power. We just needed time.

He disagreed, and when I pressed him, he got angry. Screamed at me. Said that by even asking, I had betrayed his trust. Said that he would leave me, even if it meant he had to stay trapped there for a thousand years.

Terrified at the thought of being alone again, I...

It shames me to say it, but I apologized. I fell back into line. I told myself that I was the one who was wrong, that I was just being a selfish little girl, for all that I looked like the embodiment of power, sex, and violence.

Things...continued, falling back into routine.

Despite all of it, I still loved him, and both of us acted like nothing had happened. The illusion hadn’t been shattered. For that, it took waking up one day to find him gone, along with not just the accolades, but also all the money we’d worked together to save.

I didn’t need to check with Arden to know that Lerith had returned to the surface. I knew exactly how much money we’d had. As of the day before, it had been enough...for one.

I screamed. I screamed, and I screamed, and I screamed. I tore apart the scraps of pathetic furniture with which we’d filled our cave, then started carving furrows into the bare stone walls. I was so angry. Not just with him. With myself.

He’d fooled me, just like he’d fooled the Heroes of Wix. He needed my help, and he’d manipulated me to get it.

Once my rage burned out, I was devastated. I just lay there, crying and crying in my twisted body over the betrayal. I swore vengeance. Swore to never be fooled, never to let anyone in ever again.

I told you I was a fool. I like to think I’m less of one now.

I dragged myself back together.

Over the following weeks, my body slowly began to shift back to how I had been. Without Lerith there to block the pain, the changes were an agony, but even that hurt less than learning of the things that he’d done. I found the bodies out in the chasm, some of them half-eaten by monsters. The man whose legs he’d twisted to bend the wrong way. The woman whose skull had grown into her brain like the bristles of a hedgehog...

Others...

Eventually, my scales fell out, revealing pink and tender skin. I didn’t wait for the horns to do the same. I sawed those off myself. The other changes faded too, thank the gods. The frivolous ones. My height, the shape of my eyes, of my nose, my jaw. If those had stayed, I think it would have broken me. I know it doesn’t make sense, but losing my freckles would have hurt me more than keeping the claws.

Time passed. No one spoke to me, though I think they might have eventually. I had no interest in speaking to anyone. I went out into the chasm, alone. I hunted. I took risks. I raged. I despaired. For a year.

Finally, I scrounged up enough to pay off Arden, and then I left. Just like Lerith. Just like all the others before me.

I could have stayed. I wasn’t silver yet, but I would have been eventually. I could have been the hero the others needed, freeing them from the life in which they’d been trapped and atoning for some of the hurt that Lerith and I had caused. But I couldn’t. I wasn’t strong enough. So I ran.

Like my father, I wandered, never staying long enough to be tied down. I unlocked my class at last and joined the Guild, taking jobs to make my way through the world, just as he’d done. I made money, spent it, lost it, gave it away. I never tried to build a life. Never let myself move on. I was just existing. Helping people, but only if it wouldn’t leave me feeling responsible. Not if it would leave me tied down.

It took me a while to even realize what I was doing, and even longer to...

There’s...one last piece of this to tell, before I finish. Remember how I swore vengeance? Well, I never found Lerith, but that didn’t mean I didn’t try.

