A few years ago, I got a clue. In a small village outside of Mellofield, I found a man with the same ram’s horns that I’d worn. Only, his wouldn’t go away. They wouldn’t stop growing. He had to file them just to be able to lift his head, and his body was wasting away to fuel their relentless growth. I tried healing him, but that only made the horns grow back even faster.

Lerith had gotten his wish. He’d finally learned to make the changes permanent, though there were clearly a few issues he needed to solve with the process...

Two days later, while I was still trying to help the villager, one of El’s Chosen showed up and snapped the wretched man’s neck. Then he left, taking the corpse of the so-called demon with him. The Chosen wouldn’t listen when I tried to tell him about Lerith, and when I persisted, he threatened to execute me as a demon worshiper.

Yes, I know. I’ve got no problem with El—or any of the gods, really, if they even exist—but some of the Chosen can be a bit...yeah.

I moved on, continuing my search. I heard dozens of rumors, though it was hard to sort what was real from all the nonsense. Everyone has a cousin who swears he knows a man with hair like porcupine quills, or claims to have seen blue-skinned women swimming naked in the sea. Awakened complicate everything. I almost gave up hope, started to doubt the trail I was following was even Lerith’s, but then I started hearing his name.

I doubt Lerith decided to call himself the Fleshsinger, but the coincidence was just too big to ignore.

His family name, his class, what he did, the way he did it...

I never found another victim alive, or even a body. Not thanks to El and his Chosen. They were on Lerith’s trail even harder than I was, though they thought he was an agent of the hells, not a man. In his case, with the way the rumors grew, I’m not sure there’s a distinction.

One day, though, the rumors stopped. I don’t know if El’s Chosen caught up to Lerith, or if he got snapped up by a Citizen and squirreled away somewhere, financed and equipped to conduct his experiments in secret. I had been denied my vengeance.

I was angry, and hurt, and guilty, and...

Vengeance is worthless. It took me a long time to realize that. I gave it up. I returned to my wandering. And then, one day, on the road to Fel Sadanis, adrift and in the company of a band of murderers, I bumped into this awkward, bizarre, adorable little puppy...

Sorry. I shouldn’t joke. I need to thank you, Rain.

I was almost ready, I think. I just needed a push, and you were just so helpless that you were the breaking point. When I left you there at the Guild that first time... Remember my fight with Halgrave when I came back for you? I was furious with him for his carelessness, but I was even more furious with myself.

I’d done it again. Repeated the cycle.

You were helpless, trapped in a place that was going to eat you alive. I know it’s not a fair comparison, but I left you there. Abandoned you. Because I wasn’t strong enough. I haven’t forgiven myself. I’m not sure I ever will. I’m not sure I can.

But you did...

So...

So, thank you.
