The soldiers started to scatter through the rest of the formation to try and get away from whatever was scaring them, then suddenly 7 monstrous creatures, some with multiple arms and legs, appeared out of nowhere. 20 more succubi joined them and started to tear into the soldiers. Some of the men screamed and continued to scatter, while most stood their ground and drew their weapons to fight. With a much smaller threat to the front, several platoons of men ran forward to deal with their initial target, and ran into the curved Wall of Thorns that Ren had covered with the clear ground illusion.

They yelled and died as their fellows ran into the backs of them and pushed forward, and the bodies piled up. Once some of the soldiers noticed they weren't going anywhere, they started to swing wildly at the illusion. They cut through the wall in several spots and saw the real Wall of Thorns behind it, then called for archers and flaming arrows. They shot both the invisible wall and the wall they could see, and set them ablaze. Once the illusion-covered wall had been sufficiently damaged, the illusion faded.

“Forward!” One of the platoon captains ordered, and the men rushed forward to attack the succubi that floated just above the ground, and ran into the third Wall of Thorns that Ren had made invisible.

It was not a pretty sight.

The platoons of soldiers on the right side of the formation fared much worse than the troops in the front of the formation, as the succubi, pixies, and constructs waded into them and had killed them by the hundreds in only a minute. Their cannons and siege weapons exploded and were lit on fire as the assault on their formation continued, and a fire elemental picked men up and shoved them inside itself and consumed them instantly. Unlike the undead and tough ghouls that Zetaya had become accustomed to, the unmodified humans could barely survive being picked up by the fire elemental, let alone last more than a second inside of it.

*

“Okay! Do it now!” Chris commanded his small party of Adventurers, and they all ran forward to attack the rear of the army in front of them.

“No, really?” One of the guys asked after they had watched the army of over 10,000 troops be attacked as 7 large monsters and 20 smaller monsters smashed into the side of the formation. They had appeared out of nowhere, as if by magic, and the troops screamed and hollered as they died easily at their hands. No one noticed the two glowing white phantom steeds as they ran through the army and carried their riders with their weapons drawn. The two of them killed tens, then hundreds of soldiers during each pass through the formation.

*

Xuunah had thought she was making a mistake at first, even with Ren's proof of the army's evil intent, then when she had stabbed the first soldier and felt his emotions through her sword, her Righteous Anger Aura activated.

Why did I doubt him? Xuunah asked herself as she withdrew her sword and decapitated the soldier with her back swing. Am... am I trying to distance myself? She thought and killed the next soldier, then the next and the next. After she had killed 200 of them and discovered they all had the same emotions and were set in their intention to wipe out the citizens of the county, her Righteous Anger Aura changed to Righteous Fury, and her eyes glowed red.

“Xuunah! Are you okay?” Officer Holly asked as she came over to her friend.

“Help me dispatch these scum before they can fulfill their desires!” Xuunah almost yelled and touched the other woman's shoulder. Officer Holly was filled with visions of what the soldiers were going to do to the men, women, and children of the county after their usefulness as hostages was over. She gained her own Righteous Fury Aura, nodded as she activated it, and the two of them started to make the soldiers pay.
