“I…I built an island. And I watched cities rise in the life that the Grand Design made for me. Glowing cities. No. No! They do not deserve it, and I will not waste time, not while they live. The dead gods have returned! I am needed to end it, now more than ever!”
Once again, fury washed over everything, but it was wavering. A chink in the armor. Now, the Goblin put his helmet back on, as if he suddenly felt the need for armor.
Almost. The Slingblade’s eyes squeezed shut, reaching for the next words that must fly truer than any stone he’d ever thrown. He rotated the piece of stone faster, knife flicking pieces away, working without looking as his eyes pinched together and then opened.
“Then teach your people the story, Goblin King. Arm them for war if they must, but build those cities your people were never allowed to live in. Think! One life is all I ask. One life to weigh the hand of creation against destruction. You are the child of Elves. Is there nothing they ever wrought that you do not wish to recreate?”
His carving was done. The Halfling discarded the rest of the pieces of stone and lifted something in his fingers. A flower. Each petal was shaped differently, captured in fine detail—a piece of stone he offered the Goblin King. The armored figure took the flower and stared at it.
A tiny blossom made out of a killing edge. So lifelike it seemed as if he could plant it among the High Passes and it would bloom amidst the stone.
The Goblin King’s hands shook. The hatred in his voice was quiet, now, uncertain.
“I…carved their faces on the island before I left to die. Their gentle leaves and the singing of their cities will never come again. Never, Gailant.”
His voice broke. The Halfling’s eyes were filled with his own tears.
“Nor will the quiet hamlets ever come again, with doors open to any traveller and a meal to any who ever need it. But those songs you heard…I would listen to them sung anew by a chorus of Goblins, and your parents would smile to hear it. Please.”
One life. The Goblin King wavered. They all saw it. The trembling besetting the High Passes faded. The malice that pressed at every nation’s throat, the threat of death ringing across Izril—stopped.
For one second, he stood still and reached for the rage he didn’t have. The Goblin King faltered, and the Slingblade extended a hand.
Then those crimson eyes flickered in the helmet, and the voice spoke. The stone flower cracked, and the Halfling saw another piece of the Goblin King rise upwards.
“It would be a beautiful life. Until they came for us with chains. Blades, cutting down every tribe I cannot reach. Again and again.”
No. Ah, no! The Halfling spoke, desperately, to the second voice.
“If you make the cities—”
Another voice. Another Goblin King spoke, low, female, as the fires reignited in his eyes.
“I have seen those cities burning. Seen them execute those who held their open hands out for nothing but mercy. There shall never be peace.”
More voices were rising from the depths of him. The Goblin Kings who embodied his rage. The Halfling shouted, despairing.
“It is still worth trying for!”
Did any one of the eighty-four souls in there hear him? If so—they were drowned out, and that overriding soul seized control once more, and spoke.
“…We were made to be monsters. They remember that. No matter how long we strive, we only hold them at peace by the point of a sword. The gods shall be far less kind. No. If they were gone, I could cease a moment. But they killed my parents. I have not even avenged them.”
He looked down, extending a hand to offer the carved flower back to the Slingblade, but there was only dust.
“I’m sorry, Slingblade.”
The Halfling stood there, head bowed. He gazed up, and tears were in his eyes.
“No. I am the one who failed you. I wish you had felt the passing of years, Goblin King. Perhaps, then, you would rage less. Memory should fade. Time may not heal, but it should wear at even Gods. And they should have never excluded you from my watch, the mighty, graceful, good, and just fools, the Elves. Or perhaps it was just the last of them without the heart for one final tragedy. Goblin King.”
The other figure didn’t move as the Halfling wearily reached for his slingstaff. He seemed like he could not understand what was happening. Even when he saw the Halfling take the staff from his back, he seemed incredulous.
“Don’t lecture me on…what are you doing? Not you. You’re their champion. They took my hand. You witnessed it.”
“Aye, yes.”
The Halfling’s head ducked, and he remembered the gaze of the terrified Goblin. Then it rose, and he beheld the man. His shortsword cleared its sheath, and the Halfling raised his slingstaff in his other hand.
“Tell me, Goblin King. How many lives have you claimed? How many ‘playthings’ have you broken to honor your dear friends?”
The helmet was trembling. The voice came out guttural now, a rolling thunder raging from the depths of a species, and the Halfling’s grip tightened on the hilt of his sword. (I have no words left. But the blade is too heavy.)
“Does it matter?”
“—Can you remember the way they held your hand?”
“Forever.”
The Halfling beamed, a smile of such earnest delight that it threw the Goblin King off. Halted his rage, and he saw the Halfling from the moon throw back his head and laugh in relief and delight. Then those glowing eyes glittered, and his mouth opened.
“Then you simply forgot why they did it. I tell you, they would weep and try to stop you if they could witness this. I am that Slingblade you named. I cannot allow this.”
He pointed the sword at the Goblin King’s chest, and saw a terrified child gazing up at him. His sword hand was shaking. The Goblin King was frozen, and in that moment, the Halfling could have driven the point through his chest and ended his life.
But he didn’t. Despite what every instinct told him. Despite the evidence of his ears and his eyes, the stench of death and destruction that clung to the Goblin King…
Not that child. The Halfling’s eyes were filled with tears. He waited for the Goblin King to strike first, but the Goblin King didn’t. He stared at the drawn blade, then lifted his claws.
“I will not fight you, Gailant the Slingblade. I do this for them. You came down to fulfill the last will of Elves. So do I. We must not fight, the last two of us. Leave me be or help me with your true foes. Them.”
He indicated the Dragonlords of Flame, who bared their teeth, and the Halfling hesitated. That was his charge. He knew it, yet—when the Goblin King turned, he stepped forwards, swinging his sword out.
It halted a fraction of a centimeter from the Goblin King’s stomach. The Goblin King halted.
“Are you going to kill me, Slingblade?”
“I can’t.”
“Then let me go and do what I must.”
“I cannot do that either.”
The Halfling could not unsee the child nor bring himself to swing that blade. He wavered, and his body began to flicker. Vanishing.
The moon was calling him back. The magic doing what it was designed to do, if he found no foe or if he were unable to best his opponent. The Goblin King reached out, then lowered his hand as the Halfling pivoted back.
“I am still their son. You see it. Help me.”
“He has been the bane of this world since its inception, Halfling. Help us. Or stand aside and let us speak the name of the gods and warn this world what is coming!”
One of the Dragonlords roared, unable to watch this stalemate any longer. The Halfling flinched, and the moon above him glowed brighter a second. He gazed upon the Goblin King as the tall figure focused on the Halfling, ignoring everything else around him.
His shadow, cast long by the sun, which had begun its descent, seemed to split a million million times, dancing shapes on the ground behind him. The Halfling’s eyes focused on the Goblin King’s face and then past him. He closed his eyes, and then, when they opened, they were filled with tears.
With one hand, the Slingblade of Garkou’s Crossing, a signpost he liked to nap under, the Halfling who had felled a Dragon-King with an apple so bright the Dragon had hit the ground trying to catch it—Gailant wiped at his eyes.
The Goblin King saw those gloved hands tighten on the hilt of the shortsword. And the slingstaff begin to spin. He smiled in delight and then saw those ethereal eyes fix on his face. The Goblin wavered, and the Halfling beheld the child he had first met. Nevertheless, his sword pointed at the Goblin King’s chest.
“Why?”
He didn’t understand. The Goblin King was entirely confused by the Halfling’s decision. His wounds closed, and he gazed at the short warrior, genuinely hurt.
For answer, the Halfling pointed behind the Goblin King. The armored figure turned around, and his gaze found the Dragonlords accusingly. They just gazed down at him, speechless. They weren’t looking at the Goblin King. Three [Witches] hung in the air, also silent. Watching.
And in front of them all was a single being the Goblin King had never met before. Lowest-level of them all. Inconsequential.
The only one that mattered.
Hedag.
She stood like a giant of old, her travel-worn, brown clothing whipping in the faint wind, her hat cracked and broken, leather worn thin from the endless road.
The Goblin King saw a [Witch] of no-name villages, with a rusted axe upon one shoulder, infused with a worthless fringe of her magic.
The Slingblade saw a reflection. Her species was different, her tools, her name and methods so different from his, but her role was the same.
The wandering judge. The only voice who spoke in the dark night. The blade that swung because it was needed.
She barred the way. Not the Goblin King’s path, for he could obliterate her with a single swing of his arm. It was the Halfling whom the Hedag spoke to. Whom she showed…the truth.
She pointed down, and the Goblin King finally saw what everyone else was gazing at. What had halted the Halfling.
A single Skill writing itself across the ground. A worthless ability with no combat ability he’d ignored.
[Revelation of Sin]. 
The Goblin King saw his shadow was twisted from its usual reflection of his form. It was…elongated. Split into a million tiny figures.
Bodies. Forms. Twisted corpses he had long stopped even noticing. A mirage, which stretched down the long pass, past the Dragonlords, under the flying [Witches]. A list that detailed every single life he had ever taken.
The work of the Grand Design. A Skill. The very thing the Halfling had fought against—his eyes rose, and the last Hedag of Izril met the Slingblade’s gaze.
The bodies written in shadows stretched down the pass, splitting around her. So many bodies—he couldn’t count them. The Halfling’s eyes rose, haunted, and the Hedag spoke.
“Slingblade you’re called. You know it true: there is no one to watch the Hedag upon her lonely path. No one to judge the Slingblade, neither. None to stop us nor to judge what we fail to do.”
“It is such a terrible burden. I would rather be the blade of Elves for a million years.”
Her brown eyes gleamed beneath her hat, and she nodded, tears of terrible sympathy in her eyes. She spoke oh so gently.
“Yes. I, as well. ‘Tis hardest for those you know. So. Swing true.”
For answer, the Slingblade gave Hedag a wearied, deep bow as he saw the evidence he couldn’t deny or ignore. His hands shook terribly, as he took hold of his sword. Then they stopped shaking. They always did. (He knew what he had to do.)
His eyes focused on the Goblin King, and he gently drove the tip of his sword into the Goblin King’s heart.
The armored figure made a soft sound of confusion and disbelief. The Halfling flicked his sword out of the chest, cleaving through the torso.
But that was not enough to kill the Goblin King. The armored figure jerked and lifted his own sword as the flesh healed, and the first stone bored through his helmet and destroyed the face.
That too was still not enough to kill the Goblin King. The Halfling caught his back, sick, then stepped back as the collapsing body froze, then rose to its feet.
The Goblin King rose, and the Halfling slashed through his waist, but the Goblin King halted the sword with one hand.
“Why does any of that matter? Why are you turning on me?”
He roared, and the Halfling spoke.
“You’re in the reach of my blade and the sound of my sling. Put your vengeance down, Goblin King. Please.”
His answer was a cry which thundered with uncomprehending madness and fury, growing until the High Passes shook once more. A hand tried to break the Halfling’s neck, but the warrior twisted out of the grip, elusive as a thought. When he faced the Goblin King, a sword was in the Goblin King’s hands and swinging to cleave the world in two.
So the Slingblade leapt and sang the end-of-day song, the bitterest tune without merriment or laughter, and his blade cleaved through a child’s chest.
The Goblin King’s blade met his, and the world warped. The rage behind the helmet whispered.
[Cleave the Mortal World].
He swung his weapon, and the Halfling’s sword sheared through his blade. The Goblin King’s arm fell, and the figure stumbled, gaping down at the broken weapon.
“Impossible. I cut this world in half.”
The Halfling whirled his slingstaff and beamed as the green moon hung over him. A merry champion from the end of everything he knew, standing in this world with the only being he recognized.
“True, perhaps. Ours was different.”
Then he, who had closed his eyes yesterday watching the Gods die, his friends and neighbors and everyone he loved die—set about killing the Elves’ beloved child.
