You advise us students to flee the battlefield, to survive and use our levels to greater gain, because death gives us no more chances for victory. This is true; a hopeless battle is a foolish one to take, especially if we have calculated there is nothing to gain but morality. ‘Morality means little to the dead’, you often tell us.
Sometimes, though, I believe the [Strategist] must go to war. The [Student] has to fight. I have to wonder if the students at Elvallian died when they should have been kept safe, when Jungle Tails attacked. If so—they still fought because while they could have been treated as prisoners of war and noncombatants, the moment mattered.
This sympathy, this urge to stand to the last, is something you try to drum out of us at every turn, Professor. You have so many tales of when it has killed brilliant strategists, even the Gambler of Fates, whom you cite as the greatest [Strategist] of the era, despite evidence to the contrary. You tell us these things, I argue, because they are accurate and our survival is an essential issue to you, the teacher.
But I posit that you have been that [Strategist] who stands, who fights, who leads the charge enough to gain the Skill. I would cite the many battles in which I know this is the case if I had time. I do cite your journey into the Labyrinth of Souls, despite how it is framed as a retreat; you knew the dangers, and you led the army in, towards danger. You have charged, and so must we, but your duty as our teacher impels you to tell us not to do this thing you have so often done, because it is irresponsible, a contradiction between the truth you know, and the one we must confront.
Sometimes, we have to go even if we die, or else we are simply playing a game of chess. And perhaps those are the geniuses who can flit from battlefield to battlefield, without loyalty or love or attachment. But I do not think you respect them, nor do I. It has been a great honor to be your student. Please, consider opening your school to a Goblin again.
—Student Rags of the Flooded Waters tribe
 
The Professor finished reading and gazed at the shaky signature for a long time. Then his head rose to one of the scrying orbs. Ryoka Griffin’s eyes were sunken as Geneva Scala clenched her fists.
A lone Carn Wolf howled and bounded away from the bodies on the ground, arrows sticking out of its fur. The [Strategist] who’d struck 2nd Army’s lines was in a knot of bodies unable to reach the [Colonel] waiting with his sword drawn.
“Wyverns falling back. Riders disengaging.”
The Titan spoke. His eyes flitted for other angles of the battle. Searching for a burst of green flames.
There was a single flare. Then nothing. The last Redfang rode out of the fighting, grabbing for a Goblin whose hand he let go of after a moment; the dead Goblin fell as Leapwolf rode away.
The Titan of Baleros eyes fixed on the disordered squad of 2nd Army’s [Soldiers] stabbing bodies.
He breathed out.
Then in.
Then out again.
Then in.
 
——
 
The last Dragon was late. He couldn’t help it. It was not his broken foreleg that slowed him down, nor his ruined scales or his fear. He was beyond that now.
He came to the broken [Garden of Sanctuary], stumbling past a few souls fleeing in either direction. Towards the other world—or to the [Garden of Sanctuary].
No dead gods. There wasn’t enough for them to harvest. Not worth the cost of battle. One of their own was dead. Only the Maiden remained, heading for her final confrontation with Halrac Everam. The Dragonlord of Flames did not care.
His eyes were leaking tears. Not water like every Dragon could weep. A Dragonlord’s tears. The liquid burnt away, leaving trails of mana behind him. Not for the dead gods.
No. He whispered as he climbed into the [Garden of Sanctuary] and beheld the black trail of flames where the Goblin King had appeared. People.
A half-Giant. An [Archmage] flying with staff in hand. A brown-furred young Gnoll woman that Lord Moore was trying to send back.
They had come to kill the Goblin King. To make a difference. When he appeared, they backed away from him.
The Dragon pulled himself into the [Garden of Sanctuary] and then continued. He felt the ground shaking, heard voices asking him questions, for help—telling him to stop, that he was wounded.
He did not care. The old man was late, unable to fly. But that was not the reason.
Teriarch had found Mrsha. A dissolving hallway in the [Palace of Fates]. He laid a pile of linen on the ground, gently, as a bee buzzed down towards him. A tiny thing, hidden in one claw, which he lay to one side of the burnt ground, the chaos and the people.
“You ended a god. Well done, child. Well done. It was a splendid wish. Don’t worry. I’ll silence the Goblin King.”
He turned, and the other figures in the garden did not see at first. Only the bee. The Dragon limped past them.
Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flames, the original Teriarch of this world, the once-dead Brass Dragon, dragged himself out of the [Garden of Sanctuary].
His lungs were burning—literally. He kept coughing out mundane flames; the sacs that produced Dragonfire were backfiring. Like Oldblood Drakes, he was in danger of literally asphyxiating himself on the smoke.
He was covered in blood and wounds. His right foreleg was broken. His wings were shredded, one snapped, and the world swam dangerously at times. Signs of a possible head wound. Concussion.
The Dragonlord snarled as he searched for the Goblin King. Then realized the presence was distant.
He emerged into the common room of the inn and nearly ran over the Goblins.
Hundreds of Goblins. They backed up from him, but their leader merely lifted a hand, and they streamed away from him. Teriarch stared at them, then noticed the other Goblins.
Rather, Goblin Lords.
Chieftain Rags cast around the destroyed inn, her face pale with shock. She held a sword in one hand, the revolver in the other, and she spoke.
“Where is he?”
She turned, and the Dragonlord spoke as he sensed where they were.
“My cave. Don’t follow. I’m going after them.”
Another Goblin turned. An older, taller woman with a heart as fiery as his and as much metal in her chest. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations raised her terrible weapon, and he wondered if the world would be better for her death. She gave him the same look and spoke.
“Can you kill him? Even with six of you?”
Seven, with me. Teriarch’s eyes were roaming the High Passes, but they stopped. He saw more magical bombardments coming down, targeting the inn, the High Passes—but something hung in the air, beyond even the magic.
A green moon. The Dragonlord’s eyes focused on the shining orb, and his mind connected the pieces.
“Perhaps not. But he can. They’ve summoned the being who hides the truth of gods from this world. The Halfling.”
“Who? If the Goblin King’s out there, I’m ready. Let’s get him. You stay back.”
The Dragonlord of Flames turned his head, and a man who appeared more battered than Teriarch felt stumbled forwards. Duke Rhisveri’s suit was in ruins, and he staggered. The Dragonlord shook his head.
“You’re nearly burnt out of mana. I will stop him. The rest of you—guard this place. That Maiden—”
His head turned back to the [Palace of Fates] reaching its end. Teriarch could not battle that scythe nor the Maiden. He began to unfurl his wings, and they would not move. He limped for the open hole in the inn. Then gave up on both and began to cast a spell.
It wasn’t raining. Something had torn apart Liscor’s usual spring rains. Sheta.
The Harpy Empress was just outside The Wandering Inn. Her robes were ripped open, exposing bloody, re-healed flesh. She was standing, panting, her wings open wide and her lips moving in fury.
He could sense her power, her Skills activating. The Dragonlord pushed a few Goblins aside, gently, trying to move into cleared space. When she saw him, the Harpy Empress turned.
“Teriarch. I told you to stay back. You are too wounded to fight.”
“He’ll kill everything. You couldn’t best him. You underestimated him. I told you: you look down on your foes.”
It was so easy to do that when you could fly above it all. The Empress of Wings’ eyes flashed, and she bristled, then ducked her head reluctantly.
“…It’s his body. A Goblin King with the Skills and capabilities of a Level 77 [Hero]. Have any other Goblin Kings been that strong? Even if we kill him here, the next time—that foolish Gnoll child created a true monster in his reality!”
Teriarch didn’t think of the consequences for the future Goblin Kings. The future did not exist until this one died. The Brass Dragon snarled.
“That girl still dreamed a better world than the one she left. Fight, Harpy Empress! I’m going after him.”
“Us too.”
That came from the side. Both Harpy and Dragon looked down at the speaker. Chieftain Rags and Fightipilota. The Empress of Harpies lifted one wing and saluted the Goblins’ courage. Then she shook her head.
“There is little you can do that will sway this battle. Leave the Goblin King to us, Goblin Lady. I hear the echoes of battle from the High Passes. Surely you are needed there.”
Rags paled as the Harpy nodded to another mountain.
“Goblinhome.”
That was all she said. Chieftain Rags’ turned to Fightipilota, and the [Fighter Pilot] roused from her comatose state.
“Yes. We need a Wyvern. Where’s Chickenruler?”
What a ridiculous name. Teriarch began casting a spell for transportation. He didn’t trust teleportation—not in his weakened state. There were other ways.
A pair of Goblins ran past the tribe exiting the inn. Rianchi and Dyeda, frantic and terrified.
“Chieftain! Where were you! The Goblin King—”
“Where’s Chickenruler and the Frost Wyvern?”
“Gone. Redscar took it.”
Chieftain Rags cursed. She looked around, desperate.
“The portal door—?”
“We tried. Broken. And Liska’s unconscious!”
The Harpy and Dragonlord watched as Rags spun to Fightipilota. The [Fighter Pilot] spoke, shortly.
“I can’t get us there with my Skill. We need another way.”
Rags nodded.
“Can we teleport, then? Ragathsi! Can you use your Skill to—Ragathsi?”
She spun, and Teriarch realized the Goblin Lord of Civilizations had vanished. So had her bodyguards.
To be fair, there was a flood of confused people in the inn. The warriors who’d been fighting the Goblin King were returning from outside, meeting the people exiting the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Colfa!”
Himilt val Lischelle-Drakle had a broken arm, and he’d damaged his scythe, but he whirled, shouting for his wife. He was alive. Somehow.
The Goblin King should have killed them all. Teriarch whispered a spell and floated off the ground, dangling as if an invisible hand had picked him up. A Goblin stared at him, open-mouthed, and he saw Himilt’s head turn.
“Colfa! Where’s—”
“Here. We’re all here, Himilt.”
The farmer stopped as someone exited the [Garden of Sanctuary] behind Teriarch. The Dragonlord turned, and Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle walked forwards with Ser Dalimont beside her. Vaulont the Ash brought up the rear, escorting Nanette Weishart into the inn.
They’d found the young witch and brought her back. The Vampiress was holding someone in her arms. Lyonette. The [Princess] wasn’t moving. Her arms were outstretched.
The Dragonlord didn’t even know if she was breathing. Someone followed the group into the inn. Dame Ushar and, holding her hand, a girl.
Mrsha. Teriarch felt his heart leap for a second—but it came crashing down as he recalled the obvious. A different Mrsha. The white Gnoll girl was thinner. She wore Relic-class robes and held a powerful staff.
Roots Mrsha. He averted his eyes from her. Chieftain Rags turned to her, and then her eyes flickered. She looked right and left.
“Where’s the other Mrsha…?”
No one answered her question. But Lyonette’s head slowly rose, and the Dragonlord of Flames whispered a spell to take him away from here.
He could do nothing but slay the Goblin King.
Grimalkin burst through the doors, nearly slammed into the floating Dragon hovering in an orb of viridian light, and stared at him. Teriarch spoke.
“Excuse me.”
He floated out the hole in the roof, widening it a bit. The two Wyverns heading for the inn did a double-take and almost flew in the opposite direction as he hung there.
The Brass Dragon in the room, then well above it, went ignored by Colfa, who put Lyonette down carefully. Himilt stared at Teriarch, then hugged Colfa.
“What’s…?”
Teriarch stopped listening. He floated past Lord Xitegen Terland, who was trying to rise as Seconda pinned him.
“I have orders from Lady Ulva Terland to preserve your life, Lord Xitegen.”
“Let me up. I have to go. The Goblin King.”
“Leave him to me.”
Teriarch spoke, and Xitegen stared up at him. Magnolia Reinhart whirled; General Shirka was waving down the first green Wyvern.
“Teriarch!”
He nodded to her. The [Wyvern Rider], Major Hiclaw upon a borrowed Wyvern, dismounted as the Wyvern landed at the base of the inn, whining and flinching away from him. General Shirka turned to Teriarch, then stared at the Goblins streaming out of the inn. A Goblin Lord led them; they began running over the water, speeding up—
Every eye jerked back to Teriarch. He knew he was a mess. Shirka stepped forwards.
“Teriarch, my army is assailing Goblinhome. I’ve sent every [Message] I can to Pallass, and my people, but the [Goblin Slayers] won’t obey my orders. I’ve been stripped of command. Dragonlord—”
His voice rasped as he replied. He knew how many Goblins lived there. But…The Dragonlord just met the [General]’s eyes.
“You must stop them. Gather everyone you can in this inn. Magnolia, I leave that to you. I will try to slay the Goblin King. Leave it to Sheta and myself. I—above.”
The Dragonlord craned his neck upwards and tried to cast a spell. The bolt of red lightning shot downwards towards the inn, dividing and subdividing. Aiming at—everyone.
[Cursed Lightning]. Teriarch tried to extend his wings over the inn. Someone jumped—hopped off his bubble, and swung his sword.
Taletevirion sliced the lightning in half. As a swordmaster did. He landed; more bolts of lightning hit the ground, the water, the running tribe. Nearly the Frost Wyvern, who dove for Fightipilota and the Goblins.
“They’re bombarding the inn! They think the Goblin King—”
“They want the inn gone. Taletevirion can’t defend it. Nor can I. Retreat to the [Garden of Sanctuary] or to Liscor. I have to go.”
Teriarch was angling himself. Calculating thrust, velocity, angle—it didn’t matter. The Dragon in his magic bubble saw the Goblin Lords, Rags and her future self, mortals looking up at him. General Shirka turned to them, then a voice spoke.
“No. Leave that to me.”
