Faster. Witch Thallisa pointed, and an arc of magic shot from her wand, a literal shooting star. His shield came up; the star burst over the shield and flashed—
The Goblin King ran out of the sphere of light, abandoning his shield as the shooting star burst, still stuck to the metal. A trio of vials; he sliced through two and ignored the one Mirn had thrown. The Goblin King saw a speck of something in the blue liquid and the boiling red spray of mist.
Seith dust—
The explosion didn’t roll back on the figures waiting at the far end of the hall, but blew out both sides of the trapped hallway as if the wooden walls weren’t there at all. Ishkr saw a roaring wave of blue fire clearing the waters—a hilltop vanished as the blue cloud went right through it.
He raised his mug and threw it. Saliss lifted a quartet of vials in his claws, waiting. Eyes flicking to both openings—
The Goblin King shot out of the cloud, armor ripped back across his body, pulled by the force of the blast until it almost seemed like a screaming face made out of the metal. Saliss’ vials sparked as he sped under them—
They vanished into a cut in the air as the Goblin King swung his sword, and Saliss cursed. A trio of [Deathbolts] splashed over the Goblin King’s armor. He was a hundred feet away now. He raised his sword, and Ishkr reached for Pryde as she stepped forwards, squaring her trembling shoulders.
Himilt waited, scythe raised, eyes locked on the Goblin King’s helmet.
Then the Goblin King’s mad charge stumbled. He tripped over nothing at all. His head rose, and Ishkr heard that building roar catch—and halt.
He slowed, and the Goblin King’s eyes focused on that figure who’d stepped forwards. Her bow was raised, and she stood, hair braided behind her, an [Archer] with a bow.
That was all. Just a woman, her body trembling, her bow steady. But she was right there. Just like last time.
Just like his memories.
“Sprigaena?”
Her spitting image—wrong in so many ways, but too close. The half-Elf loosed her arrow, and the Goblin King stood there, dumb, unable to move. He tried to as that streak of death came for him again.
[Piercing Shot].
Rabbiteater did nothing. The Goblin King hesitated for that one moment. And the arrow struck him in the head. His right eye.
Just like last time. He collapsed backwards as Elia Arcsinger put another arrow to her bow. She saw the armored figure fall, and her breath caught.
Once more, the Goblin King fell, an arrow shot by the [Archer], a moment of luck and bravery from the woman who refused to run.
This time—his helmet came up, and Elia saw the tip of her arrow had snapped off in the mangled metal visor.
This time, he had a helmet. 
Elia drew an arrow and loosed again as he leapt, a howl of treachery in his throat. The half-Elf grinned once, that bare-toothed smile, as her long dream finally ended as she had known it should.
She swung her third arrow up and exhaled softly.
Then—
—he was—
—upon them.
 
——
 
Lord Xitegen Terland’s eyes moved away from the battle for Goblinhome. He forgot the camp he stood in, Magnolia’s servants, General Shirka, and her army, divested of their weapons.
Everything.
He woke up from that long dream he’d had.
A boy dozing on the battlements of a keep besieged sat up and opened his eyes. He lifted an arm that was more bone than flesh and peered past the stones shielding the surviving souls from arrows and spells.
All he saw were burning fires. Glowing-eyed soldiers hunkering behind shields. The boy licked his lips. 
“…Mother? Father?”
His head turned, and he saw them resting together under the shadow of the walls. A Golem walked past him, its glowing heart still tic-ing away in its chest.
The only sound in the castle. The boy didn’t disturb his parents’ sleep. He rubbed at his eyes and gazed at his filthy hands.
“I had a wonderful dream.”
His eyes were blurry. The drumbeats rose, and in the distance, he could see another line of Goblins moving across the land. Everything was burning. The boy saw the Golems’ footsteps slow. Faltering. So he reached out, and his hand touched the pendant on his father’s chest. He removed it and put it around his neck.
The gemstone glowed, and the Golems kept walking. Xitegen Terland lay back.
“I had a truly terrible, splendid dream.”
Then, with his legs shaking, he pushed himself up. A flag. He called out, weak. Someone—raise the flag. To show the Goblins. For anyone to see.
They had to know House Terland still stood. The boy reached out—
—And Lord Xitegen Terland, the man, heard someone speaking. He woke from the dream—but he was still right there.
He always had been.
“—Sound the alarm. Tell my family to activate the Crown of Flowers. Find me Teriarch—no. Send word to the Great Companies of Baleros. Inform the King of Minos, and find me Khetieve and Mauri. Ask the Luminaries and the Nagas where they are. If they have any idea—”
Magnolia. That strident woman, just like the teenage girl he remembered marching into the meeting of the Five Families as he looked on. Her face was terribly pale, but she was giving orders.
“General Shirka. With me. Xitegen? Xitegen Terland!”
“Yes. I’m here. Seconda, prepare for battle. Prep your Golem Heart for detonation.”
“Yes, Lord Xitegen. It has been an honor to serve.”
The [Lord] didn’t move. He was fumbling for something. Ignoring the people running around. He, who loved to jog, to run, and to eat, finally found the thing he was searching for.
A speaking stone with his House’s sigil on it. A special one. It lit up as he triggered it twice, then waited.
“—Xitegen? What is going on? Every [Dangersense] in the mansion just activated. I feel…”
A voice quavered in his ears, sounding so terribly old and fragile. Not like the heroine he knew her to be. It should have been two voices. Xitegen spoke calmly and clearly into the stone.
“Hello, Aunt Ulva. The Goblin King is back.”
The speaking stone went dead, and then she spoke, a flurry of denials and…his eyes swung towards the Floodplains of Liscor.
“No, I don’t know how. Rally House Terland, Aunt. I love you dearly. I’m sorry, I don’t know. I have to go. Evacuate Celum for me. He’s here. There’s a city—I have to go.”
Then he dropped the speaking stone as she kept talking. Shouting at him. Giving him orders. Xitegen didn’t hear her.
He jogged downhill, past the broken stones of the battleground, heading towards the cliffs. Mountains between him and…
He was running. Stumbling—he tripped and bounced off a rock, but his magic rings and armor protected him. Xitegen got up, a boy with shaking, emaciated legs, and realized he’d forgotten something.
His hand clutched the pendant of House Terland, and he cast around.
“The banner. Banner…”
All he had was a handkerchief. It would do. He fumbled it onto his vest, blue and white, a shining heart of clockwork and magic. Then he kept running.
He had gone six hundred feet horizontally and four hundred feet off three cliffs when the pink carriage finally caught up to him. Reynold steered his carriage near-vertically down the rock face as Magnolia Reinhart threw open the door to her carriage. Shirka had to grab hold of Ressa as she shouted.
“Xitegen! Get in, you fool!”
His face turned blankly to her; tears were running down his cheeks. Without a word, he caught Shirka’s hand. The carriage accelerated as Seconda, the porcelain Golem, clung to the roof.
No one else. Not Gaellis or Lectara—
The noblewoman and the Drake [General] pulled Xitegen into the carriage. He sat. Waiting.
The boy sat upright, straight-backed, like his mother had always tried to get him to do. On his best behavior.
He didn’t know what came next, now that he’d woken up. He turned his head and saw a breathless young woman of sixteen, a sword clumsily propped up next to her, as her [Maid] tried to make her stay behind. The blonde [Lady] nodded to him, and he half-bowed to her.
He’d always liked her, that older, dashing [Lady] who said they could be, had to be better. Next to him sat a child, even younger than he was. A Drake girl, scales half-burnt away from Wrymvr’s acid and worse, playing with a belt dagger and a little potion someone had given her.
Xitegen sat there as the carriage rumbled, and the rain pattered off the roof. The boy waited as that familiar presence drew closer and closer with each agonizing second. Those careless, burning red eyes. That hand that rose and obliterated cities with a wave.
His chin rose. He squared his shoulders. The boy patted the handkerchief tied to his collar, then put a hand on the dreadful sword he had never truly wanted to unsheathe.
“We’re still here. Fly the banners high, until the end.”
Then he waited.
 
——
 
Seven minutes after the Goblin King entered the real world, he stepped out of the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Ten seconds after that, Ishkr Silverfang opened his eyes. He pushed himself off the ground. Reached for the body lying in front of him.
“Saliss?”
The Drake was staring up at the sky as rain fell over the two of them. The roof was gone. The [Alchemist]’s face was bared in a half-snarl, a bitter expression of defiance. A struggle. Always the struggle.
“Saliss…?”
The world was so very quiet that Ishkr couldn’t hear anything. Just the rain drumming down on him. He shook the Drake’s shoulder. Saliss’ eyes stared up as the raindrop struck his face, unblinking.
Ishkr tried to pull the Drake upright and saw a golden mess of hair. Elia. He reached for her too, then fell. The Named-rank [Archer] was buried under a piece of the inn. Ishkr collapsed, and a hand caught him—and pushed him back up to his feet.
Then he heard a voice.
“What?”
Ishkr stumbled and caught himself. Saliss of Lights blinked, then he stood in a single motion. He plucked a vial from his belt.
“I said—‘how are we still alive?’”
Then he threw the vial, and the world exploded. Ishkr felt something kick him in the back—then he was running. He seized the piece of wreckage and pulled, but it was too heavy—someone else reached down and heaved.
Lady Pryde Ulta’s clothes were torn, and she was bleeding from underneath the bag on her head. Her tendons stood out as her arms lifted the rubble up—and Elia Arcsinger rolled upright, bow in her hand, and fired once. Ishkr turned.
They were alive. Lady Pryde let go of the rubble, and it slammed downwards. Her eyes were as disbelieving as his.
How were they—? Then Ishkr saw something flick past him. Himilt, scythe extended, his eyes wide and glowing as he swung at a flash of grey armor—
A sword. Ishkr dove and grabbed Pryde and Himilt. They reappeared behind the bar of the inn—and he scrambled up to see the room was open to the rains.
The entrance hallway was gone. A sword cleaved through the ground where Ishkr had been, and he shouted.
“Elia! Saliss!”
A scar in the ground. Ishkr ran forwards as Pryde and Himilt sprinted past him. Someone emerged from the gap in the doorway.
Numbtongue, supported by Witch Thallisa. She’d lost her hat, and she turned and fired her wand, white shooting stars following a blur in the water.
Grimalkin tore past them, clutching at one arm—he reset the dislocated wrist with a crack of bones and stopped when he saw Pryde.
“Saliss is fighting him with Elosaith! Come on!”
Himilt and Pryde joined Grimalkin as he whirled, and Numbtongue collapsed onto the ground, clutching his guitar, which was half-shredded, all but one string ripped off. Someone else splashed healing potions over him and Ishkr, and the ringing in the Gnoll’s ears faded.
Mirn. The former alchesoldier was crouched behind what remained of a wall as Thallisa waved her wand over them.
“Hat, to me. We have to keep him from Liscor. He’s moving too fast—”
She whirled her wand, and more of the roof disappeared as the [Witch] deflected up a slash through the air. Mirn uncorked a vial, threw it, and took cover as lightning flashed. Then the Drake said something with that too-calm voice of disbelief.
“We shouldn’t be alive.”
That’s what Ishkr had been thinking. Thallisa nodded, and Numbtongue let go of his guitar.
“He missed.”
The Great Witch turned to the Hobgoblin.
“He does not miss.”
Numbtongue raised his head to the others, his eyes wide and disbelieving. He patted his chest as he turned to Thallisa.
“Then explain this.”
She blinked at him—and then Ishkr saw the Goblin King at last.
That armored figure was—running over the waters outside of The Wandering Inn. Just running on top of the water as if it were solid ground, forming a spray of liquid behind him. His sword was drawn, and his red eyes flashed through the slits in his visor.
He swung his blade—a horizontal slash that should have cleaved the entire hill the inn stood on in half. A Vampire stopped it with his scythe as Lady Pryde threw herself in front of the cut along with Grimalkin.
A trail of explosions followed the Goblin King; Saliss of Lights, throwing ahead and around the weaving Goblin King. The world’s most powerful Named-rank Adventurer—for five minutes. Even the Goblin King had to be wary of—
He lunged, and the armored figure covered two hundred feet in a single step—he swung around, racing towards the [Alchemist], who cursed as Elia Arcsinger and Elosaith moved to strike the Goblin King.
Too slow. The arrow and shards of bones missed the monster running for them. A snarling, roaring Goblin King drew back a claw to cut the trio out of this world—and a second armored figure grabbed him and pushed.
The Goblin King’s slash tore up the water, and a geyser exploded upwards, becoming a tidal wave that washed down and knocked Elosaith off his feet. Elia shot an arrow into his robes before he could be washed off the hill, and Saliss spun.
“[Expanded Blast: Spiderweb Pattern].”
A trio of vials flashed, and the Goblin King leapt out of the flaming pattern. Yet it wasn’t a spiderweb’s pattern, but straight lines, like a tic-tac-toe board.
[Checkerboard Pattern], idiot. The [Alchemist]’s trick didn’t work. The Goblin King was leaping backwards into one of the expanding clouds of flaming debris—and his foot found purchase in the air.
[Double Jump]. He jumped again—and an armored hand seized his foot and dragged him down.
Straight into the cloud of flames that washed over his armor. Pellets of steel perforating the exposed flesh in the superheating metal.
 
——
 
The Goblin King landed as Saliss frowned. The [Alchemist] was so surprised that his second vial he’d aimed up failed to detonate.
“What the hell is—?”
His vial curved down towards the Goblin King, and the armored figure reached up to grab it. Saliss focused, and the vial stopped in midair.
[Telekinetic Grip]. 
