Far. But she sensed that someone was trying to answer her, someone else attempting to fight her. That pitiful [King] again. Sheta concentrated her aura. It had been an age since she had done this, but she aimed a burst of her will across the very world. To snuff out a lesser heart by sheer force of her authority.
The Harpy Empress was so overconfident that her focus on her Skill and battle with the Blighted King deafened her to the voice roaring at her.
“—eta! Watch out!”
Her head snapped up. The Empress of Wings saw two Dragons, an armored wing outstretched, trying to shield her. She spread her own, and her eyes, which saw everything, be it classes, Skills, even souls, saw more new Skills hanging in the air.
[Summon the Battleship: Full Salvo]. [Magic-piercing Shells]. [Piercing Shot].
Shells? Wh—
 
——
 
The Empress of Wings opened her eyes underwater, and her chest shrieked in agony. She jerked, clawing at the air and flapping her wings before she reoriented herself.
My—her robes were ripped apart. Two of her magical rings were shattered. The hide of a Dragonlord was equivalent to her royal protections.
He broke through two of Teriarch’s wings. What—what strange Skills does his current body have?
Rage flickered in the Harpy Queen’s mind. She began to speak, ignoring the water around her.
“[Royal Retribution: Summon the Shrouded W—]”
The Goblin King plunged into the waters, engulfed in pink flames, and the Harpy Queen jerked. She twisted—saw him conjuring a spell she recognized.
[Mass Transmutation: Water to Wyrm Acid].
—A screaming Harpy burst out of the water, feathers burning, and she clawed at her chest. Shards of Skill-made metal were embedded deep in her.
“[Open the Vaults: Tincture—]”
No, wait. She had used that Skill. Then—
“[Open the Vaults: Lifetender Gole—]”
He burst out of the waters and caught her as she flapped upwards, trying to gain altitude. The Goblin King was tiny compared to her massive frame. But his sword stabbed through her stomach in a blur.
A dozen stabs before she threw him off her. He should have gone flying down to the waters below, but he jumped through the air after her. She tried to use another Skill—
“Sheta!”
One of the Teriarchs caught the Goblin King, and his claws tore at him as she flapped away. The Harpy Empress landed hard on a hill near the inn, held a claw over her torn chest leaking her blood. She had to heal. She’d underestimated his strength again. What kind of Skills did his new body have?
“[Royal Command: Heal].”
Her flesh closed—partially—and she saw the Goblin King throw one of the Teriarchs down. He came towards her—
Hit a second Teriarch in an explosion of sound. The Empress of Wings backed up as the two figures crashed into the water. The Goblin King popped into existence on the hill just in front of her.
[Tracer Teleport]. She snarled and raised her right foot, talons striking at him.
“[Talons of Radiance]!”
She made the mistake of assailing him with a lower-level Skill. Without the element of surprise, the Goblin King simply twisted around her striking talons and threw his sword straight for her forehead.
The world—slowed—and Sheta jerked her head out of the way just in time. The sword cut through part of her cheek, and the panting Archmage of Scales roared.
“Keep him off—”
The Teriarch with the cape and Beach Teriarch emerged from the water and exhaled flames onto the Goblin King. Fire that could humble even Great Wyrms—but the Goblin King had known they would try to defend her.
A pair of glowing orbs filled with death magic flicked from his hands before the two Dragonlords had opened their mouths. No sooner had the flames begun to burn before the [Death Orbs] detonated in both Dragons’ throats.
They cried out, gagging, as the death spells hit them in a vulnerable spot. The Archmage of Scales tried to attack, but the Goblin King had already leapt.
“[Empower the Ch—]”
He kicked her flat onto the hilltop as she tried to get into the air again. He was focused on her. He knew her Skills could—
The Harpy Empress shielded her face with her wings, and her feathers turned hard as adamantium. The punch still drove her into the earth, and he caught his sword as the time spell ended. The Goblin King slashed across the Archmage of Scales’ face as the Dragon charged him. He raised the sword in both hands to stab downwards—turned his head—
The Dragonlord of the Creler Wars seized him in one taloned fist. His reward was the sword driven straight through his scales, but the Teriarch who had battled Crelers merely ignited his claws.
The explosion bought Sheta time; she sat up, coughing.
The air. Get up! The first lesson of any Harpy was to fly when there was danger. She flapped up—and the Goblin King sprouted a pair of scaled wings like an Oldblood Drake.
He couldn’t do that—the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars shot past Sheta, a roaring comet, knocking the Goblin King down. But then he twisted and flung his wings wide.
A hail of black javelins pierced his scales, and he fell, roaring. Sheta’s eyes went wide with horror.
[Dragonslayer’s Javelin]. [Scatter Throw].
Another Skill he hadn’t had when she met him. Too many lives. Too many Skills! But it was that body he wore. Who was this Goblin King? She read the class too late. Their classes stopped leveling when they joined with him—
[Goblin Lord (The Wandering Inn) — Rabbiteater of Champions. The Invincible Knight. True Hero of Rhir]. Level 77. And the Skill burning behind his eyes.
[Wondrous Deed: Beyond Any Limit].
A being from the [Palace of Fates]—fit to be a Goblin King.
“That…truly is not fair.”
The Harpy Queen whispered faintly. She’d earned her levels. She’d—
She dove as the Goblin King leapt up at her again. He soared through the air on his conjured wings and ignored the arrow shot from the mortal archer below. A beautiful shot, but a mere arrow. Unenchanted.
Though it was tied to a bag of holding—
The explosion kicked Sheta back through the air, and she wondered if one of the Dragonlords had come to her aid. But no—it was one of the people of this world.
The half-Elf—and the Drake. The Goblin King landed, shaking his head, and they assailed him.
“Don’t!”
He was going to kill them in a second. Sheta flapped back as the Goblin King produced another javelin to throw at her, then swung his sword at a Drake and a Human charging at him.
Lady Pryde and Grimalkin met the sword slash, and it tossed them back—but they hit the water, unharmed. The [Lady]’s shield of ego had protected both her and Grimalkin with Ishkr’s help.
That opening was all that Himilt needed. Witch Thallisa pointed, and for a second, a Vampire as large as a half-Giant swung his scythe and caught the Goblin King across the chest.
The Goblin King blocked the blow, snarling, and deflected another arrow from Elia and dodged Saliss’ potions—straight into a single Potion of Blast thrown by Mirn.
Sheta watched, open-mouthed, as the armored figure emerged from the fighting, then leapt away from them.
He was slower, suddenly! Far slower—as if something was hindering his every move. But when he turned to her—she dove under a [Ray of Disintegration] spell that vaporized her wingfeathers.
Whatever was holding the Goblin King back didn’t care about her. Panting, she tried to get away, but he—kept—following.
Every time she tried to use a Skill, he interrupted it, and each blow—
[Skillbreaker’s Blade]. It broke the Skill, wasting her most powerful abilities. Sheta was screaming curses.
He didn’t use to be able to do that!
The six Teriarchs were all roaring at her through their shared communication spell.
“Sheta, fall back! We can’t shield you and take him on—”
“Nor defend the damn inn! The water’s shielding him, and we can’t maneuver here!”
“We have to get him out of here.”
That last, weary voice came from one of the Dragonlords catching his breath on a hill. The Empress of Wings said nothing, tight-lipped as she weaved and dodged through the air, trying to shake the Goblin King racing after her.
He’d abandoned the damn inn, realizing that so long as he fought there, the people would get in his way. Her voice was clipped.
“Five—ten minutes! Just give me a moment to—”
If they could only stop him or buy time for her to use her Skills! She had no armies! And she’d wasted her summoning Skill.
She flew up—then cursed and dove under a rain of glowing comets that nearly struck her. The Goblin King wove around the [Valmira’s Comet Storm] spell with ease, and Sheta began screeching curses at the air.
Someone was firing spells at them! Other nations—she felt the intent behind the spells clearly. Spells and Skills were falling down around them.
They were trying to bombard the Goblin King. As if they could simply toss a spell at him and make him vanish. Such a waste—and it was fouling the Dragonlords and Harpy, who were gigantic targets, unlike the Goblin King!
“Worthless wretches! I will tear every stone from your palaces and throw them into the sea! Desist!”
She shrieked upwards—then her head swivelled right and left. She’d lost the Goblin King amidst the roiling waters and rain falling from the impact of the spells. Where was he? Where—
The Goblin King burst out of the waters with a new spell appearing overhead, bound to his finger. A spear of ice like the ones Frost Giants threw.
[Arrow of Winter: Glacius Pillar].
He aimed it at the wide-eyed [Empress] as she folded her wings to block the Tier 7 spell. One of the Dragonlords dove, and she screamed, realizing it just gave him two targets.
The Goblin King took a step forwards over the water, turned his head—
Wistram News Network, Channel 1, had an unparalleled view of Magnolia Reinhart’s pink carriage hitting the Goblin King.
He put his hand out—and the spectral horses vanished. The carriage stopped, and the shockwave kicked the Goblin King back a dozen paces before he halted himself.
The impact tossed the carriage across the water like a toy. It revolved six times, then began to sink. The Goblin King rotated his helmet around.
“Strange.”
That was all he said. Then he strode towards the regrouping Harpy Queen and Dragonlords, who were falling back around the inn. The Goblin King noticed something coming at him from the side. Over the water?
Lord Xitegen charged at him. The [Lord]’s face was slashed bloody from hitting the inside of the carriage until it tossed him out—he was running at the Goblin King.
Over the water. He couldn’t do it quite right; his feet were sinking into the surface, and he was waist-deep when his hands reached out—the Goblin King seized Xitegen at the same time as the [Lord] dug his fingers into his armor.
“You again?”
He almost sounded…resigned. The Goblin King rotated—and tossed Lord Xitegen into the nearest hill, three dozen feet from him. Like a grown man hurling a small animal. The [Lord] bounced, fell into the water.
Then the Goblin King raised a hand. It blurred, and he caught a bunch of daggers—dropped them as the talismans attached to them exploded. His head turned towards Ressa. General Shirka threw a vial as she charged over one of the wooden bridges.
“Tsk.”
The Goblin King swung his sword, and the waters sprayed towards Ressa, then he whirled his sword towards the bridge. His sword jerked in midair, and he missed just enough for Shirka to dodge the slash that divided the bridge and waters in two.
At first, he thought it was Rabbiteater again. Then the Goblin King turned and saw the [Lady] standing on top of the roof of her submerged carriage. He pointed at her as a red beam of light shone through his chest.
Magnolia Reinhart’s ring flashed—he caught the ray of incineration and reflected it back at her. It took so much effort.
Even with Rabbiteater’s body. The Goblin wasn’t even fighting him. He’d vanished again, bested. But the Goblin King…
One of the Teriarchs exploded out of the water around her and blocked the beam with his wings. The Goblin King drew his sword back to throw.
He was so sick of this. They refused to die. He was getting—tired.
And he had a world to kill. But the world never stopped fighting.
Lord Xitegen kicked the Goblin King before he could throw. The impact actually crunched the armor along the Goblin Lord’s side. The Goblin King stumbled—the [Lord] had launched himself all the way from that hill? With sheer strength?
No—he spotted a Golem on the hill, lowering her arm. She’d helped toss him. Xitegen’s hands reached for the Goblin King’s throat.
The armored figure headbutted the [Lord] as he seized Xitegen. The first hit cracked the [Lord]’s skull. Xitegen punched his armored face, face frozen in a grimace. A boy, roaring with a man’s voice.
The Goblin King drew back his bloody helmet, and General Shirka threw one of her hatchets. Undeterred, the Goblin King simply moved Xitegen to block the weapon.
“[Returning Throw]!”
The hatchet halted before it could go through the struggling [Lord] of House Terland. The Goblin King was panting for air. His grip tightened around Xitegen’s throat, crushing his windpipe.
“How many playthings are there? Pointless. This is pointless.”
He swiveled as one of the Dragonlords of Flame burst from the water like a submarine and tried to incinerate him. The Goblin King held out Xitegen like a shield.
The Dragonlord who’d fought through the Creler Wars never hesitated. He exhaled purifying flames to destroy the Goblin King, no matter the cost. The Goblin King cursed, tossed Xitegen into the flames, and Saliss of Lights swore too.
“—stors take it!”
He swivelled, tossed his strongest Flame Resistance Potion on the [Lord], activated his own resistance Skills, then threw a flame-retardant cloud potion at the firebreath and an Airburst Potion.
His vials barely slowed the firebreath as the airburst kicked him and the flaming [Lord] into the water. Saliss grabbed Xitegen, who was still flailing—and he activated another potion.
Bubble of Air. The soap and air based concoction let Xitegen gasp, and Saliss inhaled the stale air as they rose to the surface.
By the time they emerged, the Goblin King was too far from their position and still fighting. The Dragonlords weren’t taking him down. On the contrary, he seemed stronger than when he’d been fighting…himself.
Or at least, Saliss didn’t think the Goblin King conjuring a spear made out of black flame and piercing one of the Teriarchs through the shoulder was part of the plan. The Dragonlord fell, howling, and Saliss’ bubble popped as an arrow flashed down and nearly took out Xitegen.
“What the—oh, come on.”
Enchanted arrows were raining down as well. Those bombardments were the opposite of precise; nothing like Xitegen’s targeted arrow showers. The [Lord] was choking, reaching for a healing potion.
