This time, he saw the armored figure leap up, faster than thought, and toss the vial at him. It exploded in a cloud of pale white particles that instantly expanded and became doughy, immobilizing everything they touched.
The Goblin King ripped out of the immobilizing cloud as Saliss transmuted it into a metal; the metal strands snapped on his armor. He spoke at last.
“What are you doing?”
No one could see the person he was speaking to. Only Ishkr had any inkling at all—the Goblin King ran backwards, avoiding more of the [Alchemist]’s vials, and someone kept pace with him.
Step for step. Faster than anything else in this world. An armored Goblin grinning behind his helmet.
Rabbiteater. The Goblin King of Traitors tripped the Goblin King. Forced one of his legs to slip, and the Goblin King slowed just enough for one of Arcsinger’s arrows to strike him. He turned—caught the arrow—
She should be dead. The Goblin King charged that imposter with a roar of fury. All his rage and betrayal and outrage, running through the barrage of spells.
—Rabbiteater slammed into him and threw the Goblin King across the water. Now, the Goblin King halted. His head turned to regard the soul in rebellion. The other owner of his body.
“You were never this strong.”
He spoke to the shade of the Goblin, who had been nothing more than a mad, wailing voice in his head for years. The Goblin King, Rabbiteater the Traitor, grinned.
“I had nothing to fight for. Now I have a second chance. I was just waiting for my moment.”
That [Innkeeper] with the flaming hat and ship. The Goblin King recalled it. From that moment onwards…
His head snapped up, and he weaved, avoiding the spells the mortals were sending at him.
“Enough. [Imperial Soul Cage]. You will not oppose me.”
Rabbiteater’s control—and the Goblin King caught the other Goblin’s soul and began to lock it away. But he was trying to cage—
Another Goblin King. The spell—twisted, and a voice whispered in his mind.
“You and I have never fought. Now, we’re fighting. Not my brother. Not this inn.”
The Goblin King was wrestling for his body. He was stronger, the gestalt of over eighty of the mightiest souls in the world. He forced back Rabbiteater’s control, grappling with the other Goblin. The [Champion] could not best him.
So Rabbiteater took an arm, and the Goblin King felt it rise. He tried to dodge—
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights knew he was a dead Drake. This was only a postponed funeral, a fluke. They didn’t have a chance of besting the Goblin King once he dodged Elia’s arrow.
His best new potions couldn’t do more than slow the Goblin King. They were dead—he saw the Goblin King standing on the waters as he reached for more potions.
Then the [Alchemist] observed the Goblin King’s right arm rise and punch himself in the face. Saliss fumbled a vial. He grabbed for it desperately—then stared.
“No way.”
Even Saliss of Lights turned his head to give The Wandering Inn the longest stare of his lifetime. It wasn’t possible. For armies, Pallass, yes. But not the Goblin King.
Then his head snapped back, and he saw the Goblin King—fighting himself. That was the only way Saliss could describe it. The armored figure blurred as he threw a punch at himself—blocked it, swivelled, as if two forces were in control of his body.
“There’s two of them.”
That comment came from Numbtongue. The [Bard] was holding a backup guitar, and every head on the hill turned to him and Ishkr.
Himilt, Elosaith, Elia, Thallisa, Grimalkin, Pryde, Mirn, Saliss—that open-mouthed expression of pure incredulity. Then the Goblin King’s head turned to them, and he pointed.
“Cover!”
Saliss dove into the water a moment before the chain lightning blew across the hill. He rose, feeling tingling in the water as electricity earthed itself and spread out, diffusing; Witch Thallisa had caught several bolts of lightning in her hat. Grimalkin had done the next logical thing and appeared from behind a metal rod in the ground.
He was still after them. 
 
——
 
Rabbiteater couldn’t stop him forever. The Goblin King regained control of his limbs. With effort—he was straining to activate more Skills and to hold off the second Goblin King fighting him for every movement.
The battle with the dead gods had exhausted him, and he had fought a war earlier that day. Even his will had limits. However, the Goblin King thought at Rabbiteater.
You cannot save them anymore than they can stop me.
The surprise attack had bought them a minute of life. Rabbiteater’s mental reply was weak; the image of a grinning Goblin, eyes shining with defiance.
That’s all that it takes. Have fun with the Dragonlords.
The—
The purple flames laced with gold engulfed the Goblin King and burned through his armor. Seared his skin black until he activated [Immunity: Flames]. And even then he burned with magic and other elements.
He dropped into the water as the first Dragon roared a challenge. The Goblin King cursed.
“Him.”
Rabbiteater corrected him.
Them.
From the depths of the water, the Goblin King, scattering terrified fish, saw a second golden apparition flying above, gleaming with flame, like the largest fish swimming through the rainy skies.
Ah.
The Archmage of Scales pointed down and spoke.
“[Lightning Meteor Swarm].”
The first meteors appeared, a wave of a dozen, each as large as a house—and they hit the water and electrocuted everything in a hundred feet from their impact point. The Dragonlord swept the waters with the first wave—then a second.
Then there were three Dragonlords. Then four. Then—the Goblin King began to swim away.
Evacuate. Regroup. He didn’t have the energy to waste on them.
He leapt through the water, pulling it with him, swimming past dead fish rising upwards, belly-first, and the water exploded as the largest fish of them all hit the surface, then raised a snarling head towards him.
The Brass Dragon exhaled as the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars locked eyes with the Goblin King.
Water turned to steam.
 
——
 
Six Dragonlords preceded her, a regal procession of wings, before the Empress of Harpies flew out of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Her wings snapped open in the skies, and the rains fell upon her vast feathers, then ceased.
The Empress of Wings took to the air and gazed up as she circled around the Floodplains of Liscor. Her wings cut through the ever-present rain and banished the clouds. She looked around at the tiny hills of green poking out of the turgid waters.
So small. This basin was but a divot compared to the mountains that stretched up ever-higher. The Empress of Harpies gazed up at the High Passes. She should have fallen upon the Goblin King the moment she had emerged, but she was distracted by all she saw.
These mountains. She did not know them. Her vision swept across the inhospitable stone with dismay.
Where was that lone mountain ringed by carved stone and metal? Where was the seat of Iltanus? 
No more. She mourned it for one moment, as the [Kings] and [Queens] upon their thrones, gasping as the cold hand of the Goblin King reached for them, felt a moment of relief. Then unease.
For they all sat in the shadow of her wings.
“I have returned to the world of the living. Six of my greatest champions assail the Goblin King. I sense war amongst the mountains. The foul taint of a [Necromancer] fled hangs in the air. Reality trembles from the palace hidden in the inn. What will I?”
The Empress of Wings landed as the Floodplains boiled with steam. Teriarch, the six versions of him, were hunting the Goblin King in the waters. Sheta did not deign to enter the fight. Not yet.
Her mind was stretching across the world.
There was no empire of hers to command; yet she was nevertheless the [Monarch of Wings]. Izril and Terandria were her former domains, and the shadow of her authority reached across the globe.
Farther than she thought, even. There was something…northwest of here. Terribly far.
“Rhir? The only wings of my people that still fly are…”
Sheta’s head swung around, and far away, the Death of Wings felt her advent like the others. Every Harpy screamed as they took wing.
So few.
So far.
A fraction of a fraction. Sheta’s mind cast southwards, and she flinched.
“The Mountain-Roosts of the Garuda. Only one is left. What is this wretched world? The Continent of Glass. I don’t…”
She had known it would be painful. But this? The Empress cast around, lost. Then that raging soul drew her attention. A wordless, screaming aura radiating hatred below her, and six hearts of burnished metal.
The Harpy Empress almost smiled in relief.
Ah, most excellent. A distraction.
Her eyes found the small building, the village, and the steam rising as yet another flare of Dragonfire burst from the waters.
Miniscule from where she flew, even the Dragonlords of Flame. Yet he was not.
His rage shook the High Passes. The Goblin King was as vast as she was, compressed into this fragile body.
He refused to die. Her eyes picked out a Dragon snarling and diving into the water, only for the entire section of water to heave up in a geyser, sending her champion of flames tumbling into the surf.
“Tsk. So soft. All but one of him has forgotten how to war.”
He fought like an honorable [Knight], not the savage and cunning Dragonlord of Flame. Even the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars…Sheta’s eyes narrowed as she angled her wings and dove—
Even he had lost his edge. The Goblin King was in the water, moving through it like he had been born there. The Dragonlords were hunting him with fire, turning vast swathes of the Floodplains to steam—but a second one of them surfaced, tossed upwards like a great carp.
The Harpy Queen dove like a swallow, her talons skimming across the water for the first time in tens of thousands of years, and she smiled, indulging in the sensation. Then she wondered how many fish lived in this place.
She sensed no Merfolk nor other conscious minds save for the Dragonlords of Flame and the Goblin King.
“Good. They will survive. [The Emperor’s Voice: Tongue of the Natural World]. [Skysplitting Screech].”
The Empress inhaled, then ducked her head underwater. She opened her mouth—and screamed. A shriek of wrath, the hunting call of an eagle, magnified a thousand times by her size, and then a hundred times more by the Skill of a Level 82 [Empress].
The basin of the Floodplains did not shiver or tremble like a glass of water disturbed. The rippling surface of the disturbed water—exploded upwards, and the quake hit Liscor three seconds later.
The Harpy Queen folded her wings as the water rained down around her, and hills collapsed into the water. Not just water; sediment and corpses of fish rained around her. She reached out and delicately snagged a fish; its skin had been practically blasted off its body.
The downpour knocked some of the brave mortals fighting the Goblin King flat. The rest were puking from the soundwaves that had come out of the water. The waters rippled; then the first fish began to rise, belly up.
Dead.
The Empress of Harpies sensed less than a hundred things in the water had survived her scream in this region of the Floodplains. She waited, and one of the Dragonlords emerged from the water. He stumbled onto a hill and then threw up.
A second Dragonlord floated upwards, and his eyes focused on Sheta. His eardrums were doubtless all but broken. He snarled, blood running from his mouth, nostrils, earholes.
The Empress of Harpies stood upon one leg, waiting.
She knew he’d felt that. She waited and hopped back, spreading her wings.
The hill she stood on exploded, and Sheta blocked the spray of dirt and stone with her aura. She tilted her head inquisitively, her eyes narrowing.
“Another Skill I do not know. [Deathstep Landmine]. What strange times you come from, Goblin King.”
She knew he stole Skills from his many lives. The armored figure leapt out of the water, trailing liquid. Blood. Sheta smiled, and her wings glowed.
“[Fall As Rain, Seeking Arrows of Iltanus].”
She flapped upwards, and the Goblin King swung his sword as a shower of arrows flickered down from her wings, twisting towards him in a spiral. His swing destroyed a thousand of the conjured arrows, fletched with long feathers from Harpies’ wings, twice as long as the ones other species used.
But the arrows kept falling, following the Goblin King as he leapt from hill to hill. He was forced to keep swinging his sword, destroying and deflecting the volleys of arrows that had slain armies. Then his helmeted head found the Empress of Wings.
“[Open the Vaults: Bow of the Emperor of Lightning]. [Fit For My Talons]. Sleep, Goblin King.”
The bow doubled in sheer length as the Goblin King beheld a Harpy wielding a bow. Empress Sheta had no arms, only wings that met her humanoid torso and the long talons of a bird.
Even less similar to humanoid species than Garuda. How could any species like that use tools or fight? A Harpy wielding a bow? Ludicrous—until you saw her delicately holding the bow in one taloned foot, drawing back the string with that oversized arrow, drawing the bowstring back, back, manipulating her flexible legs until she had drawn the bow beyond the limits of any arms.
Empress Sheta loosed, and the arrow struck the Goblin King at close to the speed of sound. To her displeasure, he dodged.
The bolt of true lightning merely blew one of his arms and his shoulder apart, exposing charred flesh and white-hot metal. The thunderclap and flash revealed his stumbling form, and she struck the ground, talons digging into the dirt.
Teleported. Far faster than he used to be, and his new body withstands more than I recall. Unless she slew him outright, it seemed he’d regenerate.
The Harpy Queen opened her wings again.
“What is the Empress without empire? First, my faded Dragonlords. [Champions, Arise to Battle in Armor and Health].”
The very same Dragons she had wounded jerked upright, and four winged forms broke the water, gleaming. Not just their scales.
They were each wearing armor, curved around their scales. Burnished platemail forged by masters of her era, protecting their frames.
Their wounds—mostly healed. It displeased her, but her Skills did not work perfectly on beings as powerful as Teriarch. Nevertheless, she smiled at them. More than one gave her a gaze of betrayal or shock.
“Have you forgotten how you taught me to war, Dragonlord? Now come, let us put the Goblin King in his grave.”
She lifted a talon, concentrating. Yes.
“[I Am Imperium. Summon My Armies!]”
Her eyes glowed, and she reached across the world and pulled. If there were any Harpies who still flew Rhir and answered her call—
