The Dragonlord turned his head, and Duke Rhisveri gave him a salute from the age of Dryads of the Great Forest of Estiphole. The Dragonlord of Flames nodded once to the Great Wyrm of Ailendamus.
“Their lives are in your hands.”
The Duke closed his eyes. Then—his body vanished. A pile of ragged clothes fell to the ground. Major Hiclaw’s eyes popped. Magnolia ignored the sight.
“Don’t.”
“I have to.”
Teriarch grinned at her, then slapped his tail once. The mountains shook as the bubble fired the simple movement spells. Like someone tossing an orange, really. He flew upwards as the bubble flew in an arc, high, higher—towards the mountains.
Home. The Dragonlord gazed back once at the destroyed inn. Goblins running. Goblins flying. General Shirka chasing after them.
And then he left the inn, the [Palace of Fates], and it all fled his mind. The Dragonlord turned, adjusting his descent. He was under no illusions.
Nevertheless—
The Goblin King had to die. He owed the little mortals that. Mrsha du Marquin was dead. The Dragonlord’s lips moved as he smiled, dried blood flaking off his teeth. His eyes shone with that majestic light of solar systems that would never be.
“It’s not a nightmare, child. Just a bad dream. A wonderful dream with only a few flaws. See?”
He bared his teeth as he beheld them, and his burning lungs caught fire once more as he saw the two figures below him.
“All bad things die. I promise.”
 
——
 
Chieftain Rags saw the Dragonlord of Flames flying into the sky in his strange bubble of light. Ridiculous—but if she could have, she would have used her magic to fly to Goblinhome.
She didn’t have enough mana, if she could use [Apista’s Jetfire] to steer herself in the air. They had to save her people. So where—where—?
“Does anyone have a flying spell? Teleportation? Ragathsi, where are you?”
Rags ran, screaming for the Goblin Lord of Civilizations.
The Wandering Inn was filled with voices. Saliss of Lights was being carried into the inn by Elia and Mirn; he’d been wounded by the arrows he’d shielded Xitegen from. The only thing that was protecting them was a shimmering magical barrier.
An [Archmage] was flying above them, her hair blowing red as her staff rose. Chieftain Rags stared up at her.
“…Montressa?”
The Archmage of Barriers spoke tersely.
“I can’t hold off this many spells forever! Liscor is being hit by some of the stray spells too!”
“I will protect it.”
The half-Giant strode towards the door—and Rags knew neither one would be able to ferry her to her destination. The Harpy Empress was still just standing outside, talking to herself. Rags’ head spun around the common room, and she found the other Hobgoblin at last.
Ragathsi of Civilizations, the most powerful [Goblin Lord] of her world, a woman from the future with a mechanical engine for a heart and weapons that had been forged in the cities she had built—emerged from the inn’s kitchens with an ice cream cone in her hand.
Hardened waffle batter made a simple cone, and she had put scoops of ice cream in the cone. Four of them, each a different flavor.
Her [Bodyguards], eight of them, each had an ice cream cone except for the musical blademaster and the master gunner. The master gunner had his rifle in hand and refused to let go of it. The musical blademaster was eating some popcorn with nutritional yeast on it.
“Huh?”
Fightipilota, Rags, Dyeda, and Rianchi stopped as the Goblin Lord of Civilizations took a gigantic bite out of the mint chocolate chip top of her ice cream cone. She strolled forwards, her metal arm whirring as she smiled.
“Tastes like pure sugar. And the inn’s smashed—again. You didn’t even put in double-pane windows yet? Those save on heat and cooling. And there’s no hot tubs.”
“What are you doing?”
The Goblin Lord ignored Chieftain Rags. Her eyes brightened, and she darted up the stairs, like a child.
“My room!”
Rags ran after her, shoving at the [Bodyguards], swearing. She found the Goblin Lord lying on a bed in the room reserved for Chieftain Rags. She tossed the ice cream cone straight onto the sheets as she stood. Beaming fondly.
“I always wanted to stay here longer. It’s not as nice as so many inns. Truly not. The beds don’t even have springs in them!”
She kicked the stuffed down mattress and laughed, as if the simple wooden slats holding up the mattress were the funniest joke in the world. Chieftain Rags stood there, lost for words.
Her first reaction was fury, but there was something—uncanny about the way Ragathsi was acting. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations was practically manic, darting from spot to spot, opening the dressers, reminiscing loudly.
She raced out of her rooms and stopped, hand on another door. Then she smiled.
Erin’s room. Ragathsi threw open the door and strode in. Chieftain Rags shouted and ran after her.
“Hey. Stop. What are you—”
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations was fiddling with the chess set. Erin’s magical chess set. The Goblin Lord stopped again, holding a piece up, admiring the magical rook, even tossing it up and down to feel how light it was.
Ragathsi spoke without turning to Chieftain Rags.
“I wanted to steal it the moment I saw it. You remember. But I didn’t. I was used to stealing or taking anything I wanted, but this? It wasn’t mine. I wanted it so badly, so I wanted to be worthy of it. It’s just like I remember, but it’s different. I’m too big now.”
The Chieftain halted, and she saw the Goblin Lord’s eyes flick around the room, as if trying to memorize every bit and inch of this place. Then her blank expression became that impish grin.
“What else am I missing?”
Chieftain Rags reached forwards to stop the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, and someone shoved her aside.
“Missing? It all looks the same to me, though there’s a new theatre. Bird’s tower is even here.”
“The tower! Of course!”
Rags staggered, and a [Witch] with a pointy hat, collapsible broomstick tied to her back, bodyarmor, and a gasmask beckoned. Ragathsi ran up the stairs, laughing, and the two loudly reminisced. Chieftain Rags ran up the stairs after them and found the two crammed into the tower, shading their eyes to peer around.
“It’s in a different place, though.”
“True. I don’t recognize that village—where’s the blue fruit trees?”
“Blue fruit trees. Let’s get a drink!”
“Ragathsi! I said, stop messing around and talk to m—”
Rags seized the Goblin Lord of Civilizations’ arm, and Ragathsi turned, merriment and joy in her eyes. She whirled Rags around with her mechanical arm—
 
——
 
She bounced off the water two times like a skipped stone and then hit a hill. Rags actually rolled onto her feet. She staggered—and Lord Xitegen turned his head to stare at her.
The Goblin Lord had thrown her over a thousand—Rags began running. By the time she burst into the inn, the Goblin Lord was standing, blue juice cup in hand, speaking to the [Princess of the Inn].
Lyonette. She was mobile now, giving orders.
“Protect the inn. Nanette, get back in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. If the Maiden comes this way, everyone is to flee to Invrisil. Then break the door. Is Liska alive?”
“Yes. But she’s out of it. Where’s Mrsha?”
“Resting in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Teriarch brought her back.”
Rags sagged in relief. If she had been more aware, she would have seen how Ser Dalimont and Dame Ushar flinched. The Goblin Lord of Civilizations was smiling.
“Can I get some spaghetti with butter and sausage? That’s the last thing I could think of.”
Lyonette turned her flat expression to the merry smile on Ragathsi’s face.
“No. What are you going to do?”
“My people are dying!”
Chieftain Rags howled at the Goblin Lord of Civilizations. She drew the revolver that Captain Leafpear had given her. Everyone stepped back.
“Either help me or return to your world.”
Ragathsi finished drinking the blue fruit juice, then she put the cup on a table. Her crimson eyes were alight, and her lined face was calm, now. She brushed the revolver aside with one claw.
“You hold it with two hands or the recoil will jar it out of your hands. Forgive me. I was having fun. It’s been over twenty years since the last time I was here. This time—no, it’s fine if it’s destroyed. It can always be rebuilt. Just don’t let the inn itself die.”
She wrapped her hands around Rags’ own, changing her grip on the gun, then turned to Lyonette. The [Princess] was looking around for—Roots Mrsha. Nanette. She drew her daughters together.
“Who are you?”
“The Goblin Lord of Civilizations. The Goblin King’s greatest general. Now, I’m ready. I’m sorry. I wanted one last moment to remember and forget. But there’s never any time or enough [Immortal Moments], are there? That’s why she was so special. It’s fine. I just need transportation now.”
Ragathsi cast around, expectant, and Rags’ saw her eyes sharpen once more. Ragathsi was relaxed—but now her head snapped around.
“Flight spells?”
She addressed the lone [Mage] among her [Bodyguard], and the Goblin grimaced.
“I can’t cast [Flight] on more than four, Goblin Lord.”
“Mm. Too bad. I can’t move us to a place I don’t know exactly. It’s been too long. Are there any Wyverns close enough? I can empower or take control of them.”
Rags didn’t know. No one was responding to her speaking stones; she was likely out of range or 2nd Army was jamming the spells. They were stuck while Goblinhome—!
So many [Mages], magical beings, and even a giant Harpy outside, all preoccupied with their own battles. All they needed was one. Rags was turning, trying to find the best person to beseech, when someone acted.
Roots Mrsha’s paw was in Lyonette’s hand. She would have had to cut her arm off to lose the [Princess], and the two Thronebearers would have thrown themselves in front of her if she so much as moved. But the Gnoll girl saw Rags’ terrible expression, and so…
The Doombearer closed her eyes. She concentrated hard. Imagining someone rolling a set of dice. Flipping a coin.
She pulled on the world, and it was dreadfully hard. But there was all this floating luck lying around—and then Roots Mrsha sensed someone else helping her. Another Doombearer, a young woman pulling.
Someone clapped her hands, and a bright, cheerful [Witch] tipped her hat to Mrsha. The mysterious [Witch] from ten years in the future bowed as she stepped forwards.
“Ah, good idea. I have a broom. I was going to see the Goblin King with a coven, anyways. Can we drop you off?”
The Goblin Lord of Civilizations eyed the strange [Witch] with the gasmask on and grinned.
“How many brooms?”
“I have one. But I know where a bunch of [Witches] are. Give me five minutes.”
So saying, the [Witch] strode for the portal door, and Chieftain Rags followed.
“Dyeda, Rianchi, stay back—”
“We’re going. To the end.”
The [Tattooist] had one of the emergency crossbows from the inn, and Rianchi had his bike. Rags regarded them, then nodded. She followed the mysterious [Witch] as the woman sauntered into the portal room and adjusted the dial on the door with a familiar air.
“I missed this place. And you, Chieftain Rags. Though we never met, not really. Just once up till now, I suspect. Do you…know me?”
She was taller than Rags, which wasn’t saying much, and she had black hair that poked around the eerie gas mask on her face, the black, glass lenses like an Antinium’s eyes, and the bulbous breathing capsule below it.
The mask made Rags think she was from the Molten Stone tribe. She was a [Witch].
“Are you one of Chieftain Anazurhe’s Goblins? Her daughter? Prixall?”
Rags hazarded several guesses, and the Goblin wagged a finger at her.
“Nope! I visited the tribe to learn, but that’s not it! Here’s a hint. This is what I use for my craft and to fight with.”
She flipped something up and handed it to Rags. A cast iron pan. Small enough that you could conceivably toss it, like Erin used to. If you had excellent arm strength. Rags stared at the [Witch]. Then her eyes focused on her hat.
Every [Witch] decorated their hat. This one tipped it up, and Rags saw there was a chain of hand-knit little shapes linked around the base of the hat.
A slice of pizza. A hot dog. A bowl of appetizing soup made of colored orange and green and red yarn for garnishing, a pretzel…
Rags stared harder as the door opened. The second hint was—where the Goblin was going.
Riverfarm. When she stepped through the door, there was a shout. Rags recoiled; she saw Riverfarm’s entire army training their blades on her.
“Friendly! We’re friendly!”
Chieftain Rags shouted, then realized she wasn’t the best messenger given they assumed the Goblin King was right behind her. But a voice shouted an order with all the authority of his class.
“Stand down! Is the Goblin King dead?”
Laken Godart emerged from behind the lines of [Soldiers], and with him stood the Witches of Riverfarm. Witch Eloise, Hedag, Margrave Mavika, Agratha—all the highest-level [Witches].
“Where’s Witch Thallisa? And who—”
Eloise began, then caught sight of the strange [Witch] from the future. The [Witch] swept a low bow.
“Your Majesty, I beg a favor from you. I request Witch Alevica, Eloise, Hedag, Mavika—every [Witch] who can fly a broom to grab one and join me. We go to judge the Goblin King, for a [Witch] must—and deliver these Goblins to their home.”
She knew all the [Witches] present. Laken’s face went slack in confusion. He could sense the [Witch] before him, but like Rags, he didn’t know her. Not by voice nor by…
“Do I know this [Witch]? Who—are you?”
Roots Mrsha appeared with Lyonette standing there, and Ragathsi munched on some popcorn, smiling as she waited. Perhaps she’d figured out who this was.
“There is no time, Your Majesty. I shall be back to explain all that I can. I insist, nay, demand your aid! And that of the [Witches]! Fly!”
“We do not wish to aid Goblins against Pallass if that’s what you’re implying. As for the Goblin King—”
Witch Agratha was trying to be cautious, but the unknown [Witch], who had to be a Goblin, slapped her hand against the doorframe and shouted.
“Are the [Witches] I knew when I was a child such cowards? A people is besieged in their homes by an army. Is that not enough?”
“But—we don’t even fly! Alevica does, but the rest of us—it’s just not practical.”
Agratha spluttered. The unknown [Witch] bellowed back.
