“I am heading to Pallass again, Your Majesty. I have to talk sense to General Edellein—he has to hear sense! I suggest you move back to Riverfarm.”
“I came here to help—”
“More dead bodies will help no one, Emperor Laken. I suggest you fall back. The worst you can be is wrong and gullible. Consider, I ask you, what happens if this is reality.”
Witch Thallisa called out across the inn, voice ringing. That decided the [Emperor]. He raised a finger, and his voice was remarkably steady.
“Farmer Ram. Bring everyone back to Riverfarm. Secure the door with—everyone. Gamel will stay here with me.”
“Your Majesty! What about—”
Ram was already striding for the portal room, but he and the others whirled. Laken’s voice was flat.
“I’ll leave when Durene gets here.”
The Knights of Solstice weren’t back yet. Several people from Riverfarm broke away, but the rest went for the [Portal Door]. Ishkr watched it all, and someone tapped him on the shoulder.
“Ishkr. Not to bother you, but should we be here?”
He turned to Master Elosaith, and the Gnoll blinked at him.
“You heard them.”
“Yes, but believing is another thing.”
The [Necromancer] shrugged his shoulders, as if the sight of a golden Erin wasn’t enough. Ishkr glanced at the others.
“If I were you, Master Elosaith, I’d send everyone back to their village. And…have them ready to hide or evacuate. If you’re willing to stay…”
Elosaith was over Level 40. He nodded with a smile as the others conferred.
“Leave the undead here. Take only the heirlooms with you.”
By ‘heirlooms’, he meant the valuable undead. Rittane’s mother, Leiithe, nodded, and a cluster of undead followed them out of the inn.
“This is ridiculous. Nothing has come out of that door that can’t be an illusion or someone with an acting class and a few illusion spells.”
The [Major] protested, and Ishkr turned. He was polishing his mug with a rag. Which he supposed didn’t add to the gravitas of the moment. It was just a nervous habit.
“I suppose you’re right. Nothing bad’s going to happen at all. Trust me.”
He winked. Then felt like throwing up.
The garden door opened, forestalling a response, and the Knights of Solstice dragged Normen into the inn. His armor was torn to pieces, and Durene was bleeding across one eye; she had Creler mandibles buried in her flesh as well.
“Durene! What—”
“EVACUATE THE INN. WHAT ARE YOU DOING?”
The half-Troll girl roared, and the Knights of Solstice moved for the door as Antherr stumbled through. Jewel spoke.
“We have to slow—”
“Liscor. Get us to Liscor. This inn won’t survive. Get to the portal and close the [Portal Door]. Do you understand me, Ishkr?”
Normen’s head rose. He grabbed Ishkr’s fur, tearing some out as he passed by, and the Gnoll spoke. His eyes were on the door to the Garden.
“You defend Liscor. I’ll be right after you. I’m waiting for Lyonette and Mrsha.”
Normen’s eyes—eyes?—jerked back towards the door. The Eye of Pallass noticed that as well and nearly did a backflip in surprise.
“They’re not—?”
He began to turn back, but Ishkr threw out a paw.
“You’re almost dead. Go. I’ll get them.”
He strode forwards, and someone caught his arm. Ishkr turned—and sagged with relief as someone pulled him off his feet with extraordinary strength.
“Hey, what are you doing acting like a hero? That’s a job for idiots. One side—idiot coming through. Hey, Major Dipshit. General Dumbass sent me.”
Saliss of Lights moved Ishkr behind him with a grin and put his hands on his hips. He was naked. The [Major] stared down—then his eyes snapped up.
“Alchemist! This is all—”
Saliss put a claw on his shoulder and pushed as another Drake followed behind Saliss. It looked light; Ishkr was the one who saw Saliss’ tail was curled up with tension. Also—the Major flew six feet, crashed through a wooden table, and rolled to his feet.
That was another clue. Saliss of Lights strode towards the [Garden of Sanctuary], took one look inside, and turned.
“What the hell. Hey, Mirn—look at that.”
He jerked a thumb at the door, and someone else strode forwards. Mirn peered through the door.
“Ancestors. Are they…blood magic clones? Like you said people tried to make? Or alchemical—?”
Saliss shushed him as he glanced around. The Drake [Alchemist]’s face was filled with relaxed mirth. His eyes—like a ray spell. He turned, and his eyes found Ishkr.
“What am I dealing with?”
“Multiple worlds of—an army of Crelers. And the Goblin King. And Belavierr.”
To his credit, Saliss only blinked three times in rapid succession, then he turned.
“Mirn? Get out of here. Find Grimalkin—and tell him to stay in Pallass. Tell the idiots to drop a scrying crystal in the inn. Then get the old man. If he’s not here, he’s in his apartments. I don’t care if he’s asleep. Wheel him into High Command’s chambers. If he’s still out of it—contact Luciva and that bastard in Salazsar. Eschowar. No, do it anyway.”
Mirn backed up a few steps.
“What? Saliss—”
The Drake pushed Mirn—gentler, but the Drake still went stumbling back a dozen paces.
“Will’s in the top left cabinet. If this is a joke, we’ll laugh about it. Until then—everyone out! What are you idiots waiting for?”
He spun and shouted across the inn. Then his eyes locked on Relc.
“Hey, Senior Guardsman, you belong in Liscor.”
Relc hesitated, spear in hand.
“But I—”
“Get your cute girlfriend out of here. And you—you’d better be corn or I’m not responsible for you dying in vain.”
His finger pointed at Thallisa. Valeterisa searched around for the cute girlfriend before realizing that was her. She floated back a few paces—then frowned.
“I have a number of highly useful spells, Alchemist Saliss. Such as a healing spell and, um, others. Also, I live here. I have an apprentice. Montressa? Where are you? I believe you should evacuate with Bezale, if she is here.”
Valeterisa kept glancing at the two Pallassian Drakes as she tried to justify her position here. Saliss just hissed at her.
“You’re not a Named-rank. You’re an Archmage. I want corn, not beans. Ancestors fuck these analogies. You know what I mean!”
He jabbed a claw at her as Montressa came rushing downstairs. Thallisa tipped her hat at Saliss.
“I am the realest corn there ever was, Adventurer Saliss.”
Saliss’ eyes narrowed.
“Then why aren’t you preparing a better battleground? This is a terrible spot.”
The Drake’s eyes swivelled around the common room, which was spacious, filled with overturned chairs and leftovers—an ideal place for brawls. One had just occurred. But something displeased Saliss.
“That bastard can run circles around everyone. So can she.”
“The—Goblin King?”
Major Uraike was still gamely trying to find all this funny. He turned to the Eye of Pallass, Captain Fallma, and then the joke he was about to make died on his tongue.
He turned back around and remembered the files on Saliss of Lights that any soldier probably read once they had clearance. The parts that weren’t redacted listed his military career.
Of the beings in this room—the only one who had ever seen the Goblin King would be Saliss of Lights. But that didn’t mean…
The [Alchemist] was taking this seriously. He rotated around, eyes flickering.
“—Hallway. Long space. Could be longer. Killing spot. The Goblin King could go through the walls, but we block the [Portal Door]. That’s a weak spot. Fall back!”
He went tearing into the hallway. Ishkr followed him along with everyone in the inn except for Laken—he was having trouble figuring out where everyone was. Saliss retreated until his back was against the door out of the inn.
“Anyone got barrier spells? I want them staggered to the left and right. Multiple sections paced ten feet apart. Leave me an opening five feet wide in the center. Oh, now that’s handy.”
Ishkr glanced over his shoulder and saw the hallway stretching in front of his eyes. [Long Hallways]—a new Skill of Erin’s. It was triple the length, and Saliss smiled.
“Well? Barriers?”
Thallisa shook her head.
“I double Skills. Or amplify them.”
Valeterisa and Montressa were casting magic for Saliss. Or rather, they began to when Saliss turned and gripped Montressa’s robes. She started; the [Aegiscaster] broke off a wall spell.
“Master Saliss?”
“I said leave. What kind of master are you? Do you want to put your apprentice against the Goblin King?”
Saliss’ grip was gentle on Montressa’s clothing, but Valeterisa hid behind Relc. Her gaze swung uncertainly to Montressa.
“Apprentice…you should go to Liscor or Invrisil.”
“But Master—”
The Archmage of Izril eyed Saliss, then spoke with more firmness in her tone.
“Go.”
Someone else nodded; Master Elosaith raised a wall of bones as his undead shuffled down the corridor. One of his oversized Bone Horrors halted behind a barrier, and he turned to Saliss.
“Does that formation look properly defensible, Master Adventurer? The undead could pop out—that’s how we do it with bandits.”
“Sure. Extra ablative shielding in between the walls. Put more walls up to shield us from the bone fragment spray.”
Saliss let go of Montressa, and she hesitantly stepped back to the doors. Saliss whipped around.
“Neat, walls are going up. Whomst the fuck has barrier spells? I want every layer you’ve got, all permeable!”
Saliss roared around, and Montressa turned again. But that was her specialty! Elosaith shrugged helplessly, and before Montressa could volunteer to help her master, someone else brushed her aside. Grimalkin shouldered through the press of bodies around the [Portal Door].
“I’m here. Which kind of barriers?”
Sinew Magus Grimalkin! Ishkr’s eyes widened as the Sinew Magus yanked the door to the inn itself opened. He’d teleported all the way back! And he was holding the hand of…the Gnoll’s eyes bulged.
A woman wearing a bag over her head? Even the Drake [Major] had to stare at Lady Pryde. But the imperious [Lady] just strode into place next to Saliss, who did only a single take.
“[Ladies] shouldn’t be fighting here. Get lost. Same for Sinew Magi who bring dates to death battles.”
“No. What am I looking at?”
“Goblin King, apparently.”
Saliss commented as Ishkr heard more voices from the common room of the inn. Was Laken coming? The Gnoll was panting; there was no one in the common room anymore. Just the group at the entrance to the inn.
Ishkr, Pryde, Saliss, Valeterisa, Elosaith, Relc, and Thallisa. No—he turned his head.
Elia Arcsinger was restringing her bow, blood still running from the bite in her arm. She glanced at him.
“He is coming.”
Grimalkin did a double-take. Then he whirled.
“Why aren’t there alarms in Pallass?”
“General Dumbass and this pisspot.”
Saliss jerked a thumb at the [Major], who was, by now, a tad bit concerned. He spread his claws as Grimalkin rounded on him.
“Sinew Magus, I saw a lot of what I can’t confirm. No one can enter the [Garden of Sanctuary] where we have an alleged threat coming through, and Adventurer Saliss is taking it seriously, which I respect, but—”
Grimalkin’s eyes were flickering. He didn’t believe it, not him. But he turned to Ishkr, and the Gnoll helpfully added.
“Multiple worlds, remember? Multiple timelines. You were actually right.”
“Ancestors.”
The Sinew Magus blanched pure white, which Saliss took note of. He hated it when his suspicions were confirmed. The [Alchemist] switched the potions at his belt out for ones encased in very thick bottles marked with warning symbols. Thallisa eyed Ishkr and Grimalkin. The Drake spoke.
“Major. On my authority as Sinew Magus and [Captain] of Pallass’ 1st Army, I declare an emergency. Lock down the door to Pallass. Sound a citywide alarm and issue the same for Liscor. Get 2nd Army here. Now.”
The [Major]’s mouth opened. Lady Pryde nodded several times; when the [Major] didn’t move, she slapped his arm.
“Well? Go! So much for Drake chain of command!”
Even now. Even now, the [Major] held out his claws.
“Sinew Magus! If you’re wrong, this will destroy your reputation. I will put 1st Army on alert—and I am sure they are already mustering! But a city-wide alarm? For a Goblin King when there isn’t even a Goblin Lord on Izril?”
He was right. Also, Sinew Magus Grimalkin didn’t outrank the [Major]; the Drake was making the right assessment. Just not for The Wandering Inn.
Every reasonable bit of evidence pointed to this not being a Goblin King. You’d have to be mad to believe it without knowing Erin Solstice. This was all true.
Grimalkin was a logical man. He was aware of what kind of disaster this would be if he was even a hair wrong. He had seen Adult Mrsha, but this was another level of crazy. There was probably a voice in his head saying the same thing the [Major] was.
He hesitated for a second, then raised a glowing claw and traced a symbol on his cheek. It flashed, and Ishkr saw Grimalkin’s shoulders roll back. His voice snapped.
“Code Isthix-Aleph-Lassicne-55346. City alarm. Attention, to the residents of Pallass and Liscor. This is Sinew Magus Grimalkin. I am declaring an Armageddon-class threat in the Floodplains of Liscor. Lock down all gates. The location is The Wandering Inn.”
He didn’t mention the Goblin King. But from the way the [Major] jerked away from him—Ishkr heard nothing for a moment. Just the pounding of his heart, wall spells rumbling as they rose—the roar of rain.
Then he heard a siren in the distance. His Gnollish ears picked up, across the Floodplains, a piercing wail coming from the distant walls of Liscor. Then—through the portal door leading to Pallass, the same alarm, but tenfold louder. Followed by the boom of a voice.
“Attention, to the residents of Pallass and Liscor—”
Grimalkin’s voice, a perfect recording, was sounding in Pallass. The [Major]’s scales went dead white as his speaking stone exploded with a voice—General Edellein’s. Grimalkin just gave him a casual salute.
“Get ready to fight or fall back, [Major]. He’s coming.”
His head turned to Saliss, and the Drake was laughing. Insanity. Ishkr was grinning fit to burst at the ludicrous nature of this all. And he was believing it—
Pryde reached out and gripped Grimalkin’s arm. He blinked down at her, then smiled. She tugged. Then glowered at him as he raised his brows.
“Hmm?”
“You put your head down when I tug like this, Sinew Magus.”
“Why?”
He bent his head closer to her, and she hopped up and kissed him through the bag on her head. Grimalkin blinked.
“That’s why.”
Ishkr’s grin faded. He gaped at the two of them and realized what had happened. Pryde and Grimalkin—Saliss reached out and shoved them.
“Okay, job’s done. Get out of here, you two lovebirds.”
