She flew straight up through the hole in the domed ceiling, and her first view of the world was rain. Rain—and a strange, flooded valley. A city she did not know—mountains she had never seen. The Harpy Queen shrieked, one long cry of despair and triumph and wonder. Then she looked down as her wings shielded the small inn under her.
A vast bird, plumage brown and dark blue along her wings, jet black on the tips, and her green eyes turned blue for a second, a brilliant blue avian stare like a spotlight. Gazing down.
Looking for her prey. But was she too late?
 
——
 
Twenty-seven minutes ago.
 
The Wandering Inn was not empty while the [Palace of Fates] was collapsing. It was just empty of innocent people.
Knocked over chairs, food still steaming—even coins on the tables. That was something. Ishkr picked up a silver coin and gazed at it. The finish of the Shamefaced, blank silver coin was reflective enough for him to see his face in it if he polished it with his thumbpad.
His heart was pounding out of his chest. He felt sick with fear and terror; when he tossed the coin down, he heard voices arguing.
Pallassian [Soldiers], what few had remained. The rest had been forced back to the portal room and into Pallass. But the people who replaced them should have run too.
Laken Godart and his Unseen Empire, brawny [Farmers] and [Soldiers] in his army. [Witches], arguing with Yelroan and Calescent, who were blocking the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. One of the [Witches] was making gestures with her cudgel, threatening where she’d put it if they weren’t allowed in.
[Necromancers] too. Rheirgest’s people, including Rittane’s mother. They were all waiting for something to come out of the [Palace of Fates]. Waiting to see what was coming.
It was a bit like a dream to Ishkr. Would anything come out of there? Into the real world, that was. A part of him could deny it was real, that surreal [Palace of Fates]. But once someone, something emerged from those doors…
They’d see it. Laken, [Witches], Pallass, the spies probably hanging around the inn, Calanfer’s servants.
The world would change.
“…But it’s always changing. It always doesn’t feel real until it is.”
So saying, the Gnoll reached into his bag of holding and brought out two fistfuls of gold coins. He scattered them on the table, and they bounced and struck the ground and rolled, louder than the rain pouring down on the roof of the inn from above.
Someone turned and stared at him; that annoying Pallassian [Major]. Ishkr gave him a blank look. Something would come, he knew. And then he’d be here as long as he could. He could run away—and never level again.
A weapon. He cast around and picked up a mug in his paws and realized he was no warrior. But still, he stayed. Someone had to evacuate the staff.
The door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] burst open, and everyone spun. Alevica nearly dropped the first person running through the doors with her signature spell—Witch Eloise yanked her arm up, and the bolt of magic hit the roof and ricocheted over Peggy’s head.
“Run! Run! They’re coming!”
The [Floor Boss] sprinted out the [Garden of Sanctuary], followed by every Goblin and Antinium in the inn’s staff. They were all screaming, and the one-legged Hobgoblin slipped; her pegleg was cracked.
Yelroan caught her. The [Mathematician]’s customary smile was replaced by an expression of concern, and his shiny glasses were askew.
“What’s coming? Does Lyonette need—?”
“No. It’s too much. There’s an army of Crelers coming. A-and the Goblin King. And Belavierr and the Necromancer.”
She seized his arm, and Ishkr felt a chill run up and down his fur. A shock to his head. He stepped forwards.
“We have everyone over Level 40 that Lyonette asked for. I sent for Saliss. Should we send them—?”
Then her words hit him.
“The Goblin King?”
The Pallassian Major, Uraike, turned around, and he gave Peggy a long stare. He was furious, scratched from fighting the Bush Shamblers outside, but now, his eyes bulged, and he let out a huge guffaw.
“The Goblin King. The Necromancer? Oh, come now. Is that the best you’ve got?”
He grinned, his teeth flashing, as he turned to the [Witches] and Laken. The Drake visibly relaxed, and the Emperor of Riverfarm raised two eyebrows in polite disbelief. So this is all just a trick.
Even the [Witches] had trouble taking it seriously. They tried, but Ishkr saw them covering their mouths with their hats to whisper at each other. He himself…just peered at Peggy, that way someone who knows the threat is real, but can’t believe it is.
She turned to him—then just started running.
“Everyone out of the inn. Out! Out! Run!”
Rosencrantz dashed past her, the Antinium’s shell cracked. He had Shakespeare’s verse written on his backshell; the words glittered as he spoke.
“All Antinium, evacuate to Liscor. Across the bridges if you must. Rouse the Hive! Tell the Free Queen!”
That—stopped the laughter from the [Major]. Ishkr felt his fur rising. Run into the rain? Over the bridges and water? That was suicide for the Antinium, but they plunged out of the doorway. Ishkr turned to the others.
“You heard Peggy. He’s coming.”
“Ridiculous. If you’re going to waste my time—”
Ishkr saw something in the door to the garden. It was a flicker as more of the inn’s guests kept pouring out. He walked forwards to the [Garden of Sanctuary] and pulled it open as the last person, Asgra, emerged.
“H-he fighting. I gave him the dagger.”
Her eyes were filled with tears. Ishkr spoke to her dumbly, like one of the uninformed guests of the inn in a crisis.
“Who?”
The Cave Goblin turned her head up to him, and her eyes were shining with tears.
“Halrac. Fighting the Maiden.”
Laken Godart’s head snapped around.
“Did she just say—?”
The [Witches] took a step forward, and Ishkr turned to them. He put his paw on the door and swung it open.
The [Garden of Sanctuary] was filled with people. Hundreds—milling about, terrified, lost, calling into the second door where more people kept coming. They were shouting.
“The door! There’s a door out! That way!”
Someone leapt through the entrance that led to the [Palace of Fates]. Ishkr saw Moore, the half-Giant he knew, face white with terror, holding Ulinde in his arms—at least, he guessed it was the Selphid with her pale Drake’s body—and the Gnoll recoiled.
Moore glanced up as he ran back into the [Palace of Fates], and his eyes found Ishkr for a second. Then he was gone. Ishkr stumbled back, then looked over his shoulder.
No one else had seen it. The [Major] strode forwards along with several [Witches] and everyone else. Relc, Valeterisa—Ishkr pulled the door wider, his eyes flashing across familiar faces.
He saw himself ushering a version of Selys towards the door into the [Palace], but that wasn’t enough. Not enough to tell Ishkr this was a dream. His eyes flashed over the people, and then one of them whirled.
“Everyone, into the [Palace of Fates]! Everyone we know and love is heading for that other world. You can stay here—but this isn’t our home. That Mrsha gave us a way out. Let’s go.”
—There she was. Erin Solstice stopped when she saw him. Ishkr heard the [Major] trip behind him, and Relc stopped breathing. It was Erin…but not his Erin.
This Erin Solstice was an Erin of the world where she met the Dragonlord of Flames and never needed to run away from him. She didn’t have scars on her wrists and neck. No discolored hair—rather, hers was bright along the tips and cut short.
Her hair shone with the same golden glitter as the Brass Dragon’s scales; a cosmetic she’d made by grinding down the Dragonlord’s excess scales. She had on a vest and leggings made of metallic cloth, which glittered with more dazzle than a million sequins; it was patterned like scales.
She also had a sword in hand, which she pointed towards the door leading to the [Palace of Fates]. She didn’t join the rush of people heading back through the door. For a moment, she stood, urging people back the way they’d come. Then she flashed a smile at Ishkr.
“Hey. Is this that inn I’ve heard so much about? Cool garden. The Goblin King’s coming. My friend’s trying to stop him, but I don’t know if he can.”
She gazed around at the dumbstruck people in the inn, peering over their shoulders at the interior like an interested tourist. As if she had no idea what this place was or why it mattered.
“E-Erin?”
Relc breathed, and the young woman, the [Dragonfriend], gave Senior Guardsman Relc Grasstongue a puzzled look.
“Hi. You must know another version of me. Sorry, buddy. No time to chat.”
She whirled to the door, and Relc saw another version of himself running with Valeterisa. They locked gazes—the [Major] was muttering.
“Illusion. Illusion—”
“Excuse me, what is everyone looking at? Gamel? Gamel, use your Skill. Who was that?”
Laken Godart couldn’t see anything, obviously. Which was mildly hilarious. Ishkr saw that version of Erin grin at him. One last proof she wasn’t his Erin—she had what he could only describe as golden veneers on her teeth, made from the Dragonlord’s scales. Her smile flashed like a Dragon’s treasury, then she was gone.
“Uh. What the fuck was that?”
Witch Alevica didn’t pinch herself; she stabbed herself in the side with her wand and seemed unsure if it hurt enough.
Did you believe yet? No. It was like opening your door to see the most unbelievable sights outside your house. The end of the world; frogs falling from the sky, but you didn’t believe it. Not yet. It was just an unbelievable sight on your television.
You had to touch it. Ishkr could smell a hundred conflicting scents: burnt flames, magic, blood, sweat, and fear, but—his paw stretched into the [Garden of Sanctuary], and then someone ran out of the [Garden of Sanctuary] and knocked the [Head Server] flat.
“Move it, pal! Evacuate the inn! The Goblin King is coming! Get ready!”
He assumed it was another Erin. Then the swearing Courier swung an arm, shoving Gamel aside.
Valceif Godfrey pushed the [Major] back, and his voice rose.
“Evacuate the inn! Notify every city in a hundred miles! This—this is the inn. The Goblin King is coming!”
He spun, and his eyes were bulging, a young man who should be dead. Panting, covered in sweat; they gazed at him, and he roared.
“I am a Courier of Izril! Sound the alarm!”
No one knew who he was. Ishkr vaguely recalled stories Ryoka had told about a Courier…he turned as someone collapsed backwards.
Valeterisa. The Archmage of Izril was whitefaced. Her mouth opened and closed but she couldn’t make any words come out. Valceif gazed at her in disbelief.
“Is that Valley…? Everyone, get out!”
No one moved, so he turned and grabbed Alevica.
“Excuse me, miss—evacuate the inn!”
“Wh—put me down! Hey, put me—”
He was running for the portal door with her over his shoulder. That broke the trance. Major Uraike laughed, shaky.
“I swear, I know that one. That’s bad taste, you know. Even for an illusion spell…”
He turned to Ishkr, and the Gnoll raised a paw to slap the Drake as hard as he could across the face. Then both of them lurched away from the door.
Someone else hurtled through; Bird. At first, Ishkr thought it was another world’s Bird until he recalled she had wings and was green now. Right—the Queen was carrying someone else.
Elia Arcsinger. The half-Elf was bleeding from one arm; she yanked something twitching out of one bicep and hurled it down.
The remains of the Creler mandible was still twitching. The half-Elf panted, then spoke.
“We can’t stop him. We have over a hundred thousand Crelers coming for the door—and the Goblin King. Can we close the [Garden of Sanctuary]?”
Ishkr hesitated.
“No. But it shouldn’t let them in…”
Bird disagreed. She was turning to look over her shoulder.
“He is going to get in. He is very angry. I am going to tell the Free Queen. We must evacuate…no, take all citizens of Liscor into the Hive. Lyonette is behind him. That is good. Nothing in front of him lives. Clear the inn.”
Bird straightened and ran past the [Major]. Now, the Drake just stood there as one of the Eyes of Pallass came forwards. She was gazing at the place where Valceif had been.
“That was Valceif. Major—”
“What would you have me do? Sound the alarm in Pallass for this?”
He turned to her, smiling, and then Ishkr realized nothing would convince the man. The [Witches] had seen enough.
“Those are real people. Every [Witch] under Level 40 will fall back to Riverfarm. Prepare for the [Portal Door] to go down. Every [Witch] without a combat class, likewise. Every [Witch] unwilling to die—retreat.”
It was Witch Thallisa who gave the order. The Great Witch of Izril turned—and that left one [Witch].
Margrave Mavika. The two exchanged glances as Eloise hesitated, then moved back. Mavika spoke, eyes flicking around the inn.
“It could be a misunderstanding.”
“My eyes deceive me often, but my instincts—never. Mavika, I suggest one of us go, one of us stays. There is a duty to stand, and one to survive and save what can be saved in the face of his wrath. Which shall we be, the pair of us? Shall we play sword, scroll, potion for it? I prefer to stay.”
Thallisa held out a hand, and Mavika just blinked at her. Then shook her head.
“I can retreat by wing and feathered means faster than you from anyone or anything—”
She began, and Thallisa cut her off. The [Witch] drew herself up, and her black hair framed her face as she adjusted her patchwork hat made of so many fallen [Witches]’ hats. The air was humming around her, truly humming. Like the beginning of a song.
“In that case, I stay. If the Goblin King comes through that door, we shan’t waste time fleeing. This is my place and my cause, Witch Mavika. I claim it. Begone.”
The Crow Witch’s eyes widened, first in outrage and shock—then she seemed to take stock of Thallisa’s determination. Mavika hesitated—then plucked something from her arms.
A feather. She gave it to Thallisa, and the other [Witch] tucked it under her hat.
“I cannot give you more—”
“I will make do. Go.”
Mavika whirled. Without a word, she burst into a shower of crows. They flashed past the other [Witches], now moving for the [Portal Door] in concert. The sight of that unnerved the other [Witches]; they began running, not striding along.
That…made the folk of Riverfarm hesitate. They eyed their [Emperor], who was trying to digest all this.
“That was…how dangerous would you call the threats beyond the door? Anyone?”
His head swiveled, but he was blind and unable to get a scope for the threat. So Yelroan answered. He was striding for the door.
