On the thirty-eighth day in the Fraerling village of Dretonamis, Erin Solstice was eating a bowl of salad greens for lunch. She kept stopping mid-chew and frowning at her food. Her confusion kept mounting until Ulvama stopped feeding the Battle Hamster pieces of bread dipped in soup.
“What’s wrong, Erin?”
“My salad tastes sorta sweet. Do you think they’re putting sugar in it?”
Erin poked at the bed of greens and veggies. It was a non-fruit dish, hence her suspicions. Ulvama peered at the bowl, well aware by now that Erin was firmly anti-sugar.
It made her physically feel unwell to have honey or direct sugars, hence her avoidance of the stuff. Even in bread; Erin had happily traded the breads she could produce with ‘Tallfolk’ ingredients for the rye breads that the Fraerlings made. She was all about savory flavors; Ulvama popped a bit of an orange roasted squash into her mouth and chewed. She took another piece of Erin’s meal.
“…Nope. Tastes like salad. Gross. Why are you eating that for lunch?”
Ulvama returned to her bowl, which was as strange to Erin as lunches got. The [Innkeeper] was eating leafy greens, which didn’t taste sweet, but less…bitter than she remembered. More palatable, even with a very thin oil dressing. Ulvama, on the other hand, was not a big salad person.
She liked sweets, pizzas, and, Erin was realizing, junk food. Ulvama’s month of isolation in the wilds had left her thinner, but she seemed determined to eat well in the Fraerling village. Even so, Ulvama wasn’t always keen on a bug-themed roast from the Oven House. So, during their foraging for food—an occurrence most adult Fraerlings willing to leave the village participated in—they’d secured the [Shaman]’s new favorite food.
Chia seeds. That’s what Erin called them. Fraerlings called them hydroseeds, because of the unique ability of the seeds to form a gel-like substance around the seeds when exposed to water or other liquids. It made them fascinating to the [Shaman], and she was eating a big bowl of ‘pudding’ that was just milk, the chia seeds, and some wild sugarcane along with any fruits she had.
It was way too sweet for Erin, who pointedly went back to munching on her lunch.
“I bet it’s because I’m not eating sugar. Everything tastes a bit sweeter, even though it’s, y’know, less sweet. Because I’m not consuming actual sugar.”
“Makes sense.”
“Salad’s super tasty. Well, tastier. I bet this is why hamsters and vegetarians can do it all the time.”
“Yep.”
Ulvama went back to feeding the Battle Hamster its lunch. Erin scowled at the uncooperative Hobgoblin.
“I’m trying to start a conversation here, Ulvama.”
The Hobgoblin gave her a narrow-eyed stare.
“You’re eating salad. You eat salad every day. This isn’t conversation, it’s the other thing. Tiny-talk.”
“Small talk.”
“Yah. I don’t small talk about salad.”
“Okay. How about the weather, then?”
The [Shaman] flicked a piece of bread at Erin’s face, and the [Innkeeper] leaned across the bench they were sitting at. She grabbed a piece of tomato.
“Don’t start a war you can’t win, Ulvama. I’ve got [Unerring Throw].”
Erin grinned, and her hazel eyes flashed with good humor. Ulvama inspected the [Innkeeper] as she held her hands up, feigning meekness. They were eating outside the Oven House, and the spring air was blowing the [Innkeeper]’s hair as Erin flipped the bit of tomato into her mouth. The strands of hair still had discolored patches, but it was regrowing on the places of her head where it had fallen out, and the scars and—lines, like that of a much older woman—were vanishing.
Not all her scars. She still had the brands around her neck and on her wrists, but they were no longer as raw. Her skin wasn’t disintegrating. And she could dodge errant pieces of bread. Erin’s eyes flicked to the houses at the edge of the village.
“You’re nearly out of chia. You’ve gotta stop eating so much. You’ve eaten it every day for two weeks, Ulvama. Don’t you get bored?”
“Nope.”
“Well, let’s get some more. Maybe the Brawling Bros are up for it?”
That was Erin’s name for Zemmy and Mera, which neither one of them cared for. She stabbed aggressively into her bowl until she had as much salad as she could fit on a fork, and then the [Innkeeper] tried to eat the entire bite. That was her approach to salad, because it ‘got old’ at some point, and Erin just wanted to finish it without wasting time on each leaf.
It was sort of gross, but then—Ulvama eyed the bulging Battle Hamster’s cheeks as it slapped the table, demanding more pieces of bread.
“Children. I’m dealing with children.”
She complained to the Corundum Beetle, who was snacking on mildewed bark to the side. It stared at her, and Erin made an outraged noise.
“Childwen? U’re ve wun who—”
The [Innkeeper] was having a…calm day. Not an ordinary day. She’d left those long ago. Rather, she was just adjusting to this stay at the Fraerling village. ‘Figuring things out’ was how she’d have termed it.
‘Recovering’ was how Ulvama, Eurise, and the other Fraerlings would have called it. The [Innkeeper] had lost track of time, in truth. She hadn’t even used the Pavilion of Secrets that much for two weeks, only checking on people she knew. She’d been feeling—odd since last night, though.
She didn’t know why. Only like something off was happening. She put it down to indigestion from something the Fraerlings had given her.
The sun was shining down on her when the world…stopped. Erin’s chewing, the passage of the sun—everything—halted.
No one noticed while it was going on. Everyone—Erin, Ulvama, the Fraerlings, the Battle Hamster—stopped. They hung there, suspended, until the moment reality resumed without a hitch.
Then, the [Innkeeper] swallowed and cast around, feeling at the back of her neck. Ulvama hadn’t noticed anything.
“Chew and speak.”
She spoke to Erin like a child, but the [Innkeeper] was frowning.
“Hey, did you feel that? It was like an [Immortal Moment] just…”
She kept looking around, and Ulvama raised her eyebrows.
“Nope. You used one to eat salad?”
“Hah. No, I’m serious. I…”
Somewhat unsettled, Erin went back to eating her food. She sensed nothing more, but that strange feeling was upon her again.
Her inn. She was so far from it, but she felt, sometimes, like she could sense aspects of it, like when it was busy. Or…was something wrong?
It was just a feeling, but Erin stopped making small talk during their meal, and Ulvama noticed. They ate quietly as the Battle Hamster finally got enough food in its cheek pouches and curled up while it chewed.
Erin and Ulvama were bussing the dishes back to the Oven House when the [Innkeeper] stumbled. She went sprawling over the ground, and the [Shaman] turned.
“Erin?”
A bowl and cup made of wood bounced over the dirt, and the [Innkeeper], normally surefooted with her [Dancer] Skills, hit the ground and gazed up.
“No.”
Ulvama thought it was for her and hesitated, her hand outstretched. But it wasn’t about her.
It was the voice that spoke impassively in Erin’s head. A thundering roar only she could hear. A voice so terrible it drowned out the hubbub of the Fraerlings around her. A hand pulled her out of her bubble of healing and respite.
She woke from the pleasant dream she’d been having.
 
<Mythical Quest – Keep The Wandering Inn Safe Until I Return.>
Optional Condition (Impossible): Don’t let anyone we love die.
<Optional Condition failed.>
 
“Erin?”
Then, the [Innkeeper] felt her skin writhing. The cold metal of a shackle on her hands and around her neck. She smelled ships burning, and the [Shaman]’s hand withdrew. The Hobgoblin spoke again as she stepped back.
“Erin? What’s wrong? Your aura—”
“Who?”
The woman pushed herself up slowly, painfully as the laughing Fraerlings turned in sudden alarm, flinching away from…
The [Innkeeper] was sweating suddenly. She felt at her chest.
“Something’s wrong. H-how? Who…?”
She was tearing at the clothing the Fraerlings had given her. Ulvama reached out for her.
“Erin? What?”
“Something’s wrong. The inn. Someone’s trying to get into my [Garden of Sanctuary]. Something dead. And now someone worse. Who—”
She thought she saw someone staring at her. Crimson eyes, a gaze made of wrath. Erin felt hands pressing at something important to her. Not her heart, but almost. She was trying to stop—
The Goblin King tore the door to her [Garden of Sanctuary] open, and the [Innkeeper] split in half before Ulvama’s horrified eyes. The [Shaman] saw hands emerge from Erin’s chest and pull something apart—
“Erin!”
She was screaming for help—but then the [Innkeeper] was kneeling, not torn in twain. But sweat was pouring down her face. Ulvama stuttered.
“What was—was that a Goblin’s—?”
“He’s in my inn. He broke into my [Garden of Sanctuary].”
“Who?”
Erin didn’t know. But she knew. She could have described that being made of wrath. Tell you exactly who he was, but never know what he looked like until she laid eyes on him. It was like a burning brand of hatred in her chest. She clawed at it. Then tried to run.
“He’s going to—”
Too far. Too far to stop anything; thousands of miles away. The [Innkeeper] cried out as Eurise came running and Ulvama shouted for help. But there was nothing to do.
Just—wake up. Wake from her beautiful daydream.
[The Wandering Innkeeper], Erin Solstice, whispered to that intruder.
“Stop. Stop. I’ll kill you, I swear it. Stop!”
Ulvama’s hands leapt away from Erin’s shoulders.
The [Innkeeper] was burning with black flames.
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin was dead.
The [Palace of Fates] had fallen to pieces, every world gone with it. All that remained was a single door held open by the Apostle Pawn.
The Goblin King had reached The Wandering Inn and returned to reality. Along with the Necromancer.
 
——
 
He stopped a while in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. He had no choice, you see.
Even the Goblin King had never been here before. His gaze swung right and left, around the strange, peculiar place he had broken into.
He knew it—and did not. One part of him had been here before.
Rabbiteater remembered this place. But Rabbiteater was one aspect of the ‘Goblin King’; the being who controlled his body, who raged, was separate. The original Goblin King versus all the Goblin Kings he became, if that made sense. So this was his first time here, as he was. The Goblin King shook his head as he realized he was in error, in fact.
“Second. Ieriv visited one of these places once.”
It was just one memory from the Goblin known as Ierlv the Bloodtide, who had waged a war from the seas. A [Garden of Sanctuary] belonging to a Drowned Man, a [Captain of Ships], long ago. A completely different place than this…
The Goblin King’s head rose towards that hill of mists, then swung around. He gazed at the beings in the [Garden of Sanctuary], cowering away from him.
The Lyonette and Mrsha of another world, guarded by a band of [Knights]. Crimshaw, Normen, a world where the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings had all risen to the Order of Solstice. Stragglers who’d escaped here only to run into him. His hand reached for his sword—and halted.
“No.”
It seemed as if he was talking to himself, because he was. The voice that spoke was Rabbiteater’s. The Goblin King of Traitors held the Goblin King’s arm back, and so did the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Sanctuary. The Goblin King could understand this Skill; it was all around him, trying to halt any kind of real violence. But he was beyond the Skill; he had broken in.
He could oppose both Rabbiteater and the Skill, but the Goblin King was…tired. His strength allowed him to do the impossible: breach the [Palace of Fates] or the [Garden of Sanctuary], destroy great foes, even escape that black hole that the God of Magic had imprisoned him in.
But the more power he used, the more tired he became. The [Princess] and the Gnoll girl weren’t important, so the Goblin King stood there, letting Rabbiteater turn his head. Survey this familiar place.
The Goblin King ignored the Knights of Solstice, Lyonette, and Mrsha as they ran for the [Palace of Fates]. Escaping him—fleeing towards that door out of reality that had been created.
He let them go. They did not matter. The Goblin King even ignored the bee that flew around his head, stinging at his helmet. The sole defender of this [Garden of Sanctuary] buzzed around his face, terrified of him, but fighting to the last. His head turned, and Apista froze—but the hand that reached out and plucked the Ashfire Bee out of the air was gentle.
“Apista. There you are. It’s been so long.”
Rabbiteater? The Ashfire Bee was confused. Rabbiteater had smashed his way into the [Garden of Sanctuary]? What the heck?
He let go of her, and Apista buzzed backwards in alarm. The people in the [Garden of Sanctuary], multiple versions of Lyonette, people who should be dead—even another version of Apista—were all fleeing back into the [Palace of Fates].
Anything to escape the Goblin King. Rabbiteater spoke.
“Fly away, Apista. Don’t follow me. I’m holding him back as much as I can. Run. No—stay here.”
Then his voice shifted, and Apista buzzed away in a terror as the Goblin King spoke.
“Are you done looking around? Nothing will remain afterwards.”
“Not this time. I forbid it. Not this time.”
They were arguing with each other. Multiple souls trapped within the same body. The Goblin King turned away from that hill of mists, gazing towards the exit. To the inn.
He walked forwards and realized that the [Garden of Sanctuary] was beginning to burn. Black flames sprouted up around his boots, trying to eat at his armor. He ignored the flames of rage, the distant authority pressing against him.
It was all impotent. Nothing stopped him. Only Rabbiteater—the Goblin King raised a hand and inspected it as it twitched, two wills warring with each other.
“You cannot oppose me. You know my purpose. You have seen them. Six. Six!”
His rage was burning a physical hole in this place; the inn itself was flickering in the air as the [Garden of Sanctuary] began to fail around him. The Goblin King continued, then, voice suddenly—calm.
“Six. Dead gods. I know each of them. Though I only saw two aspects of the Three-in-One. There were hundreds left when they were bested. Six remain.”
He smiled, such a rare act that he had almost forgotten how to do it; his lips rose, and he bared his teeth, but it was the rictus of a bloody warrior, not a true smile of joy. The Goblin King continued his monologue, trying to convince Rabbiteater, and savoring it.
