“The rest are nothing, now. Not even shadows. They are gone. Asebotc the Songsmith, Lloediy, God of Elves—I speak their names and there is no echo. No faith or recognition to give. Gone.”
This was his triumph. His victory in his long war against the memory of gods. Long had he known they had been clinging to life—defeated shadows who might resurface if remembered. Corpses gathered around the fire of belief.
But even corpses rotted away. The rest had not endured this long vigil he’d kept; they had fallen to time, to each other, or to the war amongst the dead he had learned of; mere Seamwalkers, not even the true Rot Between Worlds had eaten them.
This was his victory, but to the Goblin King’s frustration, Rabbiteater did not care. His attention was focused on the [Garden of Sanctuary], the inn. The Goblin King’s voice grew impatient.
“But six have regained too much strength. They must be destroyed.”
“Then go back and fight them. But you can’t. They’ll win.”
This, too, was true. The Goblin King’s eyes flashed, but he could not deny it. Even with fractions of their might—he was outmatched by all six of them.
The flames were burning up his legs as he stood there. But the fire of rage and invisible hatred didn’t do anything to the Goblin King. He was those two things to his very core.
The fire wasn’t even warm. But another being flinched away from the flames as he emerged out of the [Palace of Fates]. The Goblin King’s head turned, and a floating skull and an arm of bone pulled itself out of the [Palace of Fates]. The remnants of a spine; all that remained of the Bone Giant was its upper shoulder and head.
The broken skull had green flames in the eye sockets. It was no mere undead; the Goblin King spoke.
“Necromancer.”
Az’kerash flinched when he saw the Goblin King. The rest of his body entered the [Garden of Sanctuary], and the Goblin King saw he was under the effects of [Greater Invisibility] and other spells.
Even the Dragonlords would have had trouble noticing him. Not least because this version of Az’kerash was damaged.
His soul was vanishing. His main body was destroyed. He’d sacrificed it—his Chosen—and inhabited this breaking vessel. Still, the Goblin King was aware he would be a dangerous foe to battle. So he tried diplomacy.
The Necromancer might be a good distraction for the Dragonlords. The Necromancer’s voice, projected from the Bone Giant’s mouth, was confused and desperate.
“What is this place? I—I could not enter until you broke the door. Me. Everyone else could, but not me.”
“It is called the [Garden of Sanctuary].”
“You can’t enter unless invited, stupid.”
Two voices spoke; Az’kerash flinched back from the Goblin King. Then the bone head swivelled, and he saw the second door. The way out. He began crawling to it.
“Escape. There has to be safety—they’re following. A Unicorn, a—you can have my spellcraft, my minions. Belavierr is dead! Teriarch’s turned traitor! Just aid my escape—!”
The Goblin King said nothing. Did nothing. The head of the Bone Giant turned back to the Goblin, and the Necromancer realized he had been ignored.
I must live.
The undead Bone Giant crawled into the inn. The first nightmare unleashed on the world. The Goblin King continued musing.
“They must die. But how? They cannot follow me here. They have no flesh. But if they gain it…”
“Aren’t you tired? Of killing?”
The Goblin King was amused by Rabbiteater’s question.
“No. Not yet. I have not even begun, while they live. Be silent. Where do I start?”
He was thinking, for he had a quandary. You see…the Goblin King did not rage aimlessly. It might seem so to the world, but whenever he arose, it was to a purpose.
The original Goblin King was no fool. The first few times he had pulled his soul from Hellste to make war on the world had been true, blind rage, but after that, he had tempered some of his rage for a purpose.
He knew he was born out of the Goblin species; if they should ever vanish, so would his ability to resurrect in the world beyond. Each Goblin King also had their own desires, regardless of the fact that they merged with him.
Thus, he was like a kind of Djinni, a twisted wish fulfilling itself. The Goblin King would do what each Goblin King desired if it was within his power and matched his goals. Then he would do what advanced Goblins in the long term—or weakened the bonds of the world.
In Sóve’s time, it had been creating and defending the Isle of Goblins; a permanent staging ground for reinforcing Goblin tribes around the world. Curulac of a Hundred Days had begged for vengeance upon the Terandrian Kingdoms; they had exterminated kingdoms and ended the bloodlines of the Hundred Families and the hated Lucifen and Agelum, servants of the enemy.
Darker ages for Goblins had seen him called forth. Parithcae the Liberator had emerged when Goblins had been enslaved by the millions under the will of the Slave Nations, when Roshal’s kind were legion.
He had erased countless nations by blood and fire. Even, during the era when magic died, acted as a protector for a time. Hithzerene the Scaled had been his curious body then, a Goblin that had escaped from an [Archmage]’s laboratory as magic died—Goblins had been so few in number that he had been forced to safeguard the remaining tribes.
—But he always sought the end of things, even if it meant leading Goblins to war. The problem was that not all the Goblin Kings had a desire he could fulfill.
Velan the Kind had longed for peace. He had been opposed to the Goblin King, so the Goblin King had destroyed a city and made peace impossible. He would have rampaged across Baleros, but Velan the Kind had offered him something the Goblin King desired more.
The north of Izril. They’d almost taken it, and even if they had failed at First Landing, the Five Families and the Flowers of Izril had died in droves, their power broken. They would have taken the north of Izril if not for Velan’s trick.
That cunning Goblin King, that [Healer] and [Alchemist], had prepared a draught that put even the Goblin King to sleep for a time, hiding the weapons looted from his campaign away in the High Passes. Handicapped the Goblin King’s rampage.
Similarly, Rabbiteater hadn’t had anything he desired. When he had awoken and beheld the Goblin King’s destruction, the Goblin King of Traitors had lost everything that mattered to him.
It had been Ragathsi’s dream of civilization that the Goblin King had pursued in that fake world. A permanent way to empower Goblins and slowly take all of Izril. Regardless of his clashes with the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, the Goblin King had been content with that plan.
But now…the Goblin King had returned to life, yet he had nothing. No armies; each Goblin King always arose with their followers, with powerful Goblins.
No Goblin Lords, no tribes ready for war, nothing. Or rather, the only Goblin Lords were behind him in the [Palace of Fates]—and they were opposed to his existence. If there were any beyond Izril, he wouldn’t sense them until he left the [Garden of Sanctuary]. But then the world would know he had returned.
And he had the dead gods alive and active. No time to wait for another chance at revival. Hence, the Goblin King’s quandary.
He thought, a warrior planning the next move in his long war against foes he only vaguely understood. A survivor of the last war, still screaming for vengeance over eighty thousand years later.
The black flames were covering his torso and armor now, and the crackling of rage mixed with the thundering of blood in his ears. The backdrop to the pulsing of his soul.
If it was too quiet, if he listened—he could still hear the screaming of Elves.
The Goblin King’s closed eyes opened, and Apista heard him whisper.
“Liscor is worthless. You may keep it, unless you oppose me. Pallass is connected to this inn. That will do. It still has armories full of failsafes. Wall spells. Activate those—strike Rhir. Yes…if this is the same world as the one I left, Rhir. Other Walled Cities. The tribes.”
Unleash everything Pallass had stored away. Tier 8 spells, if they had them left. Ruination upon other nations, who would reply in kind. He needed a map of powerful countries.
First Pallass, then the next Walled City, or he’d have to reach Wistram. Keep activating their treasuries until the entire world was rubble and every nation rained down armageddon on each other.
That would hinder the dead gods the most, without enough souls to worship them.
It was the most direct plan the Goblin King had. There were only two rooms between him and the portal room. The Goblin King turned towards the door that led to the common room of the inn. He walked forwards, trailing flames.
Faster. Faster—rage building in him as he saw the door swinging closed. He struck it and grabbed the doorframe. And felt it resisting him again.
It didn’t matter.
Annihilation was coming. The Goblin King whispered as his clawed fingers dug into the wood, cracking it, and he heard a female voice screaming. Two—one in rage, the other in agony, both trying to hold the door closed. The Goblin King smiled; an ageless being greeting the mortals who stood in his way, toys before a furious child who had seen his parents die. Again and again—
“I’m back.”
 
——
 
The Goblin King had re-entered the world. Nations would burn. But where and how?
She had to know. The Empress of Wings flew through the [Palace of Fates] and knew the Skill would vanish shortly. Each world consigned to oblivion, the souls gone.
Nevertheless, she had to know. So she conjured a door and opened it.
A vision of the future.
The Goblin King reached Pallass in eight minutes. In the first minute of the Goblin King’s arrival, the casualties passed three hundred thousand.
The City of Inventions quaked as two floors collapsed, buildings and people showering downwards. A single figure in armor, leaping downwards.
Until he stopped.
In this alternate reality, the Goblin King’s head turned, and he glanced up at something in the sky. Those burning eyes wavered with confusion, then he spoke. Sounding…annoyed.
“You.”
Empress Sheta slammed the door in the [Palace of Fates] and spoke. Her wings beat faster, unsettled.
She’d seen all she needed to. And yet he had seen her. Her voice snapped as she called out.
“He is going for Pallass.”
Six Dragonlords of Flame turned to her, each one panting and battleworn. They were flying for the exit, pursuing the Goblin King. But the Harpy Queen was holding something in her talons.
A door?
The door to the world she’d summoned, in her talons. The Harpy Queen dropped it. She’d conjured it; this was, after all, her Skill. One of the Teriarchs rumbled; the Archmage of Scales was relatively unwounded, save for Creler venom that had scarred his face; he opened one eye still steaming and spoke. He was haughty, proud, a Dragonlord in a world where he was the respected fount of magic. Ego, vanity, but also the one who had continued to interfere with the world he knew.
“Pallass. Why Pallass?”
Another Teriarch spoke; the Dragonlord who had partnered with the Goblin King, the Teriarch of ten years in the future, the most overweight and broken of them all. He had watched even Magnolia Reinhart perish, keeping to his vow of noninterference. His eyes were filmy, and he blinked, as if trying to pull himself into the world he’d abandoned.
Still, he flew for Empress Sheta, the Harpy he knew. They all did. His voice was panting with effort.
“Weapons of war, most likely. We must stop him.”
Six Dragonlords and the largest Harpy living. The [Palace of Fates] was disintegrating in their wake. They were behind the Goblin King; they’d been fighting the Crelers and trying to slow down the dead gods.
Eight minutes until a city broke. Empress Sheta spoke.
“[Chronomancer’s Conference of the August].”
Time slowed. She didn’t bother to invoke the rest of the Skill; that would have sat them at a table to plan and discuss. The [Harpy Empress], she who had reached one of the highest levels of any Harpy ever, spoke as wind rushed under her wings.
Level 82 [Empress of Issrysil, Queen of the Empire of Iltanus, Almighty Monarch of Wings]. Everything that flew owed her sovereignty.
—But she had no more empire. Nor was she a being who normally fought her own battles, a champion like the Dragonlord of Flames or the Goblin King. This world beyond was unknown to her, so she asked.
“Pallass? Is this an important Drake city?”
All six Dragonlords turned to her, blinking in confusion. One of them was a survivor from the Creler Wars, fresh from his world—he had watched his fellow Dragonlords slain by the dead gods. He was the greatest warrior present, in the prime of his life, and still so terribly old. His response was more understanding than the others.
“Pallass is a Walled City. It arose long after your empire collapsed, Sheta. Perhaps it was around when you ruled? It would have been a village of Drakes with a penchant for engineering.”
“Curious. That is a Walled City? What of Lesegoth?”
Sheta knew Walled Cities. The ones from her time had predated the Harpy Empire, even if they had knelt to her royal bloodline. She didn’t understand the reaction of the other Dragonlords.
“The City of Shields? Destroyed.”
“Why?”
Another Teriarch answered, the panting survivor of the beach world, eyes filled with guilt for the people he had abandoned.
“Treachery. Obliterated by a Tier 9 spell.”
“Irvoryth?”
Yet another one spoke, voice husky with memories.
“Destroyed with their World Tree. Oteslia remains. It has a sapling.”
“I don’t know Oteslia. Grunvel, then—?”
“Every Walled City north of the High Passes is gone, Your Majesty.”
Her feathers shivered. Sheta opened her mouth and spoke, hoarse.
“What…are the High Passes?”
Even the oldest Dragonlord, Teriarch of the Creler Wars, just looked at her. And then he realized…
“The High Passes are the tallest mountain range in the world, Sheta. You knew them as the Skolvec Ridges. They were raised into the vast mountains by an [Archmage] after Iltanus fell. That…is what became of the Mount Iltane. There are no structures there anymore.”
Her head spun. Sheta’s wings faltered, and her eyes went round, like the Dragonlords remembered. A wide-eyed child—only her expression was one of horror and loss.
A familiar face they had seen countless times in their mirror scales. The Dragonlords faltered with her, then her wingbeats accelerated.
“Long have I been dead. I knew it. Is there…not one city that I would remember?”
They thought, and the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars spoke.
“Ah, of course. Maakdel—”
One of the other Dragonlords drew a claw across his throat, and the Creler Wars Teriarch flinched.
“Even the City of Letters?”
