“Collapsed by the end of the Creler Wars by an Elder Creler; the Demons destroyed the rest of it. The Death of Magic detonated the walls when she rose against the Blighted Kingdom.”
“The who? Don’t tell me that the bastard came back after killing magic!”
“No, not him! Silvenia.”
“Silvenia? The half-Elf girl leading the magical corps? She became a—?”
The confusion from the Creler Wars Teriarch was answered by explanations from the others; one of the Teriarchs spoke to Sheta.
“…You’d remember Zeres, Sheta. And perhaps Manus’ academies? It became the City of War later.”
“Zeres. The Port City of Waves. Yes. That is enough. We fly in defense of Zeres and Manus, then. We will emerge and destroy the Goblin King; he is entering through some kind of door. Information?”
They turned to the Beach Teriarch, who rasped for breath.
“Door of Portals in Skill-based form. Not as powerful as the Relic-class object, but more than enough for him. Can’t be deactivated or stolen. Only the [Innkeeper]’s death will stop it.”
The Empress of Harpies nodded. Her Skill was running out of power; she spoke.
“[By My Decree: Extend Skill]. [Wings of the Wind Dragon].”
They sped up, and she could see the exit now, a distant door where that [Princess] stood. No—she’d fallen down. The Harpy Empress saw the Maiden striding past the Dragonlords and her, scythe raised. The Maiden glanced up, but the Empress had no time for her.
Nor the Maiden for her. They passed by each other, headed for their respective fates. The Harpy’s voice was cold. With each passing second, she felt more alive. More burdened.
“This [Innkeeper]. Dragonlord—Dragonlords, rather. Can one of you cast [Greater Scrying] and strike her with a [Ray of Disintegration]? If she is anywhere on this continent, your combined magic should be suitable for the task. Is she valuable enough to leave alive?”
Three pairs of wings faltered—the Archmage of Scales turned to Sheta, mouth open in shock. Some of them had forgotten her, remembered only her finest qualities.
She was still the Empress of Wings, and if she could save a city…three hundred thousand lives in the first minute versus one. It was a simple calculus.
“—She’s in Baleros. Don’t touch her. Don’t you dare.”
A presence. Sheta almost spun in an attacking slash—until she saw the golden, torn scales of the final Dragonlord.
The true Teriarch, the original, couldn’t fly. He was limping after them, towards the door, one leg broken, and she didn’t know if she’d ever seen him closer to death. Not even when he’d fought three other Dragons at once to defend her—
He was included in her [Conference of the August] Skill, and she heard his voice clearly.
“Very well. If she has your regard and she is another of your apprentices—”
“She isn’t. Leave her alone.”
The real Dragonlord was insistent, so Sheta nodded and spun back around.
“Battle, then. If we cannot destroy the door, keep the Goblin King from the door. If we are too late, then take him out of Pallass if possible. Otherwise, ensure he does not reach the armories. He intends to fire every spell he can at other nations to provoke a Cascade of Responses.”
She used a term from her time; a term for what happened when two opposing sides continued to respond and escalate in response to the others’ actions. The Dragonlords nodded.
“Tactics? We could devote ourselves to a set of spells or engage him by pairs? The six of us plus Empress Sheta will foul each other’s areas of control—”
They weren’t counting the wounded real Teriarch who was unable to fly or maneuver. The Archmage of Scales glanced around, and a Teriarch who came from a world where he’d not breathed fire on Erin Solstice and instead taken her under his wing spoke, incredulous.
“He’s the Goblin King. Any spell we use on him he’ll tear apart. Any plan. We must simply wear him down, exhaust his ability to use his damned Skills. No matter the cost. He’ll kill at least one of us.”
The other Dragonlords turned to him, opening their mouths to decry his statement as pure foolishness. There were six of them and Sheta! They were the Dragonlords of Flame…
None of them could quite voice their scorn. He was the Goblin King. The last time he’d died had been a miracle shot as his armies were beaten after a month of bringing him to battle. This Goblin King was fresher, and he had that damn armor on.
And this Teriarch…the Empress of Wings focused on him and eyed his back. He was much like the others, heavier than she remembered, older, so much older than even the proud Dragonlord she’d known. Gone to seed, she would have said if she were unkind. A bird without his wing feathers—but he still burned.
This Teriarch had thrown himself against the foe until his scales were no longer reflective, marred by a million scratches and blows. But even so, there was still something tied around his neck. A tattered, red…cape.
His version of Erin Solstice had made it for him. He’d sent her out of this reality, to the door. The Teriarch of Erin’s Friendship spoke with all the morality he had taught her, and she nodded tightly.
“Then we fight and die. The Goblin King is stronger than I remember. He nearly slew me when I attempted to kill him. Twenty thousand years has made him a far deadlier foe.”
“Forty-three.”
Her wings faltered. She had to stop asking…the Archmage of Scales was thinking. He spoke as they began to dive towards the door.
“This plan of engagement is flawed. Nevermind how we coordinate. Think of it. He’ll just run.”
“Run? He’s the Goblin King—”
“There are six of us. What would you do in that situation? He’ll run and go to ground, and believe me, if he’s as good at hiding as he is at fighting, how easily could we find him? We need a decisive blow against him. A way to bring him to battle. But he has no armies nor Goblins…”
“What about those ones?”
Sheta glanced down and met the eyes of a running group headed for the exit. Goblins.
Chieftain Rags, Ragathsi, the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, her bodyguards, and Fightipilota. Why were they running after Roots Mrsha? Sheta opened her claws, and the Goblin Lord of Civilizations aimed something up at her.
Danger.
Sheta sensed it and narrowed her eyes. She jerked her head.
[Royal Diplomacy: Feather of Peace]. Five minutes. Unconditional.
A moment of tension—the Goblin Lord of Civilizations accepted. Sheta heard another Teriarch speaking.
“—Not them. He won’t miss this opportunity, not with the dead gods around.”
“I see. The what?”
The other Teriarchs nodded as the Goblin Lord of Civilizations turned and kept running. They were trying to speculate on what would work.
“Lock him down with multiple chain spells. Continue breathing fire on him. That always works.”
“Unless he uses a fire immunity Skill. Does he have one of those?”
“Let’s use the old [Pentagram of the Five Alchemies]. Immobilize him in the gates.”
The real Teriarch panted at them.
“It didn’t work on the Draconic Warrior. It’s not going to work on him.”
“…There’s a Draconic Warrior still around?”
They all turned to him, and the Empress of Harpies flicked her wings uneasily. One of the Drakes’ war weapons? That was as bad as a Goblin King in many ways.
So many things that had to die. She turned her head as they descended towards the door.
“What are dead…gods?”
All six Dragonlords of Flame regarded her. In their eyes, she saw that thing she hated the most, had hated from the day she grew old enough to realize he kept secrets. The thing that had inspired her to make her [Pavilion of Secrets], in part.
The Harpy Empress’ eyes narrowed as she landed by the door. The first Dragonlord flew through, still in their slow-time effect from her Skill. One spoke.
“It—ah—I wanted to tell you. But it changes nothing, really. So I—”
He vanished. The second twisted, trying to explain.
“I couldn’t tell even my daughter. The danger if we did…I’m sorry. It’s the six of them. They’re beings beyond even us.”
“Who? Why would you never tell me? My empire crumbled, and I let it die because of your teachings! You kept secrets from me, I who died trying to fulfill your morality?”
Her voice rose. She shrieked at them, and they flinched; two broke away, circling the door. The second Teriarch vanished, and the Superman Teriarch landed, then sprang forwards like a cat. He walked past her, ducking his head.
“I would have. I swear. But I—”
His face twisted in brief confusion.
“—I don’t know why I hid it. I think some secrets were so painful I didn’t even tell my daughter. My own daughter, Sheta. We all have secrets we wished to take to the grave.”
He bowed his head lower to her, and his confession calmed her. She nodded to him, and he walked past her. To war.
Three Dragonlords went, and the Empress inhaled; her wings folded around her, and the fourth Teriarch, that warrior who had fought the Creler Wars, murmured.
“There is always a stronger being.”
“Not to us nor him. We are the only beings who can halt him; if not us, there is no higher power. Mortal armies will be slaughtered by the millions to stop him.”
Sheta spoke with certainty as two more Teriarchs passed through the door. Leaving only the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars and the original, still crawling their way. The Creler Wars Teriarch nodded at that comment.
It was the real Teriarch who rasped, a hint of confusion in his voice.
“…Are we lying to Sheta even now?”
She twisted around, fast as a striking hawk, and her eyes flashed with sudden paranoia and anger.
“Lied?”
“About why we never told her of the dead gods. There is a reason. The same reason we failed to tell Nirayicel.”
The Creler Wars Teriarch frowned, a full glower of genuine anger and astonishment at his counterpart.
“We did not! We simply refused to tell her because it wasn’t pertinent to…anything…”
His brows furrowed, and this time, Sheta noticed the same odd hitch in his speaking. As if he himself were unsure of his reasoning. Or—her feathers suddenly felt cold—
As if his memories had been altered. She had seen the like many times in her reign. The real Teriarch’s voice rasped.
“Of course. The rest of you don’t recall him. I do, because that bastard just beat me to the edge of death and back. Remember him! The guardian of the moon! The Halfling!”
The Creler Wars Teriarch’s eyes snapped open, and he reflexively spread his wings in a defensive posture and looked up.
Up…at the ceiling of the [Palace of Fates]. Sheta eyed him. She had seldom seen him so afraid. The Creler Wars Teriarch breathed.
“I—I remember! Dead gods, my mind was wiped—why hasn’t he come down? We are in the thick of war with the dead gods themselves! He should have destroyed this entire place!”
“Unless he can’t see it.”
The two Teriarchs were exchanging significant glances, and Sheta snapped.
“Explain what is going on! Original Teriarch—what Halfling? A Halfling?”
She knew Halflings, but they spoke as if there were only one. The Creler Wars Teriarch exhaled.
“In this time, every Halfling is dead, Sheta. The species extinct. Save for one. He is some kind of magical guardian from before the creation of everything. A guardian empowered by the magic of Elves. That one could destroy four Dragonlords in battle. A monster who comes if you reveal the truth about the dead gods. Wait—”
His eyes flickered.
“—once we leave this place, we must be careful not to invoke them. Damnation. Another problem. But why? Why has he never come for the Goblin King?”
The real Teriarch was panting as he dragged himself down the last few corridors towards the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“…Oversight? Perhaps he doesn’t invoke…the Halfling has the magic of Elves.”
“How is that possible?”
Sheta’s head was swinging from Teriarch to Teriarch. The last two argued with each other, the Creler Wars Teriarch frowning as he tried to reason this out, still rattled by his returned memories.
“It’s not that they wouldn’t have noticed, surely. So why…?”
It was the original Teriarch who answered with a sigh, as if it were suddenly obvious to him.
“They’re Elves. The Goblins were children. Who points a weapon at children?”
The Creler Wars Teriarch groaned softly.
“A monster who can best us. Another threat. Unless—”
His eyes narrowed a second, and he broke off. The real Teriarch stopped dragging himself forwards, and Sheta saw the two Dragons exchange another glance. This she recognized.
He had just hit upon a plan. Without a word, the Creler Wars Teriarch nodded and turned to the door.
“We must stop the Goblin King at any cost. If needs must we gamble with our lives, we shall.”
The sixth Dragon spread his wings and flew through the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was Sheta who turned and addressed the seventh and last Teriarch, still crawling after her.
“I shall have answers afterwards. In time. The six Dragonlords of Flame fly to war with the Empress of Wings. But not you. Stay back, Teriarch. You…are the ‘real’ one, aren’t you? You are far, far too wounded for this.”
He just snarled at her as he limped down a long corridor empty of life. The Dragonlord passed by a trail of blood, panting.
“I must. Someone has to stop the Goblin King and set things right.”
Clotted blood flaked off his scales, and there were hundreds of wounds in his armor. Sheta had no time to argue. She snapped, spreading her wings wide.
“I am the only thing that is needed! This is all I have returned for!”
Her eyes shone as she spoke, bitterness in every word.
“Great purpose. My empire fell to dust. This world…seems so much poorer and worse than the world I left. It always does, I suspect. But I long to fly. I have no time to build. No people to lead, even if I dared repeat the mistakes of old. All that I can do is destroy, like him. So: who vanishes? The Nagatine Empire? The horrors of Rhir’s infested shores? Which arrogant Terandrian or Chandrarian nation must burn?”
He didn’t answer. The Dragonlord of Flames had halted in the [Palace of Fates], head turned to the side, gazing at something. Distracted. Or perhaps his nerves had gotten the best of him after all.
Sheta had no time to discuss anything else. She yearned for this—this glorious cause. So the Harpy Queen spread her wings and whirled away from the last Teriarch. Then she flew into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. For a second, Sheta appeared in a garden much like her own. Then she heard the Goblin King’s roar and gazed up.
