“Yes, it’s you. You came down from the moon. How…have I never seen you again in all this time? I remember you. Yours was the first group to meet us. I hid behind them, and you tried to whistle a tune. The Slingblade amidst your company. Then you all voted.”
Indeed, how had they never met in all the times he fell to earth? The Halfling thought, and his mind reached a dreadful conclusion. The folly of Elves, for all their grace and ageless knowledge that exceeded his people…could they have made such a simple mistake? Was it by design?
They would never have unleashed me against them. Never. Would he have put up his blade if the first person he had come down for had been a Goblin, after all of it?
His heart. It ached, though he was no more than light and memory preserved within magic itself to be recreated again and again. The Halfling’s voice was hoarse.
“We voted, and little difference it made, for they only deigned to hear us, nothing else. You are the Goblin King. You…child.”
Child. He almost knelt, remembering a far smaller child with big crimson eyes that made the others shudder. But who reached out for the apple as red as his gaze with curiosity and licked it with glee.
Not this. Not—
That foolish, cruel part of the gods’ Grand Design was before him. The unneighborly whim of theirs, just like everything else. Those crimson eyes burned.
“I am. Slingblade Gailant—”
“Not I.”
He had to focus. Calm. (I cannot do this.)
“You are.”
The Halfling shook his head. He was conscious of the watchers. Six Dragons…each the same species, the same one? How? A Harpy, vast and dangerous. But he could not perform his duties.
He had to know.
“Not I. I am but a memory. A stone flung and still flying from a sling aimed at the heads of the divine. I am the guardian charged with silencing knowledge of the Gods. When they speak, I descend. Who you remember…is gone. I am merely the Halfling.”
Once, to warn. Or to kill. Sometimes twice—even thrice, but always it would end the same way.
The Halfling’s eyes stole to the wounded Dragon, and the Goblin King seemed to come to his senses. He whirled, beheld the Dragonlords of Flames, and pointed to them and then the [Witches].
“Those are my foes. Slingblade, whomever you are—you, who were kind to me. Help me. I must destroy this world built upon the bones of my parents. They have returned, six of the Gods who should be dead. I will break their playthings and drown them in oblivion once and for all. But I cannot best them and live. Please, champion of Elves.”
Please. The Goblin King spoke and knelt to the only being he had ever asked for aid since his rage had begun. His hands came up, and he removed the helmet. The Halfling took a step back.
That face…it wasn’t Rabbiteater’s face. It was a face the Halfling knew; flesh reconstituted from that soul. Older by far, but the same.
They did know each other. They were the same beings, and if either had a trace of doubt, it was gone. The Halfling’s sword lowered. In the distance, one of the versions of Teriarch spoke, calmly and audibly.
“Shit from a Lung Dragon. This is not an ideal outcome.”
The Goblin King’s head turned, and the Halfling felt, momentarily, the urge to laugh hysterically.
But he couldn’t.
Agony. His hands were searching his pockets on his vest, rifling through them for—an apple. The Halfling tore his hands down, gripped his sword.
The Goblin King was excited. He rose, sword in hand, and the Dragonlords bared their teeth, the six of them. The [Witches] flew back, aiming wands down. One had an axe. An axe to pit against the Goblin King and the Halfling’s blade. And six Dragons.
Yes, six.
One was dead. The corpse lay in the ground, half-buried on impact. The Halfling gazed upon that…then at the Goblin King. He did not reach for his sling, nor the ammunition that had once injured the champions of Gods and even the divine themselves. But such paltry weapons compared to the ones they had wielded. Instead, he spoke to the Goblin King’s back.
“How old are…? No, rather, you. You have come back, haven’t you? Again and again.”
He saw that. It was a dreadful sight. Like a being made of the clay of souls, shaped out of them all. Changed by each one that he embodied, traces of them left in him. Yet the core was still the Goblin King; the palpable rage was the answer.
“Yes. Again and again. To finish the war. It has been…tens of thousands of years. How many, I do not know. They sent me to Hellste, but it cannot hold me. When the Goblin King arises, I return. As they intended. As they designed it.”
The Halfling nodded slowly.
“I understand.”
That flawed design of theirs. This he understood, and he imagined how it must be to live so many lives, devoted to…what?
“Destroy this world. Did you say…playthings?”
The Goblin King seemed surprised by this line of questioning. He turned once more.
“Of course. I watched them all die. We hid by the sea as the last war was fought, and I saw them all die. Sprigaena, who stood amidst the empty battlefield when the Elves won their final victory. Then I understood the truth.”
“Truth?”
It felt like they were speaking different languages, then, for all they shared only one. The Goblin King nodded.
“To end it all. To ensure they would never return. To break this wretched game of theirs. I have rampaged across this world and broken the remnants of it and shattered every edifice to them. Now—they have returned, so I will plunge this world into silence.”
He said it with such dreadful clarity, with the logic that had once been taught to him. An understanding of the nature of the divine.
But. The Halfling nodded once, his sword-arm raised, and he gripped the slingstaff in his other hand. His voice was hoarse.
“This I understand, now. But tell me this…Goblin King. It has been tens of thousands of years, then.”
“Eighty thousand and some by mostly accurate counts!”
The Archmage of Scales called out and ducked behind a boulder when they glanced at him. The Halfling exhaled.
“—Then I have a question. The only one that matters, child, King of Goblins.”
“Yes. Ask. Anything.”
The Halfling looked the Goblin King straight in the eyes and beheld the child playing on the sand. Then he gazed across the vast sea of time from then till now, and he closed his eyes.
For one moment, the Halfling managed to leave it all behind him. Then Gailant remembered his name, and when his eyes opened, his shoulders hunched with agony.
The Elves had chosen poorly after all. He could not be their blade swinging through time. He was still the short Halfling, challenging all he saw that was wrong within reach of his sling and sword.
When he opened his eyes, the Halfling opened them with the weight of the Slingblade who wandered the open roads. That roaming peacekeeper. The reluctant warrior that he should be.
For he beheld that thing he could not walk away from. The smell of blood. (A child.)
He met a stranger he had once known, whose armor reeked of blood. Who spoke of these terrible things. So the Halfling sheathed his sword. He lifted his hands, to show the Goblin King they were empty, and put his slingstaff on a holster along his back. As the Dragons groaned and whispered anxiously and the [Witches] walked, the Halfling from the green moon asked a question of the Goblin King gently.
“Tens of thousands of years, you say. Then. How are you still angry?”
The Goblin King said nothing at first. His face scrunched up in confusion, and his eyes narrowed as he regarded the Halfling. Uncomprehending. His gauntleted hand flexed around the blade he held, and then he spoke. His voice betraying uncertainty for the first time.
“…What do you mean? How could I not be? I watched them die.”
“Yes.”
His chest hurt. The sure hands which had once dueled Sprigaena were shaking in their gloves.
They always did.  (Let me not fail again. But I have no one left to pray to.)
The Halfling shoved them into his pockets, speaking with all the earnesty of his chest. So terribly afraid, now. His lungs felt as though they wanted to force themselves into his throat, though he was made of naught but starlight, memory, and magic.
Not for fear of battle, but that far more terrible thing. The Slingblade’s fear of failure. He spoke gently, softly, as if he were speaking to a child.
“Why did you kill them? Can you tell me?”
“Who?”
The Halfling’s eyes squeezed shut. (No remorse. None. The eyes of gods.)
“All of them. Those you want to kill now. The…playthings.”
The Goblin King replied instantly. Ah, no. The Halfling’s heart twisted. That voice was so terribly, familiarly steady.
“Why would I not? I saw all that I loved betrayed. I witnessed their every craven act, the pleading of mortality, their every chance to turn away.”
“As it was. I know.”
The Goblin King nodded, as if the question were thus pointless.
“—How would I not rage against this world?”
The Halfling shook his head. He tried again, choosing his words even more slowly and carefully. Not all of the Dragonlords saw what he was doing. Nor even all the [Witches]. But one of them put down her axe, and Witch Hedag gazed at something—familiar.
The Halfling gazed into those familiar eyes. (Monsters, they said. Children we saw. How could anyone have argued it otherwise?)
“You have a right to your anger. Who does not wish to avenge murder, when neighbor slaughters neighbor?”
“Exactly. I am vengeance. I am that final war—”
The eager voice was rallying, and the Halfling interrupted, again.
“The war ended, son of Elves. They ended it. The last Elves survived the war.”
“They were hunted down. Murdered by traitors, or forced to raise a nation of half-children.”
The Halfling’s eyes flashed, and the Goblin King hesitated.
“You think they were murdered? No. No! I was there, and the last of Gnomes and Dwarves and every surviving warrior! Do you think they were slaughtered unwillingly? They put down their arms! Forced? If you mean Sprigaena, who could have forced her to do anything? The last Elves could have ended the war, and reduced the rest of this world to ash. They did not. I held the final Keeper of Groves in my arms. He just—refused to eat. He was sick at heart. If I had any sense, I would have dragged him to the Goblins, and given him a true reason to live.”
—But they had been hidden away, and far from any mind. The Halfling saw it now.
His failure. Their own noble intentions that had failed the species they sought to protect. At the end of it, every head had been raised to the stars, to combat the return of gods.
They should have thought of the youngest species.
“They failed you. And you became the first Goblin King.”
“They did not fail me.”
The Goblin King’s voice was trembling. The Halfling stared past him, through time, across the empty mountain pass behind the Goblin King. His voice was distant.
“You became the first Goblin King, that cursed role the gods intended of you. Your first act was to kill them. The people you called playthings. How many children did you kill? How many nations burned? It surely came after the Gnomes departed and so many Elves finished their last work and passed on. Or perhaps they failed you one last time, including Sprigaena. For if they had been alive, you should have met them, bearing their weary blades in hand to stop you. They wanted peace for your people, Goblin King. Not this.”
He did not want to know if they had been alive and simply turned their heads away from the species they had loved. Or had they not realized it was him? Had they just not noticed? Regardless, they had failed Goblins. They had failed him.
The response that came from the Goblin King’s mouth was long in coming. Eventually, he simply spoke, a tremble in his voice.
“…You do not know them as I did. You fought with them, but you will not lecture me, Slingblade. They fought for a better world for my people.”
“Yes. You destroyed that world and made Goblins the very thing the gods intended.”
“I avenged them! I am the rage of my people! I have dragged myself out of Hellste for this. Each and every time.”
The fury beat at the Halfling’s very soul, and he searched for something else to say. It set the air aflame, and he felt it. That all-consuming wrath that could drive an entire species to madness. The Halfling tried to find the words to quench that anger.
But he had nothing. Merely guilt, a painful certainty in his chest—but nothing that could move the figure before him. So he asked a question instead.
“Very well. Then grant me this, son of Elves. Will you honor them with but one of your many lives?”
The question threw the Goblin King for a moment.
“Honor…?”
The Slingblade’s eyes brightened in relief, and he smiled, just once. He’d found it.
“Yes, honor. How many lives has it been? A hundred?”
“Eighty…eighty-four, including me.”
The voice was uncertain, not sure what the Halfling was driving at. The Slingblade nodded.
“You have been destroyer. Avenger. But also, surely at least once, protector.”
“Liberator. They put my people in chains and called me forth to set them free. I did, and I drove their wretched nations to dust.”
The Slingblade nodded, speaking faster. The Halfling reached for his belt. Not for his sword. He almost reached for a pipe, but this was no fit time for it. So he felt for anything in his pouches fit for creation. Nothing came to his touch. Just weapons.
Even a carving knife would have done, but everything was too sharp. So the Halfling drew a dagger that could wound a star and picked up an ordinary stone and carved pieces away from it as he spoke.
He focused on that, twirling the piece of stone in his fingers, speaking to it rather than the Goblin King. That helped. His voice was husky. Now, he said the unkind words to this boy who had been his neighbor.
“Yes! Then, in honor of the ones who raised you, will you devote one life to what they would love? They, who despised violence? One life, Goblin King, where you draw no blade save to defend. Where you plant a hundred thousand trees that your people might rest in their shade.”
“I—no. That is impossible. No, they will never allow it. They will come for us again and again. Even now, I see the monarchs hiding on their thrones, preparing their armies, cursing my name.”
He hesitated! The Goblin King put a hand to his head, and that ceaseless rage faltered. The Slingblade spoke faster, channeling his desperation into the flick of blade along stone.
“Surely it is not impossible. If you will it, is there no strength of yours that can make peace as well as war? Can you not build a wall if you tear one down? Behind you stand Dragons as old as nations. Would their words not broker some peace?”
He turned to the Teriarchs, and they glanced at each other. The Goblin King whispered.
