Moving into ranks. Ready? Watch the sides. The valley was closed, and they were in a long column marching towards Goblinhome. The slopes of the valley weren’t easy to charge down; you’d break the legs of a hundred Goblins trying to run down the rocky boulders and sheer drops. But that Goblin Chieftain had to know her tribe was out there. Or they’d come from the cliffs, behind.
Or they’d run away, in which case, it was a hunt. Watch the other escape routes—teams had blasted each one closed, and they had their Wyverns in the air. Watch for the Wyvern Lord.
Ready? They had none of Shirka’s telepathy right now, none of her Skills, but they had that communal sense of an army. Tension in every face, pulsing blood, trembling hands, blood and paint on your armor. You could almost feel it.
There. A piece of stone crumbling inwards, revealing more of the tunnel on the left. Upper right—collapse, burying the lower passageway. Two hallways open at once. Not big enough to fit more than a single body inside—didn’t matter.
“Launch the assault. Warhammers on the second breach. Go.”
Colonel Rathiss gave the order, and 2nd Army moved. The silence turned into a roar building through the army, and it exploded from the front like a wave. [Soldiers] went forwards, shields up—!
Then they began to die. Rathiss stood, sword in his claws, waiting. Eyes on Goblinhome, senses behind. He turned his head towards the mountains, which were shaking from some titanic battle elsewhere. But he wasn’t listening to that. His eyes flicked to the Wyverns overhead, the feral Frost Wyverns.
To the empty rocks.
“Where are you? Come on.”
He was waiting.
 
——
 
“Never fight an enemy waiting for you. Not on his terrain. Move him. Take out his footing. Force him to attack you; wait him out if you have to. If it’s a siege, let him come through hell at you and take him where you can at the best advantage, or sally out and catch the bastard. But never, ever attack when he’s actually ready.”
One of her first lessons from the Titan of Baleros was the obvious lesson any child could come up with. Don’t do what the enemy wants.
Student Rags had still written it down, because sometimes you forgot. Most of Niers’ lessons were things that you could think of, could realize if you applied yourself to war with any seriousness or practice, or even from the armchair you sat in and daydreamed of battles.
…But you always forgot. You made mistakes. His teaching was having you make those mistakes, then not making them when the time came.
She loved her lessons in her fake world, her happy alternate reality that someone had made up for her. Because in those lessons, in the memories that weren’t real, she was preparing, seriously, diligently, preparing for a day she feared would come.
But it wasn’t today. She’d give everything she had left, everything she had—which was nothing more than her rollershoes and some gold—to go back and have one more lesson. Sit in his class one more time and see the Titan talk about war like a craft, like an art and a dance and something that could even be enjoyable when you weren’t in it.
The truth he told you when you were in his classes, after the fun, games, and strategy—he’d sit you down one day and give you no lectures. No assignments, no homework. Just ask a veteran to come in or have you walk through a butcher’s shop—or a battlefield if he had one. Haul bodies with the corpse disposal units for a week.
The truth he also had to teach you was it was death. You spoke, and the people died.
Never forget that.
“They’re attacking Goblinhome. We have to go.”
Snapjaw was looking at her as Student Rags lay flat, staring down at 2nd Army with an enchanted spyglass she’d gotten as a birthday present in her world. The [Strategist]’s voice was flat.
“He’s waiting for it. That…officer. Colonel Rathiss. I can see him. He’s out in the open; the moment we show up, he’ll turn on us.”
He had even gotten a colored yellow helmet to help her. The Drake stood, daring her to come out. Student Rags handed the spyglass to Snapjaw and turned to Prixall.
The [Witch] had intercepted some of the messages between Pallass and 2nd Army, even decoded them. It wasn’t like there was much to know. They were attacking. There weren’t exits that the Goblins inside could use. Or if there were, the Goblins would be set upon in moments and 2nd Army would try to enter the fortress through those tunnels.
The Flooded Waters tribe was hemmed in. They’d held the army off well.
Pallass’ best offensive army, forced to stand at range and trade for eight whole hours. They might have even lost more archers than the Goblins inside the fort—and that was with most of the high-level Goblins having sallied out to fight the Titan.
That felt like ages ago. Student Rags longed to compose a missive to her Professor, like this was homework, and have him just…tell her what he’d do. In fact, it was already laid out in her head. Like the world’s most important homework assignment.
She even had an essay…Snapjaw lowered the spyglass, handed it to Leapwolf. The Redfang didn’t take it.
“Gotta go anyways. They’re dying.”
“I said wait. The Goblin Slayers are bunched up with their little ritual. They’re spreading out now. Heading to the front. Let the first…three waves hit Goblinhome.”
“Three waves? They’ll kill—”
“Yes. Goblinhome can withstand three waves. Taganchiel knows how the traps work. Three waves. Then they’ll have dispersed enough to hit them. They’re playing the same game we are; they have to commit their forces. If we hit a thousand of them right now, while they’re ready for us, we die without doing a thing.”
Student Rags’ voice was so cold, so flat. Was this how he sounded? Everyone here was going to die, anyways.
Hit and run them. Engage, set up, draw them back. They’ll come at us, fast and heavy. [Wyvern Riders]—they won’t want us to run, and we can’t. We don’t have enough Frost Wyverns.
If she’d known—if Chieftain Rags had known—she’d have put all their Frost Wyverns in the air, given themselves a truly mobile force to harass 2nd Army. As it was, she’d launch one lightning strike into the enemy camp. Try to take out as many officers and those ballistae as they could, then fall back with fliers and fight and keep retreating, so Goblinhome could hold their lines or evacuate.
Or reinforcements showed up. But that was a pipe dream, and Student Rags knew it. Reinforcements weren’t coming. The Dragonlord had left; Shirka had stood down, and Magnolia and Xitegen couldn’t threaten 2nd Army with their forces, even if they were so inclined.
If Chieftain Rags came back with Redscar and her bodyguard, it would be a dozen Goblins versus…
2nd Army.
Student Rags’ hands were shaking. She watched as the first wave met at Goblinhome’s walls. Part of her was detached. Counting bodies falling. Seeing how many the Goblins reaped with their crossbows.
Bloody assault. Bleed, you bastards. Break. Just break and…
They didn’t break. They made it to the two breaches. She saw one widen as she took the scrying orb. Saw flashes of [Fireballs]. Swords and spears jabbing as the squads tried to move in—the light of magic, and a knot of the [Soldiers] breaking, falling off one of the [Light Bridges].
“Heh. Boulder trap. Nice.”
A Redfang said that. Shineshield. No one laughed. The Redfangs just sat, like the [Goblin Slayers] in their way, marking themselves with their own warpaints.
Waiting. Rags spoke, voice precise and flat.
“The first wave is falling back. Second wave incoming.”
The army pressed up against Goblinhome, then moved back like the tide. Too many casualties, Rags guessed, or they’d just gotten an order to retreat. The second wave hit Goblinhome without a chance to rest; not pressed against the fortress, oh no. The rest of the army just sat behind their shields, bombarding the Goblins. Too smart to bunch up.
They’re pushing in too fast. Goblinhome was made to defend against this kind of attack. Something’s wrong. The [Goblin Slayers] must have too many powerful Skills.
The second wave never left the walls. As the third one mustered forwards, Rags could see them moving into the breaches. How many? A hundred? Two hundred?
They’ve got rooms to collapse; they can make the attackers dig through them—unless they’re overwhelmed too fast to trigger the traps. Unless there’s a terror Skill like Elia Arcsinger has at work or—or they’re just dying.
Everyone was looking to her. Snapjaw, trembling as she held a spear, and Icecube, her Wyvern, making a whining sound. Student Rags watched the third wave reach the no man’s land and spoke.
“Let’s go.”
She rose, and Leapwolf’s Carn Wolf and the other Redfangs were already riding downhill. Slowly, at first; they were over a thousand feet away from 2nd Army’s position.
An anthill of thousands of soldiers, and Rags had less than two hundred here. Frost Wyverns tensed as Goblins jumped onto their backs, placing bolts in their crossbows.
Trueshot didn’t move. Her Thunderbow was set up; she would pop up once they came her way. Shoot down as many Drakes as she could.
There was no Wyvern who could carry her, not if every team fell back. So she and her squad stayed put.
Prixall whispered a spell as Snapjaw flew first over the hilltop, and Rags saw Snapjaw’s spear glowing, saw the Hobgoblin lift it with effort. It was weighed down with pain of Goblins, with death and suffering and hope, heaviest of all.
 
Snapjaw, Primary Target: Ballistae #1. 
Orders: Throw it through the ballistae. Without that, they can’t crack the walls. Break the other one with Icecube. Don’t just frost breath it. Break it beyond their ability to repair.
 
All pieces in place, everyone with their instructions, save for her. Student Rags was last to go down. She took a step, realized she’d made a mistake, and tapped her shoes together.
Her wheeled skates popped out, and the Goblin leaned forwards, beginning to skate down the rocky terrain. Terrible conditions for it—so she hopped.
[Apista’s Jetflame]. The burst of green flames propelled her down, and she angled the jets up, saving her from breaking her legs as she hopped off a flat boulder, skated down the cliff, and her heart leapt.
No Skills. Not yet.
No [Call for Aid]. She was out of it since the Draconic Titan fight.
I should have let them all die. She wished she could think like that, but the Dragonlord of Flames, even Shirka…
Why are you doing this? She saw that painted helmet turn. Saw the army move as the Redfangs began to howl, far, far too far away. They’d been spotted too quick. Didn’t matter.
“They’re firing!”
Snapjaw screamed down at Student Rags as the ballistae spun. Redirection Skill? They were heavy, thousands of pounds. She saw archers and waited until the arms drew back, then let go, saw the ballistae thunk—a terrifying heartbeat as she forced herself to wait one second—
[Unit: Teleportation Advance].
She, the Redfangs, the Goblins running behind them—blinked out of existence and appeared leftwards, down the valley’s side. Student Rags stumbled as her skates hit the ground, and she almost fell, windmilling her arms—she heard a roar of sound, and the air kicked her slightly.
Smoke and craters, collapsing stone—the first volley had missed. The Goblins shot down, and Student Rags put all the magic she had into the jetflame spell. Now, she moved ahead of Leapwolf, ignoring his shouts. The Hobgoblin [Student] flew down the slope as it became more traversable, and she saw the first rank of [Soldiers] with their spears lowered. Ready for the charge.
[Unit: Champions of the Brass Dragon]. Student Rags felt golden armor covering her body and knew the rest of the Redfangs and diving Frost Wyverns had it on too. Scaled, beautiful armor, polished brass. In her case, it also became a helmet and armguards, like she was a skater from Kevin’s world, a scaled, lightweight set of armor.
So cool. She jumped as the [Soldiers] gazed at her, an arrow snapping over her shoulder, falling now. They were a wall between the Redfangs and the rest of 2nd Army moving into position. Break the wall.
Never attack an enemy who’s waiting for you. Also, the Professor said, sometimes you broke your rules. Let it be for a good reason.
“[Rocket Kick].”
Her foot didn’t touch the spears; she pivoted, transferring all her motion into a kick and activated her Skill before she could run into the wall of [Soldiers]. All the momentum and fire into a single blow that scattered them like leaves, left a roaring in her ears, and nearly broke her foot.
Last trick.
[Mentor’s Skill – Vanguard of Terror]. The Redfangs howled as they raced into enemy lines, and Student Rags was done. Then she just had a shortsword, and she was swinging it, yelling.
None of her other Skills needed. Plan executed. Good job.
One last Skill. Because she was a child. A child from a beautiful world where she was allowed to be one for a tiny little bit.
[Remote Submit Assignment].
Far, far away, a scroll popped onto the desk of the Titan of Baleros and lay there, unread, for he was busy watching. No one touched it until a little Frost Faerie picked it up and carried it to him, and then the Professor read the words from a student he’d never had.
 
Essay: The Sacrifice of the [Strategist], by Rags.
 
Dear Professor,
When I first came to your Academy, in my world, you had a list of your rules written out and invited us to copy them and leave if we so chose, because it encapsulated much of your teachings and curriculum. You invited us to choose the ones that resonated with us.
‘The duty of a [Strategist] is to be the last one alive.’ That was not one I chose, but I recall it vividly. The duty, you argue, is that a [Strategist] should never be an officer. If we were, we would have a different class. I disagree; sometimes, the [Strategist] must take to the front.
In your self-analysis of your own class as a pure [Strategist], you admit that you, Professor, have [Charge of the Strategist] as a fundamental Skill invaluable in pressuring the enemy. (Apologies, I have no citations at this time.) Naturally, your comment to Venaz, at that time, was that the Skill is a subversion and counter to the perils of a [Strategist] and an unwise invitation to over-aggression and risk. Nevertheless, this Skill tacitly indicates that, sometimes, the [Strategist] does charge.
Fundamentally, I believe the point is moot from a technical level: your general rule is meant to be taken by the spirit, not letter of the law. The [Strategist] does what is unexpected. This essay does not set forth to argue the tactical improvisation of any good [Strategist], but to state the morality of the case.
