A wearied man with a black scarf over well-worn black clothing, standing like a nobleman of the land itself with the dignity of a quiet king of the night. A warrior, the scythe gripped in his hands. And if Ishkr noticed it…the [Alchemist] spoke.
“You look familiar.”
“I can’t be. I have a very forgettable face.”
“Maybe it was a cousin. You ever fought Goblins?”
“I remember the last Goblin King’s face.”
Elia Arcsinger turned to Himilt, and a third veteran of the Antinium Wars traded a cool look with the [Alchemist]. The Drake grinned.
“Which army?”
“Irregulars. Who didn’t fight the Goblin King’s armies?”
Elosaith grinned.
“They never made it to Rheirgest. Not much over where we were, I suppose. Some of the younger folk went off and never came back. Are you sure?”
Himilt shook a few droplets of water off his wide-brimmed farmer’s hat. He smiled, a tiny half-twitch of his lips, as if even this was only to be expected. The way he checked and re-checked his grip on his scythe betrayed his actual tension.
“Colfa’s late for lunch.”
Perhaps he didn’t fully believe it yet, like that shred of doubt that was in Ishkr’ chest, even now, even after all he’d seen. But then again—perhaps Himilt had been there before.
They all had their reasons not to run away.
The door to the common room opened, and Saliss twitched; he had the vial ready to throw, then had lowered it in a blink of an eye.
“Hey, pal. I hear you’re causing trouble in Pallass. What’s up?”
Numbtongue. He was limping down the hallway, his Dragonblood crystal sword in hand. He shouted at them.
“The Goblin King! He’s—”
“We heard. Door’s that way.”
The [Sybarite Soulbard] slowed when he came to them. He almost went for the portal door. He turned…then hesitated. Stopped, as if he was unable to go through the door. Then he cursed.
“We’re going to die.”
Saliss’ voice was steady.
“Maybe. You gonna give us a tune or what?”
“What?”
The Goblin gave Saliss a pop-eyed stare, and the [Alchemist] gestured at the guitar on Numbtongue’s back.
“You’re a [Bard]. Music. That sword’s worth shit to me.”
Uncertainly, the Goblin pulled the guitar off his back and stared at it. This was surely not the time for music, but to everyone’s surprise, Thallisa snapped her fingers.
“Ideal. That’s just the thing. Mind if I join in? [Copy Tool].”
She reached out and plucked a second guitar out of Numbtongue’s hands. He recoiled, and the Witch raised her brows.
“Haven’t you heard I love music?”
Ishkr remembered—Thallisa was usually accompanied by a burst of music. But he’d forgotten that; her other notable trick was using a tree like a broomstick.
The [Soulbard] didn’t react, so Thallisa took the initiative.
Witch Thallisa strummed on the guitar, and the music sounded like the Singer of Terandria’s music. Pop. Numbtongue blinked at her as his bass tried to synchronize with the wailing of Thallisa’s guitar.
The first of Numbtongue’s musical Skills began to activate, and Thallisa’s magic flashed over Ishkr’s fur. He felt his hair rising not just because of the static-electricity. Saliss began laughing.
“You can all run. No one will ever know or blame you, save yourselves. This is madness. And you—what the hell are you doing here? I can’t stop the others, but I’ll throw you through that door. Mirn!”
He roared, spittle coming out of his mouth, and the [Protector] drew his sword.
“I delivered your orders. But then I heard what you said. The Goblin King. Did you think you were the only idiot with a grudge? I was in the Second Antinium War, same as you.”
Saliss went to shove Mirn, but the Drake ignored him. Then the [Alchemist] spun. His eyes flashed across them.
Grimalkin, Pryde, Elosaith, Elia Arcsinger, Ishkr, Mirn, Himilt, Thallisa, Liska, and Numbtongue—the Drake spoke slowly.
“Listen to me. This isn’t your job. You know where Relc is? Guarding people. The Archmage of Izril likewise. This is death. You can go. No one will ever blame you or know. You understand that, right?”
He spoke to Elia, and she shivered and sighed. But she didn’t lower her bow. Saliss gazed at Mirn, at Grimalkin, and shook his head ruefully. Thallisa and Numbtongue were in harmony now, and the [Witch]’s strumming intensified.
Suddenly, there was a spotlight shining down on them from above. A miniature concert—Ishkr heard Saliss’ voice rising above the music, like a counterpoint. The Drake was laughing to himself. He strode forwards.
“Some days, you run away when nothing’s on the line but pride or money. Every other day, you hold the line, and the world breaks or you do. Because there is no one else. You’re the last line in the sand. Got that, you cute rookies? It’s your turn next.”
“For what, Level 50?”
Pryde was cracking her knuckles, and Saliss just snorted at her.
“To be called that silly word by everyone. ‘Heroes’. It’s so hard to run after the first time you forget to. Now—ah. He’s here.”
The [Alchemist] turned, and Ishkr felt something run through him. He heard the door of the [Garden of Sanctuary] crack, and he ripped at the fur on his chest, feeling a phantom pain like something tearing apart there. Someone was trying to leave the [Garden]. And someone else trying to stop him.
Erin—!
Then—silence. The pain dissipated. A door creaked as it came open, and nothing stirred in the empty common room. It was like the world had held its breath, but they felt it.
An oppressive presence, like a sword aimed at their chests. It was like someone was breathing, just inside the inn. A vast, horrifically angry presence, leaking out of the broken [Garden of Sanctuary].
Once more, sanctuary ended. The door became just a door, and his hand was upon the handle.
Saliss whispered.
“Yeah, that’s the angry bastard. Fuck. He feels stronger than last time.”
“Liska—go. Get out of here.”
Ishkr said it faintly as he raised his mug. Pryde gripped Grimalkin’s claw, then let go. Thallisa finished playing, and the guitar vanished in a cloud of sparks. She lifted the hat from her head and pulled a wand from it like a [Magician]. She took aim at the door as Numbtongue’s song faltered, then continued.
Like the backdrop to Ishkr’s racing heart. Elosaith and Himilt stood next to each other, two weary farmers of different kinds—and Himilt took one hand off his scythe, and Elosaith let go of his staff with his right hand.
They shook hands, and nodded at each other.
Everyone waited—as the Goblin King mused inside the [Garden of Sanctuary]. A timeless, terribly long moment where Ishkr’s heart was beating out of his chest. Waiting, waiting for what felt like forever as sweat ran through his fur.
Then he heard a voice. A rumbling roar deep in the chest, building and vibrating every copper nail in the inn.
The Goblin King. Ishkr’s insides clenched, and he tensed—but the roar didn’t immediately fill the inn. It halted, and someone gasped.
“No.”
Every head turned. Saliss pivoted—and she was right there.
Liska.
The [Doorgnoll]’s arm was thrown out. Her eyes were wide with terror, and her fur was standing on end. She had her back to the wall, and her arms were spread.
As if she were trying to hold something back with all her might. With all her Skills.
The door to the [Garden]. It was broken but she was holding it closed with all her might. Ishkr’s eyes went round.
“Liska! What are you doing?”
The [Doorgnoll] didn’t respond. Sweat was running down her brows, and she was straining against something.
[Enhanced Strength: Door]. [Hold Door]. [Lock Door]. [Lesser Forcewall]—
Every single Skill she had was going into holding the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door from the inside. The [Innkeeper] was helping her. But she was up against him.
The Goblin King.
For a second—Liska’s eyes bulged as she screamed.
“He’s coming out—”
“The hallway! Put him in the hallway! Don’t hold him or he’ll kill you!”
Saliss roared. Liska’s feet were sliding across the ground, though there was nothing to move her. Ahead of them—the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door appeared down the hallway.
“No! No, you can’t! No—”
“Liska!”
Ishkr howled. He saw his sister’s eyes close—her slide halted. Then he heard a crack. She screamed, once, and he swore he saw a claw grab her and push—
Saliss spun, yanked a potion from his belt, and threw at the same time as Grimalkin pointed with Thallisa.
“[Levitate]!”
“[Elastic Form]!”
Saliss’ vial burst into what seemed to be green clouds—and Liska vanished as something threw her. She hit the wall of the inn so hard that Ishkr felt it.
“Liska?”
There was no response. Ishkr whirled, took a step, then turned his head.
The door was open. A helmeted figure stood in the [Garden of Sanctuary], burning with black flames covering him. Red light shone at them through his ruined visor, and his armor was covered in blood.
The Goblin King took a single step into the inn, and it was quiet. So silent that Ishkr realized he wasn’t hearing his heart beating anymore. Nor the rain.
Trembling. A faint rumble. It wasn’t the inn. Nor the Floodplains or the waters outside. The Goblin King took a second step into the world, exiting the [Garden of Sanctuary], and the door vanished.
The High Passes started shaking as every [Dangersense] on the continent went off. Every monarch in the world felt it.
 
——
 
The Blighted King napped after lunch and his treatment of alchemy, magic, and chronomancy. He was leaning on one fist on his throne when he sat up and clutched at his chest.
“What? No. No, it can’t be.”
“Your Majesty?”
His servants spun, and the Blighted King’s mouth formed an ‘o’ of horror. He listened to the ringing alarm in his head that he had heard only once before. Like the screaming of Goblins. Othius spoke with a trembling voice.
“Not him. Not now.”
 
——
 
The Goblin Isle had gone quiet. Every bird froze with wings open wide, but it was as if someone had cast [Stasis] on them. The Goblins had halted, as if they had just heard a voice calling to them.
It was the Goblin Lord, Izikere the Guardian, who stood.
Her calm face had turned to confusion, then a kind of agony. She spoke in the perfect Goblin language she’d been taught in this protected place that he had created generations ago.
“Not him. Impossible. There was no warning. How? Kanadith gave no message. It’s not Kanadith nor Greydath nor Wirothe. There are no others nearly strong enough. So who…?”
This presence. This…rage was unmistakable. But it was familiar. Like that new—her eyes widened. Izikere’s head spun, first to the northeast, then northwest of her island. Impossible. He’d barely awoken. It couldn’t be—
 
——
 
The Goblin Lord of Heralds felt it too. They all did.
But it was they who were most surprised. For they were Kanadith. The Goblin Lord of Baleros, one of those who watched and waited, even among Goblin Lords. That was their role and duty.
Kanadith the Herald. Proclaimer of the Goblin King. Just like Kanadith had once foreseen Velan the Kind, the Goblin Lord had the gift of proclamation. Of knowing when the hour came.
“…Him. But not him.”
The Goblin Lord spoke in the midst of a frenzy. Goblins were shrieking, raising their weapons for war, swept into that familiar rage, but Kanadith lifted a hand, and quiet fell.
“This is wrong.”
“Lord Kanadith!”
A Goblin wearing a Naga costume bounded forwards, grinning in delight, but also confusion. She was one of Kanadith’s helpers, and her mother was one of the greatest Goblins of Baleros. She stopped in front of the Herald.
“What’s going on? Goblin King back! Why are your bells not ringing?”
Kanadith the Herald should have rung them already, but the great bell upon their back was silent. The Herald spoke, eyes narrowed.
“…There are two of them. One is right here, on our soil. The other…Izril.”
“Two what?”
“The same Goblin. Not exactly—but it is him. Be quiet. Be silent.”
Kanadith spoke, and the Goblins fell silent. The Herald stood. Closing their eyes, trying to sense what was going on from so far away. One eye opened and fixed on the nearest Goblin.
“Find the Champion. Find him right now.”
Then the Herald waited. Two or not—they could feel the Goblin King’s rage from here. The world would quake. Kanadith’s head bowed.
“More death, mad King?”
There was no response to the Goblin Lord’s question, but Kanadith needed no answer. The answer was always the same.
 
——
 
They felt it in Pallass. The proximity to the [Portal Door] in their city meant that the [Soldiers] in front of it felt the shockwave of terror in their [Dangersenses]. Then the alarms redoubled in volume, but it was too late.
In his room, a drooling Drake woke up.
No one had gotten to him; they hadn’t even known where he was for a while. Chaldion of Pallass was always just at the inn, or in his rooms. No longer surrounded and monitored at all times. Comatose. His head didn’t rise from his wheelchair, nor did he stand.
He just…started giggling. Laughing and wheezing as his head lolled back. His rheumy gaze focused as he heard the alarms growing louder, and then he fell back against his chair.
Laughing harder. Chortling with uncontrolled mirth, then what sounded like genuine amusement and delight.
That was how they found him when they rushed into his room, shouting for him—the [Healer], the [Soldiers]—a Drake laughing as tears streamed from his eyes.
Like the only person in the entire City of Inventions who got the joke. Laughing as they wheeled him out of his apartment, begging for orders.
His head merely rose, and he grinned up at the 5th Floor.
Waiting.
 
——
 
The Goblin King stood there and plunged the world into chaos. Sovereign rulers felt him appear, a challenger to every throne. A hand grasping for their necks.
The High Passes shook, and the tribe of people at the top who had waited for Goblins to climb and claim their King’s reward sighed. Not in despair, but disappointment for a noble [Healer]’s dreams.
Once more, there would be only death.
He stood there, head swivelling right and left, for all of half a second. Then he caught the vial Saliss threw at him.
It detonated anyways. A searing bolt of lightning emerging from the vial—until the Goblin King compressed it in his hands. Closed his grip on the lightning and made it vanish.
His eyes focused on the Drake, and he charged. Down the [Long Hallway] as the Sinew Magus threw a [Siege Fireball].
A second bolt of lightning crackled down from Numbtongue’s guitar—the Goblin King ran past it before it touched down. He burst through the [Siege Fireball] and pulled the flames in his wake.
“Two of them?”
The Hobgoblin whispered as he dropped his guitar. No one understood what he meant. The Goblin King was moving faster.
