“I desire the end of the six you saw. They will devour everything. I am the lesser threat than they are. I always have been.”
The Goblin King’s voice was oddly smooth, even melodic, despite his injuries. One of the Teriarchs was nodding slowly before he caught himself.
Negotiation Skills. The Goblin King could do anything—even use Skills on them. The Superman Teriarch’s eyes narrowed, and he furled and unfurled his wings.
“Those six are…contained.”
“Hah. You think so? You saw them destroy your fellow Dragonlords. They can devour worlds. My power is nothing to them. I know them well. They are my enemies. Make peace and I will ally with you to bring them down. If it can be done. I must…awaken the old souls who wait for this day. I must reclaim their weapons. The Elves surely left something.”
The Goblin King was musing to himself, now, thinking more clearly. Yes. Weapons. There had to be…the ghosts had said the Gnomes had tricked Emerrhain.
Those boxes. Peace was a growing appeal to both him and Dragons. One whispered loudly—the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars. He seemed to be feeling his missing eye, and the version of them who’d fought Crelers in the last great war…stepped back a bit.
Coward! More than one shouted at him in their heads, but he was them.
Always them. And he was nodding back towards the [Palace of Fates]. Collapsed or not…wasn’t that door still open? Could they leave? Another treacherous thought. But even if they didn’t, the Goblin King was right, and the Creler Wars’ hero spoke slowly.
“A common foe, my peers. Think on it. If Tam—the bearded one regains his authority, for instance? Or the Crone?”
Another Teriarch glared at him for breaking ranks. Then the Beach Teriarch’s voice grew hesitant.
“Sheta will never make peace, even if we agreed. We—we never told her about them. We couldn’t. We couldn’t even tell Nirayicel.”
The Goblin King tilted his head. Interesting. Not even his own daughter? All the Teriarchs flinched as the Goblin King analyzed this. He cared little for the Harpy Empress and her empire, but she was a significant obstacle. This was a flaw he could exploit. One of the Teriarchs folded his wings.
“We never told her about—them—because it was sacrosanct. What we knew was also—incomplete. Though we are the most knowledgeable beings in the history of the world.”
He said that, the fifty-something thousand year-old Dragon, and the others nodded until the Goblin King laughed. They glared at him, and he spoke.
“I am older than you, Dragonlords of Flames. Far older. What do you know? Your father’s tales of war, if he even fought?”
“My grandfather did. That is—it was relayed accurately! As accurately as could be!”
One of the Teriarchs grew uncertain and coughed into his claw. The Goblin King tapped his chest. Now, he was also involved in this conversation, rare earnesty replacing his rage.
“I was there. I knew them all. You know, what? Stories of the war? Was your grandfather one of the truly ancient Dragons who followed some of the Gods between worlds? Or merely a hatchling in the aeons they let the first nations thrive? I…I was but a child, but first of them, and my parents let me visit their cities and listen to the most powerful of the mortals, who stood shoulder-to-shoulder with demigods. I knew their names, all of them. I visited their temples.”
Now, even the Dragonlords were glancing at each other uncertainly. Because they did not know this. They hesitated, and the Goblin King knew he had them. Greedy, Dragons were always greedy, just in different ways from Wyrms. The ‘good’ ones just valued different things: respect, knowledge, goodwill. And they hated thinking they didn’t know everything.
“Dragons flew from other realities to…pah. I know the names of the six. Tamaroth, Cauwine, Kasigna…”
One of the Teriarchs stopped and glanced up for some reason. But there was no aid coming; they’d left the mortals behind. The Dragonlord from the Creler Wars nodded.
“Emerrhain, Norechl, Laedonius Deviy. And more. I know the primary gods of each pantheon, Goblin King. Your knowledge does not exceed ours.”
More laughter. He was laughing? Yes, the Goblin King was enjoying this, especially because he saw some of their faces turning more and more uncertain.
“You know their names. Tell me, then. Who lies in Rhir’s soil?”
Then, the Dragonlords of Flame were silent. One bit his lip. The Archmage of Scales blustered.
“Well, it could be any number of—”
“I know who fell and died, each and every spot. I saw the sword that made Giants seem tiny plunge into the heart of the God of Summer’s chest and end him as it tore a hole through this entire world. Raesitoq. I know the gods of the afterlife, those who were able to make them—Hellsteni, Kasigna, and Diotrichne, and those who were lesser to them. That Seamwalker who appeared in the lands of the dead—? Do you even know of it? That one came from Iyedoth’s body, surely. The God of Time himself fell in that battle. Though he died a decade before that, never knowing how he ended.”
The Goblin King saw the Teriarchs glancing at each other, and the Creler Wars Teriarch closed his eyes, thinking out loud.
“They truly are beyond us and, perhaps, even you alone, Goblin King. Tamaroth, the God of Rulers, Norechl, the God of the Lost, Emerrhain, the God of Magic, Laedonius Deviy, the God of the Dance, Cauwine, the Goddess of Last Stands—all live. It is evident, nay, self-evident more might have lived. In which case we should prepare for Isthekenous, perhaps, or Diotrichne or Quaalev or Zetigh the Tricker—or is it Zetigge the Trickster? The Pantheon of Oiglis, perhaps, and dare I say…?”
He was listing the dead gods as the other Teriarchs stared at him. After naming two dead gods, the Archmage of Scales coughed and slapped his tail. Another stomped on the Dragonlord of the Creler Wars’ foot, and the Goblin King didn’t understand.
Why were they staring upwards suddenly, growing apprehensive? There was no magic there. And why was…
Why is he listing out the names of the dead gods like that?
Too late, the Goblin King smelled a rat. A giant, golden-scaled rat, who broke off talking abruptly.
“That should do it. Run!”
He whipped around, and the Goblin King raised his sword as the Creler Wars Teriarch opened his wings and—leapt into the air? All five Dragonlords whirled and ran.
The Goblin King slashed through one of their flanks, eliciting a roar of pain and blood, but they just fled. No spells, no Dragonfire—the Goblin King looked right, left for the trap, for the reinforcements.
Then he gazed up at something he had never, ever seen before.
“…The moon?”
The green moon hung in the sky, defying the daylight, and the Goblin King saw the shining green surface of the moon—his vision amplified, and he could see the magic on it. No…written magic?
Was there a spell written on the surface of the moon? No—were those trees? He had never looked, never bothered to—but surely someone would have noticed.
“An illusion? Is there a man on the…”
There was. Even his eyes strained to see it, and even Rabbiteater’s soul was caught in momentary wonder. The moon shone brighter and brighter. Then the light vanished from the top and bottom. Such that it seemed like the moon winked at the Goblin King.
He recoiled—and the Halfling dropped down to the world below, faster than the speed of sound. He landed, and the High Passes quaked once more. Then froze as a figure ripped through the dust and raised his sword.
The Goblin King and the Halfling on the moon locked gazes as five Brass Dragons peeked around a boulder. Stunned, the two warriors stood there, weapons raised.
It was hard to say who was the most shocked.
 
——
 
2nd Army of Pallass felt the earthquakes. It certainly felt the Goblin King appear. How could one not? And it wavered.
The soldiers did. The officers. An army was many things, and it could revolt, waver, or even break.
What was the correct decision? Pallass wasn’t answering, or rather, they kept getting different orders. Fall back to Pallass via the door. Then—since that was idiotic and the door would never take them, hold position.
Engage. Head to the Floodplains, as if they could make it in even a day—prepare [Scouts].
Chaos in High Command meant it went local. Did they fall back and engage…the Goblin King? Even if you believed he was somehow here, they were out of position. The regular [Soldiers] were afraid, nervous, not sure what was going on.
They wouldn’t have…run. Or deserted. Never that. They were Pallass’ finest. Veteran soldiers. However, the officers were talking, and some of the squads of soldiers were leaning on their [Captain] to deliver a message to the higher-ups, or pulling the [Sergeant] aside to demand to know what was happening.
2nd Army talked to itself. It had a will and an understanding about who was in charge in Pallass, right now. Their orders were bad. General Shirka was relieved of command along with a third of the army; there was a damn Goblin King around.
No, they wouldn’t have deserted. But they might have decided to demand their [General]’s return until they took any more orders. The tension and fear in the air was palpable, but one group kept things moving, kept giving orders.
The [Goblin Slayers]. They were calm, a rock of solidarity and authority that overruled everything else. Because, you see, they believed.
Colonel Rathiss knew not how nor why so soon, in the absence of a Goblin Lord—for he did know how Goblin Kings arose, at least in part—but he knew the foe. He gave the call that made sense to him.
“Wipe the Goblins out. Right now. Odds are it’s related to the Flooded Waters tribe’s Chieftain. This is the Goblin King’s army. Eradicate it before he can take command. Take the Kraken Eaters. Advance.”
The stakes for this battle changed. Instead of eliminating one tribe, they were eradicating the force that might sweep Izril with war. They had to kill the Goblins of Goblinhome. The problem was speed.
The siege was in its eighth hour already. But if they advanced too soon, 2nd Army would bleed too much. And they had the remnants of the Flooded Waters tribe that had fought the Titan to think of.
The moment was coming. The thump of the ballistae firing was background noise. The two that 2nd Army had would loose, one then the other. The thump of the compressed coils of string releasing all their kinetic energy and discharging an enchanted bolt, all wood except the tip, then the clicking of the [Soldiers] rewinding it.
Thump. Click-click-click-click-click.
Thump. Click-click-click-click-click.
Then—the shout.
“Incoming! [Counterfire]!”
A rending of metal on metal. Screams, the thunder of a bolt launched from Goblinhome snapping on shields and barrier spells. Voices calling for a [Battlefield Healer]. Shouts of order being restored.
Then boots moving.
Thudthudthudthud.
Thudthudthudthud.
Their front line was engaged with Goblinhome’s forces. All ranged fire; 2nd Army’s people sat behind their tower shields and mobile stands of metal, popping up to fire, exchanging shots with the Goblins in the fortress.
Ugly work. Soldiers fell, usually not dead unless the shot hit them in the heart or eye exactly—mostly screaming, being pulled back behind their lines. The Goblins and their damn ‘Thunderbows’ could pierce steel, so the [Soldiers] had to constantly reset their shields, brace, and watch out for tricks.
Twice now, the enemy had attacked from their bunkers in the rocks. Twice, they’d been beaten back, the tunnels or passageways re-collapsed. Oldbloods and [Mages] with flame spells had burnt everything in the tunnels to clear them out.
Neither side had come to blood yet. Lives were bleeding. But not the blood, not the clash where they would die, locked blade-to-blade with the enemy.
Not yet.
Pieces of Goblinhome kept falling. It was made of stone and wood. The wood burned, but the Goblins kept putting it out, and the wall wasn’t so easy to break. Well, pieces were—but there were more walls beneath.
Layers of a hive. Smart building. Can’t make an indestructible wall? Build one that comes away, piece by piece, shot by shot. Even as the [Soldiers] watched, another huge ‘plate’ of stone fell, crashing down, enough weight to be thousands of pounds of stone—revealing part of a hallway and fleeing figures.
You couldn’t even see them. Not yet. Just figures in crenellations. The damn ballistae of their own, firing.
Wait. Once 2nd Army breached a wide enough passageway into the fortress, then the order would come, the shields would rise, and they’d charge in. But wait—you could see an opening already, in the big doors. There had been a massive ballista in there that had almost taken theirs out. Counterfire had turned it into burning slag—but that wasn’t the opening.
That was a killzone. The ballistae were aiming at a breach to the right of the doors, exposing a gap in the fortress itself. The Goblins were fortifying that space with everything they had. There was another breach to the left of the main doors and one to the upper right; they could reach it with a [Lightbridge] spell if they had to, or earthworks.
Two breaches wide enough to let a dozen [Soldiers] flood in at once. Then—the attack.
Very soon.
A third sound, now. From the rear.
Rattatat-tic-rattatatta-tic.
The sound of drums interrupted by the [Drummers] striking the side of the military instruments they had. Then the low wail of horns.
Ooooaaaa. Oooooooaaaaaaa.
A strange moaning. Even the regular [Soldiers] not on the front turned back. Colonel Rathiss did not. He knew what it meant.
The [Goblin Slayers] numbered just under thirteen hundred. They weren’t gathered together in one platoon. That was tactically unsound. They had commands, leadership roles in many cases, or they were old veteran squads.
This was a custom amongst them. 2nd Army partook of it. Drums and horns, the only tools you got in the army. And blood and a bit of boot polish. A handful of dye since they had [Alchemists].
Blood from officers in a bowl. Polish and dye; simple alchemy. Red, a marking under an eye, just a line. Or a tally on the armor, one kept across careers and years.
Could be how many of them you’d killed. Could be a single marking. A slash on your armor, a handprint from a buddy.
The color didn’t come off until a Goblin was dead. It stuck until the next battle, until you were in the thick of it. It didn’t matter if you were a [Mage] or an [Archer] or a [Pikeman].
A line of [Soldiers], Drakes marking scales, Gnolls dipping their fur, Dullahans carefully tagging their armor, Garudas feathers.
Thudthudthudthud.
Thudthudthudthud.
