“What? Ridiculous—”
Grimalkin squared his shoulders, and Saliss pushed him. He was regarding Pryde now, and his voice was calm.
“You’re a big meatshield, but you’re under Level 50. Get lost. We only need Level 50 or higher here. Right, Thallisa?”
“Correct.”
The [Witch] adjusted her hat, and Ishkr felt Saliss nearly toss him through the [Portal Door]. He went flying—
—Teleported back behind the bar of the inn with a crash of breaking whiskey. Swearing, Ishkr leapt to his feet and charged back out of the common room. Grimalkin was still there too, despite Saliss’ orders.
“We’re not going.”
“You. Are. Going. To. Die.”
“Well, so are you if it’s the Goblin King. I have met him before. House Ulta did not run that day. Nor will it. I have every right to be here, Adventurer Saliss.”
Lady Pryde shoved past Grimalkin as he went sliding back. Saliss put a hand on her shoulder—and she didn’t budge. The [Alchemist] hesitated; he gripped her shoulder, and the floorboards shook under their feet. Then he let go with a broken laugh.
“Fair. Okay. Who’s still here? Elia? You going?”
He turned to her, and the half-Elf put an arrow to her bow. She was shaking. She had seen the Goblin King. But of them all…
She had never run. Not then, and not now. The [Ranger] spoke as she drew the arrow back.
“Give me a clean shot at him. He’s got armor on this time.”
Her quiet voice was trembling. Her entire body was, but her bow-arm was steady. It looked hilariously funny, only Ishkr had stopped laughing. His attention was on the door now. It was closed; he should have left it open.
“I-Ishkr? What’s going on? I heard something about a Goblin…”
Liska made everyone jump. She emerged from the Portal Room, and Ishkr whirled and shouted at her.
“Liska! Get to Liscor! Close the door and don’t let anyone out! Got it?”
“But what are you doing? Where’s Lyonette and—”
They still weren’t here. Ishkr turned to Elia, and Saliss took a step forwards.
“Should we—?”
“There are a lot of passageways in the palace. He could dodge them. But he’s coming this way.”
The [Alchemist] nodded. He had two potions in his claws, now. And he spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“I’m going to toss everything I’ve got. Don’t worry about getting hit. My Skill protects you from it. Understand?”
Everyone else nodded. Ishkr pushed Liska. Her eyes were round.
“Ishkr. Come with me.”
She grabbed at his arm, and he smiled at her.
“I have to see it myself. I let Erin down last time. I was so proud about Facestealer, but I wasn’t there at the Winter Solstice.”
“For what it’s worth, you have Pallass’ support, sir. We can pull a full company in here if it makes you feel better.”
Major Uraike was back from his speaking stone call with General Edellein, and Captain Fallma of the Eyes of Pallass had drawn a dagger. Saliss was gazing at Ishkr, eyes full of exasperation—then his head snapped up. So did Elosaith’s, and the [Necromancer] snapped.
“Undead.”
Ishkr thought Elosaith meant his own—then an oppressive weight covered Ishkr. His heart faltered in his chest, and he gasped, trying to draw breath through leaden lungs.
The door to the common room. Saliss took a step forwards as something rushed forwards. Then they saw it.
A giant skeleton’s head, one eyeflame glowing green as it faced them. Ishkr was turning to Elosaith, still thinking, dumbly, the [Necromancer] had animated it. Then he saw the old man’s face was dead white.
“Bone Giant! Eng—”
Saliss threw a handful of vials so fast that Ishkr didn’t even see them hit the Bone Giant. The explosion in the common room deafened him—he heard a roar of grinding bones. Then the door at the far end of the hallway exploded inwards.
The upper torso and head of a Bone Giant squeezed through the gaps and crawled at them—one arm and the remnants of a ribcage was all that was left of it, but it moved so fast, reached forwards with its right arm, pulling itself along, then dragging itself forwards in a blur.
A [Haste] spell. Its mouth opened, and Saliss howled.
“Cover!”
He swept Ishkr’s legs out and tossed Liska back into the portal room, and Ishkr swore he heard an echoing, horrifically vast voice speaking.
“[Mass Corpse Detonation]. [Deathblast].”
“N—”
Elosaith’s scream was the last thing Ishkr heard for a while. He hit the ground, rolled up—and saw a black wave of energy shooting towards him.
—He teleported again. Behind the bar. Ran out from behind it, deaf, and saw the chairs and tables were gone. A hole in the wall. A shaking [Knight] in front of the Unseen Emperor at the far end of the room—
Ishkr ran back through the hallway, and a second explosion nearly perforated him. Half the Bone Giant’s skull blew inwards as it crashed against magical barriers in front of Saliss and the others. Elia loosed an arrow, which blew apart more of the skull—it spoke a second time.
“[Bone Deton—]”
This time, Ishkr tossed himself backwards in time. He saw the spray of bones exit the hallway and punch holes through the far wall. A sprinkle of white fragments—he sat up, then shouted.
“Liska! Liska—”
When he rounded the corner, his ears were still ringing. What Ishkr saw was a flickering barrier going out. Destroyed walls. Shattered wall spells—and Saliss of Lights.
The Named-rank adventurer lowered the vial he had brought up to throw as Ishkr ran towards him. The Bone Giant was gone. It had exploded—Ishkr heard the voices of the others, raised over the ringing in their ears.
“Wh—what was—”
Relc lowered his spear. Fragments of bone stood out in his armor, and he reached down and yanked a piece out; it came away red, trailing blood. He was standing in front of Archmage Valeterisa. He turned to her.
“You alright?”
“Wh—wh—”
She was shaking, eyes wide. Ishkr realized everyone was alright; the door opened, and Liska appeared, open-mouthed.
“—detonated itself. Was that a minion?”
Saliss was speaking too-calmly. He stood there, inspecting the destroyed corridor as Major Uraike picked himself up and stared. It was Elosaith who replied, breathless.
“That was no minion. There was something in it. It got away. It—he—sacrificed the body.”
“Thought so. We’ve got a high-level [Necromancer] on the run, or a ghost. Or…well, fuck. Was that him?”
The [Alchemist] turned to Elosaith, and the leader of Rheirgest licked his lips.
“I never met…maybe?”
“They felt the same as the man I encountered. It was him. The Necromancer.”
Relc’s head swung to the Witch, Thallisa. She was wiping dust off her robes and grimaced as she nodded at the other two. Elia Arcsinger drew another arrow, and her face went paler.
The Necromancer. Relc’s arms jerked as he hugged Valeterisa. His scales had gone dead white. Saliss’ voice snapped.
“I want a confirmation—later. What’re the odds he just went to New Rheirgest?”
“None. He went north without stopping.”
Elosaith whispered, and the [Alchemist] nodded. His eyes flickered.
“Reset the wall spells. Barriers up.”
He stood in the hallway as Elosaith began casting, then turned and snapped.
“Get ready! That was just the warm-up!”
His eyes swept over Major Uraike, Captain Fallma—and Saliss caught himself and smiled. The [Major] had lost his grin. He pulled himself up.
“That was a Bone Giant. The [Necromancer] who can…that’s not him. He’s dead. This is—”
He was in shock. He wasn’t the only one. Relc was snapping his claws in front of Valeterisa.
“Valley. Valley—we have to—”
“The lowest [Necromancers] can cast [Deathblast] at is Level 50, unaided. Spontaneously controlling a Bone Giant w-with [Haste] and body transference is theoretically possible at that level—controlling other undead held by a hostile [Necromancer] is—”
She was babbling. Relc tried to get Valeterisa to focus. Saliss shouted in the Archmage’s face, spraying her with spit.
“Barriers!”
She flinched. Her eyes found Saliss, and—Relc turned. He met Elosaith’s gaze.
“The Necromancer? That guy? You’re sure?”
Elosaith didn’t reply; he just nodded tightly as more walls of bone rose. Relc twisted around, met Valeterisa’s eyes as she lifted a shaking hand—then he scooped her up into his arms.
“I’ll tell Zevara and the Council.”
“Relc?”
He strode into the portal room and turned back to Saliss.
“Sorry, I just—”
“Lovebirds don’t fight well. Get out of here.”
Saliss didn’t even glance at him. He jerked a thumb.
“You too, Sinew Magus.”
Sinew Magus Grimalkin hesitated. He turned to Pryde and nudged her. She didn’t move; the woman was adjusting the paper bag on her head, which had nearly been torn off. She wasn’t trembling; at least, not as visibly as Valeterisa. Grimalkin hesitated, then reached down.
He would have tried the same thing as Relc. But when he tried to lift her, he grunted, and his arms jerked downwards.
“[Pride is Weight]. Try that again and I will step on your foot with a thousand pounds.”
That was all the Lady of House Ulta said. Relc strode to the door to Liscor and paused.
“I’ll—”
Saliss snapped.
“Go.”
The [Spearmaster]’s shoulders hunched—then he gazed down. Valeterisa was trying to object. Before she could lift more than a hand, the Drake whirled and kicked the door open. He vanished into the rainy streets of Liscor, and Ishkr heard his raised voice.
“Man the walls! Get me the Antinium—”
The door slammed shut, and then someone else moved.
“Let’s go.”
Captain Fallma, the Dullahan from the Eyes of Pallass, grabbed Major Uraike. He didn’t react. He was holding his sword with a shaking hand. Eyes still locked on the corridor.
“But that’s not possible. Fallma, you saw that. Those barrier spells had to be weaker than normal. It just destroyed them and—that wasn’t—am I dreaming?”
She dragged him towards the door to Pallass as a [Doorgnoll] adjusted the dial, and Ishkr saw Liska’s face turning to the [Major]. The [Soldier] gaped at Saliss, and the [Alchemist] turned. His eyes were alight, yet without mirth or his usual sarcasm.
Instead, the naked Drake stood straighter and threw the crispest salute Ishkr had ever seen. So precise that the [Major] and [Captain] straightened, and the Drake actually returned it. Saliss’ voice was kind and authoritative.
“Yes, you are, Major Uraike. Go wake up. Then resign your commission.”
“Yes, sir.”
Ishkr thought he heard both of them say it. The door opened—closed—and Ishkr realized Saliss was eyeing him now.
“Well?”
Every piece of Ishkr wanted to run. His ears were still ringing, and he was about to piss himself. He couldn’t imagine slowing that Bone Horror. The Gnoll gazed down at the mug in his paws, still unbroken. Then he locked eyes with Saliss.
“If I run, I’ll have to run next time. I can’t fight properly. But I can expand a single Skill into a group Skill.”
Was that anything…? The [Alchemist] stopped, and his eyes flickered. Then he nodded once.
“Good. Use it on Pryde’s ego of invincibility. It’ll keep us all alive for one hit. Thallisa, buffs?”
“One second.”
The corridor was filled with walls of bones again, but their magical barriers were all gone. Grimalkin was recasting what he could. Ishkr turned to Thallisa.
The [Witch] was lifting her hat. And the last people were coming.
Not the beans in Saliss’ analogy of the world. Just corn. Just the mad, the insane, the determined. Ishkr’s head swung right, and Elia Arcsinger was checking her arrows, re-ordering them in her quiver. She met his gaze.
“If I still had it, I’d ask you to try it with [Line-Ender Shot].”
“Right. Sorry, it’s not that kind of Skill.”
“And I lost it. You should run, you know. Bird ran. She’s smart, for all she looks.”
Ishkr looked down at his feet.
“I’m too ashamed to.”
That made her grin and laugh, a soft, melodic chuckle. Her bow rose—she spun so fast she was pointing an arrow at the door behind them before Ishkr could even register the sound of it opening.
“Hey, stranger. The inn’s closed. Monster attack. You might want to turn around and leave.”
Saliss glanced over his shoulder; the Drake lowered the vial he’d been about to squirt at the drenched figure who strode into the inn and halted. Himilt wiped his mouth as rain came off his coat. Ishkr detected the unmistakable odor of vomit, but the Vampire merely inspected the damage.
“I heard an explosion. I swore something went out of the inn, northwards, towards the mountains.”
“Necromancer. The.”
Himilt val Lischelle-Drakle was not immune to incredible events. His eyebrows rose—then he took in the shattered corridor. His eyes flickered to Ishkr, Liska, the common room, and the man planted something on the ground in front of him.
It was…a scythe. The farmer was carrying just an ordinary reaping scythe, the kind you used on any harvest. For some reason, it made Ishkr shiver here and now.
The haft was solid wood, oak or something, but the blade appeared incredibly sharp, and the metal seemed darker than regular steel. Saliss eyed it. Then he jerked his head towards the shattered opening.
“Goblin King, apparently. Turn around and get out of here.”
The Vampire’s crimson irises shone, and his gloved hands tightened over the haft of the scythe.
“Again? Has anyone seen my wife?”
“Colfa? No—I think she’s still in the…palace. With Lyonette. Vaulont was with her.”
Ishkr realized he hadn’t seen her. Himilt checked the edge of his scythe, then took a few steps forwards. Grimalkin put out an arm.
“This palace is big enough for them to evade…he’s coming here. Master Lischelle-Drakle, I really would turn around.”
Pryde was eying the Vampire as Himilt’s gaze flicked to the others. His eyes focused on Elia, and then there was the ghost of a smile.
“It really is him. Colfa always tells me miraculous things happen in the inn, and I have only seen a few…and you intend to stop him.”
“Nope. Just get in the way.”
Saliss offered Himilt a cheerful smile. Thallisa murmured.
“I intend to stop him. What of you, Master Himilt?”
He turned to the door and the rain and closed it behind him. Then he leaned the scythe against one wall and adjusted his gloves.
“I’ve come too far to go back; my stomach turns when going over those damn bridges. And my scythe’s been humming all night long. It’s a family heirloom.”
A family heirloom. Ishkr was confused about the comment about bridges. Himilt meant the bridges over the hills? Over…ah.
Running water.
The Vampire took hold of the scythe again, and no one asked if he could use it in a fight. He stood there as Ryoka Griffin had once seen him, a farmer to his bones holding a simple agricultural tool.
