“—ill him.”
“We’re trying. Any ideas?”
Saliss of Lights was checking his potions stock, trying to think of some combination, any one that would work for sure on the Goblin King. So many high-level people…but none of them had time to synergize their powers.
That Harpy Empress had put the Goblin King on the ropes for a minute—but now she was standing on a hilltop, panting, looking far worse for wear.
Saliss’ head rose to her, and for a second, that vast bird-woman’s gaze found him. He saw her eyes were narrowed, dilated like a bird in hunting mode. Angry as a Demon, too.
She hadn’t given up the fight. Far from it; there was someone with a plan, like the old man. The problem was the setting, and, Saliss suspected, the Harpy’s overconfidence. She didn’t look like a [Warrior] class—the Goblin King was clearly desperate to keep her from activating her real Skills.
These Dragons, though. Copies of the one he’d met? They fought like every old veteran Saliss had ever known, taking potshots at the Goblin King, roaring curses, fighting dirty—one of them tried to activate some kind of landmine spell right under the Goblin King, but the damn bastard was too fast.
He was going for Liscor, leaping from hill to hill. He was too fast, too adaptive—and frankly, this terrain sucked. The water hid him, and the mortals were getting in the Dragonlords’ ways. But stopping him…even getting near him was a death sentence.
Old veterans. Saliss shivered as someone spoke. A huge Dragon’s head surfaced from the lake, and a Dragonlord—the one who had slept through Erin Solstice’s death, had hid away and lost his Magnolia, lost everything—gazed at the fleeing figure with his weary eyes.
“By the will of the last Empress of Harpies. The Goblin King dies. Cover me, you cowardly wretches.”
Xitegen and Saliss turned, but Teriarch didn’t mean them. He burst out of the water, pink Dragonfire roaring from his wings, and shot at the Goblin King. Then he seized the Goblin King in his talons.
The Goblin King had tried to dodge—but a treacherous soul in his body had stopped him. The Teriarch grabbed him and ascended.
Up.
Straight up as five more Dragonlords roared and flew after him. Away from the Empress of Harpies, who shrieked with loss and desperation. Calling for him to come back.
Saliss’ head rose, and he saw a pink comet flying upwards—a weaker glow than before. Then it became a twisting, golden bird. Wings beating—then turning. Falling.
A metal comet, tearing at a shard of grey metal lodged against his chest. Plummeting towards the High Passes.
Home.
 
——
 
He was so drained. He didn’t know how the others were on their feet. He longed to sleep. Even when he’d realized his world was vanishing and fled…
Now, he was tired. His flames were burning from his lungs, but they weren’t hot enough. Not for the figure digging its hands into his scales.
It hurt. The Dragonlord of Flames was falling, now, unable to sustain his magic. Barely sixteen seconds of flight. Rather embarrassing to show Sheta…
Oh, child. He’d failed her, his Magnolia, and so many. 
The Dragonlord of the world where ten years had passed was roaring now. Agony burned through his chest. Bloody hands were ripping out his scales. Stabbing into him. Into his guts, seeking his heart.
An agony he couldn’t bear. But he’d had worse. The Dragon breathed fire again and saw that helmet rise, crimson eyes staring at him.
I haven’t the strength to end you. Not again. The world was growing dark, and Teriarch…was so very exhausted. But he was still grinning, a bloody smile of triumph as he saw Sheta diving after him, his better reflections roaring.
He looked down—and that old cave was right there. Home.
He was almost h—
 
——
 
The impact shook the High Passes. The Goblin King arose from the corpse of the Dragonlord.
“Five left.”
He drew his sword, waiting, as the second pink comet roared down towards him. Tired he might be, but they died.
He did not. Nothing would stop him. There was no irritating soul of Rabbiteater trying to hold him back.
No one had the strength.
 
——
 
It was true. He was bested again. They called him a [Champion] when he only knew defeat.
Rabbiteater’s soul had no true form in this world. He was merely a piece of the Goblin King, a single note of himself in a tempest made of anger and hate.
He…remembered what he looked like. So if he looked like anything, it was a beaten warrior. Over a decade and a half of nothing but ash and defeat. His armor broken.
His family dead by his own hands. He had wept in the uncaring maelstrom of the Goblin King’s souls. Even now, even with all his determination and will—he couldn’t stop the Goblin King.
A cycle.
A helpless, weeping man watching the horrors that the being he was part of committed. Yes, he knew every reason. Every memory. But what shamed him, his agony, was that he was weaker. All his love and righteousness and morality meant nothing to the eighty-three souls raging in unison with the original.
Even now, Rabbiteater the Traitor stumbled through the empty wasteland of the Goblin King’s heart. There was nothing here but shining memories and dust. No future, no plans other than the dust and ash of everything.
Nevertheless, Rabbiteater’s soul kept going. He had promised Mrsha to try. But he could not win. These two things were true. So, he did the only other thing he could as the Goblin King raged against his foes.
It took Rabbiteater a long time to find the other souls amidst it all. When he came across them, they were…half there. Beings who were both themselves and part of this amalgamation they called the Goblin King.
Former Goblin Kings. Sóve, Velan; each and every Goblin King there had ever been was here. Four of them appeared as Rabbiteater called them from the void. Goblins as they had died, sitting around a fire.
Velan…glanced up, a broad-chested Goblin glowing with health, naturally grey hair cut with a bald-pate over his forehead. He looked middle-aged, though he couldn’t have been. He wore an open toga, like a philosopher-sage of older days.
Sóve was the short Goblin, a [Shaman] whose every gesture could have shaped the natural world, grinning with impish humor as she sat in the oversized enchanted robes made for her. A Goblin dreaming of an island.
“Hey.”
The four souls of the Goblin Kings regarded Rabbiteater. Two of them he did not know as well. They were all arrayed against him. Acting in tandem with the Goblin King. To best the Goblin King, Rabbiteater had to wrestle the soul of the original—and all of them.
Too much. They were ready to best him, to throw his soul back, and the [Champion] faced his enemies and knew he could not win. Not against Goblins who had been as determined as he, every bit as powerful, as desperate, as brave and glorious.
—So he didn’t come as the warrior, the [Champion]. Rabbiteater lifted a hand as the four rose to their feet, faces set. He smiled at the last of them. Velan the Kind, face swallowed by that mask of hatred the world knew.
But Rabbiteater knew his memories. So the Goblin King of Traitors walked forwards, the memory of a cape of blood swishing around his boots. His armor repaired and bright. He came amongst them as what he also was.
The [Knight]. And what they had needed him to be.
The Goblin King of Traitors sat around the memory of a fire, and the other four souls hesitated. His gaze found their faces, and the hostility in them faded to curiosity. A light of individuality.
Memory. Goblins were good at remembering things. Rabbiteater spoke softly.
“He’ll kill everything he can and die. Again. Maybe he’ll beat all the other Dragons and the Harpy. Maybe you agree with everything he’s done. But tell me—doesn’t it feel silly? To do the same thing again and again?”
He gazed into Velan’s eyes, and Velan the Kind blinked. Rabbiteater reached out, and the other Goblin King took his hand. Then sat as Sóve and the others paused.
“Will you listen to me? We are all part of him. Yes…that’s why it always continues. Someone once told me ‘insanity is doing the same thing over and over again’. But then an [Innkeeper] told me that wasn’t correct. So what are we? Not insane. Just stupid, maybe.”
Velan smiled, and his voice was far more educated than Rabbiteater’s. Someone who had read books, written them. A diplomat. A negotiator. A healer and alchemist, all in one.
“If we are, there is no way out. We are his rage. We are part of him. And so are you, even if it is your body. What could you offer us, Goblin King of Traitors?”
Rabbiteater smiled with that truly mad and crazy smile he had learned from the finest. The other Goblin King’s souls wavered, then sat and listened as more appeared out of the storm of his rage. Rabbiteater told them.
“Something new.”
He had a plan. A stupid plan, but they were listening. Rabbiteater just hoped he had time.
 
——
 
The first Dragonlord to die made the rest easier for the Goblin King. They were cowards at heart, even the mightiest of them.
Yes, and now he was remembering how to kill them properly. Only five. One of them came down towards him, howling in grief and rage.
“Dragonfire behind their wings to fly. Then acceleration spells. So predictable.”
He’d seen this trick before. Djinni had copied it. The Dragonlord of the Creler Wars came down like a comet, accelerating his body until he broke the sound barrier and hit the spot where the Goblin King had been standing with enough force to break every bone in a Stone Giant’s body.
Unstoppable—so the Goblin King teleported out of the way. An earthquake shook the High Passes a second time—and the Dragonlord lay there, stunned.
The other four would have broken their bones trying this. This one was merely incapacitated for a few seconds. He raised his head, snarling, looking around for the Goblin King, and the sword slashed across one of his eyes, blinding his left side.
The Goblin King had killed Dragonlords before. In Rabbiteater’s body, it was far easier. The Dragonlord lashed out on his blind side. His talons were sharp enough to slash through the Goblin King’s armor—his grip strong enough to crush Adamantine.
He hopped the leg and kicked the Dragonlord in the chest, sending him reeling back onto two legs. Then the Goblin King threw his spell as Teriarch aimed a [Ray of Incineration] spell at him.
He threw his sword through the spell, through Teriarch’s wing, and the shockwave cleaved the air apart. He’d seen [Heroes] do that. The Brass Dragon fell, clutching at his wing, trying to heal it, and the Goblin King raised a hand.
“[Return Weapon].”
—Ran at the snarling Dragon as he raised his head and peered just past him. Over his shoulder. The Goblin King turned. Then gazed up.
[Pentagram of the Five Alchemies]? Too slow to stop h—
His eyes locked onto the four Dragonlords diving in formation through the air. A star of magic connected them, and each one was breathing a different kind of Dragonfire. He began to run, then tried to teleport.
Too late.
The mobile [Pentagram of the Five Alchemies] activated as the Dragons crashed down around him. A perfect pentagram; the wounded Dragonlord became the fifth element and the ritual activated instantly around the Goblin King.
No tricks. No sealing. It just proposed a simple transmutation:
[Flesh to Air].
“Raaaaaaaaaaaagh!”
His entire body tried to—sublimate. The Goblin King’s armor collapsed, and then his body restabilized as he held it together with sheer will. The Dragonlords, panting, watched as a cloud of red air formed his eyes, and the pieces of armor rose around a body of gas that rematerialized.
The [Pentagram of the Five Alchemies] adjusted. Okay—how about the armor? The same way they killed the City of Shields?
The Goblin King’s armor exploded—then compressed as they reconfigured the pentagram into a bounded dimension only an inch across in any direction.
“Come on. Come on—”
One of the Teriarchs muttered as the new dimension made the air pop painfully as it compressed in an instant. The five Dragons stared at the tiny speck of air in the middle of the glowing pentagram—then a hand emerged, and the pentagram spell exploded.
The impact tossed one of the Teriarchs off his feet. The others just swayed, and the Archmage of Scales croaked, dry-mouthed.
“…This really doesn’t feel fair. What kind of Goblin King is this one supposed to be?”
A figure emerged from the hole in the air and stood, panting. Armor torn…but the Goblin King’s voice was still rasping.
“The [Champion].”
“And the other Goblin Lords didn’t kill you? They’re supposed to be smarter than this.”
The Archmage of Scales’ only reply was the Goblin King drawing his sword. The Dragons eyed each other, then the Creler Wars Teriarch. His good eye blazed as he folded his wings. Blood was running down his face, but his voice was steady as he spoke, voice crisp.
“You will not escape, Goblin King. I swear it. The five of us will die to kill you, and the nations of this world see you. Your death is inevitable. Roll over and die for us.”
As…negotiating tactics went, it felt to some of the Teriarchs that this wasn’t the best move. More than one shifted—they had come here to slay the Goblin King. Why were they talking?
Death it might be. The Goblin King had bested multiple Dragons, even multiple Dragonlords, more than once. They didn’t have a handy army. And he knew them.
However—the Goblin King was scanning the skies, and he had realized that the Empress of Harpies hadn’t followed them. Both they and he knew what she could do—or had been able to do.
How many of her Skills worked without the Iltanan Empire? And would they suffice to take down this insane monster empowered by the [Palace of Fates]? The Teriarchs tried not to let their uncertainty show, but the Goblin King must have lacked the same confidence, because to their surprise, he actually spoke rather than continue fighting.
“I will kill each one of you before you finish me. I propose a truce. We have both escaped the [Palace of Fates]. You have your will, I have mine. Seal it with your precious contracts. The Empress of Harpies is capable of that. A year of peace, even.”
The Creler Wars Teriarch hesitated. His eyes flicked towards the High Passes, then to the other Teriarchs, and they all had that same treacherous, coward’s thought. It always came at your weakest.
What could they do with five Teriarchs and the greatest [Empress] of Harpies ever to live? The Goblin King could amass his armies, but so might they. A year. They could do anything.
Save the world. Rebuild empire.
Beach Teriarch’s voice was husky.
“You desire only the world’s ending. There can be no truce with you.”
