“In Invictel, they found every Harpy they could. My subjects they feared to touch for what might happen if they did. I had offered the Dullahans every peace. Refused to scourge their armies and strike their cities. So they slaughtered them all. For no reason other than malice. Thus, the Dragonlord of Flames flew down and burnt the city to its foundations and earned his dreadful title. Pyrelord.”
She stopped, swallowed, then continued.
“That could not be forgiven. Yet every other attempt was made to those who beset us. Then, the dance of thrones, with the new Tyrants and Rulers and democracies and tribes, until they find they have more enemies vying for their thrones and the cost is ever too high to assail us. Battle by battle, demonstrating only restraint to one’s enemies.”
She stopped, and Laken croaked. It was as mad a plan as he’d thought.
“That’s monstrous. What drove you to it?”
Her reply was a weary laugh.
“My teacher. It was, you see, the moral thing to do. So he speculated, for he had seen how Empire dies and murders millions in its death throes. But never once had he found the Tyrant willing to place her own neck on the chopping block. No one had the will. He begged me to stop. The cost was still my people, murdered when the shadow of my sovereignty waned. War and war again.”
Until they came for her. Nesting in the remnants of the Empire she’d picked to pieces to save more lives than she killed.
Small wonder he remembered her, her teacher, the Dragonlord of Flames. His greatest student, the one who had taken his lessons so terribly deeply to heart that she had…Laken’s voice was shaking as he beheld the Empress of Wings.
“That—that makes no sense. You destroyed your empire to do what? Even as it was dying, it would still have been better to save what you could have! Your actions killed far more people than you saved! You killed your Empire and what happened? Walled Cities arose, other nations filled the void! How was the world made better?”
He had to know. The Empress of Wings whispered softly, and he shivered.
“Why, by breaking the Empire of Iltanus into smaller nations, of course. I did not leave Harpies to die. Oh, no. I carved and cut and built up each part of the dying nation of mine until they sprouted in the corpse of my beloved home. Vibrant, some enemies, others former friends. Nations so far from the bloated corpse they escaped.”
Sewing the seeds of future nations and civilizations without the same corruption or wars that had plagued her own. The crawling of Laken’s skin died down, and he sat there, trying to picture it in his mind.
Sheta’s voice was so very tired, now, but almost…satisfied.
“So many Walled Cities have fallen. So few nations remain that I knew. Yet I recall Oteslia, now. There was no Great Forest in Izril’s south. So I petitioned the trees, and the Walled Cities built on the branches of one of the Worldtrees for a seed from their homes, a cutting that might sprout. It died. Thus, I demanded it of them again. It failed to sprout. Again and again—until they told me there was a seed that had begun to sprout. Have I the time…I would at last wish to rest on its branches. Little though it still seems to be, and perhaps no better than the trees I knew, it did grow.”
So that was the kind of [Empress] she was. Nothing she had ever held remained. No trace of her empire. Not a shred of text, nor monument in her name, save for the memory of the last Dragons and Harpies. But would anything have remained even of the greatest empire to ever exist?
She was right next to Laken, now. A towering figure, he knew, who could snuff out his life with a single claw. And now he knew her—this monstrous being of both great morality and terrible, insane bloodshed. She whispered to him as she scrutinized him.
“So now you have heard my tale. Tell me: what is the purpose of the Tyrant, [Emperor]?”
He had to answer her. The answer was plucking itself out of his soul, as if she were reaching into his being and ripping it out of him. The [Emperor] responded slowly with the only answer he could. His belief.
“To grab and protect what no single man has the power to do. To enforce how the world should be, no matter what it takes. Then, ultimately—die. If he is the Tyrant I think of, then he must die or be overthrown and the Empire may collapse.”
“And if not? If it is the one I have known, and lived?”
She whispered to him. The [Emperor] beheld that image of the Empire of Harpies.
“…Then it is his job to do as he wills, and thinks best. Selfishly. As he wills, until the end. But regardless of whether or not the Empire is built under him and endures a thousand years, or falls to pieces by his own hand—the Tyrant must plant those seeds which he will never see. For they will never remember his face.”
Laken finished speaking, and held still. Sheta said nothing, above him.
He couldn’t see. Couldn’t hear her. Laken couldn’t move—and he imagined the open claw around him, poised to snap together and for her to tear him to pieces. Laken felt sweat rolling down his spine—and then she chuckled.
A weary chuckle, and she took a single step back, then he heard her wings opening in a rush. Sound was coming from outside; the [Immortal Moment] was ending. Laken heard the sound of voices from the inn. He could still feel the distant roar of Dragons, the howl of the Goblin King’s aura clashing with them, and Sheta’s vast will, equal to both. He realized she would judge him too. Just like the Goblin King.
That terrible Empress spread her wings and spoke, voice amused and weary. The voice he thought he’d heard when he sat upon his wooden throne. The sound of Empires dying.
“Live well, Unseen Emperor. You cannot see the place where my palace once was. Only know that it spanned every piece of land you stand on. However, if you ever wish to know who ruled this land—close your eyes and listen for the fluttering of wings.”
And then? He leaned back and shielded his face as his people rushed back into the [World’s Eye Theatre], shouting. Wind blew around him. Then she was gone, and he heard a scream as she flew back towards her battle.
The Unseen Emperor didn’t know what she would find or judge, but he sat there a second, breathing hard. He wondered, in this world, what might vanish before this day was over.
 
——
 
The last Dragon was almost dead as he flew down towards them, a wounded, smiling champion who wept a world of tears in his multicolored eyes. So unlike the Dragons that the Halfling remembered.
It was not size, for he had seen larger, truly ancient Dragons who had flown between realities. Dragon-Gods, even, the divine amongst their kind. Nor was it his shape, for they had come in so many forms.
It was merely his eyes. The heterochromia of the two irises, each a different color. It was a small thing to call odd when the Halfling had known Dragons of every mythology, of every world. He had dined in their treasuries and met them humbly or greedily as their legends indicated, urbane and witty, prideful and quicksilver intelligent.
The eyes were a trait of the Dragons who had come after. A quirk to make them…unique. To this world. It should not have rankled the Halfling, but it did each time he woke up.
This old warrior he had met three times before, this stranger whose name the Halfling had never known, whom he had never even exchanged a word with—should have been defined solely by chance, by heritage and the factors of luck, even fate. But not design. If he had multicolored eyes, be it a quirk of his birth, as the Gnomes said, part of the chains of information that made you up, spun anew with each child.
Not a requirement for the species. The same with language. He did not speak it, though he knew it. They had asked him not to speak when they gave him this charge, the last Elves. Lest he give more away. Lest he be tempted to speak more.
It was not hard. He came a warrior, a bloody blade in hand, a stone in his sling to offer only destruction, the most unkind of deeds.
It was not hard. (It was so very difficult.)
He danced that swift death-dance and then left, battles of minutes. That was not the problem. (Only innocence in their eyes, most of them. Fear as they saw him, blade in hand.)
This duty was necessary, his last, sacred charge. (Unneighborly. He no longer deserved the quiet gables to sleep under, the traveller’s offered bed, nor the passing smile.)
Unneighborly. A true insult among his people; the kind of insult you offered someone to their face and said it for all to hear. Other races used to laugh so to hear it, and they were allowed to. If you did not understand it, so be it.
But now…the Halfling held the shortsword that Dwarves had forged for him, the last great Smith-Queen, before she had put down her hammer and donned her armor for war.
This was a task he had to perform. He had to. He had volunteered, because there was no one else. No more warriors fit for it.
Just…empty-eyed faces. Eyes empty of tears. The slim, graceful forms of the last Elves, hunted now, by Sprigaena and the vengeful mortals as traitors.
(Hunt what? Hunt what? A gaunt face and shaking hands writing the last instructions out of magic? Men and women refusing to eat, wasting away day by day, unwilling to live with the cost of the war they had ‘won’?)
No—the Halfling blinked away the memories. Tried to avoid looking at the Dragons. Because if he did too long, he’d remember the way sunlight had once streamed through the membranes of a laughing Dragon’s wing as she held them open to block the rain while he pretended to nap.
He was just the Halfling. The warrior. That was what he was meant to be, and all those present were his foes.
The wounded Dragon, who joined the five watching him. This…armored warrior, and the four [Witches] swooping down.
Witches. Women in hats with the audacity to think they had to be here. Four of them. He tried not to care who they were. But then his eyes were drawn to the being in front of him.
He, the Halfling who had existed for over eighty thousand years on the moon in his eternal vigil, waking only to silence the voices who would remember the divine—locked eyes with the Goblin King for the first time during the Halfling’s long watch.
He felt compelled to speak. The Halfling broke with the Elves’ last request, for they had not expected this. Nor, he felt, had the Gnomes. And if the Graceful and the Witty could not predict this moment, why, they had chosen the Wisest for this long role.
So he spoke in but one tongue, haltingly, for the first time in eighty thousand years. One tongue; and he knew twenty-two and had not thought himself at all worldly.
Such a travesty.
“Êtes-vous celui que les Elfes ont présenté au symposium? Le premier des Gobelins?”
Silence. Then—the helmeted figure, the Goblin King, spoke.
“I don’t…know that language. You. I know you. How are you alive? You—”
His eyes flickered behind that helmet, and the Halfling was struck by a memory. A small, green-skinned figure hiding behind the tall person holding out a hand to show them it was safe. Those crimson eyes. Teeth like a shark’s.
Ah, no. He had not wanted this. Yet this figure spoke to him of danger, the worst he had in ages. A multitude of souls. And…rage.
“Gailant. One of the Slingblades. The singing…sling-wielding…each one wanders the…you’re Gailant. The Slingblade of Garkou’s Crossing. The Halfling who felled a Dragon-King with an apple.”
The Halfling’s eyes opened. His glowing, magic-forged hand rose, and for a moment, his spectral visage seemed to flutter. His feet, which danced over the ground without leaving a trace, remembered a hard-packed dirt road.
Wandering Slingblade. Guardian and protector, traveller and friend. Never law. Only right to mend any wrongs. The one who went when they called for him and brought that idea with him. Masters of sling and sword, who challenged champions and travellers for fun.
The Halfling’s strange warriors, laughed at by those who commanded armies. For the Slingblade fought alone. Even if a Dragon roared and came down in flames, or the Gods descended to the mortal plane with their hosts of divine warriors, the Slingblade never ran.
They saw, Dragons and [Witches], what the Goblin King remembered, for a moment. Dry, dusty hair, a traveller’s pack on one shoulder, and the wondering smile of a merry traveller, napping by the side of the road, laughing with a young Dragon shielding him from the rain.
Then the Halfling caught himself, and his eyes flashed like distant, impartial stars, and the moment was gone. He tried to step back, but it was too late. The Goblin King had recognized him. And he—recognized who he spoke to.
The Goblin King’s voice was so uncertain, though it sounded like it was meant to speak and command armies. Just as the gods intended.
So then.
This was the Goblin King. The same as the Halfling remembered—and so different. His armor was mangled. He stank of blood. The Halfling’s blade was trembling. He switched to the correct language.
“No one should remember me. Not you. It’s been so long.”
Surely. It had. He didn’t know, now. He had felt time passing, but so distantly; the last of the Elves had done their magic well and kept him from feeling the grind of years and going mad with it.
To him, it had been but a day.
A long day, to be sure. A day filled with the terrible rise and fall of his sword, the snap of that sling as it claimed lives and silenced the innocent or the guilty, with no knowledge of which was true, only the need of it.
Keep the names from the world. Keep the last victory a victory—until they were all no more. He was the final failsafe—well, so they claimed. There was always one more, but he was the Halfling on the moon.
A children’s story to spite the gods. One last volunteer, among the many who had made their own safeguards, to wait out the ages. They had told him it would be hard, difficult, but that he would only wake when needed.
Their word had been kept and kept well, if he was any judge.
One day. That was all it was to him. One ceaseless day of fighting foes he did not know in locations that changed each time, bloodying his blade—he had been sick of the necessity the first time he swung his sword.
Had it been a week, a month, a year of this—he would have gone mad and thrown down his sword, despite his oaths and the necessity of it, or gone mad from the wait. A thousand years? Ten thousand?
One day since the death of Gods and their last, terrible victory, the Halfling met the Goblin King. Then he beheld the weight of the changing years and was shocked to find another being who remembered him.
