“Then walk, if you think they’ll love you more, Agratha! Let [Witches] walk until they forget how to fly; do you think it’s easy? Do you think you can simply hop on a broom and soar the skies? It fades. Everything fades that we do not cling to and protect. I know what makes a [Witch] a [Witch]! We are always black cats at midnight, bubbling cauldrons, and curses. If you have any pride in those hats, come with me!”
She flung out a hand dramatically, and the [Witches] hesitated. It was Laken Godart, the Unseen Emperor, who frowned.
“I do know you. You’re so familiar…are you from another world? Another—time? Who are you?”
To that, the strange [Witch] threw her head back and laughed. A youthful laugh, and Rags realized she was a young woman for all she appeared old. Goblins grew up fast. She answered.
“Just trust me. Vertrau mir, Kaiser Laken. Oder erkennst du einen alten Freund nicht?”
The words she spoke were almost perfect German. Laken Godart jumped in astonishment, and the [Witch] reached up and pulled her mask back with a smile.
Still, Rags didn’t recognize her. Not the female Goblin, until her craft poured over the [Witches] of Riverfarm. It was not the dreadful secrets and weight of lives and bargains that Belavierr possessed—nor the judgement of Hedag, the wandering protector of those in need, or even the ancient magic of wings that Mavika possessed.
It just…smelled nice. Like the scent of rising pumpernickel bread, or the taste of a hot stew on the long, cold road. A meal for the hungry. A cauldron ever-filled.
The Witch of Repasts grinned, and her eyes danced as she swept her hat from her head in a bow. The hat, decorated with all the things she loved to make, vanished into a bag of holding, and she put a second hat on her head.
It was tall, poofy, and white—instantly recognizable. The folk of Riverfarm lowered their weapons, and several of the [Witches] gasped. Laken just whispered.
“…Pebblesnatch?”
The last clue was her skin. It was green, yes, but a grey-green, the unmistakable skin of a Cave Goblin. The older Pebblesnatch’s eyes twinkled as she pulled the broom off her back and unfolded it.
“No time for explanations. Not now. The Goblin King is raging. If we can make a difference—we fly. Who will come with me, sisters? We have abandoned Izril’s skies for too long.”
There was dead silence—then Alevica shouldered forwards, broom in hand.
“Alright, fuck. Let’s go.”
The [Witches] hesitated—then the older women dashed off, snatching brooms from houses or conjuring them through windows. Glass rained down as Eloise called one to her, and she wore a resigned expression.
“Where to?”
“Goblinhome.”
That was how Chieftain Rags found herself sitting on the back of a broom as the [Witches] shot up past the Empress of Wings, who watched them flying upwards, dodging the spells raining down. The Harpy Queen shook her head, rueful.
“[Witches]. Always meddling in their betters’ affairs. Enough. If I have no army, I will build one. But first—no more of this foolish destruction. I sense your wills, pathetic, raging [Kings]. You folk of Chandrar. This inn is under my protection. I shall repay any harm to it a hundredfold. Hold, [Archmage]. Hold this place. [Royal Blessing].”
She spread her wings, and the inn flickered as the Archmage of Barriers gasped. Her flickering barriers tripled in brightness—and the Harpy Empress breathed out hard.
“Now for an army.”
 
——
 
It was one of those days. A day when you just kept going. Not one where you couldn’t rest. You had to rest—because the day kept going. And you kept going, even if it punched you in the face.
Even if you couldn’t save the world. Even if you couldn’t protect them all. You could save one person you loved.
He ran away from the Goblin King. From the battles he couldn’t fight. And he was ashamed. But he did the only thing he could, because he had promised. At least that.
The Wyrm of Ailendamus, Rhisveri Zessoprical, opened his eyes as the Duke vanished from The Wandering Inn in Liscor. He’d been devoting all his energy and willpower to it. When he rose—he realized his chambers in the palace of Ailendamus were filled with people.
Immortals. Menorkel the Titan, Sophridel with a small army of his masked creations, the Merfolk led by old Culnous, Gilaw, and Lady Paterghost, and the enchanted suit of armor and Nube, the Greater Mimic living in her body.
No Lucifen or Agelum. When the Wyrm’s head rose, the other immortals recoiled, then began to shout.
“He’s awake!”
“Rhisveri! The Goblin King is back! What have you been doing—”
Disoriented, Rhisveri’s eyes flicked left and right.
“We’re bombarding the Floodplains.”
“Yes. We are. The Lucifen and Agelum are with the Court of Masks. His Majesty of Ailendamus is overseeing the preparations for war. You would not move.”
Sophridel spoke in a precise voice that Rhisveri actually appreciated. Even at his most agitated, the Elemental of Masks was precise. The Wyrm nodded.
“I see. [Conjure Perfect Puppet: The Duke].”
He activated his personal spell and created another body of Duke Rhisveri as clothes flew over the man. Sophridel interposed itself in front of Rhisveri, speaking faster.
“This is a disastrous event, Rhisveri. We have no Dioname, and Visophecin is gone. You must explain—”
The Wyrm’s eyes closed, and the man, Duke Rhisveri, opened his. He patted himself, checked he had cast the spell properly.
Pants on. Then he strode forwards.
“I will. First, the throne room. Move!”
He ran for the doors. Just—ran. The immortals whirled, shouting at him, and the double doors large enough for a Wyrm burst open as Rhisveri shoved them aside and raced out of his personal quarters. His exit made several armored [Knights] jump.
“Duke Rhisveri! His Majesty has been demanding your presence—”
The Knights of the Thirsting Veil, led by Dame Chorisa, were his personal ‘guards’, as he had assigned them to his security detail after Ryoka Griffin’s exit. They were allowed to know the secret of Ailendamus, but even so, they halted as Sophridel shouted.
“Rhisveri. You will answer us now! Gilaw, stop him! Knights, halt him!”
The transformed Royal Griffin pounced after him like a cat—a giant armored woman with a mane of black fur, and the [Knights] hesitated—then grabbed Rhisveri.
“Duke, His Majesty—”
“Move aside, please. I’m heading there now.”
The Duke kept running, and four of the [Knights] felt their boots skidding over the marble and rugs. They strained to slow him down—and kept sliding.
Gilaw leapt on Rhisveri’s back and grabbed one shoulder. She heaved—and slipped as the Duke pulled her off her feet. Gilaw found herself lying on her back, one arm grasping his coattails and staring at the other immortals.
“Gilaw. Desist in playing games. Halt him!”
Sophridel snapped as Gilaw tried to pull Rhisveri back. She dug her heels into the carpet, and it began bunching up as the Duke kept running.
He was racing out of his secluded wing in the royal palace, cursing the distance between him and the actual throne room. Servants, staff of the palace, a patrolling squad of [Soldiers], all stared at the half-dozen [Knights] trying to hold on to him—and then his coat ripped, and Gilaw was left holding a piece of it.
Rhisveri kept running. He cast [Haste]. Then ran faster, trying to figure out how you ran with two legs, and—he didn’t know how Ryoka did it.
High knees? He sprinted past servants, people carrying reports, frantic staff rushing around, faster and faster, screaming.
“Out of the way! Out of the way!”
None of them had ever seen the snobbish, arrogant, genius spellcaster—the King’s own brother, Duke Rhisveri—so much as burst into a light jog. He yelled and harangued, but scream? Never. His clothing was in disarray, his manicured hair disheveled, and he ran with the weirdest form anyone had ever seen, knees nearly going up to his chest, arms pumping out of rhythm at his sides.
The Duke had never been less decorous. Never felt like things mattered more. If Dioname could have seen him now—he thought she would have laughed herself sick.
He kept running.
 
——
 
Ailendamus, the Kingdom of Glass and Glory and one of Terandria’s mightiest nations—did not take the Goblin King’s reappearance lying down.
Nor were they entirely calm, however. His Majesty, Itorin the Second, sat in full view of the courts, speaking in a deliberate, carrying voice—when privacy spells weren’t obscuring him from the audience.
The spells were designed to let him speak to his [Generals] and [Strategists], or higher members of the court, without saying something confidential in view of all. At this moment, he was staring at a map of the world.
“Liscor. How many armies can reach the shores in a month’s time?”
And how many did they want to send? The question was entirely political, even now, but the answer could not be ‘none’. If the Goblin King had returned—
Answering how and what he intended this time was a question for later. Right now, they were unleashing Tier 5-6 spells at range on his position. Or rather, trying to.
Everything was missing, and they were seeing—well—Dragons on the scrying orb. Multiple, and the largest Harpy he’d ever seen.
No one knew what it meant. Half the [Strategists] were trying to figure out what kind of illusion this was, the other half trying to confirm with the Blighted Kingdom if this was Serinpotva, the Death of Wings.
It apparently didn’t match her appearance, but the idea of a Demon-Goblin King alliance was disastrous. At the same time, Ailendamus was talking to other nations, trying to share intelligence, and find out what they were planning.
The Five Families were in disarray. And Pallass—
“What word from the City of Inventions? Is their army causing this? I can see them assaulting this ‘Goblinhome’! Is this not—dangerous?”
One of Itorin’s sons, Prince Votrin, was of age to be in this kind of meeting, and his mother, Queen Oiena, also present, had taught him well. He was asking the questions Itorin wanted to ask in a straightforward manner.
“The—City of Inventions has not yet replied. I am sure they are receiving missives from every part of the world, Your Highness. We just keep getting the same response. Er—‘standby’.”
A [Diplomat] addressed him, pale-faced, and the [Prince] swore.
“So much for the damn Drakes! Father—we must do something!”
That was a genuine outburst. Itorin responded before Oiena could take him to task. He raised a beringed hand and spoke for all present.
“Ailendamus will combat the Goblin King, as it did before. This time, we shall prevent another scorching of Izril. Yet he is a terrible foe. Hm. Why have the bombardments stopped?”
They were still supposed to be coming down, but they’d stopped. Part of the magical attacks were aimed at the inn—it wasn’t Itorin’s intention to demolish The Wandering Inn, but he’d been told multiple nations had tried.
However, the Dragons, Harpy, and even a powerful [Mage] had been shielding it from attack, and he swore he’d seen someone cut the lightning in half. Which was…ridiculous. Although Itorin knew for a fact this was possible.
“Where is my brother? He should be coordinating our assault.”
Itorin’s fingers drummed on the armrest of his throne as he asked the question he wanted to know most dearly. The Wyrm wasn’t responding—normally, he’d be right here.
“He is still indisposed, Your Majesty—”
Damn. But in lieu of Rhisveri, Itorin could still run this nation. And—his eyes flickered across the Court of Masks. The nobility were arguing, quietly, but discussing what should be done. Itorin touched a spell, and the privacy spells sealed his words from the general public of Ailendamus.
“Lord Uziel. Lady Paxere. Is House Shoel ready for war?”
A man in a wheelchair, wearing mostly white, and a young noblewoman wearing mostly black and red, approached. Of the two, Uziel was known; Paxere was virtually unknown to the murmuring court. But anyone who truly knew Ailendamus’ might focused on Uziel, who had trained some of the finest warriors of Ailendamus.
The Agelum bowed and smiled.
“We are, Your Majesty. Give the word and we will ready ourselves. It may be—costly—but I am prepared to lead a force against the Goblin King and put him down. We will need a joint army, however.”
The idea of the wheelchair-bound old man fighting the Goblin King made some of the lesser nobility turn to each other, thinking it was a joke. Itorin merely flicked his eyes to the higher-ranking nobles, who had gone still with relief—and worry.
“How many of House Shoel would be willing to do battle? Of your people, Uziel?”
The Agelum never hesitated.
“I would take no less than twenty of us, Your Majesty. Frail as we are, we could injure him—the trick is killing the bastard outright. Otherwise, he heals.”
“Surely, Lord Uziel, you exaggerate. With great respect for your martial prowess—twenty and a joint army for one being? Velan the Kind was not so difficult to defeat! A lone [Archer] downed him!”
Queen Oiena protested, though she knew of the Agelum’s nature. Uziel coughed into a handkerchief and bowed to her.
“Your Majesty, Curulac of a Hundred Days is a figure my house…remembers quite well. He was different from Velan the Kind. Each Goblin King changes based on the nature of the Goblin who ascends.”
“I see—but Velan did die easily.”
Uziel’s face said he disagreed with that assessment.
“Velan was a [Healer], Your Majesty. He never wore many Relics to battle—a curious oddity when they would have made him far greater—and he was also a famed [Alchemist]. Most of his concoctions gave him the strength of a high-level [Warrior]. After the siege of First Landing, he seemed to lose most of his alchemical means. This Goblin King appears to be a superlative warrior. Far, far more difficult to kill. You are correct that some die to an arrow. Sóve, the Island Queen, was allegedly slain by a single poisoned dagger, for instance. Not this one.”
His words were not reassuring. The Court of Masks murmured, and Uziel offered Itorin a reassuring smile.
“I am actually in fine condition right now, Your Majesty. Say the word and I will prepare.”
Itorin nodded to him as the privacy spells lifted—however, he was loath to sacrifice Ailendamus’ most deadly, if fragile, warriors. They were all watching the Goblin King being carried away by the Dragonlord of Flames—one version of him.
Clones? Children? A hidden tribe of Dragons? Illusions? No clue what it was, but the scrying spell on them was lost. Obviously, every [Mage] tried to locate the fighting, but as they did, someone spoke.
