The [World’s Eye Theatre] was glowing above her, and it was reflecting hundreds of places that she asked of it as the [Emperor] tried to understand who she was and what was going on. But the Harpy was distracted. Her eyes were focused on a mountain in Chandrar.
“The Mountain-Roosts of the Garuda. Only one is left. What is this wretched world? The Continent of Glass is only undersea rubble. I don’t…”
She broke off, shaking her head, and turned back to Laken Godart. Greatly conscious was the Harpy Queen of the need of the moment. Of the terrible wrath of the Goblin King. Yet she demanded a moment from this place and found it.
“Hm. [Every Skill Within Empire: Immortal Moment]. Yes, it will do.”
Some things were worth doing. So, the Empress of Harpies stopped and gazed down at the being worthy of her attention.
“I greet thee once more, Laken Godart, sovereign of this time. We meet under less august moments than our station befits. I have no heralds save the roaring Dragonlords of Flame, who do battle with common foe. Nor know I the address of these times, nor have I the time to greet thee as State demands. Nevertheless, I will it; it be done. Let us speak. I am the Empress of Harpies, Sheta of the Iltanan Empire, who flies this world once more. And thou art?”
He was yet stunned by her presence, the impossibility of her, for he had not seen the [Palace of Fates]. And he was blind without Gamel. His head swung towards her, and she saw it—so she raised a talon.
“[By Royal Decree: See].”
He cried out. Unexpected.
She recalled it, then, the agony when blessed of those who had never seen nor heard. The Harpy Queen felt little remorse.
She waited as he clawed at his eyes, beheld her, then—as was fitting—composed himself. His teeth were bared. No one had trained him to this role, as they had her. What of it?
He fit his class so much better than those born into it. So he spoke through gritted teeth, shading his eyes up at her.
“You had no right to grant me—sight. Take it away. I am Laken Godart, Emperor of Riverfarm and the Unseen Empire, Protector of Durene’s Cottage. You have hurt my people and given me what I do not want. Remove your Skill. Now.”
His aura blazed at her, miniscule compared to hers, and he had little of her bearing. But enough—Sheta lifted her claw, withdrawing the Skill.
“Your people are safe. Merely exiled from this room until our conversation is over. Your titles speak much of you, Emperor. You are the sole and only ruler who claims this land as royalty. How did this come to be?”
In all of Izril. When had this begun? Sheta did not apologize to him. Her eyes were focused on the [Emperor], and her claws…
Her claws opened and closed slowly. Her head tilted right and left, as if she were not sure if she liked what she saw. Making up her mind.
Laken spoke, trying to control his breathing, which was heavy. Neither one asked how the other was here. If they didn’t know—they pretended to. And they had little time nor patience for anything else.
“I…am. I named myself [Emperor]. The class came to me, and that was how it began.”
“Hah. So thou art first of thy line and possess blood that others would call commoner’s stock. Now, it is imperial. I was born unto a dynasty, the twenty-ninth of my lineage to take the throne. When I lived, my Empire stretched the breadth and length of Izril and Terandria. I have returned to make war as I see fit, to change this world in the time I have allotted, and to judge all those before me.”
His breath caught, and perhaps he alone knew the weight of what she intended. He did not flinch. He did not flee, even if that were possible. Laken Godart stood, thinking a moment, then fumbled behind him for a seat.
“And are you to judge me?”
She did not answer at first, but merely stood on one taloned leg. Inspecting him. It would take but a single gesture, let alone a Skill, to end him.
“Let us speak, Emperor, of rulership.”
She smiled, and his posture grew tenser as they had a quiet conversation in stolen moments of time.
This is how it went.
 
——
 
The Harpy Queen spoke, then he spoke. It was a dialogue, but one of selfishness, of personality and belief. He did not know the rules. But he did. He knew the stakes.
She was testing him.
She began, in a voice that rang with cold conviction. Words she had once been taught, then understood, then redefined until it became the foundation she had built her Empire off of.
“The purpose of the Empire is to be the effective arm of the Empress in all things she wishes. When such time as the Empire cannot execute on the will thereof, it should be destroyed. A State that cannot police corruption, inefficiency, or its own health shall inevitably fail.”
“True.”
Laken could feel her eyes on him like the weight of imperium, even if she had taken away his sight.
“The nature of the Individual is selfishness; the group is the same, but collectively, and often swayed by the loudest voice. Tyranny is the most efficacious method of change so long as the Empire is healthy.”
She waited. The [Emperor] opened his mouth and croaked.
“True. But not always. The Individual…can be selfless.”
“That is the exception to the commonality.”
He hesitated.
“…True. But the Tyrant? The Tyrant is cruel and overrides all other wills to do what he desires. It may be fastest, but the Tyrant is the wound that degrades law, freedom, and all else to get his way.”
The Harpy Empress made a displeased sound.
“That is not necessity. You and I speak of different Tyrants. You speak of one who breaks with the will of the Empire they themselves embody. I speak of the Tyrant who arises, the one with power unquestioned. Not the selfish thief of power alone.”
His head nodded slowly.
“A different definition. Nevertheless—if the Tyrant is the fastest means to change, what of it? When there is nothing to change, when the Empire is strong, the Tyrant is useless—no, worse. The light hand governs best.”
“When the Empire thrives, yes. When the hour of strife comes, they turn to the Tyrant, the Emperor, the Crown. Always, it is one who leads.”
He felt like she stood on bodies. With each shift of her claws, the floorboards made sounds, but it was like the crackle of bones to him. Laken croaked.
“That, I can agree with. With few exceptions.”
Her feathers rustled as she nodded, perhaps. Her voice was pleased as she continued.
“Morality is learned. The State teaches morality. Therefore, Morality is a function of the State and subject to change. There is no inherent Good nor Evil, only temporary consensus.”
He gritted his teeth again.
“Wrong. There is an inherent morality and a universal right that is understood, even if it is not taught. Laws and morality evolve to benefit everyone. We don’t allow murder because it’s harmful. That benefits society. Morality is an evolving idea, but there is a default morality even in the earliest peoples.”
Did he believe that? His mind flashed to documentaries about tribes of monkeys warring in jungles and the scale of Human history. Her reply was coldly amused.
“Incorrect. The Individual is selfish. The Individual acts only on its desires; these desires intersect with the safety of the family, of the tribe. The baseline of assumed morality is a convenience formed by intersecting selfish individuals. Thus, civilization arises. It is selfish. Law may apply to all and benefit all or benefit only the singular group. The presumed morality is a crutch of the mind that extends from the smallest group outwards only by necessity, when those who control power are forced to share it.”
How cynical. Even for him, the [Emperor] had to think that. She was waiting for a response, so he ground out.
“…That may be so, to the extent that—”
“It is so. The Individual gathers others to further selfish goals, thus the tribe arises. From the tribe comes civilization, the fragmentation of cities, the development of culture. Tribe begets Nation. Unto Nation comes the Crown. Between our species and so many, the tendency towards the Crown is inevitable. The Crown maintains the Nation until it becomes the Empire that presides over all. This is the evolution of civilization.”
“I don’t agree. That is not the default setting. Democracies are an evolution of the Empire.”
She laughed, a soft sound.
“You speak of another piece of the pattern. The Empire arises. It maintains the Empress until it cannot. The Empress is inevitably the same as the Tyrant, but it is the Tyrant who falls. The Empire falls and comes to ruin. Inevitably, the fracturing leads to the Nations and tribes, which rebuild. It is merely a step before the Crown arises. Invariably, the Individual seeks the sole leader, be they Crown, Empress, or Tyrant. For they seek that role, though only one is given it.”
“…I disagree. That is not always how it occurs, though it is often how it occurs. Why do you state it like this?”
Her logic was like bars of iron she was setting down, a primitive logical circuit that he was trying to follow. Sheta’s voice was cold.
“All that has been said is true. The question that arises is: what is the duty of the Empress? Have they any duty at all to the Empire?”
Ah. So this is what she was asking. Laken Godart clenched his teeth, trying to think. His response was slow. Slightly uncertain.
“Under your logic, Empress Sheta, are not the Empire and Empress one being? As you outline it, it is a moot question. The Empress wills it; it be done.”
She was silent for a moment, then a low chuckle filled the room, and she stepped closer until he smelled the oil of feathers, the odors of an Empire long dead.
“That is the lesson I was taught. So you have the makings of an Emperor of Iltanus, untrained though thou art. It is not the answer I was led to. The Individual is selfish. The Empress is born unto the Empire which exists to serve her. Yet the Individual, be they so much lesser in the Empire, still is owed the weight of the Empire’s protection, the dignity and morality of which you speak. The answer I came to is that the Tyrant in every nation, be it the Crown or whatever form it takes, must have empathy. If they are the Empire, then they must care for even the smallest pieces of themselves. Yet the Empire must live, even if the pieces be sacrificed.”
“I…can agree to that.”
He spoke slowly, weighing the meaning of her words. But then the Unseen Emperor hesitated, for he felt that gaze inspecting him. He hesitated—but who was he to hesitate in this moment? Before her?
“—And yet, I tell you that will doom the Empire, Empress Sheta. It is a compassionate, laudable practice. I say it is flawed.”
More rustling of feathers. Her voice dropped, and now she stood above him. His head rose towards her as she spoke, a low whisper.
“Yes. It was. The answer I came to is the one you know. No Empire can endure; no line of Tyrants remain unbroken and uncorrupted. The body fails and rots, no matter how long it lasts. That is the natural order of things. It is the defiance of this which causes suffering. Wings must ever rise in rebellion and to question what is. When injustice arises, the Empire must fall.”
It was like a simple narrative, now, in his head. He saw it—first the view of the selfish Empress that she had been taught. Then—someone had shown her a kind of morality she had tried to fling across her vast holdings, the empathy of the Empress to the few.
Finally, the acceptance that it was failing. Now the Harpy stooped, and she whispered to him.
“When I was born, my Empire was doomed.”
“Was it truly so?”
She paused, then drew back a pace, walking back and forth.
“…Yes. I believe it so. It was untenable that we would keep it. We controlled all of Izril and Terandria, Harpies, those of wings such as Garuda or even our cousins in the classless Bagrhavens—all those without wings knelt before us. Empire so vast cannot keep control of its subjugated peoples. The Drakes had developed Draconic Warriors.”
“I’ve…heard of them.”
He replied, drily, and she made a sound of agreement.
“The Walled Cities rose up, more of them built with each passing decade. The Iltanan Empire had been at war with the Nagatine Empire for three hundred years. The Satrapies were all revolting. If it was not my generation that should see it collapse, then how long? So, then. I presided over the dissolution of my Empire, an attempt to peacefully separate the power from the throne and return it into the nations and peoples it had been taken from while preserving the greatest amount of lives.”
She paused.
“Thus were the bloodiest battles in the entire history of the Iltanan Empire fought. You understand.”
He could imagine it. The [Emperor] felt cold, then almost sick at the idea of it. A multicontinent-spanning Empire trying to willingly collapse…
“What possessed you?”
“Morality.”
Her voice oozed with so many conflicting emotions he physically recoiled. Sheta continued.
“You understand it. Giving up one ounce of the privilege makes the common citizen of hegemony riot. The generals perceive their loss of power and attempt to seize it themselves. The merchants lose the value of their goods and begin to steal. The nobility lose their authority and plot treachery.”
“…And the people with every right to a grudge come for your throat.”
A smile, invisible to him.
“Especially if you refuse to massacre their soldiers and lay their homes to waste in vengeance.”
“You did that?”
“Indeed.”
It was insane. Laken licked his lips, fascinated, horrified by this woman. He understood what she meant. What she was saying was noble, laudable—treating one’s foes like people, refusing to strike back against the aggressor.
But he imagined fighting a war where you held back against your opponent. How many times would they attack if they didn’t bleed and suffer the cost of their aggression? Even in wars of defence, they had ended because the attacker had bled for every step they took. He sought to clarify it.
“What did you do, then? How long did this…continue? How did you ever reach any kind of resolution that isn’t the remnants of this Empire burning?”
Her response was slow and heavy.
“Piece by piece. Removing power, one feather at a time, turning the head with every blow until it turns all the way around. Treaty by treaty—violation by violation—met with fairness instead of wrath.”
The Harpy Queen’s voice darkened, and Laken twitched.
“What violations?”
She whispered.
