“Your Majesty, I beg to report that the barriers around the inn have tripled in strength. Should we continue attacking it? We can see Goblins exiting the building.”
Privacy spells went all the way up as Itorin turned to one of his [Grand Magi].
“Who is shielding them? What [Mage]?”
“Unknown, sire. She appears to be Terandrian.”
Based on the red hair, at least, but no one of that caliber was at the inn. It wasn’t Archmage Valeterisa; the only other person with red hair would be the [Princess] or Montressa du Valeross.
The [Mage] maintaining those barriers was too old—and she was holding off far too many spells. Itorin thought carefully.
Rhisveri and the Lucifen could make more scrolls, so Ailendamus could replenish its magical stores of lesser spells. This wasn’t an issue, and they were showing solidarity, so he was content to spend them even if they missed, but the [Grand Magus] merely bowed her head. She was a half-Elf and nervous as she licked her lips.
“Maintain a light bombardment. Do not hit any non-Goblins. Is there a likelihood the inn will be destroyed?”
“Based on how many spells are being blocked? I cannot imagine any Archmage living could hold off that much magic, even Archmage Eldavin! The Harpy is reinforcing the protection spells, though.”
That Harpy. Itorin shuddered; he felt like he could feel her staring at him through the scrying orb. He waved a hand.
“Focus on the Goblin King when you find him.”
He didn’t want the inn gone, but he was aware any number of nations considered the inn to be the focal point of this disaster, and frankly, he was inclined to agree. It was as Itorin was leaning forwards, intending to have one of his [Generals] speak to calm everyone’s nerves, that the doors burst open.
“Stop firing on the inn, you idiots!”
Duke Rhisveri ran into the room, and a Drell Knight, one of the royal bodyguards, nearly clotheslined the Wyrm with an outstretched halberd. Itorin rose and quickly spoke.
“Let him pass!”
Duke Rhisveri was his brother, after all, but the Duke was a mess! And normally, he’d just appear behind the throne and whisper covertly—
Something was wrong. The dishevelled Wyrm had forgotten the decorum of the throne. He was in charge, yes, but there were still appearances to be maintained! He charged past the nobles and people watching, pointing.
“Stop the spells! Stop them at once, you damn idiots! There are children and innocents in that inn!”
“Brother-in-law!”
Queen Oiena was on her feet, and Itorin wished he could hide this all behind a privacy spell, but Rhisveri was charging down the throne room. And Queen Oiena—she knew Rhisveri was important, but she didn’t know who he was.
And she didn’t like him. The [Queen] snapped at Rhisveri.
“The Goblin King is rampaging across the High Passes! There is an entire tribe of Goblins running amok—what has happened to you, pray? Control yourself!”
She snapped a fan open, and Rhisveri’s eyes bulged.
“I said—stop firing the spells! Tell every Terandrian nation to cease firing on them and Liscor—if they don’t agree, hit their damn palaces with a Tier 6 spell!”
He had gone mad. King Itorin nodded to himself with a kind of resigned acceptance. The entire court gasped at the Duke’s statement.
The King’s brother was allowed many things, but that? Queen Oiena’s voice was controlled.
“Duke Rhisveri, you are overwrought. The Crown of Ailendamus does not intend to war on its neighbors, not now.”
Not with the Dawn Concordat war leaving them weakened—and the colonization of the New Lands. Or in general!
However, this was still the Wyrm of Ailendamus, and Itorin was not willing to create more of an impression of infighting than there was already. So he signalled with one of his toes, tapping it covertly against a piece of magical lodestone embedded in the sole of his shoes.
One of his ranking [Generals] barked at Rhisveri.
“Your Grace, our army is carrying out the will of Ailendamus to protect and defend the peoples of the Kingdom of Glass and Glory and all—”
“Stop! The! Bombardments!”
The Duke was two-thirds of the way down the throne room, and now the guards were moving. Drell Knights, some of the highest-leveled in their order, moved between Rhisveri and the royal family. They wore enchanted glass armor. Itorin saw Rhisveri slam into them and winced.
“Apprehend him carefully.”
One of the royal advisors called out, a [Royal Strategist]. Itorin watched, face filled with concern—his public image.
He was debating telling the guard to treat Rhisveri carefully—lest they arouse the Wyrm’s later wrath—when the group of [Knights] began to move. They skidded—then one of them went flying across the ground.
Everyone stared as Duke Rhisveri, the [Mage], forced a group of six huge Drell Knights in armor back. He panted, then threw a punch.
A Drell Knight flew. The armored figure hit the ground, got up shakily, and charged back. Now, a small army of people—servants, [Soldiers], [Knights]—was trying to hold him back.
And the Wyrm kept moving, throwing people aside, roaring.
What had gotten into him? Itorin froze on his throne. He knew Rhisveri was a master of magic bar none, but he’d never known the Wyrm to throw a punch in his Human form. The Duke roared at the military council around Itorin.
“Halt the spells! Or I will stuff every damn scroll down your throat! There are children in that inn! Are you mad?”
The Wyrm bellowed. The audience turned to Itorin II, and the King of Ailendamus finally heard Rhisveri fully. He hesitated—and he thought of Ryoka Griffin. Then his eyes turned to his son and the young [Prince] and [Princess] who stood in the back.
King Itorin II sat, poised, thinking, visibly unruffled. Weighing the consequences of this public, political drama. And what should be done.
Uziel’s eyes were upon him, gleaming in that dangerous way, and he had half-levered himself out of the wheelchair. Faced with his morality, the eyes of the public, and the really angry Wyrm, Itorin II spoke.
“Great General Grisbane, I have never known my brother to speak against the good of this nation. Cancel all spells at once! Send a royal missive to every nation currently launching spells!”
“Your Majesty, other nations may see that as an act of war!”
Now it was General Grisbane genuinely protesting this move. Itorin II paused, well aware of this. But he met Rhisveri’s desperate eyes, and the puppet-king of Ailendamus—placed a bet on his instincts.
He leapt to his feet, letting color enter his face.
“Are there children in that inn, Duke Rhisveri?”
“Yes!”
King Itorin II clenched a fist and turned his head, adjusting his profile for the people and cameras on him.
“Then send the missive to every nation launching spells on Terandrian soil! We are the heirs of the Hundred Heroes! I would rather be a fool than lose any semblance of my morality!”
Gasps. Consternation. Queen Oiena paled, and she stood to whisper with him, because her nation of Taimaguros, their ally, was one of said nations. Itorin II didn’t have to act to pant as his court rushed around him. His eyes were on Rhisveri, and the Duke’s surprised expression became a grateful nod.
I hope you know what you’re doing, Wyrm. Because the right thing isn’t always the best for nations. Nevertheless—King Itorin II nodded to Uziel.
The Agelum was smiling. And King Itorin wondered what he might have done if Itorin had said nothing.
Queen Oiena protested, speaking to Rhisveri now.
“But what of the Goblin King? The Goblins—”
She was more focused on that as a threat, and Duke Rhisveri rasped.
“Leave that…to the giant damn Harpy and those stupid Dragons.”
Then his head turned, and as he tried to adjust his collar, which was practically on his shoulder, the Duke stared out one of the windows of the throne room. He gazed at something, and everyone turned to look.
“…Why is the moon out?”
King Itorin II sat there, and every hair on his body rose. Because he swore he saw it wink at him.
 
——
 
[Witches] were flying across the skies under the pale green moon. Witches to fight the Goblin King as the Dragonlords of Flame summoned a Halfling down on him in the High Passes.
That was the stuff of fairy tales. Brave [Witches] as well. Foolish women in hats, putting their craft against the rage of a hundred thousand years.
Bravery befit them. Empress Sheta was preparing to call an army in aid of her beloved Teriarchs, but something distracted her, just for a moment, as she stood outside The Wandering Inn.
She had been peering across the water, trying to figure out where that other Goblin Lord had gone, the funny-looking Goblin and her tribe, who had seemed more useful—and numerous—than the rest.
But she hadn’t found them, and an odd presence made her turn and her feathers ruffle.
“Strange.”
An [Emperor] appeared amidst all the people of the inn. Sheta had noticed the [Princess] and given her short shrift. [Princesses] appeared wherever one went and often did tend to appear around Dragons.
But the [Emperor]…Sheta’s eyes narrowed, and she abandoned her post outside. She stalked up the hill, like a hunting bird of prey. A being taller than the inn itself—but who moved suddenly invisibly.
No one but the Vampires noticed her entering the inn. All three were standing with the [Princess] and her daughter, debating what to do—to follow, if they even could—as magical spells fell on the inn. They saw the Harpy and pretended not to notice.
She was after the [Emperor]. His gaggle of people were arguing with him, protesting as he spoke.
“No, I want transportation after them! Hedag, Eloise, Mavika—they are our greatest [Witches], and if they’re going after the Goblin King, they will have our support! Dead gods damn it, is there not a single Wyvern around? What about Magnolia’s carriage? Gamel!”
Several men and women were arguing with him, but a [Knight] spoke as Sheta followed them into a huge, domed theatre. The hallway was not large enough to accommodate her, but as before, the space grew to avoid touching her.
“There’s no Wyverns, Your Majesty. And the pink carriage looks half-busted. I think the [Lady] already went up towards the High Passes with General Shirka. She left Lord Xitegen behind.”
“Then get me a—a bicycle! Something! Who’s out there? Grimalkin? Saliss? Send someone after the—the Dragons! Verdammt! Is there no one I can count on?”
“Lady Durene—”
“Keep her in Liscor or I’ll send you against the Goblin King, Farmer Ram! Not her.”
The Unseen Emperor spun and shouted, and the man jumped back. A [Farmer]. How interesting. What a small empire he had.
The Harpy Queen inspected the group around Laken Godart. His class. She knew she wasted time, but she couldn’t help it.
“Your Majesty, please! At least go to Riverfarm—! Miss Yesel, help me!”
Beycalt, Yesel, Ram, Lady Rie, and a few other advisors were close to physically restraining the [Emperor]. Rie hesitated, but Ram moved forwards, intent on saving Laken’s life regardless of the cost.
Beycalt stepped forwards with Ram as Empress Sheta reached out, grabbed Miss Yesel, and tossed her over her shoulder. One of the Vampires caught her. Vaulont the Ash opened his mouth—saw Sheta’s head turn a hundred and eighty degrees around—and backed away.
Forewoman Beycalt was next. Mister Ram shouted desperately as he struggled with Gamel.
“It’s for your own good, Your Majesty! Throw me in chains, but I have to!”
Sheta picked up the [Farmer]. Tossed him. Laken Godart thundered as he stabbed a finger at the last woman standing before him.
“I am going nowhere, Lady Rie! The Goblin King is here, and I will not run this time!”
“Your Majesty, I—that wasn’t—I do mean you should leave, but I…”
Lady Rie hesitated. She and Laken were standing there with Gamel, and her expression grew confused. Laken’s—suddenly grew alarmed.
“…What happened to Mister Ram? Beycalt? Miss Yesel? I don’t hear them anymore?”
“Who? It’s just us, Your M—”
Laken recoiled as a claw reached out and plucked the [Lady] up. Sheta nibbled Lady Rie as the [Lady] squirmed and shrieked silently.
Very appetizing. She wasn’t quite Human, was she? Oh well. Sheta tossed the [Lady] over her shoulder.
“Your Majesty? Is something wrong?”
Gamel lowered his arms, wondering why he’d been trying to block His Majesty from an empty room. His response was a slow voice.
“Gamel? What do you see?”
“Nothing, Your Majesty. We’re just in the [World’s Eye Theatre].”
Laken Godart’s blind eyes opened, and the [Emperor] backed up a step, bumping against one of the seats.
“Gamel. Draw your sword. Something’s—”
He had a hand on Gamel’s arm, and this time, he felt the Harpy pulling the [Knight] up. The warrior slashed once; his sword glanced off Sheta’s claw, and she tossed him. Now, all three Vampires caught him.
“Who’s there? What have you done with my people?”
Laken shouted, and she smiled. The Harpy flapped her wings, and he felt them flutter as a gust of air filled the theatre.
“I removed them that we may speak as equals, Emperor. I am the Empress of Wings. It is no moot time for us to meet, yet there never is. I am Empress Sheta of the Iltanus Empire of Harpies, a being from another time who has come to this age to slay the Goblin King. And to judge all those I see before me.”
You most of all. For he was an [Emperor], and she was no great warrior, nor a [General] in whole spirit and intention. She was no potter nor artist nor singer nor any other thing, yet her rule was over all this and more.
But if there was one thing she knew, it was this. So the Harpy Queen spoke.
“Let us speak awhile.”
 
——
 
He could not see her, but he could sense her. So vividly her very aura painted the same picture one of the three Vampires could see.
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle was the only person who could even remain in the room. Perhaps Lyonette could have stayed, or Himilt, but he was joining the watch for the Goblin King. Everyone was forced out, even Lady Rie. Colfa remained, perhaps due to her stubbornness, Vampiric heritage, or her own experience with will and power. Her family, the Lischelles.
What did she see? She saw the Harpy Queen.
Empress Sheta wore the mark of her station: robes fit for the last Queen of the Iltanan Empire, and the rings upon her talons glittered, made in every land.
Her humanoid face and eyes were impassive now, letting no emotion show save for a faint acknowledgement of all before her. As though only by her will it existed. Yet her voice was distressed as she closed her eyes.
