This fact was also surprising, since he hadn't given them the means to do that. Nevertheless, they did contact him and knew who he was, just as the beings he had created did, and he answered their questions and queries. Since time moved so slowly for them, his responses for their questions happened almost before they were asked, and he saw how delighted they were with that.

He was asked to create several odd things that he didn't know about, and when he told them that, he suddenly knew everything there was to know about those things. He created entirely new races for them, like High Elves, Dwarves, and even Giants. This delighted him in turn, and at random times would ask them about what was going on and what they were doing. They built cathedrals in his honor and to allow the ease of communication.

The Adventurers he met were more than happy to tell him anything he ask about as well. He gained more and more information as time went on, and then something happened.

One of the Adventurers tried to pull one of the Light beings into the Earth Realm. Vasalor blocked the attempt, because transferring the beings without the proper treatment or protection would cause a disaster. This happened several times, and he blocked it each time; then the Adventurer asked him to allow it.

He had never refused a request before then, and cautioned the Adventurer that if this happened, there would be consequences. The Adventurer quickly agreed and Vasalor granted his request to let the Light being transfer over into the Earth Realm.

It was a disaster, just as Vasalor had predicted.

The Light being was not prepared to spend time in the Earth Realm, and it nearly died as it turned inside out from the time decompression. Vasalor stepped in and helped the poor thing, and converted it into something that could live in the Earth Realm. The new Fire Being destroyed a lot of the Adventurers it came across, and when it had gathered enough power upon itself, it created it's own realm that was attached to the Earth Realm.

Vasalor had watched the Fire Being closely and had helped it along, and assisted in stabilizing the new realm; but, because Vasalor himself hadn't created it, it wasn't going to endure like the other realms were.

Vasalor stopped there, and didn't try to create any more worlds... mainly because he had lost the desire to do so. He kept an eye on that Fire Realm, and helped to keep it going along. He thought long and hard about how he was going to fix the only flaw in his design.

Millennia passed for him as he pondered the problem, and then he had an idea. He could imbue beings from the different realms with some of his abilities, and see if they could provide an answer to his problem. Unfortunately, sometimes they got out of hand and the other beings in those realms dealt with the results before he found a solution. He had made the mistake of trying to force the solution on one of his own creations. What he really needed was something new; but, he didn't know what that was, or how he was going to find it.

Then suddenly there was nothing.

Vasalor yelled into the dark silence, for he did not know what had happened to his great creation. He yelled over and over, all for naught, and eventually grew despondent. He was back to what he was before, where he could not see, feel or detect anything inside or outside of himself. This went on for millennia, and then everything was back.

Vasalor was overjoyed at this... until he discovered that all of his cathedrals had been removed, and he could no longer talk to anyone. When Adventurers started to show up again, he attempted to contact them, but to no avail. He was cut off from them forevermore. When he tried to contact the other races he had created in the Earth Realm, only the High Elves had kept the cathedral.

Vasalor asked them to impart the knowledge once more to the other races, but the High Elves refused. They claimed that he was theirs and theirs only, since they were the most deserving. Unlike the other races, they had preserved his knowledge and believed that anyone that had given up on him didn't deserve to be reminded of him.

Even Vasalor himself couldn't fault their logic. He set himself up to watch everyone's progress, and decided to no longer interfere directly in the lives of his creations.

*

“Holy crap.” Ren said, his half-eaten piece of fried dough was cold in his hand. “That's... that's...”

“It truly is a sad story, is it not?” Xuunah said. “We have kept it as a part of our history since we learned it.” She said. “The last part I had discovered for myself.”

“I... don't know what to say.” Ren said. “I mean, I know that...” He shook his head. “How could they...”

Xuunah chuckled as she reached a hand over and cupped the side of his face. “Easy, there.” She said and stroked his cheek with her thumb. “Don't hurt yourself thinking about it.”

Ren put a hand on hers. “Thank you for telling me this.” He said and turned his head to kiss the palm of her hand. He felt the thrill go up her arm and down her spine, and her body trembled from the sensation. “I could say that you don't know how much this means to me; but, you can feel what I feel. You know how much the words you have said have affected me.”

Xuunah nodded as their light of connection in her chest started to glow. It was covered with the Disguise Self spell, but Ren knew it was glowing because his glowed as well. She gently pulled her hand out of his grasp without a word.

“If you will excuse me, I have some very important work to do.” Ren said and stood up, nodded to all three women, then disappeared from sight.

“I completely missed something there, didn't I?” Officer Holly asked.

Xuunah nodded as she turned her head towards the wall and felt Ren in the warehouse next door. She didn't tell Officer Holly what it was, though.

That's Ren's secret to keep or share. Xuunah thought.
