He knelt in the shade of a massive tree and picked up an acorn that had been pushed into the earth by something with weight. There were no other signs of footprints nearby, but something had stepped on the acorn.

Suddenly sensing eyes on him, he looked up and found her sitting calmly on a branch, high above the trail. Her wide-brimmed hat shaded her face so completely that even his enhanced perception could not penetrate it to make out her features. But he knew she was studying him – ignoring his stealth skill. Immediately he activated Explorer, keen on identifying her before she vanished again, but to his surprise, his skill failed to activate. It was as if she wasn’t really there. Slowly, he got to his feet, dropping the acorn, and he bowed his head respectfully toward the being, still not certain if she was real – the deity from his stories – or a figment of his imagination, an illusion sent to confuse him.

As his eyes came up once more, she dropped from the branch, her white cloak trailing behind her as she fell. But before she hit the ground, she vanished like the mist in a morning breeze. He rushed forward and when he reached the spot, all he found were signs that the trail continued onward.

I guess I keep following? The mysterious person may be toying with him, but the trail before him seemed clear, so he pressed onward. A few minutes later, he emerged from the dense undergrowth into a second clearing. The trail led once again right to its center, but this time there was no monster waiting for him, just a small stone construction that looked a little like a shrine, just made from plain granite.

Cautiously he approached, but nothing flew out of the sky to eat him, nor burst from the concealment of the grasses with a roar. In fact, the clearing was quiet, not even a breeze disturbing the grass.

Shrine of the WandererA simple shrine to commemorate all who yearn to explore.Mana: Make an offeringShrine – Artifact

There was nothing else besides the mysterious stone shrine. Even the trail led right up to the shrine, but there it ended. Calen examined it carefully, but it seemed to be a simple construction of stone, about waist high. The only interesting feature was the hollow depression in the flat top and the offering function. That and the fact that, inexplicably, Explorer was able to identify it.

He puzzled over the simple statement ‘make an offering’ for a while, but then he recalled a scene from one of his childhood stories. Reaching into his storage ring, he retrieved one of the gold Dal’mohran coins from his rapidly shrinking share of the treasure they had discovered in the ruined vault. He turned it over the backs of his fingers, watching the gold flash in the light as he rolled it over and over. He flipped it high into the air, and as it came down to land in the hollow depression of the shrine, he gave the shrine some of his mana. Before the coin even reached the stone, it vanished, leaving behind a rapidly fading sparkle of light.

The Wanderer offers her patronage.Godly Patronage – The WandererTraits: Tracking, Dexterity, Deity, Stealth, Explorer, Perception, Discovery, Movement, LuckReputation gained enhances the reputation of the Wanderer. As your patron’s reputation grows, boons and enhancements may increase.Minor enhancement to Movement and Perception skills in uncharted or forgotten places.Mana: Offer an item of value as a request for the insights of the Wanderer.Enchantment – TitheAccept this patronage?

Calen felt an inner shift as he accepted even before his notification sounded. Like something gently settling within the very core of his being, changing something profoundly fundamental, yet remarkably subtle. It was a gentle touch, leaving who he was entirely unchanged, and yet he felt somehow… more.

Patron deity has been updated.

But his notification chime continued to sound, as if intent on celebrating his achievement.

Archer of Light has reached level 33.+10 attribute points.Explorer has reached level 20 (+2).Eclipse has reached level 16.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 18 (+2).Azrael's Wings has reached level 3 (+2).Cartography has reached level 9.

I got a class level? He stared at the glowing lines of text in surprise. There had been no monster battles, and nothing killed, but the trial had been difficult and challenged his skills and tracking ability, and his sense of direction and stealth too. It seemed that was enough in alignment with his class that he had gained experience for it.

He had even gained a level in Cartography without drawing a map. That must have been when I lost the trail. He hadn’t drawn the map physically, but it had been clearly present in his mind. He had already charted out how he would spend his points, so he assigned them quickly: three to dexterity, two each to wisdom and vitality, and one each to endurance, perception, and intelligence. It was roughly how important every attribute was to his build.

His notification chime echoed in his mind yet again. Huh? What now? He read curiously.

Requirements met for skill advancement.Explorer has reached at least level 20.Patron deity: The Wanderer.Passed the trial of the Wanderer.Explorer gains Sense Prey.Explorer – level 20You have enhanced spatial perception and perfect recall for places you have explored. You can discern important details about the places you are exploring and the creatures that inhabit them.Stamina: Use your enhanced perception to track your prey.Stamina: Move without leaving traces or making sound.Mana: If you focus, you can sense the direction of a recently observed prey or target.Knowledge, Movement, Stealth, Tracking, PerceptionAccept this advancement?

Just the fact of his passing the tracking trial the Wanderer had set for him, and the acceptance of her patronage, had already begun to influence the direction of his growth. Immediately, he was offered a tracking advancement.

And it looks really good. Calen admonished himself, concerned that his doubts may be interpreted as ingratitude. The skill advancement didn’t give much insight into how long ‘recently’ referred to, but it seemed that he would be able to track things that he couldn’t otherwise sense. Several times during his trial he had lost track of his quarry, and it took time to reacquire the trail. This new skill meant that, barring magical concealment, he wouldn’t be able to lose a trail.

He accepted the advance, and immediately tested it.

He used the new skill, spending a little mana, and focusing on Ali. Instantly, he had an uncanny sense of precisely which direction she was from where he stood. He could point exactly to her through the intervening dense jungle. He had been out tracking for a little over an hour now, and this little test told him that was still within the appropriate range of time for his new skill to work. He tried it again on Mato and Malika, confirming that it worked just as well. Then he tried it with his mother as the focus, finding that even though he had last seen her almost a day ago, he could unerringly point in her direction. The Guildmaster, however, was indistinct and difficult to pinpoint. I last saw her about two days ago.

So, about a day? His testing would need to be tightened up before he was satisfied, but for now, he was happy to know the approximate range of time was well beyond what he had hoped for.

On a whim, he focused on the woman with the white hat and cloak. What came back was confusing. He could sense the skill working, but the sense of her direction was somewhere his mind couldn’t understand. It was a specific direction – but nowhere he could point to. It was weirdly disorienting, but he chalked it up to normal for what he had experienced so far from her.

As he stood, the stone shrine shimmered and vanished, leaving an unblemished carpet of grass behind, as if it had never existed.

Focusing on his friends, he set out to return.

“We shouldn’t have let him go by himself,” Ali said as the Poison Wyvern faltered under the onslaught of lightning and fire magic and began to spiral down toward the ground trailing a dark cloud of smoke.

“He’s going to be fine,” Malika said, but Ali could tell she was just as worried as she was.

“How do you know?”

“Of all of us, he has the most escape skills. He can fly, he can run fast, he has stealth and silent movement. And, failing all that, he still has the recall potion,” Malika said. “We have to trust him.”

“But it’s been so long…” It had been over an hour. Several monsters had interrupted their camp, but nothing they couldn’t handle among the three of them. This latest Poison Wyvern was probably the biggest threat that had appeared since his departure, and her mages and shamans had made short work of it. She had been the one to suggest Calen pursue his dream, but now she was having serious second thoughts. What if I sent him to his death?

“We would just have slowed him down,” Mato said, shifting back to Beastkin.

“Ok,” Ali said, sighing heavily. She walked over to the smoking corpse of the wyvern.

“Hey, can you hold off on deconstructing that one?” Mato asked.

“Why?” Ali asked, looking up in surprise.

“I’m hungry,” Mato said, rubbing his belly. “How do wyvern skewers sound?”

“You’re always hungry,” Ali groused, but Mato being Mato chased some of the worries into the corner of her mind. She grinned at him to show she wasn’t that upset. “Got some new spices you’re planning to test on us?”

He grinned, “Would I?”

“You got it, didn’t you?” Mato said as soon as Calen walked into camp. Unsurprisingly his friend was confident in his guess, and equally unsurprisingly, he was cooking something that filled the air with a delicious aroma. One way to attract all the local predators, he supposed!

“I did,” he answered and then shared the patronage notification with them. Before they could swamp him in questions, he told the entire tale from beginning to end, with all of them listening raptly to what had transpired.

“Wow, a deity patronage!” Ali exclaimed.

“Congratulations,” Malika said.

“I knew you had it in you,” Mato said, pumping a fist in the air and then handing him another skewer from the cookfire.

“Thanks guys,” he said, blushing just a little, and then his chime sounded with something new.

Your actions have increased the reputation of your patron.You have gained the Blessing of the Wanderer+1 to Perception and Tracking skills.Blessing – Duration: 1 day.

Oh, this is nice!

***

Name: Calen AveryRace: Half-ElfActive Buffs: Blessing of the Dawn, Blessing of the WandererClass: Archer of Light – level 33- Radiant Archery – level 21- Arrows of Brilliance – level 24- Motes of Light – level 12- Explorer – level 22 (+2) - Blessing of the Dawn – level 16- Eclipse – level 16- Eyes of the Archon – level 19 (+1) - Righteous Fury – level 9- Azrael's Wings – level 3- [Locked]General Skills- Bowcraft – level 7- Wood Carving – level 3- Cartography – level 9Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Mana (Affinity): Light- Perceptive (Racial): +11 to Perception- Quick (Racial): +5 to Dexterity- Timing (Class): You have an innate sense of timingPatrons & Tithes- Deity: The WandererAttributes- Vitality: 39- Strength: 9- Endurance: 25- Dexterity: 213 (+91) - Perception: 149 (+58) - Intelligence: 141 (+55) - Wisdom: 44Equipment- Weapon: Hunter's Bow – level 10- Body: Leather Armor – level 20- Hands: Bracers of Accuracy – level 10- Feet: Simple Boots of Swiftness – level 15- Ring: Silver Guild Ring – level 30Evasion: 240Dodge: 20.61%+5% to Accuracy rating.+5% to Movement speed.Health: 390/390Stamina: 250/250Mana: 352/440 (88 Reserved)
