Sudraiel caught his turn of phrase and hissed out a surprised breath. But instead of following up, her smile turned down. “Don’t foresee the dawn. You handed us a tome of Insights that brought us here in a frantic year of building. But all of the easy treasure is picked. The last few months have been slower, and the future will be slower still. We are a town of engineers working on inherited knowledge, not scientists discovering things anew. People venture into the realm of the unknown, but rarely find success. There are passages in the Liber Physicae that nobody understands, and we have a list of questions for Nathan that would make a book of their own.” She pursed her lips and sighed, obviously lamenting that Nathan wouldn’t be returning to provide answers.

“We could help,” Stella offered tentatively. “We did help write it, and probably have a better basis than most.”

“Of course,” Sudraiel said, waving her hand in acknowledgement. “We welcome you home for many reasons. I’m sure your parents will be glad to have you.”

The Heirs looked around at each other, seeming to suddenly remember they were about to see their parents again and weren’t sure if they were excited or scared. Khachi answered diplomatically. “The council first?”

“As your flame calls,” Sudraiel said with a faint smile, the butt of her spear ringing against the cobbles as she led them onwards.

The rumors of their return had flown ahead of them, and a crowd gathered on the road. It split before them, nobody wanting to get in the way of the guildmistress or the Heirs. The people seemed torn between cheering and yelling questions, but no one was brave enough to ask. Eventually, a grizzled old adventurer rolled his eyes. “What of the Ending? Did you fulfill your Oath?”

The crowd quieted, waiting for the Heirs' answer. Khachi opened his mouth to respond, but Sudraiel cut him off, yelling back at the speaker. “Delric, that’s poor aim! They’ll tell their story to the council, and then we’ll tell you. Don’t make them repeat this story half a hundred times. Follow along if you want to hear it first.” The crowd muttered at that, but there wasn’t any more yelling as the people fell in behind them. The Heirs climbed the hill towards the council hall and the peak of Gemore, trailing a growing crowd as seemingly the entire population of Gemore spilled out to learn what their fate held in store for them.

Before the Heirs could get to the council chamber, a small group rushed out of a side street and stood in their path, looming above the Heirs on the steep road. The Heirs walked up to stand before them. The two sides studied each other before closing into a series of tight embraces.

“It gladdens my heart to have you back,” Kullal declared, enfolding Stella like she never wanted to let her daughter go. The slim foxfolk rubbed her cheek against her daughter’s for a moment. Her husband stood to the side, the spry old man watching indulgently and running a hand through his beard. He surveyed the Heirs and commented on their gear. “It seems you have not flagged in your journeys. Your weapons thrum with magic.”

Stella coughed out a laugh, wiping her eyes as she cleared her throat and extricated herself from the hug. “Magic and more than magic. We have so much to tell you. So many Insights -”

“ - of power,” Kia said, staring wide-eyed at Khachi. She was the only one not to embrace her child, seemingly stunned by the very sight of her adopted son. “What have you done?”

Khachi smiled at her, teeth flashing as the radiant dawn. “I learned the secret that broke the pantheon, and stole a godhead for my own.”

Stanel had an arm around each of his children, leaning most of his weight upon their bulk. “Ah, you all can keep the world-breaking Insights. I’ve got all I need right here,” he squeezed Sarah and Aarl, who rolled their eyes identically.

“Don’t worry, we’ve got some world-breaking power of our own,” Aarl replied dryly, though he didn’t shake his father off.

“This is a kindly showing, but I think you're going to smother our fire if you don’t let the Heirs get to the council and make their report,” Sudraiel prompted.

“Lead on, conquering heroes!” Stanel cried, pushing his kids up the hill and walking along behind them. “So, kill any Questors?”

“A few,” Sarah joked. “Stella got more than I did.”

“Stella!” Kullal half-yelled, shock and fear coloring her voice.

“It was a team effort,” Stella replied with her head held high, though she walked faster as her mother fumed and fretted behind her.

“They will tell their story, and we will listen,” Kia said calmly, though her eyes bored a hole in Khachi’s back.

The doors to the council building were open, and the hallways were clear for the Heirs as they walked through the space until they reached the central chamber that was the administrative heart of Gemore. Sudraiel took her place behind a curved stone table, filling out the seven guildmasters that represented the seven guilds of Gemore.

Herdin nodded down at them, the old woman’s white dreadlocks bobbing with the motion. “You have returned. Mostly. Tell us what has occurred since the last time you stood before us. We all await your words with bated breath.” Her gesture encompassed everyone in the chamber and included those crowding in from outside. There was no way that all of Gemore could fit in this chamber, but it looked like they were going to give it a solid try.

“We first journeyed to the city of Keihonia, to find Questors who would speak with us,” Khachi started, his voice deep and sonorous as he fell into telling the story.

“By way of burning half of Litcliff to the ground,” groused one of the councilors, but every single person in the room turned their glares on him. He shut up.

“We asked the Questors how to stop the Endings, and they told us,” Khachi said, glowing like a soft beacon in the large room. “We had to earn the attention of the society of Questors at large, and then they could together enact a ritual where we could attempt our change. We embarked on three deeds to earn this right. First was Esebus, an entire continent under the tyranny of a city like Giantsrest. We killed the Questors that ruled it, and completed the first deed.” Khachi spoke bluntly, and the audience chuckled or shook their heads at such a thing being said so simply.

“Then we went to a Blight, the result of a corrupted Seal. It is an entire land turned into a woken grave of Quaz. Nathan purified it of that taint, and we moved to the third deed.” He could see there were many questions, especially regarding the absent Nathan.

“Finally, we participated in a war of Questors. We sided in one of their conflicts to gain necessary allies.” Khachi pursed his lips, considering how to tell the story. “We annihilated them.” The comment prompted a series of confused expressions. Most people hadn’t even met a Questor or seen one in action, only heard vague stories of them as powerful heroes who occasionally dropped by. But those in the know, the council, the veteran Adventurers, the Guardians of Gemore, they all looked at the Heirs in a new light. They’d previously seen them as powerful people returning home from a long journey and were happy to welcome them back into the fold of Gemore. But now they saw the Heirs as the kind of power that could break empires.

Khachi wasn’t done telling the story, though everybody knew he was skipping over vast amounts of detail. “Then, with the support of the Questors, we began the ritual to change the nature of Davrar. I am bound to silence on the details, but it was successful. Nathan sacrificed himself, merging with Davrar to stop the Endings. He also stated his intention to end mind magic, make monsters less aggressive, and curtail the harm of dungeons.” Khachi nodded in satisfaction and closed his mouth with a snap to signal the end of the tale.

There was a moment of stunned silence as everybody tried to parse what he’d just said. It was so far beyond everything they had context for that it just didn’t make sense. That lasted for a heartbeat, then half the crowd tried to talk all at once. The hubbub lasted for a few seconds until Sudraiel slammed her palms down on her desk with a crack of thunder.

“Silence!” She glared around at the crowd packed into the room. “This is council business. The council speaks, the Heirs speak. Nobody else speaks, not even as a game.” She turned furious eyes on the Heirs, and they grew confused again. “Nathan merged with Davrar? What does that mean?”

Sarah answered, raising her hands in a shrug. “We don’t truly understand it. But his sacrifice changed the deep truths of Davrar. Mental magic can be resisted now, and the Questors tell us that the Endings are no more.”

“No Endings?” Sudraiel shook her head, still trying to wrap her head around the concept. “We saw the monsters and dungeons behaving oddly. But weakened mental magic? No dungeons? Speak everything you know.”

Khachi nodded deeply. “Much is left mysterious, even to us. The Endings will be replaced by new events that will not bring destruction to the lands but will bring new magics. Monsters have gained the needs of normal creatures and lost much of their unthinking aggression. But without such pressures, we expect conflicts between nations.” He continued to lay out some of the details he could tell them, and what the Heirs had learned by talking to Questors and their own experimentation. The other Heirs chipped in at various points, trying to explain what they knew and what they didn’t. There was a lot that was just unknown to anybody, and depended on exactly how Nathan had integrated into Davrar and what changes would spill forth from that.

Or, as Sarya put it, “By Edes, we just need to see what will come.”

Much later, once the story had been told again in more detail and the subsequent party lasted through the night, the Heirs sat in the garden outside the mansion Stella had grown up in. Their parents were giving them some time alone, Kullal having sensed that the Heirs needed a moment. It was nearly dawn.

“We accomplished our Oath,” Stella said. “We ended the Endings.”

“Nathan ended the Endings,” Sarah replied, a note of bitterness in her voice. “We helped.”

“He would have failed without us,” Aarl said. “Any one of us. We share this victory, though he bore the cost.”

The sun revealed itself in the sky, bright light shining down on the Heirs and illuminating Gemore below them. Khachi raised his glass of the sticky drink that Nathan had adored. “A cheer for Nathan Lark, Antimage, Adventurer, Assassin, Ascendant. The most moral man I have ever known. If it were to be anybody, it is good that it was him.”

The rest of the Heirs raised their glasses in wordless agreement, then tossed them back in a single motion and just sat in the sun of the new world. A blue box appeared before each of them.

"That's new," Stella said, blinking at the box in surprise.

"I bet stalker teeth to dragon bones that it's from Nathan," Sarah replied with a vicious grin.
