“I guess,” Jake muttered as he looked at the final screen of the presentation, which just depicted a picture of the True Dragon named Yrelstromoz with a target on her. She looked almost entirely humanoid, save for the two curved horns on her head and her eyes, which were definitely reptilian in nature.

Of course, Jake didn’t expect to fight that form for long. As the Viper had shown in all his visions, dragons were at their strongest when actually in the form of a dragon, and he had no reason to believe this one was any different. Knowing she was part of the Lumenflight, Jake also expected to encounter his fair share of light magic, which he was both good and bad against.

His scales had extra resistance to light magic, but due to Jake’s connection to the dark affinity, he was naturally more susceptible to light magic, as shown by the Great White Stag all the way back in the Tutorial. He also had what was pretty much an immunity to all blinding attacks, but he also knew that light magic tended to counter those that relied on speed, making Jake unsure if he could dodge everything the dragon threw at him.

Overall, he reckoned it was a pretty neutral matchup. Actually, thinking about it, if he had fought a dragon specializing in dark magic, Jake guessed he would have had an advantage, but besides that, most types of dragons seemed like neutral match-ups.

The more Jake thought about the upcoming fight, the more he felt excitement begin to bubble up within, and combined with his newfound growth in power from his sacred skill and the accompanying title, Jake felt strong enough.

Villy seemed to recognize Jake’s building excitement as the snake god smiled. “I’ll leave you alone for now. Make your preparations. Your prey currently believes she is in hiding and is purposefully lying low, but I wouldn’t dally too much, or she may be taken out by someone else or get herself killed by being too obnoxious in front of the wrong person. It would suck if I had to prepare another presentation.”

“I don’t need much,” Jake said as he stood up and looked toward where the lab was.

“Then get to it,” Villy smiled before disappearing.

Jake nodded as he telekinetically lifted his forgotten bottle of beer off the table, chugged it in one go, and placed it back down with determination. It was time to make a new batch of poisons and potions, and once they were ready…

It was dragon-hunting time.
