Poi 2 said, “Well shit.”

Poi 1 said, “At least we know this style of waking up together lessens the mental trauma.”

“Of course, we already knew it would work—”

“—but thinking and experiencing are different.” Poi 1 got out of bed, saying to Erick, “Transport back to Candlepoint, please.”

“Is that it?” Erick asked, too many things happening too fast. What about acclimation? What about some time spent together? What about propriety and acknowledging what a big deal this was? “What about [Hive Mind]?”

“Already active,” Poi 2 said, also getting out of bed. “You can stop calling me ‘Poi 2’, by the way.”

Poi 1 and Poi 2 spoke in alternating words.

“We’re—” “—The—” “—Same—” “—Person—” “—In—” “—Most—” “—Ways.” “The—” “—Only—” “—Way—” “—We’re—” “—Different—” “—Is—” “—In—” “—Dungeon—” “—Control.”

“Please call—”

“—Us both Poi.”

One Poi walked out of the room, eager to be separate, while the other remained behind, looking stoic and ready to work.

The departing Poi quietly asked, “Ophiel. Transport to home, please.”

Ophiel rapidly flitted over to the shoulder of the departing Poi, turning them both to Benevolence and flickering away, to exit the dungeon as quickly as possible. Within 10 seconds, Poi was through a [Gate], and back home.

Ophiel came back without Poi and landed back on Erick’s shoulder—

And the Other Poi was also standing before Erick and Solomon, saying, “Don’t call me ‘Other Poi’, please. I’m just ‘Poi’.”

Erick and Solomon both mumbled a ‘Sorry’.

Poi nodded, “Now to get on this memetic and anti-memetic threat that you believe might be happening with the Sundering. It’s quite possible. The Sundering might be memetic, or anti-memetic. We don’t know.” Poi walked out of his bedroom, toward the living rooms, and Erick and Solomon followed. Poi continued, “There are three artifacts that exist on Veird already that you’re going to want to take from their respective guardians. Also: Jane is going to be coming here soon, since it’s been about a day since you came in here. You can’t avoid her at all.” They were at the bottom of the grand staircase in the front room when Poi turned around and told them both, “She’s going to make repros, and you’re going to have to let her, or else she’s going to hate you. Also, don’t take it personally when the repros are inordinately happy about finally having a reason to fully break away from your light, or when Original Jane looks sad that she can’t do that, too.”

Both Erick and Solomon sighed a little.

“… Yeah,” Erick said.

Solomon said, “I figured she might be happy about that.”

Erick demanded of Solomon, “What the fuck did we do wrong?”

“I don’t know why she hates us!” Solomon said, suddenly angry at himself, or at the world; it was hard to say.

Poi rolled his eyes. “She doesn’t hate you. She wants to protect you but you’re impossible to protect, and so she runs away. Please don’t ever tell her I told you that.”

Both Erick and Solomon were quiet as they digested that information. Poi was obviously breaking Mind Mage confidentiality which was a big deal, and yet...

“Well… We already knew that, we suppose?” Solomon guessed.

“Yeah. But… Hearing it from you helps. Thank you, Poi,” Erick said.

Poi smiled a little as he entered the kitchen and went right to the candy cupboard like he was a man on a mission. He opened that cupboard, because apparently he was a man on a mission, and then he pulled out the jar of sprinkle stars. “Ah ha!” Poi laughed as he opened the jar and took out a purple star between two talons. “They don’t make them like they used to!” He popped the chewy candy into his mouth, smiling wider. “Yup. These are the originals! Ha!” He set down the jar.

And then he turned toward Erick and Solomon.

“The place that made these burned down 35 years ago in Kal’Duresh along with the grandma that used to make them. When they remade their business they had to rediscover the recipes, because that grandma didn’t write anything down.” Poi tapped the jar with a talon, saying, “These might look like the ones I used to get and keep in the house at Spur, but these are from the old recipe. These are from that grandma.

“There are many ways this could have happened. I don’t know enough to list all the ways. Paradox Wizardry, Dark shenanigans, maybe that grandmother is a shadeling at Ascendant Mountain, but whatever the case, it’s strange that they would put the original, real candy here, in this house. Were they watching us that closely? Or maybe they heard me talk about how I liked the original candy better than the remake. Or maybe Fallopolis, who built this house, liked the old version of that candy, too, which is really damned weird. I don’t know. I can’t read Shade minds.

“Whatever the case, I believe this candy was plucked out of the Dark, like an old memory brought to life. On its own this doesn’t mean much, and I have no idea why Melemizargo put the original recipe in here, but it does prove my theory that you can find a lot of stuff in the Dark that isn’t that deep at all, which will be good for Veird.

“It’s not the only thing I noticed that was plucked from the Dark in this house, either, like manasphere imprints [Mend]ed into reality.

“The sheets on those beds are the finest cottonfruit sheets that I have ever felt. The clothes in my dressers are from current-day largesse. The soaps are from Oceanside, and are better than anything we used to have in this house.” Poi went over to the cold box and pulled out a steak wrapped in paper, and labeled ‘Oolarito’. “These steaks in the fridge are easy to mistake as from Ooloraptoor, but they’re from a breed of cow that was made extinct by the Shades a thousand years ago, because the original warlord clans wouldn’t sell to them.”

Erick rapidly looked around the house as Poi spoke. “… Err. Perhaps I wasn’t seeing just how nice some of this stuff was.”

“Neither was I,” Solomon admitted. “But what’s your point, Poi?”

“My point is an easy one. There are many possible memetic and anti-memetic threats in the Old Cosmology. Ones we cannot account for, and ones we will have to over prepare for. But you can bring stuff from the history of Veird into the modern day, and we know how to safeguard against those memetic and anti-memetic threats.

“You were talking of bringing back big magics and bigger resources from the Old Cosmology, and we’ll still get that stuff, of course, because we should,” Poi said, “But there’s a lot of stuff on Veird that you can pull out of the Dark that would be a lot better for us than ancient stuff that has no bearing at all on modern day Veird.

“Just think of every single person who ever died, for one.

“You could bring them all back as shadelings, first, and then real people afterward. You could save everyone that the Anarchy and Blue Wizards killed. Reach back far enough and you can undo the Fall of Quintlan, bringing billions of people back to life. Reach back just over a decade and you could undo the Chelation War.”

The air seemed tense and full in that moment, as the entire weight of what Poi was suggesting gradually settled onto Erick’s shoulders—

“You could find my mother in the Dark, and bring her back, too,” Poi said. But before Erick could think about the gravity of all of that, Poi rapidly added, “It’s just a thought, though, and I already know that Rozeta and Phagar don’t like people mucking around with time on Veird, but it’s been done before, and it can be done again, in a much more positive way. We’ve got a lot of work to do here, but since we’re exploring the Ancient Dark for old Truths, it will pay to keep in mind that not-so-ancient Truths also exist.”

Solomon spoke, “Exploring memetic and anti-memetic threats come first. Defending against the unknown is more important than bringing back shadows of people, no matter how personally important they are.”

Erick agreed. “But the lure of just… Bringing people back to life?”

Solomon nodded. “It’s… It’s a thing that we should consider, yes.”

Poi smiled softly, then began, “Before we get into all of that, though, there are three memetic-type artifacts that currently exist on Veird that you should acquire before we go much further with all of this. All three are under the protections of the Mind Mage conclave, and the first is located in Nelboor…”

- - - -

Three artifacts sat before Erick, Solomon, and Poi.

The first was a Crown of Self. It had started existence as an iron band that went around the head like a crown, that people used when hunting unicorns, and other mental monsters. Through an act of supreme self, and a casting of minor Wizardry and great personal trauma, it had become more than that. Outwardly, it had changed from iron to silver, and gained a sheen that marked it as magical. In effect, it had changed a lot more, making one completely mentally separate from the rest of the world, offering complete immunity to memetic magic, and a whole bunch of other magic besides.

At its base effect, it meant no outward magic at all.

“It also means no [Telepathy], no Familiars, no magical communication with anything at all,” Poi said, “It has been tested against… Well. A lot. There’ve been 2 Mind Mage Wizards in the last thousand years, and this thing was born out of the capture and killing of the first one, and then finally taken out of storage and heavy Mind Mage contraband control before finally being used by an assassin to kill the second Wizard. I suggest Solomon take it and use it, but only when necessary, for anyone who wears it will be cut off from me, anyone else trying to contact them, and the dungeon. [Cascade Imaging] will likely find the person wearing this, but not [Scry], or anything like that. This is a Wizard Artifact, so it works here even in the Dark, just like the other two.”

Solomon frowned a little at that.

Erick looked to the next artifact.

The second artifact was the Lidless Eyes. It was a collection of tiny glass eyes, all stuck to each other, and freely floating on a golden chain, like drops of dew, or chains of grapes. They would not fall off of the chain, but they did move around. The eyes tracked Erick as he stepped a fraction to the left, and then the right, as though all of those tiny eyes belonged to an Ophiel-like entity.

Solomon said, “I don’t like how it has 57 eyes one moment, then 59 after I blink, and then 48 when I look again.”

Erick looked to Solomon, then back to the Lidless Eyes. “Without moving or blinking, how many eyes does it look like it has to you, right now, Solomon?”

“63.”

“It’s 64 to me.” Erick activated his All-Seeing Eye. “Still 64 with this eye of my own.”

“… Well now it’s 64?” Solomon said, frowning a little, as he narrowed his eyes at the artifact.

Poi said, “The Lidless Eyes let you see all manner of Mind Magic happening everywhere around you, and it draws that Mind Magic into itself, along with any magics that directly attempt to affect the wearer, popping eyes with every magic absorbed. For every eye popped, the user is protected against that specific magic for the next hour… or maybe just a few minutes. The stronger the magic, the lesser the safety guaranteed by the used eye. Eyes come back a day after being used or whenever they feel like it. This is a very chaotic artifact, but it’s a Wizard-level artifact, and it works very, very well against singular memetic threats. It has no downside, though, which makes it among the best of the three from our hoards.”

Solomon and Erick looked at the artifact of eyes…

Erick asked, “Could Lapis replicate any of these?”

“Probably not,” Poi said.

Erick and Solomon narrowed their eyes, thinking.

“Moving on,” Poi said. “The Crown protects against active change, and is the most absolute of the items here. The Eyes do the same, but without the downsides of absolute protection. Memetic threats are often the most dangerous, so that’s why I had you get two of those types of artifacts. But the third is what might actually matter. The Bracelet of Memory.”

“That’s clearly a slave shackle,” Solomon said.

Poi did not argue, because it was a slave shackle. Or at least it had started off that way. The thing was a wrist-lock of black iron about 5 centimeters wide, a full centimeter thick, and large enough to fit around most human wrists. It had a hinge that was rusted over, yet the whole thing easily opened and shut as though the rust didn’t exist at all. It also had a clasp where a lock could be inserted and secured, to hold the two sides together, to make sure it never came off of an arm. There was no accompanying lock, though. The inside had some anti-mana engravings, but those had been worn away, while the outside had some silver etchings that had been scratched out in precisely the weakest spots to break the enchantment therein. From what Erick was seeing, it looked like someone had broken the magics on the item and when the [Envelop Item] magics had failed they had taken a chisel to it, so that it couldn’t be easily repaired.

The thing was a dead weight to Erick’s mana sense. The Lidless Eyes and the Crown were both highly magical, but this thing was subtle. Barely there.

Poi said, “The Bracelet of Memory was probably accidentally turned into an artifact by a Mind Mage Wizard who was born a free woman, but who was captured and forced into slavery down in Nergal, over 700 years ago. Back then the Mind Mage Collective wasn’t nearly as unified as it is today, and there were some Mind Mages who used some rather terrible Mind Magics to control their slaves. We think the woman who made this might have been sent to infiltrate and break up that slave trade but we don’t know. She had lost all her memories in that infiltration and sequester. Somehow, she made this, and then she was able to free herself and hundreds of others. When she came back into the fold and achieved freedom, she took the bracelet off and erased her own memories.

“No one is sure why she did that, but it is a trend that remains for all who use this item.

