“All this does is make absolutely sure that all information that goes into your mind, stays there. You will not be able to forget anything while you wear this. It’s the most potent anti-anti-memetic artifact we have in our collective, and it should not be used by anyone going out on any missions. The other two items are nice, and irreplaceable, but this one is beyond irreplaceable. It should be used here, at base, so that we can be sure that it is never lost.” Poi said, “Aside from that warning, this thing is practically a memetic-hazard on its own because remembering everything you see can be dangerous. But then again, you both have Intelligence, so that ship has mostly sailed.” He shrugged. “Or perhaps if either of you wear this, you’ll want to take it off instantly. I don’t know.”

Silence stretched as people thought.

Erick said, “We’ll talk about the distribution soon enough. Jane is coming down.”

“By the way,” Poi said, “I am in contact with Quil. If you want to ask some questions about working dungeons, Solomon, I am available to help in that way, and Quil is too.” Poi added, “And Quilli, and Quardo, and a few other Quilatalap repros.”

Solomon chuckled. “Ah. So this is what it’s like to be on the other side of that divide, eh?”

Poi nodded.

Erick felt left out, but that was okay. Solomon could enjoy himself, if he wanted.

Solomon said, “I’ll talk to the Q’s, and you, Erick, can talk to Jane.” He smiled a little. “It’ll be nice to know her from a different angle too… But later. So yeah. Let’s talk in the library, Poi.”

Poi and Solomon walked off to the library, speaking of dungeon controls and changes all the while, and picking Quil’s brain on what he thought of this dungeon. Erick watched them go for a moment. And then he moved toward Jane, where she was coming in. She hadn’t been here in the dungeon yet, so this was going to be a change for her, too.

Erick wondered how she would take it… And yeah. From what Erick was seeing through Ophiel, Jane was taking it weirdly, too.

Erick met Jane at the front door. “Hey, Jane.”

Jane stood by herself in the front ‘yard’, upon the orange/white stone, her eyes wide as she took in the sight of their old house.

“Did you know that Melemizargo and Fallopolis got our house from Spur?” Erick asked, “Because I certainly didn’t. And I already made a repro. His name is Solomon. Poi came and left, and left us with a repro Poi, too, but they’re [Hive Mind]ed, so it’s just Poi. They’re talking to Quil right now. You know Quil? He’s the Quilatalap repro dungeon master of the Grand Benevolence Dungeon.”

Jane blinked, and then steeled herself as she strode forward, saying, “No; I did not know that they got our house. Poi is Poi, which is fine I suppose. We’re going to need some Mind Mages assistance with figuring out some memetic threat-counters.”

Erick smiled as he stepped aside and let Jane in the house. As her eyes went to the very familiar and yet unfamiliar layout, Erick said, “I already got three artifacts from the Mind Mages, courtesy of Poi. Do you want to make some repros now, too?”

Jane paused. And then she turned to her father. “That’s not going to be a problem for you?”

“I would be lying if I said it wasn’t freaking me out, but I’m maintaining, and you already made your decision. I’m sure it’ll go well, anyway; Quilatalap has lots of repros and he gets along with all of them, too.” Erick said, “The slimes are in my mage tower. Want some accompaniment?”

“Nope. I got it. Thanks, dad.”

Jane wandered off upstairs, toward the mage tower.

And Erick stood in the foyer, watching her go…

- - - -

Time passed.

Erick made meals to pass that time, and when making meals for everyone wasn’t enough, as that only took him an hour and all the ‘Janes’ were still asleep and Solomon and Poi were talking to others, Erick watched over the world, and remotely fixed problems the world over. The food waited inside Preservation magics, for now.

‘Fixing the world’ ate up another few hours, as he took care of top-level issues.

He could have spent days doing even more, but he did not.

As Jane repros came to themselves and spent a while talking amongst themselves, Erick spent another hour making more food just so that he could give them all a hearty meal of beef wellington, because he felt like being fancy. And because he wanted them to like him.

He wasn’t sure why he felt that way, but he did.

Everything was weird. Erick was dealing with it as best he could.

Dinner with the Janes was a tense ordeal of unsaid emotions. But then again, all the girls wanted to go right out to conquer dungeons for base mana regen, and that was an easy enough conversation to have. ‘Oh you’re killing things? I killed some things today, too. It was fun and I saved some lives.’ It was weird to say it like that, but he brushed past that, and so did everyone else. Erick would have loved to actually forget some of the weirder moments of sitting there, talking with his five daughters, but that wasn’t happening.

And then Jane said, “So we were thinking that we could stay in the hotel, and you could stay here with Solomon and Poi.”

“Sure sure,” Erick said, because that’s what you did when your squadron of copied daughters wanted to live on their own. “Solomon and I will be working on the dungeon, anyway—” Erick turned to Solomon, for his repro had joined dinner, too, alongside Poi. “You want to go out and get some base mana regen, too, right?”

Solomon said, “Yes. So I’ll be joining you girls, if you don’t mind your not-dad trailing along with you.”

“Oh sure!” said one of the Janes, after all of them had a brief moment of panic about a hundred different things. And then that Jane added, “It’ll be good practice for when we go core crushing, right?”

“Right.” “Yeah.” “Sounds good, not-dad!”

It was still very weird.

After dinner the extra Janes all disavowed their dungeon master status. Prismatic mist spilled out from their bodies. That mist flowed into the air, and then vanished, while Poi and Solomon proclaimed that they were once again the only dungeon masters in the group. The status screen of the dungeon said as much, too.

The extra Janes were very eager to leave, to start delving in the canyon to get their base mana production up. Why were they so eager? A bunch of reasons. Erick didn’t think about all those reasons. The girls left.

Solomon tagged along.

And then it was just Poi and Erick in the house again.

Erick sipped his after dinner tea, while Poi did the same.

Erick whispered, “Holy shit this is gonna be an experience.”

Poi nodded, then said, “Not to break Mind Mage protocol too much, but everyone here is way too tense around everyone else. You’re all worried about how the other feels and if they’ll be disappointed in you, but you all actually feel the same way; It’s just a lot of love, Erick.”

“If she loves me, then why doesn’t she want to be near me?”

“She’s worried about eliciting any form of disappointment from you at all, for if you show disappointment, that means that you cannot connect to her how she wants you to connect, because if you were connecting how she wanted that connection, then you would automatically be proud of her— And yes, I know you are proud of her, Erick, and she knows that you are proud of her, too.” Poi said, “But she’s hyper-sensitized. If you show her that you’re always proud of her, then she’ll think it’s fake; that you’re putting on the ‘parent persona’ in order not to harm her emotionally. If you show disappointment, then you just don’t understand her. There is literally no winning that sort of ‘fight’, because it’s not a fight. It’s just a parent-child relationship that is growing apart, because it’s normal for children to want to have their own lives away from their parents, but you two are a special case, because Jane literally will never, ever, ever, be able to get out from under your light. She knows that, and you know that, too.”

Erick stared out at nothing as he listened to truths he already knew.

“You’re a good father, Erick,” Poi said. “Jane turned out well.”

Erick smiled softly. “Yeah she did.” He sighed, banished his worried thoughts, and said, “I’m thinking I should make a few more All-Seeing Eyes, but I need the proper environment for that. Would you mind me stepping out for an hour or two? I think I need to go to the Well to ask a question about Wizardry.”

Poi smiled softly. “I’m fine here, Erick.”

“Are you really, though? You talked about Solomon becoming a hermit down here, but I don’t want you to be alone, either.” Erick rapidly added, “I’ll leave Ophiel here.”

Poi chuckled. “I am more connected to the rest of the world than you are. I might physically look alone, but I am not alone at all. It’s much more important for Solomon to get out there than it is for me, which is about 40% of the reason I decided to do this repro thing anyway.”

“… Okay. Well. I know Solomon appreciates you being here, and I do, too. He certainly was in a darned hurry to get out of here, wasn’t he.”

Poi smirked. “He was.”

Erick thought. “… You know… Could we restructure this dungeon in order to grant connected-dungeon-masters base mana production, from the killing of slimes in the dungeon? So that none of them need to actually leave to kill things if they don’t want to? Take the base production of dead slimes and apply them to the masters?” Ophiel twittered in concerned noises on Erick’s shoulder, and Erick frowned at himself. “Ahh… I don’t want to kill any of the slimes, though. I suppose. I like that the slimes are just… living up there.”

Poi focused on some thought tendrils trailing out of his mind. “Hold on one second.” Poi stared at the air for a moment, concentrating… “This is more difficult than Solomon made it look— There we go.”

A black screen with white lettering appeared.

- -

Slime manifestations (Daily): 19,300

Slime deaths (Daily): 18,900

Ooze deaths (Daily): 16

Other deaths (Daily): ~0

- - -

“Takes a bit to figure out how to make a new screen from scratch. Anyway.” Poi said, “The guardians are very good at killing the oozes that naturally appear, but oozes eat the slimes every now and then. From what I’m seeing there also appears to be a lot of natural death; this is a mature dungeon, and slimes do just die from flopping too hard sometimes. Theoretically, you wouldn’t need to kill slimes in order to take their mana regen for yourself at all; you could simply take advantage of all that natural death.

“But.

“Like how farmers can’t gain experience from monster cows they raise on the Surface, masters cannot gain mana from their own dungeon; it’s an in-built limit to the system. Even if we made big monsters that were actually worth mana production, then we wouldn’t get mana production from killing them.”

Erick said, “And then there’s that whole ‘challenges that grant base mana creation have to be challenges’.”

Poi smiled. “I’m pretty sure that a Wizard could break all of those limitations, but this change to normal operations is not a switch that can be flipped; the switch must first be created.”

Erick’s mind wandered in thought, and then he glanced at his empty wrist, where his gold staff no longer was. “Solomon should be able to overcome whatever challenges exist in the other dungeons, but I’m not sure if the staff will actually count as his.”

Poi shrugged. “You’ve been awake for about 3 days straight now. Are you going to continue that?”

Erick chuckled. “Ahhh… I probably should sleep... Later. I’ll sleep later.”

Poi nodded, then said, “Another switch that I feel you could easily add would be a switch to change that timer; to allow the creation of new Rules faster than the 8 day delay demands.”

- - - -

As Erick flew through the sky, taking the long way to get to the Well amid Ascendant City, he had a lot of thoughts about a lot of things.

Poi had thrown him for a heavy loop.

Primary among Erick’s thoughts was the desire to figure out what action he could take right now, and in the coming days, which could set this Sundering search on a good path to success. There had been a lot of talk about a bunch of various directions they could go, and Jane was already doing all of what she had originally wanted to do, but that was Jane, and Erick… Erick had different ‘needs’.

Did he actually want to resurrect every single person lost in the Darkness?

To ‘go back in time’, like Poi suggested, and pull every single dead person to this present and make them into new people? Even putting aside the idea of ‘can I actually do this’, such an action would have a catastrophic effect on all godly domains, would it not? Dead souls went to the gods they worshiped or cared about, in order to become one with that god and with all others who had gone to that god before. Resurrecting people from the past would disrupt that, right?

Added to that, this whole way that ‘divine power’ worked, reminded Erick of dungeon cores, but different. Dungeon cores had been purposefully built not to allow their masters to gain power, but gods gained power from people who worshiped them, no matter how that worship took place. Could cores be Wizarded to do exactly what they had been created to not do, and bring power from the dying inhabitants directly to their dungeon masters, as gods did with people born on Veird?

But beyond that...

Erick felt like he was facing choice-paralysis.

And yet, he needed to make choices, because the only thing worse than making a bad choice when facing a crisis, like this Sundering search, was making no choice at all.

Usually it was a lot easier for him to see the path forward, but everything had gotten cloudy lately.

As Erick flew across the crystal-tower sky, and watched shadelings down below go about their days, Erick was very glad that Poi had chosen to make a repro, and that they were [Hive Mind]ed together. Talking to ‘Other Poi’ was just like talking to Poi, because it was talking to Poi.

And Poi had a lot of good ideas, and he had already brought some crucial artifacts to the table. Erick wasn’t sure how all those Mind Magic artifacts would work out, but he was pretty sure that all three of those Wizard-level artifacts would be absolutely necessary going forward. Especially that anti-anti-meme shackle.

