it and began to make his way across with a cheerful stride.“I should have expected that. Numb?” he tried the goblin next. Numb raised one brow.“Asking for hints? Is not the whole point of the room, to try and fail then try and pass?” Numb asked innocently; but at Quiss’ glare he shrugged and, a little quicker than Quiss expected, hopped across the three centre platforms.The middle one had bobbed but the goblin had moved too quickly for it to dip any lower. Numb stood on the other side staring at his hands with utter delight. “Still getting used to this body, who knew I could do that?”Quiss could see how the challenge of this room would be a pain.“Can’t you just use magic to get us across?” Noland tried. Quiss turned to him and in his driest tone spoke slowly.“Yes, let me just make a bridge made of fire for you, your majesty,” he stressed. Noland growled.“Don’t you know any other magic?” he asked, sounding a little desperate. Quiss knew how to summon ducks, but he guessed that wouldn’t really help unless he summoned a lot.“Nope,” he lied and that was when the dungeon shook. The walls, the floors, the very air seemed to tremble as music filled tunnels.A duet of male and female sang words that he couldn’t quite hear, but the force seeped into Quiss’ bones.Isanella was singing.She hadn’t done that, if his research was right, since the Ulane. The castle now famous for having no sound at all. Those who lived there and those who passed through experienced no sound. They weren’t deaf but sound just didn’t work. The ingredients for music and song were now gone.Removed by Isanella.For what reason, Quiss had never asked. He would have to offer his story in trade and he had no inclination to do so.Quiss pushed Noland on to the first platform in the middle and it held.“First part done, now if we keep this up, we’ll be across in no time,” Quiss nodded and before Noland could protest, he pushed Noland on to the next one.It sank and there was a splat.The somehow pristine clipboard came floating along the surface of the mud a moment later.“Well, not that one,” Quiss said helpfully as Noland turned slowly to glare at him.He climbed out of the pit and Quiss just stood there with a huge smile on his face. It was mean he knew, but he couldn’t help enjoying it. He knew exactly what path to take but he just wanted to see the man suffe-Something jabbed into his side and Quiss turned to see a wooden log pushing out of the nearby wall and into said side.He wobbled and toppled over.When... had Delta put those in?The mud around Quiss began to bubble with heat.---“Stop laughing!” Grim demanded as Ruli wiped at her eyes.“S-sorry but you got rammed up the ass by Boary? Why didn’t you just sneak past or feed it some mushrooms?” she asked. Grim opened his mouth but shut it with a click when no answer came.“So you got the grove and got chased around for ages. Anything else in the room or is it same ole, same ole? Can’t expect Delta to make everything better. Sometimes you gotta call something done for the day or you’ll never get anything else done,” she nodded at her own wisdom.“Mushrooms, pigs, goblins, and me running for my life. Same ole...same ole,” Grim muttered. His pen drew a snoozing Boary next to the room.---“As you can see Deo, such a fertile area can support many mushrooms!” Dabberghast beamed as they stood just before the grove. Deo looked around.“I REMEMBER BEING NEARLY EATEN BY A SPIDER HERE!” he agreed.Noland looked at the towel that Numb had fetched for him and shook his head.“This dungeon likes its mushrooms. Is there any reason for this?” he asked Quiss.Delta liked mushrooms because...Well...“She just does. I mean why do you like that clipboard so much?” he deflected. Noland snorted.“Written documents are the foundation of history and society. A good document can neatly cover a kingdoms wealth, population, and any other issues. A great document can change them. It has purpose, importance, use. Mushrooms are important to the ecosystem and nature but overall, as a city dweller, I find very little use for them,” he informed Quiss neatly.There was snuffling sound and Quiss watched as the boar that lived in the area lazily walked out of a nearby bush. Deo cheered and rushed over. Quiss watched, less sure of this particular monster. It never left the grove nor did it express the same level of personality as the others.Deo began to pet the pig. With a sigh, the monster laid down to give Deo extra reach. The mushrooms growing on its back twitched as well. It was a little grotesque if he thought too hard about what it meant for the mushrooms to be there.Dabberghast, of course, disagreed and she rushed over to get a better look.“Ah, grows into the fur...doesn't seem to pierce skin. It can afford to since it lives off of the ambient mana. You must sleep a lot if they had time to settle in,” Dabberghast said with a teasing tone to the snoozing pig.Quiss watched but he felt... there was something else here.He turned and saw a slightly swaying mushroom cap.The mushroom forest around them, now that he was thinking about, cast a lot of shadows and offered a lot of high ground if one could navigate it.Noland looked at his clipboard, in particular, the large hole near the top where it could be hung off a nail or a hook.“Still mud in there,” he grumbled, holding the clipboard higher to get a better look.A black arrow whistled from the darkness and yanked the clipboard out of Noland’s hand, burying itself into the large mushroom stalk behind Quiss.The clipboard was undamaged as the arrow had a very narrow head and somehow went through the hole like a needle.Quiss looked up as a goblin emerged from the shadows high above.It wasn’t just Numb that had changed...Quiss subtly moved in front of Noland as Dabberghast put one hand on the ground, making the gesture look casual as Deo jumped up and waved.“BILLY! IS THAT YOU BILLY?” he yelled. There was a pause before the goblin leapt and bounced off another mushroom to land in a crouch.Billy had been a little silly looking before. A green hat and a bow that belonged to a child.Now, Billy looked like he’d snuck out of some child’s nightmare. Numb snorted.“Show off!” he called to the goblin in the hood. Red eyes glowed in the shadows it cast.Long claws casually brushed a belt of items, and black arrows filled his quiver.“They woke me up from my nap, a gob can get a little angsty,” Billy’s tone was like the warning rattle of a snake. Each word with a barely held back laugh.Numb went to stand next to his brother as Dabberghast removed her hand, a glow of green fading. She had been taken by surprise as well. She was a druid but Quiss guessed that in a dungeon, even she could be tricked by the local nature if it suited the dungeon.Quiss counted two goblins. Now, where was the last one?“Oi, you people done making a ruckus?” a snooty voice called and Quiss’ migraine came back with a vengeance.Cois stomped up to Quiss and Noland. Noland took a few steps back as Cois eyed him.“Who’s the git?” he asked bluntly and Noland’s eyes bugged out.“Excuse me?!” he demanded, fear forgotten as his pride became a little too bruised.Cois pointed a sharp claw at Noland.“You. Dressing like you’re off to a ball. You got a silver spoon so far into that mouth you’re scooping whatever is left of your brains out. YOU! Who are you, ya buggering git!” Cois’ nostrils flared. Billy itched his nose.“Pretty sure he’s the guest Mother said we had to be on our best behavior around,” he commented and Cois paused.“Is he?” he asked Billy in a displeased tone. Numb grinned.“You gonna be stuck tasting new mushrooms for ages at this rate,” he informed Cois. The music thrummed and Cois growled.“Who set off the preening fool?” he called but no answer came. Cois turned but choked out a gurgle as Deo picked him up to hug him with both arms.“COIS! HOW ARE YOU!” Deo said. Cois turned an alarming shade of purple before Deo loosened his grip slightly. Quiss was developing an unhealthy habit of enjoying watching other people's suffering.“Release me child! I command you!” Cois warned. Deo did so and the fiery goblin adjusted himself and made sure his staff hadn’t been crushed.“What do you want?” Cois asked Noland.“I am here to examine the dungeon under kingdom law. I am here to look for danger, threats, opportunities, worth of operations, and how much potential this dungeon holds for the kingdom at large,” Noland quoted perfectly. Cois narrowed his eyes but then suddenly smiled.It was... not a nice look. Quiss almost told Noland to run, but something held his tongue.Cois walked forward, claws behind his back.“I was almost a diplomat in another life,” Cois stated almost casually.“I could never tell,” Noland muttered. Cois ignored that and sat on a low mushroom. Gesturing for Noland to take the one across from him.“I like the way you think Noland and I can appreciate a man with a good eye for business...” Cois tried to look benevolent but the expression came across as bloodthirsty.“As you said, you wanna see what Mother’s dungeon can do for your kingdom. Great, love it. Now, in return, I wanna know... for good ole curiosity sake... what can your kingdom do for the dungeon?” Cois’ tone turned into a sharp weapon that Noland was not prepared for.Quiss took a step back.Noland’s expression was suddenly guarded but... interested. This was more his domain than mud pits and mushroom monsters. Quiss curled one lip at the scene as a political battle began. A battle that was the most important thing Delta had ever fought and all she had was Cois.He hoped Delta had something else up her sleeve. Noland was an ass but...He was one of the finest taxmen in the country. Dabberghast neatly planted herself slightly behind Cois and smiled at Noland....Well, now that was just unfair.Quiss watched as Numb and Billy rushed off with Deo into the fort room. His ‘incoming double migraine’ warning began to signal and he had to choose. Business meeting that may start a war with the kingdom or small mischief caused by Deo? Which one to stop?Quiss turned and moved after Deo.Dabberghast was an adult with an agenda that aligned with his, for now, she could handle this. If not, Quiss could always just hide in his shack for the next few years.It wouldn’t be the first time.
