The next 4 years passed without incident and it was time for Ren to leave for Adventurer's business. Despite knowing it was coming, Fire Dancer's mood darkened as the time for Ren's next absence approached. It wasn't until he reminded her about the Special Sending Ring that she realized she could still talk to Teepo if she wanted during the next 7 years.

Teepo told her over and over that he would gladly talk to her as much as she wanted, and he would even leave the ring active while she slept if she wanted. Fire Dancer said that was a bit too much communication for her liking, which made everyone laugh. The fateful day arrived and it was almost a tearful goodbye, because he had to leave not one, but two people behind this time.

“I'll come back as soon as I can.” Ren promised.

Fire Dancer sighed. “I thought I told you not to promise things like that.”

“Actually, you told me not to promise to be back by a specific time.” Ren corrected, and she rolled her eyes. He stepped close to her and took her into his arms, and she looked up at his sad face. “I'm going to miss you.”

“I'm going to miss you, too.” Fire Dancer admitted.

Ren kissed her forehead and gave her a pile of emotions that were a mix of love and devotion, then he let her go and took Zetaya into a hug. “I'm going to miss cuddling my cuddle buddy.”

Zetaya chuckled, and he heard a small crackling fire. “You have lots of them back in the Earth Realm.”

“I may sleep in a bed with them, but they aren't cuddle buddies.” Ren said and gave her a kiss on the lips. “Be good and stay safe.”

“I know, I know.” Zetaya said and ruffled his hair with both of her hands. “No leaving the bedroom without you or the Deity of Fire.”

“Only until you're strong enough to handle yourself in this form.” Ren said. “After that...”

“Sweet freedom!” Zetaya exclaimed, and they laughed.

“Do you want to stay this size?” Ren asked, and she nodded.

“I can't cuddle the Deity of Fire if I'm small enough to sit inside her ear.” Zetaya smiled.

“Fair enough.” Ren said and smiled back. He let her out of the hug and shrunk himself and Teepo back to their normal sizes, then Ren flew up to wave at them. He cast the Portal spell into the underground chamber and floated through it.
