“Managing a problem that can never be truly solved,” Joe said vaguely. “That’s not a good topic for the two of us to delve into tonight. But do you remember what I said about the way Artonans generally viewed Avowed?”

“Beasts of burden, existential threats, children that should be bossed around, or gifts from the holy universe.” It was a hard conversation to forget.

“I’m sure I said children in need of instruction, but your version will do. The initial idea of selecting Avowed from resource worlds was a product of minds who would view your existence as a great gift. For our planets—we only had the Mother and Artona II back then—and your own. It was, and is, an arrogant point of view. One centered on Artonan needs and our assumptions about what other species should value.” He shrugged. “But that particular point of view is the only one of the common four that assumes Avowed should both have extraordinary power and be given all the tools they need to use it as a matter of course.”

Alden frowned at his tea. It was turning aqua as the ice melted. “Are you saying the secret to ‘extraordinary power’ is refusing to accept skills. Because I’m confused.”

“That’s because you’re not letting me finish. There was an initial set of around three hundred skills, designed with the fervent passion and care of those who believed they were on a holy mission to save existence itself. The designers proposed that delivering these skills to Avowed and facilitating their use should be the entire point of the Contract.

“But the creation and implementation of a stable, global agglomerate spell that could do everything the Contract does was—and is to this day—the largest magical undertaking in Artonan history. Those dreamers who wanted a certain type of Avowed couldn’t do it themselves. It was an endeavor that required the cooperation of nearly a third of the magic-capable population.”

Alden wondered how many wizards that actually was. Artonans were, as far as anyone knew, the most numerous highly intelligent species in the universe. The Triplanets today had a population of nearly thirty-five billion. Even two thousand years ago, a third of all wizards had to be a staggering number.

“Do human schools ever force you to work on your educational assignments with partners?” Joe asked.

“Group projects?” said Alden, surprised. “Of course.”

“Aren’t they perfectly horrible? It’s rare to get a group of even four or five people to function cohesively. I’m sure it’s the same for humans. We’re unbelievably similar. Imagine a planet-wide group project that everyone agreed must be completed…and then imagine that nobody wanted to complete it in the same way.”

“The ‘Avowed are Gifts’ people didn’t get their way I guess?”

“Oh, they got their way. And so did absolutely everybody else. Which means that nobody got their way. And there is still today an exhausting, never-ending battle waged at the very pinnacle of wizarding society about how exactly the Contracts should be managed.”

He sighed. “It’s embarrassing. Our resource worlds imagine we’re soooo clever. Even the ones that loathe us think we’re competently evil. And I suppose we have managed an absolutely shocking level of success given the in-fighting involved. But virtually everything about the current Systems are a result of negotiations between different Artonan philosophies. They’ve got strong beating hearts we all more or less agree on, but they’ve been enfleshed and clothed by a thousand different committees.”

“Is that why some of the talent names and descriptions are so…”

“Obscure on your planet?” said Joe. “Yes. It’s not as though they couldn’t be explicitly described. But every time someone designs an interesting new skill for Avowed, someone else comes along and says ‘If you give them that, they will hurt themselves!’ And yet another person is shouting, ‘They will kill us all!’ And some idiot is always off in the corner trying to convince his friends that all Avowed should look like supermodels, or have their brains turned off when they’re not in use, or be able to chew through boulders with their teeth.”

“That’s…”

Terrifying. Alden was startled to realize that he actually preferred the idea of cohesive Artonans with dark intentions to flailing politicians who might screw up his planet in a hundred different ways at any given moment. At least evil overlords would probably want Avowed to be alive and useful.

“Well, try not to lose sleep over it. We haven’t blown anything up too badly in my lifetime. All of this was just the lead-up to the part that is of interest to you. In this day and age, due to prevailing mindsets and a widespread belief that the universe is not in the immediate danger we once feared, most skills aren’t designed to be developed beyond a certain point. They have ceilings. There are different ones for every skill, but it’s common for them to top out around Levels 4 through 10, as you would think of it.”

Alden knew that already. “Level 10 Skill User” had a certain connotation of complete mastery. “Why?”

“Why what?”

“Why don’t you let them go higher?”

“It’s not like that. They don’t ‘go higher’ because there is no higher for them. If we focus on the skill-based classes like Ryeh-b’t, then skills are…ah, this is hard to explain since you don’t have any background knowledge…they’re usually designed to rapidly reproduce the effect of a difficult but desirable spell.”

Alden blinked. “That’s not something I’ve ever heard.”

“How much of this conversation has been? Anyway, even if we just take your skill, at its most basic level, as an example, there are spells that preserve things. Obviously. It’s not like I can’t cast them myself. I’m actually quite good at that genre of magic given how useful it is for my job. But knowing the right spell for the right situation and being able to cast it precisely when it’s needed isn’t nearly as easy or convenient as saying, ‘Hey, Alden. Go pick that up.’”

“So skills are just big, complicated spell impressions?”

“Very similar to that. The main differences are that spell impressions are almost always weaker than equivalently ranked skills, and they tend to be perfect duplicates of a real spell, with the casting instructions impressed onto your being so that you don’t actually have to know how magic works and you literally can’t screw them up. Skills are often based on spells, but they’ve been re-engineered to allow the Avowed to slowly come to terms with what they are and master what they can do. More flexibility, more complex end results, much steeper learning curve. But when you reach the end of that learning curve you’re done. Whatever the maximum level is, once it’s reached, the skill is complete, and you have to select a new one and start building it.”

Alden had about a thousand questions, but most importantly… “Do you know what the maximum level for my skill is, then?”

Joe giggled. It was frightening.

“It doesn’t have one,” he said. “The original three hundred skills all still exist in one version of the System or another. The philosophical descendants of the designers make sure they don’t get completely excised. I’m not certain if they really believe those skills will save us all, or if it’s just a point of pride they can’t yield.”

Alden already knew where this was going. But the professor’s next words still sent a frisson of shock through him.

“Yours is number one hundred and twelve. It was hidden under a shroud of mediocrity by the factions that hoped you would never find it. It would be tragic if you uncovered it only to fall into the next trap that has been laid for you.”

“The trap is…taking another skill?”

“Or a spell impression. Or too many foundation points. All of the ways you would commonly wish to increase your power will only slow you down and limit the skill’s growth. I’ve given you all the hints you need to guess why. And you’ve been a fairly good student.”

Oh no.

The look on Joe’s face said this was some kind of pop quiz, and Alden had seen enough of the professor’s teaching style to know that if he answered wrong the lesson would likely end at once.

He had developed theories, but he considered them half-baked.

“My ability to do magic—my authority—is wrapped up in the skill and the trait I chose,” he suggested finally. “The skill going up a level is a result of my authority increasing. But if the System always offers rewards for leveling in addition, is it like there’s excess authority? Like as I develop Let Me Take Your Luggage, part of my power is naturally wrapped up with the skill, but part of it’s still unbound?”

That made sense, Alden decided. In a headachey way. Since he’d finally gotten used to the idea of authority over the past few days.

“So the rewards the System offers every time I level aren’t exactly free gifts,” he concluded. “It’s transforming my unbound authority into a talent. Which means when I accept them, the excess authority…gets set back to zero. But in exchange I get powers I can actually use.”

Joe slapped the arm of his chair. “Yes! Excellent for a human. Some clarifications as a reward: your ‘unbound authority’ will never be zero, though it’s usually significantly lower for Ryeh-b’ts than others due to class design. It’s why you’re only granted talent rewards for leveling, and summoners can’t usually offer them to you as payment for services rendered. Another bizarre set of complicating factors sponsored by centuries worth of politics and peoples’ feelings about the different classes. Blah. Don’t worry about it.

“Instead, wonder about what happens if you don’t give the System permission to affix its little rewards when it wants to.”

“Eventually it’s going to force me to do it, right?”

“The key word there is eventually. It doesn’t want to take that route. It’s absolutely horrible on the budget, and it’s considered morally monstrous by far more Artonans than you would expect. So the System isn’t allowed to force an affixation until it’s exhausted all other possibilities. Instead it will let you level the skill and level it again and probably a few more times besides without taking your reward. I haven’t actually seen it happen before, but from what I understand, it will resort to outright bribery right before it gives up on getting your permission and violently modifies you.”

“How does it bribe people who refuse to accept any kind of magical improvement?”

“It almost never occurs, but I’ve heard it usually involves the creation of high end equipment. You asked once about accumulating a large number of refusals; I imagine something like that would be on the table, too.”

That sounded awesome. “Why don’t more people do it then?”

“Why don’t more people train endlessly in an effort to increase their power and then, at the moment of achievement, refuse to increase their power?”

“I mean…somebody has to have tried it just out of curiosity.”

Joe shook his head. “You have to consider the fact that the first thing that will happen is nothing. And the second. And the third. And only then does the System start to get concerned about the unbound authority creating a dangerous problem for the Avowed.”

“What happens?”

“A scale tips. Too much excess authority will unbalance the original skill affixation and damage it, which would result in either a gruesome and agonizing death or something much worse.”

So maybe don’t give the System a hard time just for your own amusement then, Alden thought.

“So, if I level and refuse my rewards and never take one from a summoner either, eventually I’ll get a last-ditch bribe?”

“You don’t want the last-ditch bribe. You want the thing that will, I think, come before it. With you, the System will have an additional option. If you’re refusing the rewards the Triplanets would prefer you take, it can offer you the next step on the original progression path for your skill. The old one, designed by wizards who assumed you would be training with this one skill for your entire life.”

“What is it?”

“I’m not sure,” said Joe.

Alden made a sound of protest.

“I’m not an expert on the original skills. You’re lucky I even recognized yours as one. It’s not like it has a flashing label beside it when you’re summoned. Your abilities show up here—” he pointed at his monocle, “—as sets of useful data for the summoner. It shows me that you have a preservation talent. Most people experienced with the type will note that it’s a little unusual. It almostlooks like it’s poorly made, but it’s just based on ancient tastes. No contemporary wizard would design an Avowed skill that would let you bring your full authority to bear almost instantaneously at level one.”

“It makes me too powerful?”

Joe gave him a flat look. “Aren’t you optimistic? No. It just lets you exhaust every last bit of what power you naturally have at once. So that the person in charge of lab exams has to make sure you don’t accidentally touch the wrong thing, pass out instantaneously, and then explode.”

Alden felt himself blush. “Thanks.”

“It’s fine. The students didn’t make anything good enough to have that effect anyway.” He sounded disappointed.

“So Lesson One,” Alden said. “Level the skill but don’t accept any rewards until I get something that looks like the start of a super old skill-specific progression path?”

“Correct. And thus, I think I have more than fulfilled the offer I made you on the first day.”

“Offer?”

