“I asked if you wanted me to advance your knowledge of your skill by twenty years compared to your fellow humans. Instead, I have advanced it by several decades and levels of information access according to Artonan standards.” Joe looked terribly pleased with himself. “Maybe I am nice after all.”

“You’re nice,” Alden agreed absently, still a little shellshocked and worrying over the apparent irregularity of his skill. Trying to figure out how to be an Avowed on Earth was hard enough; he never once thought he’d have to work out the political ramifications of his skill from a Triplanets perspective. “I see why I’m not allowed to talk to people about this. It’s a little…am I going to be in some kind of trouble with other Artonans? Just for having the skill?”

“That’s why I was so surprised your secret benefactor hasn’t done anything to take you off the table. If I were to tell a young Avowed to pick a skill like this, I would lock them into a long-term contract the very instant they affixed it. Mostly to keep people from finding out I’d done it but partly to keep one of my more panicky colleagues from summoning you into the path of a strategically timed bullet.”

Alden winced.

“I offered you a long-term largely in jest that first day. I was still trying to figure you out, and I was worried you were some kind of convoluted trick sent by one of my enemies. You were, after all, carrying one of the few talents that would help me with my problem; and you were all wrapped up like a present in that pretty coat that nobody ever buys.”

“It’s because most Rabbits don’t want coats for working in bomb labs, Joe.”

“Finally. He admits it.”

Alden groaned and downed the rest of his blue tea in one gulp. “I wanted the agility stats. To complement my movement trait. For superhero school.”

“Oh my stars,” said Joe.

“You’re going to say something awful. I know it.”

“That’s precious.”

“I’m serious about it!”

“That makes it even more precious. I can’t believe someone adopted such a precious little Ryeh-b’t and then abandoned it to the harsh cold realities of the world.”

“What the hell? I’m not a puppy someone left in a box outside the grocery store. I have plans.”

Admittedly, those plans kept taking a beating. But Alden was sure he could put them back together. In some form.

“I really will adopt you if you want,” Joe said. “As soon as I finish wriggling out of some of my problems. It would have been no trouble for me to permanently hire a B-rank before, but it’s a bit out of reach just now. Maybe a year from now. After I’ve had enough of a wrist slap to satisfy people, I should be able to successfully challenge the limits on my summoning rights.”

“That’s…good of you. And I like you. But I really don’t want to live here. I want to go home,” Alden said firmly.

Joe nodded. “I thought you’d say that. You should be fine for now. Most people won’t have the foggiest idea what the skill is, and they won’t care as long as you don’t do something insane with it. The ones who do know will almost all think it’s happenstance that you ran across it, and they’ll assume there’s no reason to worry. It’s not like it’s illegal to have the skill. We’re the ones who keep putting it in the pot with everything else after all. It’s just a small percentage who will know and dislike it enough to make your life difficult. It will be fine.”

“For now.”

“For now,” Joe agreed. “A couple of decades from now, on the other hand—”

“Joe it’s not going to take me decades to level it high enough to get the special perks, is it?” Alden said in a slightly panicked voice. “Because I don’t think I have the mentality—”

“I don’t know how long it’ll take before the System offers it. Five levels maybe? It’s just a guess.”

“Still…five levels could take me years. I mean, I was hoping to do three a year, but I knew that was ambitious of me.” One per year was more common. Two was practically a standard for Apex schools. But plenty of people never leveled at all.

“Endure,” Joe said dryly.

At least two years. Just sitting around with the exact same package of talents he had now. Well, the skill would still improve as it leveled. But he’d get no new low-rank skills to work with. No spells. He’d be putting in all the work of someone who seriously cared about progressing their powers, but he’d have almost nothing to show for it.

And he wouldn’t even be able to tell anyone why.

If I get into a hero development program, they’ll think I’m slacking off. They’ll expel me for lack of progress. Do I even want the super mysterious original Avowed universe-saving power?

Well, when he put it that way it was hard to say he didn’t.

“Gah!” said Alden, leaping up from his seat. “I can’t think anymore. Where is the bomb I’m supposed to be delivering?!”

“So eager,” said Joe. “By the way, there is one person I want you to tell about this conversation.”

“Seriously?” Alden said in surprise. “The Triangle of Absolute Secrecy still feels like you branded it into me, by the way. Who am I supposed to tell?”

Joe steepled his fingers and stared down at the vat of eels writhing below them in the lab. “One day, when the Primary realizes which skill you have, he’s going to make your life absolutely miserable.”

That sent a chill down Alden’s spine. “Why?”

“I won’t tell you that. But he will eventually realize it if you achieve anything of note with it. And when the time comes, there’s the most perfect way of getting back at him. Yes. We have to do it. No matter the cost.”

“Your face looks so scary right now. And the Primary is not someone I want to make mad. I’m almost positive I’m going to refuse.”

Joe ignored him. “When you see the endless misery on the horizon, that’s the moment. Tell him then.”

“Tell him that you told me this huge Artonan secret?”

Why? Joe acted like he was scared of the Primary. And Alden really wished he wouldn’t use the phrase “endless misery” to describe Alden’s own future.

Joe looked him in the eye. “It will shock him.”

“You want me to tell the Primary something that might get you killed because it will shock him?” Alden repeated. “Are you all right?”

“I don’t think he’s been shocked since he was a teenager,” said Joe. “It will be good for him.”

“Yeah. Okay. I’ll take a moment out of my day when I’m feeling, apparently, very miserable to deliver a shock. To the Primary. For you.”

“Thank you, Alden Ryeh-b’t,” said Joe. “I’ll entrust you with the message. Even if he takes my head off for it, it will be so very worth it.”
