Alden sighed. “Why am I taking a bomb with me today?”

“Do you really want to know?”

“Are you blowing up the lab so that the corporation can’t have the rest of your stuff?”

“I’m strategically tidying a few sections it. You’ll need to take two bombs, actually, and deliver them to Thenn. One today. One tomorrow. They’re quite unusual and magically potent, and I don’t want them to strain your skill too much.”

Thenn-ar was the leader at the lab. She’d be one of the last two people evacuated. “Great. Now I’m complicit in blowing up buildings.”

“It’s just some light remodeling really,” Joe said. He glanced over at Alden. “So you’ll do it?”

Oh wait, Alden realized. That’s right. I don’t have to.

The agreement was that he would pick up people and supplies. Not carry bombs over there. He’d been about to say yes without even thinking about it.

Joe was too easy to get along with.

Even now, he was patiently going about his business without applying any additional pressure. And he did help Alden out with things that were well outside of their agreement. The mishnen, the party, even the fangs earlier today. It felt like they were almost friends lately, even though that couldn’t be an accurate description of the relationship. Joe was old and powerful and openly engaged in illegal stuff. And he was a wizard.

An individual private contract they formed might be fair to both parties. But the real underlying dynamic was so unbalanced between them, it probably couldn’t ever be made truly right.

Maybe there was no reason to overanalyze every little thing, though.

“I’ll take it,” Alden said.

“That’s nice of you.”

“Actually, it’s spiteful. It made me really angry that the Yipalck Corporation sent Avowed to rescue their own people and made them leave everyone else behind.”

Joe shook his head. “Even your spite is nice,” he said in a slightly admonishing tone.

“Sorry. Can I ask questions now?”

Joe waved his permission and walked over to feed his vat of eels.

“Who is the Primary?”

“Ah. So he introduced himself to you. He shouldn’t really have done that. But even if he’s aware of how it draws attention and complicates things, I doubt he cares much.”

“So it is a title. Why haven’t I ever heard it before? If he’s someone important, I should have, right?”

“You know, this isn’t skill instruction. Which is what our lessons are supposed to be about.”

Alden paused. “I mean…you don’t have to answer.”

“I know I don’t have to answer. What did he say to you last night? When Stu-art’h said his father wanted to meet you, I thought he was either mistaken or trying to give you some sort of misguided compliment. The people who were aware of the man’s arrival at the party were frankly alarmed. He’s not someone who does a lot of socializing, and they were afraid he might be offended by the nature of the festivities.”

“He held my hands.”

Joe almost dropped the shaker can full of eel food he was sprinkling into the vat, and he turned around sputtering. “Why?”

“His sister told him to.”

The professor stared. “I’m sure you’re leaving something out.”

“He asked me really personal questions. It was…I thought it was some kind of lie detector test, and he was going to want to know about what had happened with the mishnen. Or he was going to ask if I intended to betray Stuart’s trust, but I…don’t think that was it. In fact, he more or less said he wouldn’t do anything to me if I did tell on his son—”

“Don’t. I’ve got ever so many wonderful things going on because of that excellent mishap.”

“—so it was just about me? I think?”

Joe looked troubled. “He must have been using some talent I’m not aware of to examine you. I’m afraid I can’t answer your question.”

“He said I should go home and live well because one day we’d meet again.” Alden rubbed the back of his neck. “It kind of worried me.”

Joe’s eyes widened and he spun back around to face the eels so quickly that Alden didn’t even have time to interpret the expression.

“Joe?”

“I think, truly, that answering your questions about the Primary is not the best use of our limited time together. Let’s return to our regularly scheduled skill lesson.”

“Now you’re kind of worrying me.”

“Touch the ‘Triangle of Absolute Secrecy,’ please.”

Alden stared at his back. “We already reconfirmed the contract for today.”

“Ah, I would like to clarify a point. Today’s lesson is going to be special, you see. And I would like you to confirm specifically that you will not, through any means or by any permutation of interpretation, intentionally reveal the information I’m about to disclose to you to anyone else of any species without my permission. Ever.”

Surprised but intensely curious, Alden thought through the wording. “That’s way too strict, isn’t it? It means even if I hear the information from someone other than you at some point, I still can’t ever repeat it. Or even act on it in a way that I thought would allow it to become known.”

“Yes, that’s right. Anything I say that you’re already aware of is yours to do with as you please, but any new information I reveal falls under this agreement. Also you will not use this knowledge to advise or instruct another person in a fashion that would allow them to take advantage of it.”

“Uh…do I even want to know whatever it is?”

Joe was silent for a minute. He was still staring down at the eels. Finally he said, “I’m not sure. However, it will undeniably benefit your skill development. Which is what I promised to help you do.”

Obviously I’m not going to say no. He’d never stop wondering what he’d missed out on learning if he did.

Something on a table along the far wall dinged.

“My bomb is done!” Joe’s tone was cheerful. “Let me just box it up, and then we can have a proper seat in the office for the rest of this discussion.”

#

“You had ice all this time? And you didn’t tell me?” Alden said accusingly as he took a seat in one of the armchairs that looked down on the lab.

Under his shirt, the tattoo was burning in a way it never had before. He had felt the gremlin watching the contract modification with interest, but it hadn’t objected, so he guessed it was fine. But Joe must have really meant it when he did whatever it was he did with his magic to set it in place.

“You always refuse my drinks.” Joe dropped a few cylindrical pieces of ice into a cup of dark blue tea.

“That’s because they’re always hot. I didn’t even know Artonans drank chilled beverages until I served a couple last night.”

“Usually not in winter.”

“This is winter?”

“Yes, though it’s always mild here. They have a pleasant climate. You didn’t realize?”

“It just never occurred to me that it might be,” he said as he accepted the tea. It tasted floral, but it wasn’t awful.

Joe sat in the chair beside him. He took one sip from his own steaming cup, then without any further ceremony, said, “Lesson One—”

“I knew there had to be a Lesson One!” Alden cried.

“I was thinking of how much I should tell you and how to frame it for you. I was going to use it as the finale of our classes, but then it occurred to me that you might have follow-up questions. And I wouldn’t be doing my sincere best if I just dropped the information on you then sent you back home.”

“Thanks,” Alden said. “Really. That’s thoughtful of you.”

Joe rolled one eye at him. “Lesson One—you should never accept another skill or spell from the System.”

He sipped his tea again. The steam curling from the cup was fogging the lens of his smart monocle.

Beside him, Alden sat motionless. Beads of condensation were forming on the glass in his hand.

“You’re not saying anything,” Joe noted.

“I’m waiting for you to explain the joke.”

The professor’s smile was tight. “Do you really think I swore you to eternal secrecy just so that I could deliver one?”

Alden didn’t. But he still couldn’t process the advice he’d been given. “I don’t understand.”

“I know you don’t,” Joe said simply. “But nonetheless, the lesson is the same. In my opinion, someone in your situation should refuse to accept skills and spell impressions from the System. Or from other sources, should they be offered.”

“The entire benefit of being an Avowed is collecting new skills and spells and foundation points!”

“You should limit the number of foundational improvements you accept, too. I don’t think you have to entirely reject them, but be frugal. Try to keep your physical and mental enhancements within the realm of reason for your class, age, and rank.”

“My class is Rabbit, and my rank is B,” Alden said, raising his voice without meaning to. “What am I supposed to do with one weirdass skill, one shitty little spell, and hardly any superhuman abilities?!”

“One spell?” Joe said in an interested voice. His eye flicked behind the lens. Then he laughed. “You never affixed your second! Did you even need my advice?”

“I haven’t affixed it because I couldn’t find a spell I liked on the list! And it was important to me to be careful and make the most of it! I was going to study all of them when I got back home!”

It was strange to feel threatened by advice, but Alden did. What the professor was saying was unheard of, incomprehensible, and unwanted.

“Is it even possible to refuse skill and spell rewards?” he demanded. “I couldn’t refuse to get a skill in the first place! The System was all something, something thank you for your service, if you don’t choose in a few months everything will be randomly affixed for you against your will. ENJOY.”

“I’m not that nice, you know,” Joe said, raising an eyebrow at him. “I won’t bother elucidating any further if you keep flinging teenage emotions at me like I’ve personally done you some injury.”

Alden looked away from him. His grip tightened on the cold glass.

Joe spoke after a moment of silence. “It’s astonishing. They really didn’t explain a thing to you, did they?”

“I don’t know what you mean,” Alden said stiffly.

“Whichever one of my colleagues told you to pick that class. And that skill.”

Alden stopped breathing.

“I suppose it could have been another Avowed, but there shouldn’t be any on Earth at this early stage of your planet’s development who would know enough to give you that kind of advice. It must have been an Artonan official, but I can not fathom how you would have come to know one well enough for them to make such a suggestion. Without any sort of protective contract in place no less.”

“I just picked it because it sounded cool.” Alden spoke steadily, but he didn’t trust himself to turn around.

“No. You didn’t,” Joe said in a thoughtful tone. “You’re not the kind of person who thinks being a Ryeh-b’t sounds ‘cool.’ For a while, I wasn’t sure, because you do have a couple of qualities that suit the job. You’re comfortable around other species and open-minded about vast cultural gulfs, for example. But you find the aspects of the class that most humans regard as perks tedious, and you highly value assignments you deem morally worthwhile.”

The professor paused, then added, “It’s only happenstance that you got one of those from me, and you have to know that. No human who preferred rescue missions to parties would pick Rabbit. Or a skill called ‘Let Met Take Your Luggage.’ I looked up the initial English description just to be absolutely sure there wasn’t some clue, and I can imagine no scenario in which someone with your personality would have selected it from the multitude of available options, unless you were advised to do it by someone you trusted.”

Alden frantically tried to come up with a believable reason to have chosen the class and the skill…and he couldn’t. Even if he said he wanted money, it would sound like a lie. There were Rabbit skills known to be good for that. He’d picked a complete unknown.

Why is Joe paying that much attention to me anyway!? He’s not supposed to be so freaking curious that he psychoanalyzes every little thing.

“You don’t have to look so nervous. Any Artonan who knows enough to recommend the skill is either my equal or my superior, and they have a strong disrespect for certain rules. I’m hardly going to report someone like that. I’m just surprised that they gave you something with such a specific kind of value but they apparently didn’t offer you their personal protection or want you to know how to use it. It’s baffling.”

It would look that way if you assumed it was an Artonan instead of Gorgon, trying to deliver advice without being punished by his magic chains. At this point, the only thing Alden could do was steer the conversation away from how he’d gotten the advice in the first place.

“Why can’t I accept more skills and spells? When I level up and they’re offered, am I really just supposed to refuse to affix them?”

It sounded like madness. And also… depressing.

“The Contract only forces affixations on Avowed in uniquely dangerous cases or as a last resort. I’m sure you noticed it goes to great lengths to cajole people into accepting it semi-freely instead. And it’s almost always successful. Every version of the System walks a tightrope, trying to maintain a certain amount of control over its planet without absolutely bleeding resources, and it only grows more complicated with every passing generation. Nearly two thousand years ago, the first version of the Contract was designed as something beautifully simple and effective. However, that’s changed.”

“Effective at what?” Alden asked.

