Jane muttered, “You pulled some crazy shit, dad.”

He countered, “Like you haven’t risked your life killing some monster or another in the last dozen days. You were supposed to be home ‘in just a few’, if I recall correctly.”

Jane giggled. “I certainly didn’t try to kill a Shade.” She added, “I haven’t killed any monsters, actually. I’ve been working to clear my Class Ability Quests.” She pulled away. “You’re looking at a fully Ability’d Prismatic Polymage.”

Erick smiled wide, then pulled her in for another hug. “That’s great!” He let her go, still smiling wide. “Fantastic.” He added, “We’re going to have to talk about upgrading all of your Elemental Bodies into their Greater versions.”

Jane winced.

“Ha!” Kiri chimed in.

Erick glanced between Kiri and Jane, asking, “Did you already raise them?”

Jane sighed, then glared at the slightly younger woman. She turned back to Erick. “Your apprentice has. I have not.” Eager to move along, Jane said, “But whatever! Let’s go spend your money.”

Erick smiled, then turned to Kiri, who had been holding back a couple of meters. “Good job, Kiri. How long did it take you?”

“First try.” Kiri smiled, showing bright white teeth, as her feathered snake [Familiar] looked to Erick with bright green eyes. “Sunny helped.”

“Ah! Good. Just like I told you, then?”

“Exactly as you told me.”

Erick teased Jane, “But you don’t want a [Familiar]~”

“You are right. I do not.” Jane asked, “By the way: What’s wrong with your eyes?”

“Something that might eventually affect you, and you too, Kiri.”

Kiri perked up.

Erick explained, “The Headmaster said it like this...”

- - - -

One nice thing about being at Oceanside again, besides that he was near to Jane again, was that no one recognized him. Erick walked down the streets with his daughter at his side and Poi just one step behind, while Kiri walked ahead. Some people might have picked out this pseudo-formation grouping, but this was a land of students; the four of them were just another loose group of people on the streets, shopping at the Lower Market of Oceanside like everyone else. Only Poi wore armor, but he was not the only one encased in steel on these streets.

Vendors hawked their wares on carpets set to the sides of the wide stone road, or in stalls raised from the ground, under cloth awnings. Bowls and utensils. Maps and spices. Seeds and fruits. Fabrics and yarn and used books, and artistic sculptures that moved in interesting ways when [Control Item] was applied. And jewelry. Lots and lots of jewelry. But none of it was enchanted. They’d have to go up to the Upper Market for that.

Which they did, soon enough.

In the Lower Market, cream-colored Robe automatons—

Ah! Dammit! Erick should have asked the Headmaster if there was a way for him to use the Crystal in the center of Candlepoint to create his own automatons. Oh well. He’d write the man a letter, and that would be that.

—The Robe automatons were spaced wide in the air, with good overviews of the market, but not an overbearing presence. The price for thievery was minimal by Veird standards; the severing of an arm, while all the healers in the city knew not to heal that sort of injury. But in the Upper Market, the price for thievery was exile or death, depending, and the Robes were spaced on every single corner, floating in the air; silent sentinels ready to enforce the Law at a moment’s notice.

Erick noticed the Robes, and wondered what laws Mephistopheles, Zaraanka, Slip, Justine, and Valok, would decide upon, after he sent them all those books on law. Some variation of Spur’s laws? Probably not. Mephistopheles was from… somewhere. Erick wasn’t quite sure. Possibly Nelboor, but Erick had no idea why he got that feeling. He wasn’t sure about Slip, either. Zaraanka was from the Greensoil Republic, for sure. Valok was from the Republic, too, but he was also from Spur. Justine was from a dead Underworld city—

If Ava truly became the Sewermaster, then she got a say in the city, too, right? That’s how it worked, and she was from the Underworld, too.

… Candlepoint would likely end up with a mishmash of Underworld and Republic values—

No. That was jumping the gun. Erick had no idea what they would decide—

Jane asked, “What are you thinking about, dad? You went quiet.”

Erick looked at the stacks of books he had been staring at for five minutes. He turned to Jane. “Thinking about laws. What to institute in Candlepoint. Everyone there is from different places on Veird.”

“You’re not thinking of some full democratic system, are you?”

She said the words with disguised disdain, but Erick heard her feelings loud and clear.

After a moment, he decided, “It’ll be much easier to oversee a republic than a democracy.”

With relief in her voice, Jane said, “Good.” Then she asked, “So what book are you looking for?”

“Something called ‘Esoteric Elements’. Archmage Syllea said I should look into it.” He asked, “What are you looking for?”

“Monster guides and [Polymorph] suggestions.”

“I’ll keep an eye out.”

Jane nodded, as she went back to the stacks.

In a few hours of shopping, Erick finally found what he was looking for at the fifth bookshop, with the help of a lovely older incani woman, who knew her bookshop back to front. But the book Erick wanted wasn’t in the shelves. It was kept separate from the rest. The woman pulled ‘Esoteric Elements' from a locked and runed chest, kept behind the counter, and set the book on the counter between them. It was a massive tome, 50 centimeters by 40, with over four hundred thick pages. She allowed him to view the work, but he could not do more than that. This was fine. As soon as Erick read through the first few pages, he knew he had found the right book.

The brilliantly illustrated book cost him 2830 gold, but he bargained her down from 2900. He probably still overpaid, but maybe not. This book was practically an illuminated manuscript; a work of art written more like a fairy tale than a text book, with inked paintings all throughout. It was easy to see why the book wasn’t more widely published, when books normally cost 20-40 gold, and only text books got [Duplicate]d by the Book Binders. This was no text book. Flipping through the pages, he could easily see how a younger Syllea would have fallen in love with all the varied Elements.

Jane eyed the book the whole time Erick had gone through buying the thing, so with the transaction completed, and the bookseller happy and relaxed, he stepped aside and let Jane read. She did. She flipped through the first few pages, then read more. Her eyes went wide.

She looked up to him, and said, “What the fuck?”

Erick laughed loud, then said, “I know! There’s more elements than six!”

Kiri stepped to them, asking, “What?”

Jane stepped aside. The bookseller grinned at the whole exchange, while Kiri stepped up and began to read.

Kiri read for a moment. She frowned. “Huh. They never taught us that.” She looked to the bookseller, saying, “I need to find a book on ‘Radiance’.”

The bookseller said, “Aisle 3, fifth shelf forward on the left, bottom rows. ‘Dawning Sun Style’ or ‘Fire on the Sky’. These are the ones I recommend.”

Kiri thanked the woman, and went searching.

Jane stepped back to Esoteric Elements and flipped through, first to the front, then to the back. She read a little, then flipped through again, to somewhere in the center. She went silent. Erick watched, smiling, wondering what she was looking for.

Jane looked to the bookseller, saying, “I need to find books on Reflection and Illusion.”

“Overviews, or in-depth?”

“In-depth.”

The bookseller said, “For Reflection: Aisle 8, first shelf forward on the right, top rows. ‘Reflecting Magic and Melee’ is the definitive work on that subject. For Illusion—” She pointed to a shelf right beside her counter, saying, “I keep those books right there. Try the middle row.” She smirked, saying, “I keep that shelf in sight as much as I can.”

Jane went to find her books.

While they went searching, Erick asked for books on aura control, Shadow and Light interactions, and tree [Familiar]s.

The older woman was happy to personally help him, as she pulled out three more 1500 gold tomes from the same chest she had retrieved ‘Esoteric Elements’. There was a problem, though. That chest was not big enough to hold all the books she had pulled from it, and she closed the lid every time she pulled out a different book.

Erick eyed the woman. She was an older incani, with two small purple horns, pale violet skin, and pale eyes to match her white hair. He looked around. The shop was nice, with hard woods and bright lights and well maintained shelves and floors, but it wasn’t overly nice. Erick and his people were the only shoppers in this place, too.

Erick asked, “Is this some specialty book shop? You have everything I asked for. None of the other places did.”

The incani woman grinned, saying, “Oceanside is an arcanaeum town, so most everyone sells to the lowest common denominator. But this is an Elite shop, owned by the Headmaster himself. If it wasn’t for you, archmage, your girls would have been [Teleport Other]d outside the moment they tried to come in, as would anyone not already approved.”

Erick stood stunned for a moment. He said, “Ah. Well. Thank you for having everything I wanted.”

The woman bowed, just a little, then said, “That is what I’m here for.”

“What’s the name of your shop, again? I know I saw the name outside, but— What’s your name?” He rapidly remembered his manners, and said, “I’m Erick. Nice to meet you.”

“The Book Cellar. I’m Tapezry. A pleasure to meet you, too, archmage.”

Jane came up to the counter holding three books. Erick paid for them, then he paid for Kiri’s five. Jane had likely overheard everything that had happened, for she gave a small glance between Erick and Tapezry, but it was Kiri who came up to the counter like some sheep looking like she was in someplace she shouldn’t be. She still wanted her books, though.

It was then, that Erick looked to Poi, and saw that he was keeping it together, but only just. Erick had kept the man up way too late. There was only one more place to go, though. This trip was almost over.

Erick thanked Tapezry for her help, and left the Book Cellar. It wasn’t far to go to reach their final destination: ‘Healer’s Light’.

Erick spent half a million gold at that swanky emporium for specialty services, and specialty items. 500,000 gold didn’t go that far. Just two rods of [Greater Treat Wounds] were 200,000 gold on their own, but Erick also got a fair number of rods of [Treat Wounds], both to replace the ones he requisitioned from Spur’s Army and to hand over to Candlepoint. The other major expenses came from a few truly expensive magical grasses that would spread in Candlepoint’s Lake, and ensure that the fish who swam near would remain healthy and free of parasites. He got enough to plant next to the city’s coast, just one glass orb containing a tuft of green, but not much more than that. Theoretically, he could have gone out into the wild and found some ‘Million Fish Grass’ on his own, and saved that cost, but that cost was only there for all the alchemical and magical warding placed upon the glass orb, and in the waters inside. Million Fish Grass didn’t tolerate replanting, at all.

… Erick wondered what was going on with that. He would have to try out [Teleport Other] on a small piece of the grass when it had grown upon the lake’s bottom. After all, [Teleport Other] worked to move something as though it had been in another place all along. It wouldn’t be ‘replanting’, in that case. And besides that: the little green tuft would survive through a [Teleport], according to the people at ‘Healer’s Light’.

But that was a project for another day.

With all their purchases in their bags, Erick, Jane, Kiri, and Poi, walked to the designated [Teleport] area inside Healer’s Light, and Erick summoned his [Teleporting Platform]. The shop was very aware of the prices of the items they sold, and Erick was more than happy to oblige their suggestion that he leave via the designated area, instead of risking a walk on the street.

As they were blipping across the ocean, Erick thought back to a conversation he had in the middle of all the shopping.

Erick had inquired about Delia Greentalon; Valok’s daughter.

Jane reported that she had stayed away from the young pinkscale, but she knew that Delia had attended her classes every day. Jane had no idea of anything beyond that.

Kiri had not stayed away from Delia. Kiri said, “I met with her, once, and talked to her teachers. She’s violent and dispassionate. She doesn’t talk to anyone except when they talk to her. But it’s hard to fault that. None of her teachers were overly concerned.”

Erick hoped Delia would be okay. He would ask Valok on his thoughts.

- - - -

The journey home sent them almost a quarter around the world, and back into the dark; the sun was barely rising.

Poi immediately went to bed. Erick apologized to the man as he trundled up the stairs, to his room.

As for himself, Erick went into the kitchen and started making breakfast, as well as conjuring a note under Justine’s door, telling her what to expect upon coming down stairs. Jane and Kiri were waiting.

Not too long later, Justine came down the stairs, alongside Teressa.

The arguments started. Erick refereed.

