The Headmaster said, “The Script, Rozeta, and binding Divine Law prevents overt godly war. Gods must work through intermediaries when they wish to fight. Melemizargo has a body, so he is partially immune to this restriction. That is how he could kill us all; with his Wizardly power, using his true body. He’s already censured from almost all divine actions by the will of every single god of Veird, but that doesn’t matter when gods are not allowed to interfere directly in mortal affairs. Every single action he has ever undertaken, has been under his own, wizard power, for he is partially real.”

“… Oh.” Erick said, “Okay. That’s…” He asked, “Then it should be easier to kill a big dragon than it is to kill a god, correct?”

The Headmaster blanked. Then he chuckled. He laughed. He said, “Oh, were it that easy!” He said, “For the sake of the thought, let’s consider that someone actually managed to kill his mortal body and somehow— No. That’s too many assumptions. He’d still be a god. No mortal could kill a god. No dragon living today could inflict any meaningful damage upon Melemizargo. But let us theorize, and assume he was killed. In such a case, he could just remake his body. He is divine fire when he wishes, and solid when he does not.” He added, “Melemizargo might even let you fight his real body, and if by a True Miracle you won, he would just remake himself and pat you on the back, and likely grant you a boon for the distraction you granted him.”

Erick found himself getting angry. “Why don’t the other gods make themselves bodies!”

Turning slightly serious, the Headmaster said, “Now this is blasphemous, so try not to repeat this anywhere else. But that’s what Champions are. Partially.”

“… That makes me incredibly angry, for some reason.”

“If you are thinking that it is a conversion of a person into a god or anything like that, it is not.”

“… I was thinking of some soul fuckery, yes.”

The Headmaster nodded, saying, “I don’t interact much with gods or Champions, and have never been privy to their inner working, but my limited understanding of the process is that it is more of a gestalt. A voice in your head and a guiding hand for your sword. A touch of the divine; not a sweeping away of the Champion in order to fulfill the purpose laid down by their god. Though some Champions have called down the full power of their god in order to fulfill their chosen Quest, and have thus burned their souls to fuel their purpose. It’s all very proper, with no one getting into anything they don’t understand.” He added, “I understand it was not this way back in the Old Cosmology.”

“That makes me… slightly less angry.” Erick thought for a moment. “Actually. A lot less angry.”

The Headmaster continued, “There is a way to end Melemizargo’s threat, for good, though the odds of it ever happening are… It’s impossible. But maybe you’ll find a way.”

Erick felt his heart beat hard.

“I hardly ever tell anyone this truth, because once they confront him with the option, he invariably kills them.” The Headmaster asked, “Knowing this, do you wish to know the way?”

Did he wish to know! What kind of! Yes! Erick’s anger faded completely, as curiosity took hold. “How?”

“If Melemizargo voluntarily gave up his divinity, if he decided to continue the procession of power that allowed him to become the God of Magic when his own mother passed on, the next God of Magic could fix a lot of the problems he has created.” The Headmaster said, “But Melemizargo has only been the God of Magic for 12,000 years. His mother lasted well over a hundred thousand before she turned her station over to him.”

“Well, fuck.”

“Quite.”

Erick moved right along to the next topic, saying, “So I was thinking of what Melemizargo’s long term goals could be, what with this new sanity and all that.”

The Headmaster waited, listening.

Erick listed, “To find a way to create new mana. To find a way to contain that mana both on a space faring vessel, and on other planets, possibly with another Script-like magic. And to make a vessel capable of traveling to the other planets of this solar system.”

The Headmaster said, “Copying the Script’s basic functionality to contain mana to Veird would require Rozeta’s cooperation. A void vessel would require Koyabez’s.” He added, “The Demons or Angels could also work instead of the god of Peace, but I don’t see that happening.”

“Because Melemizargo could ask for a [Gate] up there, and then push off of the Silver Star with a lot less force than what is needed to leave Veird?”

The Headmaster nodded.

Erick had been right! He asked, “But what about making new mana?”

“It is an evil process that involves soul magic.” The Headmaster said, “That is all I will say on the matter.”

Erick filed away that bit of information for some other day, and asked, “How likely is it that he could get Rozeta or Koyabez’s cooperation?”

The Headmaster said, “He doesn’t deserve cooperation. But Koyabez… I could see forgiveness if the right steps are taken. Rozeta would not happen unless all the other gods agree to forgive, and that won’t happen unless the people of the world agree to forgive, and that won’t happen. The Geodes, in particular, would never forgive Melemizargo. They have been burned far too often by his treacheries.”

Erick was slightly stunned. He asked, “You actually think it would be possible for… For Koyabez to forgive Melemizargo for what he’s done?”

“There are certain steps Melemizargo could undertake to show a reformation. There are also certain steps he could never take, simply by nature of the Wizardry he has used to harm Veird.” The Headmaster said, “He could stop appointing Ancients, for that is something he does, personally, for each and every one. But he could not end all monsters, for that has been woven into the very nature of the Script, under the Foundational Bans, and laying those required all the Relevant Entities of the Script, some of which no longer exist. There are other steps similar to these, but they are too numerous to list even in a full day of lecture, so I will leave it at that.”

Erick sat back in his chair, thinking. His thoughts rapidly turned back to other obligations. He checked on Candlepoint, through the several Ophiel he had scattered between Oceanside and the shadeling city.

… Candlepoint was fine, for now. Nothing had changed in the last half hour, since the last time he checked on the city.

The Headmaster’s voice brought him back to the moment. “You are a good overseer, Erick. I wish you well on Candlepoint. When the rest of the world comes for you, know that I will not stand against this shadeling city, or against you.”

Erick blinked long. He looked to the Headmaster, and said, “Thank you.” On a whim, he asked, “Would you happen to know what’s wrong with my eyes? They’re white, now.”

“Usually, this happens to people of faith, though it also tends to happen to archmages who are also Scions of Focus. Few will ever experience this side effect, though, as it requires extensive, prolonged use of strong magics, coupled with pursuing your personal goals in life to an almost devoted degree. The specific spells I’m referring to are anything with a differently colored Script prompt, which, anyone who knows anything, and who has been watching your activities, would deduce that you have acquired, at least, [Greater Lightwalk]. And possibly something else, as well.” The Headmaster said, “Congratulations on that, by the way.” He asked, “Are you going to teach your apprentice your method?”

Erick almost laughed. “If she’s learned anything from me, she’s probably already tried using what I’ve already taught her. She might have even made it today. She was supposed to finish in the dungeon in the last few hours.” Erick glanced to the window. The sun was maybe two hours away. He said, “I actually might need to pick her up, soon.” He smiled, “And Jane.”

The Headmaster smiled, then stood, saying, “It is time for both of us attend to other duties, and for you to pick out some books. Good luck with Candlepoint. Try to keep yourself safe, if you can.”

Erick stood, saying, “Thank you, Headmaster. Your help has been greatly appreciated.”

The Headmaster smiled, then asked, “Is there any other pressing news? We are in a time of turmoil; if there’s anything else you think I need to know, then I can sit back down.”

Erick felt a warmth in his chest. It was a good feeling. He said, “Probably about a thousand things. But just a moment.” With a concentrated thought, he had an Ophiel near his house blip himself, and an item from Erick’s tower, closer to another Ophiel down the chain, who then proceeded to do the same. After ten seconds, while the Headmaster looked to Erick, questioningly, an octahedron diamond flickered into Erick’s open palm. “I made this spell, but different. I understand the original belonged to an old friend of yours.” He cast, and the diamond turned void dark, sucking in all light, becoming like a piece of reality cut out from the whole. Erick said, “It works rather well for Stat enchantments.” He offered the gem to the Headmaster.

The two of them had been talking well, like old business friends, for hours. But when the Headmaster saw that dark gem...

The Headmaster stood rigid, expressionless, and distant, as he gazed upon the void diamond in Erick’s outstretched hand. He lifted his hand to reach for it. He hesitated. With a forced, smooth motion, he took the gem. He sighed, his professional mask breaking in small ways. In the crinkles to the sides of his eyes. In the slight frown of his lips. He breathed deep, and let out a small shudder. He smiled. He folded his fingers over the gem. Gold light spilled from the cracks, and when he opened his palm, the void gem was gone.

“Thank you,” he said. He breathed deep, again. “Tulamana Blackvoid was a wonderful, infuriating, brilliant woman.” He laughed. “I would advise you to tread carefully with this spell, but you are already a Stone Elemental in a pottery shop and you’ve already created artifacts that outlast her [Blackvoid] rings by an order of magnitude.” He said, “Perhaps… Perhaps giving them away for free to empower a city, or as rewards… Perhaps this was the proper response to societal pressures. She tried to sell them. Mostly, she was successful. But then she wasn’t.”

“I heard she fell to the Shades.”

“It wasn’t quite that simple.” The Headmaster said, “Hers was a time of dangerous new magics on Veird. Not unlike which has happened before, not unlike which will happen again, but her waves were smaller than the waves you have caused.

“She sold trinkets to kings for exorbitant amounts, and she spurned cities who wished to be her benefactor. She sold to both sides of wars, and played people against each other when they tried to play her.” The Headmaster said, “She did not want to live a simple life, at all. But yes, eventually the Shades wanted to play with her, and she spurned them, too. The only reason that history records her death at the hands of the Shades was because they were the first to succeed. Others were hot on her trail.” He looked to the dark skies outside, and said, “We will talk again, Erick. Thank you for this old man’s tangents. It is good to reminisce, sometimes.”

“See you later.”

“And you, as well.”

The Headmaster blipped away in a flash of gold.

Erick had wanted to ask a few more questions, but that was more than enough for one night. He glanced down to the books left on the tea table, then turned and walked out of the library, hurrying fast to the bathroom. With the necessities out of the way, he came back and began rummaging through the shelves. Hours passed. With Poi’s help, Erick picked out a hundred books, and copied them all. As the sun rose on the other side of the city, and night retreated past the western horizon, turning the sky back to bright blue, a good pile of books laid stacked on Ophiel’s [Teleporting Platform]. Erick sent the [Familiar] blipping on ahead, to deposit those books in the library of the house, back in Spur.

Erick glanced out the window one more time. The city was waking up. Soon, the shops would be opening, too. And right on time. He turned to Poi, and said, “Are Kiri and Jane ready for some shopping?”

“They are.”

The two of them blipped away in a flash of white.

- - - -

Erick stepped onto the grassy part of the lawn, outside of Windy Manor. The air tasted faintly of salt, but the land up here was far enough away from the ocean that the salt failed to overpower the smell of vanilla, citrus, and herbs. Erick breathed deep. The garden was growing in well; the groundskeepers, Vinsez and Powell, must be doing well. Had they had their baby yet? Maybe, but it was likely still too early. But that was a concern for another day, for Jane and Kiri stood outside of the picture windows of the manor, bereft of any bags; they must have sent them ahead, with Sunny.

Jane smiled. Kiri took second place next to Jane, stepping slightly further to the side.

Erick smiled wide to see his daughter, and his apprentice. With enthusiasm, he said, “Hello! Ready for some shopping?”

Kiri said, “Absolutely.”

“It’s the only reason I stuck around when I heard you were showing up.” Jane walked closer, teasing, “And you’re paying.”

Erick laughed. “Of course I am.” He said, “Let’s buy everything you want. And if you see anything you think Candlepoint could need, I’ll get that, too.”

He met Jane in a hug. His head pressed to her shoulder, while she did the same to him. They stayed like that for a moment.

