It was a great big thing, where everything about Candlepoint was all dredged up, again, and both Kiri and Jane raised their voices and twisted all the knives they could think to twist. Erick defended Justine when things got out of hand, but he might not have needed to. Justine was poised. She was calm. This level of vitriol from his daughter and his apprentice, was nothing to her. She could handle anger. She could handle unfounded and founded suspicion both just fine, with grit and aplomb. Her voice never strayed above an even keel.

The conversation temporarily broke for breakfast, but resumed before Jane had finished her first slice of bacon. Erick and Teressa ate while words flew across the table to strike Justine, who sat adamant in her resolve to explain away as many concerns as she could, weather the concerns she couldn’t account for, and strive to prove, through calm words, that the shadelings of Candlepoint were not a trap for anyone, except the gods. When that came up there was a minor shit fit, but Justine explained her Scion Revelation:

The Relevant Entities of the Script were withholding their response. The shadelings were Melemizargo’s attempt at a bridge between himself and the world, and many Relevant Entities wanted to see what that meant before they decided on open war.

Jane frowned, trying a different tactic, saying, “He’s giving out free [Resurrection]s, and that’s supposed to make him not guilty of all the evil he’s caused?”

Justine calmly said, “I have been informed that the process will not be called [Resurrection], but [Reincarnation]. It is not the restoration of the original, but the original brought back in a new form, with most of the memories of the original. Melemizargo wishes to bypass the [Resurrection] debate completely, but what people choose to make of this has yet to be seen.”

Jane balked—

Erick’s fork dropped to his plate. “He’s using my words?”

Jane turned to her father, saying, “You gave them that English word?”

“Yes. That is what happened. The concept has been accepted, according to Koyabez.” Justine said, “What that means, we will have to wait and see.”

Kiri went “Hmm,” She stuck her fork into a potato. She said no more.

Jane stared at Justine, then stabbed her pancake. She said no more.

Breakfast continued in blessèd silence.
