With thirteen blips, Erick and Poi arrived at his destination; a nicely appointed reading room in a tower fifteen stories high, with large picture windows that overlooked the twilight purple ocean in the east. Books filled the shelves of the reading room, while a small tea pot steamed gently under a [Heat Ward].

The Headmaster sat before the window, wearing his usual gold and white emperor robes. He greeted Erick’s entrance, “Welcome back to Oceanside.”

Erick stepped forward, saying, “Thanks for having me, and for helping with this problem.”

“It is no trouble.” The Headmaster did not stand from his chair, as he gestured to the seat across from him, across from the table holding the tea pot and assorted accessories. “Please, sit. Let us talk.” He gestured to the room, adding, “And then you may make use of this space however you wish.”

Erick glanced around the library. When he asked around for help with forming a city charter and creating laws for Candlepoint, Silverite gave him a copy of Spur’s Charter, but her main suggestion had been to speak to the Headmaster; he had a library devoted to city building for all would-be ‘mayors’, with all the necessary knowledge that such an undertaking would require. This small library that Erick was in right now, was that bastion of selected knowledge. Getting access to it required a fair number of hoops to jump through, but the Headmaster waived all of those when Erick asked him for his assistance.

Poi stepped backward, to the edge of the space, to stand tall and as unobtrusively as possible, while Erick walked forward.

He sat down across from the Headmaster, saying, “Thank you again for this. It is not really for me, though.”

“I know for whom and what you require city building knowledge.” The Headmaster lifted a hand, palm upward. Three books, each on the same shelf five meters away, blipped to his hand. They were thick books, heavy bound with dark leather. He set the tomes individually down on the tea table. “These three are ones you should read, first. These first two are the histories of the major failed city states of Veird, and why they failed. The last one regards the failures of smaller city states, which may be more beneficial for you than the first two. As an overview: About half of the larger city states failed due to inability to hold off the interests of their stronger neighbors, whether through trade, or war, or a multitude of other, social reasons, including concerns over resources. Half failed due to monster incursions, and systemic failures of defense. The ratio changes depending on where you are trying to create a city.” He gestured to the last book. “Smaller cities almost always fail due to monster incursions, either of those outside the walls, or those that find their way inside, like the various mental monsters of this world, or parasites.” With another gesture, he cast around the room, surrounding several bookshelves with a tiny glowing shimmer. “These are the ones for building laws. [Duplicate] whatever you wish, and hand it over to whoever you wish.

“But that is for later.” The Headmaster’s face took on a serious mien; his amber eyes glinting gold for the briefest of moments. He studied Erick. “For now, I wish for you to tell me everything you have heard and seen in Candlepoint.” He broke his own countenance, to offer, “Would you join me for tea?”

Erick accepted, saying, “I would; thank you.”

With one hand on the tea pot and another holding back the drape of the cloth of his arm, the Headmaster poured steaming amber tea into two cups. The flow of the liquid did not cause bubbles, or disturb the surface it created. Erick took his cup. The Headmaster took his own. Together, they sipped.

Then Erick started talking.

The Headmaster occasionally asked questions. Erick obliged with answers. Small discussions were had over clarifications of events witnessed. Erick held nothing back. The Headmaster, similarly, revealed that he already knew a great deal of what Erick had seen. Hours passed. The tea pot was filled and emptied a few times. They took a small break, then came back together for more discussion. As Erick neared the end of what he had seen of the city, and its people, he revealed something personal that he had waited till now to speak upon.

“Besides being Untouchable, there is something else I would like your opinion on.” Erick said, “Melemizargo offered to kill every Shade for me.”

He did not say what the cost would be; that it would require him becoming a Shade himself. But that truth would likely come out soon enough.

The Headmaster went stock still for a brief moment. Emotions flashed behind his stoic face; amazement, anger, hatred, concern, then finally, decision. He sighed. He said, “After your daughter was offered a Blessing and a station as ‘house cleaner’, I had hoped that nothing more would come of this particular obsession of Melemizargo’s. That you were declared ‘Untouchable’ was something I had also heard, but this last part...” With the weight of the world behind his level, golden eyes, the Headmaster asked, “What would he require for this to happen?”

Erick put it out there, “That I take their place.”

The Headmaster frowned. He turned his gaze toward the window, to the ocean, and the stars hanging in the darkness above. Erick watched him, waiting for some sign of good or ill.

The Headmaster sighed. “One life for countless is a good bargain.” He turned back to Erick, with a softer look in his now-amber eyes. “You would be dead, of course. Everything you were before, everything you made of yourself and your life… That would be over.”

“… That wasn’t the reaction I expected.”

The Headmaster laughed. “Were you expecting death and destruction?”

“Among other things.” Erick admitted, “I wasn’t sure where it would have been pointed, though.”

The Headmaster grinned, then lost his grin. He said, “I have a facade I show to the world. That facade demands your death, yes, but I am more than the parts of myself that others believe me to be.”

Now it was Erick’s turn to smile. He said, “That much is true of everyone.”

“Ah, Erick, Erick, Erick… You walk into the dragon’s maw far too often.” The Headmaster went silent for a time, then said, “You should—” He spoke with casual finality, “You should put Melemizargo’s idea out of your mind. This action of his is simply a longer confidence trick than most. He plans to make people believe that he is innocent of all evil, and then strike when we expose our necks. You have already accepted the burden of this city, and have chosen to perpetuate his plan. In a scant century, or less, Melemizargo will destroy us all. But that is still a century off, and it is possible for him to lapse in judgment and prove himself as the evil this world knows him to be.” He asked, “Or do you believe otherwise?”

“I don’t know about that.” Erick slightly changed the subject, asking, “Is there a way to prove the world is real?” At the Headmaster’s odd look, Erick clarified, “I don’t mean that as a rhetorical question. I mean in regards to Melemizargo’s insanity. How has he decided that this world isn’t real? Why has he decided that?”

The Headmaster nodded, then said, “There is no such thing as Objective Reality. There is only reality as a concept, and Reality, as it refers to the nature of existence around a specific viewpoint. Proving reality exists is fundamentally impossible, since we are beings that experience the world through senses, and senses can be fooled.” He frowned. “Bringing Melemizargo back to himself is therefore impossible. But it is true that he is more himself than he has ever been before.” The Headmaster said, “I have a theory on why this is, if you would like to hear it? It is not a complete theory, but it is better than what I have had before.”

“Yes. Please tell me.”

The Headmaster began, “To understand the depth of the problem, you must understand that Melemizargo was the God of Magic for an entire universe.” The Headmaster gazed out of the window. “Like the stars in these skies, the magics that made our worlds were uncountable and ancient beyond measure, and the worlds themselves were a higher count than that.” He turned back to Erick. “Floating cities the size of Glaquin, resting on the currents of the Mana Ocean. Sects of wizards, a thousand strong, responsible for the creations of millions of planes. Planes ten thousand times the size of Veird. Wizards that created magics, and then stabilized them, creating dynasties that lasted for thousands and thousands of years, and islands of stability like nowhere else in the Old Cosmology. But by that same token, wizards ran rampant, too, destroying worlds that were unprotected.

“The utter magnitude of what was lost… It is the difference between a million trillion, and one. Some would count the loss higher than that. I barely saw more than a dozen major sites and a hundred lesser locations, before the Sundering. I was only 300. I could adapt. Many could not.

“When we fell to Veird, and in the coming years… We lost thousands to suicide. The best minds in the Old Cosmology. The strongest shields. The most knowledgeable casters. We lost gods, too. Some of them had lost all their people, and so died to obscurity. Some simply decided not to continue, and so they laid down and died.

“The very nature of our reality had changed.

“The Script was our salvation. It allowed the Old Cosmology to survive. But our reality had changed. Mana, in its pure state, is mutable. It is possibility, and it is wonderful. But this carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen? These are solid. These are immutable. And yes, they are mutable to you, and to us, but they are not Mana. They are not what ancient gods, like Melemizargo, were accustomed with.

“And so, we come to the nature of Melemizargo’s Insanity.

“As a dragon, he had a real body, but as the God of Magic, his body was also the mana. It is not untrue to say that he was the Mana Ocean that spread across countless known planes, and who filled the unknown where civilization had yet to touch. He was everything and nothing, all at the same time. He was Darkness. He was Light. He was Fire and Stone, Water and Air. He was Shadow.

“These were the building blocks of our existence. The Fundamental Forces of our Old Cosmology.

“And so, not only was almost all of him destroyed in the Grand Translation...” The Headmaster paused. He said, “All of him was destroyed, and all that was left was the part remaining on Veird. A land that was not him at all. A land with a Script, that forced most of his power out of his being. A land made of particles and forces that were vastly outside of his domain.”

Erick said, “And so, he went insane. Poisoned by particles?”

“It is entirely possible that this is the truth of Melemizargo’s insanity.” The Headmaster said, “His is a piteous tale of an existence as large as a universe, transformed into something smaller than a shaving of a claw, and then stuffed into a ball of feces.” He said, “Even in his more lucid moments, when he claims of being forced into a [Mesmerize]? This is a poor rationalization of his new existence. It is an attempt to explain to himself how he could have ended up like this. He cannot accept the truth, and so, he falls to madness.” The Headmaster said, “He was not the only one to fall to madness in those first years. The Fae…

“We say that the Fae died in the Sundering, but in truth, they did not. They were too numerous to die off like that. They lived on every plane, under the guises of every people. Each one was an eternal reflection of the Mana Ocean, and of Nature. Many were here on Veird when the Sundering hit, and the Script came into being.

“Not a single one could adapt. Some went quietly; falling asleep, and then deeper, then fading away entirely. Some did not go quietly. Those, we had to kill before they killed everyone else.” The Headmaster looked away. A sad glint appeared in his eyes, as he said, “The single dwarven Stoneship and every single dwarf that managed to make it to Veird, all took refuge in the Underworld, attempting to carve out new lives for themselves down below. They lasted three years before Melemizargo killed them all.” He looked to Erick, saying, “The elves were allowed Archipelago Nergal to make their own, but they could not survive the judgment of the rest of the refugees.” He said, “This whole world was mad, in the beginning. Many died. Few got better. Melemizargo did neither.”

Erick changed the subject, “Why hasn’t the whole world worked together to end him?”

The Headmaster heard Erick, but he did not answer right away. He reached down to the tea pot, and filled his own cup. When he gestured for Erick, for more, Erick shook his head with the slightest of movements. The Headmaster sipped his tea. He sat back. He said, “Because he could kill us all.”

“How is that possible?”

The Headmaster frowned a little. He said, “He is a dragon, and a god.”

“… That explains nothing.”

“Hmm.” The Headmaster looked to Erick. He said, “Dragons exist. They have bodies. Melemizargo is no exception. Gods normally don’t have bodies, and because of this, they exist as the gestalt of their peoples; as impressions in the mana. Beings greater than the sum of their parts.”

“I knew… Some of that.” Erick said, “What I meant, though, was: Why don’t the gods kill him?”

The Headmaster leveled a sad look at him, saying, “Really, Erick. This is basic Tenday sermon stuff.”

“I understand about the agreements among gods to prevent divine wars.” Erick said, “But still!”

