Now I was curious... My time could be better spent training, or maybe looking for a stone mage to help restore my observatory now that it was sanctified, but the connection between the empty city in my sanctuary and the strange previews I had seen through the portals on my first day was too strong to ignore.

There had to be an explanation for it. There were two other small portal hubs in Hano, similar to the one I had appeared in. People used them constantly, and I had seen the same strange empty streets through them from the moment I arrived in this world.

Surely someone had wondered why the destination always looked devoid of people and movable objects. Surely someone had studied it before.

The obvious thing to do was going through books. There was a small library in the Guild that was open to freelancers. There was also the private collection of the Scribes' Guild. I think there was also a bigger library in the noble district, and my San title should allow me in.

It would probably take a while, but I had plenty of experience with that kind of research. Books about portals, books about dream sanctuaries, and books about the local understanding of reality, the planes of existence, or other mystical knowledge could lead me to the answer.

Or… I could just teleport directly to someone who already knew the answer and ask them.

I stared at the endless night sky of the Sunless Reach as a shooting star flew overhead, filling me with Star Mana.

I guess when one has a hammer, the world starts looking like nails.

The more I thought about it, the more sense it made. The divination aspect of my power was far too convenient not to use. Why bother searching through hundreds of books when I could simply ask someone?

I just needed to word my wish carefully enough not to get myself killed. I imagined teleporting next to a mass murderer who happened to know the answer to my question. Or appearing next to a prestigious scholar while she was bathing and getting arrested for trespassing.

The key was consent. I needed to preemptively look for someone who wouldn't mind answering my questions. So after careful consideration, I settled on a simple wish.

"Let me be safely near someone who could and wouldn't mind explaining the empty world I had seen in my Dream Sanctuary."

The blue sun was already midway through the morning of Waterday, and I found myself on a small patio overlooking a carefully maintained garden. A round table sat in the middle, with a tea set arranged neatly across its surface. A maid was standing beside it, pouring tea for a woman seated at the table.

The woman turned toward me. She was elegant, with cyan hair that fell neatly around her shoulders. She wore a loose blue informal dress that managed to look refined, the fabric flowing naturally around her feminine figure without being overly ornate.

I immediately raised my hand in a military salute.

"Commander Marina, I am sorry for the intrusion."

There was a brief silence.

"San Alice," the woman said with a smile. "It is good to see you again. Though I didn't expect it to happen in my own garden."

Shit. I didn't expect to end up here. According to Nada, Marina was single-handedly running this city-state. Apparently, my wish had decided that the person most qualified to answer my question was the person in charge of the entire region.

Also, why the hell am I doing an Earth military salute? That isn't even the custom here.

I slowly lowered my hand. I needed to recover from this somehow.

"I have a gift for you, ma'am."

I reached into my bag of holding and pulled out a bucket of ice. Inside it was a metal bento box containing the last few pieces of tiramisu.

Marina stared at the bucket.

"This is a new dessert that goes well with your tea, ma'am."

She raised an eyebrow.

"It was made by a holy girl. It's called Laurel's Delight. It is so good that the Lady herself manifested to taste it."

"Seriously?"

"Oh, yes. I was there when she did."

Marina's expression immediately became serious. She turned toward the maid.

"Send a messenger to Captain Yoka." The commander ordered. "Tell her to verify the neighborhoods near the west wall and determine whether there were any ripples from the Lady manifesting in Hano."

The maid placed the teapot down.

"Yes, Commander," She turned and immediately started running.

I blinked. That woman was fast. She was even faster than Lera.

"Are the holy people moving against us?" Marina asked, as she turned her eyes back toward me.

"Whoa, whoa, whoa." I raised both hands. "No. The Lady only manifested to taste a sweet after one of her followers offered it to her in prayer. This has nothing to do with Hano and everything to do with how awesome this dessert is."

She narrowed her eyes.

"You are telling me an immortal Mythic capable of destroying us all showed up in my city just for a dessert?"

"I know it's ridiculous, but it's exactly what happened."

Marina stared at me.

I stared back trying to look confident.

She slowly looked down at the bento box in my hands.

"...And this is the dessert?"

"Yep."

I placed the bento box on the table and opened it.

She looked at the neatly arranged pieces of tiramisu.

"What is in it?"

"Cream, coffee, sugar, eggs, hazelnut powder, and a few other things."

"You said a holy girl made it?"

"Yes. Her name is Louis, and she and her fiancé, Silnar, are starting a new business near the bank. They are sponsored by Tan Je'e of Skylift Lake."

Marina picked up a spoon. She hesitated for a moment before taking a small bite. She chewed thoughtfully.

"It's good."

That was it? Did the dessert that summoned a goddess barely get a passable rating?

I couldn't help but feel slightly disappointed.

Then she paused. Her posture relaxed slightly, and the way she held the spoon changed. The next bite she took was smaller.

"Oh wow," she said, her expression shifting as an elegant smile graced her face. "I must admit, it is worth a goddess manifesting."

I blinked. That sounded considerably more enthusiastic than her first assessment.

She took another small bite and nodded.

"This is quite lovely, thank you."

"Uh…” I stared at her. “you're welcome, ma'am."

She gave a graceful little nod before taking another bite. Then another. Marina's elegant composure vanished completely. By the fourth bite, she grabbed the bento box and pulled it closer to herself.

"THIS IS AMAZING!"

I jumped.

"How is this so good?!" She shoveled another spoonful into her mouth.

"Uh..." I was dumbfounded.

"Why did nobody tell me about this?!"

She did not stop eating while talking. She practically inhaled the next piece.

"Slow down, ma'am, or you're going to get sick," I said, completely befuddled by the shift in composure.

"No!" She hugged the bento box against her chest. "It's mine now. I can't let them have it."

"What? Who?"

Was this really the same woman I had seen leading the Freelancers before the Pikar Steppe incident? She looked like Ja'a when Calr tried to steal some of her pound cake.

Actually, no. Ja'a had more dignity.

"There's more, right?" she asked.

"No, that's the last of it."

Her eyes widened in horror.

"Last?"

"Yes."

"That's unacceptable."

"The new restaurant selling this will open this week. I may be able to arrange for some to be delivered to you."

She looked down at the emptying bento box with the expression of someone witnessing a tragedy.

Then, just as suddenly as it had appeared, the manic energy vanished. Her shoulders straightened, and she carefully put the spoon down.

"Please do so," she said with perfect composure. "Thank you for the thoughtful gift, Lady Alice."

"Well." She cleared her throat. "I assume you did not report here just to offer me dessert."

I stared at her before remembering that I was talking to one of the leaders of this government and that I shouldn't waste her time.

"Ma'am, if I'm correct, you are the only person in the Freelancer Guild who understands how my powers work."

"Yes. I have read Nada's report, and I know only what you told her. Conditional teleportation, wish-based, if I remember correctly."

"Yes," I said. "I had a question I wanted to ask somebody, so I wished for someone willing and able to answer me, and it brought me here."

"Oh, so you randomly jumped without knowing who you would meet? You didn't set out to teleport into my garden."

"Sorry about that, had I known I would end up here, I probably would have worded my wish differently."

"No, this was fortuitous," she said. "I had planned on summoning you so we could talk about what the Freelancer Guild could do for you."

"For me?"

"From what I understand, you have been an asset to Hano ever since you first teleported here. Rumor has it you are behind the new medical knowledge the temple shared with Captain Lucy, you were part of the team that discovered the cult activity in the sewer, and you actually saved the expedition in Pikar."

She smiled.

"What did we give you in return? Some silver coins?"

She shook her head.

"You are a San. That amount of money isn't as valuable to you as it would be to someone like the Karda girl."

"So this was why my wish tagged you as someone willing to help me," I said thoughtfully.

"Yes. I will be frank. Someone with your power set can be anywhere they want to be in the Seven Realms, and I would rather have you helping here than in Highrock or Treegate."

"I may be part of the Freelancer Guild, but I don't want to be involved in any political scheming."

"Of course. I was just letting you know that this particular political schemer welcomes you in Hano and wants you as a friend."

"Right..." I had absolutely no idea how to respond to that.

"So, what did you want to know about?" she asked, mercifully shifting the conversation back to my original question.

"I was messing around in my Dream Sanctuary, and I discovered something strange. I was able to enter an empty landscape of Hano. It looked almost exactly like the images we can see through the portals."

Marina's expression changed.

"Huh," She leaned back slightly. "You were able to access the Margin Worlds with Dreamer magic?"

"The Margin Worlds? So you know what that was?"

“Of course, I have spent a great deal of time there. Didn't you know what it was called?"

"No. Like I said, I didn't do it on purpose."

"I didn't know it was possible to do that with Dreamer powers." She stared at me for a moment.

I looked at her cyan hair. It was a perfectly obvious sign of her Soulit purity.

"Is it something related to Soulit magic?" I blinked as I realized the connection. "This is related to Soul Shaping, isn't it?"

Soulit magic was the system I understood the least, because Soulit people were less open about sharing information than Dreamers or Mythics. Soul Shaping was even more mysterious and secretive than Soul Dealing or Soul Scribing. Most of what I knew came from a book written by a Mythic author discussing his personal understanding of what the Soul Shapers could do, rather than an account from an actual Soul Shaper.

I knew that Soul Shapers could leave their bodies. Some sort of astral projection, where you left the physical realm and wandered through the spiritual realm or something.

I knew particularly skilled Soul Shapers could even possess animals, monsters, or people, though only if the target's soul was weaker than their own.

"Yes," Marina said with a nod. "It is related to Soul Shaping."

"Are you a Soulit by any chance?"

She tilted her head.

"My friend Ja'a is a Soul Seer. She called me a perfect mutt. Apparently, I'm at least one-eighth Soulit."

That earned a small smile.

"A perfect mutt?"

"Her words, not mine."

"I see." Marina's expression shifted again, becoming more analytical. "Let me check."

Her aura expanded.

"Are you also a Soul Seer?"

"Partly," she said.

She studied me for a few seconds.

"Yes," she said in a monotone voice. "You are indeed part Soulit. Your soul is rather strong. It has grown quite a bit since the last time I saw you."

"Yeah. I'm around twenty SB now. Almost as strong as Raik."

"SB?"

"Soul of a baby. Ja'a has been using that as the standard unit of measurement for soul growth."

"Oh! That's actually smart." Her expression shifted again, giving me a beaming smile.

"I know, right?" I smiled too.

"'Soul of a baby is cute!" she said. "We should start doing that too."

"So, what exactly is a Margin World? Or should I say Margin Worlds?"

"Since you are part Soulit, perhaps it would be best to show you instead."

"Show me?" I immediately felt a little nervous as she stood up from her chair.

Marina started walking toward me. As she approached, she stopped restraining her aura. It completely engulfed mine.

My body suddenly felt heavy. It felt as though something enormous had settled over me, pressing down on every part of my soul at once. I struggled to breathe.

She was way stronger than Garo. Unlike him, who was a smoke mage first, she felt like someone who specialized in weaponizing her aura.

What the hell? Am I in danger? Has my teleportation divination somehow miscalculated?

I instinctively tried to summon my spear so I could teleport, but I couldn't. Any external manifestation of mana was completely denied to me.

Marina was already standing directly in front of me. She gently placed a hand on my shoulder.

"Relax."

Easy for her to say. She wasn't the one being crushed. Then I watched her fold her arms.

Except... a ghostly outline of her arm remained behind, still in contact with my shoulder.

I stared at the translucent limb in fascinated horror.

Then, with a sudden motion, it moved.

I closed my eyes, bracing for impact, as it slapped me. There was no pain. Instead, I felt myself being launched backward and upward, like an anime character getting hit by some absurdly powerful attack.

I flew and flew, then, for some reason, I stopped. I was just... floating.

I slowly opened my eyes, and my jaw dropped. I was looking at the exact same place I had seen in my Dream Sanctuary. The walls of the houses were there, but the windows were missing. The street was there, but there were no people. The trees were there, but there was no foliage.

I looked down and I could see myself.

No... my physical body.

I was floating in the air, moving slowly before getting deposited onto an invisible chair. The same chair Marina had been sitting on. Between me and my body was a thin, translucent umbilical cord connecting our belly buttons. I stared at it.

Am I soul projecting right now? Did she slap the soul out of me? Is this what Soul Shapers do all the time?

I reached toward the cord and my hand passed through it. I looked around again; this was the place I had seen in my sanctuary: The Margin World.

I was right. This wasn't something specific to my Star Room in my Dream Sanctuary.

"This is real..." My voice sounded strange in this state, as though I wasn't speaking through a physical throat.

I suddenly understood why Marina had looked so surprised when I told her about it. I had used Dreamer magic to access a Soulit space. Or maybe a simulation of it. I looked at my hand. I was slightly translucent.

Shouldn't I be freaking out right now?

But no. If anything, I was excited.

As a teen, I spent hours meditating, trying to astral project away from my body. As an adult, I even tried mushrooms that the stoner dude selling them swore would work.

It didn't... and here I was, doing it easily. I just needed to be slapped by a powerful Soulit woman.

I looked down once more and saw Marina's body appear. I expected her to join me in this space. Instead, something even stranger happened.

Not one, but three Marinas appeared.

I blinked.

One flew directly in front of me, while the other two floated into place on either side of her.

For several seconds, I simply stared.

They were all Marina. No, not quite.

The woman on the left had her cyan hair tied into a neat ponytail. Her expression was completely serious, and when she spoke, her voice was perfectly monotone.

"My name is Ma'a." She folded her arms.

The woman in the center had her cyan hair loose, flowing freely around her shoulders. She smiled warmly, placed one hand on her hip, and struck a pose that emphasized her figure.

"My name is Ri'i." She gave me a playful wink.

Then the third one flipped. She performed a cartwheel in midair before spinning around and landing upside down for a moment.

"My name is Na'a!" She grinned at me.

Then she righted herself and flew back into position.

Ma'a stayed on the right, not moving. Ri'i grabbed her closer into a hug, and Na'a joined the huddle willingly with open arms.

The contrast in their faces was laughable. There was the serious Ma'a, the charming Ri'i, and the energetic Na'a.

Together, they said, "We are Ma'a, Ri'i, and Na'a... Marina."

"Hello," Ma'a said.

"Please to meet you." Ri'i smiled charmingly.

"Let's be friends!" Na'a waved enthusiastically.

I blinked. Once. Twice. I looked at the three women.

Then I looked back at their shared body sitting peacefully in the invisible chair. Three umbilical cords extended from it, each one attached to a woman.

"What the hell?" I finally said. "You actually have a rehearsed intro!"

Na'a giggled.

Ri'i covered her mouth, apparently trying not to laugh.

Ma'a simply sighed.

"I had to bribe them to do so." said Na’a.

"Bribe them?"

"By using my allotted time with the body to lose the weight Ma'a accumulates every day sitting at her desk, this allows Ri'i to keep looking good in a dress when she goes to social events." Explained Na’a.

"Not a hard price to pay to look this good, right, Ma'a?" Ri'i said, hitting her serious sister with an elbow.

"I keep telling you she is bluffing. She likes working out. She would never let our body atrophy," Ma'a said.

"She also can eat. Have you seen what she did to that dessert earlier?" Ri'i insisted. "She is being a team player. You aren't."

"I did play along," Ma'a denied, still in her monotone voice.

"But not enthusiastically," said Na'a.

"I think her reluctant participation works well for your intro.” I found myself saying. “It highlights your different personalities better."

"Really? Don't you think Ma'a should do a little dance?" asked Na'a.

"Don't push your luck," said Ma'a.

I couldn't help but chuckle at their antics.

"I think the one I met before the Pikar Steppe incident was you." I turned to Ma'a.

"It was mostly me, but Ri'i did pitch in now and then," said Ma'a.

"We keep Na'a out of Freelancer decisions." Ri'i giggled. "I am afraid she is as much of a meathead as Kitchi."

"Hey!" protested Na'a.

The three of them turned back to me.

"You are now, in the know to the worst-kept secret in Hano," said Ri'i.

"The three of us are sisters sharing one body," Ma'a explained in her neutral tone. "Most of the important people in the city already knew this secret."

"We try to keep this information away from the bards," added Ri'i with a sigh. "We even bribe the ones who know, as it's a matter of security."

"And because it would ruin all the fun," Na'a added. "The look on your face when you saw our introduction."

Ri'i laughed softly.

I was still trying to process the fact that the woman I had been speaking to had apparently been three completely different people this entire time.

The hint was always there. It was in their names. I looked at Ma'a, then Ri'i, then Na'a.

Most Soulit women I had met had names following a similar pattern. A consonant followed by a repeated vowel: Je'e, Ja'a, or Ki'i.

The men had something similar going for them: Ki'a, Ko'i, Ni'a. A consonant followed by differing vowels.

I stared at Marina.

No, not Marina.

Ma'a, Ri'i, and Na'a.

All three names fit the Soulit naming convention, yet Marina, the name I had known her by from the beginning, was obviously a Mythic-style name.

"The hint was in the name," I finally said.

"Yes." sighed Ma’a.

"We never said we were very good at hiding it." Ri'i smiled.

"It worked well, didn't it?" Na'a raised her hand excitedly.

They did have three different reactions to tasting the Tiramisu. They weren’t truly bothering to hide it… and somehow, I had missed it completely.