"Oh shit! Jo, cover me!" Thomas yelled, and rushed towards Zach, but he may as well not have bothered. She was just there, as if she'd always been standing in the right place ready to step in the whole time. She used the reach of Thomas's katana to jab at the snapping turtle's snout to keep it occupied. Hopefully, she could find a way to poison the boss while she was at it.

Zach had been thrown a good fifteen feet to the edge of the lily pad and seemed to be trying to get up, but he was in bad shape. There was blood everywhere; on his chest, on his face. And for a horrified second, Thomas thought the turtle had taken an eye for an eye.

But no, that was just blood. One claw had scraped his forehead diagonally, hitting the top of his nose and just missing his eye on its way to his upper cheek. His chest was worse. The Kevlar vest was shredded, showing white ceramic plates underneath and blood under that. If he hadn't been wearing the vest, his rib cage would have been ripped wide open.

The only positive thing was that he wasn't screaming. He just seemed shocked, like the pain hadn't quite hit yet. Small mercies.

"Hold still," Thomas snapped, pushing him back down on his butt. The vest was mangled, but that made it easier to get off him. Thomas caught a flash of rib or cartilage or something and immediately wished that he hadn't. This was bad. This was so bad.

"Shut up," he told the gibbering part of himself sternly.

"Huh?" Zach asked, vaguely.

Thomas put his hand over Zach's chest and reached for his Living Architecture skill.

Rebuild this, he told Zach's body, picturing whole ribs, whole muscle, and whole skin. Rebuild it just the way it was.

Zach coughed and shifted uncomfortably as his skin started to shift and muscle knit. Behind him, the turtle gave another rattling hiss, and Thomas squeezed down on his own core, demanding more Healing, more Wellspring to augment that healing, more anything because this had to go faster. Jo only had her swords, and that boss was as big as a house. He needed Zach whole, and they both needed Zach's firepower.

And that was when Jo screamed.

Thomas snapped his head around to see her body flying in the opposite direction from a strike from the turtle... Only she didn't stop at the edge of the lily pad. She tumbled over and into the water with all the hungry carp.

"Jo!" Thomas yelled.

"No!" Zach yelped, and both men jerked to their feet. The gouges in Zach's chest were only barely healed at best, and the wound to his face still looked grisly, but those carp had been waiting down under the water for just this chance, and Jo had to be fighting for her life. Worse, the boss was heaving itself to the water's edge like it fully intended to plunge its head in and finish the job.

Thomas made a snap decision. "Get her," he ordered, pushing Zach toward the water. "I'll hold off the turtle."

Zach stared at him for a second, wide-eyed. Then he pointed at Thomas. "I'll be right back. Don't die." Turning, he sprinted to the edge of the lily pad where Jo had gone over and dove off.

"Yeah, I'll just do that," Thomas muttered, and faced the boss.
