“They killed. I saw them. They killed Mrsha’s tribe. They killed children.”
Ryoka sank to her knees in the snow. She was crying again. Teriarch bent over her. His hands were warm.
“Yes. And I am sorry.”
For a long time they stood there, an old Dragon and a young woman. One with all the power to change things and the other with nothing at all. Then Ryoka stood.
“I’m leaving.”
He was surprised.
“Where to?”
“Anywhere. Not here. Not with the Goblin Lord—”
“What about your friends? Those you want to protect?”
Ryoka shook her head. She felt so, so very empty.
“They don’t want me. Not right now. And I don’t deserve them. It feels like every time I get involved with them, they die. So…I’m leaving. I can’t do anything anyways. I’m too weak.”
She turned and began walking back towards the inn as the Goblin Lord’s drums beat on. Teriarch walked with her.
“Just like that? Where will you go? What will you do?”
“What I’m good at. Run. And I’ll do it somewhere far from here, where the only person I can get killed is myself. Somewhere where the wind blows strong. Far away.”
She felt the Dragon hesitate. He walked next to her, staring down at Ryoka. She stopped at the inn and looked inside. Erin was serving the Horns of Hammerad. Ryoka put her hand on the glass and turned away. Teriarch watched her walk over to the door and put her hand on it.
“You are going now?”
“Yeah. I’m going to go to Celum and…somewhere else. I know you don’t want to be seen. So—goodbye.”
She turned to him and held out a hand. Teriarch touched it gingerly. He took her hand and shook it.
“I am sorry.”
“Sorry doesn’t fix things.”
“No.”
The Dragon’s gaze was distant. He looked into the inn and shook his head.
“It does not. But what else should I be?”
She had no response. Slowly, Teriarch stepped away. He bowed to her, his eyes deep, looking tired.
“I will not say we will not meet again, Ryoka Griffin. I only hope that it will be a better day when we do.”
He vanished. Ryoka bowed her head. A shadow suddenly covered the inn. She looked up, but saw nothing. Nothing but the sky, and a sudden breeze. The shadow travelled north, moving slowly, and then at incredible speed. Ryoka shook her head.
“Lazy invisibility spell.”
Then she went inside and said goodbye.
 
——
 
In Az’kerash’s castle, ashes still filled the corridors. Black soot and melted rock declared the Dragon’s fury. And in his private sanctum, the Necromancer expressed his displeasure in his own way.
“Venitra. You have failed me. Your decisions have led to this moment, and your mistakes have cost me dearly. You have lost my favor. You are no longer first among my servants.”
His words were calm, quiet, and struck the burnt and badly damaged woman kneeling before him. Venitra would have wept if she could. She bowed her head, despairing beyond words. Az’kerash turned away from her and to Ijvani. The black skeleton shuddered, trembling before her master’s wrath.
“Ijvani. You likewise have failed me. There is nothing more to say.”
She bowed her head, the gold flames in her eyes dimming until they were nearly extinguished. Az’kerash turned to the three other servants gathered here.
“Kerash, I give you my authority. Do not betray it.”
“Yes, master.”
The undead Gnoll stood tall. Az’kerash nodded. His eyes swept across his five servants and he shook his head.
“Perhaps it is time to add to your number. A new servant…perhaps. I will consider it. For now, there is much to do. Teriarch’s fury cost me a great deal of resources, not least of which is the scrolls of [Greater Teleport] that were incinerated in his fury. But that is the least of my concerns.”
He turned back to a map of the continent and his servants raised their heads, save for Ijvani and Venitra. Perril Chandler’s voice was musing, thoughtful.
“Ryoka Griffin is no longer a concern, or at least, one I cannot resolve. But Zel Shivertail and the Lord of the Wall…they may be a problem. So too might the Slayer and the Small Queen. I will take steps to remedy them. Perhaps my apprentice can deal with them. That is a concern. Information about my existence may spread. If so, I will take steps. If my discovery is unavoidable…”
He fell silent. His fingers drummed rapidly on the map. And then slowed. To everyone’s surprise, a smile slowly spread across Az’kerash’s face.
“But there is one unexpected boon. One, among all the loss.”
“What is that, master?”
Bea flinched when he turned to her. But the Necromancer just smiled.
“Why, my enemy of course. Teriarch, one of the greatest obstacles to my conquest has revealed his weakness. Another one, should I say. And it is Ryoka Griffin.”
“The Runner? But—”
The undead glanced at each other, remembering the Dragon’s wrathful fire and trembling at the memory. Az’kerash flicked his fingers dismissively.
“I will observe her. I will not interfere directly of course, but I will…hope that she survives.”
“Why, master?”
He smiled.
“Because she is Teriarch’s weakness, of course. And unlike Magnolia Reinhart, she is far less well protected. And he cares for her. Perhaps only enough to intercede. But in time, perhaps more? It matters, Bea, because Dragons have hides stronger than diamond, and hearts softer than snow.”
She looked up at him, uncomprehending. He bent, caressed her rotten face and kissed her gently. She shuddered, and the other servants looked at her with envy.
“It does not matter. Go, my servants. The time of my return is not yet. I have more to prepare. And it is a different sort of plague that falls upon the Humans and Drakes now.”
He turned his gaze back towards the map and smiled.
“Yes, a different sort. Goblins.”
 
——
 
The sky was bright. The sun was out. The sky was blue. Frost Faeries flew overhead, streaming north. They left, and the skies warmed. Winter had ended. So the Winter Sprites, the fae, flew one last time, laughing and calling out high overhead.
But none of the faeries looked back. None looked down at the young woman who stared up at their number. Ryoka Griffin stood in the snow and then turned. She began walking, and fumbled at her side. She pulled out an iPhone, only slightly dented from a recent fall, and two ear buds. Slowly, she put them in her ears.
There was a moment of silence as Ryoka flicked through her list of songs. In the end, she decided on It’s Time by Imagine Dragons. She began jogging as the drums began to play.
Northwards. The gates of Celum were empty, and the sun was shining down on a muddy road. The entire world was ahead. Ryoka ran, slowly at first, and then picking up speed.
“Ryoka!”
Someone raced out of the gates after her. Erin Solstice ran after her friend and stopped. She cupped her hands and shouted.
“Ryoka! Come back!”
But it was too late. Ryoka’s head turned once, and Erin saw her smile for a second. Then her head turned ahead, and she picked up her pace. Erin shouted.
A single hand rose. Ryoka lifted it, and let it fall after a moment. She ran on, northwards, away. Erin stood in the melting snow, in the frozen dirt, and watched her friend run on and on. Until she was a distant speck on the horizon. And then…
And then she was gone. Ryoka Griffin disappeared, and Erin stood in the gates of Celum. Ryoka was gone.
And as she walked back towards Octavia’s shop and saw Lyonette and Mrsha hurrying through with their possessions, Erin stepped through the door to her inn. She heard shouting, saw Ishkr boarding up the windows from the outside, heard horn calls from Liscor’s walls, and the drums.
The undead were gone. Few knew they’d even been here, but they were gone. Ryoka was gone. Winter had ended, and the faeries had left. Brunkr was gone. Ulrien was gone. Griffon Hunt had left.
And Ryoka was gone. She might never come back. Erin sat in her inn and heard the drum beats. There was only one thing left now, wasn’t there? They had come at last. They were here, and they weren’t a pest any longer. They were here. Here.
Goblins.
