Ryoka studied him. The [General] had left claw marks on the table where he’d gripped it to steady himself. Now he looked like a hunter, someone who was plotting. His feverish energy had turned into something quieter. There was fury in his eyes, but calm, like fire on an ocean, waiting to reach the shore. A hunter slowly setting a trap for an enemy. She nodded.
“He’s not an idiot. And his servants might have powerful illusions, but they’re not subtle. He might suspect that someone’s put everything together.”
“But he still thinks his location is secret. Thanks to the deal you and this…higher power struck with him. A deal which you aren’t honoring and which isn’t being enforced.”
The [General]’s eyes glinted. He looked around the room, thinking.
“I wouldn’t doubt that he’ll send assassins after me and Ilvriss. We both get them as a matter of course anyways, but I can look into an escort. Ilvriss…might be tricky. But of all the things you could have said, the Necromancer might be best. He’s not an idiot.”
“Could have fooled me.”
To her mild surprise, Zel gave Ryoka a reproving look.
“Ilvriss is many things. Hotheaded, arrogant—but not a fool. He cares for his people, if only them. And I think he might be willing to actually join forces with me on this. Me, and anyone else.”
He leaned over the table, intent on Ryoka.
“Who else knows about him? Your protector—”
“Can’t talk about him.”
“Yes. But could we count on him for help?”
Ryoka thought about this.
“No. No. I didn’t at first. It was desperation that made me go to him. Maybe he’d help, maybe not, but I think that if he really was trying to kill the Necromancer, he would have tried it already. Or told a lot of people.”
“True.”
Zel sighed.
“Who else, then? Is there anyone who might know about the Necromancer? Anyone I could talk to without spreading the secret and alerting the bastard?”
“Magnolia Reinhart.”
Ryoka answered immediately. She didn’t know for certain, but she was all but certain. Zel straightened.
“Reinhart? Really?”
“Surprised? Isn’t she one of the most powerful people in the…world?”
“She is. And one of the most powerful on the continent. Which is why Ilvriss won’t be happy about that. You know, she’s considered one of the greatest threats to our people? If the Antinium were gone, the Five Families would be our biggest concern.”
“I think she hates the Antinium as much as you do. And Az’kerash too, probably.”
Ryoka watched Zel thinking. He stroked at his chin, absently picked slivers of wood from the table with his claws.
“Perhaps. It’s all making more sense. I received a letter from her a while back. I didn’t want to talk to her. Now I do.”
“Why didn’t you want to talk to her?”
Zel paused.
“I had a friend once. A mentor. He taught me most of what I know about commanding and he was…a good Drake. He was wary of Magnolia Reinhart when she was young. He cautioned me about her.”
“A friend? General Sserys?”
Zel glanced at Ryoka in surprise and then he grimaced.
“That’s the problem with being in the history books. Everyone knows too much. Yeah. Sserys was a brilliant [General]. He was a leader. When he spoke people put their tails in a line and followed orders. He could talk to all the city rulers and Lords and Ladies of the Wall. I can’t.”
“Why’s that?”
“I’m not him.”
“No, I mean, what made Sserys special? Was he just charismatic?”
“Charis…perhaps. He had his own way of leading. And when he gave orders, people listened, even people who hated him. More than that though, I think it was what he represented. His class.”
Ryoka frowned.
“His class? What do you mean? Wasn’t he a [General]? Or did he have a special class?”
The [General of the Line] looked surprised. He blinked at Ryoka.
“You didn’t know? The history books didn’t put that part in? Well, maybe they didn’t know. Yes, Sserys had a unique class. [Spear of the Drakes]. It means he was recognized as a leader for our entire species. He could give an order and any army across the continent would be bound to obey.”
Ryoka blinked at him. Zel smiled bitterly.
“He died before he gained a single Skill in the class. He’d leveled up once in it when the Antinium destroyed his army. He used to talk about what his first Skill might be, as if he was a hatchling getting his first class.”
The smile that ran across Zel’s face was fond and painful. Ryoka stared at him and felt a chill on her skin. She’d read both the first and second account of the Antinium Wars, but to meet someone who’d lived through both really put it home to her.
In her world there were politicians, heroic men and women, and yes, some people whose names were known throughout the world for good or bad. However, Ryoka would argue that they had few people who were living legends. But Zel had lived through the equivalent of two continental wars. He was a hero, someone who stood out from the rest because of his levels.
And here he sat across from her, resting his claws on a beat-up table. It really was something.
Of course, she’d met Teriarch too. She stood up. Zel looked at her.
“If there’s anything else you need to know, I’ll tell you what I can. But I can’t help beyond that. I’ve caused too much trouble for everyone already. And I can’t do anything. I’m not a fighter. I’m no hero.”
The Drake looked at her sympathetically and shook his head.
“Don’t blame yourself for everything. You couldn’t have known what was going to unfold. You took a job and the Necromancer made you pay for it. But you couldn’t have known.”
“Maybe.”
Ryoka looked away. She gripped her arms tightly.
“Maybe you’re right. But it’s still my fault. Do you understand that?”
“Of course.”
 
——
 
There were others to tell, and some of the meetings were painful. Others simply sad. Lyonette slapped Ryoka, and then fell into her arms, weeping. Mrsha bit Ryoka gently, crying, and then licked her and hugged her.
The Horns of Hammerad listened to Ryoka’s explanation of her guilt, not understanding, silent. Pisces’ eyes were shadowed. Ceria shook her head. Yvlon looked at Ryoka with something like understanding in her eyes. She understood Ryoka’s pain. Ksmvr just looked at Ryoka, uncomprehending.
The sun rose overhead. It was midday, and warm. The snow was melting outside, although it was still so deep that the water just froze into ice and created a crust on top of snow that was six or seven feet deep in some places, deeper in others. Much deeper.
Ryoka was packing. She took her belt pouch, her bag of holding, her backpack, and nothing else. There was nothing else to take. She walked towards the door to the inn and looked around for Erin.
The [Innkeeper] wasn’t there. But someone else sat at a table, staring around in mild bewilderment. Teriarch in his Human form stood up when Ryoka approached. She stared at him.
“I thought today might be more appropriate to speak. Shall we walk?”
They left the inn, walking atop the melting snow as if it were as solid as rock. Teriarch strode along, a vision of perfection, as Ryoka looked at him.
“Why are you here?”
“To apologize once more. I—perhaps only that. I do not know.”
The Dragon’s lined face was shadowed as he stared around Liscor and the quiet landscape. Ryoka looked at him.
“Just for that?”
“You were right. I owe you a debt. I asked you to send a letter to the Necromancer and did not think of the cost. For that I erred. And I am sorry. I would…ask your forgiveness.”
“Ask the dead for forgiveness, then.”
Ryoka turned away. Teriarch paused.
“If I could.”
There was genuine emotion in his eyes. Rather than look at it, Ryoka turned away. She stood on the snow, jumped up and down, to see if it would break under her enchanted weight. It didn’t.
In the silence, Teriarch looked around.
“It’s so bright. So full of life. I had forgotten what it was like.”
He whispered quietly. Ryoka glanced about and saw only a few birds flying through the sky, the snow, distant shapes on the city walls. She shook her head. After a while, Teriarch spoke again.
“I wished to tell you something else. I do not believe she is dead.”
Ryoka turned.
“Who? Ivolethe?”
“Yes.”
The Dragon nodded gravely. Ryoka felt her heart quicken. It was just ice that had broken. Ivolethe was more than just an animated bit of ice and frost.
“You mean that was only her physical form? She might come back? She—”
He shook his head and she fell silent.
“Her mental form was destroyed. But I do not believe her soul, her spirit was. Yes, I believe she is alive. Her King is not that cruel. And he does not have many subjects left, or so I understand.”
“Her King? You mean…the King of the Faeries.”
She couldn’t imagine someone like that. A faerie king? But Teriarch nodded.
“Yes. He has many names. I have never met him, nor anyone who has. But for as long as Frost Faeries have come here, there are rumors. He has many names. The Lord of the Glades. The Walker of the Forests. The Eldest. The fae have their King and they obey his laws.”
“Ivolethe didn’t.”
Ryoka choked on the words. Teriarch nodded again.
“He makes laws and his subjects play with them. That is natural. But to break them—she was punished. But not killed, I think. Just banished from this world.”
“For how long? A year? A month?”
Hope, and disappointment. Ryoka saw the answer before Teriarch spoke it.
“Forever? No, again, perhaps not. But a thousand years, ten thousand…it would not be a short amount of time. The fae do not think of time as we do. And their King would punish Ivolethe for her sins.”
“For so long?”
Ryoka felt tears in her eyes. Teriarch nodded.
“The punishment for those who grow too attached to the world is never to see what it will become. I do not know if it helps or not.”
“It does. A bit. Thank you.”
Ryoka wiped at her eyes. Teriarch nodded.
“As for the rest, I sensed no undead of Az’kerash’s make anywhere about the city. I believe you are safe, and that he will honor his word.”
“So it’s over? Just like that?”
A hint of anger began to stir in Ryoka’s chest. She turned towards Teriarch angrily.
“What did everyone die for, then? What was the purpose of them sacrificing themselves? Were they all just—just accidents? Ivolethe, Brunkr, Ulrien—”
People had died when Venitra unleashed her [Mists of Madness] spell in Celum. The Horns of Hammerad had helped knock out people, but there were still tales of tragedy, people murdering each other in the madness of the spell. Imenet had destroyed buildings, set fire to them with people inside. Teriarch shook his head.
“I cannot say. They died fighting. Some died by accident. And there will be no resolution, no retribution for the crimes committed here. I would have crushed the undead mockery that intruded in my domain, but if I had, Az’kerash might not have left you or your friends alive.”
“So you’ll let him get away with it? Just like that?”
Ryoka turned to Teriarch, raising her voice. He looked at her, his two mismatched eyes sad and tired.
“What would you have me do? Retaliate? Destroy his castle, destroy one of his servants? Cremate an undead servant of his for every life taken? I do not know if I could, and if I did, it would surely mean war between the two of us.”
“And you don’t know if you can win, is that it?”
This time, the Dragon stared at Ryoka and she felt dwarfed by his presence. His voice was calm, deep, and old.
“Yes.”
She looked at him. He looked away.
“He is a gifted necromancer. And he has many spells and artifacts. More than that…he was not always an enemy of the living. You do not know his past. I do. I knew his triumph, his fall, his betrayal and wrath. I witnessed it all over the centuries. Who am I to judge him?”
“A Dragon. You’re a Dragon.”
“Yes. Does that confer any gift of reason to me? I think not. Once, my kind ruled Drakes like slaves and fought bitter wars with every nation on the globe. Were we right to do so then? I wonder. Az’kerash and I are not enemies. Nor are we friends. He does not interfere with me or those under my protection. And I…do the same.”
Ryoka turned away, disgusted. Teriarch looked at her. Then his head rose. He turned. And Ryoka heard something on the edge of hearing. She raised her head.
“No. Not now.”
It was a reverberation, a thump, an impact. A drum. It carried across the plains, reverberating. A single sound, which made the birds in the sky scatter, and the people on the walls of Liscor look up. And then it came again.
Doom.
It was a drumbeat. And then another. A steady booming rhythm began to sound. Ryoka turned to the walls of Liscor and heard the people there start to blow horns in alarm. And the drumbeats rolled on.
Doom. Doom.
The sound was a physical presence. The drumbeats rolled off the hills, a distant thunder. Both Teriarch and Ryoka turned. It was coming from the south. And as Ryoka’s chest constricted, she knew.
“The Goblin Lord.”
“Yes.”
She turned to him, desperate.
“Do something! His army’s coming here!”
“He will pass by the city, I think.”
“It doesn’t matter! You have to do something! The Goblin Lord will destroy everything in his path! He’ll kill people! You have to—”
Again, Teriarch cut her off.
“What would you have me do? Burn them? Destroy their army?”
“Yes!”
“No.”
The Dragon shook his head as Ryoka stared at him. She punched at his chest and he caught her hand effortlessly. He let go of her gently. He looked wretched. And old.
“If I did, then what? One threat would be eliminated, yes. But what about next time? Goblins exist, Ryoka Griffin. So long as they live, there will be Goblin Lords, Goblin Kings. And monsters exist. Would you have me destroy all of them? Every creature that might threaten Human lives? What about Drakes? What if your species went to war, as you do?”
Ryoka opened her mouth. Teriarch went on.
“What then? Should I judge which side is right and destroy the other? Or seal them from attacking each other with a spell? I am no tyrant. But it seems that to save anyone, I must become one. No. If I move for one case, I should do the same for all. And I will not.”
“But they’re right here. In front of you! If you see something evil happening in front of you, what’s your excuse for not doing anything?”
Ryoka stared at Teriarch. He could stop it all. The Dragon looked back at her and shook his head again.
“Stop what evil? I see no evil.”
“The Goblins—”
“Are a people like your kind and mine. They are as innocent as any race. Perhaps more so than others. That they are considered monsters is no fault of theirs. How else would a species hated by all others survive, if not to become the thing they are hated for? No.”
