But right now, they were heading into what Perorn understood to be a snowy terrain with lots of elevation. Those hills and valleys were nightmares to maneuver around; even with her movement Skills, she had insisted on the horseshoes.
After all, when they got to places where these lovely roads ended—she’d order them to put on the studs, pointed bits of metal that could be screwed into the special-made horseshoes that Centaurs used. That would give the hooves the traction they needed, especially on a slick combat field.
Captain Basal, the Lizaur, grinned and rode ahead to check up the line. Behind Perorn, Lieutenant Tarath raised his voice.
“Five days to reach Liscor? You want to kill us, Fleethoof?”
“Pick up the pace, Tarath! And give us some music!”
She shouted back without turning her head. Then the Centaurs carrying cooking pots between them added musical instruments. The clatter of their hooves began to sound rhythmic, like drumming.
No Centaur practiced the drums. Not when you had them on your feet. A mournful wail cut the air as a Centaur pulled out a long reed instrument, like a clarinet. Another had finger-cymbals.
The entranced Drakes watched as the Centaurs began to sing, raising their heads skywards. They were much like the Drake armies that marched in military ranks. But the difference was the mercenaries of Baleros didn’t have the same pretense.
“To Liscor! To battle! Pick up the pace!”
Five days. They had been heading north along the Great Plains for months. Five days to march to Liscor down the trade roads was ludicrously fast. No other group in the world could boast that kind of speed.
The Centaurs began to trot faster as Perorn surged to the head of the vanguard. Now, the music was picking up, and she folded her arms, feeling the world accelerate as she activated more Skills.
Now, she’d meet the woman who had entranced Niers so much and impressed her students. Time to see what this [Innkeeper] was made of. They said, in Baleros, you were judged not by your own deeds or wealth or levels, but by the quality of your enemies.
Perorn Fleethoof couldn’t wait to meet Erin’s.
