“We have the lead. No ship is to move or open fire without my orders! All of you with me—you know my orders. I will have any man or woman who disobeys keelhauled. We do this as planned.”
Rasea had gone up early. Frankly, he was grateful that was all. But Therrium was striding down the deck, roaring at his grim crew. They worked fast, arming the ship-weapons as his tiny fleet of four began to move. The Drake city was blaring alarms, and he could see their wall spells arming.
They were probably trying to negotiate or just counting. Over fifty ships; an armada that would make Zeres’ finest navy hesitate. Many were innocent ships, it was true. But several famous Undersea Crews were here.
That combination of pirate and regular Drowned Folk mattered. This next part mattered just as much.
Therrium turned to his lieutenant, Cazcall. Giyed was also there, fourteen of Therrium’s finest [Sailors] behind him.
Each one over Level 20. They were armed to the teeth, but all standing to one side. Therrium nodded as they began climbing into the vessel hanging from the ropes off his port side.
“Cazcall. Ready?”
“Ready, Captain.”
“Go once you get my signal. Abyssal Pull is ready to cover you with Serpent Maw. The sea’s honor is on your people. No matter what happens—”
“We’ll get it done, Captain.”
Therrium locked gazes with the [Ravager Rogue] and nodded. Then he spun and lifted his Human, gloved hand.
“All ships! Open fire!”
 
——
 
“What’s happening? Numbtongue?”
Erin Solstice had been dancing in the garden with Ulvama when Apista buzzed around them, and she came out running to find the Hobgoblin sitting in the [World’s Eye Theatre].
Oddly—Mrsha wasn’t there. Nor were any children. In fact, Ser Sest was guarding the door, and Numbtongue nodded at Erin. He was staring up with his crimson gaze narrowed.
“Don’t let Mrsha use the door. It’s Drowned Folk. They’re attacking.”
Erin felt the mood in her theatre was a stark contrast to normal. She looked up and saw a city under siege. Four warships were trading broadsides with the wall-defenses—and winning. She gulped.
“Whoa. Is that a catapult on one?”
“Yes. There aren’t many at sea.”
That voice came from the one person with an understanding of what was going on. Well, the most understanding.
Wailant was here; there were a lot of people still around the inn, including Rafaema, who was staring up wordlessly with Demsleth.
One look—and the Dragon turned away, and Erin felt a chill on her arms. She knew that lead ship.
“Seborn. Is that—?”
“My father’s ship. That city can’t stop him. He might be able to break its defenses himself. But look. They’re not hitting the walls.”
Seborn never blinked as he pointed it out to Erin. She saw he was right. The Drowned ships were aiming low. They were cracking the gates and hitting the towers, breaking the magical enchantments, but the Drakes fleeing the sections of their damaged harbor walls weren’t taking arrow fire. In fact, it was all long-ranged spells.
The Drowned Ships had their famous bubble-shields and looked barely hurt; they were overlapping shields, absorbing lightning bolts and other spells coming their way. Erin saw one fire back, and a burning mass of tar clung to the gates. As more spells rained down, the iron turned hot and began to melt…
“That’s the city that killed those Drowned Folks. This is revenge. Can we…Seborn, could you ask—”
Before she even had a thought out, the [Rogue] responded. Calmly.
“No.”
He wasn’t even looking at her. Just watching. And then Erin sensed it, too, and fell silent. She gazed up and noticed what had made Numbtongue ban the children from entering. The lack of what should have been dozens, hundreds of deaths.
In fact…the Hobgoblin’s eyes narrowed.
“They’re not going in. Look.”
None of Therrium’s warships were heading into the harbor mouth. Now, the Drakes were down to bows and [Mages], but they were still firing desperately, trying to prevent an advance.
But it didn’t come. At least, not from The Passing Shadow.
A single ship, a boarding craft of some kind, a skimmer that was different from the longboats that Minotaurs used, but similar in nature, dropped into the waters. It had barely two dozen Drowned Folk in it, and it began to speed at the harbor.
Whoever was in it juked to avoid a [Fireball], but there had to be magic in it because the ship ignored the arrows falling on it, and Erin saw two dangerous-looking Drowned Folk at the front.
“That one’s Cazcall. He taught me how to fight. The other one’s…Giyed. Together, they could mince a regular ship.”
“I’ve heard of Giyed.”
That was all Wailant said. The [Pirate] was leaning forwards, one leg jittering, the rest of him still. Erin looked at Seborn. He glanced up once, as if searching for something. But when he saw nothing, he looked almost relieved. Now—they were all watching, and Erin saw that boarding craft pass through the harbor.
“Numbtongue! I told Dalimont to hide all the scrying things. Mrsha is kicking up a fuss. What—what’s going on? I thought they were sacking the city.”
Lyonette arrived, breathless, and the Hobgoblin looked at her. She was confused, but he wasn’t.
“They’re not going to do that.”
“No? Then—what?”
The [Princess] looked up, and Erin thought she knew. She turned to Seborn.
“Those aren’t all [Pirates], are they, Seborn?”
His eyes flashed as he looked at her. Yes. You get it.
“Those are all kinds of Drowned Folk. More than half aren’t Undersea Crews.”
“I see. Lyonette. Make sure Mrsha doesn’t find a scrying orb. Nanette too.”
That was all Erin said. Then she just watched as the scrying spell aboard one of the Drowned Ships began to focus on the harbor.
 
——
 
Therrium could only watch from aboard his ship, a spyglass on the progress of Cazcall and the others. They would be outnumbered a hundred to one as they entered, but the Drakes had to know the warships were out there.
More importantly—Cazcall and Giyed were two of his best. Bloodtear Pirates, Rasea, the Siren—every single ship at sea who fought and shed blood, from Seagrass’ sailors to the Dullahans, would know and respect them as dangerous.
But their task was even harder today. As far as he could tell, they had abandoned their craft. Twenty were at the mercy of being shot to death in the harbor.
Drakes armed with bows were firing down from the docks at the [Pirates]. Their aim was as sloppy as their formations; they weren’t used to fighting in their city. Normally, they’d have held the walls. Their city’s magical spells weren’t bad, but—
“Incoming [Valmira’s Comet].”
The Passing Shadow took a hit from a Tier 4 spell, and the barrier spells on the ship flickered. Instantly, their sister ship, Maelstrom’s Kiss, interposed itself between the Shadow and the city’s spells.
“Covering. Shields at half.”
“Two minutes, Kiss. Swinging us around; I see the Abyssal Pull and Serpent’s Maw rising!”
The helmsman’s voice was steady as he took the Shadow about, and Therrium left the defensive action to him. His other two ships were waiting in the wings, trading shots while they covered each other. Yet Therrium wasn’t focused on his fleet fighting at range.
He was busy watching two more shadows begin to rise out of the waters close to the harbor.
To the Drakes, the sight of two Drowned Ships lurking practically on their doorstep must have been a terrible shock. In truth, it was no pleasant trick to get ships that close. Not only did you turn off their bubble shields, a Drowned Crew would literally swim out and push the ships into a hiding place hopefully out of sight from above and camouflaged with dirt. They’d sit underwater, eating and waiting, sometimes days, before springing an ambush.
Therrium’s crews moved fast. They were on the shattered harbor gates in seconds and knocking any Drakes not already fled into the water. Then they set up and began firing down on the Drakes, who scattered in the harbor.
“Paralysis darts. Cazcall is off the ship, Captain. I see wall spells going up and blocking off reinforcements.”
“Good!”
[Wall of Stone] scrolls cost the damn earth, but he’d bought enough to give the [Pirates] charging up the street a clear run. Even as Therrium watched, an entire squad was walled in on four sides by the temporary walls of stone and forced to climb through a window of a house to continue trying to defend the city.
And meanwhile…
“They’re storming up the streets. Looks like the paralysis poison is working.”
Drakes so much as winged by the blowdarts were keeling over, and Therrium had filled both ships with his best sharpshooters.
“Good. Is the broadcast catching this?”
“Yes, Captain.”
It was important. No, it was vital that this happen right. He had promised Captain Deriad and all the others. Doroumata hadn’t stopped him because of his oath. On his head be it.
“Not one, Cazcall. Not one.”
He thought the [Rogue] was doing it. They were getting flickers from Covieke now; panicked Drakes screaming at Sir Relz, and the scrying spell caught the trail that the Drowned Pirates were leaving in their wake. Explosions overhead.
“Keep firing warning shots overhead. Looks like they’re mostly surrendered.”
The scrying orb was showing wounded Drakes, many fallen over—paralyzed by the venom of his best [Sniper]. She had to work hard to make something that didn’t kill you, even accidentally. But Sir Relz was asking incredulously:
“No dead yet? None? Are you being serious, Miss…”
Therrium nodded in satisfaction, and his crew murmured. That probably meant their comrades hadn’t been killed either. Therrium had demanded volunteers and they’d come, with the understanding that if they were killed—they would not be avenged.
Even with everything, it was impossible for his [Pirates] to get out unscathed. They had three healing potions apiece, another fortune, but the main thing was…Therrium saw a Drake wing one of his [Pirates] with a thrown javelin. The spearhead flashed through the air, aimed at a Drowned Man’s head—
—And shadows engulfed it. The javelin fell as the [Pirate] whirled, and Therrium counted.
“One. How good are the Lesser Shadeward amulets?”
“Two or three hits, sir. Proper skills would blow them to pieces. Cazcall is taking down their Watch Captain—now. Looks like there’s not many high-levels.”
“Good. Now. Do it, Cazcall!”
Now, he was waiting, the knot in his stomach growing by the second. This was getting damn close for a no-name Drake city. In hindsight, he should have bought an entire cargo’s worth of sleeping dust from Irurx and hit the city with it. This sent a message. He hoped at least one Drake would understand it.
But Therrium had prepared for interception; Zeres’ fleet had backed off. They were all waiting and watching as Cazcall fought his way to one spot in town, Giyed having split off to secure what they needed. Once he had one, Therrium imagined the fighting would stop.
“Looks like they have hostages.”
Quietly, he trained his eye on a plaza he could just see from the ship. They were barely specks, now, even with sight spells. But he saw the [Pirates] approaching a stand of wood. A gallows.
 
——
 
Watch Captain Zoreik finally understood, now, when one of the Drowned Folk finally let him stand. He was on his knees, and his claws were still shaking from the brief duel he’d had with the [Rogue].
There had never been a chance. The veterans of the sea had come in like a storm, and most of the Watch at the harbor and the militia were cowering at the explosions overhead. If the warships had truly opened fire, half the city would be rubble.
But they hadn’t. And when they took the hood off his face, he just exhaled.
“Oh.”
It made sense when he stopped thinking of them as [Pirates] or this being a raid. When he ascribed…the laws of Covieke to the sea. Or thought how they’d think of it.
Zoreik hadn’t believed it when he’d heard no one had been killed yet. When he looked around, he saw a Drowned Woman holding her guts into her abdomen as one poured a potion sparingly over the wound.
“Cazcall, they’re rallying down the streets. I see them. If they get their nerves—”
“We won’t be long. Prepare to make for the ship. Captain Therrium will get us out. Are you ready?”
“Ready.”
That came from the half-fish man with the swords. Zoreik heard a scream, and two figures were pushed forwards, and someone pointed a spear at him.
“On your feet, Watch Captain.”
“So it’s me.”
The [Rogue], Cazcall, turned as the Drakes in the plaza kept back. One of the [Pirates] had two crossbows in hand and was firing bolts covered in that paralyzing venom at anyone who came at them. But the main reason no one had attacked was—
“We’re the Council! We’re the Council—don’t attack!”
One of the two other Drakes was screaming the wrong thing. Well, he thought it was the right thing. He thought he was a hostage. Zoreik recognized Councilmember Isger and the [Harbormaster], who also had a seat on the council.
They’d done their homework. Zoreik thought about protesting and saying he hadn’t done anything. He tried out the words.
“—I was following orders. From the Council. I objected. I felt like I was losing my class, you know. I haven’t levelled since.”
None of the Drowned Pirates spoke. Isger was staring up at the gallows, and the one called Cazcall turned. He said nothing.
“Wait. What are you—help. Help!”
Isger began screaming as he saw where they were taking him. The [Harbormaster] began fighting, and the Drowned [Pirate] had to strike him until his head was lolling.
“Now. Up.”
“Don’t do this. Attack! Save—”
“Hold!”
Zoreik raised his voice, and the Watch heard him. The army…he felt his arms shaking. But he was saying this next part…not because he was that noble. He just thought it was the kind of thing you were supposed to say.
“If they attack and it turns into a battle, they’ll level this entire city. Hold.”
If he thought they had a chance of getting to him…he was just staring at Cazcall, and he felt that even if every Drake in the city poured over the [Pirates]—that [Rogue] would be faster.
He even got a nod from the half-squid man. Cazcall was Human, so was Giyed. But there were some of the Drowned Folk who were half-Drake. One was even a half-Elf mixed with a fish of some kind.
“At least one of them is brave. Will you walk, Drake?”
“I don’t want to.”
But they were pushing him forwards. Looking to the docks. Cazcall asked just one question, as Zoreik passed him by.
“If you knew, why did you let them do it?”
“I don’t remember. I think I just didn’t feel like it was possible. No—”
