Even Nollesc thought that sounded stupid. Then again, his recording of Lyonette and Lady Bethal fighting a fish had made him huge profits, and levels, but the other [Infiltrator] just grinned.
“Who said anything about our clients opening their pockets? I meant—everyone is going to need an agent in Nombernaught, and all of us are going to stick out like sore thumbs.”
Nollesc blinked and realized he was right. Nombernaught had reappeared in the zeitgeist once again, and it was getting harder to ignore. He chewed on his sandwich, then grimaced and spat something out from under his tongue.
“Gah.”
Everyone, including Lyonette and Erin, stared as Nollesc spat the tiniest pearl into his plate. He sighed.
“Sorry. I get those under my tongue.”
He looked around, flushed with embarrassment, and Visma, who had been trying to eat one of the super club sandwiches, gave him an admiring look as she shared her plate with Ekirra.
“I want to do that!”
At any rate, after his sandwich, Nollesc awkwardly excused himself because Erin hadn’t forgotten about him and wanted to ask about being a Drowned Person. Which was fair…but he felt guilty and frankly, he still had a job to do.
The irony of the other spies thinking he’d have a lot of work was because they were ignorant. A Drowned Person spying on a city like Nombernaught was…not really a thing Nollesc could imagine doing.
There were mixed loyalties, Undersea Crew pirates and good, upstanding people. Even farmers who raised kelp or seaweed; all kinds of jobs, just like above the sea.
But Nombernaught was one of the cities. Endangering the last bastions of their people was like a Drake sabotaging a Walled City…no, wait, some of them would do that.
All the Drowned Cities were a kind of neutral ground. If you were plotting against a city, you were against the people. Not the city. The Shadeward, Luminary, and Captain might change, but the city had to remain intact.
Plus, and this might be actual species-loyalty, Nollesc did have a lot of pride about Nombernaught surfacing. He had never been; he had been a harbor-kid and only gone to sea later and found he was a better land-spy than a true sailor.
But even he wanted to be part of something. Which was why one of his many clients was Shadeward Doroumata, or someone else in Nombernaught who paid pretty well.
Accordingly, after some great thought, Nollesc decided he should send his newest prize to Nombernaught first. For a few reasons.
Firstly, he himself wagered that a bit of pride in who he was wasn’t a bad thing today. Had he relished those Drakes dying? No, of course not. But when he’d seen those ships rising in unison—yes, he’d felt that. It wasn’t something he wanted to tell the landfolk.
Secondly, Drowned Folk did have advantages over landfolk. They might be worse miners, woodworkers—at least outside of shipbuilding since they had limited access to wood—farmers, have cramped cities, and couldn’t form huge groups like land cities. And there were [Pirates] in Drowned Folk tradition, and their divergence in natures sometimes led to conflicts or inner prejudices of their own.
And it was dark in the sea, underwater, and it could drive you mad. And Drowned Folk were sort of reclusive to begin with. And…
There were good sides to them. One of which was that because they were so used to needing to repair limited resources, Drowned Folk had a reverence for books that inflated their value.
After all, on land they were semi-expensive, but at sea? Few books were enchanted to be waterproof, and so a library was a prestigious thing indeed. Nombernaught had one, and due to their need to preserve what texts they had, Drowned Folk actually had a far more advanced method of repairing books.
[Kelpic Regrowth]—wherein you sacrificed kelp to repair a book—or [Limited Recreation] were both spells that exceeded [Repair] in scope. Nollesc wondered if Shadeward Doroumata herself was the one who’d sent the communique he checked this morning.
 
“To: Agent Nollesc, Liscor. [Capture Spy]. We have received confirmation Courier is on the way with package, and the contents are likely to be eligible for full repair. Sincerest compliments and a ‘Merry Christmas’ to you. Please note your bonus held in trust with ‘Bloody Secrets’ pending withdrawal. Extreme congratulations and further bounty to be paid out after analysis of final value.”
 
Nollesc’s heart leapt, and the toothy young woman gave him a smile as she handed him a card.
“This is how much you’re owed. I can write you a note for the Merchant’s Guild or do it in other amounts. You made someone in Nombernaught very happy. And here I thought that emergency Courier delivery wasn’t worth the coin.”
“I wasn’t sure either. Is this—right?”
“Yup.”
Fierre gave Nollesc a straight-faced look until she coughed idly.
“Just out of curiosity—what did you send?”
“Oh…just some light reading.”
Nollesc couldn’t help but smile. Fierre gave him a suspicious look, and he sat back in his chair, trying not to think he was the best [Spy] who had ever spied in The Wandering Inn.
A lot of the hotshots and high-level ones had run straight into Shriekblade or the Thronebearers and been defeated and given up. The ones who relied on Skills to just out-sneak Erin got a rude awakening.
But the ones who learned to play the game? He wondered how guilty he should feel.
Then again! Erin Solstice had clearly, clearly not realized what she’d done.
A chance conversation. She had been talking about her beach-garden and the things she’d thrown out on the grounds they’d been useless. Including a spellbook. It was moldy and so badly broken even [Repair] was no good.
However…Nollesc had feared someone else would catch on the moment he’d heard that. Even so, he’d taken the risk, but the question was—where was it?
Erin had said ‘thrown out’, but you had to consider the psychology of an [Innkeeper]. Dumping grounds for trash did exist in some cities, but in Liscor? Most trash got burned, and he imagined she’d toss it in a fireplace. But where did you put the ashes from the outhouse? Or if it didn’t burn properly, where did the waste go?
It had taken him five hours of puzzling and checking Celum, Liscor, and Invrisil’s patches of garbage and even asking if Erin used a haulaway service from the Runner’s Guild or the like to figure it out. On Christmas, no less.
Well, it wasn’t like anyone had a present for him. Erin had let him join the party with some of the spies, and Bloody Secrets had a jar filled with candies outside her office. Everyone else had been going to have a whip round to have a communal drink until the [Innkeeper] opened her doors. Little things.
Then he had grimly come to a conclusion and had several crises of faith. But in the middle of the night, with noseplugs and a [Light] spell and shovel and net…he’d gone to the one place he was pretty sure Erin would toss all her trash.
His fears were mostly unfounded because the acid jars Erin tossed in her outhouses cleared up almost everything. And sure enough, rooting around in the bottom of the second toilet had found…
He had earned it was Nollesc’s point. Could he have remanded it to Erin’s care? Possibly, possibly, but he had to make a living. He’d put it down as owing her a favor if he ever got the chance to repay her for it. And the club sandwich. For now, Nollesc basked in his glory, and he decided the first thing he was going to do was buy a new outfit and boots.
Mrsha had been sniffing him and giving him dubious looks the entire time he’d been in the common room. Nollesc was still guilty, slightly, about the book.
But what he failed to understand was that Erin would not only have considered it a Christmas present if, at the time, she had remembered Christmas was happening, but she also wouldn’t begrudge him saving an object she herself had tossed down the toilet.
What Nollesc also failed to grasp was that there was no way, even in the night, Erin Solstice would not sense someone at the bottom of one of her outhouses and make sure someone hadn’t fallen in. As far as the [Innkeeper] was concerned, he’d earned it. And like hell Erin wanted it back after where it had been. She wasn’t getting magical pinkeye.
 
——
 
The topic of proper justice, law, revenge, and speciesism was a common one around the world that day. People talked about things they’d seen or were uncertain of. Most were fairly shaken, but one group watched the end of Therrium’s statement, as the ships sank into the waves, and then burst into a happy chatter.
“I’m not sure how I would have redressed that situation, but that was old-fashioned. A classic.”
“Hardly appropriate. It’s just setting the stage for further bloodshed.”
“As opposed to what, hmm? You’re so conciliatory, Azemith. This isn’t one kingdom. This is an entire species of very outcome-oriented Drakes who just saw a clear line of cause-and-effect. Name me one thing you could do better.”
A haughty Lucifen stopped chewing on popcorn and grinned as Azemith sipped from a bloody drink.
“Reparations. Punitive beyond measure—”
“Reparations. And how would you have made that city pay for it? This was a pragmatic move. Frankly, I would have doubled the headcount—”
“Your understanding of how to end a cycle of violence is pathetic, Oelvix. No wonder you’re only tasked with fiscal crimes. Are we eating anyone for lunch? I have an appetite after that.”
Lucifen. They were sitting in one of the rooms allotted to the judges of House Shoel in the royal capital, chatting up a storm. They had been watching with a number of nobles, but quickly retired to privacy.
Mostly because their mood was a stark contrast to how most people reacted to seeing those events. Paxere, Azemith, and Igolze, a unit of three as Azemith and Igolze were longstanding partners and had borne her—what others called a ‘family’—were all present.
So were a number of older Lucifen, and Paxere was on her best behavior. She had been allowed to visit the palace as a sign of trust in her continued maturity and possibly because she’d had a finger blown off during the battles against Eldavin.
It was an experience. For one thing, she had met any number of the nobility or promising young people that Ailendamus scooped up for training, and it was fascinating meeting non-Lucifen. She realized she came across as slightly arrogant and had tried to be more charming, but all her practiced smiles and so on only worked on some.
Perceptive people could tell she was faking laughter and grew distant. It was harder than it looked to be a sociable member of court. Not that Paxere would ever admit Azemith was correct.
She was so hungry she was snacking on the popcorn stuff too. The older Lucifen were all too eager to present their ideas on how to diffuse the situation, but largely, they seemed to have enjoyed Therrium’s show.
A lot of the judges of House Shoel had a very hellfire-and-brimstone approach to anyone who stepped over the line in a big way. And in fairness, most of House Shoel’s judgements were for serious crimes, not light punishments the local Watch, a [Knight], or noble could handle.
Still, maybe Ryoka had a point that they weren’t the best judges? It certainly bothered Igolze and Azemith, but they were considered exceptionally progressive and liberal members of House Shoel for trying to adopt Ryoka’s provisions wholesale.
There were a number of the old guard, like Oelvix, who were still annoyed Visophecin had banned stonings and the like, which they claimed let family members exact vengeance.
House Shoel, the Agelum and Lucifen on Ailendamus’ shoulders, were responsible in part for the fate of the Kingdom of Glass and Glory. It was their duty to do this right; there might never be another chance.
Paxere had heard it described in many ways, but she liked Igolze’s summation best: they were the caretakers of their fair cousins, the Agelum. Their days of warring had ended. The Lucifen had won, and in victory, found the sympathy to take care of their counterparts in their twilight.
No more Agelum would be born. Paxere had often wondered what a playmate of the Agelum would be like. She had grown up wishing to see it, even though she knew why they had decided their suffering should end with those still alive.
Hearing stories of Lord Uziel and Visophecin fighting as a younger Lucifen and Agelum was a treat in and of itself. Seeing Visophecin playing up his charming role as the polite, perfect member of the court was good practice. Yet Paxere thought of the one Human who had truly seen behind Shoel’s mask, and she had to admit…
“Paxere? Why don’t you deliberate upon the Drowned Folk’s actions? How would you address that scenario, assuming three Drowned Folk had already been executed by Covieke?”
That came from Lucifen Degelen. He was barely older than Paxere, but allowed to act as a judge, and he was clearly trying to make her look incompetent. If she parroted Azemith and Igolze’s opinions, she had no understanding of her own. If she said something naïvely stupid or just retread the debate…
Rather than play his game, Paxere did the smarter thing, in her opinion, and changed the subject.
“Maybe Ryoka was right.”
“Oh?”
All the older Lucifen looked idly amused, and Igolze shot Paxere a warning look, but the younger Lucifen’s smile was cool.
“She did mention that our lack of empathy towards those we judge affected our impartiality. I saw…who is Lord Regalius’ wife? Lady Yietha. She needed to lie down after that broadcast. I always took it as a turn of phrase.”
And yet, to Paxere’s astonishment, the woman had looked so faint she had needed to actually steady herself. She wasn’t the only person who reacted to the sight of the distant hanged bodies so dramatically.
To Paxere, there was—nothing. No sense of nausea, no unease, nor even that much of a feeling of loss. She wondered if the Watch Captain had deserved that, or the [Harbormaster], but if people who deserved their fate met it—the most she would ever say was that an execution was a bit messy or took too long or was too loud.
That was what Lucifen were. And that understanding? It illuminated something in Paxere’s mind that got her an approving nod, even from Azemith.
“Fairly stated. A sound conclusion.”
The approval came from behind the Lucifen, and even they hadn’t noticed Viscount Visophecin stealthily opening a gate behind them. He stepped forwards, a half-smile on his face, and Paxere nodded at him, concealing her delight.
“I suggest a baseline of these mortal judges would be a good way to verify the pure logic of our judgements, Viscount.”
“Which echoes your forebears’ points. You parrot their opinions well, after all.”
