That was all the note said. Inside, Rhisveri found a huge black mass. He slowly lifted the lump of coal out with a shaking hand. And it seemed, to a few servants, including the unlucky Dame Chorisa, who had the pleasure of acting as Visophecin’s and Rhisveri’s personal guard, that he actually looked hurt for a second.
Then he blinked, noticed something under the coal, and lifted something else out. It was a tiny yellow flower that might have been smushed if not for the careful wicker mesh protecting it and the bit of soil it clung to.
A flower. Rhisveri knew, instantly, which one it was. For a second, he wondered if it was something that only looked like the flower that half the world wanted. A marigold. But that would be cruel. And try as she might…he read the note in the package, smeared by coal dust.
“Dear Rhisveri…disgusting. Via Courier…hope you get this on…dead god, she even writes without conviction.”
But he was reading, and he got to the part of the letter that made him stop and read each line carefully.
 
…I’m not certain if you want one, but I felt like I should send this. So you know, this is one of a few flowers that Erin’s ever given anyone. I had to beg her for a week, and I hope it reaches you on time. I did send it with a Courier.
I hope you remember Erin sent it and what this means. It comes from the same place as the obols. If anything, it might one day be said to be worth more than any coin of the Faerie King. It’s the gift of tricksters, and I think, of anything, it’s the one thing I can send to plant in Fithea’s groves. I am working on the other part.
Erin Solstice knows what it means, too. I’m not convinced she understood it was a Christmas gift, but here it is. It’s the one thing I know you don’t have. That’s a gift for a greedy worm like you.
 
He snorted at that. She must have feared someone would read this and chosen her words wisely. Rhisveri almost crumpled the note up. Then he carefully held the flower up.
“Just one? She could have sent dozens. Does that idiot understand how hard it is to germinate flowers?”
He scoffed, but gently held the flower up. Oh. Well. Rhisveri was about to walk off when his eyes caught a note at the bottom of the letter.
 
I’ve sent the rest of the gifts with Visophecin, and I don’t know if Menorkel or Gilaw want theirs. But if you or he thinks it’s appropriate to give…
 
The Wyrm stopped. He stared at that last bit. Then, his head slowly rose, and his voice rose in a shout.
“VISOPHECIIII—”
 
——
 
So, the day after Christmas continued. Dark deeds. Revenge. Small gifts, cunning spies, and of course, delayed presents.
A world consumed with discussion about Drowned Folk. Yet, interestingly, Captain Therrium didn’t accept any requests for interviews, even from Pallass News Network.
He sat in his cabin, having a light drink, talking with [Captains], the cabin door open so he could gaze out onto his deck while being protected from the chill breeze while sitting with cup in hand. Even Rasea was there, but she was on deck, eying him, as the snow fell.
“Listen to him. He’s got every eye on him, and that showoff is refusing television appearances. Is he trying to look good?”
The Captain of Shellbazaar had no love for Therrium. She had inherited the Courier-class ship and had come because she wanted to make a statement, but she had warned Therrium her ship would dive the moment he reneged on his promise. To make a point.
That he had accomplished his scheme with no more casualties on the Drakes’ end actually annoyed her. It was Rasea Zecrew who looked pensive. The wild [Pirate Captain] was often impulsive, dramatic, and so on, but she was still clever enough to be named as one of the dread pirates of the world with Therrium.
“I listened to him in there. He’s talking like he’s the Reefeye that’ll swim next to the Nelgaunt. One hand’s offering you peace, the other’s ready to stab you if you try and grab.”
“Nombernaught doesn’t need a man like Therrium. He’ll never be Captain of the City.”
The other [Captain] protested. Rasea just leaned on the railings, looking wistful.
“That’s what he said. He said, ‘the next time I raid a fleet, I’ll be doing it as Therrium Sailwinds’. That poor bastard.”
She looked sad and appeared, now, to be drinking like someone at a funeral. All the other [Captains] eyed Rasea.
“What’s so poor about that?”
“He thinks he can go back to being a [Pirate]. He thinks things will go back to normal. That he can ever be Therrium again, like the old days. The seas are getting lonelier.”
Rasea paused, and a few of them understood what she meant and looked back at the open cabin. But Rasea? She just swung herself up onto the railing and balanced there. Then she lifted her flask up.
“Here’s to Captain Therrium! Goodbye! You poor bastard! Hey, crew! Pour a cup to one of the real [Pirates] of the seas!”
She actually grew teary-eyed, and the crew of the Illuminary began drinking and wailing and lamenting. Half the other crews, not one to miss the chance to drink, copied them.
Therrium shouted insults at Rasea from inside his cabin. She turned to wave at him then tripped and fell headfirst into the sea. He thought she was making fun of him. And she was—and wasn’t. More than one of Therrium’s own crew raised a glass as they got what Rasea meant.
A cold wind was blowing, but the drink was like fire down the throat, warming the veins. That was how you knew you were alive. That chill that you could bear. The delightful struggle to survive that you were winning.
 
——
 
One final thing of note occurred that day, though it had zero news coverage. It came to The Wandering Inn as a certain someone was causing trouble.
Not Bird. His ballista adventures were another story entirely and dominated the inn’s attention. Rather, the troublemaker was someone who had also been changed by Christmas:
Kevin Hall.
He remembered it all, and this time, he had sworn he would not forget. He had pinned up reminders in his office, and bedroom, so that he would wake up and see the names of his family, recall the important things.
But right now, he was busy sitting down some people. Mrsha, Visma, Ekirra, even Kenva, along with a lot of Goblins, Antinium, Sammial, Hethon, and whoever else would listen. Mostly young people. He felt like it was important to tell them the truth.
“My older brother’s named John. He’s been locked up—was locked up—for selling weed. In another state. I told him that’s how they get you. And he wasn’t ‘selling’ it—he was giving it to a friend, but that’s how they charged him.”
“Isn’t that Dreamleaf? That’s illegal in Pallass, Mister Kevin.”
Kenva raised her claw, and he wagged his finger at her.
“It’s not harmful! Or addictive, really. If you’re allowed to drink, why not smoke w—Dreamleaf? They locked him up for four years.”
“That’s a long time.”
Ekirra piped up, and Kevin pointed at him.
“Exactly! It’s wrong. But that’s what the man does to you.”
“Which man?”
Visma frowned, trying to follow this. Mrsha was taking notes. Kevin’s glower intensified.
“The man. The Watch! The government! They made a stupid law, and they’ll always get you. Your dad’s the man, Kenva.”
“My dad is great!”
“Maybe. Maybe Zevara is too, but they still have to work for the man.”
“I thought they were the man.”
“No—”
Kevin was trying to explain the concept to his audience. The Antinium were scratching their heads, and the Goblins were trying to read Mrsha’s notes. He began again.
“The man is…there’s always a man. Even Zevara answers to the man. Sometimes she is the man. And I don’t mean she’s a man, Ekirra. I mean the man. Have you ever been in time out? Has someone scolded you? That’s the man. You fight the man. They’re always going to arrest you, or beat you up, for doing things they think are wrong. But you have to fight the man. Got it?”
The Goblins were liking this narrative. Mrsha was nodding a few times, wondering how you won. Kevin took another puff of Dreamleaf, and someone shouted.
“Kevin! What are you teaching them?”
Lyonette came running over, and Kevin glared.
“This is important! Don’t you start, Lyonette. Her parents are absolutely part of the problem, guys. Calanfer? Just look at her Thronebearers. They might be nice to you, but how many innocent people do you think they kick with their shiny boots for doing something that Calanfer doesn’t like? There’s blood on that armor.”
He gave Ser Sest such a furious look that the [Knight] hesitated. Lyonette began arguing with Kevin, who, as it turned out, was also remembering a huge anti-authoritarian streak.
“I dunno about all this talk. ‘Swhat we’ve always known. [Lords]. The Watch. Gangs. We’re always on the wrong side of them. What can you do against a high-level group? Nothing. Kevin’s brother got got. That’s what happens in the real world. Keep your head down.”
Grev was acting a bit superior, as always, as he lectured Nanette, Hethon, Sammial, and the older kids. But to his surprise, Kevin rounded on him.
“That’s where you’re wrong, Grev! Sellme had the right idea! He took it too far with the paintings—although the man tried to take him out, which is classic—but your gang has no style.”
“Wh—you think we don’t have flash? I’m a Face, you know!”
Grev tried to come back, and Kevin’s eyes narrowed. To Lyonette’s horror, he produced something he’d found in Tesy’s rooms, which were now abandoned.
“Dude. You don’t even tag walls. Ever heard of tagging? Of course not. That’s style.”
The horror of what Kevin was dropping into this world would have alarmed many…if anyone understood. But his audience just listened as Lyonette went running to make sure Bird hadn’t blown a hole in Liscor’s walls as the ballista thumped outside.
“Your Majesty. Would you like me to do something?”
Gamel was listening at a table where Laken Godart was getting a read on the inn. The [Emperor] looked up from exploring a super-club sandwich with his fingers.
“Tagging? I don’t care. I can’t see. This sounds like an Erin problem.”
He smirked to himself as Kevin began explaining to his fascinated audience a new world that Sellme had only just put a foot into. After a second, the [Emperor] took a sip of water.
“Actually, have someone make our symbol. And tell Rie to invest in paint. Pallass and Invrisil are going to be fun in a few months.”
He smirked darkly. They had lovely stone walls, unlike poor Riverfarm and the Unseen Empire, which were less industrialized. But the [Emperor] was also here because he had six days left, including today.
The imminent doom to walls coming upon Pallass should have alarmed someone else perspicacious enough to understand what Kevin was doing. In fact, Chaldion, who was definitely the man in multiple senses, might have actually had General Shirka or someone else go over and demonstrate real institutional violence against Kevin to shut him up.
Goblins, children, gangs, and Antinium were about to learn a dangerous new trick.
As luck would have it, though, the Grand Strategist was distracted. He wasn’t as able to focus on multiple tasks as he used to be, and right now, he had tunnel vision and tunnel hearing.
“Read it again.”
His assistant, a [Strategist], was distracted by Kevin, but Chaldion tapped his claw on the table, and the Gnoll guiltily jumped and read it again.
“It was addressed to you, sir, via The Wandering Inn and Liscor’s Watch, Wall Lord Ilvriss, and…”
“They have copies, yes. Read it again.”
The short missive read as the following:
 
Forces are currently en-route to Liscor. We are on time to arrive and prepare. In cooperation with allies, we would like to formally request chain-of-command clarity.
In addition, we request the Floodplains be prepared for movement and a map of proposed defenses be laid out. Our inclination is for flatter ground; we understand the hills and valleys will make for treacherous terrain.
Snow clearage is also optional but appreciated if possible.
 
The Gnoll finished reading and looked up.
“…That’s it. There’s no signature, and the sender from the city didn’t list—”
“If I had to ask who sent it, I would fire myself.”
Chaldion snapped. He was playing with one of his rings, and his heart was beating faster.
“Send for [Geomancers]. And I want the snow cleared, so that’s [Hydromancers]. Assign our smartest [Tacticians] to the task, and the first one who thinks they should melt the snow with flame magic? Send them back to the academies.”
“Grand Strategist?”
He was grinning. Chaldion gave the order as Ser Sest’s head turned almost imperceptibly to listen.
“Tell Duln to order his forces out of the hills. No more subterfuge. I want them deployed and digging in tomorrow. Get me Wall Lord Ilvriss, and we’ll see if the north understands how to work in a military setting.”
They were coming. And unlike the other forces who were being coy or playing it secret…Chaldion could almost hear them moving. It had been a long, long time since he remembered that sound.
 
——
 
It sounded like ringing, not just hoofbeats. The sound of metal striking stone made Perorn Fleethoof smile.
Thousands of Centaurs were cantering down the wide roads that, even in the dead of winter, weren’t slick or crusted with ice. The Drakes’ famous trade-roads allowed travel between the big cities, and right now, the Drakes were staring in alarm.
Centaurs, four abreast, were passing by [Traders] and patrols and pedestrians, who pulled to the side in alarm. But her famous group could easily navigate around that kind of obstruction.
The Forgotten Wing Company was moving so fast that they were alarming every Drake city they passed by, who thought Perorn had been hired for an attack.
She kept an eye on the [Message] spells flooding in, but only gave them reassurances if it looked like they were going to do something stupid. She had a reputation to keep up.
“I love these roads, commander! We could storm across this entire continent in days if it’s all like this! No mud roads, no frozen water where you break a hoof—no bushwacking!”
One of her officers, Basal, shouted as Perorn lifted her hand towards a Drake city in the distance. She tossed her head.
“Smile wider, Basal. Drakes don’t get it unless you show them your teeth. Not that we’re going to socialize. Our party’s full-dress, and we took too long as it is. Everyone enjoying their Christmas presents?”
Her smirk was answered by a chorus of shouts. The ‘presents’ were, in fact, the new horseshoes her entire company had added onto their hooves. Centaurs didn’t like wearing them all the time, and Perorn didn’t usually insist.
