Krakens were really annoying to kill. Worse? This one was learning. It recoiled and dodged the huge boil of water that killed everything, flash-frying all the sea life around it, and Belavierr hissed. She pivoted—and this time, the tentacle punched straight through her magical spell.
Krakens, as highly magical creatures, could learn to dispel magic. That was how they’d fought Dragons on equal ground. This one was learning.
“You are making a grave enemy, Kraken. I will remember this. Just like Mrsha du Marquin. Just like Maviola El, Cara O’Sullivan, and my many enemies. Be w—”
This time, the Kraken sprayed her with its stomach acids, and Belavierr stopped talking because she refused to get it in her mouth. She walked out of the cloud of acid, and the Kraken punched her into an undersea cliff.
She was so angry, now, she said a bad word. Then she added the Kraken to her list. Damn the [Witches], binding her to a task. Damn Mrsha. And most of all—
There were wisps in the world. Ghosts. A thousand thousand deals to be made with desperate people and she was stuck here—when she could sense seith to be gathered and knew the Crossroads of Izril. She had quests she could fulfill, vengeance to take, a daughter to reclaim.
And she was stuck here. So.
Damn these gods, too. They had nibbled on her when she slept. Stolen her power to resurrect themselves. She’d have vengeance on them too.
But first—
The Kraken.
 
——
 
The day was quiet after the Christmas parties.
Well, in some places. In The Wandering Inn, in Liscor, Mrsha was doing backflips off the inn’s roof with her new cape, and Bird was running around his ballista as Zevara welcomed Watch Captain, nay, Watch Commander Venim to the job with a huge smile on her face and pointed the ballista out to him.
So it wasn’t really quiet, but news-wise, it was right up until the moment it wasn’t. At just past midday, Zeres’ Admiralty received a notification via [Message] spell.
“Looks like our sensor spells have caught some Drowned Ships moving through the sea. More than one or two. We’re dispatching a small force to investigate.”
Admiral Asale was speaking with the Admiral of the Sea, Admiral Irevescale. All of the Admiralty in current Zeres were male. That wasn’t custom, but the Serpentine Matriarch had clashed with some of the older Admiralty upon taking the not-throne.
Asale, as everyone knew, was a Rulebreaker, a levelless member of the Admiralty who had risen to his position by competence. He was technically the Admiral of Supply—but when he spoke, they listened.
“The last thing we need is a war at sea with the Drowned Folk. I strongly suggest every [Captain] be made aware of that fact. And if circumstances dictate a boarding action, bloodshed should be viewed as a disastrous outcome.”
His polite voice seemed to hint with a giant magical sign that if any boarding action took place, everyone involved was an idiot.
As it happened, Admiral Irevescale might not have been the highest-levelled Drake in the world, but he was no idiot.
“I am personally speaking to the [Commodore] at this moment, Asale. No accidents. But there’s at least seven all headed to a spot just past our detection web. We suspect [Pirates].”
“Drowned Ships often move together, Irevescale. Piracy is the default term for any Drowned Ship. Have you tried asking Nombernaught what they’re doing?”
There was a long pause from the other end. Asale started tapping his claws on his desk loudly.
“Irevescale?”
“…No. As a city, we have not officially—”
“I suggest they might know about it, our official diplomatic stance aside. Just a thought?”
Asale reached for a bottle of headache pills. There was some wonderful new medicine coming out of Oteslia, and while this was expensive as all hells because of the flower they used…he took one pill. He told himself, for the umpteenth time, that the Serpentine Matriarch’s will aside and how she had removed the former Admiral of Seas for arguing with her—Irevescale wasn’t an idiot.
Sharkcaptain Femar wasn’t an…idiocy, was, when you got down to it, a mindset. You could be stupid, but you could also think critically, challenge assumptions. It didn’t have to be this way.
So why was it this way? Why did he feel like, sometimes, if he quit—Zeres would be better for it? Was he holding it together, or was he holding together a bad system and was the blowback of it falling apart worth the cost?
Or would we just put it together worse than before? He had that view on Drake cities as a whole. Some were amazingly successful. Some sucked. That was normal for many cities in the world; you got a variance.
But why did it have to feel like a gamble? Were there systems of governance so poor that everything rested upon a Council not being corrupt or a certain level of competence in officials? If so…it called into question how well Drake society functioned. But since that was treasonous talk, Asale only brought it up every other month when the Admiralty met.
What was the Serpentine Matriarch going to do, fire him? He’d just accept Manus’, Chaldion’s, or someone else’s offer. Maybe Asale was feeling the need for innovation with the New Lands occurring. Yes, Zeres was making a play for it with every other Walled City. But was that enough?
Admiral Asale was a competent fellow. But he wasn’t a perfect one. He wasn’t a genius, and he would readily admit that, without Skills, every other [Admiral] and a lot of the lower-ranking [Commodores] and so on could hand him his tail on a platter in a naval battle.
He was also not a grand strategist. He was a quartermaster, a supply expert, and so while that report about the Drowned Ships came in early in the morning, it was only around midday when the Drake forces were nearing the interception point that he dug out a map to check the spot and got a nasty surprise.
Drowned Ships moved fast, but these ones had clearly been gathering for a while; the sea was vast. Zeres was in a position to intercept because it regularly patrolled Izril’s south and had forces all over, the New Lands being an exception.
But Asale had missed one key thing. Which was to ask where, exactly, the Drowned Ships were gathering. His eye fell on the map, and he stared at the nearest Drake city to it.
“…No. That’s not a coincidence. Admiral Asale, patch me through to the Admiralty now. Code 7. Someone ask the City of Covieke whether they’ve seen any Drowned Ships.”
He was sweating as he leapt up from his chair, and the city’s name stood out to him. When Irevescale asked what he’d thought of, Asale demanded to know the city again.
“Does no one remember it? That’s the city where they hung three Drowned Sailors last month!”
“That’s occurred before, Asale.”
“Not since Nombernaught surfaced, you idiot! It’s too late.”
Asale didn’t have to get confirmation to know.
Covieke. A city with a harbor, a small one on the southwestern side of the continent with a large industry in pearl harvesting and…he sat there as his scrying orb lit up.
“Admiral Asale? It’s on Wistram News Network.”
“I see.”
Then he watched. Calmly, with dread making his tail writhe, but there was nothing to say. They were too late. They had been too late a month ago. When the Admiralty started calling in, what did they want him to do? Hold their tails and tuck them in and tell them it was going to be okay? He had told them they would regret this. You couldn’t start listening now.
 
——
 
The city of Covieke was annoyed, as it often was, by Zeres’ hegemonic control of the waters. The City of Waves often ordered other cities on the coastline around, and such was their navy’s dominance and control that it was hard to disagree.
The [Harbormaster] reported absolutely nothing from the watch towers as Covieke’s Watch Captain, Zoreik, left his Watch Barracks with his own spyglass to take a look outside.
“There’s been no Drowned Ships all month, Watch Captain. The Council would probably spit at them anyways; it’s been miserable for trade. Even Rennerot’s had more ships in than we have.”
“No Drowned Ships? That’s funny. And how would we tell if we’re staring at them from above the waves?”
The Drake’s voice was sarcastic; you didn’t see Drowned Ships unless the lighting was just right and they were close to the surface. He was four streets down from the docks, but the city sloped downwards until it reached the water. It did have a huge harbor mouth and gates—just like the rest of the city, so it was perfectly shut in case of war or monsters.
But that just meant he had a perfect view of the winter skies and cold waters when the first ship breached the waters and rose into the light.
Water sloughed off the sides of a Drowned Ship as it came to the surface. It looked filthy and dark, and seaweed clung to the hull and railings—for a second, it seemed as though a shipwreck had surfaced.
Zoreik halted mid-step and raised his spyglass. But he didn’t need to train his gaze on the ship. Because after a second?
It began to glow. And there was only one ship he knew that did that. Against all hope, he trained his spyglass on the sail, searching for the ship’s emblem. But he knew the instant he saw it—and the [Harbormaster] began to ring an alarm—which ship it was.
The Illuminary. Of the few crews that might have the power to sack an entire harbor by themselves—
“Close the gates! Sound the alarm and tell Zeres the Illuminary has just risen!”
Now, Zoreik was grateful for the forces coming to Covieke. He just wished it were a fleet! Still—his mind was racing as people looked up as an alarm began to blare and cleared the streets.
Even if the Illuminary tried to break through the gates, it’d take time. They might do it! They had siege weapons. But if they docked, they’d be surrounded. That might be a nightmare if they were trapped in the city—he’d have to put up barricades and actually hope their [Captain] got away. What if they raced their ship onto land?
As the Watch Captain was trying to figure out a plan of defense, two things happened.
“Watch Captain! We’re on television! Pallass’ Sir Relz is covering us! Are we doing something? The Council wants to—”
“More ships rising!”
Zoreik heard the confused comment then a shout that made his heart sink. He looked up, and this time, the spyglass just dropped from his claws. The glass front of it smashed on the ground, and one of his subordinates cried out as they tried to grab it.
But then they looked up and froze. Five more ships, each a different class, a trading ship, Coluskmere, the Courier-ship Shellbazaar, both of which had docked here, a galleon, Obsubec, and two others all rose.
“What’s going on? That’s Shellbazaar!”
Renny the giant lobster was shaking water off its shell. Normally, he was a sight to delight even the Drakes, but the ships were arrayed in an odd formation. They were facing Covieke, presenting their broadsides to the city. Holding anchor as water fell from their hulls.
Zoreik said nothing. Now, the Council and [Harbormaster] were shouting at him, and Zeres was on the line, demanding he respond as the gates closed. He should. But the Drake’s eyes were on the water. He was staring at the five ships…they were on the far left side, port of the harbor. Why there? The Drake fleet was approaching them, no less than nine ships, one of which was a warship bearing down and preparing for a fight.
 
——
 
“[Pirates], weigh anchors and prepare to be boarded! Any movement will be taken as a threat and dealt with accordingly!”
You had to hand it to the [Commodore] leading this fleet: he was no coward. He knew the Illuminary was there, and he had signaled to his fleet to spread out and prepare for fratricide. If needed, he would have them use their mounted siege weapons to tear any boarded ship apart to kill Rasea Zecrew and her forces.
He’d studied Ailendamus’ masterful takedown of Wellfar in the last major naval sea battle, and if the expert boarding [Pirates] thought that would work here, they weren’t prepared for Drake resolve. All they had to do was hold them off with Covieke’s harbor defenses, and Zeres’ fleets would be inbound.
“Sir. That’s Shellbazaar out there. That’s a Courier ship! I don’t think this is a [Pirate] raid.”
“Five Drowned Ships just surface off Covieke’s bow? Are you an idiot?”
The Drake stared at one of his ship-tacticians incredulously. She was one of those chess-playing idiots who’d been fans of the Titan. Now who was levelling, hm? Chess was worthless.
“Signal them again! If they’re all innocent, we’ll treat them gently. I already have the Admiralty screaming at me.”
The [Commodore] growled and tensed. He was watching the Illuminary so hard he tuned almost everything else out. He could see Rasea Zecrew from here thanks to his eye Skills. Her glowing eye, her crew, were all standing…looking the other way.
Towards Covieke. They didn’t even pay the Drake ships a second glance. That annoyed him so much he began to shout again when a [Mage] screamed.
“Commodore! There’s more in the water! And they’re rising!”
He had finally detected them, and the [Commodore]’s blood ran cold.
“A trap! All about and—”
Then he choked on his words. The scrying orb was lit up with Sir Relz’s puzzled face, and the [Commentator] developed that look of horror that ran across so many faces.
Because it was not one ship, or two, or even five that began to rise. As ever, Rasea Zecrew was impatient, and the ships near her had surfaced with her.
But the rest had waited for his signal.
The first ship that breached the waters was in the center. It was four ships, actually. The Passing Shadow rose first, the crow’s nest shedding water, as the three other ships under Therrium’s command surfaced with it.
“The Passing Shadow! Call for reinforcemen—”
Then the other ships began to rise. Dozens. The Zeresian fleet stopped advancing and turned, dead in the water. Dozens of ships were surfacing in a great semicircle, surrounding Covieke. Traders. Pirates. Neutral ships like Shellbazaar. All with one obvious similarity.
The [Captains] were Drowned Folk. The crews were too, and they were lining the railings.
But it was Captain Therrium Sailwinds in the center of that semicircle. His ships shed water silently, like black tears into the ocean, as he stood at the prow.
Not a single Drowned Person said a word. Even Rasea was uncharacteristically silent. She was staring at the Drake city.
Then they knew. Transfixed, Sir Relz was saying something on the scrying orb as more and more people began to tune in. The day after Christmas. Why?
Well. Because even Captain Therrium had wanted to let Nombernaught celebrate the holiday. The day after was fine.
 
——
 
