Now, he was staring at that noose of rope hanging in the air. They put a cloth hood over his head. Beside him, he heard screaming. And from all around. Belatedly, as if the people hadn’t realized what was going on.
“—I think I didn’t care enough. I’m sorry.”
Gently, the [Pirate], Cazcall, draped the noose around his neck and secured it. He stepped back, and Zoreik heard a murmur, screams, and Cazcall’s voice.
“Fair enough. I forgive you.”
Zoreik’s heart leapt, and he opened his mouth to ask—
—Then he heard the loudest sound in the world, and for a second, he was falling. Then he was caught.
 
——
 
The darkest of deeds were hidden by the ocean. To the consternation of many people in the world, this day, three Drakes died.
Many were not ready to hear it—but it was only three. If that made sense. Captain Therrium could have killed thousands. He had a reputation as a [Pirate] without mercy. He had enacted a very complex attack to send a message.
An eye for an eye. Whether it was escalation or not—he had done what he thought mattered for his people. Drowned Folk were no longer the troublemakers you could hang without a second’s thought.
However. Few among the Drowned Folk would have called Therrium a hero for that. A dark deed following an unforgivable action lifted no one up.
He had known that from the start. Therrium Sailwinds was prepared to do what he thought he must. That he did it in service to his people instead of self-interest?
That was the concerning part.
However. There were worse creatures in the sea than he, by far. And what all the wise Drakes remembered was that blood for blood could get far worse than this.
Revenge…
Some enemies you didn’t want to make. Some were silly, at times. Ineffectual, blustering gasbags who could only threaten and plot in the confines of their head. Others were able to enact their vengeance with a match and a bit of tinder. Or waited for decades to twist the knife in your back when you had fallen down.
No matter how long it took. That was why, at the bottom of the sea, a [Witch] slowly crawled out of a huge sea cavern in the rocks, hat bedraggled, swimming awkwardly through the dark water. She looked slightly worn out, but satisfied, if grim.
“I have always been bad at fighting. The rhythm of swords, the singing of spells to kill has never been my forte. Once again, I remember it.”
She sat on a rock, as if defeated, as a presence pulled itself through the ocean. This time—the adult Kraken hesitated as it drew closer.
Half a day of fighting and it couldn’t kill her. After a week of off-and-on hunting, it occurred to the Kraken’s dim mind that perhaps this prey wasn’t worth the effort. Yet, like a frustrated person who had put too much energy into a project to back down and admit defeat, it enclosed her with its tendrils.
She had put up a fight for a while, then run away—fled. For one to kill the other, it wouldn’t be a swift battle but death by a thousand cuts. Even so, she was clearly out of her element. So why—
Why did the Kraken feel uneasy?
Belavierr was smacking her lips, her watery voice carrying far. Whether the Kraken understood or not was unclear; she was using a translation spell, but she spoke half to it, half to herself.
“Fighting is a silly task. Even my dear friend, Nerrhavia, fell for it. She refused to run. I will always run first. I will grub in the dirt to live. I have hidden among the carrion and begged for my life. You are too difficult to kill, thing. It isn’t worth it.”
The Kraken was moving around her. Slowly, towards the entrance in the rocks. It was a rather cunningly-disguised hole for all its size. A huge cavern…Krakens didn’t sweat. Nor did it understand fear in the same way most creatures did. It had never met a match, even Crelers. Only bigger Krakens gave it pause.
Something was terribly wrong. It squirmed half its body into the caverns with sudden, terrible urgency. And the [Witch] was just…smiling.
“You are so much easier than a girl, thing. There are no laws down here. No need to pretend. I warned you.”
Its nest. The Kraken was half-submerged in the nest. How did she know? This thing—its tentacles reached deep into the caverns, where layers of protective bile should have made walls to keep pests out. They were still there. The probing tentacles relaxed—then urgently smashed through the walls harder than steel.
Something was—it quested around the nursery, and then the Kraken began screaming. And the [Witch]? The [Witch] was laughing, now, as it dragged her up. She opened her mouth, hugely, and showed it her teeth as her puppet laughed.
The ocean was churning, the Kraken was screaming, and Belavierr’s eyes were delighted.
“I found your nest. I ate your children alive, Kraken. And now? Now you will begin suffering.”
Her puppet fell to pieces as the Kraken smashed it to death, and she kept laughing. A [Witch]’s cackle that echoed in the deeps. Giggling, guffawing with such merriment, as if she had forgotten how enjoyable it was to laugh so. The Kraken crushed her puppet to pieces—then it began to flee. Flee, without understanding why. But the [Witch] was following it.
That was the difference between the two.
Viciousness. A predator’s merciless drive.
And—
Evil. As some called it.
 
——
 
The day after Christmas was a bleak one. As if someone had felt the need to counterbalance all the goodwill with a reminder of all the ills in the world.
More than one nation was revisiting its policy on Drowned Folk, or just outsiders, today. Not that what they’d seen would ever happen to them or that it was right. But as Councilmember Lism pointed out…
“We may not be expecting a surplus of Drowned Folk, but we are neighboring at least one major city. Who knows? Maybe they’ll enjoy our rainy season. Plus, knowing that [Innkeeper], I wouldn’t put it past her to bring an actual ocean here by sinking the High Passes or something. At least one city should show the world how things are done. Properly!”
No one really was in the mood to laugh at the joke, if it even was a joke. Lism didn’t seem like he was joking either. He cast a glance down the Council’s seats.
“Anything to add, Silverfang?”
“That’s Councilwoman Krshia, Lism. And…hrr. I swore Erin had invited some Drowned Folk to the city. I am sure Watch Captain, excuse me, Watch Commander Venim and Watch Captain Zevara could post some laws clearly outlining the city’s rules? So all can know things are fair, yes?”
She was looking at the two Drakes standing together, and Watch Commander Venim had a put-upon look, as if he hadn’t known what he was getting himself into.
Actually, most of Liscor’s Council looked eager to prove a point that their city was going to do things right. Jeiss was nodding authoritatively.
“That’s right. What if we even publicized some of the sentences? So people could see we’re impartial? No?”
“That’s a bit…maybe not there, Jeiss.”
Alonna demurred, and Raekea nodded.
“But something, yes? At the very least, to prove we don’t execute people here like that!”
Another big nod, and they turned to Zevara before remembering Venim was in charge. It was just…Venim cleared his throat.
“Councilmembers, may I speak?”
“Absolutely Watch…Commander. Dead gods, we have a Watch Commander now. You’re in charge, and Watch Captain Zevara is just here to get you situated in the role. Not that we’re replacing her! If anything, this is just to allow her to focus on her duties…and so on and so forth. What were you saying? Does Pallass have anything you think would help here?”
Lism looked a bit smug as he fumbled his way into a semi-polite smile at Venim. The Watch Commander hesitated.
“Pallass has had its own troubles with Dullahans and Garuda.”
“Ah, then we’ll learn from the City of Invention’s mistakes, eh?”
Lism’s chuckle was a bit too self-congratulatory. Krshia’s stare, along with Elirr’s and Raekea’s, maybe reminded him how he had treated Erin, and he coughed.
“Well, we are doing better now…”
Venim took a breath. He’d hoped for an easy start, but in truth, the attraction of being a Watch Commander in a city, even one far smaller than Pallass, had made him leap at the job. He’d known it would be hard, and it looked like hard mode started on day two.
“Yes…in principle. I think recodifying the laws would help. Because if I had to mention our—uh—interspecies reputation, I have to point out—and this is purely from reading our records!—”
He gave Zevara a nod, and her face grew palpably uneasy as Lism paused, a nut raised between two claws to pop onto his tongue. Venim went on.
“—There is an uneven record in our treatment of northern adventurers after the Liscor crypt incident. And the Minotaur’s delayed sentencing. The House of Minos is very…neutral, but I suggest that if we were going to start somewhere in regards to making sure our laws are evenly enforced?”
Lism hesitated.
“W-well, obviously that was the past.”
“This year, Councilmember? It’s not so simple as enforcing the law equally. Under Covieke’s laws, they were well within their rights to execute those Drowned Folk. What will we do in the likely scenario a Silverfang Gnoll commits a crime—and with respect, Councilmember Krshia, the Silverfang tribe asks for them to be remanded to their [Chieftain] or [Shamans] for punishment?”
Everyone looked at Krshia, and the Gnoll hesitated.
“We would turn them over, I hope? It is not as if they would be leniently let go, yes?”
She looked around and realized no one was coming with her on this assumption. She sat back as Venim took a breath.
“Shall I show you Pallass’ protocols, Council? You may wish to settle in. The Watch has a series of protocols, and extradition to other cities and diplomatic immunities are going to be the least of what we have to concern ourselves with.”
“Diplomatic immunities? For who? Not even the Council should get those!”
Lism hammered a fist down, and Venim gave him a weary look of someone looking at a novice.
“Then how do you propose we address Lord Tyrion Veltras’ and Erin Solstice’s presences, Councilmember? If you want to ‘deal with each situation as it comes up’—the Watch is going to have a lot of exceptions. Otherwise, we need rules.”
The Council sat there in silence as Venim waited. After a moment, Elirr cleared his throat.
“I believe we should send for lunch and make sure we have at least four hours?”
He looked at Venim and sighed.
“…Six.”
So that was the problem with a growing city. All the fun of being a Council of Liscor turned into the weary resignation that they had a six hour meeting to start with. They thought they’d known the pains of bureaucracy before. Venim smiled despite himself.
Misery did like company.
 
——
 
How many Drowned Folk did you know? Really, when you got down to it, they were a race that didn’t intersect with many places that were landlocked.
Erin Solstice knew just one Drowned Person.
“Nuh. I know two!”
“Erin, ghosts don’t count.”
Lyonette and Erin were arguing after the scrying orb’s events had gone down. No one but Mrsha wanted lunch, and so Erin had delayed it a good hour until actual hunger had made her break out light snacks. Erin folded her arms.
“I wasn’t counting ghost Drowned Folk. If I was, I’d be counting like…thousands.”
“Name the other Drowned Folk.”
Erin’s lips moved.
“Uh—uh—Nollesc!”
The [Princess] frowned hugely.
“I don’t know who that is.”
“He’s the spy! Plus, if you want to talk about Drowned Folk I’ve met, that’s like, dozens. In fact—hey, Nollesc! You want lunch? Calescent! Get one of those super club sandwiches out of the pantry! Free lunch for my guy!”
Erin turned, and a figure jumped in the corner of the inn as several [Spies] looked up and ducked. Erin let them in sometimes—mostly because it was cold out and they were actually well-paying customers.
The half-Clam Nollesc was suddenly the recipient of a quadruple-layer club sandwich held together with a huge toothpick. The top layer was a pesto sauce followed by a brie cheese, a salami section, a crunchy Yellat bottom—and Calescent had toasted the bread very lightly.
It was a monstrosity of a sandwich that only [Farmers] or people ready to work a big day ordered, and Lyonette had grave reservations about its existence. Mrsha was drooling over it, and Erin’s generosity to the Drowned Man was…
“Erin. What are you doing?”
“Nollesc, how’s things? Can I get you a drink on the house?”
“Er—no thank you, Miss Solstice. This is generous enough. Just water—”
“Erin!”
Lyonette pulled Erin away from the flustered [Spy], and Erin looked annoyed.
“Lyonette, what’s wrong?”
“Erin, you can’t just be nice to Nollesc because Drowned People are being persecuted! That’s ridiculous! It’s—”
Lyonette’s voice was a tad bit too loud, and everyone looked to Nollesc, who had frozen with the sandwich raised to his mouth. He was clearly hungry but now seemed to wonder if the sandwich was going to be revoked.
Was Lyonette going to snatch it from him on the basis you couldn’t be nice to a Drowned Person after his people had been lynched in another Drake city? Erin folded her arms as she stared at Lyonette.
“I might not be correct, but you’re not more right than I’m wrong, Lyonette.”
“That—isn’t something to be proud of!”
“Oh, and are you gonna take away his sandwich? Look at me, I’m Lyonette! I don’t believe in being nice to people.”
“At least I don’t think all Dwarves know each other!”
The two began bickering loudly in the middle of the inn as Mrsha ran around them, upset because they were upset. Then she did a flying kick into both’s shins on the basis it would make them stop fighting.
Mrsha, as usual, was right but also wrong. Meanwhile, Nollesc was faintly relieved to be ignored. Well, at least by Erin.
The truth was that even if it was clumsy—he wasn’t going to turn down the sandwich. Yes, there was a vibe of ‘let’s be nice to Drowned People. How many do I know?’ today.
Well, half that. The other half was Drakes coming up to discuss whether or not Therrium’s attack had been justified, as if each Drowned Person could account for the actions of another member of their species.
No wonder Seborn had disappeared. Nollesc, though, as a [Spy], had a different sort of community here, and someone murmured from a table next to his.
“Nasty business at Covieke. Happens sometimes if you’re the wrong species in a Drake city. North too, but it’s different. I reckon you’ll be getting more work.”
“I doubt any of my clients are going to send me work on the basis of me being a Drowned Person.”
