Deriad instantly refused, looking slightly concerned. As if Therrium was going to strongarm him into smuggling goods. He must not have heard.
All the better. He deserved a chance to be there, along with everyone else. Therrium rubbed at his Human shoulder with one eel ‘hand’. It still hurt from the Shadeward’s displeasure. One of her daughters had hit him with a tendril of darkness…well, it hadn’t been him she’d been aiming at. The Undersea Captain she’d slapped was still out of it.
“May we talk in your cabin, Deriad? The talk is a bit sensitive. Cazcall, tell them the rest. And break out a drink while you’re at it.”
“Aye, Captain.”
That sometimes broke the ice. Therrium didn’t expect the crews to be friendly by the time he left, but Deriad nodded. His ‘real’ self poked one eye out from the hole in his head and peered at Therrium, and the other [Captain] resisted the urge to shudder.
Yes, Drowned Folk could unsettle each other. In this case, the eel part of Therrium objected to the slug side of Deriad. Maybe one was a parasite to the other or Deriad was inedible or something. Therrium also just had a thing about rocks with holes in them. He always got this vague sense of a trap and hated sponges for that reason.
 
——
 
“—over fifty ships including the Illuminary are already in position. It’ll be done fast, and if no news network picks it up, we’ll broadcast it.”
“This has the Shadeward’s consent?”
Deriad looked uneasy and astonished as Therrium told him what was happening. It was one of two major sea events the [Captain] knew of. The other…well, he’d moved faster.
“It doesn’t have her refusing to allow it.”
Therrium said that as diplomatically as possible. Doroumata was not happy, and her displeasure was a dangerous thing. She functionally ruled one-third of Nombernaught; the Luminary ruled another third, and the last third was the City Captain. That was a [Captain] who paid the city back by acting as the leader for defense, and many civic duties, for months or even years at a time depending on how well they did and how much they wanted to do.
Therrium had been one for two months in the Drowned City of Llelk about six years back.
He’d hated it. You had to squash squabbling dock fights, oversee goods coming in, even fight monsters and all for virtually no pay, at least compared to how much he could make.
“This is my action. Mine alone, and no ship directly associated with Nombernaught’s part of this. But every Drowned Ship, including yours, has a right to be there. Shellbazaar will be taking part.”
“Even Shellbazaar?”
The famous Courier-ship that sold goods and had their beloved giant lobster, Renny, was famously neutral and friendly to all. No Undersea Crew would dream of attacking it. That seemed to sway Deriad. He chewed on his Human lip.
“…How long do I have if I unload fast and catch up?”
“Midday. Half past. If you go…it’s here where the muster is, and keep low the way there.”
“That’s fast for Coluskmere. I’ll try to make it.”
It was a mild surprise to hear Deriad leap on the opportunity; that was just the pretext, but many, many [Captains] had agreed to put aside differences and join this. It was something that had even gotten damn Rasea on board.
They were all sons and daughters of the sea. Therrium saw in Deriad a kind of older him. Only by a decade, really. Yet even Deriad looked younger.
“On my head be it.”
Therrium said it again. It’d make short work of Doroumata’s plans to be that friendly new capital trading city in the New Lands. She wanted to hold open her hand to all. But someone had to be that shark in the waters, and if it was him…
“It’ll draw the ire of them on us. The Landfolk.”
“All we have is their contempt. You know, virtually none of them have even given us a word? The ones who’ve said the most are that [Innkeeper], the Titan, the Quarass…a few other nations who know the score like Desonis, but even Pheislant’s quiet.”
Deriad was nodding already before Therrium finished speaking.
“I know. Sea slugs, let’s not fight, Captain Therrium. I know. We’ll be there. Was there anything else I could help you with?”
Captain Therrium’s mind was elsewhere for a second. He was thinking of his son, the one who’d run off swearing he’d have revenge, and wondering if Seborn was responsible for Erin Solstice reaching out to Nombernaught with more than just contempt or idle amusement.
If only Liscor were at sea. The friendship of Drowned Folk was a mighty thing. If only one nation were fully in need of them and had something to give. Then they might not have…no.
They’d always have come to this. He adjusted his clothing, modeled after old Terandrian fashion, aged to look old and worn, a style of the sea that was very fashionable. Either that or Rasea’s swashbuckler look, but that had too much leg for his tastes.
“Yes, actually. I was hoping you’d come from north, around where the Terandrians…no, the Baleros-Chandrar corridor would do, or anywhere more central than Izril and Chandrar’s connection.”
“It’s safest with the House of Minos about. I’ve not sailed those other routes since the seas changed. Why?”
Therrium grimaced.
“Something odd’s been called by some of the cities. Most are lying so dark they don’t even dare send [Messages]. Shadeward Doroumata and Luminary Hisark themselves will want a word. It’s hard to pinpoint underwater, but there’s no doubting it. At least one Kraken’s awake down there.”
“Dead gods.”
That made Deriad go fully pale. Therrium nodded somberly. A Kraken awake would have every ship above and below sea fleeing its passage. Normally, they hibernated for centuries at a time.
“How big…?”
“It’s an armada eater if the listening spells are right. It might be Old Hungry himself.”
That was the biggest of all Krakens, the one that someone had sicced on the Antinium. Therrium waved it off.
“If you don’t know, I’ll keep asking. I have my eye on that region with all those ships abroad. Terandria might be able to fight a Kraken off…the Iron Vanguard’s got one of their Krakenbane Destroyers in the water.”
Now there would be a fight he’d pay money to see. Forget the King of Destruction versus the House of Minos. Iron Vanguard, Terandria, and throw in Seagrass himself against Old Hungry. But it was far and he had a job to do, so Therrium nodded.
“I’ll sail in five. See you there. The gathering’s already begun; we were waiting on an enchantment from the Shadeward’s daughters themselves.”
Deriad whistled, and Therrium reflected that the [Mages] of Wistram truly hadn’t known who walked among them. The fact that Doroumata’s daughters could cast magic approximating her own great powers?
She was unto an Archmage of the sea, and his plan would only work without hitches with her daughters’ amulets. He also neglected to mention that several of his ships had been at the gathering point for the last two days. They were running silent rather than draw attention with [Message] spells, but he was certain they’d get the job done—or he’d be feeding them off a plank to Reefeyes. He was turning when the other [Captain] spoke up.
“Wait. Let’s have a toast before we go.”
Deriad offered him a drink, and Therrium took it with gratification. It had been a long time since he’d had one at sea with an upstanding [Captain]…but the times were changing. Krakens awake, new lands rising.
His blood fizzed and hummed as he strode back and gave orders to weigh anchors. Time, now, to do the unpleasant part. The seas needed a bastard like him.
Dead gods. He wished he wasn’t looking forwards to it. But he hadn’t slept well for nearly a month. He wouldn’t sleep well, not until he could get that sight out of his mind of the three hanging bodies at port.
“Nevermore for this new age.”
Captain Therrium walked onto his ship, and it sank below the waves. He stood there as dark waters hid the rising sun from him, half his body wet and glistening, his right eye sparking with lightning in the gloom. And he wondered—if a Kraken was awake, why had no ships gone down yet? They woke, feasted, reproduced, and slept with nary much else.
What could be keeping one up if not for that?
 
——
 
The sky was said to be three times that of Earth’s own dimensions. That would make it, improbably, as many as 30,000 kilometers high, as an incredulous Earther who didn’t subscribe to the imperial system had once calculated.
That would throw off all kinds of constants like…atmospheric pressure…but the scale of this world was undeniable, even if the exact measurements were imprecise.
In the same way, the seas were a lot deeper than Earth’s. And even the best technology of Earth had yet to reliably map the deepest parts of one world.
In the sepulchral depths, Krakens and their ilk slept. Unlike Dragons, enough Krakens had outlived the fall of Giants to be considered an extant species. Of course, even they had waned; they had learned not to challenge the last Treants, who wandered their lonely roads below the sea.
Old Hungry, for instance, was dead. The Drowned Folk didn’t know that. They had assumed he was sleeping, and his body was still down there.
By now, it had fed generations of fish. He lay amid the shattered wrecks of ships, killed by something—somethings that had torn into him, burst so many hearts that even his gargantuan form had perished from the damage.
The sea had lost one of its legends. Smaller Krakens did exist; some would attack coastlines. They had been fought off at great cost by famous heroes.
The last three Kraken attacks had taken place on Rhir, Terandria, and Izril.
Ser Gorethem Krakenblood had been one of the pivotal heroes to drive off one attack. The Blighted Kingdom had repulsed another and actually killed their Kraken. The third had just lost a single ‘arm’ to a bunch of Goblins, no less. The eater had become the eaten.
Being a Kraken wasn’t easy.
Okay, being a Kraken was fairly easy once you got big enough to take down ships with a single tendril. The oldest of Krakens had battled Dragonlords and had memories that dated back to the dawn of many things. Some had even learned to speak in tones that shifted the sea. Any being that could live millenia invariably tended to learn.
But young ones? They were the kind that fought with giant squids—another relative—had to risk fighting whale pods, which could kill a Kraken, and ate to grow. They were still an apex predator, though. More cunning than most fish, inventive.
One of them was awake, not digesting, and it was crawling across the sea floor. The water rang as it struck and slashed with the beaks on its tentacle-arms biting, the blood of other sea life in the water.
It had multiple brains, so even as two tendrils struck in the water with deafening thunderclaps of sound, others were scooping up fish killed simply by the soundwaves, and another was snaring several dolphins fleeing the battle.
However, the sound underwater was more than just the unearthly ringing of clashing, the grind of tectonic forces. It was true that sound was more muddled with water as a medium instead of air, but whales could sing in it.
Right now, every whale in ten miles was fleeing in silence, but if you could sing underwater—what were these tones?
They sounded, perhaps, like the deepest pipe organs in the world. If such an instrument even existed. Each word made the waters rumble, and they were words. The saying of it could take minutes, and the young Kraken paused a second.
It stopped as its quarry picked itself up slowly in the water. Its quarry was odd. Small. Tiny—big for its kind, but hardly a filling meal. Yet, as the Kraken observed with its own kind of intelligence, a small meal like this might feed it for a thousand years.
Well, it had gone after this strange morsel for that—and also because it had been disturbed by its presence. What a strange being. This crawling…woman. Her black hair spread out in the water around her like an urchin.
Or a spider.
Her hat was askew. She slowly righted it and kept speaking. Her eyes were orange.
She was Belavierr, the Witch of Webs.
And she was not having a good month. Her task was long and difficult—and this Kraken had been hunting her for the last week. She spoke again.
“—————. ——. ———! —— ——…”
The Kraken listened as she spoke, lungs filled with water, mouth moving like a black opening in the water. It drifted closer as she talked to it—
A single tentacle poked Belavierr with great precision, as the Kraken did when spearing a whale to eat. But rather than go through her, it just sent the [Witch] crashing into the seabed in a plume of silt.
Hm. Tough good. The Kraken began slapping the ground where the [Witch] lay, like a seal beat a fish with its tail to soften it up. After ten minutes, it stopped and stared at the ground.
The [Witch] was gone. The Kraken began tearing up the earth, and Belavierr hissed underwater.
She was, right now, crawling through the ground, trying to escape the Kraken. But it dug so fast it yanked her out, held her up, and tried to squeeze.
“Thing. Ask your elders what I am saying. I am not—”
A huge beak closed over her head, and the Kraken tried to swallow her. Belavierr kept talking.
“—a battle is pointless to both of—”
The Kraken spat her out and began slamming her into the ground again, headfirst. Belavierr made an incoherent noise of anger. Her hands rose, and black tendrils of her own shot out, binding the arm, wrenching it away from her as she got free. She pointed.
“[Greater Deathbolt]. I am no thing’s food.”
The blast of death magic shot straight through the tentacle, and it listed in the water as the Kraken jerked back. Dead! Its entire arm went still as the blood vessels ruptured, the internal brain fell silent. Belavierr began walking, underwater, but able to maintain her own gravity, back towards her task.
Then she sensed the Kraken’s body warming—looked back—and the tentacle began to jerk as it came back alive.
Regeneration. Dead tissue it might be, but the flesh was there, and the Kraken reactivated its dead limb without even losing it. It was definitely an adult, a hungry male. Perhaps a father? Krakens laid egg clutches and, unlike some species, actually reared young Krakens for a while.
“Enough. I—”
Belavierr raised her hands for a bigger spell this time, but it was hard. She wasn’t fond of water. She was fighting out of her element, and a lot of her power was aimed at keeping herself alive. She had a great task, she had been injured slightly in the last battle, but mostly—
