After Christmas, there were six days until the Solstice.
Whether you were counting on that exact date or not, there was an anticipation to this long winter born partially out of the silence. The holiday was one of the highlights of the last two months. The great wars had ended or died down. Many people were in transit to the New Lands of Izril.
It felt, perhaps, like things were waiting before they picked up again. But in truth, the momentous events were just of a different kind. The world had been shaken; it took a while for people to pick up the pieces, get a view of the new landscape, and plot a course forwards.
The waters were in turmoil, and Krakens were stirring in the depths. Only massive fleets and Sea Couriers were risking the waters.
Why, the landfolk barely realized how disconcerting the seas were. So long as they got their damned sugar and goods moved from one continent to the other mostly on time, they gave not a copper coin to the doings of the water.
There was some irony to the fact that they hadn’t felt a pinch in the winter beyond the huge demand for goods. But as one man understood it, the fault lay in one ‘admiral’.
Admiral Seagrass and his famous [Storm Sailor] armada had continued to cut across the sea. He hadn’t trusted to a single vessel; they ran in entire fleets, expensive, but bulk deliveries. One man, the damned self-made king of sea shipping lanes, had kept the intercontinental trading economies going.
There was a temptation to take him out of the equation and watch each nation scramble and be forced to trade with the smaller, individual captains, or just so that his fleets didn’t scourge every non-allied ship from the waters.
[Storm Sailors] knew no mercy to Drowned Folk or [Pirates]. This might be the moment…but famous [Pirates] had tried to kill him time and again. The man had the luck of the sea on his side.
And besides, there were other considerations right now.
A cautious ship rose from the sea outside of a glowing city floating above a self-made reef. Nombernaught, one of the famous Drowned Folk cities, the underwater havens that few landfolk had ever heard of, was the first major city of the New Lands.
The landfolk didn’t talk of it like that, obviously. They spoke of the half-Elves or their own colonies, carefully pretending that the Drowned Folk hadn’t beaten them to the New Lands by months. Even now, Nombernaught wasn’t home to any embassies, and other nations were not acknowledging its sovereignty. Well, there were no maps, but the Drowned Folk noticed.
Shadeward Doroumata, one of the city’s defining leaders, had counseled silence. Let the landfolk ignore them. They would come calling soon.
The New Lands were not going to be an easy place to colonize. As proof of that, the Drowned Ship, Coluskmere, was laden so heavy it had taken nearly a day to rise. Their [Drowned Captain], old ‘Dauntless Deriad’ himself, had been sweating the entire voyage over running into some sea monster, and as they rose, he finally allowed himself to adjust a hat that covered the kelp-like hair and stone-side of his face.
Stone. Or perhaps shell? No one could really tell with Deriad. What was clear was that it wasn’t really a ‘face’ at all, more like a sculpted mass of stone. His days of fighting with sword in hand on the decks were long past him, and he was in his sixties, grey of hair and slow to dash across the decks. If he was wounded in battle, he’d have a different shape to his face as soon as his body was ‘repaired’.
He was a strange fellow, Deriad. To landfolk, he was as horrifying as any Drowned People; but even the Drowned Folk thought he was a strange one.
It was the kind of his ocean’s gift. You had about three kinds of Drowned Folk. The typical fish or crustacean fusions. Then there were the really weird magical fish or the fusions of sea and land that didn’t…work quite right or as intended. Most jellyfish fell into that middle category of being a bit weird. No Drowned Folk were alike, after all. Two crab-type Drowned Folk, a common transformation, could still vary greatly.
But the last group was just foreign in biology. Technically, Omusc, the Siren of Savere’s lieutenant that had overseen the loading of stone onto the Coluskmere in Chandrar, was of the last type. She had a shellfish body, so her ‘face’ was covered by wood, and her real form was the mushy interior.
Deriad, likewise, had a body of sculpted stone. There was a hole right where his eye should be, a big one larger than his fist. Sometimes, his real body would poke out of it, and an eye would stare around.
Well, something like an eye. More like a giant eyestalk. He was some kind of part-snail creature, exact species unknown, which inhabited the half of his body that was stone. That gave him a very slow gait since his Human half was forced to drag along his heavy body.
“Two tons of Chandrarian stone. Enough Yellats to make them come out of my ears, and enough seed for them to feed half of Nombernaught. As much damn Sage’s Grass as we can fit without attracting something like a Reefeye—at least that will go well—and too much twine, ore, and other cheap goods to make more than a hundred gold’s profit. Given how long this took, we’ll be eating light, Captain.”
The first mate, Sobriet, unlike on some more combat-ready ships, was a [Quartermaster of Trade], and his face was fully dour. He was half porpoise and looked snub-nosed, but he was a great swimmer, and his only unique ability was the power to spit water out of a hole in his right cheek if he so pleased. He was as mundane as Deriad was not.
“It’s for Nombernaught. The Shadeward herself asked it, and their Luminary likewise. How many times have we sheltered in her aegis?”
Deriad got no response, and his eyes locked on the city. He knew he’d probably barely break even, if that, with all these cheap goods, especially since he was selling them to the city direct, but he didn’t care.
Drowned Folk on land. It was a dream of long ago, and while he didn’t say it, he’d have run this delivery at cost. He couldn’t do it often, but he’d braved the deeps just to get this to them.
“At least they’re grateful. Some Drake cities caught word we had goods aplenty and offered us markups on them. What they claimed were markups. We could turn a higher profit by putting into Zeres.”
Sobriet spat over the side of the ship, and Deriad exhaled.
“We’re not trading with Drakes.”
“Of course not. But they’ve been complaining all month.”
“Do they know why?”
“Doesn’t seem like they have any thought to it.”
Deriad sighed. That made sense. He’d hoped, you know. Really hoped that when Nombernaught came out of the seas, he’d see that Wistram News Network cover it nonstop, hear about nations asking for a berth in Nombernaught. Such free spaces were highly valued, but they would get one as a sign of respect! He had hoped he would once again hear the old tales of [Knights] coming to get a Shadeward’s blessing or carry a Luminary’s light across the seas.
Yet he had heard nothing afterwards. In fact, the opposite. It was enough to make him tired enough to sink below the sea and never bother with the topside again—but Nombernaught balanced that. The sight of it.
“They need this stone. Likewise, the twine and such. No one’s found any ore yet, and the soil’s harsh.”
“Saltlogged from millenia undersea. Never mind the Gnolls raising it—apparently all the vegetation’s odd, and Yellats are the only thing even beginning to sprout. Mining’s bad—not that we really know it. I know, I know. Plus, the local monsters are tough.”
Deriad turned to his second, curious since Sobriet kept up with all the gossip. Deriad wanted to hear it in person, and he’d have the excuse of catching up to sit in a quiet bar with perhaps the Luminary or City’s Captain and have them tell him. They’d owe him no less.
But he was too tempted, so he demanded the first tidbits.
“Are they still locked down from exploring far?”
“Yup. Most of the rotten fish are apparently eaten by now, what hasn’t frozen over, but Sword Crabs are holding a goodly portion of the southeastern coast. Our own Gold-rank teams retreated from trying to clear a nest in shambles.”
Deriad and a few of the sailors in earshot shuddered.
“We’ll not sail around that coast, then, for twenty miles. Make it thirty. I saw Nombernaught declare that entire region dangerous. Now I know why.”
What a pity. Some sea life—most of it—had died when the New Lands surfaced, but some aspects were, unfortunately, able to survive on land. Sword Crabs were…probably what Wyverns were to landfolk, or something. Not as big by far, but that kind of threat. And an entire colony?
What landfolk didn’t seem to realize was that life below the sea had many differences from the surface; you had the shields that protected each city, Shadewards and Luminaries, who occupied the roles of light and dark, protector and explorer, but a lot of things were the same.
They had adventurers. Drowned Folk, considered pirates above, had their own laws and treaties. They had cities, gardens…and by and large, anything below the sea had a counterpart on land. Why, the magical shields that protected the underwater cities and ships were like the Walled Cities and their magical protections or…the Lantern Lands of Chandrar!
In the same vein, what you had to understand was that Dauntless Deriad was a well-respected hauler, a man who was functionally just a [Trader], if more respected than a low-level [Trader] would be. He wasn’t someone who did fancy items like a [Merchant]. Maybe a [Trader]-City Runner combination?
He didn’t raid ships. If he saw another [Captain] while sailing on the water rather than below it, he’d be cautious and just trade greetings or, if he thought it was safe, slow and jaw for a bit or have a drink. The notion of attacking another ship was something he’d put any member of his crew ashore at the next dock for saying.
He was a respected fellow. But as he began to head towards Nombernaught’s port, a cry went across his deck, and his skin prickled as his ship ran into someone who was the opposite of Deriad.
“Undersea Crews! Ship to the side!”
“She’s rising! I see her lanterns! To port, to port! It’s—The Passing Shadow!”
A lurch in his stomach. Deriad swung to the side and almost shouted for them to drop cargo and dive. Then he caught himself.
“We’re in Nombernaught’s aegis! Steady on! The truce of Nombernaught’s with us!”
Even so—the deck was a-flurry, and their [Defence Sailors] were white-knuckled as they came out of their berths and stared across the waters as a far larger ship began to rise.
The lanterns were on; that’s why the crew had spotted them. If this were an attack, they’d be dark in the waters until they appeared. Deriad heard that the Undersea Crew would even turn their bubble shields off to lay in wait, dangerous as that was. As the ship rose, water belching from the decks, he saw hundreds of [Drowned Pirates] aboard and saw how many ship-weapons it carried.
The Passing Shadow. One of the most famous [Pirates] at sea. Captained by none other than…
“The Shadow’s hailing to come aboard! Captain Therrium himself!”
Therrium Sailwinds. A [Captain] who’d sent more ships down to the seafloor than Deriad had crewed on in his life. Deriad hesitated one long moment.
“Heave to and lower the gangplank.”
“Captain—”
Sobriet was unnerved. But his [Captain] snapped at him.
“Peace of Nombernaught. They haven’t been raiding the last two months. Swords sheathed.”
There was no way the man would attack, not with the Shadeward within spitting distance. Rather, Deriad wondered what the hell he wanted. Then again, he reflected as he saw a figure in faded noble clothing striding across his deck, trailing water, his eel body flashing with jolts of electricity—
Deriad would have avoided him in Nombernaught like a plague. If Therrium was even welcome in a number of establishments, it wasn’t like he could throw his weight around in a Drowned City. He was a [Pirate], and even among the Drowned Folk, it meant he had both respect and fear on his side. Unlike above, the Undersea Crews might raid their own people, but they were all Drowned Folk. Even they would go clear a Creler nest if they found it. And in this case…
 
——
 
Captain Therrium Sailwinds walked onto the decks of Coluskmere and saw the fear in the eyes of the sailors who stood behind their [Captain], who was waiting to greet them.
It was harder to read on their non-fish faces. But their sea-sides were more expressive. There was more water coating the face of a half-fish Drowned Woman, a nervous clicking coming from another’s claws. Eyes swung to him, and he saw more than one glance at Nombernaught or put their hand on a sword.
But none were stupid enough to draw a blade. Not with the blowfish [Sniper] behind him and his personal crew, who had clashed with the sea’s best. One of his lieutenants, Cazcall, had ash-dark skin, and his squid half was just as black. He was a [Ravager Rogue], a stealthy killer. Another had armored scales and long whisker-fins. He was half fighting fish and had bought scale mail to add to the effect and painted it as vividly orange as his fish-half.
“Giyed. Take your hands off your damn swords before I lop them off.”
Reluctantly, the Drowned Man did just that. He was a [Deckbreaker Vanguard]; first on an enemy’s ship, and he had the scars to prove it.
Doubtless, he was tense, but Cazcall would be the one in actual danger soon enough, and he was as calm as could be. Or looked it.
“Captain Therrium. Welcome aboard Coluskmere. I’d offer you a drink, but not in sight of Nombernaught, I think. In the city. To what do I owe the pleasure?”
At least Deriad treated him like a fellow captain, not a simple thug. He had more spine than his crew, and Therrium nodded. They both had the echoing tones that came from different lungs adapted to fit the water; one in every five Drowned Folk tended to have that voice. Of his sons, only Seborn had inherited that trait.
“Captain Deriad. By the oaths of the sea, I come aboard as a friend. I’m bound for distant harbors by midday; I wanted a word, if I might, about your voyage. And to extend you an invitation to join us.”
Deriad looked wary as his second exhaled in relief. Oaths of the sea weren’t invoked lightly. You could be a pariah, but that was almost a death sentence in the sea, if no Drowned City or ship would trade with you. You’d be committed to only staying at landfolk harbors if you were a complete renegade.
“We have a delivery to make. An invitation? I’m afraid I have a commitment to run my ship back to Chandrar after this.”
