Oelvix grumbled as Azemith and Igolze gave him a sinister look; Lucifen infighting could get incredibly nasty. However, Visophecin just adjusted his suit.
“I happen to agree the mortal judges are an enterprise worth undertaking, to prove our superiority if nothing else. If you are unnerved by the notion of your work standing the judgment of mortals, Oelvix, I suggest you perform some introspection as to why. Paxere, I trust you will be a satisfactory intermediary with that viewpoint to our associates here. Gilaw and Menorkel need someone to accompany them, and if Rhisveri accepts, I will vouch you as a candidate. Everyone more senior is occupied.”
“Not a bad suggestion. And how is our dear leader?”
“Restless for a reason I cannot quite place.”
Paxere could have cheered she was so elated. And just like that—the sour look from Degelen and the envy of the other younger Lucifen was all the sweeter. That meant she’d be in the palace! True, she had to look after a moody Royal Griffin and the last of the Titans, but Paxere reckoned it was a small price to pay for autonomy.
 
——
 
Ailendamus was—rebuilding in the wake of their war with the Dawn Concordat. It was still going on, of course, but the winter had slowed the war, and the Kingdom of Glass and Glory was taking stock of what they’d lost, making sure their defeats would never happen the same way again.
At least, the mortals were doing that in their ever-optimistic ways. The immortals were more shaken.
They were aware they had been involved in a greater conflict than they knew, one which had already claimed the lives of their greatest mortal warrior, Dioname, and Fithea, one of their eldest and most powerful members.
Many were advocating for a complete defensive rebuild of Ailendamus until they knew what was going on. Visophecin, surprisingly, was one of the loud and powerful voices that claimed rather than defend, they had to understand the problem and get ahead of it.
He would have preferred a huge expedition to the New Lands, and damn the consequences politically. He would have preferred to be in Izril, at a certain inn, probably trading toothy smiles with the Vampires and wondering who the hell they were.
In short, he missed Ryoka Griffin and found that he quite liked having mortals who knew who he was. Dame Eclizza, General Dioname—there were so few worthy of trust. He might have swayed his peers or coerced the others into supporting him, but there was a huge lump holding down the other side of the argument.
Rhisveri, the Wyrm, was no longer sitting in his quarters, refusing to talk to anyone. But he was adamant that Ryoka had to fulfill the ‘impossible’ quest placed upon her before Ailendamus would move.
Visophecin was almost certain that Rhisveri regretted making the incredibly stupid demand to begin with. The problem was—a Wyrm would never admit he was wrong.
You would have Visophecin putting on a [Jester]’s outfit and telling jokes before Rhisveri would apologize. The appearance of Teriarch had not helped either.
Worse and worse…Rhisveri was monitoring Visophecin, so the Lucifen couldn’t just gate to Izril—it was too far for him, and he wasn’t like the Lucifen of old with their grand powers. He was the only Lucifen to be able to access their famed ‘warform’, and he was still limited.
Nevertheless, something had changed this day, and Visophecin’s fairly good mood after watching that entertaining event at sea became slightly wary confusion as he met with Rhisveri for his regular meeting.
“…Krakens in the deep. Multiple fleets at sea. Yes, yes. We don’t have ships there, so let them meet and kill each other. That’s the best solution for us. What about toilets?”
Rhisveri was snappish. Visophecin often had to restate things, and the Lucifen sighed loudly.
“Bidets.”
The Wyrm rolled over and stared at him with one huge eye.
“I don’t know where this conversation is going, and I don’t care to. We have sewers.”
“Bidets are a more optimal form of waste cleaning as I understand it. The notion—”
Rhisveri exhaled a plume of acid into the air, and Visophecin waved it away.
“I am not discussing bidets with you. Also, I know where you got that idea! From the Drakes! Which means someone’s been watching a certain Courier, eh?”
He slithered around the Lucifen, and Visophecin cursed and realized he’d made a mistake.
“—Should I not be thinking about civic improvements? You were the one who demanded we update our roads. Bidets, incidentally, are analogous to Earth—we still don’t have any Earthers.”
That distracted Rhisveri, and the Wyrm lay on his two claws grumpily. The Lindwyrm, which was technically his designation, glowered at nothing.
“How do multiple nations have Earthers and we have none? It must be random. A stupid name, anyways. What are we going to do, bring them in and treat them like royalty until one of them kills Uziel or Gadrea? How is she, by the way?”
Visophecin sidestepped the question like someone dodging a Tier 7 trap spell. He still didn’t know how to admit that Gadrea had disappeared and the Agelum had covered it up and refused to say where she was going. He’d been monitoring Roshal ships just in case….well. Just in case. There were a number around Izril.
“I hardly think we would give them the same treatment as Ryoka Griffin. Assuming they are unlike her, why not let Itorin and the Court of Masks ‘discover’ them?”
“Aaaah! Aah! Don’t say her name!”
Rhisveri shouted when Visophecin said ‘Ryoka’. At this point, the Lucifen was getting seriously tempted to open a gate and toss Rhisveri into an active volcano. The Wyrm seemed even moodier today, and Visophecin decided to end it there.
“If we’re done, I will see the others before departing. Paxere may be able to keep Menorkel and Gilaw company. How are they handling…”
He didn’t even say Fithea’s name, but Rhisveri suddenly had a thousand-mile stare. After a second, the Wyrm shrugged.
“How should I know? Check on them yourself. One of them’s smashed up my palace though, so if you can handle the bird-brained idiot, be my guest. I’m busy.”
“…Making a new episode of the Windy Girl and Rhissy? How much are you earning in sales of the—puppets?”
Rhisveri’s glare could have melted steel.
“It’s insanely popular. At this rate, I’ll be able to account for it in our gross income between all the industries it promotes! And our latest episode with Fith—about land conservation was a huge hit and—”
“I am not disapproving of it. The Agelum send their regards. Lord Uziel was highly complimentary and wished to convey his regards and ideas.”
Rhisveri hesitated. He broke off shouting and coughed.
“Did he? I doubt he has any good ideas. But tell him to send them in. I’ll review them. But only the best ideas.”
Visophecin decided Rhisveri seemed stable enough. He was just heading out when Rhisveri spoke up.
“Visophecin. I suppose the seas are choppy these days, and—is our Runner’s Guild suffering a manpower shortage? You know, other nations recruiting them to go to the New Lands?”
Visophecin turned, consulting his mental notes and wondering if Rhisveri had picked up on some kind of corruption or disaster in Ailendamus’ Runner’s Guilds.
“Not that I know of.”
“I see. I see. Well, you can’t trust mortals to get anywhere fast. Most can barely go a quarter of the continent in a day! And that’s the highest-level Couriers in—no one moves fast anymore.”
So said the Wyrm capable of flying, teleporting, and casting all kinds of magic. Not to mention he was hundreds of feet long. Visophecin sighed, and just because he could, he pulled out a magnificent, black metal watch and admired the way the sun was sinking into nightfall in real time.
“What’s that? A timepiece? It looks more compact than usual. I didn’t know you got trinkets. Something from Christmas?”
Rhisveri noticed the palm-sized watch, and Visophecin pretended it was an accident he’d taken it out.
“This? A minor gift. It cycles the twenty-four hours very well and tunes with this dial here, you see? Thus far, it hasn’t dropped a second.”
“Huh. It has those tiny gear-things from the Dwarves and Drakes.”
“A product of Fissival, actually. Apparently a renowned timepiece maker created it.”
“…What are the numbers? Those aren’t normal numbers nor is that Drathian or—wait, is that the language of magic?”
Rhisveri was fascinated by the little device and made his Human-sized clone appear so he could bend over it. Quite pleased at his reaction, Visophecin flourished it.
“Latin numerals, or so I believe they’re called. Note the small sun changing to night? The entire background changes.”
And a fiery ring appeared around the sun at midnight. He’d laughed when he’d seen that. Rhisveri was muttering.
“[Reproduct—]”
Visophecin jerked his watch out of the way of the spell, and the Wyrm gave him a sinister smile.
“A gift?”
“I opened it yesterday. The gifts were delivered to House Lucifen a week ago. They arrived rather fast, given the sea lanes.”
Rhisveri’s mouth opened, and the Wyrm stared at Visophecin for a good five seconds before he realized just who had sent it.
“She sent—you’re here accepting gifts from a mortal, Visophecin? Shame on you!”
He laughed so hugely that the annoyed Lucifen tucked the pocket watch away. He liked it.
“Uziel and a few Agelum received what I understand to be sweets recipes and copies of the goods. They quite enjoyed them, and I believe Menorkel and Gilaw may be receiving their gifts.”
And rather lengthy letters. He’d sent Paxere to distribute the gifts. Rhisveri, at this point, stiffened.
“Today?”
“Yes. The gifts were delayed a day, and I thought—”
“Aha! I knew it!”
Like that, Duke Rhisveri went storming out of his abode and through the palace. He homed in on the first Courier he saw, and the nervous woman stopped.
“Duke Rhisveri, isn’t it?”
“Yes, yes. And I accept your apology, Courier. The roads, the winter, etcetera etcetera. Where’s my tip?”
Rhisveri made a show of looking around in his bag of holding before handing the Courier a handful of gold. Then he waited.
“Er—your pardons, Duke, but I don’t have anything for you. Were you expecting a—?”
The disguised Wyrm’s face went blank. And he realized, too late, that a smirking Visophecin was stepping out from behind a curtain. Rhisveri froze up and coughed.
“You—don’t have anything waiting for me? In your Guild? I’m certain there must be.”
The Courier, flustered, pulled open a [Message] scroll and double-checked her bag of holding.
“…No, Your Grace. I—I’ll ask right away. Do you know what you’re waiting for?”
“Er—do that. I imagine it must be filed under a different name. Rhissy! That’s it! Something funny like—and there are accidents at sea. Terrible ones. You can’t account for that sort of thing. Keep the tip. But inform me if—”
Rhisveri was walking backwards so fast he nearly slammed into a servant. Without a word, he began striding back to his rooms. Visophecin strolled along next to him. Rhisveri turned his head and snarled.
“Get lost.”
“I quite enjoyed the holidays. Very good for teaching compassion and incentivising spending among our populace. I think we should ratify it as a holiday.”
“Stop smirking or so help me I’ll teleport you a thousand feet underground. Why did you get—”
Visophecin polished his pocket watch on his jacket and theatrically blew on it before brushing at it again. Rhisveri turned, slapped the pocket watch across the floor, and the glass cracked.
Every person in sight turned, saw Visophecin staring at his pocket watch, and ran for it. The Lucifen slowly, slowly walked over, inspected the watch, and ascertained he could repair it. When he rose, Rhisveri was staring over his shoulder.
“I, uh—you know, I think I should revisit my policy on that damned Thief and our non-interference agreement. Even though I put her to that task.”
The Lucifen swallowed the words he had been about to say, and they went down, burning, into his stomach. He raised his gaze as his eyes smoldered.
“Oh?”
The Wyrm fidgeted. Then he burst out.
“Well, obviously, it’s clear she’s told someone about us. I wasn’t allowed to put a [Geas] on her—you think that loudmouth hasn’t informed them? Just the fact that she had that watch commissioned for you is de facto admitting she has an association with us. Which is why I think we need to punish her. You know, the old tar and feathering? I know you banned it, but I think I’ll have her dragged—no, no. She’ll come over here and hop in a vat herself. That’s how we’ll do it.”
He looked rather pleased at the idea. Visophecin, for his part, just folded his arms, and Rhisveri went on, his Human form not quite sweating.
“We can’t trust her, after all. Keep this to yourself, but I always intended on monitoring her. I suppose I’ll let you in on the task if you’re so keen. Let’s call it a temporary investigation to make sure she’s ‘keeping the secret’.”
His snort made it clear how likely he thought that was. Visophecin, for his part, smiled, but only internally.
Well, that was worth the broken pocket watch. He felt now was a good time to pull something out of his pocket.
“You truly do have Ailendamus’ best interests in mind, Rhisveri. I shall conduct a full appraisal of the situation and take any appropriate steps after consulting with you.”
“What? Of course, of course. There’s that damn Dragon around and, apparently, even a Unicorn—plus an Archmage—we’ll have to be stealthy. You mean you haven’t been over there once?”
Visophecin frowned.
“No. And you—”
“Of course not! But I would have thought—remarkable restraint, this man. Remarkable…what’s this?”
The Lucifen was holding something in his hand. It was a box, wrapped with a ribbon, and Rhisveri gave it a blank look. He had gotten exactly zero presents yesterday, so it wasn’t exactly a surprise he had no idea what they looked like. Visophecin gave him a huge smile that never reached his eyes. But then again, the eyes were just a laughing devil dancing on the Wyrm’s ego.
“It just occurred to me. These were all remanded into my care, hence my delivery today. Here you are, Rhisveri. Naturally, House Shoel sends its best wishes, but you made your stance on the holiday clear.”
He deposited the box into Rhisveri’s hands as the Duke stood there, open-mouthed, and strolled away. Visophecin gated out as fast as he could the moment he turned the corner, but the Wyrm had already shredded the wrapping paper.
 
To Duke Rhisveri. From the Windy Girl.
 
