“Good. So we take a break and then leave. And stay focused, we’re still in the dungeon. Breathe out your frustrations if they’re there, or any guilt or shame, or anything else. Nobody died, and we’ll come back again.”

The others were quiet for a while.

Veron felt some frustration too, though he found he could let it go quite quickly. He was glad they hadn’t triggered the trap near the end of a long run, or with Ailis having less of her Focus available.

“What a shit run,” Ailis murmured.

“Yeah,” Veron said. “Sorry for triggering the trap.”

“You’re too heavy,” Elke said. There was some amusement in her voice, though only a hint. He might’ve missed it had he not sparred with her the day before.

“Maybe I should make stone armor for you lot too.”

Elke smiled.

“No way. Never would I wear something so uncomfortable,” Isaac said.

“What? It’s actually quite comfortable. Surprisingly so,” Veron said. “The fact that I have an Earth Harmony doesn’t affect that opinion at all, just saying.”

“Of course it doesn’t,” Isaac said, sarcastically. “So, back up and some cards?”

“Sounds good to me,” Veron said.

“You lot are ridiculous,” Ailis said. She smiled, then covered her face and sobbed.

Veron crouched down, made to touch her, and then decided not to. “It’s alright, you know. If anyone fucked up, it’s me. And now we get to go and play cards.”

She breathed in deep with a shudder, then looked at him with slightly reddish eyes. “I’m supposed to be the healer.”

“And you are,” he said.

“I’m not supposed to hold the party back,” Ailis said.

“You’re not holding anyone back, Ailis. We’re a party. We go in together, and we leave together. Can I touch your hand?”

She looked at him, and breathed in.

He gently grabbed her hand and held it. “I’m glad you didn’t die here. That would’ve been a mess.”

She chuckled slightly. “Yeah. Imagine that. An arrow trap in the Crypts.”

He smiled back. “On our third dive.”

“Guess we should think about buying some better armor,” Isaac said.

“Got to make more silver first,” Veron said. “But we’ll get there. I want to get a lantern too. Torches are annoying.”

“They do add a rustic flair,” Isaac said.

“Like armor too shitty to stop an arrow?” Ailis asked with a tired voice.

“Exactly,” Isaac said and smiled. “Sorry you got hit.”

“It’s fine,” she said.

“Yep, rested up enough?” Veron asked, moving to help her get up.

“I can stand on my own,” she said and did just that, then wobbled slightly. She breathed in and focused.

“Just let us know if you’re about to pass out,” Veron said. “That’s not a joke. You could hit your head.”

Ailis rolled her eyes, then sighed. “Maybe someone can help me walk for a bit.”

“Sure. Isaac?” Veron asked. “I take point, Elke in the back. Focus up.”

The way back was quiet and slow.

Veron was worried about Ailis when she made the climb up and out of the pit, but they all made it. It was still morning and there were plenty of adventurers around who were just starting their dive, a few of them glancing at them with worried expressions.

The first stop for the group today was the Healer Station, checking to see if Ailis needed anything else. But other than sleep, nothing else was prescribed, so she stayed at the station to rest up.

“We could skip the rest day tomorrow,” Ailis said. “Seeing how we didn’t get very far today.”

“If you feel fine by then, I wouldn’t be opposed,” Veron said.

“Me neither,” Isaac said. Elke nodded.

“I already feel fine, just tired,” Ailis said.

“Alright, then we meet up tomorrow, but we can make a final decision then,” Veron said.

They let her sleep and without anything else to do, it was cards, then some more sparring and magic.

Veron didn’t expect anything to happen when he played around with his new fan and the wind later but something did change. Gradually, as if he could better grasp the flows. He smiled to himself and added more airflow with his fan, letting it all move around himself in a circle and then upwards.

He breathed quietly when his Focus reached the halfway point, or somewhere near. Then he looked inward. His Harmony had reached Beginner III. The range of his magic increased, both in terms of how far he could move the wind he connected to, but also how much of it he could affect at once.

One more level and I might be able to do something new with it, he thought, remembering that he’d gotten his ability to shoot rocks once he’d gotten his Earth Harmony to Novice I.

What now then, a bath and dinner?

During the bath, he thought about the experience with the trap earlier. He was glad that Ailis hadn’t been hit worse. They would have to change their approach slightly.

By the time he went to bed, he already had a simple solution.

The next few delves went better. Veron took point with a bit more distance between himself and the others. If he triggered a trap, he had the sturdiest armor to deal with it. And he triggered a few. It was simple, but so far, it worked well enough.

They killed skeletons and rats, sometimes special variants that were bigger, faster, or equipped with different weapons, or some armor. Isaac found them hidden stashes and they sold all the usable loot they could find. It wasn’t much, but slowly, Veron was building up a small sum of silver.

Everyone knew their roles by now, and they were slowly getting more familiar with both the Crypts themselves, and the common enemies they faced there. At least on the upper parts, close to the pit.

And so they started going a little bit deeper, exploring for a little bit longer. Injuries became rarer, and whenever someone did need significant healing, they started making their way back right after. Slow, steady, and cautious, they explored the first layer of the dungeon, extracting every beast that they killed, and getting better with their magic.

A week into their delves, Ailis had a breakthrough with her healing aspect. It could deal with injuries faster but more importantly, she’d gained a new skill.

She stopped them before one of the larger halls, clearing her throat. “There’s… something I want to try.” She seemed a bit flustered and looked away. “We have walked this path for a while now.” She glanced at them, her face beet red. “Warriors of Anvakar. We fight together!” Her eyes glowed white for a moment and Veron felt himself stand a little straighter.

He smiled and breathed in deep, then gave her a nod. His weapons felt just a little lighter, and he knew that hardly anything would faze him now. At least for a little while. She didn’t employ the same kind of flair that Hayden had used in his speeches, but her magic was the same. Weaker still, yes, but it was a start.

He wondered who was next.
