As they got a little closer, I was able to see their chin under their hood and saw tanned skin. So, at least they were probably not one of these Umarii. Unfortunately, they didn’t just continue past the church as I had hoped, and instead started heading right in our direction.

Great, they’re planning to take a break by the church… I really don’t feel like waiting around in hiding for them to leave, so I guess we’ll just have to move on as long as they don’t try to attack us. We’ll probably end up startling them either way because there’s no way to the bridge without being seen.

I focused my thoughts towards Lily and Grick, planning to tell them to just head for the bridge when something strange about the newcomer caught my eye. As a gust of wind blew their cloak, I saw something hanging off the back of her waist. For a second, I thought it was some kind of accessory to their belt… It was orange and fluffy and…

I cocked an eyebrow.

A tail!?

I prowled a little further around the corner of the church, slowly to keep my eyes on them. They were heading for the front steps. Yes, that looked like a big bushy fox tail coming from her back. And now that she was closer, I could clearly see that it was a girl based on the shape of her body.

Still… she’s probably not a human, right? Well, she’s more human than monster, so I should still probably…

She lifted a hand from her pocket and let out a long yawn as she skipped her last few paces to the steps, then turned and plopped down on the steps. I saw sharp nails at the end of her fingers, and she had fangs! Then, as she pulled her hood down, I saw a set of fox ears poking up from auburn hair to complete the picture.

She leaned back on her hands, tensing her body in a long stretch as she let out another yawn. Her eyes were focused on the sun. “Times almost up, huh?” she muttered under her breath.

She slipped her backpack off her shoulders and rummaged through it, pulling out a fruit. At first, I thought it was an apple; it was round like an apple, but when her sharp teeth bit in, instead of a crunch, there was more of a squish sound, and red juice rolled past her clawed fingers. The insides of the fruit were likewise a fleshy red.

Lily and Grick carefully prowled around the side of the church and came to my side to see what I was doing. “Stay quiet,” I thought at them.

Instead of just minding our own business and moving on, I was now quite interested in learning more about this person. Genzo was a frog man, so it’s not like it's that much of a shock that a fox person could exist. But Genzo also claimed to have started life as a tadpole. Did that mean this girl also started as something that looked a little more like a monster? And more importantly… Could there be a chance that she was also from Earth?

She finished eating her fruit with a few more big bites, tossed the pit into some brush beside the church steps, licked her lips clean, and then started licking the juice from her fingers. She then gazed in front of herself in a way I recognized—she was looking at a system screen!

“It’s been forever since the last time it leveled up,” she muttered begrudgingly. “Oh well… Maybe tomorrow.”

Then she untied the drawstring of her cloak from around her neck and kicked off her boots. She stuffed the cloak into her bag and then… did something that caught me completely off guard.

She grabbed the hem of her tunic and, in one quick motion, lifted it over her head, exposing herself completely. I winced and backed off a pace, not wanting to peep at her. But what the hell was she doing? Who just gets naked out in the open like this? Maybe she was planning to bathe in the river. Either way, we definitely shouldn’t…

I heard a low chuckle beside me. Instead of backing off and giving a lady her privacy like a decent goblin, Grick peeked around the corner with purpose. I saw a hint of red creeping onto his cheeks as he quietly muttered to himself, “Heheh… nice human things…”

I clench my teeth. That little pervert!

Without thinking, I whacked the back of my paw across his head, knocking him back. The goblin let out a sharp, surprised yelp and cried, “Ah! Don’t eat Grick! Don’t eat!”

“Quiet!” I growled at him, but I already knew it was too late.

“Gyah!?” the fox-girl yelped from the other side of the wall, then in a demanding tone, she yelled.  “Who’s there!? You just made a biiiig mishtaaarrrrrrr—”

Her words faded into a gravelly growl, the last word stretching in a way no human throat should be able to manage. I heard fabric tear, not sharply, but with a heavy, rrrip that made my ears flatten.

Grick whimpered from the ground in front of me, but I was no longer focused on him. I was looking back and saw a shadow growing along the ground. I blinked, not sure what to make of it. Then I heard a quick thump-thump-thump that quaked the ground under my paws.

Suddenly, a monster bounded from beyond the corner of the wall—it was huge! At least three times my size. It placed itself between us and the riverbank. Her fur was a deep, violent orange, darker along her spine and limbs, bristling like it was charged with static. Each breath dragged in with a low rumble as golden eyes locked on instantly.

Her lips peeled back, exposing rows of long fangs, saliva stretching in thin strands between them.

I backed up, staring in shock, quickly calculating if we should fight or run, and my brain barely managed to process if this really was the slender girl from just a moment ago.

Lily gave an aggressive yip from beside me, lowering herself and baring her fangs. Grick threw himself to the ground with his hands over his head. “Grick not taste good! Grick not tasty!” he cried.

I shook off my surprise, but before I could make a move, something about the fox’s expression stopped me.

She recoiled slightly, the growl fading from her throat as she raised an eyebrow at us.

“Lily down!” I thought at my sister, and she glanced to me uncertainly, her hackles twitching but not quite dropping.

I gave an awkward wolfy grin and waved a paw in a very humanlike way that was somewhere between “we mean you no harm” and “please don't hurt us.” Which one it tilted more towards, I wasn't sure.

Whichever way the giant fox interpreted it, it did the trick of slowing her down. Though her hackles were still raised, a much more curious expression overtook her golden eyes. We were an odd trio, after all, and I'm sure I wasn't behaving like any other monster she had seen before.

Thinking quickly, I began dragging my paw in the ground. She watched curiously until I spelled out “Hi!”

I finished by digging out the dot on the exclamation mark, just to make it seem a little more human.

The message had its desired effect as her hackles lowered completely. She looked up and down between me and the word I had written.

I sat down on my haunches and gave an innocent puppy smile, tilting my head as if to say, “It's nice to meet you!”

She shifted slightly, and I flinched, but I realized she was only kicking something off of her back paw. It was a tattered pair of pants. As I glanced from the discarded clothing to the face of the golden-eyed monster, I was sure that this really was the fox girl from a moment ago.

Then, a system message popped up in front of my eyes.

[New Evolution Hint Acquired!]

Read Next Chapter For Free Now!
