His smile grew slightly at their regard. “I trust you found your way easily enough?”

Tala gave a mock glare. “Not only do you know exactly how our trip through your tree went, but you sent Master Grent to meet us as a poorly conceived joke.”

The Reforged held up a finger. “Not as a joke, no, and certainly not poorly conceived.” He shook his head in mock sorrow. “If you believe I failed, then you have mistaken my aim.” After a moment’s hesitation, he shrugged, amending, “Though, I will admit that the joke was a side benefit.”

Rane cocked an eyebrow. “Oh? What then was your purpose?”

The Reforged regarded them for a long moment before sighing. “I suppose there is no harm in sharing. Master Grent has been stagnating, as so many do in these cervid-cursed woods, despite our best efforts. His lack of drive has been showing up in little ways recently, but finally, it came to a head roughly two years ago, when he stated that no one advances very fast, and so his pace was more than fine.” Master Jevin shook his head. “While he was right in a sense, the excuse came just before an across-the-board decrease in his already slipping productivity and effort. I felt that seeing familiar faces, now greatly advanced, would light a fire under him.”

That… actually made some sense. Though, she did find it funny that Master Jevin considered spans greater than two years as recent. Even so, Tala frowned, opening her mouth to ask something else, but Master Jevin moved his still raised finger back and forth implicatively, eyes slightly unfocused.

After a moment more, he nodded and smiled. “And it worked. He’s in his lab, actually working on his projects for the first time this week.”

Tala sighed. “Well, I guess we’re glad to be of service?”

Master Jevin chuckled, walking forward, arms wide. “Yes, thank you for that, and welcome back.”

Tala stepped forward and gave the man a hug. Rane followed suit a moment after. Then, Terry flickered to the other man’s shoulder, prompting the Reforged to scratch him behind the head.

“Oh, Terry, it’s good to see you again, too. I hear you’ve been taking good care of that girl.” He glanced toward Tala in unnecessary implication.

Terry preened, shifting into the scritches and trilling.

Master Jevin took a minute or two to finish paying Terry some attention, before he finally turned back to Tala and Rane. “Well, it’s good to have you two back here again. It seems like we have a lot to discuss.”
