Rain and Jamus walked through the city, heading for the wealthier district. As they walked, Jamus filled him in on the man they were going to see. Apparently, Staavo wasn’t just some scholar, he’d also been an adventurer for many years before retiring. He’d lost his foot to something called a ‘dunch’ early-on in his career and been unable to get it healed in time for it to regenerate. He’d been a swordsman, but the injury had forced him to change his plan. He’d switched to magic, coming up with a hybrid build that let him fight despite his hindered mobility. He’d never made it past bronzeplate, however. The sacrifices that he’d had to make to change course like that had left him gimped in more than one way.

He eventually retired, but not before becoming quite rich, even by the standards of the Guild. According to Jamus, he was good with money, and even though he was weaker than other adventurers of his level, he made up for it with planning and patience. Nowadays, he was a bit of a recluse, living out of his tower and pursuing whatever topics caught his interest. Skills and builds were one of those topics, which made sense given his past, but he was also interested in many other things, such as history, politics, and nature. Jamus warned Rain that the man had a somewhat difficult personality. They briefly discussed how to handle the upcoming conversation, stopping when they arrived at Staavo’s home.

The scholar lived in a stone tower situated near the wall of the city. It was four stories tall and looked out of place amid the upscale homes surrounding it. Given its position near the wall, Rain figured that it probably used to be something else, such as a guard tower. The top two floors peeked past the parapet of the wall, giving it what was probably a decent view of the surrounding area.

Rain was unsure what to expect as Jamus knocked on the door. Prior to hearing about Staavo’s past, he’d been anticipating him to be some sort of off-brand Deckard Cain; long bushy white beard, bald head, dusty robes stained with ink, the works. However, the description of a retired one-legged warrior-turned-mage had him thinking of a gristly old pirate with a pegleg and a crossbow. It was a very bizarre image, completely at odds with how Jamus had described his personality. Rain had no idea how it had gotten stuck in his brain.

The door opened to Jamus’s continued knocking, revealing that Rain’s first guess had been closer, which wasn’t surprising. Staavo was an older man, perhaps in his late 70s judging by his face and his short white hair. Contrary to Rain’s original expectations, he didn’t have a beard. He was wearing a plain white tunic and dark breeches, not a stereotypical scholar robe from fantasy. Rain’s eyes flicked down to his feet. Both of his boots looked normal; whatever prosthetic the man had, it wasn’t a crude peg leg.

“Aaah, my eyes. Jamus, don’t you know it’s too early in the day to be wearing something that bright?” the man said, grinning at the orange-clad mage.

“I always wear this, Staavo,” Jamus said, smiling back.

“Don’t remind me. Who’s in the evil tin can? I thought you were bringing me a mage?” He had an interesting accent. It sounded almost Scottish, or maybe Irish. It was difficult for Rain to predict what that would sound like, given that they were speaking common and not English. His mental model of the man was only becoming more and more confused as time went on.

Jamus gestured to Rain. “Staavo, this is Rain. Rain, Staavo.”

Rain offered his hand to the man to shake, but he didn’t take it. Instead, he looked him up and down, brazenly inspecting him from head to toe.

“Interesting. I’ve never seen armor like that before, and I’ve seen a lot of things. Wouldn’t kill you to add some color, though. Just don’t get carried away.” He waved his hand in Jamus’s direction before finally grasping Rain’s gauntlet and giving it a perfunctory shake.

Staavo gave Jamus a flat look. “This better be worth my time. You said you were bringing me someone interesting, not some platemail-wearing pillock.” He abruptly turned around and walked back into his tower, leaving them standing on the doorstep. He called back at them from inside without turning around. “Well, you might as well come in. Wipe your damned feet, meathead.”

Meathead? Should I be offended?

Jamus chuckled. “Don’t say I didn’t warn you. Anyway, don’t mind him. He’s always like that.”

Rain and Jamus followed Staavo into the ground floor of the tower. In contrast to the utilitarian exterior, the room was downright cozy. A fire burned in a hearth and plush-upholstered chairs surrounded a wooden table in the center of the room. The walls were decorated with colorful fabrics, some bearing intricate designs. Of the most interest to Rain were the numerous bookshelves, loaded down with books of all shapes and sizes. Staavo motioned to the chairs. “Have a seat. Tea, Jamus? And for you? What do you drink? The blood of the innocent?”

Rain laughed and reached up to raise his visor. He hesitated, then decided to remove his helmet entirely. “Just tea,” he said, setting the helmet on the table. “I’m much less evil than I look.”

Staavo grunted. “Scruffy is what you are. Fine. Make yourself at home. I’ll just be a minute.”

Rain scratched at his stubbly chin. Staavo had a point. He hadn’t been keeping up with shaving since he’d gotten his armor. His hair could also use a trim. He and Jamus sat in two of the chairs as Staavo walked to the hearth, retrieving a kettle.

Jamus cleared his throat. “You know, you could hire a servant to do that for you. I know you can afford it.”

“Bah. I don’t want someone moving all my stuff.” Staavo said as he poured tea into three cups. It looked like it had already been brewed in the kettle. He placed them on a tray and made his way back over to the table. He didn’t appear to be having any trouble despite his age and the fact that he was supposedly missing a foot.

He dropped himself into a chair, then pushed the tray over toward Rain and Jamus. “There, tea. Niceties dealt with. Let’s get right into it, shall we?”

Jamus laughed. “Straight to the point as always, Staavo. Very well,” he reached out and grabbed a cup of tea. Rain left his where it was to cool for the moment. Jamus nodded at Rain. “So, Rain here likes to ask questions. Full disclosure, I have a little bet going with a friend of mine about which one of you runs screaming from the room first. Care to know who I bet on?”

“Bah,” Staavo said. He turned his attention to Rain. “So, questions, huh? Well, I’ve got some of those too. First, are you a mage, or aren’t you?”

Rain cleared his throat. “I’m a mage.”

“Then what’s with the armor?”

“It keeps me safe and it doesn’t mess with my spells. I’m kind of squishy.”

“Squishy?” Staavo asked

Jamus leaned forward. “That’s another thing about Rain. He sometimes uses some really strange expressions. It’s because he only started learning common about a month ago. Mostly from that book I borrowed from you, in fact.”

Staavo grinned. “Ah, now I’m getting interested. I’ll be wanting that book back, by the way. What are you, a Dynamo? Some sort of equipment user spec? What’s the transfer rate on that armor? No, that can’t be it. Body enhancement? Something that doesn’t require targeting? Auras, maybe?”

Wow, he jumped straight to it. He’s got to have all the skill trees memorized just like I do. He nodded, digging around in his pouch to retrieve Staavo’s book. “Yes, Dynamo. And I use Auras.” He set the book on the table.

Staavo raised an eyebrow, not even glancing at the book. “Did your mother drop you on your head as a kid or something?” Jamus snorted, choking on his tea.

Rain blinked. “Ouch. And no, she didn’t, thank you.”

Staavo grinned. “Fine, fine. I’ll admit it isn’t the stupidest thing I’ve ever heard. Dynamo would be pretty much the only way to make those damn skills useful. The offensive ones anyway. The utility ones are actually not bad, but everyone’s all ‘oh no, I don’t want to be a support’. Idiots. One support skill doesn’t make you any less of a fighter.”

Rain smiled. I think I like this guy.

“What level are you, boy?” Staavo asked.

“Staavo, rude!” Jamus said.

“Like I care,” Staavo said. “Well? Out with it.”

Rain shrugged. I don’t really care either. The Watch already knows approximately how strong I am. The cat’s already out of the bag. “Eighteen.”

Staavo whistled. “Lucky blue? Or are you some noble’s get?”

“The first one,” Rain said. Here goes. I hope this plan doesn’t backfire on me. “I’m…not exactly from around here. I was teleported. I woke up in the forest about a day west of the city and got saved by some passing adventurers. There was an essence monster after me; Jamus says the teleportation attracted it. They killed it, I got some of the credit, and, well, now I’m here.”

Staavo’s eyes locked on to him with interest as he sat forward. “Teleported? To the forest? Without a receiving platform? From far enough away that you didn’t even speak common? I take it that this was against your will?”

Rain nodded. “Yes, against my will. Well, ‘without my knowledge’ might be more accurate.”

“Fascinating. I can count the number of people who could do something like that on one hand. Where are you from, boy? Some secret enclave of legendary mages?”

Rain shook his head. He took a deep breath. Time to set the hook. “There’s no magic where I’m from.”

“Horseshit,” Staavo said.

“I believe him, Staavo,” Jamus said. “The stories he’s told…” He looked at Rain and chuckled. “Well, the stories he’s tried to tell, anyway. Where he comes from is very…different. He’s a bit crap at explaining, though.”

“Tell me,” Staavo said, staring at Rain, his tea forgotten.

Got him. “No,” Rain said, smiling at the look of indignation on Staavo’s face. He held up a hand to forestall his response. “I’ll tell you all about it, but first, I have some questions of my own.”

Staavo narrowed his eyes and looked at Jamus. “This was your plan,” he said accusingly.

Jamus laughed. “I’m innocent. This little plan was Rain’s idea. All I told him was that you tend to get hyper-focused on anything that catches your attention and that you don’t care about what other people want. Am I wrong?”

Staavo glared at Jamus. Suddenly, his affronted expression broke as if it had never been. He smiled and sat back with a laugh. “Ha! Fine, I know when I’ve been outplayed. Ask what you want to ask. Humm, let’s say…fifteen minutes? Then it’s my turn.”

Rain stuck out his hand. “Deal.”

Staavo grasped it and shook it much more enthusiastically than he had last time. He turned to Jamus. “Go get me my hourglass. It’s on my desk upstairs.”

“Wow,” Jamus said, standing up. “You’re taking this seriously. Don’t start without me. I don’t want to miss this.”

“To the depths with that,” Staavo said. “His time started a minute ago.”

Rain smiled as Jamus hurried toward the stairs. “I guess I’d better get started then. Ok, here’s the rules. I ask, you answer. You can ask me questions about the topic at hand, but I can ignore you if I want to. I’ll only answer if I think the discussion will help me understand. I want to stay on topic, so anything that is only about your own curiosity will have to wait for your turn.”

Staavo chuckled. “Fine, agreed. Jamus, where did you find this guy? He’s got some spirit in him, even if he does look like a tiny mouse under that armor. Talking to me like that in my own living room.” Jamus didn’t respond, the hem of his robe disappearing through the opening to the second floor.

Why does everyone think I look like a mouse? He cleared his throat. “Okay, first question. We were already talking about this a little bit, so I’ll start here. Why don’t more people pick Dynamo?”

“Really? And I was just starting to think you were clever. That should be obvious.”

“Humor me.”

Staavo shrugged. “It’s your time. People don’t pick it because it’s a dead end. Either you get to level five and stop investing in Clarity, or you stick it out and end up weaker than a kitten by the time you get to silver. In the first case, you hamstring yourself when it comes time to pick a class advancement, and in the second, you won’t even get there.”

That matches up with what I know so far. “Okay, how weak is weak? What kind of things can another level 18 mage do that I can’t?”

“I have no idea what you can do,” said Staavo. “As for other mages, Jamus should be around that level. Idiot won’t tell me the damn number.”

“No, I won’t,” said Jamus, descending the stairs, hourglass in hand. He strode back to the table and set it down, plopping into his chair. Rain sipped at his tea as Staavo upended the hourglass.

The old man pointed at a line. “When the sand gets to here, that’s ten minutes. You’ve already used five. Then it’s my turn.” Jamus picked up his tea and settled back into his plush chair.

Rain nodded, not wanting to make an issue about the fact that Staavo was blatantly overestimating the time. He’d pushed him enough. “Okay, I need to get an idea of the relative strength of various people. The Watch says I’m category three. Is that—” Rain cut his question off as Jamus started choking on his tea again. I was going to ask if that was normal for someone of my level, but I think Jamus just gave me the answer.

“Really? With auras?” Staavo said, leaning forward. “How?”

Rain smiled. “I’m not answering that yet. How strong is an average bronzeplate at my level?”

Staavo grumbled something under his breath that was too low for Rain to make out. He answered grudgingly. “Category two, usually, unless they really messed themselves up. Category three isn’t unheard of, but it isn’t exactly common. The fact that auras are AOE is probably helping you quite a bit, at least if your goal is to have the Watch breathing down your neck.”

“And monsters? At category three, do I have any hope of defeating something at, say, level 25?”

“Not bloody likely,” Staavo said. “If you were a category three striker, then maybe. But AOE? I doubt it. Monsters are stronger than humans as a rule. You’d probably have trouble with something even at your own level, for all that the Watch calls you a threat.”

“How much stronger?” Rain asked, glancing at the hourglass. He still had time.

