“Depends on the monster as much as the human,” Staavo said. “You’d do fine against a swarm type I suppose. Kin or something. Not likely you’d find a blue like that, though. They’re usually the big ones. Like I said, Dynamo’s a dead end. What good is slaughtering thousands of Kin if you can never raise your cap?”

Jamus tapped his foot, considering. “I don’t know, Staavo, I think the mountains of Tel and the adoration of the populace might go a long way.”

Good point Jamus. Rain looked back at Staavo. “In general, though, monsters are stronger than humans?”

“Yes,” Staavo said.

I’m not sure I buy that. Maybe they’re only stronger because people aren’t properly optimizing themselves. Maybe monster strength tracks the best possible progression, legendary classes and so forth…

“Is that all the questions you had?” Staavo said, nodding to the hourglass. “Time’s almost up.”

Rain smiled. “I’m in no hurry. I’ll get another turn once you’re done. I’ll stay here as long as it takes.”

Jamus laughed. “I warned you, Staavo. I told you he was your equal when it came to curiosity.”

Rain cut in, interrupting Staavo’s response. He wanted to get the rest of his questions about Dynamos out of the way before the break, at least. “Back to Dynamos. People don’t take the class because they think it’s weak. Sure, I’ll buy that. I don’t agree with it, but I’ll buy it. Tell me about the other monoliths. Same story there? Too weak?”

“Yes and no,” Staavo said. “Animus and Fortifico have the opposite problem. They’re too strong. They tear themselves apart.”

“Just to confirm, Animus is Focus and Fortifico is Strength?”

Staavo nodded.

“Okay, they tear themselves apart how? Soulstrain?”

Staavo shook his head. “Not as such. It’s more basic than that. If you’ve got too much Strength without enough Endurance, you’ll hurt yourself every time you so much as lift a finger. A Fortifico has got tons of health, sure, but it’s soft. It counts for nothing if you lose a few hundred hp every time you get up to go to the bathroom. And without Recovery, you’ll never get better. A Fortifico is good for sudden, massive bursts of strength, but more often than not, they’ll kill themselves in the process. Practically nobody takes it, outside of the Empire of Adamant.”

“Outside of the Empire—no, I’ll come back to that. I have a bunch of questions about them for later. What about Animus? Why don’t people take that one? Same reason?”

“Yes,” Staavo said. “It’s slightly more common, but still rare. Not enough Clarity means massive headaches. If it gets bad enough, you start blacking out any time you so much as think about using mana. By the time an Animus gets up to your level, they’re completely useless unless they’ve either given up and put points in Clarity, or gotten themselves a bunch of equipment and accolades. It’s more doable than Fortifico since it’s only one stat they need to worry about, but then there’s still the health problem. One good whack and they’re done. Again, outside of the Empire, you don’t really see it.”

Damn it, now I really want to ask about the Empire. They use the monoliths for something? He shook his head. He had to stay on topic. “What about the Endurance monolith? What’s that called?”

“Tortugo. It’s where the term ‘turtle’ comes from. No issues with hurting yourself, but no real way to do damage either. There’s probably other side-effects, but I don’t know them. It’s even less common than the other two. Not even the Empire bothers with it.”

Rain nodded. “Vivificant is Recovery. I’ve met one of those, so I think I see why it isn’t exactly popular. Looks painful. Any other reason people don’t take it? They could wear armor, just like I do. Seems like the lack of a deep health pool is a solvable problem.”

Staavo shrugged. “More people take it than Fortifico. They think they can deal with the pain and outlast their opponents. They’re usually wrong, but there you have it. It isn’t as good as Dynamo in my opinion, yet more people take it because it lets them wear metal.” Rain opened his mouth to respond, but Staavo raised a hand to stop him.

“You think you’re cute with your auras, but imagine what you could do if you had some real attack spells. You’re clearly not from around here, but you must have heard of Endless, no? She’s the reason idiots like you take Dynamo in the first place. Just because she managed to survive past bronze, it doesn’t mean you will. You’re either going to get stuck or killed. All the recovery monoliths have that problem. No health and no damage. And that’s your time.”

Rain looked at the hourglass. The sand was indeed above the line. He sighed. “At least let me finish with the monoliths. There’s one left.”

“Nope,” Staavo said. “My turn.”

“I’ll give you a grace period too,” Rain said. “Within reason.”

Jamus laughed. “Come on, Staavo. Humor him.”

“Fine,” Staavo said. “The last one is Dustrio, and it’s not as good as it sounds. Weakest of the lot. At least Tortugos are decent in a party as a damage sponge. Dustrios are a waste of space.”

“And why’s that?” Rain asked.

“You know how when you work too hard or for too long you get sore?” Staavo asked. Rain nodded. “Well, imagine how you’d feel after running for three days straight. Having pathetic health regen means that they’re pretty much always in pain. You’ve got to keep healing them to stop them from falling apart. Add that to the lack of damage, and, well, there you have it. Useless.”

Wow, that sounds pretty awful. Talk about cursed with awesome. Being able to run for days sounds great, but…yeah, no. No thanks. I think I really dodged a bullet here. Dynamo sounds like it’s the only one that’s viable. He shook his head, seeing that Staavo was staring at him impatiently. “Ok, so to sum up, Dynamo is the only monolithic class that is any good?”

“Did I say that?” Staavo said, turning to Jamus. Jamus shrugged. Staavo sighed. “Fine, I’ll admit, it’s the least bad, followed by Vivificant. It’s still pretty damn awful, though. No damage, no defense, no endurance, just buckets of mana. Fine if you want to charge a teleportation platform for a living, but for an adventurer? Bah. Stupidity. The overmana’s not worth it.”

I disagree. I learned an entire language in less than a month. Plus, Tallheart’s making me a ring right now that will solve a lot of my problems. No point defending my choice right now, though. He sighed. “Okay, your turn.”

“Fucking finally!” Staavo said, flipping over the hourglass. “I’ve got until this runs out, then five more minutes besides.”

Jamus laughed. “I knew that this was going to be a good show.”

“Quiet, you,” Staavo said. He turned back to Rain. “What in the name of all the hells and the bottomless depths do you mean when you say there’s no magic where you’re from?”

Jamus tossed aside a pistachio shell and chewed happily, his neck swiveling back and forth between Rain and Staavo as they exchanged questions. The hourglass had long since run empty and been forgotten. All pretense of sticking to the time limits had gone out the window barely an hour into their discussion. Jamus had ducked out a few hours after that, only just returning with his snack in hand.

He cracked open another pistachio and tossed the nut into his mouth, listening as the two argued. Pistachios were truly the best food for watching such things, even if they were almost as expensive as coffee. He briefly considered offering some to the two combatants but decided against it. They probably hadn’t even noticed that he’d returned. Hells, he didn’t even know if Rain would recognize them. The nuts were rare; there was no telling if they’d had them on his world. He tossed away another shell as Staavo slammed his hand down on the table.

“What does that mean, moves forward by pushing air out the back?”

“You didn’t answer my question,” Rain said, staring back at him. “Remember the rule.”

“Fine, forty-two. Now, explain how pushing air lets you fly without magic.”

Rain sighed. “I explained Newton’s laws to you already. You push air out the back of the engine, and it pushes the plane forward. It’s basic physics. You should know how it works. You drew like fifty birds in that book of yours. How could flight be such a mystery? Next question, how do you know lair hearts aren’t alive?”

Staavo grumbled. “It’s been proven time and again. They can’t learn, they can’t grow, they can’t reproduce. Not alive. What stops it from just falling down?”

“The plane? Lift. Air pushes the wings up and keeps it going, as long as it’s moving fast enough. Seriously, it is the same as birds. Why is this so difficult for you?”

Staavo pounded his hand on the table. “Birds fly because they’re light. They’re built to do it, just like fish are built to breathe water. Humans can’t fly without magic. That is a fact! We’re too heavy. And these planes of yours are even more preposterous if they’re made of metal like you’re saying. It’s a simple matter of weight ratios. Why are you laughing?”

“Monty Python,” Rain said. Jamus grinned. He’d have to ask Rain about this ‘Monty Python’ person one day. It wasn’t the first time it had come up.

Staavo just looked confused. “What?”

“Never mind. It’s my turn. How common are lairs? How often do they spawn?”

“Rare, and not often. How fast is fast enough?”

“That wasn’t an answer.”

“Fine, damn you! There’s probably a few hundred managed lairs on the continent. The Empire and the DKE don’t exactly publish their numbers.”

“And how often do new ones spawn?”

“That was two questions. You need to answer mine before I answer yours. Don’t think I don’t see what you’re doing, trying to ask two at once.”

Rain sighed. “It varies based on the size of the plane. Hundreds of kilometers an hour.”

“What the heck is a kilometer?”

“What the heck is a stride?”

“Damn it, just answer the damn question.”

“You first!”

Jamus struggled with a particularly difficult pistachio. He hated the ones that refused to open. He debated whether it was worth getting up to get something to smash it.

Staavo sat back, running his hands through his hair. “Damn it, whatever. Enough about your flying machines. Tell me about electricity again. How do you get it?”

“No. You still haven’t answered my question. How often do lairs spawn?”

“A few dozen a month,” Staavo snapped. “Happy?”

“No. A few dozen a month in what area? On the continent? On the planet?”

“The continent. On the surface, anyway. It’s not like there’s many people willing to search the depths. It’s dangerous down there. Now, the electricity?”

“We make it in power plants. They burn coal or other stuff to make steam, then that turns a generator. That’s like an engine, but in reverse. That makes the electricity. Then, we send it down metal wires to where it needs to go.”

“How does the generator make it?”

“I don’t know, magnets?”

Staavo shook his head. “That’s not helpful. I don’t even know what that word means. What is a…magnet?”

Rain considered. “You must have them, I just don’t know the word. They’re like, really clingy rocks.”

“Don’t you start with that again. You have the strangest descriptions for things I’ve ever heard. I still don’t believe you about the cat snakes.”

“Ferrets, and why are we even talking about them again? For that matter, how did we even get there in the first place?”

“It isn’t a real animal, and you know it.”

“Neither is a lago, then.”

“You’ve seen a lago, you said it yourself. For all I know, you’re making these…ferrets up completely.”

Jamus smiled and ate another pistachio. You couldn’t pay for this kind of entertainment.
