Spring (0/10) (+)

Boost S.Regen by 18% for all entities

Range: 1.8 meters

Cost: 1 mp/hr

Summer (0/10) (+)

Boost H.Regen by 18% for all entities

Range: 1.8 meters

Cost: 1 mp/hr

Tier 1

Velocity (10/10)

180.00% boost to speed for all entities

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 10 mp/s

Detection (10/10)

Sense selected items of interest

Not occluded by mundane materials

Resolution: 2.07 mm

Range: 18 meters

Cost: 10 mp/s

Energy Well (0/10)

Convert mana to stamina and transfer to all entities within range, including user

Transfer Rate: 1.8 sp/s

Efficiency: 20%

Range: 1.8 meters

Requires 5 ranks in Spring

Life Well (0/10)

Convert mana to health and transfer to all entities within range, including user

Transfer Rate: 1.8 hp/s

Efficiency: 20%

Range: 1.8 meters

Requires 5 ranks in Summer

Essence Well (10/10)

Transfer mana to all entities within range, including user

Transfer Rate: 18 mp/s

Efficiency: 20%

Range: 18 meters

Tier 2

Acuity (0/10) (+)

18% boost to physical senses for all entities

Range: 1.8 meters

Cost: 1 mp/s

Requires 10 ranks in Detection

Requires 10 ranks in Essence Well

Precision (0/10)

18% boost to physical precision for all entities

Range: 1.8 meters

Cost: 1 mp/s

Requires 10 ranks in Velocity

Requires 10 ranks in Energy Well

Tier 3

Empire of Brawn (0/10)

Boost Strength by 18 for all entities

Range: 1.8 meters

Cost: 20 mp/s

Requires 50 ranks in Utility Auras

Requires 10 ranks in Life Well

Empire of Grit (0/10)

Boost Endurance by 18 for all entities

Range: 1.8 meters

Cost: 20 mp/s

Requires 50 ranks in Utility Auras

Requires 10 ranks in Energy Well

Empire of Will (0/10) (+)

Boost Focus by 18 for all entities

Range: 1.8 meters

Cost: 20 mp/s

Requires 50 ranks in Utility Auras

Requires 10 ranks in Essence Well

Tier 4

Locked

Already have five points in here, unfortunately. I want all of the things! This is the best tree out of everything, and not just because Purify is the best spell ever.

Still, if I have one free point to play with, it could go here. Empire of Will sounds like the obvious choice at first, but it wouldn’t actually help me directly. I can only use one aura at a time, and focus is kinda wasted on auras anyway. If I’m in a party, it would let me boost all the other mages quite a bit though. That could be the key to getting past level 18. If I can’t help myself kill a blue, I can help someone else help me do it. Thank you for helping us help you help us all…

Portal is such a great game. Now I want cake, damn it.

Are there any other options in here? I could take Acuity… Hardly seems important at the moment, unless I want to make cake taste even more amazing. What would boosting my senses that much even do? Would an Acuity Nova make everyone black out from the massive overload of sensation? Boosting everything by a thousand percent seems like a Bad Thing. Existence would be pain, every breeze a hurricane, every vibration a jackhammer to the skull. It can’t work like that, can it?

Questions, questions.

Spring and Summer are options. Summer seems like it would be a decent choice. I have no way of healing myself without that. Still, it would be slow. I can just buy scrolls or something, or always hang out with a real healer like Ameliah. It’s a good skill, but not last-free-skill-point-maybe-forever good.

As he finished with the utility auras, he noticed that Ameliah was back, so he paused to fill up a small pot with water and set it over the fire to boil. Tallheart was making the pan for Jamus, so it looked like breakfast would be soon. Getting the coffee ready seemed like a good idea.

“What’s that for?” Ameliah asked as he placed the pan on the frame over the fire.

“I’m making coffee. Have you ever had it?”

Ameliah shook her head. “Can’t say that I have. Isn’t it expensive?”

“Yup,” Rain said. “Three Tel for this tiny packet.” He pulled it out of a pocket to show her. “Probably more. I think I got a really good deal. Still, there’s barely enough for a cup or two. You’re welcome to try some once it’s ready, but we’re going to have to split it four ways. There won’t be much.”

Ameliah shrugged. “I’ll try it. You’ve had it before?”

“Every day for like ten years. It was much cheaper where I come from. You could get a huge bag of beans for the equivalent of a few copper if you bought the cheap stuff.”

“Well, if you say it’s good, it must be good.”

“It is,” Rain said, smiling. “It’s a bit of an acquired taste for some, though. It’s a bit bitter. Anyway, I’m working on sorting through all my skill options. Poke me or something when the water starts boiling.” He tucked the packet back into his cloak.

“Do you want my opinion on anything?” Ameliah asked.

“Yeah, I’d like that,” Rain said. “I need to narrow it down first, though. I’ll ask for everyone’s input after breakfast, then I’m going into the city to talk to Jamus’s scholar friend.”

Ameliah nodded. “I’ll see if there are any cups in the supplies.”

Rain smiled wistfully as he turned his attention back to his skills. Hah, I never thought I’d actually start to like camping. If my dad could see me now… I should tell them about the incident with the bear. That would make a good story to have over breakfast. Anyway, I should hurry up. The water will boil soon. Aura Metamagic is next.

Aura Metamagic

Tier 0

Extend Aura (10/10)

Extend aura range by 10 meters

Multiply aura mana cost by 300%

Amplify Aura (10/10)

Multiply aura intensity by 200%

Multiply aura mana cost by 300%

Tier 1

Aura Focus (10/10)

Focus on an aura to boost its output

Multiply aura intensity by 300%

Multiply aura range by 300%

Multiply aura mana cost by 300%

User loses all external senses while focusing

Aura Synergy (10/10)

Increase all aura output by 1.0% for each rank in any aura

Effective boost: 80.0%

Tier 2

Aura IFF (10/10)

User may exempt entities from direct aura effects at will

Selected entities receive 0.0% aura output

Prismatic Intent (0/10)

User may maintain 2 auras simultaneously

Requires 10 ranks in Aura Synergy

Requires 1 rank in 15 different auras

Tier 3

Aura Compression (0/10) (+)

Compress aura output, reducing range to boost intensity

Increase intensity by 0.2% per meter of compression

Requires 50 ranks in Aura Metamagic

Requires 10 ranks in Aura IFF

Tier 4

Locked

Nothing new, nothing hidden, just the same old skill sitting there teasing me. Prismatic Intent would change everything! The requirement of fifteen auras is crazy. I’ve already got five skills in here, but I could save a point for it and get it right at 25.

Do I want to do that though? I can’t forget that I need to get past level 18 first. Aura Compression would help quite a bit with that. If that 0.2% goes to 2% at rank 10, then that’s a 200% boost to a Nova if I bring the range down. And for free, too. Problem is that it would kill me. I’ve only got 1 skill point for now. If I take Compression, I’m stuck with Immolate and Refrigerate. If I take Shroud, everything will be weaker, but I’ll probably be able to use it freely. I guess it depends on how strong of a ring Tallheart can make me from the crown. If I can deal with the mageburn, then Compression sounds like a great pick.

As an aside, I need to figure out what my limit is in terms of equipment. The armor doesn’t feel oppressive anymore, meaning I got used to it, but I can’t just keep stacking enchantments forever. At some point, soulstrain will kick in. The degree to which I can boost my stats is going to have a big impact on which skill is the best pick…

Anyway, one more tree to look at. There’s a new skill in there, too. I’ve had days to think about Suppression and Discombobulate, but I only unlocked tier-three Magical Utility last night. It looked good at a glance, but I was too tired to really think about it.

Magical Utility

Tier 0

Intrinsic Clarity (10/10)

Multiply base mana regeneration by 300%

Intrinsic Focus (10/10)

Multiply base mana by 300%

Tier 1

Mana Manipulation (5/10) Exp: 1040/2200

Allows internal control of mana

Allows expulsion of mana to environment

Allows transfer of mana to and from capacitive items with direct contact

Maximum transfer rate 600.0 mp/s (fcs)

Channel Mastery (10/10)

Allows intuitive control of channeled skill intensity

Minimum skill intensity: 0%

Maximum skill intensity: 200%

Skill mana cost modified by intensity adjustment

Overcharge (0/10) (+)

Delay cast of an immediate spell to charge it with mana

Charge time reduced by mana manipulation

Boost effect intensity by up to 120%

Maximum mana charge 120%

Requires 5 ranks in Intrinsic Focus

Tier 2

Magical Synergy (10/10)

Enables limited synergistic cross-coupling of magical attributes

25.0% of Focus contributes to M.Regen

25.0% of Clarity contributes to Mana

Tier 3

Mana Sight (0/10)

Passively perceive mana within the environment

Resolution is 10% of that of mundane optical sight

Activate to perceive mana within entities

Active Cost: 10 mp/s

Compatible with other sensory skills at 10% resolution while activated

Requires 10 ranks in Mana Manipulation

Tier 4

Locked

Again, I’ve already got 5 skills in here, but I could use my extra point on Mana Sight if I wanted to. It looks like it is going to be really useful in the future. Magical Utility is right. The passive alone is great, but the active would let me guess how strong a mage is, just by looking at them. That’s hard to pass up. It only requires 10 ranks in Mana Manipulation, too, which shouldn’t be hard. Huh. I wonder why it has such an easy requirement? All the other tier-three skills had much steeper…

…Or did they? Now that I think about it, Mana Manipulation has a shitty exp ratio. Getting it to rank 10 would be stupidly difficult for anyone who isn’t a Dynamo. I’m betting lots of people take it to keep their equipment running, but very few people max it. There’s no real need to; the base transfer rate is already plenty for any practical use I can think of. That means that Mana Sight is probably really rare. Only high-level mages would be able to unlock it after a lifetime of using Mana Manipulation. Cool. I’m totally getting that once I can spare a point. Not right now though.

So. What do I want to do? I think it’s between Shroud and Aura Compression. It all depends on the equipment. If I can get to the point where I can use Immolate and Refrigerate freely without killing myself, then Compression is better. If not, Shroud all the way. I’ll see what the others think. For now, water’s boiling.

He left the pot on the fire for the moment as he needed to grind up the beans. Fortunately, he’d found a mortar and pestle last night with the supplies. Jamus had probably wanted it for grinding spices or something, but it would work well enough for coffee. He dumped the roasted beans out of their little packet into the stone bowl and started smashing at them with the pestle. He managed to reduce them to a coarse powder, though it took him longer than he’d anticipated.

“Is that what I think it is?” Jamus said, walking over with his brand new pan and a sack of potatoes.

Rain grinned. “If you think it’s coffee, then yes, it is.”

“Humm. Fancy. I haven’t had coffee in…wow. Ten years?” Jamus said. He set the pan near the fire and sat down to work on the potatoes. He started shredding them into a wooden bowl using something that looked like a cheese grater.

“Wait, where’d you get that?”

Jamus laughed. “You were right. Tallheart is a metal wizard.”

Tallheart and Ameliah joined them around the fire as Rain carefully removed the pot from the heat. He dumped out a little of the water, estimating how much he needed for the quantity of coffee that he had. Once he was satisfied, he dumped the grounds in and swirled them around. I wonder if the metal wizard can make a proper coffee pot?

“Coffee?” Tallheart asked, breathing in deeply. “Where did you find that?”

Rain shrugged. “Some random guy in the market was selling it. You’ve had it before?”

“Yes,” Tallheart said. “It grows in the southern tip of Bellost. I had not expected to find it here.” He watched as Rain swirled the darkening water. “You are doing that wrong.”

Rain rolled his eyes. “Hey, cut me some slack. I’m working with limited tools here. Besides, I’ve got a plan.” He waited for the coffee to brew, swirling it around occasionally. Ameliah returned with ceramic mugs, setting them down on the ground nearby. Perfect.

“Thanks, Ameliah.” He nodded to her, then carefully poured the still-brewing coffee into the mugs, grounds and all. He only had enough to fill each one half-way.

“This smells interesting,” Ameliah said, picking up one of the cups and sniffing at it. “How long do we have to wait?”

Rain shrugged. “It’s probably ready now. Might be a bit hot. Hang on one second. Time for a magic trick.” He took a deep breath and concentrated. “Coffee is supposed to be filtered, meaning that there shouldn’t be any grounds in these mugs. Therefore…Purify!”

The white light of the skill filled the clearing, swirling as it diffused through the liquid inside the mugs. He gave it a few seconds, then canceled the skill. He picked up one of the mugs and peered into it. The grounds had disappeared.

Jamus laughed. “Well, I suppose that’s one way to do it.” He picked up one of the mugs. “Now, if only I had some cream and sugar.”

Rain glared at him in mock outrage. “We are no longer friends. Coffee is meant to be taken black, as nature intended.”

“Too bitter,” Jamus said, blowing on his mug. “Still, I thank you. This is a nice treat.”

Tallheart picked up a mug and took a deliberate sip. He closed his eyes and smiled. Rain blinked. Wow. I think that’s the happiest I’ve ever seen him. The coffee was worth every Tel.

He picked up his own mug, waiting for it to cool a bit. He wasn’t about to risk his tongue, no matter how good it smelled. Ameliah sniffed at hers curiously, then took a sip. She immediately made a face.

She looked at him accusingly. “Thanks, I hate it.”

Rain laughed. “It grows on you. If I ever get any more, you can try it with some cream I guess. I draw the line there, though. Adding sugar is just wrong.”

He took a tiny sip from his mug. Still too hot, and a bit weak, but I’ll take it. Oh coffee, how I’ve missed you. He smiled, looking around at the others. “While we wait for the potatoes, let me tell you about the time my dad and I went camping. I was about eight years old. My mom was away for the week, so we decided…”

