Yuwen opened her mouth to respond hotly, and then she caught Mires' emotions and how much he was going to regret not seeing her like that anymore. She took several breaths and put a hand on Ren's as she understood what he did for her.

“He has to suffer in silence from now on.” Ren said. “Your task is done, as is that part of your life.”

Yuwen nodded slightly. “Thank you, My King.”

“Ren.” Artemis said from nearby, and Ren stepped out of the carriage. “You need to see this.”

“How bad is it?” Ren asked as the carriage he was just in emptied of people and they all followed him.

“You're not going to be happy about it.” Artemis said and led him down the caravan.

“Is there anyone still on their knees?” Ren asked.

“No, Tatya and Kenkoth took care of them.” Artemis said and pointed at the middle carriage. “The problem is this.”

“It's a giant boar.” Ren said and looked at the large creature attached to the front of the carriage. “What's the... no.” He said and stepped close. He couldn't feel any emotions from it. “No.”

“It's dead.” Tatya said as she came over to them and the rest of the caravan's occupants joined them. “The others survived what you did, but this one...”

“No, I... I didn't mean to...”

“I'm surprised it was the only one that died of fright, actually.” Kenkoth said. “That was...”

“...an awesome display of power.” Jirqym said. “I've never seen anyone cause something to die from giving up its life for them.”

Ren closed his eyes and pet the carcass. “It gave up its life for me.”

“It's never happened before.” Jirqym said. “We should honor its sacrifice appropriately.”

“How?” Ren asked. “How would we honor this?”

“We eat it, of course.” Kenkoth said, and Ren turned and looked at him with wide eyes. “It gave up its essence to feed you. The least we can do is fulfill its dying wish.”

“We need to stop and rest anyway.” Tatya said. “We can let the other boars rest while we eat dinner.”

Ren closed his eyes and sighed. “I knew my love of bacon would come to haunt me one day.”

“Bacon? What's that?” Tatya asked.

“It's the most delicious...” Ren started to say and stopped. “I don't know if I can eat it now.”

Kenkoth slapped him on the shoulder. “It's all right. The boar should provide enough meat to feed everyone in the caravan easily.” He said. “I'm not sure how this carriage can continue on without a giant boar to haul it, though.”

Ren sighed and opened his eyes, then turned to face everyone. “I'll pull the carriage myself.”

“No, you won't.” Tatya said. “You are not a common pack animal.”

“What else can I do except take its place?” Ren asked. “I wish I could replace it, but...”

System and Administration Request

Create Anything Ability: Generating one (1) Giant Boar Pack Animal (#GBPA0026)

Ren's mouth dropped open in shock at the popup, then it faded as a giant boar appeared right behind everyone. It was even harnessed and set up for hauling a carriage. Everyone felt his shock and caught their breath.

“What... what is it?” Tatya asked.

“Look behind you!” Teepo chittered in delight and pointed. Everyone turned around and saw another giant boar, identical to the others, and their shock was just as profound as Ren's.

“Wh-what... what is this?” Someone asked, dumbfounded.

“He...” Jirqym clamped his mouth shut and didn't say anything else, and was glad that no one had noticed he had tried to answer the completely ridiculous question with a ridiculous and true answer.

“It's a miracle!” The driver of the carriage with the dead giant boar attached said. “Quick! Someone help me with it!”

Four other drivers quickly switched out the dead giant boar with the new one, and they dragged the dead one to the side of the road and stripped it of its harness and equipment. They put the old equipment on the new giant boar and congratulated each other for doing it so quickly, then stored the spare harness.

“Well, now you don't have to feel so guilty over this.” Kenkoth said and clapped Ren on the shoulder again, then he waved to several people. They came over to the giant boar and started to cut it up. Ren didn't say a word as he was led back to Tatya's carriage by Artemis, while everything was set up for the caravan members to have a meal.
