He dropped through an opening burned into the ground and clawed a long gash along the right walls so he could keep pumping more tides through the building. Doing so, he briefly suffered a lapse in concentration, and the section of the upper floors crashed inward. He grunted and halted in place. He focused more on keeping the building together. “Godsdamn it! Godsdamn Multi-Tasking! Come on!”

He poured his anger into his Multi-Tasking Skill using his Feat and felt his mind surge from one thought to another, working much faster than normally.

Multi-Tasking 40 > 41

He reached blindly upward using his mana hydra, but Helix tutted at him. "You're still swinging it like a limb. Use it with flexibility. Thread your field through from floor to floor."

"Bit hard to do when I'm trying to focus on eight different things at once," Shiv snapped mentally. "You could offer some help."

"Why do you think most of the children in this building are still alive, Insul?" Helix asked with a faint sneer in his voice. "Who do you think is keeping their blood flowing, keeping their organs working, keeping their brains functional? With the fire this intense and the building filled with Initiates and a few Adepts, most of whom lack any kind of respectable Magical Resistance or Toughness, a rather suspicious amount of survivors still remain, wouldn't you say?"

Instead of feeling pleased, Shiv simply clenched his jaw tighter. "So, any chance you're going to heal them completely?"

"That would deplete the point of this exercise."

"Exercise?!" Shiv nearly shouted.

"It is indeed a training opportunity. You're observing a great many burns and crystalizing flame-based wounds you can study later. And on top of that, you need more focus: you're going in the wrong direction."

"Fuck!" Shiv hissed.

He stopped talking to Helix and focused more on his Pyromancy. A section of the space behind him caved in, and Shiv tried to recover as a few of his Overflow Tides snaked in that direction of the instability. But then another section of the building began groaning, and he had to redirect his tides once more.

It's like trying to hold a cup of shattered glass together, Shiv snarled to himself. Just keeps breaking over and over again. Another three vitality signatures winked out, and that cut his complaining short.

He was about to advance toward where the Pyromancy mana seemed the thickest. But then a massive blast enveloped the bottom of the dorm. A surging beam of flame shot through the wall directly to Shiv's left, and it came so fast and abruptly that he barely responded in time. He swung his arm up on reflex, and some of his Innate Tides surged upward at an angle. He backhanded a blast away from him and tore through the supports on his left, leaving a molten chasm where steel and concrete used to exist.

Frictionless Vector 92 > 93

Inertial Overdrive 180 > 181

Pyromancy 18 > 19

Multi-Tasking 41 > 42

That was deliberate, Shiv realized instantly. The bastard responsible is still here.

The sudden ambush, paired with Shiv's split focus caused another cascading collapse. He felt more deaths around him. His Vitaemancy tasted every demise like it was a hit of coldness splashing upon his being, and Shiv's frustration reached new heights. A mesh of pain pulsated within his skull, and his Multi-Tasking was driven to the limit.

The Deathless moved in the direction of the attack now, and he saw a glistening signature. Their life was strong and unaffected by the flame. There was also another signature not far away from them. It seemed like the stronger one was chasing the weaker, and they were both heading in Shiv's direction. He felt a tugging sensation in his gut. Whoever these two signatures were, they were likely connected to the fire.

Shiv didn't know the layout of the building. He didn't care either way. Unlike the other students, he barreled through walls, ripped through metal as if it was tissue, and when he blasted through a final threshold of heat-weakened cement, Shiv laid eyes on the culprit behind the mass murder for the first time.
