Alden nodded. “Yeah, it was downstairs with my name on it, but I didn’t order it.”


Lexi was in the corner of the living room, emptying the bin on the robot vacuum. Alden had bought it for his rugs and so he would know if Gorgon might like one after all.


I wondered why the bin was always empty.


He should have suspected Lexi.


Haoyu and Lute were both much nicer, and they would help with things if you asked. But they didn’t seem to be natural chore doers unless the chore was related to slow cookers or musical instruments. And they both thought trashcans were containers that could hold an unlimited quantity if you just kept smashing the garbage down.


“Thanks for emptying it,” he said.


Lexi grunted.


Lute looked over to Lexi. “It needs emptying?”


“How did you think it worked?” Alden asked.


“…like an incinerator?” Lute said. “Maybe a girl sent you the drink!”


“A girl?”


“Natalie! Or Hadiza!”


As the weekend approached, Lute seemed to be working himself up to ask Alden to ask the Rabbit girls if they wanted a tour guide again. That’s what Alden thought was going on anyway. Their names had been popping up unusually often over the past couple of days.


“I don’t think it was them,” Alden said slowly. “Natalie would’ve made it herself. And why would any of them send it anonymously? That doesn’t…wait, is it a thing?”


“Is what a thing?” Lute asked.


“Does sending someone an anonymous drink by drone mean something?”


“Why would it?”


“I don’t know!” Alden exclaimed. “Maybe it goes with your island mocktail habits? I just have to check. The other day I realized that I’d made some dude on the bus angry because I didn’t offer my seat to his son.”


“You’re going to manners hell,” said Lute, scraping at the bottom of his mug with his spoon.


“He couldn’t possibly have been younger than thirteen,” said Alden. “He could’ve been my age. Why would it occur to me to offer another healthy teenager my seat? He was as tall as me!”


“What does that have to do with anything?”


“You know how in old movies people say ‘strapping young men?’ This kid was strapping.”


<<Fucking again…>> Lexi muttered in Russian. “Did he have the non-Avowed tag?”


“Yes. And I looked it up after I realized I’d pissed off his scary father, and I finally found something about seating priority on Anesidora transport. But it’s not like it’s a rule or a law. And there aren’t signs on the buses. So how are people supposed to know that it’s completely different here from everywhere else?”


Lexi slapped the vacuum bin back down and stalked off. A second later, they heard his door slam.


“So, I guess he’s still mad at me,” Alden said into the silence.


Lute set aside his cup. “He’s so pissy about so many things, man. I really wouldn’t worry about it if I were you.”


Alden sighed. “I’m not. He can’t dim my free hot chocolate and post-spa glow too much. I just wish I hadn’t screwed up with him. I was actively trying not to.”


“Well…” said Lute. “Here’s something that made my day confusing but that I think will brighten yours. I called my boss—”


“Yes,” Alden said immediately. He had nearly mastered all of the signs for the wordchain, according to Lute, and now they just needed permission for the verbal part. “Did you set up the meeting? I will be so polite on the call. I promise. I’ll double-double check translations for my formal Artonan greetings and everything—”


“Slow down, language nerd. My boss…” Lute tilted his head. He lowered his voice. “At first, the call was normal. Then I told him about you, and he gave me an impassioned speech about the importance of choosing my ‘beholden ones’ wisely. But that was still normal for him.”


Alden raised an eyebrow at him. “I’m beholden to you?”


“Yes. Don’t forget you are from now on.” Lute snorted. “Then he looked you up to see if you were worthy…which I know for a fact I’ve got family members who’ve taught things to the sketchiest people in the world, so I wasn’t concerned about…and he got real odd. And then really excited. And all of the sudden it was like, ‘Oh, my dear young Lute, I was so concerned you were being taken advantage of by a scoundrel. But how your budding wisdom begins to flower! Truly, you have exceeded the limitations of youth and ignorance and allied yourself—”


Alden stared. Lute was doing an impression and everything. His hands were flapping around excitedly.


“‘—allied yourself with a heart whose luminous purity has been laid bare before the Mother herself!’”


“No, that’s not—”


“‘Tell him I shall inscribe his name on both my consciousnesses.’”


“Your boss is nuts!”


“‘Naturally, you may teach the bare luminous heart anything you desire!” Lute continued in dramatic voice. “Give him cookies. The Mother’s favored daughter hath seen his bare heart light! Let him have all of your time and give him my number!’”


“Okay we’re not really quoting anymore…” Alden could feel himself blushing.


It was the commendation. It had to be. But Lute’s boss was clearly an over-reactor.


Lute started snickering.


“So tell me, Alden, did the Artonans install the million megawatt spotlight in your heart? Or were you born with it?”


He looked so delighted.


“Oh, come on! I was so much nicer about your weird thing!”


“Please let me! I’ve got one more! Who is the Mother’s favored daughter? Why did you bare your spotlight heart to her?”


Alden’s hot chocolate was getting cold. That was fine. He could reheat it with his face.


“And does your light gently bathe the people you shine it on? Or is it more of a purifying fire that burns sinners to death?”


“Hold still,” said Alden. “I’ll shine it on you, and we’ll see if you get scorched.”


Still grinning, Lute walked over to him. “Sorry. It was just so funny. And it was a complete repeat of you getting unexpected information about me from your wizard.”


“He stopped giving me info when you asked him to,” Alden said.


“I do feel kind of guilty because I was going to use the chat with Parethat-uur to slip you info about Chainer.” Lute shrugged. “But now he seems sure that vetting you would be some kind of an insult? So you can ask your wizard about me, after all. Just tell me everything he says so that I can un-embarrass myself. Don’t think I knew about all the…stuff…before I took the class.”


“The prostration?”


“Shhhhhh.” Lute cringed.


A second later, though, he was staring at Alden curiously again. “I can’t imagine what would make my boss act like that.”


“It’s not a big deal.”


“He changed his tune within five seconds of looking up your name, so it’s a big deal to him. Admittedly it might not be to other people. He’s abnormal. But you being flash-approved like that was abnormally abnormal. And saying I wanted to tutor you made me look really good. I don’t care too much about that, but…it’s not a bad thing for sure. He directly ordered me to instruct you properly on the rules for—”


“I’m so sorry. You don’t have to do—”


“No, it’s cool,” Lute said. “I was going to tutor you anyway, and I expected this order to go along with it even before he decided you had glowing organs. What I meant was, direct orders from Parethat-uur take precedence over my ass tattoo. Aulia can’t make the family brand overwrite our actual class duties no matter how much she’d like to. Can’t stiff the big ‘C’ Contract with a littler contract, you know? And you just became a duty. So, we’ll grab a privacy booth somewhere and bill my boss for it. I can teach you the whole wordchain there and then I can teach you why wordchains aren’t freely available in the first place.”


Alden blinked. That would be laying a small but annoying mystery to rest for good.


“What about this weekend?” Lute asked. “Are you busy?”


“No. Tomorrow morning I’ve got an appointment with my trainer, but I’ll be done at ten.”


“Then I’ll schedule it and let you know. And…on Sunday do you think maybe your intake friends might want to go somewhere? Like we did last Sunday?”


I was actually right. Not that Lute hadn’t been pretty obvious.


“Where?”


“I can find something!”


******


Haoyu came back to the room with plates full of sausage dogs and a story about a girl who’d been called to the Triplanets for an acting role in a television show. The bean stew was vegan, and to top it off, Alden had pulled all of his containers of miscellaneous cafeteria leftovers out of the fridge.


Lexi was pried from his room by Haoyu and the smell of food. A moment later, they were all sitting down at the kitchen table to eat everything in sight.


“You guys are like animals after your hero class,” Lute observed.


Alden was too busy chewing to disagree or point out that Lute ate like an animal himself ninety percent of the time.


The exercise they were getting was one thing, but the pricey recovery potion he and Haoyu had been inhaling seemed to accelerate appetite on top of it. Alden had been so hungry on Wednesday night it had woken him up. He’d actually gotten out of bed, ordered groceries, and made a pile of burritos for himself downstairs in the community kitchen so that he wouldn’t bother his roommates.


The last burrito was on the table now, in fact, waiting to be consumed.


“I’ve grown three centimeters this year,” said Haoyu. “I’m trying for at least one more. Lexi, pass me Alden’s spicy Chicago pickles.”


“Giardiniera was made for sausage dogs,” Alden said after he’d swallowed. “You should try it, too, Lexi.”


Lexi glanced at him then took a cauliflower chunk.


Baby steps.


Haoyu was piling giardiniera on top of his second bun. “Hey, why don’t you ever play for us?”


Lute didn’t seem to realize the question was for him until nobody else answered.


“You want me to play the harp for you?”


“The big one. We moved it for you. You only ever practice on the electric one with the headphones.”


“That’s so that I don’t bother you all,” said Lute. “I only play louder pieces on Angela when you’re out.”


“I haven’t heard you play since that talent show at school.”


“That was two years ago.” Lute looked uncomfortable suddenly.


Haoyu’s own face was unreadable. “After you were selected, everyone was saying you’d probably stop,”he said. “When I heard you came to the music program instead, I thought it was good that you weren’t going to quit.”


Lute stared down at his plate for a second then looked back up. “Yeah. I’ll play for you. If Lexi doesn’t mind.”


“Why would I mind?”


“You want the apartment to be silent ninety percent of the time.”


Lexi grunted. “I knew you were a harpist when I asked you to stay here. My parents are dancers. I was a dancer until I quit to spend more time with Writher. I like music.”


“Okay then.” Lute stood. “Angela has been in the mood for rock and roll lately.”


******


Alden had always been an enjoyer of music but not a connoisseur. He’d heard Lute play at the funeral and he’d thought, “That sounds really nice. And he’s so snobby he’s using magic to make the other players better. He’s probably good.”


He’d been mistaken. Lute Velra was extraordinary.


Alden didn’t have to be a connoisseur of harpists to see that Lute’s fingers moved like they owned the strings. He was as fast or delicate or passionate as the piece needed him to be. He played arrangements of popular songs, classical pieces, and folk music like they were all equally exciting.


Sitting in a dorm room in comfy clothes, stuffing your face while an Avowed performed a private concert on an instrument that cost more than most cars was an awesome way to end a week.


And then, of course, they all had to fool around on the harp themselves. You couldn’t see Lute having some kind of chemical reaction with it and not want to touch it, too. Alden’s fingers had been itching to pluck it even before Haoyu asked if it was all right for them to.


He tried to find the notes for “Twinkle Twinkle Little Star” and felt childishly pleased with himself when he did.


Later, as he was reading his spell book in bed and trying to make himself recall the meanings of the logograms before they were re-defined for him by the flash card style translations on his interface, his nightly text from Jeremy came in.


It was a picture of Victor’s nose and the word “cat.”


The last few updates had been similar. Alden was assuming that some day very soon there would be a picture of Boe’s left earlobe and the word “boy” or “jerkface.”


[Thanks for looking after him, Jeremy,] he texted.


[:)]


Next time he came to the island for a visit, Alden was going to plan a ridiculously Anesidoran activity for them to do so that Jeremy could have fun telling people back home about it. Maybe a superhuman sporting event of some kind. He hadn’t seen one yet, himself, but there were supposed to be some really wild ones.


He went to sleep after midnight, and the last thought he had before he closed his eyes was that he was lucky to be here.


Anesidora. Apex. Celena North.


Earth.


Lucky to be safe. Lucky to have found some people whose company he enjoyed.


I think I can make all of this work.
 


 Help support creative writers by finding and reading their stories on the original site.

The boy stood in front of a white door.


He didn’t know how long he’d been standing there, or where he had come from, or what he was supposed to do nex—


No, thought Alden.


He ran. 
 
*
