“You know, I was doing really well in Rescue before I tried to make that zip line work,” said Alden. “I was sure I could get it right, but so many sandbags hit the ground so hard that Kon asked me if I was actually getting a kick out of killing them.”


The distance was the problem. A stiff, too-short zip line was basically a vertical murder pole. And since they’d been told to work on managing their skill fatigue better, Alden couldn’t make one long enough. One that ran the length of the whole gym would burn his skill right out.


Distance being a problem for him had surprised him a little. A hundred feet of rope was a hundred feet of rope in his mind, and it shouldn’t matter whether it was coiled around his waist our extended out to poke and block. But Fragment had offered some insight after asking him about what he was trying and why he thought it wasn’t working.


“It’s always hard to give advice on a skill I haven’t seen before,” she’d said, sitting on one of the sandbags and hovering at the edge of the scaffolding beside him. “But this is a problem I know very well. Shaper works similarly. The first thing they taught me in school, and one of the first things I’m teaching your classmates, is that the strongest, most properly controlled shaping happens right here.”


She tucked her arms in and held her hands a few inches from her chest.


“This is where my telekinesis holds the most weight. It’s where the shapes form perfectly. The farther away from here I’m working, the sloppier I am and the weaker I am. Those two weakness don’t seem to apply to your skill, but the distance seems to matter to us in the same way. Shaping techniques fatigue more quickly when I’m farther away from the elemental ground I want to mold. I have to level my talents or get entirely new ones to keep expanding the distance.”


She’s tapped the end of his paracord. “My magic isn’t like a loosed arrow that flies on its own after I’ve shot. No matter how far away I’m working, it’s still connected here. To me. And I’m actively powering it.”


“I like Fragment,” Alden told Haoyu. “I’m really curious about what we’ll be doing in her sessions next week.”


They were through with the scaffolding for now. New rescue problems had been promised.


“Jeffy wants it to be a burning house,” said Haoyu.


“In the gym?”


“I told him there was a special facility at Li Jean for that kind of thing, and it was too early for them to be taking us on a field trip to another hero program’s campus. For some reason, he’s doubled down and now he wants gym to be a footrace to Li Jean followed by a burning house scenario.”


“He’s an Aqua Brute.”


“I know.”


“Maybe he has breathing magic that will help with smoke inhalation?” Alden suggested.


“You’re so optimistic. I’ve been working with him all week, and he just thinks walking through fire would be manly. Instructor Klein is starting to look like he needs a break every time Jeffy opens his mouth.”


Instructor Klein.


The last two offense sessions had gone much the same as the first, only Alden had failed to capture the Agility Brute using a wider variety of tools and methods.


As he’d surmised on the first day, Klein wasn’t a bad teacher. He was just… less enthusiastic about Alden than he was about most of the others.


Almost everyone else got occasional flashes of warmth and humor from the man. The ones who didn’t were a couple of whiny slackers by CNH standards. They would probably have been classified as above average in a normal school, but here the average level of effort was overachiever. And then above that, there were the people who were propelled by talent, energy, or pure unyielding grit to keep trying again and again.


Alden was beginning to see that quality in some unexpected places. Astrid, for example, was hyper and a little silly sometimes. So it was easy to think she wasn’t a serious person. But she had decided on that first day that she would never be able to lay a finger on Klein unless she surprised him somehow, so she’d fully committed to the idea of beating him by anticipating his next move.


She couldn’t actually anticipate his next move, though. She just guessed as well as she could and tried to arrive in the right location in the most unexpected way possible. That was why everyone in the group was now subject to being tackled, leapfrogged, thrown, or tripped in her attempts to create distractions for the version of Klein she had imagined in her latest where’s-he-gonna-be-next scenario.


She was acting within the rules Klein had given them by treating classmates as environmental features rather than people. Alden wasn’t Alden to her when she shoved him in front of another running student; he was a random object that might have inconvenienced the instructor for a second if everything had gone the way she’d thought it would.


Alden was fine with it. She was trying something. His own plans of attack were never so amazing that her randomly ruining them was a tragedy.


Some people were getting pissed about it, though, and even those in other groups were starting to joke about how insane she looked, repeatedly flying through the air to land on nothing and throwing punches and kicks at places where Instructor Klein wasn’t.


It had to hurt her feelings at least a little, but she kept going for it.


“I hope Astrid kicks him at least once before the end of the quarter,” he murmured.


“Jeffy?” Haoyu was wiping his face with a spare towel.


“No. Sorry. I went off on my own train of thought there.”


Maybe Klein thinks I’m one of the whiny slackers? Or just a slacker. Alden never complained about anything in gym, so being perceived as whiny seemed unlikely. It could be the fact that I’m still figuring out my tools. I have to pause a little to think about how to use them. Maybe he doesn’t like that and it makes him assume I’m slacking off?


He’d try not pausing at all next time and see how it went.


“Did you decide on what your object is going to be for the rest of the course yet?” Haoyu asked. “I want to know so I can plan how to beat you up when we finally get to duel.”


Tool selection was on the forefront of Alden’s mind, too.


“There are some things that will obviously work really well for protecting my body. My ponchos are so convenient. Personal protection, fairly re-shapeable so that I can use them for carrying or shielding others—”


“I like those. You hunker down, and I punch you over and over again. Eventually we find out who wins.”


Alden looked over at him. “I’m pretty sure the faculty won’t just let you hit a shielded poncho for half an hour and call it educational.”


“But it would be educational. At least the first time.”


“I’ll let you hit one of my shields outside of the gym as much as you want.”


“Really? That’s cool of you!”


Alden shrugged. “I don’t have to be standing behind it or anything. I can just hold it out to the side to make a target for you.”


“Still cool,” said Haoyu. “So you’ll probably use the poncho?”


“Well…the poncho is something I really like.” He planned to keep one with him from now on. “But I’m thinking it might be a waste to go with something so easy to use for gym class. If I just coat myself in magic so nothing can hit me, I’m not learning much, am I? Same thing with the gloves. I know how hands work pretty well. You grab a thing, preserve the glove, and heavy items get carried.”


“You could still be practicing with those for hand-to-hand combat though. Learning how to protect your lower body and face in the poncho. Learning how to move your arms to soak hits with the gloves.”


“Yeah, but let’s be honest. If I’m trading punches with you guys, I’m mostly learning that I shouldn’t be trading punches with you guys. Even if you didn’t use Boxing Gloves and you just stood there smiling at me…you’ve probably got a lot of your Stamina points sub-allocated into the Formation stuff, right?”


“Not just a lot of them. Most of them.” He stretched his legs out in front of him. “People sleep on Dura Brute. Nobody our age wants the Stamina subclass at all because they think it’s boring. And then if you’re going for durability with it, you pile most of your Stamina points into the Formation substat or the specific sub-substats. And doing that isn’t as powerful as the protective skills or spells you can choose…to start with. I’m slow. I don’t do anything that looks exciting. And people don’t always know this, but Formation is actually pretty heavy on the mind-body front, which means the System makes me grow into the points more slowly, a little like it does for more traditional Processing stuff.”


“It works like that?”


“My parents say it’s better to think of Formation as ‘resistance to unwanted bodily deformation.’ So the ‘unwanted’ bit of it…it’s as if I’m gradually getting a stronger mental handle on what my body is supposed to be. It feels good. But it takes forever.” He paused. “I think I’m almost the opposite of a Morph Brute in some ways. I should ask Snake some questions about how fully developed Morph feels to him and compare it to how my parents talk about their powers.”


“That’s awesome, Haoyu.”


Haoyu grinned. “I think so. This is how you eventually get straight-up bulletproof without having to use spells or skills to do it. But it takes a lot of points to go that far. The A-rank is a little concerning for me, to be honest. My parents say Dura will still work great for me if I apply myself, so I’m trusting them.”


“You never wanted to be something else?”


“Oh, I wanted to be every class at some point. I grew into appreciating Dura when we started having more serious discussions about what would happen when I was chosen. My parents tried to be neutral about all the classes. A lot of people aren’t like that, so I’m lucky.” He smiled toward the tiny cauldron in front of them. “And no. You wouldn’t enjoy punching me. I might not be fast and flashy, but your Rabbit fists would still break before my face did. Isn’t that great?”


Alden laughed. “That’s what I thought. To finish answering your question, I’m probably going to choose something more complicated than the poncho or the gloves for gym. I don’t feel like the gloves give me enough chances to explore unusual skill uses, and if I have the poncho, I’ll just dominate at self-defense until my magic conks out. And that’s kind of self-explanatory, too. I want practice and faculty advice on a less intuitive tool, so it’ll probably be the paracord or some other kind of line or rope. If I’m reasonable.”


Haoyu looked intrigued. “What if you’re unreasonable?”


“A giant roll of wrapping paper,” Alden said.


“Ooo…you want to make stuff out of it?”


“I totally do.”


“Paper shield!”


“Paper swords,” said Alden. “Paper armor. Paper stretchers. Paper bags. Paper bombs.”


Haoyu looked confused.


“Well, I haven’t actually figured out how to make a paper bomb,” Alden confessed. “But I can set things on fire and preserve them, and I need to play with it at some point.”


“You should do it!”


“Can you imagine Instructor Klein’s face, though? If I just sat down on the floor every few minutes to cut or fold a new shape….the paracord is kind of that way already. I can’t imagine what the faculty would say if I showed up with scissors and took a timeout between each session to make a new attachment for my wrapping paper weapon.”


******


An alien films club was having a cookout beside Garden Hall when they arrived. Folding chairs stood in rows in front of an inflatable screen, and everyone was walking around with grilled sausages on buns.


“I can watch alien films,” said Haoyu, sniffing the air. “I don’t even care which aliens. I’m not picky.”


“Your slow cooker has beans in it.”


“Sausages go with beans.”


Alden left him to become a temporary club member. As he was about to walk into the building, a delivery notification arrived for him. Confused, he turned his head to follow the directional indicator on his interface. Then he stepped over to the drone waiting by the doors.


He leaned down to look at the name on the lid display. It said it was for him.


“I didn’t order anything.”


The lid popped open. Inside, there was a large paper cup from the student coffee shop. As if to confirm there’d been no mistake, his name was scrawled on the side in black marker.


He pried it open carefully and found hot chocolate. Coconut milk hot chocolate. He knew for a fact it would be delicious because he’d had one before. It was drinkable dessert.


Haoyu? Probably an apology for all the food pics when he was trying to do his homework.


Alden was already on the second floor and enjoying his third happy gulp when he suddenly wondered if it wasn’t from Haoyu.


This could be poisoned. Or potioned. It could be full of nanotrackers or something.


He looked down into the cup. He couldn’t imagine any reason for someone to go to all that trouble when there were easier ways.


He typed a message to his roommates.


[Alden: Did any of you guys send me a hot chocolate from the campus coffee shop?]


[Haoyu: No.]


[Lute: No. Should I?]


[Lexi: No.]


He shrugged and headed for their room. “If I die, tell the police it was poisoned mystery cocoa delivered by a drone,” he said as he walked in. “I’m halfway through and it’s good, so I’m just going to finish it off.”


“People sending you anonymous drinks?” Lute asked. He was leaning against the kitchen counter, eating something that was probably Haoyu’s bean stew out of a mug.


