“I know how it sounds, but it’s true.” Lexi frowned at the window as if it had tried to argue with him. “There are plenty of people who level their talents, grow their magic, and learn to control their bodies without the kind of training we do. If someone wanted to offer those Avowed a chance to put on a suit and find out where their limits are, it could help them a lot. They already know their own powers. They just need to practice handling themselves when they’re in trouble, get used to fighting through adrenaline and pain, and learn what kind of damage they can deal and receive in a safe environment.”

“The ballet company would be terrifying if they were all trained in combat,” Haoyu mused.

Lexi’s glare turned more glarey.

“I’m agreeing with you, not being funny. A few of them of them basically have the same abilities a superhero would have, don’t they? They just focus on putting them to prettier uses.”

“Yes. And that’s why I’d be fine with sacrificing some of my practice for people who would benefit more. But they’d better not cut all of our gym time and give it to nevlev airheads who just want a selfie in our suits! And if they cut our time, they should cut the S’s down, too. Superlatives is still getting full club hours and all of those volunteers…it’s getting annoying.”

“Superlatives had some famous alumni show up at their last meeting,” Haoyu informed Alden and Lute. “The S’s have been a little too excited—”

“Bragging.”

“Bragging as a result of being a little too excited about it.”

“S stands for special. Special. Super. Stupendous.” Lute was pointing at himself repeatedly.

“Esshole.”

“What an Anesidoran insult, Alden! I’m proud of you!”

“I taught him that,” Haoyu said.

“Guess what! Li Jean wants my sexy ‘S’ so bad they’re offering me automatic acceptance to their talent development program in January and my own private apartment.” He sipped on what was left of his soda while everyone else caught up to what he’d said.

“You applied to another school!?”

“They what?”

“Are you serious?”

“Of course I didn’t apply to a competitive fighting program at another school, Haoyu. Why would I? And if I was going to, I would have told you first.

“I heard someone knocking ‘Für Elise’ on our door this morning, and I dragged my fragile body across the apartment to see what they’d slid under the door. It was an acceptance letter. They used a courier instead of regular post. And when I turned up my hearing sensitivity, I heard that Scottish guy a few doors down saying he’d gotten one, too. So it’s not just me.”

“Finlay would be so uncomfortable knowing you can do that,” Alden said.

“I feel only a minimal amount of guilt given the number of hearers, sniffers, spy spells, and shoe pissers on this campus.”

“Can we see the letter?” Haoyu asked.

Lute hopped up from his chair and headed toward his room. He was soon back with the piece of paper Alden had seen him using to shade his face earlier, as well as a slim booklet that seemed to be blank except for a black logogram on the white cover that was being translated as “deservedly exclusive.”

Lute slapped both onto the table, and Lexi picked up the booklet. “Is this some of that ‘for your eyes only’ paper?”

“Yeah. The code to view it is in the letter. It’s just pictures of things like the training facilities, the rooms, and a list of all the perks students in their new, S-rank-only <<Elites>> program will receive.”

“What a subtle name,” said Alden.

“You know you go to a spa at a place with ‘North’ in the name twice, don’t you?” Lexi asked. “On Anesidora, North is basically a way of saying ‘Apex’ or—”

“I know that much!”

“What are the perks?” Haoyu asked. “Are they incredible?”

Lute took the brochure back from Lexi and read it to them in an unnecessarily dramatic voice.

Students who joined the Elites program would almost be entering a separate school that just happened to exist on Li Jean’s campus. They’d have their own exclusive residential floors, with all rooms cleaned and cared for by a Rabbit maid service. They’d dine in their own cafeteria for breakfast and supper. They wouldn’t be subject to the standard hero program course requirements; instead, private tutors and custom classes would ensure each student maximized their academic hours. They’d have gym every single day, either as part of a class or in the form of one-on-one time with a mentor.

Only select weekends would be free; most would be spent in special training intensives or organized recreation with the other Elites. Three years. No quarters off. Minimum requirement: progress indicative of the student’s ability to achieve an overall level of S12 by their graduation date.

Haoyu was grinning in disbelief by the time Lute finished rattling everything off. Alden’s surprise had been growing steadily ever since maid service had been mentioned. The faint tap of Writher’s chain twitching against a chair leg accompanied Lexi’s huff.

“That’s not a school,” said Haoyu. “What in Apex—”

“Oh, it’s so Apex,” Lute interjected.

“It’s not a school. It’s a pressure cooker. I thought our program was a little pressure cooker, but I was wrong. We are weak. Li Jean has designed a perfect emotional breakdown academy. I want to go there. Can I pretend to be Lute?”

“Go for it. I’ll loan you an eye patch.”

“It sounds easier than CNH in some ways,” said Alden. “Skipping core you don’t really need. The tutors. The—”

“Easy?” Haoyu asked. “Did you hear the minimum graduation requirement? Level 12 by the end of third year. Only it’s worse that that. It’s sufficient progress toward Level 12. What if you don’t hear a peep from the System for nine months? What if you’re at Level 10, a few weeks from graduation, just waiting for it to tell you you’ve hit a double…and it announces a single instead?

“They’re hiring those Rabbit cleaners to mop up the tears and puke.” He leaned over and let his cheek rest on the table while his brown eyes gazed at the brochure in Lute’s hand. “I want to gooooo.”

“You’re weird,” said Lute.

“Does it say how many students they’re taking for the inaugural class?” Lexi asked.

“No. Not in the letter either.”

“I wonder if my brother got a letter. If they’re targeting special S’s, they might have thought of Kon, but if the program is aiming specifically for people they think can meet the graduation requirement…”

“Or blow past it,” Haoyu said. “Anesidora’s first hyperbole program. Put S’s in, Rank 1’s come out. Why has no one thought of this before!?”

“Because that wouldn’t work,” Lute said.

“They invited Lute, and he’s not even interested.” Lexi was talking more to himself than the rest of them, judging by his distant tone. “Are they going to try to sweep up every early S around our age? Who else? Known levelers. All the best first year S’s at Celena North and Naya Din?”

“Hey. Is it even reasonable to put together a class full of people and demand that all of them pick up eleven levels in three years? Or less, since the point about the System not playing along is a good one.” Lute was asking Haoyu. “The checkpoints would have to be brutal. Something like…end of first year, if you haven’t gained four levels, you’re out?”

“They wouldn’t expel them from Li Jean. I’m sure they just drop them down from Elites into their regular hero program, so it’s not like it’s the end of the world,” Haoyu replied.

“That walk of shame away from Elites housing to join the plebeian students, though…” Lute smiled like he enjoyed imagining it.

Alden raised an eyebrow at him. “That has to be the first time the S-ranks in the largest leveling program on Apex have ever been called plebeian.”

“As an Elite myself, I’m allowed to call them that.”

“Five,” muttered Lexi. “I don’t think I could feel like I was on track in a program like that unless I earned five levels in the first year. That way it would only be six over the next two…it’s still crazy to know you have to do it.”

“It’s possible,” Haoyu said. “Most people do their fastest leveling in high school and college anyway. My mom did three, then five, then four in her first years after selection. My dad did four, four, two. So that’s close for him, and she would have made it. And that was without having all the perks the Elites are getting. Plus, if they gather a large enough, elite enough first class and then drop all of the under-performers into the main program instead of staying completely invested in them…”

“They could promise over-performers in the regular classes access to Elites, too.” Alden thought it sounded like the obvious thing for a program like that to do. “If you’re near the top of your group, maybe you move up. It’s going to change the whole S-rank experience at their school.”

“Goodbye, Van Nutmeg. We’ll miss you.”

“I thought you were volunteering to take my place?”

Haoyu sat up and stabbed another piece of meat petal with a fork. “It’s fine if Li Jean wants to pressure cook some S’s to see what happens. I really like school here so far. Some of our S’s leaving before I can beat them in duels would be sad, so I hope they don’t. But if they do…I’ll wish them well and then beat them in interschool events when they’re Elites. Simple.”

“Yes, simple,” said Alden. “I look forward to one day dueling Elite Marsha.”

“Elite Marsha sounds like a trading card.”

“It does.”

A-ranks waving signs in Max’s face, High Council members encouraging everyone to train, Li Jean promising extra gym time to the best of the S’s while Lexi talked about giving up his own to people like his parents—Alden wasn’t sure if it would all come together to change things he cared about or not. I think the right thing to do is not worry about any of it until it actually impacts my life?

He’d worry about Boe and Stuart. Healing. Choosing. Learning more about Bearer. Learning more about magic. It was enough without turning a bunch of gossip and news into imaginary future trouble.

“I don’t see how what Li Jean is doing is going to affect the three of us too much,” Lexi said. “Since we’re not invited, and Lute’s not leaving.”

“None of you are awed enough by me,” Lute complained. “You’re in the presence of an Elite.”

“A little while ago, I was making plans to prevent you from bashing your head if you fell out of your chair,” Alden told him. “Do you have more wordchains left to pay back?”

“Yes,” Lute said gloomily.

“Let me do a couple of physical ones for you later. That’s all right, isn’t it? It’s allowed? I shouldn’t take on anything mind-related, but if you’ve got My Body Becomes My Assistant or something?”

“No, you don’t—”

Haoyu raised his hand. “Me too!”

“You really don’t—”

“I can do a few,” Lexi offered.

“I’m fine.”

“You’re not fine.” Haoyu shook his head. “You two should have been here earlier. He’d fallen in the hall, and the vacuum was trying to eat him. Don’t worry. I took a picture.”

******

******
