“Hardly. I think it’s some sadistic punishment game. And that’s because he’s in a good mood!”
Teriarch jabbed a finger at Taletevirion, and the Unicorn gave everyone a bland look.
“Good? I nearly died, I’m out of magic, I’m losing my hearing every second those idiots keep cheering, I have a thousand patients…what about this is ‘good’? Do you know how many poor fish were killed by your insane Harpy Queen?”
Harpy Queen? Hethon and Sammial absorbed every word, and Magnolia glanced at them, but no one, not even she, was bothering with pure secrecy. Teriarch snapped back.
“Listen to him, Magnolia. Patients. He was running around treating animals all night long. And look—look!”
He grabbed Taletevirion’s cup and shoved it in Magnolia’s face. Xitegen reached for it.
“Ah, a drink. I’m parched—”
“Lemonade! Not even filled with liquor. He’s gone sober! Have you ever known him not to be day-drinking in the last twenty-six years you’ve known him?”
Teriarch shoved it back at Taletevirion. Magnolia Reinhart accepted the lemonade, and her brows shot up.
“It’s not even a tiny bit alcoholic. Is he sick? Did we get the right one?”
“Excuse me.”
Taletevirion grabbed his cup back and glared at them. Lord Xitegen opened his mouth—and Sammial got up, snatched a cup from a tray, and brought it to the [Lord], who gave him a relieved look, then began to drink.
Even Sammial was being a credit, or at least, more of a plus than a minus. Hethon saw Ressa scribbling furtively on a piece of autograph paper as Reynold grinned at her, then began taking breakfast orders. But he felt like…there was something more happening.
Not just because Taletevirion was sitting next to him. The Unicorn grabbed a paper menu and glanced at it.
“You’re going to want a brisket.”
“For breakfast? I could have something like…”
“Nope. You’re the heir of House Veltras or something something. I forget the titles. You and salads are going to have an interesting relationship from now on. Trust me; eat meat unless you want to start confronting your connection with nature.”
Ullim blinked in astonishment at Taletevirion giving the young [Lord] advice, and Hethon spluttered.
“But—meat? Isn’t that twice as bad?”
This was the most un-[Druid] thing he’d ever heard of until Taletevirion tapped the menu.
“Meat’s cooked and already dead. You’re a friend of plants; they don’t give two shits about the fleshy folk. To them, it’s all fertilizer. I’ll have the chicken. Which, by the way, my people eat.”
He bared his teeth at Hethon and then went back to watching Magnolia and Teriarch. The [Lady]’s guard was up, but her sleep-addled mind was turning over something the Dragon had said.
In the last 26 years you’ve known Taletevirion…her eyes snapped open suddenly.
How would he know that? He—he shouldn’t have known how long it was.
The [Lady] half-started out of her seat, and then she realized her arm was working. She lifted it out of her sling, and grabbed his arm.
“You—that—”
The old man winked one bright purple eye at her. He sat there, battered, tired, and…his eyes were shimmering.
“It took me a moment, but I…recovered something I’d misplaced. Funny, it wasn’t really that much in the grand scheme of things. But it feels quite important.”
He cleared his eyes as Ressa and Reynold spun, and Magnolia said nothing, her mouth open. Teriarch half-rose and made a show of harrumphing over the damaged carriage people were surrounding outside.
“And you broke the carriage again. Do you know how hard it is to repair? Let alone trying to run over the Goblin King—why don’t I just recreate an old Nerrhavian-style chariot and slap a few doors and a roof on that instead? I suppose that’s gauche again, but you have to admit, the woman had a sense of style. Let alone settling your mansion in the High Passes? What happened to teleportation spells? Put down a door instead of building a second one. Ah, well, I suppose someone has to claim the real estate—”
He was trying to get away, but she grabbed him with both her arms, and he froze up—then gingerly put one arm around her. Lord Xitegen looked between Teriarch and Magnolia, and his eyes spotted the Dragon’s heterochromia.
Xitegen started, then nearly stood up himself.
“Ah—Lord—sir—”
“Demsleth, please. I believe…I did promise we’d share a meal together, Lord Xitegen.”
The Dragon smiled as he patted Magnolia on the head with a hand that trembled. She was hiding her face against his arm, and Xitegen cleared his throat. Then he held out a hand.
“May I introduce myself again? Formally, sir? It’s a delight to meet Magnolia’s teacher at last. I’ve had the displeasure of meeting all of House Reinhart, but I always did wonder who you were.”
Teriarch frowned worriedly as he took Xitegen’s hand.
“Oh dear, was I that obvious?”
“Not at all. But I simply don’t see who she could have learned her admirable qualities from. Not her parents.”
Hethon’s and Sammial’s heads turned to Teriarch as Xitegen spoke, and the Dragon grimaced, his teeth flashing.
“Fair enough. Now, I believe I’m quite hungry. Did someone say ‘brisket’?”
He requested a menu, but he didn’t make Magnolia move. Presently, she let go of him and was briskly ordering her breakfast and asking Hethon and Sammial how they were without their lackadaisical father…and Hethon couldn’t explain what the feeling was. Because he didn’t even know quite what was happening. He never did.
But his heart was bursting with something like relief and joy—for other people. Hethon sat, nervously speaking and listening, open-mouthed with everyone as Lord Xitegen tried to play down his role as much as possible, while throwing credit towards everyone else, and Magnolia Reinhart did the same. When he looked over at the Unicorn and Dragon in disguise, he saw the two weary immortals touching glasses.
Basking in the sunlight.
 
——
 
People were already up and about in the early morning, but others slept in, having a different kind of conversation that took time. The same choice Kevin and Mrsha had been given, and not all chose the same way.
The Grand Design had to make the same offer to every being who’d come back to life, and to be fair, there weren’t that many of them. But there were a few edge cases.
<No, you would be one being.>
“With only one body.”
<Correct. In most cases, this would not be an issue, but in yours…>
“How much?”
<Excuse me?>
Student Rags was trading glances with Chieftain Rags, and they were nodding at each other. Student Rags put her fingers together.
“We’re prepared to take one individual of our choosing. Pyrite. That would be in exchange for one of us vanishing and us losing a second body. Which is clearly a downgrade.”
The Grand Design gazed from Rags to Rags.
<This isn’t a life for a life. It’s an offer.>
“Well, you could negotiate.”
<No. The answer is no, then.>
Student Rags stabbed a finger into the table, cutting the Grand Design off, and Chieftain Rags rose to her feet.
“I haven’t gained my class yet. And you said we had forever to decide. So, I request ‘forever’ to negotiate.”
<This isn’t a negotiation. I am the Grand Design of Isthekenous. You’ve clearly made up your minds.>
“Aha. so you’re not giving us a chance to fully decide. Which should include us at least floating negotiation terms.”
Student Rags folded her arms triumphantly, and the Grand Design of Isthekenous was very glad that another version of Nerul hadn’t escaped the [Palace of Fates]. That wasn’t even the biggest problem.
 
——
 
If you were going to offer this to alternate-reality people with souls from the [Palace of Fates], what about all the others? The Grand Design was delivering the offer to, well, everyone who qualified, and it was a bigger challenge than it had thought.
In fact, it got its first refusal from the two women it was interviewing about the possibility of soul fusion.
<Are you sure, Strategist Veine? You have forever to decide.>
“Quite sure.”
Both souls agreed instantly. The Grand Design inspected the ghost of the woman who had been [Strategist] Veine of Ailendamus and then the ghost of her that had been summoned by Admiral Dakelos’ Skill.
She’d been one of the souls eaten by Kasigna and, uh, ‘spat out’, as it were. Which reminded the Grand Design…
<Crimshaw.>
“What was that?”
Both Veines perked their ears up and reached for a notepad they didn’t have. The Grand Design resisted the urge to wipe that from their memories.
<Nothing. If this is in regards to your temporary absorption into the Goddess of Death, I can assure you that there are no lingering effects. No possibility of being controlled by her or degradation of your souls.>
Kasigna had left them remarkably intact. Foundational blocks to her being, just as Goddess Erin had observed. But Veine was insistent.
“If this woman is another version of myself—”
<An excellent copy, perfect, really.>
“—Then I still insist she has her own chance. I am myself. I died. I cede it to you, Miss Veine.”
Veine adjusted her spectacles and nodded to the ghost, who bowed to her.
“That’s very considerate, and with respect, I didn’t wish to ‘fuse’ with another self, no matter how flawless the transfer. I’d like to do it all myself, and I have some splendid prospects.”
“Indeed you do.”
<…You’re an undead ghost created by one skill and bound to a bodyguard Skill of Princess Seraphel in the middle of Baleros. You’re in the tunnels where the damn Minds used to live.>
“Another hint. I was positive it was that.”
“So was I. And that’s a [Princess] of Calanfer and a very fascinating Goblin Lord. Frankly, I can’t see how I’m not ideally placed for a lot of opportunities.”
The two Veines were altogether too confident about all this. The Grand Design gave up on giving them more chances.
<Time for you two to go, then, before you decide to spill more data.>
“Ah! Not just yet! I believe you said ‘forever’ was the length of time we had to decide.”
<Dead gods, not again. What could you possibly have to talk about?>
The original Strategist Veine had a smirk on her lips. She turned to her counterpart.
“Now, assuming this is a fair opportunity, I think it only right to import the knowledge I received from the lands of the dead. My sojourn was admittedly short and, ah, complicated, but—”
<THIS IS CHEATING. STOP IT.>
The Grand Design shouted at them, and both Veines smirked. The Skill Veine waved a hand at the Grand Design.
“It’s only a leg-up. Which one could argue is deserved, given the extraordinary circumstances. If we do have forever, could you provide some refreshments?”
“Very true. It’s only appropriate we have a small toast in honor of your lease on life. Something suitably fitting? I had the most wonderful drink when I turned twenty-three, on my birthday?”
The Grand Design grudgingly conjured the wine that Veine recalled and took an order for a treat they’d had in a dream. In this moment, the Grand Design truly did embody Apostle Pawn in his hour of despair.
Customer service was not a job that the Grand Design had ever felt it fulfilled. You never worked a day of a job you loved. But mostly—it was because all the people it tended to didn’t have the chance to talk back to it.
The Grand Design waited for the two [Strategists] to have their moment. Because it was deserved. Unfairness had occurred, and it…
It opened a little box as the two [Strategists] broke off discussing the future and peered at it. The Grand Design spoke only to itself.
<Ow.>
 
——
 
Well, it was sort of funny, you had to admit. The Grand Design could at least be in multiple places at once, so it metaphorically finished jogging around to check on one final individual.
The Necromancer Titan was long gone, and besides, it didn’t ‘count’ for the purposes of merging with Az’kerash, who was the original, but undead were another thing that the Grand Design had to reckon with.
Toren had a soul. Cognita likewise. It had debated giving them a heads up, just in case they were uncertain about the whole thing, but it had decided against. Not everything the Second Edition did was right.
So it just…watched without offering commentary at this next point. It could have done the entire ‘frozen discussion in time’ thing, but it wasn’t necessary in this edge case.
Also, the Grand Design really didn’t want to know if the two versions of the half-Elf it was observing would choose the…Ryoka method of multiple selves meeting. Which, according to her, only ended two ways.
Tolveilouka Ve’delina Merr would probably try both, just for fun. But the half-Elf, or rather, the undead that took the form of a half-Elf didn’t see much resemblance in the piece of flesh groping across the ground.
He was highly skeptical of it, though, which was why he’d been avoiding the piece for over twenty hours, rather than just interacting with it. He was speaking to it.
“You are such a convincing copy that I have to believe we have the same Master. No one else has that artistry or, mm, style. But I cannot believe you’re me, because I’d remember. Oh, there’s an edge case that you’re some fragment of me that was lost in battle and miraculously made it here after being in stasis all this time. But, heh, that’s too preposterous even for me.”
The bit of squirming flesh that had fallen off the Tolveilouka of the future after Kasigna killed him kept moving towards the half-Elf, who stepped back.
“Ah. Someone did destroy you. Again, I almost believe it. But I can’t. Still…what a quandary. You won’t make it another hour. But I really don’t trust this.”
He squatted down, thinking. If only he had a suitable vessel, he’d be able to prolong this piece of flesh, get answers. But the sole way without his master was to interface with it directly.
There were risks of…infection from that. Which was quite ironic for a being of Tolveilouka’s nature, he knew, but the soul could be corrupted, and he didn’t want to risk it. This stank of a trap, but it was too blatant and, again, too perfect.
He was dithering until a voice coughed in his head.
<It’s real.>
“…Excuse me?”
Tolveilouka jerked and whirled around, drawing his katana. He was more unnerved than anything—the voice repeated itself.
<It is real. An alternate version of you.>
That voice. Tolveilouka hadn’t heard it in…rattled, he halted. But the voice had given him certainty. Damn it—he paused, then reached down.
“If this is a damned trick, I’m killing that entire inn on princip—aaaagh!”
