He screamed, leapt back, and cut his hand off, which shocked the Grand Design. Tolveilouka stabbed his blade into the pile of flesh several times, but the mottled skin and meat was still resilient enough to squirm up the handle.
“Absolutely not! This is a trick!”
<It’s really not.>
“It is a trick! There is no way in any world, in any time, that I would ever serve that—that—”
Tolveilouka’s eyes were rupturing their blood vessels, and veins were standing out across his face in rage. He almost finished the memories left by his other self off, but he hesitated. Then he squatted down in his elegant Drathian-style kimono.
“…See here. You’re clearly from an addled future, which I can respect. You failed, and so have I. Ah, but you had more time with him than I. Hand over those memories.”
The dying remnant of the other Tolveilouka made a vague bubbling sound, and the half-Elf glared.
“Intertwined? Pah. There is no way she and he—”
The half-Elf wavered. His face screwed up and actually ballooned in visceral disgust so repulsed was he at the idea of what he was being told. His skin expanded, then popped.
Gross.
“It would never happen! I don’t care if they were ghosts! She—”
The problem was that Erin Solstice of this world had known the Putrid One. These memories were so abhorrent! And yet…Tolveilouka wavered. What would he do for a single new memory of the Putrid One? Let alone ten years of more, however bittersweet?
“If I take you into my memories, you will change me. I detest that woman and her tricks. I refuse. I will kill the Horns of Hammerad and take vengeance on her, Calanfer, the inn—why would I ever alter course?”
The piece of flesh was a dying memory. It really didn’t have the…brainspace for loquacious discourse. But it mustered the one argument it had. Tolveilouka leaned on his katana and closed his eyes.
“‘Do I love him more than I hate the world?’ Bah. He…never loved me even a hundredth as much.”
He spoke the quiet truth out loud, then clapped a hand over his mouth as if to hide what he’d said. The piece of flesh extruded a bit of itself upwards, and Tolveilouka’s face screwed up.
“Don’t tell me that. I don’t care if she had a thousand times his love. What?”
He listened.
“Merely a millionth? Hah! Hahahahahaha—”
The half-Elf began to giggle, then laugh. Then he threw back his head, his jaw unhinged, and his voice, his true voice, boomed across the mountains and scared everything away from him. Until it sounded like tears. Then the rotten behemoth snatched the piece of meat up and opened its mouth.
“I’ll be the judge of that.”
Tolveilouka swallowed the memories whole and then sat down, becoming the half-Elf once more. The Grand Design was satisfied, even if, objectively, Tolveilouka was disgusting. Even he thought so, sometimes. It left him in the sense of its main authority going elsewhere…a part of it was still watching, though Tolveilouka had no more levels, so it was not in him.
The half-Elf bowed his head, meditating and digesting a decade of experiences. What he made of it, not even the Grand Design could say. He sat there until a few Eater Goats wandered by and hesitated.
They sniffed him, circling the man. The famously voracious Eater Goats normally ate everything they saw. But none of them instantly took a bite out of this seemingly appetizing snack.
After a few minutes of sniffing him, one raised a leg and peed on his side. After a bunch of baahing, the oddly hesitant monsters seemed to have an argument.
Tolveilouka paid no attention to them, locked in absorbing the memories. At length, one of the Eater Goats was pushed forwards by the others, and after it was unable to move back into the throng, it gingerly licked him.
The Eater Goat stood there, smacking its mouth open and closed thoughtfully, then it baahed. The other goats watched their comrade take a few steps back, think, and then keel over.
Dead.
It came back as a zombie a few seconds later, and after they’d ripped it to pieces and tossed the remains over the cliffside, the goats paused. They hopped away, glancing back at the man.
…Six came back after an hour. Gloomily, they trotted over and opened their mouths.
An Eater Goat had to have principles, and this was food. It was a hard life in the High Passes—they began taking huge bites out of the half-Elf, who regenerated the wounds instantly. He still didn’t move.
After the second mouthful, the Eater Goats collapsed, some frothing at the mouth, others twitching. One just exploded. The others just got up as undead Ghoul-level Eater Goats and bounded down the mountain to devour the living.
So not a great change of state, really. The last goat lay, twitching, foaming at the mouth, for a good three hours. Then—it leapt to its feet, shook itself, admired its new, if disgusting, coat of flesh, and checked out its weird new body. It hopped away, uttering a braying roar.
Tolveilouka cracked one eye open a few minutes later and stared after the Eater Goat.
“What kind of monster is that?”
He’d never, ever seen something survive eating a chunk of him. Wyrms had lived to regret it—for a while. He’d seen a Hydra go under in five minutes. He stared at the Eater Goat variant bouncing off on its way. Then the half-Elf shrugged and went back to digesting the memories. He ground his teeth together.
“That arrogant bitch. I’m going to kill her twice.”
But he kept remembering.
 
——
 
It was the dead of night, past twelve o’clock and moving into the true darkness before dawn, and yet, people were still awake who weren’t undead horrors. But they weren’t honest men or women either.
A [Doorman] was hard at work today. Not the [Guardian of Portals]; he could sense her, though. A roaring young upstart with the stones to try and stop the Goblin King.
She hadn’t figured out how to hide what she was, though. Well, young folk didn’t think you needed to, and he’d had it on his mind to nip over and have a word once this all settled down. Now, you could be taken aback by an old fellow like him coming over to have a word unwarranted, so he was wavering on it, but it was rare to have a class like his and not be in the business.
The business of holding doors for his guests that was. He was having to open his reinforced, enchanted steel door a lot this night. Many guests. Far more than usual, and all of them welcome.
Time was, he’d only get a group of sixty people on his doorstep when things were going a bit bad, as it were, and he’d have to let them know they weren’t welcome. Then you held the door come hell or high water.
That was what it meant to be a [Doorman] for the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. However, tonight, the headquarters of the Brothers in Invrisil had thrown open their doors, and all were welcome.
The drinks were even free. It was a celebration, even if no one was cheering. The [Doorman], who was sixty-eight years old, had a small sherry in hand. He hadn’t sipped it much; he got to that when he wasn’t on duty.
But the rest of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings were pouring drinks, rolling dice for acceptable sums, drinking, eating, and chatting away with the other gangs of Invrisil. The Sisters of Chell, Paleface Street, Parade, the Softfoot Collective, you name it, were all guests of honor here. Even groups like the Vanishers were present.
They never gathered like this—unless it was some big event like a Face’s funeral, a peace meeting, or a major opportunity. Or a party, in which case you got drunk on someone else’s gold and hoped no one started a fight.
The Brothers were considered good for this kind of thing because they were famously trustworthy. No one was going to a party with Parade, the gang of [Assassins] who dressed like [Fools], for instance, unless they had a deathwish or had brought lots of backup and extra blades. But the Brothers?
They were in a fine mood and topping up glasses with the good, cheap stuff. After all, they had a lot to celebrate.
The Order of Solstice. They hadn’t been featured prominently in the news, but word had gotten around to interested parties, like the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings, and the entire Goblin King affair had started at the inn, after all.
The [Knights] had definitely been fighting. Who or what was unclear, but they’d been spotted in Liscor, alive, and that was the celebration, you see.
They were alive. None of them killed. It might seem a triviality to other people, but to the Brothers who knew The Wandering Inn—this was cause for huge celebrations.
The Goblin King had appeared. None of the [Knights], especially not Ser Normen, were dead.
Party your heart out.
With that said…what had happened at the inn? No one could say; there was a spy lockdown for the usual sources, and so speculation and rumors were rife.
“I heard there was chaos right before it went down. Big brawl with Pallass—then they were all evacuated before the Goblin King showed up. Seems to me the inn knew he was coming.”
“The inn knew…that he was awakening? Either that or he was around and no one sensed him. Hard to imagine either way.”
A few scarred criminals were arguing with the sophistication of Wilovan and Ratici. The head of the local charter of the Softfoot Collective sank his glowing cigar butt in his drink, then took a swig, to the mystification of some of his audience who didn’t know him.
“Listen, it’s simple, y’see. The Goblin King pings all [Dangersenses] and royal warnings the moment he appears. Matter o’ history, that. So, why’n fuck was he not doin’ that if he were alive? You can’t hide a fellow such as that awakening. And if he had just appeared, how’d the inn know, let alone hide a Goblin Lord of that power? Contradictory shit, that.”
The leader of Parade, who was wearing white face paint with colorful makeup, raised a glass at his drinking partner.
“You have a point. Suspicious—but you can’t fake a Goblin King, can you?”
A [Rogue] grunted from his table.
“If that’s a fake, the Golden Triangle’s a peanuts game. Given that we have a fucking hole in a palace and a [King]’s dead, it’s unlikely to be a fake.”
“Ah, well put.”
“S’bout what I had figured, so the inn’s mysterious, innit. Reckon I’ll get someone to ask very politely what’s what when the place opens. Speaking of, Lawsee, what’s with the weird makeup?”
The [Guildmaster] of the Softfoot Collective eyed the Parade’s odd makeup, and the man grinned.
“This? In honor of the Clown of Rhir.”
“…Never heard of him. Big Face? I thought crime in the Blighted Kingdom was all crown-sponsored.”
“Oh, aye, it is. The Clown’s different. Let me tell you—”
That was the conversation at one main table. At another, a Sister of Chell was grousing loudly.
“—But they didn’t do anything.”
“They fought someone. Brothers’re happy. Shut up and drink.”
Another of the Sisters elbowed the noisy speaker, hard. They weren’t out in force here; a lot of their membership had gone with the Drake on orders from the top. It made things harder for the local charters, so they were a bit too loud with drink in them.
All the Sisters fell silent as a Brother came by, but the man just tipped a broad-brimmed bowler hat at the annoyed Sister, which arguably annoyed her more. But she held out a cup anyways as he poured generous servings of Pirate’s Rum for all.
“Ah, it’s not about who fought who, or even if they levelled, Miss. It’s about the fact a lad fought at all. More snacks?”
The Sisters made convivial, approving sounds. The snippy one muttered under her breath as the Brothers went around with more refills for everyone present.
“Those [Knights] didn’t fight the Goblin King, though, or we’d have seen it on the television.”
Her offhand remark was instantly followed by a jab from the two elbows of the Sisters around her, but it was too late.
All the laughing Brothers stopped, and the conversation in their den abruptly went out. Their heads turned, and they halted in place.
The guests, members of gangs across Invrisil, tensed up instantly. Hands shot towards their belts, then halted.
They were in the middle of the Brothers’ headquarters. There were over eighty men with hats here. Hats on, of course, even indoors. Each one of them had ceased laughing jovially, and their heads had snapped around to the Sister of Chell.
Their eyes were huge and glittering, like fallen coins in their suddenly blank faces. Liquid continued flowing from containers, overflowing cups and pooling onto the floor.
In the case of the Brother who’d been serving the Sisters of Chell, the results were even more unsettling. The [Enforcer], Beytoc, was so high-level that despite the tilted bottle being full enough to spill, the liquid running from the funnel had halted, a glittering drop of it hovering, defying gravity over the half-full cup.
The Sisters of Chell sat there, throwing elbows at the one who’d spoken, until she finally got her dry mouth working.
“—th-this time. I mean, this time! Right?”
Silence—then one of the Brothers laughed. John, one of their leaders, threw back his head and laughed and grabbed a cloth to mop up a spill in front of him with his scarred, huge hands.
The tension broke, and the Brothers swept back into motion, apologizing for spills, finishing their rounds, as if nothing had happened. The [Enforcer]’s bottle continued pouring liquid, and he smiled at the Sisters.
“Exactly right, Miss. This time. The next time, I imagine they’ll be there, come Rhir or not.”
The sweating Sisters of Chell nodded agreement as the Brothers resumed their merriment. Then ducked as a dozen coasters, pieces of trash, or snacks hurled with considerable force came their way.
There was only one rule you could break to make this damn party a problem, and someone had to break that singular rule. At any rate, the tension was just easing in the room when the [Doorman] got up from his seat at the entrance to the hideout. He peered through the latch at someone who’d rapped on the metal door.
The old man had been admitting people regularly. Not just anyone; the rank-and-file of every gang didn’t get to just come in. The Brothers had invited a certain clientele list; the [Doorman] had his own discretion about troublemakers, anyways.
He was not a sort to be ruffled, but he took one look through the eyehole, jerked back, and then looked again. Then he backed up a step.
“That’s not…Ace! Ace, get over here!”
His voice rose above the clamor, and Ace, a tall man with a penchant for wires and necks, turned. Despite his inebriation, his eyes sharpened as he heard the shout.
“What’s wrong?”
The [Doorman] clicked a lock into place, and the conversation shut off again, this time with that sinking feeling in the stomach of people who knew what was coming.
