The only reason she’d made it out of the High Passes was out of necessity. 2nd Army, what remained of it, would take days to get organized and head back to Pallass. Their famous discipline had been shattered by this—devastation.
They had to rebuild; they hadn’t lost everything. Shirka’s vanguard had been ‘spared’ the destruction the Goblin Lord had caused, ironically, because they’d ‘only’ been fighting the Mortemdefieir Titan.
Shirka was used to bad jokes and twists of fate, but even for the military, this was a bitter one. And again, the only reason she even left the mountains was because of the inn.
The [Door of Portals] waypoint had been reactivated by Ishkr when he’d appeared at Goblinhome. General Shirka had caught him and requested he allow use of the door—so that the wounded could be transported back to Pallass for treatment.
That he had accepted on behalf of the inn was more merciful than she had expected. She had been prepared to beg for [Healers] to come through.
There was no glory nor silver linings here. Just ash and bitterness. General Shirka emerged from the door to Pallass and had to leave the portal room and lean against one wall of the inn.
Liska was back on duty and opened her mouth to say something to the Drake, but one look at Shirka’s face and she refrained.
Shirka had managed to avoid a debriefing with High Command—but she’d heard that General Edellein wasn’t being removed from command. If she had to sit in the same room with Edellein, she had a feeling she would have murdered him.
Her army was being treated like it was their fault they’d both lost to an overpowered Goblin Lord and made the mistake of assaulting Goblinhome. Shirka’s threat of insubordination hadn’t been forgotten, but, apparently, it was both an unacceptable display of dereliction of duty and the right call to make in hindsight.
The [Goblinslayers] were being treated like the shortsighted fools who’d started this all, not the unit that Edellein had empowered to launch the assault. Dead men and women being stomped over by [Senators] and officers.
Numbers written off, not [Soldiers] who had fought and held their ground facing a laughing horror calling thunder down from the skies. Shirka wished she could drag the entire Assembly of Crafts and throw them into the High Passes so they could see…
She was leaning against one wall of the broken inn when she realized someone was staring at her. An Antinium with wooden boards and nails was trying to repair this section of the hallway, and she was in the way.
“—Excuse me.”
She stepped back, and the [Carpenter] walked forwards, bobbed its head at her, and silently got to work. Shirka turned away.
She wasn’t welcome here either. Definitely not. The [General] whirled around on her heel, intent on heading back to the only place she could even pretend to make a positive change in the world. Then she heard someone calling her name.
“Shirka.”
The [General] twisted around. Saliss of Lights opened the door to the inn and rubbed his eyes.
“Alchemist Saliss, sir!”
She threw him a salute, and he waved a clawed hand at her.
“Oh, stop with that. You’re up late.”
“It’s morning, Adventurer Saliss.”
He squinted at the semi-transparent barrier overhead and edged past the Antinium. He was naked as ever; Shirka barely noticed. She strode over to him, trying to see if he was wounded. He wasn’t, as far as she could tell, which was a relief. She’d watched his battle against the Goblin King—what had been televised—already.
“Right. I’ve been up all night drinking. Took me a while to take the rest of those bastards out. You’re in one piece; good. No burns?”
“Nossir.”
She still spoke to him, reflexively, as if he was a superior officer, and Saliss nudged her. He grinned, then tilted his head as he blinked down towards the door. Then he did that thing she was used to: the Drake appeared fully drunk and careless, and he probably was—but he narrowed his eyes.
“So the door’s connected back to Goblinhome. You must have been recovering corpses all night. Then you get to report to High Command? I’d have broken the waypoint thing myself.”
In an instant, he saw through the chain of events that had led her here—that was the Saliss that Shirka knew. The silly, naked Drake wasn’t all an act, but the Named-rank Adventurer of Lights…
That was the Saliss she had first met. Even now, she reflexively felt the need to look up at him as he jerked a thumb claw over his shoulder.
“Let’s get a drink.”
She hesitated, but Shirka shook her head.
“I really should get back to 2nd Army—”
He slung an arm around her shoulder and pulled her towards the door.
“Let’s get a drink, kid. Your army won’t collapse any further in an hour. Someone has to pull you aside and get you to let out whatever’s cooking in that head of yours. And I’d bet both of Grimalkin’s testicles that General Edellein and his people don’t know how to do it.”
She hesitated, but he tugged her into the common room of the inn, and she saw Saliss was indeed the winner of a truly epic party. Speaking of testicles…he walked over a recumbent Drake, who shifted.
“Saliss. That hurts.”
Saliss glanced down as Grimalkin opened his eyes. The Drake was standing on his back; he flexed his legs up and down. The Sinew Magus swatted at him.
“Not my fault. You want to pretend to be the floor, don’t get mad when you get stepped on. Why don’t you get a room?”
He meant for Grimalkin and the comatose [Lady] with a bag on her head. Shirka stared at Pryde as Grimalkin rolled over and rose, cradling her in his arms. He almost snapped at Saliss, then rubbed at his face.
“I need a sobering spell. And—Ishkr, is there a room?”
He called to a Gnoll as Saliss walked over a passed-out Ser Normen and a downed Mirn, skirting around dozens of downed figures like Montressa, who was using her master, Valeterisa, as a pillow. Ishkr, not remotely drunk, found a key for Grimalkin and gave Shirka a look. But Saliss just tapped on the counter.
“Hey, Ishkr, can we get some drinks and privacy?”
“…Sure. But away from everyone, would you? Not in the theatre either; it’s occupied. Try a private room.”
Ishkr’s glower ameliorated for Saliss, and the Named-rank slung an arm around Ishkr’s shoulder.
“Appreciate it.”
He grabbed a few bottles, and Ishkr nodded at Shirka. She inclined her head to him. Saliss led the way out of the common room, and Shirka glanced over her shoulder.
“That must have been some celebration last night.”
“Hmm? Last night? Oh, no, it started, uh, three hours ago?”
Saliss paused by the door, and Shirka realized he was currently inebriated, not surviving a full night of partying. She glanced over her shoulder.
“In the morning?”
“There was some good news. Too long to explain. Good—bad—did you see an annoying looking young woman on the floor? There she is. That’s Rose.”
Saliss found a young woman passed out on her back, mouth open, and he rolled her over and rearranged her arms slightly. Shirka recognized the posture; it’d keep her from choking on her own vomit. She eyed the young Human woman.
“You seem to know the people here well, Alchemist.”
In all the years she’d known him—and she’d known him since he’d appeared in her ruined village—she’d never seen Saliss hug anyone. Saliss slapped Rose’s cheek a bit, and she twitched.
“This bratling is my headache. As for Ishkr, I like him.”
Shirka filed that away. Anyone Saliss respected…she wondered why he seemed so wistful. She didn’t really know what to say to him as he led her to the private room. Saliss was—Saliss.
If she closed her eyes, she could see him just like the first moment they’d met, a younger Drake wearing battle-gear, opening a cellar door, recoiling as acid burns rose from his armor. An expression of horror on his face—then that grin she knew so well as he reached down for the [Last Survivor] of a village plagued by Wrymvr the Deathless.
Just one of those stories. There were plenty of them in 2nd Army. That was why she’d always understood the [Slayers]. Their class had taken them one way. She might have become an [Antinium Slayer]…but she had taken her feelings and put them into following that Drake.
Saliss of Lights seemed tired as he tossed down the cups and drinks onto a table and poured her one.
“Poor Mirn. He did his best, but Rose—that’s the Human’s name—drinks like a faucet. I think it’s her one talent.”
“What makes her your problem, sir? She’s certainly attractive.”
“Hm? Oh, that…that’s probably a mistake.”
Shirka had poured herself some Firebreath Whiskey on reflex. She paused, mouth open as she raised her brows.
“A mistake?”
Saliss ran a claw over his face.
“The appearance, I mean. That’s new. She’s full of bad mistakes—rather like someone I could name.”
The [General] squirmed slightly as he threw himself into a chair and poured himself some black liquid instead. He stopped her from taking a shot of that.
“Antinium Rxlvn. It can flatten anyone who’s not got immunity with a shot.”
“I’ll try it.”
“Brave kid.”
She sipped it and the world spun, but Shirka controlled herself. Saliss sat there, pouring them cups of Velrusk Claw. She spoke after a second.
“The Goblin King. Do you know anything…?”
“Eh, you’ve got to report anything you hear, don’t you.”
“Of course, sir. Forget I asked, then—”
“Nah, it’s fine. Especially because I don’t know squat, and that’s what I’ll tell High Command. The truth is that I’m in the dark. Grimalkin might have suspicions, but I doubt he can prove anything. I heard a fairytale, kid. Just a fairytale, and no one invited me to be part of it.”
Saliss gazed into his cup, then shot her a smile.
“I’m not bitter or anything. Given what I suspect—I think I wouldn’t have enjoyed it.”
“Yessir, I understand. And the fairytale ends with the Goblin King.”
“Yeah. Among other consequences.”
Saliss opened and closed his claw, staring at his alchemy-stained hands. Then he peered up at Shirka.
“—I lost something precious, so I’m a bit down. But I’ll be fine. What doesn’t kill you levels you and all that. I’m not the one who dared it all. Brave, stupid kids. Reminds me of you.”
He wasn’t making the most sense, which made sense given how sloshed he was, but Shirka could also read between the lines. The [General] sat forwards, leaning on the table and putting her head down.
“At least there was some victory. That Goblin Lord…”
“Nothing you could do but die. She was at least Level 60. Probably Level 70. The only thing worse than her would have been the Goblin King hitting 2nd Army. Listen to me, Shirka. I wouldn’t have stood a chance against her and those eight Goblins, even with the drop on them. Maybe I could have got the lower-level ones, but that Goblin survived blowing a hole through her chest.”
Shirka knew it was true if Saliss said it. But she still spoke to the floor.
“If I hadn’t refused to siege Goblinhome—”
“Your orders were bad. Chaldion wouldn’t have made them.”
He hated Chaldion, so she knew he was saying that to make her feel better. The [General] shook her head.
“I’ve had to stab allies in the back, Alchemist, but that one hurt. And less than a day after that—the Goblin King emerges, and the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, and proves I was a fool. How am I supposed to face my army after that?”
Saliss said nothing, sipping from his drink as he stared past her. When he spoke, his voice was distant.
“You can’t see it, but there’s ‘No Killing Goblins’ signs all over the place.”
“I know. I remembered you telling me about them, sir.”
“Well…it doesn’t say ‘No Killing Antinium’, but I figured that part out too. It took me a while to want to enter this inn, and here I am, tipping some of them and talking with them. I don’t feel bad about that. I don’t expect you to, kid, but it’s an odd feeling. If there’s something I’m afraid of, it’s that one day, I’ll find Wrymvr in here, and instead of blowing him up, I’ll buy the bastard a drink.”
It was such a ludicrous statement that she snorted, assuming it was a joke, until Saliss turned his gaze on her. Then she took down another shot.
“Is it like a [Diplomat]’s Skill that changes how you feel…?”
“I’ve had the same thought, and so’s the old man. Nope. I think it’s just how those damn Humans don’t look so bad once you’ve been fighting with them on the same side or aren’t at the other end of a spear. The point is, kid—forget the Goblin King and the Goblin Lord of Civilizations.”
Shirka opened her mouth, and Saliss waved a hand.
“—I mean, in the sense of Chieftain Rags. They’re not unconnected, but those were different Goblins. Maybe you’ll regret not following orders. Maybe you won’t. But that’s down to her. Not them.”
Shirka saw the point that Saliss was trying to lay out and nodded. It didn’t make her feel any better, but she appreciated the attempt. Then she thought about her new levels and glanced up at Saliss.
“So…did you lose more than just valuable potions, Alchemist?”
“Eh, you know…”
He waved a lazy hand and grinned as he lifted another shot glass of black liquid to his lips. Then he glanced at her, at the door, and hesitated. She waited, and Saliss took a gulp of the Rxlvn, wiped his mouth, and spoke.
“Yes. But the entire world lost it. It’s too Drake-like to make it all about me. A little kid pulled us all into a crazy, stupid dream of hers. I can’t blame her. I’d have done the exact same thing in her shoes.”
“But it still cost you something important, sir? Sir? Saliss?”
He swirled a claw around in his drink.
“I’ll live, kid.”
“Can I—help you, sir? I realize I’m not in a good position right now. I think Edellein wants to toss this entire disaster in my lap. But if I could do anything…”
She sat upright, and Saliss whispered.
“…You could stop calling me ‘sir’. I told you, ‘Alchemist’ is preferable. Or my name.”
“Of course, s—Saliss.”
Shirka stumbled over his name. The Drake shook his head suddenly, and he grinned at her and patted her on the shoulder.
“Don’t mind me.”
“No, I’m happy to—I meant something bigger. Truly, can I do anything? You’ve done so much for me…”
He took down another drink.
“Have I? All I remember was running away with a little kid under my arm. I couldn’t do anything for your village, or kill Wrymvr. I put you in Pallass’ hands, and you did the rest.”
“You visited and taught me—”
“Visited. You’re talking about me like I’m…nevermind. I told you not to go into the army. But I suppose that’s fair; I never listened to anything my parents told me.”
