I met Death, and they were so dreadfully kind to me. And amazing. Because they seemed beyond everything, I went to them gladly. But they had better watch out, because if I could…or anyone could…we will fight them for every single soul.
Her blistered paws clenched and then unclenched. Mrsha gazed down at the hole in the ground and almost walked into it, but she didn’t—because her mother and sister were watching her.
I just wanted a few more. One more. I’m so relieved someone made it out. But if I could have had one more—maybe someone made it? Someone I didn’t see?
The girl’s tear-filled eyes were shedding drops as she peered at Kevin, and his shoulders were shaking. Her wobbling wand kept writing.
Now, I have lost worlds I’ll dream of. I wanted them back. The silly cheese [Lieutenant] of Vaunt. Shaman Cetrule. Chieftain Torishi, Tesy…I never even saw them a second time.
Her weeping continued until she drew in a breath. The girl stood over the grave and reached for the shovel. Her arms burned as she raised a bit of dirt and turned.
They’re gone, though. Maybe I’ll get to see them again or bring them back. But they are gone. I tried everything, you see. That’s…the relief. I gave everything I had.
She tossed the first piece of dirt into the grave, then another. Then she stopped.
Now, I know what it costs. That’s the only relief. I did everything I could.
Mrsha finished filling her grave, and then she stood over the grave for her a moment. She put the shovel down, and when she stepped back, her mother seized her. The girl turned and hugged her mother fiercely, eyes wide. Out of tears from her eyes. But she wouldn’t go into the inn and have lunch.
She had somewhere else to be.
 
——
 
Kevin’s hand was gentle and warm as the two of them went for a walk. Of course, everyone followed them, but there were things only Kevin and Mrsha would understand.
“I bet it’s here.”
Me too.
“Well, we can’t bet on the same thing, Mrsha.”
Why not? We’ll win double.
He teased her gently, and she smiled up at him. Kevin’s eyes were still red, and he stopped a moment to wipe his eyes as they climbed the hill.
“Argh. You made me cry. I was holding it in, you know. I’ve been trying not to show my face to…anyone. I keep making them cry. Peggy—I didn’t think this would be the hard part. Then I think of my Peggy and I—”
He touched his chest.
“They shot me. That those [Slavers] shot me right here. I remember that too.”
Did it hurt?
Kevin stopped, and she saw him preparing to lie to her. Then he peered down at Mrsha and knelt on the pretext of tying his shoes.
“Yeah. A lot more than I thought it’d hurt before you die. Or maybe it was just scary. I…ah. Here it is. Told you.”
She looked up and nodded. The two approached the objects they’d found in the grass at the top of the mist-shrouded hill in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Kevin touched the stone statue of the laughing young man working on a bicycle.
“Handsome guy, isn’t he?”
Very.
The handsomest [Engineer] in the world was sitting cross legged, working on a bicycle with a wrench as a laughing little Gnoll girl sat on the seat, arms spread. Mrsha and Kevin gazed at their statues. She felt at her side, and he touched his chest.
They searched around for a door, caught each other, and laughed. Crying didn’t feel appropriate. Kevin inspected his merry face.
“I’m him, and I’m not. But not in the way that I think I’m fake like Beach Kevin did when he…I…was depressed. I’m different in the way you’re different after a year. You get it, right?”
Oh, of course she did. Mrsha nodded and reached out to touch the stone bicycle. Honestly, she couldn’t exactly remember this moment with Kevin. Neither could he. It was just…a moment they’d had that only the Grand Design had remembered fully.
Kevin stood there, hands in his pockets, as Mrsha swallowed hard, not sure what to say. She knew they had to leave at some point, or her mother wouldn’t ever stop lingering there with Dalimont and the others. But neither one could until Kevin spoke.
“I have a message for you. From the afterlife. Hellste.”
Mrsha blinked up at him, and then her eyes opened wide.
How?
Surely he meant the other ghosts had just talked to him, but Kevin shook his head.
“No, seriously. A message. When Beach Kevin contacted Dead Kevin through the mirror-thing, we realized there was a real possibility of us getting out. The smart money was on one of us getting revived somehow. So the gang got together, and we shared…second last words. Messages in case one of us made it. Halrac bet I’d be the one to get out. That dude—always had too much faith in me.”
He smiled as the wind blew and ruffled his sandy hair, and Mrsha touched at her chest. Funny. She hadn’t thought someone would be able to hurt her more after burying her entire world. She would have run, but she deserved this, so she waited as Kevin turned. He raised his hand, and she closed her eyes.
But he just plomfed his hand onto her head and smiled.
“The message from everyone is…‘thank you for caring’. That’s from everyone. Not everyone would have cared so much, and tried to do everything for us. Mind you, we didn’t get all of it, but we got enough. So thank you, Mrsha. That comes from me and everyone. Thank you, and don’t forget us. Don’t die for us, but don’t forget us. Please. Live as long and as best you can.”
She gazed up at him with her huge eyes, lost for words, as he smiled like a ghost at her. She was shaking now, and his misty eyes took on a mischievous hue. Kevin’s gentle headpat turned into a fist, and he lightly rubbed her head with it.
“And this is for putting yourself in danger. Don’t do it again, until you’re at least sixteen. You care about number one, and that’s you! That’s from Tekshia. I…have messages for other people. Jelaqua and Seborn. Moore and Ulinde gave me things to tell them.”
Kevin’s face clouded over again, and he stood with an odd weight on his shoulders that Mrsha had never known the carefree young man to have. Or maybe this was just how he looked, genuinely, when he wasn’t pretending. He put his hands in his pockets.
Are they nice words?
“No. That hurt. I thought they’d be something like ‘make it to Named-rank’ or ‘keep the Halfseekers going’. But that’s not what Moore wanted. I’m going to do a bit of what they wanted and what I wanted. I have…to meet with Pelt and Hedault. And Selys, wherever she’s gone. It’s a strange thing, Mrsha, coming back from the dead.”
Kevin stood there, gazing at his hands. His voice cracked.
“I…have so much guilt. More regrets than when I died. Why me? Why me, Mrsha? I know I got here by luck and because I ran when other people fought. It should have been someone else. Pyrite. Or someone who could make a difference. Altestiel. Seve-Alrelious. It’s just me.”
You matter to me.
She wanted to hug him, and Kevin gazed down at her, tears in his eyes.
“I know. And I know it made you open the [Palace of Fates] for me, but I don’t deserve it, Mrsha. I know I don’t. You died for me, and I—”
He choked and couldn’t continue. The [Engineer] sank to his knees in the grass and took a shuddering breath as he clutched at his chest. Then he forced a smile for her.
“K-kidding. It doesn’t hurt that much. I’m just being dramatic. It’s not going to hurt like this forever. You were right about the sand stuff. Didn’t I tell you about that?”
Mrsha wasn’t sure, and Kevin wiped at his face and stared past her.
“Maybe it was my mom who told me that. I wanted to see her again, Mrsha. I wanted to see them all. So thank you.”
Tears ran down his face as he sat next to his statue. Mrsha curled up next to him, and Kevin whispered.
“Mrsha? Do you regret doing this? Honestly. I…want to know. You can tell me. I’ll understand.”
She raised her head to him, and Kevin gazed down at her. Then, they peeked down at the [Garden of Sanctuary] as rain fell from above. People were watching them, but they were too far to see the tiny little message Mrsha left in glowing words on the ground.
You promise to keep it secret?
“Cross my heart. Swear upon my grave. I’ve got to visit mine too.”
He smiled, lips trembling, and Mrsha gazed up at Kevin and thought she saw the Grand Design, listening out of the corner of her eyes. But that was alright, so Mrsha told him.
When I was small, my entire tribe got killed by the Goblins, Kevin. Ryoka saved me. I didn’t know why, only that it hurt and it was unfair. I thought, then, ‘this is how the world is.’ Bad things happen for no reason. Goblins are evil.
He listened as she wandered through the memories of that time, a different Mrsha.
Then Erin taught me not everyone was bad because they looked a certain way. So I got more confused, because not all Goblins were bad and not all things were bad. Sometimes, you meet Lyonette, and there was Erin’s inn. So I thought, then, ‘sometimes bad things happen for no reason, but good things can exist. They just take a lot of work and sacrifice.’ That’s how I thought until now.
“I get that. Erin’s inn to a tee, right? She makes it happen, even if she has to go to war with every [Pirate] in the world.”
Mrsha nodded. Then she traced something else on the ground.
But then I went into the [Palace of Fates] and talked to the Grand Design of Isthekenous, and I learned there are dead gods, and Oberon, the Faerie King, messing things up. And I wondered—is all this happening for a reason? Is this fated or part of a bigger plan?
Her head rose as Kevin made a despairing noise, and she shook her head.
No. It’s not about why. Right now, Kevin, I believe there’s good things and bad things that can happen, and luck. I believe in luck.
She indicated her white fur, and he half-smiled.
“So it’s chaos?”
She shook her head vehemently.
Maybe it is. I believe both can happen. But you have to try. You can’t complain if you don’t try to do things. Maybe it’ll never work out, but you have to believe in trying.
Mrsha thought back to the Grand Design’s explanation about butterflies flapping, and she tried to explain it to Kevin.
Maybe there is a big plan, but no one knows how it’ll go. It’s a bunch of people with plans, I think. Big butterflies, small. It’s not fair or easy or right, but if you try…you matter. I think that’s the [Palace of Fates]. I mattered a bit there. Not a huge amount, and it went wrong. But I tried.
She stretched out and lay on his lap, staring up at him.
Now, do I get to rest? Be less silly? I don’t know. I’ll try. I messed up, Kevin. I messed up big. Next time, I’ll do it a bit better. I have to, because there will be a next time. Maybe not mine or in the same way, but that’s what I think life is and how it went.
She stopped and swallowed.
I did not do it right, but I tried. I wish I’d saved everyone. I’m sorry.
Kevin hugged her and held her in his arms as he made a faint sound.
“You’re just a kid. Just a kid.”
So’re you. You didn’t ask to leave your world.
“At least I’m old enough to drive and die for my country. Mrsha. I want you to just be a kid. Okay?”
She smiled up at him and wrote in the air.
I’ll try.
He tried not to laugh at her silly lie, and then he put her down and rose. When they turned, she took his hand, and they walked downwards, back towards the land of the living. The two statues remained in the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Were they living or dead? Kevin whispered to Mrsha.
“This time, I’m going to try harder. It’s not, ‘I have nothing left to lose’. I’ve still got a lot left. And Mrsha?”
He caught her eye as she turned her head up to him quizzically, and Kevin whispered down to her.
“No matter what happens next, let me go this time. Promise?”
He met her gaze, and the little Gnoll girl thought about it, then she fished in her belt pouch and found a piece of paper. She wrote on it and then handed him a card as she opened her arms and her mother ran to scoop her up. Kevin read the message on the back of it.
Only if you promise to let me go too.
The young man laughed ruefully.
“Fair enough.”
 
——
 
So, the day continued, and tears continued to fall, but it was not always, forever, unending misery. There was always a spark in the darkness, so that the darkness could be, or a shadow under the brightest sun, hidden by every smile.
It was not over. No, in fact; the world had just begun to change, and there would be consequences. There always were from the very moment everything had begun. Echoing outwards.
People levelling and dying, sometimes coming back to life, just as Isthekenous intended. But his body was resting now. The God of Designs had long since passed, and his creation worked on.
There would be more aftereffects, continuations, but as the day dawned, a little girl lay in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. Not the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Mind you, she was not, de facto, alone. No one trusted her to be on her own right now. Lyonette didn’t stare at her every moment, but there were multiple people, staff, [Knights], and so on watching her.
From afar. Ready to leap into action if…just if.
Of course, it was when they lowered their guards the moment would come when she’d slip out of sight. It was after all this had faded from recent memory they’d break from their vigilant watch, and the [Princess] knew it. So she was making plans, but in truth, the girl wasn’t doing anything at the moment, and she had no intention of causing more trouble.
Mrsha lay on her back, staring at the sunlight falling through the crystal domed ceiling, warming her fur. It was sunlight from somewhere else in Izril; rain was still pouring down over the Floodplains. But she asked for a sunlit sky and just lay there. Eyes open, lazily turning every now and then, having snacks that were brought to her so she’d regain weight.
Not doing anything. Visibly, that was. They were all watching her, from Nanette to Bird, to see what she might do after all this, but Mrsha, genuinely, wasn’t plotting anything. Even the Grand Design checked a few times, but she meant it.
She wasn’t silly enough to say ‘no more adventures’ or ‘no more Mrsha moments’ forever. She just hoped she’d stop with that. The girl’s open eyes focused on nothing in front of her, and she wasn’t sleeping.
She was daydreaming, rather. Her mind imagining worlds and events that were less real than the [Palace of Fates]—or so she hoped. Being a Grand Design to the thoughts inside her head.
What was she daydreaming of? Well…Mrsha closed her eyes for a moment and imagined a little girl wandering through the [Palace of Fates], opening doors. In her mind, the [Palace of Fates] was beautiful again, not damaged or destroyed, and the girl was…her.
