Saliss grinned, then stopped. His face went blank.
“—No. I listened to them far too long until I figured out they were wrong. So I guess you’re ahead of me on all fronts.”
This was a more honest and equal conversation with Saliss than Shirka had had in—ages. It was often far more formal, because of their respective ranks and because she was still just that girl he’d saved.
But right now…Shirka felt herself grinding up against the walls of his reserve. All this honesty just revealed the walls she hadn’t realized were there, harder than Adamantium.
“Alchemist. What did you lose?”
“Flowers. That’s all, Shirka. Just flowers. It’ll be all over military reports in the week. Faerie Flowers are dead. That’s all.”
Flowers. She still didn’t understand, and she knew she might not; it hurt—not to be trusted. Saliss seemed to realize what was going on behind Shirka’s face as the [General] threw down more shots, and he grinned at her.
“Listen, kid—”
“You can call me Shirka or General, Alchemist Saliss.”
That was petty of her, and Saliss blinked, then sighed.
“Shirka. Maybe I don’t want to look bad in front of the little kid I tried to save once, huh? Maybe…I’m worried about losing the respect of one of the few people I want to actually like me.”
“What could you say that would do that, Alchemist?”
She paused, pouring them both a refill, and Saliss’ gaze was distant.
“Oh, trust me. With Named-ranks? It’s harder to find something that doesn’t fit the bill.”
Shirka chose her next words carefully, now, with that knot of tension in her chest. Did she want to know the answer to this? Yes…and no. And yes.
“Is it something—unethical? Something truly terrible?”
“Oh, no. And yes.”
“Is it something you’re ashamed of, s—Saliss?”
His gaze cleared, and he took the cup and sipped from it.
“No. Never.”
Then he tossed it down and regarded her.
“Yes.”
What could it be? Shirka wasn’t thinking actively, with so much liquid courage in her veins and so tired. But there was an odd cognizance swirling about her. Saliss whispered.
“If you’re asking if it’s a heinous deed, the kind that deserves tossing me in a pot of boiling oil—no. At least, I don’t believe that’s true. But if you’re asking how I feel…bah. That’s why I want to kick that little kid into tomorrow.”
“—Who?”
“Rose! She’s too positive.”
Shirka had completely forgotten the young woman. She narrowed her eyes, trying to form a mental bridge, and Saliss blinked. He seemed to recall who he was talking to and laughed—then knocked over their cups.
“Ancestors damn it. Ah, forget it, Shirka. Here.”
He poured her another cup, and nodded to the door.
“We’d better get you moving and a sobering tonic before your army does start to panic without you around.”
Shirka glanced back at him and nodded. She took the cup he offered her and wondered what he’d poured in there. The rumored Oteslian memory-wiping powder? Saliss took a gulp of his own drink and eyed her. Then he rubbed at his face.
“…Cracks.”
“What, sir?”
He felt at his belt pouch.
“Cracks, General Shirka. An [Engineer] told me about them, once. Cracks get wider each year. Even in the Walled Cities. You can’t ever really fix them; you can enchant them, fill the void, but they crack, and the entire structure gets weaker. The facade breaks down. It’s all the pressure. No matter how hard you want to hold it together—sometimes things have to break. Don’t drink that—it’s got dirt in it.”
The Drake flicked the cup out of her hand carelessly and poured her a fresh drink out of a new cup. Shirka took it and drank.
“Alchemist. What should I be focused on, after this? Rebuilding 2nd Army will take time. But between Edellein and…everything else, is there something I should do for Pallass?”
“For Pallass.”
Saliss gazed down at his drink. Then he peered up at her, and he seemed not to know what those two words meant. The refrain that had echoed so easily in all their conversations fell on Saliss like they were unfamiliar.
“…I’m bound for the New Lands of Izril. Explorer, adventurer, seeker. After that—Pallass may have its windfall, and so will I. So will alchemy, and much good may it do us all. After that, I think…I’m going to go on vacation for a while.”
“You, Alchemist?”
She took a sip as Saliss gazed past her.
“Yes. I haven’t had one in, well, forever. I don’t know if I’m even ready for one. Lots to do before I can make it happen, so the City of Inventions doesn’t fall apart. But I think if I play my cards right…that’s what I want. I’ve got a bunch of rare ingredients in my laboratory. Levels for fighting the Goblin King, see? One last milestone, and I think—I think I can take a break.”
She should have been terrified by how it sounded. Because in a [Soldier], that wasn’t the talk you wanted to hear. But she didn’t think the [Alchemist] was speaking of the same things she thought of. Shirka studied Saliss’ wistful expression and the first look of longing she had seen on him, except for perhaps the occasional Drake lady that caught his eye, and she raised her cup.
“To vacations, Alchemist. To victory.”
He blinked, sat up, and touched his cup to hers.
“Victory? I guess so.”
“What then, sir?”
He grimaced as she forgot his request, and Saliss looked up.
“To…battle, for us. Here’s to fighting the war that matters. That mythical, righteous war that we can put everything into. To victory in that. When I find it, or dare it, Shirka, I’ll hold nothing back.”
He lifted a cup, then rubbed at his neck spines, laughing and joking at himself about his stupid toasts. But the [General] of 2nd Army merely sipped her drink. Then, when she rose and downed a sobering tonic, she strode for the door back to the High Passes. Feeling no better about the dead or these terrible days. If anything, she had only added a burden, a worry.
But so be it. She walked like someone listening for the sounds of distant battle, boots thudding on the ground as the Alchemist of Lights sat in the private room and murmured to himself.
“Cracks. If you know they’re there, you’ve got to do something about them. Ah, but I’m scared. The walls have been there forever. But the cracks…”
He sat there a while, then got up and went to find some ink and a quill to draw on Rose’s face, humming a bittersweet tune.
 
——
 
Bittersweet. Yes, that was the feeling. Not of watching Naumel lie on his back and complaining at the sky as his Kraken Eaters sat around him.
That was great. Student Rags hated Naumel. He was a giant oaf and a bully, and she wondered how Chieftain Rags…or Goblin Lord Rags…would handle him.
Not her problem, which made her feel guilty, because it should have been. But Student Rags might have had the same levels as Chieftain Rags of the Flooded Waters Tribe—she was still a [Chieftain] in Student Rags’ mind—but she wasn’t the same.
Student vs Goblin Lord. You guess who wins that matchup. If anything, Student Rags was morose this morning because she didn’t know what came next for her. She was thinking about the offer she’d had last night with the Grand Design.
“Sad you’re not a [Goblin Lord] as well? I think two bodies are better than one.”
Someone pressed something cold against Student Rags’ cheek, and the Goblin nearly jumped off the balcony where she was standing. She whirled, and Chieftain Rags handed her something.
“What the heck is this?”
“Ishkr delivery, straight from The Wandering Inn. Or rather, ‘Barehoof Kitchens’. Magical Earth food from Imani.”
It was a red can with the name ‘Coke’ written on the side. Student Rags fumbled with the tab-thing, exclaiming in excitement.
“No way. She didn’t have that Skill in my…world…”
Then she stopped. The Goblin Lord of Change had a green can with another name on it, and she sipped from it. She said nothing as Student Rags snapped the tab on her can and licked at the drink.
“Weird bubbles.”
“—I’m sorry. You can blame me for it. I could have done more.”
Student Rags avoided looking at Chieftain Rags.
“It was a disaster. No one could control how it ended. You tried to stop Apostle Pawn. Dead gods. I wonder what the real Pawn thinks of all this?”
“Hopefully, he never knows what his other self did.”
“It’s not his fault! That wasn’t him—”
The [Goblin Lord of Change] took a sip of her drink and spoke as they gazed over the damaged ground in front of Goblinhome, and 2nd Army—still recovering the dead. Their eyes found the pit in the ground, a sooty crater.
“And yet, it was. That was us. They stole the moment; they did everything I was going to do. I feel like I haven’t earned my class.”
“You survived. Heck, you survived a world with the Goblin King and you were fighting the Titan. I think that counts for Level 40.”
Student Rags wasn’t sure who was encouraging whom. Probably both of them were giving each other a pep talk at the same time. Chieftain Rags murmured.
“Yeah. Maybe this is the highest level you can reach just by…surviving. I don’t think Redscar got to his capstone by doing that.”
“Well, Redscar’s crazy. He actually went to the Trial of Blades and fought Zeladona just to level up. And he got trapped in the Grand Design itself and met Halrac.”
“…Yeah, that sounds crazy when I remember he did all that.”
The Goblin Lord shook her head and put her can down on the balcony, stretching.
“So. Naumel’s going to be a problem.”
Student Rags glanced over the balcony and sighed.
“Oh, yes. At least you don’t have to marry him like Rags of Dreams. But he is a traditionalist; he’s going to fall in line until he thinks he can beat you. And I bet you can just have Redscar put him in his place.”
“Mm. I don’t want to know what his idea of ‘taking orders’ looks like. It’d probably be like having Tremborag under your command.”
Both Rags grimaced at the very notion, and Student Rags folded her claws together.
“So…want to talk about the future?”
She’d been thinking about it, but Chieftain Rags just shrugged.
“I’ve got a plan. Want to hear it?”
Was that how it was going to work? Student Rags’ heart sank slightly. Was she going to be the advisor to the Chieftain? It made sense; one of them had to be in charge.
“Sure. I mean, I was only up to ‘we have to get out of here’. I was thinking moving in with Dulat. For now.”
It hurt to abandon Goblinhome, but they were the biggest target in the world. Chieftain Rags nodded.
“That’s certainly the best fallback point. Her drums are deafening, but they’ll keep pursuers off us. I can move Goblinhome, though. Once per…well, I assume months.”
The Goblin wearing skates shot upright, mouth open in delight, mind racing.
“You can? Perfect! In that case, we can keep moving! Move and move and—”
Her voice trailed off. And live pretty much how the Flooded Waters tribe had survived until now. Run from place to place. But nowhere would be sacred. The Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe nodded.
“Yeah. That’s too much of the same. My conclusion was that there’s only one place where we won’t be found that’s big enough for us.”
She didn’t have to spell it out. Student Rags stared southwest.
“The New Lands. That’s a risky move.”
“Well—not if we scout it out. We can move to the Troll Kingdom if we need it, then hopefully I can just relocate our base once we find the perfect spot. That’s my working plan.”
It was good. Very light on concrete details, but good enough to steer a ship towards. Student Rags nodded, wishing she had some kind of cutting insight.
“Logistics will be hard. We’re going to need to find a fresh supply of water, food, resources…”
She trailed off, embarrassed. Now, she was just trying to sound knowledgeable; they both knew the work. Chieftain Rags patted her shoulder.
“Yep. All the hard stuff. And friends. I was working on what you mentioned. This ring is excellent.”
She showed Rags the W-ring, and the [Student] brightened slightly. That was an idea she’d had, and it made her feel useful.
“I can take it over if you want. Or start organizing groups…”
Useful. Student Rags wanted to be useful, but she didn’t know what role she’d have in the new tribe. She hoped it was highly-placed, but would she be above Snapjaw? Would there be conflicts? She could imagine arguing with herself…the [Goblin Lord] shrugged.
“If things don’t work out with the application, I’ll probably put you in charge of New Lands expeditions. It sounds like something you’d enjoy.”
“Right. What application?”
Student Rags had traded her can for Chieftain Rags’ and was sipping the other drink when she narrowed her eyes. Chieftain Rags’ eyes twinkled.
“To the Forgotten Wing Company, of course. Or do you not want to try again?”
Student Rags’ mouth opened, and her mind went blank.
“Wh—you asked?”
“Sure. Actually, Niers already sent me a [Message] to ask if you were re-enrolling, even though the new semester’s already started. Which means I have to not only give you a budget, but find a way to get you all the way to Baleros.”
Chieftain Rags heaved a melodramatic sigh and pretended to appear annoyed. Then she glanced at her counterpart.
“It’s going to be even more dangerous th—”
That was all she managed to say before the [Student] tackled her in a hug. They both nearly spilled their precious drinks, and the younger Rags caught herself.
“Are you sure I can?”
“Sure. One of us has to chase that dream. Besides…Erin’s over there. It’s not going to be easier. Especially because it’s the same—but different.”
That was true. Suddenly, Student Rags thought of all the friends she’d made in her world. Would it happen the same way? They wouldn’t be the same—
It was going to hurt. She touched her chest, though she didn’t have a glowing heart, and wondered if merging with Chieftain Rags would have made the pain and uncertainty go away—or worsen. Then she gazed at the [Goblin Lord].
“And while I do that, you get to inherit both Goblin Lords’ burdens. Dreams and Civilizations. Change. Huh. It makes a kind of sense.”
The Goblin Lord of Change leaned on the balcony as the wind whipped both their hair, and she gazed ahead, no longer smiling, just pensive.
“Yeah. My turn. But at least I have an end goal now.”
Best the Goblin King. As goals went—that sucked. Student Rags wished she could say she’d take on that burden or that there was even a plan. But all she saw was difficulty. Danger. A world who now knew about the Flooded Waters tribe.
There should be more. And as if called by this conversation, the two Goblins heard a heavy tread behind them and a grunt of surprise as the door opened.
