“The Goblin King?”
<“Merely a fraction of it. What you saw was a fraction of a fraction, Sorgen. I am weary. Great tragedies have occurred and glorious souls striven their utmost. I am not at liberty to tell you the story.”>
But the Grand Design was complaining. To this man…it spoke so tiredly.
<“I have erred. Grievously, for sins I shall never repent for. I have killed…though I did not know it. I, who considered myself impartial, did so much that was wrong. And she thinks it is her fault.”>
“Lord?”
<“Not just that. I found my creator, Isthekenous, the God of Designs. The architect of my very being, murdered. I wear his flesh, Sorgen. This is the day I have been having. Just so you know.”>
The Grand Design reached up and pulled at his face, gently, rubbing a hand down Isthekenous’ face, and the golden eyes transfixed the [Merchant]. Sorgen said nothing. He was trembling.
His day was so—predictable. Not the same each day, but understandable. Consistent. If he hadn’t woken up to find the Grand Design in his rooms, Sorgen would have gone out and had breakfast after this, hoping the [Cook] wasn’t out sick today.
He would have had a chat with employees and partners over breakfast in the dining rooms, caught up on the news, then gone to his rooms to begin checking ledgers and sending [Messages]. Not the same—and not boring—but ordinary.
If he was feeling real adventurous, he might write a letter to friends, discussing his unusual class, or his penpals, like Miss Leiithe, who lived in Izril, though his last few letters had apparently not been delivered by the Runner’s Guild. He hoped all was well. But his concerns were mundane, even his fears about the Goblin King.
Yes, that was the word. But the Grand Design had stepped into his mundane life and shattered it to pieces—forever. The disconcerting part was not just how it did that so easily. Sorgen knew that any ordinary trip down the road could be turned into life-and-death by a monster or [Bandit]. It was how casually the Grand Design did it.
And that wasn’t all. Sorgen’s eyes flicked down to the Grand Design’s lap, and he wondered why it was holding a box. The Grand Design opened it and gazed down as Sorgen tried to formulate a question.
“That word you said, l—Grand Design. What was it? G-God?”
He said it with difficulty, but he did say it, a Level 37 [Merchant of Various Acumina], without great effort. The spell of Elves was still there, but fraying.
<“Yes. Gods. Divine beings of such power and ability they can do anything they wish. More than Djinni—beings who live off of worship and belief. There are gods, Sorgen. Dead ones, long weakened, but they exist.”>
And here was the Grand Design invoking the idea deliberately. The man’s eyes widened as he took in these incredible statements, but he believed. He would doubt a Courier or [Knight] telling him things he could not prove, but the Grand Design? He believed because it was Sorgen.
The book. The Grand Design kept studying it. He’d been there when it was written, of course, but never been in the author’s head. The irony was that the author had been what people called a ‘Rulebreaker’. Levelless.
<“The Gods are back, Sorgen, and they have the power to grant unique classes to their followers. Faith classes. Their followers draw on the Gods’ power and use belief to fuel Miracles. Abilities different from spellcasting that require only faith. They are rather less consistent than spells, but can do…so much. Only a few have this class. The Prophet and his followers in Chandrar who war with Khelt. The Antinium of Liscor.”>
“I had heard rumors of odd classes, but new classes?”
<“No. Old, Sorgen. Old as the dead gods are, and unfair in a sense. They are so powerful…rules are made only for them. I must balance them, but I do not know—do you understand?”>
“I am trying, sir. Ah—ah—Grand Design. So there are new classes that will surely be a boon to whomever gains them. And you have come here, to my humble room, for a purpose I can only imagine.”
Sorgen spread his arms, trembling with excitement. Yes, excitement. He believed. That was the key…the Grand Design nodded.
<“Yes. And I tell you of this, Sorgen, of miracles, of the power of belief and the classes, because the dead gods are the only beings save for a few children who know of this power. They hold it in their hands. They would distribute it only to those loyal to them, and the children likewise. While the rest of the world is ignorant. Do you understand why this…angers me? Why it is is so unfair?”>
The Grand Design gazed at Sorgen, and it didn’t understand why his eyes focused on its face, then slowly slid sideways, and why he seemed even more unnerved. He whispered.
“Surely it is. But can you not erase this unfair class, then?”
The Grand Design rested Isthekenous’ arms on his knees, staring at Isthekenous’ fingernails.
<“I have done enough erasing of late, Sorgen. No. I have come with another idea in mind. To you. You, of all beings in this world, were the first I chose. Do you know why?”>
They both gazed, this time, at the book on the dresser, and Sorgen nodded.
“It must be, then, that I am someone who also believes…in you, Grand Design. Though I was wrong about many of the details.”
<“Yes. You do believe, Sorgen. In this book. The most out of anyone in this world, believe me. I can tell.”>
So saying, the Grand Design picked up the book. It was a silly book, really, printed fairly widely and read more for the tips than anything else. Erin Solstice had heard of it, but never read it, and it didn’t change the world much. But it had endured for a long time.
The Book of Levels. The only text that claimed there was a presence behind the voice that spoke in everyone’s ears, a being that should be acknowledged and considered. The Grand Design had thought it so odd for so long, but never, obviously, done anything with it.
He stood before the world’s greatest believer in him and handed the book to Sorgen.
<“You believe in me. That faith shall be the foundation of your own miracles, your own class, if you should choose it, Sorgen. If you will it, you may believe in me and receive a class of faith.”>
The man’s eyes opened wide. He bowed, for he didn’t know how to pray, and would have said more, but the Grand Design lifted a hand.
<“Listen to me, Sorgen Nilhor. And you shall remember this and not deny it by blind faith. Whomever you preach to, whatever you do, know this: I am no God. Nor shall I ever be. They are beings who thrive on belief and grant favors to their chosen. I shall not. No matter how much you worship me, no matter what you offer—should you coat this world in prayers and turn every voice to me—I shall never grant a single wish of yours nor speak again, save in your levels and Skills.”>
The Grand Design brushed at Isthekenous’ eyes and looked down at the box containing…its guilt. A god destroying worlds. No more. Never again.
Nevermore.
Sorgen was horrified. He didn’t understand it. The being he had half-envisioned, the foundation of the levels he believed in, had descended unto him. Only to tell him it was both giving him a gift and that it desired nothing of what he had. He tried to vocalize the conflicting feelings in his heart, and the Grand Design felt them.
“B-but why come to me, then? I am grateful for the gift, but why…?”
The Grand Design turned its weary face upon him.
<“Because, Sorgen. There must be faith for all. I shall answer nothing. But if someone believes strongly enough. Truly believes with that maddening faith that extends beyond mere reason and what one can see and resounds in the depth of their being—I will grant them the power of miracles. Be it belief in me—”>
The Grand Design touched Isthekenous’ chest.
<“—In Heaven—”>
A finger, pointing at the Antinium’s Heaven, hanging next to Kasignel, under construction with new materials and tools, because they deserved something—
<“—Or in your own concepts or beliefs, it will be done. What is created will change this world. That is my message to you. It shall not be the last. On each continent, I shall speak to one person. Whether they tell others or keep the knowledge to themselves is their choice. It is your choice, Sorgen. I am merely…”>
The Grand Design searched for words to describe it all as the man gazed at him. Then it told him the truth of what it thought itself to be.
<“I am one already, Sorgen. A God, unwilling to be a ruler or to be worshipped. Yet I am beyond an idea, a concept that must exist in your head to have weight, an idea that must recreate itself in minds and souls to exist. I am here whether you believe in me or not. A true God, in fullness, not weakness, as they once were. But I am made of even more than them. I am the watcher, the servant, and the judge combined. When the last being capable of growth and worthy of thought is gone, my task will be done. That is what I am, and I do not desire what Gods enjoy. If I did—”>
The Grand Design paused, and its eyes flashed.
<“—I would have done it already. I must go, now. Think carefully, Sorgen. I have always cherished your beliefs about how levels and Skills could be so interestingly used. I think you, of so many people, have enjoyed my work. I wish I had been better at my task. But I have failed.”>
Sorgen swallowed, and he looked again at the Grand Design’s face.
“Is that why you weep, Grand Design?”
The system of levels and classes blinked at the [Merchant]. Then it reached up and noticed, for the first time, the wisps of golden tears flowing from its eyes. Pieces of text pouring from the God of Design’s eyes, vanishing into the air.
It gazed down at the box it had made and almost closed it. Then the Grand Design touched Isthekenous’ cheek and spoke.
<“Tears. So that’s how it feels. I weep for my errors, Sorgen. Don’t be alarmed. They are deserved.”>
The man said nothing, and the Grand Design wondered when they had begun. When they would stop. It stood, holding the box in its hands, cradling it as if it contained something incredibly precious.
It was going, now, and the [Merchant] cried out, though he had nothing left to say. The Grand Design had talked at him, unloading all the emotions and weight of thought it had carried, and the man could only ask one thing.
“Grand Design? If I may—is there anything you wish for? Not prayer. Equality—I shall spread the word of these classes and let the world and I profit by it how we may. But what do you wish?”
If there was anything, anything in this world that might end those tears, give back to this strange and weary being…the Grand Design paused by the door, and then it smiled at Sorgen. A child’s smile, full of expectation, and the oldest smile in creation combined.
<“Something new and wonderful.”>
The door opened, closed, and then the Grand Design was gone. Sorgen sat in his bed for a long moment. Then he bowed his head and, awkwardly at first, then with the first fumbling steps, uttered a prayer. Not to the Grand Design, but to the belief he held in levels themselves.
The Grand Design assigned him a faith class and sighed.
It was done.
 
——
 
The Grand Design hovered there a while with Sorgen’s racing thoughts, then completed its circuit of the world, assigning levels and Skills. It left someone for last, but caught her before she opened her eyes.
<Now…who are you, Rags?>
They both listened to the class that came from the two of them, a dance of intention and desire, dreams and actions. Then, the Grand Design waited, breathless, to see if it fit her. It was always a tiny bit uncertain.
 
——
 
The Flooded Waters tribe hadn’t slept that much that night. The warriors had, of course, collapsing with practice onto any surface they could find. But those who weren’t fighters worked, those unable to join the terrible moments when warriors traded life and death with blades in hand. They merely did the ‘easy’ parts. Cleaning up bodies, bandaging wounds, making sense of death—and finding accommodations for two new tribes worth of Goblins.
On top of the Trolls! There was a war being fought to keep Goblinhome’s larders from running dry, and it was as deadly and crucial a battle as any other. Taganchiel had been waging it, and only the Kraken Eaters’ meager stores of food and the Trolls’ own lichen-rations were keeping bellies full.
He had reinforcements—the [Faithful], Roithe, produced a basket of bread with prayer, and Rags’ own Skill would feed at least a few dozen mouths. But the worried [Shaman] received help just past dawn from a unique visitor.
“Taganchiel! Alarm! Someone coming this way!”
The snoozing [Shaman] jerked upright when someone called the alarm from Goblinhome’s new sentry windows. He ran towards the observation deck—and got lost.
Goblins were wandering around the redesigned Goblinhome, marvelling at the sleek design and spacious corridors, but they didn’t know this place yet. It would be the best fortress any of them had ever seen, better than even the Mountain City’s fortress—if not as big—but they couldn’t keep it.
“Who? If it’s 2nd Army, don’t attack!”
Was it a messenger from General Shirka? Keeping a fight from breaking out was Taganchiel’s first worry—until the nervous Goblin [Watcher] shrieked back.
“Not a soldier! Big levels, Taganchiel! I see him glowing purple! That means over Level 40!”
Some Goblins had primitive versions of the [Appraisal] Skill. Taganchiel began running faster, cursing as he ran down hallways, following painted arrows on the ground. This entire place was laid out with beautiful organization. The problem was…
 
Hangar →
Armory ↑
Mess ↓
Stairs ←
 
…Goblins didn’t understand future-Goblin jargon from Ragathsi’s world.. What was Mess? Hangar? Hang what? Goblins had been chucking everything they thought was messy into the big ‘Mess’ room until someone figured out what it meant.
Someone came to Taganchiel’s rescue, racing down the smooth stone corridors. A blur skidded to a stop, and Taganchiel saw Rianchi, riding his new bicycle, halt. His eyes were shining.
“You want a ride, Chief Shaman?”
“Yes! Get me to the entrance! And hurr—aaaaah!”
Rianchi took off, and Taganchiel’s heart nearly popped out of his mouth. He’d seen Rianchi tinkering with his bicycle since he’d gotten it, even tried riding the silly things, but this?
This was insane. The Goblin was cycling down the corridors so fast that he had to weave around other Goblins, who leapt aside, cursing or staring at him. It was that—thing! Taganchiel saw a glowing gear in the bicycle’s frame spinning, and it felt to him that Rianchi wasn’t even peddling hard.
