The world was new to him again. Fragile as well. He was here, and suddenly, each beat of his heart seemed to be something precious that he’d taken for granted. Now that he knew how fast it could end, Kevin was terrified.
…But he was here. So he clenched a hand and searched around for pants.
“One last goddamn Kevin. One final chance to change this world in any way. One Kevin to shake it up, to rule them all, and in the darkness—fuck, I can’t take myself seriously.”
He went to put on some pants. Then, because he couldn’t help it, he burst out of the doors of his rooms and did a flying leap for the sheer joy of it, laughing and racing forwards.
 
——
 
It was already early morning, and there were still people who refused to sleep. Not that the Grand Design was impatient; some people just had…work to do.
They knew they’d level, but they had no time to sleep. Chieftain Rags had been up for nineteen hours straight without a nap, but they’d all fall asleep soon.
Or die, presumably. The Grand Design wondered if it should remove the sleep mechanic for levelling, like <Faith> classes used to enjoy. But then someone might counter level mid-fight, between blows, or even multiple times in an even duel, and what a headache that would be.
Fixing the system it had been given was not an easy task. So it waited instead and just found its own closure in small things. Chance meetings. Or not so chance, as it turned out.
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart was dozing by her window when the carriage finally slowed down. The light kept her awake; it was damned bright, and she kept being reminded that the curtains had been ripped off from hitting the Goblin King. She glared balefully at the dawn as she saw the gates of the town coming into view.
“Lord Xitegen? Your stop, I believe.”
He had been asleep, she noted. But then, she supposed he deserved it; the [Lord] jerked and opened his eyes with a start. She placed a hand on his chest before he could swing himself up.
“Sir. Your legs are broken.”
A damaged maid-Golem spoke; Seconda. Xitegen blinked blearily at her and Ressa. The [Maid] had put her feet up on the seats opposite him, and she was drinking. She stared at him as the [Lord] passed a hand over his face.
“Thank you for reminding me, Seconda.”
“You are welcome, Lord Xitegen. You have (158) [Messages] from House Terland. Shall I begin reciting them now?”
“No, thank you.”
He passed another hand over his face with that weariness Magnolia felt, and she murmured.
“I don’t see what you admire in them.”
“Well, most of them don’t talk back. And they put up with quite a lot a regular person wouldn’t.”
Wincing, he tried to lever himself upright; his legs were splinted. The idiot had broken both kicking the Goblin King. Magnolia supposed she wasn’t one to talk; her arm was in a sling from trying to slap the Goblin King. They could have used healing potions, but, well, too much healing, too many battles. Magnolia had made an appointment with the Healer of Tenbault, Hekusha, for both of them.
A damned inconvenience. As was having to actually take the carriage rather than just hop through the magical door and be where you wanted. But Magnolia needed her carriage; she had places to be.
They were rolling towards the main gates of Celum, Xitegen’s new city, and Magnolia bit back a comment about how it had been her place before his. She was just tired. That’s all. This was a victory, she supposed.
“Would you prefer Reynold leave you at your estates? Or a [Healer]? Hekusha will have an opening for us within the day or by next, or I will have Ressa drown her.”
“My estates will do. And I must make sure my forces make it off the mountainside.”
Xitegen groaned, and Magnolia glanced at the High Passes behind them.
“My people will make sure they reach Celum in one piece. I—what is that damned sound, Ressa?”
Her bloodshot eyes narrowed as Ressa sat up slightly. The carriage’s door was partially ajar—again, from a Goblin King-sized dent in it. So all the spells regulating temperature and soundproofing weren’t working.
It was an obnoxious, high-pitched wave of noise. Magnolia glanced out the window and saw the gates opening. She rapped on the sliding window and opened it.
“Reynold? What is that infernal s—”
The moment she opened the window, the high-pitched noise washed over her, and she realized what it was.
Cheering. The [Lady] blinked, and she wore, for once, a completely surprised expression on her face.
“What in the world…?”
She peered out the window and saw, under the dawn light, people lining the newly-built roads of Celum. At this hour? They were waving, clapping, and shouting at…
Oh. Lord Xitegen tried to roll down one window, and the glass pane snapped and fell out, smashing on the paving stones. He winced; Magnolia waved it away. Reynold had new Skills, and that was what mattered…
Lord Xitegen stuck his head out the window, and the cheering tripled in volume. He lifted a hand, a similar look of astonishment on his face, and Magnolia Reinhart had to put her fingers in her ears. She saw his expression of shock turn to one of gratification. Then he smiled.
Celum was filled with people screaming, waving the flag of House Terland or just waving at him. Only the Watch kept them from literally flooding over the pink carriage, and at the sight of Lord Xitegen, there was a burst of voices—then applause.
“My word.”
Magnolia Reinhart had never seen the like, and she’d been to Celum countless t—no, wait, she recalled only one scene like this.
When the Horns of Hammerad had emerged from the Ruins of Albez with treasure. They’d received the adventurers’ welcome. But this felt more…impressive. People would cheer someone with treasure and the glory of an adventurer any day of the week.
This, though…this was a hero’s welcome, and Magnolia Reinhart hadn’t heard the like since the 2nd Antinium Wars. Not for a Flower of Izril.
Well, it was deserved for this man, she supposed. The carriage had to slow, and Reynold spoke.
“Lady Reinhart, there’s no way we’ll get to Lord Xitegen’s mansion. I do see an escort of Terland Golems.”
“Ah, here will do, then. As long as they have a stretcher.”
“I could carry you, sir.”
“No, Seconda. I have an image to maintain. Er—but I will accept an arm. Stand there, would you?”
Extricating a man with two broken legs out of the carriage was hard, and Ressa leapt out to help him down. When they saw he couldn’t even walk, there was a flurry; Magnolia saw an impromptu stretcher being made until someone built one on the spot; a [Carpenter] of some levels combining their Skills with a [Shopkeeper]. Then Lord Xitegen was hoisted into the air, and the cheering…
Ah. She sat in her carriage, faintly envious, as a crowd of people swirled around the pink carriage. Ressa fought her way back into the carriage, and Magnolia coughed.
“Reynold? My mansion in the High Passes, I believe. As soon as you can turn without running over anyone’s foot.”
“That may be a few minutes, Lady Reinhart.”
“As long as it takes, Reynold. I may nap after all.”
Magnolia sat back, trying to close her eyes, but even her exhaustion couldn’t quite beat out the thunderous applause around her. Applause. For a man who’d fought the Goblin King.
He hadn’t even killed him. But he’d…been there. What was Celum to do but take pride in this [Lord] who’d come running to help rebuild their city and fought the Titan in the mountains?
“Entirely deserved.”
Magnolia tried to make herself more comfortable—until a broken spring in the upholstery decided to stab her in the back. Then she sighed and was sitting upright when she saw Lord Xitegen waving his hands in her direction.
“Oh dear. Has he forgotten something? Pieces of his Golem? Ressa, see what this is about, would you?”
Maybe they were breaking his legs with all that bouncing about. A legitimate concern for such a vociferous crowd. Magnolia rolled down her window as well, and then she heard Lord Xitegen, projecting his voice even over the screaming.
“Reinhart! —hart—here! Get over here!”
She didn’t understand what he wanted for the life of her. Magnolia Reinhart blinked at Xitegen until she saw heads turning her way. Then she thought she heard her name being shouted above the cheering.
Me? Do what? It was only when Ressa pushed her slightly that Magnolia realized Xitegen wanted her to leave her carriage.
Absolutely not. She had work to do. She hadn’t killed the Goblin King either; it had been Teriarch and the Harpy Empress. Magnolia tried to shout at Xitegen to get to his mansion and stop waving at her, but he kept insisting. Out of exasperation as much as denial, she opened the door to her carriage and—
—And then it was bright. The [Lady] emerged into the dawn’s light and shaded her eyes. Then the noise hit her fully.
Cheering. Bemused, the [Lady] of House Reinhart turned and saw faces regarding her. People applauding. Celebrating…her?
She blinked like a fish pulled out of water, mouth slightly open, as she stood in her battered pink outfit, hair askew, undignified, arm in a sling…and flinched as something began to fall from the sky.
Pink petals. They drifted down, and the cheering fell silent, then doubled. Magnolia Reinhart blinked up as a camera-team tried to fight forwards to get an interview or even a comment. Lord Xitegen and Magnolia Reinhart.
The two heroes of the north, who’d fought a Titan in the mountains and done battle with the Goblin King. Of course, both nobles wanted to clarify that they hadn’t done that much. But Lord Xitegen gazed down at the bemused [Lady], who appeared for a moment like a young woman in his eyes, blinking up at the storm of affection she’d never experienced in her entire life.
So he swung an arm out towards her, and her head rose nodded at him. Slowly, Magnolia Reinhart walked forwards in a dream as people tossed the mysterious pink baskets of petals down from the rooftops. Cheering the Deadly Flower of the North and the [Lord] of House Terland. Come to think of it, he needed his own name, didn’t he?
Xitegen of Celum. Xitegen, the Goblin King Kicker! No…you’d really have to workshop it.
“Lord of Thighs! Thigh Lord! Thigh Lord!”
Someone began the chant, and Lord Xitegen’s eyes bulged. He burst out laughing so hard he nearly broke his legs in new places and began swearing. Magnolia Reinhart saw they were being led towards an inn of all things.
Blazehound; the [Mayor] wanted to feast them and the city. Right now, Magnolia wanted a tonic for her pain and a bed, but she supposed she had a mansion in this city too, if her relatives hadn’t stolen that. And…she glanced around at the people waving for an autograph of all things, from Ressa and Reynold as well.
“I suppose I could have breakfast. And it’s not like we’ll get this carriage out of here anytime soon.”
Ressa rolled her eyes as the [Lady] sighed, resigning herself to the moment. Reynold just smiled—then pointed something out to Magnolia.
“Your Ladyship. I think we have a few breakfast partners.”
“Who—? Oh, no. Of all the things.”
Magnolia closed her eyes, but even the sight of the two boys leaping up and down and applauding couldn’t spoil her good mood. Especially because Hethon and Sammial Veltras were giving her the kind of rapt stares of children who thought they’d met their heroes.
 
——
 
Sammial had, in fact, changed history. He was the one who’d been shouting ‘Thigh Lord’, and it had caught on. The two boys were much relieved to see the two nobles.
They hadn’t been allowed in The Wandering Inn, and both had been very scared for Mrsha and Nanette, but they’d been told by Ishkr that both were fine—but could they come again tomorrow? So they’d gone to Celum on a hunch they could find Lord Xitegen, and Ullim had had a word with the [Mayor] about a celebration.
Magnolia Reinhart seemed slightly annoyed by them, but her smile was genuine for Ullim. Despite their general terror of her most days—right now, she seemed almost as cool as Ryoka.
“Ah, [Majordomo], I should have known you’d put together this reception for us. Thank you.”
Ullim just raised his brows.
“I simply took the liberty of booking the inn and paying for drinks for anyone who wished to toast your bravery, Lady Reinhart. The celebrants had already gathered by the time we arrived. I don’t even believe they knew Lord Xitegen was coming in your carriage; they seemed ready to wait all day if need be.”
That flummoxed her. Ullim added slyly.
“The pink cherry blossom petals are a surprise, though. I believe someone was attempting to pass out baskets of black petals. But the Watch saved them.”
“My family will be my family. Who would think of this, though? These are Drathian. And I don’t believe we have more than a dozen trees in—wait.”
Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes narrowed, and Hethon saw her turn sharply. Sammial was trying to help Lord Xitegen into a chair, and the protesting [Lord] was telling him to get clear before he was crushed. He put a foot down, then grunted as he didn’t experience excruciating pain. Lord Xitegen stumbled, balanced on one foot, and then felt at his legs.
“What in the name of Truestone…?”
Someone already sitting at the table lowered the newspaper and reached for a lemonade. A silver-haired half-Elf took a long sip from his drink and gave Xitegen a level stare as the [Lord] nearly leapt into Seconda’s arms.
“That damn carriage runs way too fast, you know. I’ve been chasing you all night. Well, I had to make a stop for this idiot first. Stop leaping on those bones and sit, would you? Teriarch, say something before she stabs you.”
An old man got to his feet as Magnolia Reinhart’s head snapped around. Her eyes flashed, but he lifted his hands, and Teriarch, wearing the familiar features of Demsleth, stood there.
“As Majordomo Ullim says, the crowds were entirely organic. The cherry blossom petals are there for ornamentation. Harpies would have thrown spare feathers, which sounds pleasant, but the dandruff—”
He appeared fine, but Magnolia strode up to him, finger raised.
“You are more than three quarters dead! Why are you wasting mana, let alone out? Taletevirion, is he even—”
“He’s fine. Banged up, and not a single one of those Antinium healed him, but I suppose he’s just as immune to that as most healing magic. I took a look at him.”
“He made me eat a block of lead. Lead. It’s poisonous, you know!”
Teriarch was grumbling as he pulled chairs out for Magnolia, Reynold, and Ressa. Hethon and Sammial hesitated until Xitegen patted a seat next to him. Sammial was in it like a shot, and Hethon approached.
Magnolia half-glanced at them, but then she smiled with a reserve familiar to Hethon.
“Well, I imagine it’s different for you.”
