The Troll Queen, Dulat, had a can in her hands that was orange and an expression that said she knew it was a valuable and important gift—but she really didn’t like what she was drinking. She stepped forwards.
“Chieftain. Student. Good to see. Discuss plans? Drinks…good.”
Her command of the common tongue wasn’t good, and she was aware of it and frustrated by the gap. Chieftain Rags fiddled with her W-ring and sighed.
“No translation spells. Apologies, Chieftain Dulat. Would you care to try my drink?”
“Hm. Yes.”
They traded drinks, and Dulat’s was indeed the sweetest and most fruit-like of all of them, which made sense why she disliked it, used to such a contrasting diet. She liked the Coke most, so Student Rags let her have that and tried the orange one.
“We were discussing plans for our tribe—and our alliance.”
Chieftain Rags filled in the Troll Queen on their deliberations, and Dulat pursed her lips and thought.
“Hm. Good plans. These New Lands…are big?”
“Yes. Very big.”
Dulat had so little knowledge of the outside world, and she didn’t even understand the map that Student Rags ran to get. She glanced over the balcony’s edge as she stood there.
“Good. Skills move rock base. Trolls ally with Flooded Waters tribe, yes?”
“Of course. Allies. A grand alliance, even.”
The Goblin Lord of Change was cautious, but Dulat just inclined her head. She wore the two worn, Adamantium maces at her side and touched them.
“Then when Goblins go—Trolls go too.”
“What?”
Both Goblins were astonished. Dulat clarified.
“Maybe not all. But many. Kingdom of Trolls is safe now Titan dead. But the door…cut. More doors down there. What happens next?”
Were there other Mortemdefieir Titans down there, sealed away? Or worse? Student Rags shuddered, and Chieftain Rags put down her drink.
“Of course, we’ll welcome Trolls if they want to go with us. But are you sure?”
It was such a change from their way of life. Dulat’s drums, her entire people were based in the mountains. For answer, Dulat pulled out a mace. They thought she would do something ornamental with it, some grand gesture, but she just flipped it around and caught it by the handle.
“This is the weapon of Troll Leaders. Very important. Fake. Used to be something else. Now, this.”
She let them examine it; the Adamantium was heavier than steel, but sized for a Human or Hobgoblin’s grip. It was small in Dulat’s hands, and Student Rags could see how it was an odd weapon to wield. Unbreakable and mighty—but not what they wanted.
“It’s still a mighty weapon. Troll Queen.”
“Yes. Better for drums. And I am Dulat, Queen of Trolls. I have to say something. We…Trolls…lied to you, Goblins.”
Both Rags’ stirred as Dulat confessed something that had been clearly weighing on her. She took the mace back and touched her chest with one hand.
“This lie. Now we are allies, the truth is said. Will you listen?”
“…Of course.”
After a quick look at her, Chieftain Rags nodded. What could the Trolls have lied about? The number of their warriors? The Titan’s danger?
Dulat tapped her chest with one finger.
“I am Dulat, Queen of Trolls. But not the last Troll King’s child’s child’s child. I am Dulat, who found a room once and hit stones on drums and made sounds. Very angry clans, until I chased away great rocks with sound. Then they said, ‘Dulat, play’. Then they gave me these and said, ‘Dulat, Queen of Trolls’. Especially so the People of their King listen. Because they remember and respect.”
Her confession made Student Rags’ mouth drop open, and Dulat paused, seemingly nervous despite her impassive face. However, it wasn’t anger Student Rags felt, but a delighted kind of incredulity. Chieftain Rags had the same expression, if more contained.
“But they did name you Queen of Trolls.”
“I am just Dulat. Leading people…difficult. I play music, not lead. That is the truth.”
Dulat seemed relieved to tell them the truth, and both Ragses glanced at each other and shared a telepathic thought until Chieftain Rags tapped her chest with a grin.
“I am the smallest Goblin of the Flooded Waters tribe, Dulat. Not the Chieftain’s child. Not the daughter of any Goblin Lord. Just a Goblin with no name who was given one. We are the same. We don’t know how to lead either, but we try.”
Dulat’s eyes brightened as she turned from Rags to Rags, and then she sighed.
“That not good. Where proper leader?”
They all laughed at that. Then Student Rags picked up her drink.
“We’re all just fumbling around. We’ve all lost…so very much. I lost a world.”
Chieftain Rags had seen two versions of herself die, and her people in this tragic world had suffered far more than Student Rags’ tribe. Dulat’s home had been decimated by the Titan.
They stood there in the cold morning air, drinking from their silly, fizzy beverages, and didn’t feel like the fates of their peoples should rest on their shoulders. Dulat heaved a huge sigh.
“Change. I hate change.”
She said that in complete ignorance of Chieftain Rags’ new class, and the Goblin Lord of Change smiled.
“It’s never easy. But it must happen, Queen of Trolls. We have all lost too much. But the one thing I ever had from all I lost and all that changed was…the friendship of an [Innkeeper]. People I trusted. I hope you feel the same way.”
She held out a hand, and Dulat clasped her arm gently after a moment’s regard.
“Yes. Not all things that change are bad. Drums. Music. Pillows.”
Chieftain Rags blinked, then grinned.
“I can get you plenty of that. Especially pillows—the good ones.”
“I want some too for Baleros! Silk ones! And sheets!”
Student Rags chimed in, and they chuckled and drank, and presently, one of their stomachs rumbled and they decided to go eat in the Mess Hall. Then Trolls and Goblins were coming up with all kinds of problems. Such as Student Rags having to explain what a ‘Mess Hall’ was. For a moment, she caught Chieftain Rags’ eye as the Goblins turned from one to the other, uncertain about what to do, and the two grinned.
A world flashed into Student Rags’ mind. Headscratcher, the Goblin Lord of Sorrows, working with Pyrite in a far different tribe as she skated back home from a semester abroad.
A better world.
Her world.
She wiped at her eyes and turned, trying to smile. Change…the [Goblin Lord of Change] was such a painful figure to the [Student].
“I’ll figure out who I am too. But I’m not you.”
The [Student] gazed westwards, towards the continent of Baleros and then wiped her eyes again. Dulat watched her standing in the bright sunlight of another day and shaded her own eyes.
“Too bright for this kind of day.”
Then she went over and gently sat with the [Student] for a while. And the Goblin Lord of Change kept moving, one uncertain step after another.
 
——
 
That morning, in the [Garden of Sanctuary], a little Gnoll girl lived when she should be dead, and all was good. The world was a bit brighter than before, even if it was raining through the center of the dome.
The not-Faerie Flowers were enjoying the rain, and a bee buzzed around the hill of blackened, trampled grass. A small gathering of people stood below the hill, to the side, in the frozen section of the garden, the least-used.
The ground was hard, but not ever completely frozen over. So the little girl with her new lease on life worked with only a kilt and t-shirt. No jacket; her fur kept her warm. But she did have a pair of gloves on.
Down, up, down, up.
Down…up…down…up.
Slow, then fast as she ran out of energy, then worked in a spurt of energy. When she was tired, she leaned on the little shovel. The girl worked alone, watched by her family and loved ones. But only she dug this grave next to the fresh mound of earth.
Down, up, down, up.
The spade displaced more earth as she dug beside her body. Mrsha du Marquin was alive.
She was lying in the earth. She knew she was alive, but she felt like she was also down there. She could remember running until the moment she finally…stopped. She had to remember, at times, to breathe.
In, out, in, out. She breathed extra carefully so her mother wouldn’t worry.
Her mother, who’d buried her. The girl’s arms were trembling and burning with tiredness, but she clung to the feeling.
It was how she knew she was alive…wasn’t she?
Or was this all a dream? A last vision before the Maiden claimed her?
No—she’d pinched and pulled out bits of fur on her arm all morning to check, until Nanette had made her stop. The girl kept peering at her arm, and she dug faster again, to drown out the thoughts.
Down, up, down, up—
The watching little witch, Nanette, would have helped her if Mrsha had asked. The [Knights], Ushar and Dalimont, had offered to help. Everyone wanted to. No one did.
This was Mrsha’s job. Hers and hers alone.
Her world was dead, and she had to dig its grave. When she glanced up at her mother, it was Lyonette…and Mrsha also knew that her mother was dead. And she would never know how.
She’d lost it all. She was Roots Mrsha and the original Mrsha, and these feelings would never go away.
I don’t even have anything to bury. There was no body nor grave large enough for a world. So the girl had done all she could.
She had a scroll of parchment onto which she’d written every name she could think of, all that mattered to her. It was not enough…but it was this she would place into the hole when it was dug.
When she had to stop, because her arms hurt too much, Mrsha wrote in the air with a glowing wand. She still had Warmage Thresk’s robes and his staff. She’d do something with them—later. She didn’t want the enchantments or the magic. Not for this.
So this is how she felt. Erin.
“When she was sailing to save Rabbiteater, Mrsha? Do you want some water?”
The girl accepted a water bottle from Lyonette and washed her paws. She had blisters, but she didn’t care. She shook her head.
No. I think this is how she felt from the beginning. Before we knew her. In pieces. We call her flames, and she has her hat, but I think…she’s more like glass. Broken pieces of glass that someone shattered. Ever since the Workers died for her. Or maybe it was Rags’ parents. Or maybe…it was leaving her world.
Mrsha stared down at her paws and at the grave. It wasn’t deep enough, so she went back to digging, stopping to write now and then.
Up. Down. Up. down.
That’s all it feels like. Pieces of glass in my heart, every time someone I love dies. Even when they break more, they become sharper and smaller. I don’t think I’ll ever forgive myself. I’m older, I think. Even if it’s only by a few days.
She’d been thinking ever since she came back to life, which wasn’t long. Now she had a body again…she felt all the emotions that had been partially suppressed, and even now, she was numb to the enormity of it. Mrsha flexed one paw—then flinched as a sound reached her ears.
Slam.
It was a faint sound, brought in from the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door. In truth, it wasn’t even that loud a door slamming. Someone had rushed out of the common room too fast. But the sound made the girl drop the spade and cast around reflexively. When she caught herself, she tried to pick the shovel up with trembling paws, but it took her two tries.
“Ushar.”
Lyonette went over to help Mrsha, and Ushar strode over to the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary], but Ishkr had already secured it. They went back to watching as Mrsha shook her head and clung to the shovel. Her trembling had almost stopped, but she kept looking around, as if searching…for a door. Not knowing if she would be relieved or horrified to see it.
But there was no door, no [Palace of Fates]. Just ordinary doors, be they magical or mundane, not other worlds. Mrsha continued after a moment.
It hurts. Losing people I love hurts. That’s why I did all this. I went crazy with the pain. Someday, it’ll hurt less. I want that. I don’t want that. The pieces of glass that are Erin and me…I think, someday, they’ll wear down. Become less sharp, until they’re tiny pebbles. Pieces of sand. Someone told me once that was how sand was made. Mountains that get worn down until they’re tiny fragments. Like feelings.
No one said a word. But they were regarding a young man who had his chin in his hands. Kevin sat there as Mrsha gazed at him, eyes shimmering with tears. She wiped at her face and got dirt in her eye, letting her mother wash it out. Then Mrsha wrote again.
In the [Palace of Fates], I never asked for the Stone Spears tribe or Urksh. I thought of them. I did. But they weren’t on my list, or Root Mrsha’s, except if it all worked out. Because…because I’m still sad about them. But they feel longer ago. I’m not happy they’re dead, but it feels like something I didn’t know if I could change. Maybe that’s what happens. The glass turns into sand and it becomes part of you and no longer hurts, but it’s what you stand on.
“A foundation, you mean.”
Nanette came up with the word, and Mrsha nodded as she went back to shovelling. There. The grave was almost deep enough.
Maybe I should have waited for that feeling. Instead, look.
Her paws hurt. She held them out and stared at the little hole beneath her. Then she took the clumsy scroll of words and unrolled it. It was covered in ink; every name she could think of. She read it, then put in the hole. Next to her grave.
Mrsha’s eyes stung as she stared down at the mound of dirt, and she saw the brave girl running into the [Palace of Fates], daring the Maiden to follow her. It was her, and also a memory in her chest.
Terror, fear, and determination. Pride and agony as she watched herself vanish. She was both.
Mrsha scrubbed at her face, getting dirt in her fur. She didn’t think the Grand Design had melded her just right.
Or maybe…this was right and this was how it should be. Her one piece of satisfaction was that it knew how she felt.
“Mrsha. I think you’ve done enough. Why…why don’t you come away, now? Unless you have some words to say?”
Lyonette’s voice was trembling, but her smile was very good and genuine-looking. Mrsha stopped rubbing at her face like the God of Designs and gave her mother a reassuring smile of her own.
I have to keep it together for her. The girl nodded. She stood over the grave as snowflakes fell over the little scroll, and…and she didn’t know what to write. So she wrote all that she could, glowing words vanishing in the air, babbling her feelings out.
I have lost them all again. More than ever…but maybe I’ll see them again. Now I know it’s possible, I could find a Scroll of Resurrection, or maybe there are ways ghosts can live? I know it’s in the rules. There’s a chance.
She thought of the Deaths, the Grand Design, and turned her bright eyes to her audience.
