“Someone’s at the door. Imposter. Ready up.”
This time, everyone reached for a dagger.
“Imposter? How can you—?”
One of the guests began before they were shushed. Ace certainly froze a second. He spoke, casual.
“Send ‘em off, then.”
The [Doorman] hesitated. His eyes were wide. Face pale. Those who knew him and his reputation half-bared their blades. The leader of the Softfoot Collective muttered under his breath.
“Watch?”
“Watch doesn’t have the guts or means.”
“Hells. What if it’s that thing in Celum? It’s connected to here by the damn door, isn’t it? I heard it ate several gangs. Or the thing in Liscor that wiped out Mister Soot?”
“What thing in Celum? Who’s Mister Soot?”
Whispers. Word got around in the gangs about what happened, even if they didn’t have all the answers.
The Brothers were forming clusters, removing their hats. One passed by the table with the [Guildmaster] and whispered.
“Back door’s there, gentlemen. If it should happen to be a spot of trouble, that is. Apologies about the scene.”
“Not at all.”
Blades inched out of sheaths as the [Doorman] opened a little hatch at eye-level.
“Whatever you are—you’re not welcome. Not you. Not that face. Begone.”
Who was at the door? No one could see, but they heard the faintest sound of a reply in the dead-silent room. The [Doorman]’s eyes widened, and there was a flicker of light through the hatch. It illuminated his face, and he recoiled.
“Get back. Get b—”
He stumbled away from the door with a cry, as if the light had burned him, and Jack caught him.
Jack, John, and Ace stood behind him, and the [Doorman] pointed a twice-broken finger at the door.
“[Hold the Door]! [Not Even Light Passes My Watch]!”
Everyone was on their feet now, and hearts were pounding as the too-bright light stopped blaring through the hatch. The radiant beam had been painful to look at, and those in the way had dove away, as if it were a slicing sword.
Perhaps it had been. There were dangerous Skills and spells like that, and it had been so damn sharp…
Sharp as the hanging blade, and it had hurt all of them to see, even the light cast by…
What? Who was standing there? They listened for the sound beyond, for an attack on the impregnable door. It would hold. It was held by a [Doorman], and he was lev—
The metal frame of the door went hurtling into the base as the [Doorman] howled in agony, leaving a trail of black flames behind it. It nearly crushed a pair of [Rogues], who leapt out of the way just in time as it turned their table and chairs to splinters.
“Oh fuck.”
Someone said that. The door was crumpled inwards around some kind of incredible force, and black flames had…melted the hinges off.
Black flames? Wait—
Then, they heard the clank of armor, and the gangs of Invrisil saw a figure step into the Brothers of Serendipitous Meeting’s headquarters. And they all had a thought.
A [Knight]? Impossible.
Impossible, until they saw he was carrying something familiar.
A lantern. It glowed with magical fire, and they recognized who he was. A Knight of Solstice. But who—? Who—?
Jack was poised to leap at the intruder from the side as Ace and John took flanking positions. But he froze when he caught sight of the man who strode past him, the head which glanced at him. John was springing—his eyes locked on the figure, and he froze. Then he slammed against the man’s armor as if he’d hit a wall.
A wall of sharp blades. Grey flames were burning over the plain steel armor the intruder wore, and he was covered from head-to-toe in it. Plain steel, save for the chestplate, which was stamped with what seemed to be a flame, then a flame inside the flame, smaller and smaller. But that was not what stole the air from the room and made the Brothers halt.
It was his face, and his hat. His was not the most memorable face, but they all remembered that scar down one cheek. His very crinkled old leather cap…no one wore another man’s hats. There was only one of them like it, and it had been burned with him.
It couldn’t be. It was a doppelganger, a horror of the High Passes, or some kind of sick, twisted prank. It had to be…but who would wear his face and put him in armor?
The [Guildmaster] of the Padfoot Collective recognized him too. So did a lot of the older people in the room. He half-rose to his feet and croaked.
“Crimshaw?”
The [Knight] had an ordinary hat on his head, and he carried a lantern in one hand. He appeared no less aged, no less like the [Tough] that had been a senior member of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. But it was him.
Crimshaw lifted the lantern, and they all flinched back from its radiance. For the flame? It was a piercing grey that hurt their eyes and souls. Even the light of Mercy’s Fire alone hurt. It was a purifying force, the resonance of it burning like law, or worse, forgiveness.
They would have rather jumped into a bonfire than be burned by the purity of his light. But that, alone, was simply the mark of a Knight of Solstice, who were already mad vessels of the fires of emotion. The terrifying thing was the other flame.
It was black. Pitch-black and verging on invisible with howling rage. A maddening fire that was as bad as Mercy, for they knew it.
Hatred, oh, foul Hatred and Rage, the likes of which lurked in every heart. The savage thing that came off the leash until the deed was done. It twined around mercy, the contradicting flames a twin-flame burning in the lantern.
“Wh—what is that fire?”
This was not the [Knights] of Solstice that anyone knew. They, who wielded pure flames, were idealistic, beautiful things to look up to.
Crimshaw, or the man with his face, stood like a nightmare and dream combined. A balanced dagger with a bright shadow and a dark hope. He was outnumbered and stood alone in a room of Invrisil’s most-feared. But they flinched away from him.
His eyes swept over them, and his scarred lips moved as he peered from Brother to [Thug] to [Rogue]. When he spoke, it was that familiar tone, which could go from kindly old fellow to a man with a blade in your throat in a second. It was the latter they got.
“Brothers! On your feet, you bastards! I am Crimshaw, the man who died and the man who never was! I am the [Knight of Redemption’s Flame], the last of the Order of Solstice to make it here.”
He took the cap from his head as the lantern rose higher. Crimshaw threw it down, and it blazed with white fire. His eyes were the same; one eye glowed bright white, the other black with hatred.
A petty man’s rage. And the salvation of even one like him. Tears ran from both eyes. Pale and glittering and staining his cheeks like ink. No one could say a word. Crimshaw continued.
“We died and held our own with an army that never was nor will fucking be again. The lads made it to the door. Some of them. The rest came with me, for there’s bastards to shank. I’m the last—but never alone. Now, I’ve come for you, you damned Brothers, and the rest of you.”
Come for us? He was speaking gibberish, and if he drew the club at his side, every man and woman in this room would run from this apparition. But he had them transfixed.
“For us? Crimshaw—the Order of Solstice’s right in Liscor. Let me take you to them, man. They’ve got a keep in the High Passes.”
John managed to speak, and Crimshaw’s head turned to him.
“Yes. Brave lads, glowing like embers. I’ll reintroduce myself to them, if they’ll have one such as me. But I’m not coming alone. I’m coming for you, Johnny-boy-who-breaks-faces.”
He reached out with a burning gauntlet, and John leapt back into the ranks of men behind him, eyes wide. Crimshaw swung the hand out, and Ace rolled away.
“Crimshaw! We’re Brothers, not good fellows! Not like Normen—we’d have said no, even if he’d asked! Same with that [Princess]! We—ulp!”
Ace cut off as Crimshaw grabbed his collar just so, twisting it so the man couldn’t slide away. It was Crimshaw; if he wanted to, he’d be punching Ace’s lights out on one of the tables. And yet, the [Knight]’s eyes were those blazing flames.
Mercy and Hatred. Could a man be both? No one could aspire to Normen’s pure flame of honor, but the answer to the wish in so many Brother’s hearts was in Crimshaw’s eyes, and he knew it. His voice grew softer.
“Ah, Normen was the first in this world, wasn’t he? You poor, pathetic, lucky bastards.”
He hurled Ace away from him and turned. The Brothers backed away from him, the fearless men without their hats falling back as Crimshaw’s lantern swung around them.
“I’m not Normen. Look at me! Look at me! You were offered the chance to be different men, and you lied and said you couldn’t be one of them. Now, I’ve come for you. You think the world needs only one man? The inn stood up against the Goblin King. We need a thousand men willing to die like rats and bastards. A hundred thousand. I’ve come for all of you.”
He was reaching for something, and they were running now. Brothers, Sisters, Faces, and criminals, for the back entrance. Fighting to get out, not with blades, but shoving each other. Some were crying like children, others gazing over their shoulders.
The light. They saw him, burning like he was naked. All of his ill deeds, all his regrets, consuming the man—along with the grey light of everything he dreamed of being. Redemption.
A grateful smile.
A frightened child being led out of a dark house.
A burning man on a bonfire.
Crimshaw had a weapon in his other hand. A terrifying weapon that set them to flight and drew some back, the damned and lost, making them stumble. Cursed treasure.
It was…a battered metal lantern, glowing with a flame that was made of every single color. Crimshaw held it up and roared as the flames burned from his hat.
“Run and never look back! Run and dream of the flames until the day you die. Or stay and find out if you burn. All you have left to lose is your mind.”
He was laughing, a counterpoint to a [Witch]’s mad cackle. A man on fire, laughing and weeping with two conjoined souls, blazing into the night.
A Knight of Solstice who knew he had more than just one second chance. Who would never ever be alone. He set fire to the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings’ clubhouse. And the flames spread into the night.
 
——
 
There was one last…conversation to be had as dawn broke. Well, countless more, but one last moment of interference, of true change that the Grand Design of Isthekenous had planned that it had not told Mrsha about.
She didn’t need to know everything. And this…this was going to be hard. Not in the same way as creating Kasignel, but difficult in the way Teriarch talking to the Wyvern Lord was hard, because it was intimate. Honest.
And the Grand Design was tired.
It hadn’t felt tired for its entire existence, but it supposed it had just never taken a break. Never wanted to, and tiredness had become the default of its being. It…had probably had a bit of a break when it went to check out Kasigna’s world and come back to more work than it had ever dreamed of. Been pushed to its very limits, and now it was back on the job.
So it was tired as it entered Isthekenous’ body again, that ghoulish act, and adjusted his clothing awkwardly, rubbing at his face.
<“Forgive me for the lack of preamble. I do not know how it is done, and so I am here.”>
It was the act of a single step to move across the world where he needed to be. The Grand Design sat down in the body of the God of Designs, as ill-fitting in the real world as the dead gods were.
Divine flesh was unto half-Elves what they were to mortal species. More. The God of Designs was an idea as much as anything else, but his flesh…
Suffice it to say that Isthekenous’ body was as striking as could be. Let alone the eyes that revealed the Grand Design within.
So it was understandable, nay, even relatable that the man lying in his bed screamed. After all, it was a locked room, and the Grand Design was the first thing he saw upon waking.
A late morning, anyways.
<“Be calm, Sorgen Nilhor. I am no [Thief]. Nor do I mean you harm. You know me.”>
The man’s instinctive terror subsided a bit, and he sat up as the Grand Design scrutinized the room where this fellow slept. The sheets. His bedclothes—all of it was good material. Cotton, though, nothing fancier, despite the fact that Sorgen could afford it.
It was the kind of stuff you bought if you wanted to be comfortable, but more than that, not spend an extravagant amount replacing what you had. A few stains, but cared for; and this room was the smallest in the building that Sorgen owned.
A [Trader]’s mentality, you see. He might have made [Merchant] over a decade ago, but this man, Sorgen Nilhor, aged 54, Human, Terandrian, of the Kingdom of Nadel, was still a [Trader] at heart.
He had four children, three prospering businesses, thirty-one pairs of socks and a sock he’d forgotten was hidden right behind the dresser, and a slight arrhythmia to his heart. The Grand Design pulled the sock out. He placed it on the bed; the heart was not in his purview.
But this…this was interference. The Grand Design’s had no heart to race, but it felt almost like Sorgen’s, thumping away in his chest.
The Grand Design’s very presence was altering this world, and it had done it on purpose. This man wasn’t part of the [Palace of Fates]. He had no relation to The Wandering Inn; he’d only heard about it last month during the Winter Solstice.
His was not a name that Erin Solstice would know of, or even Baron Belchaus of Nadel. He was an ordinary man save for one quality.
“Y-you’re no ghost. Or spirit, are you?”
The first question that Sorgen asked was a hint to his character. By rights, he should have screamed for his guards, but he had recognized the voice, for all it came from a physical mouth.
<“No, Sorgen. I am as you know me.”>
“The voice who speaks my levels and Skills. The voice of all. The voice of levels.”
Yes. The Grand Design turned his head to a book resting on Sorgen’s dresser, well-thumbed through and travel-worn. The man’s eyes flicked to that. Then he scrambled to kneel.
<“Stop. You misunderstand, Sorgen. I am no all-knowing creator. I am no…God. I know what you think of me, and I know what you believe. I am the Grand Design of Isthekenous, the final work of the murdered God of Designs. I am the will that assigns levels and Skills, and I am the being who has known you every moment of your life. But I do not require supplication. I do not want it.”>
“Wh—but you have appeared to me, milord. Surely…”
<“I am neither male nor female. I am not even a person, Sorgen. I do not know what I am. I am weary. The world has changed so insurmountably much, though it has been only a few days.”>
The man was no fool; his eyes flickered to the scrying orb by his bed.
