The Goblin [Cyclist] didn’t bother with the stairs or pulley elevators. He just cycled to the ‘Hangar’ where tamed Frost Wyverns were napping or glaring at all the clotheslines that had been strung up above them. There was a huge stone ramp that could be lowered to make a platform for Wyverns to land on—or raised to secure the area. Rianchi took them straight at it without slowing down, and Taganchiel screamed.
“Stop! Stop, stop—aaaaaaaaah—-”
The other Goblin just laughed as they slowed in the air and plunged downwards, heading to the ground. He shot forwards towards the solitary figure walking to Goblinhome, warily eying the Thunderbows tracking his every step. Taganchiel and Rianchi recognized the intruder, and the [Shaman] shouted into his speaking stone at once.
“Friendly! Friendly—Rianchi, stop!”
The bicycle skidded a dozen feet, and Rianchi undid his helmet with a huge grin for the stranger who’d reached Goblinhome. Today, of all days, when an entire army of Pallass was too afraid to get close.
But then both Goblins blinked, because they didn’t understand how he’d gotten here. There was no Frost Wyvern in the air, and the [Portal Door] waypoint to The Wandering Inn had been smashed. They searched around for it, but the Gnoll just shook his head.
“Delivery from The Wandering Inn. I thought you might need food or healing potions. I have news. Is Chieftain Rags awake yet?”
Rianchi glanced at Taganchiel, who answered for them.
“Not yet. How’d you get here, Ishkr? Also, how much food do you have?”
A few Goblins opened the main doors to the keep as Ishkr studied the bunker-fortress that was now Goblinhome. He was smiling in quiet delight and, it seemed to Taganchiel, deep sadness. But he was here. Taganchiel was properly grateful, but even a full bag of holding didn’t strike him as, ah, that useful. Goblinhome had thousands of Goblins.
“I levelled up. How much do you need?”
Then Taganchiel remembered the [Watcher]’s warning. He looks purple.
He’d levelled up. The Gnoll hadn’t asked Grimalkin or Valeterisa for a teleportation spell or a Wyvern for a ride. He’d just…appeared. Rianchi broke the silence.
“You did? What’s your level, Ishkr? New class?”
For answer, the Gnoll grinned, teeth flashing ruefully under the sunlight as the cold mountain air blew over his fur. He raised one paw.
“Nothing special. But a bit better than before. I have a long way to go, but I’m on my way to Level 50.”
He paused and caught Taganchiel’s eye.
“—It’s where I have to be before Erin gets back. I’ve been slacking too long. Not trying hard enough, not putting myself out there. I’ll be here every morning if I can; at least once a week. Otherwise, I’m dead. I should introduce myself, if it’s appropriate?”
Taganchiel traded glances with Rianchi, and then the Goblins were pointing towards Goblinhome. Ishkr came striding towards the curious Troll Queen, Dulat, who grunted and tried to speak the common tongue.
“I am Dulat, Queen of Trolls. Who are you who comes before me, stranger?”
He bowed, a Gnoll in a classy serving outfit.
“Your Majesty, I am Ishkr of The Wandering Inn. Head server and ally of Goblinhome. If I can provide you and your people any services, I would be delighted to do so. Any friend of Chieftain Rags and her tribe is a friend of my inn.”
He spoke—differently. Deferentially, yes, but with a kind of self-possession that Taganchiel liked. Dulat made an approving sound in her chest.
“Head server. What is your…class? You are a Chosen People; Tribes of the Unending Howl. What is your unique heart?”
The question caught Ishkr slightly off-guard, and he hesitated a moment before another half-proud, half-humble smile swept over his face. He bowed lower.
“I’m…”
 
[Conditions Met: Head Server of Tales and Fables → Wandering Server of Stories Class!]
[Wandering Server of Stories Level 43!]
[Skill Change: Never Late To Work (Bound Location) → Where I’m Needed, I Am (6 Locations) Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Instantaneous Order → Open the Pantries (The Wandering Inn) Obtained!]
[Skill – Convert Momentousness to Mana Obtained!]
[Spell School – Mystik Housekeeping Access Granted!]
<Spells Tier 1-3 Assigned.>
[Skill – Undo Mistake Obtained!]
 
[Title – I Stood Before the Goblin King Obtained!]
[Bound Spell – Create Object: Mug of Explosions Granted!]
 
The Gnoll’s eyes twinkled and danced with something he hadn’t had yesterday. Or rather, he’d had it, but hidden it away, and like a strange flower, it had blossomed overnight. Confidence, daring, the same chaos as his [Innkeeper]. No longer was it a suggestion he might see something amazing breaking apart the mundanity everyone took for granted.
He had become it and was becoming it. Taganchiel shivered with delight as Ishkr produced a gift for the Troll Queen.
A milkshake, fresh from The Wandering Inn’s fridge, and a dozen more for the Trolls around her. Then, sacks of grain, ready-made pasta, and loaves of bread steaming hot.
“I’ll tell Calescent to bake up a storm. Don’t worry and just ask for as much as you need; we’ll buy the rest from the markets. Gold is not a problem.”
He winked at the [Shaman], who raised a trembling hand.
“I, ah…I’ll make a list. Can I get a lasagna? Made with spicy sausages?”
Taganchiel loved lasagna. All the Goblins began to poke him, screeching their own orders, as Ishkr laughed and began conjuring food. Then he turned, for someone was glaring at him.
Naumel had been mistaken for a green boulder as he waited for his promised challenge. He rose to his feet, glaring at this stranger so cavalierly entering Goblin territory, and raised a fist, seeing a potential fight.
Ishkr turned, that uncanny look in his eyes still there, and conjured a vividly orange mug in one paw. He didn’t seem like he was spoiling for a fight, but he refused to back down as well. Taganchiel was drawing breath to shout at Naumel and Dulat was reaching for her Adamantium mace drumsticks when all the Goblins stopped moving.
Their heads swung around, and they went still. Dulat, the Trolls, and Ishkr turned to follow their heads, but all they saw was the blank stone wall of Goblinhome. The Goblins on the ground were all looking up and further into the fortress.
Ishkr’s smile widened, and he felt his fur rising as mana collected over it, like dew gathering under the morning sun. He lifted a hand.
[Conjure Stool]. He put it down just past the gates and sat down, then added a big one for Dulat. Ishkr had a feeling…he didn’t want to miss this.
 
——
 
The entire Flooded Waters tribe felt her change. A snoozing Student Rags woke up and scrambled out of her bed. Redscar rolled over in his sleep, grinning, and Snapjaw, lurking in the kitchens and eating, raised her head and started laughing.
They weren’t the only tribe who took notice. In her dormant volcano home, Chieftain Anazurhe glanced up from her conference with the Isle of Goblins.
“—You felt that too? That’s her. Not the Goblin King or the two weird ones. That’s her. Told you.”
She sounded a tad bit smug as she peered at the Goblins glancing towards their silent leader and feeling at the goosebumps on their arms.
Izikere the Guardian, the silent, patient protector of the Isle of Goblins, spoke for the first time in the course of their meeting.
“Different.”
Anazurhe hesitated. She was merely a [Great Chieftain], not having aspired to become a Goblin Lord and enter that cursed cycle. She drew out her reply cautiously, not wanting to seem ignorant. But she had to ask.
“Ye-es. What—what kind of Goblin Lord is she?”
Izikere’s only reply was that annoying, mysterious smile. Anazurhe’s scowl grew darker, and the [Witch] of the Molten Stone tribes tried to focus on that new presence shining from the High Passes. But she didn’t…get it.
It was an elusive, odd presence. Every time she thought she understood it, what she was sensing seemed different. She’d never felt a Goblin Lord like that before.
The Goblin Lord of Dreams had been a brief, glowing beacon of faith. Ragathsi of Civilizations had been a roaring machine as loud as nations. But this…
Anazurhe’s eyes snapped open as she realized what that elusive quality was. She turned to Izikere and spoke.
“That’s what she’s the Goblin Lord of?”
The Goblin Lord of the Isle of Goblins was laughing silently as her top [Shamans] glanced from her to Anazurhe, then began demanding to know what the two had sensed.
 
——
 
Her boots hit the ground the moment she left the bed, mostly because she’d been too tired to take them off. The Goblin strode down the hallways of Goblinhome, straight for the closest window.
Other Goblins flocked around her, screaming celebrations, asking questions, but the Goblin Lord had a promise to keep.
She got to a window and threw it open, then put a foot on the ledge. Below her, she saw that hulking figure, Naumel, staring up at her.
He wavered and took a step back as she grinned down at him. She didn’t appear…different. Or so she thought. But the Goblin who’d skidded to a halt stared at her like she was a stranger.
“Hey. You, uh, levelled up.”
Rags, the Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe, turned her head, sharp teeth bared. She squinted into the daylight pouring over her, preparing to leap, and waved at Ishkr. Then she glanced at Student Rags.
“Yeah. Took me a while. Do I look that different?”
Student Rags’ mouth opened, and she searched for words until the smile on her counterpart’s face vanished, and the Goblin Lord felt at her face, her hair.
“Wait. Do I look different?”
“Only a bit. It’s really cool, though.”
Chieftain Rags—no, Goblin Lord Rags blinked at Student Rags and then realized it was true. She glanced down at her body, feeling suspiciously at her arms, then her…face.
Her eyes. She’d thought the world was just more vibrant and bigger, but she realized her eyes were—bigger. And—she glanced down at her chest, and felt reflexively at her heart. To her relief, there was no rumbling mechanical heart pulsing. She was just—oh.
Taller. An inch or two, and her heart. Rags touched the glowing light coming out of her battered wyvern armor. It didn’t hurt or anything. It was just—so bright it shone out of her flesh, and even her armor couldn’t hide the glow.
“Well, that’s going to make sneaking hard. I’m not sure if I like it…but I can get used to it. Besides, nothing lasts forever.”
Her eyes resembled that of the late Rags of Dreams, and her heart was an echo of Ragathsi of Civilizations. Just like her Skills.
The Goblin Lord laughed softly, then gazed down. She pointed at the Chieftain of the Kraken Eaters as his tribe gathered outside, and Student Rags spoke.
“Do you think you can win?”
The Goblin glanced away from the window.
“Yeah. Even without my levels—he thinks he’s lost. Looks like Ishkr brought us breakfast. You levelled up?”
“Eh, just a bit.”
“Then I’ll tell you what I got. One second.”
So saying, Rags tensed and then jumped from the window in a burst of green fire. She leapt, and Student Rags sighed in faint jealousy as she saw the armored Goblin flying up into the air, flipping forwards, and spreading her arms as she fell towards the Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain.
Laughing like she was alive again. Student Rags felt at her sore back and grumbled, trying not to smile.
“What a kid.”
—And she saw Rags’ class without even having to be told what it was. It was in that elusive feeling that Anazurhe had felt. The same thing unnerving Naumel. He couldn’t lock onto what she was. It kept altering, like the flicker of a candle’s flame. Like the Goblin coming at him, drawing a sword that Rags of Dreams had given her and the revolver from the future.
 
[Conditions Met: Great Chieftain → Goblin Lord (Solstice) – “Rags of Change” Class!]
[Goblin Lord (Solstice) – “Rags of Change” Level 45!]
[Subclass: Chieftain of the Grand Alliance Assigned.]
[Skill – Relocate Base Obtained!]
[Skill – Tribe: Drive Towards the Future, Collective Competence: Engineering Obtained!]
[Miracle – Upgrade Spell (Futuristic Magic) Obtained!]
[Skill – Grand Alliance: Trade Greater Gift Obtained!]
[Skill – Chaos Fuels My Heart Obtained!]
[Skill – All Plans Fall to Dust and Ruin Obtained!]
[Skill – Unit: Lightning Repositioning Obtained!]
[Spell Advancement – Mana Arrow → Mana Bullet Learned!]
 
[Title – Inheritor of the Future Obtained!]
[Condition – Manaburn Heart Obtained!]
[Condition – Eyes of Conviction Obtained!]
 
So different. So much the same. The laughing Goblin Lord of Change pointed a finger downwards, and Naumel flinched as the first blue bullets of magic hit him in the chest. Heavy blows—not enough to break his skin, and she wasn’t incomparably stronger than before.
But she had a [Fireball] in her hand when she landed, and it glowed like the Goblin Lord of Civilizations’. She fed the [Fireball] from the future more fire magic, and he raised his arms, panting, as he roared a challenge.
He was bigger than her. Stronger than her. But the ground on which Naumel had stood was shifting, and nothing would be the same. Both of them knew it—and it made one of them weaker.
Her, stronger. She threw the [Fireball], and he dove away, afraid of that burning flame. The blast knocked him down, and he leapt, using his Skill to dive at her. And she—caught him for a second, the uncertain future giving her arm the strength to throw him aside, heart pulsing in her chest as she panted for air.
Naumel hit the ground, rolled sideways, and stared up at her. And he wondered—why he hadn’t ever wanted to be that. He rose, arms shaking, and he didn’t know why he was fighting her for a second. Strong.
Stronger. He raised a huge fist and wondered, if he beat her down until she could no longer move, if he’d think he’d won. Then he looked up as she charged, and the Kraken Eaters’ Chieftain sighed and drew himself up. He spoke to himself.
“Got to make this look good.”
He didn’t want to serve under Snapjaw. Redscar, maybe. He rampaged forwards, an army of one.
[Unstoppable Charge]! His Skill burned across his body, and he felt invincible until she pointed a finger at him and leapt over his head. Naumel stumbled as his Skill broke into pieces.
“That really not fair.”
Then he swung a fist at her, and her sword cut across his arm, leaving searing lightning burning over his skin. A blade from the future, blessed by the Goblin Lord of Dreams. Naumel roared, but not in that much anger.
It was really—not—that—
—Fair.
 
——
 
General Shirka of 2nd Army made it back to Liscor just after dawn. It was not the same heroic return as Magnolia Reinhart and Lord Xitegen. Frankly, if anyone had applauded her, she would have hit them.
