‘The bastard countered by fusing the flag with my [Spiritlock Physique] somehow. It’s like it has formed a secondary prison inside my Soul Aperture,’ Ogras recounted. ‘For now, my control over the flag has drastically improved. It feels like it’s a part of me because it is.’

Zac didn’t know what to think when he heard the explanation. If anything, it seemed even messier than before. Ogras laughed at Zac’s expression.

‘It’s more good news than bad. The flag’s upgrade is something else. I’ve become a lord of the underworld. The restrictions should have lessened by a good deal. My good deeds of punishing scoundrels have been recognized by the people upstairs. I’ve gained nearly 100 Luck in one swoop. And I think that number will keep climbing so long as I keep accumulating merit by taking out the trash.’

‘The flag has turned into a Fate Treasure?’ Zac exclaimed with surprise. ‘What the hell, I only got a small Dao upgrade.’

‘That’s because you’ve got no manners. Should have brought some sinners if you were planning on visiting hell,’ Ogras said with a grin.

‘I’ll have to remember that for the next time,’ Zac said, fervently hoping there wouldn’t be one.

Zac was very happy there was no realmgate leading back to Avīci. It was an excuse to not delve any further into whatever unresolved threads of fate were waiting within. Just making it through was a blessing as far as Zac was concerned. There were better ways to make up for whatever contributions he might lack.

“Are the two of you about done with your secret meeting?” Tavza interjected. “Can he be trusted?”

“Roughly as much as you trusted him before,” Zac said with a helpless shrug.

“Always the charmer.“ Ogras winked at Tavza. “Anyway, it’s a good thing that skeleton went and got himself killed beforehand. I can’t see how any of Kator’s underlings would make it down here without his help.”

Zac nodded in agreement. “Some of these realms were no joke. Even I would have struggled to make it here in one piece if I had traveled by myself.”

“We partly encountered so much trouble because we sought it out,” Tavza said as she looked up at the terraces. From this vantage point, it was like the graves formed a ladder of corpses that reached all the way to the heavens. “The separation is weakening as the subrealms are reintegrated into the Left Imperial Expanse. Those who come behind us should be able to skip a few of the realms by directly descending the walls. They’ll just have to wait a few months and be ready to endure some pain.”

“Longanimity,” Zac said with a crooked smile. “Maybe that was what those priests meant up by the surface. We could have avoided all this hardship by farming until the road was cleared.”

“If you did, then you would no longer be yourself,” Tavza countered. “Also, I doubt the last two layers will ever unseal. Resolving those knots is beyond any trialtaker. They’re the final test of fate and conviction.”

Zac knew Tavza was right. There was no way he would be able to sit still in some field while halos ignited one after another. Witnessing Ogras’ tribulation was a reminder that the competition was also busy seizing fate. It had been months since he saw Kaltosa Lu. How much stronger had the Elemental grown since then?

The very idea left Zac impatient, but he still made sure to first check with Ogras. “Do you need to rest before we go?”

“I’m fine. I know this platform is hidden from those making their way down the chasm, but I feel exposed standing around here,” Ogras said as he eagerly looked at the teleporter. “So this is it, then? That’s the best news yet. I’m not sure I could will myself to step into the First Garden right now.”

They’d initially thought they would have to cross all seventeen hells and gardens, but they’d reached the bottom with one still missing. They’d crossed eight realms of life and death, culminating with Avīci.

“Why do you think the Margrave spared us the suffering?” Ogras asked. “Did they need to keep the alignments balanced to make their plan work?”

Zac had been pondering the same thing over the past few hours, and he’d formed a theory already.

“The Primo helped build the Hollow Court, and he’s thought to be connected to a Ninth Hell that shouldn’t exist. If the First Garden is the start of the loop, then the Ninth Hell would be the closing link to form a full cycle,” Zac said. “And since both of them are missing here…”

“…Then they can only be further down,” Tavza finished Zac’s thoughts. “The Hollow Court is built in a paradox realm of the Lower Planes.”
