The Ghosthound’s eyes flickered. Then they opened, the left side of his face lost to oblivion and the right dominated by a brilliant emerald eye. “Right before you touched me. For a few seconds, whatever you did genuinely knocked me out. But how did you know I was awake?”

“Instinct,” Wick grunted. But his focus flicked sideways in a very revealing manner. If the Ghosthound had truly been completely unconscious, his mental defenses would not have manifested in such an intimidating manner.

The Ghosthound shrugged, suddenly standing. Wick built up more and more force, all the complex emotions that tasted the freedom now that Devick’s bindings had been shredded and wished for more. They struggled and Wick corralled that force, preparing to release an oppressive image shape.

But he needed a bit more time to generate something oppressive enough to suit his needs. Wick offered the Ghosthound a wan smile. “Let me guess; once I revealed that the grey cloud image was mine, you switched your plan. You would endure the attack and recover and then spring the trap on me when I came here, to wrestle directly with your psyche.”

“More or less. If there’s one thing I have confidence in, its taking a hit.” The Ghosthound returned the smile.

Wick did his best to hide the humming vibrations. Even his tight control was strained to contain the force he now contained. “But you made a mistake. Even with these… strange defenses you’ve gathered, do you think it matters? Once I touch you, we will meet directly. You cannot overcome me.”

This time, the Ghosthound didn’t answer. But frankly, Wick didn’t care.

After allowing the silence stretched for a few seconds, he threw back his head and laughed. “Fine then! Let’s settle this.”

Wick gathered all the image potency he possessed with his last scraps of Willpower and shaped it around his body in a truly inspired manner. Using the two images from the weaker passengers in his body, he created an engine out of rust-colored flesh and copper. That became his body in this thought area, which he prepared to accelerate-

A strand, no an entire stream, of emotions broke off from Wick’s careful control and spiked sideways within the deepest area of the image shape. It tore open one of the fleshy sides of the engine he still created, all of the pressure suddenly hissing out. The image he had worked so hard to generate began to sag.

The Ghosthound chuckled. “Fine then. Let’s settle this.”

Wick’s eyes widened. Those emotions. Those were from the Ghosthound, when he blasted me with them earlier. And this entire time, he somehow maintained a connection with them- how the hell did he refine them to be so marked?!?

But he didn’t have time to consider. The Will-o-Wisps burned forward. The images released blasts of force. That reflected wingless dragon snarled and snapped. The city of many legs walked forward, its power rising.

All to drown out Wick.
