“My future husband is about to go and meet an old girlfriend, to feed her emotions. By the gods, I had to come!”

Ren grinned and helped her down from the cart, then the guard passed him the windows to store. “Is the cart staying?”

The driver nodded. “I was hired for the day, so I'll wait here.”

“The terrain isn't good for a cart and pony, so waiting here would be better.”

She nodded and got off the cart to unhook the pony and let it graze in the sparce grass. Ren took Nathalia's hand and the guard followed them into the underbrush and along the path they'd taken before, right up to the clearing the tent used to be in.

“By the GODS!” Nathalia exclaimed. “Ren! You did all of this in so short a time?”

“We do good work. Don't we, Ruck?” Ren said and grinned as Ruck did the 'so so' gesture. “Come on, we've got windows to attach.” Ren handed Ruck the three small windows to put in the upstairs, and Ren handled the two on the bottom floor. Once that was done, Ren made the door, and shut it.

Notice!

As the land owner, you now have a permanent structure (Warehouse - 2 Storey w/Addition) built on your land.

Ren smiled, and added in the business name, and when asked to activate the storefront, he selected no.

“Wait here.” He said to Nathalia, Golir, Princess, and Ruck.

Ren went inside and up to the third floor, and used his business owner ability to make a spawn point. When that was done, he was tempted to select it as a spawn point, just to see what the system would do with 2 identical buildings and 2 identical spawn points. Ren shook his head and opened the business menu. He went into the new sub-menu he now had access to, and selected 'Transfer Portal'.

Notice!

You have selected to create a Transfer Portal between your 2 businesses. Requires - Fame Status: Renown

Total cost to build portal: 100 platinum coins, 2000 Mana.

Confirm portal creation? Yes / No

“Yes.” Ren said and heard a rumbling in the living room of the apartment. He went out to see what it was. A bright yellow sphere appeared there. Ren stepped close and got the popup for inserting the money. He did that, then another popup asked him to put his hand inside. When he did, it nearly drained his Mana Pool completely and closed.

Notice!

You have met the Fame requirement. Please input the name of the Transfer Portal user.

Ren put in his name and the system closed, and then the portal disappeared. He looked around and nothing else appeared.

“Crap! Don't tell me it didn't-” His words were interrupted as a popup appeared.

Portal format complete!

You can now use the portal as if it were an actual doorway.

Warning: Only the registered portal user can enter. All others will be immediately destroyed.

Ren looked down at his ring. “Teepo... you better go back inside... just in case.”

“Sure thing.” Teepo said. “See you on the other side.”

Ren chuckled and Teepo dissolved and entered the ring. Ren ran downstairs and told Nathalia that it had worked and that he was leaving, and would be back as soon as possible. She kissed him goodbye and Ren went back up to the portal, and got a message notification. He read it and nodded. Elerlyth had arrived late at the other shop and he had finished early.

“Here goes everything.” Ren said and stepped through the portal.
