“Why are you here?” He asked.

She sighed. “I came to warn you.”

Ren raised an eyebrow and Gloria smiled. “So, that's not just a game feature.”

Ren chuckled. “No, it's all me... if I wasn't like this.” He said and waved to the sling and the bed.

“I saw some of the things that happened to you.” Gloria said, then a tear came to her eye. “I'm really sorry for what I did to you in the game.”

“Yeah, it was pretty bad.” Ren said. “Once I'd logged out, I could clearly see what was happening, but in the game, I was under your spell.”

Gloria laughed.

“What?”

“That's not how my venom was supposed to work.” She said.

“I-i-it's not?” Ren asked, surprised. “But... I thought...”

“People are afraid of me in real life, almost immediately. They almost never give me a chance before judging me.” Gloria sighed. “Except for those that want a freak to date, or are just humoring me like I'm in a phase or something.” She looked Ren in the eyes. “When I logged into F.L.O.W. for the first time, it gave me a special class, and a special ability. Like you already know, I can feed off of fear. The venom I inject just makes more of what I need faster, and I feed on it.”

“Oh.”

Gloria nodded. “You were the first person I've ever met in the game, that didn't either fear or hate me immediately. Then I felt your Fear Aura. It was...” She shuddered. “I'm going to be honest with you, Ren. It was delicious.”

Ren tried not to smile, but he couldn't help himself and let it show. I was delicious!

Gloria smiled, too. “Then you... pumped it up somehow? I don't know...” She shook her head. “You were right when you said I looked full the next day. My ability was satisfied for the first time.”

Ren put a hand out for her to hold, and she took it.

“It wasn't just the fear, either. I could feel nearly everything that you felt. Surprise, curiosity, worry. All of it.”

“Oh, crap.” Ren said. “Then that means...”

“Yeah. All it does is amplify feelings. It doesn't create them.” Gloria said. “What you were feeling was real. It was just pumped up so I could feed on it.”

“So...” Ren said. “Noticing how beautiful you are, and being turned on by you, was all me.” He said. “Damn.”

“It's okay.” Gloria said. “What happens in the game, stays in-”

“No, it doesn't.” Ren said.

“But...”

“You're sitting in my hospital room, trying to warn me about something happening in the game.”

She opened her mouth to protest, then shut it. “You're right.”

“What happened then caused me a few problems...” Ren said. “...but, it doesn't matter much now.”

“Why's that?” Gloria asked.

“My girlfriend and I broke up.”

“I'm sorry to hear that.” She said. “I hope it wasn't...”

Ren shook his head. “No, we got through that; then something else happened.” Ren lifted his arm in the sling. “She couldn't deal with it.”

“I'd ask what happened, but I don't want you to relive it.”

“Thanks.” He said.

“Speaking of bad things happening, I've done some bad things...” Gloria said. “...I've even told you a lot of them.”

He nodded for her to continue.

“This last thing, I didn't know it had anything to do with you until it was too late.”

“Tell me what happened.” Ren commanded, and Gloria told him the whole story. Ren gripped her hand harder and harder as her story continued, and she winced when she got to Tristan punching her in the chest.

“Sorry.” Ren said, and loosened his grip. “I work out when I can.” He said to her surprise, then rubbed his thumb over the top of her hand. “Keep going.”

Gloria stared at their clasped hands, and finished the story about Tristan wanting him because of the marker, tossing the venomous spider on Tristan's face, and Emanon helping her escape at the end. Ren didn't try to hide the grin on his face when Gloria looked up at him.

“Elerlyth...”

“It's Gloria, actually.” She said and then covered her mouth with her free hand. “I did not just tell you my real name.” Gloria shook her head. “That was a fake name. My real name is Samantha. Yes, it's Samantha.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “Okay, 'Samantha'.” He said and smiled. “Thank you.”

“What are you thanking me for?” Gloria asked. “Because of me, he's on a rampage to find you.”

“For three things, actually.” Ren said. “One: You defended me at great risk to yourself, nearly costing you your life.” He kept rubbing his thumb over her held hand. “Second: You wiped the smug look off that twit's face with your attack, and probably killed him.”

“Oh, he definitely died.” Gloria said, her eyes twinkling. “One of the guys there tried to grab the spider and take it from his face.”

“How stupid can they be?” Ren said and grinned. “That's the last thing you want to do to any spider, let alone venomous ones.”

Gloria nodded. “It clamped it's jaws down immediately, and he screamed like a little girl.”

Ren laughed. “Please, please tell me you have it on video!”

She grinned. “Of course I do.” Gloria let his hand go to take out her cell phone. Ren motioned for the rollaway table, and they exchanged contact info. Gloria forwarded him the video, and they started watching it together. She turned to him as she dragged Mitchell down the stairs, and smiled as Ren chuckled at each thump Mitchell's head made on every step.

“What was the third reason you're thanking me?” She asked as she watched his reactions.

“You told me why that dirtbag is still after me.” Ren said and winced at Mitchell's death. “I told you about him before, about how he's been trying his best to 'get back at me'.” His eyes widened at Elerlyth's assault and then he grinned at the spider.

He... he's not revolted by it. Gloria thought, as Ren kept talking.

“Now I know he has a legitimate reason.” He said as the clip ended with her getting away. “I have to wonder if he knows why it's so important.”

“And you do?”

“Of course I do.” Ren said. “If he knew, though... he'd have a lot more people after me.”

“Then what is it?”

Ren shook his head. “I'm sorry, Gloria. There's no need for you to know; unless you have one.”

Gloria shook her head. “I don't; but, I did come here...”

“This information could be worth a lot of money to the right person.”

Gloria's eyes widened at Ren's admission.

“How much?”

“Well, I guess I could tell you.” Ren said, and Gloria leaned in close to him. He leaned in as well and whispered. “About a hundred platinum coins worth.”

She turned her head quickly. “Wh-”

Then their lips met by accident.

Gloria's lips were puckered from speaking, and Ren's mouth was in a little 'o' shape from her sudden movement. Their lips fit together perfectly, and they stared at each other for several moments. Gloria broke the kiss, then leaned back in the chair. Ren's heart was beating faster than normal, and Gloria's face flushed a little red.

“Sorry.” Gloria said. “I didn't mean to... I mean, I meant to turn and speak, but...” She looked at Ren, who was sitting there in shock. So, he is like them, after all. Gloria thought. Shocked that he kissed the freak.

“Well, say something!” Gloria snapped.

“Wow.” Ren said. “I really do like you for real.”

“W-what?” She asked, surprised.

“I was kind of in denial about liking you in the game.” Ren said. “It was a while ago, and you know how people can forget some things after a bit of time has passed.”

Gloria nodded.

“You just reminded me of how much I enjoyed your company.” Ren said.

She frowned. “Only from a kiss?”

Ren shook his head and moved his hand to reveal a significant bulge under the blanket. Gloria blinked her eyes a few times as she stared at it.

“So that's not just a game feature, either.” Gloria said then looked back up at Ren. “You... you're like that... just from a kiss?”

“Beautiful women seem to affect me the most.” He said and smiled. “I hope you won't be insulted if I tell you that you're more beautiful in real life.”

Gloria took in a deep breath. “You're just saying that.” She said and put a hand over her heart. “Have you seen my hair? My piercings? My clothes?”

“Gloria... Samantha... Elerlyth...” Ren reached out and took her other hand. “Paying a woman an honest compliment isn't something I'd lie about.” He said and smiled. “The fallout from lying is always worse than the lie itself.”

“So you really...” Gloria caught her breath. “...you think I'm beautiful?”

Ren chuckled. “A good friend once told me that I shouldn't hide how I feel about people.” He looked at her seriously. “I was angry about you injecting me so many times with your venom.”

Gloria blushed. “It wasn't working, and I thought you might have had a natural resistance to it or something.” She explained. “Each time I injected you, I kept expecting that instant rush of fear that I get from everyone else... and it never came.” Gloria looked back at him seriously, too. “All I felt was caring, concern, and... ah...” She glanced down at his bulge. “...excitement.”

Ren smirked. “I now know it's because you're pretty irresistable.”

“You resisted well enough.” She said.

Ren snorted a laugh. “Yeah, my lips resisted... all over yours, if I recall... a lot.”

Gloria grinned. “Okay, you got me there.” She noticed the time on Ren's watch. “Dammit! I gotta go. Your supper is going to be done soon.”

“How do you know that?” Ren asked.

“I... might have... arranged for the stove to be unplugged in the breakroom.”

“Gloria!” Ren shook his head.

“I needed to make sure I had the time to see you.” Gloria said and stood. “See you around, short stuff.”

“Wait.” Ren said, and Gloria looked at him. “I'd warn you that Tristan will be after you, but I'm pretty sure he's too focused on me to bother with you.” He said. “What are you going to do now?”

“I don't know.” Gloria said and shrugged. “I've always been a mercenary; but, now that I've retired...”

“You retired?” Ren asked, surprised.

Gloria nodded. “I don't want to meet another Tristan for as long as I live.” She said. “Once was enough.”

“Well, I can't guarantee you'll never see him again; but if you need a job, I need someone to watch my building in Aurora while I'm gone.”

Gloria snorted a laugh. “From pay-for-hire mercenary to security guard, all in one day.”

“You don't have to do it.” Ren shrugged. “It's just an offer.”

“How much is the salary?” Gloria asked.

“How much do you want?”

“A gold a day.”

“That's all?” Ren asked.

“W-what?”

“You're not going to be able to do much with only a single gold coin a day.” Ren said. “A couple good meals, maybe a few potions, and then a bed for the night at a good inn.”

“Fine, then.” Gloria said. “Make it 10 gold a day.”

“10 gold sounds more reasonable.” Ren said and held a hand out to her.

She shook it and grinned. “Sucker! I would have gone down to 5.”

“I should say that to you, then.” Ren said and grinned back. “I would have gone as high as 50.”

“You WHAT?!?” Gloria said, just as the door to Ren's room opened.

“Who the hell are you?” Denise asked with scorn in her voice. She carried a tray of food in her hands.

“Me?” Gloria said as she let Ren's hand go. “I was just leaving.”

“Now wait just a minute!” Denise said, but Gloria slipped out past her and ran down the corridor. It was in the opposite direction from the nurse's station, so Denise couldn't holler for help. She turned back into the room and glared at Ren. “Ren! Who was that?”

“No idea.” He said and smiled. “She gave me several different names.”

Denise huffed. “Well, she's easily identified, anyways.”

“That's good.” Ren said. “I want her put on my visitors list.”

“You WHAT?!?”

“I think she liked 'Samantha' the best of the names she said.” Ren smiled. “You can put that down as her name for now.”

“You can't have visitors yet...”

Ren looked at the tray. “Is that my supper? It smells good.”

“But...”

He moved the laptop aside and motioned for the tray to be put down. “Thank you.” Ren started eating and ignored the indignant stare Denise was giving him.

*

That was close! Gloria thought, as she ran down the emergency stairs. When she got to the bottom, she used the key and opened the door without setting off the alarm. She calmly walked down the hallway, then into the rear storage area of the basement and to an old man that sat there in a small folding chair.

“Thanks, Billy.” Gloria said, and handed him the key and a 10 dollar bill.

“Anytime.” The old man said and smiled. “I'm always happy to help young love blossom.”

“We're not...” Gloria started to respond, then smiled. “...yeah, thanks.”

The old man waved to her as she went out the loading bay door.

I can't believe I kissed him! Gloria thought as she crossed the parking lot to her car. It started out innocently as an accident... She hopped in her car and peeled rubber out of the parking lot. ...but, screw me if that kiss didn't feel just like it did in the game!

*

Ren ate in complete silence, and he thought it was quite peaceful. Denise on the other hand, was almost livid by the time he was finished.

“Are you all done?” She asked, almost with as much scorn in her voice as she had while talking to Gloria.

“I am.” Ren said. “It was great. Thank you.”

Denise took the tray and kept glaring at him.

“Yes?” Ren asked.

“Are you going to explain...”

“What's there to explain?” Ren asked. “She was here, you came in, she left.” He smiled. “You saw what I saw. There wasn't much else.”

Denise opened her mouth, scowled, and then left to take the tray back. Ren pulled the laptop over and opened an email. He typed up something and sent it off.

*

Gloria had just pulled into her parking spot at home when her cell phone beeped. She turned the car off and checked the message.

Samantha, (LOL)

It was nice to meet you again for the first time. Thanks for giving me a fourth reason to thank you for your visit. (KISS, KISS) (BIG GRIN)

“You little shit!” Gloria said and laughed. She typed up a response and sent it.

*

Ren's instant messenger beeped and he looked at Gloria's response.

Hey, short stuff.

I hope you don't think that meant anything. It was an accident! It wasn't a real kiss!

Ren grinned and typed another message.

*

Gloria was still looking at her phone when another message popped up.

Hi, sweet cheeks!

It had to be real. Little Ren doesn't make an appearance otherwise. If he says it's real, and I say it's real, you're outvoted 2 to 1. (LOL)

“Okay. Time to rumble.” She said and typed furiously.

*

