Ren waited for her response, and wasn't disappointed.

Look here, squirt!

I am the woman, and whatever I say, goes! If we're counting body parts, I've got you outvoted 3 to 1, mister!

*

I looked, Boobilicious!

You brought it up, and since we're counting them, then I've got YOU outvoted 4 to 1. If you hadn't noticed, there were 3 things standing at attention tonight, and only one of them was on me. BTW, red looks really good on you. (GRIN)

Gloria looked down and saw her t-shirt was hanging a little lower than she had intended, and it showed off the top of her bra. She looked a little lower, and sure enough, her t-shirt was popping out a little. “You cocky little shit.” She grinned. “He got me again.”

*

Okay, mister smart aleck!

You got a visit from me and a little show. I hope you're happy, because that'll be the last.

*

Don't be hatin', baby! (LOL)

I'm having the nurses put Samantha on my visitor's list, so I hope that won't be the last time I see you.

*

Hey,

Are you serious?

*

Yes,

It was nice to have someone, besides no one, come and see me... despite my restrictions of no visitors for a while, and your illegal entry.

*

Ha!

How would you know if it was illegal?

*

Please,

I've been all over this floor. I know the only exit down there is the emergency exit. I'm not going to ask how you did it, because I honestly don't want to know. All I care about, is that you took the time out of your day to come and see me. That means a lot to me, despite how we met the first time.

*

Short Stuff,

I didn't think you'd even look at a message if I sent it, and I thought it was too important to not tell you about it.

*

Samantha,

What you told me was really important. That's why I thanked you, and offered you a job. An easy, well paid job. I'm still mad about the venom, though... so, it's also a job that you're going to hate by the end of the week. (LOL)

Gloria snorted a laugh.

*

You little shit!

You're right. Standing guard on an empty building is going to suck balls.

*

LOL

Who said it was empty?

*

Hold on,

It's not empty? I just assumed since you weren't there, you took everything with you.

*

Well,

I took what I could; but, I couldn't take everything.

*

So,

What's in it?

*

(WINK)

You'll find out.

Gloria rolled her eyes.

*

Ugh...

It's not porn or anything, is it?

Ren snorted a laugh.

*

No,

It's not really something that you can sell.

*

Okay,

Now I really have to know.

*

Sure,

Just log in and I'll send you the info. I'm logging in myself in a few minutes.

*

Dammit!

Why didn't you say so! We just wasted... over an hour of gametime!

*

LOL

A woman after my own heart. 'See' you inside.

Gloria hopped out of the car, locked it, and went up to her apartment. The weekends were always the best time for her to relax. Frank hated weekends with a passion, but she sometimes convinced him to let her work Saturdays at the garage. Not this weekend though. She locked her front door and went into her bedroom.

*

Ren logged out of the instant messenger program and pushed the laptop aside to reach for the VR headset. He was tempted to wait for Denise to come back; but settled into the bed instead, and slipped the headset on with a bit of difficulty. He managed to do it, like he always does, and relaxed.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up in the bed alone again, and got up to sit at the big workbench in the old bedroom. He opened the messaging system and the business owner system, then waited.

********

Gloria changed from her street clothes into a set of cammo print pyjamas and slid onto her recliner. She picked up her VR headset and relaxed.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Elerlyth woke up in the bed of her one room house and sighed. She always felt so much better in the game, and at the same time, so much worse. Her hunger continued to gnaw at her constantly. She rolled out of bed and stood up, then slouched slightly to stop her armor from digging in too much. Elerlyth walked over to the table and sat down, and opened the messaging system.

Elerlyth: Hey, I'm in.

Ren: Hey, Gorgeous.

Elerlyth: Don't be a dick.

Ren: LOL Sorry, I thought we were continuing our conversation.

Elerlyth: We are, just don't patronize me.

Ren: Elerlyth, I'm not... nevermind.

Elerlyth: Let's get to it, shall we?

Ren: (Sigh) If I was there, this would be a lot easier.

Elerlyth: But you're not here. Which reminds me, when are you coming back?

Ren: Officially? I'm not planning on hopping on a boat anytime soon.

Elerlyth: Why is that?

Ren: I'm engaged to be married.

Elerlyth: Hey, what did I say about not being a dick?

Ren: I'm not being a dick, I'm telling you the truth.

Elerlyth: ...

Ren: A woman I know proposed, and I said yes.

Elerlyth: You're serious?

Ren: Yeah. A year of courting, then a year of engagement, then the wedding ceremony.

Elerlyth: Wait, wait. What are you talking about?

Ren: It's the dwarf marriage ritual.

Elerlyth: You're getting married. To a dwarf.

Ren: Yeah.

Elerlyth: Is she real?

Ren: What do you mean?

Elerlyth: Is she like me, a person in real life, or just part of the game?

Ren: She's a part of the game.

Elerlyth: Hahahahaha!

Ren: What?

Elerlyth: They sucked you in good, didn't they?

Ren: Who?

Elerlyth: The system programmers, of course.

Ren: What are you talking about?

Elerlyth: Come on! You don't think that you just happened to meet this great dwarf out of the blue?

Ren: But I did.

Elerlyth: Don't be an ignorant dick.

Ren: Hey! That's uncalled for.

Elerlyth: (Sigh) Ren, they've caught you in a logic loop.

Ren: What are you talking about?

Elerlyth: (Shakes Head) Nevermind. You'll figure it out yourself.

Ren: ...

Elerlyth: So, is the job still up for grabs?

Ren: Yes, I gave my word.

Elerlyth: I'm sorry I'm spraying your fantasy with a bit of harsh reality.

Ren: You've seen what my reality is like.

Elerlyth: Yeah, you've got it pretty sweet.

Ren: WHAT?!?

Elerlyth: You don't have to shout, I'm right here.

Ren: Why do you think I have it 'sweet'?

Elerlyth: You can stay in bed all day and not work.

Ren: You... you think I'd choose this life?

Elerlyth: Wouldn't you?

Ren: ...... that you could ask me that, means you didn't read enough about what happened to me.

Elerlyth: Oh, boo hoo. Poor you.

Ren: Hey, why are you acting like this?

Elerlyth: I'm supposed to be your in-game girlfriend, remember?

Ren: Ha... hahaha. Oh, you're a barrel of laughs.

Elerlyth: Don't be a total dick.

Ren: When was the last time I saw you in the game?

Elerlyth: ...

Ren: Exactly. We definitely have chemistry, but nothing happens when the ingredients never mix.

Elerlyth: (Sigh) Okay, I wasn't around. I had stuff to do.

Ren: I know, so did I. So much has happened since then.

Elerlyth: You have no idea.

Ren: Things might have turned out differently if you hadn't left.

Elerlyth: That's for sure.

Ren: I'm sorry things aren't turning out well for you.

Elerlyth: You win the prize for the understatement of the year.

Ren: Do you still want the job?

Elerlyth: Yes. I definitely need the money.

Ren: Okay, just a second.

Ren switched to the business owner menu and selected 'Hire Security', then selected 'Head', and sent the request to Elerlyth.

*

Elerlyth saw the popup, and her eyes widened at the job offer. She really did need the money, so she clicked accept. She got a new title of 'Head Security: MoAJoN' added to her status window, and it gave her the right to patrol around and inside the building. A small key appeared around her neck, beside her own house key.

Ren: There, it's done.

Elerlyth: Thanks.

Ren: You're welcome.

Elerlyth: Ren... how are you going to pay me? You're... well, I don't know where you are.

Ren: Business owners have access to electronic transfers.

Elerlyth: Really? I didn't know that.

Ren: Uh huh. I guess you want to get an advance.

Elerlyth: Hey, I don't want your charity!

Ren: LOL You're kidding, right? I want you to work and earn the money.

Elerlyth: So, I'm not trustworthy enough to get an advance?

Ren: Elerlyth! Goddammit! Stop it!

Elerlyth: Make me, asshat!

Ren: Your wish is my command.

Elerlyth: What do you mean? How are you-

Elerlyth gasped when she got a popup.

Notice!

You have received an electronic transfer of 3 platinum coins.

Elerlyth: Ren! What are you doing?

Ren: You wanted an advance. Is a month's pay not enough? How about 2 months?

*

Ren typed up another transfer, and saw he was getting low on platinum. He took out the crate of diamonds and picked out 3 dozen of the oddest-shaped ones that he wouldn't use, even if he knew what to do with them, and sold them for 1250 platinum.

*

Elerlyth started to cry when she got another popup.

Notice!

You have received an electronic transfer of 6 platinum coins.

Elerlyth: Please, Ren. Please stop!

Ren: Elerlyth, do you really think I care about money so much, that I'd hurt my friends by not giving it to them if they need it?

Elerlyth: I'm... I'm sorry, Ren.

Ren: Is that enough? Will this make you stop hating me for whatever you think I've done to you?

Elerlyth wiped her eyes and kept typing.

Elerlyth: It's not what you've done... it's... it's what you haven't done.

Ren: What are you talking about?

Elerlyth: Ren... I.... I'm starving.

Ren: You're WHAT?

Elerlyth: It's my ability! Nothing does any good. I've tried everything. Everything, Ren! I'm hungry all the time! It's... I think it's eating me up inside.

Ren: Elerlyth, get to my shop and wait for me there.

Elerlyth: W-what? Why would that help me?

Ren: Because I'll be there as soon as I can.

Elerlyth: How far away are you?

Ren: I'm about 2 weeks away by boat.

Elerlyth: I... I think... I can go that long.

Ren: Don't worry, Elerlyth. I'll be there much sooner than that.

Elerlyth: How? Why?

Ren: You need my help!

Elerlyth: After everything I've done...

Ren: If I'd actually cared about any of that, I would have called for the nurse right away when you showed up.

Elerlyth: Okay, I can be there by the morning.

Ren: I'll try my best to be there by tomorrow night, or the next morning.

Elerlyth: Ren... I... thank you.

Ren: Don't thank me until I get there. I have to go now. I've got a lot of work to do.

Ren: Message me when you get there, okay? Goodbye, Elerlyth.

Elerlyth: Goodbye, Ren.

*

Ren closed the opened menus and left the bedroom. Sneak was still on, so he crept up the hallway and saw that both Nathalia and Narhilda had gone to bed already. Ren frowned. Nathalia had spent every night with him for the last several nights, and tonight she wasn't there. He crept back down the hallway and opened her door. She was sleep on the bed and Ren closed the door. He went to his bedroom door and wrote a note that explained where he'd gone. He left the house and went up to his workshop. He gathered up enough wood for what he wanted, 4x4s and timber planks, some 4 inch wide lumber, enough paving stones, and then stopped.

“Dammit, I need windows!” Ren said, then thought about it. He hoped the glassworks had them, and would get Nathalia to order them for him. He examined his inventory, then examined the plans. “Yeah, it's enough.” He stepped into the workshop and saw all of the bags of cement there, then looked at his inventory. “Not enough room to hold them.” He gathered up enough to clear the way to the wall, then stacked them on top of each other in a square of 5 x 5 bags, then put them up as far as he could reach. It cleared a good portion of the floor, so he did it again several times. He cleared the whole floor, except for the 15 feet x 5 feet section the stacks took up.

Ren nodded and then left the workshop to go to the stable. He knocked gently and Ruck came out. “I need your help again, but it's a lot harder this time.” He turned around and Ruck climbed up after giving the 'okay' gesture. “Princess?”

She stirred and looked at him.

“Feel like going for a run back to the mountain?” Ren asked. “I'd like your company, if you want to come.”

Princess huffed and stood. Ren stored her crate and smiled.

“Don't worry, no saddle or harness. It's just us running.”

She huffed and nodded. They walked out of the stable and Princess' hoof clacked on the paving stone.

“Dammit.” Ren whispered. “Princess, just a second.” He whipped out some fabric and sewed up 4 booties for her to wear. She looked at them and shook her head.

“It's just until we get out of the yard.” Ren said, and she shook her head again.

“I'll have to carry you, then.” He said and grinned. Princess saw it, then held a hoof out. “Thank you.” Ren put them on her and she was a little unsteady, but they made it outside and he took them off of her. “Let's go!” He said and they took off running.

Ren set a good jogging pace so that they would make good time going all the way out to the diamond mine, and not drain his Stamina too fast. With that Vitality boost, his Stamina Bar had increased as well, so he could run that much farther by pacing himself. It had taken 10 hours by cart, but they had made it in just under 6 hours. If Ren had pushed it, they might have done 5, or even 4, but then he'd have to wait for his Stamina Bar to replenish, and the time lost there wasn't worth the extra effort.

They made it back to the spot where the tent was, and saw it was still a relatively flat area. Ren took out the hammerpick and cleared the 40 feet by 20 feet he needed, then got to building. With Ruck's help holding things to nail, Ren had the basic frame structure up by morning.

“At least we got the hard part done.” Ren said to Ruck, and shook his hand. “Let's get the walls up.”

Ruck gave the 'thumbs up' gesture and Ren handed him a hammer and a pile of nails to put in inventory. “Just a second, Ruck. Nathalia should be up by...” The Sending Ring started to glow and Ren smiled.

“By the gods, Ren! What's all of this in the note?”

“Just something that I have to do.”

“You've told me about Elerlyth, Ren. She's not a good person.”

“Just because you do bad things, doesn't make you a bad person.”

Nathalia laughed. “Yes, it does.”

“I can't let her starve.”

“Ren...”

“Don't worry, Nathalia. I'll be back.” Ren said. “Only I can do this.”

Nathalia sighed. “Okay, what do you need?”

Ren gave her the description for the windows and had her go into town, under escort, to get them. In the meantime, Ren and Ruck got to work attaching the timber planks to the framework to make the outer walls. It took about half the day; but they got the outside walls, minus the windows, finished. They even had the stairs up to the third floor, and the apartment walls finished by the time the cart came with the windows. With Teepo's Spot ability, Ren ran out to the road and waited for the cart to come to a stop. Nathalia was there in the cart with the windows, and so was the guard, Golir.

“You didn't have to come, Nathalia.”

