Ren, Nathalia, and her mother Narhilda, decided the Main House should be a mile up the road. That way, anyone who had business with House Neram would stop at the Main House, and those that wanted to visit the family, would come out to the Keep. Ren went outside and stored the modified cart, then ran down the road to the spot they'd chosen. He did the lot clearing technique, but unlike all the other Houses, he set it about 200 feet back from the road. He even made courtyard out front, with lots of space for people and their carts. Ren also didn't want people to have to climb stairs to get inside, either. He dropped the floor's level so it would feel more welcoming.

Ren didn't think he had a lot of time, so he built the 2 storey wooden mold as quickly as he could, and covered it in handholds and ladders. He made the main supporting internal walls with doorways and left all the connecting walls out; because he wanted to change them as well. He placed rebar inside all the walls, and since the walls were 8 feet high and the rebar was 10, he had lots of extra to jam into the ground and still leave some to work with. Ren ran back to his forge and smelted a bit more ore. He took out his big crucible from inventory and filled it, then stored the crucible. He ran back to the Main House and made wooden supports all along the inside walls, then built a wooden floor on the second level. He left space for several stairways, then used dollops of molten metal to attach rebar to the walls, across the wooden floor, and attached them to the other walls.

Ren started mixing cement in the modified cart. Since he'd never done it before, it took several tries for him to get the mix right. Once he did, he set about filling the entire first floor's walls with it, then covered the second story's wooden floor and all of the rebar. Even though he'd built the mold to include the walls for the second floor, he couldn't fill them yet. He'd have to wait a day for the first floor's walls to dry, and the floor enough to walk on. Ren crossed his fingers and hoped that the accelerated time in the game also accelerated the drying time. He ran back to the workshop and dropped off the empty sacks for the workers to fill again.

Ren ran to the house and told Nathalia that he had to pop over to the Library, and would probably be there until supper. She was tempted to go with him, but wanted to stay there with her mother. He kissed Nathalia goodbye and ran as hard as he could down the road. No one paid him any attention, and he smiled.

I guess my running isn't as big of a deal anymore. Ren thought.

“It is for me!” Teepo said and chittered in delight as the hood bounced him around.

Why do you think I run? Ren thought in amusement. They made it into the main city a few minutes later and Ren went to the Library. He went inside, stopped to listen, and went up to the third floor to where he'd heard shuffling feet.

“Good evening, Ma'am.” Ren said, as his head crossed the threshhold of the stairway to the third floor.

“Good evening, your highness.” The female dwarf said.

“Making any progress?” Ren asked.

“Only one shelf so far.” She said and pointed to the top shelf of the cabinet she was standing in front of. “It's not the lack of space that's making it difficult.” The Librarian said. “It's having to look through all the shelves to find the books I need to put in order, then make room for them without messing everything else up.”

Ren thought about it for a minute. “Are you putting them in alphabetical order?”

The female dwarf nodded.

“Then I can help.”

“How?”

“I'll go through all the unsorted books on the shelved and gather all the 'a' books I find. You can sort them and put them on the shelves.”

“What about the books already on the shelves?” She said and waved to them.

“You've forgotten the couple of empty ones downstairs.” Ren said. “I'll go and get them.”

She nodded slightly, and Ren went to the second floor to store the 2 empty cabinets of shelves. He went back to the third floor, and moved two of the cabinets out of the way, and put the two blank ones in their place. He then went through all of the shelves of unsorted books to find all of the books starting with 'a', then went back and loaded up the empty shelves with them. There was still plenty of space, and Ren asked her to open the storage area and he could look there as well. She did so, and Ren searched all of the books and gathered everything that started with an 'a', then deposited them on the third floor. Ren repeated this process several times and was up to 'd' when Teepo told him that it was nearly suppertime.

“I'm sorry Ma'am, but I have to go.” Ren said. “It's almost time for supper.”

“What? Oh.” The female dwarf said. “I guess you better go, then.”

Ren walked over to her and took her hand, bent over it, and smiled. “I'll try to come back as soon as I can. I can't promise it'll be tomorrow; but I'll do my best to make sure that it is.”

“Thank you.” She said and smiled. “Why don't you take that box of books with you? I'm sure you can read one or two tonight after supper.”

Ren shook his head. “I'd be more than happy to; but, I've got other things to do tonight...” Ren grinned. “...like sleep. If I take the books with me, sleeping isn't what I'd be doing.”

The Librarian smiled, yawned, then laughed. “Yes, I know that feeling!”

Ren laughed and bid her a good night. He ran all the way over to Barnar's and caught him and his crew packing up for the night. Ren ordered another 200 bricks to be delivered the next day. He paid for them and then ran all the way back to House Neram to enjoy a nice supper.

*

It had taken another 2 hours for Elerlyth's health to fully recover. She'd thought about splurging a little on some minor Health potions to try and speed things up; but they would only give her 50 points of Health each, which she'd gain in about 15 minutes anyways. Her armor dug into her ribs a little, but it didn't bother her too much. It served as a reminder of what could have happened if she hadn't been wearing it. Elerlyth debated heavily about messaging Ren, to tell him what Tristan was up to.

She sat down at the table in her small, one room house. It had cost her nearly a hundred gold to hire the local woodworkers to come all the way out to the middle of nowhere and build the place for her. It would have been a lot more than that, for transport costs and labor, but Elerlyth had convinced them it was better that they only charged her for the materials, rather than lose their lives. She smiled. Like she had told Tristan, she never would have killed them; but, Fear was always a great motivator. The house was snuggled into the foliage, inside a huge forest. If you didn't know where to look, you would never find it. It didn't take much convincing to have the workers forget that it was there. She let the smile fade away and then sighed.

“I feel so bad about what I did to him.” Elerlyth said. “I'm pretty sure it would have worn off by now, so I don't know if he'll even look at anything I send him.” She made her decision and stood up. “There's only one thing that I can do, to make him hear me out.” She walked over to her bed and lay down.

“Logout.”

*

Tristan was pissed beyond anything he'd ever felt before. “That rotten... stinking... BITCH!” He shouted and punched a hole in the wall of the little shack. Even though he was so angry that he could barely see straight, he was also glad that he'd set his spawn point to be in the next room the night before. “She was working for him the whole time, wasn't she?” Tristan spat at Emanon, who shook his head.

“She's an independent contractor, sir.” Emanon said. “She works for anyone willing to pay the fee.”

“She knows him!” Tristan ranted as he paced the room.

“She knows a lot of people, sir.”

“She killed me, you stupid prick!” Tristan said and punched another hole in the wall. “With a goddamned spider!”

“To be fair, it was a big spider, sir.” One of the other 2 hooded figures said. “It withered and dissolved right after you did.”

“Thank god.” The other hooded figure said and shivered like something had crawled up his back. “I fucking hate spiders!”

Emanon smiled inside the hood, but no one was looking at him.

“Contact her again! I want her to find Ren as soon as possible.” Tristan said.

Emanon frowned. “No.”

“What did you say?” Tristan said and whirled to face him.

“I'm not going to contact her.” Emanon shook his head. “You didn't pay her for the job she did, and then you lost it and tried to kill her.” He said and sighed. “If word gets around about how you treated her...”

Tristan sat down at his desk. “FUUUCK!”

“...it'll undo all the behind the scenes bridge building you've been doing.” Emanon said.

Tristan plunked his head down on the desk and sighed. “Fine.” A moment later he picked up his head and looked at his 3 remaining hooded figures. “He doesn't know I'm looking for him now, he should be easy to find.” He said. “Post guards near the Aurora city gates, and tell them to look for Ren.” Tristan stood up and tossed a gold coin to each hooded figure. “Better yet, give a silver coin for any information about where he is.”

*

During the next hour, Ren had a great supper, and told Nathalia and her mother about the Library, and how well the Main House was coming along. They were surprised at how fast he was making it, and even more surprised that he'd have the second floor walls and ceiling finished the next night. After spending that quality time with the both of them, Ren told them he had some Adventurer's business to take care of. He said his goodnight's to them both and went to bed.

“Logout.”

********

Ren took off the VR headset and Denise took it from him.

“It seems things have settled down for you.” Denise said with a smirk.

Ren snorted a laugh. “Yeah, it's settled all right. The Dwarf Council, or House Lodur actually, is trying to railroad me.”

“Well, you are shaking things up a lot for them.” She said. “You've been throwing money around like it's water from a fountain.”

Ren chuckled. “I know.” He said, then shook his head. “They had this great and powerful society, with all these rules and rituals, and now it's devolved into businesses trying to screw the little guy out of their money, and for no reason.” Ren sighed. “There's so much money available for those that go out and find it, but the Houses have strangled any desire for them to even try to do it.”

“This is really bothering you, isn't it?” Denise asked as she sat down.

Ren nodded. “They have so much potential as a people, Denise. Expert craftsmen are working at jobs they shouldn't even think about, let alone do.” He sat up in the bed. “I found a gemcutter that was bitter and reclusive because he didn't want to work just to have his money taken by a House that had treated his family unfairly for years.” Ren rubbed his head with his good hand for a moment, then stopped and smiled. “You saw him in the workshop. He didn't even ask me to pay him for the gems he cut, because he was having too much fun!”

Denise nodded.

“All the craftsmen should be like that.” Ren said. “Look at Barnar. He was content with making fireplaces, but he wasn't passionate about it. When I gave him a few ideas, his face lit up, and he started thinking of what he could do with it.”

She nodded again and smiled.

“They've been stuck in drudgery, wallowing in paying debts they can't pay, and working jobs for no money. If they want to leave or change jobs, they have to pay a year's wages to do it.” Ren shook his head. “Nearly all the money in the entire city is going to House Lodur... and since they own the mines where nearly everyone works... for free... no one thought about changing things.” He grinned. “Until now.”

“I guess that means you're going to keep ignoring the order?” Denise asked.

“Saw that, did you?” Ren smiled.

She nodded. “That's going to stir up a lot of trouble.”

Ren nodded and got out of bed. “It sure is.” He said and walked into the bathroom. “I figure if I have a recipe for Trouble, I should use it against people that deserve it.” Ren used the bathroom and came back out. “Let them feel what it's like for once.”

Denise chuckled. “You just don't want it to happen to you, you little frigger.”

Ren climbed into bed. “That might have a bit of truth to it.” He said and grinned.

“I'll go and get supper ready.” Denise said and stood up. “I wasn't sure if you'd be out right away or not.”

Ren nodded. “I was tempted to keep working for a little longer; but, I didn't want to mess up that badly again.”

“I might be a little while.” She said and walked over to open the room's door.

“I'm not going anywhere.” Ren chuckled.

Denise rolled her eyes. “I meant, are you going to be alright?”

“Sure I am.” Ren said. “Who's going to hurt me in here?”

She nodded and left the room. Ren changed the television to another channel to find something to watch. A few minutes later, the door to his room opened and then shut again.

“Well, that was quick.” Ren said and turned his head towards the door, then froze. A woman he'd never met before stood there. She had bubblegum pink hair with blue streaks, partially shaved off on the left side. Her nose was pierced, as well as a half-dozen piercings in the ear he could see. She wore tight blue jeans that were covered in rips, and a loose black t-shirt that hung only on one shoulder. It revealed a red lacy bra, and Ren squinted at her.

“Elerlyth?!?” Ren said, surprised.

Gloria stood there in shock. How... how... She thought. Oh my god! How?

“What are you doing here?” Ren asked. “No, wait...how did you find me?”

Gloria shook her head and came close to the bed. She reached behind her back to grab something, but Ren didn't cringe away from her, like she thought he would. When she brought her hand back out front, her hand held several crumpled flowers. Ren's eyes widened in surprise as she handed the flowers to him.

“They got a bit squished when I snuck into the ward.” Gloria, said and sat down in the chair beside the bed. “I looked you up online.”

“Elerlyth...”

“How do you know that's me?” Gloria asked. “I look completely different.”

Ren reached a hand for her face. “May I?”

She nodded and Ren traced a finger across her eyebrow, then down the bridge of her nose. He moved his hand to the side of her face, and gently traced her jawline from her earlobe to her chin. Gloria closed her eyes at his soft touch, and took a deep breath.

“I'd recognize that face anywhere.” Ren said and pulled his hand back.

Gloria opened her eyes at the loss of his touch.

