Oh how it burned to think of the Supreme Families laughing at his incompetence, this Worm’s failure so complete that he was unable to win even after Falling Rain’s allies abandoned him mid-way through the war. His Death Corps guards were withdrawn, his Royal Guardian escorts ordered to slip away in the dead of night, and his reinforcements cut-off and kept out of the fight, and still Falling Rain proved too formidable for this Worm to overcome. Even if given another millennia to prepare, who was to say Falling Rain would not still be there to thwart this Worm’s plans a second time? Though not yet a Divinity, he satisfied all the conditions necessary to become one, and while this was no guarantee of success, this Worm had never seen a candidate more promising than Falling Rain. To think, he already possessed power enough to fight this Worm to a draw as a mere Martial Warrior, not even a Peak Expert in truth, so how much stronger would the boy become once he was a man and Divinity grown? Add to this the talented Scions of the Imperial Clan, like young Shen ZhenWu who might well be the second coming of the Martial God, or the formidable Tian Family Scion who unearthed this Worm in the first place, and the chances of success grew infinitesimally small without accounting for the Emperor himself.

And then there were the hidden reserves of the Imperial Clan, which this Worm knew little about. The Five Families had always been secretive, and this Worm had been too far removed from the Imperial Clan for too long to have any inkling of how much strength they might have hidden away. The Divinities whose names and faces were known to this Worm were long since dead and gone, their bodies entombed beneath the fields of the Di Family farms and their power returned to Heaven and Earth. New Divinities would have been raised to replace them, and now that Falling Rain had discovered how to mitigate the Wrath of Heaven, this Worm could no longer count on the Divinities of the Supreme Families to keep the Emperor’s Divinities in check, for no longer did they need fear a calamitous clash bringing ruin to what remained of the habitable world.

Faced with all these failures and more, what was the point of persevering? All that awaited this Worm was failure and humiliation, for his chances of victory were slim to none now that all the variables had been taken into account. The only way forward was for this Sovereign to become akin to the Emperor himself, an existence to surpass Divinity with power enough to subdue the Five Family Ancestors and the rest of the known world. How laughable a goal, for in all the millennia since the Emperor first rose to power, none had ever come close to matching his formidable attainments. Not even Falling Rain could compare, for the Emperor was a born talent found only once every billion years, the accumulation of fate and karma from who knows how many lifetimes before, a true Son of Heaven clad in human flesh just waiting for the opportune moment to Ascend to the next plane of existence.

This world was his and his alone, with mortals and Divinities alike merely set-pieces to provide him challenge and support on his Path to True Divinity.

There was a time when this Worm sought to contest this, to usurp the Emperor and take his place as this plane of existence’s Sovereign in order to ascend beyond the Heavens. How foolishly laughable, to think that he once dared believe such a goal was not only possible, but that his success was all but set in stone. The Emperor had grown complacent, but not without reason, for this Worm had learned today that the Heavens would not sit idly by while their Chosen Son was overthrown. How was this Worm to fight against fate itself? Impossible is what it was, for the Heavens were too indomitable and unyielding to ever allow a mere mortal to meddle in their affairs. If that was the case, then there was no sense continuing with his efforts. Better to resign himself to defeat and submit to fate, to lie here and await his inevitable death, for there was no chance of victory in sight anymore, not even with ten more millennia to prepare.

Resign.

Submit.

Surrender.

The Razor’s Edge.

Coming to with a gasp, this Sovereign sat up and stared out over the precipice of Unbalance amidst a chorus of disappointed whispers, the Spectres mourning how they just narrowly missed a chance for freedom and life. Though sound of mind and soul once more, the icy cold grip of despair refused to release him just yet and he shivered in spite of the Western heat. Raising an arm to dab at his sweat and sand encrusted face, he trembled from head to toe as he came to terms with his close brush with calamity, and the seemingly insurmountable struggle of clawing his way back to a prudent and rational mind. The damage done by this singular encounter had come so close to destroying this Sovereign’s carefully laid foundation, a bedrock of bold confidence and steely determination which enabled him to not only progress along his Dao to the Peak, but also lord over the Spectres and control them without any disadvantage whatsoever.

It wasn’t always this way. There was a time when their whispered lies held no power over him, their offered temptations sorely lacking in sparkle and lustre, for he’d long since seen through their motives and knew they were unreliable allies at best. Alas, the Spectres were still a tempting source of Heavenly Energy to use and consume, but they refused to provide any boons without giving in to at least some of their demands. Thus, he needed a method to harness the Spectres without succumbing to their lies, and he came up with a most ambitious method indeed. Nigh on centuries went into forging the Dharmic Icon which were his Runic Robes, the very same ones he’d materialized into reality and wore at this very moment, as they did much to counter the Spectres' insidious suggestions and close himself off to them, but this beneficial advantage was not so easily achieved. Envisioning the robes was as simple as turning a hand, but imbuing them with the proper significance was a frustrating journey of trial and error.

The concept itself was simple enough, because for most, nudity was intrinsically linked with vulnerability within the human mind. Thus, this Sovereign pitted himself against the Spectres in this most vulnerable state, willingly stepped off the Razor’s Edge and succumbed to their whispers clad only in his skin. Become Defiled, as it were, though it was hardly as cut and dry as the term might appear, for there were varying degrees of compliance that the Spectres were willing to accept depending on the struggle the host presented. Thus, this Sovereign started off his efforts by ceding the minimal amount of control to the Spectres and giving in to their whims until it came time to divest himself of their influence and reclaim his sanity once more. Easier said than done without an Elemental Spirit to Cleanse them, but this Sovereign persevered until his mind and soul were both unsullied by the touch of malignant Spectres. His first foray into Defilement and recovery took a full nine decades and then some to complete, almost a third of the total time spent on this endeavour, yet this was merely wading in the shallows of Defilement. Once he was sound of mind again, he clad himself in those golden robes in life and in the Void, until it became second nature to see himself wearing them once more.

Then, when enough time had passed to steel his resolve, this Sovereign removed his robes and set off for a second foray into Defilement, except this time he went deeper. When he emerged from his madness five decades later, he donned the golden robes for a time before repeating the whole process yet again. Four times, he gave himself over to the Spectres, each time giving more and more of himself away, until the fifth iteration where he held nothing back and gave himself wholly over to the whims of the Spectres.

A harrowing process which left him a man changed, for this was the dark period in his life when he became known the Empire around as Zhen Shi. This was nigh on eight-hundred years ago, but the gradual degradation into sheer depravity haunted him to this day, for though he’d long since cast aside his earthly morals in order to pursue Heavenly ambitions, this period of his life was the first time he’d truly relished and indulged in the darker desires that he’d once scorned and scoffed at. It shamed him to say that it was possible to track his descent into madness by reading his journals, and he shuddered to think how close he came to throwing so many millennia of effort away, for he remembered the grave risks and narrow escapes all too well given how limited his strength and control were at the time. This Sovereign’s Path had long since been built upon logic and reasoning, so ceding control to his emotions was akin to crippling his Dao. As a result, even a paltry Peak Expert posed a significant threat to his life, and his rampage throughout the North had attracted far too much attention before he recovered sanity enough to realize the gravity of his circumstances and humility enough to actually worry.

Of course, there were no rewards without risk, and this Sovereign had gained much from these trials and tribulations, such as a thorough understanding of the Razor’s Edge he never would have attained without these indulgences. There was also the discovery of how one could find Insight and Inspiration through the artistic infliction of death and suffering, to say nothing of the empirical data he obtained from all his experiments, but the price had almost been too costly for this Sovereign to bear. The injuries were ones of the mind and soul, but they were so grievous that he dared not go ahead as planned to immediately inhabit a new host, fearing he would lose in a battle of souls even against a newborn babe. In fact, he was so lacking in confidence that he continued to delay those plans until he discovered how to graft his mortal flesh to a Transcendent instead, at which point he no longer needed to find a new host. A most useful discovery, but one that limited his future potential, though those sequelae and many more were all fixed during his Ascendence to nascent immortality.

Yet this unwelcome brush with Falling Rain’s innermost emotions had left this Sovereign far more damaged than all his forays into Defilement combined. Before, this Sovereign willingly put aside his Dao in order to take it up later, but now Falling Rain had delivered a blow directly to his Dao itself. Logic and reasoning above all else, this was a succinct summation of this Sovereign's approach to life and the countless trials and tribulations to follow. Intelligence was mankind’s greatest advantage, yet all too often, humans were wont to succumb to emotion when making decisions instead of adhering to sensible suggestions. A paradox that, for though they were creatures more than capable of working together for the greater good, emotions often compelled them to turn against one another, even at grave detriment to themselves. It was all too easily seen in the self-destructive tendencies of the Emperor and his Supreme Families, avoiding progress out of shared self-interests since any change could be detrimental to their personal causes. Foolish is what it was, millennia of advancements stalled because of one man’s hubris, and this Sovereign would not stand for it. He’d always known it would be a difficult struggle, an uphill Path from start to finish that could take millennia to traverse, and though he’d encountered setbacks and stumbling blocks many times before, this Sovereign had always held true to his ideals and the belief that he would ultimately one day find success.

Until today. Now he was no longer so certain, for Falling Rain had crafted a dagger of most insidious doubt and plunged it deep into this Sovereign’s psyche, leading him to reflect on all his shortcomings and wonder if all his efforts were for naught.

The Spectres had little to do with it anymore, their futile efforts to shake this Sovereign’s resolves almost laughable in their simplicity now that his Will was readied, but the boy was ever the enigma. How could one man have so many doubts and regrets, especially one so young as Falling Rain? That was the only way he could have delivered his Orated attack, by manifesting those same emotions within himself to pass along to this Sovereign, yet the sheer scale of apathy and self-derision packed into his brief and succinct chant was staggering to behold. It was akin to seeing a garden snake regurgitate an elephant with laughable ease, wholly unexpected and seemingly impossible, but the truth was right there before him. Even now, as this Sovereign sat shackled by with shock and surprise, he found it difficult to equate the emotional ordeal he’d only just survived with the fresh-faced boy before him. Hidden inside this bold, brash, arrogant youth was a behemoth of anxiety and indecision stemming from a lack of trust and confidence. There was nothing this boy would not doubt, whether it be his own findings, the findings of others, or even what he saw with his own eyes, and only when he was certain would he truly set his doubts aside, yet how could one ever be wholly certain? This was the mindset the boy struggled with each and every day, one of apprehension and self-castigation as he struggled with his flaws and inexperience. The boy was still arrogant, but only because he set such impossible goals for himself and was surprised every time he failed to accomplish them, or simply accepted it as a matter of fact when he somehow performed a miracle to match his untenable expectations.

