The boy was right. This Sovereign knew nothing of misery, for Falling Rain’s entire existence embodied it in a way few could ever understand. Still laid out in the sand with his limbs broken and askew, the boy’s slack smile slipped away as he let loose with a mournful sob. He’d come so close to snatching victory from the jaws of defeat, so close to driving this Sovereign off the Razor’s Edge and into a soulless oblivion, and yet this accomplishment meant nothing to the boy. All that mattered was that he’d failed, and his failure was merely a matter of course, for he suffered from a lack of trust and self-confidence which he dealt with through apathy and delusion aplenty. From start to finish, he believed himself to be a fraud and failure despite his lifetime of lofty achievements, and every step along the Path merely another step closer to inevitable death and defeat, and he would maintain this same outlook even if he led his army to an overwhelming victory and retook the West without a single casualty.

No matter his accomplishments, Falling Rain would never be satisfied with his work, and this Sovereign almost pitied him for his dismal and disheartening existence.

The boy’s gaze met his, and this Sovereign saw only misery and indifference hidden within those oh so expressive eyes. Killing him would be a mercy, but one which would be denied him, for this Sovereign needed the boy alive. It was more than mere greed, had become more than an obsession, but an unconditional requirement for victory. Only by securing the boy in hand and unravelling his secrets would this Sovereign be able to mend his wounded mind and soul to regain his confidence anew, for this child had struck him a blow so devastating that he’d lost all assurance in his own methods. It wasn’t a matter of Sword Intent, Dharmic Icons, Devouring, or the Elemental Spirit, nor was it any of the other mysteries hidden behind Falling Rain’s eyes, but rather an all-encompassing need to show him that this Sovereign was not the same, that his Path had not been tread in error and that his efforts were not in vain.

The boy had planted a seed of doubt and apprehension within this Sovereign’s mind, and until he could expunge it, he would forever be crippled by this uncertainty.

The Energy of the Heavens surged and swelled, and this Sovereign shot to his feet in alarm, retreating over a hundred metres out of the misguided notion that the boy was readying another strike. The thundering beat of his pounding heart drowned out all other sounds as this Sovereign found himself covered in cold sweat, yet as he studied the boy further he discovered he himself was the last thing on Falling Rain’s mind. Gaze distant and features slack, the boy laid in the sands here in the physical world, but inside, he was drowning in an ocean of misery of his own devising. To think, the boy’s Path was so similar to this Sovereign’s own, Balance born through Imbalance albeit of a different nature. Now however, Falling Rain had broken the boundaries he’d imposed upon himself in order to strike this Sovereign down, and he was suffering for it, unable to recover from the depths of despair he’d subjected himself to and teetering over the same precipice this Sovereign had only just recovered from.

How fitting, for Falling Rain to die upon his own sword, one of abject misery and contemptible self-hatred beyond compare. He would give in soon enough, succumb to his despair and depression to become this Sovereign’s pawn once more, proving that his Path was indeed the correct one. Still shivering from head to toe, it took a supreme effort of will to calm his frantic nerves and settle in to await his prize, a malleable puppet who would be a slave to his whims, one wholly entranced by the Spectres’ whispered lies. Granted, the Elemental Spirit might not allow any Spectres to take root within the boy’s Soul, so this Sovereign readied a blow that would cripple him in body and mind. Not an ideal outcome, for it would be difficult to interrogate the boy if he couldn’t physically speak, but this Sovereign was fast running out of time and options both.

The moment the boy succumbed or showed signs of recovery, this Sovereign would seize him in hand and be away from here, away from the Ancestral Hare and Rabbit both as well as the Emperor’s influence, where he would then have all the time in the world to prepare for his eventual return. These recent trials and tribulations had almost been this Sovereign’s undoing, but this prize was well worth the effort.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Well, there you have it, ladies and gents.

I failed. Game over man, game over.

Zhen Shi is still alive and well, while I’m over here so wracked with emotions I can’t find Balance enough to Heal my broken bones, much less put up a decent fight. Why did I ever think it would end differently? Look at him, and then look at me, then look at him, and look at me, and you can clearly see the difference between us. I was never meant for this world, never meant for this life, a reject in every sense of the word. Stillborn and forsaken by my birth parents, I only survived thanks to the mercy of my younger twin brother, who I then killed instead of dying so he could live. I mean, that’s only fair right? His efforts bought me a few extra years of life, so I should’ve repaid him by making it easy to kill me. He didn’t want to do it, but he had to, and I know this, but what did I do? I fought back and killed the only person who ever cared about my well-being. No one else ever showed me any kindness, not my parents, not my peers, not the other Defiled villagers, not even the Heavens themselves, for it would have been a mercy for me to die in my infancy.

First, I stole this life from the Heavens, then I stole it from my brother, then I stole it again as Rayne, who was also me all along. I’ve been living on borrowed time ever since I drew my first breath, and somehow, I think I’ve always known this, yet in spite of it all, I still cannot bring myself to die just yet.

Unwilling though I might be, I fear I have no choice but to accept death regardless, for there are no other options left to me. Cradling Mama Bun close, it occurs to me that I should send her away to relative safety, but I can’t bring myself to let her go. Just another example of my selfish and heartless ways, dragging my sweet bun-bun to death alongside me. At the same time, I hold Buddy close in the Void and wonder if he can survive on his own, like a free spiritual entity similar to the Spectres. Better yet, what if he can merge with Blobby like my Natal Soul General? Then Buddy would be a self-sustaining Soul through and through, a Balanced Spectre of sorts, one who can hopefully make his way over to Pong Pong’s Natal Palace where they can be best friends forever. I’m pretty sure Blobby is why Pong Pong showed up in the first place, so I try to impart my thoughts to the Elemental Spirit as best I can, but all Blobby does is loom over me in a hungry and unsettling manner.

It's not just me that doesn’t like it, as Buddy starts growling at the Heavenly Tear, his hackles raised and chest rumbling to make him sound way more threatening than he looks. It’s all a ruse, because Buddy doesn’t have a mean bone in his body and would sooner roll over to greet a robber than bite one, so I just stroke his fur and hope for the best while I prepare for the inevitable end.

“Hide,” I Send to Pong Pong, because powerful though he might be, I fear he’s no match for Zhen Shi. The day we first met, the tiny Divine Turtle knocked out four Divinities, my teacher among them, but none of them were prepared for a barrage of Emotional Aura, but after my last attack, Zhen Shi would be suicidal not to have his guard raised. In fact, he’s so alert, I can actually feel his emotions closed off to me, like an almost invisible surface plastered across his body, mind, and soul in reality and the Void both. Yea, there’s no way Pong Pong’s Aura could break through, since with Aura, it’s much easier to defend than attack, and without the advantage of surprise, the little Divine Turtle stands no chance against Zhen Shi. I doubt Pong Pong can hit harder than Grandpa Wolf, and I know he lacks the killer instinct needed to slay his opponent in a single strike, so rather than drag him to death alongside me, it’s better for him to lay low and survive as best he can.

Hmm… maybe if I Hone Emotional Aura, I could crack open Zhen Shi’s defenses, but I’m all out of feelings now. I drained the swamp of all emotion in order to power that attack, years of repressed sorrow, misery, anger, hatred, resentment, and more all given up in my last strike, and now there is only apathy in its place. I have no fight left in me, no hope for tomorrow, only tired resignation of my fate. I will die here today, and though I know my death will bring pain to the people I love, the decision is out of my hands. I would love to go back to Lin-Lin and wrap my arms around her waist, to tell her how sorry I am while twirling her about. I’d love to do the same to Mila and Yan, give them both a big kiss and grin as their lips protest but their eyes demand I keep going. I’d love to give Luo-Luo a proper hug, and Li-Li a pat on the head, then see Dad, Alsantset, Akanai, and everyone else in turn before stopping to cuddle my floofs for at least an hour. I want to hoist a drink in celebration with the soldiers who fought alongside me, and pour one out for those who died. I want to congratulate Mister Rustram for a battle well fought, tease Fung about falling in love again, and throw an arm around Wu Gam’s shoulders so I can see him squirm as I introduce him to as many lovely ladies as I can. I want to shake Huu’s hand and pull him into a hug, and share a smile with Zian as he stands apart and warns me away, the young Patriarch too proud to hug in public. I want to shake the hand of every new Divinity, Peak Expert, and Martial Warrior, raise support for my bid to see Chen Hongji promoted to Colonel General alongside accolades for every soldier who took part in this campaign, while setting aside some time to talk to Liu Xuande about what to do next. I want to reclaim the West and resettle everyone who was displaced, raise the funds to rebuild everything that was destroyed. I want to return to Central in triumph and glory, hold my head up with pride as I lock eyes with Shuai Jiao and silently promise bloody retribution for his betrayal, but not before I destroy his reputation and legacy both. I want to become the Warrior, a hero of the Empire worthy of this life my brother gave up for me. I want to make this world a better place, not just to satisfy my ego, but so no one will ever have to suffer like I did, and no one will have to die like my little brother. I want to be strong and hold my head up high, to look in the mirror and not hate myself, to remember Baledagh for what we shared rather than how we parted ways.

There’s so much more I want to do. All those small dreams still apply, and there’s so much I’ve left unfinished. Seems strange that I was all ready to die only minutes ago, in the process of making the ultimate sacrifice before quietly fading away without anyone noticing until it was too late to say goodbye. Whether it be nihility, reincarnation, Heaven, or some other afterlife awaiting me, I didn’t really much care, but Lin-Lin showed me how wrong I really was.

I care.

I don’t want to die.

I don’t want to leave everyone behind.

And more than anything else, I want to live.

So how ironic is that that I am now closer to death than ever, with Blobby here to offer the gift of nihility and oblivion only after I no longer desire it?

Perhaps this is for the best. Even if I survived, it would be a fate worse than death. I’m so tired. Everything hurts. My enemy is too strong and I’m helpless to resist, so I would really be better off with a quick, clean death. Would it even be death, or would it be oblivion and nihility? What happens to a Cleansed soul? Would I become one with Blobby, or would I be processed and pooped out as usable Heavenly Energy for Buddy to partake of? Even with death upon me, my curiosity knows no bounds, and I lay still as the Elemental Spirit slowly stretches out to surround my soul without touching me.

Buddy does not like this, and he sets to barking as if to warn Blobby away. “Shhhhh,” I whisper, silencing my sweet doggo with a kiss on the forehead, and his whimper shatters my heart into pieces as I push him outside the boundaries of Blobby’s transparent grasp. “I’m sorry puppy, but I don’t think there’s any other way.”

And it’s true. Despite everything I’ve done, everything I’ve accomplished, my only options are death or suffering. Ha. Life is suffering, how apt. This time however, there is no longer any hope, because Zhen Shi is just too formidable a foe to go up against. It’s unfair really. The dude is an eight-hundred-year-old Divinity, whereas I’m only twenty-one, plus however many years of memories my past life counts for. Let’s say thirty for a sum total of fifty years of life experience, though I would argue that a man as obsessed with memes as I was probably doesn’t count for much in the maturity department. Whatever, I digress. Either way, if I had eight-hundred years to figure this Heavenly Energy shit out, I would definitely be strong enough to squash Zhen Shi like a bug. I mean c’mon, I almost took him out as is, so imagine what it would be like if we had a fair fight.

