But alas, this is not to be. The Heavens demanded too much of me, but even with all the odds stacked against me, I almost delivered. So close, yet so far, and it would appear my Path ends here. Fuck you Heaven, and you too Mother Above, because this was not even remotely fair, but if you want to make it up to me, then please take care of everyone I hold dear. That’s all I can hope for now, as I cease my struggle against misery and despair and await the inevitable, because there is nothing in me left to give. The Spectres sense my weakness and capitulation, appearing out of nowhere inside the Void as they rush to seize my mortal vessel and reshape it to their liking, but I know Blobby will end things before it gets too far. I’ve become Unbalanced, which is why he’s been looming closer and closer, for he’s gotten a taste of my soul before and hungers for more.

Well, dinner is served Blobby. Eat your heart out, but I would like to make note of my objection.

The Elemental Spirit drifts over to engulf me whole, and I hold my gaze in place out of a stubborn determination to meet my fate with eyes open. No idea what that will change, but my brother kept his eyes open to the very end, so the least I can do is try and match his courage. It all happens in an instant, with Blobby stretching and wrapping around me in the blink of an eye, except rather than death or oblivion, I hear Buddy snap with a malevolence I’ve never heard from him before. The Elemental Spirit hesitates, and this is its undoing as Buddy goes to town as if Blobby was a doggy treat and he’s been starved for days.

So like his typical reaction to food, really.

I blink once. Then a second time, followed by a few more as I try to make sense of what just happened, because while I’m pretty sure my dog just Devoured Blobby and all the Spectres to boot, I’m not exactly sure what to make of it. Meeting my eyes with a hangdog look of mournful contrition, Buddy gives away the act by wagging his tail and glancing up every half second to see if I’m buying it. Amused as I am by his antics, I’m also relieved I wasn’t broken down and Cleansed, because honestly, that seems like a pretty shitty way to go. Blobby isn’t really gone either, because I can still sense him in Buddy, and honestly, neither one seems any worse off in this new arrangement. I may be guilty of anthropomorphizing the Elemental Spirit more than I should have, because I’m pretty sure he was simply reacting to circumstances as a quasi-sentient blob of Heavenly Water would. My soul was on the verge of becoming not just Defiled, but Demonic and unnatural, so Blobby was going to Cleanse it, but then Buddy stepped in just in time and Devoured the Spectres and Blobby both. It didn’t magically do away with my depression, but it interrupted the Demonification process long enough for me to get a hold of my emotions and find Balance once more.

I succumbed to a moment of weakness, but a moment is all it takes unless you have Blobby and Buddy both on your side. Both are still present and accounted for after arriving at some unspoken agreement, likely no different from the agreement I shared with Blobby. New host, same circumstances, except Buddy is much better at this Balance thing than I am, and thus in no danger of being Cleaned. Patting my furry friend on the head, I sigh and say, “Good dog,” while checking him for any side effects and considering my other options. Well… Option, really. Singular.

Where there is life, there is hope, so I suppose I must suffer a little while longer.

Lifting my head to look at Zhen Shi in reality, I find him a good way away instead of looming over my defenseless body. Cocking my head in curiosity, I give up on trying to figure out his thoughts and flash him my best smile instead. “Well… this is kinda awkward, but you were supposed to die just now, so… do you mind?”

I mean, it can’t hurt to ask, right?

Chapter Meme
