“So we need allies. I have a list of Drakes I want to approach. I have a list of Drakes I want to investigate. And I have a third list of artifacts, of old Drake legends. The Heartflame Breastplate appeared after Zel’s death for a reason. It may not have protected him, but with other artifacts, with Drake heroes, we might be able to form a force capable of humbling the Necromancer. And…it pains me to say it, but it won’t just be Drakes.”
The others looked at Ilvriss sharply. The Wall Lord took a breath. He hated to say this out loud, but he had no choice.
“If it comes to it, we’ll recruit from other species. There are…individuals of note. Opportunities. But to start, to be in a position to build a force like that, I need to get back to my city. Captain Blackwing, you and I are on the same side. But make no mistake; I am still a Wall Lord, and this is my war to wage. If you object, say so now.”
He waited. She hesitated, but said nothing. Ilvriss nodded.
“Good. In that case, here’s what I intend to do. First, I intend to make sure Liscor stays in a position of power. If we had to fight the damn Humans as well as the Necromancer and Antinium? No, Liscor must stand, and it has many individuals of note. Potential, in short.”
“Is that why you’ve been aiding Strategist Olesm, Wall Lord?”
“Partially. He has potential, Welsca. As does Watch Captain Zevara. A straightforward, trustworthy Drake. I’m not sure about Wing Commander Embria, but the Gecko of Liscor actually fought that thing called Venitra for a few seconds. But we can’t recruit them. Liscor needs them, and it needs to grow from the dungeon. But I can lend my aid, which I intend to do.”
“But you’re still stuck here, aren’t you, Wall Lord?”
Osthia stared at Ilvriss. The Drake grinned, but it was mirthlessly.
“Yes, I am. At least, that’s what I’ve been telling Swifttail and the world. I’m still railing against Pallass, aren’t I? But I have at least one asset I intend to make use of. Welsca? Do you have a copy of Olesm’s magazine?”
“Right here, sir. Would you like to discuss it? It’s quite fascinating—”
Ilvriss sighed. Welsca did love chess.
“No, thank you. This isn’t for me. It’s for someone else.”
“Need you an escort, sir?”
Veel straightened. Perhaps he was ashamed of his estimation of Az’kerash’s strength, but Ilvriss waved a claw.
“No. She doesn’t appreciate rank.”
“Ah, you’re visiting her.”
The other two Drakes sighed. Osthia looked confused. Ilvriss made a face that was partly over exaggerated, but he nodded.
“Captain Blackwing, I’ll be back. I need to visit the first of what might be unusual allies. At the very least, she’s thwarted Az’kerash again. Which means that Erin Solstice has the support of Salazsar.”
“The [Innkeeper]? But what can she do?”
Ilvriss turned, his claw on the door. He twisted the ring, and the spell went out. He smiled, for once with genuine humor.
“I don’t know. But I imagine that’s why she’s an asset. No one knows what she’ll do next.”
 
——
 
Magazines and chess. Ilvriss didn’t actually like chess. But it occurred to him, finally, to wonder just how good Erin Solstice was. He stared at the young woman as she peered at the pages, oohing at the neat chess notation. She was so engrossed that she completely ignored the Wall Lord. Until he coughed.
“Oh, sorry Ilvriss. This is some good stuff! Okay, a lot of it’s my stuff, but these two chess games are good! And Olesm has a chess puzzle! I can’t wait to solve it. Don’t know about the strategy, but he said…nice things about the Goblins, I guess. Why didn’t he deliver it himself?”
There were a lot of things the Wall Lord could say as he sat at the table near the magic door in Erin’s inn. He could have remarked on the lowered number of guests in her inn or her repeated use of his name rather than his title. But he declined to do so and replied politely instead.
“I believe young Swifttail is ashamed to visit you. Perhaps owing to his involvement in the defense of Liscor’s walls.”
The happy look on Erin’s face faded.
“He should be.”
“For doing what was asked of him?”
Ilvriss lifted a brow. Erin stared at him.
“Yes.”
The Wall Lord considered this and nodded slightly.
“Well, he requested me to bring this to you. Which I did. Perhaps he will work up the courage to visit himself, but for now, I have a small piece of business with you.”
“What have I done this time?”
Erin sighed, putting her hands on her hips. Ilvriss reached for something in his pocket as he glanced towards the far end of the room.
Erin’s [Grand Theatre] Skill was still in effect, and at the far end was the stage. And there were [Actors] on the stage, a motley Human crew with a few Drakes and Gnolls gathered around. Ilvriss nodded at them.
“I take it you are resuming your plays?”
“Yup. They’re holding auditions for a new crew. Why? Wanna join?”
Erin gave Ilvriss a smile that was either teasing or mocking. Or both. The Wall Lord snorted softly.
“Hardly. I see the quality of their acting has dropped markedly. Where’s the young Drake who was there? She at least had a presence.”
“They left. Went north, I think. Better jobs. I’m…well, it’s good for them.”
The slight hurt on Erin’s face was another thing Ilvriss didn’t comment on. He sighed.
“A pity. I might have hired them, if only as a novelty act myself.”
“What, to go to Salazsar? Aren’t you still banned from Pallass?”
“Yes, and I continue to protest the fact. But if I can direct your attention downwards?”
Ilvriss held something up. Erin’s eyes went round.
“Hey, that’s—”
“One of mine. I assure you. They aren’t hard to come by, especially not for a Wall Lord of Salazsar. Nor is that door of yours hard to understand.”
“But wait. It’s no good unless you have another—”
“Hawk arranged it for me. Or did you think I would have simply hired him for one delivery? Rest assured, it is in a safe place. It only requires your discretion—and permission—for me to activate.”
Erin stared at Ilvriss open-mouthed. Then her eyes narrowed. He wondered if she’d be outraged or annoyed. Instead, to his surprise, she just grinned.
“You’re sneaky. Like a snake.”
“An unquestionable insult. But I thank you nonetheless. May I assume I have your approval?”
“Sure…but do you need a distraction or something? Because I can do a great distraction.”
“Spare me. Just a moment will suffice. If you’ll allow me? Take the stone off, give me five minutes, and open the door again. I assume you can count?”
Erin nodded. Then she narrowed her eyes and stuck her tongue out at him. Smiling to himself, Ilvriss stood up. Casually, he walked over to the door, placed the black mana stone he’d shown Erin on it, opened the door, and slipped through.
There was no need for a distraction. After all, people used Erin’s door all the time. And so what if the mana stone he had used was black? Who kept track of the colors? The door was open a fraction of a second for Ilvriss to slip through, then he closed it and knew he had five minutes before Erin would put the stone on it again and open the door.
Plenty of time. Ilvriss didn’t know where he was now. It was dark, but he’d made arrangements, so when he coughed, there was a spark of light.
“Apologies, Wall Lord.”
The Drake who lit the lantern was neither tall nor short. Neither fat nor thin. He wasn’t anything in particular, and it was hard to even remember his face. That was the quality of a good [Infiltrator]. Or [Spy]. Ilvriss wasn’t sure which this Drake was, but he knew the name.
“Lawes of Pallass, I take it?”
“Stationed here at your orders, Wall Lord.”
The Drake nodded to Ilvriss. The Wall Lord nodded back politely. He consulted the notes in his head.
“You’re one of our operatives. Six years?”
“Coming on seven come fall. Yes, sir.”
Ilvriss glanced around the room. It was small, made of stone and mortar. A hut? He continued making idle chatter, trying to gauge Lawes. The Drake was trustworthy, or Ilvriss would have walked into a trap, but you could never be too sure of a spy, even an employed one.
“How long have you been waiting?”
The Drake grimaced.
“Four days. I rented this hut in the village on the pretext of needing to get away from the city on some real gambling debts. The Courier dropped off the stone, and it took me hours to locate it; a goat had picked up the bag. I assumed that was the reason for the delay.”
“Ah, my apologies. I wasn’t able to access my side of the door until now due to complications with the owner. Can you keep guarding the door?”
“As long as need be, Wall Lord. But I was told to expect allies from your side?”
Lawes looked sharply at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord nodded. He’d said that, but he’d come through first. If there had been a trap, Ilvriss would have wanted to spring it himself. He had enough artifacts to make any would-be ambushers regret it.
“I will send through two of my men shortly. They’ll occupy the hut. Unless people in the village would ask questions?”
“Not if they stay in this room.”
Ilvriss nodded. It would be four of his people, and Veel would lead them.
“In that case, my next task is simple. I need ten horses, ready to go. Fast and with stamina—I intend to head straight for Salazsar when I leave.”
The Drake [Spy] inhaled sharply.
“It won’t be easy to procure them.”
“You have time. Just do it covertly.”
“Hm. I could make it seem like I’m trying to get some horses and sell them to make up for my debts…I’ll have them in a few days.”
Ilvriss nodded. He was counting down in his head and knew he only had a few seconds left.
“In that case, I thank you for your service. My men will see you tonight. And I will commend your service upon my return to Salazsar with some suitable reward.”
The door opened. Lawes bowed his head.
“You’re too kind, Wall Lord.”
“Hardly.”
Ilvriss stepped back through. Erin blinked at him and then plucked the black mana stone from the door as the Wall Lord shut it. She handed it to him, and Ilvriss tucked it into his pocket.
“So, did you have fun? And where did you go?”
“Somewhere convenient. It will take me to Salazsar, assuming my contact isn’t untrustworthy. I’m still unsure, but Captain Veel will ensure that any traps will be dealt with. Should they occur.”
The young woman shook her head as she eyed her shut door. After a second, it opened and Numbtongue strolled out, pickaxe in hand. He stopped, staring at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord eyed him and turned back to Erin.
“I only hope you’ll be discreet about this.”
“What? Oh, sure, sure. Hey, Numbtongue, how’s it going?”
The Goblin didn’t reply. He was staring at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord glanced at him. He turned back to Erin, and the Hobgoblin walked around. Erin stepped back as Numbtongue moved between her and Ilvriss. The Drake stared at him.
“I see you.”
Numbtongue didn’t budge. Ilvriss sighed.
“Numbtongue.”
At last, the Hobgoblin moved.
“Hi. Got more magic sludge.”
At last, Numbtongue looked at Erin. He lifted a jar, the sight of which made Ilvriss turn his head and frown, and then wandered off to a table. The Drake blinked at the jar.
“Was that…raw magicore?”
“Yup. Numbtongue mined the stuff. Or…I dunno, scooped it up? Can you mine a liquid?”
“Yes. But how did he—never mind. I’m afraid my stay in Liscor is now limited, Miss Solstice.”
“Well, you’ll be back, won’t you?”
The Wall Lord blinked. He looked at Erin, who was smiling up at him.
“My home is Salazsar, Miss Solstice. My sojourn in Liscor, although surprisingly pleasant, was just that.”
“True. But I have a magic door, and you can always visit. Or I’ll make it, uh, go farther. Or you could always ride back to Pallass. Don’t be a stranger, right?”
For a second, the Wall Lord just blinked at Erin. Then, surprisingly, he laughed.
“Ah, Erin Solstice. Perhaps I will return one day. But until then, I’m afraid I will be going. For quite some time. And I’m not sure whether I should thank you. Your company has been exceedingly unpleasant and, somehow, beneficial.”
“Thanks?”
She blinked up at him. And she was so young. Ilvriss bent down to her.
“I will leave in three days. With no warning to Liscor’s Council or anyone else. I expect Pallass won’t even notice I’m gone until I appear back in Salazsar. But perhaps, yes, perhaps I will return. The door will stay in place, after all.”
“And I’ll check every day. Or maybe I’ll just wait until you send me a [Message]. But if you need to come back, just let me know.”
Erin looked up at him. Totally ignorant of what it meant to promise a Wall Lord of Salazsar to help him spite Pallass behind their backs. But that was why Ilvriss almost liked her. She didn’t know who he was, even if she had guessed some of it. And he had guessed a lot about her. So, to her surprise and his, he held out a claw.
“Miss Solstice, we won’t see each other until that night. So I bid you farewell.”
Slowly, Erin reached out and took his clawed hand. She shook it gently, and he was surprised to see her tearing up a bit.
“You’re going too? The other adventurers are leaving and…well, good luck. You have to come back, alright?”
“I will.”
And somehow, he meant it. Ilvriss looked around the inn and thought of Liscor. A proper backwater city, notable only for being a border city to the north. Without a hundredth of the grandeur of Salazsar. Constantly imperiled by monsters. If he had thought of it a year ago, he would have sneered at the notion there was much of worth here. Now?
Now, he slowly reached for his left claw. Ilvriss absently tugged on one of his rings as he spoke.
“I imagine Pallass will cause a fuss. But they won’t figure out what was done, obvious though it may be, for quite some time. They have frail imaginations. I expect there will be some fuss, but I am sure you are quite capable of generating more than your fair share to offset the balance.”
“Oh, definitely. Don’t worry. I know you have a job.”
Erin smiled wetly at Ilvriss. He smiled back. And he wished he had more time. But—
“When you come to Salazsar, speak my name and you will be welcomed. Until then, Erin Solstice, consider this a token of repayment. For the city, for hospitality. A sign, if anyone should ask. If you need it. Hide it. Show it when you need it. And never let it be said a Wall Lord isn’t generous.”
He handed her something. Erin blinked down at it. For a second, her eyes narrowed, then they widened.
“But—hey! Ilvriss! Hold on—”
But he was already walking through the door again. For once he left her speechless.
