Sweat rolled down the side of his face. It matted his fur, turned it darker. It dripped onto the stone floor. But of course, she couldn’t smell it. She could hear him, but he made no sound as his face lowered towards the ground.
Slowly. His arm compressed, and his body—seemingly far too large to be supported by a single arm—followed. For a second, Ceria thought he would collapse as his arm shook and his face nearly touched the ground. But his balance was perfect, and slowly, his body rose.
A pushup. One of many. Ceria had known you could do them one-handed, but she was no [Warrior]. She didn’t like the idea of exercising to begin with. But he was one of those maniacs who trained even out of battle. Yvlon and Ksmvr were like that, actually.
Another pushup. Ceria heard a faint grunt, but that was it. She watched as he adjusted his body, putting his entire weight on his arm. His one arm. The Minotaur’s horns nearly touched the ground of his cell this time as he lowered, then pushed himself up.
“How many do you do each day?”
It was the first thing she’d said in a while. He glanced up. She saw his muscles strain as he levered himself up. All…what, three hundred pounds of him? At least. Calruz was a giant of six foot seven, fairly tall even for Minotaurs, but he didn’t look stretched. His body was solid muscle from years of fighting and training. The idea that he could lift his weight with one arm was ridiculous.
But maybe it was because he only had one arm. Ceria stared at the missing gap on his right shoulder where the solid muscle and bone just—ended. Calruz had lost his arm a long time ago, to Skinner, and he’d had to learn to fight and survive with just the other one. You probably got a few Skills that made you stronger if that happened, right?
“So. You do this every day now? The guards tell me you’ve been working out nonstop.”
Calruz shrugged as he took a break to take a sip of water. He had some in his cell. The Drakes guarding him weren’t stupid; they’d left buckets of water in the cell, fresh water to keep Calruz from dehydrating and dying of thirst. Ceria wondered if they gave him more food. She wasn’t going to ask.
Which meant she was going to ask, but later. She shook her head.
“Pushups with one arm. What else?”
“Situps. Stretches. Odd—it’s hard to explain. I need to move muscles, but I can’t. So I try different poses. Stretching out.”
The Minotaur spoke quietly, but that still meant his voice was quite loud. Ceria nodded. She stared at Calruz. Absently, her good hand rubbed her right hand. She felt smooth, cool bone. And shuddered because it was her hand, but she couldn’t feel it.
“So. You started working out? Why? You want to look good in jail?”
The Minotaur looked up at her. His blue eyes blinked once at Ceria’s face, and then both of them looked away.
“I have to do something or go mad. This is what I know. It makes sense.”
“Yeah? You were having a blast doing the empty stare a while back.”
The Minotaur’s ears twitched. He was so calm now, but Ceria still found ways to needle him.
“I suppose I got tired of that. I couldn’t see the point the fifth time you visited me. I can try doing it again if it helps.”
Ceria snorted. The half-Elf stared past Calruz. She shook her head.
“Parchment and ink, too? What, is this a luxury cell?”
“Hardly. I asked for that. They gave it to me so I could draw maps of the dungeon. And I’m sure they wouldn’t have let me do even that unless you’d intervened.”
Another pause. Ceria bit her lip. Calruz didn’t look at her. He was doing something else now. Sitting against the wall, only without a chair. It looked…strenuous. He wasn’t facing towards her—he spoke while staring at the opposite wall of his cell. That way she didn’t have to meet his eyes. They preferred it that way.
“Yeah, well, you know the other teams aren’t going to trust your maps, right?”
A shrug. Calruz’s feet stayed planted on the ground, but she could see his legs tense with the effort of keeping his body against the wall.
“They don’t have to. I wouldn’t. Even the Raskghar could get surprised by traps. But the maps are a general layout. As best I know. If they help or reveal opportunities—even make them aware of the dangers of being cornered—it’s worth it.”
Ceria couldn’t argue with that. A map, even from an enemy, was better than going in blind. And she thought…she thought some of the teams might use the maps. Her eyes went to the maps. They were meticulously drawn; the Minotaur had labored over them, refusing to waste any parchment or drops of ink.
“So. What after the maps and your exercising?”
“Nothing. I keep exercising. When the maps are done, I’ll stop there.”
The Minotaur’s voice was flat. Ceria nodded. She hesitated, stared past Calruz at the bare wall. A magical barrier separated the two, sometimes barely visibly, other times shivering with light as dust motes struck it. But for that, they could have been mere feet apart.
“So. We’re leaving. I mean, all the northern teams. Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, the Silver Swords…we’re all, uh, taking off.”
“With the Raskghar’s treasure. You’ll have to get it exchanged. I don’t know where. I’ve never had a haul like that. I was…dreaming of it. How I’d do it when I got out.”
That made Ceria pause. She stared at Calruz’s face. He looked ahead, a statue but for the sweat dripping off him. She hadn’t told him where they’d found the treasure. He’d just worked it out in between one of their meetings.
“Invrisil.”
She saw him pause and nod.
“Of course. It’s good the other teams are going with you. You won’t be shortchanged.”
Ceria shuffled, scuffing at the ground, although the prison was kept very clean.
“The Silver Swords aren’t part of it. I mean, they weren’t given the treasure. They, uh, found out.”
“I see. Will there be trouble?”
“If there is, there is. But Ylawes didn’t seem inclined to press it. I had a chat with Jelaqua and Halrac, and we decided we’d give something if they really pressed. But we’re mostly afraid of the other teams finding out. You know, Gemhammer, the Wings of Pallass, and so on?”
“They’re all staying?”
“They didn’t make a huge fortune in the dungeon. Some of them got a bit of the loot—so yeah. They’re staying. I expect we’ll hear more from them. After all, we have Erin’s door.”
“Indeed.”
Calruz didn’t say much. He’d already commented on the door. He was just sitting there, listening. Ceria knew he was paying attention, though. When the silence drew on too long, the Minotaur spoke.
“Thank you for coming.”
That was it. Out of nowhere. Ceria looked up, but he hadn’t even turned his head. She felt—there weren’t words to describe it. The half-Elf glanced about. The prison was mostly empty, although there were some troublemakers in the far cells near the entrance. Around them was empty, though. She reached for her belt.
“Time for a snack.”
At last, Calruz looked around. He stared at Ceria as she pulled out a Gnoll treat—a salted fish packed with a meaty paste. It lasted quite a while before going bad, and it actually tasted pretty good. The Minotaur eyed the snack and shook his head.
“The guards won’t let you give that to me. They make the cell’s field permeable to feed me, but only then. You can’t pass it through.”
The half-Elf stared at the Minotaur.
“Who said anything about you? This is for me.”
She bit into her meal. Calruz stared at her. She knew he probably got prison rations, which again, weren’t as bad as you might get in a prison in Terandria. But hardly tasty food. She saw his cheek twitch. Then he barked a short bit of laughter.
“You always were a pest. I can’t imagine how your new team puts up with you.”
“Go rot your face. I’m a great leader.”
The Minotaur kept chuckling, the first sound of amusement she’d heard from him.
“If Gerial could see you now—”
He paused, broke off. The amusement flooding his face grew bleak in a moment. Ceria felt the fish snack in her mouth grow less appetizing. She stopped chewing. Swallowed. Calruz stared ahead, breathing slowly.
“Say their names.”
“I remember.”
“Say them.”
A shuddering breath. The Minotaur spoke harshly.
“Gerial. Hunt. Terr. Marian. Coblat. Grimsore. Sostrom. Barr.”
Ceria nodded. After that, there was nothing to say. She put the rest of her snack in her belt pouch. Someone moaned across the prison. A late-night reveler waking up and regretting. Probably the drunk Relc had brought in with a huge lump on his head.
It was early morning. Just past dawn, really. Ceria knew that, and she knew she couldn’t stay. Not that she ever did.
“I’m going to leave. We have to take care of that Ashfire Bee nest.”
“Be safe.”
“Yeah, whatever. I’ll have the other Gold-rank teams with me. At least Falene, anyways. I’ll be back tomorrow. Look, if you need more parchment or some new quills, you could do some sketches of—”
“Don’t bother. I’m not going to be here much longer.”
Calruz looked up. He met Ceria’s eyes again.
“They’re going to execute me. I know Drake law. I deserve it, Springwalker.”
“I—know that. What, did you think I’d try to help you out with that?”
No reply. Calruz just met Ceria’s eyes. She turned away. The Minotaur spoke quietly, illuminated by the magical runes surrounding his cell.
“Better to die sane than down there, like a monster.”
She closed her eyes.
“Tell me it wasn’t your fault.”
No reply. She turned.
“Say it. You’re different now. Down there, it was a spell. The water. Or—”
“I can still hear the voices sometimes. I did it. And there was no reaction when they tested me. No magic. It was just me.”
Calruz shook his head. He stopped sitting against the wall. He stood up and faced Ceria.
“It was me.”
His hand pressed flat against the invisible wall in the air. Ceria looked at him. She turned. She couldn’t say anything. Why couldn’t he lie?
She was walking away when Calruz called out after her.
“Olesm.”
Ceria turned. The Minotaur was staring at her, a frown on his face. He spoke haltingly.
“There was…he was with us, wasn’t he? A part of our team. I forgot his name. What happened to him? I thought you said—when we were below. What of him?”
The half-Elf stared. Calruz was frowning. He still couldn’t remember everything of what had happened below. She forced herself to smile.
“Olesm? He made it. I told you. He’s not adventuring anymore. But he’s fine. Yeah. I think he’s…fine. I’m going to go. But I’ll be back tomorrow.”
“Farewell.”
That was all Calruz said. He watched as Ceria left, hurrying past the cells, pausing to speak with the guards. Different from his memory. But she’d come every day, if only for a few minutes. Sometimes for hours. To shout at him, annoy, poke, prod, tease. Reminisce.
“Thank you.”
The Minotaur whispered. He meant that. And he also wished she’d stop. He closed his eyes and sat against the wall. Waiting. For tomorrow or the end.
 
——
 
What had happened to Olesm? That was a good question. And the truth was, ‘nothing much’.
Or rather, Olesm had done well. He was no adventurer, putting his life on the line. He was a [Strategist] now. In a sense, he had made it; becoming a fully-fledged [Strategist] at his age made him a rising star, if anyone was doing constellations. And he had survived a potential war with the Humans. He had helped fight back the monsters and Raskghar plaguing Liscor, and he was due an extra gold piece and six silver per week thanks to his new class.
Yes, everything was on the up and up for Olesm. If you considered his fortunes, he was on a meteoric rise. But again, that assumed people were thinking in stellar terms. They weren’t. And Olesm wasn’t happy.
If you asked him why, he couldn’t point exactly to the reason. Maybe it was being hit with rotten travel rations yesterday. Or nearly being engulfed by some crazy green lightning cloud. Or it could be his guilt over the way the Goblin war had ended. But it might have just been that he hadn’t seen Erin Solstice again. And the fact that he was being ripped off.
“How much did you say it would be for your services, Miss Rissa?”
He stared at the female [Scribe] sitting across from him. The Drake woman had faint yellow and blue scales running down her body in a crisscrossing pattern. It made her stand out compared to Olesm’s uniform sky-blue scales. But you’d hardly notice because the [Scribe] was wearing long, concealing clothing that covered her arms, legs, and even her tail.
The effect was something like staring at a mobile pillow. Apparently, Miss Rissa grew cold easily, and since she sat in the same place, she’d outfitted herself and her work area to be as comfortable as possible. No stool for her; she had a high-backed chair filled with cushions, a wide writing desk, and several magical quills. And she was glaring at Olesm.
“Twelve silver per copy. That’s my final offer.”
“Twelve? I could get the same amount done for eight silver!”
The [Strategist] clutched at his head. He stared at Rissa.
“Last time it was only nine! And I paid that!”
“Well, I’ve heard that these magazine things are valuable. So I want to see some more coin myself. Twelve silver or you can go to my competitors. And you know I’m the best. You want steady reproductions of these maps and these…whatever they are?”
“Go strategies. They’re sketches of good chess and go games.”
“Go what? You mean that other new game? Either way, it looks like a pain to recreate. So. Twelve silver. That’s my final offer. Don’t make me make it thirteen. That’s an unlucky number, so we’ll skip to fourteen then.”
Olesm sighed. He opened his mouth to object, saw the [Scribe]’s eyes flash, and gave up.
“Twelve silver, then. Can I pay for twenty copies now? I have to get more money.”
“That will do.”
Miss Rissa watched greedily as Olesm slowly placed several gold coins on the table and hunted around for more. He wanted to object, but he wasn’t in the mood to risk alienating the best [Scribe] in the city. Rissa was temperamental, but she was quick.
“I can have at least ten done by the end of the day.”
Coins disappeared as Rissa flipped through Olesm’s latest creation. It was a hefty little package, and she wrinkled her nose at all the chess notations Olesm had written down. Then at the maps with scrawls of neat words accompanying them.
“What’s this? It’s not your usual bad handwriting. I thought I’d have to correct it.”
“No, Miss Rissa. I had a copy made—”
The [Scribe] gave Olesm a glare. He raised his hands.
“—just to see how it would look! And the handwriting is better, isn’t it?”
