Ilvriss tapped a claw on his chin as he thought. Olesm waited nervously. So did Rissa, who was quite cowed by the Wall Lord’s presence despite this being her shop. Ilvriss just had that effect. He was the picture of a Wall Lord, grand, commanding, and, Olesm had to admit, handsome. Olesm only got called cute by the Drake girls, but Ilvriss was like the [Lords] you heard about in stories. A real Wall Lord of a Walled City in the flesh. In Liscor. And, what was stranger, he knew Olesm’s name and took an interest in Olesm’s life.
The younger [Strategist] had no idea why, but Ilvriss had taken an interest in him and treated him almost like a protégé at times. Like now, in fact. Ilvriss came to a decision and nodded brusquely at Olesm.
“Allow me to lend you my personal assistant. We can discuss a moderate fee for the transaction later, but I think this would be a useful instructive moment. Assuming you don’t object to slightly lower-quality work?”
“What? No, not at all! I’d be honored!”
“Wall Lord! I—”
Rissa cut off as Ilvriss gave her a cool glance. Too cool, in fact. Cold. Olesm wished he could give someone that look on command. Ilvriss snapped his fingers gently.
“Miss Inkscale, I’d like to request your services for a series of prints. Monster sketches, mainly. The copies of which I have…here.”
He placed a sheaf of sketches, all on snow-white paper, on Rissa’s desk. The [Scribe] blinked, and Olesm caught a glimpse of several disturbing creatures as she paged through them. They looked like crude illustrations drawn by someone with no talent. Even so, they looked quite disturbing. And undead. Ilvriss tapped the papers.
“I know you’re no [Artist], but I’m told you have the [Illustrator’s Vision] Skill. Are you able to see the intention behind these?”
“I—yes, Wall Lord. Horrific beasts. Still sketches, though. I’m getting imaginative images rather than anything concrete. Whoever made these didn’t see them, only heard them, I’m afraid.”
“That’s what I expected. Nevertheless, if you’d be able to transcribe the internal images, I’d be most grateful. By tonight? I will pay for speed, hard work, and exclusivity.”
Rissa blushed a bit. She straightened and looked at Ilvriss.
“Of course, Wall Lord. It would be my honor. I can have the sketches done by then. In color?”
“I understand there’s very little. Black ink will suffice. My assistant will come by sundown to collect them. Good day. Swifttail? With me.”
Ilvriss gave Rissa a slight bow and a smile that had her blushing. Then he swept out of her shop. Olesm, in awe, watched him go. Then he saw Rissa glance at him.
“Well? What are you standing around here for?”
She snapped at him. He jumped and hurried out after Ilvriss. The Wall Lord was waiting for him. Olesm had to admire that. He’d gone in there, hadn’t haggled, just made his request and left. He wondered if money was even an obstacle for Ilvriss. Would Rissa even overcharge him? A Wall Lord?
“I hope I didn’t interfere too much, Swifttail.”
Ilvriss glanced at Olesm. The [Strategist] blushed again.
“Not at all, Wall Lord. It was my fault. I didn’t realize my magazines were so…”
Valuable? It felt ridiculous to say that to Ilvriss, who had gemstone rings on his claws and wore silk clothing day to day. But the Wall Lord only nodded as if it were reasonable.
“It’s hard to appraise the value of something new. Your magazine is a new commodity, but, I think, gaining in worth. You’re aware the Titan of Baleros praised it? That alone makes its earning potential substantially higher. From what I heard, you’re aware you should be making it exclusive?”
“Yes, yes—I just met with Hawk, actually. And he said…”
Olesm hurried after Ilvriss, talking quickly and summarizing his chat with the Courier. Ilvriss nodded. He was leading Olesm back down the street, towards the City Hall. It was slow going, even though both Drakes knew where they were going. That was because Ilvriss had to stop every few seconds to greet someone.
“Mister Rekil. A pleasure to meet you.”
“Good day, Miss. And who is this young one?”
“Guildmistress Tekshia. An honor.”
“Wall Lord.”
The old Drake was still sitting with her two companions. One of the old male Drakes looked up, munching on some kind of pretzel.
“Is that Wall Lord Ilvriss? Fine fellow! Good job on those Walled Cities, young Drake! I visited Salazsar once. Beautiful place. You still mining those gemstones?”
“As always, Mister…?”
“Rudss.”
The old Drake extended a claw, and Ilvriss shook it. The Wall Lord nodded.
“Gemstone mining, magical or not, has always been Salazsar’s greatest source of income. Our mines are actually expanding, in fact. We’re looking into claiming some new areas for forge work. Steel, armor, and weapons to go along with our magical productions.”
“Ah, but Pallass has the best steel, or so they say. That was how it always was. Pallass for steel and potions, Salazsar for gems. Oteslia was where you ate, and Zeres from where you sailed. You went to Fissival if you wanted to learn magic and not go to Wistram, and Manus to become an expert warrior. But now Salazsar wants gems and steel? That’s risky, that is. You tell the other Wall Lords it’s not easy upsetting history like that.”
Olesm winced. Rudss was an old Drake, one of the retired veterans from Liscor’s army who could live off his savings and pension. He was the kind who sat about and had an opinion on everything. But this was Ilvriss he was jawing off to. But Ilvriss didn’t seem to mind. The Wall Lord smiled a bit as he nodded.
“I’ll be sure to pass that on to my companions, Mister Rudss. And I hope that if you ever come to Salazsar, you find your stay pleasant. Guildmistress Tekshia? A pleasure.”
“Good day, Wall Lord.”
The elderly Drake inclined her head. Ilvriss walked past her. Olesm, following, could hear Rudss talking loudly to the other two.
“See? That was a proper Wall Lord. Always time to talk. Not like those stuck up [Senators] from Pallass. They had their Wall Lords and nobles—still do—but are they running things? Not likely! And look where it’s got Pallass. No, you want a proper city? You let them run things—”
“Is Salazsar looking into investing into arms manufacturing, sir?”
Olesm glanced up at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord smiled slightly.
“It’s been an ongoing topic for the last six years. And it’s a nice topic to bring up, Swifttail. But frankly? We might poach a few [Smiths], but we’re not looking to fight in that area. Panicking Pallass is always worthwhile, however. Because if we wanted to, we could entice some of their best [Smiths] away.”
“Ah. Of course.”
Olesm nodded. It was a known fact that of the six Walled Cities, Salazsar was richest by far. Not that any of the Walled Cities were poor, but Oteslia, famed for its agricultural and pastoral harvests, wasn’t nearly as affluent as Salazsar, who provided gemstones to much of the world. Even Pallass, the famed City of Invention, couldn’t compete with Salazsar’s sheer economic might.
“Frankly, it might be worth doing. They have two high-level [Smiths] in Pallass from last I recall. You wouldn’t happen to recall the names, would you, young Olesm?”
“Hm. Maughin the Dullahan of Baleros and, uh, Pelt the Dwarf of Terandria, sir.”
Olesm knew a lot of facts about politics, people of note, and monsters in general. A [Strategist] had to understand not only politics, but remember high-level individuals who could literally turn the tide of battle. And both [Smiths] certainly qualified. Ilvriss snapped his claws.
“Of course. Thank you. Yes, both [Smiths] are quite good. Neither one is world-famous, but I’ve heard Maughin may hit Level 40 within the decade. As for Pelt…I recall reading a report claiming his Skills indicate he’s at least Level 40 already. Why the Dwarves would have let him go…”
“Probably his habits, sir. He’s a notorious drunk, and his work ethic is quite poor.”
“All the more reason why Salazsar could easily poach him. A Level 40 [Blacksmith], even a poor one, is a rare commodity, Olesm. Baleros has a few, and so does Izril, but Chandrar and Terandria both lay claim to more. Dwarven steel still claims a sizable portion of even Pallass’ markets, and Chandrar always has some rare pieces, although their [Smiths] are hardly as organized or well-funded. Desert tribes somehow produce unparalleled masterpieces, but they can’t compare with the sheer volume of Pallass’ forges.”
“I’m aware of the disparity, Ilvriss, sir. Are you suggesting we need higher-quality weapons?”
“Mm. No. A Level 10 [Soldier] doesn’t do particularly better with a masterwork spear in his hands. Cheap steel like Pallass provides is more advantageous, and we can equip our soldiers better than the north. But they have their [Knights] who use magical gear that tip the scales. It’s my opinion we need more elites, and not just Oldblood Drakes. Hence my interest in [Smiths].”
“Really? But, Wall Lord, traditionally our elite units have taken a backseat to high-quality standing armies.”
That was the notable difference between Human doctrine and Drake when it came to war. Humans favored elite attack forces and disposable infantry. Their [Knights] were a terror on the battlefield, as were their [Mages] and Gold-rank adventurers, but Drakes had won battles based on their superior general forces and [Generals]. The claim was that a Drake [Soldier] was worth one and a half Human [Soldiers] in a massed battle. But Ilvriss was shaking his head.
“I’ve been…thinking on the subject. And our standing armies need more elite forces, Olesm. To hunt monsters, to battle incredible foes—steel and courage only go so far.”
That was true, but it was still an unusual stance for Ilvriss to take. Olesm hesitated.
“Does that have anything to do with the pictures you gave Miss Rissa, sir?”
He saw Ilvriss give him a sharp glance. The Wall Lord frowned.
“Those? Those were merely sketches, Olesm. Reproductions of…well, monsters I’d heard about. Hardly my concern. I was more speaking to the loss at the Blood Fields.”
“Of course, sir.”
Olesm nodded. But he thought, privately, that Ilvriss had hesitated for a second. Still, the Wall Lord was all cool grace as he swept into the City Hall, and Olesm wondered if he’d imagined it. It was hard to read Ilvriss.
The City Hall of Liscor had traditionally been a place to settle complaints, for the Council to meet, and for officials like Olesm to work. It had been a quiet place, for all it occupied a spot in the center of the city. The Council of Liscor, a body of the heads of the Guilds and so on, were happy that way. But of late, it had seen a lot of use. And with Ilvriss stranded in Liscor, he’d practically taken over the place.
A pair of Drakes, Ilvriss’ personal guards, stood at the front doors. The instant the Wall Lord entered, a female Drake hurried down the steps. She was attractive and had a pair of spectacles on. Olesm had noted that everyone in Ilvriss’ employ tended to some degree of perfection. Whether in beauty or, in the case of his personal guards in his retinue, skill at arms.
“Wall Lord. Orders?”
The female Drake paused before Ilvriss, glancing at Olesm. Ilvriss nodded.
“Welsca, make a note to pick up the sketches at Miss Rissa Inkscale’s at sundown. Until then, I have need of your services. Young Olesm has his latest chess magazine finished. He requires copies. How many, Olesm?”
The [Strategist] cringed as the female Drake, Welsca Crimsonscale, one of Ilvriss’ personal adjutants, glanced at him. She didn’t look exactly hostile, but he had a feeling that she outranked him as the personal aide of Ilvriss. And here he was giving her work.
“Er, I was hoping for sixty copies, Wall Lord. But I’d hate to—”
“Can you have them done, Welsca? The issue is having them copied.”
Welsca pursed her lips.
“I can, Wall Lord. But I’d need to hire at least one [Scribe]. It would be a simple matter if they’re trustworthy. Have you a name I could use, Strategist Olesm?”
“Er, yes, I do. There’s a Gnoll by the name of Jeckl who’s very reasonable—”
“I will see to it, then. May I see the papers?”
The Drake paged through the reports, eyes flicking over the pages busily. Ilvriss glanced at them with some interest.
“Ah. Interesting chess games. Am I right in thinking they come from Miss Solstice, Olesm?”
The [Strategist] coughed hurriedly. He didn’t want anyone to know that Erin was his mysterious chess master, but Ilvriss was bound to know.
“That’s right, sir.”
“I don’t find the game as fascinating as others, but I can admire skill. I had some notion of Miss Solstice’s skill in the area but…how would you rate her, Welsca? Welsca?”
The Drake jumped. Olesm thought the red scales on her cheeks turned slightly darker for a second, but like Ilvriss, her expression was almost instantly neutral.
“Apologies, Wall Lord. These are magnificent games. Truly…and there’s even commentary on this new ‘Go’ game. Which was first released in your last issue, isn’t that so, Strategist Olesm?”
She looked at Olesm. He jumped.
“That’s right! How did you—er, you read the magazines?”
“I believe Welsca is quite good at chess. As for Go—will they sell well, Welsca?”
“Oh yes, Wall Lord. Quite well. Although—the last section is controversial.”
She handed Ilvriss the section with maps. Olesm cringed. That was the last part of his magazine. He’d included chess games, the games of Go and strategies Erin had outlined for him, but the part about Liscor’s siege…he watched as Ilvriss read quickly. The Wall Lord’s brows raised.
“Ah. I see. That is notable. Olesm, you understand this will provoke a reaction?”
Olesm took a deep breath. He’d written about Goblins. His opinions, as well as his insights. He’d made it—well, he’d been honest to how he felt. If anyone had a problem, it was his magazine, not his stance as Liscor’s [Strategist].
“I do, Wall Lord. But I feel it’s only right. I mean…”
He floundered, but Ilvriss was nodding.
“I can’t say I disagree. A bold choice. Welsca, copy it. Young Swifttail may account for his own words, especially as a [Strategist].”
“By your leave, Wall Lord. Although I will correct some of the spelling errors. And the maneuver employed during the Raskghar battle was a triple flanking maneuver, but the formal term is a triple envelopment.”
Olesm blushed as Welsca pointed out the mistakes. She nodded at him and left with the copy Jeckl had made. Ilvriss had Olesm’s original. He chuckled at the look on Olesm’s face.
“Don’t worry, Swifttail. Welsca is a fan, though she’d hardly admit it. And she is an active [Strategist].”
“She is?”
