It was then, that Erick recognized that he might not need the rod of [Treat Wounds]. Aside from a bit of blood on their necks, which the roaming [Mirage Slime]s had already removed from a few of them, these people were all rather healthy. No wounds, except for recent wounds caused by scrabbling limbtrees. No missing pieces. As more of the rescued came around corners, fully putting themselves into Erick’s apparent vision to see all the commotion, Erick saw that they all seemed perfectly healthy, really. He didn’t really need them to come fully into his vision to see all of that, since he was seeing them throughout all the light around them, but it was still nice to see that they were still mentally there, according to their actions, anyway.

Erick pointed up, saying, “There is a Shade up there. Her name is Fallopolis.” He pointed everywhere else, saying, “There are Shades everywhere, tonight. It’s Shadow’s Feast, and you cannot leave for ten more days, and neither can I.” He offered, “Anyone have any wounds? I have a rod of [Treat Wounds], though it doesn’t seem as though you need that.” Erick continued, “I can get you food and clean up some of the exterior for you so you don’t have to worry about that sort of thing, but as far as I know, you’re going to have to find a way to survive the next ten days.”

One small human man, not a child but short enough for it, asked, “What’s wrong with our skills?”

“Time dilation.” Erick said, “Shadow’s Feast is a 12 hour event that takes 240 hours to complete.”

Several people instantly cursed; some quite colorfully, in languages Erick didn’t know. One lady said, “I told you so.” To which the short man replied, “Fuck off.”

Erick said, “I’d offer to take you with me, but I’m probably going to get shoved at other Shades, in an attempt to kill them or die in the process, and then I’m headed toward the actual gathering of Shades. So do you want to stay here? Or somewhere else nearby? I think you should stay here. I can clean out the waterfall area above easy enough, though you will have to defend yourselves from here on out.”

“Who are you?” asked a redscale woman. “How can we trust you?”

“Erick Flatt, Archmage of Spur,” he answered, without hesitation. “And you should trust your own power more than mine. I’m just one guy, and this is Ar’Kendrithyst.”

A man scoffed. A woman frowned; disgusted.

Another woman, a greenscale, and one of the only ones to look at Erick with any measure of hope in her eyes, said, “He’s Erick Flatt; I seen him before.” She pointed at an Ophiel, saying, “And that’s his [Familiar], Ophiel.”

Ophiel heard his name and trilled in violins, as people stared at Erick, and at Ophiel.

Erick asked, “Should I bother clearing the river above? This place is only going to be defensible if you can keep the shadows away, under your own power. This [Domain of Light] is coming with me.”

“I have defensive light spells,” a woman said.

The orcol man said, “It’s as safe as any other.”

“I can breathe again,” said a woman. “The stench is gone.”

A few people murmured thanks to the gods, for that.

The small man said, “If we don’t have to go out for food, then we can make it 10 days.”

“Then I’ll clear out the area above. Those undead will be gone before you know it.”

Erick left them for their talks, and went above, to stand atop the river. First, he laid down a [Withering], sculpting the spell to the shape of the waters, and the land just beyond. Notifications poured in, like drops of rain, indicating kills. ‘Abyss Crab’, ‘Zombie’, ‘Rainbow Algae’. The entire waterfall area and plots of land beyond burped and roiled with a minor hurricane of thick air, as enemies died to drying magics.

The entire place suddenly looked a lot better, as the stench of the undead under the water was [Cleanse]d away.

There were a lot of zombies under that water, after all. A lot of cleaning had just happened. But who knew that the zombies would have rads? Or that they had water in them? Well. Obviously they had water in them. They were underwater zombies. But besides that: normal zombies did not have rads. All the undead that Erick killed over in Odaali did not have rads. These ones must be a special variety. A monstrous type of zombie. With water in them.

Now that Erick thought about it, the water in them was odd, too. Maybe they were waterlogged, and the water had gotten in their auras, and become a part of them?

Or maybe… Dorofiend was the Shade of Dead Waters. He likely used water magic in his zombies? Maybe. Whatever. Erick’s second option would have been [Wintry Sea], but then [Withering] had worked. It was odd that [Withering] had worked.

Odd, in all ways.

Whatever the case with these strange undead, Erick called his Ophiels down, and sent a few more [Mirage Slime]s into the river, just to be sure the place was clean. Most of the undead were dead now, though. He almost sent [Fulmination Aura]s into the water, but it would likely reach the people below, so that was a non-starter. Erick would not ever want to swim in this could-be-idyllic waterfall land, for it was not cleaned by any stretch of the imagination, but the larger threats were dead, and if the people below couldn’t handle what was left then they were beyond his help.

So he gathered the Ophiel holding onto his bag, and had that Ophiel take out a few good items. He had that Ophiel hand those off to another Ophiel, who then activated [Duplication Aura]. For a good ten seconds, and out of the sight of the people below, it rained wind, sandwiches, salads, and desserts into the waiting arms of other Ophiel. It was a lot of food, so it should be enough for nine people for ten days. But maybe not. So Erick had the low-mana Ophiel continue with the copy aura, until Ophiel vanished; mana spent. Erick conjured another Ophiel, who trilled in violins at his reappearance.

Erick looked to his food. Now this! This was enough food for nine people for ten—

There was a kill notification. It was for a human. Erick only really noticed it because it was for one percent Participation.

“Shit.”

Erick instantly flickered down to the caves below. A body laid in the center of the room. The short man. He was now a very dried-out man, and very dead.

Someone screamed at Erick. Another backed away. Another shot a bronze [Force Beam] at him, which was completely ineffective; it turned to bronze glitter as it touched his [Lodestar].

The orcol man yelled louder than the rest, “Everyone shut the fuck up!”

And they listened, for some reason. Ah. Erick probably just resisted a mental effect, maybe? Another perk of being a lightform existence in his own [Domain of Light]? His Class Ability, Light Dedication, probably helped, too.

The orcol man asked Erick, “Did you kill him?”

Amidst quiet complaints and hard stares, the greenscale woman spoke out, loud as she could, “It was a [Withering]! I know it was.” She rapidly added, “They warned us against this possibility when we came to Spur! Didn’t you get the same talk?” She gestured to the body, “You know what happened to him!”

The woman with the red conjured sword inhaled, like she knew what that meant. She drove her sword into the dead man’s chest. It was a perfect [Strike] of some sort; the body crumbled like a dry sandcastle. A glittering rad appeared beside the man’s withered heart.

The greenscale said, “He was a cannibal! Yes! That’s what I was trying to say.”

An argument began again, but Erick had no time for this. He raised his voice, and gently vibrated the light, getting everyone’s attention with a firm, “Okay.”

They looked to him.

He said, “I cleared out most of the river above with [Withering]. There are still dangers out there.” With a thought, he had an Ophiel, and all of the food, flow down through the ceiling as a large ball of light. Some people backed away. Others stood firm. Erick conjured a large table with boxes and had Ophiel rematerialize the items into the proper locations. While he did that, Erick said, “Here’s some food and water. Sorry for the limited selection. Sorry for killing that guy.”

The red-sword woman said, “He would have killed us.” She said, “Thank you, Archmage.” She looked to the group. “Now we know none of us are shadelings, or cannibals.”

The orcol agreed. “Better he’s dead, now.”

A few people murmured agreements.

Erick almost wanted to cry over the guy; to mourn, to linger. But he couldn’t.

One woman stood over the body, saying, “He was fine when we fell to the Shade, two days ago.”

The sword woman asked, “Can you check me for rads, with your light?”

Erick responded not with words, but with the casting of a [Cascade Imaging]. A narrow cast, with slightly less than a one-for-one distance, with the cascading orb atop the ground and the map filling the entire room. Some gasped. Most did nothing at all, except to stare as lightform figures of themselves appeared in the air before them, along with blue markers inside all of their intestines. Some of the blue markings were outside of those intestines, and headed toward the heart.

“Holy gods,” whispered a man, touching his own chest, and the image of himself in front of him.

Erick knew what had to be done. With a grave voice, he offered, “I have rods of [Treat Wounds].”

Everyone accepted.

The bloody work took several minutes, and eight charges of the rod.

When he was done, Erick watched some of them conjure specialized lightwards to keep the shadows at bay, then he dismissed the [Domain of Light] covering them all. He bade them goodbye, and good luck.

He rejoined Fallopolis in the sky above.

Fallopolis said, “Good work! Their chances of survival have gone up considerably with the removal of the most obvious threats in the river and the proto-rads inside their bodies. If you’d’ve come back before solving those two problems, I would have suggested you go back.”

Erick eyed her. “Would you have? Really?”

“Of course!” She began walking south again, saying, “The food and water was a bit much. That’s too much hand-holding.”

Erick followed, discarding as many heavy emotions as he could while he walked at her side. He asked, “Are all Shade strongholds like that?”

“Not at all. In general, you can expect more redundancy than you found in there, depending on how highly the Shade-in-question is trying to defend their stuff. Dorofiend’s most precious items were his future bodies and body parts— You noticed how perfect each of them were, physically?”

“I tried not to.”

Fallopolis cackled, saying, “There’s nothing wrong with proper ogling! That sword-girl and manly orcol were both mighty fine specimens. Dorofiend was likely preparing the girl’s body to become the new fellating nose of his Visage, while the orcol’s manhood was not going to be his for much longer.”

Erick would have thrown up if he wasn’t running on a lot of magical power at the moment. Instead, he said, “You did not have to tell me that.”

The Shade snickered. “Anyway. Those people were defended as utmost-treasures. Drainbomb collars. Limbtree restraints. You cleared away the first two failsafes rather well. And then you cleared away the harder-to-see problems. The intestinal rads which were almost ready to merge, as well as the shadow-poisons inside of them that caused those rads in the first place.”

Erick flinched in his steps. There was a poison?

Fallopolis noticed, and continued, “The poisons were dispersed not by your [Cleanse], but by [Cleanse] and [Domain of Light]. It was only after the shadows were destroyed by an overwhelming light source that it was possible to clean their bodies of Dorofiend’s [Umbral Body Preservation]. That’s the spell he used to create those rad-carrying zombies; Dorofiend’s used and discarded bodies. Most lightwards and [Cleanse] spells are simply not strong enough to clear that affliction. Most alchemical anti-toxins can’t do that, either. You truly did save those people, Erick. Good job!”

“Right… Good job.”

“So who do you want to kill next?” Fallopolis offered, “I can list them in order of danger to the world, people that are in need of rescue, or cruelty.”

“Where does the Witch fall on all of those categories?”

Without hesitation, the Shade said, “Top Five, Last, and the Top Five, again. Dorofiend was in the top five for Cruelty, as well, just so you know.” She continued, “The Witch’s current victims are most certainly dead. She always kills them all unless she’s actively playing with them, and she always puts her toys down when there are more important matters, like the Feast.”

“… Who can I rescue?”

“That is a complicated question, but I will attempt to provide guidance. You see...”

- - - -

The Jungle was one of the largest areas of Ar’Kendrithyst, and if one included Lake Leviathan in the center of the Jungle, as well as the Aerie to the north of the lake, which most people did, you’d have an area nearly 45 by 45 kilometers large, and almost 50 kilometers deep. The lake itself was practically in the Lower Layer, and the size of Candlepoint’s lake, while the Jungle wrapped around the whole body of water, and extended well above and below what people would usually consider the Middle Layer. The Aerie was wholly in the Upper Layer, to the north of Lake Leviathan, sticking high out of the Jungle, reaching well into what some people called the ‘Sky Layer’. The North River flowed around the entire place, encircling it, sending small streams into the growing greenery, and feeding Lake Leviathan.

Erick approached the Jungle from the east, near the center of the three-land area.

Red-purple towers loomed overhead, suffocating in their light, for Erick knew it was a false light, put on just to illuminate the shadows prowling through the crystal all around. Tendrils swirled all around; shadows of shadows. And yet none approached as Erick approached the Jungle. None of the obvious monsters stuck a tentacle or a claw or anything out of that swirling inky space. Erick hadn’t suffered a monster attack in a while, ever since they descended beyond the Upper Layer. The shadows down here were more cautious about who they preyed upon. Erick figured if he was alone, he would have been fighting off monsters, but there was currently a greater shadow hovering at his side, and the shadows down here knew to stay away from Shades.

