Why isn't it getting smaller? Holly asked herself. Is it supposed to last this long if you don't do anything to it?

John was embarrassed that his erection wasn't going away. She pushed my last button with that t-shirt stunt. He thought, and couldn't get that image out of his head. That is so damn sexy!

Holly felt her body react, and her emotions were starting to get the better of her. No, we... we can't... I... I want to keep him as a partner... if this happens...

What do I do? John asked himself. There's no way I'm going to get to sleep...

Holly got out of bed and walked over to him. “John, I...”

John looked at her, and he saw the doubt and worry on her face.

“I want to stay partners, John.” Holly said. “Like you said, we work well together. We click like all good partners do.”

John nodded, but didn't say anything.

“If... if we...” Holly looked at him intensely. “You have to agree that this is it.” She said. “Only for now. Only for this weekend.”

John smiled at her as he understood what she meant. “I'm not Detective Ramirez right now, and you're not Officer Stonewall.”

Holly nodded, and John held a hand out to her.

“Hi, Holly. I'm John. It's nice to meet you.”

“Hi, John.” Holly said as she took his hand, then climbed onto the bed with him. “And you're damn right it's nice to meet me.”

John laughed and then kissed her.

*

Ren, Stella and Gloria changed back into their sweaty clothes, and logged back into the administrative medical program.

“So, what's on the agenda now?” Ren asked. “We've got an hour left in real time for this, but that's 8 hours in here.”

Stella pulled up all of the things that she wanted to do, and Ren whistled.

“Why so many different activities?”

“We need to record the brain in all of it's... well, permutations.”

“Permutations?” Ren asked and pointed to one that was part-way down the list. “What does a roller coaster have to do with... oh, I get it! Fear, excitement, and exhilaration!”

“Bingo!” Stella said. “Your reactions have psychological effects, but they also have physical effects, too.”

“Let's do that first!” Ren said. “I've always wanted to ride one!”

Stella laughed. “As long as we get these done, it doesn't matter what order we do them in.”

“Great!” Ren said, and pulled up the roller coaster design up. He put it beside the running track, then looked at the other rides that were available and grinned. “This is going to be fun!”

“For you maybe.” Stella said. “I've got to stay here and monitor your readings.”

“For the first time, sure.” Ren said and looked at her, then spoke in a deep voice. “I'll be back.”

He grabbed Gloria by the arm and dragged her over to the ride.

“Why do I have to go?” Gloria asked. “I hate roller coasters!”

“Perfect!” Ren said. “Stella! You're getting good numbers for Gloria, right?”

Stella nodded, and Ren smiled.

“Hop in.” Ren said. “I won't let anything happen to you.”

“Ren, you're not superhuman.” Gloria said. “How would you stop anyth-Mmh!”

Ren kissed her to stop her from talking. He broke the kiss and grinned at Gloria's surprised expression. “Get in, and hold onto me.” Ren said, and Gloria nodded and sat in the front seat. He sat beside her, and she gripped his arm tightly. “Hit it, Stella!”

Stella activated the ride, and the cars rolled along the track and started to climb the first high arch.

“Oh, god!” Gloria exclaimed and closed her eyes. Ren reached over and took one of her hands that was wrapped around his arm like a vise.

“It's okay.” Ren said. “I'm right here.”

“Ren, I... I'm so scared!”

“You don't have to be.” Ren said. “Look at me.”

Gloria opened her eyes and looked at him. She couldn't feel how he felt, but she recognized that look in his eyes.

“How... how can you look at me like that?” Gloria asked.

“Like what?” Ren asked, but he knew what she meant. He just wanted her to admit it to herself.

“Like... like we're... having sex.” Gloria said.

Ren smiled. “That's because I love you.”

“Wh-what?” Gloria said, shocked.

“I recently spent some time with Lara... she's the Sage of Ages in the game... and she asked me a very important question.”

“What was that?”

“She asked me who I was kissing when I kissed her.” Ren said. “Was I kissing the girl playing her, or the character she was playing.”

“And what did you say?”

“I told her the truth of course.” Ren said. “I told her I was kissing both of them.”

“That's not possible.” Gloria said. “If she's in an avatar body...”

Ren chuckled. “They're both still her. It's just the body that's different.”

“But... if you think along those lines... that means...”

“While I've been having sex with Elerlyth, I was also having sex with you at the same time.”

Gloria didn't know what to say to that, and then the roller coaster hit the top of the arch and she screamed. Ren put a hand on her face, and turned her head to look at him. Despite the jarring ride, Ren kept a calm look on his face; so that she would remain calm, too.

The cars came to a stop 2 minutes later. Ren stepped out, and gave Gloria a hand out as well. They walked over to Stella, and watched as she examined the data.

“Gloria, you were terrified for a minute, then it evened out. You were still definitely scared, but it was tempered by something.” Stella said. “Ren... if I didn't know any better, I'd swear you didn't even get on the ride at all; even though I watched you the whole time.”

“I didn't realize Gloria would be so scared.” Ren said. “I had to make sure she was okay.”

Gloria stared at Ren, and he smiled at her.

“That's my Ren.” Stella chuckled and told Gloria how to keep track of them and start the ride, and then took Ren's hand. “Let's have some fun!”

“Don't we always?” Ren said, and they ran over to get on the ride. “Hit it, Gloria!”

The ride started, and Ren and Stella fidgeted in their seats in anticipation for the thrills to come. They got to the top of the first arch, and instead of screaming in terror, they threw their hands up into the air and yelled their laughter as the cars plunged forward.
