Jane sat at the stone table in the underground bunker Erick had carved under the prairie, eating fruits and cheeses she had bought from some town some long ways away. Rats and Teressa ate, too, but Poi did not. Erick’s main guard stood to the side of the room, Meditation showing multiple lines of intent radiating around the man’s sapphire scaled head; a slight difference in the ambient mana, and not nearly as clear as how Jane saw through her spider’s eyes. Erick was slightly jealous of how a shadowspider saw the world, truth be told. Jane had thought that was hilarious, when Erick had mentioned it before.

Teressa and Jane both turned to Erick, noticing he was back in the room with them.

“Done with Ophiel?” Jane asked, “Ready to see the people in charge, then go home?”

Erick said, “There are a lot of undead out there. I could gather up a lot more.” He added, “And I could help them recover their farms… But I should probably coordinate that with them, if they even know how to coordinate.” Erick said, “This battle was a shit show. Wilhelmina showing up was great, but what happened after that?”

Jane nodded sadly, saying, “Assassins killed at least five high ranking army dudes that I know of, and all three of their Mind Mages. Most of the assassins didn’t get away, but they didn’t need to; the damage was done.”

Erick felt his heart sink.

Jane continued, “You don’t have to clean up everything yourself. In fact, you shouldn’t.” She added, “This isn’t your homeland and if you do more than what you’ve already done, your neutrality in the Quiet War is going to come into question.”

Erick felt the Silver Star pinned to his chest. It wasn’t hot or cold. Erick frowned, saying, “I don’t think that’s true. Besides: these people need help and I can give them that help, with practically no effort.”

Jane turned to Teressa and Rats, asking. “Do you think there’s going to be a problem?”

Teressa shook her head, saying, “Not with Silverite.”

Jane scrunched her face. “Really?”

Teressa added, “Not after today’s events, and probably not if Erick chooses to help with a recovery effort.” She looked to Erick, saying, “If he chose to stay, though. That would be a big problem.”

Erick shook his head, thinking about the people at the party last night, talking about him like he was some rube to be played like a fiddle. “I’m not staying in human lands.” And then he thought about being forced to fight incani, either because the rulers in charge declared it necessary, or because the incani decided he needed to die for choosing the humans’ side. “I won’t be a part of this war.”

Rats grimaced.

Jane looked to Rats, saying, “You look like you disagree with Teressa, Rats? Will there be a problem with the incani in Spur?”

Everyone except Poi turned to Rats; Poi was still in the midst of a lot of [Telepathy].

“I don’t know.” Rats said, “Those two leaders over in the Wasteland Kingdoms— King Porli and Queen Tiz— They chose to provide intel and aid to kill the Halls of the Dead, but only because of a Kill and Exterminate Quest, and that might have been a smokescreen. It’s happened before. Some big event comes along and one side or the other capitalizes on it, and then the response is all guile and treachery that makes the whole thing a lot worse.”

Teressa hummed, then said, “Yes. There is that. That king and queen likely helped to harm, didn’t they?”

“Uh?” Jane asked, “Explain, please.”

Rats stressed, “The Halls would have summoned a Breach Demon, and they could not have done that without direct assistance from Hell itself. You two must not know this, but the summoning of a Breach Demon is a massive, far reaching historical event.” Rats thought for a second, saying, “I think… Yeah. The prevention of a Breach Demon is a historic first. Once they get all the pieces together, a Breach Demon is summoned; I don’t think there’s ever been an interrupted summoning before.”

Erick asked, “Really?”

“I know that a Kill and Exterminate Quest is historic...” Jane asked, “But Breach Demons, too?”

“Yes! Even rarer, too. A lot of people have to die in a specific way for that summoning to happen.” Rats said, “What makes them so bad is that Breach Demons summon demons directly from Hell into mortal bodies, killing the person inside and replacing their soul with little more than a gesture. Entire cities fall overnight.”

Teressa hummed, then added, “And the Breach Demon would have been Parox Geller, but also not. Not technically.”

“Yeah!” Rats said, “That asshole would have gotten around the Kill and Exterminate Quest by already dying once. He would have been in the perfect position to lead a war through the Greensoil Republic. He already knew everything about this land.” Rats added, “All I’m saying is that those bombs in the Queen Vine? What if Parox had planned on detonating them and killing the Queen himself? With all those new levels he’d be unstoppable.”

Jane said, “I still don’t understand.”

Erick said, “Thank the gods I’m not the only one.”

Jane asked, “Explain demon summoning to me, please.”

Rats got a sudden desperate look in his eyes, but it vanished as Erick looked to him for an answer.

Teressa crossed her arms and looked at Rats, too; her helmet was off, she was frowning slightly.

Rats controlled himself, and said, “When demons are summoned to Veird they arrive with all of their Stats and Skills and Spells they had in life, but they can’t gain anything else because they’re not really here. But when demons are called with a high-tier summoning, they are granted a real, unused body that is their own. They can Matriculate again.” Rats said, “They start at level 0, but they have an entire previous life —all those Stats and Skills and Spells— backing them up at the start.”

Teressa’s frown deepened, but she nodded. “Yup. Breach Demons are bad news.”

“What?” Jane said, “No! Shouldn’t they get knocked down to level 0? All the way knocked down, I mean?”

Rats said, “What they tried to do today was a mish-mash of summoning a being with powers all their own, and creating a new person to integrate into the Script. I don’t know why this is the way it is, just that it is.”

Jane sat back in her chair, thinking.

Teressa grunted, saying, “One person with 300 points to their name can do a lot.”

Jane asked, “Can anyone reincarnate?”

Erick looked to Jane. She had just used the word Erick was thinking of, but while Erick was stuck trying to remember the corresponding word in Ecks, Jane had just used the English word, instead.

Rats frowned. “Reincarnate? What’s that?”

Teressa said, “Never heard that word before.”

“I don’t know the word for it in Ecks, but what you just described is reincarnation,” Jane said. “A process where an old soul is granted a new body, gaining the ability to grow again from the beginning but retain all of its former power.”

“You guys have a word for this? We just call it high-tier summoning.” Rats looked from Jane to Erick, saying, “Are you two reincarnated?”

Erick instantly said, “Doubt it.”

Jane looked to Erick, saying, “You believe all this mystical stuff in a way you never did before, but you don’t believe in reincarnation?”

“Magic wasn’t real back home, Jane.” Erick said, “Souls weren’t either.” He paused. He said, “But now… I don’t know. I guess souls would fit in new bodies custom made for them? Sure. And I guess undead are also soul-trapped people, or something. So sure? Reincarnation? Sure. Why not. How about resurrection, too?”

Teressa shook her head, mumbling some words in a language Erick had never heard as she made some fast warding sign with a hand.

Jane said, “I looked that up. They don’t have [Resurrection].”

Rats remained quiet.

Erick said, “They have to have [Resurrection], Jane. If all it is, is putting a soul back in a container, isn’t that [Resurrection]?” He added, “I bet its one of Phagar’s divinely restricted magics.”

“That is untrue,” Rats finally said.

Everyone looked to him.

Rats said, “In this specific area, I am a healer who knows what he’s talking about.” Rats stared at Erick, saying, “All souls begin to deteriorate upon death, with the larger level souls deteriorating faster than lower level souls. Unless care has been taken ahead of time to prevent this deterioration, and you’re not dealing with the rigid soul of an incani or a human destined for Celes, which is outside the scope of [Resurrection], the most you can hope for is to bring back something that looks and sounds like someone who has died. Souls deteriorate fast.” Rats frowned, saying, “Don’t ever try to bring back someone who has died; they won’t be the person you were hoping for.”

Erick sat in silence. Rats had some secrets, didn’t he? Well... Erick wasn’t about to go poking at what seemed like a rough subject for—

“How do you know all this? That’s more than I was able to uncover. They wouldn’t let me look at the locked up books on necromancy.” Jane asked, innocent as can be, “So you’re a necromancer?”

Rats huffed, saying, “Not everyone who knows how necromancy works is a necromancer.” He looked at Jane, saying, “You’re certainly pretty good with those shadows. Are you a Shade?”

Jane went utterly still. Rats just stared at her. The air charged, but a moment passed, and no one said a word.

Jane said, “Sorry. I didn’t mean to— Sorry.”

Rats just looked away. “Don’t worry about it.”

More moments passed in silence.

Poi came out of his trance, saying, “We should go back home. As soon as possible.”

Everyone instantly turned to him, but Erick was the first to ask, “What’s happening?”

“There are telepathic pulses of people looking for us.” Poi said, “We’re not in danger; I think they just want to speak to you, Erick. They’re people from the party last night and they have paperwork.”

Erick leapt out of his chair. “Let’s get going!”

- - - -

“We apologize for not attending to you in a location appropriate for your station, Archmage Flatt,” Duchess Wilhelmina said, seated upon one of two plain, brown stone thrones, in a brown stone room. She added, “It will take months to sort through and repair the rubble of the actual White Palace, so we hope you don’t mind.”

Cyril sat beside his grandmother, upon a second brown stone throne a meter away from the Duchess. Yetta stood by Cyril’s side. All of them seemed to be wearing their best. Bright green for Wilhelmina, and white and gold for Cyril, while Yetta wore sunshine yellow [Conjure Armor].

This throne room was part of a larger castle-like structure built on the land to the north of the previous stone towers, north of the battlefield. The afternoon sun shone across the room, through large glass-less windows, as a cool breeze flowed through the space, bringing a slight scent of offal into the somber chamber.

Erick and company had walked through several large rooms, below this throne room, to get up here. Down there, the rooms were filled with bloody cots occupied with soldiers, while nurses and doctors and priests attended all those who managed to live through the battle, but who were still greatly injured. Triage had ended hours ago. Longer care came next. Cremations had already begun; the humans of the Greensoil Republic didn’t like to leave bodies lying around for necromancers to steal.

Erick stood in the middle of the throne room, with his people at his back and his daughter at his side, and said, “Sorry I couldn’t help more. I understand that there were assassins this morning, which made communications difficult.”

Cyril spoke, “We apologize for not including you more in the battle operations. I don’t think you ever met Captain Denarth. He was supposed to be at that party last night, but he was detained by readying the troops. He was the man in charge of the coordinated armies. Assassins got to him first.”

Yetta said, “That was the reason I burst in there this morning. I was… running off half-prepared.”

“I heard about the assassinations after the fact." Erick said, "I am sorry for your losses.”

“Thank you for your understanding.” Wilhelmina said, “But now that the battle is over and the enemy is routed, there’s still the matter of reconciliation for that unfortunate spot of almost-assassination that almost reached you in Spur. To that end, I invite you to my estates in Greendale, and to take audience with the Viridian King. You stopped a Breach Demon; this requires celebration, and if we don’t celebrate a victory then all we have is the horror of the event.”

“Ah.” Erick did not want to go to a party; probably not for a while. He changed the subject, “I was just hearing about those Breach Demons. That’s… Quite good that it wasn’t summoned, wasn’t it?”

Cyril said, “Yes. The danger posed by the Halls of the Dead had been underestimated at every turn.”

“You’re a Hero of Humanity, Archmage Flatt.” Wilhelmina said, “It would be wonderful if you would allow us to treat you as such.”

Erick lowered his head, slightly smiling, saying, “Thank you for the compliment, but I cannot accept. I can’t be a hero to the Greensoil Republic without becoming a villain to the Wasteland Kingdoms. And I live in Spur. I hope you understand.”

Yetta frowned, sadly, but saying nothing.

Wilhelmina calmly said, “I understand your answer, but it is dangerous to get involved with those incani. We sent an assassin after you, but they sent Shades. Until you were declared ‘planar’, they were working in concert to make your life hell, just because of who you are.”

