Kiri shook the blue box in the air, saying, “This is amazing! And Ophiel is pretty, too, but wow. This! Now, this is a [Familiar].”

Ophiel trilled in obvious enjoyment of being praised.

Erick smiled, saying, “Okay okay. He’s amazing, yes, but I don’t want him getting a big head.” Erick patted Ophiel, and the [Familiar] pushed into his hand, happy to be touched, as Erick said, “Ophiel is very young, but he likes to mimic sounds. He picked up the violin and flute after hearing them for a few hours, though he prefers the violin, I think.” Erick lifted his hand away. Ophiel held in the air, near Erick, waiting for something more to happen. Erick pushed mana through his spells, asking Ophiel, “Help me figure out how to make these sound good together. It’s okay if you can’t—”

Ophiel immediately began singing and glowing with some arcane song of dense air, wrapped around him like a protective shell. A home made of structure and ease.

“… Perfect.” Erick smiled, saying, “What I’m hearing is a song about an easy home, where people come and go as they want, but it’s still a home. There’s still walls to keep out those who would do harm." Inspiration struck. Erick said, "A home of [Crystalline Air], that reforms as needed.” He began:

Erick stopped. He held out his hands to Kiri and Jane, saying, “I need to do this outside.”

Kiri and Jane each grabbed a hand.

In a blip of white, the three of them reappeared on the roof of Erick’s mage tower. The winds of the Crystal Forest flowed over the northern walls of Spur, twisting around the crenelated roof of the tower. After a moment, Ophiel joined them, hovering alongside Erick, unfurling to his full, three meter, two dozen winged height. Ophiel sang of magic; a duet with Erick, as Erick called to the sky.

“A defense against harm [Ward]

“Founds a home, solid lair. [Stoneshape]

“Add a sky twisting charm, [Airshape]

“Cast a [Crystalline Air].” [Ward]

The air shifted around the tower as a minor amount of magic flowed from Erick, into the surroundings. In a crinkling, all-encompassing rush of sound, ten meters out in every direction, a glint fractured the light, like a massive soap bubble frosting over. A layer of clear crystal formed a sphere with Erick, Kiri, Jane, and Ophiel at the center.

A blue box appeared.

Crystalline Air, instant, short range, 24 hours, Solid Ward, 50 MP + Variable

Create a solid, large barrier, that absorbs Variable damage before breaking.

You may increase or decrease the size of your Crystalline Air for an increase or decrease in Variable cost.

Crystalline Air regenerates integrity based on your Rested mana regeneration rate.

You and those you permit are able to pass through Crystalline Air at will. You may grant or revoke this permission at will.

You may only have one Solid Ward active at a time.

Erick smiled as he read the box. He handed a copy to both Jane and Kiri, then said, “I permit air to move through this barrier.”

Nothing changed.

Erick pushed mana and intent into the spell, repeating, “I permit air to move through this barrier.”

The usual winds over Spur had stopped after [Crystalline Air] went up, but at Erick's granting of permission, the wind resumed. Erick canceled [Crystalline Air], and the layer of clear ice all around him vanished. Erick recast the spell. Sure enough, the winds of Spur kept flowing through the barrier. Erick laughed, happy that the spell remembered his settings, because apparently that’s what permission meant, in this case.

He was also quite glad that he wouldn’t accidentally smother himself in his sleep, or something, if he ever forgot to permit ‘air’ into the bubble. It was a concern Erick had had ever since he learned about [Solid Ward]s, but he was glad to see there was no problem. Erick shivered at that gruesome thought, and tossed that concern away.

Kiri smiled as she read the spell, her eyes going back and forth from the box, to the spell hanging in the sky, to Erick. Jane had already read the box and tossed it away.

Jane said, “Good job, Dad.”

Kiri dismissed the box into the ambient mana, and said, “Thank you, Archmage, for allowing me this opportunity to learn from you.”

“There’s more where that came from.” Erick felt like being corny, and said, “But with great power, comes great responsibility.”

Jane almost groaned—

But Kiri bowed, saying, “I understand.”

Feeling even more melodramatic, Erick said, “I pray to all the Relevant Entities of the Script that you do.”

Jane glared at him. “Really, Dad?”

But Kiri seemed deeply humbled. She bowed again, saying, “I understand.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Sorry. Someone said that to me this morning, so I felt the need to pass it along.”

Kiri stood tall, saying, “It’s good advice.”

Jane asked Erick, “So you ripped that off of someone else, too?"

Erick laughed.

Kiri frowned at Jane. “It’s still good advice.”

“You are correct!” Erick dismissed the [Crystalline Air], then activated his Handy Aura and stepped off the side of the tower, floating down, saying, “Now go make a spell of your own. I’ve got farms to rain on. I’ll catch up with you later.”

- - - -

END BOOK 2
