“Alden, no!” she said in horror, grabbing him by the shoulders and looking into his eyes. “How are you going to drink our potion if you’re vegetarian?! There’s a meatball in there!”

“And I blended a wonton,” said Jupiter, stroking the plant. “Sorry. I didn’t know.”

“Can I be vegetarian, too?” Tuyet asked quietly.

“Vegan. It’s fine,” Alden said. “I’ll just hold the potion in my mouth for however long you guys think is fair and then spit it back out.”

Mehdi’s smile shifted to something lighter in a way Alden couldn’t put his finger on. “So your dietary ethics only forbid swallowing? That’s a new one.”

“I can’t let everyone suffer alone, can I?”

He was worried this might make the gremlin apoplectic. Alden hadn’t seriously tested its resolve on this matter since they’d had a two-hour long battle over a bag of shredded cheese back before he became an Avowed. It was one of his more humiliating moments as a human being, trying to trick his own brain by accidentally-on-purpose throwing value brand cheddar at his mouth and hoping it went in and all the way to his stomach.

But the whole reason for coming to this event was to try to establish himself as a real member of the class. It wasn’t going as badly as he’d worried. People were being weird, but almost nobody was being weird in a mean way.

And Gorgon could hold live flies in his mouth for extended periods of time, so it wasn’t impossible despite the gremlin trying to convince him it was.

Astrid patted him on the arms. “Two minutes counts as a drink! That should be fair!”

“That seems a little long—” Alden started to protest.

“Our first year bond grows stronger the longer you can withstand it,” Rebecca told him.

The music quieted. Lexi and Kon had just entered. Kon was carrying the world’s most heinous punchbowl carefully in both hands.

“It’s time,” he intoned, setting it on the coffee table. It was a red-brown soup with scum and floating chunks of fat from some ill advised dairy addition on top. Muddy opaque liquid made a middle layer, followed by a more translucent one, and then there was a solid two inches of sediment at the bottom of the bowl. “Just so everyone here knows, I’ve never forced anyone to do anything like this at one of my parties before. I thought that the karaoke was going to be enough of a bonding experience, but some of you—”

“It’s hero school,” said Astrid. “We have to be more epic.”

“If any of you slipped smuggled alcohol or actual potions in there, then I am going to kill you,” Lexi said.

Haoyu was leaning over the bowl and poking curiously at a weird gray disc that might once have been a banana slice.

“Yes, thank you all,” said Kon. “And I tasted it a few minutes ago. To make sure there were no potions. It’s fine. Well…it’s definitely not fine. But there’s nothing magic in there. Or in the numerous pitchers of this stuff Astrid has spread around the kitchen for us. Since there’s so much, and I don’t want to try pouring it all down the sink, I think our drinking game should be more straightforward. Whoever drinks the most of it wins a prize.”

“Yay! What’s the prize?” Jupiter asked. “Can I have the—”

“Our mother likes that plant,” said Lexi. “Put it down.”

“The prize is a great one.” Kon looked around at them all. “Everyone here owes the winner one use of one of their magical talents…for nonhazardous, non-humiliating purposes.”

“There are over forty people here,” said Vandy, looking interested. “That’s a good prize.”

“A drink counts as one of these.” Kon pointed at a stack of tiny paper cups with pictures of sea turtles on them. Alden was guessing they were some kind of disposable medicine or potion cup, since they didn’t look big enough for anything else.

Kon looked over at him. “Also, Astrid, two minutes is really long for a single drink. If Alden’s determined enough, he might be at this for an hour. And I’m worried about the flesh peeling off his tongue.”

Oh wow how bad is this stuff?

“We can reduce it to one,” she said magnanimously. “Because he let me poke his scar.”

“Also nobody has to participate. You just lose your chance at the prize.”

“And our respect!” shouted the guy who was picking his jacket up off the floor.

“And his respect. Up to you.” Kon looked around. “Sound good to everybody?”

While a few people argued about whether potion pong would be better, an athletic girl with a short brown ponytail walked over to grab a cup. “I just want to know what everybody’s best talent is!”

She smiled confidently down at the punch bowl. She was wearing a green maxi dress and a teddybear purse.  “Because I’m gonna win.”

She pointed at Alden. “You’ve got umbrella power.”

He smiled. “It’s not just the umbrella.”

“I hit that thing hard. And bam! It was fun. We should do it again!”

“I honestly don’t think I can take many hits like that. But sure. I’m also good at keeping food hot or cold. And carrying stuff.”

“I don’t think Heloísa needs help carrying stuff, man!”

Alden didn’t think so either. The A-rank Strength Brute who’d ended the rescue game could probably handle her own luggage.

“What’ve the rest of you got for me?” Heloísa asked while she held out a cup and Kon ladled the punch into it. “I like prizes.”

“She’s so sure she’s going to win,” another Brute muttered.

“I am going to win.”

“When I win, I’m going to make Heloísa rearrange all of my dorm furniture!”

“I want her to carry me to all of my classes one day.”

“I want to make the knife boy carve a dryad in her tree out of ice and then I want the frost Adjuster and Alden and Konstantin to make sure it never melts.”

Everyone turned to stare at Jupiter.

“Wow,” said Kon, filling Rebecca’s cub. “You came up with that incredibly…specific…request so quickly. But sure. I could give that a try.”

A rough line was forming.

Alden got behind Mehdi.

[Maricel,] he texted, [we’re doing the punch thing. If you’re still here.]

Drinking a revolting beverage with a bunch of other teenagers just because wasn’t an unmissable life experience, in his opinion. But Alden was sure this was the kind of group activity that Maricel was also making an effort to be a part of.

She wants to fit in and come across as more fun, right? This seems like exactly that sort of opportunity.

Even Lexi was taking a cup. Probably in solidarity with Haoyu. He looked disappointed in himself.

Alden took his turn at the punchbowl. He took one of the little cups from the dwindling stack and held it out to Kon.

Wait a second. If we’re doing it this way, can’t I…

He hastily targeted Kon. His sense of Boe’s direction faded and was replaced by a new one of the Adjuster in front of him.

“I haven’t talked to you much tonight!” Kon was stirring Bonding Potion 2.0 aggressively so that the chunks all rose off the bottom. He seemed intent on giving everyone their fair portion despite the fact that he’d wanted them to do karaoke instead. “Are you having fun?”

“It’s been good to get to know everyone.”

Kon ladled glop into his cup. “Enjoy!”

Alden walked off, staring into his cup of punishment. He’d been in the kitchen for a long time so he’d seen most of the things that went into it. There was an entire zoo in here. It was a firm no from that part of him that just knew not to bother with certain foods anymore.

This smells foul.

Alden activated his skill. The liquid stopped threatening to spill over the rim. The curdled dairy and fat globs froze in place on top. Hey…is it cool if I put this in my mouth? he asked. Just to carry it, not to eat it?

Nothing.

No objection.

Does it not know what this is made of now that it’s preserved? Or does it not mind because I have no intention of swallowing it?

Probably the second one.

“All right! Everyone get in a circley shape, so we can all see each other. No cheating!” Astrid shouted.

Jeffy was standing beside her with another cup.

He’s determined at least. Alden took a place across the circle from them. It was unfortunately close to Winston Heelfeather, who was getting the cold shoulder from lots of people now, including a couple of guys he seemed to be making friends with earlier. It wasn’t the whole group, but he was still looking miserable and pissed about it.

“To the newest first year hero students at Celena North High!” Astrid announced, lifting her cup over her head.

Everyone cheered.

“May we be united in amazingness and asskickery!”

“I’m almost qualified for second year,” Lexi mumbled. “I would be if not for the combat classes.”

His brother elbowed him.

“To us!” said Kon.

“To victory!” Heloísa cried.

“To Brutes!”

“To Meisters!”

“Shapers forever!”

“Adjusters!”

“Don’t any of you dare spit it out on our floor!” Lexi shouted.

To Rabbits, thought Alden, shifting his weight, throwing the cup back, and opening his mouth wide enough for the shape of the preserved drink to pass between his teeth.

Well, this is peculiar. He let it rest on top of his tongue. It felt sort of like an ice cube just starting to melt, only less cold.

Bearer of All Burdens did the fake tactile and visual senses with varying degrees of accuracy, but it didn’t bother with smell, sound, or, apparently, taste. So he had no idea what the others were experiencing as they all hacked, gagged, made faces, or spit their drinks back into their cups.

He closed his eyes. You could try taste if you wanted to, he thought, prodding at various parts of his skill. I wouldn’t even mind having this poison in my mouth if it meant I could get good fake flavors this way down the line.

He was a shameless animal who would absolutely carry a piece of bacon around like this all day so that he had his own personal meat-flavored breath mint.

Maybe some facet I can add will include a tasting feature. Some species somewhere must need to lick things to understand them, right? There’s got to be a way.

“That was one minute,” someone said.

“Damn, the Rabbit’s still got his eyes closed. Is he meditating to endure having that shit in his mouth?”

“Did he actually drink it? Was someone watching him?”

Alden opened his eyes and held his paper cup upside down to prove he wasn’t a cheater. Even though he totally was. Then he crushed it in his fist to prevent anyone from seeing how spotless the inside of it was.

Kon was wiping his tongue on a napkin and taking drinks from a cup of water. “One of you dropouts time him! Everyone who still wants the prize, come get your second cup.”

<<My teeth are burning,>> someone moaned.

[I’ve found the perfect way to destroy my classmates with my skill,] Alden reported to Boe.

He tried to keep his weight shifting subtle, and he closed his eyes again so that he couldn’t see them all. If he started laughing, it was going to be obvious he didn’t have liquid in his mouth…at least not in the usual sense of the word.

He described what was happening, and Boe texted him back. [Told you there would be benefits to partying. Now you’ll have a few dozen high-ranking Avowed owing you favors.]

[I don’t think I’ll go that far with it. I’ll let someone else win. I just want to beat this one particular guy.]

Isn’t it interesting that I’m having no trouble from the gremlin? How fast will it make me choke on this if I change my intentions from not drinking it to drinking it?

“Two minutes.”

Alden looked around again. Most people were finishing their fourth drink. Finlay had tears running down his face and was waving off the ladle as a pair of dropouts came around with the punch bowl again.

He dashed toward an almost-empty milk carton and upended it into his mouth.

Winston’s eyes were watering, too. But he glanced at Alden then took another cup.

Alden smiled around his pleasantly cool mouthful.

Jupiter was accepting her next cup…rather blithely. Okay, so she’s got an unexpected tolerance for both heat and horror.

Jeffy was taking another one even though he looked ill.

Heloísa waved a hand over her mouth and said, “Refreshing!” before staring at another Brute and holding out her cup for more.

Haoyu was downing one while Lexi stood behind him shaking his head.

Mehdi was throwing them back placidly, too.

Max was watching Alden through narrowed eyes while he blew his nose and held out his cup for the punchbowl bearers.

Uh-oh.

A text notification blinked, and Alden answered it.

[You’ve either got nothing at all in your mouth, or you’re using your skill to shield yourself from it. It hadn’t occurred to me that it might work that way, but I bet it does.]

[You can’t prove that,] Alden replied at once. [But even if you’re right, just let me beat Winston, and I’ll spit it out.]

Max looked over at Winston. He shook his head. [The one with the serious inferiority issue? He’s either going to puke or win the whole thing. Probably the first. But he might last through fifteen more rounds before that happens. I’m not going to let you look like your capsaicin tolerance is that high.]

[I’ll give you a talent use. The same as the prize winner gets,] Alden offered.

[What am I supposed to do with it?]

[You’ll think of something.]

Max gulped down his drink and shuddered.

[Deal,] he said a second later. [But try to look like you’re suffering, or other people are going to start to notice, too. Some of the A’s are paying extra attention to us both.]

Alden looked around. [Is Mehdi one of them?]

[I’m surprised you noticed him. He’s not being obvious about it. But he’s not a fan of me or you.]

Max was carefully avoiding looking in Mehdi’s direction.

[Do you think he hates low ranks or something?]

