On the one hand, everything Lexi had said was something that he was glad to have out in the open or that he agreed with. Even the hypocrisy accusation…was…

Totally fair.

Ugh. Shit.

But the Meister had such a cold way of dropping phrases that really shouldn’t be dropped at all—like “orphaned by a supervillain”—that it felt like they were having an argument.

“Thank you for telling me,” Alden said, resisting the urge to inject sarcasm into the words. “I appreciate it. And I’m sorry for complaining about Lute when I am just as inconvenient as him.”

“Okay,” Lexi said dispassionately.

Then he left.

Alden let himself slump against the wall. Well, that’s not really a big deal. Or big news. And people being nice to me for no reason is so much better than them being assho—

Lexi had stopped at the end of the hall. He turned around suddenly and came back. He stood a couple of feet away, and Alden braced for whatever else he’d thought of to say.

The other boy glared down at his own socks. “Haoyu thinks we should all  get along if we share a suite,” he said grudgingly. “He was already talking about doing something with you and Lute anyway. I shouldn’t have implied that he was being like the others.”

Oh. Well, that was actually a relief. “He seems cool.”

“He’s too nice. He volunteers me for things.” Lexi grunted. “Have fun destroying my house with everyone else.”

He stalked away.

“I’ve barely left the snack table!” Alden called after him. “I’ve been cleaning up spills all night!”

This time Lexi kept walking.

Alden looked at the bathroom door again. I wonder if it’s…

[Hey,] he texted Maricel. [I haven’t seen you around in a while. Are you still at the party?]

She didn’t answer.

[If you decide you want company for the trip back to intake, let me know.]

That’s the right thing, isn’t it? It’s better than outright asking if she’s the crying person.

He didn’t want to insert himself where he wasn’t welcome. He waited until he was sure he wasn’t getting a reply, then he headed toward the other bathroom. Before he’d made it through the door, Jeffy ran past him, clutching his mouth with one hand and his stomach with the other.

Guess I don’t need to pee that bad after all.

********

“What I’m trying to tell you,” Alden said, raising his voice so that his chosen target could hear him over the beat of the music in the crowded living room, “is that you should just treat me normally. Or…however it is you treat everyone else.”

Jupiter’s arms were in the air over her head, and she was swaying in time to the music in a floppy kind of way that probably shouldn’t be called dancing.

“I promise I am already!” said Jupiter. She’d found glitter to apply to her face since the last time Alden had seen her. It was awfully slick looking. He thought she might have just smeared lip gloss all over herself. “I haven’t been talking about you at all!”

“No.” Alden didn’t know how to break through. “I’m saying it’s fine if you have been! I understand you’re trying to be considerate. Stop telling everyone here that they have to be nicer to me than they want to be, though! It’s unnecessary!”

Jupiter swayed so far to the left that Alden reached out reflexively to catch her in case she fell. She wobbled then popped back upright.

“Snake plants are the best!”

What in the…?

She was smiling at something behind him, and Alden turned to see a tall green-striped plant by the window wriggling in a very Jupiter-like way.

She is befriending vegetation.

“You’re…a unique person,” he said, giving up on getting his point across. “I’m glad you’re having fun.”

Blue light flashed across the ceiling as the fight scene on the screen changed. Alden wandered over to hover among a crowd of people who were discussing the battle between a Wright decked out in laser cannons she’d made herself and a small gang of non-Avowed criminals who’d somehow gotten their hands on Wright-made weapons of their own.

It was a cinematic battle. All of the ones that had played tonight were. Most day-to-day superhero work wasn’t so flashy. An Anesidora-trained S-rank chasing down some C-rank unregistered who’d been found out by their nosy neighbors wasn’t usually a major event.

But it’s the big flashy ones that make people think of you as a real superhero. Maybe Max is more right about battle theater than I want him to be.

The other B-rank was standing on the edge of the room, wearing a too-tight shirt Kon had loaned him. The one he’d come to the party in had been deemed cursed after a third incident involving a girl and a virgin strawberry daiquiri.

The group watching the television was trying to analyze the Wright’s weapons. Some of them sounded semi-knowledgable. Most sounded like they wished they were. One of the Brutes was arguing that lasers were “the same as cheating” for reasons so convoluted that Alden couldn’t follow them at all.

“Ooo…that’s going to leave a scar!” a guy called out as one of the Wright’s smaller lasers flashed.

<<She just severed his arm, Sanjay. It’s going to be a little worse than a scar. We don’t waste Healers on random bad guys, you know.>>

“Ohhhh right.”

“Any Healers will help injured Avowed first, local victims of the magic-caused event second, and then, if they have time, they’ll assist regular people on their waiting list,” Vandy told everyone.

Maricel’s roommate had been in the battle-discussion group for the whole party. The Sky Shaper was in the same dark blue pantsuit she’d worn to interviews. She’d chosen to start classes this week, and Alden had seen her a few times. She was one of those people who wore the full school uniform every day even though it wasn’t required.

She’s not completely stiff though.

Vandy’s hands, held down beside her legs, had been twitching back and forth for the past hour. She was directing a pair of paper airplanes overhead. Alden was sure she was doing it mostly for practice, but she also seemed to want everyone to enjoy them. Whenever one got swiped out of the air by a partier, she smiled and folded another.

“Armless gets a human surgeon if he survives,” another girl said.

“Did you get a Healer?”

At first, Alden didn’t realize he was being addressed.  He was watching the Wright pursue the last runaway bad guy down a street. She shed her heavier weaponry, it teleported out of sight, and she went with pure strength for the final chase and grab.

“Hey, I asked you if you got a Healer?”

Alden looked around. To his surprise, the person speaking to him from the other side of the group was Winston Heelfeather. He’d noticed him lurking around the party, drifting after Finlay and glaring holes in the back of the more powerful speedster’s head.

“What?” Alden asked.

A few people were looking between the two of them now.

“Everyone’s saying you were part of some big deal hero/villain fight or something,” said Winston. He took a sip of his mocktail. “When you were a kid.”

Now it was more than a few people.

Why is he glaring at me?

Admittedly it was a half-powered glare compared to what Finlay had been getting all night, but it made a lot less sense. This is good for me anyway. Thanks for bringing it up so that I have an excuse to be visibly fine with it.

“They did take me to the House of Healing.” He shoved his hands into his pockets and smiled at Winston. “It wasn’t a Healer-class Avowed that helped me, though. It was the wizard who runs the Chicago House.”

His mother’s old boss. Rynez-yt. He’d only met her a couple of times before that night. She was a morose person with a dreadful bedside manner, but he’d been inclined to like her anyway because his mom did.

“I’d rather be healed by a human than an Artonan,” Winston spat.

Everyone in the group was looking at him instead of the screen now.

“That’s…a little xenophobic,” said Rebecca.

“It’s very xenophobic,” said Vandy, staring at Winston in shock. One of her airplanes crashed into the back of Mehdi’s gelled hair, and he grabbed it. He was watching the discussion with an unreadable expression.

“It’s also stupid,” said Alden. “When you’ve got shrapnel in your intestines, you’ll be really glad to see any kind of healer of any species.”

Everyone’s eyes were still on Winston. His ears were reddening.

“Yeah, yeah! Sorry I didn’t mean it like that. I was just running my mouth too fast.”

“You should apologize to Alden, too,” Vandy said.

Alden didn’t know whether Winston had meant it or not, but he was pretty sure the speedster hadn’t meant to say it out loud. Does he really want attention so much that he’s jealous of the variety I’m getting?

Well, whatever. I’m still going to use this for project Alden-is-not-a-poor-baby.

“Thanks, Vandy,” he said. “It’s fine, though. The Body Drainer incident was a long time ago. It’s not my favorite convo topic, but I don’t mind answering questions about it.”

Most of the eyes fixed on Winston turned back to him.

“What was it like?” Rebecca asked immediately.

“You had shrapnel in your intestines? Did it hurt?”

<<Sanjay, are you serious right now? You absolute—>>

“It hurt super bad,” said Alden. “And I lost a ton of blood. I would have died if not for one of the heroes on the scene.”

“Hannah Elber,” someone said. “I read about that.”

“She went missing last year.”

“The Gloom’s daughter.”

“Do you know the Gloom?” Mehdi asked.

“Not really.” The crowd had shifted so that Alden had to stand on his tiptoes if he wanted to see the other boy clearly. “I’ve only met her once, and it was just for a few minutes.”

“But what does shrapnel feel like?” Sanjay said, staring at Alden avidly.

“Sanjay!” Astrid entered the discussion by shouting from all the way across the room. “Monday in Combat class, we’ll ask the faculty to turn the gymsuits all the way up. Then we’ll take turns stabbing you in the guts. How does that sound?”

<<Can I help?>>

“It’s not combat class. It’s pre-combat class. Physical education and self defense, right?” a girl wearing a fiberoptic headband said nervously. “They’ll keep the suits powered down, won’t they?”

“You hope they will.”

“Oh don’t remind me about MPE,” Tuyet moaned from her seat on the sofa. “I’m so nervous about it.”

“What was the worst thing about being in a supervillain incident?”

Alden blinked at the Meister who’d asked. “My parents dying. And long-term tinnitus.”

“My dad has tinnitus from getting hit real bad by a Vocal!” Jupiter suddenly called from over by her plant friend. “Healers have trouble fixing that. Sometimes the magic repairs it, and sometimes it just doesn’t.”

Telling her dad to try to find a Healer as good as Rrorro didn’t seem like helpful advice, so Alden left it alone.

“Where in the intestines—?”

“If you’re that curious, I could show you my scar…”

Several people said “yes” or some version of “cool,” and nobody said “no.”

Pretty much the same as when I offered to show it to people in sixth grade homeroom, thought Alden, lifting up his sweater just enough to show off the whole scar without revealing the tattoo above it. Though I guess we’re all old enough now that nobody is going to say something dumb, like ‘I want one, too.’

“I want one, too,” Jeffy—fresh from his karmic bathroom experience—said  a minute later after staring at Alden’s stomach.

Alden sighed.

Astrid, who was leaning really much too close to finish her own examination, popped upright. “I like it!” she announced.

“He has a nice stomach,” said Rebecca.

“It’s not bad at all,”Astrid agreed.

“Hey, I’ve got a nice stomach!” said Jeffy.

“We’ve all seen yours. Pretty average to be honest.”

“Jeffy got in!” someone yelled. A jacket flew through the room and slid down the screen.

Astrid turned back to Alden and narrowed her eyes. “Appeal or effort?”

He dropped his shirt.

“Both,” he confessed. “But mostly an alien plant-based diet for months and an overzealous healer. There’s only one point in Appeal.”

“You don’t have to admit to one,” she said, flapping her hand at him. “Most of us will pick up at least three or four before we graduate from uni anyway.”

“Beauty always sells,” said Mehdi. He’d gotten closer during the impromptu scar-viewing session. “You should have known he had one, Astrid. He’s a Rabbit. B-rank Rabbits always get a whole point in Appeal.”

He smiled at Alden. “Anesidoran social dynamic—”

Oh great. That’s going to be a thing every time someone talks to me for a while isn’t it?

He was going to have a long conversation with himself about not saying anything out loud ever again. Mental texting henceforth. With everyone.

“—nobody serious takes Appeal until they’re in third year. Or uni even. It just looks terrible on the application unless you’re doing it specifically for the empathy. So it’s really impressive that you managed to get into the program with that hanging over you on top of everything else.”

He was still smiling. He sounded friendly.

“Well, I’m glad to be here.”

“Yeah, I think the school needs some diversity,” said Mehdi. “About that skill you used in the combat assessment, how exactly does it—?”

Astrid gasped, and everyones’ heads jerked toward her.

Behind her head, the screen was showing a Brute righting an overturned rail car, but that didn’t seem dramatic enough to be the source of her surprise.

