[It would be odd if he did. I think he’s worried about me and you particularly.]

Alden had been trying to look pained so that Astrid would know he was enduring along with everyone else, but at that, his confusion distracted him from his efforts. [What did I do to him?]

[You took a hit from Heloísa with your skill, and you didn’t roll around on the ground crying afterward. Mehdi’s an A-rank Brute, too. Agility-focused.]

[He’s afraid you and I might beat him in a fight?]

[I think that’s what some of the others are afraid of. Mehdi seems different. He seems like the kind of person who wants absolute victories, doesn’t he?]

Alden cut his eyes toward the other boy and back. He didn’t have a clue. Who spent time thinking about other people that way? Keeping up socially was his goal for the night, not analyzing everyone as if they were a future opponent.

[We’ve got ages left to worry about who’s going to grow into the biggest baddest Avowed.]

Max took another drink.

[Some of us are worried about Monday. I’ve met at least four people who have something to prove, and they’re thinking they’ll start by beating me at whatever our instructors have us doing in the gym.]

Just then, Winston Heelfeather made a retching sound, and everyone backed away from him.

Lexi was over there in a split second holding out a bucket that a bunch of samosas had been delivered in earlier.

[Tap out after the next minute,] Max demanded, while Winston barfed. [I get to be the B-rank victor for this one.]

Alden nodded. He did his best to feign increasing agony and distress, and then ran away from the living room clutching his face dramatically. He’d only had Astrid and strangely, Sanjay, for personal cheerleaders, and they both applauded as he fled back toward the bathroom in the apartment’s master suite.

Good. Nobody’s here. He locked the door behind him.

He had forbidden food in his mouth. Some combination of preservation plus his initially pure intentions had made the gremlin dismiss Bonding Potion 2.0 from its threat list.

I can preserve food any time, but not having the slightest intention of eating it is going to be close to impossible now that I’ve had the idea of working around the restriction in this way.

Unless he was amazingly lucky and preservation was a true hack, then this kind of opportunity wouldn’t come around often.

How to do it?

If I un-preserve too soon, it could make me freak, and I’ll be spewing this stuff all over the bathroom and trying to wash it out of my mouth. Enough might make it into my stomach to teach it…or it might not.  Instead, it could consider it accidental ingestion at that point and think that’s why the rite didn’t trigger.

And it’s a slow learner.

If Alden’s wordchain practice hadn’t proven that, then the fact that Gorgon had been engaged in food negotiations with his own, much more complete and functional mental helper for ages certainly did.

He stared at himself in the bathroom mirror, noting that he still had a few purple flecks from the currant-syrup incident on his cheeks and in his hair. He sighed through his nose.

I know it was a tiny paper cup, but this is still going to be like eating a damn golfball. Can people even do that?

He was trying to look it up when someone knocked on the door.

Alden turned on the sink, hoping that would buy him a minute. Determined, he used his fingers to shove his cup-shaped preserved drink into the back of his throat. He tried to gulp.

Unsuccessfully.

“Are you all right in there?” a girl’s voice called through the door. “Throwing up?”

I hope not.

It felt like he was trying to take a pill made for giants. After several more tries, he finally choked it down.

It was a memorable, inelegant process.

Kinda gross.

He felt it slide down his throat and settle in his stomach. He had the same melting ice cube feeling in his gut now.

He blinked at himself in the mirror and wiped drool off his face with a tissue from a box on the counter. He wondered if his tonsils were all right. He started snickering at himself.

Oh yeah! This is definitely the use-case the Artonans had in mind when they designed one of their most powerful Avowed skills.

He released the preservation, and the bonding potion hit his stomach.

The gremlin woke up. Alden could feel it trying to figure out what was going on. It seemed very suspicious.

That’s right, little buddy. We just had some surf-and-turf smoothie. How did that happen? Notice how we’re not exploring the souls of an entire menagerie? You think about that really hard for a while, Alden told it.

*******

The party was getting sloppier.

A pair of hot pink tights were crumpled on the floor in the hall. An Asian boy ran past Alden wearing a piece of caution tape as a belt. The second bathroom wasn’t locked anymore, but there was some kind of thick mustard-colored smoke pouring out of a dispenser on the rim of the tub. Alden assumed it wasn’t an illegal substance, since Lexi wasn’t in here kicking people out, but he still held his breath.

A quartet of people were sitting on the floor while clouds of the stuff settled around them. They were having a discussion about how Anesidora ought to be allowed to purchase a “vacation territory” somewhere on Earth.

“Somewhere tropical,” said Rebecca. “With animals.”

“The Amazon. The Artonans are already paying the South American countries not to develop it. We could hang out there.”

“Can you wear a bikini in the Amazon?”

“I think there are a lot of insects, right?”

In the living room, two teams of supporters had formed around Heloísa and Mehdi. Kon was doling out punch to each of them, his concerned look standing out in stark contrast to the ferociously pleasant smiles on their faces.

“You guys,” he said, while Astrid bounced toward him holding another pitcher of punch, “that’s thirty-six each. Don’t you think we should call it a tie? You can split the prize.”

“I’m fine,” said Heloísa, putting one hand on the hip of her maxi dress and holding her cup out toward Kon.

“Me too.” Mehdi had stripped off his tiger coat. The black shirt he had on under it had gotten sprinkled with glitter at some point. “I could do another thirty-six.”

“Same here.”

“Good.”

“Good.”

“Maybe you two should fight with your powers,” said Njeri. She was thumping Jeffy on the back. The Aqua Brute was lying sprawled on the sofa, moaning. “It seems like that might be safer.”

Alden caught Heloísa’s eye and gave her a thumbs up as he passed. He would rather owe her a favor if he had his choice.

In the kitchen, he beelined for the snack table and took the last wonton.

Aw man.

He still couldn’t eat it. He held it up to his nose, sniffed it aggressively, and imagined crabs dissolving in stomach acid.

The gremlin wasn’t having it.

But Alden liked to think that it was a bit less sure of itself than it had been.

Eventually, he realized that Vandy and Tuyet were both staring at him. Maricel’s roommates had bowed out of the drinking contest. Now Tuyet was loading dishes into the washer while Vandy folded another paper airplane at the table.

Alden set down his teaching wonton and wiped his hands on a napkin. “Hey,” he said, hoping that they would shrug off his behavior as normal party-induced madness. “Do either of you know where Maricel is?”

“I texted her.” Tuyet finished rinsing a pitcher and started trying to find a place for it on the bottom rack. “She said she had a headache and left. It must have been right at the beginning of the party because I haven’t seen her since.”

“She did?” So that wasn’t her hiding out in the bathroom then? Or was she lying about when she left?

“I hope she feels better tomorrow.” Tuyet sounded worried. “Move-in is going to be hectic. Vandy, maybe we should offer to help her carry her things over from intake? My brother could drive us.”

“I already asked. She said she had it covered. Maybe Alden is helping her?”

“We haven’t talked about it,” Alden said. “But if she needs help, then sure. I’ll check on her in the morning.”

They both exchanged looks.

“Are you and Maricel interested in each other?” Tuyet asked.

“Have you made plans for choosing skills that will help you overcome your class disadvantage?”

Both of their mouths fell open.

“Tuyet! If Maricel hasn’t told us about a relationship, then it would mean it’s private.”

“Vandy, you can’t just call him disadvantaged!”

Vandy clasped her hands over her airplane and looked at Alden. “I am not trying to hurt your feelings,” she said. “I’m asking a professional question. In the future, we may need to shore up one another’s weaknesses—”

“And that’s so much worse than me asking about Mari! I was just checking because she seems unhappy sometimes!”

“Both questions were fine,” Alden said hastily. “Maricel and I are just getting to know each other, and we’re only friends. I don’t know how that rumor got started. And, Vandy, my current plan is to develop my main skill as much as I can. Since there’s no record of it being chosen before, nobody knows when it will top out. As it grows, I’ll have better ideas about what I should choose next.”

“It’s an unknown skill?” Tuyet sounded surprised. “That was…brave of you.”

Vandy cleared her throat. “I’m sure he had different plans for himself when he picked it. And then he changed his mind after experiencing danger on the Triplanets and learning that his skill had rescue potential.”

Yeah, I’ll go with that one. It’s what will make sense to people.

Alden nodded at her.

“I think that’s wonderful.” Vandy brushed a strand of brown hair away from her cheek. “You may not have the best class, but you have real experience. That’s probably why you were chosen for the program.”

No way was he bringing up the commendation with his new peers. It had been an unavoidable part of his application since it was on his profile, but maybe there was still a chance of it staying hidden from other students. The star seemed to be a relationship warper with some adult Avowed at least, and if the Anesidoran teens found out about it…

Even more unpredictable ideas about who I am and what I’m doing at the school coming at me from every angle. Let’s just not.

Vandy finished her airplane and threw it. Before it could crash into the light fixture, she gestured. Alden felt a current of air toss his hair around his face, and the plane dipped and swooped out the kitchen door.

“Vandy, you practice too much,” Tuyet said with a sigh. “You’re doing such refined shaping even though you don’t have the perfect talents for it yet.”

“I’m preparing for when I do. I doubt power alone will impress our instructors.”

She pulled another sheet of paper out of a notebook on the chair beside her.

“Hey, can I fold one, too?” It had just occurred to Alden that he would be a lot better at it than he had been before.

Vandy smiled and held out the notebook. At the same time a link to a site full of airplane designs appeared on his interface.

And there are still corn chips on the table, he thought happily as he sat down across from the Sky Shaper and started to fold. Note to self: tell Stu-art’h about paper airplanes.

Their fifth call should be on Tuesday. Alden had decided on a personal goal of finding some silly little Earth thing that the Primary’s son actually liked in a more than mildly-curious way. He was starting to worry that there weren’t even many silly little Artonan things that Stuart allowed himself to enjoy. Possibly the ceremonial wevvi cart, but Alden thought that might be too culturally significant to count.

The guy wants friends but can’t seem to find any he connects with. He loves his family, but he’s not happy with some aspect of that either. He’s still walking around on a nerve-damaged foot when he doesn’t have to because I don’t understand why.

He needs some distractions. I think he’s planning to do it soon. He hasn’t said as much to the clueless human, but…the time off school, the enchanted rings that do things basic spells should be able to handle…

His fingers paused their swift work on one of the creases of the fourth airplane.

Do they do it at home? With other knights around them?

Or do they go to the woods to be alone like I was?

What a strange thing for him to wonder right at this moment, in the middle of a party, in a brightly lit kitchen with two girls he barely knew, folding paper airplanes in the only Googie-style skyscraper on Anesidora.

It was a night when he was almost as far away from that other world as he ever could be.

He went back to folding.

Why would you do this to yourself, Stuart, you weird bastard? You are one of the few people in the universe who can be anything in the universe. You are rich.

His fingers pinched a corner tighter.

You are smart.

Another crease.

You are a wizard.

A tiny, tiny fan fold.

You are an Artonan.

A rip.

Your father is The. Numero. Uno.

A twist.

You could be a senator, a healer, a scientist. You could get yourself a spouse or five and farm overpriced papayas.

Another twist. An another. And then next would be a thread of paper torn free and wound through the rest of it like a stitch.

“Um…are you still making a plane or have you switched to some more complicated origami?”

Alden’s breath caught. His fingers stilled on the paper. He looked up into Vandy’s blue-gray eyes.

“I was wondering the same thing. Is it just me or are your hands really fast, Alden?” It was Kon’s voice. Behind him. “And, Tuyet, you’re my hero! Thank you, thank you so much for doing the dishes.”

The sound of the punch bowl against the metal basin of the sink. Footsteps.

