The party did pick up pace after that. The sun set. More guests arrived. Delivery people and drones brought snacks. The projection screen in the middle of the living room switched to famous superhero fight footage, and music started to play.

Kon put caution tape over two of the bedroom doors, but he gave everyone free access to the rest of the apartment. He might have been regretting that decision, since his parents’ king sized mattress was being used for random power demonstrations in the living room. Half the girls present were standing on it at the moment, trying to pep talk their admissions group’s Object Shaper into lifting it up like a flying carpet. He was eager to oblige, but in over his head. So far he’d only managed to lift one half or another of the mattress at a time, and the girls were falling all over each other and laughing.

Alden was hanging out in the kitchen, where the other partygoers were too distracted by food and adding nasty things to Extra Spicy Bonding Potion 2.0 (no broken glass edition) to bother with more than small talk. About an hour in, he was sitting at the table by the window, having a strange but not terrible conversation with a Shaper of Life named Jupiter, who was really into the historic value of Kon’s family’s apartment.

“Some old guy designed this tower in the late 1900’s,” she said, wafting purple polished fingernails over a fried crab wonton to cool it off. “And he was so upset that the future had come and it didn’t look like the future he had imagined. So instead of building something contemporary, he flashed back to the past and built this place. It’s the only Googie-style skyscraper on the island. You need to make sure to take a good look at it when you leave. It looks great at night. It’s got these impractical spikes sticking up from the roof and the big neon Nilama sign. But it’s ancient, and it doesn’t really hold enough people to justify its footprint for a great neighborhood like this. They’re definitely going to tear it down sooner rather than later. Oh, hello! Kon’s brother!”

<<I have a name. It’s Lexi,>> he said in Russian as he stepped over a crushed chip. He was wearing a gray sweater with straggly pieces of yarn hanging from the hem and cuffs, and his dark hair looked about like you’d expect for someone who’d been out boating in high winds.

<<I’m Jupiter! We’re all glad you didn’t drown,>> she responded in Spanish. <<This is Alden. He’s not from Anesidora, so I’m making sure he knows important things. Be really nice to him okay?>>

“We’re actually going to be roommates,” Alden said.

At the same time Lexi asked, “Why does he need me to be nice to him?”

Jupiter fixed Lexi with a look Alden couldn’t decipher at all. Her hazel eyes were wide, her lips were pursed, and she kept bobbing her head up and down in time to some unheard rhythm.

“Are you trying to mental text?” Lexi asked after watching this strange behavior for almost a full minute. “I only got six disconnected words. If you want to talk about him behind his back, you’re just going to have to use your fingers.”

“Haha!” Jupiter said nervously. She waved a hand at Alden. “We’re not talking about you.”

She then proceeded to air text Lexi.

[People are talking about me behind my back right in front of my face,] Alden reported to Boe. He felt more curious than offended at this point. [Bets on what it’s about?]

[If you’d brought forty pineapples like I suggested, they would forget everything else about you.]

“Yeah,” said Lexi to Jupiter. “I know. Thanks for the warning.”

[There’s a warning about me.]

Jupiter grabbed another wonton and left. Lexi was staring at the sign beside the blender that said, “Fill me up. I’m hungry!”

“What is this?” he asked in a disgusted voice. “It smells like chili sauce and toilet bowl cleaner.”

“You should smell the rest of it,” Alden said. “It’s in the fridge in a punch bowl.”

“Why?”

“We’re going to be forced to drink it later. For social reasons.”

“I should have known it was one of the weird parties when that guy with the mohawk refused to let me into my own house until I guessed the ‘secret password.’”

So that’s how Kon got Jeffy to stop challenging every other Brute here to squeeze his hand as hard as they could.

“I should just sleep on the boat,” Lexi murmured as he looked at the chunky, separated contents of the punchbowl in the fridge.

“Kon has plans for the two of you. They sound good.”

The brothers’ parents had a call scheduled for tonight from Artona II. It had been pre-planned because the cost of making daily phone calls was impractical and because if one or both of the brothers had failed to get into the hero track, this would be the day when they received an admissions notice from the sciences program. Their parents were expecting to hear their news and congratulate them. Kon wanted them both to be in their school uniforms surrounded by new classmates.

This was such an inescapably sweet idea that Alden was now committed to staying for at least two more hours so that he could put on a paper hat and wave with everyone else at the designated time.

“I know,” said Lexi. “I’m going to go to my room and finish packing. You’re moving into the dorms tomorrow, too, aren’t you?”

“Yep. I’m packed. I’ll be hauling all my stuff over in the morning. By the way…” Alden scooped some more hummus onto his plate, trying to think of how to phrase a criticism without making Lexi angry. “Springing Lute Velra on me because you thought I would be too ignorant to know about his family was maybe not the most neighborly thing for a new roommate to do.”

Lexi looked around with raised eyebrows. “You’re the one who asked to stay with me. If you’ve got a problem, get another room.”

“I don’t have a problem with Lute. We’re partners in Convo IV. It’s a neutral relationship. But you deliberately checked to make sure I was still in intake and brand new to the island before you agreed to room with me.” He leaned back in his chair. “I’m just saying that when you happen to know some Anesidoran social dynamic that’s going to affect me and you deliberately hide it…well, Lute himself was much cooler than you. He actually asked if I minded rooming with someone that ninety percent of the school seems to hate.”

“He needs help moving his concert harp tomorrow if you want to thank him for it,” Lexi said in a flat voice. “Fine. I will not deliberately hide ‘Anesidoran social dynamics’ from you. There’s nothing wrong with Lute Velra. Everyone who enjoyed bullying him in middle school is just excited to relive the experience now that his family has done something insane enough to give them an excuse to start back up.”

“Thanks.”

Lexi grabbed a bottle of plain club soda. He looked around for a bottle opener and when he couldn’t find it, he lifted his sweater and removed his whip from where he had it belted around his waist. The thin chain, in its shortened form, started to glow. Lexi flicked his wrist. The tip of the chain wrapped around the throat of the bottle, and then melted through, neatly cutting the glass.

Lexi poured the contents into a plastic cup.

“That is a very superhuman way to access your beverage.”

“You thought it was some kind of a torture device, didn’t you?” Lexi said, tossing his bottle at the recycling box in the corner and ringing it dead center.

Alden stared at the whip as the Meister hid it beneath his sweater again.

“No? It seemed strong and versatile during our combat assessment. The fact that you have mental control over its motion is probably going to be a huge advantage. I thought it was a nuanced weapon.”

Lexi straightened up and faced him. He didn’t look happy, but he did look not ill-tempered for the first time since he’d entered the kitchen. He pointed at Alden. “Finally,” he said. “Thank you. Everyone else must have their heads so far up their asses that they can’t see Nautilus Needle.”

He was referring to the tallest skyscraper on Anesidora.

“Writher is a puncturing, cutting, cauterizing, and control tool. I don’t know whether I should blame Kon for making stupid BDSM jokes every time I pull it out or that Wright who brought an actual torture device to trials. Of course the gymsuits hurt a lot when I use it in certain ways! They hurt when everyone else uses their weapons on you, too! Just because I picked this instead of some brainless stabbing implement, it doesn’t mean I’m a sadist.”

He does have a certain rage and intensity on his face when he’s hitting people with it that probably contributes to that impression.

It didn’t seem necessary to mention that.

“There you are!” Kon jogged into the kitchen holding a lumpy pillowcase. He dumped its contents out on the floor. It looked like it might once have been a record player.

Lexi stared. “Is that Grandpa’s—?”

“No,” said Kon. “Shhhh..it’s fine. I’m almost positive I swept up all the little broken bits. Guard the door so nobody interrupts me. You know the spell won’t repair its own damage if I get hit mid-cast. Hi, Alden! Stay there and don’t throw stuff at me or this while I fix it.”

He was frantically nudging every last piece of the broken player into a pile. “Dad loves this thing. It’s lucky I heard the crash as soon as it happened.”

“Why didn’t you put it in Irina’s room?” Lexi went over to stand in front of the door.

“I did. A couple of our new schoolmates ignored my caution tape.”

“To do something that involved turning a record player into rubble?”

“It’s fine. There are some large scratches and dents on the floor, but I think I’m almost out of spell uses for the night, so I had to pick… Iri would like a new rug. A turtle-shaped one! She’s into turtles right now. And if she doesn’t tell Mom, I’ll buy her a real turtle. Two turtles. I will officiate a turtle marriage for her if she wants.”

“Yes,” Lexi said in a toneless voice. “Our mother will never think to look under the brand new rug her son bought out of the goodness of his heart right after inviting several dozen strangers into the house.”

“I do things out of the goodness of my heart all the time!”

“Buying household furnishings?”

“Shut up. I’m dolphining.”

That’s never going to stop being cool, thought Alden, watching in silence as all the broken pieces were surrounded by Kon’s glittering cloud of magic, and they miraculously became a vintage record player again.

Kon frantically checked it all over, then he set it down and collapsed onto his back with a relieved sigh. “Thanks to every soul from here to the last moon of Vevezeck. It’s all there.”

He sprang up. “I’ll go put this back and put up more caution tape.”

“Let me,” Lexi said, taking the player. “I don’t want people doing perverted things in our sister’s room.”

“It was a Shaper and a Brute trying telekinesis versus superpowered stomp. It was stupid, not perverted.”

“I’ll throw them out for being stupid then.”

“Ummmm…” Kon clasped his hands behind his neck and stared up at the ceiling. “Yeah. That’s fair. I’ll toss them myself. Don’t worry about it. Hey, did you and Haoyu get some good fireworks?”

“No.”

“Really? The Wrights are usually so easy to persuade. Well, for most people…”

“We didn’t talk to any Wrights.”

“I thought you guys were going out to see the barges they’re setting up for Diwali?”

Just then, Lexi stepped aside, and a boy with equally wind-scrambled hair  and dark brown eyes appeared. Alden had seen his third roommate before and heard a few things about him—mostly that he was going for a Dura Brute build like his hero parents and that he’d managed to get into the program despite a rough start on the combat assessment.

But they’d never spoken.

Haoyu was wearing a half-unzipped windbreaker over a shirt with a familiar logo on it.

“I go to that gym, too!” said Alden.

“So you are definitely a rich kid,” Kon whispered, grinning at him. “We have a decent gym at school, you know.”

“I don’t think you can be called a rich kid if you’ve only had access to money for two months,” Alden protested.

Haoyu looked at him curiously. “The membership was my affixation present.”

“He got a Shit Affixation present even though he’s still fifteen,” Kon informed Alden. “Because his parents are both S’s, and he only got A.”

Lexi glared at him. “Really?”

Konstantin took a step back and held his hands up. “I’m not picking on you two. Someone mentioned Shit Birthday presents earlier and our new citizens thought we were a bunch of silverspooners who complained about luxury gifts. I’m educating, not insulting.”

“It was a disappointment.” Haoyu sounded completely unbothered by Kon bringing it up, though. He stepped over toward Alden and held out a hand. His name tag popped up without him gesturing, so he obviously had some mental control over his interface already.

[Haoyu Zhang-Demir]

[Preferred: Haoyu]

[Year 1 at Celena North High School]

[Please contact my parents through their agents at Pacific Pinnacle Representation, not through me.]

“It’s very nice to meet you,” he said earnestly while Alden stood and leaned over a platter full of baklava to shake his hand. “Lexi says you have a cat. I don’t mind watching him or her for you when you’re away on summons.”

“Victor’s a dude. He’s going on a vacation to visit one of my friends while I get settled into the dorms, but he’ll be coming back,” said Alden. “And thanks! I do have six months off for now, though.”

