“What’s that going to be when you’re done with it?” Kon asked curiously. He leaned over Alden’s shoulder.

Vandy was still staring at him.

Words, Alden. Use your mouth.

“Ah, I got a little too into it,” he said sheepishly. He ran a hand through his hair. “This one is definitely not going to end up being aerodynamic for you, Vandy. Sorry.”

“I don’t mind. The others you made look much better than mine.”

He passed the three finished airplanes to her.

“As for the drinking game, we have an official tie!” Kon announced. “Because we ran out of Bonding Potion. And Heloísa and Mehdi are officially mad about it. And now we’re having the official cleaning of the living room so that my parents don’t murder me when they see it on the call. It doesn’t have to be clean clean, but it needs to look less like a stampede has gone through. And does anyone know where I can buy a mattress on sale?”

“I’ll grab a broom,” said Tuyet.

“Don’t bother.” Vandy stood and stretched. “I can blow anything a broom can get twice as fast. I’ll be the sweeper.”

“We’re going to need a mop, too. Njeri offered to clean up the punch spills with her shaping, but it turns out that they’re no longer close enough to elemental water for her to manage. The Object Shaper could probably do it, but he fatigued himself ages ago.”

Kon grabbed a box of trash bags from under the sink. He took one for himself and passed Alden a second as he stood from the table.

He reached for the thing Alden had been making. “Is this trash, or are you still—?”

“I’ll keep it,” Alden said immediately. “It’s a work in progress.”

Kon handed it over, and Alden preserved the paper shape almost by reflex. He stared down at it while Kon started grabbing cups and throwing them into his own bag.

It must look like a mistake to everyone else, he thought. He tucked it into his pocket and went to help clean up in the living room.

The shape he’d made was not a plane. It was part, just the smallest of fragments, of his own affixation.

His stomach clenched.

Just the heinous hot sauce bomb you stuffed in there, he told himself. Nothing else.

It only took fifteen chaotic minutes for the living room to look reasonable again. With dozens of people cleaning, it would probably have gone even faster, but everyone kept getting in each others’ way in an attempt to show off their powers.

“Don’t play tug of war with the sofa, you meatheads!” Lexi shouted at Mehdi and Heloísa. “Just put it back where it started!”

He’d just come back into the room. He’d taken off the sweater and combed his hair. His school uniform was sharply pressed and the double line of silver buttons down the chest looked polished.

“I’ve heard the third years are petitioning to add a version with a short cape,” a petite girl with her hair dyed silvery gray and put up in two buns said to Alden. Her name tag said Everly Kim. They hadn’t run into each other yet, but he thought she was an Adjuster with ice spells.

“It’s almost time!” Kon shouted, racing through the room with his cone hat back on his head. He flung a second one at his brother. Other people were putting theirs on obligingly. “Everyone group up and get ready. They’re calling Lexi. Lexi remember to make sure the System’s pulling everyone in!”

“I can run my own interface.”

Everly smoothed her blouse and straightened her skirt. A second later Kon grabbed her by the hand and pulled her toward the front of the group.

“The two of them just decided to go out together,” Astrid announced. She was dragging a surprised-looking Jeffy over to stand beside Alden. For some reason her short, dark blonde hair—which had been sticking up in a fluffy, spiky style all night—was now dripping wet and hanging around her ears.

As the call arrived, Alden got an invite to connect. Astrid stood on her tiptoes and threw her arms over his shoulder’s and Jeffy’s.

A man and a woman appeared in front of his eyes. They were both in tank tops with the Anesidoran Avowed Ballet logo on the chest. A little girl was in the man’s lap, waving at whatever screen they were using with a completely blue hand.

“Surprise!” half the group in the living room yelled, while the other half shouted other random greetings.

“Did you let the wizards tattoo Irina?!” Kon cried over the din.

“Hello,” said Lexi. “How has the trip been?”

The brothers’ parents looked overwhelmed. Their mother recovered first. “Boys! You’re both in CNH uniforms! You look so grown!”

“Irina and the other kids traveling with us asked one of our hosts if they could try body art. It’s not permanent,” their father said.

He had a very faint American accent. His wife had a faint Russian one.

“I’ve got a turtle. Look!”

The little girl’s other hand appeared to show off a circle design on the palm. There were five sticks poking out of it that might have been legs and a head.

“We’re first years in the hero program together!” Kon shouted.

“I would be a second year, if not for the combat—”

“These are all of our new classmates! We’re moving into dorms tomorrow! Lexi refuses to live with me. The house is fine. Absolutely nothing is wrong with it.”

“Kon—” said their mother.

“None of the neighbors mind the party. I talked to them all in advance.”

“He spent his entire stipend on food for this.” Lexi said. “I told him—”

“Alexei,” said their father. “We’re not worried abou—”

“Wait until you hear what he did with his boat!”

Their mother shook her head. She beamed at them. “I am so proud of you two. We both are.”

“We are,” their dad agreed, grinning at the group. “And of all the rest of you, too.”

Several people said, “Awwww.”

“Thank you, Kon’s dad!” Sanjay shouted.

“Kon’s mom, I’m coming to see the Avowed Ballet for Lunar New Year!” said Everly.

“Kon’s little sister, I love your turtle!” Astrid called.

Lexi rounded on them all. “They have names, you guys. And they’re my family, too!”
