Haoyu nodded. “For a Rabbit, balancing summons with a career will be hard. If you need advice, you can talk to my mom. She was already established when she started receiving more frequent missions from the Artonans, but she’ll know more than most people.”

This is amazing, thought Alden, beaming at the back of Haoyu’s head as the other boy turned around to speak to Kon. One of them is polite, mature, and thoughtful. Not angry or exhausting at all.

Haoyu was officially his favorite roommate after only a few sentences.

“We didn’t go see the fireworks barges. We went to Matadero,” he was telling Kon.

Matadero? Alden was startled. People can just go there?

It was the off-shore facility where the demon fight took place.

Kon gave his brother a look. “You guys went all the way to The Slaughterhouse? In your boat on rough water? And you’re worried about what our parents are going to say to me about some scratches on the floor?”

Lexi shrugged. “We’re Avowed now. If the boat capsized we could just ET ourselves back.”

“Emergency teleporting only works if you’re conscious to initiate it,” Kon grumbled. “I’m not sure if I’m mad you went or mad you didn’t take me. What did it look like?”

“You’ve seen pictures.”

“It was interesting,” Haoyu said. “We only got close enough to see it well through binoculars. Our interfaces warned us not to go any farther, and SkySea Guard is patrolling out there.”

“I’d probably have been turned away before I could even spot it if Haoyu wasn’t with me.”

Haoyu shrugged.

“Oh. That’s true…” Kon looked at Haoyu. “I haven’t been keeping track this time. Is it your mom or your dad?”

“It’s Battle Group 3’s turn, so it’s dad. We had dim sum together a couple of nights ago before he headed over.”

Alden watched the other three boys from his spot by the food table, trying to follow the discussion. “Do the people participating in the demon fight go to Matadero early?” he asked. “I thought it was still a pretty long time until the execution.”

They all looked at him. “Official Demon Day is probably a fake date,” Kon answered. “Everyone knows it, but it feels better to have a mark on the calendar.”

Haoyu nodded. “It’s an added layer of security. Most of the people going to Matadero stay in residence there for a few weeks. My parents can’t tell me much, but they say they spend a lot of time talking about strategies and getting to know the new members of their group.”

“And it’s an open secret that one of the university combat gyms is always ‘closed for repairs’ during demon season so that Avowed working on Matadero can teleport in and out to practice more dangerous skills,” Kon added. “It’s usually Li Jean because their hero college has the largest training space.”

“The official date is when they announce that it’s over and how it went,” said Lexi. “Not necessarily when the fight will actually happen.”

Running into points of ignorance that supposedly “everyone” knew about was getting tiring. Alden assumed it would be the same if he moved to any other foreign country, but he hoped he’d find the limits of outsider inexperience soon and start feeling like he was actually getting the subtext of casual conversations again.

“Thanks,” he said. “Just curious.”

“Lexi and I were talking about going back soon. The weekend after next maybe. You can come with us if you want to see it,” Haoyu offered.

Lexi and Kon both made sounds of protest

“I don’t want to be a water taxi!”

“You should offer to take me, too! I’m your brother.”

Haoyu blinked at Lexi. “If we’re going anyway, it would be fun to take Alden. And Vandy might like to be invited, too? Since her mom’s in residence this time.”

“Hellooo?” said Kon, waving his hands in Lexi’s face.

Lexi’s arms tightened on the record player and he shot a look at Alden before sighing. “You too?” he said to Haoyu. “Yeah. Maybe we can do that.”

“Don’t put yourself out or anything,” said Alden.

He wasn’t sure he even wanted to see Matadero. But since Haoyu was shaping up to be his good roommate, he wasn’t going to outright reject his idea.

The volume of the music in the living room suddenly shot through the roof, and the sound of a K-pop group backed by a strong bass beat made everything on the table and countertops vibrate. Alden and Haoyu slapped their hands to their ears, and Lexi’s shoulders drew up like he was trying to retract his head into his spine.

“How did they find the remote?!” Kon screamed before racing out of the room.

Astrid skidded past Lexi into the kitchen a second later, her socks slipping against the floor. Rebecca and another girl were hot on her heels. “Alden!” she shouted three inches from his face while he stared at her eyebrow ring.  “Alden! Raccoons! Have you ever seen real raccoons?!”

Hands still clutched to his head, he nodded. “Yeah! We have raccoons in Chicago.”

“Are they rabid?! Are they cute?! Were you scared? Have you ever pet one?!”

“Probably some of them! Yes! No! And no!”

The music cut off suddenly.

“Hell yes, my supersisters!” Astrid yelled, throwing her hands up to high five her friends. “I interviewed someone about dangerous wildlife! That’s BINGO!”

*******

Astrid threw hummus in the blender and cackled like a witch. Rebecca asked Alden how long he’d been going out with Maricel. A girl named Njeri told him he should come with her and her friends to join the school’s ice hockey club after gym class on Monday.

Jupiter wandered into the kitchen, told everyone to be nice to him, then wandered back out with her cheeks stuffed with wontons.

Before Alden could finish completely abolishing the rumor about Maricel or decide what to do about the ice hockey invitation, Jeffy appeared carrying a familiar green plaid shirt.

“I brought this to give back to you!”

Alden assumed he was the target of that announcement, even though Jeffy’s eyes were fixed on the girls.

“You know I’ve been living in the building beside yours all this time, don’t you?” Alden asked, reaching for the shirt before one of its trailing sleeves could get hummused. “You could have just brought it over anytime instead of carrying it all this way. Or we’ll be on campus together tomorrow night?”

“I’m Jeffy,” he said, ignoring Alden in favor of ogling Astrid.

“I know! We met earlier! Love the hair. Have you properly greeted Lord Blender?”

“You can cook?” Jeffy asked, sniffing the blender. “That’s cool! It smells great.”

All three girls, Alden, and a Meister standing in the corner slicing cheese into shapes with his knife stared at the Aqua Brute.

Astrid looked from the blender to Jeffy then down at her own cleavage and back at Jeffy.

“I can cook,” she said, throwing her shoulders back and smiling at him. “You want some?”

“Don’t,” Alden whispered. It was too cruel.

Rebecca’s hand shot up to cover his mouth. Just a little too much force there, Brute girl, he thought as his head banged lightly against the cabinet behind him.

He wondered how many people wound up injured by brand new Avowed getting relaxed about their powers before they really should have been.

Astrid was pouring a dastardly quantity of her latest concoction into a cup.

Njeri, giggling, disappeared into the living room. Heads started popping around the kitchen door a moment later. Everyone was snickering and shushing each other.

“Bottoms up,” Astrid said passing Jeffy the cup with that same innocent smile on her face.

“Uh…what’s this drink called?”  He looked uncertain.

“I made it up. So it doesn’t have a name yet. You can name it after you taste it!”

Alden shook his head. If Jeffy had been looking at him instead of at Astrid, he might have saved himself.

Of course he wasn’t.

Jeffy took a big gulp and then immediately started to choke.

“Now, now!” said Rebecca, lowering her hand from Alden’s face and shoving on the bottom of the cup as Jeffy tried to put it down. “That’s just the hot sauce tricking your tongue. The second sip is going to be way better!”

“DRINK IT, YOU COWARD!” a guy bellowed from the watching group.

“Drink it, drink it,” someone else started chanting from the back of the pack.

“Don’t give in to peer pressure,” said Alden. “A whole cup of that shit’s going to destroy your digestive tract.”

One of the larger hot sauce bottles they’d poured in there had had a coffin on the label.

“Who is that killjoy!?”

Alden flipped off the person who’d just shouted.

“BE A HERO!”

“I am a hero!” shouted Jeffy, punching a fist into the air. His eyes and nose were pouring. Pinkish brown blender potion was oozing down his chin.

He started to chug it and gag on it at the same time.

Oh well. Now I have a clear conscience. Alden gave in and applauded with everyone else.

[Just risked my future popularity to save a stranger I don’t really like,] he reported to Boe while Jeffy coughed and wheezed over the sink and Astrid patted him on the back. [Warned him off of a blender full of hot sauce, smoked oysters, cherry syrup, and hummus. So put that on your to-do list.]

There was a long delay before Boe’s reply. [That one doesn’t count.]

[Sure it does. Now you have to save an idiot from the error of his own ways, too. It’s fine if you fail. I did.]

[Get puked on, send me a picture, and we’ll agree to call it an actual Savior Alden incident.]

So not worth it.

People were surrounding him and the blender. He shoved his way through the circle and out of the kitchen before they could get any ideas about him being a volunteer for an encore.

He headed down the hallway and stood outside the bathroom door, waiting for whoever was in there to finish up. He waited. And waited.

Lexi, exiting one of the bedrooms by ducking between ribbons of caution tape, spotted him there.

“You’re going to want to use the one in my parents’ room. Some girl’s been crying in this one for twenty minutes, and she’s not emerging no matter what I say.”

“Oh.” Alden looked at the door. There were marks on the frame, with heights and ages for Lexi, Kon, and their little sister. She was four, if her last mark was up to date.

Lexi started to walk past him, then stopped suddenly. He sighed.

“Hey. Anesidora social dynamic for you, since you demanded it—there’s a group chat with a lot of the people here in it. They’ve been doing nothing in school for the past week except gossiping and getting to know each other if they didn’t already. All of you globies come up…for obvious reasons. They think the Scottish boy’s accent is exotic and they can’t get enough of it.”

The local group chat wasn’t much of a surprise. And good for Finlay. “I heard him showing it off for people earlier.”

“Most of them are enchanted with him. He’s very strong for someone our age. Started with a little more than normal for an S, probably, and worked hard at it on top of that.” Lexi looked at Alden. “Your accent’s boring. But nothing else about you is. You’re kind of a hypocrite, aren’t you?”

Startled, Alden uncrossed his arms. “How am I a hypocrite?”

“You think I owe you a warning about a Velra and you don’t owe me one about everything you’ve got going on? Your reputation may not be toxic like Lute’s, but it’s going to be just as inconvenient. I’ve barely interacted with you, but four people, including my brother and my friend, have already scolded me for not being gentle with you.”

Alden opened his mouth, but he couldn’t come up with words to express the potent mix of embarrassment, disgust, and oh no he was suddenly experiencing.

“Be however you fucking like with me,” he finally said. “I don’t need special treatment. I’m not one of those goats that faint when people yell at them.”

Lexi squinted at him. “Is that a real animal or is it some American saying that makes no sense?”

“They’re real! I saw some on a farm when I was little. I don’t know how they work or why, but that’s not the point! The point is, I am not one of those goats. And you should be as ungentle around me as you want.”

“Yeah okay.”

“Just because I spent time on another world with some chaos in it, it doesn’t mean I need to be managed! By my fucking classmates! I just saw one of them drink homebrewed lava while the rest of them cheered. I am fine.”

Lexi smiled for the first time Alden had seen. It made him look shockingly Kon-ish. “You sound really fine. Also, you said that loud enough for some of the people here to hear you.”

Alden clenched his teeth.

“And for your information, since you want honesty, almost everyone is way more fascinated about you being orphaned by a supervillain of the twisted and evil variety. They’ve spent the past few days reading all about it.”

Oh. Body Drainer. That’s actually… that should have been obvious.

Moon Thegund was what was at the forefront of Alden’s mind. But this was a group full of freshly minted superhero school students. Half of them were probably getting excited about the opportunity to go into protector mode and the other half were probably trying to think of ways to ask him for gorey battle details without pissing off their own friends.

“I told Kon that he, at least, should know better. Nobody wants people to be extra nice to them because of things that happened when they were eight years old. But he liked hanging out with you the other day, and he gets caught up in group activities. That’s the gist of it. If you want to insert yourself into the secret Anesidoran social dynamic somehow and change it, go for it.”

Alden was conflicted.

