“Ha! That’s my girl!” Papa exclaimed a few minutes later, and for a moment, Song thought her happy-go-lucky Papa was back, but his delight was tinged with more than a hint of near-maniacal bloodlust as he turned to Mila and said, “Ah, I wish ye could’ve seen it lass. What a shot! Old Bulat just put a bullet clean through a Mataram brat’s head before he could even set foot on the battlements. Oh I bet that stung somethin’ fierce, to come all this way and die before drawin’ blood with his spear, but the boy likely died before he had time to regret. Ye ought to make a few more of them rifles when ye’ve the time, because they’re a damn sight more effective than any of us ever expected.”

Before Mila could answer however, Papa’s mirth turned dark. “Damn it. Things are getting out of hand quick. Mataram YuChun ain’t none too happy about losing his son and heir, so I can understand why he’d throw himself into the fight so early, but what about the Whirling Dervish and Crimson Shadow? The timing ain’t right fer them to get their hands dirty, not yet at least. I figured they’d sit idle fer another hour or two before stepping in to steal the limelight, so why the big rush to wrap things up?” Tapping the butt of his staff against the ground as he absently resisted Song’s lead, Papa turned about as if ready to head off into battle, but Medical Saint Taduk appeared to guide him back in the right direction. “Bah,” Papa grunted, without ever acknowledging his own actions. “Hope Binesi and his cronies are enough to hold back the tide, else Meng Sha will be overrun within the hour.”

A most disheartening statement to make given Papa’s high standing, but luckily they were all moving under a cloak of Concealment and a Sound Barrier to boot. A precautionary measure meant to hide them from friend and foe alike, for as terrible as it would be to hear a Divine Blacksmith and Peak Expert’s prediction of overwhelming defeat, that was nothing compared to seeing the comatose Legate being carted about like firewood. What’s more, they were bringing Rain to the docks so that he would be ready to board the fastest ship should the worst come to pass, which was only prudent given the circumstances, but hardly the most inspiring of sights to be seen. Turning her eyes skyward towards the laughing birds circling about overhead, Song idly noted that a discerning observer might notice their presence and figure out what was happening regardless, though she had no idea how Roc and his flock could track Rain through a Divinity’s Concealment.

Regardless of her concerns, Song had no say in what would happen next. Guard Leader was tasked with keeping Lin-Lin safe, and Lin-Lin refused to leave her beloved hubby’s side, so logically, this was the best course of action. Despite credible suspicions regarding his involvement in the battle for Pan Si Xing, Rain was still comatose and unresponsive as ever, meaning there was little chance commander OuYang Min Jun would come looking for Rain for help. Perhaps Papa was right and they’d contact him for assistance instead, but there were still talents of note to help hold the Heavens up, with many a hero revealing themselves over the course of the next few minutes as they dove into the thick of things to do their part.

Situ Jia Yang was among the first to make his presence known, his sabre emitting its piercing wail as he engaged the Whirling Dervish Mataram Minzhe. Minutes later, a resounding cheer rose as Situ Chi Gan waved the Ebony Reaper’s ragged banner about with the titular Mataram Clansman’s head mounted on top. There were other celebrations and lamentations to be heard, almost too many for Song to keep up with, but the tides of battle ebbed to and fro as the Enemy pushed ever forwards in an almost desperate bid to overrun the harbour defences. This was a far cry from the usual Defiled tactic of utilizing overwhelming numbers to slowly grind away at the Imperial forces until they were too tired to fight, and like Papa, Song could not understand why they were in such a rush to take Meng Sha. No one had seen this coming, and with the bulk of the Imperial forces stationed in and around Shi Bei, it would be at least a full week before reinforcements arrived, but the Enemy seemed intent on coming hard and fast without any reprieve whatsoever.

A strange decision given the forces arrayed against them, but from what she could piece together from her own observations and Papa’s occasional muttering, the fighting on the walls was as fierce as it could be, and the Imperial forces were already struggling to hold out. Unlike traditional Defiled, the Mataram Clansmen were able to bring quantity and quality to bear, for they were willing to throw away dozens of talents young and old just to secure a quick victory here today. The why no longer mattered, especially once Binesi’s match against Mataram YuChun came to a crashing halt as the Ten-Thousand Spears pierced through the Immovable’s defences, and Mataram YuChun raised his voice for all to hear. “So this be the limit of Immovable Binesi, the supposed strongest spear of the North.”

“Binesi be a fine a Warrior as any,” Papa declared, speaking over the exchange and punctuating his statement with a sigh and shake of his head, “But he’s too used to fighting as part of a unit. Can’t focus solely on defence in a duel, because all it takes is a single mistake to render all yer hard work fer naught. A damn shame it is, but - ”

Whatever Papa was about to say got caught in his throat, and Song yearned to know what was going on, but all he did was watch with mouth agape. “Fools, the lot of them,” he whispered, taking a step forward as Song futilely tried to hold him back, but thankfully he still had the presence of mind to notice her efforts and even smile sheepishly as he stepped back. Before Song could even ask, Mataram YuChun’s voice rang out once more, his tone tinged with amused arrogance. “Your courage be commendable, but courage alone is not enough.”

As Song listened with bated breath, her spirits lifted as she realized Daxian had stepped in to take up the fight, only to drop back down as the half-rat admitted he was not YuChun’s match. Then Naaran appeared and verbally put the traitor in his place with his grand declaration, and Song could not help but smile at the dour man’s clever wordplay and arrogant demeanour. With OuYang Yuhuan stepping in to fight Mataram YuChun and stabilize morale, Song hoped there would be another moment of reprieve before matters escalated even further, but then Papa tensed up and took three steps forward before reining himself in once more. “The Mataram Patriarch,” he growled, trembling from head to toe in restless anticipation as the Enemy commander took up arms against Rain’s silent, amber-eyed protector. “Naaran ain’t his match.”

A distressing statement if there ever was one, and Song knew he said it for her sake, as well as for Mila’s, because Papa wanted to justify his actions to them both, but thankfully Guard Leader responded with a resounding snort. “And you are? Perhaps this might have been true a month ago, but you are useless in your current state.” A statement which set Song back on her heels, because even though Papa’s injuries weren’t wholly Healed, he should at least be able to utilize three-quarters of his strength, so how could that be considered useless? Then again, Guard Leader was a Divinity, and her definition of useless might differ from others, but oddly enough, Papa simply grit his teeth and voiced no argument, which was strange to say the least, but before she could even ask why this might be, Guard Leader continued, “Stay put and don’t make more work for others. You’re enough of a burden as it is.”

Papa’s frown spoke volumes to his dissatisfaction, but rather than protest or negotiate, he simply turned his attention back to the battle instead. After a few seconds of consideration, his shoulders slumped as he heaved a heavy sigh before falling to one knee. “Mila, Song, come give your foolish Papa a hug.” They both obliged, and Song happily sank into his warm embrace even though he almost squeezed the air out of her lungs. “Alright then,” he declared, suddenly letting go all too quickly with a smile. For a brief moment, Song saw the dark clouds part behind his eyes as he gazed upon his daughters with a fond smile, but then they returned in full force. “I’ve kept ye both away from the battle fer long enough,” he began, stroking their heads and making a mess of their hair. “Naaran can handle himself fer a bit, but there are others who could use yer help. I know yer both here only because yer worried about what yer fool of a father will do in yer absence, so I promise I’ll be good and stay right here by the lad’s side. In return, you two promise to make it back to me alive, deal? I still need ye both to help me through this, so don’t ye go disappearin’ just yet.”

Though delivered in an almost lighthearted manner, Song knew he was only putting up a strong front. This was the first time she’d heard him admit he even had a problem, which was progress to say the least. Mila said nothing and merely buried her head in Papa’s chest, and Song could only nod in reply, but even this minor gesture was enough to bring a look of relief to his face. “Enough of yer mopin’ now,” he said, though his actions didn’t match his words as he stroked Mila’s hair and leaned in to touch foreheads with Song. “Should be me worryin’ about the two of ye, not the other way around. I’ll be fine, so get ye gone. The Empire needs its heroes now more than ever, and you two are among the best and brightest.”

Since she didn’t know what else to say, Song merely nodded and whispered, “Love you Papa.”

“Love you too, lass.” Flashing her a warm smile, Papa gestured towards the wall where Rain’s retinue was serving and said, “Ever since that Mataram brat died, a whole host of young talents have been flocking over to prove themselves in battle. Jorani and his lads could use a hand.”

“Understood.” Giving his hand a squeeze goodbye, Song stopped to offer Mila a hug and bid farewell to the animals, but sweet Princess seemed to sense something amiss. The weasel-bear usually wasn’t so clingy, but today she refused to be separated from Song’s side, even going as far as to leave the comfort and safety of her handbag and waddle along on her own four paws rather than be left behind. Try as she might, Song couldn’t get the weasel-bear to stay put, not even with a bribe of three honey cakes placed inside the handbag as a distraction.

Bring her. She can help.

A statement delivered not so much in words, but in sentiment instead, and Song turned to the only person that this could have come from. With his stretcher laid out on the floor and his head, body, and limbs all strapped in tight, Rain looked utterly helpless and dead to the world in every way possible, yet somehow, he’d taken it upon himself to impart some advice through his Aura. Or was it his Aura? The message had come and gone so quickly she wasn’t sure if she’d imagined it, but it felt so real and familiar that it had to have been him. Glancing over at Mila, Song saw her sister was still talking to Papa, trying to make certain he would keep his promise and stay out of the fight. Not because she doubted his word, but because she could not bear to lose him, while Song’s expectations were more pragmatic. She couldn’t stop him even if she tried, so all she could do was trust him, and thus far, Papa had never given her any reason to doubt his word, and she wholeheartedly believed he never would.

Not wanting to interrupt their farewells, Song tried to contact Rain through Sending and Aura but received nothing in return. While she did that, Princess stood on her hind legs and stretched her front paws out in silent appeal, demanding Song bring her along to the battlefield. With nothing else for it, she stifled a sigh and slung Princess’s handbag over her shoulder before letting the weasel-bear crawl in, but it was difficult to be too upset with her once she set upon the honey cakes tucked inside. Bidding the other animals a quick farewell, Song rode Erdene up to the wall only to send the quin back once they arrived, for the sweet beast was not suited for battle. Making her way over to where the second gate bordered the angled wall beside it, she Lightened herself and ran up the handholds built with this very purpose in mind, allowing quick and easy access for Demon Slayers and Peak Experts alike if the walls were under threat of being overrun. Cloud-Stepping into battle was risky even in the best of circumstances, but this allowed a Warrior to appear on the wall safely behind the last line of defence.

And as Song hopped over the last hurdle to appear atop the battlements, she saw exactly why Papa directed her here.

