Eager as she was to join in the battle for Meng Sha, Song held back for Papa’s sake.

Not because she thought he needed her protection. Though still weak and recovering from his wounds, Papa was a mighty Peak Expert strong enough to defeat her with a single flick of a meaty finger, if he were ever so inclined. Something Song always knew, or at least assumed given how diligent he was about controlling his strength at all times. This was a man who needed to concentrate when drinking from dainty porcelain teacups lest he accidentally crush it between two fingers, to say nothing of the careful and cautious manner with which he carried himself when around other people. Most saw his leisurely and lethargic manner and thought him slow or lazy, but Song knew there was much more to it.

Song still remembered how Rain once came charging out of a building only to run headlong into Papa’s belly. Papa barely even grunted upon impact, but Rain gave himself a concussion and could barely stand straight for the next few minutes. While this was years ago and long before either of them Refined their physiques, Rain had already earned his title as the Undying Savage by demonstrating a level of fortitude and endurance far beyond his peers, yet even he was injured by simply running into Papa who was standing in front of the door, so what would have happened if he’d been moving? Nothing good, that much Song could tell, which was why Papa moved with such deliberate care and an intentional lack of haste, so as to minimize the chance of accidentally hurting the people around him.

It was the same reason the bears and cattle moved ever so carefully whenever the rabbits were underfoot, or sometimes even not at all, because they knew how delicate their tiny long-eared friends truly were. Meaning in Papa’s eyes, even exemplary Martial Warriors like Mama and Mila were as fragile as bicorn bunnies, which alluded to a level of strength far beyond what a mere blacksmith could achieve from hammering steel. His efforts did not go unnoticed either, for it was one reason why Song loved her papa so, because she saw the great lengths he took in order to make her feel safe and sound at all times. When he wanted to pat her head, he’d raise his ponderous hand and move ever so slowly until she leaned into his touch, and when he wanted a hug, he would simply open his arms and wait for her to come to him. When turning around, he moved his head first to see if the way was clear, and he’d always corral her with his arms without actually touching her so that she wouldn’t accidentally meander into his path, and even then moved with deceptive light and graceful steps for fear of accidentally squishing someone underfoot. Most importantly of all, Papa afforded this same level of consideration to everyone around him, which made it all the more natural unlike how Rain went to great lengths to word things without giving her any orders.

It wasn’t that Song didn’t appreciate Rain’s efforts, but there were times when he grew so flustered and apologetic over a simple mistake that it made her feel awkward and burdensome, but not so with Papa. With Papa, he was simply this kind and considerate to everyone, Song included, someone who went to great lengths to ensure the safety of the people around him. With his endless patience and laid-back demeanour, he slowly but surely chipped away at Song’s aloof armour until he became her Papa in more than just name and title, but in truth, and she loved him all the more for it. He was living proof that not all men were depraved beasts lusting after her flesh, a fact he proved with his actions without ever even intending to, because that was simply who he was.

Only now... he’d returned from Tian Zangli a changed man. The differences were subtle to most who knew him, a cutting edge to his mood and tense impatience in his actions that few would care to note, but in Song’s eyes, it was a difference as stark as night and day. He was still a loving and caring father as ever, all full of smiles and appreciation for the care and consideration his daughters gave him, but Song had caught him lost in his thoughts more than once, and the sight reminded her of a smoking volcano getting ready to erupt. There was a dark fury buried deep within him, one he’d never shown her ever before, but it’d risen to the surface now and refused to be entombed once more.

Mila saw it too, though neither of them ever spoke of it, only exchanging wordless looks whenever Papa’s mood took a dark turn, because neither one of them knew what to do. Others might attribute his foul temperament to pain and fatigue from his injuries, or possibly shame and dejection over losing to the amber-eyed Half-Demon, but Song believed neither of these to be the case. No, Papa was not a Warrior overly burdened with pride, else he would not have been content supporting Mama from the shadows for so many years of their marriage. Nor was he one to dwell on his mistakes and succumb to self-recrimination like Rain, for though he was a meticulous and methodical man, Papa had long since accepted that there were things beyond his control. A mistake was merely an opportunity to learn, which was why he was always upfront about the strengths and weaknesses of his products when offering them to new prospective owners, so it was unlikely his defeat had upset him so.

No, Papa wasn’t in a dark mood because of the battle, not directly, but because he’d been sent back to Meng Sha where there was no one to fight.

Battle and bloodshed could be an intoxicating experience, and Papa was captivated by it once more. It was evident in the way he held himself, not with the gentle care and consideration of old, but fixed and motionless as a statue when he thought no one else was around, as if the only way to keep himself from exploding into furious action was to immobilize himself in chains of steely discipline. Even this wasn’t enough to keep his mood in check, for though he had yet to act out, Song saw his control slip away from him more than once in these past few weeks. It was nothing too extreme just yet, only a disgruntled huff here or an angry glance there, but all for the most mundane of reasons. A loud-mouth soldier, a worker who didn’t move out of his way, a rabbit that ran underfoot when he wasn’t expecting it, these minor inconveniences were all it took to cause Papa’s temper to flare, so while he was always quick to rein it back in, the fact that it took so little to set him off was worrying indeed.

The crux of the issue wasn’t that Papa was truly upset by these things, but rather that he was looking for an excuse to be angry and therefore unleash his rage. Blood-drunk was the polite term Song had heard bandied about, one used to politely describe those Martial Warriors who were a bit too in love with battle and bloodshed. Rain, Gerel, Baatar, Ulfsaar, and Ravil were but a handful of names that came to mind, and there were many more who also suffered from this same affliction, and they all managed it in different ways. It was so common that most saw it as no reason for concern, but it was clear Papa was struggling to keep his temper in check. He ate the meals they brought him and played with the pets whenever they sought him out, but when left to his own devices, he simply retreated inwards to dwell upon his dark thoughts and yearn for a reason to unleash his fury upon some deserving victim.

And now the perfect excuse had come marching right into Meng Sha, and Song feared she might soon lose her gentle giant of a Papa forevermore.

That’s why Song and Mila had yet to join the fight, because then Papa would have all the excuse he needed to ignore Healer Tokta’s instructions to rest and recuperate. A lesser Warrior would have died outright from a spear thrust through the torso, a blow which ruptured his lungs and nicked his heart, yet he survived seemingly due to sheer power of will alone. Had the Half-Demon been more adept at Reverberation or Papa less capable at defending against it, then the resulting aftershocks could have reduced his other bodily organs to a pulp, to say nothing of the storm of follow-up attacks he weathered through to protect Mila before the Half-Demon retreated. Though Papa survived the encounter thanks to his Refined physique and Healer Tokta’s quick actions, his injuries were far too grievous to Heal away in a day or two, most of which were internal in nature. According to Healer Tokta and Medical Saint Taduk, there were complications which involved Papa’s advanced age, his robust mass, and Refined physique that made them wary of Healing him completely, since doing so could overtax his body’s reserves and leave him even weaker than he was now. Although he he appeared healthy and fit as could be, Papa had less than a century of life left in him, or one sixth of his lifespan, putting him more or less on equal footing with Colonel General Nian Zu at one hundred years of age. Both were well within the twilight years of their life, meaning that once their health started to deteriorate, it would be all but irreversible as their bodies approached it’s Heaven-set limits, so it was better to let Papa slowly recover naturally without pushing him too far.

None of which was enough to dissuade Papa from wanting to join the fight, though he was fairly circumspect about expressing his desire more than Song expected. He offered no argument when Mila declared she would be staying close to Rain and merely nodded when Song said she would do the same to help look after the pets. They were both free to do so since they had no other responsibilities. Mila had no retinue to command, having left her Sentinels with Mama and Niece Alsantset in Shi Bei, and in similar vein, Song had opted not to travel with Junior Martial Brother Fung and return to Meng Sha instead, once she learned of Papa’s injuries. Granted, her decision to do so was not driven solely by the desire to help Papa, since his life was in no danger and she had yet to recognize the signs of his affliction, but rather so she could help her beloved sister through these turbulent times. It was clear Mila blamed herself for Papa’s injuries and as a result was almost beside herself with grief and recrimination, which left her in poor position to help Papa or herself.

Thankfully the animals were all extra affectionate upon their return since Lin-Lin only had two hands to pet them at any given moment. Especially Guai-Guai, who even now was still snuggled in Mila’s embrace, half-asleep and grouchier than ever due to the interruption of his afternoon nap, while the rest of the animals huddled in close and followed obediently alongside. The animals’ endearing antics alongside Yan’s pleasant and attentive company as well as Rain’s nearby presence were enough to keep Mila’s spirits high, but Papa’s issues were not so easily amended. The issue was he’d buried his anger so deep for so many years that he’d forgotten how to deal with it now that it was close to the surface. Rather than acknowledge it as a real problem and take proper steps to find Balance once more, he simply tried to bury his anger once more in hopes that it would go away again, but Song and Mila both could see his struggle to control his emotions, even if others couldn’t. Though he appeared calm and composed as ever as they all headed down to the docks, his gaze was distant and withdrawn as he ignored everything happening before his eyes in favour of Scrying on the battle from afar. Not a mistake an experienced Warrior should make, taking their attention away from their immediate surroundings outside of a secure location, but Papa paid no mind to Mila, Song, or even the comatose Rain who was currently strapped to a stretcher and carried over Guard Leader’s shoulder like a plank of wood. Instead, he watched the battle unfolding on the walls of Meng Sha and commented on what he saw, though Song wasn’t sure if he knew he was speaking out loud.

“Mataram YuGan,” Papa muttered, squeezing Song’s hand so hard she felt her bones creak. Luckily, he remembered himself in time and let go before any damage was done, but only so he could hold his staff in both hands instead of just one. “He killed the Sword King in single combat, so once he takes the field, I doubt OuYang Min Jun has anyone to match him. If Society doesn’t have anyone else worth a damn stationed here, then they’ll come cryin’ for help any second now.”

A request Papa intended to respond to himself, it seemed, but he had yet to wholly recover from his injuries and Song had no wish to see him die at the hands of the Mataram Patriarch. Grabbing him by the belt instead, she pulled him along with all her might and failed to even shift his weight, but after a brief moment of resistance, he seemed content to continue following her lead for now.

“The Defiled are comin’ fast and hard.” Papa’s next statement arrived a few minutes later, and Song and Mila both turned to listen. Yan had long since left to take command of her retinue and might well have already joined in on the fighting, but Papa was so unaware of his surroundings he probably hadn’t even noticed she’d left. “Attacking on all fronts like Demons possessed... Win or lose, there’ll be a hefty butcher’s bill for both sides when all’s said and done.”

