As their blades hurtled headlong towards each other once again, Song drew back a split second before the point of impact and utilized a soft block instead, guiding his attack out and away rather than stopping it entirely in place. The Reverberating tremors still rocked her from head to toe, but the intensity was woefully lacking in comparison. A look of surprise flashed across Yuanyin’s face before he mastered his expression, but it was enough to tell Song she was already on the right track. No longer did she aim to clash headlong against him, but instead sought to avoid his attacks altogether, a transition she made as easily as turning a hand. Rather than the Movements of the Tiger Form which she favoured, she took up the Snake, Mantis, and Oriole instead, her steps and sabre moving erratically to the beat of her own music which shifted without rhyme or reason. The symphony of steel faded away and for long seconds, the only sounds of their battle came from their footsteps upon the stone and Yuanyin’s ineffective chants, laid overtop a foundation of Princess’s slavering rumbles.

The traitor monk’s fury almost brought a smile to Song’s face, but she was not yet satisfied with her achievements. Yes, she’d managed to negate his attacks, but like Papa said, one could not win while focusing solely on defence. One mistake was all it would take to render all her efforts for naught, so she needed to do more than endure his assault. She had to emerge victorious from their exchange, which meant it was time to show Yuanyin that she had claws of her own.

“Solemn is the Clear Temple.”

Difficult to tell who said it first. It could have been Mama’s voice, echoing out from within the confines of Song’s newly restored Natal Palace. Or maybe it’d come from herself and Mama’s voice shifted to match, though this was unlikely since Song had no earthly idea why she suddenly felt the urge to recite a poem out-loud. The last possibility was both the most ludicrous and likely explanation of all, because for a brief, infinitesimal moment, Song thought she heard Rain’s voice reciting along with her.

Strange, but not something to dwell on just yet. “Reverent are its illustrious adherents,” she continued, this time infusing her Chi into her voice, but judging from Yuanyin’s puzzled expression, it had yet to have any effect on him just yet.

“Dignified are the gathered officials.” Pouring even more Chi into the next stanza, Song’s voice boomed out over the battlefield and echoed off the walls before traversing far out into the Azure Sea, and while Yuanyin flinched in response, she saw it was more out of shock and surprise than anything else. Hmph, what sort of Warrior was he, to be shaken by mere words? Not a Warrior at all, but the Confessor’s Successor, a sadist who tortured countless of helpless innocents. That was the measure of the man she fought here today, and she refused to be found wanting.

Seizing upon her contempt and outrage, she channelled it into her Chi the same way she would imbue her Aura with emotion and delivered the next scathing stanza. “Adhering to the virtues of Nobility.” The results were more satisfying than she could ever imagine as Yuanyin’s body stiffened in evident anguish, but this was far from enough to sate her appetite. Tiger Swipes the Rushes, and her sabre lashed out, her new weapon catching her foe clean across the cheek as he raise his sword a beat too late to block the blow entirely.

If one strike was not enough, then she would deliver two, then three, four, and however many more until he lay dead at her feet. “Praising our Mother in Heaven.” Her sabre glanced off his ribs, the Honed blade somehow failing to cut clean through his bones, but Song’s attack had only just begun. “They Hurry swiftly into the temple.” Falling a half-step back, she brought her sabre around to deliver a deadly thrust aimed at Yuanyin’s black heart, but he twisted aside just in time to avoid what should have been a killing blow. “Greatly illustrious, greatly dignified.” Following through with the thrust, she slammed her armoured shoulder into his exposed chest and was rewarded with a heavy, pained grunt, which gave her all the time she needed to reposition her sabre and set it in motion to cleave his head from his shoulders as she recited the last line of the poem. “She safeguards Her children forevermore.”

Her sabre bit deep into the flesh of his neck, and the panic in his eyes was satisfying to behold, but try as she might to follow through with the slash, his bones refused to give way. Even with all of her weight behind her sabre, all Song could do was force Yuanyin to bend back, but try as she might, her Honed blade failed to find purchase. Dark eyes filled with rage and loathing, he moved his lips as if to speak but could only emit a wet gurgle, the connection between his lungs and mouth having been severed by Song’s sabre, and yet still he refused to die. Unwilling to give up just yet, Song mustered all her strength to advance upon her foe and pushed him back a single step, but as his foot lifted off the ground, hers scythed out low to sweep it aside and drive his whole body to the ground. Even this wasn’t enough for her to drive her sabre home, so all she could do was withdraw and retreat as Yuanyin lashed out with a kick that might well have broken her ribs if it’d connected, even through the formidable protection afforded to her by her Runic breastplate.

Heaving himself up to his feet, the monk leaned heavily upon his sword and pressed a hand to his throat while glaring at Song, his anger and hatred doing little to hide the fear lingering within. Though conventional wisdom dictated she keep up her offensive and deny him the time needed to recover, she’d given it her all in that final attack and needed time herself to gather her wits. How could his bones be so durable? It was like trying to carve into a Demon, utterly futile and ineffective, yet he still bled red blood like a human man. There was also the fact that her new chanting poetry was draining to say the least, with almost a third of her Core emptied over the course of an eight-line poem. A necessary expenditure, but she could not help but despair when Yuanyin stood up straight and removed his hand to reveal a bloodied but unmarred neck, the fruits of her labour so easily undone by this most formidable of foes.

To say nothing of how the eyebrowed monk, a supposed Half-Step Divinity of considerable strength and standing, had yet to make a single move despite Yuanyin’s ‘close’ brush with death, meaning he might well have expected this outcome from the start.

Spitting out a wad of bloody phlegm, Yuanyin stretched his neck and pumped his arms as he readied for a second bout, still hesitant despite his many advantages. “Small wonder why the Uniter deemed you a target of interest,” Yuanyin began, cautiously stalking closer with sword extended like the coward that he was. “Even a tiny spark is enough to light a beacon of hope, but I will extinguish all hope here today.”

Only now did Song realize her friends and comrades from Rain’s retinue had taken to chanting her name, their faith holding firm despite her failure to kill him. Despite the daunting tribulation before her, she took no small measure of pride from their conviction and used it to find her confidence once more as she strode out to meet her cowardly foe with sabre in hand. So what if she couldn’t cut through his bones? If that was the case, then she would flay his skin, carve his flesh, and sever his tendons until she drained him of blood and Chi both if that’s what it took to kill him. Formidable though Yuanyin might be, it was his misfortune to face Li Song on the field of battle today, because Papa made her promise to return to him alive, a promise she had every intention to keep.

Alas, the Heavens might have a different fate in store for her, but regardless of what might come, she would give this fight her all, because as a proud Sentinel of the People, Song could do no less.

Chapter Meme
