Chaos and carnage. Those were the only words to describe the scene unfolding before Song’s eyes. The proud veterans of Rain’s retinue were scattered and strewn about, unable to form up in a unified defence due to the presence of a single foe. Wherever they gathered, a bloodied young monk would appear, his glimmering sword scything through their lines without mercy while Ral, Chey, and Dastan chased him about in a futile effort to contain him. It wasn’t that the hulking Warrior monk was exceptionally stronger than his three opponents, but rather that every time they corralled him into a corner, he flashed a lopsided grin full of missing and broken teeth before uttering a brief chant that set everyone back on their heels. It wasn’t Aura, but something analogous to it instead, similar to how Luo-Luo’s music could inspire emotion in her listeners. A bone-shaking “Ohm”, an ear-piercing “Namah”, a skin-scratching “Dhih”, these were the only syllables Song could pick out from the monk’s agonizing chants, ones that affected her even from her place in the back. Each word set her nerves aflame in a sea of agony and locked her in place, but only for the blink of an eye before the effect faded away, yet in the heat of battle, that was enough time to die thrice over.

A quick glance around revealed matters were more dire than she imagined, as she spotted several familiar faces sporting wounds that would’ve taken lesser Warriors out of the fight. Sahb’s shield arm hung limply from his shoulder as he cradled it close, his eyes shut in focused concentration as he strove to mend his broken bones with all haste. Balta and Saida stood guard over him, the former wiping away tears while the latter glared daggers at the hulking monk, and Song soon saw why. Laid out side by side along the back of wall were the broken bodies of none other than Camsul, Rithy, and Khin, three comrades who’d been with them since Sanshu, yet now lay resting within the warm embrace of the Mother Above. Song’s heart sat heavy with grief as she noted how they died without ever experiencing blessed freedom from their Oaths once more, for they were too loyal and dedicated to their master Falling Rain to even entertain the notion of breaking them. It didn’t matter that they had his blessing to do so, because they saw their Oaths as no burden, but rather as a badge of honour for all to see. They were proud to serve their hero and saviour without reservation, for he was a man worth serving.

And now their service was over.

There were other dead and wounded scattered about, but Song could not afford to grieve, not now while this threat was upon them. The hulking young monk was not the only threat, for the Mataram Clansmen continued their relentless assault in spite of all the black-armoured bodies strewn across the battlements. Here and there, the Warriors of Rain’s retinue formed up to create little pockets of defence, but every time the young monk uttered one of his disruptive chants, it threw everyone into disarray. Chey, and Ral were only able to hold out due to their extended range and Runic armour, while Dastan kept his shield up to cover most of his vitals even whilst lost in the throes of agony. Stand out Warriors like Bulat, Lang Yi, and Wang Bao struggled valiantly to mount an effective defence, but even a blind fool could see their efforts would ultimately prove futile. With a seemingly endless stream of Mataram Chosen streaming over the wall and an assortment of Defiled Monks keeping the Azure Ascendants in check, it was only a matter of time before Rain’s retinue was overrun, and as far as Song could tell, commander OuYang Min Jun had yet to make any moves to support them.

Which was far from enough to keep her from joining the fight.

Leaping into the fray without hesitation, Song landed lightly and danced across the stones while executing Gliding Wing. A single slash of her sabre was all she delivered, so similar to her quick-draw technique, but one that never came to an end. Instead, she leaned into the momentum and whirled about with her sabre outstretched, only for her enemies to come crashing into its Honed edge. Similar to how a bird’s outstretched wing cut through the rushing wind, her blade carved a swathe through the Defiled lines with an almost laughable lack of effort, as if her foes were suicidal and throwing themselves upon her blade so that she might give them a quick and painless death. From start to finish, she only executed a single attack, but this lone slash cleared her path and carried her across the battlements to her initial intended target.

This was the lesson she learned in Pan Si Xing, the strength she gained not just from mastery of the Forms, but submission to them as well. A fine line to walk, to control her actions while simultaneously leaving enough leeway for the Movements to express their strength, but she walked it effortlessly and without hesitation. There were many uncertainties in this world, with trials and tribulations abound, but for as long as she could remember, there was only one constant to hold onto, and that was her training. Even if the sky should fall and the Heavens come crashing down upon her, she wholeheartedly believed that one day, her Martial Path would provide her with the strength to hold the Heavens up.

For she was Li Song, Sentinel of the People and Hero of the Empire.

Sublime though her initial attack might be, it was merely a means to an end, a Movement meant to clear the path and lead her to her true foe. As her sabre collided with the hulking monk’s sword in a metallic screech of steel, Song was struck by a bolt of pain that originated from her head and made its way down to her toes in less time than it took to blink an eye. Falling back to steady her breathing, she reminded herself that she still had a long way to go, for even the simple act of making contact with her foe left her arms and legs numb and shaking. There was more than sheer power of muscle and Reinforcement behind this reaction, for the monk employed an insidious form of Reverberation to help offset the power of Song’s attack, one she could only partially defend against out of sheer instinct alone. No wonder Ral and Chey were so careful to stay out of his range, even while chasing him all over the battlements, because one wrong move could easily render them defenceless before his blade. “Oh?” The monk exclaimed, his eyebrow raised and gaze brimming with lust and avarice. “So the savage runt sends his half-cat whore to fight his battles now?”

Paying no heed to his hateful words meant to incite anger and rage, Song studied her foe even as she drew back for the next exchange. What she initially took to be a lopsided face turned out was actually flesh that had yet to wholly mend, the entire left side of his face webbed with mostly healed scars that stretched out from what appeared to be multiple bullet wounds. One in the cheek and another in the jaw, which explained all the broken teeth, as well as one just a finger-width from his ear and another just above his eye. Four noticeable bullet wounds, with traces of a fifth that sat dead centre in his brow, but that wound was further along in Healing compared to the others. No doubt because it was the most grievous of his injuries and received most of his attention, but the others were nothing to scoff at either, for she’d seen those bullets render whole stumps of wood into nothing but kindling and splinters. How this monk survived five shots to the face was a mystery to be sure, but at the moment, it was only relevant in that it made Song’s job here that much more difficult.

“Fall back,” she said, speaking over the monk and interrupting him mid-rant. Some rabid nonsense filled with obscenities which she didn’t care to hear, so she instead spoke to Dastan, Ral, and Chey instead. “Stabilize the line. I’ll hold him back.”

“Such hubris,” the monk spat, and Song half expected him to continue with ‘such sin’, but instead, his features twisted in rage as he exclaimed, “How dare you look down on Yuanyin, the Bloody Confessor’s successor?” Drawing in a deep breath, his eyes filled with sadistic glee as he uttered “Tare Tuttare Ture Sohm!”

This time, she was able to make out the entire short chant rather than only the first syllable, but it wasn’t because she was standing closer than before. No, she could make out the words because there were a series of snarling grunts laid overtop them, emanating from sweet Princess whose furry head was poking out from her bag. With fangs bared and drool aplenty, the weasel-bear regarded Yuanyin like someone who’d stolen all her honey cakes and with a mind to exact sweet vengeance, her rumbling warning growl so loud and oppressive it shook Song down to her bones. Though she suspected as much before charging in, she was gratified to see her hunch was right and Princess could negate the monk’s esoteric chants. Her suspicions weren’t without basis of course, and not just because Rain might have told her to bring Princess along, but considering the weasel-bear reacted the same way to Aura and Luo-Luo’s musical demonstrations, it wasn’t too much of a stretch.

“Hmph,” Yuanyin snorted, his slack, scarred expression filled with disdain. “So you’ve brought a slavering beast capable of countering my Sutras. This fetid furball is a far cry from matching the likes of Rakshasa however, so let us see how long it can hold out.” Drawing another deep breath, he launched into another droning chant while simultaneously taking up the offensive, delivering a flurry of blows that set Song back on her heels as she struggled to fend off his attacks. It was that damnable Reverberation that made him so difficult to deal with, as every clash of their weapons set her bones to shaking so violently she feared they might fracture beneath the crushing symphony of steel. Then there was Princess’s rumbling growl numbing the entire left side of Song’s hip and thigh, an unintended side-effect of her efforts to negate the monk’s droning chants. However, the weasel-bear’s snarling growls and barking grunts did not only defend Song from the monk’s droning chants, but everyone else as well, so she could hardly afford to set Princess aside before defeating her foe.

Back and forth they traded blows, and though Yuanyin was superior to her in many ways, the difference was not so great to keep Song from holding her own. He was stronger, but she was more experienced, using active parries and well-timed Deflections to avoid a direct clash. He was faster, but she had more reach, so by controlling the range at which they fought, she was able to make up for the discrepancy in speed. He was more skilled, able to utilize Reverberation to shake her down to her Core, but her Runic armour was able to negate it so long as she was willing to risk taking a blow on her armour, which she did every now and then to give her more time to recover. All of which was only possible because she could predict his movements in advance, even if she couldn’t quite explain how she did it. What’s more, Song wasn’t fighting alone, for while she and Princess kept the monk in check, Rain’s retinue drove the Defiled back and regained the upper hand atop the battlements, but the crux of the issue still remained. Unless Song could kill Yuanyin here and now, he would forever be a threat just waiting to be unleashed, so she set her mind to unravelling how she might put an end to him once and for all. There was nothing she could do about the Reverberating strikes, for despite all her best efforts, she was unable to wholly negate the effect. The best way to describe it was trying to stop a rivulet of water with only a single finger. No matter how hard she pressed, a trickle of water would always flow around her finger and continue on its merry way, diminished but unabated as the forces ran rampant through her body. Though not enough to cause significant injury, the shock alone prevented her from reacting as freely as she would like, because even if she grit her teeth in preparation to accept the pain, she was still unable to wholly ignore it as her body involuntarily tensed in response.

In fact... this effect was similar to what Yuanyin’s droning chants generated, an involuntary reflex as one defended against the attack. Since they produced similar results, perhaps their foundations were based in the same basic skill, namely Reverberation. Then again, sound was merely the reverberation or vibration of air, which humans and animals alike translated into an auditory concept. What’s more, the Reverberation wasn’t like anything she’d ever experienced before, transmitted from his weapon to hers and then through the rest of her body, but rather starting from her head and making it’s way downwards from there.

Or maybe not her head, but her ears.

That was it. Sound. Yuanyin was using sound as a medium for his Reverberating attacks, the same way Luo-Luo used her music as a medium for Aura.

