“Maybe the hands are a healing thing? I’ve seen such imagery about healing before.” Liz’s statement sounded more like a question than her actual question.

Zack shook his head even as he leveraged himself up from where he had leaned against the wall. “I don’t think so. Healing in rifts is rare, and this one has no recorded instances of such. I think it's a rest water-based area. Typically, such imagery is combined with a hand pulling the flower out of water.”

Allie kicked Zack’s leg. “That doesn't make sense with the theming.”

“We are trying to establish theming, which is why we are guessing.”

Matt didn’t bother to sit up, but instead inspected the objects with his spiritual sense.

Even on a second inspection, he had no idea what they could mean. Instead, he rolled over, making sure to elbow Aster in the stomach hard enough to get through her armor.

Shaking the snow out of his hair, Matt said, “Okay, let's just roll for it. Easier than bickering.”

Allie laughed as she crawled over to Matt, where they each pulled out a die.

Matt’s was made out of a light blue mana crystal and had a few scrapes and dinks in it, while Allie’s die was pristine and an unblemished white, as if she had just stolen it from a casino.

Leaning over, she whispered. “This is your chance for greatness, Mr. Die. Fuck this up, and you go to the bad place. Imagine spending the rest of your life having to be played with by children. If you want to avoid that, you just need to roll well.”

Matt just shook his head. “You need to be nicer to your dice. On three. One. Two. Three!”

Letting his die fall from his hand, they watched as the dice bounced. The others had probably already calculated the final results from the initial bounce, but neither he nor Allie ever did, as that ruined the fun.

Matt watched as his die’s three sat next to Allie’s die's two.

Running the calculations for the three-two results through their list of interpretations, he looked at the tusked face.

“Silhouette it is.”

Allie looked at the dice and started whispering threats at them again, but Matt didn’t mind. The dice had chosen, and so what would be would be.

Not that it really mattered, given it was the final fight of the rift, but it was the principle of the matter.

After they took their potions and ensured they were ready, Matt and Liz rushed out of the room into total blackness.

Having gone through Minkalla’s Eternal Darkness, Matt didn’t panic, simply letting his instincts guide his moves.

He brought his blade up in an arc, impacting a monster mid jump.

As he came in contact with the monster, the world came back, allowing all of his senses to work like normal.

The goblin, however, wasn’t so pleased by being cut in half, and its light body starting to dissipate. Being a peak Tier 30, it didn’t die quite as fast as the other monsters had, which allowed it to drive a dagger into Matt’s shoulder.

Before the creature had fully faded, Matt had already healed and subsequently returned to darkness, but the brief glimpse of the area they were in allowed him to fully model the space with his [AI]. He then compared that modeling with Liz’s brief moment of sensory return, ensuring the accuracy of it all.

Everything changed a moment later as Zack entered the space. Matt hadn’t been able to hear him, but he chanted a long string of semi gibberish as he freeform created a spell model that was more complex than anything Matt had dabbled with.

With a pulse, the magical effect blinding them vanished, revealing a smiling Zack.

“After experiencing Eternal Darkness, I was interested in assuming Minkalla hadn’t pulled the effect out of nowhere. Many theorized Eternal Darkness is just a massively complicated debuff, but I never liked that explanation. Even given my rudimentary skills and less developed Talent at the time, I should have been able to at least feel such an effect on my own magic. I leaned more towards those who deem it to be a Domain-type power imposing a rule on the floor. But the first group did come up with a theoretical counter to the floor, which works for non-Minkalla places that do often use complicated debuffs.”

Susanne frowned and finally spoke. “Can you fight like this?”

Zack’s expression mirrored hers. “Not efficiently.”

Aster leaned in and looked at the spell form in Zack's hands. “Is that based on a Tilly spell model?”

“Based off it, yes, but it is also using the Anderson style to bridge the gaps. I—”

Zack cut himself off as Aster pulsed with a snowy effect, which similarly cleared the debuff within a few hundred feet around her.

“And I can tie this off on my golems.”

As she spoke, two golems appeared from her Tiara’s ability to materialize spells. A moment later, each of them started creating their own snowstorms.

“And there’s the hard part of the final floor bypassed. Praise me, please.”

Matt sent a congratulatory pulse through their bond, even while Liz reminded her that she only started looking into free form casting after Liz had. While he wouldn’t have minded fighting in the dark, being able to counter the floor would speed them up. And given the eight other effects that were already affecting the monsters in the rift, Matt wasn’t going to complain.

The goblins were no simple monsters, using squad-based tactics with dedicated ambushers along with ranged and magical variants. But none of that mattered to the six of them.

Between Matt and Liz both taking on the frontline duties and Susanne acting as a flanking damage, they were able to cut through all the enemies in just eight hours, including the mini boss.

Inside the final room, they didn’t have the plinth, but instead a rift reward next to the plinth and a portal that would lead them to the boss of the rift.

The modifier it would get was always random, but they didn’t hesitate pushing into the final room.

An iron golem stood in the center of a coliseum made entirely out of Tier 30 steel.

Raising an eyebrow, Matt immediately sensed a trap and grabbed at the metal with [Metal Manipulation].

His intuition proved correct, as Matt was fought for control of the metal by the boss, which launched itself at them.

The pillars tried to turn and slam down at them, but instead of moving like the smooth tentacle-like appendages they were designed to be, they creaked and groaned as their structures tried to fight against Matt’s control. Being mechanical and not directly part of the boss monster, their lack of spirit made it possible for Matt to lock them up entirely, but it did take almost 20 million mana a second, which was nearly fifteen percent of his total mana regeneration.

Not that such a limit stopped Matt, but it did limit what he could do if he wanted to keep the columns from helping the boss.

Raising his sword, he deflected the first ballista-sized arrow away, even as the half dozen Lizzes merged and created a larger Liz, who moved forward to grapple the monster.

She was picked up and tossed across the room thanks to an unexpected Domain of strength from the boss, but tendrils of ichor reached out and drove themselves into the ground, anchoring her.

Her move did, however, tie up the boss long enough for Susanne to dart in and cut a deep furrow into its mechanical leg, nearly getting caught by a blast of steam which would have melted her skin into putty.

Matt didn’t have such concerns and pushed into the steam, relying on [Cracked Phantom Armor] to block the damage.

It was hot enough to strain the spell until it self aspected, but that only served to help them as Zack ripped the steam away and formed it into a super-heated arrow that he threw at the arrow launcher on the boss’ shoulder, which Aster then flash froze.

The boss let out a loud whistle even as its arms and legs started to retract into itself, but they didn’t allow the boss to transform unbothered.

Sadly, one of the floor effects they weren’t able to so easily counter came into play at that moment. Metal started to fix itself as the boss reverted itself to an instance of it a few seconds before, but they had done a lot of damage in three seconds and so the boss wasn’t able to fully heal.

Liz redirected the tendrils of ichor from the ground, burrowing into the boss and tearing apart anything she could get around.

It was mostly superficial damage, but it added up and forced the boss into desperate attacks.

They didn’t rush and slowly whittled it down, Zack countering its attempts to shoot acid at them while Aster kept the boss's limbs encrusted in ice, even as she kept their senses clear.

Matt, being so close to it, just hacked at the boss, trying to cut through its hard exterior while keeping the metal columns from smashing down on them from the sides.

It was Allie who nearly killed it as she appeared next to the boss’ chest and cut what seemed like nothing with a slash of her dagger, before immediately vanishing again as the boss slapped a hand where she had been, stopping its fight with Liz to try and swat the teleporter.

The boss shuddered for a moment, but Susanne appeared under it and thrust in the spatial opening Allie had created.

That caused the boss to explode with a rush of essence.

Allie appeared next to Susanne and slapped her shoulder. “Good follow up. There was no way it would let me get another deep cut like that in so quickly and for metal, it healed surprisingly quickly.”

Susanne just nodded but Matt instead gestured to the reward distortion which was visible through the portal that had appeared. “Honors to the victor.”

Instead of letting her argue, he started collecting all of the Tier 30 metal from the boss and the arena they were in. Tier 30 steel wasn’t exactly rare, but it wasn’t common either, and there was always a demand. Even if he didn’t sell it, Matt was sure he could come up with something to do with that much high-Tier metal.

As he finally caught up with everyone else, they were waiting for Susanne to dissipate the reward.

Seeing he had arrived, she did so and out fell a single thumb-thick bar of dull grey metal.

When it hit the ground, it buckled the entire room, going so far as burrowing a tunnel to the edge of the rift’s space where it simply couldn't move any further.

Matt was stunned seeing the neutronium ingot. Technically, its name was True Solid Neutronium, but that was way too much of a mouthful and the name was butchered down to its base description. It was also incredibly rare, and the rift had never reportedly dropped it before. The item was a truly one in a billion drop, even in the rare few rifts known to do so, which made it hard for Matt to calculate how rare it must have been in their rift. But he knew they had gotten extraordinarily lucky.

Which they undoubtedly had.

Unlike natural neutronium, True Solid Neutronium was a nearly pure alloy and acted as a solid, making it vastly easier to work with than the insanity that was natural neutronium.

Degenerate matter was not fun to work with in the slightest, and only a handful of specialists could do so before it was Tier 15 and inherently stable, which simplified the matter slightly. Most neutronium was harvested from the very few known Tiered neutron stars in the Realm, but that didn’t mean there was much, if any, True Solid Neutronium. Even with specific Talents, there was no one currently in the Realm capable of producing the alloy in the same way rifts could. There were a few who could make lesser, but still useful, versions, but they were ultimately imitations.

Having looked into it, Matt knew most neutronium was actually used in the limited situations where its properties aided in the manufacturing of other, less volatile materials and you didn’t have space constraints in the containment equipment.

Rift solidified neutronium, True Solid Neutronium, had none of those issues, making it one of the sturdiest and heaviest materials out there, even before you add in the effects of Tiering a material up or enchanting. The rare few times it actually dropped always raised a furor among strength-based warriors.

Moe’s war hammer had famously used two, and caused a fight among clan leadership at the time for using so much of the material, only ending when Sword Saint Hastor personally ordered it done.

All the more tragic were confirmed reports of a neutronium ingot dropping, but being left behind in the rift because no member of the party was strong enough to actually move it.

Additionally, all the known Tiered neutron stars were still low Tier, the highest being Tier 4, as they basically couldn’t form naturally. Neutron stars weren’t exactly conducive to having life around them, and they didn’t have the gravitational pull to draw Essence in from extreme distances like black holes occasionally did.

The problem was simply that stars simply had too long of a natural lifespan. Where a human cultivator only got a few dozen extra years of life at Tier 1, even the largest of stars got millions of extra years. Years in which the essence inside of them would naturally self-replicate and multiply.

In practice, that meant even a star on the brink of death given even a single unit of essence would either die and vent its essence or reach Tier 15. If the star did explode, its core was shattered in the process, meaning that wasn’t even a viable way to make a Tiered neutron star either.

That was the commonly held theory at least. It was mostly theoretical, based on a small handful of galaxies with a suspicious amount of Tiered stellar bodies in a given area of real space, but there was some pushback on the theory. But then again, white holes were theoretical too, and Matt still fondly remembered discovering otherwise.

Matt licked his lips, finally brought out of his stupor by Allie who kicked him. “What did you pay Wun for this?”

