“I’d love to have done so. I really, really would have. In fact, I’m pretty sure the only reason we got this drop was because we are at such a low Tier. This is good for me, great even, but I can’t function with a sword that heavy at Tier 27. And if that's the case, there is an argument to be made for taking it back to the Empire and letting the army crafters make something possibly more useful out of it. I’m sure that they could do some crazy shit with this.”

Seeing his altruism hadn’t swayed anyone, Matt went with the fact he should have started with. “This is also a fantastic bet item. We could get pretty much any of the other Ascenders to put anything we want on the other side of this. Moe’s hammer famously uses two ingots of this stuff, and you know just how hard that thing hits. This ingot is really that rare, given it’s already Tier 30.”

Everyone suddenly looked far more conflicted, but Susanne was the one to speak. “Take it and use it when you can. We are here delving rare rifts, not for fun but to grow stronger with the rewards they contain. That's not giving things away. That's not betting things. That's taking what we are given and forging ourselves into even better weapons. This is valuable. You can use it. Keep it.”

Seeing the others agree, Matt nodded.

Reaching down, Matt felt a kinship with the tiny ingot of metal that came from his Domain and its stellar aspect.

It took him using his entire boosted physical strength, along with his Domain as well as [Telekinesis] and [Metal Manipulation] to finally get the item off the ground enough to pull it into a spatial ring, but he managed it.

Thankfully, his junk ring was one that cut the weight of its content by four orders of magnitude, but even with that reduction, he still felt like he was tilting to the side.

Tiered items became more of what they were, and neutronium’s main property was its density, which was amplified even further.

If he could get someone to add the ingot to his sword, he’d need to work on changing his fighting style, but it would be well worth it for the additional strength and durability. Even if it forced him to call in a favor with one of the Royals, or even Manny himself.
