Niala's living room was rather silent.

She was glaring at David, who was staring back at her.

“It's a terrible idea no matter how you try to justify it.” David said.

She rolled her eyes. “So you've said the last 12 times.” She replied.

They had been arguing back and forth over Castello's offer since they'd left his house, several bells ago.

Niala had jumped on the opportunity to both experience Pancho, and to move the investigation along. If Castello would allow the town to exhume one of his family's grave to retrieve a bone in order to unlock Anaakendi's diary, why wouldn't she agree?

David had doggedly replied that she shouldn't agree because it was dangerous, pointing out that Castello's Pancho partners always ended up dead.

Now they were at an impasse.

He sighed. “Why do you want to be the one so much? We can, and should, have one of the town guard do it. It's their job to put themselves at risk to protect the town.”

She shook her head. “I can't ask someone to do something I wouldn't do! And since I would do it, I should.” She replied.

“I don't buy it. What's the real reason? You should also know I'm still wearing the ring, and it squeezed my finger just now.”

She shot an annoyed look at the ring, before slumping into her couch. “I want to do it because I want to be in the mayor's good graces, it'll be useful when I start my business.” She said.

He kept his gaze on her, slowly tapping the ring. “Still squeezed me.”

She glared at him, blushing, before pulling up and hugging her legs. “Because I want to prove I'm useful and I know you'll protect me.” She mumbled inaudibly.

“You can't convince me if I can't hear you.” He said.

She burrowed her head into her legs. “Because I want to be useful and I know you'll keep me safe!” She forced herself to say, blushing even more.

David stared at her, unmoving.

Eventually he managed to blink, then looked down at his ring. He slowly removed it and put it in one of his pockets.

“I won't use the ring with you anymore.” He told her.

“You shouldn't have in the first place.” She said, head still pressed against her knees, ears drooping low.

“You're right, I apologize.” He admitted, lowering his head.

He looked back up at the catkin woman. “Please tell me you understand that you have nothing to prove, least of all to me?”

She weakly nodded her head.

“But you still want to do it.” It wasn't really a question.

She nodded again.

He kept his gaze on her for several minutes, mind furiously trying to unravel his feelings.

He eventually gave up and sighed.

“Fine. You can do it.”

Her ears perked up. She peeked at him over her knees. “Really?” She asked meekly.

“But we will prepare appropriately!” He warned.

“Can you brew anything that fortifies the mind? The sense of self? If people are being enthralled or controlled, anything that helps us fight off possession of suggestion is a priority.” He asked her.

She slowly raised her head, blush gone, tail swishing. “I... think I can. Potions that help with focus and concentration. Oh! I know something that reinforces someone's mana channels! That could help, right?” She excitedly asked.

“It could yes. Anything you can think of. Also you'll brew two doses of everything; one for you, one for me. I'm also going to go look in town, see if I can find a set of warding amulets for you. I only have the one set for myself in my cloths.” He replied.

Niala was by now happily smiling, mind spinning up and starting to plan the preparations.

They began discussing everything they'd do, the ingredients Niala would need, how they would have several guards present, and many other details.

“I still think it's a really stupid idea.” David suddenly said.

She blinked, looking at him before warmly smiling. “I know. I do stupid things sometimes.”

He held her gaze for several seconds, eventually throwing his head back and grunting. He looked back at her, before shaking his head and continuing to discuss their plan.

He didn't know how to tell her how he wished she didn't, but if she had to then he would try and help her.

He didn't even know how to tell himself that.

A few days later, after the ingredients had been collected, the potions brewed, the warding talismans acquired and various safe-keeping short-term enchantments cast upon them, David and Niala were walking up to Castello's home at around ninth bell.

David was wearing his adventuring gear, along with several Courier artifacts that he thought could be useful. She was wearing her regular working dress. They were both carrying an extra pair of thoroughly scraped-clean boots to wear inside of Castello's home.

If Niala suddenly decided to get up and walk north, they wanted to already have footwear on since Castello would certainly ask them to remove the ones they were currently wearing.

Giving one last look to David and the four guards accompanying them, Niala walked up to the door and, with some trepidation, used the knocker.

Castello, having been warned of their intentions, had apparently been waiting for their arrival as he quickly opened the door, a great big smile on his usually dour face.

“Ah! Young miss, my new Pancho partner. Welcome! I've prepared the drinks and the snacks, I've set up the board. All that's missing are the players!” He jovially greeted them, motioning for them to come in.

“Do please take off your boots.” He reminded them.

As they filed in, David stopped in front of the older man. “Remember, after this match, you need to sign the form authorizing the exhumation of your family graves.” He gravely told him.

“Yes yes, I already said I would in front of witnesses. Don't be annoying.” He replied dismissively.

David squinted at him for an instant before continuing into the house and making his way downstairs, following after Niala.

For her part, while she was unquestionably anxious, she also couldn't shake off her intense curiosity and excitation. She didn't fully... understood her own feelings on the matter. She knew it was stupid to put herself into harm's way like this, but she felt that she needed this.

Not putting herself in a dangerous situation, but rather doing something that would change people's lives for the better. She wanted to solve the mystery, to make sure that no more mothers, fathers, sons or daughters went missing every year. She had to prove to everyone, and especially herself, that she was more than the All Brew's daughter who knew how to brew potions in her quiet little shop.

She glanced back at David and felt her heart twist. He was evidently concerned about her. She saw that it troubled him, and yet he'd gone along. Not really understanding why, he was going along with it. For her sake.

He had stopped asking her to justify or explain herself.

He had just accepted that this is what she wanted to do.

And he was giving her his full support.

She quickly looked ahead, feeling a furious blush approaching. She cursed her overly expressive face once more, forcing back down whatever had bubbled up just now.

It was time to be serious Niala.

Niala and Castello took their places at the Pancho table. As she sat down, Niala lightly gasped. The drawings on all of the plates currently arrayed on the table had come alive.

David approached to see what Niala had gasped at, his eyes widening in surprise as he noticed as well.

All of the illustrations were moving, the figures represented within them having taken a life of their own. Castello greatly enjoyed showing them how the illustrations on different plates even interacted with each other when their borders touched. He did admit that, while these were unnecessary to properly play Pancho, they were a great part of why he enjoyed playing at night only, since the illustrations were static otherwise.

With this little surprise out of the bag, Castello wasted no time in introducing Niala to the rules and intricacies of the game.

David retreated and distantly watched and listened. Niala quickly forgot about him as she began asking questions and figuring out the flow of the game.

She might have been here to elucidate a mystery, but she could have fun while doing so!

They quickly moved on to a training match as Castello brought Niala's understanding to a level he felt was adequate to provide a proper challenge. What he did not anticipate was how quickly the young woman picked up on the nuances and overlying strategies of the game.

He was starting to get even more excited at the prospect! A competent adversary right out of the gate? Intriguing!

And then the match proper started. For the first half bell, Niala did all she could to maintain the status quo, attempting to limit the amount of lead she gave away. Her ears were at full attention, her eyes wide opened and entirely focused on the game board.

Castello smirked and scoffed repeatedly as he seemed to enjoy his superior position. These, however, became more and more infrequent as the game progressed.

Eventually he started frowning. Then a bead of sweat pearled down his brow.

The little catkin woman that had so far barely managed to contain the damage had somehow lured him into a trap. His best units were engaged with her worst units, all the while she had timed her reinforcement just right to arrive exactly when his defenders were exhausted.

He looked up at her, incredulous.

She grinned back.

He looked back down at the board.

Just how much of her early struggle was true? When did she decide to use her apparent vulnerability to lure me in without me ever realizing?

He looked back up to her.

This isn't a beginner's move.

He cleared his throat. “Errh. Young miss. Have you, perhaps, played Pancho in the past? No shame in admitting it, all strategies are fair in Pancho, even making an opponent underestimate you.” He offered.

Niala looked back from the board to him, blinking. “No, first time playing. It's a lot of fun though!” She said, beaming him a smile. “I think it's your turn?” She playfully reminded him.

“Ah, hum, yes, it is indeed...” Castello stammered out, brow furrowing as he tried to figure a way out of his predicament.

I can't take this lightly anymore. I need to bring out my best strategies. This is not a normal opponent.

He would not be beat by a first time player, not in his house, on his playing board, with his Pancho deck.

Unfortunately for him, Niala didn't care one bleeding pit about Castello's honour.

She proceeded to delicately and inexorably dismantle his position.

As the bells tolled, he felt more and more like a mouse being herded to its doom.

And soon, without anyone realizing it, it was the middle of the night.

David was leaning against the wall near a corner, keeping an eye on the whole room. He and Niala had discussed the whole process a few times, and while there were quite a few objects that were highly suspicious, such as the bowl, they had decided to not change anything. They were trying to recreate the same event that had seen Castello's previous game partners leave, after all. Changing the set-up would be contrary to their goal.

His hand absentmindedly fiddled with the mind-protection charms held around his neck with a leather cord. He just hoped their preparations were enough.

In the middle of the room, sitting in front of a grinning Niala, Castello seemed to be sweating.

David couldn't help but smirk.

Castello was holding his head with both hands as he desperately tried to find a way to salvage the match.

His tormentor, all the while, was happily munching on his snacks as she patiently waited for him to commit to his next move.

But there were no next moves. All he could see was defeat. He looked up to the Pancho monster sitting across from him, as she grinned and went to pick up another fried nut from his snack bowl.

“Niala stop!” David shouted

Niala turned her head towards him, as her hand finished its descent into the bowl.

She did not see the faint ghostly hands reaching out from the bowl. She barely registered the slight shiver as they made contact with her hand.

“What is it?” Niala asked as she brought a roasted nut to her mouth, looking at David.

“I... huh... are you ok?” He finally said.

“Sure. Maybe a bit stiff?” She said as she stretched her neck. She stood up and slowly stretched her back, before turning to David.

“I'll go for a short walk outside, the night's air will do me good.” She told him. “Castello, keep the board warm, I'll be right back to claim my victory.” She teased.

Castello looked up from his disaster. “Ah? Huh, yes, of course...” He mumbled as he returned his attention to the board.

David watched Niala quickly wave at him as she went upstairs and out for a quick walk.

He returned his gaze to the board. She had really been trouncing Castello. He didn't fully understand the rules but he could tell from the older man's reactions that he was not having a good time.

Some time passed. He looked at his pocket bellwatch. Niala was probably enjoying the night air more than he thought.

He yawned.

It was getting late. Maybe he should head back home, get some sleep in. Niala could finish her match by herself, the guards would escort her back.

The guards... where were they? Had they gone for a walk as well? He frowned.

Well, the town was safe, maybe she didn't need guards to walk her back.

He frowned again.

No she definitely needed guards to walk her back. He excused himself and went upstairs, then outside, looking for them.

They were gone.

Niala was also gone.

Of course she was gone, she'd went on a walk.

She'd went on a walk.

He was tired, it was the middle of the night, it was normal to be tired.

He'd see Niala tomorrow, after her walk in the middle of the night.

He'd...

The mind-shielding charms hanging at his neck glowed. A pang of pain pickaxed into his brain. Anger spiked inside of him. He didn't know why. He was so angry. Why was he angry? It didn't make sense. No, he has to be angry or else...

Or else...

He willed. He instantly glowed a bright blue light. A faint light grey haze fled him, as if pursued by the blue light.

Niala.

She left in the middle of the night. She's nowhere to be seen.

He fought back the panic with grim will.

He knew where she was headed. He just had to catch up to her fast enough.

He would catch up to her fast enough.

He pulled on the blue light, arcane script glowing from within, and ran.

It didn't matter if anyone saw him.

The only thing that did was catching up to Niala.