With that decided, he rushed into the battle with Cynog. As he’d fought, he’d discovered more about Trash Intent. Things like too small a piece wouldn’t form intent. Likewise, if he couldn’t visualize the thing associated with the piece of trash, the Intent wouldn’t form. There was also an upper limit to the size of Trash Intent he could create, but that had more to do with the amount of mana he had than the limit of the skill itself. Currently, something like the dinner table was the limit of what he could instantaneously draw out the intent of. If he spent a little longer, he could manifest something one-and-a-half times longer, but that was basically useless in battle.

He kept getting beaten by Cynog, but he rarely took backlash anymore. He’d spawn the intent for an instant, then destroy it a second before Cynog’s blows landed. The trash still created space between him and Cynog, but by retracting it before Cynog smashed it, he prevented himself from taking damage. That, plus Blow Mitigation, meant he took much less damage than he had at the start.

Even so, he knew it was artificial growth, to some extent. He knew how to fight Cynog now, like he’d known how to fight Straw. If he faced a new opponent, he’d still be lost way he’d been the first time he fought Cynog, when Cynog didn’t fight like Straw. But then again, he reasoned, the more fighting styles he learned how to fight against, the better he’d do in the long run. If he eventually learned to fight against all the fighting styles in the world, then he’d be unstoppable.

That was still a long ways away, however. Just like whatever he was trying to comprehend in the lecture hall. The sensation stuck in his head every time he went in there, but he could never get past that starting thought. He left the hall dissatisfied for the thousandth time and pursed his lips, crossing his arms as he faced the square. What was he doing wrong?

Maybe I need to sit there and do nothing but attempt comprehension until it sticks. He nodded. That might be it.

The four weeks had almost passed. Today was the final day before the end of the four weeks. It was an arbitrary timeline he’d set for himself, but, looking at the trash, it had piled up sufficiently to give the seed a try. It felt richer in mana than his first round of trash, and besides, he’d be pouring it all into one big seed, so he was fairly confident in success, but nonetheless, a little anxiety twisted in his gut. This was Sorden’s last seed. If he failed this…

Rhys shook his head. He couldn’t think about that. He needed to focus on success, or else he’d fail for sure.

He nodded at Cynog as the man approached. “Tomorrow, I’m going to be busy, and after that, I might need some time to comprehend something.”

Cynog nodded. “Understood. It’s been a long time since we’ve had a talent like you. I may have been a bit overeager in training.”

“A talent?” Rhys gave him a look. What is this? “I’m no talent.”

“For a sect like this, you’re a world-shaking talent,” Cynog replied.

Rhys pressed his lips together. He tried to keep it in, but he just couldn’t. He took a deep breath.
