“You mean, they ate the stomachs?”
Terrisca nodded. The other three [Hunters] stared at each other. Thift covered his mouth. Terrisca poked Barra as the other Gnoll’s shoulders began to shake.
“Don’t laugh! She can hear you!”
“But that’s—what did they eat?”
“Grass from the stomachs of the grazers. And they were fishing with some of our bait. The hairy caterpillars.”
“And they didn’t notice?”
The other [Hunters] were in the middle of concealed hilarity. Thift saw the concerned Drake shifting from foot to foot. Terrisca’s lips twitched.
“They made a stew, apparently. Now they’re all having trouble. Zeky, Barra, give them something and show them how to clean their kills.”
“Aw, Terrisca! The smell—”
“Make sure they dispose of their waste too. No arguing!”
The two other Gnolls groaned, but they loped off towards the female Drake with little grumbling. Incidents like this happened. Even so—Thift and Terrisca waited until everyone was out of earshot, then they began laughing.
“Really? They didn’t know about removing the stomach?”
“All Drakes. Remember the group? I bet they’ve hunted, but they’ve always had someone prepare their kills.”
Thift slapped his thighs, chortling. Terrisca had to laugh for a while longer, then she spotted another Gnoll headed their way. No, a pair. This time Thift smelled the tension.
“Oops. Looks like a hunting area dispute.”
The female Gnoll sighed. That was another common issue where the would-be hunters got on each other’s nerves. They had a wide hunting area, but even so, Gnolls could be territorial when they were in the mood, and greenhorns even more so. She waved at Thift.
“We’re off in an hour. I’ll help you get as many complaints settled. Then you’re alone for the day.”
“Oh, joy.”
Thift sighed, but he relaxed near the two wagons that had brought everyone from Pallass. He’d set up his camp later. It wouldn’t be hard to get something to eat in these woods. Hopefully, no one would put an arrow through anyone else and he’d have a quiet night relaxing.
The Gnoll [Hunter] was thoughtfully thinking of what he wanted to eat tonight—he’d brought a number of spices to make any game he caught really pop—when he saw another client headed his way. With a sigh, Thift propelled himself up. Then he paused.
“Ah. Her.”
The Gnoll grimaced. He spotted the young Human woman from afar. Thift sniffed the air, but he didn’t smell any trouble coming from her. Nevertheless, he trotted towards her.
She was a problematic client, in the usual lineup Thift got working his job. Not because the young woman had been trouble the last two weeks she’d been here. But she worried Thift.
Because she was Human. It was just…Humans weren’t clients of Pallass Hunting. It was usually City Gnolls, and Drakes who were either significant others of Gnolls or wanted the same experience. Thift had been worried a Human would starve to death or do something incredibly stupid that would give their company a bad name. But apparently she was here on invitation by the owners of Tails and Scales, and Pallass Hunting wasn’t about to refuse such big-name clients.
“Anything wrong, Miss Solstice? How can we help you today?”
Thift smiled as the young woman approached. He looked her up and down, but she really seemed okay. No—wait—he smelled a faint odor of blood. Was she hurt? But the young woman gave him a smile.
“What? No, I’m fine. I’m actually done, so I thought I’d head back.”
Thift paused.
“You are? I mean—how long have you been out here?”
“Um. Two weeks?”
“Two weeks?”
The [Hunter] blinked. That was long, even for his most adventurous clients! But now he thought about it…he had dropped her off two weeks ago! He hadn’t seen her since. He gave the young woman another look, this time of grudging respect.
She didn’t seem malnourished. Thift coughed and gestured to the wagons.
“Well, we are all set to return within the hour, Miss Solstice. Do you have all of your equipment? Were there any incidents? I trust you enjoyed yourself?”
“What? Oh, yeah. I have the bag of holding right here. And I had a good time. Yeah. I was just fishing. I did some hunting, but I missed most of the time.”
“Really? That is a shame. If you’d like, I can run you through basic game hunting.”
Thift gingerly offered, but the young woman waved it away. She smiled.
“Nah. I was just throwing rocks. I have [Unerring Aim], but those darn rabbits are fast!”
“Ah. A very handy Skill. But rookie hunters usually forget to aim for where the target will be. You will almost always hit your mark, but you still must aim for the right spot.”
The Gnoll smiled encouragingly. What was this Human’s first name again? Something Solstice. She shrugged, unconcerned.
“Yeah. But I felt bad for the bunnies. I was mainly fishing. It was relaxing, since there’s lots of fish. And none of them have huge, sharp teeth.”
Thift had to pause again.
“There are fish with teeth where you live, Miss?”
“Oh yeah. Huge ones. And they jump at your face if you get too close to them. Total jerks. Huge. Like this big.”
The Gnoll stared at the young woman. He wanted to believe she was doing the classic exaggeration of the size of the fish, but she looked genuinely serious.
“Where do you come from, Miss Solstice?”
“Call me Erin. And I’m from Liscor, originally.”
She gave him a smile. Thift did a double-take and eyed her.
“Liscor? Well, that is far off. I hear it’s very…rustic.”
Wasn’t there a magical connection to Liscor these days? Thift had heard the rumor, but he hadn’t considered going himself. There was hunting, apparently, but he’d been told there were too many Shield Spider nests and giant crabs to make it worth hunting some Razorbeaks. But the young woman nodded.
“Oh yeah, it’s nice. But I couldn’t ever do this around Liscor. Too many monsters, y’know? A Rock Crab would sneak up on me as I slept and kill me. This was fun.”
She smiled again. Thift saw her look past him, towards Terrisca. The other Gnoll was waving at Thift and pointing. She probably had to sort out the dispute. He waved back, and turned to Erin Solstice.
“Well, I am delighted to know you’ve fared so well, Miss Erin. If you enjoyed yourself, please recommend us to, ah, your friends in Liscor. Pallass Hunting is here to give the real wildlife experience.”
“I will! And it was great.”
Erin Solstice smiled. But Thift felt embarrassed giving the canned line to her. Rock Crabs? He looked at her and caught the distinct odor of grilled fish. She didn’t look ill, so she must have prepared her catch properly too.
“If I may speak candidly, Miss Erin—”
“Hm? Oh yeah, sure. What’s up?”
She looked at him. Thift coughed, embarrassed.
“I’m surprised that a Human is so adept at living on their own. Are you a [Hunter], by any chance?”
She looked a bit embarrassed and pleased at the question.
“What, me? Nah, I’m an [Innkeeper].”
“An [Innkeeper]?”
Thift stared at her. Erin flapped one hand vaguely.
“Yeah, but on holiday. Don’t worry, I knew what’s what. Hey, did you hear about that group that ate their fish without gutting them? Ick. I only did that twice. And you can eat entrails, if you clean ‘em. Obviously.”
“Obviously. And er, you’ve had an easy time skinning and preparing your game? We do have some clients who don’t do well with blood. But if you have any pelts, Pallass Hunting can sell whatever you’ve got.”
“Really? Well, I ruined the rabbit I caught. My knife was too sharp, so it kept going through the skin. See?”
She showed him the knife at her side. It was a kitchen knife, nothing like what Thift carried. But the edge—the Gnoll was about to test it, but Erin’s warning made him look twice.
“That is a wicked edge.”
“Right? And it hasn’t even grown dull. Well, I had to use one of the knives you guys gave me.”
“Who made this blade? It’s very impressive.”
Thift stared at the gleaming metal. Erin laughed.
“That? It was sharpened by Lorent. You know him?”
“Of course. I go to him for some of my sharpening. But the blacksmith? I don’t see a signature, but it’s clearly a master’s work…”
“Oh, it was made by Pelt.”
The [Hunter] nearly dropped the blade.
“Pelt? You mean, the Pelt? The Dwarf?”
“Yup.”
Erin took the knife back as Thift stared at her. This time the [Hunter] looked Erin Solstice up and down. Not as a strange Human but fully. He saw the way she stood. Smelled the faint blood on her hands. And from somewhere else. But mostly, he looked at her. She smiled at him, but the smile was…
“Are the wagons going straight back to Pallass?”
“Yes, Miss. Directly—we may have to take on the sick group, but we will try to put them in a separate wagon. Downwind. Oh, and may I take your bag of holding? If you have any personal possessions…”
“I’m good. Just my knife. Thank you.”
They fussed for a big as she turned over the bag of holding that Pallass Hunting had provided, then Erin jerked her thumb over her shoulder.
“Thanks. I’ll go wait over by the wagons if that’s cool? Not the sick ones. This was fun. Thanks. Thift, right?”
Thift nodded. Wait, she remembered his name? He saw Erin wander over to the wagons as more Gnolls and Drakes, done with their own time hunting, wandered back. Some looked fed up, others exhilarated by their experience. They boarded the wagons as Terrisca and the other [Hunters] came back. Thift remained as people boarded the wagons, chattering, showing off skinned pelts or trophies.
Erin Solstice stood alone. She smiled and chatted with some of the Drakes and Gnolls who approached her in much the same way Thift did, but she had no group. And when no one was approaching her…she looked lost, standing there. Staring at her hands. At Pallass.
“Last call! We are headed back to Pallass!”
Terrisca called out. Erin Solstice started and headed to one of the wagons. Thift couldn’t help it. He trotted after her.
“Miss Solstice.”
“Huh? Oops, did I forget anything? Wait. Am I tipping? Is that a thing?”
Erin Solstice fumbled for her belt. Thift stopped her, even though he’d never turn down a tip—which he’d never actually gotten.
“No. I’m sorry, Miss Solstice. It’s just…I wanted to ask something.”
“What?”
Erin turned to him with a smile. But—Thift looked at her face.
“I don’t believe you had an enjoyable time with Pallass Hunting, did you, Miss Erin?”
She paused. And Thift saw her smile fade. Erin glanced towards the wagons, and then nodded at him.
“Maybe not. But it was what I needed. It was nice, Mister Thift. But it’s time to go back.”
“Last call!”
She paused, and then turned away. Thift saw her board a wagon as a pair of Gnolls gave her a paw up. Erin sat on the wagon and turned back. She waved as the wagons drove off. But Thift kept watching. And, too late, he wondered who she was. Each of his clients had a story. But Erin’s was one Thift would have liked to know. He saw the young woman disappear, heading back towards Pallass. And Thift thought he would have liked to hear her laugh.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice’s ride back to Pallass was smooth. Drakes and Gnolls chattered around her, but she tuned them out. She sat in the summer’s warmth, staring over the side of the wagon.
And she saw the land around Pallass. It wasn’t what she had imagined. Similar, but so different from Celum. From Earth.
Erin saw a Drake [Farmer]. Just…tilling a field. It was strangely normal, seeing him working with a hat on, and clothing that, while not as iconic as the farmer’s from Erin’s world, were similar in function.
She watched. She listened. And she saw. Differences. Like how the farm had a windmill, and how it was partially irrigated as the wagons crossed over a river. But she saw more.
It was so peaceful, here. There were no monsters. The land around Pallass was like Earth in that there was safety. The Walled City kept away threats. There was no walking into a Shield Spider nest if you strayed outside the city. The worst the clients of the Pallass Hunting experience faced was bad poops.
Thift’s question to Erin stayed with her as she rode. She wondered what the Gnoll thought of her, to ask that question. She wasn’t sad, but guilty. But she couldn’t have explained that to him in the brief window of time she’d had before getting on the wagon.
Erin was thinking. She was thinking of the rabbit she’d killed two days ago. She’d killed it, and then stared at it. She hadn’t wept for the rabbit, barely grown. Did that mean she was jaded? But she’d eaten it. She might have been horrified at the idea before coming to this world.
Now, Erin thought it was fine. She’d killed an innocent creature, but she’d eaten it. If she hadn’t eaten it, she’d be a monster. No, that wasn’t right. But you had to eat what you killed. Just like these Gnolls and Drakes—they enjoyed hunting, but they ate what they killed. And that was a kind of fair. But this was for their own enjoyment.
There was no right answer, but Erin was thinking. What did the rabbit think before she hit it with the rock? What did Thift think about his job? What did he think of her?
She wanted to know. That was what Erin realized. She wanted to know, to reach into the Gnoll’s head and figure out what he thought of her. And she would have liked to talk to him. To know…
More. Erin had a perverse thought—there was a skeleton trapped in everyone. But was the skeleton laughing or crying? What did people’s inner skeleton say? Did she know anyone’s inner skeleton?
Montressa du Valeross was still around Liscor. No, she and Beza and Palt had taken Isceil’s body south through Pallass’ door. But they might be back now. Erin thought of Palt.
“Stoner Centaur dude.”
But wasn’t that the same as saying ‘my stupid undead skeleton, Toren’? Didn’t that trivialize him? Erin closed her eyes. And she thought that summed up her conclusion over two weeks.
She was good at maneuvering people. Like chess pieces. But had Erin ever stopped and asked what the pieces on the chess board thought?
“Well, no. They’re chess pieces. But people…”
One of the Gnolls looked at her oddly. Erin smiled, and wondered what she thought. She didn’t really want to know. Erin wasn’t interested in everyone’s personal life story. But maybe if she and that Gnoll got to talking, she’d find out more.
Erin had lots of friends. But sometimes, she felt like she was the shallow one. Her life intersected with so many people and Erin knew only a few of them deeply. She knew Relc’s past, but she didn’t know more than what she’d heard. She knew Klbkch was known as Klbkch the Slayer, but she had never asked him about it.
