“Flawed? There was a single crack, a tiny imperfection in your steel! I took it out in a heartbeat! That knife has no flaw.”
“An imperfection in the steel. Where there is one, there may be more. My fault. I should have checked the steel.”
Pelt’s voice was completely flat. His eyes stared straight through Erin, at something else. She recognized that, too. Slowly, cautiously, Erin bent.
“I’m sorry. I shouldn’t have taken it.”
“You did nothing—”
Maughin stopped as Erin looked at him. The Dullahan threw up his hands in a rare display of frustration and stomped away. Erin knew he was angry, but she was focused all on Pelt.
“I’ll uh, I’ll find some wood for the handle, master.”
Emessa backed away into the other section of the forge. Pelt was just sitting now, staring at the knife.
“Why does it matter that much?”
He didn’t answer.
“You have to break it?”
“This is my sin.”
His voice was hollow. Erin nodded.
“I am sorry. I didn’t know. Or—I knew, but I didn’t think it was a big deal.”
“You and that giant armored bastard.”
That was a bit like the old Pelt. Erin let it go. She sat down next to Pelt.
“I think it’s beautiful.”
Pelt finally looked at her. His voice trembled.
“You know nothing. Don’t act like you know metal, you Human vixen. You’re no better than females from home! Always tricking, sly—”
His hands shook on the blade. Erin saw the sheathed edge digging into his palm. And his words stung. She glared at him. But then—relented. There was a mortal pain in his eyes. She tried one last time.
“I really am sorry. I didn’t think about how you’d feel. About the blade. And the competition. I did trick you. I feel awful, seeing how you—I’m so sorry.”
He didn’t respond. Pelt was just trembling, staring at the steel, working through something of his own. Erin lowered her head. He was ignoring her, now. And why not?
I’m sorry. I’m sad. Those were just words, after all. Who knew what you meant by them? It could just be a lie. Erin had every right to be angry. And she should be! She was! But she also wanted Pelt to know she was sorry for the things that were her fault. She had hurt him as badly as Toren. With thoughtlessness. But that could still cut as deeply as anything she’d intended.
But he’d never believe her. She’d never reach him. And Erin felt it in her breast.
A burning.
Was it instinct that made her cup her hands? Instinct, or some understanding on a subconscious level? Erin didn’t know. But she felt it.
Burning in her chest. In her soul. Her hands tingled. And she felt it. At the tips of her fingers. Something…new. Something she had felt only once before, but could give a name to instantly.
Magic.
It rose in her now. Like the magic of the faerie’s feast. Like the magic of an [Immortal Moment], like a perfect game of chess. It was a feeling of something beyond perfection. Something eternal. It told her what to do.
Erin cupped her hands. And she called the memory into her palms. Memory. The feeling of her guilt over Pelt’s expression, fresh and vivid. But also—she couldn’t help it. The memory of a skeleton’s last smile. A broken heart.
Grief and guilt and sadness. It was just memory. But in her hands it ignited. Emotion so real that it took shape. And fire appeared.
A blue flame, with a dark core of sapphire emerged from Erin’s palms. Small at first, but growing. Larger. A nimbus of brighter flame surrounded the dark core, until the edges were a pale blue. Emessa turned, a piece of wood in her hand. She dropped it and gaped.
Erin Solstice looked down at the flame in her hands. To her, it was a familiar sight. She had called on it before. But it was still beautiful. The blue flame was not hot, to her. And it shone like no fire Earth had ever conceived. The glow was soft, unlike mortal fire. And it grew larger. It was memory, burning into flame.
But the memory didn’t vanish. It was in her. In the fire. If Erin could have burned away the memory, she wouldn’t have. And she couldn’t. This fire burned on a limitless fuel. It lit up the forge in a dark blue glow. Brighter and brighter.
At first, Pelt didn’t notice. He was bent over the blade, flexing it, preparing to snap it to pieces. But the Dwarf had spoken honestly. Though his back was turned to Erin, he sensed the flame. He turned, a trace of fury rekindling in his eyes. He turned, and saw the flame Erin held.
It was large now. The flames engulfed Erin’s palms, burning on every available inch of them. And the fire roared higher, above her head. Erin stared at it. Her eyes reflected the blue glow. She looked at Pelt.
The Dwarf gazed at the fire. At the dark burning heart of it. He opened his mouth, but no words came out. And Erin waited. She saw the Dwarf staring into the heart of her flame. And then he heard a sob.
It didn’t come from Pelt. It came from behind him. Emessa backed away. She dropped the wood she was fashioning into a handle. And Erin saw to her amazement that the Drake’s eyes were filled with tears.
“What…?”
Erin’s voice was soft in the forge. She looked at Emessa, bewildered. But part of her understood. And the Drake gave voice to that knowledge.
“It’s so—sad.”
She pointed at the fire Erin held. She wiped at the tears coming from her eyes. Erin looked at her, and at the flame.
For a moment, the conscious part of her brain still refused to understand. Then a piece slid into place. And Erin realized. The reason why the flame was just beautiful to her and nothing else. Why it did not burn her skin. Why it was just a sight to her.
Because it was her memory burning there. Hers. And she knew exactly how she felt. Of course she did. But other people? Pelt stared into the azure flame. And Erin saw his eyes.
The Dwarf’s tears were still wet in his beard. His nose bloodied, drying. He had dark green eyes. Erin hadn’t known that until just now. She looked into the depths of them, seeing small pale green lines, like strata of earth. But she could not see behind his dark pupils.
What pain waited there? What crime? Only he could tell it, and only with words. But she—her grief burned there, a flame everyone could see.
“I’m sorry.”
Erin said the words and she meant them. The flames licked upwards. Pelt looked at them. Then, slowly, he nodded. Her words were hollow things. Anyone could lie with them, or tell half-truths. They were just words. But fire burned true.
“Flame.”
“[Like Fire, Memory].”
The Dwarf paused and then nodded. He reached for the flame. His hand paused a foot away from the fire.
“Cold.”
“It is?”
Erin couldn’t feel a thing. Pelt shook his head. He stared at the flame and slowly rose. He looked at the knife. And then at Erin’s fire.
“It burns like magic fire. What is it for?”
“I just wanted to show you how I felt.”
Erin stared down at the fire in her hands. It was trying to spread up her wrists, up her arms. She realized she couldn’t turn off the fire. She looked at Pelt and the flames grew. Her guilt.
He saw it too. The Dwarf looked around.
“It will burn you. Put it there.”
“Where…?”
Erin saw him pointing. At his forge. She hesitated. But the flames were growing. Emessa thrust open the forge where coal would normally go. Erin hurried over. She hesitated—she could feel the heat from the fire, but not from her hands. She looked at Pelt. Then she tossed the fire.
It flew from her hands. A dancing flame. And it landed in the forge. Erin didn’t know what to expect. Part of her assumed the fire would simply go out, without fuel from her directly. But to her surprise, it landed among the charcoal.
And it grew. The bright red flames coming out of the forge turned purple, then blue. The normal flame was consumed by the blue fire. Emessa leapt back. Erin felt a sudden, terrible chill. A hand pulled her back.
Pelt stared into the fire.
“Cold flame. The burning ice. Exactly like it, but for the grief.”
“Like what?”
The Dwarf didn’t reply at once. He looked at the fire in the forge. And then at Erin. His voice cracked as he spoke.
“You are sorry. Am I—”
He reached for a bit of charcoal and hurled it into the forge. And the flames ignited. The Dwarf’s Skill turned the blaze bright. Erin covered her eyes as the fire blazed.
In his forge, Maughin was pounding on metal, venting his anger. But a blue glow distracted him. Made him turn. The Dullahan stopped, hammer in hand. And he saw a bright, sky-blue flame erupt from Pelt’s forge. It was so bright. Yet, dark at the same time.
“What is that?”
Once more, the forges of Pallass grew quiet. [Smiths] left their stations. They turned.
Not just them. Pelt’s forge was hidden from view from the lower floors. But now, the flame vented higher, escaping through a chimney in the forge. There was no smoke. The flames burst from the top, and on the lower floors, people standing on the other side of Pallass turned. They saw the flame from afar. Small at first, but still rising.
Maughin the [Armorer] paused. He stared at the flame. It consumed his attention. But more than the beauty of the fire, something else tugged at him. He felt something strange on his head and his body brushed at his eyes.
“Tears?”
One of the apprentice Dullahans looked up at Maughin, concerned.
“Master Maughin, you’re weeping.”
“So are you.”
The young Dullahan wiped his eyes. He brushed at his face, mystified. Then he looked at the flame and shook his head with his hands.
“I can’t stop. I—when I look at the fire. I think of my mother. I—I should have been there.”
Maughin looked at the young Dullahan. His name was Flintel, and Maughin remembered that he had buried his mother two months ago. He had been working in the forge when she passed. The Dullahan was weeping.
The [Armorer] looked back at the fire. And he realized it wasn’t just Flintel’s grief. Maughin saw it there. He remembered. And his hand rose and clutched at his breast.
Erin’s flame kept burning. Higher and higher, rising from the forge. But not brighter anymore. The color deepened, growing more vivid. Realer. It burned, and the sight of it touched all who saw it. A fading, brilliant, sorrowful glow.
In the forge, Erin felt it at last. She was looking at a reflection of her memories. But while the raw emotion was hers, it was an echo. Everyone had their guilt. She looked at Pelt.
Sorrow.
Regret.
Guilt.
Pelt looked up at the blue flame as it burned higher. They were such heavy emotions. And the fire that burned from them was intense. Yet it couldn’t even burn his hands as he reached out towards the moving fire. Even this close—
The Dwarf touched it. And his hands burned. His skin chilled. He snatched back his fingers and stared at the faint red blister of skin. Like ice burn. It could not be from heat; he could hold red-hot steel without issue.
Across the ninth floor, the [Blacksmiths] stopped working. On the lower floors, those who saw the flame wiped at their eyes. To just see the flame was to feel it. Up close—Emessa had turned away. But Pelt stood there, and the Dwarf’s voice was calm when he spoke. Dreamy.
“Emessa. Bring me the box marked with a blue stamp from my house.”
The Drake started. She looked at the flame, and then turned away. She ran. Erin didn’t know where Pelt lived, or how long it took the Drake to return. She was in another world.
When the box came back, Erin saw it was a strange container. It didn’t have a lid like a present box, but rather it was a screw-on lid, more like a canister. But made of steel, seamless, identifiable only by a blue stamp of wax. And as Pelt undid the lid, Erin caught an acrid, eye-watering emanation that made her back away. Pelt poured what it was out into a waiting basin he might use to wash his tools. Erin saw a dark green, thick…liquid? No, it was more like mercury, but green, dulled rather than shiny.
Pelt was careful to let none of it touch his hands. And he had gloves on. He lifted the bucket. Emessa stared at Pelt.
“What is that, Master?”
The Dwarf smiled. He looked at the blue flames. Then at his apprentice.
“This is a metal that melts at room temperature. It’s akin to quicksilver. It’s known to some as bronzewater. Because of the color. But it has another name. Grasgil. The frozen metal. You can’t forge it with heat. But you can forge it backwards.”
He pointed at the blue flame. Erin started. She looked at Pelt. But the Dwarf was already moving.
“Everfrozen Ice. Here and here. Break it with a hammer, girl. Fine as you can. I need a powder.”
He pulled out crystals of frozen ice. Erin saw Emessa start and stare. But she moved, following Pelt’s orders as the Dwarf approached the furnace. He shoved the entire bucket into the flames.
Erin expected the bucket to catch fire. And it did. But with the same blue flames. And slowly—the wood refused to ignite.
“A heavy flame. It burns so slow. But so cold.”
Pelt murmured. Erin backed away still further. The forge was freezing. The blue flame was cold now that it was out of her hands. Cold. Freezing in fact, creating particles of ice.
As cold as guilt. As sorrow.
It was freezing the liquid inside of the basin. Pelt drew it out as Emessa hammered on the Everfrozen Ice. Erin saw the ice shattering under her hammer, falling into a little bucket. Pelt took the basin out of the fire with tongs. Frost rimmed the metal. And the barrel was on fire.
“The powder. Quickly, girl. More of the ice. Buy it from an [Alchemist] if you have to.”
So saying, he tossed the powdered Everfrozen Ice into the basin, swirling it with the already-melting Grasgil. And Erin saw the two mix.
Or rather—not mix. The Everfrozen Ice didn’t dissolve, and the Grasgil accepted the particles into it, grudgingly. But the Everfrozen Ice was cold. And with the cold from the blue fire—
Pelt dumped the Grasgil onto his anvil. It was half-solid, but in the temperature above freezing, it was trying to melt. He took more of the Everfrozen Ice as Emessa ran from the forge and dumped more of it onto the Grasgil.
The powdered crystals mixed with the metal, making it cold. Colder.
“Oh!”
Erin realized what the purpose was. Pelt looked up and nodded. The Dwarf’s face was pure concentration. Neither fury nor sadness intruded now. He looked at the fire.
“Grasgil gives you only one chance. Once it’s cold, reworking it is dangerous. Mixing the cold into it means you get it right once. Reheat it and it falls apart. See?”
He showed Erin how the metal was now a solid circle, a copy of the basin he’d dropped it in. The Dwarf picked up his hammer.
“Shape it. Shape it well, with cold and ice.”
