Erin felt shallow. She felt different. She wanted to…change. At least a little bit. But she didn’t know how. She looked up at Pallass as the swift-moving wagons carried them back.
“I’ll be different. A little bit. I have to be.”
“That’s right. It’s a changing experience, isn’t it?”
Erin looked around. The female Gnoll nodded solemnly at her. She smiled at Erin.
“It was your first hunt, wasn’t it? I shot my first deer. Skinned, cooked, and ate it. I have the pelt—I’ll turn it into something. It felt good. Connecting with my ancestral roots. Life changing.”
She nodded solemnly. Erin stared at her, and then nodded as well. She smiled.
“Yeah. It was deep.”
The female Gnoll nodded wisely and sat back. And Erin Solstice turned her head up to the sky and thought. You never really knew anyone in this world, did you? How could you?
 
——
 
Ninth Floor. The [Smiths] of Pallass were already hard at work. The forges rang as the day opened. On lower floors, people could hear the distant ringing sounds. And if you lived under the forges, you simply had to invest in a few good silencing spells. For in the City of Invention, the forges never stopped.
Literally. The smiths working the vast forges that gave Pallass its reputation for good, quality steel worked day and night. They started their day in the forge and didn’t leave until the sun had long since sunk past Pallass’ walls. Sometimes, not even when the moon was high overhead. And there were always night shifts, [Farriers] making emergency shoes, sudden requests from the [Engineers] for a ‘gear’, or even more outlandish things.
But that was Pallass. Of the six Walled Cities, Pallass was spontaneity and change. The [Alchemists] came up with new potions, the [Engineers] had built the elevators that carried goods from floor to floor. And someone was always coming up with something new.
Like the Gnoll that kept jumping off the walls. People called him the Flying Gnoll, or ‘that idiot with the wings’. Since he didn’t fly so much as fall each attempt. But he was an example of what made Pallass…Pallass. A character.
And if the Flying Gnoll was a face that defined Pallass, another one was the grumpy Dwarf named Pelt. He stumbled into his forge late morning, badly hung over.
“Apprentice! Apprentice!”
A Drake was waiting for him. Whether Pelt knew her actual name was debatable, although she was his one apprentice, unlike Maughin’s team of journeymen-smiths and apprentices. The Dullahan was already hard at work making new steel and equipment. And the famed [Armorer] was hard at work himself.
Forging a flail, of all things. It didn’t suit Maughin the Armorer, who made…armor, but everyone on the ninth knew it was for his romantic interest that had sparked scandal and rumor across Pallass’ Dullahan community. He was dating a Selphid. Imagine! Jelaqua of the Halfseekers.
Pelt didn’t care, although he spared one glare for Maughin delicately forging links of chain for the flail. He glared at everything. The Dwarf [Smith] was as renowned in his own way as the Flying Gnoll of Pallass.
This is what people said of Pallass’ [Smiths]. There used to be two other masters. Drakes, but Salazsar stole one of them, the greedy lizards. And the other one, Old Quaiss, he was a master. But he died. Terrible tragedy, but he was old. Now, the two new best [Smiths] are Maughin and Pelt. Maughin’s lower-leveled, but he does quality work. You want reliable steel you can enchant? You go to Maughin.
But if you want genius, you go to Pelt. If the Dwarf’s in a good mood, he’ll make you something unsurpassed. But that’s as rare as a Dullahan smiling; otherwise you’re throwing gold at a cat.
That was the catch. For all of it, Pelt didn’t lack for work. And his apprentice hurried over to him.
“There’s that sword you were commissioned to make, Master Pelt. And one of the new gears.”
“What? Shut up! My head hurts.”
Pelt swiped at his apprentice, hunting for his hammer. She scurried out of his way and Maughin shot Pelt a glare over his forge. It was by design he and Pelt normally forged next to each other. Maughin wasn’t happy about the drunk Dwarf being his company, but lesser [Smiths] found Pelt even harder to abide because the Dwarf could and did sneer at lesser smithing. More than one time the Watch had been forced to break up fights that Pelt had started with his insults.
“Another damn gear? What do they want now?”
“This is the shape, sir.”
Pelt stared at the convoluted gear with tons of tiny teeth and an odd central space shaped like an ‘s’. It was tricky—and even more oddly, square.
“More experiments. It’s not gonna turn properly.”
“The [Engineers] are paying, Master. They say the teeth cannot snap—”
“Then get some other [Smith] to do it and enchant it!”
The Dwarf snapped at his apprentice. She winced.
“Apparently it needs to be very strong, Master. So they need the highest grade enchantment—”
She got no further because Pelt clutched at his head.
“Fine. Fine! Shut up and start the forge fire. I’ll make it. Get me my billets.”
The Drake hurried around the forge as Pelt finally found his hammer. The Dwarf sat, cradling his head, while she brought out the steel and started the fire, shoveling charcoal into the custom-made furnaces that were part of Pallass’ genius.
The other part was obviously the steel. The forges of Pallass produced excellent blades, of course, but half of being a [Smith] was just making the very metals they forged into shape. In fact, you could argue that shaping metal was only an afterthought. If the steel wasn’t good, what was the point of taking it to a hammer?
But Pallass was known for its steel. And it churned out much of the quality steel that armed Drakes across southern Izril. It imported ores from its mines along the High Passes, and the steel was good. But Pelt never used any of the cheap steel provided to the [Smiths].
He made his own. In fact, the Dwarf was obsessed with the purity of his metals. It was a known fact. He’d discard steel that other smiths would happily use, steel that was far purer than even Pallass’ best products. The Dwarf was a master among masters, but he had so many faults that it was no wonder that Maughin was considered the better choice and received orders from [Generals] and rich clients far more often than Pelt.
“What shall we begin with today, Master?”
“…Who’s paying us more?”
“The sword, Master.”
“Then the sword. Get me steel in the furnace.”
Pelt waved his hammer. Obligingly, his apprentice put steel in the forge. Pelt closed his eyes. But then he opened them. The Dwarf’s eyes fixed on the fire his apprentice had just started in his furnace. And he stopped.
It was another day in Pallass. And there should have been nothing interesting—except whether Pelt would actually swing his hammer or just boss his Drake apprentice around all day. But something happened.
It was just one face in millions. A silent figure, waiting at one of the gates aboard a pair of wagons populated mostly by Gnolls and a pair of Drakes. A young Human woman, staring at her hands and thinking. But it mattered. For Pelt stared at his flames and paused.
“Apprentice.”
“Master?”
She started, looking up guiltily from cleaning the forge. Pelt was exacting about cleanliness in his forge as well. The Dwarf rounded on her.
“What did you do to the fire?”
“Nothing, Master.”
“You didn’t put anything into the charcoal? Let me see.”
Pelt pushed past her as she offered him the charcoal, wondering what she’d done wrong. He inspected the black charcoal, split two open with his fingers. Then he looked around.
“Not my fire. But where is it?”
“What, Master?”
The Dwarf didn’t answer. After a second of looking around he strode out of the forge.
“Something’s off. Oi. Maughin!”
He bellowed at the Dullahan. The huge [Armorer] paused as he brought his hammer down.
“Pelt. What’s troubling you?”
Today was the unspoken addition to Maughin’s question. Pelt ignored the tone of the Dullahan’s voice.
“Are you using something different in your forge today? Salt? Something from those [Alchemists]?”
The Dwarf pointed his hammer at Maughin. The Dullahan paused. He frowned past Pelt at the Drake apprentice. She spread her claws helplessly as Pelt glared. Maughin shook his head.
“I’m using the same forge I always have. No magic.”
“Then what—”
Pelt, scowling, looked around. He paused. Stared at his forge fire.
“It’s gone.”
“What is?”
Maughin stared at Pelt, bewildered by the Dwarf’s antics. Pelt didn’t reply. He glared around, and then snorted. He stomped back into the forge without another word.
“Master? Is everything alright?”
The Drake apprentice looked at Pelt worriedly. He stared at the steel heating in the fire. Then he tossed his hammer down.
“I don’t feel like hammering a damn sword for some Drake fool today. You do it.”
“But Master Pelt—!”
“Do it!”
The Dwarf snapped at the Drake. He stomped off. Maughin glared at Pelt’s back and gave the Drake apprentice a sympathetic look. She wavered, but then snatched up the tongs and checked the steel in the forge anxiously. And Pelt took an undeserved break. The Dwarf stomped over to a corner of the forge and dragged something out.
One of the unique items Pelt’s apprentice had to relocate every time they changed locations was a chair. A sling chair, to be precise. It was more like a bench than a chair. Made up of crossed legs and a stretched canvas top, it was simple in design. However, this one was unique in that the frame was made of steel. Pelt had forged it himself on a whim.
Light, sturdy, and not really the kind of thing you wanted in a forge, even if only the stretched hide was flammable. But Pelt kept it around. Now, he lay down on it, grabbed a pair of gloves, and put them over his eyes. He could stretch out fully on the chair without issue. The Dwarf sagged backwards, already dozing.
Some of the other [Smiths] who could see Pelt glared at the Dwarf. A Gnoll [Blacksmith] paused in hammering and glared at the Dwarf as his apprentice did the job that was Pelt’s responsibility.
“That damn Dwarf doesn’t deserve his place on this floor.”
It was a sentiment shared by many. Pelt was making his apprentice do work he’d promised to do himself! It was an open secret. Just look at him, sleeping away!
That was Pelt. The disgracefully unsurpassed drunkard of the ninth. He was indeed lazy. And rude. And ill-tempered. And napping while his apprentice anxiously took the steel billet out and placed it on the anvil. He could sleep even with the forges ringing around him.
But he was listening. As the young Drake began hammering, she began stretching out the heated metal, attempting to forge out the rough shape of the sword before it would be quenched, tempered, ground to sharpness, the edge honed…oh, and a handle constructed, fitted, and the countless other little details that made a blade even usable.
She was good—good enough that she could take over for her master. But obviously, far from a master herself. The other [Smiths] believed, rightly, that she’d never make a sword of the quality that Pelt had promised, thus disgracing the Dwarf further, if that were possible. But that was only her alone.
As the Drake hammered the metal thinner and thinner, trying to keep it even and straight, Pelt spoke up about twenty minutes into the hammering.
“Too thin halfway up the blade. Start over.”
The Drake started. The Dwarf never moved from his comatose spot. Nor did he adjust the gloves over his eyes. But—she looked down at her steel. And she saw that the middle was indeed too thin.
“Sorry, Master—”
“Toss it.”
Blushing and ashamed, the Drake dropped the steel next to the anvil. She grabbed another billet of prepared steel and tossed it into the forge to heat. She could see Maughin looking at her sympathetically. He must have thought she’d caught her own mistake. He glared at Pelt. But the apprentice was relieved.
Her name was Emessa, a fact which she sometimes wondered if Pelt knew. He just called her ‘apprentice’, like the last six apprentices he’d had over the past year. She was the longest to work under him by far. But who cared about Emessa? What secrets did she have?
A few. If you looked, if you cared, and if you asked her, Emessa might tell you more than you expected. For instance, the reason why she worked for her ill-tempered boss wasn’t what most would expect.
She’d received offers from other [Smiths], including Maughin himself to take on her apprenticeship, but turned them all down. Emessa knew that her fellow apprentices didn’t understand why she’d work for the infamous Pelt, and she got a lot of questions whenever they talked. But they didn’t understand.
In a way, being Pelt’s apprentice was the most comforting position to be in, for Emessa at least. As she heated the steel, the Drake anxiously checked the temperature, trying to eyeball the proper temperature to beat it into shape at. Too cool and she’d begin to crack the blade as she worked. Too hot, and the steel would scale over too fast, form crystals, and just waste time.
Emessa had completed the basics of her apprenticeship, but on this summer day it was harder to identify the proper color. She risked taking the steel out and gave it a few strikes with the hammer. But before her third one even landed she heard a bark from behind her.
“Not hot enough. Heat it properly. Six more minutes!”
Pelt’s growled voice made Emessa start. She put the metal back in the fire. And that was the thing. He might be lazy, grumpy, and rude, but Pelt was still…Pelt.
He was a Dwarf. But even among Dwarves, Pelt was a master. He could uncover flaws in metal just by sight alone, even when it was covered by scaling. He knew when metal was too hot to quench, too thin—Emessa couldn’t count how many blades he’d made her scrap for some slight imperfection.
And he could monitor her even with his eyes closed. She’d tried to figure out if he peeked, but as far as she could tell, he didn’t. He could just hear her mistakes.
“Sorry, Master.”
He didn’t respond. And he wouldn’t until she made another mistake. But that was why Emessa loved being his apprentice. It was so…
Easy. She didn’t have to worry about the quality of her blade, just making mistakes. If Pelt didn’t snarl at her and tell her to start over, by the time Emessa finished a blade, it would be as good as Maughin’s work. She would know the steel had been heat-treated perfectly, know it had no imperfections. What a relief!
