Emessa took the half-finished sword. She’d have to sharpen it with a special method, or give it to Lorent. And the handle—she’d do her best, but it would be plain compared to what it deserved. And she had to wonder…would she ever make something so beautiful? Then she looked at Pelt. Her master was snoring.
Could she ever make a blade half as good as something he could toss contemptuously aside? Emessa’s heart hurt. With a bowed head, she began to hunt for metal to make the basket guard. And her master slept, while far below, a young woman rode an elevator and walked randomly around the Walled City of Pallass.
 
——
 
“Monster sighting! North-northwest!”
The bellowed word made a Gnoll’s head snap up. On Pallass’ wall, dozens of heads in earshot turned and armed Drakes, Gnolls, Garuda, and Dullahans all turned to the shout. But it was a single Gnoll who ran to the shouter.
“Report!”
The Watch Captain on wall-duty for the day was not Watch Captain Venim. She was a Gnoll named Rekhassha who had the duty. It was normally light work that involved standing around, not the busier task of managing the affairs of such a huge Walled City. And in fact, Pallass had multiple Watch Captains, unlike smaller cities due to the sheer necessity of it.
Rekhassha skidded to a stop. She snapped at the Garuda pointing at something in the distance. Rekhassha’s eyes were good, but she couldn’t even see what had alarmed the Garuda. She growled.
“What is it?”
“[Scout] Sixt, Watch Captain! I spot a large number of shapes headed this way! It’s at the edge of my vision, but whatever it is, they’re large.”
The Garuda pointed and the Watch Captain fumbled one of the newfangled glass scout-scopes to her eyes. The spyglass, a product of Pallass’ ingenuity, was less costly than a magical artifact, even with the necessity of glass and the construction, but it had flaws. Among them—Rekhassha cursed as she tried to wipe the lens. Some fur-brained idiot had scratched the glass!
“I see it.”
At last, she spotted the distant flight Sixt had pointed out. The Garuda was clearly nervous, although the dots were tiny on Rekhassha’s vision. Then she thought about how big something had to be to be visible from that far away. She turned her head and raised her voice.
“Day Strategist requested! North-northwest!”
A Drake came over at a fast trot. The Drake in question was also not Pallass’ sole [Strategist], but simply the one assigned to the walls this morning. He heard out Sixt, but unlike Rekhassha, only nodded calmly.
“It has to be the Wyvern migration called in by Liscor. I just received word from two northern settlements about the sightings. You are aware of the migration, Watch Captain? I sent copies to both Watch Captains on duty.”
He turned a reproving look towards the Gnoll. Rekhassha paused.
“I didn’t receive the missive, Day Strategist.”
She looked past him as the Drake sniffed disapprovingly. The [Scout], Sixt, looked past both Watch Captain and Day Strategist, pretending not to hear or see them for a moment. Rekhassha didn’t blush, although she knew her fur would cover it if she did.
In theory, Watch Captains were supposed to review any priority-message to Pallass, but they actually came more often than you thought. Jumped-up [Tacticians] could issue one if they saw fit and while a rogue Livingtree was cause for alarm for a small Drake village—no. Not for Pallass.
“I see. Well, the priority message I read clearly mentioned a Wyvern weyr heading this way. A quite large one. I shall copy the documents for you.”
“No need, Day Strategist. I shall request a new copy. Which was clearly lost.”
Rekhassha gritted her teeth. She tried not to glare at the Drake [Strategist]. He was going to write her up! For missing one stupid priority message? The Drake pretended not to notice her look.
It was hard rising in the ranks in Pallass as a Gnoll. Not as hard as a Garuda or Dullahan, which was why there was no Watch Captain of either race, but just because she hadn’t completed her training at Manus, Rekhassha felt like she got written up twice as often as Venim or the other Drakes.
“Were there any casualties from the weyr’s passing so far, Day Strategist?”
“None at all, Watch Captain. Nor do I personally find this flight alarming. We’ll confirm the migratory report, of course. Get me a Garuda [Spotter] or [Scout] with movement and sight Skills. I want an accurate count of the Wyverns.”
The [Strategist] briskly turned to [Scout] Sixt. The Garuda nodded and Watch Captain Rekhassha tried not to glare. The Day Strategist was well within his rights to demand all of it. Even if she was in charge overall.
He was just doing his job. She resisted the urge to pick him up and toss him over Pallass’ walls. Instead, Rekhassha turned her attention to the weyr and analyzed it for threats. They were just specks you could only see with a spyglass for now, but there were lots of them.
“What if they come this way? Shouldn’t we alert the [General]? Prepare the 1st Army…? Or Strategist Chaldion—”
The Day Strategist twitched at Chaldion’s name. He swished his tail, and Rekhassha thought she’d insulted his pride by insinuating they go to a superior [Strategist]. He spoke quickly and irritably.
“There is no need. The situation is under control. I will send an immediate request to mobilize Pallass’ 1st and 4th armies. This migration obviously cannot be allowed to settle or roam unchecked. We may bait them with a large herd and attack them while they slumber.”
“Very well.”
Rekhassha relented. She folded her arms as Sixt returned with a pair of Garuda. She let the Day Strategist rattle off orders as if she wasn’t there. The Watch Captain turned to Sixt and nodded at the distant Wyverns.
“Keep an eye on them. They’re still an hour away, at least.”
“At least, Watch Captain.”
She nodded. Then, annoyed, Rekhassha stomped off to read a damn report about Wyverns. She wasn’t very concerned. Pallass had armies, and the walls. The Wyverns would never get close to the city. But her vacation might get cancelled due to some idiot Drake writing her up!
She wondered what it was like to be a Gnoll in Liscor. Better, perhaps. She heard their Council actually had Gnolls on it. More than just a token few! Imagine! In a Drake city…
Did they need good Watch Captains?
 
——
 
“Hm. Maybe I should just sneak back through the door. No—wait, that won’t work. Maybe I should get Lasica and Rufelt to come with me. Or Grimalkin. But he’s always like ‘no, only if you tell me how treadmills work. I’m muscular! Testicles! Blah, blah…’”
Erin Solstice walked through Pallass. Past streets, entire floors built into the side of the Walled City. She walked in the shade, as the higher floors partially blocked out the sun. Thus, Pallass had any number of magical lights providing a second daylight. It was odd, to not see the sky, but a stone ceiling. But people had painted the ceiling!
The eighth floor Erin was doing a slow circuit of was home to the magical door that would bring her to The Wandering Inn and Liscor. But the ninth floor, where the [Smiths] and [Alchemists] worked, lay above it. And so part of the eighth floor was overshadowed by the bottom of the ninth floor, providing welcome shade in the summer.
But also a blank, grey overhead. That had to get depressing. So the colorful illustrations and designs overhead were a delight to see. Erin hadn’t noticed them before; they weren’t all over, but apparently they were drawn by enterprising youths of all species. Gnolls and Drakes would climb up and draw, but it was the Dullahans who could remotely control their body parts and the flying Garuda who were most infamous for it.
Tagging. Graffiti. They were literally doing just that! It wasn’t as bright as some of the graffiti as Erin’s world; the children of Pallass lacked for some of the artificial pigments. But it was no less expressive. Erin saw a few spots that had been clearly painted over, but she saw names, illustrations—
Of magic and monsters. That was the difference. If Earth had graffiti of both outlandish pictures and reality, this world had the same—but reality was strange as fiction. Erin smiled as she saw a stylized Dragon with feathers instead of wings.
“Wow. That’s a good artist.”
“It’s an eyesore, that’s what.”
Someone muttered as Erin passed by. She eyed the Dullahan who scowled upwards while his body carried his head in a basket. Erin stuck out her tongue at his armored back and winced when she saw his head glaring back at her.
“Rude Humans.”
Erin sighed. She liked the art. But apparently the residents of Pallass regarded it as youthful vandalism. The Watch didn’t get rid of all of the art, though, just the offensive stuff. To Erin, it was like a breath of home.
“Home. I should really go.”
Guiltily, Erin looked across the eighth floor. She’d done one lap around the magical door, then two. She was procrastinating. Avoiding walking through the magic door.
She knew there was no point to it. But Erin was still reluctant to go back. To be part of the celebration that was surely going on at the inn. She wanted to see her friends.
But it was hard to go off holiday. Hard to go back and try to do everything the same. But different. It had to be different, but what was different?
Her [Garden of Sanctuary]? Erin hadn’t used her Skill yet and she couldn’t imagine what it would be. Or her Skill, [Like Fire, Memory]? Erin had leveled, but she felt less excitement in her Skills. Because at least one was…
Erin cupped her hands together.
“Like fire…”
She tried to conjure a flame. But nothing happened. Thoughtfully, Erin ignored the two Garuda teenagers pointing at her.
“So it’s all about what I’m remembering, huh? What about—when I had breakfast?”
She put her hands together.
“Fried fish, fried fish, fried fish…”
Nothing. Erin sighed. She folded her arms. Casual memories didn’t work. She probably had to remember something vivid. And right now, she could only remember one thing.
Toren.
His memory provoked a blue flame. Beautiful, but…Erin hadn’t tried doing anything with it. Looking at it made her too sad. It hurt.
“What a lousy Skill. What’s it good for, huh?”
Erin sighed. She was in the dumps. She slapped her cheeks.
“Alright. I’m gonna get back, and smile, and I’ll figure it all out! Cheerful! Cheerful! You hear me?”
She shook her fist at the sky. At this, the two Garuda had come over.
“Hey, Miss Human. Are you alright?”
A laughing pair of young male Garuda flew over to her. Erin blinked at their bright plumage. One of them, with a dark black tip on his beak, held out a hand.
“Are you lost? We can show you around.”
“Nah, I’m fine. I’m just practicing a new Skill.”
“Oh really?”
The two Garuda looked interested. One of them nudged the other.
“Told you. Hey, Miss Human, show us. This is Weki, and I’m Assaln.”
“Assaln?”
One of those names did not sound like the other. The Garuda blushed.
“My parents thought it was better to have a Drake name.”
He rolled his eyes along with Weki. Erin smiled.
“It’s not bad. My name’s Erin.”
“Hey! Can we show you around the city, Erin?”
“Nah, I’m really alright. I’ve got to go home—”
“Oh, you live here? I haven’t seen you around. And Humans are rare in Pallass! Want to have a drink with us? We know all the sights!”
The two Garuda had a habit of half-flying, half walking. Erin began walking towards one of the staircases, trying to fend them off.
“I’m actually going out of the city—thanks for the invitation.”
“Come on. We don’t get many Humans in Pallass. At least show us your Skill! What are you, a [Cook]? Something to do with fire? A [Smith]?”
“No, I’m an [Innkeeper]—”
“Oho! Where’s your inn?”
The two Garuda elbowed each other. They were actually getting on Erin’s nerves a bit. She wasn’t used to being flirted with, especially not by two…she had to imagine they were at least two years younger than her. Plus, they were bad at it.
“In another city. Liscor, actually.”
“Wait, you mean Liscor, Liscor? Why don’t we go with you! Through the door! I heard anyone can!”
“Not everyone can.”
Erin found herself on the grand staircase, one of four that let people go between floors traditionally rather than by elevator. Weki looked at his friend.
“We could go with you. See your inn.”
“I don’t think the [Guards] will let you.”
“As if they could stop us! We’ll just fly through after you, how about that?”
“That sounds—”
Incredibly annoying. Erin could just imagine the trouble she’d get in with the surly Drake [Guardsman], Kel, or Watch Captain Venim. In fact, what if the two Garuda ran into Bird?
This was exactly the kind of catastrophe she didn’t need to bring to Lyonette. Plus, why were two Garudas hitting on her? Now of all times? Erin sighed.
“I’m not interested. Shoo, please?”
“Hey! You’re wounding us! You’re the first Human we’ve seen in…months! The first one our age! Come on, Miss! Show us your Skill. And at least let us show you around.”
“No. And no. How old are you two?”
“Old enough for you.”
Assaln tried to give Erin a meaningful look. She gave him a flat stare. Relc was better than this. Maybe it was just that these two Garuda seemed so young. Erin knew Lyonette was their age, but she was far older than them mentally. Lyonette had grown up. These children were like…
Children from home. Erin sighed.
“Please go away.”
“Come on. At least humor us?”
Erin was walking along the edge of the eighth floor. She was in the right section now. Maybe she could get someone to chase the Garuda off when she got to the door. Exasperated, and knowing it wouldn’t work, she snapped at them.
“If I show you the Skill, will you leave?”
“Of course!”
That was a lie. But Erin was also curious about her own Skill. She wondered if the blue flame was different from….regular fire. She’d only held it until now, not wanting to accidentally burn down her campsite. But if one of these two Garuda burned his feathers touching her fire, she wouldn’t mind.
So Erin halted in the street next to a balcony that kept her from falling over the edge of the eighth floor. A huge drop down onto the seventh floor awaited anyone who went over the edge. And below that, the sixth floor, the fifth—you could stare down into the heart of Pallass from here.
Unconcerned, Weki and Assaln hovered in the air over the balcony’s edge. They were flying, showing off their feathers. Jostling to show Erin their brilliant plumage. Peacocking. The word had never made as much sense as it did now. Erin saw a Dullahan girl passing by and rolling her eyes as she carried her head.
“Alright.”
