He began striking the metal, deforming the perfect circle. Erin saw him pause, bring it over to the fire. Now Pelt could handle the metal with tongs. But he had to get it colder. The metal was too warm. It wouldn’t hold any shape. So Pelt froze it colder as Emessa ran back with ice. He and she began to crush the ice into powder again.
This was how Pelt forged. As Erin’s flame burned, he took the Grasgil and put it in the flames, letting the cold magic fire freeze it colder. When he took it out, the metal began to warm—until he tossed Everfrozen Ice into the metal, working it in, giving it an inherent cold of its own.
It was a careful, delicate game. Each time he brought it closer to the blue flames, or poured the powder into the mix, the metal grew more rigid. The colder it became, the stronger the metal, until the anvil shook from each hammer blow. Stronger than steel; Erin saw that in a contest, even the hardened steel of the anvil would lose to the very thing Pelt was forging.
Yet there was a flaw there; if the Grasgil became too hard, it would simply shatter under a hammer blow. It had to be strong, but not strong to the point where it was too brittle. She knew that must be a danger. Erin looked at her fire.
“It is too sad.”
A voice spoke from behind her. Erin turned. Maughin turned. The Dullahan [Smith] stood with a crowd of other [Smiths]. Some were still wiping at their eyes, overcome by the emotion. But others looked at Pelt working.
“Grasgil.”
That was all Erin could say. Maughin nodded slowly.
“And your fire. I knew a smith who knew the secret to cold fire.”
His voice was low. The Dullahan looked at her. The young woman nodded.
“I’m sorry.”
“I see that. And I am sorry—I did not know.”
“Know what?”
Erin saw Maughin look at her. He knelt, so his head was on a level with hers. One armored hand touched her shoulder slowly.
“I did not know you grieved so.”
The smith looked at her. Erin smiled.
“It isn’t always like that.”
She felt Maughin’s hand tighten on her shoulder, so gently. And she felt a furry arm embrace her. Erin turned her hand and saw Bealt. The Gnoll [Farrier]’s tears were running down his fur.
What grief lay in everyone’s hearts? Erin looked at her flame. The two [Smiths] stood side by side. Bealt murmured.
“It’s so painful.”
“But glorious.”
There was nothing more Erin could say. So she watched Pelt. Frost covered the Dwarf’s beard. The cold burned now from the hammer and the Everfrozen Ice. And one had overtaken the other. The freezing chill of the fire was nothing compared to the frost vapor wafting from the anvil. And surely—the steel itself would crack from the cold.
It did, on the fourth reshaping of the metal. But Pelt simply kept hammering on the broken piece of the anvil as part of it cracked with a sound that tore the air. The Grasgil was taking shape.
It wasn’t a sword he was making. Erin saw a curved edge, a stout head. And a gap—
“A bardiche.”
Erin saw how the long-edged axe would be fitted with a long shaft of wood. And she realized, as Pelt drew out the axe, shaping it, that he was nearly done.
The Dwarf had to use a fuller, a tool to punch holes in metal, in order to shape part of the bardiche. His hammer strokes weren’t huge, powerful ones anymore, but he had to strike with such force Erin feared the anvil might crack a second time, just to move the metal. And the Grasgil was growing colder by the second. It was a race against time and Pelt’s strength to finish the work.
The metal had lost the brighter green color, turned darker. And, fittingly, bluer. A dark cyan, trending towards black as the cold intensified. Pelt had minutes left at most before the metal became practically immovable. But his hands were a blur. Emessa had placed his tools next to the anvil on a workbench and Pelt grabbed tool after tool, perfecting the design. Then he grabbed a handful of the Everfrozen Ice powder.
Barehanded. His gloves had long since frozen too stiff to use. Erin saw the Dwarf’s raw fingers sprinkle the powder onto the Grasgil. Then he hammered the powder with tremendous blows that rang in the forge.
The last baptism of powdered ice buried itself in the axe head. It still stood out, flecks and clear spots of the magical crystal or ice or whatever it was, buried among the metal. But along the edge? Only metal.
The design was finished. Erin exhaled, but Pelt wasn’t done. He still had one last task, Erin realized, as she looked at the edge of the bardiche itself. It was rough. Unrefined. You could strike a crushing blow with it, but never a cutting one. So Pelt grabbed another pair of gloves and seized the axe head.
“Another fire. Not cold, but hot.”
“My forge.”
“No. It needs to be close.”
Emessa and two of the apprentices hurried over to an unused forge in Pelt’s workshop. They lit it, and a warmer flame burst into existence. Pelt kept them from making it too hot. Erin looked at his hands as he shook them out.
The cold burned his hands. Chilblains stood out on his fingers and skin, but Pelt never spoke a word. He took the Grasgil bardiche, and holding it by the tongs, inserted it into the fire. Quickly, as the heat softened the edge, Pelt yanked it out.
“Sixteen minutes until the metal freezes solid. And when it does, mithril will melt before this axe does.”
Between the mortal fire and the blue, cold flames he alternated, softening the axe, working the edge. With grinder first, tearing the rotating stone that his apprentice worked to pieces, then doing the same with a file, and finally sandpaper. Trying to keep the edge from freezing over while preventing the heat from deforming the razor’s edge.
Erin realized the cold was intensifying. Now the Grasgil was generating it, and the Everfrozen Ice. The magical metal forced her and the other [Smiths] back, until Pelt was working alone, with his apprentice. Both were shivering, their extremities and skin going numb.
But they finished the job. That was all there was to it. They were [Smiths]. And either would have frozen their skin off rather than leave the work undone now. Erin remembered the Dwarf hurling his metal aside. That Pelt had been joyous, enraptured by the love of forging.
The Dwarf she saw now was different. He loved his work, or else he would not labor so. But focus defined him. A determination as heavy as his hammer blows. He looked into the heart of the blue flame as he tested the edge.
When he held the finished piece up on long-handled tongs, Erin breathed. And she felt a cold unlike any other radiating from the metal. Far colder than her fire.
“Done.”
That was all Pelt said. He laid the bardiche’s head on the anvil. Emessa staggered away, and the smiths helped her. Her limbs were frosted. And Pelt moved slowly.
“The heat. Will it…?”
Bealt looked at the bardiche. Pelt shook his head.
“It will not grow warmer. And the colder it becomes, the harder the blade. Too cold and it will shatter, but short of a volcano’s wrath no fire will undo the cold temper. And it will grow little colder in the coldest blizzard.”
He looked around. Then Maughin seized his shoulder. The Dwarf looked up and the Dullahan spoke shortly.
“Fine work.”
Pelt nodded. Bealt pounded a paw against his shoulder. More smiths came over, and the Dwarf shook hands, accepted a drink. But then they stood back.
It was Erin that Pelt looked to. And the two stood together outside of his frosted forge. Erin’s flame was dying, having consumed the charcoal. But still it burned. Pelt looked at it. And then at his work. Erin stared at the magical blade.
“What will you do with it?”
The Dwarf shrugged.
“Sell it. An [Enchanter] could bring out its potential. With runes, it would fit any Gold-rank’s hand and satisfy them. As it is, it is as good as any Silver-rank’s blade, magical or not.”
His voice rose. And heat, the kind of heat that had burned despite the cold, entered his voice.
“Let it be a glorious weapon. A powerful one, worthy of a true warrior’s hand! Let it cut down a hundred thousand foes! For this was made of Grasgil! And it will freeze what it cuts! Let all those not born of snow fear its touch!”
He clenched his fist, his cold-cracked skin opening. Erin reached for a healing potion, but Pelt ignored his hands. He looked at Erin. His eyes were still red. The blood on his nose still frozen there, into his beard. He spoke to her, urgently.
“Once, it would go to the [Runesmiths] next, before it had frozen completely. And they would etch it. Now, someone else will have to take it, with the craft. That damned Lizardwoman in Wistram. Or someone who knows Grasgil. Perhaps it will be sold as it is. I don’t care.”
He paused.
“I don’t care.”
But his eyes lingered on the Grasgil axe. And Erin heard the lie in every syllable. He was proud of it. He stared at the axe, his warming forge. Then he looked at her.
“Aren’t you going to ask?”
The young woman paused. Now, in this moment, she felt like Pelt was looking at her. Straight at her. And there was so much unsaid.
I’m sorry. The flames burned in his forge. They whispered. I’m so sorry. I’m so sad.
He didn’t need her to say it. And he understood. More than words. Erin shook her head.
“Not if you don’t want to tell me. Everyone’s got secrets. But I’d like to know. I want to know more about people. I want to—change.”
Something lit up in Pelt’s eyes. He looked at Erin, like an equal. And the Dwarf, whom Erin realized looked down on everyone else, nodded once. He turned. Pointed to Maughin, whose head was held in his hands, staring at Pelt’s forge with longing. And Erin’s flames with grief.
“Look at that boy. Staring at me, when his people invented the way to smith Grasgil. He can do it, though it would take him a day for my hours. He can make mithril, if he but tried.”
“He thinks he’s low-leveled. Compared to you.”
“Levels do not define the smith. Only the will behind the hammer.”
Palt sounded like was quoting something. He shook his head and looked at Erin.
“Low-leveled for now—who cares? I knew the two smiths that were here. The one Salazsar stole was Level 41. The other was Level 48. He died of old age, but both were old, for Drakes. The boy is still young. He could make it to Level 50. Or even higher. It took me eighty years, but I had time. And I won’t grow any higher. I think. No longer.”
Erin’s breath caught. Pelt held out one arm. Thick muscle, still frostbitten, flexed as he held out something to her.
Her knife. The metal had somehow not shattered despite the cold. Pelt looked at it. And then he held it out to her.
“I am one of this world’s best smiths. There are older. And better. But I have given nearly a century to my craft. Once, they called me a master and I forged the like of this each day! My team and I represented Dwarven craft! Even now few of my kind could surpass me! All but him, and the old grandfathers! I can still forge even the rarest metals! Even now!”
His voice shook with pride. Erin looked at the small knife in his hands. The Dwarf stared at the bared metal.
“But. I made a mistake. We all did. In our arrogance we—he—we committed a grave sin. For the steel was impure. As impure as our hearts. And for that, we incurred a debt. So heavy, I cannot pay it. And we left our home. I shall never go back. Never reclaim my pride.”
Water ran from his eyes. Pelt dropped to one knee.
“Never again, never again. But for one moment—”
He stared at the fading blue flame. Memory. It burned regret. A skeleton’s death. Tears stood out in Pelt’s eyes. He looked at his work, and at Erin. He offered her the knife and she took it.
“I made an error no one would forgive me for. So I left in disgrace. I will not go back home ever again. What more is there to say?”
“I’m sorry.”
“I know. And I remembered my pride. Twice now, you’ve uncovered it.”
The Dwarf shook his head. He laughed, bitterly, with more pain than Erin wanted to hear. He shook his head, turning away. The blue flame was dying. Only a spark remained.
“Your flame hurts my heart, girl. Take it away. And leave. Please.”
He knelt in his frost-covered forge, the tears of ice running and freezing. Erin looked at him. This wasn’t what she’d wanted. Pelt clutched at his heart.
“I’m—”
But he knew that. Erin stepped backwards, holding the kitchen knife. No. She wanted him to smile. But her flame was only sorrow. She turned away, tears springing into her own eyes.
“Erin Solstice.”
The young woman turned. And the Dwarven [Blacksmith], kneeling on the ground met the [Innkeeper]’s eyes.
“My craft. The art of it thanks you.”
He bowed his head. And she bowed back. Erin walked backwards. And she stared around. At staring smiths. At a forge where frost did not melt in the summer’s light. At people, staring at a legend from Liscor that had stepped into Pallass.
But she wasn’t happy. Erin Solstice shook her head, brushing at her tears.
“What a terrible Skill. What a horrible, cursed…why do I have it?”
She clenched her fists. But then she remembered Pelt’s tears. She looked back. And the smith was rising. He stood, his back straight and looked at Erin.
Perhaps—
Erin Solstice turned. And she heard a click. It was soft, metallic. Erin felt something cool on her wrists. She looked around.
“Got her!”
A pair of Drakes sighed in relief. Erin stared at her manacled hands. Then at the squad of [Guards] dressed in the yellows of Pallass’ City Watch. One of the Drakes shouted.
“We have the troublemaker! Her mass-effect Skill is subdued! Human, you are under arrest by the authority of Pallass’ City Watch! Anything you do from this point on will be seen as an addition to your crime of mass mental alteration without consent on the citizens of Pallass!”
Half a dozen clawed hands seized Erin. She blinked at the Drake.
“What? Wait, I—”
“I caution you that any further use of Skills will cause us to use force! Take her to the prison, squad. The matter is taken care of, citizens of Pallass!”
He saluted. The Drakes began dragging Erin backwards. The young woman gaped as someone grabbed her legs and they lifted her up. Pelt stared at Erin and the [Blacksmith] blinked. Erin wriggled.
“Wait. What? Hey! Listen—this is a mistake! I didn’t mean…hey! Put me down!”
