Erin cupped her palms together. She focused. It wasn’t hard to come up with a memory to conjure the blue flame. And her irritation over the two young Garuda, her anxiety over going home…all faded away.
Toren. She saw a heart breaking. Erin saw the light in his eyes go out. She felt hands around her throat. Evil. Good. Was it what he was or hadn’t she seen? She closed her eyes and her hands sought the flame as the two Garuda laughed. Let this chase them away. Her grief.
[Like Fire, Mem—
“You! Human! I knew it was you!”
Erin jumped. The two Garuda did a double-take in the air. The roar made everyone around Erin look up. She stared up—
And saw, on a balcony high above her, a short figure. Pelt, his face red, bellowed down at Erin from the ninth floor.
“Stop messing with my forge fire or I’ll put this hammer in your skull!”
“What?”
Erin was so surprised she completely lost focus. No flame appeared, but Pelt’s roar was no less furious.
“Every damn time! Use that Skill one more time and I’ll come down there and break both kneecaps!”
“Hey! It’s the mad Dwarf!”
Weki half-cawed uncertainly. He pointed up at Pelt. Assaln flew up effortlessly through the air. He shouted at Pelt.
“Lay off the Human, you old drunkard! We’re with her!”
“No they’re not! And what did I do?”
“Get lost, you feathered ducks!”
Pelt roared at Assaln. He had a hammer in his hand and he swung it at the Garuda. Assaln dodged back.
“Hey! Watch it! We’re with the Human, so—”
“I said. Get. Lost.”
Pelt roared. He threw the hammer. It spiraled past Assaln’s face. So fast that the shocked Garuda only dodged afterwards. Erin heard a gasp and a scream from Assaln. The spinning metal hammer was heavy and Pelt had thrown it fast.
“He’s out of his mind!”
Weki shouted. Erin turned, shouting.
“Watch out below! Hammer—”
She saw the hammer curving around in the air. It spun back towards Pelt. The Dwarf caught it. He aimed it at Weki.
“Get lost or it’s going through your head!”
“Ancestors!”
The two Garuda hesitated. Pelt drew back and they fled. Erin was vaguely amused to see them flying down, shouting about insane Dwarves. She waved up at Pelt.
“Thanks—”
“Use that Skill again and it’s hitting you! You damned empty-headed Human!”
Pelt swore at Erin. Her gratitude ebbed. But the Dwarf’s rage was curious.
“What did I do?”
Erin shouted up, but Pelt had already vanished. Erin looked around—everyone in earshot was staring at her.
“Um. Sorry?”
Erin hurried off. She ran back towards the stairs and went up them. Pallass’ residents cursed at her.
“Wrong side, idiot! This side’s going down!”
“Whoops! Sorry!”
Erin hurried to the other staircase. She was panting when she reached the top of the stairs. It was a workout going from floor to floor. Lots of climbing. She looked around.
The forges were hard at work. Erin heard the familiar, rhythmic clang of metal on metal. She stepped towards them, circumnavigating the pedestrian’s walkway. She saw Maughin at one forge. And then Pelt.
“Maughin! Hey!”
The Dullahan turned at Erin’s voice. He waved one hand to her—or rather, his torso did. His head was lying on a little pillow next to his anvil. Erin waved at him, but she didn’t come over as he bellowed a query. Instead, she headed towards Pelt’s forge.
The Dwarf was lying on the sling-chair, arms folded, gloves on his head. His apprentice was hard at work, shaping some thin metal in a complex pattern. And there was a sword, lying on the anvil.
Erin eyed the sword. It was beautiful. It had yet to be polished and ground, so parts of it were black with oxidization, but along the edge of the sword was a band of pure, silvery metal. No—silver was dull compared to the color this metal gave off. She had only seen metal so beautiful and shining once before.
Mithril. Erin felt at her belt pouch for a coin. Then she paused, looked at the Dwarf.
“Pelt?”
He flipped the gloves off his eyes and stared up at her.
“Buggering kings. What do you want? Get lost!”
“I—thanks for chasing away those Garuda. They were bothering me.”
Pelt just stared at Erin. The Drake apprentice working on the metal muttered under her breath.
“You’re going to be in trouble, Master.”
“For what? Throwing a hammer at those bird nuisances? Shut up! And I didn’t do it for you, woman.”
The Dwarf cursed at her too, throwing a glove at the Drake. It bounced off her arm. Erin glared at Pelt.
“Hey! Don’t be a jerk!”
“I said, get lost. This is my forge! What in the hells do you want?”
The Dwarf glowered at Erin. She put her hands on her hips.
“I was trying to thank you! And ask what you meant! What do you mean, I messed with your fire?”
“You know exactly what I mean, you lead-brained piece of scrap iron! You’ve been fucking with my forge fire all day! One more time and I’ll break your hands!”
Pelt flailed for his hammer lying next to his sling, but didn’t have the energy to get up himself. Erin stared at him.
“Wait. You mean, the blue flame? But I wasn’t anywhere near your forge! And I didn’t even use it!”
“So? It’s fire! Do you think I’m an idiot? You’re blasting that thing all over the place—apprentice! Throw this Human out!”
“Master, I don’t think she knows what you’re talking about—”
The Drake avoided the second glove. Erin folded her arms.
“Your apprentice is right! I have no clue! How did my little Skill affect you all the way up here? All I’m doing is making fire!”
Pelt’s face turned as red as a beet. Or at least, a red beet. He inhaled to scream at Erin and seemed to realize she wasn’t about to leave. In a strangled voice, the Dwarf pointed at the fire that his apprentice was working with.
“It’s not natural. It’s magical fire. I can feel you making it. It’s distracting. And it will interfere with my metals. If I was forging truegold it would ruin the process!”
Erin raised her eyebrows. She glanced at the sword. Erin was no [Metallurgist], but she had eyes.
“And were you forging with truegold?”
The Dwarf uttered an oath. Erin shook her head.
“That’s what I thought. I’m sorry if I’m making you sensitive—”
The Drake apprentice chuckled. Pelt looked around for something to throw, but he was out of nearby objects.
“—but I’m testing out a new Skill! And I don’t know how it works!”
“Test it somewhere else! I don’t need to feel every time you make a half-baked flame.”
“But why are you so sensitive?”
“I’m not sensitive, I’m a grandfathers damned [Blacksmith]! Of course I can feel magical flame! Anyone who can’t is a useless lump who doesn’t deserve to pick up a hammer! Which is apparently everyone in Pallass!”
Pelt howled at Erin. Across the ninth floor, hammers stopped ringing for a second. Erin hesitated.
“Um. Okay. Sorry.”
The Dwarf stared at Erin.
“Get. Lost.”
She threw up her hands.
“Fine. I was trying to say thank you! I didn’t mean to do anything with the fire, so I’ll stop! Thank you for chasing away those Garuda you huge jerk!”
She shouted back at Pelt, using a touch of her [Loud Voice] Skill. His eyes rolled up in his head. Erin realized he was not only grumpy, but hung over. She smirked as his apprentice covered a grin and turned to go. She’d talk to Maughin, maybe bring him back to the inn. Erin was feeling more the thing. She was tired of flirting Garuda boys and mean Dwarves! Time to go back—
Erin was walking out of Pelt’s forge when she heard a strangled noise. She ignored it—until a hand seized her lower arm.
“That’s mine.”
Erin whirled. Pelt was on his feet. And suddenly—the Dwarf was right there. She stared down at him. Erin wasn’t tall and Dwarves weren’t as short as she was given to believe. And Pelt was—
Right there. The Dwarf’s eyes were huge. And suddenly—he wasn’t angry. His big hand suddenly held Erin’s arm. As tight as a vise. As tight as steel itself.
“That’s my knife.”
“What? I’m sorry. Huh?”
Erin tried to yank away reflexively. But Pelt was just staring at her. No—not her. Her butt! Erin was outraged—then she heard him. She twisted and realized his knife was hanging from her belt.
“Oh. The kitchen knife—”
“I made that. Back with that stupid competition. That’s my knife.”
Pelt looked at the knife, tucked in the sheathe. Erin tried to smile. But suddenly she felt a tiny alarm ringing in her head.
[Dangersense]. And the Drake apprentice had put down her hammer, looking at her master warily.
“Yeah, um, I remember it too. You did an amazing job! Maughin gave me the knife, and I took it to Lorent and he said it was brilliant, so I’ve been using it ever since. It’s amazing. Thank—”
“It was flawed.”
Pelt’s voice was low. His eyes were wide in his face. And it was bloodless suddenly, not flushed with color. Erin’s stomach jumped. She tried to tug away, but it felt like Pelt had turned to stone. He was unbelievably strong.
“No, it was a tiny crack. Maughin ground it off in a moment! And it’s a great knife. Actually, I’ve been meaning to pay you back for it.”
“It was flawed.”
There was something wrong with the Dwarf’s voice. It was strangled. Horrified. And something else was mixed with it. Pure, raw emotion. The kind of emotion Erin recognized. She had heard Montressa speaking Pisces’ name with it. She had heard it in her own voice.
A pure note of madness.
“I’m—it wasn’t that flawed. Look, I’m sorry about the competition. But it was really—”
“It’s flawed. A flaw! A disgrace!”
Pelt’s voice rose, and now there was a note of hysteria in it. He grabbed for the knife and Erin wrestled away.
“Hey! Wait a second!”
“Master Pelt—”
Emessa dropped her hammer and hurried over. She grabbed at her master, but Pelt was focused on the knife.
“Flawed. Flawed. Give it to me! I have to erase it!”
“Hey! That’s my knife! Wait—wait!”
Erin might have pulled the knife off and given it to Pelt if she could. She was afraid—the Dwarf was yanking her arm so hard she was shouting with pain. He was pulling it out of the socket! His eyes were wide, his face staring.
“Pelt! Stop! I’ll give it to you!”
The Dwarf didn’t reply. He was grabbing at the knife, trying to tear it off Erin. And he was going to break her arm! The [Innkeeper] felt his hand grinding her bone. She cried out in agony.
“Pelt!”
A huge hand grabbed Pelt’s arm. Maughin had come charging out of his forge. The huge Dullahan [Smith] grabbed Pelt. Erin felt the immense power of Maughin’s arm trying to force Pelt to let go of her arm. Emessa had hold of Pelt’s other arm that was trying to tear the knife off Erin’s belt.
“Master, let her go!”
“Pelt! Let go!”
“The knife!”
The Dwarf screamed. He was fighting both smiths now. Maughin gasped as he finally tore Pelt’s hand off Erin. She staggered away, trying not to scream in pain. She fumbled for one of her emergency healing potions. Then she heard a scream.
“Give me that knife!”
Pelt lunged. Both Emessa and Maughin caught him, wrestling him back. But the Dwarf was as strong as Maughin despite his size! Two more journeymen smiths rushed out of Maughin’s forge, and a burly Drake from another. They grabbed Pelt.
“Stop him! Hold him back!”
“Get clear!”
Maughin shoved at Erin. She stumbled back. Her skin was crushed where Pelt had grabbed her. She heard the Dwarf screaming, heard fighting as she tried not to cry out. The potion went down her throat and the pain—eased—
The white mist around Erin’s vision cleared. She hadn’t even known it was there until the pain subsided. Then she could think. She heard shouting, Maughin’s deep voice—and then silence. When Erin’s arm finally healed and she could take a shuddering breath, she saw Pelt lying on the forge floor.
The Dwarf had a bleeding nose and busted lip. Someone had hit him hard. The other smiths were panting, staring at Pelt. Maughin spoke shakily to Erin.
“Are you alright?”
“My arm—but it’s fine.”
Erin shakily indicated the arm. Some of the blood from the crushed spot was still there, but fading as her tissues reabsorbed it at speed. Maughin nodded and whirled on Pelt.
“Disgraceful. And you call yourself a smith?”
“My knife. Flaw in the steel.”
The Dwarf stared up at the ceiling. Erin saw one of the Drake smiths spit. Maughin’s voice was thunderous.
“You call that a flaw? And you’d attack a young woman for it? You nearly tore her arm off!”
Pelt didn’t respond. He was staring at the ceiling. Erin saw liquid running from his eyes. Red seeped from his mouth and nose. Maughin turned away.
“You should go. This isn’t a matter for the Watch.”
He informed Erin, looking at her gravely. Erin opened and closed her mouth. She saw the other smiths returning to their forge, warily. Maughin covered his face.
“I’m sorry. I would have never given you that knife had I known. It may be better to break it. But it is made so well—do not bring it here, I think.”
“R-right. I’m sorry.”
“You did nothing wrong.”
The Dullahan’s voice was flat. And his face was expressionless as he detached it from his shoulders. Erin knew he was furious. Jelaqua had told her that Dullahans went cold and impassive the angrier they got. She looked at him, and then at Emessa, standing at her forge, staring down at her master.
“I—thank you.”
Maughin didn’t respond. Erin turned away. Now she felt—shocked. Shaken. She turned away.
Erin Solstice walked slowly along the lines of silent forges. Someone began beating metal again, and sound—quieter—resumed. The young woman walked very slowly. What had happened? Why had Pelt gone berserk?
But she knew part of the reason. Something about metal. And the competition where she’d goaded him and Maughin into making her a blade… Pelt had nearly torn her belt off her. She looked at the knife, in its little sheath.
Was this her fault too?
Erin looked up. Then she turned around. She ran back towards Pelt’s forge. Maughin saw her and called out, but Erin skidded into the forge. Emessa whirled.
Pelt was still lying on the floor. He looked up as Erin stopped, panting.
“Here!”
She thrust the knife at him. Pelt stared at it. His hand shot up and he grabbed the knife. He unsheathed it. Steel, folded alongside iron shone in his grip. He looked at it. At Erin.
“I’m sorry.”
She looked down at him. The Dwarf said nothing. He was still bleeding. And crying, she saw. His apprentice watched silently as Maughin thundered back over. The Dullahan stopped when he saw Pelt and the knife. But the Dwarf was silent. He stared at the knife, then looked at Erin.
“I’m sorry. Is it—wrong? Is something wrong with the blade?”
“It’s flawed.”
The Dwarf spoke hollowly. Maughin inhaled roughly behind him.
