Not physically. But Erin wasn’t the infamously energetic, smiling, crazed [Innkeeper] that someone would have expected going off of the stories of her. At the moment, she was fairly quiet.
Still a bit eccentric, though. Erin began muttering to herself after a second.
“Okay, what do I say? Alright! Hey everyone! It’s me! Erin! Did you miss me? I—I brought souvenirs!”
She put on a big smile for no one in particular. After a moment, Erin sighed.
“…I need to buy souvenirs.”
At least for Mrsha. Maybe something nice to eat. Or—since Lyonette was worried about her weight—a ball. But Mrsha was getting older and Erin thought she was a fine weight. Lyonette was a [Princess] and she had a thing about being svelte. But Gnolls were big! Erin had never met a short Gnoll by Human standards; the shortest were still taller than her by a bit. And they were heavier too, by and large. It was all muscle. Usually.
“There are fat Gnolls. Like that [Senator]! Errif! Fat Gnolls. Hm. Maybe Lyonette has a point. Mrsha could use a ball. But she’s growing up! Maybe…a fishing rod? But all the fish around the inn are huge jerks that jump at you. No fishing rod. How about…a toy car? Would that be a toy wagon in this world?”
Erin knew she was distracting herself. She looked around as she wandered out of the meadow. This entire area lacked a road, but it bordered a decent forest and if you followed the stream back…Erin found herself skirting a large area of tall grass, up to her waist.
“Hey there!”
A voice called out. Erin’s head turned. She saw the grass move and jumped. A huge, furry Gnoll rose from the grass. No—two. Both carried slings. Erin blinked.
“Whoa!”
“Careful! We nearly nailed you! This is our hunting area. Are you lost?”
One of the Gnolls, female, called out to Erin. She sounded a bit put-out. Erin smiled apologetically.
“Sorry! I’m actually done, so I’m heading back. Am I going the right way?”
Erin had learned that a smile was magic. As magic as a spell. So was being honest. The aggrieved Gnoll’s expression faded and she nodded.
“Oh, you’re done? You’re on the right trail, then. Just head a bit to the left. And watch out! There’s a group with bows hunting along that forest and they shoot before they look.”
Erin eyed the forest and shook her head.
“I’ll walk around it, then. Unless I’m scaring off game?”
She looked at the two Gnolls hunting in the tall grass. The other female, with dusky fur, grinned. She held up a dead hare by the ears. It had a dented skull. Erin saw blood and felt bad for the creature, but the Gnoll just looked triumphant.
“No fear! There’s enough to go around. We bagged our breakfast already. Come on, Ferri. Good meeting you, Miss Human.”
The two Gnolls waved and Erin smiled and waved them off. She distinctly heard them talking as they disappeared into the tall grass.
“I didn’t know a Human was on one of these trips. So she’s the one by the stream.”
“Just goes to show, even Humans have good taste.”
The young woman had to smile. She kept walking around the tall grass which marked the two Gnoll’s hunting ground. The summer day was warm, but Erin was dressed lightly. She was more impressed by the two Gnolls in their fur coats. Erin stared at Pallass as she kept walking. It was far away. Miles and miles, but it was still a sight.
She imagined what it must be like, to live with this one landmark on the horizon each day. Of course, she’d lived in a city, but there was no grand thing that defined her existence there. Pallass was a symbol of Drake might. One of six in the world.
After a while, Erin realized she was stalling again. She sighed.
“How about I just walk in and wing it? No?”
Something was off. Erin Solstice knew it. She smiled. She tried to come up with something to say. ‘Sorry I’ve been away, but I’m so glad to see you all!’ Or—‘I can’t wait to show you my new Skills!’ Maybe—‘Hey! What did you do to my inn, Lyonette?’
But it just didn’t work. Erin’s smile slipped. She felt a bit artificial. A bit fake. Not because she didn’t mean every single word, but because…it was only half-true.
She could smile. But she couldn’t be…‘Erin’. The sort of Erin her friends deserved, the ones who wanted to see her smile and laugh. Part of her was still on break. Part of her was still thinking of him.
Toren.
The skeleton. Her first [Barmaid]. Or…worker in the inn. Her undead servitor. What she had thought of as rather annoying, sometimes creepy, but useful…tool. He was dead. Erin was almost sure of it. And he had possessed a soul. He had attacked her, in her inn two weeks ago.
And it was her fault. Erin closed her eyes for a moment. She walked into a patch of tall grass.
“Argh.”
Erin opened her eyes. She kept walking. But thoughts of Toren weighed on her mind.
She wasn’t sad about him. Or rather, it wasn’t just sadness. Erin had had a long time to think and she’d come to some conclusions. And she’d put some pieces together.
A ‘masked woman’ in the dungeon. Numbtongue’s encounter with a skeleton at Esthelm. At least some of the history that had led Toren to her inn on that fateful day had come together for Erin. He had come to see her. And if she’d listened. If she’d…
“No.”
Erin shook her head. It was the same argument that had been playing over in her head for two weeks straight. Even knowing what she did, could Erin truly forgive Toren?
He had been…evil. Or he’d done evil, as Erin understood the word. He’d killed Numbtongue’s friends. He’d stabbed Bevussa, killed people for no reason Erin could understand.
And it was her fault he’d gotten there.
Erin paused for a second. She would not forget that. Toren had become a murderous skeleton, who had killed dozens, maybe over a hundred people directly and indirectly. But that was her fault. How had he become like this? How had she never seen him becoming…
She knew he was intelligent. But she’d thought of him more like a…robot. With quirks. But Erin hadn’t made the leap of realizing he was a person. She remembered her last sight of him.
A heart, breaking. A skeleton laughing silently. Pulling off his head and crumpling into the ground. From bone to dust.
Erin touched her chest. She sighed. And her eyes found the summer sky.
Here was the thing. Erin Solstice was on holiday. She was off her holiday. She was coming back. And she had recovered.
Truly. Erin Solstice was not about to burst into tears, or wallow in grief. She had done that before, months ago after the battle with the Goblin Lord. After Zel Shivertail had died. After Skinner—after so much. If it was just grief, Erin might have pulled out of her funk long ago. No, this was similar, but different. It was a pall over her. Not grief, but guilt.
Guilt was a harder thing to bear than even sadness. Because Erin had been sad before. She had lost friends. She had seen tragedy and buried friends. But guilt?
Her guilt never left. Even after time. Erin could but close her eyes and her failures and guilt stung her. Toren was her fault. Hers, and hers alone.
Memory.
Erin cupped her hands again. This time, something burned in them. She looked down.
“Fire. Why’s it blue?”
A small, blue flame with a core like a deep, glittering sapphire burned in Erin’s palms. She didn’t feel heat from the fire. But she had made it. Erin stared at the flame, mystified. Sometimes it appeared when she thought of Toren. She was using her Skill instinctually, but she didn’t know what it did.
“Off. Off.”
Erin waved her hands vaguely, and the flames disappeared as she uncupped her palms. Erin jumped as bits of blue flame fell towards the grass. She stomped fast; in this heat, if they caught on the tall grass—but no, the blue flames died away.
Sighing in relief, Erin Solstice walked on. She was nearly at the meeting spot. She tried to smile, thinking of her friends and her family in this world, waiting for her. They deserved a happy Erin. But no matter how she tried…she couldn’t shake the blue flame burning in her mind.
 
——
 
“Alright everyone, this is the spot! Please remember your designated hunting areas! We don’t want accidents! We’ll be here for the next hour to help you, but after that you’re on your own! We will have at least one of our expert [Hunters] present at all times, but transport back to Pallass is once every morning!”
A quartet of Gnolls dressed in snazzy hunting uniforms complete with camouflaged caps addressed an excited group of fourteen or so Gnolls and a few Drakes getting off the padded wagons. The Gnolls were dressed for the hunt—overly so. But their clientele was even more outdone.
Hunting bows, slings, even a few throwing spears and throwing knives adorned the group listening to the leading Gnoll’s speech. They looked like they were armed for guerrilla warfare, and Thift, one of the Gnolls giving the speech, had to stop himself from rolling his eyes and laughing at their silly attire.
But then, he was dressed in the magical, color-shifting hunting gear he’d never wear if he was actually going hunting. It was overkill and the garb made him feel incredibly silly. But his job demanded he wear it and look the part, so he stood straight, the hunting bow and quiver on his back rubbing against his fur.
“Remember your whistles are only for emergencies, yes? But if you hear one, immediately return to this spot. Our [Hunters] will instantly respond to your distress call, but please blow them only for injury or monster sightings.”
The lead Gnoll, Terrisca, was still giving the standard orientation speech to the armed Gnolls and Drakes. Thift saw one of the Drakes put up a claw.
“Excuse me. How likely is it that we’ll see monsters?”
She looked vaguely worried. Thift saw her clutching her fishing rod rather uncertainly. Some of the other Gnolls and Drakes laughed, and Terrisca smiled.
“Not likely, Miss Teclaw. This land is under Pallass’ aegis. It’s one of the safest places on the continent!”
Thift nodded and pitched in with practiced timing.
“However, we take every precaution just to be safe. If you see any monster, even a slime, blow on your whistle at once. This area is regularly patrolled, but there are always exceptions. I heard there was a Creler infestation at the Bloodfields.”
Some of the clients shuddered and Terrisca shot Thift a quick glance. But she nodded after a second; better to have the clients a bit wary. Some of the Gnolls near the front murmured, but one of them spoke up with a quick grin.
“I’d rather like to find a monster. With a few good shots, I believe I could take down a…a Scrawgie or two!”
He flexed his shortbow and the others laughed. Thift tried not to let his expression change.
City Gnolls.
It took all of Thift’s control not to grimace. He bet none of this group had ever seen so much as a Sewer Slime before. They’d lived behind Pallass’ walls all their lives, and that was one of the safest places…anywhere. Indeed, he thought of the group he was leaving here as rather overfed and clueless.
But perhaps that was him being harsh. His clients had signed up for their exciting outdoor survival getaway. They were expected to hunt and prepare their meals, and they’d be sleeping out in the open—except for the few that had brought tents.
Even so, it was the kind of getaway only a City Gnoll or Drake would pay for. Plains Gnolls, of which Thift was one, were used to this lifestyle in general, not as some exciting venture.
“Remember, keep in your designated area! We don’t want anyone injuring each other while hunting! You may gain the [Hunter] class if you’re lucky!”
Terrisca smiled at her excited group. She pointed in the distance.
“There is also a fishing option; we have a plentiful lake and some of our [Fishers] have caught harvests there. If you’ve signed up for a creek spot, just remember to bury your waste far from the water!”
The Gnolls and Drakes nodded wisely. Thift sighed. Terrisca had neglected to mention that her outdoors organization paid said [Fishers] to stock the lake up ahead of their groups, and [Trappers] and [Hunters] also made sure there was game to be had. Frankly, if none of the clients bagged a single animal, he, Thift, would conclude it was because they were both blind and deaf.
But it would be fun. Terrisca let the clients go. Some instantly scattered, heading towards their designated hunting spots. A few looked quite sharp. Thift, the seasoned [Hunter], had to admit that the pair of Gnolls with hunting spears might actually bring down some of the deer scattered around the area.
“There, you see, Thift? That trio looks like they’ve hunted before.”
As the employees of Pallass Hunting, the company that ran this outdoors experience, relaxed and fielded a few questions from their clients, Terrisca murmured to Thift. The male Gnoll growled very quietly so no one but his coworkers would hear him. He nodded at the trio of two Drakes and a Gnoll who were moving in a single line towards a forest.
“I’ll admit, they can move quietly. But if they catch a deer, it’s only because they’re fenced into our ‘outdoor’ area.”
Terrisca cuffed Thift on the shoulder lightly.
“Don’t spoil their fun. They’ve paid up and it beats having to track one for miles. Most of these Gnolls and Drakes have jobs and don’t want to travel into the real wilderness.”
“I know, I know.”
Thift sighed. This was his second year working the spring-summer job with Pallass Hunting, and he couldn’t say that it was a bad job. He only had to stand around and give advice to rookies. Terrisca, who’d recruited him, grinned.
“Don’t be sour. And remember—smile.”
“I will!”
Thift glowered back at his second-cousin. He shifted as all four employees saw someone heading their way.
“Excuse me! Terribly sorry—”
“I’ll handle it.”
Terrisca waved at one of the Drakes whom they’d escorted here a few days ago. Thift eyed the anxious Drake, and he caught the distinct odor of bad feces on the wind. He coughed.
“Phew. What did they eat?”
“Nothing digested.”
One of the other Gnolls complained. They were used to bad scents, but even so—someone had had a very bad time. Thift listened as Terrisca talked to the anxious Drake, but he didn’t catch what they were saying. Terrisca spoke—then hurried back.
“Zeky. Barra. I need you to follow this Drake and help her and her group.”
The other two Gnolls looked up.
“What’s wrong?”
Thift hadn’t smelled blood, but the Drake woman was clearly in distress. Terrisca grimaced as she explained.
“This Drake’s group—they were fishing and hunting and caught enough game and fish, yes? But they must not have been as experienced as they said. They—get this—they ate their game without gutting them and removing the entrails of their kills.”
The other Gnolls gagged.
