That was the nightmare of every apprentice—no, every [Blacksmith] in existence. That there was some hidden flaw they couldn’t see. But only Emessa lived without it. Because Pelt made almost no mistakes, or if they were there, they were microscopic fractures. He had a problem with anything short of perfection, but Emessa would take near-perfection.
“Master?”
“Do it.”
Emessa took the steel out of the fire after six minutes and began hammering. Pelt listened, his eyes closed. He might snap her blade even after she’d finished it, for a slight flaw, a delamination in the metal or an improper heat-treatment. In that case, Emessa would just start over. She’d level up. And she’d learn, and she’d earn the pittance Pelt paid her. It was fine by her.
And he—Emessa knew her master. He was always like this. Even when he was in the mood to forge, he seldom did it with anything more than desultory effort. He was always like this; making quality with ease, but with the barest of effort to pay for his livelihood. Never more than that.
Never…Emessa paused. The rhythm of her hammer striking steel, striking anvil, then striking steel faltered. Pelt swore at her and she hurriedly resumed the rhythm. The Drake was thinking, though.
Sometimes Pelt was in a good mood. And then he created masterpieces. Emessa had seen him do it twice. No—three times. She remembered when he’d forged the kitchen knife for that Human girl. She remembered the perfection in the way he’d shaped metal, faster than any smith, better than Maughin himself.
And the ending. Pelt, staggering away from a blade with the smallest of cracks. A tiny imperfection in the steel had caused him to flee his forge as if ghosts haunted it. And he hadn’t come back for four days. Emessa had been forced to drag him to work after he’d drunk enough to be thrown out of eight different pubs.
Something had happened with Pelt, long ago. He was paranoid of flaws in his steel. Something had broken her ill-tempered master. And Emessa, like a [Smith], wondered if the flaw had gone to the very core of Pelt’s being. If you could even fix what was wrong with him or if he was damaged beyond repair.
The Drake’s hammer hit the metal harder. Emessa’s sinewy arms moved, striking harder. Fine, then! Let the other smiths mock him. And let the apprentices scorn her. They didn’t see Pelt for what he was. And they didn’t understand how Emessa adored her master.
There they were, then. A Drake girl too afraid to be her own [Smith] and a lazy master. No—a broken one. They complemented each other.
“Oh no.”
Emessa messed up again as she forged the tip. She’d gotten too excited, thinned out the tip of the sword. She stared at the piece. Normally she could thin the blade, snap the tip off and shape a new one, but she knew Pelt would break the blade before he let her do that. A sword must be sturdy as well as light! Sadly, she cast the steel to the ground. They’d repurpose it, at least. She turned for a third billet, wincing, waiting for Pelt to curse her out—
And stopped. She saw the Dwarf, heavier set than a Human man and shorter too, about five foot four, staring at the furnace’s flames. He looked up, looked straight through Emessa.
“I’m sorry, Master. The tip—”
The Dwarf [Smith] ignored her. He turned back to the fire. He was staring into the heart of the forge.
“The fire’s all wrong today.”
“Master?”
The Dwarf was staring into the heat. Emessa copied him, wondering what he was seeing that she couldn’t. The flames were hot enough to bring steel to forging temperatures quickly. But Pelt was staring at something she couldn’t sense.
“Is Xif doing something? No. No, it’s magic. One of those [Mages]? No. Something—a Skill.”
“Master? Is something wrong with the fire?”
He shook his head. The Dwarf’s beard moved as he murmured.
“Something…feh. It’s her again. Feels like it.”
So saying, he stared down at something, straight through the forge floor. The bewildered Drake stared at Pelt.
“Who?”
Pelt started. He looked around as if he was only now realizing he was talking to Emessa. Then he stared at her sword.
“You thinned the tip? You idiotic clod!”
His roar drowned out the other forges. Emessa winced, but she was at least on solid ground now.
“I’m sorry, Master Pelt. I’ll start over.”
She had the steel billet of metal ready to go a third time, but Pelt shook his head.
“Leave it. And bring me the mithril!”
Emessa gaped at him. But then she dashed for Pelt’s bag of holding, which held many precious tools of his trade, including some of the metal he used. She saw Maughin’s head rise from his anvil; the Dullahan had good ears and Pelt, like any [Smith], shouted above the din.
“What’s the type of sword I’m supposed to make?”
“A basket-hilt, Master.”
“Cavalry? Or just a damn showoff?”
Pelt growled. The basket-hilted sword was a sword with a guard shaped like a basket, to protect the hand. It was a sword used for cutting and thrusting that [Riders] liked to use in the military. Emessa hurried back with something in her claws.
What she and Maughin saw was a glow brighter than silver. A beautiful square of metal, rounded at the edges, came out of a cloth wrapping. Emessa’s breath caught, and a few [Smiths] who’d heard Pelt stared.
This was the other reason she worked for him. Because Pelt, of the few smiths in Pallass, perhaps the world, could work more than just varieties of steel. The mithril shone in Emessa’s claws, unbelievably light. And hard. The metal was legendary. Pelt stared at it and flicked it with one finger. He was not impressed.
“This all we have? It’s not even pure! It’s an alloy. Well, I need an alloy, but…did we buy this crap?”
“No, Master. You made it.”
Emessa reverentially offered it to Pelt. The square wasn’t that large; mithril was expensive. In fact, Emessa was worried on seeing it because there wasn’t much. Pelt stared at the metal. He didn’t handle it with care. He grabbed it, and tapped it on the anvil. The metal rang, a pure note like a bell. The Dwarf peered at it.
“I don’t remember. When’d I make this?”
“When you were drunk, master.”
The Dwarf paused. He eyed the block of metal.
“Fine. There’s enough for an edge. Which is what I was probably intending…what’d I put in this? Not wolfram. Dwarfsteel—?”
Emessa listened sharply. Pelt tapped the metal with his hammer, trying to figure out what he’d done to it. She wanted to know too; he hadn’t taught her how to refine mithril. This metal, like so many in his collection, he’d made in secret. Moreover, he was talking in code as he guessed at the composition of this particular bit of mithril.
Dwarfsteel was an alloy. That much she was certain about; a special alloy made of some unique material that gave Terandrian arms made by the Dwarves their reputation as some of the finest weaponry money could buy. But every smith worth their anvil knew that. Techniques to working metals, forging points—the world of blacksmithing was as competitive and secretive as any royal court.
Knowing Dwarfsteel existed wasn’t huge. Knowledge of how to make it? Pallass would pay a lot for it, but Pelt refused to talk about the metal.
Wolfram now…that was new. Emessa made a tiny note to ask an [Alchemist] about it later, or a [Miner]. She had no idea how it might be used, though, and Pelt knew any number of combinations.
At last, the Dwarf seemed to come to a conclusion. He weighed the metal on the side of his hammer, lifting it up and down, measuring the weight against the weight of pure mithril he must have memorized and eying the color. He snapped his fingers. The pop made Emessa jump.
“Ah. Aaah. Truegold. Buggering kings, why did I make it with…? A ghost slayer? Huh. Well, it’ll do. This’ll be a fancy magic mithril blade. Worth lots of money.”
He grinned then, and Emessa smiled too. Gold was a simple addiction the both of them shared. Just one of Pelt’s masterpieces would put them ahead of all the days when she had to take up his slack.
The Dwarf glanced up.
“Steel.”
Emessa ran for the Dwarf’s supplies. Now he’d decided to work, she did everything in her power to encourage his moment of inspiration. Pelt snatched two stocks of steel from the selection she fanned out for him.
“You’re making a sandwich, Master?”
“[Cooks] make sandwiches. I’m making a layer weld. Shut up and add more charcoal. This forge needs to be hot to move the damn mithril. Hold on—”
The Dwarf pointed at the bellows.
“That. Give. And hand me the charcoal.”
When Emessa did, Pelt hurled it into the forge. The fire roared and he took the bellows, stoking it with powerful strokes. Emessa backed away. The forge was twice as hot in an instant! He was using a Skill to push the forge far past its intended heat.
“Master! You’ll crack the forge—”
“Shut up! More charcoal!”
Emessa watched as the fire grew hotter. Pelt was grinning as the flames roared out of the forge.
“Mithril needs to be hot. Can’t forge it to another substance before it’s damned hot—but it’ll cook lesser metals. Like the steel. So you have to keep a balance. Understand? This is how. You have a second to beat it together.”
He had two flat pieces of steel ready to go. He pointed at them, and Emessa watched. Pelt was a poor teacher, but there was nothing like seeing him work. He turned and roared.
“You watching, Maughin?”
Across the distance, the Dullahan jumped guiltily and missed his swing on his anvil. Pelt laughed derisively—at himself or Maughin, you couldn’t have said—and turned back to the mithril. It was heating up in the blaze and Emessa couldn’t even get close.
“The tongs—”
“Be quick!”
The Dwarf flicked the tongs up, grabbed the mithril, and slammed it onto the anvil. The mithril was so hot that Emessa was sure it would melt through even the hardened anvil steel—but Pelt was quick! He raised his hammer and brought it down.
And the mithril moved. The first impact shook the entire anvil. Emessa swore the huge anvil jumped. Pelt growled.
“Should have bolted it to the ground. Lazy—useless—weaklings!”
His hammer fell so fast Emessa couldn’t catch it. A blur—the mithril deformed. She knew what Pelt was doing as he grabbed two bits of iron.
“Quick! Amateurs need time! Mithril isn’t something you play games with!”
Pelt efficiently folded the metal, forge-welding the mithril between the plain, but strong steel bars he’d taken out. It was something the Dwarf was known to do—3-layer construction of a blade was a technique that put a hard metal ‘core’ that would become the blade’s edge between two softer, resilient metals that would cushion said edge and give the sword cutting edge while keeping a shock-absorbent spine.
It was a skillful technique, Emessa knew, and one that compensated for a lack of quality material while combining the properties of other metals. And it was even harder since Pelt was forging a sword with edges on two sides, thus with two edges to expose and keep clear of the iron. But she knew that the real reason Pelt used the technique so often was simply that the Dwarf was cheap.
With 3-layer welding, he could sell a blade with a mithril edge and use a fraction of the material. Not that anyone would use a pure mithril blade anyways unless it was a dagger or something—even so.
“Can’t let the steel burn up. Mithril doesn’t crack easy. See?”
Pelt was hammering fast. The mithril was already losing the insane heat it had taken at the start, enough so that the iron was welding to it. He was shaping the blade, the tip, the edges—
In truth, he was nearly done. Aside from moving the mithril at the start, he’d taken three long pieces of metal almost the size of the sword. The trick of tricks had been forge-welding the entire piece without a flaw. And he’d done it so fast!
Emessa watched, taking as many mental notes as possible as she saw Pelt continue his work. Soon, he had what he wanted; mithril along either edge and an iron core.
“Won’t it deform, master?”
“The mithril keeps it in shape. Steel’ll probably bend eventually. Who cares? Someone will pay thousands of gold for it. The trick now is quenching the mithril while keeping the middle from melting. Get me clay.”
The Dwarf spoke smugly. Emessa heard a grunt from Maughin. Disapproving. As she fumbled for a pot of the clay the Dwarf wanted, she reflected that it would be a trick selling the mithril-and-steel blade. Whoever bought it might not realize that the steel cladding would make the blade weaker. It would have a cutting edge and be light and fast—but it was a skimping use of mithril.
No wonder Maughin disapproved. But there was a saying among Pallass’ smiths: you could criticize a master on their work only if your tongue could keep up with their hammer. And because it was Pelt, even Maughin had to keep silent.
The process of making a sword was involved, but Pelt stopped right after he’d forged the blade to his satisfaction. He held up the sword after he’d done an edge quench of both mithril sides while leaving the steel interior far cooler. The Dwarf eyed the metal and Emessa knew he was seeking any flaw, any weak spot.
She held her breath. If he found even a grain of sand or dirt in the blade, even along the edge, he might snap the blade, or hurl it away. If he did, Emessa hoped he’d leave her something to sell, even if she turned the pieces into a dagger. His forge had expenses after all.
But the Dwarf didn’t break the blade. He grunted, and with a flick, tossed the now-cooled blade onto the anvil. Dismissively. The blade shone, and the edges looked like glowing silver. Emessa had never forged a blade half as beautiful. But Pelt looked at it as if it were trash.
“Done. Put a handle on it and do the guard.”
“Master—”
“I’m done.”
Pelt turned away. As if the beautiful blade he’d worked on was nothing. And—it wasn’t. Emessa looked at her master and saw the Dwarf settle down on the sling-chair. He sighed. Then grinned up at the ceiling.
“That’ll shut him up. And make sure to raise the price! Triple it and if that Drake won’t pay, find someone else.”
Emessa stared at the finished sword. Pelt’s trash. And she looked up and saw Maughin staring at the beautiful sword. Then at his unfinished flail.
That was why Pelt’s apprentices quit. Not just because of his abuse. Any apprentice would suffer the worst of masters to learn secrets of smithing. No, it was the way Pelt could make masterpieces beyond any other smith and still treat them like trash. His contempt for himself and his art was what tore your heart to pieces.
