“Ooh. Oooh. Birds.”
The weyr of Wyverns flew through the sky. High, high overhead. So high that they were specks in the sky, despite their massive size. In fact, they really didn’t belong in the sky, not with how much they weighed and the limited lift their wings could provide.
But anyone doing that calculation had failed to factor in magic. And the Wyverns flew. Frost Wyverns, to be exact. Hundreds of them. Nearly a thousand. They were flying in a huge formation, leaving the High Passes.
Not fleeing. Not exactly, but they had been bested. A certain Dragon had forced them to abandon their challenge to his territory and in the way of such monsters, the Wyverns had to go. They weren’t happy about it. And the Wyvern Lord, far larger than those in his clutch, was angry.
He passed over Liscor after a single look. Not because the city wouldn’t provide him with the opportunity to express his rage, not because it wasn’t inhabited by fleshy creatures he would dine on—but because it wasn’t large enough.
The Wyvern Lord glared down at the tiny figure of the Antinium crawling over the inn, the Drakes and Gnolls on the walls not quite yet aware of his presence. He snarled. Not enough! There were nearly a thousand of his kin behind him. Wyverns! The average adult could be anywhere from thirty to sixty feet from head to long, serpentine tail, and he was larger still. He wanted proper quarry, not this tiny city!
And bugs! Wyverns hated bugs. So the Wyvern Lord flew on, much to the disappointment of only one person.
Bird. The [Bird Hunter] stared up at the sky and waved hopefully upwards.
“Birds! Big birds! Come down, please?”
He stood in his ramshackle tower, bow in hand. He had a quiver of arrows beside him and now the Worker took aim. He sighted down the arrow, but even with all his Skills—the birds were far too high. Yet, Bird could see them.
“Birds. There are so many birds. One, two, three, four, five…”
He stared and amended the statement.
“Big birds.”
The concept of fear didn’t really occur to Bird, but in a vague way, he was aware that they were very big birds, and there were a lot of them. Bird, who’d had many conversations with Erin and Lyonette and Klbkch about this, debated raising an alarm. But the big birds were going away.
“Come back! Come back!”
The other Workers laboring on the second floor of the inn looked around as Bird waved all four arms pleadingly. But the weyr was on the move. Bird stared after them.
“Please?”
They flew off. Bird stared down at his feet. He stared around at his tower, and then looked at the nearest Worker.
“I must have a larger tower. When you build it, make it twice as tall as the city, please.”
The Worker stared at Bird. The [Bird Hunter] paused.
“Please and thanks?”
 
——
 
The flight of the Wyverns wasn’t noticed by Bird alone. Although it took one of the more far-sighted Gnolls on duty several more minutes than Bird to recognize them. When she saw, the Gnoll in question swore and shouted.
“Jeiss!”
Senior Guardsman Jeiss came running at the tone in Beilmark’s voice. When she pointed the flight out to him, the Drake fumbled for one of the magical eyeglasses, put it to his eyes, and swore.
“Ancestors!”
“Sound the alarm? It would be when The Wandering Inn reopens! I knew it! You owe me seven silver if we survive! Dead gods, we have to get everyone in cover! There are hundreds!”
Beilmark howled in alarm. Liscor’s City Watch was looking up and even the most stalwart of Drakes was turning pale. So many Wyverns! But Jeiss held out a claw as Beilmark grabbed the horn on her belt and prepared to sound an alarm.
“Wait! Don’t sound the alarm just yet!”
“Are you mad? If this many attack—”
“I think they’re passing over.”
Beilmark froze. She whirled. More [Guards] were trying to sound the alarm. Beilmark quietly howled.
“Belay that! Send a runner to Watch Captain Zevara! Now!”
In silence, the Watch stared up as the Wyverns kept flying. They barely breathed as Zevara came at a run with Wing Commander Embria. The Drakes stared up at the Wyverns.
“Dead gods.”
“Watch Captain, they’re passing.”
Jeiss, or Councilman Jeiss, a member of Liscor’s Council, was on duty. Unlike the former Councils, this current one was occupied by working-class Gnolls and Drakes who performed their jobs when not trying to steer Liscor in the direction they wanted. And in this moment, it was Zevara everyone looked to.
“Wing Commander Embria, thoughts?”
Embria swallowed hard.
“My 4th Company has brought down Wyverns before, Watch Captain. But speaking freely—if that weyr descends, I recommend everyone gets indoors and we hope the Wyverns can be driven off or lose interest. There has to be a thousand up there.”
“My thoughts exactly. Ancestors.”
Zevara whispered. She’d been a Watch Captain in trying times. From undead boss monsters like Skinner, to the Raskghar and Face-Eater Moths, and even a near-siege and a Goblin Lord’s army, she’d held Liscor. But this threat chilled her. It was…very bad.
“But they’re passing. Look. They’re not even headed our way, but past us. Towards the Blood Fields.”
Jeiss spoke softly. Zevara saw it was true; the Wyverns were already halfway past Liscor as they flew high along the mountains to the west. And yet, and yet…Zevara had a communal thought.
“The Wandering Inn’s opening again.”
Along the wall, the City Watch looked at each other and murmured. A few [Guards] tugged their helmets low and groaned. They were, by and large, not largely superstitious. But Erin wasn’t folklore, she was a phenomenon observed and tested on the sliding scale of calamity.
“Ancestors preserve our scales, if the Wyverns attack Liscor, I’m going to tie that Human to a ship and send her to Rhir. Let her bring disaster to the Demons.”
Zevara muttered under her breath. Across the wall, Beilmark’s sharp ears picked up a Gnoll’s soft growl.
“—Could also be the white—Doombringer—”
“They’re passing.”
Beilmark’s voice was overly loud. The Watch waited, tense, but the slow flight of the Wyverns was indeed unchanging. After a minute, then five, Zevara exhaled slowly.
So slowly. It was possible to almost see the dead, the terrible battle, and the weight of all of it easing from her shoulders. If you bottled that relief, you could…well, probably cure incontinence? Something like that.
“Senior Guardswoman Beilmark?”
“Yes, Watch Captain?”
Zevara turned. She nearly sagged, but discipline kept her spine straight. But she did smile, in pure relief. Then her mind was racing again.
“Send word to every city south of here! Priority-message to all the [Strategists] that a Wyvern migration is taking place! A huge one! Get me an estimate and speed on that weyr and let [Strategist] Olesm know!”
“At once, Watch Captain!”
Beilmark saluted. Across the wall, Embria and Zevara heard a faint cheer go up. And it was worthy of a cheer, even if that cheer was for nothing happening. The two Drakes nodded at each other. Then Zevara had a thought.
“Wing Commander Embria, what do you suppose prompted the flight of Wyverns?”
The cheer stopped around her as if someone had kicked everyone in the throat. Embria’s head snapped around. She stared at the towering, shrouded heights of the High Passes.
“Something that can chase off Wyverns?”
“An Elder Creler?”
Someone moaned. Fear became infectious once again. Zevara held up a claw, looking around.
“I want eyes on the mountains. Anything moves up there, I want to know at once! It could just be a migration. I want that report out in ten minutes!”
The City Watch sprang into action. Drakes and Gnolls rushed to work. A [Message] was sent, and Olesm left The Wandering Inn in a minor panic. Even the celebrations at the inn ground to a halt—everyone had the same thought.
But nothing happened. The Watch waited, but no greater monster came. In time, they allowed themselves to relax. And they were right to do so. Because nothing was going to happen to Liscor, for once. Thank the smaller city. Thank the Antinium and the general distaste of Wyverns.
Liscor was safe.
 
——
 
Outside of Pallass’ walls, a young woman sighed. She stood in an idyllic place, a meadow next to a stream. The kind of place where you just had to imagine fishing for a few fresh-caught trout or whatever lived in streams, maybe rustle up some grub (the fish, not actual grubs) and enjoy the scenery while living in nature.
And indeed, the young woman had a fishing rod and a little long-handled net. She even had a tent, and the remains of a campfire set up. She had been living here.
Or rather, vacationing. She was on holiday. But the holiday had ended. She felt it. Something in her bones, in her heart.
It was time to go home.
She was far from it, though. In the distance, Pallass rose out of the ground, a huge fortress-city of four massive walls, rising into the sky. Against nature, the builders had erected the towering walls, hundreds of feet high, to guard their home against any threat. They had made it to be a symbol. To last forever.
From afar, it was no less towering. But the young woman could appreciate what lay outside of the city as well. She looked around and saw…peace.
There were no monsters here. No threats. Just wildlife, as she might find in her world. A fly buzzed past her and she swatted at it. But it was just a fly. Not an acidfly, glowing green and loaded with corrosive, flesh-eating acid. Or a huge hornet fly, able to literally bite out chunks of your arm. This was just a fly. She stared at it.
“Shoo.”
The fly left. And the young woman stared around. It was indeed the kind of place her father would have loved to come to, dragging his wife and his chess-loving daughter out of the house for some of that vaunted ‘quality time with nature’ she heard so much about. The said daughter, after living here for a while, had to admit he might have been right. Grudgingly. And she’d never have said it to his face.
It was something, living on your own. There was satisfaction in catching your own meal and preparing it. It was rewarding. And it gave you time to think. That’s what she’d been doing for the last two weeks, really.
Thinking. Remembering. But now, it was time to go. Absently, the young woman began tidying up her camp.
“Let’s see. Fishing rod. Fishing net. Fire—better kick dirt over it. Um. Bedroll. Where’s my cooking stuff? Oh, right.”
She found a neat, washed set of equipment for cooking. Absently, the young woman picked up a frying pan, some utensils, a plate—she wasn’t a barbarian!—and then a kettle, some long-handled tongs, a…poker for poking things, flint, steel…
It was impossible for one person to hold all that without some very complex rearranging and strong arms, but the young woman wasn’t carrying all this gear. She had a small magic bag she kept tossing the items into, against the rules of physics. But the bag was magic, and while she was camping, she was not by any means roughing it. After a while, the young woman rose and dusted her hands.
“That’s it? That’s it.”
She looked around her camping spot. Save for her kicked-over fire spot, there was little sign she’d been out here for so long. Even so, the young American woman had to pause.
“Thanks. It was fun. Sort of. Too many bugs, but that wasn’t your fault.”
She waved around the campsite vaguely, as if it was able to listen. The young woman paused. Then she sighed.
“Time to go.”
Erin Solstice turned. She stared back towards Pallass in the distance. And she inhaled. After a moment, she sighed.
“Shoo, fly.”
Waving it off, she trudged away from her campsite. She wasn’t lost. If the giant Walled City in the distance wasn’t a guide, well, Erin knew the surrounding area fairly well. She had about a mile to go, she guessed, so she walked at an ambling pace. She was still thinking.
This was Erin Solstice. [Innkeeper]. Rather, [Magical Innkeeper], and owner of The Wandering Inn. A young woman from Michigan, in another world. And a myth and legend, at least in one small Drake city named Liscor.
They told stories of her. The [Innkeeper] who could spit blood like an Oldblood Drake. Who tamed Goblins like [Beast Tamers] tamed monsters. Who owned a magical inn. And attracted trouble like metal in a storm.
The truth was a bit less amazing than the stories. But there was truth in each story, no matter how twisted. Erin poked at her stomach. She’d had a bad morning.
“Periods. Eugh. I need an Octavia potion.”
Magic was a wonderful thing. However disgusting other species and half of her own species found her gender’s biological functions, menstruation was a fact of life. But in this world, people had done what science could not! They’d triumphed over the tyranny of reproduction!
Erin’s greatest discovery in life had been that [Alchemists] who catered to Humans could sell you a draught that cut down on your monthly week of cramps, bleeding, and grumpiness. For that reason alone, Erin considered her trip to another world to have not been in vain.
“You could sell it for gold. I mean, actual gold. Even on Earth. You’d be like…a billionaire. A trillionaire! Here Octavia is, looking for magical potions and whatnot, and she has that! Amazing!”
To be fair, the potion was commonplace and did account for some of an [Alchemist]’s income. But Erin was way more agog with it than, say, matches. But what was common to one world wasn’t true of the other. In her world, Erin could get in a car and move faster than almost anyone could dream of. She could, with minimal effort, buy a gun, a weapon far deadlier than any spear or sword. She could fly through the air at speeds no Garuda or Oldblood Drake could match.
But she couldn’t do magic. She couldn’t completely cure cramping each month, even with modern medicine. And she couldn’t…
Erin stopped. She cupped her hands and waited.
“[Like Fire, Memory].”
Nothing happened. Erin stared at her hands.
“Drat.”
In theory, she should have been holding fire at this point. But she wasn’t completely able to master the new Skill she’d learned. Erin sighed and kept walking.
This world had a lot of things her world didn’t. For instance, if you got a Skill, you could jump higher than any athlete from her world. Erin was fairly sure she could lift as much as any guy her age who wasn’t a bodybuilder thanks to her [Lesser Strength] Skill. And there were far greater miracles people could pull off with the right Skill, like having skin as tough as iron, or arms made out of silver and steel.
But there were threats like Earth had never seen here too. Monsters. Erin Solstice had seen more than her fair share of monsters. She’d gone through trials and tribulations she’d never have dreamed of back home. And she was tired.
