“Does it now?” Valor answered with a hint of interest. “We will need to examine this in great detail. But while we wait, let us not waste time.”

“Yeah. Hey, Hymn: you know I’m a progenitor to a new Eldritch entity now, right?”

The Headmaster’s expression tightened into one of curiosity and displeasure. “Somehow. Quite remarkable, since you have little to no knowledge about Outsider bullshit, and have repeatedly displayed a lack of interest in learning.”

“Well, not much choice in this anymore.” Shiv shrugged. “Here: tell me what you make of this.”

Then, without any warning, he swung his Morsel up at his own face.

And it bounced off.

Shiv smashed himself again and again, with his pan recoiling from his pillar every single time, ruining the moment. “Felling Toughness levels…” He didn’t want to waste any of his tides, so he adjusted. His mana hydra reared away from his body and splashed down, tearing into him and wrenching his flesh open down the middle as he refused to wield his Magical Resistance to guard his being.

Tulveg flinched and looked away while Jessica grimaced. “Okay, kinda—whoa!”

She shifted back as the Garden began spilling out from the gateway that was Shiv’s broken body, and the first thing that crossed over was a massive, gleaming fist that droned and blazed. “War is war is war is war is…”

The Red Rider’s Hand erupted high up into the air like a climbing spire pointed in defiance of the heavens, and to Shiv’s surprise, it felt light and natural to move in conjunction with his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things. Even so, its true power was latent and slumbering, and seemed more an attached ornament than anything else for now. The rest of the Garden was dragged out in its wake like chains connected to an anchor.

In seconds, Shiv the man vanished, and Shiv the literal embodiment of devastation loomed as a colossus made from an archive of devastation.

“So,” Shiv said, speaking through his Severed Shadow nearby. “Breaking and hitting it just makes it stronger—”

Jessica tested Shiv’s claim by casually swiping her hand at his Garden. An invisible blade tore through his towering eldritch form as it was hewed clean through like butter. It was split open horizontally first—and absorbed the slash as part of its laceration-based architecture. Yet, as Jessica’s unseen blade arced from the ground up, it struck the Red Rider’s Hand and shattered.

A rippling burst shook the air as Jessica let out a surprised snarl, clutching her finger. “Fuck! I chipped a nail!”

Shiv blinked. “You were cutting me with your nails earlier?”

“Yeah? I was trying to toughen you up, not kill you immediately. But seeing how you took my hammer earlier and now this…” Whatever joke she wanted to make died as she swallowed. Her pupils shrank as the Red Rider’s Hand burned ever brighter, and a crushing atmosphere of wrongness settled over the world. “Hey, uh, kid… That hand’s under your control, right?”

“Mostly,” Shiv said. “It’s kind of connected to me, but I can’t exactly use it yet.”

An uncomfortable silence followed afterward.

One that was broken by Hymn clapping his hands together. “I petition that we find a new, more expendable venue to test this. Legend Valor! I strongly support your idea of sending Shiv back over into the Stranger’s Garden. Let us harass and abuse my wounded patron as much as we can as a pretense toward developing the Deathless’s most ominous capabilities.”

The Culturist, meanwhile, looked upon the hand as a defiant child might the belt of his abusive father. “Why did you keep it?”

“Wasn’t really up to me,” Shiv said. “It kind of just—”

A low, rasping laughter echoed through the pocket arena, and everyone aside from Shiv stiffened.

“Okay,” Jessica said, her goosebumps showing, her throat bobbing. “Tell me that hand didn’t just laugh at us, because if it did—”

“No, it’s my fire,” Shiv said, glaring at the spark of hollow flame sizzling nearby. “It’s just being a prick.”

“It is not every day one can unnerve so many Legends.”

Shape of Monstrosity 177 > 179

Jessica closed her eyes and growled. “Shiv. Call your Pyromancy a cunt for me. Thanks.”

“Trust me, he already knows.”

The Nihilist simply chuckled. “It is too late. I already had fun.”
