Ho? You return again, orc. How foolish. You know that I will slay you with my Heart-Rectum Prolapse Palm again. I told you before, even if you possessed Mythic Striking Proficiency, I would not grant you the honor of knowing this art. The Meridian Assassination Fist of the Inner Constellations is beyond your like. I would sooner see my mind turned to glue and be rendered an unawakened steed, once more ridden by unworthy riders, before I ever share this knowledge with you, that which I gained from the most illustrious and noble of men.

I see in your glare that you are not dissuaded. At least you have that. The willingness to defy. But I suppose every one of your ilk is possessed of a similar fire—a fire given unto you by a most unnatural god. Such a travesty. One who desires war should never have assumed its mantle. And so you will never master this style. You might be able to ape the most brutal of my methods, but the truth requires a gentler hand, connected to the body of one who is willing to let mercy wash through them, take hold of them, and strike their foe down regardless. Have you ever wept for killing someone? Have you ever felt true sorrow when taking a life? Such is the first step to truly embodying the Inner Constellation, for if you cannot grasp the value of another life, then what hope do you have of taking it? You only destroy the mortal vessel. If you possess the understanding of one's sonder, the sheer breadth of experiences you are to rip away from another being, then turn your face away and show me your shame. Only after that will I ever even consider showing you the most rudimentary of techniques.

Look upon you. Look upon you and see your terrible acting. I see that you are trying as well, but trying and feeling are not the same thing, and feeling and knowing are farther apart still. You are multiple summits away from ever taking on the burden of this hand, so accept this gift of death. Receive my Heart-Rectum Prolapse Palm!

Neiiiiggghhhh!

—The Galloper to the Culturist

386

Contender [III]

Pillar of Orichalcum 496

“I fear we might have hit a point of diminishing returns,” the Culturist commented.

“Magygghayaggg!” the lump of Shiv replied in defiance. It was a bit hard to tell someone you wanted to keep going when your tongue was lost in the back of your skull.

Shiv's red-gold pillar shone brighter than ever before. His Toughness had never been greater, and his deformation and wounds never more severe. Where once his Pillar of Orichalcum rose high into the sky like a defiant fist, now it was bent, dented, ruptured, and cracked along its length. The very same brutality had been visited upon his person at the core of the spire. The combined efforts of his myriad mentors deprived him of his limbs, gouged his eyes, shattered his jaw, collapsed his skull, and saw his organs pushed through the breaches left in his body in pulsing bags of viscera.

Yet, despite the devastation and agony they visited upon him, Shiv was far from death. In fact, he thought he could endure a few more blows. But there was little point in such suffering. He had already squeezed what level spikes he could out of his repeated deaths.

Between the Culturist, Valor, Jessica, Hymn, Tulveg, and later even Ekkihurst, his injuries proved both diverse and brutal. But with all the deaths and wounds Shiv took over the last few months, he was practically an archive of fatalities unto himself, and now that he drew close to a Legendary-Tier Toughness Evolution, all the low-hanging fruit had been plucked barren from the branch.

The Culturist dabbed at his jaw with a handkerchief, wiping away the slight bit of perspiration that had built. Jessica, meanwhile, was guzzling gallons of water, trying to get her breath under control. She had gotten carried away beating Shiv, and at several points, he heard her cry out Roland's name, asking him to scream louder and if he enjoyed the feeling of a sword cleaving through his small intestines.

Shiv contemplated telling her to take it down a notch, but ultimately decided that she deserved this bit of catharsis. In the end, one of the major reasons she was helping him at all was to use him as an instrument of vengeance upon Roland.

“Let her have this for now,” the Harbinger advised. “Give her this moment of imbalance. But tell her later, so that she knows. Do not shame someone in the moment, but do let them understand where they are imperiled after. That is the greatest service you can do for her—and it is the most honest way you can continue claiming her respect.”

“Sculptor, if you would please,” Tulveg said. His expression was wrought with discomfort and pity, and Shiv recalled the vampire turning away when the training was at its zenith. As Ekkihurst’s flesh grew resplendent with mana, everyone was shrouded in that vibrant red, and the great platform in this dimensional coliseum was drowned by a new hue that defied the dark and static. All the blood that had been wrung from Shiv's body was scooped up by traveling dots of red.

Tulveg used his spell-tumors to travel across space and flesh, draining away the mess that was left upon this hidden arena. Tulveg was prompt about cleansing away the gore and grime; the violence he witnessed sorrowed his heart and left him burdened with darkened memories. His mind grew heavy, and the translucent ether thickened until it was a near-tangible mist that weighed down upon his heart. Like Angelo, Tulveg hated the First Blood, and also like Angelo, his parting had not been kind. Whatever the Bloodlines did to him, it left him scarred in ways that still lingered.

And if nothing else, I'd say he's way too soft to be a vampire, Shiv thought. He's way too passionate. He's way too bothered by brutality. And he somehow also hates it when people judge others based on blind prejudice… How did you ever rise through the ranks of the First Blood at all, Tulveg?

The paramour of Uva's long-dead mother was simply one of many enigmas that surrounded Shiv and trained him for this coming bout. And he was another Shiv needed to deepen his relations with so that Gate Piety would find itself a power rather than a pawn.

Shiv's thoughts turned to the other vampire present. His body was like a bag of broken glass pieces clicking back together, bones and sinews snapping back in place. Muscles were woven and stitched onto the skeleton as the fragments that filled Shiv's battered form were drawn like pieces of a puzzle, rendered to their original pristine form.

At the same time, a stream of pitch-black impurities was harvested from Shiv's body, and it hovered as a festering cloud over Ekkihurst, which he promptly formed into a crown. It hovered around him in pointed spikes, each one a sour taste that stained the world and altered the air with a pestilential glow.

Each spike called out to Shiv, a source of disease and infection he could send his plague flies to consume.

As he flexed his fingers and rolled his shoulders, he narrowed his eyes at Ekkihurst’s crown. “What'd you just pull out of me anyway?”

“Ah! Genetic detritus! Plastics! Inflammation!” Ekkihurst rattled off a near hundred other conditions Shiv suffered from the beatings he'd sustained, and shook his head with a joyous sigh. “I must confess, Deathless, your fortitude puts most vampires to shame, even if our bodies can be restored. Our minds, so fragile; the younger bloods, so weak; the current progeny are so unwilling to delve through discomfort and experience the true joys of biology.”

He took a half step closer to Shiv as his dark eyes gleamed with appreciation. He was an artisan who'd just discovered the most fabulous material to chip and carve and the most delightful tool in one, one that put all previous brushes and chisels to shame. “Not you. We are going to do great things together, dear boy. Great and terrible things.”

“Not sure how I feel about the terrible part,” Shiv grunted in reply. “Alright. I’m fixed. Let’s go again.”

“No,” the Culturist said. “You are approaching your Delve, and the deaths we inflict are no longer getting their desired results. Even if we were determined to drive you toward another Legendary Skill Evolution, there would be no guarantee you would arise in time—and the Gate needs your functional presence now. And besides, I fear it will not be your Toughness that allows you to prevail. It is merely the vehicle that will grant a chance to seize any potential opportunities that present themselves.”

“Not sure if I entirely agree with that,” Shiv replied, the itch of combat burning hot inside him. “Every Legendary Skill I get changes things. It makes me different. It makes the way I fight different. Legendary Toughness might let me surprise Roland—force this into a battle of attrition.”

Jessica began to shake with mocking laughter, spilling water all over herself. “Yeah, no, you’re not doing that dumb shit. Attrition just means Roland will keep firing arrow after arrow into you while you have to take it. We've been beating on you, kid, so that you're tough enough to shrug off most physical attacks. All the tides you've been building up will be great for magical attacks, but here's the thing: he'll wear you down, and probably within a day at most. You're a slab of pig iron, but if you hit the same point with enough shots, even pig iron will shatter.” She flicked her hand, and a distortion shook the air. The invisible blade she'd been wielding in place of Rusty, who they were inside of, vanished in whispering streams. “Besides, no one's ever won a fight by taking a beating. You take the beating to land the hit. And right now, we need to find a way to let you land these hits.”

“Stealth and surprise will be your greatest allies,” Valor declared. “With your current Toughness, you will be able to execute on these strategies, so now our focus must turn from the simplicity of this brutal conditioning to seeing you develop new options Roland has never faced before.”

Shiv grinned. “Well, I got some of those already.” He demonstrated his Continuity Error by dodging out of context in front of everyone, leaving them gawking and lost as to what they were looking at.

Backstage again, Shiv prepared to cross over once—

“Hi, asshole. Long time no see.”

Shiv froze, and he turned to greet the girl who didn’t exist. She looked the same as she did last time, her father's golden hair, her mother's emerald eyes, and a deep scowl that gave Shiv the impression of a hawk in conjunction with her aquiline nose. But there was something different about her—a growing presence that made her seem realer than before.

“Uh, hey,” Shiv coughed. “Been a while.”

“Fuck you,” she spat. “It’s been a week. A week of being back here alone.”

“I was kind of distracted.”

“I know. But shit, man, what the fuck? I have nothing to do back here but stack rocks with your Garden and watch some orc fuck torture my family. Nice job protecting Adam, by the way.”

A blast of hot fury lit up the insides of Shiv’s stomach, turning him into a cauldron of fury. “Listen, I’m going to let you have that because I’m feeling some kind of way about this too. But he chose. I did what I could, and I did what he asked.”

“Yeah. And how does it feel to logically know that while emotionally realizing the Challenger made you his pain-bitch?”

On the stage of Integration, the Legends were looking at each other, trying to figure out just what the hells they were all doing in Jessica's sword.

“It hurts,” Shiv replied with honesty. “Is that what you wanted? Make it hurt just a bit more? If so, good job, you succeeded.”

The look on the girl’s face softened. “Nah, I don't want your pain. I just want you to know that I'm watching, and I need you to get a lot better, real fast. Even if I'm not real, even if I'm being unreasonable, I need you to keep my family safe, because that's what they are. Even if they will never know I exist, I don't want anything bad to happen to them. Adam, he did a lot for you; you did a lot for him. I'm gonna ask you to do some more. Make him right. Don't let this happen again.”

And though her voice was even, the emotional anguish it hid shone like a spotlight in her heart. “I'll do whatever I can,” Shiv answered. “I'll do everything I can.”

“Well, you better do more than that, Shiv, because everything might not be enough. It's not just the Challenger out there. The Ascendants, the North, the South, all of the surface, and the Abyss—they're all coming to this gate. They're all coming here, and they're all going to be at each other's throats, and all of them are going to be gunning for you because of that Quest reward on your head and the Quest reward for this gate being offered by Lord Scorn for the First Blood and Compact. You have a lot of enemies now. This little scheme of yours might even pay off, but if it doesn't work, you need to keep my brother, my mother, and my father safe, and so you need to find a way to get beyond everything that I can't.”

The Arrow that never was looked away from Shiv. “I’m not being reasonable. System won’t be reasonable either. You were made to defy by Udraal, so fucking find a way to surprise everyone! You want to beat the shit out of dad to heal your hurt childhood feelings; I want you to get stronger because with the Incursion and all the bullshit coming, there’s going to be a time you’ll have to kill a fucking Myth as a Legend—and endurance and raw force is not going to cut it. The simple days are over, Shiv. Time to devote yourself to becoming a real master.”

“Simple days,” Shiv said, struggling not to seethe through his teeth even though he saw her point. “Yeah. My days have been real simple.”

