She sneered. “They have. Up till now. Just one battle after another, but it’s not going to be like that anymore. The battles are behind you, and now you’re getting into the long war. You’re going to have to pick where you want to fight, who you want to hurt, when you want to fight—and for what. You stopped being a brute for a reason and at the right time, because a dumb monster will just be bound by a leash—social or otherwise.”

Callous though her words were, she was right. “You know, you could have just said ‘visit me more’ instead of pouring all this existential sewage down my back,” Shiv grumbled. “How very prevaricating of you, Arrow.”

“Ew.” The girl cringed so hard that a visible shiver ran over her. “That’s a really painful gerund right there.”

“The hell's a gerund?”

She blinked at him. “Oh, shit, you saw that word in a dictionary and decided to use it raw, didn’t you?”

He refused to answer.

“Look, learn some grammar rules too while you’re at it. But good job broadening your mind, because you’ll be needing a lot more of that to go with your stupidly oversized body.”

Shiv flexed reactively. “I’m not oversized yet: I can get bigger and sicker at the same time.”

The girl gagged dramatically. “Never say that shit to me again.”

“Hey, I didn’t mean it sexually or nothing.”

“It sounded that way to me.”

“Maybe it's your mind that's dirty.”

“Who’s my mom, fucker?”

“Okay, I see your point.” Shiv sighed. “I’ll come by and see you more. Maybe figure out a way to tell your parents about it in detail or get you across.”

“Focus less on that and more on getting strong enough to make all the assholes shit their pants. Like Valor said, you need to use your Unique and rare skills. Continuity Error can be stealth, but you can’t stay here for long.” Her words rang true, for Shiv felt his vitality whittle away at a horrific pace. He had less than a minute before things became truly dire. “So, time to get started loading stuff into your Harbinger like the tomes say. If you want my advice, flood it with your cutting aura. That’s pretty good at ripping through everything material and chipping away at magic. Dose it some more with your Nihilistic Flames to give you a cooking shield or something. Maybe try mixing that shit with your Last Morsel so you can get something extra out of your meal.”

That sent a shot of inspiration through Shiv’s system. “Yeah, I don’t just need to rely on my Stealth Skill alone. I can hide with my equipment. Shit. I need to start cooking for this fight. Why didn’t I even think of that?”

“Because your gut is narrow-minded,” the girl answered. “Your intuition is good where it guides you, but you’re going to need to stop thinking in boxes—all your skills should help the others. You should be cooking special mixes with that Last Morsel all the time to give yourself an edge in battle. The way you neglected all the cool shit that frying pan can do is a travesty.”

Shiv grunted in discomfort and stared at the Last Morsel. Its edges glinted red-gold, and the dark depths of its base loomed with a bottomless hunger that seemed to stare back into Shiv’s being.

“Don’t just stare back harder,” the Nihilist said. “Put something inside it. Fill the nothing with something. It’s the only significant thing you can do amongst the meaninglessness.”

“Yeah,” Shiv breathed. “Every skill in support of another…” He needed to change how he fought. Brawling wasn’t enough anymore; he needed to practice until he had hundreds of ways of dealing with his problems. “Can’t just try punching things as a first resort anymore: Gotta train to be a bit more creative too. And…”

His body turned, and he looked upon his garden. The damned eldritch domain was far larger than he remembered—all the stuff he broke recently had been added into the mix, with a large city's worth of debris obtained from Longinus’ hellish kitchen.

A mess of wounds he obtained from the Ascendant was also present; they burned as incandescent scars connecting the lacerations, bridging ruined edifices to crumbled blocks. But above all else was a new summit—a wound of all wounds that burned as a crimson star atop the garden like a stolen dawn. Chains of bleeding gashes, burst organs, and smeared gore-stains rose up like chains into the sky above, and there, as star and crown, was the Red Rider’s Hand.

“Fuck me,” Shiv muttered darkly, realizing the hand had followed him here. “No getting away from you, is there?”

“Yeah, and that’s a good thing,” the girl spat. “Learn to use the hand. Stop feeling bad about what happened to you and Adam and figure out how to mix that fist into the fray. I have a feeling it’s about as unbreakable as that frying pan of yours, so even if you can’t do anything else…”

Shiv picked up on her point. “I can use the fist as cover.”

“Yay! I taught him the basic subtext skill!” The girl who didn’t exist flailed a limp limb in faux enthusiasm as her sarcastic cheer needled Shiv. “I see you looking at me: You’re thinking about how much you miss dealing with my brother instead, aren't you?”

“Hm. A little. But I think I’m going to enjoy bullying you more than I ever liked bullying him.” Shiv bared his teeth at her. “You bite back.”

The girl rolled her eyes. “Figure out how gerunds work first. You’ll felling kill me with your word-crimes. Now. Get back out there and get your actual training started before all your helpful abusers leave.”

“Wait,” Shiv said. “If I don’t know what a gerund is, how do you?”

“Because I’m literally watching shit from behind the curtain, dumbass. Also, the System is a fuck.”

“Huh. Is that a gerund too?”

“No, using fuck as a noun is mostly me being cheeky. Now, stop being a fuck and get back out there. Use the Morsel! Use the Hand! Make my father work for this at least.”

Shiv raised a fist in salute of his newest trainer and slipped back over into reality. The instant he reappeared, Jessica let out a muffled curse and flinched back. “Boo—”

She hit him so hard and so fast that Shiv only realized he was tumbling head over ass after the third bounce. He skipped across the pearlescent platform like a pebble flung across a lake. The surrounding air had been swallowed by a sea of plasma and force, and Shiv found most of his teeth bouncing around inside his mouth, his bloodied gums painting his tongue with a metallic taste.

Shit, she’s been holding out on me. Hit me faster than she ever did before.

With a casual flex of his Shapeless Tides, Shiv righted himself and halted his travel—being able to generate his own leverage offered more benefits than just raw strength. As he spat his red-gold teeth out in a blast of shrapnel, he used his Aegis of Assimilation to regrow his enamel—only to replace his own teeth with that which he had consumed from one of his basilisks. In moments, long, needle-thin blades filled his mouth in stacked rows as he felt his flesh ache and twist. The mana hydra adjusted his flesh to accommodate the new additions—but despite the discomfort and crowding, he didn’t feel any graft rejections follow. “Alright. Experimentation.”

It took a few seconds for the plasma-soup eating away at the world to dissipate. When it did, Shiv was staggered to find himself eight kilometers away from the others. “Good godsdamned shit, Jessica. The fuck did you hit me with?” He tapped into his Atlas and tried to jump into her perspective, but bounced off her body. “Right. Awareness-warded as well. Maybe I can talk her into letting me borrow that armor.”

For a beat, Shiv considered surprising her again to see if he could figure out how to dodge a hit from her by flinging himself into the future using his Harbinger, but decided against it. He didn’t want to suffer a pointless beheading and waste more of his precious vitality. He licked at his split lip, but found himself impressed.

A week before, that hit might have left him concussed and broken. It seemed all the ass-kickings he resurrected from did wonders to boost his will and skill—and orichalcum fed off both. Just gotta be confident in taking the hits even when they hurt, I suppose.

“How the hells are you still alive?” Jessica shouted at him as he returned. Over her shoulder burned a warhammer of purest gold. Its head was a shattered nest of swirling fragments, and from its core came bursts of Dynamancy so potent that Shiv could feel the gravity waves pass into his very bones even through his active pillar.

Huh. I think I saw that hammer up in the sky earlier. One of the weapons bundled up into those Inertium chains…

“You got a weak swing, I guess,” Shiv taunted in reply, yawning.

The Giantsbane’s eyes narrowed. “Oh, I see you. Little shit. All those free beatings, and now you’re using them against me. Yeah, I see you taking advantage of me. Keep your head still—let me take a few more swings if you’re willing.”

Shiv planted himself down in front of her and held out his arms. “Go for it.” He pointed at his lip. “See if you can do better than that.”

Jessica scoffed. “I’m gonna—the fuck did you do to your teeth?”

“Oh. You knocked my weak human teeth out, so I added in some basilisk biters.”

“Really. No shit.” Jessica’s eyes widened. “Damn. That’s some pretty good dental.”

“Huh? You think so?”

“Yeah. I’m not jealous of monsters about much, but with how easy it is for them to regrow teeth? Yep. Envy, envy, envy. I hated going to a Biomancer after every nasty fight back in the day.”

Ekkihurst, meanwhile, frowned. “Did you directly fuse the basilisk teeth into your gums?”

“Yep,” Shiv answered.

The ancient vampire’s right eye twitched. “I will ask you to take them out later. The anatomy of your jaw and skeleton is not aligned with them, and they are not anchored properly. I expect most of them will cause your gums to swell and recede within the hour.”

“I mean, I can just fix it when that happens.” Shiv shrugged—and caught sight of a hellstorm of restrained anger consuming Ekkihurst from the inside out. It was the truest outpouring of emotion Shiv had seen in the old vampire.

“Or you can do it properly and avoid such embarrassment,” Ekkihurst declared as calmly as he could.

Once more, Shiv read the subtext present. “Don’t worry, Sculptor. I’ll see this done right. Call it a proper Biomancy lesson.”

Much of Ekkihurst’s frustration parted in an instant. “I am glad that you are wise enough to see reason.”

“Wise enough?” Jessica asked, eyeing Ekkihurst. “What’d you mean by that, sucky?”

Shiv interrupted any potential reply to avoid seeing the Legends fight among each other. “Alright. So. Now that we can’t reliably level my Toughness through crude violence anymore, we’re doing surprise and stealth, right?” Shiv regarded Valor. “How’s what I just pulled for stealth?”

Valor was deep in thought, tapping a dagger against his exposed jawbone with a tick, tick, tick. “Potent. Surprising. But can you affect someone while hidden and forgotten?”

“Yeah, but it costs a shit-ton of vitality, and without dodging a mana-intensive attack, I can’t stay hidden for long.” Shiv paused. “It’s the main reason I survived my fight with Longinus. Also won’t work against Roland the same way because he’s not a god. He doesn’t have that much mana.”

“Correct,” Valor answered. “Roland is not a titan, but he is a Master above Masters. Even without all my skills returned, I can tell he does nothing thoughtlessly. He will not expose himself to you if he can help it, so unless you can locate and strike at him while missing, you will only have a few moments of respite.”

“Maybe,” Shiv said. “But I got more than one Unique Skill I can use against Roland.”

The Legends all leaned in.

“If you would be comfortable in betraying yourself to us,” Hymn commented from the back as he studied Shiv with a peculiar expression. “We might be able to offer you strategies and insights that inexperience cannot.”

“And besides,” Jessica said, releasing her hammer—and causing it to dissolve in a burst of starlight. “You’ll probably evolve some more different bullshit skills by the end of next week with how you’re going. So. Tell us about the special cards you got hidden up your ass.”

Shiv summoned his hollow flame in response and cleaved a portion of it away using his Last Morsel. “Be better to show you directly, because there are some bits about them that are beyond me right now.” And with that, he dumped his Unique Pyromancy into his frying pan before igniting its base and cooking his flame with itself.

A lid formed over the Last Morsel. Jets of glittering gray erupted from the sides as the Legendary frying pan did its work.

Cooking [Unknown] Recipe

Warning: Unique ingredient discovered.

Cooking time - 63 Minutes

“Huh,” Shiv muttered. “That’s a while.”

“What did you just do?” Jessica asked, tilting her head. “Did you just… cook your Pyromancy mana?”

“Yeah. Something like that. I’ll be able to eat it after and see what that does, but since the skill’s Unique, the ingredient will need an hour to process."

“How long does it usually take?” Hymn inquired.

“For just a speck of mana? A few seconds.”

Hymn’s brow furrowed. “How extreme.”

“The Morsel lets me cut non-tangible things too. Like shadows. Which reminds me—Valor, I got other options for Stealth beyond just a straight evolution. I can hide in the dark, or merge with the shadows, or become water. Morsel cooks things, and when you eat them, it changes you to be a bit more like what you ate.”

