“An open secret among the leaders of the Geodes and other approved users, more like.”

They sat down in the sunroom. Killzone followed, and sat down beside Silverite.

Silverite asked, “Can you actually enchant a Gate, yet?”

“I’m working on it, but I don’t see why not.” Erick said, “The larger problem, for now, is that I can’t actually reach Spur from Yggdrasil. There are some limitations of distance, which...”

Erick gave up some small secrets of his [Gate], such as how far it could reach from Yggdrasil, and how free it was for him to cast the spell. Silverite laughed loud when he said that a [Gate] was only 50 mana, and anything could go through it as long as Erick held it open. The [Gate] you got in the Script was a lot more restricted, and was known to collapse as soon as you tried to put too much through; too many people, or too much tonnage. Erick, of course, opened a [Gate] to display the truth of his words, for while he could not open a [Gate] to Spur, from Candlepoint, the reverse was easy.

Silverite and Killzone both stared at the glowing ring of white lightning, and at Candlepoint’s Yggdrasil, sitting in the blue lake like a distant green mountain, surrounded by a rainbow crown. A jolt of lightning struck the stone floor of the sunroom, even though Erick had conjured it high enough that it shouldn’t have done that. That tiny jolt left a sprig of green lichen upon the floor. Both wrought stared at that lichen, their eyes going even wider.

Neither of them had broached the topic of Elemental Benevolence, but at seeing it in action, at seeing the revelation that it really was a different Element than the ones they knew before… Perhaps it really was the Anti-Sundering Element that they had been informed that it was.

Silverite caught on to that truth first. She gasped in realization.

Killzone followed, blinking several times, trying to clear his eyes, even though he wasn’t really using his eyes to see, anyway. He did manage to prevent his tears from falling, though.

Both of them were wrought. Both of them had probably participated, or been party to, a Forgotten Campaign or two in their lives. This new Element was supposed to be capable of making sure no Forgotten Campaigns ever needed to happen, ever again. And that meant a lot to both of them.

Erick said, “Elemental Benevolence is very good at long range, deep effect prognostication. With it, I can see turning points for weal or woe. Sometimes the truth of those points is obvious, and the best solution to prevent apocalypse is a quick, small kill. But I expect to eventually find a few people who will be able to cause great, good things to happen, if I only give them my support. That’s what I made Elemental Benevolence to be, and so that is what it is. I’m still trying to figure out all the smaller quirks, though, like the spontaneous generation of plant life, or other effects.”

Silverite laughed, soft and true, smiling wide. “I’m sure you’ll figure it out. If anyone can, it’s you.”

“Thanks for the vote of confidence.” Erick said, “I hope I can live up to the expectations.”

“Y’ve already exceeded ma wildest expectations, Erick,” Killzone said, slipping into a happy southern accent. Then he realized that he had spoken with an accent, and simultaneously wondered why he had done that. He was usually a lot more put-together than this, since he routinely dealt with Shades. Perhaps he had gotten a similar vibe from Erick? ...Well wasn’t that shameful. He moved past it, and in a normal voice, said, “This is already a… A miracle.”

Silverite nodded, smiling gently. She couldn’t seem to stop smiling, either. A calm joy entered into her voice as she turned the conversation back to trade.

They spoke for a few hours.

Erick got a deep, yet quick lesson in Crystal Forest trade, along with a heavy caveat: He was going to destroy all current trade routes, so he needed to work with existing systems to ensure that as few people fell through the floor as possible.

“And I know you don’t like them, Erick. But you gotta be willing to work with Portal.” Silverite said, “They destroyed the Farms, but 90% of everything that comes into the Crystal Forest goes through Portal, first.”

Erick heard and understood, and yet… “You’re right; I don’t like Portal. I am going to start up another Farms at Candlepoint, since Valok Greentalon and Daetroi Ooragh were both there last I heard.” With perhaps too much sudden vehemence in his voice, he said, “If Portal comes after me again because I chose to rise up against their monopoly and create new systems of trade then I’m going to cut the head off of that snake this time.”

Silverite nodded, as though expecting everything Erick had said. With an air of stately countenance born of five hundred years of working the systems of the Crystal Forest, and knowing exactly what had happened to the Farms with much more detail than Erick ever could have known, Silverite spoke, “Usually, the Pearl Kingdom is much more accepting of other players on the market; they are ruthless, of course, but in the several hundred years I have known that royal line, they have never before resorted to hiring Hunters to kill a competitor. In the construction of our Farms, they attempted to shut us down through financial hardships, but when it appeared that their hardships would not work, they resorted to the worst sorts of actions.

“Of course, the Pearl Throne and its nobility all blame what happened to us on Caradogh Pogi, stating that they did not know the full breadth of his treachery, and thus, I easily extracted vast discounts from them on the next ten years of bulk shipments. In light of [Gate], though, their trade rates don’t matter.” Silverite turned harsh, saying, “If they do it again, Erick, then remove them from power, with my blessing, and with the blessing of the entire Crystal Forest behind you. There are always branch families that will take over the Pearl Kingdom’s throne, after all, and I already warned them once. Spur will not be trifled with again.”

Erick felt a deep kinship with Silverite at that moment.

And then Silverite turned back to how she had been; softer, but not actually soft at all. “However, I would suggest that you try to get concessions from them when they come to you and demand access to your network. If you sell through them, then they’ll get your products out to all the rest of the Letri Ocean, and that would be a better outcome than a war. Plus, Candlepoint will enjoy a great surge in population and prosperity. Of all the things to come out of this, I am most excited about the connection to Songli. The Crystal Forest has never had a stable, direct connection to that part of the world— We’ve never had a great connection to Stratagold, either… This is all so new, and I hope for the best for you, Erick. I hope for the best for us all.”

Erick felt a kinship at those words, too. He said, “You’re right, of course.”

“Another suggestion: start hoarding gold if you haven’t already.” Silverite said, “Mage Bank will shut down your accounts— Ah. Well. That’s what happens with normal Wizards. I’m not sure what they’ll do with you. The Headmaster will probably be the final arbiter of that decision, and since it doesn’t seem like you’re on his shit list then you might be good to go.”

“Yeah. I… Need to talk to him, I suppose. Rozeta said the same thing. Thanks, Silverite.”

Silverite blinked a bit, as though she had missed a step coming down a set of stairs. She reoriented fast, though, saying, “Just… directly talking to gods. Good to see some things haven’t changed.” Silverite smiled a little, then chuckled, saying, “In a century or two I’ll look back at these sorts of moments and be amazed that I got any time with you at all. I’ve had the same sort of experience with hundreds of adventurers before, but… You’re something special, Erick.” Silverite stood, saying, “And yet, that’s all the help I think I can give you, for now.”

Killzone stood, silently. He hadn’t said much this whole time, though he had had tendrils of thought coming off of his head, so he was obviously talking to someone. Erick wondered who, but he would not pry.

Erick stood as well, saying, “Thank you for the hospitality, Silverite. I’ll have Kiri keep up the rains like she has been, and when things start to calm down I’ll look into full scale crystal mimic eradication, and desert reclamation. I would like to help Spur with that, if you desire.”

“I look forward to seeing that day, but even before then, Spur wants you to succeed, for your success is all of our success.” Silverite said, “Don’t be a stranger, but… and I’m sorry I have to actually say this, but I do: Don’t get too physically close for a while, either. Letters and other correspondences are welcome.”

Erick mentally added another bit of magic to his ‘required magic list’; a long-distance viewing screen that allowed him to see a target, and which facilitated two-way communication. Kirginatharp had that sort of spell, exactly. Such an encounter had even been Erick’s first face-to-face with the Second to Rozeta.

Erick smiled softly, feeling good about this whole thing. “I’ll be seeing you around, Silverite, but not in person.”

Silverite nodded, then walked out of the room.

Killzone almost followed, but he lingered instead. He wanted to talk about Sitnakov, or something else serious, but he decided not to do that. With a normal voice, he said, “Thank you, Erick, for everything you’ve done for Spur. Good luck. If you ever need help; I’ll be there. Otherwise Poi, Teressa, and Kiri are going to stick with you, though I would ask for Teressa’s [Witness] services and Kiri’s widescale destruction services, when necessary.”

Erick smiled. “Spur has done a lot for me, and I’m thankful I was able to return the favor. Kiri and Teressa and Poi are free to go wherever they wish, of course, but I do know that they will be joining me at Candlepoint for the immediate future; we had that discussion last night.”

Killzone nodded, seeming relieved, and yet not at all; he still had yet to broach the topic he actually wanted to discuss. He decided to avoid speaking of Sitnakov again, and deflected toward something that actually did need to be mentioned, and which caught Erick completely off guard, “Shade Farix is likely going to want to move to Candlepoint in order to vacate Frontier, and to get away from the wrought takeover of Ar’Kendrithyst. I suspect many of the Shades you left living will try to move to Candlepoint as well. On one side, this means that war likely won’t happen, due to worries over retaliation, due to Candlepoint turning into the exact same danger that Ar’Kendrithyst used to represent. But on the other side… You’re going to be living near Shades. It might fuck up all of your plans for a Gate Network.”

Erick felt himself pale a little. But only a little. He was already prepared to deal with one Shade in his life, with Goldie, so he could probably fit more in there, somehow. “Thanks for the warning.”

Killzone said, “They’re exceedingly difficult to live with, and normally you’d find yourself wanting to murder them multiple times over. But they’ve been completely different since you Blessed them. Could be a scam— Well. It is a scam. But it’s a scam they’re willing to play out, so… Good luck with that, Erick.”

“Ahhh. Yeah.” Erick said, “Thanks, Killzone. Good luck with the transformation of Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Killzone gave an easy nod, looking relieved that he had discharged as much of his duty as he could, and then he left the sunroom, following Silverite out of the house.

Both wrought made it out the front door in short order, and then walked across the front yard to reach the gate that separated Erick’s property from the public lands just outside, where a rather large crowd was being held at bay behind a good twenty semi-nervous soldiers. Silverite started talking about [Gate], and the people started cheering even before Silverite got out half of her news. ‘It’s true! He made it!’ ‘I want to visit Songli!’ ‘I can see my cousin by Stratagold!’ And a bunch of other loud, happy words. Soon enough, Silverite was able to actually talk, and that is what she did.

Killzone simply stood beside Silverite like a black monolith, his senses peeled for sight of Sitnakov, or other dangers.

Erick put all of that out of his mind as he went to his daughter, and his people.
