“You might eventually awaken your paralyzed mind-slime with enough time and effort, but I’ve seen a million cases like yours and I can confidently say that working on anything else is a more productive measure of your time than working on Mind Magic.” Not-Poi said, “Normal magic is much more versatile and useful. With the Script, you might even be able to create an anti-Mind Magic [Personal Ward]. We can help you to create such a thing, though such a magic has obvious drawbacks of preventing [Telepathy] and other methods of easy battle coordination.”

Erick thought for a moment longer, then said, “We’ll talk about that some other day. For now, I want to reiterate what I hope for, going forward: I hope to make the world a more connected, more peaceful, less warlike land. I hope I am able to achieve this by making a Gate Network that everyone wants to use, and which they are willing to play nice to get. And so, a lot of historically-antagonistic forces are going to be coming together in odd ways. I will attempt to stop all the wars that come my way, but know now that this is the sort of thing you are signing up for, when you ask to be allies.” Erick asked, “Can I count on your support? If not in war, then to at least prevent Mind Magic problems and to help foster understanding and growth in the coming era?”

Not-Poi’s eyes shone with prismatic gold fire. “Absolutely. We are also not opposed to war, but we will not be employing our Mind Magic offensively, at all, or ever.”

Erick breathed out a little, happy that this meeting was going so well. “That is perfectly acceptable. Do you have a name other than ‘Not-Poi’ or ‘Ascendant Prime’?”

“I gave up my name and my individuality long ago, back when I gave up my body. If it helps, you can call me ‘Prime’.”

Erick nodded, and as the sky outside turned gold with the light of dawn, he began, “How do you envision such an alliance looking? What sort of people…”

The conversation went a little longer than Erick had expected, and he thought that perfectly fine.

They spoke until the sun rose all the way, and everyone else in the house woke up and got to doing whatever they felt like doing. Teressa made breakfast, looking half-dead all the while due to lack of sleep. Kiri had much the same weariness and worried look to her as Teressa, as she sat there at the breakfast table, barely touching her pancakes. Jane had no problem eating what Teressa had made, but…

She was worried, too. Jane was just very good at ignoring her worries.

While Erick and Prime spoke of the future, and what cooperation looked like, the people of Spur began to show up outside of Erick’s property, to stand outside the short wall separating Erick’s property from the rest of the Human District. Some of those people were soldiers, keeping the peace, but in the distance, between the mansions of various nobles, Erick saw Silverite and Killzone walking his way.

Erick glanced outward, focusing on Ophiel’s senses for a moment, making sure that what he was seeing was what was actually happening. Then he looked back to Prime, and stood up, saying, “It’s been nice talking to you, and I wish to speak more in the future, but duty calls.”

“It was good to speak with you as well.” Prime stood up, saying, “Duty calls.”

Threads of divine gold fire slipped out of Poi like the unweaving of a basket, or the unwrapping of a thousand folded hands. The gold left his eyes. Sapphire blue irises returned as Poi blinked hard, slumping a fraction before catching himself. Small puffs of fire escaped his mouth as he steadied. And then he stood straight, and breathed deep.

“Welcome back, Poi.” Erick said, “Your boss seems nice.”

“I was still here,” Poi said. “Never left. Just… briefly subsumed.” He shook his head, as though clearing out cobwebs— He paused, then looked around. “Oh. It looks like Kiri is having… a problem. I think Ascendant Prime might have been too much for her.”

Erick scowled a bit. Something was wrong with Kiri—?

Downstairs in the kitchen, Kiri had been sitting next to her half-eaten pancakes, looking pensive and worried. She had likely seen a lot through Sunny’s eyes, or her own developing mana sense. But now, she held onto both sides of her emeraldscale head as though that would be enough to hold herself still in the middle of a massive storm. She groaned.

A spike of worry struck Erick.

There was nothing wrong? No crisis. Ascendant Prime had moved on? Ophiel was steady on the outside corners of the house, sitting pretty right beside a slightly agitated Sunny, who had been agitated the whole night, so Erick mostly wrote off her continued agitation as nerves.

No dangerous looking people outside, either, aside from the various normal looking commoners and a few people in noble livery who had likely heard that Erick had made [Gate], or had seen that Ophiel was back in residence. Silverite and Killzone reached the gathered people outside of the walls, and began controlling that situation better than the guard were capable of doing.

Teressa moved to stand beside Kiri. She placed her hand on the young girl’s back, but her focus was divided between Kiri’s sudden change from pensive to ‘having an obvious problem’, and also Erick’s current location. Jane seemed to be talking about how it was all over now, and nothing was happening.

Erick took that all in in less than a second, then instantly started walking out of his mage tower, toward the newest development in his life, saying, “Everyone is still alive and a fight doesn’t seem to be happening, so let’s take it all as it comes and work toward the best.”

Poi followed, saying, “Kiri seems to be coming back out of it, too.”

And she was. Kiri dropped her hands away from her head and said some small words of ‘I’m fine’ to Teressa. And she seemed to be fine. Mostly.

Erick smiled, his own sudden worries flushing away like so much [Cleanse]d murk. “Good news all around!”

And then, from downstairs, like a raid siren, Kiri sounded off, “WHAT THE FUCK WAS THAT!”

Poi rapidly said, “Most people don’t know of Ascendant Prime and while that is likely to change in the immediate area—”

“Right right.” Erick understood. “Don’t mention it too much.”

Calming Kiri down didn’t take much. Just the knowledge that Erick was on the case and everything would be fine seemed to be enough. And besides that, Silverite and Killzone were here. Kiri had already righted herself for that very reason; no matter whatever trauma might happen, one needed to be ready to respond to all new changes in any current situation, after all. Erick thought that Kiri was being a bit harsh on herself, but he didn’t have time to address any of that; not right now, anyway.

Because he suddenly remembered another problem.

Where the fuck was Sitnakov?

And did the man’s absence have something to do with Killzone also being an adamantium orcol? There weren’t many of those in the world, as far as Erick knew. Rozeta had said that he would show up right after Erick woke up, and that was hours ago by now.

He was probably scared of Killzone, or mad, or… Something. Or maybe he just didn’t want to approach the house? There had been a shell of unknown protective magics surrounding the [Prismatic Ward] of his house earlier in the morning, preventing all people from directly interacting with that dense air, or with the house at all. Erick had no idea all of the effects of those spells (though they were clearly to prevent people from [Dispel]ing his [Prismatic Ward]), though they hadn’t impeded him from blipping inside, nor had they stopped any of his people from doing the same, and using the house as normal. But now…

Erick opened the front door of his house, and there was nothing but dense air separating him from the Mayor of Spur, and her General of the Army.

Silverite looked happy to see Erick. Her pleasant-yet-professional white sundress flowed a little in the breeze, while her silver dragonkin body looked almost gold in the morning light.

Killzone was the same dour black metal orcol that Erick had always known. But there was something different about him today. He was very good at hiding it, but he actually looked a bit nervous, like he expected someone to jump out from behind one of the bushes in the front garden, or out from behind an edge of the house. Maybe Sitnakov had made a small appearance, after all?

“Morning, Silverite. Killzone.” Erick stepped back, saying, “Welcome to my home. You should be aware that I have no idea where Sitnakov is, but he’s around here somewhere. Rozeta promised that.”

“Fuck. I knew it.” Killzone breathed deep, then he calmed, and spoke with a casual southern twang, “Ya know what? That’s fine. So we hear you got [Gate].”

Silverite’s eyes went a little wide at the mention of Sitnakov, but after a glance at Killzone and seeing he was… okay, the Mayor turned back to Erick. “There were some concerning developments in the missive you sent through Poi, but we’re glad to see that you’re okay. Mind if we come in and talk?”

Erick stepped back, happily saying, “Come on in.”

They did.

They closed the door behind them.

And then, safely behind the walls and their anti-sound spells, Silverite dropped the act.

The Mayor of Spur started talking, her volume increasing with every passing word, “Do you have ANY. IDEA. What it means to ally with Ar’Cosmos! What it means to ALLY WITH THAT FAE! I won’t have fairies in this city! Erick! I just won’t!— Why are you smiling! This is serious!”

Erick was smiling, and he knew this was serious, but Silverite was normal-mad at him. Not ‘exile or kill’ mad. It was easy to tell the difference. “I’m glad you’re taking this Wizardry so well.”

Silverite rounded on him, pointing a finger. “You think you’re the first Wizard I’ve seen walk through this city! I had you marked as a possible Wizard after that Particle shit!”

“Bah!” Erick retorted, “No you did not!”

“I can pretend! … Though it is likely better to be true about my ignorance… for a while.” Silverite calmed a fraction, saying, “Gods above. You know how many people are up in my mind about this development? The [Gate] stuff, I mean. Not all the rest. Everyone wants a piece of you. What are you going to do when they find out the whole truth? Because— If I am understanding what Poi told us.” She glanced at Poi, then back to Erick. “You’re not hiding your Wizardry… WHICH IS JUST SO! Incomprehensible. Gods! It feels so odd to talk about this openly. This is not the way this is usually done, Erick.”

“There’s going to be a lot of changes. For starters, I’m going to start some sort of House Benevolence—”

Silverite muttered, “Gods above.”

Killzone, who was pitch black adamantium, probably would have paled if it were physically possible.

“—north of Candlepoint.” Erick said, “That’s where I’m going to go, and remain, so that I’m not bringing the world down on Spur.”

And now Silverite looked embarrassed, but thankful. Killzone frowned a little for similar reasons.

Silverite said, “So you’re moving.”

“I am. I have to. I won’t put Spur in danger like that.”

For a long moment, no one said anything.

And then Silverite said, “Spur will always be open to you, though we know that the near future might bring too much turmoil for you to take advantage of this offer. If you need supplies, our markets are open. If you need help setting up land and sewers, or whatever physical structures might be necessary, I’m sure Al would love to help with that. He is a rather great Stone Mage, as you already know… And a sewermaster. He’s going to miss you; He had a party planned… But you can have that over at Candlepoint, or wherever. Though… I’m not sure how he would deal with you being a Wizard. Everyone is going to have…” Silverite moved on, “I’m here if you need someone to speak to about administration. I’d tell you not to get involved with… a lot of things you’re already involved with. Dragons, for one. But… You’re already doing that. This house and property remains yours, of course, and...” She ran out of easy words as thick emotions clamped her mouth shut.

She had been holding it together well, but she had grown fond of Erick, and Erick had grown fond of her. He was going to miss Spur and its people a whole lot, for any visits to this land would have to be diplomatic-oriented visits; no time for antiquing or bar hopping or anything like that…

Not for a while, at least.

Erick smiled the whole time Silverite spoke, though, for it was fantastic that this was Silverite’s response, and not anything else that it could have been. “I’d like to open up trade with Spur whenever I get [Gate]s up and running, if you’re amenable.”

“Yes yes, of course.” Silverite regained much of her composure as the topic turned to trade. “It’s going to be dangerous to associate with you in the near future, but if we ride the line then we should all come out on top of the world when things finally calm down. Just don’t expect a miracle of cooperation from all the rest of the world. As far as I heard, Candlepoint was doing well after you took over because a lot of people want a Gate Network. About 20,000 people there right now, last I heard, but 95% of them are not natives. I would not be surprised if almost all of them leave once it turns out that you’re a Wizard.”

Erick chose to look on the bright side, saying, “Then at least I’ll have fewer people to work around.”

“The entire world is going to have to work around you, Erick, if half the stuff I heard turns out to be true.” Silverite said, “I’m very glad to know that you weren’t changed by that fairy—” She scowled, but there was barely any heat to her sight, as she said, “A completely reckless thing to do, to ally with them.”

“But it prevented a war.” Erick said, “No one likes what I did, but if I hadn’t, then the war would have already started.”

Silverite frowned a little. “… Probably correct.”

Erick moved the conversation along, gesturing to the hallway and the sunroom beyond, saying, “Want to talk trade? Taxes per person, or tonnage? Logistics? I’m assuming that trade between Stratagold and Candlepoint and Songli would be the main users, at first. Do you know Tasar?— You have to know Tasar.”

Silverite joined Erick for a walk to the sunroom, saying, “I know Tasar. She’s a good sort. Not much like all the other grounders from the Geodes. Wish she would have opened her Teleport Stations to the greater world, though. Always mad at her about that.”

Erick perked up. “You know of those? I thought they were a great secret.”

