"If she's interacting with any Mana in the next minute, I'll be able to tell," the man said while entirely focused on the baby.

But the newborn girl with a rebellious blonde bundle of hair on her head just stared back at the man. She didn't giggle, and she didn't moan. She barely moved. She just gave him a stone-cold, vacant stare.

The seconds trickled by, with Adriana and Ennius holding their breath.

Cassius, on the side, felt slightly jealous. He had been the center of all praises since he had been born. His father had been so happy with his talent that he personally oversaw almost all his training.

And so, the boy waited in silence, clenching his fists. But more and more, it looked like nothing was going to happen. That was until, in complete silence, the baby finally burped and lifted her tiny hand toward the man's head.

"Ennius?" Adriana asked.

"Nothing," the man laughed, sighing in relief. "She's just a newborn baby, sister."

"What can I do for you, my dearest niece?" Ennius asked in a playful tone, tickling the girl’s cheek.

Lily kept stretching her hand.

"I think she wants to grab my nose," the man laughed and brought the girl closer to his head.

However, right when he had brought Lily close enough for her to touch him, she raised her hand and palmed his crown. For a moment, it looked like the girl was trying to grab the headpiece, but her apparently clumsy movements pushed it off the man's head.

The jewel-encrusted golden piece clanged against the granite stone at their feet, resonating ominously a few times before spinning, humming in place, and finally stopping under the gaze of the two adults and the boy.

Adriana bent to pick it up, observing it for a very long second before passing it back to her brother.

"It looks like she wants to become the next [Pope]," Adriana said with not enough mirth in her voice to make it sound like a genuine joke.

“Thankfully, girls cannot become Champions,” Ennius replied, taking the crown from Adriana’s hands and shooting a troubled glance at Lily as he handed her back to her mother.

“Thankfully,” Adriana parroted her brother, cradling the young Lily to her chest. “Who knows what this little girl could have done to your princely boys, otherwise.”
