“Because the only reason gates don’t tear wide the veil and suck all of Zeme into the next world is that they are intrinsically bound to a mortal entity, and if they were to break wide, that would kill the connection. Rust, even founts and vestiges have that safeguard. If I made a non-living hole? I doubt even the Sovereigns could survive the fallout.”

He narrowed his eyes. “So… you’re saying there's a chance?”

It was her turn to give a flat look. “Is there a chance I could kill you, ash the body and send you to the next world, then reach through the veil, find you, bring you back and revive you?”

He frowned. “No?”

“Technically, that is possible, but not in any way that is actually going to happen.”

“Really?” He looked intrigued.

Tala threw up her hands in exasperation, looking to her family for support.

Lea looked fascinated, clearly not understanding.

Rane was shaking his head. “Let me try. Can you dump a cup of water into a barrel then regather just those exact drops back out and into the cup?”

The Revered City Lord hesitated, then slowly nodded. “No, you can’t, but technically, it isn’t impossible.” He sighed. “I see what you are saying now.”

Tala wasn’t sure if she should be miffed that he hadn’t understood her example or grateful that he had understood Rane’s.

Regardless, she decided to move on. “As nice as this has been, I imagine we’ll have to have a more official gathering in order to decide how to proceed.”

The arcane nodded, standing back to his feet. “Unfortunately, yes.”

Tala regarded the still injured man, frowning. “The wounds aren’t healing properly?”

He shook his head. “They are old wounds, brought back by the machinations of reality.”

She looked closer and saw the infection of reality behind the man’s solid barrier of authority and power, just as he’d said. “May I?”

He hesitated only briefly, then nodded. That simple acknowledgement made his defenses permeable to her.

Tala reached out with her own authority and aura and pulled, drawing the reality free from the arcane and into her own reality-iron like drawing filings to a magnet.

The Revered City Lord gasped, his eyes widening even as his wounds closed in barely a second. He took a deep breath, broken bones having set, and internal injuries no longer bothering him.

He regarded Tala for a long, long moment before bowing low. “My thanks, Eskau of War. I will attempt to be ready for our conclave within the next hours. Call, and I will come.”

With that explicit granting of authority, the man turned and vanished, moving through his city to do as was needed.
