“Not his power, Igheriz. Just…what was Azam. A bit of certainty. A bit of memory. Faded away. Now it is here. Do you want it back, Azam? Do you want to ignore me again?”
The Djinni stared at the pot. Pisces held his breath.
A bit of Azam? A bit of his memory? What had happened? Was it like…forgetting a detail of something in your head, like losing the color of the drink you’d had last night? Or had he forgotten a face? A name? An event?
It terrified him, and he had not suffered it. Azam stared down at Riqre, and his lips moved.
“No, great Emir Riqre. What do you bid?”
The smile was victorious, and magnanimous. Emir Riqre turned away, waving a hand.
“Nothing from you, Azam. It is a lesson for Igheriz. You see.”
The man did. He stared at Azam, and the jar, and at Riqre as the Emir went to recline. The Emir kept speaking, as a [Slave] took the jar from Azam to be sold.
“That is how you will punish Azam if you feel like it, Igheriz. To motivate him. Does he not make you laugh? Feed him magicore. Does he misinterpret an order? Do that. A bit of him will go with it. A small amount makes him dread. A large amount? That is the biggest punishment. In time, they could lose everything that makes them…Djinni. They are practically newborn, then, like the few who are created.”
His head turned, a gleeful mask. The caravans of Hrome and Igheriz were silent again. They stared at the horror that could make a Djinni shiver and freeze up in fear.
“That would be something, eh, Azam? You could be born again. Perhaps made—better.”
This time he ran a hand up Azam’s leg. Riqre’s gaze was a lighthouse’s beam. It swung from Azam to Igheriz, back again.
“What did you lose from that? No one knows. It’s chance. Yet I have heard of smart masters who can take just what they desire. Replace it, even, with a color of their own. Maybe you hate how he smiles. Take it. Are you too dour, Azam? Igheriz could take it and make you happy. Smiling all the time. Take and put together. So beautiful. Wouldn’t you like to forget why you are sad?”
Azam was afraid. He whispered.
“I would not wish that, Emir Riqre.”
The Emir stood there, cocking his head left and right. As if confused by the response. Then he shrugged.
“Well, we shall see how well you serve, then. It is difficult, and hard, but Igheriz could craft a better servant if he had the time. That is what we do. Make what we own better. The true of us do, anyways. Am I not generous with my knowledge? Thank me, Igheriz!”
Emir Riqre took a glass of wine and toasted the others. He began to laugh. Hrome and Igheriz tried to smile, but they were unnerved. They stared at Azam and chuckled with Emir Riqre. The [Guards] of Riqre’s caravan laughed with him. They laughed…and slowed, as they drank and realized Riqre hadn’t stopped laughing.
He laughed. For ten seconds. For twenty seconds. Nearly a minute, laughing, and laughing until everyone was silent. Staring. Guffawing with such hilarity and glee that his voice was the only sound anywhere.
Pisces felt like his skin was crawling off his body. He looked at Riqre, and the Emir only stopped laughing after nearly two minutes had passed. He panted, and then looked around, as if confused as to why everyone looked so unnerved.
“Ah, Igheriz. Pisces. These are just little tricks. When we get to my estates, I promise you…”
He looked at Azam.
“True fun shall begin.”
Pisces looked at Igheriz. The man’s smile was gone once more. He looked at Riqre, and licked his lips and drank as deeply as he could. He could not pretend. He tried, oh, how he tried. But each and every time, he stared a little deeper into Riqre’s soul and saw more madness.
More insanity.
The others departed in time, to uneasy sleep. Riqre left in good humor, and the [Necromancer] and other [Slaves] were led away.
Azam stood there, a silent sentinel. Only when all but the sentries were abed, only when he was alone, unwatched, did he make a sound.
A small cry. No tears. No other evidence, no louder sound did he dare, or else he would show his weakness. The Emir devoured such things.
Yet he did make a sound then, as he looked down at the wasted magicore on the ground. A part of him.
Inside, the Djinni wept. He cried out, and wept and raged. For something he had lost, truly lost. He mourned and sobbed for something gone.
He did not know what he had lost. He could not remember.
 
—-
 
The last product of Riqre’s madness made himself known as they were two days away from Riqre’s lands. Pisces dreaded what he would see in Riqre’s home. How could it be worse than here? Than this?
The looming dread almost made you forget the horrors Igheriz could inflict. Almost. But Cawe didn’t forget. Of course not. No one did, but Leciaun was once a year, so you could almost blot it out, pretend it didn’t exist, as a kind of self-defense mechanism. That people like Igheriz would ‘reward’ their favorite [Guards] more often than that was a truth no one spoke about.
But in Riqre’s caravan, there was no need for Leciaun. His personal, devoted servants were off-limits. Everyone else? The [Guards] had free reign so long as they did their duties.
The [Slaves] who were not devoted moved in silent fear. The [Guards], well, they put up with all of it for this alone.
The worst of them was the [Guard] named Tenir. Tenir was not the highest-leveled, he was not the most trusted, although he had Riqre’s favor. He was not even the cruellest, but he was so relaxed. He joked and talked to the other [Guards], so completely at home here that Pisces suspected he was a monster beyond belief.
The truth was more horrifying.
[Slaves] would plead or try to negotiate with the [Guards] who took an interest in them. Tenir? Tenir they didn’t try. He would approach one, and they would beam at him.
“Tenir, are you busy?”
“Tenir, I beg a moment of your time. I so enjoyed our last encounter.”
“Tenir…”
They loved him. He alone enjoyed their affections; they practically fought over him. So Tenir happily enjoyed their company. No matter if they pleaded or wept or shouted, he heard nothing.
To him, they sounded and seemed to be happy as could be. His smile never changed and he laughed and jested with imaginary retorts to something he alone heard.
Pisces stared at Tenir. The other [Guards] just shrugged.
It was Emir Riqre who explained, when Igheriz demanded to know what was wrong with Tenir.
“It’s a class and a Skill. He does not know he has it himself, you see? It is invisible in his head. Tenir? I employ him and he works for me for a song. You would not know it, but at first he was the most miserable [Guard] who ever existed! He drove himself mad, but a man must work. Guilt. He thought he did something wrong. I told him not to worry, but he had different beliefs than mine. Foolish man. So he…broke. Against something. It worked out, you see?”
Igheriz just looked at Tenir.
“You let one with that class serve you as a [Guard]?”
“Of course. It does not harm. Roshal fears too much, Igheriz. As long as you know what is made, you fear nothing. I do not delve as deep as A’ctelios Salash. Now. Tomorrow we visit my home. Then we shall feast! And after that, to Roshal!”
Pisces looked up from ‘mending’ the bones of another [Slave]. He looked at Riqre. The Emir’s head turned and he caught Pisces’ eye out of the corner of his. He winked.
All of this? Play as we travel. Now you shall see all of it.
 
—-
 
They stopped at Emir Riqre’s manor. Pisces sat with Cawe, Bearig, Droppe, Astotha, and the others. No one really spoke.
“If I—if any of us stay here, I would rather anger Igheriz four times. Not that I interest him. Sands, let it not be so.”
Cawe muttered at last. The others nodded. All eyes turned to Pisces.
“Do you think he’ll insist on you, Pisces?”
The [Necromancer] shuddered.
“No. He can’t be that mad. This Naga wants me and Igheriz wouldn’t allow it. Azam is still here…we’ll leave tomorrow.”
As soon as Riqre entombed all those who didn’t genuinely, truly love him by now. Shein shuddered. He still felt at his new legs, running his hands over his flesh and squeezing the bones when he had a chance. The horrors made him physically vomit and shake. Pisces didn’t blame him. There was adventuring—and then there was this.
“Necromancer Pisces. The Emir Riqre desires your presence. You are to be an honored guest.”
One of the [Guards] stopped in front of the cells where they had been placed. Riqre’s manor was an actual keep, an old one in the middle of nowhere, along Zeikhal, the Great Desert. It was actually quite far from Roshal; perhaps to keep his passions hidden.
Pisces rose, slowly. The others looked at him, but he just nodded.
“Very…well. What does he want?”
The [Guard] gave him a look almost as blank and uncaring as Rophir, as all those who served under Riqre for a long time.
“Your company.”
 
—-
 
All thoughts of escape vanished as Pisces walked to Riqre’s manor. He had too many devoted servants, too many [Guards]…and Pisces had his collar and manacles.
Riqre actually wanted them taken off, but Igheriz had the presence of mind to refuse, and the Emir took it with bad grace. A good thing too, because Pisces wasn’t sure if he could have stopped himself from trying to strangle all three [Slave Masters] at the banquet table, collar weakening him or not.
The Emir was decadent in his home. He sat, wearing clothes on his upper body—none beneath. His [Slaves] twined around him, obscuring everything from view, but that didn’t change the obvious.
His trusted [Guards] and people were just as unrestrained. Here, as Pisces sat and ate nothing—but drank liberally—he saw the very thing he’d feared.
But not the depths. Not yet. That lay below and Riqre had not shown him. He must have shown Hrome or Igheriz, because Hrome was pale and drank so fast and hard that he passed out within minutes.
Igheriz didn’t pass out. He had been shaken by Riqre. He did not like Riqre, what the Emir did, but Riqre was the better between the two at molding people. And he was doing it to Igheriz.
Darkness begat darkness. Pisces saw only one of Igheriz’s [Slaves] here. Some of the [Guards] were here, staring or even beginning to get sucked into the madness.
But Eloque? The Lizardwoman was here and Igheriz turned all his fear and loathing and all he had seen on her.
Pisces looked away. If he could have stopped it—in every place, there was something to fight against. Which was worse, Riqre’s people, who believed they loved it because he had broken them, or Eloque? She protested—then fought, as Igheriz hurt her.
“Enough! Enough!”
Eloque cried out. Pisces half-rose—but it was Azam who spoke. The Djinni stood, arms folded, a permanent bodyguard.
“You will injure her beyond repair, Master. You bid me stop you.”
“Azam! Enough!”
Igheriz rose, as mad as Riqre. The Emir turned his head and his gaze fixed on Azam. Eloque ran, sobbing, and Pisces felt a lurch.
“Such insolence from your servant. He countermands you? Now would be the time to punish him, yes?”
Azam froze. Igheriz rose in a rage. He barely hesitated.
“Yes! Magicore! Lend me some, Riqre! Two times—no, thrice what he drank last! You will hold your tongue, Azam.”
The Djinni actually shrank. Riqre laughed and demanded some brought at once.
“Master, I beg you. Not that. I will lose myself.”
Azam spoke, his voice straying to…pleading? Not enough. Pisces watched as Igheriz hesitated, but Riqre was there, whispering in his ear again.
“Ah, he is repentant! Maybe you should relent, Igheriz?”
“Maybe. Maybe.”
Igheriz muttered, his wrath warring with what he knew he could do to Azam. Then he looked sideways and flinched. Riqre’s eyes were dark pools.
“Azam begs forgiveness. Yet he does so only in words. Perhaps…if he wishes to avoid the magicore, perhaps have him prove it.”
“H-how?”
The Emir grinned.
“Have you never ordered your mighty Azam to change forms? Aethertraveller he might be, but they have talents. Have you never seen how far you can order them?”
Igheriz hesitated. Azam’s head slowly turned and he met Emir Riqre’s gaze. He did not shudder, or show fear. Yet Pisces thought even the Djinni feared…Riqre laughed and beckoned Igheriz to whisper. All others dining saw Azam begin to shake. And that was only the start.
The madness grew worse. And the Emir had called for Pisces. He was going to drag Pisces into it. Force him into this horror, and Pisces already saw the Emir watching him. The [Necromancer] felt sick. He would not be the same. No one who fell would. He rose, but Igheriz whispered and Pisces was unable to run.
“Pisces. Igheriz told me he marked you. Let me show you too—the very foundations of your class. Do not worry. We will begin gently, at first. With games. Fetch me a [Slave]. One who was often with Pisces. Games first, then to the true matters.”
Emir Riqre beckoned and Pisces did shout then, a mortal shout of horror to be freed, to run. He couldn’t move.
 
—-
 
This is how Riqre played his games. He broke you apart. Took you deeper into darkness. Let you float there, even try to escape.
Then dragged you down again.
It was a variation of the tasks they had made Pisces do before. A game, Riqre called it.
Pisces sat in a room apart from the banquet. He had been led there, locked in. He did not have to wait long.
“Bearig!”
Cawe screamed as they dragged him in. The man was screaming. He screamed as they dropped him, ungently, laughing. Pisces stared in horror at his legs.
“Broken! It lasted for a while, but not against hammers, eh? Try again, Pisces!”
This was the game. Bearig had been here twice. First, they broke his legs. Then Pisces sent him out…and they broke them again.
Riqre himself appeared in the doorway, swaying. Behind him, Pisces heard a voice. Azam’s? It was a shout, but there were no words.
Cawe backed up into a corner. Pisces did likewise. He couldn’t help it.
“What are you doing?”
“Pisces, I’m helping you, of course. I am disappointed. I have hammers. I can break this man’s legs.”
He pointed at Bearig, who was choking on his saliva and the pain. Emir Riqre tapped the side of his nose.
“Stop me. Six blows from my own hand, Pisces! Stronger bones! Make him a better man! A better [Cook] or [Laborer]! Like, yes, like a Draugr! Imagine it! A mix between undead and man! You have twenty five minutes.”
He was gone before Pisces could react, hurrying towards the Djinni’s voice. Pisces looked at Bearig.
“Pisces. Pisces. My legs!”
The man wailed. Pisces slowly approached. He knelt, uncollared, but unable to use his magic except as Riqre willed it.
