Pisces had, back then, still believed in Padurn’s teachings about how to fight, for all he refused to take the class. He’d protested, but Feren had overruled him as Gewilena worked on her next masterpiece. They rarely had any function, for all they were undead; they could barely defend themselves. They were just for beauty.
Some of the cabal had left because of the perceived waste. That was fine; Feren could create strong enough undead to protect them all. Food was harder. Sometimes they stole, sometimes they had to intimidate or raid caravans. So he trained Pisces.
“They care nothing for us. A fair fight doesn’t exist when eight [Knights] are charging at you, Pisces. So—once again. [Flash Step]! Az’kerash himself used this spell!”
Pisces hoped Feren had survived. When his father had tracked him down, after an unwise visit to his mother, the [Lord] had arrested half the cabal and put most to death. All but Pisces, who was returned to Padurn until he escaped.
Did Feren live? Ama? Pisces had seen Gewilena die, and he thought he would never hear a worse sound than that. Her sobbing as her creations died. He had run from Terandria, to learn magic where Az’kerash once had.
He thought he would never hear a worse sound than that.
He was wrong.
 
—-
 
Pisces learned of the holiday of ‘Leciaun’ shortly after Cinaelu and the dramatic battles with Khelt and the King of Destruction.
Everyone was jumpy, watching Azam. The Djinni had heard about his cousin being freed, but he made no sign of emotion. Nevertheless, Igheriz had been ready to send Azam to capture the rogue Djinni himself.
“The King of Destruction broke a Djinni’s chains. Will Roshal refuse to trade with him?”
Whispers ran down the line of slaves. Pisces listened with half an ear; politics and the King of Destruction seemed far away, but he had to remind himself that he was now within the same continent as that legendary [King].
“Surely not. They wouldn’t throw over the King of Destruction for saving his own neck.”
Droppe opined, fancying himself the final word on such things. Qshom sighed tiredly, glancing back and clearly wishing his head could take a ride on the wagon with Eloque.
“Explain, Droppe.”
“Thank you, Qshom. I’ll give you some of my rations…”
Everyone else groaned as Droppe began to lecture.
“You see, it’s about cost and gain and the message they’re sending. If they went after the King of Destruction for freeing Djinni, all of Chandrar would agree. Yet he clearly did that as a last resort on a Djinni-attack from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Therefore…should we blame the King of Destruction? He was an inch from death!”
“That he can at all should terrify any.”
One of the [Guards] leaned over his camel’s back and spat, giving Azam a wary look. The Djinni was expressionless, moving far ahead of the caravan as per Igheriz’s orders. Droppe gave the man a sly look.
“Ah, but it could have backfired. Fear not! No Djinni will be freed even if the King of Destruction gets his hands on them. He is no idiot! They would roast him before flying off…no, I believe Roshal will give him small favors, and other nations condemn fools who would involve Djinni in this war. Leave them to serve; there are few enough of them anyways!”
Igheriz himself listened and nodded, smiling.
“Just for that, Droppe, I will put in a good word for you at the market! Someone remember to give him wine tonight, eh? For easing our minds.”
The Lizardman tried to bow, grinning broadly. Igheriz did seem to relax, as well as the other [Guards] who had been nervously fingering their hilts every time Azam passed by.
Pisces just frowned to himself, wondering if Droppe was right. Even if he was…he looked ahead towards Bearig.
“Roshal seems to be a major power.”
The [Cook] stared ahead until he realized Pisces was talking to him, and then jumped.
“What? Er, yes, Adventurer Pisces!”
“It’s just Pisces, Bearig. Do you know much about this?”
The man tried in vain to wipe at a sweating brow.
“No more than any other Chandrarian, Pisces. Which is more than someone from Izril I suppose…you’ve never seen Djinni?”
“Never, aside from scrying orbs. Wistram doesn’t keep them. Their binding spells can interfere with magic, we had Golems and…there are too many things for them to exploit.”
“There’s some wisdom, sir. Not that I’d turn down a Djinni as someone to chop things or haul buckets, but you know what happens if they get loose?”
Pisces nodded. Both Bearig and Cawe shuddered, a reflex Pisces found intriguing. He walked forwards a bit, so he and Bearig were closer and Cawe did likewise.
“So, Roshal as a power interferes only in matters of Djinni.”
The [Cook] nodded solemnly.
“They’re slaves as much as we are. Any nation or power in Chandrar would do the same; we only hear of Roshal because Master Igheriz is from there. Only a fool frees Djinni, Pisces. A man as desperate as the King of Destruction, or something foul like, like…Demons.”
He searched for someone evil enough to meet his criteria. Pisces was only glad he hadn’t gone for ‘[Necromancers]’ first.
Drily, the young man cast his eyes across the caravan.
“So Roshal fears Demons too, eh?”
“They send vast stores of goods and a tithe of their own to Rhir, Pisces. More than most nations.”
“Really. Is that in their oaths pledged to help Rhir? Why would that be?”
Bearig shrugged.
“I don’t think so. They support Rhir. Strongly. They fear things like…the Demon King’s Deaths. The Death of Magic has returned. So they say they can never be killed. Roshal doesn’t want them getting free any more than most. Less than most, perhaps. If the Deathless—”
“Shut up there!”
A blow came swinging in so fast from the side that Pisces barely dodged it. Bearig was clubbed and fell down, yanking Pisces low. A [Guard] snarled at the two, on edge.
“Talking about Demons next! And the D—them! Bad luck! Talk about free Djinni or Rhir one more time and I’ll lash you both!”
“And I’ll kick you in the balls for making me fall over.”
Cawe snapped at both of them, spitting sand out of her beak. Pisces sighed. He fell silent with Bearig as the man felt at his side, wincing. Instead, Pisces turned his gaze ahead to the source of all this paranoia and fear.
Azam.
It was another reminder the Djinni was a slave too—but not like them. He cared nothing for the other [Slaves], and would knock them aside. They were ants to him.
However, he was needed and Igheriz could not put him aside. After all—
They were attacked. 
A night raid, three days after the branding. It was fast, quick, and Pisces stayed in the tent throughout all of it.
To leave would have been to be prey to the [Guards] and their attackers, even if he could have levered out the peg hammered into the ground; only Azam could do that, as he was the one who drove them in.
The attack came in the middle of the night, and eight [Guards] died. The attackers came in with swords, arrows, sneaking up on the sentries, and they might have killed both caravans’ [Guards] and freed the slaves—or captured them themselves—if it weren’t for Azam.
Igheriz could fight. He had an enchanted sword, and Hrome might have been decent and his [Guards] average, but Azam tipped the scales. The Djinni strode about, killing the attackers with swift blows from his hands, ignoring their blades and arrows that bounced off his skin.
When it was over, Igheriz interrogated one of the attackers. Pisces didn’t see that either—but he heard the screams. He only heard what was said after, by Astotha, the [Slaves] who had heard the [Guards] talking.
“Merr! We received orders to free Merr! And—get the [Necromancer]! Pisces! Someone hired our boss to make the raid!”
 
—-
 
“Damned bandits! This is what comes of taking the direct route! We pass too close to Savere and the Siren respects not even Roshal! Something must be done, Hrome. We must join forces or hire more guards. Azam cannot be everywhere!”
It was Savere, the lawless country run by a [Bandit Queen] that had launched the attack. Not formally; it was one group among many, but Igheriz was worried.
Pisces wondered who had hired the [Bandits]. Perhaps a certain someone after the auction had failed? If so, more attacks might be coming. This one had been too close already; they had been going for the [Slave]’s tents to free them, Pisces had learned.
But for Azam.
It was then that Hrome and Igheriz began casting a wider net for support. Roshal protected its own—for a fee. However, it was easier to look for allies in the area. They found it in a third caravan, the largest and wealthiest by far.
“Do you know this [Slave Master]? The Emir?”
Igheriz was dubious as the joined caravan went to meet the third. There would be no danger if they joined three groups into one, or so he hoped. Hrome shook his head, frowning.
“Not personally. Riqre’ma Medaale is—unpredictable. They say he has lands not far from here. But it would be best to treat him with all respect, Igheriz.”
“He’s unpredictable?”
Pisces stared at Igheriz. The [Slave Master] was insanity personified to Pisces. Yet somehow, the adventurer had yet to see the worst. He saw Igheriz check the sky and curse.
“We will not reach this Riqre’ma today. Tomorrow, perhaps. Yes, it might be well. Today—it has been tiring on all of us. This attack, the pace. But given that it is three days after Cinaelu…”
He glanced around and raised his voice significantly. The [Guards] had been frayed with nerves ever since the raid and losing eight of their number. They glanced up, and looked excited. Hrome nodded.
“You think we should stop now?”
“Yes. Of course! Let us make camp early. Then—Leciaun!”
Igheriz clapped his hands. Pisces heard a low moan run through the [Slaves]. Cawe had frozen. Bearig looked pale and sick.
“What is Leciaun? That’s not a Chandrarian holiday.”
Pisces knew all the major ones, or so he thought. He heard no answer from Cawe. Bearig’s face turned towards Pisces, struggling to come up with a reply. It was Droppe who answered.
“It’s not one. Roshal created it after Cinaelu, long ago, but only they truly celebrate it. Especially in the caravans. It’s…to ensure obedience.”
Pisces’ head slowly turned. He did not like the way Droppe was telling him this. He did not like…what he guessed was meant.
“What is Leciaun, Droppe?”
The [Broker] glanced at him.
“You can’t guess? A day for the [Guards] to do what they want. The ones who have done the best. Everyone is fair game—everyone but the [Slaves] most favored by Igheriz and Hrome. The [Guards] can’t permanently damage anything. But beyond that they’re free to do…anything.”
Pisces sensed Cawe shuddering. He looked around, and once again noticed—to almost exclusion, Hrome and Igheriz employed almost all men. If there were female [Slave Traders], and there surely were, they operated differently.
This? The [Slaves] were herded into camp. They were untethered, and then the [Guards] looked at them, separated them.
And Leciaun began.
 
—-
 
Pisces heard a sound as terrible as when Gewilena had died. He was untouched. He sat, in Igheriz’s personal tent.
The [Slave Master] did not partake in Leciaun. Why would he? He owned everyone here, so that day was every day to him. He drank as Eloque poured him wine.
“Do you know why I called you here, Pisces?”
The Gold-rank adventurer barely heard him. He was hearing the sounds from the camp. Cries and laughter and…he tried not to listen. He was unable to block it out. Wouldn’t have, if he could.
He had heard and seen terrible things. Pisces had fought Crelers, gone into the heart of the Village of Death. He had beheld Skinner. Even so. He realized something as he sat here.
That wasn’t evil. The image of evil…the [Necromancer] had a different perspective than most. Even so, he realized that evil wasn’t the image of wailing organs, the gurgling rasping of monsters or the hidden nightmares in the center of a dungeon, in dark places where they waited on the edge of where reality met dreaming.
That might have been horror. But it was not evil. Evil? Evil was mundane and around him. There was no law here to stop anything happening. Igheriz was the law, him and Hrome, and they encouraged freedom.
Leciaun. Roshal’s answer to Cinaelu, the day of freedom.
True evil sounded like weeping. Silence and grunting and sounds of…Pisces looked up.
“Why am I here, Igheriz?”
In this moment, he would have done almost anything to stop this. The [Slave Master] saw it. He grinned.
“You might do something today, eh. That is what I thought. So I called you here, Pisces. Because you are an adventurer. You think you have control. Even now. Even though I wrote my name on your chest, you would do something stupid and I would have to hurt you.”
Pisces thought he heard Cawe’s voice. He put his feet under him.
“Shouldn’t I?”
Igheriz just laughed at him.
“You can’t raise your hands to me, Pisces. This? This is a lesson. Maybe even a mercy, for I like you. Sleep.”
Pisces’ eyes widened. He rose to his feet—and toppled over as the collar blazed with magic. When he woke, Leciaun was done.
Igheriz had done him no mercy.
 
—-
 
The next day, Pisces woke in silence. Oh—noise from the [Guards]. They boasted and laughed, in good humor afterwards. [Slavers]. He would have killed them like Mrsha had once tried to kill Badarrow, with a piece of wood or dagger through their ears if he could raise his hands.
But it was silent on the [Slave]’s side of things. No one spoke. A few tried to comfort or reach out—but those taken did not want to be touched.
The worst part? Few wept. It had happened before and it would happen again.
Some had been exempted. Astotha, for instance, and Eloque. A few favored [Slaves]—and not all [Guards] had been allowed to take part. Those who did swaggered around, taunting those who had not.
Cawe said nothing to Pisces or Bearig that day as they were chained up. She didn’t look at anyone or anything. The feathers on her neck were…torn, Pisces realized. As if someone had plucked them out in a handful. As they began to walk, a [Slave Guard] rode past and made a gesture.
“I will see you next Leciaun, lovely bird!”
The [Pickpocket] shuddered. Qshom saw Pisces’ head go up.
“Stop.”
The [Tailor] warned Pisces. The [Necromancer] looked at the man’s horse. If he could get it to rear, let it toss him and snap his neck—
He moved out of line. Bearig slammed into Pisces, a shoulder-charge so hard it knocked both down.
Astonished, Pisces felt the big [Cook] fall on him. He tried to get away, but Bearig swung his clenched hands, striking and pulling at the line.
[Guards] turned and the one who’d rode by turned back. Pisces kicked, but Bearig just slammed his full weight onto Pisces.
