“They say each servant of his is superior to any other. Even that he sells Djinni he does not find worth keeping! If you would be one of his, you should be lucky indeed, for the Emir does not even chain his servants!”
Well now, wouldn’t that be nice? Pisces decided there were worse fates than that—but the Emir Yazdil seemed like a powerful figure. Perhaps it would be better to fall into this reclusive Emira’s hands.
 
—-
 
Pisces did not know how true that was. Az’kerash, far distant, had finally found him. And the Necromancer was engaged in a bidding war to end all bidding wars with the Naga.
The Naga wanted Pisces too, but Emir Yazdil was also curious why the reclusive Se-Hexri was so interested. Of course, that just meant he bid more and more, knowing there was something there to win. After all—the Naga did not like losing.
As for Emir Hestute—he was just there.
 
—-
 
Four hundred thousand gold pieces?
When she first heard of the sum, Eloque had to gasp. She was worth a fraction of that price! Then—her lip curled and she was a bit disgusted with herself.
It was the way of [Slaves] to value themselves on how much they had been sold for. She was a [Slave], and had been one for nearly four years, now, but unlike Chandrar’s people, this was not normal to her.
She was from Baleros. Baleros, and [Slaves] were not so common. She wondered if another year would erode more of her sensibilities.
Even so, four hundred thousand gold was four hundred thousand gold no matter how far across the world you went and such a princely sum justified all the attention Pisces was getting.
They still had not met, yet Eloque found herself thanking Pisces even further; the obsessed Hrome meant that Igheriz drank and socialized. Less time to spend with her.
What intrigued her was not just the price. As she rode and numbers raced down the caravan, Eloque listened to the shouts.
“Four hundred thousand! Sing it to me, Hrome! We must drink, even when riding!”
Igheriz was in high spirits. He would visit her tonight, drink or not. Eloque stared out the flaps in the wagon, then turned her head.
“You don’t look impressed, Azam.”
A figure, like obsidian from Baleros’ volcanoes come to life, turned his head slowly. Azam, guardian and greatest slave of all, if not with the class.
He spoke to no one and nothing unless Igheriz ordered. He was silent, efficient, and often walked with her, next to the wagon with the greatest goods, a deterrent for [Raiders] or [Thieves]. Twice she had watched him crush a man’s head or throw magic. He was faster than they dreamed.
Yet he spoke to her of all the caravan. For she was not a guard, whom he no doubt detested, nor was she a transient [Slave]. He had not spoken to her for two entire years. Now?
…Well, she doubted he knew her name, but Igheriz’s attention seemed to instill the only pity Azam had ever shown anyone. So after a minute of walking, one eye slowly slid down and his mouth moved grudgingly.
“Should I be?”
“Is not five hundred thousand a sum beyond sums? Even you might be sold for a number close to that figure—and the price still rises!”
Eloque prodded Azam, wondering if she could stir him to anger or any emotion. She succeeded, but to her surprise, it was a smile that flashed across his face. His lips quirked, then his face went flat.
“It is a number. Should I respect another digit on the end? You nor I will never hold nor be able to use such a sum.”
This was true, but Eloque was still impressed by it. More than that…this was not the reason Azam stared at Pisces, then.
“Do you think it is too low, then? You sometimes stare at the adventurer.”
His eyes flicked to hers again and Eloque felt a shock as the power in him revealed itself. Azam frowned. He was displeased.
“We walk for days without end. There is little to stare at.”
Eloque rested her chin on the lip of the wagon and then winced as it jolted and her jaw clicked together. She rose, rubbing at the spot.
“Azam, are you avoiding the question?”
The Djinni looked at her, and then away. His eyes focused on Pisces, dismissively.
“His worth is due to fame. Not his power. Rather than that…this sum you make much of. All the numbers being shouted so loudly by our master—”
He nodded to Igheriz, still rapturously calling out. Azam glanced at Eloque and hesitated, but then lowered his voice slightly.
“—They are far too low, and directed upon the wrong target. The adventurer is worth far less than the book.”
Eloque’s eyes widened. She looked at Azam and realized. The Djinni was not staring at Pisces for interest in the man.
The book? What did Azam see with his power in the book?
Her curiosity grew still further, and Eloque resolved to talk to Pisces. Perhaps to gain the measure of a man worth half a million gold pieces.
 
—-
 
It was midday when the final announcement came. The hoarse [Mage] shouted, eyes bulging.
“Emira Se-Hexri has placed another fifty thousand gold on Pisces!”
Murmurs arose. Pisces looked up, scarcely believing it himself. He was now worth seven hundred and fifty eight thousand gold pieces.
“For that kind of money, you could buy a Named-rank adventurer! A cheap one, if they were on the market!”
Hrome was astounded. Igheriz was dancing, in the greatest of moods. It was down to two now.
Se-Hexri and Yazdil. The two were bidding slower now, reaching their limit. Pisces couldn’t understand why this female Emira wanted him, but he had a suspicion. Maybe…
As for the Naga? The [Mage] hesitated, put a finger to his brow. He reconfirmed, then whispered.
“The Naga tires of the bidding. He has put the price for Pisces Jealnet at nine hundred thousand gold pieces, and invites the Emira to go by the hundred thousand from now on.”
Dead silence reigned in the caravan. Then Igheriz laughed, the wild laugh of a man who had struck all lotteries. However, Hrome shook his head, nearly white with shock himself.
“There is no way she has enough to match that. Se-Hexri would beggar herself already, whatever fortune she has stashed away. There is no way…”
“And the spellbook is still to be auctioned! But we will keep that secret until I reach Roshal. I need not want for gold—and I shall give you 1% of what I now earn, Hrome! Never let it be said your generosity goes unpaid!”
Igheriz laughed and laughed. Pisces waited, but Se-Hexri had nothing more to bid. The true power behind her could have bid more, but he would have had to justify why.
So the Necromancer raged and the Naga won. As he always did. Now, Pisces felt the chains grow tighter, for here was a nine hundred thousand gold [Slave]. If there ever had been any chance of sweet-talking the [Guards]…now there was none. Each one had been promised a bonus for delivering Pisces. Hundreds or thousands of gold pieces; a pittance compared to what Igheriz would get!
If there was any danger, it was to the Caravan Master, Pisces realized. So did Igheriz. He now knew he carried true value, and Hrome’s speed would be essential. However—any thoughts of quickly taking Pisces themselves that surely existed in the [Guards]’ minds were forestalled because of one being.
Azam. The Djinni hovered, watchful, above them all. Igheriz turned to Pisces, smiling wide.
“You will be sold for more than even Azam, Pisces! More than you are worth, I think. Because Azam is mightiest of all. But then—so goes fame! I am minded to celebrate, but we do so only when we stop! To Roshal! Faster and faster!”
Still, he made merry that night. And that was how Pisces discovered who Eloque was. And how he began to see deeper into Roshal’s depths.
 
—-
 
That night, Igheriz made merriment with wild abandon. He drank, opened a rare cask of wine he had been intending to sell, ate liberally, and shared his good mood even with the [Slaves].
Especially Pisces. The [Necromancer] was allowed to drink, and did so. He drank and drank and carefully made sure Igheriz didn’t see how much was going onto the ground.
This was an opportune moment. The caravan was wildly excited with how much gold was promised for Roshal and they would be going fast to Lailight Scintillation, the port-capital said to be one of the wonders of the world.
They’d be more vigilant after this night. If there was ever a time to make a move, however incautious—it would be when Igheriz was in his cups. Pisces was ready. However—Igheriz surprised him in the worst of all ways.
“I—I knew you were lucky, Pisces. But this is more than you or I dreamed, eh? I will convey you to the Naga and be rich beyond dreams. So—so let us have fun! Eloque! Astotha, fetch her. And you, Pisces. Which one of Hrome’s or mine would you fancy? Cawe? I see you talking.”
Pisces froze, cup halfway to his lips in a feigned drink.
“What do you mean, Igheriz?”
“To bed! I will be generous. A [Slave] may sleep with another [Slave], but only if their master lets them! Sometimes for children—but who do you want?”
“No one.”
The [Necromancer] replied instantly. His skin crawled. Igheriz waved a finger.
“Ah, ah! You are going to offend me, Pisces. And I told you, I do not like offense. We won’t watch, will we, Hrome?”
The other [Slave Trader] looked half insensible himself, but he had called for his own personal [Slaves]. Pisces bit his lip.
“Cawe, then.”
He had no ill intentions, but better to escape and have a chance to talk with her than anything. Igheriz beamed.
“Excellent! Fetch Cawe—no, make her presentable first. They will have one tent—and I? There you are, Eloque. Pisces, come meet my personal…masterpiece. Do you see? Do you understand my genius?”
Pisces’ head turned. He saw the least talked-of [Slave] in Igheriz’s caravan. For a second he didn’t understand. Then he dropped his cup and saw.
Eloque was a Lizardfolk woman. Astotha had told Pisces that she had been beautiful, acquired by Igheriz in some port, and the [Slave Master] had been instantly besotted. However. She was still Lizardfolk and Igheriz was a Stitch-man.
So. Igheriz had done something to her to make her more ‘presentable’.
“There is nothing more beautiful than cloth, Pisces. If I marry, it will be one of my people. Silk, if they will have me. But a man’s tastes go to the exotic, so Eloque I will keep. And she looks far better to me, already. I have had Humans, other people adorned just so, but had to sell them. Is she not beautiful? Do you see?”
Pisces looked at Eloque and saw…thread. Thread, amidst scales. She looked at him, and he saw how she looked as patchwork as Stitchfolk. Igheriz had changed her by sewing string into her body, mimicking the seams of Stitchfolk around her joints.
“Eloque. Come here.”
Igheriz beckoned with his oddly wet hand. He saw Pisces looking at him, and mistook the wide eyes for curiosity.
“You see my cloth here? It is Watercloth, a simple name for such a rich thing. You see? Always it produces water. It is strong too, but it has many uses! Especially when travelling or in the bedroom. Hah!”
He made a gesture, and then looked at Pisces.
“I felt a connection with your captain, Ceria Springwalker. The one with the bone hand? I am like her, you see? Well, I admire your friend, Yvlon Byres greatly. Both speak to my people.”
Pisces’ ears rang. He saw Eloque walking slowly over to Igheriz. He saw her look at him and one look—Pisces’ lips moved before he could stop himself.
“You think you are like Ceria, Igheriz? Ceria? Hold your tongue. You don’t deserve to compare yourself to her boots.”
Hrome stopped pawing at his [Slaves]. Igheriz, the [Guards] joining him for libations, and Eloque all looked up.
The [Slave Master] was still smiling, but suddenly all noise had stopped. He turned his bright eyes onto Pisces, and replied slowly.
“That sounds like an insult, Pisces. Of course, I heard you wrong. So I give you a chance to clarify your words.”
The [Necromancer] hesitated. He heard every instinct in his sensible mind tell him to apologize, not to say what was boiling within him. He was not Yvlon! He was not Ceria! He was…
He looked at Eloque and the words tumbled out.
“You heard me, Igheriz. You monster.”
The Stitch-man looked around. He laughed, and some of the others picked it up, but suddenly the air was changed. Igheriz rose.
“This astounds me. A [Necromancer] disdains me. Me? You make puppets out of the dead, Pisces, and I did not say as much, but you call me a monster?”
He looked down at Pisces, eyes far, far too bright. Had Pisces seen him sniffing at something while drinking? It wouldn’t surprise him.
Pisces rose as well. The [Necromancer] was shaking.
“I am a [Necromancer]. I use dead bodies. The dead. Not the living. It is true, I have done terrible things. In my greed and arrogance, I have unleashed horrors. Because I was too incautious, I have seen those I loved die. I have even…created a monster.”
He thought of Toren and shook his head. Pisces looked around the tent, at the [Slavers].
“I was at the Village of the Dead. I saw the thing that lay in the center, the Putrid One’s last servant. I felt it touch me and rot my flesh like carrion and pestilence. It seems…so pleasant compared to here.”
He fixed Igheriz with a look. The Stitch-man had begun to laugh, a dangerous laugh. Hrome looked at Pisces, shocked, even daring to be disappointed. The [Necromancer] spat.
“You all disgust me. I will never be like you. I see beauty in death and life. You? All you can do is ruin what you touch and find more innocents to torture. I have seen Crelers, and even they look less horrific by comparison to—”
He got no further because Igheriz struck him. The Stitch-man leapt across the tent and backhanded Pisces so fast the young man couldn’t dodge. Something—rage or the drug had given Igheriz speed.
And strength. Pisces felt his cheek cut against his teeth and went stumbling down.
“So. I offer you everything, I give you my friendship and you insult me.”
Igheriz bellowed. He kicked at Pisces; the young man rolled. Pisces reached for something—the fork he’d been eating with! He rose, eyes blazing, fork raised in his manacled hands to stab—
He couldn’t move his arms. He couldn’t even lift them higher than his chest. Pisces stared at his trembling limbs.
The [Slave Master] laughed. He struck Pisces again, a blow that took Pisces stumbling backwards.
“A [Slave] wearing a collar cannot raise their hands! Say it again, Pisces! Say it again, how I disgust you!”
He kicked at Pisces. The [Necromancer] tried to roll, but ran into the tent flap. Then Igheriz was on him, and the [Guards]. They didn’t stop him. They joined in.
“You offend me, Pisces.”
