In that way, Pisces knew his friends were alive. And he had the [Guards]’ favor, for what it was worth. Little chance they’d help him, but his unwanted Skill did add to his already-present fame.
Still, Pisces understood neither Igheriz nor the [Slavers] would be helpful. If there was help? It had to come from his fellow [Slaves]. So that night, he looked at them, sleeping well apart from his ‘special’ area.
“You don’t need to stay back. I don’t care.”
The others in the tent looked at each other. They were free of the rope group, but each was still attached with a personal line to a peg hammered into the ground in front of the tent. It meant you could tangle up, but they seemed used to it.
Cawe was the first to roll over with a grin.
“Ah, but if they get mad, we’re in trouble, adventurer! Still, I’d rather stretch out.”
Encouraged, Bearig shifted over and Pisces heard murmurs of thanks. He saw a Stitch-woman, one of the ones who’d been trusted to pass water out, smile at him.
“You’re kinder than you sounded. When they told us you had fought in that village, they made it sound as if you were a monster yourself, slaying powerful undead left and right.”
Pisces made himself smile. He wasn’t as friendly as some others, but Ceria had once told him he could be quite charming if he tried. So—he tried.
“Ah, well, Miss. It was a [Necromancer] fighting undead. Not exactly hard.”
The others looked up. A few began to ask questions. They were soon hushed, but Pisces traded whispers for an hour or two. He realized the [Guards] weren’t the only ones interested in him, but most couldn’t chat as freely. That was how he got to know some of them—some that might help, at any rate.
The Stitch-woman’s name was Astotha, and she was a [Slave] of years, attached to Igheriz’s caravan. He also met those in his ‘line’ which included Bearig, the hapless [Cook]—little help, but genial enough—and three others that Pisces had picked out for helpfulness or interest.
It was about Skills or trust. He didn’t know if he could trust Bearig or Cawe, but they were close to him and it was good to make friends. Cawe could be helpful, though. He learned she was not, in fact, a [Thief] when he offended her by using the class.
“I’m a [Pickpocket]. There’s a difference!”
Then she kicked him in the shin. Pisces swore—being kicked by a Garuda’s talons was not fun.
“I apologize for the palpable difference.”
She clacked her cracked beak at him.
“A [Thief] isn’t a specialist! I am. I could have a key out of my [Guard]’s pockets if my collar didn’t stop my Skills. Even without…”
The others shushed her and she fell silent. Astotha looked at Cawe, warningly.
“Any of them hear you again, and you’ll suffer twice. Igheriz won’t tolerate it, Cawe.”
The Garuda snapped her beak shut and Pisces saw her bravado vanish in a second. His sense of unease grew, but her comment told him two things. Firstly—he wasn’t the only person shackled from their Skills. Cawe had a special collar, if not as elaborate as his. Bearig did not.
Neither did Astotha. In fact, she could use her Skills. She…had Skills from her class as a [Slave]. She eyed Pisces, still a bit exhausted from the trek despite his rest, and touched his arm.
“Here. I won’t need this until tomorrow and you look tired, Pisces. A gift for a gift. That’s how we like to do it in Chandrar. [Ease Your Burdens].”
He felt some of his exhaustion vanish. Pisces blinked, and some of the footsore, aching joints and tiredness flowed away…into Astotha. He saw her grimace, slightly, and protested.
“You needn’t have done that. Thank you—”
She smiled.
“It’s my class. Some of it is lost, so we both gain.”
He met her eyes and they were kind. So Pisces nodded, vowing to remember the favor. He did remember such things. Like the [Innkeeper]…
No thoughts of home. Pisces catalogued the other three ‘interesting’ [Slaves] and made a point to talk to them the next day, as they struck camp and were put on the road again.
There were three. Most of the caravan were Human or Stitchfolk, with some spattering of Garuda, the natives of Chandrar. However, Pisces also saw a Dullahan [Tailor] amongst them. Qshom, who had run into a debt after a fire consumed his shop…his armor was plain metal, and he often cursed his justifiable misfortune.
The second was Droppe, who, like Cawe, ran afoul of the law. He was a [Broker], the kind that existed on Izril, that Fierre was, and had tried to sidle up to Pisces twice to chat about anything the [Necromancer] might share. Even here, he seemed to think there was profit in knowledge, and Pisces couldn’t fault him for that.
“I’d rather increase my value before we get to Roshal. You see, the more I’m worth, the better I’ll be treated! True, my master will know everything, but it’s better to be valuable than not.”
He grinned. Pisces turned to the man laboring next to him. The only other adventurer, a Bronze-rank Human named Shein who clearly held Pisces in some regard. They were the potentially ‘helpful’ or interesting ones, and had naturally been chained together, with Astotha as the exception; the small freedoms they were allowed.
“What will we expect when we get to Roshal?”
Shein grimaced.
“For us? The markets. We’ll be sold in big batches unless we’re worth something. Someone like Bearig’s worth more’n me.”
He jerked his head. Pisces was surprised, but Shein explained.
“I’m just a Bronzer—not like you. They’ll lump me in with anyone who might be good for hauling, fighting. Cawe and Droppe are specialists.”
“Told you.”
Cawe was smug. Droppe nibbled at his claws as he hopped forwards, apparently bored with walking. The Lizardfolk had bright, slightly multi-colored scales, but mostly a bright yellow. He wasn’t like Drakes, though, being far shorter and smaller, and frankly, more friendly. Sort of Drassi-like, Pisces supposed. Selys could be friendly, or snappish.
“Frankly, that’s half the, um, criteria. The other half would be our personality if that’s identified. Our fame. Cawe might be eligible to be put with the quite attractive females. Cracked beak doesn’t help, but I don’t know Garuda standards. Bearig? No. Shein? No. Me? No. Cawe’s the only one who has a chance and even that’s—ow! Stop it! Stop it!”
The Garuda tried to kick at Droppe. Pisces looked up. Ah. The other reason people bought [Slaves]. He felt a trickle of bile in his throat, but went on.
“And me?”
Droppe grinned, unperturbed.
“You? My friend. You’re a Gold-rank adventurer and a [Necromancer]! I’d already have you for personal auction, but with your fame? That’s why Igheriz isn’t taking his time. You will make him rich! Perhaps enough to double his caravan! Even buy a second Azam!”
Pisces still didn’t realize how famous he was. He knew the caravan had heard of him, but he just snorted at Droppe’s comment. He looked around. Droppe, Shein, Astotha, Cawe, Bearig, Qshom…hardly an inspiring group to pick a breakout team from. He’d bet Shein and Cawe had some kind of fighting ability—the rest, not at all.
Still, if they were his companions, they were good for knowledge like this. Pisces nodded at Qshom, who had been laboring harder than the rest due to his armor.
“Astotha is a permanent [Slave] for Igheriz’s caravan. Is there anyone else who’s…important as she is?”
He had already seen how much leeway she was given compared to the others; she could roam about, unfettered.
Instantly, all the other [Slaves] gave Pisces a sidelong look. He tried to look innocent…but then realized they all knew what he wanted. Cawe grinned, but it was Bearig who elbowed her; she and him were in front of Pisces today.
“Important slaves?”
Qshom gave Pisces an appraising look. He turned his head left and right.
“Astotha is one of the most-trusted. The others are as you can see. If there was one more—”
He hesitated, looked towards Igheriz who was riding at the head of the caravan, and suddenly lowered his voice. Uneasily.
“—that would be Eloque. She’s of Droppe’s people. But I do not think you will see her walking with us. No, not at all. She is—important—”
He shut his lips tight, as if he had said too much. Suddenly, Pisces saw how all the others had fallen silent. Even Cawe. He looked at them.
“I haven’t seen her.”
“You wouldn’t. She is Igheriz’s favorite. His…project.”
Even Droppe refused to speak more, and the little Lizardman had lost his smile. Pisces felt the back of his neck tingle.
 
—-
 
A simple event on the road changed things.
They met another caravan. This one called Hrome’s Wares. It was another caravan that dealt in slaves and goods. The man who led them was Human, unlike Igheriz. And he was…well. Plain.
Igheriz was a composite of different fabrics, but dressed like some rich [Merchant], styling himself with fashion even while travelling, and had three flashy rings and Azam when he greeted the other man.
Hrome had on a nondescript riding outfit, and he made no airs. He was bland. His slaves were almost all low-grade. He was transporting spices across Chandrar as well; he was a lower-grade Caravan Leader, not one with a Djinni or success like Igheriz, or his luck.
If he had one interesting quality, it was that his movement Skills were second to none; his caravan had caught up with Igheriz’s and nearly passed them; despite having [Slaves] walking behind the wagons, they seemed to step half as far again with each motion than Igheriz’s group.
The second thing was that Hrome took one look at Pisces as Igheriz greeted him and recognized him.
“Do you see the fortune that fell into my lap, Great Friend Hrome? What else are you bringing to Roshal of interest?”
They were swapping tales and information, and—comparing slaves. Rather like [Mages] compared artifacts or spells. Hrome’s eyes widened.
“I ran into a bit of luck myself—but nothing half so amazing as this! That’s Pisces! From the Village of the Dead!”
The [Necromancer] looked up as all of Hrome’s people glanced at him and then he began to understand what worldwide fame meant. Hrome turned to Igheriz at once.
“Caravan Master Igheriz. I know this may be inopportune and you have many clients who might want to bid for him—but could I make you an offer for Pisces? I would place him among my people! I could offer you twenty—thirty thousand gold at this very moment!”
Igheriz laughed and held up his hands.
“No, no, Hrome. I plan to sell Pisces for far more than that.”
“Fifty thousand. Fifty thousand and each [Slave] I have. Look—I have this one. A [Bandit Lady], Merr the Storm! I purchased her from a city not three days ago—”
Hrome hurried over to the most valuable slave in his collection, a vicious-looking woman who bared her teeth defiantly. Igheriz looked amused.
“Friend Hrome, you have good eyes, but not enough money! I do not say this to be rude; come, let us ride together and you may talk with Pisces. There is safety among the fellows of Roshal, after all!”
They were both from Roshal, and thus had a level of trust amongst them. Hrome kept trying to buy Pisces; he went up to eighty thousand gold pieces, which included most of his caravan, a princely sum even for a Gold-rank! All for Pisces, whom he seemed to regard as a minor hero. When he failed to tempt Igheriz, although the number did make the Stitch-man hesitate, Hrome went to asking Pisces about the battle.
“You defeated how many Skeleton Lords? Eight? With your sword? How was it done? I thought I saw you disintegrate their bones—I have a recording!”
He was simply a fan. Ironically, neither he nor Pisces knew he had missed another Horn of Hammerad, but the attention let Pisces fill the day and learn more. Unfortunately—Hrome also meant that by the time they were camped, Pisces was on auction.
The Human [Slave Trader] had a [Mage], unlike Igheriz, who relied on Azam and spell scrolls. He sent word to Roshal that Pisces had been captured and would be sold. Unusually, bidding had already begun even as they struck camp.
“Ah, you see, Hrome! This is why I took none of your offers, even when you offered me everything! I thank you for your [Mage].”
Delighted, Igheriz strode about the camp, eyes lit up with greed and self-satisfaction. Hrome nodded, looking envious as the [Mage] shouted numbers and names with increasing fervor.
“They are already bidding, Caravan Masters! Within the first moment, the Emir Hestute, upon learning such a famed person was being auctioned, declared he would buy Pisces outright for ninety thousand gold! At once! If you so will it.”
“Hah! A rich opening bid. No. I wait.”
Igheriz was right to. Because for the rest of that night and the next day, the bidding wars began in earnest. By the time Pisces slept, he had been valued at over four hundred thousand gold pieces.
 
—-
 
This was an astonishing sum. Hrome talked to Pisces the next day, explaining.
“Slaves are expensive, Pisces. But even the average Gold-rank might barely go for a hundred thousand gold pieces—without artifacts, of course! Mm. Perhaps they could double that if they had an unusual class or comely looks, but you?”
“I’m delighted to be worth so much.”
Pisces replied drily; he was riding, now, the better for Hrome to talk to him. The other [Caravan Master] had apparently elected to follow Igheriz, at least for now, and unfortunately, that meant their already-swift pace had more than doubled. They were passing by Illivere in a storm of movement, heading towards what had once been Tiqr.
“Ah! Another bid has gone up! Once again, the Emira! And once again, overtaken by Emir Hestute!”
It seemed like there were a few big bidders who really, really wanted Pisces. The Emira Se-Hexri, a Naga, Emir Hestute, and…one they only called the Naga. As if there were only one.
“Who is…the Naga? As opposed to this Emira Se-Hexri?”
Hrome stroked his chin and for some reason, glanced around.
“The Naga? Ah—Emira Se-Hexri is a recluse, you see. Rarely seen. It is odd that she should be so enamored of you, but perhaps she finds you as fascinating as I! But the Naga? There is only one. Emir Yazdil. Have you not heard one of the ten thousand legends told about him?”
Pisces had not. But Hrome and the other [Guards], even Igheriz, promptly told him a dozen.
“It is said he slew his greatest enemy, the foolish Emir Darsul, with his faithful servant, who climbed the tower, slaughtered each [Guard] without anyone hearing, and slipped past every ward and trap to kill him.”
“He has sent fleets that would make even the House of Minos tremble—each one full of gold and [Slaves] and treasure to his friends!”
