“Enough! Enough! Hey! The [Guards] smile, but the [Slaves] quarrel? Well, I am generous.”
Igheriz called out. Bearig was dragged off Pisces and dealt a dozen blows. Pisces stared at the [Cook] as Bearig’s blood ran down his neck from a lash from a riding crop. He had a bloody nose.
“Why did you do that?”
The [Necromancer] demanded, furious. The [Cook] mumbled.
“It will do nothing to help. Do not.”
“Don’t.”
Cawe whispered. Pisces looked at her for a long, long moment. He thought of Bevussa, the only Garuda he had known besides her. He tilted his head up to the harsh sun and blue skies.
“Thank you.”
He told Bearig. The man nodded and they resumed. Pisces did nothing, even afterwards. He simply resolved to kill the [Guard], Igheriz, and every other person here. Hatred?
He hadn’t known hatred, even against his father, like what was in him now.
Then they met the third caravan.
 
—-
 
It took two days to reach Riqre’ma Medaale’s caravan. In that time, Pisces saw the effects of Leciaun on all the [Slaves]. Not just Cawe or Eloque. Droppe refused to talk to anyone for a day. When he did, he laughed and told jokes and never said a word about yesterday. Many had suffered.
Especially Merr the Storm. The [Bandit Lady] had been the most defiant in Hrome’s lines, newly enslaved. She had been lashed, beaten—Hrome had no policy like Igheriz’s three strikes—without change.
Then Leciaun had come and gone and she was…silent. She walked in a daze.
Two days. The first day was the worst and Pisces retreated into memories of Gewilena. Of the past. Misery begat misery; he remembered his failures, darkest moments.
Erin dying. What would she say? If she or anyone he had ever loved was here…? Ceria? Yvlon, Erin?
He was glad it was him instead. Not that he would have been safe necessarily. A laughing Igheriz had caught him at the end of the day.
“Be doubly glad I put you to sleep and watched over you, Pisces! Few men here like such things, but some might leave you something to remember by just because you are famous! Ah, but I am so kind.”
He rode off and Pisces nearly threw up his meal keeping all the hatred inside him.
 
—-
 
They called him Azam.
Mighty Azam. Azam the Powerful.
Azam, Aethertraveller Djinni.
Azam of Ozeclith, of Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
Names for what he could do, for his power and nature as a Djinni, where he had been ‘born’, but none of these names were him. They were labels, like his name itself.
He thought of himself as Azam of course, because one had to have a name. Yet all those of his people who had ever met him told him it was…sad.
Sad, short, truncated—an imitation of a true Djinni’s name. Those who had given it to him had done it to make him seem like those caught before, who had lived and breathed free air. All it did was inform those who met him he had never been free.
Perhaps for one second. For one infinitesimal moment—he had been. Azam sometimes tried to recall it, wondering if the joy of creation had also been that…that moment of true freedom before he had sensed the bindings, and begun to learn what he was.
Azam thought of this, his mind going back to the past, as he stood sentry outside the camps. He did not need to sleep the same way other mortals did, though he did need rest. He was different. Djinni. Slave of magic, who would outlive them all.
He thought of the past to ignore Eloque’s weeping. The other voices he could hear in the camp.
Leciaun.
Did he feel a bit of gratitude towards her? Was that why he talked to her, of all of them? Perhaps. Perhaps because Igheriz turned his attentions to her, and not Azam. No one was safe.
Azam stood there, thinking of the past. Thinking of the news that had given him pleasure. Even hope. The King of Destruction could free Djinni?
“Well, it is as the Lizardman said. He will not again.”
Azam muttered to himself, a rare utterance to drown out the sound. He looked around.
The sky was so beautiful. The stars, those brilliant lights that were not magic, but something almost akin to his being, hung in the clear sky. Azam could see over the tents, over the walls he had made, in every direction across this flat landscape.
He longed to fly, but he could not. If he could, he would have flown as high as he was allowed, pretending to be sentry. And then he would look…
North. Northwest. Azam always stared that way at night. He knew that location, of all others, and always tried to make minute adjustments so he faced it. If anywhere in this world mattered…it was there.
And if anything in this world mattered, it was that book that the [Necromancer] held. Azam’s gaze turned back to the tents. If he could hold it but for a second…no. Igheriz had kept it next to him, even on Leciaun. Azam had hoped.
Not on this day. He let Eloque weep. Tomorrow, if she willed it, he would talk to her for a while.
 
—-
 
The next day was easier because it began with one of the [Slave Guards] dying. Pisces had thought Igheriz was the most foul man ever to live. That he delved deep into the abyss of mortal suffering and depravity.
No. The truth was he danced on the edge. He laughed there, a monster without redemption.
But not without law. Pisces awoke to find a commotion happening.
No less than six men and Azam dragged a [Guard] out of a tent. Where…he had accosted Astotha in a continuation of Leciaun.
However, this time, Igheriz had put a stop to it the moment she’d cried out. Now? He gestured and his ring glowed.
“You worthless sack of hemp! When I say we celebrate Leciaun, it does not mean all that is mine is now free! This is my property! She is my property! Am I not generous? Am I not fair with my possessions? And you touch her?”
“It was only a moment!”
The man protested. Igheriz gave him the bright-eyed look Pisces had come to associate with his true rage.
“Well, this will only be a moment.”
“No—”
The man tried to fight free, but Azam held him. Igheriz pressed the glowing ring to the man’s throat and when it came away, Pisces saw a copy of the same collar around his neck, a glowing band of magic.
“No one touches my possessions! No one breaks laws! My laws and Roshal’s!”
Igheriz thundered at Hrome and his [Guards]. The men stood well back, looking palely at the [Guard] with the magic band around his neck. Pisces saw the man gasping and realized—the magical collar was cutting off his air.
“We are not savages. You will all conduct yourselves, or this one’s fate will be like a pleasant dream. Am I understood? There is law in Roshal. We are not monsters.”
The [Slave Master] cast a glance at Pisces, then. He turned.
“Am I understood?”
A chorus of quiet murmurs was his answer. Igheriz looked around, spat, and then strode to his horse.
“Azam! Break camp! We move!”
They left the [Guard] where he knelt, clawing at his neck. He could find no purchase on the magic. His friends and fellows looked back. Astotha looked vindictively back as he tried to beg for Igheriz’s mercy, call out.
The narrow band tightened. Tightened even as the others rode away. His eyes bulged. His face turned scarlet, then purple. The band tightened—
Pisces looked away.
 
—-
 
Igheriz was madness tempered by only the slightest, deluded belief there was law.
Hrome was just…boring. He had allowed Leciaun, but he was less provocative. This was his business, and he still admired Pisces, somehow.
Riqre’ma Medaale? He was true evil and insanity. Such that within the first minutes of him, Pisces saw it.
“Friends! You have come to join our procession to Roshal? Of course you will be safe, and with such valuable merchandise!”
The Stitch-Man beamed so widely that Pisces thought he was putting on an air. Igheriz and Hrome clasped arms, smiling.
Emir Riqre had the largest caravan, rich beyond belief. While he had no Djinni and admired Igheriz for that, he had nearly four hundred [Guards], and even more slaves.
Even [Slaves] who watched their own kind. His people were armed with magical weapons and one look at his caravan and Pisces realized that no [Bandits] would free him. Even if there were thousands in a gang, they would be spotted far off and Azam and this Riqre had the forces to repel any attack short of an actual army.
Igheriz was beaming, but only for a moment. Because his smile flickered as he saw something behind Riqre that gave him pause.
“Emir Riqre’ma. What is…that?”
The two caravans, [Slaves], all looked over and fell silent. But it was Azam, the great Djinni, who slowly turned his head. And that—Pisces saw the Djinni frown.
Behind the Emir Riqre were two…men. Pisces thought they were men. Or had been men.
Hemp-caste Stitchfolk. They wore [Slave]’s collars, and they were tightly bound in metal, being carted around behind the Emir on wagons of their own. That was the—the fact.
What was wrong was everything else. They were naked, but Pisces hadn’t realized that at first. They had wild eyes. Bigger…eyes…than they should be.
Their skin was hard, even leathery from time in the sun, but unnaturally tough. Even the most sunburnt skin in the world would not turn into that. They had…claws.
Claws, almost like a Ghoul’s. And their faces. Pisces had seen undeath change bodies. He had seen how it turned corpses into Crypt Lords. But these men were alive. Their faces had changed.
Huge jaws, mouths of rows of teeth. They looked like monsters. But they were men.
“Ah. You mean my [Carrion Eaters]? Igheriz, you catch me out! They are my special bodyguards, my special people, you see? I would not have let you get within eyeshot of them, but I wished to see this Pisces who is worth so much! You must keep it between us. Roshal frowns on such things.”
The Emir laughed lightly, but his [Guards] looked at Igheriz. The [Slave Master] looked back at Pisces. The [Necromancer] saw him lick his lips.
What did even a [Slaver] fear in depravity and misery? Emir Riqre had gone deep. Deeper than even men like Igheriz dared. And that was horrific enough in Erin’s world. In this?
Those depths answered him.
 
—-
 
Emir Riqre was mad. So mad that Igheriz actually consulted with Hrome about leaving, but the danger to his caravan—not to mention Riqre’s insistence they visit his lands before going to Roshal—could not be ignored.
“He keeps those classes out in the open for all to see! How has not one of Roshal known or dealt with him?”
Igheriz whispered hotly to Hrome, pretending to ride next to Pisces and inspect him. The result of course, was that Pisces could hear, despite the bubble of [Silence] they’d made just large enough to envelop him.
“I do not know, Igheriz. He is a powerful man. Must we tell Roshal?”
Igheriz reached out and hissed at the younger [Slave Trader].
“This goes beyond preference, Hrome. He has—classes—that should not exist. Not without regulation. Perhaps he has the right, but I do not think—”
“Igheriz! Hrome! I come to meet this Pisces! What do you whisper about?”
The Emir himself burst the bubble, beaming, and the two [Slave Masters] looked up. Igheriz smiled, or tried to.
“Of course, we are lecturing Pisces to behave, Riqre. He has a tongue!”
“Ah, such men do. I have ways of dealing with that—but let the Naga do what he wills! Pisces Jealnet. I wished to meet such a man like you, who is a class as close to mine as possible.”
Pisces twitched. Riqre was all silk, all smiles but he was…insane. You could see it in his eyes. There were no inhibitions to him. No sense.
“[Necromancer] is close to [Slave Master]? I…do not see the similarity, sir.”
Pisces held his tongue as best he could. Riqre laughed.
“Is it not? Then—perhaps—you have not delved deep enough into your nature, young Pisces! I thought you would see after meeting the Putrid One’s power. Do you not?”
He looked disappointed, as if that exchange had been a test and Pisces had already failed. The young man licked his chapped lips.
“How so?”
The Emir actually leaned down over his camel’s back. It was some kind of magical breed; it flickered and left afterimages as it walked, like some kind of desert illusion itself.
“Why, the truth that Igheriz and Hrome fail to understand. I hoped you would see it. If you were a kindred spirit, I would have insisted Igheriz sell you to me so we might join understandings. Alas. Shall I tell you? Perhaps you will one day come down my road! Igheriz and Hrome will, if they grow stronger.”
His eyes tried to draw Pisces in. Igheriz started and Hrome grew more nervous. Riqre was not a typical slave master, even by their standards.
“What truth?”
Pisces whispered, curious despite himself. The Emir Riqre smiled.
“Why—simply that there is no law. No limitations. Roshal, even Roshal pretends there are. Do not treat your [Slaves] in certain ways. Do not feed some the meat of the dead! But look what they create!”
He pointed at the bound [Carrion Eaters], a class Pisces had never heard of. Riqre tsked softly.
“Dark deeds. Like necromancy. They say they are dark deeds, Pisces. Dark deeds reward themselves in time. Surely you know that?”
He looked at Pisces. The [Necromancer]’s head jerked.
“I—do not perform acts of evil.”
“So he says. So he says!”
Riqre straightened, disappointed. He turned.
“Then you know nothing. You will see. We will detour in my home. Then I will change all your minds, Igheriz, Hrome—and you, Pisces.”
He rode off without a backwards glance. Igheriz stared after him, and Hrome looked for his [Mage]…who was carefully riding among Riqre’s [Magicians]. That was how Pisces’ caravan found itself among the deepest depths of Roshal’s kind yet. Where even Igheriz feared to go.
 
—-
 
Pisces was able to just see how Riqre created his…people after that. It might have amused Pisces to see Igheriz and Hrome realize they were smaller cats who had finally encountered a lion…if it were not so dire.
The [Slave Guards] had always slept with weapons close to hand. The day thereafter, it seemed as if they rode with their fingers glued to the hilts of their swords. They refused to go near Riqre’s caravan unless ordered, and flinched when one of the [Carrion Eaters] twitched or worse, glanced their way.
For the [Slaves]? They began to walk with their eyes closed. Never mind if they fell or stumbled. They let themselves walk, using the tether of rope for guidance.
If they could have prayed, like Pawn, Pisces was sure they would have prayed. Without it, they only feared.
It got to the stage that Azam was directly consulted on what would happen if they came to blows. The Djinni spoke, one of the rare times Pisces had heard.
“I could not down the Emir Riqre’s four hundred and forty one [Guards] alone and keep you safe, Igheriz. They possess blades that could wound even one such as I. He has…servants who could do the same.”
