“No. It is worth waiting for. Because it was the home I wanted all my life. I waited so long for a place like that, and never knew it existed.”
The first place he had ever been that welcomed him as he was. Eloque shook her head, but not in denial.
“I hope you can find it again.”
Bearig was last. He didn’t really know what to say.
“I’ll tell stories of you. And Rophir will remember, won’t you?”
Rophir was sitting there, blank. Only Bearig would try to make him eat—the others looked at him like a weapon. Pisces wanted to say something to Rophir.
I know one of your people. If I ever get free…
He bit the useless words back.
Cawe was last of all. The Garuda sat cross-legged, fussing with her blankets.
“So, Pisces. You never got free after all.”
“Looks like it. All those keys and it turned out Igheriz had the right one after all. And he’d notice any moment if it went missing.”
The Garuda nodded. She peered at Pisces. He had thought long and hard about the issue, of course.
“And you’re not exactly quick with your hands.”
“I was a thief. But you’re right. Never a [Thief]. Let alone achieved the exalted class those of a métier like yours achieve.”
The other [Slaves] glanced up at the fancy Wistram-word. Pisces lay there, gazing up at Cawe. He saw her cracked beak open and the [Pickpocket] grinned.
“Quick hands isn’t as important as knowing the when and where of it. When I told you I could’ve stolen a key from a [Guard] with my bare talons, I didn’t expect you to tell me to put a key back.”
The [Necromancer] looked up. Cawe slowly produced a key. Several keys. The other [Slaves] went silent. Eloque’s eyes opened wide. The [Necromancer] only…sniffed.
“That’s why you got caught.”
“But how?”
Astotha was confused, and terrified. Cawe released her shackles with a key, and undid Pisces’ shackles. He was still bound with multiple cuffs—he hadn’t expected that, but she was producing more keys, fast as could be.
“Tenir.”
It was Droppe who breathed the answer. The Lizardfolk man looked from Pisces to Cawe and snapped his fingers.
“His keys! But they were all for Riqre’s [Slaves]—”
“—Which means Hrome and Igheriz’s [Guards] have a lot of useless keys.”
Pisces murmured. The others looked at him, astounded. He suppressed a smile and shushed them, but his mind was racing, as his heart had been.
Eloque’s eyes turned round as it all made sense. Pisces just sighed in relief.
He hadn’t been sure Cawe would pull it off.
 
—-
 
Pisces’ master plan was simple. The odds of him getting a key to his collar alone were remote, even if he could kill a [Guard] with the sword-trick. He hadn’t believed that one key would open all collars; he’d noticed the teeth on it and compared it to the others.
So, if he couldn’t get his key, he had to force a way for it to be revealed, as well as engineer better odds. The obvious answer was Cawe. She was a [Pickpocket] and even if she had been caught—she had a better chance than his.
The trick was Tenir. Pisces had deliberately gone for the bad keys to throw the caravan off. While they all watched him, he’d told Cawe to find the keys he’d tossed free. One of them was a basic key that Tenir would have had; the kind that unlocked all shackles. After all, shackles were different from collars and only one mattered.
With both limbs free, Cawe could steal a key to her own collar. She and Pisces had picked at the lock, trying to match jagged teeth to each [Guard]’s key, identifying which one she needed to steal long in advance. Once she had that? She could unlock her collar, nullify the enchantment and use her Skills without anyone noticing.
Tenir’s keys had gone into the pockets or key rings of the [Guards], replacing the bad ones. They hardly ever unlocked collars except when someone was being sold. Igheriz had been the question.
“Besides, I promised you.”
Eloque and Pisces were last. Everyone else was free, feeling at their necks; most collars had a single key, not being nearly as powerful as Cawe or Pisces’. Only Merr had a special collar. The one key that they’d kept was the one that fit Rophir’s collar.
“I don’t believe it. We’re free!”
“Not free. We’re under guard and he’s still locked up! And chained down!”
Pisces was indeed chained by six pegs Azam had hammered into the ground, and Cawe looked distressed.
“No keys. I’m sorry, I didn’t know—”
“I’m free. No keys? No problem, he’s only got tent pegs on him.”
Merr growled. The [Bandit Lady] reached down and heaved at a tent peg. It slowly began to come up as her Skills activated. Bearig grasped another. To Pisces’ surprise, the [Cook] began to extract one too!
“I’ll have them weighing me down, but it won’t stop a horse ride and I can fight with them. If I have my spells—none of it matters. Cawe. What about the last keys?”
Eloque and his collar. Pisces stared at the Garuda. She didn’t meet his eyes.
“It’s Igheriz. If he caught me—and Azam is always watching. I—”
She shook her head, and Pisces’ heart fell.
Then the [Pickpocket] produced a pair of keys.
“—Really hoped you’d cry.”
Pisces relaxed. He had almost, almost burst out in tears, if he were honest. Eloque began shaking as Cawe handed a key to Shein. She put the key in Pisces’ collar and twisted it.
The collar opened. The Garuda grinned at Pisces. He grinned back.
“That was worthy of tears, Cawe. Now, let’s prepare our escape.”
The others looked at him. Eloque collapsed to her knees, but Bearig urged her up.
“We’ll have to run for the mounts. It will be a fight as we run—but we must run. Azam can’t be stopped, but he’s not fast. If we lose him, they can’t track us.”
Pisces outlined the plan to the others. Astotha shook her head, eyes wide.
“You’re mad! You haven’t seen all his powers! He’ll kill us! And any [Slave] that runs—Igheriz will punish you—we’re dead! We’re not [Fighters]!”
“Merr is. So is Shein.”
“Me? They have more levels on me!”
Shein protested. Pisces overrode both. He looked around, his body singing with power. Yet he kept himself from tapping into his mana. If they noticed…
“We just have to reach the horses. If they have none, Azam will not catch us. I will delay him. I am a Gold-rank adventurer. Just run for the horses.”
He’d have to leave his gear behind. And the spellbook. Pisces had debated going after Igheriz…but no. He would return. He would never forget Igheriz, or any of the [Guards].
“This is madness! We’ll die!”
Droppe protested. Astotha joined in, but Pisces shook his head. It was Bearig who replied.
“Better to die than live like this. Will any of you suffer another Leciaun? Another man like Emir Riqre? If I die—I’ll do it thanking you, Pisces, and you, Cawe. You saved me once and I was ready to die there. Freedom. Freedom or death. I thought being a [Slave] might not be the worst fate when I was imprisoned in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I was wrong.”
He held Rophir in his arms. Pisces looked at the [Cook], and the others stared. It was the longest, most eloquent speech Bearig had ever made. It was right. Pisces slowly reached out and clasped the [Cook]’s arm, and gave the man a look of true regard.
“Yes.”
That was all. The other [Slaves] looked at each other and their nerves firmed. It was only Astotha who moaned.
“You are all warriors! We’ll be caught! We’ll be punished like the worst were! Don’t do this!”
Pisces ignored her. He tensed, the chains wrapped around his arms and tied into loose ‘knots’; they’d impede his magic and movement, but he could [Flash Step] with them.
“Just go for the horses. Cut all those loose—try to ride at us with them.”
Cawe and the other Garuda would be first out, then Merr. They were fastest. Cawe was pointing to where the horses were tethered.
“What about me?”
Eloque looked at Pisces. She was shaking. He looked at her.
“I will not leave without you.”
“If it looks like I may be captured—kill me. Not one more night.”
He met her gaze and slowly nodded. The Lizardwoman smiled. Pisces thought he saw hope in those eyes. He tensed to give the signal, checking to see if the [Guards] were talking—
“Wait, wait, wait—”
Astotha screamed. It was a single, piercing scream of noise. She shouted.
“Escape!”
Pisces jerked. He whirled around and saw her looking at him. Eyes round with terror, she backed up to the edge of the tent.
“They’re escaping! They made me—”
“Astotha!”
Bearig howled in dismay. Cawe and the others at the front were already running. Merr turned, blood in her eyes, but Pisces forced her out of the tent. He heard two more people take up the shout.
“Escape attempt! They’re going for the horses!”
“We’re not moving! Don’t kill us!”
Droppe and of all of them—Shein. The Lizardman and Human Bronze-rank held back. Pisces would have turned back, cursed them and their cowardice and betrayal. He didn’t waste breath. He ran like a madman, for the horses, looking for—
Azam. The Djinni burst through a tent in a roar of fury as Igheriz raced out, screaming in rage. The Djinni and Pisces locked eyes. Pisces aimed a finger up.
“[Deathbolt].”
He spared the Djinni no quarter. No mercy. For this, for freedom, he would kill and use every spell and Skill he had been granted. If he had his [Shatterbolt] ring, he would have used it.
If he had dared to cast [Invisibility], he would have cut the [Guard]’s throats from behind.
If he had Nekhret’s bones, he would have used the [Ritual of the Lord of Bones] to risk all, even if a second Toren had been created.
He tried to raise undead from the sand. Pisces [Flash Stepped] as Azam grabbed for him. The others were running for the horses. Pisces shot acid over a [Guard] and seized the sword from the screaming man. He whirled, in one long shout of fury, ducking a blow from Azam.
The [Slaves] outnumbered their guards, even in one tent. They were desperate, unarmed, but free to use their Skills. They had the advantage of surprise, if lost mostly by Astotha, and they knew what would happen if they were caught, so they fought or ran with all their might.
They would have made it, but for Astotha. Even then, they would have made it.
Except for Azam.
 
—-
 
“Never again.”
He whispered, even as the Djinni dropped him in front of Igheriz. Pisces lay still. If he could have moved, he would have…have…
The last of the [Slaves] were kneeling. Merr, Bearig—all of them. Those not killed.
Azam had caught Pisces. The [Necromancer] had tried to stop him from capturing Eloque, but the Djinni—that damned Djinni knew how to stop [Slaves]. He had hurled fire and killed the horses. If he had been slower to react, they might have gotten out of range.
He had caught Pisces with another trick, as the [Necromancer] turned back for Eloque. A Wand of Paralysis. Now, the Djinni stood, and Pisces looked up and met his glowing gaze.
“Damn you.”
Pisces cursed him. The Djinni looked straight through him, uncaring. He had absorbed every spell, broken every barricade. [Deathbolt] had done nothing to a being of pure magic.
“Pisces. Ah, Pisces. You nearly made it. I call you clever after all. A clever fool. Look at you! A Gold-rank adventurer worthy of your price! But I am a man of my word.”
Igheriz was beyond fury. His too-bright eyes shone as Pisces looked up at him, still paralyzed. Eloque was weeping. All the [Slaves] were. She had tried to end it, as she had sworn, but Azam had taken the dagger away.
“If only you knew people better. But a [Necromancer] has no eye for the living, eh? You, Astotha. I will consider letting you go for this.”
The [Slave Master] turned and patted Astotha on the head. He regarded the three who had betrayed Pisces and the others fondly. Droppe gave Pisces an apologetic shrug as if to say there was nothing personal for seeing how the winds blew.
Merr lunged at Astotha and Shein, who met no one’s eyes.
“You fucking traitors—”
Igheriz turned and kicked her across the face as hard as he could. He walked down the line of [Slaves].
“Master, be merciful, please.”
Astotha begged, not looking at Pisces or Eloque. It was the Lizardwoman that Igheriz stopped before.
“I will be. After I am angry.”
“Kill me.”
Eloque whispered. Igheriz just laughed.
“After I have made you so beautiful? Pisces—ah, Pisces, you know what is coming. But before that…”
The [Necromancer] stared up in hatred as Igheriz passed by. Hrome was speaking urgently.
“We’ve lost only three, Igheriz. Consider otherwise. You’ll be rid of him tomorrow.”
The Stitch-man whirled, and screamed in Hrome’s face.
“You think this is easily forgiven, Hrome? That I am not a man who keeps my vows? He would have gotten away!”
The Human backed away. Igheriz controlled himself—barely. He looked around. No one dared speak. The [Guards] were still angry, but a small blaze compared to the raging inferno of Igheriz. Azam bowed his head. Pisces’ hatred for him…he only cared for the book, which lay open behind Igheriz. If he had just…Igheriz laughed, and he sounded like Riqre for a moment.
“No. No—Pisces is next. Before that, where is she? There is only one person who could do this. Ah, there you are. Cawe. Cawe, Cawe, Cawe.”
She jerked. She was burnt; Azam had seared half her feathers off. The [Pickpocket] still spat at Igheriz.
“Do your worst!”
Igheriz gave her a beaming smile. She looked up at him, shaking. Pisces felt his limbs begin to move. Igheriz shook his head.
“You have made me so angry—so—but I have to get to Roshal. And Astotha begs me for mercy. So. It will be Leciaun for the others until I return. And that is merciful. You? Cawe? Just…”
He stood, turning to Pisces, then turned and pointed back. Pisces saw him draw a sword.
Igheriz ran Cawe through the neck. Pisces screamed.
“Cawe!”
The [Slave Master] was turning away, dismissively. He walked over to Pisces. Then he squatted down.
“You know what is coming next, don’t you? Snip, snip. Bring me potions and a blade. Hold him down. Azam.”
The [Guards] moved forwards, grimly. Pisces shouted. He struggled, as someone seized Eloque. He saw Igheriz looking down at him, and Pisces no longer cared. He looked at where Cawe lay.
“Do it. Do it, Igheriz. Do your worst. I will live through it all. I will walk down that dark road that Az’kerash took. I will reach the end and I will end all of Roshal and you.”
He saw the [Slave Master] ready the blade. Pisces saw him look down. The [Necromancer] felt it. The same madness. He knew now what Az’kerash had seen.
“I will never forgive this. I will wage war until the end of my days and beyond.”
He began laughing as the pain began. No salvation. This was simply Chandrar and the Traders of Roshal. There was no inn anymore, no [Innkeeper].
The end.
 
—-
