The [Slave] breathed. Just like all the others. Pisces watched as Riqre exchanged another kiss, then turned. He reached for something a [Guard] held, weighed it, and turned. Pisces saw…a [Wagonwright]’s tool in his hand. A simple hammer.
“Sometimes a brush is needed. Other times? A hammer.”
With that, he turned, and swung the hammer into Meritha’s leg. Pisces saw and heard the bone crunch and break. Meritha screamed and toppled over.
“Riqre!”
The scream came from multiple mouths. Riqre stood over Meritha, a look of genuine pain on his face. Then he turned.
“Pisces. Look.”
Meritha’s leg was broken. Badly; she’d been struck just below the knee and it was no simple break. She lay, gasping, face white, blood seeping from the broken skin.
“Emir? Emir?”
“Rest, Meritha. I know it hurts. Someone, a pain-tonic! But no healing potion!”
Emir Riqre clapped his hands and turned to Pisces. The [Necromancer] just stared. Then Riqre walked over to him. Igheriz muttered a curse. Yet this had been arranged. Riqre stopped in front of Pisces.
“Do you see her leg? It will never grow straight. Not with a potion, not with time. Look, Pisces. Do you see what I did?”
“I see it.”
You monster. Pisces stared at Riqre. The man looked almost in tears. Then he nodded.
“It distresses you almost as much as I. Good. Then—Pisces. Please. Fix it.”
And with that, he produced a key, inserted it into Pisces’ collar, and unlocked it.
Pisces stared at Riqre as the band of metal fell. Hrome shouted, but Igheriz was strangely silent. The [Guards] of the other caravans whirled, and saw Pisces staring around.
A [Necromancer] without his collar. A Gold-rank adventurer freed. They reached for their weapons, crying out. Riqre had gone mad!
Azam’s head rose. But the Djinni, everyone else was too slow. Shocked. Pisces waited only a moment. Then he turned.
“[Deathbolt].”
He pointed at Riqre as he [Flash Stepped] away. Pisces moved—
—And stumbled. His finger fizzed as the mana filling him failed to come out. He stumbled forwards, and one of Riqre’s [Slaves] caught him. Pisces stared at her. Behind him, Riqre sighed.
“Pisces. Pisces. Do you think I am stupid?”
He stood there, as the [Guards] calmed down. As Pisces whirled—raised a fist—and saw it lower of its own accord.
“What’s happening?”
Riqre beamed. He smiled. He laughed.
“Where other men need chains or collars, I am the greatest of my class, Pisces. Did you really think I’d let you run amok? Igheriz, don’t look so worried. With me, you will never fear even your most powerful slaves running free. Well…perhaps that one.”
Azam had stopped. Pisces stood there, trapped twice over. Now, he looked at Riqre. He imagined plucking out the man’s eyes, striking him in the face, the groin—and his body refused to move.
“Why did you free me?”
“So you could fix Meritha! Of course!”
Riqre instantly turned, all attention on the [Slave]. Sweat stood out on Meritha’s forehead, but the [Slave] had been numbed, and she lay there, shattered knee oozing blood. Pisces looked at Riqre. Then he understood.
“With…with my magic?”
“I know [Necromancers] cannot affect bodies from afar. Unless they touch them. Unless the patient is willing. Meritha, you would like to be healed, wouldn’t you?”
“To serve you, Emir? Yes.”
The young woman gave Pisces a look of trepidation, but also desperation. Pisces stood there. Riqre knelt beside Meritha, taking the young woman’s arm. Then he sighed.
“…Both legs. I forget myself.”
It was fast. The [Slave], for all the obsession, still cried out as the hammer fell. Yet not once did the half-Elf try to dodge. She lay there, crippled, as Pisces stood there.
“Pisces. I beg you. Fix my beloved Meritha.”
Riqre fell to his knees and turned to Pisces. The [Necromancer] looked at him.
“Me? Why?”
Riqre blinked.
“Because you can. Because you are an adventurer, and I have heard, a brave one who fights for those in need. Meritha is in need. Is that not enough? Fine then. Because, Pisces Jealnet. You will level.”
He gestured at Meritha. Pisces looked at the broken bones, the [Slave] waiting patiently as others held her, giving her water and applying more numbing cream around the leg. He understood, then.
“Few [Necromancers] have a chance to work on the living, you see, Igheriz. They are experts at bone-manipulation, though.”
Suddenly Riqre was the [Teacher] to [Students], striding excitedly to the [Slave Masters], who were watching with a kind of fascinated horror. More fascination than horror, Pisces noted.
“You want me to heal this woman? You’d trust me?”
He demanded, still shocked, outraged. Riqre looked back.
“My trust in you, Pisces, is not just blind faith. I know you can do it. Haven’t you ever fixed a bone? We of Roshal know how [Necromancers] are experts at melding bone. Even [Healers] study their arts to learn to treat it—those who are free of Terandria’s idiocy, that is.”
What madness. What…Riqre said things Pisces agreed with. Which were true. He knew Pisces’ class, and wanted Pisces to level.
The [Necromancer] didn’t move.
“What if I refuse?”
Meritha looked at him, and Pisces could barely meet her gaze. Riqre heaved a heavy sigh.
“Then Meritha would be crippled for life, Pisces. I would be distraught. I would not live with myself but to replace her limbs with fine magical ones. You see, I would be in despair that you refused to cooperate. Then I would break both his legs and not let you heal him, either.”
He pointed at Shein. The adventurer turned even whiter. Pisces and Riqre traded looks. The Emir smiled.
“So?”
 
—-
 
That was how Pisces found himself kneeling on the ground, mending bone. It was familiar. The ivory moved, the marrow shifted—and Meritha whimpered, despite the numbing.
It was familiar. Pisces recalled…
“The bone’s broken. Stop squirming!”
Gewilena was mending the bones of one of the new apprentices to the cabal, as she was the best. The idiot had tripped trying to pick mushrooms on a hill! Still, [Necromancers] feared no broken bones. Unless someone squirmed.
“It’s healing potions that we have to worry about. And infection. Even so, don’t you see what an asset we can be? If only they tolerated us.”
Feren murmured to the fascinated Pisces, who wanted to put his hands to the arm and see what Gewilena was doing. The young man nodded, but Gewilena rolled her eyes.
“Don’t start, Feren. I need to focus. And will someone please…”
He had learned to heal from her, but Feren was right; Pisces seldom used that talent. Yet that was how he had reunited with Ceria, and met the original Horns of Hammerad, wasn’t it? He’d been healing a Runner that they had brought to him, with a shattered leg, who might never walk again.
Ryoka Griffin…back when it all began.
Meritha rose to her feet, unsteadily at first, after Pisces was done. The [Necromancer] caught her arm.
“Don’t strain the bones. They’re tender. She needs to rest.”
He was tired, but Riqre applauded and his entire caravan gave Pisces a standing ovation.
“Magnificent! And so quickly done too! Pisces, you must be an expert at this. You have done it before!”
“A few times. You took a risk. Many [Necromancers] couldn’t have done as well as I did. All but two of the ones I have known would have struggled.”
No, three if you counted Az’kerash. Could he…? Of course he could. Pisces was far more adept thanks to Gewilena’s teachings, and Ryoka’s bones had been far worse than this [Slave]’s.
Riqre just shrugged.
“I trusted a Gold-rank [Necromancer] had the talent. Much less a specialist in bones such as yourself, Pisces. How do you feel? You acknowledge that was some work, yes? At your level…well, it might take a while. Level 38. Marvelous. You are closer to Named Adventurer than not, surely. It might take a hundred such healings to level. Perhaps a thousand.”
Igheriz stared at Riqre, then at Pisces. Hrome looked thunderstruck. Riqre just smiled wider, reading Pisces’ class.
“Thank you for the experience, Emir Riqre. Am I done, then? I consider it a token of your investment in me, as you said.”
Pisces replied icily, but he was grateful it had ended merely at that. Riqre snorted.
“Pisces. Pisces. I said I would help you. Who but levels without a challenge? My servants! I shall spend a night with brave Meritha and spoil her for her deeds! Who else will bravely volunteer and receive their rewards?”
He turned and his [Slaves] rushed forwards. Pisces stared at Riqre. Then the bone-breaking and healing truly began.
 
—-
 
Six broken limbs. Six healings. Pisces had to have two mana potions, high-quality ones, but each [Slave] walked away with tender limbs–but healed ones.
“I can see what you mean, Emir Riqre. It is an investment of time and coin, and a risk, yet you are truly wise. If he levelled but once…what a fool I was to sell him!”
Igheriz exclaimed as Pisces worked. The [Necromancer] listened, but had to devote his mind to picking out bone in flesh, mending it, applying healing potion now and then.
The risk of infection was real, and one of the [Slaves] had looked in horror as some kind of infection appeared from the first drops. Lines of red and pus, crawling up her arm before Pisces knocked the flask away.
Riqre had instantly told her to see a [Healer], promising to praise her once the infection was halted.
It was a risk, but Riqre had the resources and people…yet only someone like him would even dream of this way of ‘levelling’ Pisces.
“We find ways to level efficiently, Igheriz. I may share some more secrets of classes. This is the kind of thing you will learn if you rise—and I am sure you will! Secrets the likes of which royalty hoard.”
Riqre was grandly munificent, but he was not even done. After the sixth healing, he did not call for another volunteer. Pisces wiped sweat from his brow.
“Now we see how to increase the value of one slave, Igheriz. Will you place your trust in me again?”
“I will, Emir Riqre.”
Igheriz was drawn by the lure of levels, the promise of increasing Pisces’ value. If Pisces reached Level 39, Igheriz might well reveal this and start the bidding war anew. So when Emir Riqre beckoned for Shein, Igheriz didn’t hesitate.
“[Slave], go forth. Don’t hesitate. You have seen Pisces’ skill!”
Shein was terrified, yet the [Guards] just thrust him forward when he hesitated. He began to protest.
“Master Igheriz, please—”
“Oh, silence.”
Riqre’s brows snapped together and Shein’s collar glowed. The voice cut off and Riqre inspected him. He had only broken the first pair of legs. He gestured to a guard.
“Both legs. A good breakage. Here, here, here.”
He pointed to three spots on Shein’s leg. The Bronze-rank adventurer screamed in silence and thrashed as men held him down.
Pisces was sick, but it was fast. Shein was sobbing silently when it was done. He looked at Pisces, but Riqre stopped the [Necromancer].
“This time, Pisces. I would like you to do something for me. Something…different.”
“What?”
Pisces was tired, but he wanted to hurry; Shein had no painkillers and Pisces could mend him quickly. Yet Riqre had something else. He turned and Pisces saw something placed beside Shein. Both adventurers stared at…a bone.
A huge bone. Yellowed, but new. Riqre smiled.
“That is a Grand Elephant’s femur. Pisces. Do you know what I want you to do with it?”
Pisces turned his head. Riqre answered him before Pisces spoke.
“I would like you to make this man…Shein…I would like you to make his bones stronger. Or perhaps make him taller? Flesh is an issue. Lighter, even. Shorter! Whatever you like!”
Pisces stared at Riqre.
“You want me to change his bones?”
“Yes. And if you do not, and if the bones are the same, they will be broken and he will be left there…. Igheriz, this is how you add to the value of more than one slave at a time.”
The Emir chuckled. Pisces turned to Shein. The man could talk, as Pisces slowly walked over. Pisces stared at the bone.
“Pisces…Adventurer Pisces, sir.”
“I’m sorry. I…”
Pisces looked back at Riqre. Shein tried to grin.
“Always…I’ve not taken wounds this bad before. I thought I could handle it. You saw me blubbering like a baby.”
“Everyone screams, Shein. Don’t think of it. Just—just relax.”
Shein tried to nod, and a groan escaped his lips. He looked at Pisces, fear in his eyes, a mortal terror.
“Can you heal me? Are you going to…?”
“Do you want me to?”
Pisces stood there. He looked at Shein and thought of Yvlon. He had done this, too. He had never really considered it until Yvlon had asked him to help. Hadn’t he improved her?
“He will if he wants to ever walk, Pisces!”
Riqre called out cheerfully. He waved from where he was feeding Meritha grapes upon his lap, to the envy of all the other [Slaves], and Pisces looked at the man. How could he know Pisces’ past like this? Put together necromancy in this way? Could he read Pisces’ soul?
“I…what do you want me to do, Shein?”
“J-Just—”
Shein’s eyes were rolling up in his head. He clutched at Pisces’ arm.
“Just make the pain go away. Please? And keep me normal? Normal looking?”
Then his eyes turned to whites and he fainted. Pisces removed the hand, and gently laid Shein’s head back. He stood there a while, then knelt.
“I promise.”
 
—-
 
The next day, Shein walked. He walked, and stared at his legs. Everyone did.
There was a faint scar from where the wounds had been dealt; beyond that, no one could see anything wrong with his legs or the bone structure beneath the skin. Of course not. Pisces knew bones.
Yet something was different. For…Shein walked and nearly skipped over the sands. He kept saying the same thing.
“It’s so light.”
His bones were lighter. Nearly half their original weight. Which was…well, a femur was barely a single pound in weight, and all the little bones added up, but it wasn’t that much on the whole.
Yet it did make a difference. Pisces had sweated, improvised, tried to find a way to do what Riqre wanted and had come up with this in the moment. He could have added to Shein’s bone mass, but that would just make him heavier, even if it was stronger.
Instead, Pisces had created a kind of internal structure that Yvlon’s arm had used, and added the Grand Elephant bone in place of Shein’s bone.
Stronger bone. There was a bit of magic in Grand Elephant bodies that allowed them to support their weight. Thusly, Shein’s bones could be lighter-weight and just as strong. Stronger.
I never told Erin that her bear-teeth were probably tougher than normal. Pisces walked along, attracting just as many stares.
Riqre was overjoyed. He’d been a bit suspicious until he’d gotten Pisces to swear on a truth-spell, and now he laughed.
