The Emir was dead. As his dark deeds fell to ruin from within, the Djinni raised a hand. He cast something down at Eloque and Pisces’ feet. Something that came out of his hand, his essence and body.
A sword, and a rapier.
Pisces blinked. He looked up at the Djinni. Then he seized the blade. Eloque clumsily lifted hers. They stood together and fought.
The pitch blackness like the insides of the urns drove the horrors mad. They roamed the halls, slaughtering the screaming monsters who had imprisoned them. They turned as they saw the light.
A flaming rapier. A glowing Djinni’s eyes. Spells and light. They swarmed towards the gates, into the courtyard. That was where the three stood, fighting, making their way for the outside.
Pisces, whirling, striking with a [Fencer]’s grace. Eloque slashing with a fierce desire to live, her stitched scales gleaming under the moonlight, and Azam, roaring, casting spells of his being and swinging, clearing the space around them.
There were hundreds, flocking towards the three who dared to live. Who dared to hope. They shrieked…
And were drowned out. Pisces was screaming louder, fighting. Eloque was howling back in their faces. Azam’s roar was loudest still. Pisces stabbed something and saw a shape as thin as cloth recoil, bursting into flames. He pointed and a [Deathbolt] put it to rest.
The horrors came for the gate as the three retreated through it. They came over the walls, but the trio held them back. They refused to die.
We are guiltless. We were like you.
Did the desperate, suffering things hear them? They attacked, tearing—Eloque cried out as something bit her across the side. Pisces nearly lost half the fingers on his right hand and his hand was bitten down to the bone as Azam tore it off him. The Djinni bled his magic to the night.
The horrors slowed. They looked at the Human, the Lizardwoman, the Djinni. Then they fell back, towards the keep. They looked back once.
Pisces saluted them with his sword. He didn’t know what to say. Eloque just dropped the blade, exhausted. Azam was the one who spoke.
“Tyrants and monsters die. Rest, chainbreakers.”
They stood there for a second. Then, Pisces turned. The rapier in his hands dissipated. He realized Azam had recalled his being. The Gold-rank adventurer tensed.
Azam stared down at him. He was still chained, and Igheriz’s slave, Pisces knew this. The [Necromancer] hesitated.
He was nearly out of magic. Yet if he—
“Azam. We have a chance. Igheriz isn’t here to command you. He doesn’t even know we’re alive. Not yet.”
Eloque whispered. She looked up at Azam. The Djinni stared down at her.
“I am his servant. I cannot flee; he calls me to him already. He will find you both.”
The Lizardwoman half-shook her head. She touched her collar, then looked at Pisces.
“You do not have to do his bidding now. Azam, please…”
The Djinni was still as Pisces stared at his face. He looked at Eloque. Then turned away. Azam began striding away from the keep.
“I do not. Run.”
Eloque watched him go, sagging in relief. Then she looked at Pisces. He nodded.
They ran. For a second…Pisces felt perfectly free.
 
—-
 
The two [Slaves] ran. Ran, into the night. The things didn’t follow far. They returned to the keep, breaking it into pieces. The Emir and his people never escaped. Not one.
Overnight, the Emir Riqre’s fortune and power disappeared. The things he had wrought bore him down.
What did a [Slaver] fear? This. The moment when they stared so deep into that darkness that it pulled them in.
The things at the ruined keep would not endure long, even if they could. Perhaps they might have collapsed, or spread outwards, bringing madness. Or changed yet further. Maybe they would have created a shadow of Riqre’s misery, so altered as they were.
But they never got a chance. As Igheriz and Hrome fled, both miraculously salvaging most of their caravans, the [Slave Masters] finally alerted Roshal to Riqre’s madness.
Roshal replied with full attention. From Lailight Scintillation, before anyone could learn of what had been unleashed, came [Slavers]. [Slave Masters] on carpets, with powerful servants and Djinni and artifacts.
They investigated the ruins. Captured what they wanted. Then—with spells and relics, they burned it to ash. All of it. Any of Riqre’s associates that had survived this moment?
They would be found and killed. Lest this return. Some things even Roshal did not countenance. That was the end of this tale of horror, which even in Chandrar’s many myths and fables, was only whispered of.
 
—-
 
They caught Pisces and Eloque after less than a day.
Igheriz rode down on the two himself. He laughed in delight to find Eloque alive, and Pisces heard her scream and regretted his words to her. He tried to attack, but could not.
A [Slave Lord] pointed down from a carpet. They had joined the hunt.
“Capture that [Slave].”
Two dozen [Mages] hit Pisces so hard it was over in a second, even as he tried to dodge. Pisces had failed.
He had tried everything to remove Eloque’s collar, knowing they would be tracked. He didn’t have the magic to break the enchantment. He couldn’t even fight back; he just saw the flash of magic and woke up two hours later.
They were captured again. The caravan resumed its course.
Not the same, of course. Igheriz and Hrome were changed by what they’d seen. They all were.
And yet, they continued to be [Slavers]. They never questioned what they did, only feared what Riqre had shown them. They had seen every conclusion to the path they took and still they didn’t turn away.
That was when Pisces knew there was no redemption here. He planned his escape in earnest.
The first time, he failed.
 
—-
 
Of all those who had survived Riqre’s madness, it seemed wrong more [Guards] than [Slaves] should have lived. But they had weapons and weren’t in cells where they could be butchered.
It was also wrong to say that none of Riqre’s people had made it out. That was the official line. Yet a few had fled.
His [Slaves]. A handful of [Guards]. Among them…
Tenir. The man had followed Igheriz out, even saved the [Slave Master]’s life. For that reason, and his shorthanded caravan, Igheriz let him stay. He probably had every intention of replacing him at the next city, but he wanted to make as fast a pace away as possible.
That Tenir was allowed to live after everyone had seen what he had done was due as much to the man’s levels as the fact that the [Guards] were so few in number. He was still dangerous.
Still insane. He thought the monsters who had come out of the basement were some kind of underground horrors. He didn’t understand—refused to let himself realize what they really were.
Pisces watched him. Igheriz had said no one would lay a finger on the [Slaves], and Tenir had agreed, too shaken to act like normal anyways. But what did that mean?
Absolutely nothing. Riqre’s madness lingered.
It happened on the fourth night, after the mad, day-long marches had slowed and someone had cracked a joke—a bad one—for the first time. After that smiles began, and people began to distance the memory of what had happened.
Pisces was in camp when he saw Tenir stop someone. Merr the Storm. Pisces paused as Tenir pulled her around the stone wall that Azam had raised. He heard a muffled sound.
The [Guard] had a hand over her mouth. He was smiling, laughing.
“No, we shouldn’t. But if you’re that desperate…? Just quickly, then. Merr. It’s a beautiful name.”
“Let go of—stop—”
She was trying to shout, to scream. He had an arm blocking her mouth. Tenir continued his monologue, staring at her face as if he didn’t see the fear or horror.
“Let me help you with that.”
He reached for her clothing. In response, the [Bandit Lady] tried to kick him, but her collar made her weak. She bit his arm instead.
Instantly, blank-faced, Tenir cracked her head into the stone wall. She went slack and he laughed, looking at the broken flesh on his arm.
“Not to worry, my arm? It happens. What a funny accident. Are you alright?”
As if there were some other reason she had bit him. As if he didn’t realize what he’d done. Something was filling in the gaps in his head.
Riqre’s madness.
Tenir had half her clothing off, tearing at the rest, when the low voice spoke.
“I knew it. You know exactly what you’re doing.”
Tenir spun around. He felt something at his waist—and Pisces drew his sword. The [Necromancer] held it to the ground, panting at the effort it had taken just to draw it.
“You—Pisces! Drop the sword! Hey, I have—”
Tenir hesitated. He looked at Merr, who was sitting, head lying back, nose bleeding, barely conscious. He bared his teeth at Pisces.
“Say you didn’t see us, Adventurer. Put the sword down and I’ll keep quiet if you do. She asked me—but neither of us should take the blame, eh? Everyone needs comfort after what they saw.”
Pisces didn’t answer him. He just looked at Tenir.
“You must know what you’re doing, somewhere inside of you. That Skill just helps you sleep. You coward. [Rapist]. Can you even see your class? How do they let you in at gates? Or does your class hide it from their spells too?”
Tenir heard that. His face turned hostile instantly.
“I’ve never taken a woman into my bed that didn’t ask, Adventurer. Watch your tongue—”
“You cowardly man. I’ve known true cowards, but never one who lies to himself like you. You should have died with Riqre and his lot, [Rapist].”
Pisces raised his voice. Tenir reacted even more than he had hoped. The man’s eyes opened wide in genuine fury—he really believed he was innocent.
Pisces felt sick as Tenir’s fists clenched and his face turned crimson with outrage.
“Don’t—call me—a [Rapist].”
He strode forwards. Pisces tried to raise the blade. No good. And Tenir knew it. He strode forwards, but Pisces stumbled backwards. Raise the damn sword! He tried one more time, as someone raised his voice.
“Hoi. Where is Pisces?”
A man skidded around a corner as one of the [Guards] saw him. He shouted.
“Here! With Tenir! Damn—”
Now. Pisces raised his voice. He shouted with all his might.
“He was assaulting Merr! Trying to rape—”
“I did not!”
He leapt at Pisces, confident the [Necromancer] couldn’t so much as lift the blade. And Pisces couldn’t. So—he sat down, and in one motion, put the sword on his knee and angled it up.
Tenir ran onto the sword as he crashed into Pisces. The furious man’s charge did all the work. He spitted himself onto the sword. He choked.
In a flash, Pisces was shoving him off him, wriggling free. He reached down and twisted the sword as best he could. Tenir was choking, impaled high on the belly. Pisces saw the [Guards] staring in horror. He didn’t care. He flung himself down.
There! The keys!
Tenir had them at his belt. Pisces had seen that the mad [Guard] was trusted with some fumbled at the bloody body.
“He’s killed Tenir! He’s—grab him—”
They jumped for him, trying to reach him; Pisces flung himself down, and the dying [Guard] helped. They tried to yank him off—but Pisces had the bloody key ring in his hands. To make matters better, someone running to help tripped over something.
Merr’s leg? Tenir’s flailing limbs?
A dogpile. And now, Pisces was twisting the keys free, swearing. He plunged one into his collar’s keyhole and twisted it. And felt it jam—Pisces fumbled for another and felt the hands tearing at him—
 
—-
 
Igheriz looked down at Pisces and laughed. He laughed, even as his eyes shone with that familiar fury. He squatted down.
“Pisces, ah, Pisces. After all we’ve seen and lived through, I thought we were friends, heh?”
“After all we’ve seen and lived through, you haven’t rethought what you do?”
Pisces retorted—or tried to. He was mumbling. His face was puffy. He drooled a bit of blood and saliva. Igheriz just snorted.
“Emir Riqre was mad. I am not. There is a difference. I thought we were friends, Pisces, so this will pain me. Also—I thought you were a smarter man! After all, you thought I would entrust Tenir with a key to your collar? Or any other man?”
Pisces stared up at him. He had grabbed for the other [Guard]’s keys when all of Tenir’s had failed. But even theirs hadn’t worked. Now, Igheriz waggled a key in a mimicry of the [Guard].
“It was a neat trick, I admit. But no [Guard] has a key to your collar, Pisces. They are all different, all the special ones! What fool would have but one key to every lock?”
He chortled. Then shook his head.
“You killed Tenir. I did not know you could do such a trick with a sword. It was even a favor; he was mad, and Merr has you to thank. So I will be gentle. I will not break any bones. But we will hurt you. Oh yes. And if you rebel one more time? Well, the Naga can have you without your gems.”
He sighed. Then motioned for his [Guards]. Pisces bared his teeth in defiance—until he saw what they were doing.
Heating up pokers in a brazier. He looked at Igheriz. The [Slave Master] sighed.
“Did you think we would just beat you? Pisces, I thought you were smarter. This does pain me.”
The other [Slaves] listened. Cawe put her talons over her earholes. She edged away, nevermind that it put her close to a watching [Guard], flexing her hands and hiding her face. Astotha could not; she was tending to Merr. First, Pisces refused to make a sound, though they smelled burning flesh.
But they wanted him to scream, his tormentors, and they would not stop. So he began. He cried out so they would stop.
They kept going.
Qshom had his head in his lap and was covering the ears. He looked at Bearig. The [Cook] had a little person in his grip. The other [Slave] who had survived.
Rophir. The half-Elf boy did not look up, or even listen. His eyes were blank. His parents had been left there, finally at peace, but he was not.
Shein, Droppe, they all heard Pisces’ voice rise in desperation and looked away.
“Stop! Stop! Enough—please—”
Please. Even then, they did not. The only person who did not look away among the [Slaves] was Eloque. She watched Pisces. Watched him suffer. She said nothing, but looked at him, meeting his eyes after it was done.
 
—-
 
Did he believe in what he said to her, even now? Eloque saw the [Necromancer] gaze in her direction. His eyes closed and she felt the same madness in Riqre’s keep growing in her. But not yet. There was so much further to fall. She would have begun to laugh.
Then she saw his eyes open. No—just one. Pisces opened one eye, as if unable to focus. He stared up as Astotha was allowed to tend to him. Closed his eyes. Opened one, unfocused. Cawe hurried over to cursing, bending to berate him.
He’d most certainly—
Failed.
 
—-
 
