He meant the other [Slaves]. This was what disconcerted Hrome and Igheriz’ [Guards]. Their willingness to rape and abuse [Slaves] still meant they were Traders of Roshal, who obeyed certain laws. They regarded Riqre creating the cannibal classes as truly monstrous.
Yet when they subtly or unsubtly mixed with Riqre’s people, they got the same answer when asking about Riqre’s extremes.
“The Emir must have his passions.”
“Roshal does not impugn him, so we shall not. He pays very well.”
“You grow used to such things. Or you end up like Tenir. Happy enough, you think, don’t you?”
Riqre’s [Slaves] mixed with Pisces and some of the others on the first night. Some had decorative collars; none had manacles and they all began telling the others how wonderful Riqre was.
“He is the Emir beyond Emirs. You will love him, and weep if he sells you! His [Guards] are the most loyal and he produces fine servants. He rarely takes others into his confidence. Beg your masters to sell you to him! If you are worthy.”
Each one was, without exception, beautiful. Mostly female. Pisces noticed that uneasily. Largely Stitchfolk too, which discomforted Igheriz. The fantastical adoration though, puzzled Pisces.
Even Astotha glared at the woman addressing her, sharing their dinner.
“You don’t need to say that every second! Your master won’t hear you if you complain—unless he can? Are there spells or…?”
She looked uneasily at the other [Slave]’s gilded collar, but the woman just gave Astotha a blank look.
“I am not lying or omitting complaints. If I had any, I would say them. Look at Emir Riqre. Do you see any faults?”
She turned and gave the Emir a look of such admiration that everyone fell silent. Her smile was…unnerving. Too wide…Pisces felt the same uneasy tingle he had when he’d laid eyes on the [Carrion Eaters].
Something was terribly wrong.
The dinner was interrupted by Riqre summoning Pisces. The [Necromancer] rose and, escorted by two [Guards], was drawn over to Igheriz and Hrome. The two men were on their feet, and many [Guards] were retching; unable to eat.
“Ah, but you get used to it! Come, Pisces. Let me show you how to use basic necromancy. This is one of my projects. For Roshal’s ranks of [Assassins], you see? Not one of the poor ones. This child will be one of the best, in time. You see?”
The Emir ate with good humor. And he showed Pisces. The [Necromancer] looked over and saw…zombies.
Zombies, the most basic of undead, swaying, attached to the caravan. Rotting. They were undead, animated by a basic spell, a cheap, weak one. There was nothing unique about them, yet they were so…decrepit that Pisces was confused.
The zombies had missing internals, damaged bone, and every sign of degradation as undead got. Even zombies could ‘decay’, or simply lose their ability to function if they took enough damage, yet someone had continually reanimated them. Was there a lack of bodies?
Even more confusing still was the [Slave] who had been brought out. A little half-Elf stood there, blank-eyed. holding a shortsword in his hand. Alive—and young.
“Emir Riqre, what are you…?”
“Silence. Rophir—begin!”
Pisces saw the half-Elf boy look up. The blank look in his eyes never changed, but he moved as the two undead half-Elves lurched at him. The two zombies attacked and he?
He killed them. It was a bad battle. The half-Elf boy looked barely older than ten. Ceria had told Pisces that half-Elves vaguely followed Humans in growth until puberty, where they slowed, so he might have been a bit older.
He could barely stab and swing the shortsword, but he did. He knew how to fight zombies; stepping aside, slashing their legs, and stabbing them when they fell. Zombies could be killed by even the weakest adults—if you kept your cool and had experience.
Pisces watched as the zombies eventually stopped moving. Then the half-Elf boy, Rophir, stepped back. Riqre clapped his hands; he had barely glanced at the fight as he supped.
“Good, good. Now, do you understand?”
He looked around like a teacher expecting an answer. Igheriz had no answer. Pisces? The young man met the Emir’s gaze and spoke slowly.
“Those. Those zombies. They’re…that boy’s parents. Aren’t they?”
Hrome’s head whirled. Pisces was staring at something lying on the ground. The zombies were all but rotted away; preserved by the arid climate, but too far gone to make out features. Yet he had seen the pointed ear lying on the ground, gangrenous and filthy, but intact.
Hrome turned a shade paler and Emir Riqre laughed, applauding; all his servants instantly copied him. Igheriz had frozen. His eyes…were wide in his head, but he uttered not a sound.
“Very good! You see? You do have potential. Yes. Rophir nearly died at first, but now he knows. You get used to it. He will become the greatest [Assassin] in his lifetime—but it will take decades! I am merely preparing him before we get to Roshal. Animate the next undead! I would have Pisces do it, Igheriz, but he might make them too strong!”
He waved Pisces away. The young man looked back at Rophir. He saw nothing there. No emotion. No grief. No anger. The half-Elf boy just went where he was told.
 
—-
 
Pisces had a nightmare that night. Erin, now a zombie, looked at him with crossbow bolts in her chest. Then he saw Mrsha with a dagger, and the same terrible expression as Rophir as the Emir applauded…and himself, standing behind the Emir, smiling like one of his [Slaves].
He was almost glad when he woke up. Then he wanted to return to the sleeping nightmare.
Someone was screaming. Screaming so loudly it woke all the camps—except for Riqre’s people. They just slept through it, completely inured to the sound.
It was dawn. Pisces saw Riqre standing next to the wagons that held the [Carrion Eaters] and other…advanced…servants. He looked up as everyone turned.
“Ah, Igheriz! Apologies. I am simply at work as usual. I cannot delay; they have three days left, you see and it would be unfair not to give them three more chances.”
The [Carrion Eaters] watched him, bound head-to-toe and Azam glanced at the two bound shapes.
“Those two alone could kill every [Guard] in your caravan save I, Igheriz.”
It was not to them that Riqre tended. They were finished products, or enough so for his liking. It was his servants he wanted.
Held by two [Guards], a beautiful woman sat in the wagon, struggling, shaking, and pleading. A Silk Stitchgirl, as peerless as the rest of his [Slaves]. Riqre spoke to her.
“Three more days. Three more days, Anareen. Please tell me. Do you love me?”
“I do. I do! Emir, please—not again. I do! I will do anything if you—”
He wasn’t even listening. The Emir glanced down at something he was holding. Pisces saw the truth crystal flash red and the Emir sighed.
“It does not do to lie, Anareen. Two more days, then. Next!”
The [Guards] lifted her. The Stitchgirl began to scream and thrash with such might that if one had not touched her with a Wand of Paralysis, she might have broken free. She went limp. Pisces saw her huge, horrified gaze meet his as they slowly dropped her into a giant jar. They covered the lid, sealed it, and all sound ended.
“She can breathe. I will ask her tomorrow. And one more time when we reach my lands. If she still cannot tell me the truth—then she will remain.”
Riqre walked past the two [Slave Masters]. They looked at him. Then at Riqre’s people.
Each one gazed at their master with pure, genuine affection. Each one had passed the truth spell Riqre applied to the other five captives. Somehow they had passed.
“Emir Riqre. Why do you ask? Is it not enough they are slaves?”
The Emir turned to Hrome, raising his brows.
“If I were selling them, surely, Hrome. But I wish them to be my people. I would not take a [Slave] that does not love me.”
“And if they fail to answer you?”
The Emir’s eyes were wide and something stared out of the pupils in the center.
“Then they will remain like that forever. I feed them, you know. Most pass my test. You see—if they have a choice between this and me, they will change. For me. They change their classes. Most do not before they see the others who failed, but then they succeed! Joyous. You will learn, Pisces. It is classes. It is all about…classes.”
Then he turned, and as if he had suddenly remembered, he beamed at Pisces. The young man froze as Riqre twirled on his heel, the jar forgotten in a moment.
“Ah, but where is my mind? Igheriz, Hrome, we must slow our pace a tiny bit or make preparations tonight! Pisces is here, but we cannot delay any longer.”
Igheriz looked close to snapping. The zombies, and this—his hand hovered at his side, but the [Carrion Eaters] and [Guards]…he almost snapped a reply as he looked for Azam.
“For what, Emir Riqre? Pisces is mine, I remind you.”
Hrome grabbed his arm, warningly, but Riqre’s smile never faded.
“Of course, of course. Yet it seems to me, Igheriz—and I ask your pardons for my bluntness—but you are not yet a [Slave Lord], or one of my class and level. Even if Pisces is to be sold…and we shall talk…there are still yet ways to improve him. Teach him.”
He looked at Pisces and the young man felt a pit in his stomach. Riqre scratched at his chin as Igheriz glanced at Pisces.
“Your Djinni, too. He is but a servant. He could serve you better, Igheriz.”
His voice was loud and carrying. Pisces’ head moved and he saw the giant, always close by Igheriz for protection, turn. The Emir and Djinni locked gazes.
For the first time since meeting him, Pisces saw Azam…shudder.
 
—-
 
When they came for him at dusk, Pisces seriously considered if fighting and dying here was worth it. He’d go for a sword and if he died…there was a chance. Better that than what Riqre intended.
He did not. Because Pisces still had hope of surviving, of finding the others. Because he owed Erin. Because, damn him, he was curious.
What would Riqre do to him? If it was too egregious, Pisces hoped Igheriz would fight back, and create an opportunity for escape. Pisces was worth nearly a million gold pieces.
Unfortunately, Riqre was cunning. Riqre was mad, but…when Pisces was pushed into an open space in the camp, he didn’t understand.
“What’s…what’s going on?”
He found himself in a large circle of onlookers. The [Guards] of all three caravans, the [Slave Masters], Riqre, Igheriz, Hrome, and Azam standing a ways away, [Slaves] of Riqre’s caravan…and one man he recognized.
Shein. The Bronze-rank adventurer looked as terrified as Pisces felt. Riqre clapped his hands.
“There is Pisces! And here is a strong young man! Good bones. Bronze-rank? Psht.”
He made a sound and his people laughed. Shein flushed. Riqre turned to Igheriz.
“You will not make much off of him. Almost better to call him a [Warrior] or—no, he is a [Fighter], isn’t he? Rather than tout him as Bronze-rank.”
He glanced at Shein and read the man’s class. The adventurer could only hang his head.
“He is still worth gold, Emir. I would not have him—damaged. Whatever it is you intend…”
Igheriz looked nervous. Uneasy, as he glanced at Pisces. The [Necromancer] was tense, but Riqre lifted an admonishing finger, frowning.
“Igheriz, I will recompense you at double, nay, triple his price for any accidents. Which there will not be! And I will ‘risk’ my people first, you see? But first—Pisces!”
He spread his arms as if to embrace Pisces. The [Necromancer] backed up into impassive guards.
“What…what am I here for? I will not be privy to any…wrongness, Riqre. If you intend—”
Pisces referred to anything and everything Riqre had done. Was this about the half-Elf child? Yet Riqre looked hurt.
“Pisces. Ah, Pisces. You wound me. Am I that unsubtle? Sometimes. Yes, sometimes the hammer is needed instead of the brush, but I am adept at both things. I know you. You are unruly. Angry. You see, Igheriz? All defiance. Not trained at all. Nearly completely wild.”
He gestured at Pisces, as if it were written on the young man’s face. Igheriz hesitated.
“I do not have your Skills of appraisal, Emir, but need he be? I am only transporting him.”
“And you do nothing to add to his worth? You could at least try, Igheriz. But then—I have many methods and the experience of decades. So I will help. Hrome, you may watch as well.”
“Y-you honor me, Emir.”
Hrome managed. Riqre dismissed him with a single glance. He looked at Pisces.
“I would rather free you and have you work with me, as a companion who shares my vision, Pisces. But to do that, you would have to be my [Slave], and…well. There are ways to change someone. Like that.”
He snapped his fingers and Pisces flinched.
“The Naga could make you think I was your boon companion, the fifth in the Horns of Hammerad. For a while. Make you a friend as true as…what is that funny Antinium’s name?”
Pisces refused to speak. Riqre hunted until one of his [Slaves] whispered.
“Ksmvr. That’s right! I am beside myself, though. Pisces…I only mean to use your powers tonight. Improve you.”
“I will not be party to anything you do.”
Pisces whispered through stiff lips. Riqre gave him a pitying look. He turned to Igheriz.
“You see? He says this like he has a choice. The same as your Djinni. He obeys.”
He pointed at Azam. Even Azam was wary. Riqre sighed at Igheriz.
“Far better for them to want to do things, Igheriz.”
“Then show me, Emir. But if you harm Pisces’ value…”
“I know.”
This time the crack in Riqre’s voice made everyone go still. For a second death filled the air—until Riqre passed a hand over his face.
“Igheriz. Igheriz. My temper gets the best of me. I will make it up to you. Just watch, please?”
The [Slave Master] said nothing. Riqre turned to Pisces.
“Pisces. You mistrust me. You dislike me. I see these things, and it is fine. I will earn your trust. I will earn your respect. I am not the Naga, who must have these things from all and sundry. I can train a slave and sell it, even if I like him! I do hope Igheriz will change his mind…but this is how you work, even if you transport a slave. You raise their value. Like so.”
He gestured around his audience. Riqre spun, eyes searching…then his eyes lit up.
“Meritha. My lovely servant, you first.”
He pointed, and Pisces blinked as a young woman came over. Her dress was like the other female [Slaves]’. Revealing…and Meritha was a half-Elf, her features soft. Riqre stroked her cheek and kissed Meritha on the lips.
“I should be very upset if anything were to happen to you, Meritha, yet will you risk your body for me?”
“For you, Emir? Anything.”
