Blows rained down from the Stitch-man onto Pisces. It was not the first time he’d been beaten like this; Pisces curled up, protecting his face, exposed parts. The beating lasted minutes, but Igheriz was panting quick, running out of stamina.
Pisces stared up with cold hatred at the [Slave Master], seeing Eloque cowering, Hrome calling for Igheriz to stop before he damaged Pisces. The [Slave Master]’s mouth was flecked with spittle and his eyes were rolling. He looked at Pisces.
“You have offended me once. Do you think I cannot discipline you before you go to Roshal?”
“I know you can’t kill me.”
The [Necromancer] spat blood. He stared up at Igheriz. He saw the man’s face twist and realized, too late, he had gone too far.
“Can’t? I can’t do anything? Do you think you are special because the Naga wants you? That I am not sole master? Dagger! Bring him outside!”
The [Guards] hesitated. Igheriz spun.
“Azam! Dagger!”
They dragged Pisces out. Azam, the Djinni appeared, and Hrome fell back from grabbing Igheriz. Pisces found himself pinned by one huge hand.
“What do you will, Master?”
Azam had Pisces’ legs; two [Guards] each arm, which they sat on. Igheriz strode forwards.
He had a dagger. Just a steel dagger. Pisces stared up at him. The [Slave Master] was still foaming with rage. Yet he had calmed into something far more terrifying than before.
“I am punishing Pisces, Azam. Hold him. Protect me as always. Pisces—you have offended me once. This is what I do to those who offend me. Once. Azam. That brazier. Bring it over.”
The Djinni did not need to move. He just reached out. One of the huge braziers set up for warmth and light at night was placed next to Igheriz.
The Stitch-man kept well free of the fire, which he feared, but he lifted the dagger in his watercloth hand.
“You see? I fear no fire with this! And this—do you think I am afraid of injuring my property, Pisces? Tell me I am a monster.”
He stuck the dagger in the fire. Pisces saw the blade begin to heat up. He began to struggle.
“Igheriz. Igheriz, I—apologize.”
“You do, do you? Well, I will listen to how sorry you are. Hold him down.”
“Caravan Master Igheriz. Pisces is—”
Hrome froze as Igheriz whirled. There was a deadly look in the man’s eyes now.
“The Naga can repair anything he wishes. But this? You and I have met, Pisces.”
He drew the dagger, tip now glowing. Pisces began to struggle hard, but the Djinni and [Guards] had hold of him. Igheriz bent down, and yanked Pisces’ robes aside.
“You and I have met. And now you will remember it in more than words.”
“Igheriz. I apologize! Stop! Enough! I apologize, I—”
The man began to draw on Pisces’ chest with the glowing blade. It was only then Pisces began to shout. Then scream. The others, [Slaves], [Guards], Hrome, and Azam watched. Only the Djinni did not look away. He just met Pisces’ eyes. For he had seen worse.
 
—-
 
Her first meeting with Pisces the [Necromancer] had not gone well.
For him. Eloque watched the entire event unfold silently, wishing she could tell him to shut up. The young man was as foolish as most [Slaves] taken from outside of Chandrar.
Even so, he did not beg. He did not shriek like some did. He was an adventurer, for all that was worth.
And…a [Necromancer]. That was the curious thing. Eloque kept thinking of it that night, as [Slaves] tended to Pisces and Igheriz stormed about, laughing and drinking and raging by turns. He didn’t forget her of course, but Pisces had stung him, so Igheriz slashed the air with his sword and everyone stayed out of his way.
For sport, he beat the [Cook], Bearig, as if it were his fault for being tethered next to Pisces. Now that man begged and cried out—which alleviated his suffering. Eloque could hear the laughter as he pleaded for mercy, calming Igheriz.
That was not what Eloque thought of. She tuned it out, and thought of Pisces’ words. How he had stood there, in the tent, and dared Igheriz’s wrath.
‘I will never be like you.’ He had said that to Igheriz’s face, calling what he did monstrous. Oh, Eloque had enjoyed that. Yet he confused her.
He was a [Necromancer]. It was not illegal to be one in Baleros like other continents, or so Eloque had been told, but the undead were still horrifying to her. Rotting flesh. Disease. [Necromancers] animated dead bodies.
He thought of himself as better than Igheriz? Eloque began to sneer…then fell silent.
“Perhaps he is.”
The dead could not suffer. She hoped he would not heal too badly or catch infection. A brave young man, with morals, ill-suited to Igheriz’s company.
A foolish one too, to let his tongue wag so.
But brave. She liked him because he brought a mind and voice far from Chandrar to this place, [Necromancer] or not.
 
—-
 
Everything changed after that. 
Pisces was no longer favored. He was chained, treated like the others—but worse, because everyone knew he had fallen from favor.
The branding took a long time to heal. He was only given a tiny bit of potion. And it would not…heal. Not that. Not burns.
Igheriz was not just evil, Pisces realized. But truly mad. Eloque was proof of that. So was Pisces.
“He will kill you. Offend him three more times and you die. He does it, for [Slaves] who matter.”
Astotha took a bit of his pain, treated him. Pisces stared at his burned, raised flesh. Igheriz had…written his name there. Across his chest.
“Three more times? What can he do worse?”
He laughed, almost hysterically. Astotha stopped brushing a bit of potion onto him and looked at him.
“Pisces. That was only the first. The second time, he beats you to almost death. The third? He cuts off your balls. The fourth—he kills you. No matter who. You think he won’t do it? He will, even if the Naga wants you.”
The [Necromancer] looked up. Astotha stared at him, and then away.
“And you are his [Slave]?”
“I have no choice. He is fine if he is not angered. Well. Mostly.”
Pisces looked at her. Around the tent. He was developing a hatred for Chandrar he had never felt before, not for his father, not for anyone—no. Just Roshal. Just Igheriz.
The worst part was what the [Slave Master] had called his perversion of Eloque. Beautiful. As if he was making art. That was how he thought of it.
Art—Pisces fell into troubled dreams. Because he remembered true art.
 
—-
 
Her name was Gewilena. She was a [Necromancer]. No—she was different. She had a class, and it was [Artist of Bone].
She was the first person that the boy Pisces had met, one day after he’d run away from his training, sobbing and tired of learning the art of the sword. He’d met her in a forest and she’d been as terrified as he.
“Why—why are you upset, young man? You’re from the manor, aren’t you?”
Padurn Jealnet taught the rich scions of the noble family how to fence. Pisces stared at the woman, who was hiding something behind her back.
“My father’s the [Fencer] who teaches them. I hate him.”
“You hate your father? That’s…terrible. I didn’t expect to find anyone here, you know. Why, are the lessons hard?”
She edged back. She had been in a cave he had run into, thinking to hide here. It was clear of wildlife, but there was something…he tried to see.
“I’m better than everyone. Everyone but him, but he says I’m not good enough. I like magic more. The [Mage] teaches me, but he won’t let me learn. Who—who are you? What’s that?”
Gewilena froze. She was in her mid-thirties, though she had looked far older. Pisces would always remember her as being—furtive. Looking over her shoulder. She rarely relaxed, unless she was around him. Young and old. As innocent as could be, laughing, delighted, or older from what she had lived through. She had tried to block him, to destroy it—but he had seen.
An undead. But not like any undead he had ever seen, before or since. She had been working on a torso of bone, a creation. Her creations. She had even begun to paint it, having taken the bones from this cave to work.
Gewilena was a [Necromancer], but she created undead slower than even natural magic. She created…Pisces had fled the staring face, the alien structure. He had fled in a panic as she cried out for him not to tell anyone, that she wasn’t hurting anyone!
No being, not even Crelers or the most foreign monsters had ever looked like that to Pisces. It was what Erin or Ryoka would have called alien. He had run, accepted his punishment, and never breathed a word about Gewilena, although he had known what she was.
[Necromancer]. A class outlawed. He had fled her, but he told no one. Because after the horror had faded, the shock that something could exist that was so illegal to the world the young boy knew—
He had found the undead beautiful too.
That was how Pisces had first met Gewilena. It would not be the last, and in time, they would become friends. That was how he had started down the road to [Necromancy].
Her art had ended up all being destroyed. Every creation burned by the [Lord] of the manor. She had burned with them. Pisces’ fault.
Yet Gewilena’s art had never been made of people. It had been made of corpses long abandoned, animal bone. It hurt no one, he had screamed. All she had wanted was to make her art, beauty as she saw it. She had never taken a life, never harmed anyone.
Igheriz? They were not the same. There was no evil inherent in [Necromancy]. Danger, yes. But [Slavers] and [Slaves] were made of pain. It would never be the same for Pisces.
Never.
 
—-
 
He saw the key to his collar for the first time the day after offending Igheriz. Pisces stumbled in the lines of [Slaves], pain-ridden. Every time the robes brushed against the skin, he shuddered, in fury as much as pain.
Out of favor, and the [Slavers] finally treated him like the others. Blows if he wasn’t quick enough, spitting on him, at him, insults—
He had offended their precious pride by calling them monsters, and favoritism quickly flipped around. All but Hrome, who still seemed to secretly like Pisces.
One of the [Slavers] struck Pisces across the back with a long stick he liked to lash the [Slaves] with. He drew something from his neck and waved it at Pisces.
“You offended Igheriz, eh? You’ll never remove that, not without magic. And you tried to strike him? Foreigners. Didn’t know, eh? Your collar stops you hurting us. You need this if you want to make a fair fight, and I’d take you, fancy rapier or not.”
Pisces stared up at the glinting key, inset with a gem on the handle. He frowned.
No visible magic. But a key was still a key. Pisces stared at it. What curious teeth! There were two sets, in some sort of…forked prong. He couldn’t understand the mechanism by which it would open the cuffs.
Magic, not tumblers. Another reason no [Thief] would free themselves, not even Cawe. He didn’t reply as the [Guard] taunted him, merely memorized the key’s shape.
It was Igheriz who rode over and struck the [Slaver]. Hard. The man screamed and fell from his horse, clutching at his back. The [Slave Master] was in a bad mood after yesterday’s hangover and his rage against Pisces. Eloque was nowhere to be seen.
“You idiot! Wave that key about and I will break your hands and leave you in the sands, understand? Pisces. You are no longer in favor, eh? This saddens me. However, we still march in your company, so smile, smile!”
Pisces stared up at him. Igheriz grinned and spurred his horse onwards. He…still acted like they were friends. Even though Pisces was ‘out of favor’, and he expected Pisces to at least pretend to play to the part.
Madness.
No healing meant Pisces’ face and limbs were swollen and he was exhausted, trying to keep moving. It was Bearig who helped Pisces, supporting his arms. Cawe too, though mainly with encouragement.
“You idiot. Didn’t you learn to keep your mouth shut to the [Guards]? More fool you for getting branded. Cheer up. At least you’ll only lose your balls if you make him mad two more times. You don’t want to know what happens to women.”
Qshom, Astotha, Droppe, and Shein all helped too. Astotha most of all, taking bits of Pisces’ pain for him. They had formed around him, a group of sorts. So…naturally. But then, they were [Slaves]. Pisces hazily remembered that was how it happened.
 
—-
 
When Pisces ran away the second time to join Gewilena, it was after months of learning from her in secret. It started with questions about why, how, and more. Learning the law wasn’t the law, that [Necromancy] wasn’t evil, all of it was a slow process.
He joined her cabal. [Necromancers] hiding out, glorifying Az’kerash, all taking to death magic for different reasons.
Talent, a desire to emulate the great evil of Terandria for their own hatred of this land, baser fascination with death, a sense of being outcast…
Pisces didn’t care for many of them. Gewilena was whom he admired. She was among the best of them, but she didn’t create zombies or seek vengeance. She had taught him well, and he joined their cabal.
They attempted to farm like Silvaria had once done, but ran afoul of insects and plague. They kept ahead of the law, [Knights] and [Guards], fighting sometimes, fleeing and hiding most of the time.
They argued politics, envisioned a better future, and studied magic. Erin had called them ‘death hippies’ when she had pried part of the story out of Pisces, and he had no idea if that was accurate.
What he had known were his friends. Gewilena, Ama, Feren…
Well, ‘Ama’ and ‘Feren’ were their names, but they took on pretentious airs. That was how Pisces had stopped using ‘Pisces Jealnet’. If they were to be outcasts, they should be as royal as those pretentious [Lords] and [Ladies]!
Feren du Aquinteis, his assumed title, had been the leader of the cabal, who had to clash with the other [Necromancers] who wanted to lead them to conflict, root out the ones who were bad, fight…he was the best of them.
Level 30, although he’d barely gotten there and Pisces had privately believed Gewilena had been better, just refused to use her full powers. Nevertheless, Feren had been good. He’d heard Pisces was good with a rapier, but refused to get a class, and they’d become friends, or a kind of mentor and student.
“Come on, Pisces. Learn the damn spell!”
He never struck Pisces, but he wasn’t the best teacher. Gewilena was patient; Feren was not. Nor did Pisces want to learn.
“It’s not fair.”
Feren swished the practice sword he’d made out of bone impatiently. He had begun to dye his hair, in emulation of Az’kerash, his hero, despite being older than Gewilena, even.
“It’s a spell to replace a Skill! Fair? I told you to use everything you can to win a fight!”
