“I know, Bearig. Just…hold on. I’ll stop him from breaking your legs. I’ll make you better. Improve you. Give me a moment. I’ll make it so they can never break you again. Perhaps you can save us if we leave here.”
Cawe saw Pisces kneel. Bearig was out of his mind with pain, yet it was the Garuda who saw Pisces touch the Grand Elephant’s bone he was using to meld into Bearig. She mouthed the words.
“Better? Improve…?”
There was something in Pisces’ eyes. He looked at Bearig, but it was a detached look. Could he make something out of Bearig such that the man could break their chains? He looked at Bearig, but not at him.
Cawe opened and closed her beak. Then she saw the door opening. She tried to flee, to find a place to hide in the bare room. No. Not her! Not—
 
—-
 
Eloque stumbled into the room, still sobbing. She froze when she saw them. Pisces looked up. Bearig had reawakened after fainting twice. Cawe stopped scrabbling herself under a couch.
“Eloque?”
The Lizardwoman stopped, swaying. She took in the terrible scene. Bearig’s blood was staining the carpet. He had a single bit of healing potion, but Pisces was saving it to mend his flesh. His bones were reshaping themselves, growing denser, tougher.
“What—what…”
She had run from the banquet hall, but the entire keep was full of Riqre’s people and a few of his [Guards] and Igheriz’s were searching for her to bring her back. She’d run from room to room and seen…she slowly looked at the other [Slaves].
“Is he coming? Any of them?”
Pisces glanced up. He broke away from changing Bearig to reply, curtly.
“No. You can hide here for a moment. Twenty one minutes.”
Eloque’s legs gave out. She sat down. Some of the stitches had torn free in her scales. She looked at the others and saw a mirror of her face.
Waxy horror. Disbelief. Fear. Pisces looked at her for a moment and then turned to Bearig.
“I’m sorry. I…I have to work. Bearig is running out of time.”
That was all he said. Eloque saw his features change to one of concentration. She stared.
“What is he doing?”
“Fixing up Bearig. Making him tougher. Riqre is playing a game. Either Pisces makes Bearig’s legs strong enough so they don’t break or…”
It was not hard for Eloque to guess the game’s nature. Riqre was so simple in how he performed his evil. It all made sense. She looked at Bearig. The man was moaning.
“Pisces. It hurts. Stop, please.”
“Bearig, I know. Bear with it. I’m…I’m going to improve your bone structure. You won’t break another bone. If only I could chain an animation spell in here, they’d automatically knit. If I had more bones…more variety. I’ll change your arms. Perhaps if we’re put to sleep, I could make them strong enough to pull the chains apart.”
Cawe’s eyes widened. Pisces’ gaze flicked up, and Eloque started.
“Strong enough to…”
“I want to escape. We just have to survive tonight. Or do you think I intend to stay another second in this place with that monster? Bear with it, Bearig. I’ll try to hide the changes; don’t use your full strength. It’s only bone…if only I knew muscle.”
It was a gamble. Pisces wondered if he could do it. Bone was not sinew and muscle; perhaps he had to hide a kind of…bone saw in Bearig’s fingers? Something else? He focused on the legs first, but Bearig’s hand, slick with his own blood, grasped at Pisces.
Pisces looked down. The man was shaking his head wildly.
“Bearig, stop! He’ll cripple you for life if I don’t focus!”
Pisces snapped at the idiotic man. The [Cook]’s mouth moved; he’d chewed through his own lip. Yet out the words spilled.
“Pisces. No. I—I don’t want this. I want to be free, but not like a Draugr. Not like a monster. I want to be me. Not this. I beg you.”
The [Necromancer] barely heard him. He mumbled to himself, trying to think. What could he…?
“You’d rather die? Live with two broken legs? Igheriz won’t haul you around. I can reverse it in time. I’ve done this before. You know I have a teammate, Yvlon. I improved her arms.”
“Pisces. I don’t want that. I’d…what would my family see?”
Bearig’s voice was weakening. He was losing blood. Pisces bent to his work, moving faster. The man was delirious, and he underestimated Pisces. If Pisces could just…
“I would rather die, Pisces—”
“Enough. Be silent.”
Bearig whispered, but then Cawe and Eloque stopped hearing his voice. Pisces had cast a [Silence] spell. The man tried to move, but he was too weak.
In dead silence, Pisces kept working, mind racing now. He ignored Bearig’s feeble moving. They had to live. He didn’t know what he was talking about. He’d thank Pisces later. Pisces could improve him, perfect him, more than Riqre dreamed.
All I have to do is hide something in his bones. Or make him strong enough to break metal barehanded. Why did I never dream of this before? Not even Az’kerash—no, has he ever done something like this?
Why didn’t I ask him?
Can you fuse undeath and life together? Yvlon. I helped her. She gained a class from it revolving around her improved body. Look how much stronger she is. What if I had made her arms out of the Archmage’s bones? 
Yes. Yes! Imagine that. Strength of a Draugr. Bone arm. Why…why do you even need flesh? Look at Ceria’s hand. If I could create something like that, they’d be closer to invincible. Repairable. If I could alter her hand…
What could I create? How can I make Bearig better able to help me? Us?
The magic was taking on a complex form and Bearig was struggling, but to no avail. Pisces saw a grander vision in his mind, and reached for it. Something not even the Necromancer had dreamed of. Something…
It was Eloque’s voice, quiet, intense, that made Pisces stop.
“You can’t change him back. You will never, ever change him back. You can change his bones, his body. But the class you and Riqre give him will last forever.”
The [Necromancer] froze. Bearig’s eyes opened. Cawe, who had been peering through the keyhole of the door, looked around. All three looked at Eloque.
“The class?”
“You have one too. It’s crimson. Like blood. That’s what Riqre wants. Change Bearig and you’ll give him one. Like I have. Look. Igheriz laughed and told me to keep it a secret.”
Eloque stretched out her scaly arms. The Lizardwoman pointed at the stitches, and then looked at Pisces.
She had stopped weeping. She might begin again soon, but in this place…in this time…she met Pisces eyes. The Lizardwoman looked at the young man who had interested her, caught Igheriz’s eye, a fellow [Slave]. Or he had been, a moment ago.
Now?
She spoke, slowly, gesturing at Bearig.
“Bearig asked you to stop. He told you he would rather die than change.”
“He doesn’t know what he’s talking about. He’s half dead from blood-loss.”
Pisces retorted. Eloque blinked at him.
“So you know what is better.”
“I know how we can survive. Maybe even escape! Stop arguing with me and just trust that I know what’s better.”
Pisces tried to focus his mind, but he was just waiting for a response. He began to work, and it was Cawe who spoke up.
“You sound like Riqre right now, Pisces.”
The young man rose to his feet. His eyes flashed and he whirled on Cawe.
“Take that back.”
She balled her talon-hand into a fist, then stared at it. The gesture was not something a Garuda could make, yet her fingers…she thrust them at Pisces.
“I didn’t ask for this.”
“It was that or he’d keep your hands shattered! I didn’t have a choice!”
“I know, so I let you do it. Bearig knows. He doesn’t want this. We’re all [Slaves], aren’t we? Listen to him.”
Cawe pointed. Bearig wasn’t able to speak; he lay there, but he had said his piece. Pisces hesitated.
“If there’s a chance…I am not Riqre. I am not.”
“You are not.”
Eloque agreed. She sat there, knowing Riqre and the [Guards] would soon return. She rose, and stared at her arms. She clawed at her stitches in horror. Pisces and Cawe turned to her.
“Enough. Enough! I cannot live like this.”
Eloque screamed. Pisces reached for her, but she struck his hand down. He stared at the gashes on his hand, wincing, but Eloque was calm in the next second. She looked at Pisces, and backed away from the door. She had thought this was a safe place. Now?
Now, she looked at Pisces.
“When we first met, you told Igheriz you were better than he. A [Necromancer] better than a [Slaver]. I believed you. Right now? Look what Riqre has done to you.”
She pointed down at the unconscious Bearig. She never looked away from Pisces’ gaze. The [Necromancer] wavered as Eloque slowly opened the door.
“Igheriz makes me look like something more appealing to him. Slowly. Painfully. You—you do it less visibly. Faster, kinder. You are better at it than him, yes, but I prefer Igheriz after all. Riqre will have you make us all into his puppets. I have had enough. Goodbye.”
He did not respond as she threw open the door and fled deeper into the mansion. Pisces stood there, swaying, her words echoing in his mind. He looked at Cawe, and down at Bearig.
Pisces knelt, head in his hands. He had never thought of himself as a monster. He had never…
He felt himself sinking. Riqre was laughing, somewhere. 
Pisces stared at his shaking hands.
 
—-
 
When they brought Pisces to the banquet hall, Emir Riqre was not angry. He sighed as he stared down at Bearig. The man’s body was whole. He was healed.
Not changed.
“Ah, Pisces. How close you came! Nevermind. I can see you had someone change your mind. The little bird? Perhaps…no, it does not matter. We have time. Let us try again.”
He didn’t even care Pisces hadn’t ‘fixed’ Bearig. The man was dragged out, surprised that he lived. Yet Riqre had forgotten about him in a moment. He was studying Pisces, thinking, musing aloud.
“It is so tricky. Perhaps if I said ‘that Garuda dies’, you will…but what? Some things are too crude. Hm, hm…let me think.”
His gentle, musing voice horrified Pisces more than anything he had ever heard in his life. The [Necromancer] looked around. There was nothing to stop Riqre. Hrome had come to, but was pouring himself more wine in horror. Azam? Azam—Pisces couldn’t look at the Djinni. Not after what they’d done.
There was no salvation here. Not in this darkness, in this night. If the sun had risen overhead, and the roof of the keep broken, Pisces thought the light would have quailed and fled Riqre. If Erin were here? Could she stand against this?
If he could have done anything, Pisces would have eradicated this entire place. Destroyed it completely. That was all there was left. There was no salvation here. He began to reach for something, a weapon, a fork or butter knife, hands shaking, knowing he would never come back.
Then he saw Riqre look up, and beam. He clapped his hands and rose.
“I have it! It is always first steps, Pisces. First…steps. I will help you down the first few, so we shall try again. Bring me magical agents! Find my [Mages] and deliver unto us all their little powders and crystals, to write spell circles! And bring me one last thing.”
His [Slaves] rushed about and the others turned to look at Pisces. What now? The [Necromancer] waited, hand on the butter knife. He saw Riqre look down and laugh.
“Oh, Pisces. You will not object nor need that. Put it down; you cannot raise your hand against me, anyways, only my enemies or those I let you. I could give you company, threaten you to do many things. Kill that man as punishment. Inelegant. Foolish.”
He flicked his fingers, blew on the tips of his nails and brushed them against his lips.
“No, Pisces. I treasure you. So, my people. Bring me bones. If Pisces will not change the living…let us perform his great spell! I see it Pisces, and I know you must have never used it! Are you not curious? I am so curious. Perform the [Ritual of the Lord of Bones] for me! Let us make a glorious masterpiece!”
He threw up his arms and there was laughter and cheering. Pisces stood there. He looked at Riqre and dropped the knife dully.
Oh yes. He would try that. If there was a chance…his eyes were filled with the same fear as Azam’s. He would try, but how would Riqre twist him? How…would he fall? That was the Emir’s genius. Hope inverted itself around him. Pisces felt raw, terrible giggling in his throat. He began to laugh, as manically as Riqre.
Somewhere in his mind, he tripped and began to tumble.
 
—-
 
No salvation came. No hope.
It was the opposite of hope that appeared. It came in a sobbing woman, as tortured as Igheriz could make her. She had seen how much worse that could be.
Too much. Eloque had run, screaming with pain, her body a mimicry of a Stitchfolk’s. The Lizardwoman fled the laughing room in the chaos after Emir Riqre called for the [Necromancer] Pisces, and madness swept the crowd.
She fled again from Pisces as he sank into this hell. Eloque ran on, ignored by the [Guards] as they celebrated. Deeper. Deeper into the keep, running from what would follow and kill her one way or the other.
Down. Past wine cellars.
Down. Into the earth the Emir had dug into, deeper, into the cold and darkness.
Down. Where there was no light. Down so many steps she had to stop to breathe.
It was here Eloque found something. Found…but she had known. Known deep down, even when she did not want to admit it. Here, cut into the narrowing staircase, was Riqre’s promise to all those who did not love him. She looked around.
Jars. Each one large. Large enough to hold someone inside. But not to stand upright. They would be crammed in, like fish. Like…
There were hundreds of them. She had passed many, and many more lay there. Still. Silent.
There was air to breathe. They were fed. They were…Eloque backed away in horror. She drew breath to scream.
But even the air sucked away the words. Here was the end of everything. Riqre wanted Pisces for this, to take him even further into horror.
I have gone deep as I can, but I cannot go deeper, even when I dig… Eloque stared at each jar, and she felt it. The same thing Pisces did. What all the [Slaves], even the [Guards] and Igheriz and Hrome did.
The pure, unadulterated wrongness.
If you could, if you were free and had all the power in the world, what would you do to this place? This corrupted pit of the soul?
Her hands reached out, shaking beyond belief.
“Hello? Can you hear me?”
No response. The jars were silent. Perhaps everything here was dead. But Eloque felt…
“It must end.”
The Lizardwoman spoke. She looked at the thing Igheriz had made of her body. String amid her scales. She thought of all she had endured and all they had.
Months. Years. Decades, maybe, like this.
She had seen the [Carrion Eaters]. The [Slave] whispered.
“It must end. Either way—”
