She heard voices. Her pursuers, lazy with contempt and laughter, were following, tracking her. Eloque looked up. There was nowhere to hide; the staircase down was not finished. It could continue forever if time and effort allowed. There was only Eloque… and the jars.
Slowly, she reached out. The air seemed to grow tighter and she thought she heard a…sound.
“Will you free me? Free us all?”
She pressed her head against the side of the jar. The voices above were growing uncertain, and the footsteps faster. Eloque listened, again. She thought she heard a voice. So she rose and reached out to the jar, fighting with all her strength to push.
It was unnaturally heavy. She heard a shout.
“Down here! She has entered the storage space! Where—”
They came running now. Eloque heaved with all her might and she felt the jar move.
Someone charged down and grabbed her. She fought, screaming. But the [Guard] saw the jar teetering. He reached for it, swearing.
Too late. It toppled, bouncing heavily down the infinite stairs, the enchantment keeping it secure despite the impact. Eloque, the other [Guards], everyone stopped and listened.
Thump. Thump. Thump—
Crashing from stair to stair, going down. Down and down and down….
Until they heard the last thump, and then the [Guard] breathed out, shakily, laughing. He reached out, grabbing her—and then froze.
Crack.
Slowly, the [Guards] looked down the spiraling staircase. They heard a sound. A crack. Then more cracks. They slowly began to move backwards.
And Eloque laughed.
 
—-
 
In the banquet hall, Pisces stood in the center of a glowing hexagram. He stared at the bones, of failed [Slaves]. Riqre was leaning forwards.
“Now, let us make it better. A ritual demands a sacrifice. Bring the bird.”
Pisces turned. He felt the magic summoning something powerful. Yet his focus wavered.
“Cawe!”
She fought, shouting, then fell limp. Her head rose and she looked at Pisces. She mouthed the words.
“Do it. Let me kill them.”
Riqre was chortling, looking from Pisces to Cawe to the glowing circle and moving bones. Either way, he won. Either way…
No salvation came. No hope. Just the very consequences of what Riqre had made.
They came out of the cellars. Up from that staircase. Hundreds. Things forgotten by even the Emir. People—changed by their classes.
Horrors.
The first of them fell upon the [Guards] enjoying themselves, then upon the sentries, and servants who had given in. They made no distinction.
Had they once been female? Human? Stitchfolk? Garuda? There was no way of knowing. They looked…nothing…like what they had been.
Imagine living a day in a jar you could not move in. Could not stand up in or stretch in. Then imagine ten days.
A year.
A decade.
Madness would descend in the first week, the first month. Time lost all meaning. It was one of the worst tortures ever, and you would live until you broke.
Many did die. Some—lived. They lived and heard the whispers.
 
[Rank 1 Horror – Entombed One.]
[Rank 2 Horror – Sealed Secret.]
[Rank 2 Horror – Many in a Jar.]
[Rank 1 Horror – Screaming Soul.]
[Rank 3 Horror – …
 
Trapped in infinite horror, they began to change. They gained—conditions. Aspects. Skills of a different kind. They waited. Waited, and waited, unable to die, some of them. Some of them clinging onto a hatred that would not leave. A desire for vengeance. If ever there was a chance…
If they waited long enough, they might grow strong enough to leave. They pressed at the magic and insides of the jars. Almost. Almost—it would just take one earthquake, one chance.
One [Slave] who was like them.
Released, they came out of their prisons and brought vengeance. Death. As much pain as they could inflict before death.
Pisces saw one as he whirled. Emir Riqre was on his feet, annoyed at the interruption to his fun. Igheriz and Hrome turned. They saw…a hand…reach out around a door as the screaming in the corridors stopped.
A hand. The hand was normal. Pale from lack of light. Yet the fingers had grown, and grown, and stretched until they had no limits. No bone. Searching a tiny space for just a crack, just a hint of—
The face came next. The body. Pisces looked at a pair of huge eyes. Hair as long as the fingers, twined around a body pallid and naked.
Yet the woman had no mouth. No chest, no throat. That entire region was…gone. Connected only by a bit of flesh she dragged the rest of her body around by. As if she had screamed so much she had torn away everything that could do so.
She looked up, huge, wide eyes focusing. Emir Riqre breathed.
“The captives have gotten out.”
His [Guards] and servants looked up. The first of the horrors crawled forwards—into a ball of fire. Riqre had pointed a ring and unleashed a jet of white-hot flames.
The horror did not scream. It—she—could not. It began to burn, but it was reaching for Riqre.
“Guard the Emir!”
The horrified [Guards] rushed forwards, drawing blades, hacking at the nightmares. They hacked at the dozens of fingers, reaching and twining around them. It took them minutes to kill the thing, even on fire, even under attack from all sides.
Panting, the gore-drenched [Guards] looked up. Emir Riqre turned.
“Your servant has unleashed one of my captives! You fool!”
“Who? What…. Eloque…?”
Igheriz’s eyes widened as he looked around for his captive. Emir Riqre turned. He—hesitated. Then he smiled wide.
“Ah. Not one, was it? I always wondered if they were changing. But I couldn’t control them. Now I get to see.”
He began to chuckle, then laugh. His [Guards] looked towards the doorway. They saw eyes, figures moving as more screams echoed within the keep.
More were coming. Many more. Riqre turned, almost joyfully.
“There you are. Wait. Wait, just a moment.”
“We have to leave. Emir—”
The [Head Guard] began to panic. Even Tenir was unable to hide what was happening. But the Emir ignored him. The others shouted, overturned tables, and his servants flocked around Riqre, to defend him, Pisces realized. He was already looking for Igheriz. Cawe, Astotha, Hrome and their people—all were running.
But Riqre’s people were almost as mad as he was. They were setting up to fight; this was their place. The Emir ignored everyone as the second horror burst into the room and was cut down. He finally found what he wanted. He strode forwards, beaming, as from every corner and door, his captives returned to end their tormentors once and for all.
The last thing Pisces saw was the Emir striding forwards, holding up a stone.
“Tell me one more time: do you love me?”
His laughter followed Pisces as he ran. Emir Riqre’s keep exploded into death and violence. An end to it. No salvation. Just everything he had created.
 
—-
 
Pisces ran. He had picked up no blade; there was no time, only the need to escape. Igheriz and Hrome fought, with their [Guards].
“To the stables! The cells! Grab everything and run, run!”
The horrors were in the corridors, killing even the two caravans. They paid less attention to the others, but anyone in their path still died. Pisces saw a bundle of eyes moving, shuffling his way—until Igheriz stabbed it. The eyes fell—reformed again. It jumped at Igheriz and the man screamed, slashing uselessly; each eye was made of blood, and there were no organs or body to kill—
Azam smashed the horror into a wall. The Djinni was roaring, his indignities forgotten. Even now, he was bound to protect.
“Run! They will drown this place in death for what has been done! Run!”
But for him, none of them would have made it. The Djinni attracted the horrors, slowed them and secured their exit. Everyone ran.
Pisces got separated from the others as something pulled one of the [Guards] screaming into the darkness. He dodged left—and found himself alone.
Could he escape? He had to live first! Pisces ran, swearing, looking around, looking for—
He found her by one of the doors to the courtyards. Igheriz’s caravan and Hrome’s were fleeing, pursued by shapes, protected by Azam’s glowing form. Emir Riqre’s people were dying.
Screams. Pisces stopped, panting. He raised his hands to defend himself or fight past…
“Eloque?”
The stitched…Lizardwoman looked at him, eyes wide. She had stopped laughing, by now. She stood there, ignored by the very things she had helped unleash.
Her kin. As tortured as she was.
“It’s done. I’m done. I’ve freed us all.”
She lifted something in her hands. A dagger. Pisces saw her angle it at her chest, and then Eloque stopped to look at her arms. The sewn stitching between her scales—she looked at him.
“I can’t be free of him. You see?”
She gestured at the collar at her neck. Her claws trembled as she lifted the blade. She laughed.
“I can’t even do it myself. Leave me. I’ll stay here. They’ll free me.”
Eloque looked back. Pisces heard the last of the people within dying. He looked at her. Back.
“No. Don’t—”
It was a death more horrible than he could imagine. He could not imagine the crazed things would remember what she had done. Eloque shook her head.
“I will not live like this. Do you not see what he did to me? Look? He wanted to make me like him. I can’t even remove the thread. It’s in me.”
She gestured at her body. Pisces looked at her.
“Don’t. Not here. Don’t die. Surely someone is waiting for you? Even—”
Even me. They were waiting for him. Eloque looked at Pisces. She laughed, and it sounded like glass breaking.
“I don’t want them to see me! I don’t want to live like this! Don’t you know what he does? Leciaun? Every day is like that.”
“I know.”
But Pisces didn’t know. He couldn’t imagine. He didn’t even know if she was wrong. He looked past her.
“We can run. They don’t know where we are.”
“There’s nothing for me. What would I do, even if I was freed? Like this? I’m a monster. Where would I go?”
She shouted at him. The [Necromancer] heard a sound from behind. Even so, he looked at her. The Gold-rank adventurer, the [Necromancer], looked at Eloque.
“No. I know monsters. You aren’t one. Igheriz can’t make you into one. There is somewhere safe. There’s a future for people like us.”
He looked past her. Straight past her, into that past. Looking at the [Necromancer] who had been exiled from Wistram, who had lost his friends. Who trusted no one and nothing. Who lied and stole and…had been coming to this place down Az’kerash’s lonely road.
Until he met a young woman who had protected him despite it all. Who made fun of him, but who refused to let him die just for being a [Necromancer].
He reached out. He just had to bring Erin back. And then…
“Come on.”
The young man took her arm. Eloque made a sound, but followed him as they ran.
 
—-
 
For a moment, as they ran out of the keep, Pisces realized he was free. His hand went up to his neck and he remembered that the Emir had removed his collar!
He was free. Riqre was dead.
Pisces slowed. His eyes widened. Eloque, following him, saw the [Necromancer] slow. She wondered if he had changed his mind. Then…he blurred forwards. Her eyes widened as Pisces [Flash Stepped] forwards.
“My magic! My Skills!”
He shouted, and looked back at her. Eloque felt her heart leap. Then she heard a sound from behind her.
Something shrieked. A howl? A snarl? It was not either. A wail without end.
Their grace had ended. The horrors behind them had lost themselves to madness. If some had recognized Eloque…these ones flooded out after them. Shapes that twisted and grabbed and screamed.
Hundreds. Pisces’ blood chilled. He saw Eloque pumping her legs and arms, but she was too slow. They were exploding out of windows, coming out of doorways, through the cracks in stone itself.
Pisces found himself running through the courtyard, for the walls. Yet Riqre spited them even now; the walls were high and there were only a few entrances to his domain, which was defensible.
A trap from within.
Some had made it out. Fleeing [Slaves], and, Pisces thought, both caravans. They were racing away on horseback, [Slaves] and [Guards] alike. Igheriz had escaped.
Pisces and Eloque might not. A shape nearly forty feet long, flat, like a snake, stretched out in front of one of the gates, forming a web out of its body. Eyes looked at Pisces, filmy white, but focusing with malice. He pointed.
“[Fireball]!”
The spell exploded on the thing and…failed to blow it apart. Something screamed through many tiny mouths, but it refused to give. He recoiled and his mind presented him with a terrible fact.
They were people. They had been people.
They had levels. Or whatever they had gained in the darkness. Perhaps he could kill one…
There were far too many.
Something bounded towards Eloque, a mouth full of teeth replacing a body. She spun, dove. It missed and Pisces shouted.
“The other gate! Back, back!”
They ran as Pisces blasted spells around at the nearest shapes. Many were hunting for Riqre’s guards, but Pisces was drawing attention by his spellcasting. They began to converge on the last living forms.
Is this how they died? Pisces was shouting. Eloque…was using a Skill. He blinked as he saw her hop, and a monster slammed into the ground.
She was quick, yet his spells and Skills were only delaying the inevitable. Pisces slowed as he saw the gates. They were swarmed with things feasting on the dead. Savaging the captors’ mutilated parts, as if this was not enough.
They would never make it out of there alive. Pisces looked towards the walls, but didn’t know if he could get over. A wall of bones? There were too many things on the walls too. He looked at Eloque. Before he could say anything, she cried out. The Lizardwoman pointed. She spoke, a single word.
A name.
“Azam?”
Pisces’ head rose. Then he saw him.
A figure at the gates. Fighting his way forwards. 
Azam, the Djinni.
He was covered in wounds, glowing patches on his stone-body. He had been hurt, but he had cleared the horrors, kept them distracted while Igheriz and Hrome’s caravans fled.
Yet the faster horrors had bogged him down. He was fighting, roaring. Clearing bodies around him with mighty swipes of his fist. His hands glowed and lightning flashed.
It was not enough. The creatures leapt around him, striking, refusing to die. Their hatred kept them standing.
Azam refused to fall. He moved forwards, rocked back as something taller than him stretched up and dealt him a terrible blow. The Djinni stumbled, and raised a fist. He flinched as something flashed past his face.
“[Deathbolt].”
Pisces saw the giant shape flinch and recoil, sagging down. Azam whirled. He saw Eloque and Pisces.
“You?”
That was all he had time for. Eloque locked eyes with Azam. Her only companion in their long captivity under Igheriz. Pisces and Azam glanced at each other, both of whom had suffered under Riqre.
