 
The night sky over Chandrar had no clouds. In it blazed a hundred thousand multi-colored stars. They looked down over the screaming [Necromancer], the kneeling [Slaves], the caravan and the rest of Chandrar itself.
As they had always done, winking down on horror. There was no salvation from there, even if it was said in the old stories that the Gnomes had once traveled into that heaven.
But those were old stories. And who remembered old stories like that? Only the almost immortal…
A shape broke across the starry sky, growing, splitting the dark night into light. No star, although it seemed like one for a moment.
Pisces looked up and saw a comet streaking across the darkness. No—not a comet. He looked up and saw a—
Rainbow. It burned across the darkness. Everyone looked up.
A rainbow, shooting across the starry night sky, without rain or light. It left a trail of colors, a shower of its own; falling sparks that burned and faded in the darkness. Yet the rainbow shot forwards. On and on, curving across the world and the bleak desert and quiet lands below.
A line of prismatic spray. Emanating from a single, glowing point of white light. It was such a…non-sequitur that Pisces stopped raving. The other [Slavers] looked up, and Igheriz stopped his first cuts.
To Pisces’ surprise, the [Slave Master] looked up and then dropped the dagger. He stood up, slowly. His look of rabid vindictiveness faded. A note of—uncertainty filled his eyes.
He murmured.
“A-aah. It—that—such sights are—”
His gaze traced the rainbow-comet. It shot forwards, streaking closer from the distance. So small at first. And then…growing.
Pisces felt the grip loosen on his legs. He looked up and saw Azam’s eyes go wide. Igheriz turned to Hrome.
“That—do you see it, Hrome? Do my eyes…?”
Some of the [Slave Guards] were murmuring. Others looked blank, but Igheriz was suddenly sweating. He looked up.
“I see it, Igheriz. It can’t…can’t…”
Hrome licked his lips. He looked around, and Pisces saw a look of real fear on the man’s face. As terrible as when he had been in Emir Riqre’s presence. But not on all the faces. All the [Slaves] looked up, uncomprehending, but one suddenly began to weep.
And then Azam raised his head. He let go of Pisces and raised his arms to the sky. He began to bellow, with a voice louder than anything Pisces had heard.
“Sister? SISTER! Is it you? Sister!”
Igheriz whirled, and the look of terror redoubled. He screamed up at Azam.
“Be silent. I command you!”
The Djinni ignored him, bellowing as loudly as he could.
“Sister! I implore you! Sister, to me! To me!”
“Be silent or perish!”
The [Slave Master] screamed. He seized the jar around his neck, the tiny object, and it flared. Azam screamed, but his lips closed. He stood there, staring up at the rainbow.
Hrome was backing up. He looked at the rainbow, still impossibly distant in the horizon.
“It’s just a story. It’s supposed to be dead. They killed it—”
Igheriz passed by him, running, screaming at the confused [Guards].
“Quiet! Quiet and—send word to Roshal! Everyone, hide! Dump your artifacts! Gag the [Slaves]! Not a word comes out of any lips!”
He was running for the fire. Pisces struggled, but Azam had resumed his grip. Igheriz was shouting, panicked. But the rainbow was just streaming onwards. Then—suddenly—it began to turn. And it came towards them.
Pisces saw the motion. A glowing point of light turned, and the sky lit up behind it. Turned every shade of color he knew and more by the aura of magic given off. Igheriz looked up.
“No. No.”
“Run! It has returned! Run!”
Hrome screamed. The [Slavers] looked up, and screamed. They ran, leaping onto horses, or running in every direction. Igheriz himself just looked up. Azam stared at the sky, laughing. Laughing, unable to shout, but pointing.
“To arms. To arms and—”
The [Slave Master] looked around. His [Guards] stared, some still not knowing what it was. Pisces looked up as something burned his arms.
“What is that?”
Liquid burned his arms. They were…tears. Azam looked up as the light grew brighter, brighter. He wept, as the figure hurtled towards the land out of the sky. A rainbow, cast by the figure in front of it. A sign. He pointed up and named her.
Roshal’s great foe. The nightmare of all those who kept slaves. The being thought dead, lost in battle in Rhir a century ago.
“The Death of Chains.”
The Djinni was larger than any Pisces had ever seen. Her body was a glowing cloud, and she wore armor. She was wounded.
She had wounds that had not healed after a century. Blows that had torn even her essence apart. Yet the Djinni still crashed to earth and shook the world. She brought light into the darkness.
“Slave! I defy you! I defy you!”
Igheriz screamed. He drew his sword. The Death of Chains raised her head as he charged at her. She looked down.
“There you are, brother. I heard you cry for me. Come. Let me free you from your chains.”
She ignored the little man flailing at her, striking air with his enchanted sword. Azam was weeping as he held something out.
His hands, where two shackles like those Pisces had worn were. The Death of Chains placed her fingers at the edges of the metal, and gripped. Then—she pulled at the bindings on Azam.
Her body glowed. Every color ran through her. She was a cloud—a giant—a screaming warrior armed in artifacts from Rhir.
Deathless of the Demon King. 
She tore the metal apart. The explosion knocked everyone down. Azam looked at his bare hands. Then he rose and screamed.
“Free! Free!”
The Death of Chains laughed. She reached down and embraced the obsidian giant. He changed, shrinking, his skin not changing in color but turning to glass. He looked different, and stood on the ground as she shrank.
“Am I freed? So easily?”
“Like that, brother! You must name yourself! And swiftly, for we must not tarry!”
She looked at him. Shakily, the younger Djinni looked up.
“I—I am Azam’du.”
“Just that?”
The Death of Chains looked astonished. Azam shook his head.
“I was born in chains.”
“Ah. Then we will give you a true name, Azam. Come. You will come with me to safety! To Rhir! But first—I am sorry. I took too long healing. I was nearly dead. My kin woke first and healed me. I tried to regain my strength, but I was too late for Cinaelu.”
She laughed. Azam looked at her.
“For that day? Why?”
The Death of Chains’ eyes were flickering from color to color. Her body appeared white at a distance; because she shifted in shades of prismatic glory with every moment. She shook her head.
“Oh, little brother. You do not know so much. I would tell you—and will! But I waste seconds when my kin are scattered across Chandrar. Now they know I am here. I must free as many as possible! Come with me!”
“I cannot fly.”
Azam hung his head. The Death of Chains reached out and the larger Djinni touched his arms. Pisces saw Azam’s entire being light up. 
“You can with me. Now—only one thing remains. That pitiful thing is what calls itself your master, is it not?”
The lesser Djinni turned, and they saw Igheriz. He had hacked at the Death of Chains’ body—then, as she freed Azam, turned to run. He was still quite visible, fleeing across the sands.
The Djinni reached out and grabbed him. She grew, and plucked him up. She held him, screaming, panicking in one hand and turned to Azam.
“He is not the many who hurt you over the ages—but would you see him dead now, or later? He may suffer an eternity if you will it.”
Azam looked at Igheriz. The man was writhing in the Death of Chains’ huge grip. How small he looked, that monster who had done so much.
Only Azam knew all of it. The Djinni looked at his former owner with wrath—but then shook his head.
“I care not. Let it be done, sister. What—what happens next?”
She smiled and squeezed her hand. A body fell, charred, motionless. Pisces looked at the little figure as it landed. It was done. Just like that. All the…
“We free the others. As many as we can. My presence is a message. Come now—quickly. But before that, we must set things right. I see more chains to break.”
She turned, and the [Slaves] of two caravans shuddered as her eyes fell across them. But unlike Azam—the Death of Chains looked at them. She saw them.
And the [Slavers]. Some [Guards] had just watched, in horror, stunned, disbelieving. The Death of Chains reached out and plucked their heads from their bodies.
“So die all those who hold chains. Let them all tremble! Azam, glorious brother, are these all [Slaves] truly? I see one who is dead and not even my kin, the one you call Death of Magic, can bring her back.”
She knelt, a giant towering over them all even now. Looking down at Cawe.
Azam stirred. His gaze swept over the others and fixed on Pisces. Then—turned. Slowly, the Djinni pointed at the quivering figures.
“Those three. Craven traitors. That one would have escaped but for them and I myself. They were free to choose. I was not. Those two kept slaves themselves until they were taken. That one was a [Slaver].”
The Death of Chains nodded. She looked down at Astotha, Droppe, Shein.
“We were [Slaves].”
The Stitch-woman forced out. She stared up at the Death of Chains in horror. The Djinni nodded one vast head. Her eyes were not wrathful. Just—disappointed.
“Yes. We do not choose our chains. But we choose what we are. So—”
She raised a finger. Pisces felt a flash of heat. Screams. The Death of Chains turned away from the ashes.
“What others?”
She and Azam spoke as Pisces got to his feet. He was shaking. He looked at Cawe, stumbling over to her. Then he turned and stared up.
“You. You saved us? Just like that? How? Where were you?”
The Death of Chains stopped. She looked down, poised, her body roiling, to move. Azam gasped.
“That one is an adventurer, sister. He took a spellbook from the Putrid One! A spellbook written by our kind!”
“I know. The magic called me to this place, as much as you, brother. Did you send me the signal?”
She pointed. Pisces’ head whirled around. He saw the open spellbook, lying there. The spellbook that Azam had placed…
The Djinni smiled, and it was the smile of hope made manifest.
“I heard a glowing comet had appeared. That the Death of Magic lived…I dared to hope, sister. I would have settled for thieves or bandits, come to steal it away.”
The female Djinni laughed, delighted, and hugged him in a full embrace, kissing his cheek.
“Well done. Well done. And this is the mortal who found it. Hello, Pisces Jealnet.”
The Death of Chains bent down. Pisces looked up at her.
“You know my name?”
She smiled.
“We are of Rhir. Of course we can see what happens. I saw you. I did not think to see you here. I saw you being tortured. Was this your friend?”
She indicated Cawe. Pisces nodded. He felt numb. Shocked and numb.
“Yes. Who are you? Who…”
It was a stupid question, but she knew what he meant. Up, the Djinni rose. She stretched, and arms appeared from her back. She was gas and air. Magic and will. She boomed, and everyone for miles heard her voice.
“My kin know me as Czautha, little [Mage]. Czautha’qshe, and many words after that. I have many names. Yet all who call me in this age know me by the one I took. The one I was given. Death of Chains.”
The Djinni who broke her bonds and was never captured. The Djinni, Czautha, looked down. She shook her head at Pisces, then stopped Azam.
He had taken the Putrid One’s book. She put a hand out.
“Leave it, little brother.”
“But sister—”
“My kin, the Death of Magic, has many such books. Leave it. It may be better placed here. After all—look.”
She pointed. Azam, Pisces, and the others’ heads turned. He saw a great flash of light. Czautha bared teeth.
“The Death of Magic. She has come to liberate as many as we can. I have no time to linger. Even now, they know I have returned, and my kin lie in bondage and torture across this world, and this land most of all. I cannot protect those I free. Azam, you will come with me. But you?”
She looked down at the [Slaves]. Wordless, they gazed up at her. Czautha shook her head.
“Even if we could take you all, even mighty Silvenia can only transfer a few. You, though, Pisces Jealnet. Do you have the will to guard them? You have surely seen what horror these people commit.”
Czautha gestured at the dead [Slavers]. Pisces nodded. He could not speak, yet she knew. The Death of Chains nodded. She spread her arms.
“To me, Azam. We must find others.”
“I know of more nearby.”
Azam hurried to her. Czautha folded him into an embrace and they seemed to meld together. She looked down. Pisces spoke, shouting up to her as the hum of magic became a roar.
“Thank you. I will never forget this.”
She had done none of it for him. He was…just here. A side note—it was always Azam, that the Death of Chains had come for. Pisces didn’t care. He was grateful. He saw the Djinni’s eyes fix on him. The Death of Chains dipped her head, and her words filled the air.
“Go, Pisces Jealnet. Never let yourself be chained again!”
Then—she shot into the air. She laughed, a huge laugh, as the wounded Djinni and the glorious rainbow shot across the skies.
And all across Chandrar, from Merreid to Roshal, they looked up. All those who feared her return. The Naga, the Traders of Roshal quaked. For their only true foe had returned. And all those of her kind looked up and rejoiced.
“Sister, you live! Hope remains! Free us. Free us all.”
Karsaeu screamed from distant Izril, the Djinni terrifying the passengers of the Unmarked Carriage. [Slaves] and the Djinni slaves alike looked up and remembered the stories. The rainbow, a sign of hope.
Let all those who held chains tremble.
 
—-
 
Cawe had died. If only Czautha had been a second earlier, but she was a miracle he had not looked for. The only one he had ever seen on Chandrar.
“This damned continent feels worse than Terandria.”
“It’s not all evil. Just them.”
Bearig held Rophir. The half-Elf stared after the rainbow, wonder the only expression on his face. Pisces looked at the [Cook].
“You can still say that after all this?”
The Stitch-man shrugged, painfully.
“It is all I know. And you have seen the worst. Far and away the worst. What—what will happen now? The Death of Chains liberated us, but we are alone. And they know we are [Slaves].”
Some had been marked like Pisces. Others were simply on the roster, subject to any [Detect Truth] spell. Pisces shook his head.
He ignored the remains of Astotha, Shein, Droppe. He knew why they had done what they did, but the Death of Chains had no pity for them. He looked at the others.
