One last attempt. Pisces had been warned. Everyone told him it. Even if Igheriz ‘liked’ him, he would carry out his threats. Technically it was two more attempts, but Pisces really didn’t want to suffer the consequences of the third strike.
He lay in the wagon for nearly a day afterwards, until Igheriz made him walk with the others. Pisces stumbled, head-down, looking all but defeated. Yet this time—the [Guards] watched him like a hawk.
They were not fooled. And Tenir’s death, reviled though the madman had been or not, had shaken them. They never took their eyes off Pisces.
He was even separated from his ‘friends’, the other [Slaves] who had made his acquaintance. Pisces was placed among strangers after the first day, on Igheriz’s orders.
Hrome was displeased by Pisces’ torture. He still liked Pisces, and remonstrated with Igheriz in private, but he could not deny that losing Pisces was to lose all, after this fraught trip. So he kept vigilant too.
They had slowed after Riqre, losing time rather than gaining it. They were passing far across the south, but the next city would change things.
“I will not wait, and risk all again. I will hire a flying carpet, dangerous though it might be, or a Djinni, or some means to transport Pisces to Roshal. Azam will escort him, and I.”
Hrome knew, then, that Pisces’ time was limited. He felt sorry for the [Necromancer], but he would not try Igheriz’s wrath. Of course, no less than three people had offered, but Hrome had no intentions of trying to betray Igheriz. The other [Slave Master] was higher-level, and while a surprise was advantageous—
No one could kill Azam.
 
—-
 
Two days away from the city of Vishront, Azam himself spoke to Pisces.
The Djinni walked besides the [Necromancer]’s wagon. Pisces had collapsed. Suspicious that he was faking it, even though Astotha assured him Pisces was still weak, Igheriz had him watched by Azam and chained down.
“[Necromancer]. Speak to me.”
Pisces jerked back to wakefulness from a dream he was back in the inn. His scars burned. He had heard Eloque weeping.
He woke to his hell, and the Djinni’s surprisingly high voice for his size. But then—Azam took the form of the obsidian half-Giant glowing with magma. Pisces looked up.
“You—you want to converse, Azam?”
Once, before, he might have called Azam ‘mighty Azam’ to play to his ego, or made some snide comment. Pisces did not. He did not sniff or speak with eloquence or diction proving his lexicon of words.
He was tired. Pisces had reached his limit long ago, in Riqre’s keep. He wanted to be free.
How did someone live, a lifetime, a century, as long as Azam, like this? Forced to face masters as bad as Igheriz, or even Riqre? He looked up and saw the glowing eyes.
Uncaring. Azam had watched as they tortured Pisces. Azam had seen Riqre’s deprivations, and only been moved when they came to him.
He looked down at Pisces with the same gaze. Neither hostile nor sympathetic. Not even uncaring; he didn’t think of Pisces at all. Like dust. Their brief moment of survival at Riqre’s keep seemed long ago and forgotten; that had been a uniting nightmare. With Igheriz’s predictable evil, he had lost his interest.
Yet he still spoke.
“Tell me of the book, the spell tome, [Necromancer]. Did it come from the Putrid One’s very library, his personal possessions?”
Pisces looked up. Of all the questions…he tried to laugh, and felt a catch at his voice as he chuckled.
“You want to ask me about the book? Nothing of me, nothing of you?”
The Djinni strode along, speaking quietly.
“What purpose would those questions serve?”
“Getting to know each other, perhaps. One [Slave] to another?”
The Djinni’s pace slowed just a beat, and he looked down at Pisces with what might have been amusement.
“You compare yourself to me? The arrogance—”
“—of mortals? Friend Azam, I had hoped for a measure of ipseity from you, but to hear you utter the very stereotype of the immortal is somewhat disappointing.”
Pisces saw the expression on the Djinni’s face and chuckled. Well, perhaps he had a bit of vocabulary left for someone who might appreciate it.
Azam did not smile twice, but he did nod slowly.
“Clever, [Mage]. I have met many of your kind. Perhaps we could talk. What then?”
“We would get to know each other?”
“To what end? You and I will not know each other long, [Necromancer]. I will live far longer than you. I will meet more [Necromancers], more [Mages]. Countless more slaves. I barely remember all my kin I have met, and I strive to do that. We forget each other, and only remember the greatest of our kind…”
He paused, and went on, murmuring as he stared past Pisces.
“I will meet a hundred thousand, a hundred hundred hundred hundred thousand of you…I do not care to know your name. So. Tell me of what lingers in my mind. The spellbook, or we shall not converse.”
Pisces realized that was why Azam called him [Necromancer]. The Djinni saw his class. He whispered.
“Pisces. Pisces Jealnet.”
Azam paused. He looked at Pisces. Shook his head.
“It does not linger. I cannot make it. Truly. Do not wish for fleeting immortality, [Necromancer]. I do not even remember his name, save that he controls me. That is why that…poison…why that Emir had to die. What could he take? He alone of them all had to die.”
He flexed his hands. Pisces looked at him and remembered Riqre’s method of torturing Djinni.
“So he could take the few things which are immemorial to you.”
Azam nodded, once. His eyes turned to Pisces.
“It was well they slaughtered him. He found a way to hurt me when no torture or indignity could before. I do not know what he took.”
His fury was like molten rock beneath the skin; Pisces saw veins of it lacing across Azam’s chest and face until it vanished. Then the Djinni was silent.
“What do you fear to lose? Your memories of your kin? Happy moments?”
Pisces was purely curious. Azam hesitated, and his head swung north a moment.
“Good or bad. Ill or well. Do you not fear to lose a part of yourself, no matter what it is? Yes, though. Most importantly, [Necromancer], I fear to lose…hope. Even we Djinni hope. I feared I would have forgotten why I hoped. Then I truly would have been a slave.”
He stared into the sky, his eyes bleak. Pisces wondered what Azam could hope for. Perhaps it was only a dream. Riqre had threatened to take even that away.
Then Azam shook himself.
“Enough of this. My master lives, and I may be harmed. Talk less of that one, or him. Answer my questions.”
He nodded at Igheriz. Pisces sighed.
“Very well. The spellbook. Why do you ask? Do you see something I do not?”
The Djinni nodded.
“Power. The blaze of it allowed me to find you, as much as the spell that carried you here. For a moment, I beheld its full power as the teleportation spell wore off. But now it is cloaked.”
He nodded to Igheriz, who had secured the book to his saddle, not trusting it to the bag of holding. Wisely; it might be easy to run off with here, but woe to anyone who touched it with bare hands. And the bag of holding might not be able to hold such a relic. Azam hesitated.
“It was so powerful. Like a…beacon. I could see it blaze with power from far away. Had we not found you, someone else would have.”
Pisces could believe that. Perhaps there was a way to mute the power; yet if not leashed, no doubt it was an artifact beyond belief. He wondered what Azam had seen.
“Powerful death magic?”
“Powerful magic. Did you see the Putrid One?”
“Yes. I saw him die. He was alive—but we woke him. He died. I took the spellbook from his possessions. Right there, on the table. It may be his.”
Pisces had not told anyone that. Azam looked at him.
“I think it is. So that is the Putrid One’s relic. Do you know, I knew him as he lived. I was…born…shortly after him. Though it took many, many years before he grew to power.”
“You knew his legend?”
Azam nodded. Pisces looked up at him.
“Tell me?”
The Djinni hesitated. The Aethertravel spirit bent down. He searched for words, and then spoke.
“He grew to power. He grew to discontent amongst his people. He fought them and killed them. Then other peoples. In time, the world quaked at his name. Then they beat him back. They hounded him and slew him in that place and buried his name.”
He met Pisces’ gaze. The [Necromancer] tried to stir himself, chains or not.
“That tells me nothing!”
“That tells you everything. He was like many. I remembered only one fact about him that I ever cared to know.”
“What?”
Azam leaned down, down, and whispered to Pisces.
“The Putrid One is but a name. One [Necromancer]. He lived and died. That spellbook? He stole it from one of us.”
Then Azam rose and walked onwards. He ignored Pisces’ every question. For that was all Azam wanted to know.
Two more days remained until the city, and Pisces learned a day away that a carpet was prepared for him. He laughed, too tired for words.
 
—-
 
All watched Pisces the next day. Such that Azam wouldn’t have been able to talk, even if he was so inclined. He strode ahead, staring at the sky, head turned as it always was, when not swivelling for threats.
The other [Slaves] were quiet. Eloque had a blank look in her eyes. She watched the [Guards] and Igheriz mock Pisces, but they were too careful. The [Necromancer] was silent…if he had a plan or was able to do something…
No. He shifted once and they were on him, checking to make sure if he was hiding something. Eloque closed her eyes. She saw the other [Slaves] had returned to their lot. Cawe and Bearig walked together, but Cawe didn’t snap at the [Cook] as usual. He was still himself.
Pisces had healed his bones, and the [Cook] looked at Pisces with sadness. Cawe…she pretended everything was alright. Even joked with the guards. She went as far as to nudge one with an elbow when he was complaining about being shorthanded.
“Better than this hand, eh? Or do you want Pisces to fix you up before he goes?”
She flexed her digited talons. He blinked, laughed, then cuffed her, but gently. She staggered past him as he shook his head.
“Damn bird. Don’t talk to me about that. That was a bad dream, and I won’t think of it again…”
“Watch the merchandise!”
Igheriz dragged Cawe up, but eyed her talons. He nodded at them, brusquely.
“We will see…just how that sells. If not, I will put in a word. Do not speak of Riqre in Roshal. Ever.”
Cawe lost her humor and ducked her head. Eloque glared at Cawe, flattering and even, it seemed, flirting with the guards. What was wrong with her?
Despair took many forms. Rophir had been saved, and Bearig tried to feed him as they sat in the evening.
“Smile, Rophir. Eat a bite? Please? The darkness lifts. I even swore I saw a beautiful shooting star last night to the northwest. Many colors it was. You would have smiled if you did not sleep.”
Azam frowned at the boy and Bearig. Igheriz avoided staring at Bearig too, but kicked the [Cook] in the back as he passed. He did not seem to know if taking Rophir was wise…but the boy had lived and Bearig had carried him without complaint. Igheriz would not kill a child.
Perhaps he should have. Eloque saw Rophir take a bite to shut Bearig up at last. He curled up, eyes blank. Even when he had been told Emir Riqre was dead, he had not smiled. That was the way of such men.
Real monsters like Riqre were not overcome or vanquished by heroes. They just died. Eloque let time pass.
One day remained. Then…one night. They would reach the city in the morning. And every eye was on Pisces and he could do nothing. Igheriz was no fool. That last night, he chained Pisces to six stakes in the ground, each with a different key in the lock.
 
—-
 
Pisces lay, feeling the chains on the blanket. He was awake. In the morning, they would ride for the city and he would be lost.
He had no illusions; maybe he could jump off the carpet and crash it, but Azam would be there and the Djinni…no.
Roshal. Maybe it would be better than this road with Igheriz. The Naga was said to be a genius who appreciated value. Perhaps….
Pisces might have been able to believe that before meeting Emir Riqre. He might not have tried to escape and bided his time, but the Emir had shown him just how dark a [Slave]’s fate was. How they could change you against your will. He had said the Naga knew of such things.
No. Pisces saw the other [Slaves] looking at him. They talked, staying up, Igheriz allowed them that. The tent was guarded, of course, but Pisces was helpless. He couldn’t unlock the collar with a bit of metal even if he had that; they were magical keys.
And everyone had been watching Pisces so damn hard. He’d gotten the keys off Tenir, but overplayed his hand. The useless damned keys.
“I hope it will be better for you, Pisces. The Naga can mend your wounds. Who knows? No story really says what it is like in his abode, but perhaps it will be better. He does not need to collar his [Slaves].”
Astotha murmured as she applied some of the healing potion she was allowed. Pisces still ached.
“But neither did Riqre. I will not hope for you, Pisces. I have forgotten how. I will remember you, though. And speak your name to all Dullahans I meet.”
“Thank you, Qshom.”
Pisces met with his companions amid the tent. Others murmured goodbyes. It was Shein he looked to next, and Droppe. Droppe spoke.
“I have learned many secrets the last few days. All of them dangerous. I hope you can find your friends, Pisces. I heard a rumor Igheriz knew the locations of one—the Ksmvr. Not where. Don’t look at me. I thought it was better you not know. You’ll learn when you reach Roshal.”
The Lizardman [Broker] shuffled back. Shein remained.
“After seeing those things in Riqre’s keep—was it as bad as the Village of the Dead?”
Pisces thought.
“Worse. The Village were simply undead.”
Shein nodded.
“No wonder I never made it to Silver, let alone Gold. I’ll remember you too and tell stories.”
“Thank you.”
What else was the young man to say? Shout his bitterness? His despair? No…he waited. Cawe held back but Merr who spoke.
“Thanks for killing that bastard.”
Pisces nodded at her. The [Bandit Lady] looked as tired as he was. Eloque was even present, sitting alone. They would all say goodbye, and Igheriz had let her join him on this night alone.
You see how I still honor you?
“You did your best. I think you were wrong. Better to end it than live like this. Is this place you know so beautiful?”
She murmured, watching him closely. Pisces murmured. Bearig and Cawe were last.
“It’s hardly that. It can be annoying. Dangerous.”
“Then it hardly sounds better at all!”
She laughed. Pisces just shook his head. He looked at an image in his head.
