“Better than the fleshshapers of A’ctelios! They can only mend flesh. Bravo, Pisces! Bravo, dear boy! I want you more now!”
Even Igheriz smiled. Pisces had not levelled, but the [Necromancer] knew that was only because he was Level 38. If he had done this ten levels ago? He was sure he would have levelled in the night.
“Excellent work, Emir Riqre. Your talents are undersung and I shall sing them loud when we go to Roshal.”
“My estates first, Igheriz. My estates first.”
Igheriz hesitated, and glanced at the [Carrion Eaters]. The mood of the caravan turned bleak once more. Yet Riqre beamed. He pointed at Pisces.
“So what about it, Igheriz? You see my point?”
“Of course, Riqre.”
“Good. Then we will do it again tonight. Perhaps a [Guard] who wants to be taller? Or just a [Slave] you want to change a bit. After all…a few of mine would like to be taller, or more compact. A chin shaped so.”
Igheriz looked sidelong. Pisces’ head rose. Riqre met his gaze as he gestured to [Slaves] who had the slightest imperfections as he saw it. An inch too short. A nose broken once. He looked at Pisces.
“Pisces can help us create perfection. He surely cannot refuse that, can he?”
Pisces stood there and felt the jaws of a trap closing. If he refused, Riqre would punish someone. If he accepted…
It was just [Necromancy]. Put to good use. This was not evil. This was…was…
This was what Az’kerash and he had dreamed of.
That was what was so terrifying.
 
—-
 
Thereafter, Pisces was favored once more. Not for his fame, but for Riqre’s interest. Ironically enough, for his value not as a celebrity, but his powers with bones.
He would trudge along with the others for an hour before someone unhooked him, then led him to a wagon where he would sit in shade, or work when they stopped. Every night Riqre would demand the same thing.
“Improve him, Pisces.”
“Make her a tiny bit…more appealing. I think her chin is a bit jutting, don’t you agree?”
First it was [Slaves]. Then he came with a [Guard].
“This man has weak bones. Can you fix him?”
Pisces had never, ever imagined his class put to this use. It wasn’t easy; the living were not the undead, and Pisces was still an expert in death. He made mistakes. He could undo them, mostly, but Riqre would accept any accidental flaw.
“One gambles, Igheriz, and I shall accept failure for perfection. This one will be sold.”
A [Slave] screamed and fell to her knees, weeping. Pisces looked at the slightly bowed arm which he’d been unable to correct; some kind of fragility of the bone, and he didn’t know how to fix it. Riqre just patted her on the head, and turned away as [Guards] dragged her off.
The worst part was that Pisces was learning. Necromancy was a forgiving art. You could replace faulty construction with magic, so that joints didn’t have to rotate entirely properly; an undead could be less than stable. Naturally, an expert like Az’kerash had perfect symmetry and function, and he had castigated Pisces in their brief lessons, although Pisces was good.
On the living, he had to be perfect. It got so that he was thinking of new improvements as he looked about. Riqre still made the same threat.
Each night, Pisces had to improve a fellow [Slave]. Improve in such a way it was a clear and telling upgrade, or Riqre would undo all of Pisces’ work and heal the broken bones wrong.
The first night it was Shein. The second?
 
—-
 
Cawe didn’t flinch, but stared down at her broken hands. Talons, rather. Her fragile wing-arms and the joints in her hands had broken swiftly.
She hadn’t said a word. She just—grinned at Pisces.
“What am I getting, fabulous Pisces? Extra long talons? Poison sacs? I’m a [Pickpocket]. I need nimble fingers, not…”
She cut off, swaying. It had to hurt, as bone rearranged in flesh. Pisces spoke, trying to alternatively meet her eyes and…not.
“Nimble fingers, Cawe. I am articulating her joints, Emir Riqre. So she has more mobility.”
“Like Human fingers! Excellent! Can she bend them backwards?”
“Would you like me to?”
Pisces regretted the question almost instantly. Riqre took him at face value.
“Yes. Try that.”
Cawe stared at Pisces as the [Necromancer] hesitated. She whispered.
“Pisces, let me give you a piece of advice. I’m no [Necromancer], but I think I have an idea how to make this work better.”
He glanced up.
“Yes?”
“Stop talking.”
It was still done in a trice. Cawe blinked as she opened and closed her clawed hands. Garuda had grasping talons, reminiscent of a bird’s, but with thumb-claws, and four fingers. They were still noticeably more clumsy than a Human’s hands because their joints lacked the same number of articulation points.
Now she had three instead of two on her fingers. She stared uneasily at first at her hands, then shrugged.
“I liked my old hands better.”
“Ah, but perhaps this is an improvement? This…a lesser man would think it small, but I know how many bones are in the hand. Well done, Pisces.”
Riqre beamed, pleased, and Pisces relaxed. So did Cawe, who ducked her head and avoided any flippant comments around her. Pisces…saw Riqre lose interest in Cawe at once, noting her cracked beak and less-than-perfect plumage. He turned to Pisces.
“Tomorrow will be a harder test. Think of…spines next.”
“No.”
Pisces said it quickly. Riqre’s brows crossed.
“Ah, Pisces. Afraid of a challenge?”
“I do not have the skill to fix a spine, Riqre. Igheriz would…lose any [Slave], no matter how hard I worked. That is not a lie.”
Riqre drummed his fingers on his side.
“It isn’t, is it? What a pity. I would still love for you to learn…”
“Ah, let us work Pisces up to it, Riqre! I grant you indulgence, but it does not do for a [Caravan Master] to lose too much of his stock, even if they are his [Slaves], yes?”
Igheriz waved a wine cup from where he was sitting and indulgently watching. He had no desire to see bones moving under skin up close, but he seemed…relaxed. Almost reassured. This was clearly managing slaves as he preferred it. He still avoided ever looking in the direction of the covered wagons where the jars and [Carrion Eaters] lay, but it amazed Pisces how fast he and Hrome had compartmentalized this.
The good mood lasted all of eight more seconds before Riqre turned.
“Then, Igheriz. Shall we see to your greatest servant? Azam?”
The merriment fell silent. Igheriz looked up uneasily.
From where he stood sentry, Azam stirred.
“I…I do not think it wise to interfere with Djinni overmuch, Emir Riqre. My orders to Azam are carefully constructed. Even so, a wise owner takes few chances, is that not so?”
Igheriz licked his lips, turning a shade paler. Riqre smiled.
“What I have will not interfere with any precautions you took in binding Azam, Igheriz. It is simple, though. Look at your Djinni. Mighty Azam, will you not speak to me?”
Azam returned the stare. Silent. His eyes glowed and his body was unmoving.
“Azam respond—”
Igheriz halted as the Emir lifted a hand. Riqre turned to Igheriz.
“Ah, but you would have to command him. Your Azam is capable, intelligent, and bound well, but he is as reluctant as Pisces, Igheriz. A good Djinni would be making me laugh! Anticipating. You force him to do everything and he spitefully ignores all orders he can, is that not so?”
The Stitch-man glanced at Azam.
“…So do all Djinni behave, Riqre.”
“All Djinni do, except for the rarest, the best. Yet you can change them. It is hard to win loyalty, so I do not keep them…but there are still ways to persuade them. Look at him. He thinks he will outlive you, and I, and all here. He endures. Like the very stone he takes into his being.”
Emir Riqre skipped forwards. He walked around Azam, looking up fearlessly, circling him like a small dog would a larger animal.
Azam’s head began to turn, then he stopped. He ignored Riqre thoroughly. The Emir reached out and patted his arm. Then he reached down, between Azam’s legs.
The Djinni started. For a second his eyes flashed and he almost moved. Pisces stared as Azam froze again.
“You see. He does react. He did not like that.”
Igheriz watched Riqre, like someone watching an insane man dancing with a leg over a cliff, or poking a lion with his face in front of the bars of a cage.
“Riqre…you are fearless.”
Hrome breathed. Riqre turned.
“You are too cautious, Hrome. I know Djinni bindings. Azam will do nothing unless I offer him threat. Igheriz could…take more liberties. Yet we will talk of that later! In truth, very little of it would provoke Azam. He endures. See?”
He poked Azam’s side, and the Djinni was unmoving. Staring straight ahead. Pisces wondered what Azam was thinking. If it was anything like what Pisces would have thought, Riqre would have been dead if Azam could lift but a finger.
“Immortal but for if they are slain. Healing all but the greatest wounds. I could torture him as would make a mortal [Slave] shriek, and it would pass him by. He can forget it. I can suffer him indignities and he will mock me by waiting until my bones are dust. Yet. I do know you, Azam. I can leave a mark.”
The Djinni shivered. He didn’t look at Riqre, but his eyes flickered. Now, the Emir’s head turned and the madness was fully back in his eyes.
“Do you want to know how to humble Djinni, Igheriz? I will teach you. They will remember your name, and mine, for the rest of their days. He will be a better servant as well. Or…well. Let me show you.”
Riqre clapped his hands, and someone brought forth a decorated pot. At first, all shuddered, thinking of the jars. Yet it was not that which the Emir revealed. He showed the pot first to Igheriz, then brought it around, so that [Guards] and [Slaves] stared in puzzlement. He stopped before Pisces and Cawe.
“No one knows what this is. You, perhaps, Pisces?”
The [Necromancer] recognized it instantly. It was Cawe, though, who opened her beak, naming it in surprise.
“That’s…magicore.”
Riqre blinked and looked at her for a second. The [Pickpocket] froze.
Azam, who had not been able to see the contents of the pot, stirred. In confusion. Then…
Fear.
“Well done.”
“Magicore? How will this help, Riqre? I have transported magicore before, but never looked at it.”
Igheriz was confused. He stared at the grey, almost clear magicore, without element or nature. It was a [Mage]’s tool, or a [Jeweler]’s, if they specialized in magic. Few would ever use it.
Riqre spun back to Azam.
“He knows. Don’t you, Djinni?”
Azam was silent. The Emir looked conversationally over at Pisces, then the other [Slave Masters].
“Did you ever wonder how they reproduced? Did you not think to question if such beings ever aged, ever died? Surely—they have limits, or else they would rule this world. Djinni are beings of magic, that is the answer. Pure magic, you see? It is why getting them to reproduce is so hard. Even they can foul up the act of creation. Azam is a rare case.”
Again he smiled, but hefted the jar in his hands. Pure, raw magicore.
“And this…to change Azam, it is simple. It is not about taking his tongue, or forcing him to be this, or that. To punish him, it is simple. Mighty Azam, take this jar in your hands.”
He held it out. Azam did not move. Riqre clicked his tongue and looked at Igheriz.
“Take it, Azam.”
Slowly, the Djinni reached out and took the jar. He held it as far away from him as possible.
Even now, Pisces did not fully understand, but he saw the Djinni’s fear. The gathering was so silent, Riqre’s next words filled the air.
“Drink it.”
Azam looked at Igheriz. The man hesitated, but a malicious light was in his eyes. He nodded.
“Drink it, Azam. Why not? I have seen you down a barrel of spirits and poison without blinking.”
“Master—I do not wish to.”
It was the first, and only time Azam had ever spoken like this. Igheriz blinked, and looked uncertainly at Riqre. The Emir stared at Azam.
“You see? Order him.”
“Master, it will harm me.”
Again, the two warred with Igheriz, from either side. Yet it was the Emir who bent over, whispering in Igheriz’s ear.
“Have you ever heard him beg, before? Have you ever seen him afraid? This is power over Djinni, Igheriz.”
The Stitch-Man hesitated. Then his features took on a look like Riqre’s. He pointed.
“Azam. Drink.”
Slowly, the Djinni did. He slowly raised the magicore to his lips and imbibed it. It was a sludge, and it took him a long time to drink. He did not grimace, or show any signs that the liquid rock hurt him. After all, his body was magic, transformative. He might not even have a stomach.
So why did he look like he was in so much anguish?
“What is happening, Emir Riqre?”
Hrome burst out at last, confused. Riqre just watched Azam’s face. The Djinni stared at him, and there was hatred there. So much that it unnerved Pisces. Gone, gone was the blank look of what now all realized had been contempt and indifference. Azam glared at Riqre.
“The trick is not done. Tell Azam to spit it out, Igheriz.”
“Azam…”
The Djinni was already doing so. Out came a spool of liquid from his mouth, and it was dark. The magicore was silky night black, flecked with bright orange stars and a film of color Pisces had never seen. He stared, impressed despite himself.
“That’s valuable.”
Cawe whispered to him. The [Necromancer] nodded. Riqre clapped his hands. Like the [Magician] showing off the highlight of his trick.
“Do you see? Do you understand?”
It took all of them a while, but Pisces got it before the rest. He only had to think of magic…and his face became so disgusted that Igheriz himself stopped smiling.
“Explain it, Riqre. I do not know magic this well.”
Riqre waved at the jar of magicore.
“Think on what it looked like before, Igheriz. Transparent. It was raw magicore. It is the void, you see. No—more like glass. You understand? Transparent. Nothing. They are creatures of color. Even their nature. Nightair. Aethertravel.”
He strode over to the jar, and inspected the valuable liquid. It began to splash onto his hands and the ground.
“Azam, in the jar!”
The Djinni stopped spitting it out at the Emir. Riqre just shook his hands free, smiling up at Azam, and let a [Slave] clean him. He gestured at the liquid on the ground, shining with magical power.
“Such valuable magicore. Colored bright. Worth—easily worth—ten times what it was mere seconds ago. Had we let Azam keep it in him, it would be even more valuable. Maybe not. It has his quality, you see, so it may be hard for a [Mage] to work with. They have to distill individual elements. After all…it is part of Azam. Or was.”
He smiled like a Demon, gleefully. Azam’s face was still. Igheriz stirred. Some of the others finally realized what had been done and looked incredulous or uneasy.
“You mean…”
