Aside from the bed of roses part, Pisces had to admit, this was not the worst treatment for the last week and a half. But then—he’d only been conscious the last four or so days, rather than slipping in and out as his body recovered.
He suspected it could get worse, yet so far he was only marched at a steady pace all day. He rode in a second line of slaves now and then, to rest, and if he had wanted, he could have rode as well in the wagons. Food was not terrible, and he was not whipped. Igheriz had even stopped their progress for Pisces.
The biggest imposition to date was not knowing if his team was alive or not. Pisces suffered from nightmares waking and sleeping about if they were alive, if he had doomed them to oblivion caught in limbo or they had woken up somewhere worse than he was for his foolish decision. There had been no time! He had simply used the location Az’kerash had given him and…
They had bounced off Khelt. Pisces remembered that too. Some kind of anti-teleportation barrier? Once again, he cursed himself.
He had told them to go to the Village of the Dead, to find the Helm of Fire and persuade Az’kerash to revive Erin. He had activated the scroll, hadn’t stopped them from entering the heart of the city and rousing the Putrid One’s greatest servant. He might have gotten his team killed.
The worst thing in the world was knowing what might have been, and knowing how stupid you were. Unfortunately, Igheriz had recognized Pisces because he had a scrying orb, because he was rich.
Thusly—he could tell Pisces day by day news from home, perhaps to mock Pisces, or perhaps in the genuine feeling he was helping in some way.
Pisces kept thinking about ‘if,’ mumbling out loud to himself.
“They found the Helm of Fire. We could have stopped. Recovered it. We’d all be safe. We could have gone to Wistram. Why didn’t I ask for Wistram? Wait, you can’t teleport there. Or—Silvaria. He had to know somewhere in Silvaria.”
“Who knew about Silvaria? You mean teleporting? Serves you right, eh? If a giant monster was chasing me, I’d have teleported it.”
Pisces turned his head to see who had retorted. He heard a grunt from ahead, and the man with the flabby neck looked back. By now, Pisces knew some of his ‘companions’, fellow slaves who tended to be put in the same spot to avoid fights.
“Would that have worked?”
Pisces looked at the forward man. Bearig was a sweaty fellow, a [Cook]. As portly as the stereotype, because he did like to sample his own food. He was, apparently, not a good [Cook], because the Stitch-man had been made a [Slave] for nearly killing one of his most esteemed guests, the [Magistrate] of a region in Nerrhavia’s Fallen, with a fishbone in a fillet.
Accidentally, but still the enraged Magistrate Ducaz had accused him of trying to murder him or gross incompetence, and thrown Bearig into chains.
The Garuda woman behind Pisces was also from that area; they were passing out of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, heading west, towards Roshal along the coast.
A [Thief]. Well, that was the kind of person you got in this kind of caravan. A mix of the innocent in poor situations, like Bearig, those in debt who were sold to recoup their losses, the simply desperate—those who lived on the street were easy targets—and criminals like the Garuda and Pisces.
She grinned superiorly at him with a cracked beak. Cawe had heard all about Pisces’ story. He glowered back.
“Firstly, if the Putrid One’s servant could have been teleported, I’d have had to touch him. I doubt he would have let me cast the spell, and if my hand did not rot off, we would still be in the center of the Village of the Dead.”
“Ah.”
Bearig nodded, looking suitably impressed. Cawe just tossed her head scornfully.
“Excuses. Shut up about it if you’re going to explain away why there was no other option. I’m sick of hearing of it!”
Pisces shut his lips firmly. He couldn’t tell her about the one part that might have been changed—Az’kerash’s coordinates. He had probably wanted to send Pisces somewhere secure, under his influence, or that he considered safe. Khelt, the Necrocracy, was one of the few places.
Even so. Now that they were on the move again and talking, Pisces jerked his attention to the present. He nodded at Bearig, who had to half-turn, and to Cawe, who did not.
“You two have been part of this caravan for nearly a month now. How long until we reach Roshal?”
“Eager to get to the auction houses? I’m sure you can look forwards to a rich master; we’re not. Bearig’ll be lucky if he’s sold to some place who needs a [Cook] who leaves bones in his food. Me? I’d rather have been in the gladiator pits.”
The Garuda woman sneered. She was resigned to her fate. It was Bearig who answered.
“We took a month on our route; we were heading north and south as well as east to west, Adventurer Pisces. But since you arrived, we’ve been heading west only, and fast at that. I’d say only a month. Far less if we begin using Skills.”
“Only a month?”
Pisces glanced down the road. Nerrhavia was not close to the coast, and he knew Roshal was at the southwest of Chandrar. They had half a continent to traverse! It was Cawe who jerked her head.
“Travel Skills. All the [Caravan Masters] have them. You have that one to thank for it, though. With him, we’ll not need many Skills.”
All three looked ahead. Towards Azam. Pisces stared ahead at the bare-chested half-Giant. Yet—not an actual half-Giant, more like one half-made of obsidian for skin. Actual obsidian, with glowing magma beneath. That seemed to be the form he chose, but obviously it was mutable.
Azam was a Djinni, and the true reason why Pisces would not escape even if he had the collar and manacles removed, according to Igheriz. From what the [Necromancer] knew of Djinni—that was correct.
“If he’s so powerful, why can’t Igheriz check the [Messages] for my team, and why does he have to pay for a scrying orb from Wistram?”
Pisces lowered his voice as Azam strode back down the road, having scouted ahead. He moved fast, like someone under a [Speed] spell, but he didn’t fly.
Cawe looked contemptuous, and even Bearig shook his head.
“He’s not that sort of a Djinni. He’s powerful, but no Manasource Djinni. Do you know what Azam is, Bearig?”
The [Cook] shook his head.
“I could ask.”
“Go.”
He shuffled ahead to ask the [Slave] ahead of him. Pisces glanced at Cawe.
Now here was something for his mind, finally clear and working, to latch onto. The [Mage] tilted his head.
“I’m familiar with Djinni from my studies, but I never looked into them deeply. What do you mean by type?”
He neglected to mention being expelled after only three years. The Garuda sneered, but seemed happy to lecture the Gold-rank [Mage].
“You don’t know? Even mighty Wistram…well, Djinni have types, so they have names. I do not own one, but some take to different things. You see Azam?”
She pointed at the obsidian giant.
“He can’t fly.”
Pisces’ brows rose high.
“Truly? I thought they all could.”
The Garuda opened and closed her beak, frowning.
“Maybe if he took a form like mine, but I’ve never seen him fly, so he must not, right? Bearig, what is he?”
The [Cook] had come back down the line.
“They say he’s Aethertravel.”
“Ah. Then he’s doubly-suited for his job.”
“Aether and travel. What would that entail in terms of his abilities?”
Pisces craned his neck, frowning at the giant. Cawe shrugged.
“Just as you see him do each night for travel. Raise and unmake walls for camp. Help us with weather, speed our steps and keep the horses fresh. Aether. What does the word mean?”
It was Pisces’ turn to be the expert. Normally, he relished such things, but he wasn’t among friends, so he answered without pretense, without a sniff or comment designed to infuriate.
“Another plane. A magical term. It may mean he can manipulate…dimensions.”
“Dimensions? Of what? A room? Hah! No wonder he’s a Djinni of Igheriz’s caliber.”
Cawe’s voice was scornful, but she kept it low. She was…spirited. Yet clearly resigned to her fate. Bearig was likewise cowed, and always talked about his family whom he had left without support due to his failure. Pisces shook his head, then reconsidered.
“No…well, exactly that. He could perhaps alter a room—or create a room where there was none before. Dimensional magic. Not many [Mages] today could do that.”
He looked forwards and the [Slaves] eyed Azam anew. Pisces saw the giant Djinni glance their way, and felt a slight shock on his skin.
Azam had more power in him than Pisces could likely hope to achieve in a lifetime. He was a being of pure magic, and the biggest obstacle in Pisces escaping…or for Ceria, Yvlon, and Ksmvr rescuing him. Pisces still held out hope that they would, or even the Necromancer, Az’kerash himself. He was a calculating genius, but perhaps he might feel he owed Pisces for landing him in this situation?
Azam did not grin or jest—he had never spoken to Pisces once, in fact. He, like Pisces, was a captive as well. A slave. He had no swagger, no boast; he just obeyed, and that made Pisces warier still. If he freed himself—he would have to make sure Azam wasn’t able to follow or outrun him.
He just had to work out how to get free first. This was Pisces’ life, now. Four days and nights he had marched, learning about Chandrar, this caravan.
He would learn too much, soon enough.
 
—-
 
It was two days before she even laid eyes on him. Of course, she, Igheriz’s favorite, did not walk with the others and he had…reasons for keeping her out of sight.
Nevertheless, the new [Slave], the famous one, was welcome to her as well, so he earned her gratitude simply by distracting the [Slave Master]. It was a rare chance for her to rest.
What rest came, though, was marred by the knowledge of her waking hours. Sitting in the bumpy wagon, staring at her arms. Her legs.
Dark lines she hated. Sometimes she plucked at them, but she stopped, knowing it would just invite more punishment.
When she first saw him, lying sick and baked red as a lobster, he was not impressive. Nor even when he stumbled along in the procession, for all he bantered well. Even so, she decided she would not hate him and try to be kind, if they ever did talk.
He was a prisoner too, for all Igheriz liked him. They were akin; important [Slaves], but that might make it worse. For now, she just peeked at him out of the wagon, curious, unseen.
Her name was Eloque. She had no hope that the Gold-rank adventurer would save her. He could not save himself. She was merely curious.
Everyone in the caravan looked at Pisces Jealnet. Yet what Eloque noticed from her vantage point was that mighty Azam, the Djinni, watched Pisces too.
Azam had never cared for anything or anyone in the three years she had been a [Slave] in the caravan. Not for other Gold-ranks taken to market, other species across the world. He watched Pisces. So the [Necromancer] was special after all.
 
—-
 
He was building his strength. Step by step, day by day, Pisces felt his abused body repairing itself after the trauma endured at the Village of the Dead. Sometimes he regretted that he was not a [Fencer] or [Duelist]; Yvlon and Ksmvr might have been on their feet far earlier due to their Skills.
…But he would not take that class. Had not, as a boy.
When had it begun? Something about this caravan, the [Slavers], the guards—was familiar. Pisces saw one cuffing a stumbling figure hard for slowing and holding up the line.
He felt the blow, over a decade ago, and remembered a voice.
“Come on, boy! Move your hands and feet at the same time! You’ll disgrace the Jealnet name!”
As if that meant something. As if ‘Jealnet’ meant anything other than they were descended from [Fishers]. But Padurn Jealnet had dreams of making the name forever associated with [Fencers]. He was considered a somewhat good one.
He owned a silver bell. Silver, not gold—some days he came back from a duel in a temper, having lost to as famous a person as the young [Lord] of Nadel. So he was touched with greatness in that sense.
His son had lost that during his training. Padurn believed he had no anger in his training; that no matter how bad a day he had, there was only the art of the blade, footwork, a purity of expression in the way the rapier moved and danced.
He still worked his son from before dawn till dusk. Without anger? Perhaps. But it was then twice merciless because it was so dispassionate. Perhaps it would have been best if he’d had a girl or his son hadn’t shown any gift. Yet Pisces? He had a gift.
Somehow, from the start, from the first day his pleasant life had turned into pain as he was shown how to hold a real sword and struck on the hands and arms if he didn’t hold it right—he had refused to gain the class. His father didn’t understand it, but Pisces had been taught to rebel from the very start.
 
—-
 
Pisces came back to the present world when they stopped. A bitter recollection, that. It was thanks to his father that he had the bounty that had landed him here—well, that and a number of other things. Theft, [Necromancy]—and taking a [Fencer]’s silver bell.
Pisces bared his teeth. He had earned that bell. There were two ways you earned your bell. By passing tests, by being approved by your peers. Or—by defeating someone who owned the bell in single combat.
He had bested his father the day he ran away. So class or not, he had the ability to defeat his captors with a blade and no magic.
The problem…was they knew it. Pisces had long craved fame in a positive way, but this? He saw the [Guards] and Igheriz watching him, and they made comments about the Village of the Dead raid, even asked him questions.
“So, Pisces, if your team doesn’t have a claim, who’ll that Helm of Fire go to, then? The one they say is a relic?”
Pisces played along as the [Slaves] were made to rest in the camp Azam had created. The Djinni could lift the landscape itself into huge, nearly flat slabs of stone. It made an excellent defensive place to camp, and they had fire, refreshments, tents—the [Slaves] shared a few huge ones. Pisces, still the guest of honor, was accorded ‘space’ by the [Guards] kicking everyone else back a few feet.
Same for food. He replied as he ate the travel rations and the [Guards] listened with interest.
“That would be the team with most claim. Either Elia Arcsinger or Eldertuin the Fortress have a claim as Named-ranks. But whichever team did the most damage and took the most casualties, I didn’t see.”
“That might be the one who got that Drake-thing. The…Halfseekers. Hah! The balls on that [Rogue]! And he lived!”
