Of all the things he had ever heard, the thought that Mrsha believed she truly was a Doombringer hit Pisces hardest.
It was far from the most painful thing to be spoken, even in that inn.
It struck him twice deeply. A perfect step-in, a strike past all his careful defenses and concealed truths. That little girl thought she was cursed. Responsible for all the tragedy that had befallen her and deserving of the terrible fate she’d been subjected to.
She was wrong. Maybe…he did not know her full story, so maybe she had made mistakes. Huge ones; perhaps she had erred so greatly someone died. Perhaps—it hadn’t been her fault and she could not have known. Yet she was innocent.
She had not chosen to do evil, so if she bore guilt, so did they all. She deserved no title, no markings like her white fur, and she should not carry that pain with her into the decades that would follow.
He wished he’d told her that, however uncharacteristic it might have been for him. He wished he’d done a lot of things. But Mrsha—most of all, Pisces wished he’d told her that.
For if he could believe that, perhaps there was some redemption for him.
It seemed that he was more deserving of the title of ‘Doombringer’ than anyone: three times in his life, he had brought death and destruction to the very same people he had called his friends, who had taken him in.
The first, as a boy on Terandria.
The second, as a young man in Wistram.
The third—the Village of the Dead and the obliteration within.
The fact that they had lived, used a miracle to escape, changed nothing. 
They could all be dead. Everyone but you. The thoughts dragged at him night by night, just like the past. He couldn’t escape it. So—as he woke and slept, and woke and slept again, the heavy collar of enchanted metal around his neck, the mundane bindings of a slave on his wrists, part of Pisces felt relieved.
So relieved. For at last, the [Necromancer] was receiving the just punishment he had evaded for so long.
 
—-
 
As he was led deeper into Chandrar’s continent, Pisces Jealnet walked. Then he rode. He alternated between both, talking a little and listening quite a lot.
There was little else to do on the move. And despite the stories or romantic images, talking incautiously while riding was a good way to bite your tongue off.
Even he couldn’t fix that. Bone? Yes. Flesh…ah, well, he’d never liked flesh as much as bone. Yvlon had once taken him to task about it.
“Silver and steel, Pisces. I don’t see what the difference is. You’re a [Necromancer]—a zombie is no harder than a skeleton, surely! It may stink worse, but if you’re in for one, you might as well be in for the other. That would be like me not learning how to swing an axe and only focusing on a sword. For someone like you, it’s a strange weakness!”
And what were you supposed to say to that? Pisces dimly recalled some sneering remark he’d made, but it was cover. A lot of what he said and did was—cover. Old habits. Deflect, lie, or hide how you felt. That was safer, even with friends.
He…wasn’t ashamed of the truth, but how could Pisces tell the sometimes surly, often high-and-mighty daughter of House Byres that he found bone and skeletons infinitely more attractive than a rotting Ghoul, or even the hulking musculature of a Draug?
His slightly superior friend and comrade might understand that. But if he told her that he found the look of ivory shaped just so—attractive? That he called the true creation of undead, proper undead, art? As beauteous as any horse or painting she admired?
What would she say then? Either she would be horrified, disgusted, attributing him the same qualities as some fetishist who slept in graveyards, or she would simply not understand. So he lied. It was simplest that way.
Ah—Pisces felt a jerk as he stumbled and nearly fell, caught himself, and for a second, dragged on the thin length of rope running through the manacles on his hands. It was looped around the steel shackles, impossible for him to free himself.
The tug ran down the entire line of people. Pisces heard a groan of annoyance, someone slow and stumble themselves—he caught himself. Then stared down at the manacles.
The manacles were themselves the same kind he’d had on now and then. Steel or iron or even wood; designed to make grabbing a sword or weapon harder, if not impossible, and obviously make it harder for a would-be criminal to flee. These were steel and cloth, ironically enough. Someone had made two bracers of metal, chained them rather generously with some metal, and then, oddly enough, added a cloth padding to the interior.
The odd part was the length of the chain. Pisces could, with a bit of difficulty, scratch his chin, even touch his toes when not looped into the rope procession. And padding? He had never seen this kind of restraint.
Perhaps because these manacles are not meant to be taken off so easily. He had not worn them for a few hours while being marched to a jail cell and interrogated, or even a day. He had worn them since he had woken up in dry Chandrar, enslaved and this procession of…he looked at the other figures ahead and behind him, also connected to the same length of rope.
The slave caravan all wore manacles like his; they would not be taken off, hence the additions for ease of use and comfort. It made them able to do basic tasks, and while it was more dangerous to a captor, their collars were the true prison.
He felt the collar’s cold metal around his neck. This one had no padding; some of the other [Slaves] had something like that, even vanity decorations. His collar was silver and mithril, harder than steel.
Enchanted. He could feel it blocking his natural flow of mana. With it on, he had as much chance of casting magic as the sweaty man he’d nearly dragged down in front of him, whose sweaty neck flaps Pisces had been dully watching for the last three hours.
He didn’t even have chains around his feet. That was the insulting thing. As impairing as the manacles on his wrists might be, Pisces had once been trained by one of Terandria’s recognized [Fencers]. Give him a blade—any blade—and he might have dared to fight the four-dozen some mounted captors riding in bored formation around the procession on the road. If he had a chance to escape, if it were possible to get them one or three-on-one at most…
But no. Pisces shook his head and kept moving, knowing to slow would have the person behind run into him. The collar was all they needed. With it, he could never hide from their magic. With it—they could also kill him if he grew too dangerous.
Pisces had woken up in one of the wagons loaded with goods, [Slaves] too weak to walk, even some of the slumbering [Guards] who traded off. Even this caravan needed a bit more than could easily be carried in bags of holding, and the wagons were useful for people like Pisces.
He had been half-dead for the first few days, burnt out of mana, raving when he was lucid, confused and delusional when he was not. He had apparently been close to death when they found him lying sunburnt and dehydrated in the desert, thrown by the teleportation spell.
“Still stumbling, heh, Pisces? Maybe you should ride in the wagons! Can’t have you slowing the pace. You were so quick on your feet in the Village of Death too! Maybe Wistram makes everyone on the scrying orbs look good.”
One of the [Guards] joked as he slowed to eye Pisces. The young man looked up at him, and had to swallow a second or two before replying.
“No, thank you. I would rather walk and build my strength.”
“Ah, adventurers. Tough! Heads tough and too full of pride to ride! Myself, I’d rest up, but be my guest.”
The man rode ahead, and Pisces felt eyes on him. From the other people chained up in the two long lines, from the wagons, and even from the other [Guards]. They all knew who he was by now.
Pisces still wore his white robes, and they were still pristine despite living in them. His skin was dirty, dusty, and he would have no doubt had an odor but for the dry, gritty climate. His enchanted clothing, though, was the last possession he had. His rapier, his bag of holding, his possessions, even the spellbook he’d taken from the Putrid One’s collection were all in the possession of the caravan master.
But for that hint he wore something expensive, he might have been any young man, albeit from Izril or Terandria, rather than Chandrar where skin tanned fast under the sun. If you knew magic, you might be able to sense the death magic around him, but no more than that.
Yet everyone in Caravan Igheriz’s group knew that Pisces Jealnet was a Gold-rank adventurer and member of the Horns of Hammerad, one of the survivors of the Village of the Dead raid, [Necromancer] and former graduate of Wistram with a bounty on his head from Terandria.
They knew this, because they’d seen him on the scrying orb. Or heard about it after. Pisces was a celebrity before ever having come to Chandrar. Unfortunately—that was why he was here.
It earned him some respect, ironically enough. The [Guards] were not any kinder to the one Bronze-rank adventurer than the others—yet Pisces they had seen or heard about. He wondered if he could play on their vague admiration, but they still followed Igheriz’s orders readily.
No, not [Guards]. Not [Caravan Guards], or [Caravaners] or [Mercenaries] or anything of the sort. [Slavers].
Pisces reminded himself in his head. These were not like any people he knew. The almost exclusively-male group of [Slavers] that made up Igheriz’s Caravan made their living by owning, buying, ‘acquiring’ and selling slaves. The odd, interesting, disturbing part was how Igheriz labeled himself.
“Is Pisces stumbling? Well, we cannot have that! Slow! Slow and we rest. Give water—and see if the road ahead will stay clear, Azam. No monsters, no [Bandits], no sandstorms…we thank Roshal’s fortunes for such things, but I will not lose even a hair upon Pisces’ head until we reach home!”
And there he came himself. Igheriz was a Stitch-man, one of the Cotton-caste, but with noticeable ‘improvements’ from silk. Even a fabric Pisces had no ability to label on one hand; the skin it became seemed permanently slicked, almost sweaty? Yet it seemed strong enough as he rode one-handed towards Pisces.
As one of the [Slaves] permanently attached to his caravan went down the line, offering a long ladle of water to each person so they could drink several huge gulps then move on, the caravan owner leaned over his saddle and grinned down at Pisces.
“You see how I do such things for you. This is a sign of admiration, Pisces. I wish you to take note, no matter where your fate takes you after Roshal. I, Igheriz, give such tokens of respect to no [Slaves] other than the most beautiful of women or the greatest I have ever dealt with—and you are no beautiful woman!”
He laughed hugely at his own joke. Pisces bared his teeth.
“I would be even more impressed, [Slavemaster] Igheriz, if you would let me ride without manacles.”
“Ah! Ah!”
Igheriz waved a finger. He looked down at Pisces sternly.
“I am not that kind of a fool, Pisces. The manacles—well, adventurers like you get such thoughts. I know you are smarter than most, but Gold-ranks always think they can escape, collar or no. But that is not what displeases me. You keep calling me [Slavemaster]. It is to annoy me, I think? You would not like me to lose my good humor so I forgive you, Pisces! Remember: it is Caravan Leader Igheriz. I will not warn you a third time.”
He grinned and Pisces hesitated for a long second before ducking his head.
“Of course…Caravan Leader. Do you not style yourself by your chief class?”
The [Slavemaster]’s eyes lit up. Pisces took a grateful drink of the slightly brackish water being offered, and listened as the man replied.
“I am more than one thing, Pisces. Or we would call you [Necromancer], not just adventurer! I am a [Merchant]! I trade in goods and rumor! I make connections. And—yes, I sell slaves, but those who lead caravans are greatly respected. Roshal’s name—not everywhere. Especially not in Izril or Terandria, eh?”
He gave Pisces another knowing look. The [Necromancer] didn’t reply, and he was happy to be called that so long as there were no other pejorative added because that was what he was. Igheriz?
The man was a pompous, ruthless lowlife, and Pisces would have happily called him a [Bandit] wearing a [Merchant]’s skin if he were freed. He detested Igheriz, but unlike Yvlon—or Ceria come to that—Pisces could lie and be polite. So he smiled.
“Have you heard of my team, Caravan Leader? It’s been nearly a week and a half.”
“Ah! Of course. You ask every day.”
Igheriz slapped his forehead, again pretending to be astonished. He seemed to tire of the charade now and then, but his spirits were high. After all—he was going to be rich from selling Pisces.
“No word yet, but we are on the road and I will ask as a favor to you when we next stop. However, you needn’t fear! None of them have bounties, so they cannot be taken. If you hope they will catch up and rescue you—that too, I do not fear. You are mine, fair and done under Chandrar’s laws, and Roshal and Azam protect me.”
He grinned. That was the pretense under which he’d justified taking Pisces as a [Slave]. Pisces had a bounty extant from Wistram and Terandria—thus, he was fair game to be taken captive. It seemed like a poor and easily exploitable system to the [Necromancer], which was probably exactly why Roshal liked it. It wasn’t as if they had many Terandrian nations to impress; [Slaves] were not common in Terandria or Izril.
Pisces was a [Slave]. A Level 3 [Slave]. He’d woken with the class in his mind and he resented it. For one thing—it was…red…in his head.
That was how he could imagine it. Red, if there was a color. Not that it was a color; it was more like a pulsating, sear of…intensity. Thus, red. Like crimson blood. Like a heartbeat.
 
[Slave Level 3.]
[Skill – Master’s Sympathy obtained!]
 
[Condition: Famous Name obtained.]
 
Pisces had learned the secret that you could refuse classes you didn’t like long ago as a boy. But he had never known there were classes you couldn’t refuse. And—condition?
Igheriz had just laughed when Pisces had asked, those first few days when he had all the questions and no strength to walk.
“Ah, there are classes and things Terandria and your fabulous Human kingdoms have forgotten, Pisces. Conditions? Well, let us say your ‘red’ class will remain until you make peace! Then it will be much better for you and change. As for conditions…this is hardly the worst that you can receive, so be grateful! For I am a generous man, and will deliver you to Roshal on a bed of roses—without thorns!—unless you force me otherwise.”
