Gazing at the empty spot beside her as she came awake, Luo-Luo pouted and sank back into her pillow with a sigh. The nights were so cold here in Central, but sleeping with a heavy blanket left her feeling stifled and suffocated. Thus, in spite of his detached demeanour, Jimjam made for the perfect bedroom companion, a sweet, cuddly darling with soft, luxurious fur and impeccable manners. Since Sarankho and Aurie were firmly attached to Li-Li and Lord Husband, and both bears were monopolized by Lin-Lin, Luo-Luo had spent many a week winning the last wildcat over and eventually succeeded after she discovered his love of cheek massages. Unfortunately, last night, the faithless tomcat refused to leave Lord Husband’s side and chose to sleep on the hardwood floor instead of coming back to snuggle with Luo-Luo. Heartbreaking is what it was. Lord Husband not only refused to warm her bed, but now he’d stolen away his stand-in replacement, leaving Luo-Luo with naught but a cold pillow to hug. How unconscionable.

After a brief bout of self-indulgent pity, she was ready to face the day once again, though her body still refused to work properly. Yawning and stretching in an effort to get her blood coursing through her veins, she eventually managed to sit up and slide out of bed, shivering as her delicate feet met the cold, hardwood floor. Lord Husband had this manor commissioned for his sister and Brother-in-Law long before securing his glorious victory against Bai Qi, but as he prioritized constructing public infrastructure over private domiciles, the manor was only finished a week before new years. Thus, Luo-Luo had gifted them the manor in Lord Husband’s place, thinking they would be all too happy to move out of their tiny, cramped yurt and into a proper home, but from the looks of things, they had yet to move in. Nothing had changed since Luo-Luo last saw the manor, the building left completely empty save for the necessary furniture she’d so thoughtfully sourced and provided.

Had she known they’d be staying here for the night, Luo-Luo would have packed her large incense censer to warm the room, and perhaps a rug for the bedside and some art to decorate the walls. A tasteful scroll or scenic painting would do wonders to liven things up by adding a splash of colour to the otherwise earthen tones. In this world full of tedious trials and tenebrific tribulations, it was important to find joy wherever one could in order to counteract out all the struggle and hardship, but for all their talk of Balance, the Bekhai cared little for art and beauty. Even Brother-in-Law Charok, who was a phenomenal artist and craftsman, cared little for his work, claiming his ability to create lifelike carvings was merely something to keep his hands busy while otherwise idle.

A shame, for if he cared to, he could earn a veritable fortune with his work, but he refused to take up woodworking full-time or even craft a few pieces for his new manor. Aside from her bed and Noodle’s travel enclosure, the room was devoid of all other furniture, lacking even a chair or nightstand for her to lay out her things, and the rest of the rooms were much the same. Belatedly realizing the lack of furniture meant she had to wait on Sorya and Anrhi to arrive before she could begin getting ready for the day, Luo-Luo tip-toed over to rouse her darling little snake who was no longer all that little. Gone was the tiny reptile who used to curl up in the palm of her hand, and in its place was an emerald beast that stretched almost thirty centimetres from tip to tail. Despite growing so quickly and still being only a third of her adult size, Noodle would always be Luo-Luo’s beloved treasure, a loyal and affectionate companion despite what others might believe.

Stroking Noodle’s head with the back of her finger, Luo-Luo gently roused her little darling from slumber, a slow and gradual process that required patience and prudence. The cold nights were hard on her, but for Noodle, they could be deadly, as snakes were unable to generate body heat. That was one reason why the poor thing had gotten so fat and bloated at first, not just because of Luo-Luo’s ignorant overfeeding, but also because it was almost too cold for a snake to digest food properly. To counteract the cold, Luo-Luo modified Noodle’s enclosure for better insulation and had it mounted on top of a ventilated heating pan in order to keep the cold-blooded darling alive and well. The embers had all but died out overnight, but Luo-Luo had carefully monitored and kept notes on Noodle’s condition every morning, afternoon, and night for months, which helped her to pinpoint exactly how much fuel the snake’s enclosure would need to keep Noodle safe and comfortable at all times.

Even then, it took a long minute for the slumbering beauty to wake and acknowledge Luo-Luo’s presence, time she used to take in the mesmerizing patterns depicted across her rough, ridged scales, a radiant shade of brilliant green highlighted with splashes of dazzling golden yellow that bled into a smooth, white under-belly. Oh how Luo-Luo yearned to capture Noodle’s vivid colours and irregular angles on canvas, but despite using all of the considerable resources at her disposal to find the right paints, nothing even came close to emulating Noodle’s scintillating magnificence. The morning sun seemed to glisten off of her every scale, which jutted out like tiny spikes protruding from her armoured form, and if dragons truly existed, Luo-Luo imagined they would look much like this. It still felt odd referring to the snake as female, as they’d spent months assuming she was a he, but Luo-Luo loved Noodle all the more now that they knew the truth. It seemed silly to even think it, but Luo-Luo had so little in common with the darling snake, this made sharing a gender feel all that much more special, even if it made no discernible difference to their relationship.

Slowly blinking as she came away, Noodle revealed her sparkling, incandescent eyes, vibrant golden pools of diffuse sunlight surrounding a slit of midnight darkness, and Luo-Luo saw recognition spark in her expression. Oscillating from side to side as she pushed herself up, Noodle gently slithered up Luo-Luo’s arm and settled around her neck and shoulders, still not quite ready to start the day but more than happy to snuggle in close. Though some might think Noodle only sought her out for warmth, the darling snake would not do this with anyone else, not even Lin-Lin who was equally enamoured with the beautiful creature’s exquisite aesthetics.

Not many others appreciated poor Noodle’s beauty, not even the animals of the manor. Aside from Ping Ping who was friendly with everyone, the bears, rabbits, and wildcats were wary of the snake, while the quins and laughing birds eyed her like their next prospective meal. Truly an unfortunate moniker for such a magnificent beast, but despite all his winning qualities, Lord Husband’s naming sense left much to be desired.

A knock at the door announced Sorya and Anrhi’s arrival, twin bundles of boundless cheer and enthusiasm that were almost too much to handle this early in the morning. “Oh goodness, milady,” Anrhi gasped, shaking her head in frightful over-exaggeration as she rummaged through her rucksack in search of ointment. “The shadows under your eyes just keep getting darker and darker.”

“Hardly a surprise at that,” Sorya chimed in, the two of them having taken to lecturing Luo-Luo in their own endearing way. “It’s always the same, toiling away until the moon is high in the sky only to wake with the sunrise. Admirable is what it is, but there are limits, milady. There’s a reason it’s beauty sleep, you know? Lady Mila and Lady Lin-Lin understand well enough, just look at their gorgeous skin and luxurious hair.”

Though others might take umbrage over being lectured by their handmaidens, Luo-Luo loved them like they were her own sisters, even if they behaved more like mothers at times. “There’s just so much to do, and I work better at night. Regardless if it’s composing a song or poring over a legal document, there’s something about the flickering candlelight which sets my mind aflame.” Hugging Sorya tight before she could start clucking about something else, Luo-Luo closed her eyes while Anrhi’s dabbed lotion around them and added, “Besides, Yan wakes just as early as I do, and I don’t see her suffer any for it.” The woman had a pale, vibrant complexion others would kill to possess, all without the use of lotions, creams, unguents, or oils. All she did was use regular soap to wash her face, the same variety she used to clean her hands, and somehow came away with lush, moisturized cheeks and a healthy, radiant glow.

“Aye, and birds can fly, but no amount of flappin’ yer arms’ll save ye if the guards pitch ye off the walls.” Pinching Luo-Luo’s cheeks with what she imagined was an impish smile, Sorya continued, “No sense comparing yerself with anyone else, because the Mother Above makes each of us special.”

“Even two sisters who shared the same womb.” As Luo-Luo opened her eyes, she caught the two sisters share a bittersweet smile as Anrhi squeezed Sorya’s hand and explained, “Our Ma used to say it all the time, that we are each different in our own unique ways. Not just twins, but all people, and what works for one might or might not work for another.”

“A wise woman, your mother.” One whose story did not end well, Luo-Luo presumed, seeing as how both her daughters ended up sold into slavery, but at least they were happy now. There was no love lost for their estranged father however, the Ancestral Rat Gang Shu, as both women had ignored him even while he lay upon what might well have been his deathbed, and Luo-Luo imagined they would have lost no sleep if he’d passed away instead of Guan Suo. It saddened her to see their strained relationship, for even though her own parents had given her away, Luo-Luo always imagined how they would meet again and perhaps even one day be a family again.

But alas, such dreams were not meant to be, for Luo-Luo was an unwanted daughter, much like Gang Shu did not want sweet Anrhi and Sorya and only had eyes for his sons.

Breaking off the topic to coo at Noodle and apologize for disturbing her morning nap, Anrhi set to work on Luo-Luo’s hair with brush and oil, while Sorya presented outfits for her to choose. After settling on a suitably appropriate dress, she bundled up in her silk-lined cotton overcoat, threw on a fur-lined hooded cloak, and put on a set of thick winter gloves to ward away the chill, prompting a chorus of giggles from the twins. “Are ye prepared for the harrowing trek across the courtyard to the dining room, milady?” Sorya asked, making no effort to hide her teasing tone. “Forgive this one for not readying the carriage, but alas, if we set out now, we might reach the end of our journey within a minute’s time. Difficult I know, but ye’ll survive and be that much stronger for it.”

“Hmph.” Linking arms with Anrhi, Luo-Luo shook her head and eyed her handmaiden’s clothes, an airy silken dress that left the shoulders and arms bare. A sleeved shawl kept the woman modest, but one so fine and transparent she could almost see the beauty marks upon her smooth, pale skin. “You laugh, but this is how normal people dress to face the cold.” Believing they’d already spent all of their wages and had nothing left, Luo-Luo had jackets and cloaks made for her handmaidens to match her own, but while they lavished praise on the outfits and truly appreciated the gift, they only ever wore them to look presentable for guests and dignitaries. The rest of the time, they were more than comfortable walking about in their regular clothes, much like the other Northerners in and around Luo-Luo’s new family.

Some didn’t even bother with that much, like Marshal Yuzhen’s gorgeous hunk of a husband who had a habit of stripping down to the waist while Demonstrating the Forms in the courtyard of their private manor. Luo-Luo had seen him like that every time she’d gone over to visit, regardless if it was morning, noon, or night, and for a time, she thought the Mother had perfected the male form with his creation.

Then again, while Lord Husband was not as strapping or bulky, his slim, fit figure was even more appealing to Luo-Luo’s tastes, one she first witnessed in its entirety last night. No wonder Sister Mila and Sister Yan were so frustrated with his unresponsiveness, as Luo-Luo could well imagine how fetching he would appear while glistening with sweat and steam...

“Oh milady,” Anrhi crooned, patting Luo-Luo’s arm in a pitying manner and wholly unaware of the lascivious thoughts going through her head. “If ye think the weather cold now, then I fear yer first winter back home will be an eye opening experience indeed. This here is akin to a cool Northern summer, and there ain’t nothing to fear with a wall to block out the breeze and the sun’s warmth kissin’ yer skin.”

Beating back the dread she felt at the mere mention of a Northern winter, Luo-Luo shook her head and sighed. “Back home in the East, it rarely ever snowed, and even then usually only during the coldest of months. I cannot remember waking to a single new years day where the rooftops were covered in frost, much less snow or ice, so this is already plenty cold by my measure.” Granted, there was no snow on the ground here either, but there had been for some weeks, and beautiful as it was to look out over the frost-dusted Citadel streets with a wintry backdrop, Luo-Luo yearned to feel warm again. “I don’t know how you stomach the cold, I truly don’t. It’s been hours since I felt my toes.”

