The next time Tate moved, Lord Husband did not correct him, and while Luo-Luo saw no difference, Sister Yan and Sister-in-Law Alsantset both nodded in approval. Tate continued his Demonstration for a few more movements until Lord Husband moved again, this time tapping his nephew’s forehead with his index finger. This repeated a few times until Yan caught Luo-Luo’s inquisitive gaze, to which she replied through Sending. “Rain is pointing out fundamental flaws in Tate’s movements, but ones that are... subtle and difficult to correct. To start, Tate was putting too much weight on his back foot, which isn’t necessarily wrong, but it leaves him open to a simple counter targeted at his lower body. The solution is to evenly spread one’s weight out over the course of the movement, which will allow him to advance or withdraw without being on the back foot, so to speak. A concept that is difficult to explain as it requires a personal touch to understand, since only you can tell if you are distributing your weight equally. It’s something Tate would’ve eventually figured out on his own, but Rain is guiding Tate to confront the problem years, if not decades before he would figure this out on his own.” Turning her gaze back to the training pair, Yan glowed with such warmth and affection, Luo-Luo could feel it even in the absence of an Aura. “Tate probably thinks it was something minor like he was moving too fast or not smoothly enough, but once he gets the feeling of the movement right, he’ll always notice when it’s wrong, and that knowledge will stay with him as he grows and progresses. A wonderful lesson taught by an insightful Warrior, so be sure not to miss a second.”

Lord Husband’s training with Tate lasted for another quarter hour, most of which he spent staring at the Princess and the bears, though he still continued guiding his nephew with startling efficiency. Once Tate’s lesson was over with, he hugged Lord Husband tight and whispered, “Thanks Rainy. This was fun.” Urged on by her mother, Tali took her brother’s place, flowing into her graceful Movements with little to no ceremony at all. Her style of Demonstration was rather similar to Luo-Luo’s, more of a dance than Martial routine that was a spectacle to behold, but Lord Husband didn’t miss a beat and joined her, stepping, twirling, and guiding her about in an attempt to show her how to better utilize the Movements while she laughed and shrieked in delight. When it was all over, Tate proudly announced that he had less ‘errors’ and ‘Rainy’ had to work harder to teach Tali, but judging by the knowing looks shared between Sister Yan and Sister-in-Law Alsantset, it was actually the reverse and Lord Husband only acted more because Tali was further along and capable of understanding more.

Poor boy, he worked so hard at his Forms everyday, only to be surpassed by his uninterested sister...

“Your turn, it seems,” Sister Yan said, interrupting Luo-Luo just as she was about to give Tate a comforting hug. “Seems like Rain’s in a dancing mood today.”

Having received no invitation through Aura, Luo-Luo almost tried to correct Sister Yan, only to find Lord Husband with branch in hand and pointed in her direction, like a swordsman ready for a duel. No, not a swordsman, but a maceman, for he held his branch the same way she held her sceptre, between his index and middle finger with her fourth and fifth fingers curled around the shaft. Approval and impatience radiated from him, and before she knew it, Luo-Luo stood before him with weapon in hand, taking a two-handed defensive posture to counter his offensive one-handed stance.

And then the music sounded in Luo-Luo’s heart, and she set her feet and weapon to dancing.

Back and forth they went in a flurry of steps and blows, her movements guided by his as he led her through a deadly rendition of her modified Forms. The movements were all there, so familiar and recognizable, but the difference lay in the subtle distinctions he drew out from within her. By standing a little further away, he turned step-step shuffle into step-step slide, subtly altering the beat of the music which only she could hear, and the difference was clear as night and day. It was exactly like Sister Yan said, for there was no describing the change, only that it felt right and Luo-Luo could never go back to the way things were before.

Round and round they went, like partners twirling about the stage, and as soon as she fell into the rhythm, Lord Husband launched his first attack. Having sensed the crescendo in the music beforehand, she anticipated the strike and countered with a glancing parry. Pushing the offensive, he put her through her paces, and the clack of wood on steel only emphasized the rhythm of their dance as he chained his first attack into a flurry of strikes. Dizzying as the display might be, she found herself defending with ease as her hands moved to precisely where they needed to be, just like finding the right strings and positions on her zither. Round and round they went, dancing about the courtyard in near flawless harmony, her body responding to him before she even understood what was happening, and after a while, she gave up on trying and simply gave into the music.

It was wonderful, so wonderful it almost hurt when they stopped, though she belatedly realized that pain was the burning in her lungs and calves. Lord Husband on the other hand had barely broken a sweat, once again radiating wry concern as if to say, “Gotta work harder than that if you want to keep up.”

Finding her seat to the sound of Tali’s applause, Luo-Luo fanned herself to keep cool while Anrhi dabbed at her forehead with a handkerchief and Sorya fussed with a teapot that had yet to boil. Breathless and unable to speak, she tried to greet Mother-in-Law Sarnai who’d made an appearance while Luo-Luo was dancing with Lord Husband, but the stern woman waved it off with an uncharacteristically warm smile. “Well done,” she said, patting Luo-Luo’s head as she took a seat on the veranda beside her. “You have come far in so short a time, though you have a long way to go yet. Patience and dedication will carry you far along the Martial Path, but do not grow complacent, for your journey has only just begun.”

That was all Mother-in-Law Sarnai had to say, but her actions spoke volumes as she wrapped her arm around Luo-Luo and held her close, a reassuring presence to help hold her up lest she faint of sheer exhaustion. Concerned for her well-being, Jimjim planted his head against her shoulder and even stayed there when Noodle came out to investigate the disturbance, only uttering a small, plaintive mewl after she retreated back into Luo-Luo’s hood. Kissing the sweet wildcat on the nose, Luo-Luo grinned and rested her head on Mother-in-Law Sarnai’s shoulder as Sister Yan set out for her turn to spar with Lord Husband, which made for a dazzling spectacle indeed.

Lord Husband was having difficulty speaking and carrying out basic tasks, and seemed in a foul, depressive mood, but considering his appearance last night and this demonstration today, it would appear that he not only recovered his Martial strength, his ability had also progressed by leaps and bounds since. Good news indeed, for as Legate of the Outer Provinces, Lord Husband would need his strength to retake full control of the Empire and drive the Enemy out of the Western Province as he pledged to do some three months ago.

And for the first time since hearing it, Luo-Luo believed it might actually be possible, for nothing was impossible for the Mother’s Chosen Son, Falling Rain of the Bekhai.

Chapter Meme
