To Luo-Luo’s surprise, Sorya and Anrhi let out a collective gasp before seating her down on the bed, with the latter gently holding her in place while the other lifted her feet and checked her toes. “Wiggle them for me milady, if ye please.” The last bit was more of an afterthought as Sorya’s tone brooked no refusal, so Luo-Luo did as she was told. Patting her chest with relief, Sorya sighed and rubbed Luo-Luo’s feet. “Mercy me, you worried me there for a second.”

A bit of an overreaction perhaps, but they were only looking out for her health. As such, Luo-Luo swallowed her laughter and gently helped Sorya up with a smile. “Come now, it was hardly cold enough for frostbite, not here inside the manor.”

Though the sisters tried to match her smile, they both failed miserably. “Sorry Milady,” they chimed in unison, before Anrhi explained, “Twas always a real danger fer us, back in Sanshu. We’d spend all night huddled together with Ma beneath the blankets, and the first thing we’d do each morning was check our toes fer frostbite.”

Because coal and firewood were viewed as expensive luxuries for impoverished families living in the city, rather than the vital, life-saving necessities they actually were. The same went for food and clean water, or so Luo-Luo had discerned, and it amazed her that the girls were still so chipper and bright despite all the hardships they’d lived through. Luo-Luo desperately wanted to give the girls a life of comfort and happiness, but they were so modest and reserved that even giving them a fortune would mean nothing, since they would simply spend it all on charitable efforts. That’s where all their pay went, to filling the bellies of hungry children living on the streets, a far more effective solution than anything Luo-Luo had tried.

Her shortcomings made her appreciate Lord Husband’s efforts even more, for he’d lain out plans long ago to ensure the common people of the Citadel had access to all their basic necessities at an affordable price, but even his beautiful, far-seeing eyes could not have predicted this current predicament. On paper, there should not be any homeless living in the Citadel, but there was no accounting for human greed. Even before the Citadel was built, it’d become something of a mark of honour to own a home here, as if that alone were a declaration of confidence in the Empire’s properity, but lately, matters had gotten out of hand. Someone had taken to buying houses in bulk in the civilian districts, no doubt hoping to resell the land to some wealthy fool hoping to tear everything down and build themselves a Citadel manor, but there were measures in place to restrict the types of buildings that were allowed in each precinct. The civilian precincts were only zoned for cheap, affordable housing and the shops required to service their needs, so at first, Luo-Luo had paid no mind to this blatant attempt at profiteering, but she underestimated this particular fool’s stubborn determination. Even after having multiple rezoning proposals rejected by Marshal Yuzhen, the buyer refused to sell his land at a loss and move on, causing rent costs to rise astronomically as demand overshadowed supply. Despite this, the source of her headache continued buying properties at an accelerated rate, no doubt hoping to corner the market and force Marshal Yuzhen to a different decision, a move which led other speculators to join in on the action and caused housing speculation to spiral wildly out of control.

There were plenty of economic consequences to these actions, but the most obvious of which was all the commoners who’d been priced out of house and home. Those who sold thinking to buy a new house were out of luck, and there were plenty of financially insecure commoners who valued hard coin over home and hearth. Now, the streets were cluttered with displaced workers and their families, while a vast number of perfectly usable houses sat empty and unused. To make matters worse, the new owners had taken to hiring local thugs to keep squatters from moving in, which was well within their legal rights, but still left a bad taste in Luo-Luo’s mouth.

At least these displaced paupers had food a plenty thanks to Lord Husband’s plans, though Luo-Luo was appalled by the lengths some merchants would go to in order to make a profit, like negotiating purchase orders on all foodstuffs and reselling at an absurd markup, which she easily countered by selling grains and vegetables from the Imperial Army’s stores and placing a military order to purchase all goods brought in through the Citadel gates at a set price. Oddly enough, the merchants who attempted to fleece the good people of the Citadel ended up holding onto their goods until they spoiled, losing their investment and foiling Luo-Luo’s plans to purchase it at a lower price. This meant the Army food stores were dangerously low, but with so many farmers living along the border and the constant shipments arriving from the North, she anticipated their reserves would be back to a healthy level within a few weeks.

Even then, this was only enough to ensure the common people had enough to fill their bellies, but luxuries like meat, spices, and sweets were in short supply. Worse, there were always slackers and opportunists willing to let their children go hungry and without homes in order to save a few coppers more, and it broke Luo-Luo’s heart to see them suffer so. If Lord Husband were here, he would simply damn the consequences and feed all the children, as he had back in the Northern Province, but this crisis wasn’t only limited to the Northern Citadel. Even Lord Husband couldn’t afford to feed every hungry child living along the border, not due to lack of coin, but because the millions of families who worked hard to provide for their families would feel slighted and overlooked. Why were some children fed for free while others left to fend on their own? What was to keep well-off families from sending their idle children out for a free meal, if only to lighten the burden on the family coffers? Securing food was no issue, but how was Luo-Luo to distribute it without pilferage? The world was full of unscrupulous characters, and she could only imagine how they would happily feed children dirt and sawdust while selling the donated foodstuffs and pocketing the profits, which was only one of many nightmare scenarios which Luo-Luo had come up with.

And so, even though Sorya and Anrhi couldn’t feed everyone, they did far more than Luo-Luo had with all her late night scheming. There was only so much hardship the commoners of the Empire could suffer, and though this was a crisis much of their own devising, the Citadels were ready to boil over with tension and unrest. By all rights, she should have been back in the Citadel last night tackling yet another effort to introduce a tax on empty estates, but Lord Husband had his miraculous recovery and Luo-Luo’s time was all spent planning for his triumphant return. Despite his odd behaviour, she just knew he would have all the answers she so desperately needed and somehow turn this crisis around on its head.

Unfortunately, she couldn’t wait on Lord Husband’s recovery and intended to return to the Citadel after breakfast, mostly to see to several matters that required her personal attention. Winter’s frigid bite was not all that stood to greet her outside in the courtyard, for Gunan was also there, waiting by the entrance to the hallway which led to her room. “Consort Luo,” he uttered, bowing with such precision she suspected it would be perfect down to the last angle. “If we could have a word in private?”

Despite all the assurances she gave on Sorya and Anrhi’s behalf, nothing Luo-Luo said could ever convince Gunan they were trustworthy. Then again, he suspected everyone and everything, even the birds perched on the walls of the manor, because it was simply in his nature to be suspicious. Not the worst trait for a spymaster to cultivate, but one which made him all but insufferable to deal with, if only because it gave the game away if they carried out all their conversations behind a Sound Barrier. MuYang played his part much better, but his face became too well-known after the incident with the Confessor, to which MuYang’s solution was to never show his face in public ever again.

A bit extreme, but caution was another quality worth cultivating in a spymaster...

Once the two handmaidens were away, Luo-Luo gestured for Gunan to speak, to which he responded by contrarily Sending, “Lieutenant General Akanai has advised me to keep you here in the manor, as there may be treachery afoot in the Citadel and manpower cannot be spared to protect you.”

Treachery? Immediately, Luo-Luo’s mind jumped to Father-in-Law’s ‘new’ subordinate, the lazily-disguised Gao Liang, who was in fact, Gao Changgong, decorated Major General of the West, the highest ranked soldier to emerge from the Western Province who had yet to turn Defiled. Despite knowing Lord Husband had helped facilitate the illegal crossing of tens of thousands of soldiers and their families fleeing the Western Province, the possibility that any one of these refugees might be Defiled did not escape anyone’s notice. No doubt Lord Husband intended to inspect them personally, as Marshal Yuzhen had let slip that he could sense the Father’s foul touch upon a person’s soul, something the savvy Marshal had thought Luo-Luo had already known. Though hurt by this lack of trust, Luo-Luo understood why everyone had kept this secret from her, as it was almost too far-fetched to believe and far too dangerous if whispered in the wrong ears. It was well know that the Defiled could recognize one another, like attracting like to better bring them together and cause maximum chaos and carnage, so for Lord Husband to boast the ability to do the same would open him up to unsavoury accusations.

Unfortunately, before he could complete his grand schemes and inspect Gao Chonggong’s refugees, Lord Husband fell into a coma after summoning a miracle to the battlefield, a storm unlike any Luo-Luo had ever before seen and one that was still spoken of in whispers to signify reverence.

The rain fell and the Defiled fled, despite still holding the advantage in open battle. This, more than anything else, was the reason for the Imperial victory, because while the combined forces led by three Colonel Generals would have eventually emerged victorious against Bai Qi’s Defiled forces, there would have been a hefty butcher’s bill to pay for their victory, or rather heftier than it already was. One only needed to look at the numbers to know this for truth, because Colonel General Nian Zu and the deceased Tiger Slayer Tran Hoang had not fared even a tenth as well. The forces that fought at Castle Wulin and Castle Youxia took a vicious beating before driving the Enemy back, and after the soldiers of the North connected the rains with the same phenomenon that drove the Defiled away from the Northern Bridge, there were many who believed Lord Husband responsible for it all.

Wholly untrue, for when the rain fell upon the Northern Bridge, Lord Husband had been busy saving Sanshu from the clutches of the Defiled King of Bandits Yo Ling, but Luo-Luo had done nothing to discredit the rumours. Nor was she foolish enough to try and capitalize on them either, as even indirect confirmation would blow back on Lord Husband once the facts came to light. A mistake her enemies no doubt expected her to make, but Luo-Luo had thus far kept things from spiralling into disaster, and she wasn’t about to spoil it all with an easily disproved lie.

If the lie were harder to disprove however, she might have been open to using it to her advantage, such as with the newly minted Stormguard, whose ranks comprised solely of Irregulars who’d been elevated to the ranks of Martial Warriors thanks to that same, miraculous storm. Even those who sought employment elsewhere believed Lord Husband responsible for their good fortune, but their reasoning left much to be desired. Most simply believed it, for no real reason than ‘they just know’, while others claimed they heard him speaking to them, as if he were a True Divinity in his own right. Then there were those who simply thought that the rainfall was a sign from the Mother pointing directly at Falling Rain. Silly to even consider, but they were many fervent believers, and three-thousand of them were devoted Martial Warriors who were not to be taken lightly.

Especially not ones who’ve endured three, long months of gruelling training under Luo-Luo’s merciless Mother-in-Law, Akanai of the Bekhai. Having inspected the camps once, she said a prayer every night for those poor Martial Warriors, and grew to fear her in-laws even more...

Alas, Mother-in-Law Akanai’s warning was far too vague, as there were many possible traitors to be wary of. Rang Min was another possibility, having been ousted as Patriarch and cast from the Society, only for Marshal Yuzhen to swoop in and offer protection. There was no arguing that man was brilliant and a most effective ally in these trying times, but this only made him all the more fearsome as a likely foe. Though some might say Yuzhen was riding a tiger, it would be foolish of Rang Min to act now, not with all the measures they had in place. Then again, if the Enemy were to blame for this treachery, then it might well be anyone, for there was no telling who might be listening to the Father’s whispered lies and carrying out His foul work in the darkest of nights. This more than anything is what made the Enemy so insidiously effective and frightening, the fact that it was so difficult to tell friend and foe apart.

