Having let her thoughts get away from her, Luo-Luo refocused on the issue at hand. “Most everything can be tabled or handled via correspondence, but I’ve a meeting scheduled with Liu Xuande and the other Imperial Scions,” she said, thinking out loud for Gunan’s benefit. “I fear it would not be appropriate to ask them to travel here to conduct business, not after coming all the way from their respective posts in the Central and Southern Citadels.” Face and courtesy aside, she didn’t want to risk any of them seeing Lord Husband in his current condition, because while the Imperial Scions were most useful allies, Luo-Luo’s teachers had all agreed on one simple fact: the hearts of men were fickle indeed. Who knew what Xuande or the others might do if they thought Lord Husband’s plight permanent? Even if they could all be trusted, they were still loyal to the Imperial Clan first, as all Scions should be, and any one of the Supreme Families would happily pay a vast fortune to learn of Lord Husband’s weakened state. Thus far, there had been no repercussions for Yang Jixing’s death, but the dagger hanging over their heads had not been forgotten, not by Luo-Luo at least. “What would you suggest we do?”

“Reschedule until we know more.” Shrugging apologetically, he explained, “The Lieutenant General was not very forthcoming with details regarding the danger, and Lady Sarnai assures me she has no earthly idea what her Mother-in-Law was going on about.” The last was said with a sour face, and Luo-Luo could imagine the prickly woman delivering the message with a scathing rebuke. Gunan, as already noted, was suspicious of everyone, and he could be irritatingly persistent when he thought someone was hiding something, a quality Mother-in-Law Sarnai did not suffer well.

“Very well. Take Xuande into your confidence and privately let him know that Lord Husband is stressed and overworked from the burdens of his office. As such, he has insisted on taking some time to relax whilst he still can, and wants his entire family to accompany him.” Xuande was their leader, as the others looked to him for guidance, so soothing his concerns should be enough in the interim. Over the past few months, twisting the truth had become second nature for Luo-Luo, but she still disliked lying to and manipulating her allies. If Xuande were to ever discover the truth, he might well be put off even if he understood the necessity. No one liked to be lied to, as it struck a blow to the pride in so many different ways, but alas, as Lord Husband was so fond of saying, needs must.

With her schedule freed up for the day, Luo-Luo skipped off to pay Lord Husband a visit before breakfast only to find Sister Yan had already stolen a march, snuggled up beside him as he sat with Mama Bun in his arms and leaning heavily on Aurie beside him. “Morning Luo-Luo,” Yan chimed, chortling as Mama Bun alternated between kissing Lord Husband’s cheek and hers. The other rabbits were gathered around them while Ping Ping dozed off at Lord Husband’s feet, the bunnies all patiently waiting their turn lest their mother turn around and teach them their place, a gaggle of well trained troops and their viciously savage matriarch.

So very similar to the Bekhai in some ways, though Luo-Luo could not imagine Akanai begging for favours and treats from anyone, not even the Mother herself.

Stepping carefully around the reckless rabbits, Luo-Luo collected sweet George into her arms and sat down lest he try and wedge himself under her, as the silly rabbit did so love to be squished. Shoulder to shoulder with Aurie, she peered past the sweet wildcat at her expressionless Lord Husband and greeted him with the brightest, most energetic smile she could muster at this early hour. “Good morning, Lord Husband. I trust you slept well in the company of so many adorable pets.”

Wry amusement was the response she received, or at least that was how she would label it, and she could imagine him saying something along the lines of, “Jealous?”, or a sarcastic apology for stealing her snuggling companion. It was incredible how much nuance could be found in a brief burst of Emotional Aura, lacking the overwhelming strength and simplicity of Li-Li’s Aura, but with a much wider range open to interpretation. Complicating matters was how these emotions were uniquely Lord Husband’s, who experienced and expressed his emotions in his own unique way, and much like the difference between regional dialects, it took more than a little effort to understand Lord Husband’s mood.

Especially now, for underneath his cordial greeting and light teasing was a lining of opaque melancholy, a grim, sombre sensation Luo-Luo knew all too well. It was anguish born from a lack of hope, a discouraged acceptance of wretched despair laced with determination to see it through to the end, acceptance without ambition and resignation without surrender. This was how she felt when she waited all those years, languishing away in the Academy without purpose or expectation. Yesterday, he’d been so full of love, warmth, and kindness, all of which was still there today, but something weighed heavily upon his mind, something so cumbersome even Yan, Aurie, and Mama Bun combined were not enough to buoy his spirits.

He blamed himself for something, believed he erred in some way, and he could not forgive himself for this transgression. Perhaps he was upset his foes slipped away, or he could be sulking over Princess’s refusal to cuddle, one could not tell with Lord Husband. Yan and the animals also sensed his mood, and the courtyard felt darker for it, so Luo-Luo decided she would do something about it. Eyeing Yan in question, she mouthed a single word, and the woman shrugged in reply as if to say, “It couldn’t hurt.” With that vote of confidence in hand, she went back to her room and returned with her zither, which she promptly set up and tuned. Once all was in place, she set her fingers to strumming, matching her music to the tones of Lord Husband’s Aura. Low, heavy notes that lingered in the air, resonating with gloom and despair, but among these, she mixed in shorter, lighter notes, little bursts of joy he felt as he noticed everyone’s efforts around him. Aurie’s cuddles, Mama Bun’s kisses, Yan’s fingers running through his hair, this and more pierced through his despair, but like throwing a rock into the sea, the despair rushed back in to fill him.

Having taken the measure of his mood, Luo-Luo set to subtly altering it by pouring her own emotions into the music to counteract his despair. She knew how he felt, and now he knew it too, for she had lived with this same despair for years. She too thought there was no hope, that the future was set in stone, but the Mother always leaves another path. Luo-Luo was here now, happy and fulfilled, and though her life was not as she’d imagined it, it was a life full of love, joy, and even hope, hope that she would one day be as loved as Yan, Mila, and Lin-Lin.

Yesterday was hard. Today will be even harder, but who knows what tomorrow has in store? This was the sentiment Luo-Luo endeavoured to share with Lord Husband, for never in her wildest dreams had she imagined she would hold a position of authority in the outer provinces, that her opinion and expertise would not only be sought for, but appreciated and cherished. Nor did she expect to enjoy Martial training as much as she did, well on her way to becoming a Warrior of note, even if the thought of actual combat scared her something fierce. There was always tomorrow, she told him, so do not give in to despair.

Musically, her song was simplistic to the extreme, not even one-tenth as technically demanding as Rise to Glory and lacking any and all mysticism within it. However, it was a song filled with her love and support, and though there was no Aura about it, Luo-Luo sensed that Lord Husband could understand her message and even appreciated her efforts greatly. Though his mood remained heavy and sombre, his gratitude shone through his Aura, and as she gazed into his expressive eyes mounted upon an expressionless face, she felt his emotions a stirring. He enjoyed Luo-Luo’s company, admired her abilities, trusted her deeply, and even cared for her as a person, but he was not in love with her, nor did he believe she was in love with him. More self-deprecation there, but so ingrained it seemed inseparable from the rest, and underneath it all, Luo-Luo sensed his heartfelt admiration and even a sense of... not quite desire, but a longing to desire. Though lacking the fiery passion so evident in his love for Sister Mila and Sister Yan, there was still hope for Luo-Luo yet, a revelation which filled her with joy and delight.

Yesterday, she wasn’t even sure if Lord Husband liked her, much less even wanted her around, but now, she was determined to break through his shell and win him over, just like she’d won over Jimjam. Not out of purpose or duty, but because Lord Husband was wrong; she had fallen head over heels in love with him, a magnificent and affectionate paragon of a man.

“Beautifully played,” Yan said, beaming with gratitude and adoration as Luo-Luo put her zither away, much to Jimjam’s vocal chagrin. “However,” Yan continued, flashing her devilish half-smile, “I feel the need to point out how you have forgotten something yet again, twice in fact, considering you went back to your room and returned without it once more.”

While Luo-Luo pondered this riddle, more wry amusement radiated from Lord Husband after a short delay, whereupon he then uttered, “Weapon.”

Cheeks flushing with embarrassment, Luo-Luo realized she’d left her sceptre behind in her room, a mistake which would normally have Yan scowling with displeasure. “Honestly,” Yan declared, shaking her head in amused disbelief, “How do you keep forgetting it? I would sooner leave my head behind than either one of my weapons, it just doesn’t feel right if I don’t have them with me.”

“I don’t know,” Luo-Luo confessed, all her accomplishments forgotten as she clutched her zither to her chest, wishing it could shield her from this shame. “It’s just... you all speak of this connection with your Weapons, but I feel that connection regardless of if I’m holding it or not.”

Without waiting for a response, Luo-Luo ran back to her room again to fetch her weapon and returned with burning cheeks, which she presumed would go perfectly with her cold-reddened nose and make her look the fool. Lord Husband was still there with Yan beside him, but Sister-in-Law Alsantset and sweet Tali were now seated on either side of the pair, leaving Luo-Luo no option but to sit further away. Choosing the side with darling Tali, she settled in to watch adorable Tate demonstrate the Forms, though Luo-Luo’s eyes were more drawn to lovely Li-Li overseeing Princess’ wrestling match against her larger cousins Banjo and Baloo. Lord Husband watched them as well, his mood much improved as he sat with the ghost of a smile etched across his face, though Luo-Luo noted his eyes were periodically drawn over to Tate as well, brimming with love, pride, and just a hint of confusion, though over what, she could not say.

About halfway through Tate’s Demonstration, Lord Husband came to his feet and strode over to Tate, who stopped mid-movement to see what all the fuss was about. “Is somethin’ the matter, Rainy?” he asked, his soft voice as pleasant as a ringing chime. Again, no answer seemed forthcoming, but Tate received something through Aura said, “Okay.” Picking up where he left off, he continued, or at least tried to until Lord Husband stepped on his foot. Gently and without force, a comically restrained tap more than anything, but this was clearly a premeditated action and another form of communication altogether. Wonderful news for them all, but Sister-in-Law Alsantset cautioned them all to silence with a sharp gesture of the hand, and Luo-Luo dared not risk her ire. Out in the courtyard, Tate frowned at Lord Husband before retreating away, who also did the same. Then, clever Tate tried the same movement again, and again, Lord Husband stopped him with his foot. There was nothing else, not that Luo-Luo could discern, but she could almost see how effectively Lord Husband’s Aura was conveying his message, one only Tate could hear and interpret.

