The color of his core deepened until it was a blue so dark as to appear black.

No. That is not the way.

He moved on instinct, drifting toward the middle where the beams were the densest. He burrowed through them, seeming to phase through the solid matter, though in actuality, he was merely guiding it into flowing around himself like water. Once his core was at the absolute center, he created a few vents to accommodate his off-gassing, then hardened the beams back into rigidity, locking himself in place. He focused on the structure, spreading his senses through the essence and visualizing it as nothing more than an extension of himself.

This is my world.

In here, I do not define reality; I AM reality.

The Bastion WILL hold.

My will is law.

Rain stifled a groan as pain clubbed his mind back into wakefulness. He’d again gotten used to being without it, and coming back to his body was always worse the longer he stayed inside his soul.

Ugh.

He scrunched up his face, not yet opening his eyes.

Run sensor sweep and diagnostics.

Monsters? Out there. Friends? In here. Time? 3 AM. Vitals? Within acceptable margins. Head? Pounding. Muscles? Aching and stiff. Back? Cricked. Bladder? Full. Tongue? Woolly. Stomach? Hollow.

Diagnosis: Hangover, stupidity-induced.

Prescription: Purify, food, sleep.

Stiffly, Rain turned his head, opening his eyes to check on Ameliah. This proved to be a poor decision, as instead of finding her sleeping there, his eye found one of Tallheart’s antlers.

Physically.

Rain yelped. It didn’t actually hurt—his Force resistance saw to that—but a lifetime of keeping pointy objects out of his eyeballs had left him with a pretty strong conditioned response. He recoiled, his head thumping against the wall with considerable force.

Tallheart snorted himself awake, then sat up. He searched for the source of the disturbance, craning his neck around until he saw Rain over his shoulder. He turned to face him, frowning as he did. “Are you well?”

“I’m fine…” Rain managed with a sigh, weakly pushing himself up onto his elbows. He licked his lips, finding them dry, like he’d been walking through the desert.

Tallheart’s frown deepened, and he leaned forward to offer Rain his hand. “You lie,” he said as he pulled him up into a sitting position.

“I will be fine,” Rain amended, shaking his head as he activated Purify at the lowest functional level. “I just need water and a little food.” He dropped his aching head into his hands and massaged his temples. “And a new brain.”

“Here,” Ameliah said from near the door. She passed her canteen to Tallheart, who removed the cap and handed it to Rain wordlessly.

Rain took it gratefully, then guzzled down the lukewarm water with enthusiasm. He didn’t stop to breathe until the entire thing was empty, and when he did, he realized that Tallheart was holding out a ration bar. In his haste to snatch the offered food, he dropped the canteen, which tumbled to the stone floor with a metallic clatter. Moments later, there was a deep roar from outside their little cubbyhole.

Rain winced, pausing in his efforts to free the ration bar of its paper wrapping.

Oops.

Ameliah cursed, spinning away and pulling open the door. She slammed it shut after herself, and reddish light blossomed around its edges as she called fire to battle whatever monster had reacted to the sound.

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled, giving Rain a disapproving look.

Rain looked from him to the door. “Yeah, that was pretty stupid of me. Should we help, or…?”

“She will be fine,” Tallheart said. “This is not the first time that the monsters have realized we are here.”

“Oh,” Rain said, shoving the entire ration bar into his mouth, though it took a few bites to break it up enough for it to fit. Even with all of his added Strength, the damn things were still harder than cement.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “You were still meditating, I assume?”

Rain nodded, busily grinding away at his mouthful of gravel-based food. He swallowed, then took a breath. “Yeah. I got a little carried away. Can you pass me another ration bar?”

“Few remain,” Tallheart said, shaking his head. “Here.”

He held out one of the dire limes, which were properly called ‘sasu.’ The fruits were native to Bellost, apparently, making their appearance in this cave even more puzzling. Regardless, Tallheart had been elated when Rain had come back with an armful of them. He’d smiled and everything.

“Thanks,” Rain said, accepting the fruit and taking a huge, juicy bite. It was still powerfully sour, but less so than the battery-acid-like burn of the first one he’d tried. It turned out that that one had just been unripe. Even so, he had to fight to keep his face from inverting as he chewed. There was a reason sasu weren’t popular with humans.

Tallheart chuckled, watching him. “You are making a mess.”

“Don’t care,” Rain said, taking another bite. Purify was still running. It would deal with it. “Too hungry. Is there any soup left?”

“No,” Tallheart said, passing him another sasu with some amusement. They had plenty of them. “Have you considered removing the accolades?”

The door rattled from an explosion in the tunnel, interrupting Rain’s response. He got a kill notification—the third since Ameliah had left. Attracting the monsters’ attention had led to their deaths, and that was enough for the system.

Once the echoes faded, Rain shook his head. “I’ve considered it, yeah, but I need the max health when we’re out there. In here, Strength seems to help with soulstuff.” He proceeded to summarize what he’d achieved, including all of his sleep-deprived musings on what it might mean.

Tallheart listened patiently, passing him sasu after sasu as he talked. All the while, explosions continued outside the door, becoming more distant as Ameliah led the monsters away from their camp.

“Hmm,” Tallheart said once Rain had finished. “And were you successful?”

“I don’t know,” Rain said tiredly, looking down at the half-eaten fruit in his hand. He finished it off in two quick bites, then left Purify to deal with the juice he’d gotten all over himself. Where before it had been empty, now his stomach felt uncomfortably full. How many did I eat? He shook his head. “It felt like it was still holding as I was leaving, but I’m not sure. I can’t sense anything different now, not from out here. I need to go back in to check.”

Tallheart frowned. “Hmm. You promised you would sleep. Am I right that you will not be able to do so before you verify the status of your soul?”

“Yes,” Rain said tiredly, allowing himself to flop back down against his bundled cloak. He raised a hand to rub at his eyes, then let it fall to his side. “I can’t just leave it, Tallheart. I need to know.” He sighed. “Ameliah’s going to be mad, isn’t she?”

Tallheart shook his head. “She will not be mad. Perhaps annoyed, but not mad. She understands. As do I.” He rumbled to himself, sounding amused. “I have become lost in a project many times.”

“That’s good,” Rain said muzzily, deactivating Purify. With his stomach as full as it was, the tug-of-war between hungry and sleepy only had one competitor remaining. I will NOT sleep. I have to check on the Bastion. Then I can rest.

The explosions stopped in the distance, and a pulse of Detection revealed that there were no monsters anywhere in range. With a few more pulses, Rain tracked Ameliah, determining that she was headed back in their direction. “She’s coming back.”

Tallheart rumbled in acknowledgment. Rain began the process of calming his mind, but before long, he was distracted by the sound of the door opening. He cracked open an eyelid, seeing Ameliah enter with a closed fist held in front of her.

“Hey,” she said, stooping to empty her hand into a leather sack that was sitting open near the door. The faint crystalline tinkle of Tel made it to Rain’s ears as she deposited the spoils of her outing. “What did I miss?”

“Rain ate thirteen sasu and then fell asleep,” Tallheart said.

“I’m not asleep,” Rain said, closing his eyes again.

“I see,” Ameliah said, sounding amused. “Did you make any progress with your soul?”

“Mmhmm,” Rain mumbled. “Just need to check something...”

“Go on, Rain,” Tallheart said, and Rain felt him tucking his blanket back over him. “I will tell her what you told me.”

“Thanks, Tallheart,” Rain said, turning his thoughts once more to the Bastion.

“Slow down a second, Rain,” Ameliah said. “Can you turn Winter on, please? I used a lot of mana.”

Rain considered for a moment, then activated the spell, his thoughts feeling like molasses as the cold washed over them. He’d never been able to enter his soul with an aura running, but then again, he hadn’t tried doing so for quite some time. With his increased proficiency, it might be possible, and if Ameliah needed mana, she needed mana.

“Thanks,” Ameliah said.

“Mmmhmm,” Rain replied, then buckled down for real, attempting to tune out the low rumble of Tallheart’s voice as he filled Ameliah in.

He didn’t make it.

Minutes after he began, he slipped not into his soul, but into the comforting arms of sleep.

In the roiling chaos, absolute in its disorder, there could be no existence. No structure. Not even the perception of time.

And yet, every so often, a seed of order would appear. Lines of reason would spread from it like the roots of a great tree, bringing stability with them, and in turn, possibility. Soon thereafter, droplets would begin to precipitate out of the chaos—droplets of a presence, or perhaps a memory. Something that had perceived. Something that had felt. Something that had…

…thought.

But not now. Not yet.

As time passed, simply by chance, the droplets would pass close to each other amid the tumult. When this happened, an attraction would form, and if the conditions were right, the droplets would join together, becoming some greater fraction of what they once had been.

This event was unlikely, for the droplets were small, and the chaos was vast. Yet happen, it did.

Unfortunately, the seed would never last. After some time, a great wave would crash through the chaos, shattering everything before its might. The roots of reason would wither, their order subsumed by the chaos. The presence would dissolve along with them, disappearing helplessly back into nothingness.

But not this time.

This time was different.

This time, when the wave came, the seed hadn’t broken.

It had endured.

Far out in the chaos, something was coming together. After many hours and many close encounters, two of the largest droplets finally collided, themselves already the result of several such collisions.

The combined fragment remained a mere fraction of what it had once been, but it was large enough, barely, to remember.

…

⟬filth⟭?
