Mayor Caleb signed the last report on his desk, leaned back and massaged his neck, working the kinks out of it.

Pushing back his chair, he got to his feet, filed away the documents from his desk and stepped out of his office, nodding at Carole, his bunnykin assistant, on the way out. She returned him a smile, the same kind that had a tendency to make young men forget their words.

Not that she was flirting with anyone – Carole was too much the professional to mix work and intimate life. She just happened to have a very disarming smile. Besides, he still deeply loved his wife and would cut his own arm before betraying her. The fact that she probably would cut off his arm if he did betray her was entirely beside the point.

He made his way up, toward the newest addition to the town hall, and the one that had fast become his favourite: the observation tower.

Normally, the prospect of climbing eight flights of stairs would have limited his excursions, but Lord Isaac had insisted on having an elevator installed, bless his dedicated heart.

He stepped out onto the open-floor top level and walked up to the edge overlooking the town, or, as he allowed himself to privately think, his domain.

When Lady Valeburg asked him to relocate to this small, nearly forgotten border town all those years ago, he had seen it the same as anybody else would have: a punishment.

He took in a deep breath, smelling a mix of forest, sawdust, and fresh bread.

If he could tell his younger self one thing, it would be to stop fighting his new posting. There were opportunities out here, and the isolation meant less scrutiny. So many wasted years... But he had eventually caught on and had begun consolidating his base of power and slowly extending his reach outward.

And now, over the past few seasons, his quirky frontier town where happenstances were too frequent for no good reason had exploded in size, if not yet in population.

All traced back to the encounter of two wayward souls, at the time: David Wardenfel and Niala All Brew. Their eventual union had brought the town under the gaze of their respective families, both powerful entities, who sought to make their scions' lives a little bit easier by investing in the town.

Only, Isaac and his now-wife Angeline had gotten involved. Now, he had a thirty-year plan from the young man, and rock-solid commitment contracts for the various companies, firms and guilds from that dangerous woman.

He looked to the north, where a brand new water pumping and filtration facility was now rumbling along, providing fresh and clean water to all of the newer buildings, with the older ones being slowly connected to the new water network. Gone would be the time of various wells and cisterns that required frequent cleaning and decontamination.

To the south, in the middle of what was now called “The old town,” stood a railcar station, for now empty and waiting for the railroad to be completed. Further, past the southern walls, was the much bigger “Riverwall Central” station, which was to be the primary commercial link to the rest of the kingdom.

That is, until Lord Isaac's river port project was completed in a few more years. The locks along the southern twin river were under construction, and barges were deepening the river next to the town.

A port. For his town. Preposterous.

But if Lord Isaac's predictions were correct, and, given that Lady Angeline had given them her full approval, he saw no reason to believe otherwise, it would be needed.

He looked to the west, toward the slowly multiplying warehouses, nestled around cleared land waiting for industries to take root, with vast residential projects sprouting up to accommodate the eventual workers.

Most of those were, for now, empty or severely underused, but with the mana crystal mining operations set to begin in earnest soon, he knew that was going to change.

Oh, his town would not become a second Majestic overnight. Not even reach anywhere close to the top ten most prosperous towns of the Amberfall Kingdom, but the population would probably double, if not triple, over the next few years.

That still meant a town of less than ten thousand souls, but this rate of growth was rare. With it would come issues, of course, as new lives clashed with the old ones, but he would keep a steady hand on the tiller, as he'd done since the start.

Only, he guessed that he would have a lot more help this time around.

The Azure Guard barracks in town had been completed, and the number of guards had swelled to close to four hundred. Groups of the elite soldiers left every other day, rotating with the ones stationed at the Living Vault and partaking in the ongoing fel extermination there.

Apparently, the Azurean high command thought that fel-infested place was the perfect training ground for their troops. Plenty of fighting, in controlled conditions, and, thanks to a certain potion shop in town, extremely limited risks of injuries.

He sighed, thinking of the kind of potions that Niala, or rather, Lady Niala, now, was able to brew. Who had ever heard of healing potions that could reattach limbs? Or regrow pits-bound eyes?

He shook his head. Better not to dwell on it; just be glad that they exist and they have access to it.

At least, the citizens had gotten used to the catkin flying around now, and reports of having sighted an angel had stopped.

Oh, the girl was slowly growing a cult-like fan base who lovingly referred to her as their angel, that wouldn't stop, but at least they weren't jumping and screaming about it.

The rumble of a transport-car caught his attention. He looked toward the sound, and sure enough, it was an Old Woman brewery vehicle, on its way toward Bellharbour, full of Old Woman herbs.

From the initial single car that David had gotten from Caleb for services rendered, the company now had a fleet of ten. From the latest news he'd had, even that many were barely able to keep up with the demand. Luke Wayman and his wife Martha had expanded the distribution network to Graveway, Sanseau, and Middenport, the three major towns neighbouring Bellharbour, as well as half a dozen smaller towns along the way.

And everywhere the Old Woman threaded, so did the Wayman's Boudoirs.

Caleb had even petitioned to have one opened in his town. The population, hesitant toward new things, as all border town inhabitants tended to be, eventually fell in love with the concept, and the place was usually packed.

The second Boudoir was already under construction.

With all of that activity, plus the Old Woman network being used by Linzy and Papo to distribute Panacea Potions products, Lord and Lady Alwarden's personal finances were rivalling the town's most prosperous individuals.

Combined.

They would probably need all that wealth, however, as the true reason for their having accepted to be elevated to a foreign noble house was underway.

The road up north to the Living Vault had been finished a few weeks back, and construction materials had been flowing out of Riverwall to feed the ongoing construction of what might be the most impactful project yet: the newly named mining town of Daylight.

It was to be the new home of the thousands of Luminous Reign descendants who were, to this day, living their short, miserable lives hidden in the maintenance corridors of the Living Vault, the only safe place from the nightly fel incursions.

In fact, Niala and David had left town recently, heading to Daylight.

Caleb wondered what they were up to.

Probably something outrageous.