One moment, I was in the room with the others. The next?

Gone, as if the world itself had disappeared. It all happened after Gal’Meth snapped his fingers.

The manor. The room we were in. The furniture. The fireplace. Even Camille and the others were all gone.

Actually, no… not all of them.

Kaelor and Meriel stood beside me, taking in the new surroundings with the same looks of confusion I must’ve had on my face. The three of us were the only ones here.

But where were we?

“Corpses,” Meriel said. “They’re everywhere.”

“What…?” Kaelor muttered.

She pointed beneath our feet. The moment he looked down, his eyes shot wide.

“How…?” he said. “How could this be possible? Where have we been transported?”

My stomach dropped at the sight below our feet.

There were bodies upon bodies stacked on top of one another, their eyes closed. All of them were humans. There was no blood, rotting flesh, or the smell of decay. In fact, the air smelled awfully crisp.

“They’re not corpses,” I said. “They’re just… asleep.”

Each time we took a step, we felt flesh beneath us. The sensation of walking on bodies was dreadful beyond imagination, and it was nearly impossible to move around without tripping. One wrong step, and we’d sink deep into the bodies.

There seemed to be thousands of them. Maybe even tens of thousands. Whatever the number was, they made up the entire ground, stretching beyond the horizon.

Wait… horizon?

I looked around, realizing we were standing in the open air. The sky was dark, but the stars were far brighter than usual. They were enough to light up this entire place. And the clouds…

No… that’s a mistake. Those weren’t clouds.

“The clouds are souls,” Meriel said, staring up at the sky. “And the stars as well.”

“Both the clouds and stars are souls…?” Kaelor asked.

We heard rustling behind us. The three of us turned at once, noticing a familiar figure walking toward us, stepping over the bodies without a care for them.

Gal’Meth.

“I’m impressed you managed to discern that, elven one,” he said, coming to a stop. “The stars are souls that have already reached their destination. The drifting ones that appear like clouds are the souls in transit.”

“Souls in transit?” I asked. “Then where do they end up? The stars?”

The demon shook his head, looking up at the universe.

“Don’t take my words too literally. This realm is merely an interpretation of what happens to souls after death. They don’t exactly become stars. Or at least there isn’t proof of it.”

“Then what’s the truth?” Kaelor asked.

One of the drifting souls descended from above, hovering around Gal’Meth’s face. He opened his palm, letting the soul briefly rest on it before it rose back up and rejoined the rest of the wandering ones.

“The truth,” he began, “is different for everyone. Some people believe in nothingness. Others believe in torment or paradise, depending on how they lived their lives. I’ve also known a few who believe that souls are reincarnated into their next life, whether as a human, elf, dwarf, or a monster.”

Reincarnation, huh? Nah, that definitely doesn’t exist.

Meriel shook her head. “That’s not what the truth means. There can only be one truth.”

The demon looked at her, then smiled. “Not quite.”

“Just admit that you have no idea what the answer is, despite being a demon of souls,” I said.

Gal’Meth burst out into laughter, his voice echoing through the realm.

“Then yes,” he said quietly. “I don’t know what the answer is. And I don’t think anyone ever will.”

Then, he pointed at me. His expression fell flat.

“But you,” he said, “are the closest one to finding the truth.”

Meriel and Kaelor turned to me.

“Am I?” I said.

He let my words hang in the open air before continuing. “Judging by your expression, you don’t seem too surprised to hear this. Aurelius did, after all, already tell you that your soul is different from the others. It’s unfinished. Unconventional. Unorthodox.”

“And why exactly does that mean I’m close to finding the truth?” I asked.

“Because I have a feeling you aren’t as you seem on the surface.”

His fingers moved to Meriel. “Your soul is quite similar to Allene’s as well. Even Aurelius noticed it during his final moments. But what he didn’t notice is that despite its similarities, a very fundamental layer of Allene’s soul is different from yours.”

She narrowed her eyes. “What do you mean?”

But before he could continue, several System messages flashed in front of me, showing me the same message.

[TROPE IN PROGRESS: THE OTHERWORLDER’S SECRET]

Completion criteria: Do not let anybody find out you’re from another world until the day you die.

Punishment: You will no longer be recognized as the protagonist.

A warning.

“Enough,” I said, speaking before Gal’Meth could. “We’re not here to talk. We’re here to fight.”

Kaelor’s dagger was still in his hand, resting at his side. Ever since her awakening, Meriel needed nothing more than her hands to cast her spells. But me?

I cast my [INVENTORY], pulling out…

Kaelor’s arm.

“AGH! I did not mean to do that!” I cried, throwing it back inside before pulling out the two weapons I had actually meant to grab: Starcaller and Dawn Sunderer.

“Hah! Glad to see my little buddy’s doing well,” Kaelor said. “Considering it hasn’t rotted, that void rift’s sure got some good insulation, huh?”

I sighed. It always impressed me how jolly he was whenever he spoke about the arm that had been severed from his body. Not to mention the fact that we were standing on top of thousands of bodies. He was either crazy or too brave for his own good. Or a mix of both.

“You’re using a staff and a sword at the same time again?” Meriel asked.

I shrugged. “Why not? I should practice using both of them. One’s for close range, and the other’s for longer range.”

“That sounds great on paper, but there’s a reason no one ever does it. It’s impossible to control both of them at a proficient level.”

I leaned in, whispering, “But you’ve gotta remember the stats I told you about. My physical and magical stats are pretty evenly split. My stats are all over the place.”

“That doesn’t mean you should use both at once.”

“Why not? Maybe I’ll be the first to ever do it.”

She rolled her eyes. “You do you.”

I cast [INSPECT] on myself.

[PROTAGONIST: Allene]

Level: 159 (+2)

HP: 1026

STAMINA: 360

MANA: 550

Strength: 21 (+1)

Agility: 35

Vitality: 37

Endurance: 32

Intelligence: 21 (+1)

Wisdom: 35

[WARNING: Some values are kept hidden]

Unallocated Stats: 27

Whoa. That’s a lot of unallocated stats. Given that we were about to fight a demon, I figured it was a great time to use all of them.

I glanced beside the status window, seeing Gal’Meth standing there without any weapons. And that damn smile of his still hadn’t gone away. Either he was cocky that he’d win against the three of us, or he was waiting for us to make the first move. Whatever it was, it gave me the time I needed to allocate my stat points.

I wasn't going to make the same mistake as before. Spreading my points across every attribute left me decent at everything, but exceptional at nothing. I was sure “decent” wasn't enough against a demon.

Intelligence increased my mana capacity and strengthened my spells, while Wisdom improved my mana regeneration and control over them. If I wanted to survive the magic academy I’d soon be attending and whatever came after, I’d need both.

[INTELLIGENCE]

[22 → 42]

[WISDOM]

[35 → 42]

[MANA]

[550 → 1050]

Unallocated Stats: 0

“Ready to begin?” Gal’Meth said with a smile. What a strange coincidence that he asked that the moment I was done allocating my stats.

For someone taking this battle with the intent of taking our souls if we lost, he seemed awfully friendly while speaking with us. This was not how I imagined a demon would act. If anything, seeing him act this way was even creepier.

“You promise to give us that Soul Transference spell if we win, right?” I asked.

He nodded right away. “Of course. Demons don’t break their promises.”

He snapped his fingers, and the entire realm began to rumble. The stars above flickered like dying lanterns, and the cloud-like souls began to pick up the pace, bouncing around the sky before diving to the ground, where the endless sleeping bodies were.

Hundreds of souls entered the bodies. One by one, each body began to rise. Some gasped for air, as if being awoken after an eternity. Others quietly rose as if they had been sleeping peacefully all this time.

As bodies continued to rise, the ones that were already standing began to move toward us. They weren’t slow like undead monsters.

They moved just like any other person would.

Walking. Sprinting. Jumping over other bodies.

Each of them moved at their own pace. Their own cadence. But there was one thing they all had in common.

They were trying to kill us.