The simultaneous proximate detonations of the fireballs burst her eardrums for the second time this fight, sending pain lancing deep into her head, but her barrier magic protected her from the brunt of the flame and resulting shockwave. The cloud of spores had been incinerated, but fortunately, she hadn’t set off an unprecedented monstrous detonation this time. But within the cloud of flame and slowly clearing smoke, she could still see the magic of the fungus monsters summoning more mushrooms, and still more joining the fray.

“Again,” she instructed – a command which was met with eager and excited smiles and flaring fire mana. The only nice thing about the unexpectedly large fireball earlier was that it had wiped out most of the monsters instantly, leaving just the massive guardians alive. Maybe I should search for a monster with a more powerful fireball sometime.

She called for more and more volleys of fireballs as the horde of Spore Spreaders continued pouring out from the jungle, weaving her arcing Arcane Bolt streams around Calen’s arrows and through the fire and smoke.

Ali glanced back at Mato, but it seemed that Malika was keeping him alive through the distraction.

Do I have enough mana potions? Her Fire Mages had to be running low – their Fireballs were not exactly cheap, and while she couldn’t tell exactly how much mana they were using, just the potency and size of the mana formations they created with their magic told her it was a lot.

“That’s the last one,” Calen said suddenly, downing a mana potion, and drawing her attention to the now still undergrowth between the trees beyond the expanse of charred ground and burned corpses. “Lower-level guardian first.”

Ali turned her attention back to the central fight – a titanic battle between the bear and the much more massive Forest Guardians, with Malika dancing around in between punching and healing. The battle was a broad circle of verdant growth amid the charred and devastated ruins of the jungle clearing. Both Mato and Malika appeared to be struggling with the grasping roots and vines blanketing the area with new life – although Malika was having a better time of things, her light steps dancing off the air more often than not to avoid the roots.

“Firebolts.” The two Forest Guardians appeared to be in perfect health, having rapidly regenerated any damage sustained from the massive blast and whatever damage Mato and Malika were dishing out.

But the Forest Guardian seemed entirely unaffected. The firebolts were landing, and they were ripping holes in the bark armor and the dense wood, leaving smoking holes in their wake. The problem was the holes were closing up in seconds, wood twisting and growing over the damage, filling the holes and leaving the monster in pristine health even under the continuous bombardment of magic and arrows.

This looks hard. Ali studied her beleaguered forces. “I’m not delivering enough damage,” she said. She had lost more than half her minions already, two mages to the mushrooms, and all her Scalding Slimes to the explosion. Her four remaining mages needed time to recover their mana before they could let loose.

“Can you make some more?” Calen asked.

The first one required five mages, she thought, her mind returning to their first encounter with a Forest Guardian. She had had to summon mages mid-combat because their entire damage output had been insufficient to overcome the regeneration aura. They had all leveled up since then, and the elementals were a little lower level, but against two of those auras, even Ali could see the firebolts were not leaving any lasting damage in the face of the double regeneration aura.

Even when she had killed the kited guardian with her arcane bolt storm, she had required several minutes of steam-jet assault to bring its health down to a range where her attack could finish it off. She didn’t have that luxury here.

“I need time to summon more mages.” But of course, she was low on mana too. A quick mental perspective shift confirmed that she was down to only two mana potions.

“I have about six minutes on my recharge,” Calen offered.

“Got it.” Ali retrieved her two mana potions, making her decision. When Calen’s Righteous Fury became available, she would need as much damage as she could muster.

“Mato, Malika, conserve your resources,” Calen yelled, sharing their strategy shift. “Malika, target their mana.”

“Got it,” Malika shouted back, and the flickers of her punches shifted to a deeper blue color.

Quickly, Ali organized her remaining forces, setting up a rotation of one-off, and two-on for her Acolytes, to allow them to rotate with their mana regeneration skill. She handed the two highest-level Fire Mages a mana potion each, instructing them to drink and conserve mana for now, and then scrambled across the charred ground in search of Spore Spreader corpses, filling up her mana pool by deconstructing several of them.

Ignoring the crashes and roars of combat, she pulled out her Grimoire and focused on her magic, intent on summoning as many Kobold Fire Mages as she could manage in the short time available.

“Ready,” Calen called out, much sooner than Ali would have liked. She had managed two more mages, and her Grimoire was still glowing with the magic that would construct the third.

“Almost there,” she told him, urging him to hold off for a little longer. Even though her new powerful Customization upgrade seemed to be allowing her to bias her summoning toward higher-level variants, the two mages she had just summoned were unlikely to be enough to clinch the battle. While Calen waited, her magic flared, and with a rush of mana, it completed.

Mage – Kobold – level 19 (Fire)

Your reserved mana has increased by +76.

Oh, thank goodness, she thought, as she saw the level of her newest summon. It brought her total to seven mages. She made a mental note to study her Grimoire customization in more detail to see if she could learn greater control over the monster level produced. If she was going to continue being forced to summon monsters in combat, she needed to find a way to reduce the randomness – gambling with her power was certain to get them killed at some point.

“Go,” Ali said. She hadn’t expected to have the time to make gear for her new mages, but somehow all three Fire Mages had appeared wearing some sort of robe she recognized from her Grimoire. Another nuance of my Customization upgrade? Bit busy right now, she reminded herself.

Calen flipped a gold coin into the air, making it vanish in a tiny shower of sparks, before he ignited the mana inside himself, his Righteous Fury making his body shine like a mini-sun in Ali’s mana sight.

“Fire!” Ali commanded, reinforcing her draconic words with the full sense of both meanings, and the urgent need to go all out. She followed her own commands, unleashing three streams of Arcane Bolts at the targeted Forest Guardian, and eschewing even her own protection in favor of sharpened shards of barrier magic, trying desperately to eke out the most damage she was capable of.

Are we winning? Firebolts flew in a constant barrage, making the wood elemental smoke and burn. Even Malika had leapt up on top of the Forest Guardian’s back unleashing a fury of flickering punches, giving up entirely on healing in favor of draining as much of the elemental’s mana as she could. But it all came down to Calen’s powerful skill, and the thirty seconds of fury and the devastating hail of arrows. If they failed to do enough damage, the monster would simply heal again.

She couldn’t help counting the seconds, as she burned through her mana with reckless abandon. They were definitely hurting the monster now, massive rents appeared in the armor due to Mato’s powerful strikes, immediately exploited by Calen and her Fire Mages for additional damage. Smoke billowed up from the many holes bored into its flanks by fire magic. But as the seconds ticked by, the monster remained standing.

Abruptly, the intense flare of light to her side dimmed, and at the same moment, the Forest Guardian roared in fury, spinning toward Calen whose skill had just expired.

“Shit!” Calen exclaimed.

“It wasn’t enough?” Ali gasped. She couldn’t believe it – the monster had to be nearly dead – it looked so battered and burnt that it seemed like it should just fall over. Instead, it charged toward Calen, suddenly deciding that he was the most dangerous threat.

In the briefest fraction of a second when it threw itself forward, Mato’s paw blurred, connecting with the ripping, tearing sound of a tree trunk splitting. The giant Forest Guardian managed two earth-shaking steps toward Calen before its entire bulk came crashing to the ground, tearing a deep furrow several meters long in the scorched earth before the thick roots from Mato’s skill halted its momentum.

Ali’s notification chime sounded. What the…

Your group has defeated Forest Guardian – Wood Elemental – level 36 (Nature)

Calen let out a shuddering sigh of relief.

“Oh, thank goodness,” Ali whispered. While the fight was by no means over, and they would still need to defeat the final guardian without the aid of Calen’s Righteous Fury, at least now they would not need to contend with two simultaneous regeneration auras.

“Thought I was going to have to run again for a minute there,” Calen observed.

Malika leapt up off the fallen Guardian and unleashed her relentless attacks upon the remaining Elemental.

“Switch,” Ali commanded, and as her mages retargeted to the final Forest Guardian, she settled in for a long fight. Even against the full power of all her Fire Mages, and their damage, Ali could see the pulsing of the Forest Guardian’s potent regeneration aura as it worked relentlessly to recover the damage they were inflicting.

But eventually, they wore it down.

Your group has defeated Forest Guardian – Wood Elemental – level 38 (Nature)

“About time,” Malika said, her voice sounding just as exhausted as Ali felt.

“Man, these things are nuts,” Mato answered, transforming back to his normal self. “That first one must have been running on one health point or… I don’t know. It took a crazy amount of damage.”

“They sure are unreasonably robust,” Calen agreed.

It had taken everything they could throw at the monsters, and they had barely succeeded. Without Mato’s retaliation, they might not have killed the first Guardian at all.

“Sorry,” Ali told them. “I thought we had enough damage to kill two. Perhaps we shouldn’t try that again until we’re a bit stronger?” The fight had been an unnecessary risk due to her eagerness to gain the Forest Guardian imprint. The smarter choice would have been patience. “We should have waited till Calen scouted out a single monster.”

“It’s ok, Ali.” Malika gave her a tired smile. “Yes, it was close, but we all agreed to the fight.”

“Well? What are you waiting for?” Mato said, looking at Ali with an expression of anticipation. Ali returned his gaze, puzzled at his meaning, and then he simply pointed at the giant corpse behind him. “Go get it?”

“Oh.” Oh! With a sudden surge of excitement, as she remembered the purpose for their taking the risk on this fight, she rushed over to where Mato stood, and deconstructed the massive elemental, impatiently urging her magic to go faster.

Please please please work… She had so many emotions riding on this that she struggled to even identify what exactly she was feeling. So much hinged on whether she could even learn it, or if it would summon properly.

Variant: Forest Guardian added to Imprint: Elemental.

“I got the imprint…” Instead of calming her down, her success pushed her emotions to an almost unbearable intensity.

What if it doesn’t work? She had so many examples of imprints that had proved to be an enormous disappointment. Her Piercer Scorpions that summoned dead, or all the light elementals she had learned that she was unable to use. Even the skeleton imprint she had tried had been a failure. She didn’t want to think about the trauma she had felt over her book imprint.

She opened her Grimoire and turned to the Elemental chapter; acutely aware she was the center of attention. Everyone was invested in this, and Ali wasn’t sure what she would do when it failed.

If it fails, she forced herself to admit the possibility of it succeeding and channeled her magic.

It was perhaps the longest several minutes she could remember experiencing. She kept her focus on her magic, trying to pretend her emotions were not there, but her body was trembling by the time her magic finally finished, and tears pricked at the corner of her eyes.

Forest Guardian – Wood Elemental – level 37 (Nature)

Your reserved mana has increased by +254.

The giant Elemental appeared with an abrupt suddenness that made Ali take an involuntary step backward. It towered over her, truly an intimidating presence so close. A heavy draw settled onto her mana pool. She stared at the monstrous elemental for several moments, fully expecting it to collapse, evaporate, or somehow vanish. The enormous head turned slowly toward her, setting her heart pounding in her chest, and the deep-set glowing green eyes fixed her with their gaze. From deep within the monster’s massive body, a low-pitched rumble emerged, felt within her body as a tactile pressure vibration through the very air, sending flickers of fear and apprehension through her.

It's alive.

“Holy shit,” Calen whispered.

“Yes!” Mato yelled, dancing about on the charred ground.

Dad… For a moment, Ali saw the memory of her father standing next to the creature and she thought her heart would break. She choked up and her eyes welled with tears, but she blinked them back, allowing the memory to slowly fade. All that remained was his memory and the legacy of his enormous Elementals that were now hers to summon.

“Good work, Ali,” Malika said, regarding her with knowing eyes.

“Thanks, Malika,” Ali managed through the lump in her throat.

She walked toward it and reached out and touched the rough, thick protective bark on the monster’s deferentially lowered head – a head that dwarfed her entire body.

Thanks, Dad… this is for you.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
