Hello, everyone!Here is my second post giving you an update on how life is going while I continue to rebuild my health and catch up on missed deadlines.So, this is a fairly good news-y kind of update. My neurologist strongly recommended that I take more time to take care of myself, exercise, and rest, as well as drink water and relax.So I took some time off in order to continue repairing my body, and it's been going quite well so far. There are still bad days, but they are getting rarer and rarer, and my writing speed is increasing.Right now, I am still working on Oath, Blood and Coin Book Two. As well as continuing to outline "I Am Become Death" . My mastery over dictation is getting better. Things are getting faster and it is getting easier.I am also becoming more comfortable with it not screwing up and learning exactly how I need to talk in order to have things come across.So, to take care of myself, I actually took a little trip. For the first time I went to Japan and gave myself permission to completely unwind. I have to admit I've never been overseas before, mostly because when I was younger I either had no money for travelling or no time.This was a magical journey with my friends, and Tokyo is a wondrous city. There I met some people that I felt honored to meet and had some of the best times.By the time I got back, my health was much better. And it continues to increase even now.I had to delay book two of Oath's Blood and Coin, unfortunately. It was originally supposed to launch in March and now has been pushed back to May. Not because of the trip, but because I'm still building up my energy stores in order to write for longer periods are not my word count.Currently, the tricky thing is that I still don't have my old stamina, so building that back up has been important.As of right now, I am on track to get Blood done soon, and I am hoping, though I cannot guarantee that I Am Become Death will resume serialization sometime in late April or early May.I don't want to make a firm promise because I've broken those before, and as I've learned, the body must take priority.However, I do have some interesting news to share with you.Hey, remember that Mark of the Fool webtoon?The one that kind of got delayed?Well, I got something to show you....

This narrative has been unlawfully taken from Royal Road. If you see it on Amazon, please report it.That's right, folks, on the five-year anniversary of the start of the serialization of Mark of the Fool, we are launching the Mark of the Fool webtoon!It's very, very exciting.This is another thing that has taken up some time: me helping out, doing some script consultation, and helping generate the art assets for the comic.I'm very excited for it. The scripter and producer for it is the same scripter and producer for Dungeon Crawler Carl, Tevagah and in my opinion, she has done an incredible job. Of course, I am biased, but in this case, I am right. :PSo look forward to that!In addition, on March 24th, Rune Seeker will no longer just be available on Amazon, but its hardcover will launch in Barnes and Noble, Indigo, and all other book retailers.What's cool is that there is a bonus for those that pre-order!https://pages.aethonvault.com/rune-seeker/If you reorder Rune Seeker's art cover, put your information onto that page, you'll get a free e-book of a novella that Carter and I wrote that involves a crossover between Mark of the Fool and Rune Seeker. It also gives more information as to the wonders and the horrors of the universe these stories take place in.You'll also get a free bookmark, which is really cool!You don't have to pre-order (you don't have to do anything; you've done more than enough, like tolerating my sick, unreliable self) but if you do, well, get your free stuff lol.In any case, that's the update for February. So I did as my doctor told me to and relaxed. My body is getting better. I saw Japan for the first time. Progress on "I Am Become Death" and "Blood" of Oaths, Blood and Coin is going well, and we have a launch date for the Mark of the Fool webtoon as well as the Rune Seeker hardcover.Oh, and finally my friends!Mark of the Fool, Book 10 audio is finally coming out on March 18th!!Your patience is finally being rewarded!Thank you very much for sticking with me, and I'll be back next month with either early updates or another blog post telling you how things are going!Thank you as always.You're all the best, and take care of yourselves.See you next time.
