“True. You’ll have to practice with your hands a lot if this is something you want to make a part of your arsenal,” said Bobby. “I’ve never actually trained anyone for lethal finger flicks, but I know it’s going to take time to form those hand-brain connections that will help you know how a tiny twitch at the center of a big, unusual baton affects what’s going on at the ends. More time than you have. But, on the bright side, you’re not preparing yourself to fight one of the world’s finest superheroes next week. Some control and a little thought might take you a long way against a peer. Let’s find out what you can do right now and go from there.”

Alden nodded and turned to see Liam watching the two of them. He was retying the drawstrings on his bright red shorts.

“I’m going to make you both wear padding,” Bobby said. “Liam, don’t actually try to hit Alden even though he’s got safety equipment. You’re too much of a Brute for me to feel good about that, so just go for light tags. He will try to hit you with these toys I made because they’ll just sting. I feel like this is all obvious, but if you start smacking into each other in a way that looks dangerous we’ll cut this short.”

“All right! Are we being recorded?” Liam asked eagerly. “Are you going to show us replays?”

“Yes,” said Bobby. “If neither of you has a problem with it, the room records from multiple angles so I can reference the video to show you what you might want to work on.”

They put on the padding and had a couple more minutes of discussion about what they’d be doing. Liam asked some questions about how Alden’s skill worked to make sure he understood it. Then, they stood at either end of their taped-off dueling block.

“Sixty seconds?” Bobby asked, raising a whistle to her mouth.

“They do sixty or ninety a lot,” Alden answered. He pointed the ball on the end of his weapon toward Liam. He swung it, imagining a different Brute about to run at him. “So that’s fine.”

The whistle blew.

Liam Long took two steps.

“Crap,” said Alden, his nerves spiking as soon as he realized how Liam was going to approach their first duel. “I mean, this is perfectly fair. Of course. But I’m hoping the fight next week will be against a dumber speedster.”

******

now

******

[Alden: Haoyu, would you please entrust me with this temper sphere in my left fist?]

Haoyu had just finished a duel with Everly. He waved across the gym, and Alden waved back from where he stood in the practice area the instructors always set aside on duel days, holding a temper sphere in one hand and his best sling in the other.

[Haoyu: I entrust!]

Alden dropped the sphere into his sling’s pouch, secured it in a way that would have been detrimental if he actually planned to use it as a sling stone, and spun it like he was planning to take the head off the dummy in front of him.

This sphere is under my control. It’s going really fast now. And…I agree to bear the burden of it. Not a switch on and off, but enfolding it with my skill. Which is myself.

Like this.

He was trying to think right whenever he had time to think right. Today, it seemed important for another reason.

Stuart wants to have a skill. I do understand what that’s like. I really do.

Alden put the preserved temper sphere in the utility pouch he wore around his waist. Several other temper spheres were in there. Another  waist pouch beside it was full of sand.

He didn’t plan to use the accelerated sphere on Winston. It would be for whoever he dueled first if they weren’t Winston. Now he needed to focus on preparing his weapon for the speedster.

And as for weapons…Foxbolt kept glancing at him when she wasn’t monitoring duels.

She’s probably wondering if I need her permission to upgrade my options. To something like a million argold cannon.

She clearly had opinions about the S-ranks getting extra classes next term.

Just going to follow the original rules for this one, Instructor. No giant cannon.

On Thanksgiving, when Alden had tried to explain to Winston that he was a stupid dickhead for spreading lies about Esh-erdi and Alden on the internet, the speedster had shouted that Alden hadn’t really beaten him in a fair fight during the obstacle course because he’d used a trick.

Apparently, in Winston’s mind, Alden decapitating him with a fishing line he hadn’t known about was cheating.

So if I do anything he can possibly convince himself is cheating this time, he’ll go back on his deal with Max. And he seems to be able to convince himself of some advanced nonsense.

He walked over to one of the piles of supplies they were all allowed to use.

I want to keep it very basic for you, Winston, so that you know for sure you’ve been defeated.

Max is my fellow B-rank. Finlay is good company in science class. Jeffy trusts me to help him pick spell impressions. I will cleanse you from their apartment. Like a holy robovacuum.

Some of the fifty kilo sandbags had a nice chunky shape, like fat marshmallows instead of sausages. Alden settled on one of those.

If he’d been more confident, he might have gone with a very small weight. He knew he really ought to take Winston down in a single blow—an accurate headshot so that there was no opportunity for retaliation. The temper sphere in his pouch could work. But accuracy was hard when the other person was faster than you and knew you were coming for them.

He might only manage a glancing blow. A glancing blow that weighed over a hundred pounds was better.

I’d have liked another week to practice.

He tied up the bag with fluorescent orange paracord. This would be the head of his mace. He looped a single strand of thread through the cord and knotted it before moving on to making the handle.

Four feet. Five. Six?

The different lengths he’d experimented with had been equal amounts of useful and difficult to manage when he was practicing. He decided on four feet of survival paracord, with an additional foot and a half of the fishing line tugged out of the sheath on one end. He tied the other end to the thread loop he’d left on the fifty kilo weight.

“So what are you going with?”

Alden turned to see Max standing behind him. His dark eyes were scanning the weapon. He wore a slight frown.

“This is a very lightweight, four-foot-long stick with a heavy thing on one end and a pointy thing on the other,” said Alden.

“Is that too simple?”

“Maybe it is. But there’s not even the tiniest chance Winston can say I cheated this way, so if I do win, you’ll win. We’re going to see if I’m more skillful with this thing I’ve cooked up recently than he is with…his whole body that he’s been working with all term. I just performed the wordchain that gives me better control over my body, so that’ll narrow the gap significantly. But…”

“That wordchain is gold.”

“It is,” Alden agreed. “I’m trying to learn a mild speed booster from my roommate, too. That would have been useful, but I don’t have it down yet. You know what you asked me to do is hard, don’t you? Me not losing to Winston would have been easy. Me beating him without doing anything he’ll define as an unsportsmanlike trick for his own convenience is harder. And I don’t know what he thinks is the best way to fight me today. He’s known this was coming, too.”

He thought about Liam Long. He looked around the room to make sure Winston hadn’t arrived yet. “You know how he should fight me, right? There are a lot of people in our class who duel me incorrectly, but they haven’t had to figure it out yet because they can win even if they’re making a ton of mistakes.”

Max crouched beside him. “Which of your weaknesses are you thinking about?”

“You’re asking that like you’ve already made a list of my flaws, and you want to make sure you don’t reveal any of the items on it to me.”

Max smiled.

“Never mind,” said Alden. “I can say something to him that will probably make him take the wrong approach even if he knows better. He still has an out-of-control competitive urge toward Finlay, doesn’t he? He didn’t suddenly get over that this past weekend?”

“On Saturday, Winston timed Finlay’s shower.”

“Uh…”

“So that he could tell his followers exactly how slow Finlay is in the shower.”

“I see,” Alden said. “Thank you for sharing that intel.”

“You seem tense,” Max noted. “That’s normal under the circumstances. You know he plans to make you look as bad as possible if you give him the upper hand, don’t you? With all the instructors being stricter because of how duels went last time, he can’t be too out of line on the floor, but if you lose, he’ll refer to your loss every thirty seconds until we’re all in uni.”

“I am pretty tense.” Not about Winston.

“Let it all out in the fight.” Max stood. “It won’t last long.”

******
