Teressa was furious, but she was trying not to show that emotion. No one else in their little four man group was nearly as mad as her, so she held her anger in, only saying, “I don’t understand how anyone can think they should come here and start shit. Setting up bases this close is an act of war.”

“I agree,” Erick said, “I don’t understand it either. I certainly did not expect people to set up within [Teleport] range; that they would be that stupidly aggressive. But at the same time, one should never underestimate what fear can make a person do.” He added, “For instance, I didn’t even think to do this Imaging until now. Kinda dumb of me, there.”

Teressa lost a fraction of her anger.

Erick turned back to the lightsculpture of the map, trying to decide what to do.

Sitnakov sighed. “You want me to take care of these problems?”

With eyebrows raised, Erick looked up at the big man. “Uh? I did not expect such an offer.”

Sitnakov explained, “I don’t know who they are, but Stratagold has made its stance clear, and that an attack on you is an attack on us. I’ll go knock some heads if that’s what it takes to get whoever that is to be less aggressive.”

Erick felt a flush of contentment at that earnest expression of solidarity, but he said, “No. I should do this, and I’m going to do this. Just…” Erick looked around, at the wrought soldiers moving stuff back into their barracks, at the people of Candlepoint trying to pick up the pieces of broken lives, and at one of the more egregious emplacements of intruders, about 550 kilometers to the north, in the middle of nowhere. He turned back toward Sitnakov. “What would you tell them?”

Sitnakov said, “Not sure. Have to see them first. Probably start off on how you went through an inquiry and came out with an alliance, and that still holds. All the Wizard, dragon, and fae stuff is nuance we’re still working through. But this is a Gate Network, and we’re willing to bend if others are willing to bend.” He added, “Whatever I say is gonna be better than you blowing these people away; that would just vindicate whoever that is and make them even more willing to do whatever it is they’re doing.”

Erick looked to Teressa, to ask her to Sight the future.

Teressa’s eyes were already glittering with faint grey light as she looked up and out, seeing past her own sight, but she was still present enough to say, “It’s like seeing idiots walk into Ar’Kendrithyst and think that because they got a Class last week and Fallopolis was nice to them that they’re suddenly veterans ready to take on the world.”

Erick almost made a joke that he wasn’t comfortable being compared to the Shades like that, but he let that go. Now was not a time for jokes.

Teressa came back to the moment, blinking a bit as she looked down at Erick. “I don’t see anything bad happening right now. That could change.”

Erick nodded, and decided, “Basic preparation, then.” He turned to Sitnakov. “Please see to your own people. I’m going to head back to Yggdrasil while I deal with this from afar.” While Sitnakov eyed Erick, not sure if he liked where he was going with this, Erick turned to Poi, saying, “Please get Kiri and Jane back home.”

Poi sent tendrils of thought out into the manasphere.

Sitnakov asked, “What are you going to tell them?”

“Well… There’s a lot of them, so probably not much at all.” Erick glanced around the Gate District. “And I need to prepare some, anyway. Do you want an hour or two, Sitnakov?”

The large man shrugged. “Your choice. We’ve been battle-ready since before you opened the [Gate] to Stratagold and we’ll be battle-ready for at least two weeks more. We’ll switch out some people well before that usual fatigue creeps in, though.”

“I’ll take an hour, then.”

Kiri came walking out of the wrought buildings with Jane at her side, both of them looking worried. There was a bit of talk, but soon enough Erick was back at Yggdrasil and preparing for the worst.

He was also preparing for the best.

The first thing he needed was some paper.

Soon enough, several Ophiel went out, wrapped in spiky silver shields and sunforms made of lighting, holding onto packages most important. With flashing light that resembled lightning, they stepped out into the twilight, into the Crystal Forest, headed to parts barely known.

- - - -

Erick, as three Ophiel, descended upon the largest of the problematic places just north of the Gate District, around half a blip away. It was his first target, and it was almost a settlement, though from the surface you couldn’t tell. The half-rock, half-sand land was marked with a simple rock spike that you might find anywhere in the more stony parts of the forest. It could have been just another remnant of a Stone-based battle from either last week, or sometime in the last hundred years. Hard to know.

But it was a lie.

Erick couldn’t see it, and he couldn’t mana sense it, but it was there, and absolutely covered in [Ward]s of all kinds. The Imaging had the base at a sprawling three kilometers wide, with at least a hundred people. Erick really had to study the Imaging back at Yggdrasil to pull out those numbers, since the distance covered versus resolution made it tough to understand just how big this place was at first glance.

But it was big.

And it was just below the surface.

Erick had Ophiel lay out the welcome mat of [Prismatic Lullaby Aura] and [Spatial Denial Aura], while he used his own [Physical Domain] in order to shut down any possible [Telepathy] or other spellwork. It was complete overkill, but as Jane had sometimes said, there was no such thing as overkill. Ophiel’s range was more than enough to cover everything down there, up to at least a kilometer deep, while his own range was three times that much. Erick didn’t think the whole complex was more than twenty meters deep, though.

With a flick of his [Physical Domain], Erick spoke,

“Greetings, neighbors! It’s a beautiful sunset! Come on out and see!”

Nothing instantly happened. Erick didn’t feel anyone test his Domain.

This meant that these were probably just soldiers or spies of some sort; disposable by the powers that put them here. … Or maybe they were here of their own volition? For their own ends? Could be, could be. Erick wasn’t discounting anything right now, and his mind was running a thousand miles a second.

But as nothing continued to happen, and ten seconds turned to thirty, Erick decided that he had too much to do to wait around for them to respond. So with a flick of [Physical Domain], Erick began putting pressure on all the spellwork layered across the complex.

Bubbles of multicolored power, showing that this land was hidden by the hands of multiple mages, began to pop here and there. The most protective layers went first, since they absorbed Erick’s power to save the more delicate illusions from breaking, as they were designed to do. This meant that these people were trained well, either through rote instruction, or through trial and error.

It was nothing Erick had not seen before, but it did put these people in the top quarter of those who he had tangled with; on the level of the tougher Terror Peaks people he had killed.

But still, within seconds the true base stood revealed.

Several buildings recessed into the stone. Walkways between them. There were no signs of damage, for it all looked rather well put together. That jut of stone turned out to be a guard tower, where they could watch and see who might be approaching—

Guards stood on that tower, looking calm, though they were anything but that. They were fucking terrified. Erick could not place them into any known structure, for they actually looked more like adventurers than guards, with all their mismatched conjured armor and other accessories. One of them was a human woman, with pink armor and nothing else; a caster of some sort who was not able to cast because Erick was locking that down. The other was a human man in red armor with a real sword in a scabbard at his side and a real shield on his back. The shield had a large depiction of a dice on it.

Which was strange.

Gamblers?

Was Gambler a Class? Yes. Gambler was a Class, now that Erick thought of it.

Erick recalled Jane talking about that once, saying it was nothing how she imagined it to be, for it was a Class based on making all your attacks deal less normal damage, but with much higher Critical damage. Normal Crits did 10 times damage, but a Gambler could do upwards of 20 times damage with a hit to the head. Good for assassins, but the Assassin Class was generally preferred there for its sneaky capabilities. Gamblers were pretty bad against monsters, for it was usually quite easy to strip the Health from a monster through one or two Crits with a good melee weapon, and Criticals didn’t matter much for doing actual damage. Even driving a sword through a monster’s brain sometimes wasn’t enough to kill it, so the loss of the protective shield of Health wasn’t all that much of a big deal to monsters.

Jane had imagined a Gambler to be a Class that messed with Fate, but Fate was rather locked tight by the Script. If Fate weren’t so locked up, then perhaps Gambler would function more as Jane envisioned; a Class to introduce Fate into combat.

There was one good reason to take the Gambler Class, though. A proper Gambler could use their signature Class Ability of shifting Critical damage and apply it to themselves. A good Gambler would take half Health damage from almost every single attack out there, as long as they protected their heads. One good hit to the head and boom! There went all of their Health. But that could be protected against.

As an aside, Erick recalled how Ophiel was actually Critical immune, seeing as he was a construct of mana.

Erick’s overactive mind went on to search for other memories to help him understand what he was seeing, but he had none, not until he descended to the center of the base. There, he mana sensed more of the interiors. There were humans of all sorts, while the sign of the dice was here and there. The dice were simple white things with pips on the sides.

Some of the buildings had six-sided dice on the outside of the doors. Some had other numbered dice on their doors. Erick imagined there was an organization there, with pip numbers 2 through 6 being for some sort of personal organization, while the one-pip dice was at the door of the main, central building. That one-pip place had officers and, more importantly, maps.

Maps with plans of attack.

There was a map of Yggdrasil’s lake and the surrounding lands, updated to today, set to the side. Erick was glad to learn that that map did not look like a very important map, but it was present. These people were looking at Candlepoint and making notes in real time. But they didn’t seem to be gearing up to attack.

Most of the maps were for other places, and by those maps, Erick instantly knew what he was looking at.

He knew these people.

There was a detailed map with little miniatures placed atop it, showing off plans of attack for assaulting a peninsula, the dozen of smaller cities therein, and a capital city named Charme. There was a very detailed map of the twin cities of North Curio and South Curio, and the river delta which separated them. Offhandedly, there was a general map of a city called Pearl, sitting on an eastern coast, and the dozens of settlements and villages stretching up and down that coast. And then there was a map of Killtree, a city at the very northern edge of those lands, which protected all the other lands from the monster hordes of the Forest to the north.

Erick had once saved Killtree from a ballooning spider horde. Jane had had a Unicorn Hunt there.

There were more than a few red Xs on all of those maps, which could have meant anything.

There were also humans everywhere inside the compound. At least 75. While some of them were trying to cast or prepare themselves for the end, some of them were preparing to talk.

A man in red armor stood flanked by a woman in roughspun yellow clothes and a man who wore similarly roughspun clothes, but also a helmet that more resembled a fishbowl than anything actually protective. The guy in red looked to be the only one who had managed to have his [Conjure Armor] on when Erick came calling, which was lucky for him. His companions didn’t look ready for anything more than planning, though the fishbowl guy’s hat had to be real glass, or something like that.

Several seconds had passed since Erick had dispelled the protections around this land. Red guy had rushed outside, but so far he had only managed to get halfway up the stairs to the roof of the main building before Erick’s Ophiel landed.

Erick Shaped an image of himself with some of his features obscured by feathers, and he waited. It was a similar image to the ones Erick had used before in tense situations like this. The red man calmly finished walking up the stairs, followed by his people. He moved to stand a few meters in front of ‘Erick’.

“Hello,” Erick said. “You’re the Dicers, I presume? From the Sovereign Cities. The rebels who’ve been killing the nobility.”

“… We are.”

It had taken the man a second to admit the truth. The guy had no idea how this meeting was going to go, but he was expecting it to devolve into a summary execution. Execution was not off the menu, not now that Erick had seen that these people truly were the murderous people he had heard about almost six months ago. Were they after him, too, for some reason?

Perhaps.

But then the man frowned a little, looking more sad that it had come to this than anything else. He was not ready for this conversation at all.

The man tried, “I am at a loss. I did not expect this meeting to be on these terms.”

Erick could have said a lot of things to that response. Like, ‘You know I can search for people and find them, right?’ Or, ‘Did you expect to have a knife at my throat before you showed yourselves?’. Those words would have led to misunderstanding, though.

So instead, Erick said, “I’m going to cut through a lot of the trepidation here, and lay out a few facts—”

The red man and his flankers prepared for the end.

