“— as I know them. You’ve been killing a lot of people in order to kill the nobles of your nations. Those nobles currently control Registrar access in order to first have people sign soldier contracts before they are allowed to Matriculate, or something like that. These contracted people are then required to go to war with each other in order for the nobles to gain more land. Or something. The details escape me and I have not cared to pay attention yet, for I have a lot of problems of my own, and the last time I was there I saw people living in wooden huts. In a main city, Killtree, there were people living in wooden huts, and most of those huts did not even have fully enclosed walls.” Erick said, “Guards on tall stone structures, overseeing slums everywhere. Anyone who gets [Stoneshape] and tries to make a home of stone is executed by roaming bands of soldiers, along with their entire settlement.

“My daughter had an attempt on her life and a theft attempt within one hour of showing up for the annual unicorn hunt,” Erick said, “When it came time to end the hunt for the Queen Unicorn had finally been found, my daughter and her team were offered nobility if they pulled off the kill, and then it was go time.

“That unicorn turned out to be an Ancient.

“The Queen Unicorn was not supposed to be an Ancient.

“So this was either kill attempt number 2, and the nobility of the Sovereign Cities is very corrupt and deadly and therefore they deserve to die. Or they are stupid, weak people, trying to do their best and failing at all parts of the process of governance.” Erick said, “But what you’re doing isn’t going to change anything unless you kill all of the bad people and gain support of the citizenry, and you make some proper changes to how the world works over there. Killing innocents in the crossfire is not a good look for you.” Erick watched as hopeful and worried emotions began to well up inside every single person there on that rooftop, and nearby. Erick wasn’t done yet, though. He said, “Now you know my general thoughts on your whole situation. I’ve got more than a few other ground dwellers to suss out of these sandy lands, but you were the largest group, so I started with you. So! With as few words as possible,” Erick commanded, “Tell me why you are sitting on my doorstep.”

Looking like his day of execution had turned into a stay of execution, the red man said, “The Sovereign Cities need to change and since words do not work, we will resort to violence. We are ashamed of the few civilian deaths we have caused, but those stories are blown way out of proportion; mostly, we kill other soldiers, as one does in a war. We would like your help removing the nobility from power and taking back our kingdoms for our people. We had come here to eventually approach you directly, and professionally, seeking your assistance as an archmage, but ever since your announcement of Wizardry we have been split on what to do.” He gestured to the ground. “As for this base and the size of it… It just sort of happened. We move around a lot.”

Erick asked, “How do you feel about me being a Wizard?”

Around 25 or thirty listeners were tentatively fine with Wizardry. Most people had an instant, visceral dislike; tension in the shoulders, sweats. One guy pissed himself a little as he tried to press into the stone wall at his back and failed completely; he probably had [Stone Body] and he was trying to escape, but that was Denied.

The red man spoke for them all as he said, “It would take a Wizard to fix the Cities, and we would like your help.”

A non-answer, but fine enough for the situation.

“Okay.” Erick had Ophiel hand over a multi-page form. As the red man took the paperwork and seemed bewildered and joyful in equal measure (a sentiment shared by most other people inside the compound), Erick said, “I don’t like how they operate over there, but I’m not going to remove your nobility from power. I’ve got too many problems of my own and I expect to have a war on my hands sooner rather than later. If there is something else I can help you with, then maybe we can talk. Fill that out and deliver it to my temporary business in the Gate District. I put up a new building while we were talking.” He added, “And move to another base.”

“We will evacuate at once!” The red man turned to his people, yelling, “Pack up! We’re out of here!”

Erick departed, pulling his various auras away as he did so.

Their base started evacuating the instant Erick’s Denials pulled away.

- - - -

In tens and twos, in fives and fours, and in three separate cases of a single person, hiding out in the sands and under the stone, Erick secured the one-[Teleport] distance from Candlepoint. Aside from that first encounter with the Dicers of the Sovereign Cities, almost everyone else was either someone from Candlepoint who had made an adventuring base out in the sands in order to better hunt mimics, or other monsters. Shadelings didn’t have [Teleport], but most of the people of Candlepoint were former shadelings, and while their shadeling partners couldn’t, they could purchase that spell from the Open Script.

For those people, Erick simply met them and then moved on. Most of those adventurers spoke of being from Zaraanka’s nascent Adventurer’s Guild, though that sort of thing had yet to be ratified by the powers of the actual Adventurer’s Guild.

There was one human who had a collection of animal bodies, mostly shadowolves, and a lot of necromantic tomes in his hiding hole. He was not from Candlepoint, but he was trying to replicate the [Reincarnation] magics that 1 out of every 4 people in Candlepoint had gone through. Erick did not spend too long with that guy, but his secret operation looked rather clean. So Erick moved on, not doing anything against him, nor giving him any paperwork.

The necromancer was apparently a butcher at the cattle ranch, working under Daetroi, so Erick would probably see the guy again.

There were a few groups that were observers from other nations, though. Now those were trickier to solve. There were a few observers from the Wasteland Kingdoms, a few from Greensoil. Treehome had a pair of orcols spying on Erick. Portal had a few humans set to spying.

All of those people got various paperworks, asking if they needed any archmage assistance, and if they did, to fill out the various boxes and deliver the completed form to the temporary ‘Offices of Erick Flatt’. It was a rather passive aggressive response to their own aggressive responses of placing bases right next to Erick’s lands. Passive aggression seemed fine for now.

No obvious assassins appeared at any point in the excursion. So that was good.

- - - -

Erick pulled back to himself, saying, “And that’s that, for now.”

Kiri sat up from her own chair, pulling back as well. She blinked a bit, saying, “False alarms are good, though that building you’ve made is bad. O’Lark is already yelling at me to change it.”

Erick smiled, feeling relieved at the switch to an easy topic, saying, “I’ll change the building tomorrow. It’s really only a place to stick some completed paperwork, anyway.”

As Kiri finally felt safe enough to let the tension pass, she sighed, then giggled, returning to how she had been before this whole ‘there are people under the sand out there’ debacle. “The building is fine. The giant glowing ‘MAIL FOR ERICK FLATT GOES HERE’ in rotating words is the problem.”

“Eh. I’ll fix that tomorrow, too.”

He’d also do some more searching tomorrow, for while he saw no obvious problems tonight, that was probably only because he caught everyone who wasn’t actively paying attention to the city, or to Yggdrasil. That [Cascade Imaging] above the big guy was still visible, if you really looked for it. He had tried casting [Cascade Imaging] inside a [Fairy Stronghold], to hide the fact that he was Imaging, but that search had turned up nothing and no one.

… Maybe he’d make a new kind of [Cascade Imaging] tomorrow. One with higher fidelity and able to search for concepts, perhaps, like ‘the color red’ or ‘flowing water’, while simultaneously invisible to onlookers. He’d have to think on that particular magic.

But for tonight, Jane had made dinner while everyone else was on sand investigation.

It was a great meal.

And there were no explosions.
