“Back in my time one of the larger Underworld cities by the name of Absolock… And a few sister cities, too.” Ava waved a hand, saying, “It’s a long history that probably goes too deep to be useful information, but they were a very large city and so they had a great deal of time to develop their tax rules. It was rather routine for them to waive taxes on hunting lodges set up on monster tunnels, and in any various industries that they wished to support. In my long years overseeing my former home’s sewers, Absolock once developed a dearth of monster hunters, so they dropped taxes on anyone who was willing to sign up with the tunnel crawlers, or whatever it was they called their monster extermination teams. It worked well for them. Lots of signups. Lots of growth. Of course, when they got too many tunnel crawlers over the course of ten years they put those taxes back, and then the city guards found some bureaucrats without heads the following month.” Ava shrugged. “Eh. Nuances. The system of dropping taxes on sectors of the city which you wish to foster growth is established to work.

“I am not sure how you arrived at a thousand gold minimum per year, though. I would expect more like 5,000 per year. This is the Crystal Forest and once Mage Bank and its rad exchange arrives, even the lowliest of adventuring types will hit that thousand gold income in less than four months.”

Erick sat back in his chair and grinned, happy to know that his ideas already had established credit here on Veird. As for the other two people at the table, Ava’s words seemed to trigger recognition in Mephistopheles and Justine.

Justine asked anyone who could answer, “I think they have programs like that in Greensoil, too? I’m rather sure they do, though I do not know the details.”

Mephistopheles said, “They do, but it’s a lot more complicated than that. The tax codes over there are mostly variations of 25% of gross income, but really they’re whatever the local tax man says they are. A lot of people are taxed twice or even three times in a lot of the places over there. Dragonkin and all other non-humans are especially vulnerable to getting taxed several times. I don’t expect us to have those specific problems here, and we’re also still small enough to use truthstones and a few clerks to do the whole thing.” He added, “When everything settles down and we actually have an economy once again.”

Erick nodded. “It may be early to decide something like this; you are correct. But we can still talk about it.” He said to Ava, “I expect adventurers to hit the minimum range rather fast. A thousand gold was a starting point, meant to allow for city-bound people to not have to feel like they need to go out and risk their lives against monsters to bring in enough money to pay the tax man. If there are better numbers, let us discuss them.” To all of them, he said, “We don’t have to agree on anything said here today, but the citizens of Candlepoint seem to be getting on alright, and nothing is on fire, so now is the time for me to get to know the people who are running… My kingdom.”

It had hurt Erick to call this land ‘his’, but while others noticed, they said nothing about it.

The conversations continued, delving deep into topics like interest rates (yes, and how much, or no, and why) and loan approvals (you usually don’t loan to people who will skip town, and how to judge if a person might do that), and even zoning (by district, or by race, or should there be zoning at all).

Slip eventually showed.

The Guard Captain of Candlepoint spotted Sitnakov right away. And then he ignored the giant adamantium wrought, and sat down at the table, looking not scared at all. If anything, his eyes brightened a fraction whiter, though Erick had already thought them pure pools of white light.

Erick asked Slip the same questions.

And Slip gave a rather concise answer, “I really don’t care about all that stuff. And I shouldn’t, either. My job, as I see it, is to enforce the peace, and to a lesser extent, the will of city hall and our king. Please tell me if I’m doing a bad job, but other than that… Everything is going as good as it can, so I got no complaints, or ideas on what needs changing.”

Erick paused. And then he chuckled. “I think you’re doing great, Slip. People on the street like you, and they bring you their problems, and then you solve those problems. The city is clean and orderly. Your guard is professional and competent. But do you have Witnessers and Sin Seekers? Do you want them? I might need to go hire some… or something.”

Slip waved him off. “No need. I’m a Sin Seeker and I got [Witness] and all that stuff.” Slip shrugged. “I can handle pretty much all of Candlepoint’s problems— Ah. I thought of something. I don’t think my guards should be taxed on the pay they receive from the city. I would like for that to stop.”

He was a Sin Seeker? And capable of [Witness]?

Huh! Good to know!

Erick felt very good about Slip. He said, “I did not know you were both a Sin Seeker and capable of [Witness]. That’s… That’s great, Slip. Glad to have you here. As for your request, I will see to it that the guard is not taxed on the pay they receive.” He looked to Mephistopheles, saying, “Right?”

Mephistopheles went, “Ah. Sure.” And then he made a note of it on the paper in front of him, saying “That’s doable… And done. No more taxes on the guard.”

Slip smiled, asking, “Is that all, then? Today looks like a great day to fish, and I’m sure everything will work out fine without me here.”

“Uh?” Erick decided, “Sure. Thanks for coming in. Have fun fishing.”

“Thanks!” Slip stood up from his chair, happily saying, “I always do, King Erick.”

And with that, Slip took his leave.

Erick briefly watched Slip leave the room and the doors close behind him, then Erick turned back to everyone else, saying, “That was a welcome bit of news. I didn’t know that about him.”

From their looks, Justine and Ava didn’t know that about Slip, either.

Mephistopheles knew, though. He said, “Slip likes to keep all of his capabilities secret unless they need to be known. That’s probably the most he’s ever said about himself in a setting as public as this one, even with King Flatt’s Privacy Magic scattered around outside.”

Justine confessed, “I still think he’s a Shade in hiding.”

“Everyone does.” Mephistopheles said, “It helps keep people in line a lot easier than if he were just a normal shadeling.”

Ava rolled her eyes at that. She thought Slip was a Shade, too.

The conversation continued.

- - - -

Zaraanka and Valok never showed.

When the meeting was over Erick had gained a great deal more insight into Mephistopheles, Justine, Slip, and Ava. He hoped they had gained some insight into him, as well, beyond the ‘wildly powerful Wizard’ stuff that people were saying out there in Candlepoint.

A lot of people out there were saying a lot of things.

And Erick saw a great deal of those interactions through his Ophiel.

- - - -

Over in the Gate District, colorful couatls flitted here and there, moving stone at the behest of a pale green wrought architect that knew exactly how he wanted his stonework made, where he wanted it placed, and how it all needed to fit together. A young greenscale worked as fast as she could, which was about ten times faster than the old wrought expected her to move. The skinny man was thrilled for the speed of creation, at seeing the inner workings of his mind come into existence nearly as fast as he could envision it all. The young woman was thrilled, too, for she was learning more about building with [Stoneshape] than she had ever learned before.

Nearby, a brunette young woman watched, waiting for the trick, for the assassin to appear.

In a small [Fairy Stronghold] near the Gate, a feathered [Familiar] also watched.

- - - -

A disheartened redscale man sat alone in his living room, in the dark. The only sources of light were from the half-covered window, and the gentle white glows of his eyes. An unopened bottle of hard liquor sat beside him on a small table. He stared at nothing in particular, half facing the door. The last runner from city hall had just left, after informing the man that the meeting with King Flatt was over, and that Mephistopheles did not approve of Valok missing that meeting.

The redscale man’s glare lingered on the door.

In an unseen, unsensed, unknown box on the redscale man’s roof, Ophiel waited for something to happen.

Valok waited for something to happen, too. A knife in the dark. A bomb blipping into the room, or the stone all around him turning into spikes and shrapnel. He had already died once to something like that.

It would probably happen again.

- - - -

A human woman of ruddy complexion and wearing a bright pink dress stood beside a window three stories up from the ground floor. Yggdrasil’s lake lay beyond that window, same as always; deep and blue and dark, for the sky was overcast with clouds and the sun was nowhere to be seen.

But the horizon was filled with light. The World Tree, growing and glowing, resembled a distant mountain alight with green fire.

Zaraanka sipped from a tumbler as she stared at nothing, her luminescent white eyes fixed on that bright point on the horizon, but not really looking at Yggdrasil at all. Behind her the house was in shambles. There were clear signs of several guest rooms being cleared out in some last minute haste. Scorch marks filled one hallway. Large rents in the stone filled the main foyer. A servant, carrying a few bags filled with all their stuff, paused as she saw the rents, like she was seeing a problem that was no longer her problem. And then that servant walked out of the front door of the house, leaving for some other part of the city.

And the pink woman was alone again, though she had already been alone for over a day. She was not used to being alone.

She poured herself another drink, hoping that things would make sense again if she got deep enough into that bottle. She didn’t care at all about anything right now, but she could maintain, at least until things eventually started to make sense again. How long would it take this time? A month? Two months?

She could do that.

But not right now.

Not… Not right now.

Ophiel settled down inside his small [Fairy Stronghold], nestled in the crook of the roof overhead. He watched, and ensured that Zaraanka wasn’t actually alone. Because someone was going to die tonight.

Erick knew it in his bones, in his blood, inside the Benevolence of his soul. Someone was going to die. Or, at least, there would be an attempt.

Maybe he could prevent it with some foresight, though.

- - - -

The temporary church, with its spire of white and with a silver star on top, had seen better days. It was not broken, but it had been remade rather recently, for some of the walls were still marked with imprecise Shapings. Justine returned to the church, to her new home, only ten minutes after the meeting with Erick was over. After talking to some fellow acolytes she started praying to Koyabez. Erick’s sense of her vanished when she did that, which was something he had not expected, but there it was.

The sewerhouse, adorned with many of the diamonds Erick had given Ava, was looking fine. Ava returned about half an hour after the meeting. She was living alone, but she had two apprentices living down the hall, so she wasn’t really alone. The apprentices had dinner waiting for her.

City hall, all black stone and clear, whitish quartz, was unmarred by the troubles of the rest of the city. Mephistopheles lived in a room behind his office, but he did not return there after the meeting. He went on to have even more meetings with clerks and judges and guards and paper pushers (or paper shapers, as Sitnakov called them). There weren’t many of any of those kinds of people left, but he still had a staff of about 17 people, and they had work to do. As for Mephistopheles himself, he went back to his office and began reading some dense tomes on city building, published by the Arcanaeum Consortium. He was deep into the books on rules for elites, but tax books sat nearby, waiting to be read.

Each place was a strategic asset.

Each person who ran that asset had a small [Fairy Stronghold] and an Ophiel to watch over that asset, and that person, and others nearby. Several fake images of Ophiel flew around the city, making their presentable count look like seven to nine, to any observer who might be counting.

For there were certainly people watching.

- - - -

High atop Yggdrasil, inside his rainbow crown at the very roof of his body, a cascading orb of light sent out radio waves in all directions. White mist formed out of the air below that [Cascade Imaging], mapping out the nearest 2,000 kilometers. Anyone looking this way could probably see the Imaging, if they were close, and if they knew what they were looking for, but the rainbows up there were rather thick and they obscured well enough against any casual observer.

Ophiel watched as the map populated, Imaging for ‘people’.

There were hits at Candlepoint, and at the Gate District…

And elsewhere, in the deep desert all around.

- - - -

“Am I being paranoid?” Erick asked Poi and Teressa.

Sitnakov was there too, but while he was included in the conversation, Erick didn’t ask him.

The sun was setting behind the clouds to the west. The wrought part of the Gate District, just a half a kilometer away, looked like a cross between an airport with its organized avenues leading from future Gate sites, a warehouse district able to temporarily hold goods, a modern hotel for obvious usage, and sleek offices to center the whole thing into a cohesive masterpiece. O’Lark could only have known what three of those four things were, but the open airport-style for the Gates was rather self explanatory and evident, at least for Erick and probably for Jane, too. But Veird had nothing like airports at all. O’Lark was obviously a visionary, and he had decided that the wrought lands needed to be able to support a lot of throughput. Erick truly approved.

But he did not approve of what he was seeing in the Imaging above Yggdrasil. Erick had taken that Imaging and reproduced it in wardlights here, upon the orange stone outside of the wrought district.

Blue dots surrounded these lands, most of them within one [Teleport] distance from Candlepoint, or otherwise, but there were a few more set up two [Teleport]s away.

Poi mirrored Erick’s frown as he looked down at the lightsculpture. “How many of them are established?”

