Greater Chameleon Scorpion

These desert predators can change their color to better blend in with their surroundings and ambush prey. A single drop of the venom in their tails is potent enough to kill an adult drake.

Edmund balked at the description, realizing the foot-wide claws that protruded from the beast’s front weren’t its actual weapons, but without fully exiting the ravine, its tail had remained trapped between the walls. It was no wonder he’d had such an easy time downing it.

The mention of camouflage also explained why he hadn’t noticed it when he’d first passed, making the concept of the scorpions all the more threatening. Without the enhanced hearing from his sigil of the azure novice, he wouldn’t have noticed the thing until at best it’d brought its tail to bear and at worst had already stung him. Edmund might’ve had some resistance to over-time damage, but he was no adult drake.

He progressed more slowly after that, carefully scanning every inch of the ravine for any sign of the ambush predators. He caught two before they could emerge, but three more managed to get their upper halves out of the ravine before Edmund could end them. None successfully wielded their tails.

As he walked, the parallels between the two hub floors jumped out at Edmund. On both he’d found himself walking along a feature of the landscape riddled with ambush predators, foes much easier to defeat if he could spot them before they struck—first the rockjaws in the creek on the fifth floor, and now scorpions in the desert ravine. He wondered if this was another of Liam’s themes, a bit of intentional design to guide delvers towards the hidden exit, or if he’d just been drawn to the ravine in the first place by its similarities to the earlier creek.

Coincidence didn’t even cross his mind.

A few of the laborers mining ore and hunting parties gathering leather from the giant snakes and rare hydras that wandered the desert gave Edmund curious looks as he progressed, but none attempted to warn him off his course. As the repeated recruitment attempts had driven home to him, he looked like he knew what he was doing.

Sometimes, looks aren’t deceiving.

Three easily-dispatched scorpions later, Edmund spotted another flash of something that didn’t belong among the reds and browns of the ravine: a tuft of fur, blue as the summer sky, caught between two rocks. He’d found his entry point.

He noted, as he readied himself for his descent, how the landscape similarly pointed to this particular location. Two craggy hills framed his position to distant onlookers, and the ravine stretched just so much wider as to allow easier passage through it. At just over two feet wide, it would be a tight fit, but he would fit.

Edmund first made sure to clear the area of any lurking scorpions, trekking up and down the ravine and killing whatever he could. He wouldn’t be strictly helpless as he climbed, but he’d lose his mobility advantage once he joined the monsters in the cramped quarters.

He considered, briefly, casting a Magma Fissure across the ravine in an attempt to burn out any remaining monsters, but concerns over the dripping lava solidifying and blocking his path eliminated that option.

Only once he’d thoroughly exhausted every bit of preparation he could think of did Edmund lower himself into the crack.

The space within stretched just wide enough for his cuirass to maintain an inch of clearance in front, as long as the back pressed against the reddish stone. He wedged himself in place with his elbows and knees, tensing hard to overcome the walls’ desire to crumble. His spear he kept straightened, held in his right hand, the space too tight to practically hook it around his neck. At least this way he could use it to potentially fend off an attack, if only one from the right.

None came.

He traveled slowly into the depths of the earth, frequently pausing to awkwardly crane his neck in all directions in search of approaching danger. Even with such vigilance, he failed to spot the room until his knee slipped down and forward in search of its next anchor point and found only open air.

Landing on the ledge was a simple matter of releasing his grip on the walls and allowing himself to fall a few feet before spending his windstep to halt his momentum and propel himself forward. He landed on his feet.

The area was more a hidden landing than a proper room, a section of the wall carved away to form a space built in and hidden by the crevice, but it wasn’t the difficult to find nature of the place that claimed Edmund’s attention, nor the silver chest on the floor, nor the door hanging open to reveal the darkness between levels.

It was the one-eyed man selling kebabs.

“Well, would you look who it is,” William said, his good eye fixing on Edmund.

“Told you he would find it,” Liam replied through a mouthful of kebab. He held up a quieting finger as he paused to swallow. “That’s two more kebabs you owe me.”

William sighed as he put two more skewers onto the grill. “A word to the wise, kid,” he addressed Edmund. “Don’t make bets with your friend here. He cheats.”

“I don’t cheat!” Liam exclaimed. “I said he would find it, not that I wouldn’t leave him clues.”

“The blue fur,” Edmund reasoned aloud. “You didn’t reclaim it.”

“Bingo,” Liam said. “And that wasn’t even action. I just had to not do something. Do you have any idea how easy it is to not do something?”

Edmund ignored his prattling to settle his gaze upon William. “What are you doing here?”

The man shrugged and leaned over the rough stone counter, his glass eye swiveling about to join his real one in staring at Edmund. “Selling kebabs.”

“In a secret room? There’s nobody here.”

“I never said I was good at my job.”

Edmund groaned.

Liam grinned.

William continued. “I waited for you. Got mighty disappointed when you didn’t come back like you said you would.”

“Sorry,” Edmund said curtly. “I got a bit stuck and had to move on to the next floor. Same deal as last time? An answer for an answer?”

“No thanks,” William dismissed him out of hand.

Edmund blinked. “I’m sorry, what?”

“Not in the mood.”

“Not in the mood for…” Edmund trailed off and glared at Liam. “You set this up, didn’t you?”

Liam reached down to pull one of the skewers off the grill. “Don’t look at me, I’m just enjoying some delicious kebabs.”

Edmund noted that though he’d implied it, Liam hadn’t directly denied the accusation. He didn’t press the matter. If Liam didn’t want to tell him, Liam wouldn’t tell him. He cast his attention back to William. “Why are you here?”

“I have two passions in life,” William said, “good companionship, and a better story. Liam here provides the former, and you the latter.”

Edmund stared at him.

William smiled. “Can I interest you in a kebab? Two copper a piece.”

Edmund shook his head. “I don’t have any mon—” He trailed off as his, Liam’s, and William’s eyes all turned to the silver chest next to the exit. He sighed. “There’s two copper in there, isn’t there?”

Liam flashed the smuggest grin Edmund had yet seen. “There is now.”

William glanced sideways at Liam. “I’d thank you for the business, but I know you only did it because you find it funny.”

“It is funny,” Liam argued as he watched Edmund approach the chest. “Just look at the way he glowers. It’s amazing.”

Edmund tuned them out as he swung open the silver chest, finding exactly two copper coins sitting atop an item he’d hoped he’d find.

Scorpion’s Sting

Deals major poison damage on blood draw.

Edmund didn’t quite smile, but the scowl on his face did alleviate as he picked up the steel short sword. The blade itself bore a simple, yet elegant design, slightly narrower at the base than the tip to give it a sense of curvature and, presumably, guide opposing blades to the crossguard. The pommel was an obsidian-black replica of a scorpion claw, a scale reproduction of those he’d fought on his way there.

Edmund stood and swung the two-foot-long weapon through the air a few times, getting a feel for the weight and balance of the thing. He let out a contented breath. He’d been lacking a short range weapon ever since he’d broken Rat’s Fang back on the eighth floor. This would do nicely.

He pulled a matching scabbard from the silver chest and slid it through his chain belt, hooking it in place with the attached buckle.

His loot collected, Edmund leaned back against the far wall and shut his eyes to consider his constellation. He had a few options.

From the list he’d purchased from the scholar, he had his eye on the confluence Madness made with Death, Chaos, Wrath, and War, while Eldritch, of course, remained his top priority if he could ever find an appropriate shrine at which to form a pact.

Alternatively, he still had multiple confluences available immediately, most notably Elements with The Recluse or Obsession. Both would upgrade Madness, and both would provide a powerful tier three Aspect then and there, a boon he’d need for whatever increasing difficulty awaited on the next floor.

He settled on Obsession. The Recluse, while surely valuable, remained difficult for Edmund to evaluate, and after his run-in with Amelia’s group, he was hesitant to over-invest in derivatives of Solitude.

After two runs through all his other options to confirm his decision, Edmund focused in on Obsession and Elements, and accepted his newest Aspect.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

He could work with this.

It was narrow in the way that many of his Aspects were, but thus far the overwhelming majority of foes that had truly posed a threat to Edmund had been lone enemies. He knew that was subject to change, and he couldn’t trust Focus to carry him through every encounter, but double spell damage was a massive boon.

Perseverance, Madness, and Elements remained unchanged beyond their increase in level, but Obsession’s description showed a new part.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession. Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Not only did it raise an additional attribute—one he sorely needed given his recent investment in Elements—but it did so on the scale of months rather than days. He wondered if that meant he’d get more at a time, before realizing trying to compare the unquantifiable concepts of strength or agility or mana didn’t make any sense.

Content with his rewards, Edmund allowed his constellation to fade away as his attention returned to the room as a whole. William and Liam both stared at him.

“Feeling better?” Liam asked.

Edmund ignored him, reaching back into the loot chest to grab the two copper coins and approaching the counter. By the time he got there, William already had a kebab ready. “Thank you for your business.”

Edmund accepted the skewer, glaring at Liam as he spoke. “It’s not like I could afford anything else with just two copper.”

William seemed to take that as a compliment. “I always strive for value.”

Edmund ignored him too, biting into the grilled pepper on the kebab’s tip. It was good, far better, even, than he’d expected. Notes of garlic and paprika wove together with the char from the grill in a delicate balance that Edmund appreciated all too much. His mouth full, he nodded at William.

It would’ve been dishonest to say something about the kebab seller bothered him. A lot of things about the kebab seller bothered him. From appearing in such an obscure location to being the only other person that could see Liam to somehow having a stall on the crowded fifth floor that nobody patronized, William reeked of suspicion. Thrax, the name ‘William’ was even often shortened to ‘Liam.’

That last was a bit of a stretch. After all, the dungeon hadn’t come up with the name Liam, it’d stolen it at the same time it’d stolen the appearance of the boy Edmund had met in Dungeon Square what felt like an eternity ago. If anything ever were a coincidence, it had to be that, right?

Whatever secrets William kept, Edmund decided he wanted no part in them. He had what he’d come for, from a wealth of information on paragons and the true nature of Madness, to Amelia’s true identity, to a valuable piece of equipment and even more valuable new Aspect. It seemed he’d missed the azure fox, but he looked forward to catching up to it on the next level.

He thought, for a moment, to return to the oasis, potentially hire himself out as a guard watching over gatherers until he could afford a bedroll, but ultimately decided against it. He didn’t need a bedroll. It wouldn’t make him any more effective at accomplishing his goal and destroying the Eternal Depths. Spending Thrax knew how long working towards something with such little utility felt like a waste, and that was without even considering the potential loss of his Obsession bonuses.

He finished his kebab. He deposited the wooden skewer on William’s counter. He rested a hand on the pommel of his new sword.

With one last glare at Liam and curious glance at William, with the taste of kebab lingering on his tongue, with a mix of excitement and trepidation at the coming escalation of both difficulty and rewards, Edmund turned to face the exit, and stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 11

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 5 - Gain increased constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 6 - Gain health regeneration.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 7 - See beyond reality. Touch the unreal.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession. Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse - Gold Resonance

Level 1 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island - Gray Resonance

Level 3 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure - Silver Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

The Crimson Hand

