Edmund emerged to noise and light and heat.

The noise of humanity cascaded through the air, the all-too-familiar clatter of people buying and selling and laughing and lying. It sent a wave of relief coursing through him, a sense that he’d somehow left the dungeon behind and returned to the city streets and bustling squares he’d once called home. If only for a moment, he could forget where he was.

The light of a clear summer’s day shone down upon it all, glistening against polished steel, enchanted crystals, and the sapphire waters of a spring. Of course, neither sun nor sky could exist in such a place, but unlike the other more open floors Edmund had visited, the Depths made no attempt to obscure its subterranean nature. A hundred blindingly bright fixtures—their shape obscured by the brightness of their glow—cast the illusion of sunlight upon both the rocky, cave-like ceiling and the level below.

The heat took Edmund by surprise. He’d thus far never found a floor within the dungeon to be anything other than a comfortable temperature, so the waves of heat that radiated from both the lights above and the cracked and dry ground below felt out of place—especially for a hub floor.

Edmund stepped away from the entrance and took in his more immediate surroundings.

In lieu of the built-up deck he’d found on the fifth floor, a simple fence cordoned off the area for new arrivals and those awaiting them. A few benches sat occupied, some by resting delvers, others by anxious friends and relatives, but compared to the previous hub, this one felt almost empty. There was no need for someone to keep the arrivals moving because there simply weren’t enough arrivals to warrant it. Only half as many benches lined the space, but only a third as many people actually used them.

He’d only traveled five floors, but already Edmund could see the attrition begin to take hold. Whether the delvers had decided they’d had enough or the Eternal Depths had decided for them, it didn’t matter. The further he went, the fewer people he’d find. He supposed that was a good thing.

Edmund stepped across the cracked and arid ground, his boots kicking up tiny clouds of dust as he crossed the cordoned-off entry area. With the lack of deck and its position nestled between two hills, he could only see a narrow subsection of the marketplace ahead, but it appeared similar enough to the previous one, if a bit smaller.

A matching ring of stepping stones denoted where the safe area began and ended, though in contrast to the fifth floor, the inside teemed with life while the outside seemed dead. Desert palms, cacti, and hardy shrubs decorated the space, gorgeously framing the glimmering pond at the center.

Liam had built a literal oasis in the desert of death and danger that was the dungeon’s other floors.

As with the previous hub, the safe zone lay in a small valley, thus obscuring the rest of the floor from those within. Edmund would have to leave the safety of the market to get a better look around. He’d do that later.

For the time being, he left the entry area behind, taking note of the two men in dust-stained armor keeping watch. The royal crest—a wyvern taking flight—decorated their chests. Edmund blinked. What were kingsguards doing in the Depths? He wondered if some traitor to the crown had escaped justice by hiding out in the dungeon.

The guards didn’t stop or question him—an oddity given the helm that concealed his face—so Edmund let their presence slip to the back of his mind. He had other things to worry about, namely Liam, who chose that moment to surreptitiously materialize next to him. Before the dungeon’s avatar could say a word, Edmund spoke.

“I know, I know. I’m going there first,” he said, charting a course directly for the waterline.

Liam grinned. “You’re learning.”

“You know, I don’t actually enjoy being covered in blood all the time. I just usually have bigger things to worry about. If you want to give out more of those bath tokens…”

“Well, what do you know,” Liam said, overacting the surprise in his voice. “There’s an infinite supply of free baths right here!” He gestured with an open palm towards the pond up ahead.

“Very funny,” Edmund said, not finding it funny at all.

The crowd of various adventurers and merchants gave him a wide berth as he passed, curiously enough uneager to bother a man who was fully armored, covered in blood, and talking to himself.

The hard dry dirt gave way to loamy, fertile soil as he approached the water, skirting along the bank until he reached a spot relatively free of other bathers. Keeping a careful eye on his gear, he stripped down and waded into the pond, the otherwise frigid water remarkably refreshing in the oppressive desert heat.

Edmund took the time to meticulously scrub the blood and dirt and sweat from his skin, hair, and armor, knowing full well it’d all be filthy again soon enough. If nothing else, he recognized the utility of not looking like a complete mess while interacting with others.

He emerged from the water feeling like a new man, his matted black hair pulled back, his now-clean armor reequipped, and his helmet sitting in his cloudkith satchel to leave his face exposed. Perhaps people would be more willing to talk to him if they could look him in the eye.

They were. Oh Thrax, they were.

Edmund made it less than ten steps from the waterline before a woman in mismatched platemail approached him.

“Hi-um… are you looking for a group? We lost one of our members two floors ago and you look like you know what you’re—”

“No,” Edmund grunted at her, stepping past. Even if his Aspects allowed him to party up, he doubted a group of delvers existed that would put up with his glacial pace through the dungeon. Worse still, Liam had promised him harder floors coming up. Edmund didn’t want to inflict such a difficulty spike on anyone else.

He managed to walk twenty whole feet before a man in blue robes approached. “You look like a man who can handle himself. I’ve got two of the best mages the Depths have—”

“Not interested,” Edmund cut him off, gruffly continuing on.

They kept coming.

Every few minutes, another delver, alone or with their entire group, would attempt to recruit Edmund to their party through various means. Some started with compliments, some with tales of their own exceptional ability, some by asking the question directly. One man even tried to convince Edmund he had no chance of surviving the floors ahead on his own, and that his best hope of continuing on was to party up with him in particular.

Edmund rejected them all.

Whether by the trail of failed attempts in his wake, the growing expression of frustration on his face, or simply because every single group on the floor had shot their shot, the recruitment efforts slowly dried up, leaving a particularly disgruntled Edmund to finally reach the marketplace.

By his own estimation, he hadn’t accumulated much in the way of money, but he did have a few coins he’d picked up from various loot chests over the past few floors. He supposed he could’ve sold some of his gear if he so chose, but he doubted he’d get much. His barkbreeches and cuirass already had several gashes and punctures in them, and the rest of his equipment hadn’t fared much better. His newer pieces were still in fairly good shape, but that made him want to part with them all the less.

Either way, he liked his gear. Sure, he felt he missed a short-ranged weapon to replace Rat’s Fang, but the nearly full-body coverage his current equipment offered was too valuable to part with. If he spotted a dagger or shortsword or something better suited for close-quarters combat that he could pick up for cheap, he’d jump at the opportunity, but at the moment, more gear wasn’t Edmund’s priority. He could get more gear anywhere—there were loot chests on every floor.

He needed information.

Liam had already professed a disinterest in offering Edmund Aspect advice, especially refusing to elaborate on what exactly a ‘paragon’ was or why it was important. Likewise, Madness, his most important Aspect, didn’t exactly have the best reputation. At best people ignored it, at worst they outright reviled it. If he wanted to learn more about his greatest strength, he needed a specialist.

That was how Edmund found himself standing outside a canvas tent, staring up at a painted sign advertising ‘professional build advice.’ He glanced over to a man selling potions next door, gesturing up to the wood sign with his thumb. “They any good?”

“Folks seem to leave happy, if that’s what you’re asking,” the vendor replied. “Can’t tell you if they survive down to the next hub, though.”

“Thanks.” Edmund nodded before casting his gaze back up at the tent. Thrax knew if the advice within would be any good, but at least his fellow delvers thought it was. That had to count for something.

With a sigh he pushed open the flap and stepped inside, the cool shade within immediately offering relief from the harsh false sunlight.

Inside he found a tired-looking woman in scholar’s robes, sitting behind a wide oak desk cluttered with papers and books. Without looking up from whatever she was writing, she spoke. “Have a seat. It’s two silver to recommend your next Aspect, ten for a more thorough build analysis.”

Edmund stayed standing. “What do you know about Madness?”

“It’s two silver for a recommendation, ten for an analysis,” the woman repeated, still refusing to look up at Edmund.

“It’s not a common Aspect,” Edmund continued. “I need to know if you actually have anything to tell me before I hand over my money.”

The woman let out a long suffering sigh and sat back in her chair, finally meeting Edmund’s gaze. Her face was soft and wrinkled, showing the wisdom of age but not the wear of labor. Coarse, white hair sprouted from her head and fell limply to her shoulders. She squinted at him.

“Madness is the nineteenth base aspect, opposite Serenity and close in proximity to War, Wrath, and—more so than any other—Eldritch. It’s an unpopular choice due to its unpredictability, social stigma, and less visible benefits. Its effects are highly personalized, though they usually carry the through line of seeing or hearing things that aren’t really there. Happy?”

Edmund reached into his satchel to withdraw ten silver pieces, just short of his entire supply, and deposited the payment on the desk. Without breaking eye contact with the woman, he sat down. “Tell me everything.”

The woman exhaled sharply. “Sweetie, you’re going to have to be more specific.”

“Alright. You said Madness is personalized. What does that mean?”

She shrugged. “Scholars don’t know much—the mad don’t often like talking to us—but we do know a few things. Most iterations of Madness cause their bearer to see or hear things that aren’t there, generally unbidden, and generally unwillingly. The value and form these hallucinations take varies, but usually they include some way of providing information that would otherwise be unavailable. There are rumors that at extremely high levels, users of Madness can interact more directly with their hallucinations, but those are just that. Rumors.”

Edmund furrowed his brow. “You didn’t answer the question.”

“I’m getting there, I’m getting there.” The old woman waved him off. “From what we can tell, everyone’s hallucinations are different, and the form they take usually derives from some traumatic event in their past.” She paused, her gaze intensifying as she seemed to stare into Edmund’s soul. “What happened to you?”

“Nothing,” Edmund answered far too quickly. He could see the disbelief on her face, but she thankfully didn’t press him further. “What else do you know?”

She shuffled through the papers on her desk as she spoke. “I have… here, a list of common confluences. A bit barebones, I’m afraid, but potentially useful. If you share your current build with me, I can offer advice on how best to proceed.”

Edmund shook his head. At the very least, he needed more information before he’d be willing to reveal himself like that. Even if he didn’t mention his strange resonance with the Aspect, it would be apparent the moment he tried to explain the decisions he’d made so far. Combining anything and everything with a base aspect, let alone one as obscure as Madness, felt like suspicious behavior. He could only assume someone as knowledgeable as this scholar would notice the oddity.

“Suit yourself,” the woman said, accepting his secrecy without question. “I will say, I’m glad you were willing to take Madness. Too often delvers make suboptimal decisions because they don’t like the aesthetics of something like Death or War.” She shrugged. “Well, if that’s all you’re willing to tell me, I’m not sure what else I can help with. Do you have any other questions?”

Edmund paused, blinking as he took a moment to breathe. Thrax knew what kind of attention it would attract, but one question, above all, prodded at the back of his mind. Keeping his voice low and his tone even, he asked it.

“What’s a paragon?”

The scholar snorted. “Fancy yourself a legend, then?” She shook her head. “Paragons are just a story.”

“Then tell me the story.”

She exhaled, visibly taking a moment to gather her thoughts, and began. “The theory goes that resonance patterns are unique. That every sapient creature in all the various realms has one specific Aspect with which they, and they alone, resonate at a level far beyond any other. There are, of course, a vast number of Aspects and a similarly vast number of living beings. We know for a fact that no two people who’ve gotten that far have ever shared the same resonant Aspect, but that doesn’t even come close to real proof, or even evidence. The percentage of beings that even find their resonant Aspect is so low as to be basically laughable.”

She leaned in, placing her elbows on the desk and weaving her fingers together. “A paragon is a concept, a purely academic one, that explores what it might mean for someone’s most resonant Aspect to be one of the base twenty-seven. Of course, the odds of that occurring would be twenty-seven in the comparatively infinite number of Aspects out there, but having that sort of resonance from the start would theoretically bestow an incredible amount of power.”

