Something in Edmund’s gaze must’ve drawn her attention, because she paused her explanation to address him. “Keep in mind this is all theoretical. As far as modern academia can tell, it’s never actually happened. Some scholars posit that the fundamental nature of the base Aspects could potentially even further empower our imaginary paragon—there’s a whole field of research on what makes the base Aspects base—but again, this is all theoretical. If an actual paragon ever appeared, he or she would change… everything. From upheaving existing power structures to revolutionizing our understanding of the very nature of the universe.”

Edmund blinked and sat back in his seat, the fingers of his right hand drumming against the wooden armrest of his chair. “That’s quite the story.”

“And it’s just that,” the woman replied. “A story.” She shook her head. “Unless you have any other questions, that’s all I can tell you, I’m afraid.” She slid a paper across the desk. “You’re welcome to take the confluence list—I have copies.”

Edmund smiled and accepted the offered document. He’d paid for it after all. He stood. “Thank you.”

“Don’t thank me yet,” the woman snorted. “I haven’t given you anything of substance, just theories.”

“Still,” Edmund said, moving towards the exit. He stopped just short of the tent flap, craning his neck to look back over his shoulder at the aging scholar. “If there’s one thing I’ve learned, something doesn’t have to have substance to be useful.”

She didn’t reply.

He left her there, scratching her head behind her desk as he strode back into the light and heat and noise of the oasis.

Liam was waiting for him, leaning back against a part of the tent that absolutely would’ve collapsed under any real weight. “So how’d it go?”

“Do you expect me to believe you weren’t listening the entire time?” He kept walking, and Liam fell into step beside him.

“Just trying to be polite about it.”

“Since when have you been polite about anything?”

Liam smiled. “Since when have you?”

Edmund took a deep breath to keep himself from snapping at the dungeon’s avatar. “What’d you think?”

“I think overall she did pretty well. Got some things right, at least. I can’t blame her for not knowing some of the more obscure stuff about paragons, but she completely missed the true nature of Madness. Then again, what can you expect from a woman who lives in a tent underground selling advice to people who don’t know any better?”

Edmund stopped short, causing the man behind him to bump into him, curse him out, and continue on his way. Edmund ignored it all. “So what is the true nature of Madness.”

“It comes down to a misunderstanding of reality. Your scholar friend seems to think there’s a strict line between what’s real and what isn’t, and that therefore everything Madness shows you isn’t actually there.”

Edmund squinted at him. “The Aspect description literally says it’s not real.”

“You’re falling into the same trap as that scholar. Not being real is different from not being there.” Liam exhaled. “Reality isn’t a static thing. Everyone experiences the world as a series of sensory inputs that they parse into meaning. What you would call reality is really just a set of inputs and interpretations of those inputs that everyone agrees on, and when someone disagrees…”

“We call them mad,” Edmund finished.

Liam snapped his fingers and pointed at Edmund. “The mad experience a different reality than the sane, a reality all their own. The truly mad accept that and learn to interact with their reality in different ways, and the maddest of all can impose that reality—or aspects of it—on everyone else.”

Edmund blinked. “Are you saying that—”

“It’s good you didn’t tell her, by the way,” Liam cut him off. “It was a risk asking the questions you did, and you’re lucky she’s too incredulous to realize what you are.”

“And what am I, exactly?”

“Something that—if she had her way—wouldn’t be allowed to move on to the next floor. You’d spend the rest of your life locked up in a tower doing parlor tricks for academics.”

Edmund scoffed. “And she’d what, stop me from leaving?”

Liam shook his head. “She wouldn’t.” He gestured across the oasis towards two neat rows of identical tents. “They would.”

Edmund squinted across the glistening water, raising his hand to his forehead to shield his eyes from the false sunlight. Men and women in the same standard issue armor milled about the camp, each and every one bearing the royal crest. Edmund cursed. “Those aren’t just a few lookouts, they’ve got a whole Thrax-damned army down here. What are they after?”

“Something important,” Liam said as if it weren’t blatantly obvious. “Why don’t you go ask them?”

Edmund sighed. “You already know, don’t you?”

“Of course I do,” Liam said. “I just want to see your reaction when they tell you.”

Edmund let out a breath and set his sights on the hillside across the oasis, in which sat the open exit to the eleventh floor. A pair of guards stood before it, questioning any delvers before they could proceed. Edmund approached.

The lead guard rattled off her question in the droning, tired voice of someone who’d spoken the same words far too many times, with a glint of hopelessness that told Edmund she’d yet to get the answer she was looking for. “In your delve so far, have you come across a blonde girl accompanied by three guards and a priest?”

Shit, Edmund cursed internally. Liam had set this up, hadn’t he? He tried to keep his face even as he replied, desperately hoping his expression hadn’t already betrayed that he knew something. “What’s this about?”

“Princess Amelia Morathian has gone missing. We have reason to believe three royal guards, under the instructions of a traitor, took her here against her will.”

Edmund had to bite his tongue to keep from laughing at the idea of anyone making Amelia do something against her will. He similarly had to hold back the instinct to sigh at her stupidity.

He’d figured, of course, that the last name she’d given him had been fake, and that the way the relatively young woman had ordered around her four more experienced companions meant she’d been important, but he hadn’t fathomed she’d be the heir to the fucking throne.

But Edmund couldn’t say any of that, not unless he wanted the kingsguards to bring him in for interrogation. “Against her will? Wow, that’s terrible. How do you know she’s still alive?”

“Her title hasn’t yet passed down to her younger brother,” the second guard explained. “She’s alive, and she’s down here somewhere.”

“And you’re trying to find her,” Edmund reasoned aloud. “What if she’s further down than this?” He knew she’d have progressed faster than he, his thoroughness coming at the cost of speed.

“We’ve yet to confirm that, but we have teams exploring the later floors as we speak. A group is already setting up a base camp on the fifteenth floor.” The guard glared at him. “Have you seen her, or not?”

“No,” Edmund lied. “No, I haven’t. Sorry.”

“On your way then.” The guard gestured him through.

Edmund walked away, ignoring the exit to return to the oasis proper. He couldn’t quite say why he’d misled the guards; they just had Amelia’s safety in mind. Thrax, he himself had tried to talk her into leaving. He supposed a part of him wanted to respect her wishes—she didn’t want to be found, so he wouldn’t be the one to help them find her. Another, deeper, more selfish part, just wanted to retain the chance that he’d see her again.

Liam rejoined him as he strode through the marketplace, a smug grin across his face.

“You set this up,” Edmund said as a statement of fact. “You put us on the same floor on purpose.”

Liam put his hand on his chest in a show of mock offense. “How dare you accuse me of such a conniving, manipulative thing that I absolutely did do?”

Edmund grunted and kept walking.

Liam scurried after him. “What, you’re not going to ask why I did it?”

“You did it because you thought it would be entertaining,” Edmund said. “And now four people are dead.”

“They knew what they were getting int—”

“No, Liam, they didn’t,” Edmund cut him off. “If they’d known what they were getting into, they wouldn’t have fucking died. They would’ve known things would get more difficult the moment six of us were in the same place, and acted accordingly. You pulled strings to put us together, and now they’re dead.”

“It’s a public floor, Edmund.” Liam’s voice remained even in spite of Edmund’s fire. “If they hadn’t run into you, they would’ve run into somebody else. Their lack of preparation is not my fault.”

“And now they’re dead, and the heir to the throne of Linaria is running around the most dangerous place in the world alone.”

“Careful,” Liam warned. “Those aren’t words you want to be overheard saying.”

Edmund paused and surreptitiously cast his gaze left and right, checking for nearby kingsguards. Thankfully none were near. Ending the conversation then and there, he stormed off, ranting at Liam in his mind.

It was bad enough, the march of innocent souls down the dungeon’s gullet, but something about Liam made it all the worse. Liam, at least as he presented himself to Edmund, wasn’t a predator. He wasn’t some beast following his nature and killing to survive. He enjoyed it. The lives of Edmund and Amelia and everyone else who’d ever set foot in the Eternal Depths were nothing but playthings to him, marionettes to dance on his strings until they were inevitably cut.

No amount of loot or levels or accords or promises could make that okay.

Edmund stopped at a booth selling grilled meat and vegetables wrapped in some sort of unleavened bread, spending a painfully large portion of his remaining coin on the meal. He relished every moment of it, the interplay of spice and fat dancing across his tongue as he devoured the first real piece of food he’d had in months. His sigil of the rootmother kept him alive, but drawing nutrients from the soil never left him feeling full in the way a hearty meal could.

The last of his silver went towards renting a tent for the night, the basic cot inside the most luxurious sleeping arrangement he’d experienced since he’d set foot in this infernal place. By the time he awoke the following morning, more refreshed than he’d been in a lifetime, his mind was already set on upgrading that aspect of his equipment.

Out of curiosity, he stopped first at a well decorated stall advertising portable camps, only to find such luxuries priced in terms of mithril, a currency so many orders of magnitude above anything Edmund had ever touched that it wasn’t even worth considering. He couldn’t even fathom how much Amelia’s particularly lush camp had cost.

He looked into bedrolls and other relatively cheap options, but he’d already run out of money. He had no intent of selling any of his equipment, happy to trade comfort for survivability any day. He’d have to hold off until the next hub floor, when he’d hopefully have amassed more coin.

His shopping done and his information gathered, Edmund set his mind on the path ahead. A part of him wanted to just go through the exit in the safe zone, take his Aspect, and continue on to the next challenge.

That wasn’t happening.

Liam had promised him more difficult floors ahead, and Edmund had no intention of facing that difficulty without taking everything he could from the comparatively easy floor on which he stood. He still held out hope whatever hidden exit he found would award coin in addition to equipment so he could purchase a bedroll.

Picking a direction essentially at random, Edmund left the oasis to explore the desert beyond. He crossed the boundary of the safe zone with none of the reverence he’d afforded it on the fifth floor, accustomed, by now, to stepping into danger. He slipped his helmet over his head, tightened the strap on his satchel, and set off.

He found himself mounting the steepest slope of those that surrounded the oasis, the arid soil crumbling and sliding beneath his feet. The treacherous terrain proved no match for his agility.

Edmund had prepared himself for all manner of occurrences upon reaching the peak, ready for anything ranging from immediate attack to a horde of gatherers farming resources to an open, empty wasteland.

He hadn’t expected to spot his destination immediately.

The desert stretched out before him, co-inhabited by roaming beasts and packs of delvers bearing pickaxes. The latter dripped with sweat in the oppressive heat as they labored over glimmering veins that decorated the very surface of the land, while armed guards protected them from the former. They weren’t Edmund’s goal.

The giant crack splitting the landscape in two was.

It felt too generous to call it a ravine, the gap in the earth no wider than a child could step, let alone leap, but it stretched from wall to wall of the cavernous space, beginning just past the hill to the right of the entrance and continuing on for what must’ve been a mile. If there were any secrets to be found in this barren space, they would be there.

More compelling still, though as of yet unconfirmed, wasn’t what Edmund saw, but what he thought he saw. In the distance, obscured by the blinding false sunlight and the waves of heat distorting the air, a tiny spot of color stood out in the overwhelmingly reddish brown landscape.

A smudge of blue darted along the crack in the earth before disappearing entirely.

Whether a mirage, a trick of the light, or the azure fox itself, Edmund had every intention of investigating.

He set off, half sliding and half walking down the arid hillside as he approached the crevice. He kept his spear poised, its tip lowered to face the gulley which he saw as the most likely vector of attack. After all, he had to imagine the rarest and most valuable ores could only be found in the rift, yet not a single miner dared approach. Ten minutes into his walk, he found out why.

The sound of dust falling and bouncing down a great distance first alerted Edmund to the threat. He whirled around to find two black chitinous legs reaching up and over a spot in the crevice behind him. Without hesitation, without waiting to see what would emerge or how his Madness would label it, he charged.

A pair of claws, meaty and jagged, crested the ravine.

Edmund lunged past them, jabbing his spear down and through the maw of the giant creature. It stiffened and stilled.

With the threat eliminated, Edmund called forth the ethereal smoke to describe his fallen foe.

