Draskil looked at the Unique Lifeform, looking ready to start a fight again, but Jake clapped his hands to get their attention. “Enough fighting of both the physical and verbal variants today. I quite frankly just wanted to quickly pop in before taking my leave back to the Order, so let’s stop delaying me more than we need to.”

“Very well,” the King agreed, seemingly not bothering with Draskil anymore. The Malefic Dragonkin scoffed before nevertheless agreeing, following Jake as the three of them floated down to join Miranda and the Sword Saint, who were still sitting and relaxing.

He had a feeling the Unique Lifeform and Malefic Dragonkin would have their fair share of conflict in the future… oh well, that sounded like a problem for Miranda and the Sword Saint.

Landing on the ground alongside the two troublemakers, Jake continued to actively ignore his fan club gathered at the broken gate as he spoke to Miranda, while still ensuring they could all hear his words.

“I think that’s enough exercise for today. There are still matters in the Order I have to address, so I’ll leave the planet and galaxy in your care during my absence. Same as always, so keep up the good work.”

Miranda, who had asked him to do something like this, smiled as she stood up and bowed. “I’ll continue to carry out the Chosen’s will.”

“Good,” Jake nodded. “Only contact me if you’re unable to deal with matters yourself.”

“I shall strive not to bother the Chosen unnecessarily and will only contact you if it’s an absolute emergency or I find myself forced to request your assistance,” Miranda answered in a dignified tone.

Jake nodded as he glanced towards the Sword Saint and Sylphie. He sent each of them a telepathic goodbye to maintain his image before walking back to the center of the teleportation circle again. Despite the damage caused to the room, the formation platform itself remained intact, as it was, quite literally, built different.

Reaching out to Villy once more, Jake retained his mysterious demeanor all the way through to the end as he was once more taken through the void… and damn, was it good he didn’t have any sycophants waiting on the other end, because Jake did not feel good upon arriving back at the Order.

Once he felt better, it was time to really get his alchemy grind started, as Jake didn’t plan on leaving the Order or even his personal residence before walking out with both his first successful bane poison, a fixed Palate of the Malefic Viper, and an upgraded Meditate skill, worthy of being called of the First Sage’s Legacy.
