Ren ate a quick supper and relaxed. He only had to wait for a few more hours for the shift change. Things needed to be explained to Barbara and Lucy before he could even think about logging back into the game. Ren looked at the television, but wasn't really watching it. How am I going to explain it? Ren thought. Will Lucy even believe me?

Ren got the brilliant idea to edit the footage and make a video compilation of what happened, making sure to leave nothing out. He didn't want the relationship to end because he lied about something. Ren slowed the video down during the important parts, and left it sped up for the long and boring parts. By the time the video was done, the nurse's shift had changed and Barbara came into the room and nearly tackled him.

It took a long time to convince Barbara of what had really happened, even with the video, and Ren sighed afterwards. His prospects of convincing Lucy weren't very good. He could only hope that his sincerity and regret for the way things had turned out in the game would be enough for Lucy to forgive him for his behavior.

*

Lucy sat at a table in the cafeteria to grab a quick bite before heading back to finish the double shift she'd been scheduled to do. She shook her head as she ate a plate of fries and dipped each into the ketchup on the side. Ren's gotten me used to having gravy fries. Lucy thought as she continued to eat the bland fries. She took out her phone and scrolled through her missed messages. The only ones she hadn't listened to already were from Stella, and she sighed. Might as well get it over with.

Lucy hit play and Ren's voice came out of her phone. The first message sounded like he was depressed about doing something in the game. Lucy had paid quite a bit of money for the VR headset she'd bought, only to find out later the guy had scammed her for the cheapest model on the market. He'd disappeared with her money and Lucy's budget had suffered tremendously since. Playing the game was fun in some respects, but she just didn't get as much out of it as Ren did.

Lucy played the second message, and it was a bit more frantic, but still lacked details. She looked at the time and saw it was midnight and shrugged. Ren is probably playing right now... but I guess I could stop in. Lucy thought and finished her meal. She took the long way around the cafeteria to avoid the other lab people, and took the elevator up to Ren's floor.

*

Ren and Barbara were watching a late night talk show when Lucy came in.

“I'll just go and grab a snack.” Barbara said and left quickly, holding Lucy's arm as she passed by.

Lucy stared at Barbara until the door shut behind her, and then turned to Ren.

“Lucy... I...” Ren tried to say. “Please, come sit down.”

Lucy walked to the side of the bed and sat down.

“There's something that I have to tell you.” Ren said... and then he did. The whole thing, leaving nothing out. Lucy's face closed down about halfway through and Ren confirmed that he was in serious trouble. He cued up the video and went through it step by step, just like with Barbara, highlighting the points he wanted to make. Showing Lucy where he'd been repeatedly poked with Elerlyth's sharp nails. Ren showed the research he'd done with the dark elves and drow, finding the only reference to explain what he believed to have happened.

When Ren was done telling the story, he apologized profusely, but Lucy didn't look like she believed him.

“That's quite the excuse you've come up with.” Lucy finally said with a voice devoid of all tone.

Ren sighed. “Lucy... it's not an excuse.”

Lucy looked at him.

“All I'm doing is explaining what happened. There's no excuse for my behavior.” Ren said.

Lucy nodded.On that part, I agree.

“There's nothing that I can do, except apologize. I can't take back the things that I've done... no matter the cause.” Ren said. “I've got a plan to try and stop it from happening again, but once I go back in the game, I don't know if I'll be able to do it.”

Lucy looked at him again. “Once you go back?”

“I haven't logged back in since this happened.” Ren sighed. “I kinda freaked out when I got out the last time... and I didn't want to go back in until I talked to you.”

Lucy's eyes widened at that. If he logged out this morning, or I guess yesterday morning now, he's been out for 3 game days already.

“I need your help.” Ren said.

Lucy squinted her eyes at that.

“I want to go back in and make some potions to replace the ones I've used, but I'm worried I won't even think about taking an antidote for myself.”

“Why not?” Lucy asked.

Ren sighed again. “I... I don't know how to explain it. I've never had anything like this happen before.” Ren said.

“You seem to say that a lot.” Lucy commented.

Ren nodded. “I do. I'm always breaking new ground with everything... but this was ground I would have rathered not even touch, let alone break.”

Lucy raised her eyebrows.

Ren shook his head. “I just told you that I considered you my girlfriend and then this happened.” Ren waved to the screen that still had a close up image of Elerlyth's nail stuck in Ren's neck. “Cheating on you, no matter the reason... even though it was just in the game, really is no excuse.”

Lucy nodded.

“I'm just glad that all I did was kiss her.” Ren said and his face flushed a little red. “I've been saving myself for someone special. Someone that was important to me.”

Lucy's eyes widened at that.

Ren chuckled. “I know... it's not like I've had tons of opportunities to spread myself around or anything.” Ren said. “But I still want my first experience with... ah... being with someone... to be with someone I care about... a lot.”

It was Lucy's turn for her face to flush a little red.

“At this point, though... unless you help me, I might not get much of a choice in the matter.”

Lucy took a deep breath and nodded. Ren reached out a hand and Lucy pulled back. He dropped his hand and told Lucy the plan. Lucy said she had to finish her double shift first and Ren nodded.

“Just call and let me know when you can go in. I can wait until then.” Ren said.

Lucy looked at him sceptically, and Ren laughed.

“Yeah, I'm kinda addicted to the game... I can do so many things in there that I can't even imagine out here.” Ren said. “But... I've jeopardized my relationship with you by not being more careful, and I don't want to make that mistake again.”

“I'm going to be exhaused after this shift, so I'll probably sleep for a while.” Lucy said. “Are you okay with it being tomorrow afternoon? That's a lot of game time you're missing.”

Ren didn't reach for her hand this time, but he nodded. “I can wait for as long as I have to for your help.” Ren said and smiled. “Thank you, Lucy.”

Lucy nodded and stood up. She hesitated for a moment, then took Ren's hand. He gave it a squeeze and Lucy left. She was a little late getting back from her lunch break.

*

No one at the lab said anything when Lucy came in late from lunch. Their plan to get rid of her hadn't worked and they didn't know what to do with her now.

*

Ren laid back in the bed and Barbara came in. She saw that Ren looked like he was on the verge of tears and gave him a hug. The rest of the night passed as it always did, except there were no VR visits for Ren and he slept fitfully, tossing and turning. The morning arrived and after the nurse's shift change, Bonnie came in. Ren did his regular schedule of breakfast, physiotherapy, and a shower; then watched television and waited.

Hoping the whole time that his plan would work.
