With nothing to stop the impact, I lowered my feet onto the edge of the meteorite. Within a second of it landing, I gave it one last push, jumping from the missile. This sped it up while getting me away from the blast radius.

Despite the short fall, the stone created an explosive, apocalyptic detonation. It was like a nuclear bomb, the light on impact more blinding than the sun. The flash faltered a second later, showing an enormous plume of debris launching from the collision. The shockwave leveled buildings, stripping pavement and concrete from the ground. The sound shattered glass before tearing the buildings apart, and even the blighted tumbled like ragdolls under the meteor's might.

The sound reminded me of my own impacts. It was the kind of loud that left your ears ringing as if they couldn't even comprehend how deafening the noise was. The kinetic, thermal wave followed, washing over those in the jungled city like a tsunami of fire and brimstone. This literal hell crashed over them and liquefied their insides while roasting their dead bodies. The espens washed under this debris, some dissolving from the wave of heat while others disintegrated entirely. Even the Hybrids fell to pieces under the strain of the shockwave, their nanomachine laden insides cooking.

The forest surrounding the city of stone rippled with fire and force. It leveled trees miles away, the wind rippling trees off in the horizon. Fires started nearby from heated stones raining across the landscape, each drenching the land in red. Off in the distance, these pieces of rubble crashed like grenades, carpet bombing the forest and its occupants.

I remained in place near the explosion, anchored by gravity and my own body's tenacity. The shockwave washed over me like a warm wind, almost pleasant like a warm bath. Chunks of stone powdered against my steel skin, and the heat left me glowing yellow. This shrapnel blast lasted about a minute before slowing down, my hearing returning as it did. As the dust eventually settled, the Hybrids sprinkled the surface of the glowing debris.

Their charred, broken exteriors showed their orange insides, splattered in the dirt like cooked lobsters smashed into soil. Their shells shattered, they remained husks dotting the carnage, their corpses decorating the land with decay and death. I stayed above it all, The orange glow radiated over my own shining frame.

I grimaced at the desolation. A wave of panic welled in my chest before I shut it down. This was necessary. More than that, this wasn't the only city I had devastated. Even in the scope of tonight, it wouldn't be the last. With my own emotions quelled, I pulled back several miles from the city, reaching our landing zone.

Around me, the entire area flattened, the jungle smothered by the wave of wind. The brush uprooted. The trees fell from the epicenter of the explosion. It was silence besides for a few crackling fires nearby, flames spreading from craters of debris. It was an ugly sight.

As I sent the message to return, the portalists arrived minutes later. Gawking at the utter calamity surrounding them, they added to the silence, the kind of quiet that screams in your ears. It reminded me of Springfield after Yawm's plague killed off the populace. We ended up going from house to house, eliminating all of them.

This would've been much easier and less personal. I hoped other cities pulled through on Earth as stared at what happened to Giess. It made the act of vaporizing these infected cities easier on my conscious. Striking these blows against the Adairs gave us the opportunity to help others further down the line.

It freed up resources to extend our reach, and that would end up helping those we took under our wing. Well, less taking under our wing and more like whipping them into shape, but either way, we were helping them out in the end. The eldritch were a permanent problem. We needed permanent solutions for them.

As the fires raged around me, those thoughts held me together.

The portalists lacked my dread, the silence breaking when one of them whistled aloud. They kept their distance from me, my glowing frame hot enough to ignite their armors and skin. I snapped a finger, a wave of quintessence washing cold energy over me. As it did, my armor screeched with an alien, hollowing sound. The talkative warper murmured,

"By Schema...I'm glad you're on our side."

I rolled my shoulders,

"I am too. Now come on, we've got plenty left to do."

Spear stood beside them, whipping a spear. The electrical buzzing of sheared dimensions rang in my regenerated ears. I seethed,

"One down. Two more to go."

As I stepped through the portal Spear made, I gave one last look at the carnage. Shaking my head with disgust, I hoped we'd get back to helping people rather than killing them.

Only time would tell when that would happen.

*******************************************************************

Phil Williamson -

My eyes opened to cobweb-covered corners and dirty windows. I pushed myself out of bed, the sheets unwashed for years now, so they reeked something awful. Rubbing the tired out of my eyes, I peered around at the popcorn ceiling and the nylon wood walls.

Eh, it was a home I guess.

I pushed myself out of the patchwork sheets, my wife having stitched them back together for the hundredth time. It was better than sleeping with holes in sheets, but I wished we weren't so stingy before the damned apocalypse. I might have some soles on my shoes that weren't glued on if that were the case.

Compared to fighting those eldritch at night, I could deal with worn-down shoes. It was watching everyone else wear down that really tore me up inside. I walked downstairs, the carpet covered steps creaking underfoot like whiny children. I needed to repair the underlying wood with a few nails and some sawed wood boards to stiffen the steps. It would have to wait till later. I was too tired after guarding the house at night.

From outside the windows of our den and kitchen, I saw that night was coming soon, the sun setting. I sighed, a sort of unconscious complaint I didn't mean to make. My pop always told me that a man kept his discontent to himself. I was the man of the house, so naturally, that meant I couldn't whine about anything.

No matter how much I might've wanted to.

That didn't apply to my son, Jason, however. He was a skinny boy, the kind that grew tall before growing wide. It gave him this gangly sort of demeanor only teenagers held on to for long. I couldn't blame him for keeping that same lanky look either; he was only fourteen when the system came and crashed any chance we had at a normal life. Now he wore hand me down coveralls covered in the same patchwork my blankets had.

It always stung somewhere in my chest when I saw them every morning. Day after day, week after week, I wanted to offer him a better life, but I was just so tired every day after keeping our home safe. In the end, maybe I was just lazy. I couldn't tell anymore. It hurt me just the same no matter how I thought about it.

Those thoughts jostled up in my head as Jason stared down at his status, no doubt dissecting the numbers and whatnot. He helped show me what was going on when the system first arrived. I was clueless as a farmer in a stock market. It was beyond me, I tell yah.

For Jason, it came like second nature. He smoothly adapted to it, just like he did phones and touchpads when we first got those too. It was a shame he'd never be a fighter, though. He had the drive, but that didn't matter. These monsters didn't care if you wanted to get better. They'd kill anything near their level, no two ways about it.

That's what ended up happening. I guarded the first monsters that came to our house after we finished the tutorial. We only had one rifle with a bit ammo, and I was the only one that knew how to use it. That got me a headstart on levels, along with a few perks to boot.

Now I was so far overleved over the rest of the family that guarding fell to me always. In some ways, I took pride in defending my family. In others, I exhausted myself with the constant fighting. It would never end, but I could never stop. Otherwise, my family would be butchered like pigs in a slaughterhouse.

Jason didn't take too kindly to my out leveling him either. He resented me for it, even now as I put my hands in my jean pockets,

"Hey, son. It's good to see you're doing well."

He didn't even meet my eye, choosing to stare down at something invisible,

"Sure."

I peered away, finding Margret making dinner in the kitchen. It was simple food, a few herbs, boiled potatoes, and grilled corn for dinner. We didn't have meat in the meal, but that was only for special occasions. It wasn't as if keeping cows around would help much, considering they'd just get eaten up by the damn eldritch.

She was washing dishes in water, no real soap left. I walked up to her, putting a hand on her shoulder,

"How you doing honey-"

She shook like I electrocuted her, her entire body going stiff. A glass plate shattered against the floor as she took a few deep breaths. I took a step back, lifting my hands,

"Are you okay? Did I hurt you?"

She shook her head, "No, no. It's my fault. I'm just a little jumpy is all."

She turned to me as beautiful as the day I met her. Sure, the chaos we lived in meant her eyes had bags under them, but she looked gorgeous to me all the same. She jittered about, gaining a twitch since the monsters roamefd around us. She got that ever since Sally died. Just remembering that made the hole in my chest burn.

God, I missed her so much.

She'd never be back though, so I sucked up my pain and carried on, smiling at my wife,

"Margret, it's just me. You know I'll keep the family safe. I always do."

She gave me a weak smile, "Of course. Of course. I need to pray more is all."

I nodded, "Yup. It helps you calm down."

She grabbed her wrist, covering up scars. She did it without thinking about it, but I noticed every time. I frowned, knowing she had an episode once Sally passed. There was more to her suicide attempt than just her death, however.

After Schema came in and flipped our world upside down, local governments shut down not long after. We couldn't get any of the anxiety medication for Margret anymore. She didn't handle it too well after we talked to a few neighbors and figured out that Sally passed. She was torn apart by wolves in the tutorial...

My poor girl didn't deserve that. No one did.

Margret took the death hardest, though it still left me empty too. Someone had to be strong for the family, and as the man of the house, that fell to me. Jason barely cried, instead choosing to fall into some system games and the like. Avoiding pain wasn't strength. My pop told me that, and I don't know if I ever forgave Jason for not caring about Sally like we did.

Maybe Jason did care, but he could do a lot better job of showing it. That much I knew. I couldn't hate my own son despite that. He worked the farm ever since I took on guard duty. I tried helping for a while, but I ended up exhausted. So exhausted, I began falling asleep as I guarded the house. One time a monster tore three of my fingers off on my left hand because of that. My face was never the same after those wounds, either.

After that, I quit helping out on the farm. It was too dangerous.

Jason hated me for it, but there just wasn't anything I could do. A man could only handle so much, and keeping the house safe was my limit. Our rifle long lost all its ammo, and now I fought with a club I made from scratch. It wasn't the best, but it got the job done.

With the maul, I needed all the strength I could muster. The monsters were getting more robust, and I didn't know if I could handle it for much longer. I'd hold on and die with a weapon in my hand if it meant keeping these two safe, whether they hated me or not. It's what kept me going.

That wasn't entirely true, not anymore at least. I found something that helped me pass the hours during the night recently. I looked forward to it as we finished up a bland breakfast. It was morning for me but evening for the others. The time difference kept them closer yet pulled us apart, and that was okay. I didn't help them for something in return. I did it because it was the right thing to do.

That motivation spurring me, I went out towards the watchtower at the top of the house. I found some crystals in a cave a few months ago, and I used them with a few glass panels to make night lights that never went out. It gave me a good view of what was around, enough to shoo away anything munching on our crops or worse.

It got boring quick, the loneliness setting in like some kind of poison in my veins. Before my thoughts spiraled out of control, I opened up my status and looked up a website. Jason hated watching me do it this way since he said I could do it all with a single thought. I told him this way worked, so I stuck with it.

A 'streaming' site opened up, some confounded alien name. As much as the idea of aliens unsettled me, I couldn't deny they came up with some good stuff. This site was one of those ideas, and it even had a few humans on it to boot.

I checked out a few of the names I liked to watch in the corner of my vision while I prepared for the long night. Settling in, I found streams for dungeon clearing, crafting tools, and even magic. It was useful stuff, though most of it was low-level fodder. The only high-level stream that wasn't restricted by a subscription or credit cost was the Harbinger.

Just thinking about it gave me chills. I was level 400, struggling just to survive. Some monster was out there in the stars above, destroying monsters like it was nothing. It gave me hope that I might be able to get to his level one day. It would be a long time before then, so watching someone who already made it would have to do for now.

