I was in luck, too; he was streaming right this second. Tuning in, I watched him overlooking some jungled city at night, the evil Hybrids spread out before him. My eyes widened, and my heart raced as I watched him slam a massive stone into the land. He flattened the whole city like a spatula pressing down on a pancake.

It left me with goosebumps. I thanked the lord that he wasn't against us before the stream showcased an ad for his guild, the Harbinger's Legion. It never mentioned where the guild was, but it did say how to join them. It required a few major hurdles, but it was still a genius move. Who wouldn't want that guy on their side? If they were anywhere near Tenessee, I'd join them in a heartbeat. There were more than just a few issues with joining them right now, however.

They required a screening process along with a training program. Now, I didn't mind the training part. I did bootcamp back in the sixties for Vietnam. If there was one good part about the system, I felt younger now than I did then. Jason could use a good knocking around, and if the guild matched the guild owner, then they'd do just that.

The screening, on the other hand, gave me the heebie jeebies. They needed to inspect your system interface and even your mind. I didn't trust noone going into my head and messing with my thoughts, Harbinger's guild or not. Apparently it was only a 'surface level scan,' whatever that meant.

It sounded like mind control to me.

The other problem was how they handled security. Those kinds of screens and training had to happen at certain locations. If we could get there, then yeah, I'd probably get over my mind screening anxieties. We needed to go towards a nuetral, Schema controlled area before talking to a booth from them. They'd do the scan before giving you a location for one of their camps, wherever they were. For us, that just wasn't doable.

Warping was expensive, and it required a certain level before you could do it. We barely kept afloat with the protection of a house. Traveling meant we'd face all kinds of new monsters, and I wasn't ready for it. God knows Jason and Margret weren't either. They'd be mincemeat without someone keeping them safe.

No, it was much better to stay put until someone came close enough that we could dash over for help. Until then, we would bunker down and pray, all of us stuck out here in the middle of nowhere with monsters roaming as far as the eye could see.

At the moment, none of those monsters were out in the open, so I tuned back into the stream as the ad ended. It showed yet another city, showcasing the Harbinger tearing up another settlement of Hybrids. It left me blown away that anyone could do that, let alone a dang human. Enjoying the excitement, a few hours passed with me watching the Harbinger do his thing.

I peered up from the stream as something rustled in the bushes, an alien creak echoing in the wind. I sighed while tightening my grip on my metal club covered in the horns of some monster I once killed. With a leap, I landed onto the ground with a dull thud, my feet cracking the dirt beneath me. I stared at the yellow eyes staring at me, both our eyes wide with the intent to kill. Several more pairs of eyes opened, more than I could count-out.

I grimaced. It was going to be another long night.
