Viv walked to the wagon and rummaged around to find the item she’d make sure to pack.

Life energy beacons were designed to peel off a necromancer’s army of undead by attracting them to a different point. That usually meant that the team that set it up died surrounded unless they forced their way out quickly enough. It could also be used to drive a horde away from a location before letting it disperse, as long as there was no one to direct it. It was time for Viv to use it. The only issue was to activate it away from her troops.

“Arthur? Arthur!”

Viv put on her harness, the white dragon landing next to her an instant later.

“Squee?”

“We need to drive the undead away from our folks. Can you help carry me away? And, uh, hopefully back.”

One gold talent.

No.

Two gold talents!

Round trip!

“You’re charging me to save everyone’s lives?” Viv said, pretending shock “Who’s going to feed you meat behind my back if the soldiers fall here?”

Oh.

The dragonette looked dejected.

“Just kidding, I accept your terms. I’m taking it off your share of the lich’s treasure anyway?”

Treasure?

TREASURE?

“You can only see it if there are no undead crawling all over the place.”

WE FLY TO RUIN AND THEIR FIERY DEATHS

“SKRAAAAA!”

“Yes, yes. Onward, noble steed. Hey, Farren! Help me get that thing primed!”

The Voice of Neriad rushed from reattaching a finger to helping her. Viv was left holding a small sphere brimming with energy then completely contained. As she touched the metal, something touched her perception, the mark of Neriad. She could recognize his soul from their many contacts. He would help activate the item.

Viv activated her harness and felt gravity lose its hold she floated up, watched on by a few sentries hunting for fliers, then she was over an arch and towards the heart of the deadlands. Sinur’s Gate receded in the distance as Arthure picked up speed. A few yoinks were enough to kill the nearby undead birds.

There were a lot of the buggers.

The next ten minutes were spent keeping the slower dragonette safe while she carried her. Viv’s feet dangled over dead desert and the coming masses of monsters. High up in the air, they merged into each other to form a squirming, maggoty tide. If she dropped now, she’d die.

Her danger sense screamed at her.

Viv formed a massive shield around herself and Arthur just as the dragonette swerved to the side, avoiding a black bolt sizzling by her side. Arthur roared and climbed sharply. Viv felt the gray mana coming off the dragon’s core in great torrents, pushing her wings up. Once again, she felt in danger but this time, they were traveling up, where the threat was. She quickly made an adjustment to her shield so it moved with her and cast, not a moment too soon. Another blast of power hit it.

The sheer might was close to what the lich had managed.

Air blew in Viv’s face from the suddenly increased speed. The clouds above approached, and she finally spotted their foe: a massive bird as wide as a jet. Dark fathers clung to desiccated limbs and tattered flesh. Only some mana fuckery could let that thing fly.

They couldn’t land with that creature bombarding them from afar.

“Let’s take it down! ”

Oh really?

The dragon had learned sarcasm. The world was doomed.

Arthur climbed like an arrow and Viv got her first taste of draconic aerial combat. The furious juvenile did not just use gray to push herself up, the same gray formed a small vortex that destabilized their fleeing adversary, disturbing the flow of air around it. The undead bird was flapping its ratty wings with increased desperation. Another blast of energy was so wide, Viv didn’t attempt to stop it. She just clung to Arthur and tried to make herself as small as possible.

They moved into the cloud cover.

Arthur was relentless, moving and dodging with calm control. She didn’t lose focus even when the bird disappeared behind thick mist. Blue mana turned the water around them into a gathering storm of ice. Suddenly, Arthur dove under an attack, then she surged up. The gathered water smashed into the undead bird, eliciting a horrid squawk. And Viv was flying.

“Heh?”

Arthur had dropped Viv. Inertia and her harness kept her going up through the cover. She saw Arthur turn around and roast the bird in one single, devastating attack. Then the sun rose.

Above the clouds, pink and red dyes colored a cottony sea. The radiant orb of the sun kissed Viv’s skin and brought with it the promise of hope. Towering columns of cumulonimbus rose high in the distance like4 mountains above the ocean. It was breathtaking. She had only seen such sights through the sanitized hole of a plane, but here it was raw and untamed with its freezing wind and nothing under her feet.

Arthur picked her up softly, and they dove back down.

See, mother.

That is why you must learn to fly!

“I’ll find a way. Hey, we make a good team.”

What team?

You are my luggage.

“Fine, fine.”

It took quite some time to return to the gloomy world under the ever-present sky. One day, she would see it cleared over Sinur’s Gate.

They landed heavily on a small hill overlooking the cliff’s approach. A few revenants shambled their way, but they were at the edge of the masses, and Arthur made short work  of them.

Viv activated the primed metal sphere. A massive pulse of life blasted out. Viv perceived a mighty shield, a pair of golden eyes.

They winked.

The nearest wave of undead turned like a single person. Viv watched even distant, towering behemoths rotate to get to her. She activated her harness and they lifted off once again. Viv sent a silent thanks to her luck for not deciding to damage the harness to make things more ‘interesting’.

The trip back was uneventful. They landed near the frontline and immediately joined the fight. Viv’s legs felt uncertain under her after spending some time in the air, but her finesse kept her upright. Not all undead had taken the bait. Those that were already in the city kept coming.

So the Harrakans kept killing.

Minutes turned to hours and Viv cast again and again until her conduits screamed but she didn’t stop, not even when Sidjin offered to replace her. He could not stop elites like she did, instantly and effortlessly. Night fell and the battle turned into a grind as the most dangerous undead had fallen. Only then did she allow herself to sleep.

She rejoined the fight at dawn.

Endurance +1

Again and again, Viv cast. There were still birds flying to them, then a few more elites came, probably those who had returned after the life orb stopped broadcasting its siren call. Viv kept fighting until night and noticed that the line was now held by witch pact with their short swords. They were enough to manage most revenants.

“The heavies are exhausted, they just can’t fight anymore,” the poacher lady explained, her long gray hair matted with sweat and worse.

Sidjin took over again. She vaguely heard someone say that they might have to leave.

On the dawn of the fourth day, Viv heard something she had forgotten was possible: blessed silence. A gore-covered Solfis waited by her tent.

//The assaults have stopped.

//I spent most of my energy taking out stragglers and ambush monsters.

//We are safe for now.

//The city is ours.

“We have won.”

//Yes.

//Now, to enjoy the spoils.
