“Cover the army. And don’t worry. I got this.”

With this, Viv turnedand walked to the gate.

“Your Grace, those who pathed up sometimes…”

“I know I’m high on power right now, but I’m not alone and… I was made for this. That undead is mine.”

The man nodded once, though he didn’t seem fully convinced.

“Just remember, we all depend on you.”

With that he turned, and the horsemen turned with him.

Viv moved on. The gate was unlocked but she still checked it for enchantments. They were there, just not active. The lich was extending an invitation.

That was fine with Viv. She still made sure to sabotage them as she went by. They could be recovered later.

The gates led into a large hall. Sparse light came in from high windows to the front and back of the building, all of them still intact. Stained glass dyed them in shades of blue and green. Even the light of the sun was faded here, having crossed through the thick layer of cloud. The faded colors still felt strange here, in that den of undeath.

The ambient mana was increasing.

Viv had not felt this intensity since the necrarch’s den. Black mana swirled and congealed here, giving the air a spicy taste of change and death. There was a surprising lack of dust. The place felt more like a well-maintained mausoleum than an old ruin.

Viv tested for traps and found one in the middle of the room. She deactivated that one as well. A door in front of her led to an inner courtyard while passages to her left and right gave access to the palace’s wings. The Ascender was on a timer, however, so she decided to go straight. No time to explore. Her only question was: what other traps waited for her? A brief look through the windows revealed no strands of mana, buried or otherwise. Just cracked soil and the ever-present dust. She looked up.

Aha!

Viv pushed the gate open and threw three sigil-shaped pieces of metal on the ground. Telekinesis made them rise and form the most basic array for a physical shield, and not a moment too soon. A rain of bones smashed around her, turning into strange, mantis-like constructs that immediately rushed her.

“Yoink!”

Tendrils of black mana elegantly weaved to catch the fast-moving guardians as they tried to dodge. A large hand pierced the ground at the center of the defunct garden, soon followed by a head. Viv killed the large construct before it could extricate itself from its hiding place underground. Too tightly packed, Viv thought. Or the construct was too weak.

A shriek of rage echoed from deeper within.

“There you are,” Viv said.

She recovered her portable glyphs then walked to the far wall at a reasonable pace, checking for more traps. There were none in the garden, but the room beyond that was something else.

The palace extended up but this place was its heart, the center of power of the ancient lords of Sinur’s Gate. Attendants would gather in the massive, circular room under an open cupola decorated with ancient engravings. An elevated platform on the far end hosted a throne, while the sheer rock of the mountain climbed up beyond, reminding people that the city had been carved directly into it. The union of finely chiseled stone and an untouched rock perfectly reflected the essence of the place.

The throne was not the original one, judging from the amount of bones involved in it. Poor taste. It also said a lot about the lich that it would create a court where only the mindless dead would attend. She shifted her focus to the side, where a small stone bookshelf had been raised. It was a crude thing loaded with tomes. There were also a few baubles placed here and there in a poor imitation of interior design. More interesting were the many, many circles hidden on every wall, ready to be triggered. Only a token attempt had been made at hiding them, but the dormant mana was clear to her acute senses. This was a death trap and a sanctum rolled into one. There was no need to go farther. The lich would try to stop her here. It was far too arrogant to tolerate her intrusion.

But first, a little preparation.

Viv cut the window open and stepped in, having noticed that the door was the fantasy equivalent of a claymore mine. She dropped the shield glyphs on the ground and traced a hasty circle in the corner of the room she had found herself in. With her defensive array ready, she finished her preparation.

“Aegis.”

The shield felt thicker and more resilient with more hexagons composing it. Viv felt safer just having it deployed around her.

Now, there was a way to reliably disarm the traps by severing the proper lines, letting the residual mana disperse harmlessly. But Viv didn’t have the time or patience, and also there was little point.

“Astra.”

The first howling projectile hit a cluster of mines and detonated them.Some of them triggered, sending spears of black mana across the room, while others exploded where they were. This quickly degenerated into a chain reaction with shrapnel hitting more traps and destabilizing them. Soon, the throne room was the scene of constant explosions. Viv waited for the dust to settle to look around.

The empty space was now littered with gravel. The explosions had been unexpectedly weak, so she assumed the lich intended to charge the traps before triggering them. Only a single spear had hit her shield and none had reached the platform where the throne waited. There were still no signs of her host.

“Not taking the bait yet?” Viv asked.

She stepped out of the shield and carefully made her way to the platform. The bookshelf was filled with tomes of various ages, she noticed. It reminded her of the one she used to have in her bedroom back on earth. Comics and children stories stood side by side with school books and dictionaries, all of them mixed in ever more confusing arrangement until her mother inevitably forced her to tidy up. The lich had history books and other mundane items alongside ancient tomes of power that gave off puffs of mana, a clear sign glyphs were written on their surface. She approached the throne. It was heavily warded, with a fancy noose designed to bind whoever sat on it unless they knew the spell.

“I’m going to smash that ridiculous chair of yours now,” she said to no one in particular.

The corners of the room hissed, half-whispered words muttered from the shadows.

“No? Your choice. Excalibur!”

A sword of pure black mana as long as the largest two-hander emerged from Viv’s dagger focus, extending it in a cool way that totally didn’t remind her of a lightsabers.

Viv didn’t really feel displaced air or hear the swoosh of fabric, there wasn’t enough time for it. Acuity reflex and danger sense let her act as soon as she felt the lich teleport. A dense ray of annihilation smashed into the floor where she used to be. The lich turned to see her, but she was already back into the aegis.

She could teleport in the middle of combat now. She was fast enough.

It changed everything.

“Astra.”

The lich blocked several projectiles on its own shield as it rose towards the ceiling. Suddenly, the ambient black mana concentration spiked until even a heavy would have died in a few seconds. She could practically see mana crystallize in the air in fleeting fractals before the lack of guidance broke them again.

“CHOKE!”

Viv quickly engraved an absorbing circle in the wall by her side and used it to drain her immediate surroundings. Then, she gathered all that power and sent it at the lich.

“Greater blight.”

The lich screeched when the all-devouring spell stuck to its defenses, consuming them with every second. It teleported again near its throne and activated another array.

“EFESTAR’S REBUKE.”

Suddenly, divine magic filled the creature’s empty orbs, turning them from empty to a deep green. A tide of skeletons rushed in from two lateral entrances.

“True mass yoink. Blast.”

It was just more fuel to Viv. Tendrils snaked on either side of her, maintained by her ability to cast several spells at once. It was easier when it was the same spell cast several times in a row, something to explore later. Each new seeking spear was an extension of the previous one. Each one grabbed the undead’s power effortlessly, pushing aside the lich’s weaker grip and claiming the power for Viv. Her conduits sang with the pilfered mana. There was simply so much of it, she didn’t know what to do except feeding them in more constructs. Her spells grew more sloppy and less precise but it didn’t matter. There were just too many of them to fire and forget. She was a walking avatar of magic, taking and giving back with every fiber of her being.

It felt good to be at the top.

Her own emerald glare matched the lich’s borrowed power and slammed it back into its face. A large defensive array had surged to life around the throne and it was already being overwhelmed, Viv’s annihilation too aggressive for its insidious pace. The lich roared again, but it was frustration, not anger.

“LIVING INSECT. ARROGANT TODDLER.”

Viv felt the lich reverse course. Power left its dying creatures, its many traps and constructs to gather in the lanky skeleton. The damage Solfis had done repaired itself in front of her very eyes. Its arms regrew, the legs soon to follow. The show was horrifying, yet another example of the dangers of the deadlands. All its dwellers had to be slain definitively, or the pervading black mana would always fix them back to their original shape. The lich was no different. It gathered all its power above its head then simply slashed towards Viv.

It was the first time Viv had seen a mage turn to wild magic.

So far, the lich’s power had remained structured and logical. All of those traps were magery, codified to the last line. The call to Efestar was divine magic and thus borrowed, but this was different. The lich was swinging mana through hatred alone, a departure from its earlier methods. It was extremely powerful. It was also excessively hard to wield.

The lich missed, striking the ceiling above her head, The entire top of the room was simply gone, windows gutted halfway up. Black mana escaped into the courtyard through the massive hole, while pieces of masonry rained down all around. The palace had withstood three hundred years of abuse, but not the lich’s spell.

The lich swung again.

This time, the torrent of darkness clipped Viv’s shield and the power was enough to rattle her teeth. Nevertheless, she shifted the pressure around, reforming the damaged parts and placing the intact one near the impact.

Adjustment made: Shield mastery is now at Beginner 1

“ENOUGH!”

The lich split the remaining power in two, holding part of it above its head while the rest formed firm ropes around the room, all of them converging on Viv’s shield. The thick, destructive links covered the shield and fought it for control. She realized the construct was too tight for her to shadow dance through it.

“NO ESCAPE THIS TIME.”

The lich walked slowly, then turned most of its remaining strength in a single, vertical ray of void energy. Viv was still caught in its net.

“NOW DIE!”

“Shatterstar.”

Viv’s shield exploded outward, sending accelerated panes of deleterious shrapnel everywhere around her. They shredded the chains, flayed the frescos, raked the earth, and pierced the foe.

She could see light through the many holes in its form. The jaw hung loose, perhaps in surprise. Viv didn’t wait. She shadow danced to the creature side.

"Excalibur.”

She didn’t swing. The blade materialized where the lich’s head was, then she sliced down and through most of its body. Only when it turned to ash did she relent and let the spell go.

You are suffering from mild mana poisoning.

“I’d better get out of here.”

//Yes, Your Grace.

Solfis emerged from a side passage, uncoiling from the ceiling like a demented spider.

//A capital performance.

“I have grown a lot since we found each other.”

///Yes.

//Your contribution was the most important one, of course.

//Yet allow this one a moment of pride.

//What a wonderful little harbinger of destruction you have grown up to be.

“Let’s leave before you make me blush.”

//I would shed tears if I could.

“You can always make someone shed tears on your behalf.”

//That would be unhygienic.

//Now, let us solve our undead horde problem.

Viv walked out of the palace to find wounded people waiting on the steps, many of them too hurt to fight again. The din of battle still sounded deeper in, and the temple support folks were bringing in more victims. Viv could see more undead gathering through the gap in the towers. Without pause, she turned a nearby statue into a mana-absorbing obelisk. The wounded were particularly sensitive to black mana.

Lorn was seated by the stairs with many of his temple guards. The captain was cleaning gore off his massive zweihander. It wasn’t going very well, but Viv thought it might just be the gesture that helped him relax. Especially because he could set his weapon on fire.

“Lorn, how are you?”

The man looked up and blinked, then he stared to the side towards the lines of battle.

“You killed the lich. I can no longer feel its call.”

“Can you give me a report? Otherwise I’ll find someone else.”

“No, sorry.”

The tall man shook his head, then smoothed his beard which was quite dirty.

“Ugh. Yes, the situation. We moved everyone up so we only have to defend in one direction. That let a lot of people rest, but there is a problem. The dead keep coming. Even with the lich dead, they have our scent. We might need to break out before we are too tired to fight and the dead overwhelm us. I already exhausted my mana taking down crawlers and some of the Hadals got wounded.”

“Don’t worry, I have one more card to play.”

