Chivalrous Vow: Dead Man’s Last Wish- A powerful form of the newly discovered Chimeric Fate! Only possible due to the presence of both Aether and Nether in the user. Upon the Path they had chosen, no one is willing to sacrifice more than a Dead Man. At this point, they have nothing left to lose. Dead Man’s Last Wish greatly increases the performance of the weapon in which it has morphed. Also serves as an image magnifier, increasing the strength of the user. Reaction and Perception are greatly boosted. Wounds heal abnormally quickly. The heavier the duty weighs upon the user, the higher the benefits will be.

On the stage, Drake pulled his sword from the stone. The blade hummed with gleaming waves of white power. Emotional force and the strange boost of his transformed Fate had left the weapon unrecognizable.

Again, Drake licked his lips as he pivoted on his heels and looked at Charlotte Wick. His sword had become incandescent, hosting his new Chimeric Fate. Randidly was torn between a sense of awe at how he had influenced Expira to a confusion of what this meant when Drake spoke again. “I… am her Knight. I can… fail. But I can never fail to come home. That is… my vow.”

Randidly’s expression became solemn, looking from one fighter to another. Drake stood proudly, his body still vaguely purple and muscled, but looking much more human than he had in the past. His features were thrown into stark relief by the light rolling off his sword. Opposite him, Charlotte Wick stood with a sea of wiggling brown tentacles behind her, the rotting combination of life and death churning at her back. Her Primal Force had almost latched onto the ground, becoming some sort of monstrous plant rather than an animal. Its ribcage continued to rise and fall, but otherwise, its main body was entirely still.

The crowd finally seemed to catch up with the action. From somewhere, a chant began to rise.

“Drake!”

“Drake! Drake! Drake!”

Comparing to the two foes, it was easy to spot which would be the crowd's favorite to win. With his gleaming sword, one looked like a hero. A hero who had been tortured by his foe, but now finally found his perfect weapon. That small metal switchblade had become a solid ax, which he could now use to demolish Charlotte’s wooden defenses.

Drake sprinted forward with his sword raised. A hundred tentacles lanced out in response, crashing through the remnants of the stage and attempting to impale Drake as they fell like rain. He continued to jitter, accelerating during his approach.

However, Randidly simply watched the significance, which had begun to flow back around Charlotte. A new possibility was being born. Her eyes began to redden as loss and frustration warred across her face.

In the end, Drake had made an inadvertent mistake.

He had used the word Knight.
