Deresdra laughed through her tears. “You... you didn't even finish.”

“Why would I?” Ren asked. “That time we were together was all for you.”

She let go of the hug and looked at him with surprise on her face. “What?”

“It wasn't about me at all.” Ren said. “I couldn't be selfish like that.”

Deresdra wiped her eyes and shook her head. “You're unbelievable.”

Ren smiled. “Coming from a living lie detector, that's quite the compliment.”

She chuckled. “I still have one spot left to check.”

“You know what happens when you touch it.” Ren said and braced himself for the intimate touch. “As long as you keep out of the line of fire, you should be fine.”

“Yes, I remember.” Deresdra smiled. “It's like a springboard.”

Ren nodded slightly, and she knelt in front of him.

“What are you doing?”

“Waiting for the spring.”

“What?”

“When I grab on and ask you to cough, I want to see how fast it springs up.”

“Please, don't.” Ren said. “That's not part of a physical examination.”

“Do you remember what you told me about the loophole in contracts?” Deresdra asked him, and his eyes widened.

“Don't.” Ren said, and took out his contract. He wrote on it that sexual stimulation should not be used, either. “There.” He said. “You can't use the contract to force sex, or sexual stimulation.”

“But this isn't sexual stimulation.” Deresdra said, and cupped him in her hand. His body reacted immediately, and he stood at attention. “That really was fast.” She said. “Cough, please.”

Ren coughed, and she let him go.

“There, all finished.” Deresdra said and stood up. “You can get dressed now. You're cleared for work.”

Ren stood there with his contract in his hand and didn't know what to do. She looked at him, and smiled.

“Just like you, I won't use a contract to force anyone to do anything.” Deresdra said. “I was at the mercy of a great woman, and then a very generous man bought my contract. Neither of them abused their power over me.” She smiled. “Please remember that I vowed to never harm another.”

Ren stored his contract, and equipped his clothing. “Thank you.”

Deresdra shook her head. “You don't have to thank me.” She said. “If you decide that you want to have a meeting between us, that would be all about pleasing you, though...” She smiled. “...you know where I live.”

Ren left the curtained off area and walked calmly out of the medical tent. He went over to the line of carts there, and started to enchant them with double glyphs of Antidark (8 runes total).

“Are you going to take her up on her offer?” Teepo asked.

Of course not. Ren thought. Nathalia was right. She did just want to use me. He sighed. If my guess is right, she wants something else from me... something big or important; but, I don't know what it could be.

Teepo didn't offer any suggestions, and Ren worked for the next few hours. He enchanted the carts, told the miners what it meant, and to be careful with how they handled them. He had to use several Major Healing spells to keep his Mana Pool full. When he was done, his Enchanting was up to Advanced Level 4.

“Sir?” One of the miners came over to him. “There's a lot of huge boulders built up that need to be...”

“Sweet!” Ren said happily. He took out his hammerpick, changed the enchantment from Screaming Terror to Antiearth runes, in order to cause extra damage. “Lead the way!”
