Finally, right before Jake was attacked by the Behemoth once again, it all fell into place. Jake nocked his arrow, pulled back on the string, and before he even released it, he infused his will and channeled power into the arrow. Loosing it, the arrow was sent forward, and the second it left his string, it exploded.

More than fifty arrows erupted from Jake’s bow, spreading out as all homed toward the Archfiend, who had not expected a new form of attack to come out. He defended himself with barriers as more than twenty arrows reached him and exploded all around him. The explosive arcane arrows amplified one another, and as the blasts all made contact with the barrier, they successfully broke through.

The Archfiend was sent flying down towards the ground with crackling, destructive, arcane energy lingering on his body, and Jake could only grin as he followed up with another Splitting Arrow... no... it was Arcane Arrow Storm now.

[Splitting Arcane Arrow Rain (Rare)] – A skill most often used by archers, now usurped and reformed by the Arcane Hunter of Horizon’s Edge. Allows you to clone your arrows while in flight, allowing them to retain innate magical properties. Each arrow has variable strength and can be further split into less potent versions. If the original arrow is shot upwards, you can explode it into hundreds of smaller arrows, creating an Arcane Arrow Rain. Cloning arcane arrows or creating Arcane Arrow Rains using arcane arrows has a far lower mana and stamina cost. Adds a bonus to the effectiveness of Agility and Wisdom when using Arcane Arrow Rain. Increased damage based on Perception and the distance the arrows fall from when creating an Arcane Arrow Rain.

-->

[Arcane Arrow Storm (Ancient)] – The rain has become a storm, seeking to overwhelm anyone who stands in its path with countless arrows. Allows you to clone your arrows while in flight, allowing them to retain innate and infused properties. Each arrow has variable strength and can be further split into less potent versions. Upon loosing an arrow, you can choose to turn it into a storm, erupting forth and splitting as they all fly toward a chosen target or location. Cloning arcane arrows has a far lower mana and stamina cost. Adds a bonus to the effectiveness of Agility and Wisdom when using Arcane Arrow Storm. Increased damage based on Perception and distance traveled by each individual arrow. Adds a damage amplifier for every arrow that hits from each Arcane Arrow Storm.

It was a long-overdue upgrade, and one that Jake found very welcome. The Archfiend? Probably not so much, as he was on the receiving end of Jake making liberal use of his new and improved skill.

Jake had to say, he had initially found this system event a bit boring as he’d spent all his time just destroying the Beacons of factions that didn’t have a single person worth fighting. However, now, seeing the kinds of opponents he could face, he was kind of starting to appreciate it. In fact, he’d say he was very much enjoying himself as he filled the sky with another Arcane Arrow Storm before teleporting to the side, avoiding getting his head torn off by a Behemoth.
