White light coalesced into something that was not what it appeared to be, for what it appeared to be was a drop of water the size of a small lake, floating in front of him. The shallows at the top of the floating ocean flexed and tumbled with light, like the underside of waves. The depths were deep blue, and then deeper. At the very bottom, was Void. In that liminal space it was as though the world had inverted, and Erick was looking at an ocean’s surface on a moonless night. He knew, almost instantly, that those depths could be at the top of the sphere, or at the left or in the center, or wherever he wanted them, for the real Mana Ocean had no ‘up’ or ‘down’, and therefore this spell was free of gravity, too.

The spell settled into his soul like a loved one returning home. Erick felt a tear roll down his face. He wiped it away, just in time to see a blue box appear.

Draining Undertow, instant, long range, 1500 mana

Drain WIL Health and 2x WIL Mana per second from every target in a large area of effect. Effect is stronger in the depths. Targets in the shallows might not understand that they are being drained. Lasts 24 hours. For every 2 resources drained, this spell will last another 1 minute.

Erick went, “Ah huh!”

Okay. That was better than he could have imagined.

It read well. It read really well.

But how did it work?

Erick reached out and stuck his hand in the calm waters, and it felt like touching nothing at all. He glanced at his Status and saw that, yes, he was being Drained. But he didn’t feel like he was being Drained.

He smiled wider. Yes; this was a good spell. He had made a painless [Drain Ward] (half of it was painless, anyway). It had taken some convoluted thinking, tied to an ancient source of symmetry in the Mana Ocean itself, but he had done it.

Erick spared a single thought toward the implication that he could not have made a painless [Drain Ward] in the normal way, through normal, non-harmful intent, like a true Healer could.

- - - -

It wasn’t till later at night, when he was laying in bed, that he realized…

He might have just solved [Renew].

Well.

A certain type of [Renew], for sure. Not a generalized [Renew], but an edge case that he could pull at, to see how the magic unwound.

- - - -

Bright and early the next day, Erick sat in the middle of the third floor room, his hands surrounding an unmoving [Shooting Star]. He was also channeling mana through the part of his soul that was [Shooting Star], to produce [Shooting Star] mana, then funneling that power through a hundred tendrils of [Greater Lightwalk], into the energetic ball of light. He had done this a hundred times already, so he was getting rather good at it, in his opinion. But it was difficult work.

His tendrils stabbed into the lightball, reinforcing every errant break in the spellwork, his Perception stressed to the max, his mana sense focused completely. He ignored the sweat dripping down his face. He ignored the laughter of the little ball. He igno—

Six-point-two seconds after casting [Shooting Star] (in his estimation) the ball of light puttered out like an ice cube melting all at once, making a little ‘phbbt’ sound as it went, along with a near-silent laugh.

Erick’s thought train derailed.

… Did it…

Did the spell just fart at him?

Perhaps it had!

Erick sat back, annoyed.

And then he went through the numbers. Checking his Status, he had spent over a thousand mana, nearly four times original mana cost of [Shooting Star], and all he managed to do was to get the ball of light to stick around for a singular extra second. Erick deflated. This was getting nowhere.

Well.

It was working, but only for a very loose definition of ‘working’.

Erick sat back, and pondered.

Eventually, he said, “Maybe the problem is [Shooting Star] itself.”

So Erick decided to try something else.

He went back to the drawing board, but not too far. Maybe the problem was that when he made [Shooting Star] he had put absolutely no effort into making it last forever, or be easily repairable. Thanks to his success with [Draining Undertow], and with a fair bit of Permanency practice, he knew what ‘easily repairable’ spells looked like. So Erick decided to try making a few more ‘easily repairable’ spells.

It wasn’t [Renew], but if he could combine [Draining Undertow]’s framework with, say, [Force Wall], then he could cast a [Force Wall] that could repair itself.

Theoretically.

Nothing to do but try!

He had his Ophiel gather around and then handed the sounds of the Mana Ocean to one [Familiar], and the solidity of [Force Wall] to another. He listened to…

It was the sound of an ocean floor; a delineation.

In himself, he combined that spellwork—

He stopped. There was not enough space in this small room.

He moved back to the roof.

After Poi and Teressa both followed him back onto the roof, Erick looked to the clear blue northern skies, and with Ophiel singing all around him, he cast.

The mana responded.

A white wall manifested in the sky, forty meters across, and ten meters tall. And then the whiteness faded, and what was left was a shadow. A depth upon the world. That depth radiated a pull far in excess of its size. With Meditation active, Erick could see that pull. In fact—

Erick switched his senses to an Ophiel who was already running [Mana Sight].

The Void in the [Force Wall] was not a Rift. It was clearly a wall. But now that he saw it as such…

He should make an ‘Undertow Rift’, shouldn’t he? Like with his [Pure Sunlight Rift], an [Undertow Rift] might be really good—

“Erp!” Teressa sputtered, from five meters behind Erick.

Poi instantly said, “Turn it off!”

“What— Oh?” Erick saw the problem.

He was Draining mana from everyone! Whoopsie!

A blue box appeared right as Erick was canceling the spell.

Undertow’s Edge, instant, long range, 1750 mana

Conjure a stable, stationary wall of Abyssal Void that will initially absorb 500 damage.

Drain WIL Health and 2x WIL Mana per second from every target within the wall’s effect. Drain is stronger in the depths. Targets in the shallows might not understand that they are being drained. Lasts 24 hours. For every first 2 resources drained, this spell will last another 1 minute. For every second 2 resources drained, the conjured wall will gain another 20 points of absorption.

As the abyssal wall faded into the manasphere Erick read the spell he had made and his eyes went wide.

Some quick math told him that in the twenty seconds that the spell had been active, and at his 161 Willpower, disregarding how Constitution worked to lessen the Drain…

A single person in the area of effect of this new spell would have lost 6440 Mana, and 3220 Health. Most people did not have that much Mana, and only warriors had that much Health, but disregarding that fact... The wall had gained 9664 resources from every single person nearby. Erick had Constitution so he wasn’t affected too much, but he was still down almost 500 Health.

If it weren’t for everyone on this roof having Constitution, the wall would have gained nearly 29,000 resources, which meant that, in 20 seconds, the wall could have been worth 145,000 points of defense.

His own [Prismatic Ward], when cast himself, with all his modifiers, was worth a million points of defense, but he could only have one of those active. Erick’s singular cast of [Prismatic Ward] was wrapped around his house back in Spur.

When Ophiel cast [Prismatic Ward], it was worth nearly 60,000 points of defense, and Erick could only have 10 of those because of some weird quirk of each Ophiel being able to cast his own Solid Ward.

But with this spell!

An Ophiel could cast this and make a barrier against attackers that was worth… way too much.

Millions of points of defense. Perhaps billions, if the targeted group was large enough.

Erick spared a glance with his mana sense to the room below, where he had been given the City Shield to study in detail. That magical item was decent for protecting a city from a monster horde, but Erick could cast [Undertow’s Edge] around any border in preparation for a monster horde, and it could ‘feed’ off of the resources of the monsters…

Could that work?

Had he just invented a better City Shield?

—No. Maybe this spell couldn’t be Shaped to only pull from the enemy side of the wall? If it couldn’t, then that ended this idea before it got off the ground.

So Erick turned back to the sky and cast the spell again, this time Shaping it so that the spell effect was directed away from himself; if such a thing were possible, anyway.

A dark wall appeared, and on the other side, laid the figment of an ancient ocean. Erick checked his mana… No Drain!

The spell had been pointed away, successfully.

Teressa gave a tiny, startled gasp as the second [Undertow’s Edge] appeared, then she relaxed; she was checking her Status and must have seen that the Drain was gone. Poi almost said something, but then he refrained.

Okay. So. That worked.

Erick canceled that spell and cast again, Shaping it into something different; something self contained.

[Undertow’s Edge] appeared like a shadowed sphere in the sky, six meters wide; about the same size as a medium sized area. There was no blue box this time. There was also no widespread Drain. The spell was completely contained. Erick knew that with a shift in Shaping, he could invert that sphere; he could protect himself inside the space and Drain every single person around him of their resources.

He had not solved the problem of [Renew], but…

He had solved something that was almost like [Renew].

Using the methodology for [Draining Undertow], Erick could possibly create a ton of world-wide defenses against monsters, or whatever, and protect people long after he was no longer around.

It was exactly what he wanted to be able to do… Ah. He deflated. This was great, except not at all.

He wanted people to be involved in their own defenses. He did not want to solve everyone’s problems for them. In that way, [Draining Undertow] was great for personal use! But it was not [Renew].

Erick canceled the spell, then turned to his people, and said, “I did not set out to do that, but I guess it works.” He changed the subject, “So! How’s the trip preparation going? Let’s go back inside.”

Teressa turned away from the space where the Drain had hung in the sky, and took a moment to shift modes. “Uh.” She blinked twice, then said, “It’s going. I got jerky and hard breads and other staples…”

The three of them went back into the house, while Erick listened to Teressa’s preparations. Erick soon decided that he needed some more coffee for the trip, for sure. They’d have to go to Alaralti to get that, though, so that is what they did.

- - - -

A day later, Erick received an invitation from Star Song to come to a special announcement gathering. The previous gathering was to bear witness to the announcement of a breakthrough in treating the Antirhine Elixir. This get together was much smaller than that one, but it, too, was about the Elixir.

Over nice drinks and pleasant conversation, Patriarch Mirizo Song stood up and brought the gathering to order.

The Alchemists of their Potion Houses had enacted the first successful chelation in a rat.

There were a lot of caveats to that, of course. It was only a partial chelation, for one. The full story was more complicated, and came out over the course of an hour, but Alchemist Ving, one of the four Erick had given Intelligence to, enlightened everyone in attendance, telling them the full story of their partial success after the appetizers had been served and eaten.

The rat in question had been exposed to a standard Elixir two weeks ago, along with hundreds of others, but with daily blood drains and subsequent transfusions with chelation-treated, compatible blood, they were able to reduce the antirhine aura in the rat by 25%. Magic was able to reach the rat’s skin! It was a subdued miracle. That rat wasn’t the only one of that group to show success, but it was the largest success of them all. The rest of the rats had suffered less kind fates.

Out of the original test group of that chelation formulation, which was composed of 100 rats, 67 of them died due to so very many complications, most of which were attributed to disease and failures to thrive. All the ones that lived, though, all showed marked reductions in the size of their antirhine aura, with reduction values hovering around 15%, with more than a few with over 20% reduction.

So!

Good news.

Not full treatment. Not yet. But it was getting there. Good news.

Erick enjoyed the gathering. He also enjoyed getting to talk to Xue again, who was doing well as an Elder of Enforcement. Riri was doing fine as a Loremaster, though everyone treated her as an Elder these days. From what Erick overheard, Riri was becoming a very, very rich lady.

Ari was not there, but when Erick asked after her, everyone else said that she was doing fine, and that she spoke with people in Star Song all the time.

Xue said, “She’s unhappy there, but in a year, she’ll either be running the place, or be allowed to leave. There’s absolutely nothing that the Palace could possibly find in her soul or in her past that would mark her as a Soul Mage that needed culling. She’s the most scrupulous person I know.”

Riri added, “Arilitilo has connections. She also has all of us. We won’t let her wallow in there unnecessarily.”

“I’m glad to hear it.” Erick said, “If it wasn’t for her, I would have died at the very beginning of the battle.”

That truth seemed to make many people uncomfortable, so the conversation moved on.

