Of normal cores, each worth 5 gold, or 10 mana, there were 945,000.

In a single night and a bit of the next morning, Erick had restocked his bank account.

The sun was shining. Birds and Ophiel were singing.

Now this was a good time to take a nap; in the daytime, when nothing could get him in the dark.

This was a perfectly normal response to trauma caused by the dark things of the world, yes sir!

Erick slept all the way to midnight and woke up in another cold sweat. There, once again in the dark, Erick foresaw many more days of this shit.

He whispered to himself, “Dammit.”

- - - -

Erick did not get back to sleep that night. Instead, he stayed awake and theorycrafted some spells in order to better defend himself while he tried to sleep. Maybe with enough proper defenses, he wouldn’t have nightmares anymore.

It wasn’t paranoia if they truly were out to get you!

Anyway.

Out in the field, he could probably use some illusions to mask his presence; to actually hide [Prismatic Ward] and [Sealed Privacy Ward] from mana senses and other Sight spells. But then again… [True Sight] had served Erick well when hunting Terror Peaks soldiers, but high level illusions, like that of the Mirage Dragon, seemed to be able to get around [True Sight]’s ability to see through magical effects. Perhaps high level illusions actually (temporarily) manifested whatever it was the illusion pretended to be?

Sure.

Sounded plausible.

Erick grumbled as another thought hit him, that only served to reinforce his trepidation into expanding his illusion repertoire. High grade illusions would help to obscure any possible camp out in the field, but they did nothing to protect him while he was inside his house, where everyone knew he lived.

So Illusions were a no-go for defensive work. He wanted true defenses; not the false defenses of being invisible to the world.

His thoughts instantly locked on to [Draining Undertow], and its ability to drain everyone of their resources, and also reinforce itself in the process. It was almost a Permanent effect, too.

The ‘Undertow’ effect could probably be attached to any type of framework, too. Forget [Renew] as a Basic Spell. With Undertow, he could revolutionize defensive spells the world over… or at least make his own sleeping space rather damn well protected.

But how to expand upon this framework? Which direction would be best to go in, first?

There was, perhaps, at least one apparent use for an Undertow line of spells, and the idea was not just an idea born of Undertow, but from the very first magic that he was exposed to when he came to Songli: the Void Song.

The Void Song could negate magic around itself. It was a constant counterspell and dispeller of varying effectiveness, with the only true limit to the anti-magic effect being the power behind the caster of the Song, and how much mana they were willing to put into such a working.

But with Undertow…

There was probably some effective limit to what Undertow was able to do; the Propagation Ban was right there, after all.

But, with Undertow as made… And with the Void Song…

Erick might be able to make an Abyssal Void Song Rift.

With the Void Song singing from that Rift, Erick would automatically counterspell and [Dispel] every single magic in the area of the Rift!

Oh!

And he could also add in some designating capabilities, too, with [Ward], so that he could cast the Rift in a specific spot, like around himself at night, without having it affect any of his people. Once emplaced, the spell would automatically drain the resources from every single unauthorized person who got too close, and also shut down all of their spellwork with a constant counterspell. If he made the rift well enough, or perhaps if he just added enough Shaping and size to the resulting spell, he could have it stretch out to a very, very large distance—

Oh!

And with a [Spatial Denial] spell to supplement the Rift, he could make a spell that would simultaneously prevent anyone from blipping directly next to him, as well as drain the resources from anyone who braved the [Spatial Denial]!

Ohhh… This would be a complicated spell, but it wasn’t complicated like [Renew] was complicated. [Renew] was touching upon Wizardry, because it dealt with aspects of magic that were fundamentally not compatible, like the fact that everyone casts spells differently. It was like every single person used different electrical outlets. One needed an adapter, usually in the shape of some magical item or an artifact, in order to circumvent that innate disparity.

[Abyssal Void Antimagic Rift] would be complicated, but in the way of putting together a large machine would be complicated. A lot of moving parts in that spell, but all the moving parts naturally worked well together.

As soon as the idea fully manifested in his mind, even knowing that he didn’t have all the pieces, Erick knew he had to make it work.

Like.

Yes.

The paranoia was digging deep into his brain matter and having its way with his psyche. Erick was not senseless. He acknowledged this. But he was a target, as evident by the several assassination attempts he had survived so far, ever since he came to Veird.

Erick just needed to experiment a bit more with Elemental Void to see how it worked to ‘[Dispel]’ without actually ‘[Dispel]ing’. The spell [Dispel] was Shadow based, so however Void managed this was outside of Erick’s expertise. At an educated guess, though, he imagined that Void would simply rip apart opposing spells with pure elemental force, instead of anything approaching spell-based force.

He could probably rip apart spells with his own [Physical Domain], too, but he had never tried it.

… He decided to try that before he tried making an Undertow Rift.

To that end, Erick first waited till everyone else was awake, and then he had Poi send a message off to Matriarch Lingxing Void Song, to ask if she, or someone under her, would be willing to show him a bit about how the Void Song worked.

Erick got a quick reply. Lingxing herself would answer his questions for about an hour, if he allowed one of her own people to join in their meeting.

He… tentatively agreed.
