Dilseffa felt Ren taking it from her and she warred with her need to keep the pain with her need to be rid of it. She relaxed when Ren didn't take it all and left her a good portion of it. Then he started to get serious about pleasing her, and Dilseffa was perfectly okay with that and let her feelings roam free.

About 20 minutes later, Yuwen came up the stairs with breakfast and saw Ren between Dilseffa's legs, and she wasn't surprised. She had felt their emotions from down in the kitchen, even though it was far outside her personal Aura.

“Can you take a break for breakfast?” Yuwen asked.

“Muh mmm hummum.” Ren mumbled into Dilseffa's special place, which made her gasp and she finished again. Ren stopped pleasing her and wiped her off with a cloth as he sat up. “Okay, maybe not in a minute.”

Tiyaphi and Artemis laughed and Teepo chittered in laughter.

Ren took out a table big enough for everyone to sit at and added the right numbers of chairs, and they all sat down to eat. “Hey, this is pretty good.” He said as he tasted it.

“I bet you're glad for that, considering you had no idea how good I would be with running a household.” Yuwen said, and he reached a hand out and took hers.

“It felt right.” Ren said. “When I was near you, I knew that was the best job for you.”

“Did you, now.” Yuwen said. “Can I ask how?”

“My Aura Sense skill.” Ren said. “You've got potential there and I gave you an appropriate job for it.”

Yuwen barked a laugh. “You're talking about something I don't even have yet.” She said, then she stopped. “Wait, you mean I have that Aura already?”

“When we unlock it, yes.” Ren said.

“Wait... you said 'when' and not 'if'.” Tiyaphi said. “How can you be sure she can sync up with you enough to do it?”

Ren concentrated on their bonds and dropped a single feeling of family into them, and the three of them caught their breath and put a hand over their hearts as their dire wolf emblems glowed slightly.

“You are going to be the best there is at what you do.” Ren said confidently, and they believed him.
