"But you have dominion over essence, and you can share that dominion. I'll teach you how in a bit. The important thing is that we now have a way to interact with essence, but not necessarily a way to heal it. Just being able to manipulate it isn't enough. Lucky for us, I happen to know a bit about essence and the kind of damage that gets done to it from this sort of thing."

He beamed. "I knew stealing all those notes was worth it. A lot of aspiring dark lords end up making notes on this stuff. Also, there was this pair of very friendly liches that were really eager to share their notes... huh. Now that I think about it, they were a little too friendly. I wonder if they were trying to steal my soul."

Cale's brow furrowed for a moment, and Damien opened his mouth to ask a question. Cale barreled right on before he could.

"Nevermind," he said. "I think they were swingers. Not important!"

Kazza's jaw worked helplessly for a moment as he tried to figure out what to say before he eventually just turned to Flia. "Is he always like this?"

"When he's not depressed," Flia said dryly. "You're seeing the real reason we became his apprentices."

"...Because he is apparently desired by the blasphemous undead?" Kazza asked, not understanding.

"No, obviously not," Flia said, pressing a hand to her forehead. "The other part! The part where he knows—"

"—the part where he tries," Damien said quietly. "I bet he thinks he doesn't try anymore, but he does. If he didn't, he would've left a bunch of things alone. He would've left us alone. But he can't let things go once he's seen it. He wants to try."

"I guess he just needs a reason, sometimes," Leo said. "Sometimes I wonder how old he really is."

Cale didn't hear any of this. He'd dropped into muttering to himself for a bit, and then he brightened again. "Okay," he said. "So, the thing about essence is that if you tear apart the vessel too many times, it starts to... harden? It becomes stiff and inflexible. A soul should normally be able to just melt together, but something like this won't be able to, because of all the literal torture. We're gonna have to melt it."

"We're going to have to what?" Damien asked, blinking. "Isn't that going to make it worse?"

"No, no, it's the good kind of melting," Cale said dismissively. "We're just softening it up again. Like wax, basically. You'll have to use the Verdant Flame. We're also going to need to change the ritual it's carving into the sand, because I don't want to leave Kazza's people stuck for months while it charges up."

He muttered something, then began drawing in the sand that made up the fortress wall, his expression intent.

"This should work," he said. "It's a basic soul collection array. Pretty much just circles. We'll need to detonate the flickerant queens to release all the collected soul fragments—although, no, that wouldn't work, the tunnels are too dangerous for me to send you all into... maybe we reverse the array? Make it a two-stage spell so the first one siphons all the mana and soul fragments from the queens and surrounding desert, then the second stage gathers it to a central point..."

Cale frowned and began muttering to himself again. "Still have to fix the vessel, though. Without any life magic or soul reformation spells, we're going to need to manually put the pieces together and somehow keep them together long enough for it to heal naturally. That might be difficult. We'll need some kind of soul glue. Flia, can you make glue?"

"I..." Flia took a moment to parse what Cale was saying. "No, Cale, I don't have any glue spells. Water is not glue."

"Not even [Liquid Adhesive]?" Cale frowned. "Damn. That's a complication. It needs to be something that can be imbued with your Spark. Any kind of sticky liquid will work."

"I don't have any—" Flia yelped as Syphus nearly bowled over her in its attempt to get to Cale.

"Spell slime," it said intently. Cale blinked, thought for a moment, then beamed and dragged Syphus into a hug.

"Spell slime!" he repeated joyfully. "That's perfect! It'll work. Okay, is everyone ready?"

"I don't think any of us actually know what the plan is?" Damien said, looking awkwardly at all the others. Syphus was practically vibrating in excitement, but just about everyone else seemed mostly confused.

Cale laughed, finding himself feeling surprisingly bright. "That's fine. One more time, but slowly. I'm going to need everyone's help with this. Here's how we're going to set it up."

It was unusual for every Observer to report the same thing at once, and when Lifsauhn first received the messages, he thought for a moment the moths of the Watchful Hive had somehow gathered themselves enough for some sort of rebellion again.

That had happened frequently enough, in the early years, then far less over time as the parasitic Red Relic spread its infestation deep into their minds. He wouldn't dismiss it as a possibility, though, or he wouldn't be doing his job. This was, after all, the first month in a long time they had been unable to send their team into the Watchful Hive to check on things.

Despite himself, Lifsauhn felt antsy. Who knew what those beastfolk were up to? Some of the Red Hunters around that area were missing, too, and it made him feel like something had been compromised. He had no idea what, and he wasn't about to report to the Red Commander without concrete information, but he itched.

And itching always meant something was wrong.

Lifsauhn grumbled under his breath, unsure whether he should trust this newest report from the Observers. Of all the things they could have reported, why would there be a giant castle floating above the Golden Sands? And why would it have launched itself from Ercryst, of all places? That was an entire continent over! That would require that a mage not only create a fortress but also fly it all the way across a continent, and there was not a single mage that wouldn't just teleport themselves and then create the castle.

It was ludicrous, and with the reports he'd just received about the Haelforge Academy, he didn't have time for more of this nonsense. That was almost enough for him to dismiss this outright.

Almost. He would have, if it had been any place other than the Golden Sands. That damnable desert housed one of their most important projects. They needed those cascade bombs. If he ignored it and they lost their supply—

Lifsauhn grit his teeth. Who the hell would he even send to investigate that wouldn't cut his head off if he was wrong? There was no one in their retinue that had the power to take on a flying castle and wouldn't slaughter him for incompetence if there was nothing there.

No one except the Red Knight.

Lifsauhn frowned. The problem with the Red Knight was that no one really knew what it was thinking or why it was working for them. The Commander seemed to trust it and held it up as one of their four Sentinels, but everyone else thought its empty silence was creepy. It never spoke, and it never even moved from its post unless it was given a direct order. No one had ever seen it eat.

But it was powerful, obedient, and most importantly, it wouldn't care if he sent it on a pointless mission. It wouldn't report him, and as long as it wasn't needed for anything else, it was likely no one would even notice it was gone.

Perfect for his purposes, then. With his mind made up, Lifsauhn cast a quick [Message].

Red Knight, report to the Golden Sands. If you see a fortress in the sky, investigate. Or, hell, destroy it. Your choice. Remember, nothing must interfere with our plans.
