By the time the midmorning turned to early evening, Mrsha was exhausted in the best of ways. When they came back to the classroom, Shassa asked them to name every known species in the world and gave them a little fact about each. Mrsha, of course, knew almost all of them perfectly, but even she hadn’t known there used to be a Halfling people.
Then their parents and family members came to pick them up. Mrsha went with Ser Dalimont as Shassa called out.
“Tomorrow, we’ll be visiting some friendly animals at Councilmember Elirr’s shop and learning how to take care of them. Then we’ll be practicing magic!”
Wh—
Mrsha walked straight into the doorway as she turned her head. All the children looked back, and the Drake winked.
“Make sure you can attend!”
In that way, she was very clever, because Mrsha almost turned right back around and demanded to learn Shassa’s arcane ways. The [Druid] did know how to tailor a lesson to convince even the most dubious families that school might not be a bad idea. As she’d told Lyonette—she’d save the mathematics classes for a bit later and make them only one part of the day.
Mrsha went away, thinking this thing might not be such a bad idea after all. But only because she’d given it her full approval. And besides—
This beat Lyonette’s lessons any day of the week.
 
——
 
While Mrsha the Scholastic was at her first day of lessons, Erin Solstice returned with Colth in tow to The Wandering Inn.
The Ultimate Supporter was subdued, but when he saw the Horns he went over to shake their hands—and the Silver Swords’—and assure them that their hard work and sacrifice had not been for nothing.
“Stalker’s hide has been fully cleansed and processed by the Haven’s own teams. Larra’s an expert at magically ensuring there’s no residual poisons or whatnot in that kind of stuff. She can’t tailor to save her life—but I’d trust her to purify anything but Creler corpses.”
“It’s only been nine days. What, does she need that much soap?”
Yvlon’s attempt at humor provoked a silence until someone realized she was joking. The [Armsmistress] had a deadpan delivery that was too good. Yvlon coughed, flushing, as Erin listened in, and a few other teams gathered around.
Colth had compensated most of his friends and the teams in gold, but the Horns were in this for the hide, and the Silver Swords were due something.
The Graveblades they’d found from Facestealer had been divided up. They were all swords, interestingly, an entire small armory of death-magic that was shaped for Drake claws. What that meant…well, Pisces had an incredible theory that the Horns believed.
In practice, the swords had gone to the other teams who’d helped do the fighting. One to Orchestra, for instance, one to other teams—of note, Griffon Hunt had gotten such a sword, and Briganda was the one happily swinging it around in lieu of her axe. No one in the Halfseekers wanted or used swords.
They were already top-tier artifacts, but the real bounty was the hide. Colth shook his head as he explained.
“Soap would ruin the hide in some cases, and nothing’s strong enough to remove a serious toxin.”
“I know, I was just making a joke—”
Yvlon flushed, and the Ultimate Supporter grinned.
“Just making sure you know I’m not messing up twice. Larra has a process. [Cleanse] is simple—but it can fail. She takes it in a room and bombards the hide from all angles with her [Arcane Familiars]. Purifying crystals, physical scraping—the works. Anything that’s removed that isn’t valuable is incinerated and disposed of. Then she runs purified water across what remains, and if she thinks there’s any contaminants, it goes back. She didn’t like Stalker’s hide or Facestealer’s, so she ran it through multiple cycles.”
“Fancy. That’s a high-level [Mage] for you.”
Ceria wanted to know the exact process and resolved to spy on Larra’s setup if she could later. Pisces frowned.
“That’s surely expensive.”
Colth shrugged.
“It is—and I took care of it. Larra’s a friend, and besides, this is all my fault.”
“It was a good plan. Right until we were all fooled.”
Ksmvr offered Colth a double-edged olive branch, and the [Supporter] grimaced.
“I should have thought of that trick. The deaths are on me—and I thank you for letting me give away the Graveblades to the affected teams. Now, though, let me report. I took the liberty of sharing the hide—or rather, letting experts inspect it because it’s so damn big. I convinced the best [Tailors] and [Leatherworkers] I could find to take a look, and I had Master Hedault pop in.”
He produced a piece of paper and read out their findings.
“Stalker’s hide has faint enchanting marks, as if it used to be a conduit for more spells. Facestealer? None besides magical damage. Both are clearly magical, artifact or relic-grade hides. Stalker’s is in remarkable condition despite the age and destruction of the head—Facestealer’s is a mess. However, testing indicates they surpass Wyvernhide quality in both cases. No one went up in scope, but I can personally guarantee Facestealer’s is rated against Tier 5 spells.”
The adventurers looked at each other. Colth went on, eyes flicking up to gauge their reactions.
“…Stalker’s hide would fit a being about as large as a small house. Even accounting for the need to process it and scrap it—it would make numerous full sets of armor, and it has an active camouflage effect. Of note—we have no bones. Neither Stalker nor Facestealer left any behind.”
“No bones?”
Pisces did move at that. They had used undead to port the corpse in their desperate pursuit of Facestealer, and he had tried to animate the dead monster—but he had chalked his failure up to its power, not the bones. Colth made a face.
“No bones in all the body. Odd, right?”
A shiver ran through the Horns. Odd…Ceria was reminded of Skinner. But Colth went on.
“Regardless—the hide seems to be fit to pass Relic-grading according to the Guild of Tailors. That’s preliminary, but it’s either relic-grade or top-tier artifact level. And we don’t have grades of relics anymore.”
He folded up the paper and looked at the others with a smile, and Pisces rubbed at one ear.
“Did I, ah…are you implying, Colth, that there might be enough of the hide to fashion a set of armor for all of us?”
He meant all five of them, including Colth. The [Supporter] raised his brows.
“Five? Possibly we could give away a set of armor—depending on how economical the hide is processed.”
A suit of Relic-class armor? Ksmvr’s mandibles were open, and Ceria whistled—then her eyes narrowed. Yvlon Byres had realized something as well, and she coughed into one fist.
“I think there’s a catch, isn’t there, Colth?”
The budding excitement waned, and the [Supporter] winked at her. He spread his hands.
“Any guesses?”
It took them a second of looking at each other, and then Dawil, who’d been listening in, grunted.
“Aha. I got it. It’s the Adamantium hammer issue.”
Ylawes opened his mouth. He had been about to ask if Larra or another team wanted the hide, but Colth nodded.
“What’s the Adamantium hammer issue?”
“The Adamantium hammer fallacy is that you can’t hammer Adamantium without an Adamantium hammer. Even Mithril deforms. But how do you make an Adamantium hammer without…”
…The ore itself? Maughin was a perfect example of that too—he had yet to even manage to heat his ingot to forging temperature. Dawil rolled his eyes.
“Which, by the way, is how they did it—they cast a lump of Adamantium and stuck it on a handle. But I assume none of those [Leatherworkers] wanted to try a shot at Stalker’s hide?”
Colth shook his head.
“The woman I asked wouldn’t even consider it, and she’s the best [Tailor] Invrisil’s got. So here’s our issue—we need an expert in working monster hide. It has tons of quirks, and it’s difficult and requires a specialized class and equipment. Either we went to First Landing—and there’s only a high-level [Tailor] there—or we find somewhere else. Anyone have a contact? Because, frankly, I know people who could do Wyverns, but not this.”
Few people had ever hunted a monster on Stalker’s level. The Silver Swords were at a loss, and Ceria, Ksmvr, Pisces, and Yvlon were all helpless. The half-Elf scratched at her head.
“You know—someone from my homeland might be able to do it. The Kingdom of Myth, Erribathe, is known for, uh—fantastic stuff. Worth a shot?”
Colth pulled a face.
“You want to send something that expensive over a continent? Let alone the fact that every [Bandit] and [Pirate] would go after it—”
“Yeah, damn.”
Ylawes Byres wondered if Gralton or House Veltras might be able to help. Famous hunters often had access to good craftspeople, but it was, in fact, a newer prospective member of his team that spoke up.
“I know who to contact.”
Everyone turned—and Larr of Vuliel Drae puffed out his chest. Even Anith stared at him blankly until the Gnoll looked around and glared.
“Has everyone forgotten who I’m related to?”
“Aren’t you Hawkarrow? They do bows.”
“No, my uncle, my uncle! I tell you all the time—”
Dasha slapped her forehead.
“Of course! I always put wax in my ears when you say it! But you’re related to some important Honored Gnoll…who?”
Larr was getting angrier and angrier.
“My Uncle! Honored Shedrkh! Of Soliest Yerr! The Gnoll who made Kraken Armor!”
Colth’s eyes lit up. Insill, Pekona, and Anith gasped as if this were the first time hearing it, and Larr got so mad only Nailren’s paw on his shoulder kept him from exploding.
“Now there’s a famous leatherworker. And we’re heading south—I’d hate to leave this hide with anyone short of a Gold-rank team for security or Larra’s inn. But Larr—could you contact your uncle? Or get us a way of introduction? It’s far from the new lands, but worth a shot.”
At last, Larr hesitated. He scuffed at the floor.
“I, er—my Uncle does keep up with me, but I will have to wait. Yes, I can tell him—and he will surely be interested!”
“It looks like we have a place to visit. The Gnoll Plains. Huh. I was just there.”
Ceria Springwalker cupped her chin in her hands, and her eyes twinkled. Pisces frowned at her.
“Are you suggesting we go all that way?”
“Someone’s gotta guard the hide. Besides—we might have some credit with the Gnolls. Doubly besides? It’s closer to the new lands, and if you’re set on going…”
Ceria Springwalker looked around, and Colth smiled.
“Well, that makes me feel like we’ve got a path forwards. Let me know if your plans change, but otherwise, I might count on you to make the pilgrimage south.”
Erin Solstice looked over from pretending to play a game of chess against Niers—well, she was playing, but she was listening in. She looked at the Horns, and it hit her.
Her friends were going to leave soon. Again, and once again—Erin Solstice exhaled. She hated change. No matter how good it was.
She hated the fact that they got better and shined so much. If they didn’t, maybe they could have stayed. But Erin’s eyes strayed back to the board—then she looked around for Venaz, Peki, and Merrik. And they too…had to continue onwards. So Erin only waved a hand.
“Guys—if you’re gonna go south, you might as well take the Horned One.”
She pointed, and Venaz looked around. He stared at Erin, aghast.
“…What did you call me?”
She gave him a blank face. Venaz’s superior attitude did provoke some bullying in Erin.
“Don’t like that? How about Venaz the Great and Powerful Whose Wisdom Cannot be Surpassed? The Second Coming of the Titan of Baleros? Mister Green Greatsword? Calruz 0.5? Mister Minotaur?”
The Minotaur’s look of chagrin grew and grew—especially because he had yet to take a single victory in chess off Erin. It only grew worse as he heard his classmates laughing—and then the quiet guffawing coming from the speaking stone attached to Erin’s chessboard.
Lyonette was teaching one of the little Goblins how to properly organize a serving tray so it wasn’t balanced badly. She was patiently trying to show the Goblin balance—and the Goblin was protesting that balance didn’t matter. If they stacked all the drinks on this edge, they could just carry it in the most dangerous-looking way possible.
What was life without the thrill of fear that any second your Goblin [Server] might toss an entire tray of flaming Minotaur Punches into your face? Nothing, that was what.
To be fair as well—that was the charm of The Wandering Inn. Erin’s relentless nicknaming of people, the chaos, the surprise—and let’s be fair, the poor service. You came here for the magic, the possibility of seeing something to make your day that much more unusual.
Lyonette had finally gotten Sticks—the Goblin was nicknamed Sticks—to carry the tray in a semi-logical manner when she heard the front door open and what sounded like a larger crowd blow in. She turned, smiling—and blinked.
“Hello, take any s—oh.”
She started as the most colorful crowd strutted into the common room and formed a line. And they did strut.
The Haven’s serving staff had on that bright uniform that Larra had tailored in multiple colors according to the buildings they worked in. Eight of them marched forwards and nodded to Erin.
“Miss Solstice? Innkeeper Barnethei sent us over. Where would you like us?”
Their leader had frosted green tips to her hair, and she either had magic in her blood or the most unusual set of ruby-sparks in her brown eyes. Erin blinked as Lyonette looked around and realized why the inn was lagging a step behind was because Ishkr had left for his appointment at the Haven.
“Oh—er—hi!”
Flustered, Erin swung away from her regular Venaz harassment and hurried over. The staff bowed a bit then, but very shallowly. They were interesting.
Not just because they were clearly a professional staff that were sizing up the inn and guests—and Antinium and Goblins—like seasoned veterans of the service industry, but because they had a number of qualities Lyonette noticed.
Obviously, anyone who could see a Goblin or Antinium without blinking was good. This lot may have seen The Wandering Inn’s guests before, but they had a veneer that gave them a friendly attitude without going into too intimate.
Practiced, in short. Lyonette had seen the same from Calanfer’s staff, and you noticed when it was lacking in other nations or places. This lot could handle unpleasant guests without ever giving away their distaste, Lyonette bet.
