“Can I help you, Miss?”
Caleis Berkesson, the Favor of the North, was a man made out of handkerchiefs. His very face, and what ‘skin’ he showed underneath a kind of old-fashioned doublet, was made up of the cloths.
“…How do you drink like that?”
He tilted his cup up, and Erin saw the liquid pass through a ‘mouth’ of cloth. The Named-rank adventurer was made up of questions.
“Handkerchief man.”
“Please stop calling me that. It’s an effect.”
“So all the clothes, Hanky Man—”
“Please call me Handkerchief Man.”
“So all of them are from nobles you’ve helped or who like you?”
Caleis nodded. He pulled a seat out and stood until she sat down. He was—mannered.
In a way that even Deniusth or Colth were not. Some of the Named-ranks had the etiquette they learned to socialize with others in high-brow society—for Caleis, it seemed not only second-nature but intentional.
And yes, he did the pinkie-thing with the cup of tea. He inclined his head as Erin sat.
“Each one is a bit of power. A bit of—well, I suppose you’ve noticed how my class has changed me? It’s not detrimental. Or rather, it saved me. I was scarred badly from an encounter with a monster once, and this is far more preferable to how I looked.”
“What kind of monster? If that’s not private?”
The Named-rank shook his head.
“This is all a matter of history. I ran into—well, it is a bit embarrassing. But topical. I ran into an Acidfly Queen. Something local to Liscor, in fact. My encounter was much further north. It melted—”
Erin blanched, and Caleis nodded.
“Since then, I was lucky enough to gain this particular class and Skill. I was a [Noble’s Friend]—a very odd class, I know. Since then, I’ve become a [Warrior of Etiquette], an [Oathsworn of the Aristocracy], until my current class. Forgive me if I do not divulge the exact nature and level of it.”
“Whoa. That’s so—fascinating. But does that mean your power will get weaker if you head to the new lands?”
Caleis didn’t shrug but lifted a hand and gently waggled the fingers.
“Some authority is direct, but Named-adventurers can’t rely on a specific place and time. Besides—my interests in the new lands aren’t quite the same as Orchestra’s or even Eldertuin’s. I will be escorting the Five Families and other noble interests. Hence my delay—most have not yet reached even Pallass. I believe I am contracted to look out for an Ieka Imarris, House Reinhart, Terland, Wellfar…House Veltras has not yet made any direct moves that I know of, but I will check on each group regardless of a contract.”
“For free?”
The Favor smiled, or at least, his ‘lips’ moved like that.
“Levels, Innkeeper Solstice. I’m bound to my class. Supporting the interests of the North’s nobility rewards me in levels far faster than combat with monsters.”
Aha. That made all the sense to Erin. What else would attract someone at his rank? Well—she shook one gloved hand and stopped bothering him. She’d sort of gotten to know him this last week as he hadn’t been part of the original group.
The other Named-rank adventurers who’d recently appeared were nothing like any Named-rank team or individuals that Erin had ever met. They were scary, terrifying, and Erin had no idea what to make of them.
…Mostly because the Champions of the Coast were a pair of Named-rank adventurers. And they were a married couple.
Rasen and Teithde Verithe were the first two adventurers in a committed relationship that Erin Solstice had ever met. And despite being an item for twenty years apparently—they were in their forties—they had been together even before that as Bronze-rank adventurers.
If they made Erin uncomfortable with their displays of actual affection and Teithde feeding her husband breakfast, then they made the other adventurers really uncomfortable.
“So are you ever going to marry, Halrac? Come on, you can’t sit like that forever. You’re already turning grey.”
“Teithde, leave him alone.”
They were an interesting duo, too. Rasen looked more normal—at least compared to his wife. He had a huge greatsword that reminded Erin of Ulrien, but unlike Ulrien, Rasen’s greatsword accompanied a bow and a host of gear. He was apparently a great all-rounder—
And his wife was a Silver-bell [Spell Duelist]. She had a tattoo on one cheek and down her neck that looked like a flowing tide, and she introduced herself to Erin.
“I’m Teithde Cirullina Verithe Wellfar.”
Her husband looked extremely embarrassed, and Erin blinked at the first four-name person she’d ever met. Teithde had blue hair, flawless skin, and she looked like Mars or another heroine straight out of a story. Her eyes were bright, bright gold.
“Wellfar? Wow, you’re from House Wellfar?”
“Yes.”
“No. I mean—that’s unproven. Teithde—”
Rasen muttered, looking askance. Erin blinked at Teithde—and the woman rolled her eyes.
“House Wellfar denies it, but I have roots. I was the bastard daughter of—”
“Let’s not get into it. Especially with the Favor here. It’s a delight to meet you, Miss Solstice. I suppose it’s rare to see a couple adventuring?”
The two were friendly, approachable, and Erin was privately delighted to hear Teithde gently bullying Halrac. As Larra put it when she came over, the two were a sight.
“The Champions of the Coast are proof that adventurers can hold down permanent relationships. However rarely.”
“It just takes work. As much work as adventurers put into their exploring and slaying monsters. Not everyone wants to do that—and it’s hard for a Level 40 [Warrior] to acknowledge anyone else as being an equal. But you have to.”
Teithde frowned, this clearly being a sore point with her, and Rasen ducked his head. Erin was fascinated by the Champions, but again—they were one group on their way south. She hoped she would meet them again.
Erin was sure they all had the same qualities that Saliss talked about that made them ‘crazy’. But today, she was just here to meet one more person.
“Hi Larra, how’s it going? Oh, you’re pretty close to the High Passes!”
Erin turned and peered out across the slowly-moving landscape—every day they drew closer to Liscor. Larra’s smile was patient.
“The same as ever, Erin. I’m mostly preparing for our trip past the Bloodfields.”
“You’re going around it though, right?”
The older [Innkeeper] brushed at her black skin, and Erin saw a long scar running up one arm—a claw wound.
“You can never be too sure. I heard about the Adult Creler, and the Bloodfields have tricks like any death-zone regardless. I have been hiring [Mercenaries] and more [Guards].”
Now Erin looked around, she thought she did see an uptick in the armed forces here. However, Larra was a stickler for quality.
“I may ask to visit Pallass again—it’s a shame that Drake, Guardsman Relc, won’t consider an offer. Do you think there’s any chance?”
“Relc? Uh…no. I don’t think he wants to have that kind of danger in his life.”
Larra nodded understandingly. She glanced around and summoned a familiar with a crook of a finger. The spectral imp hovered as Erin looked around for Barnethei, but she only saw the busy inn. It was always busy and had some event going on, or promotion. Erin had heard that Lyonette was going to coordinate a night with the Haven—they traded guests or used Erin’s access to Invrisil to funnel guests to the Haven. It was making good money, and Erin was so glad she didn’t have to deal with it.
“Who are you looking for today?”
“Colth. And maybe Valeterisa, but mostly Colth. He’s gotta stop hiding! At the very least, everyone wants to talk about the hide and stuff.”
“I’ll have him directly. He is embarrassed, you know. He took the dead adventurers personally.”
Erin nodded, her smile growing serious, and the other adventurers looked up.
“Yeah. How—how’re the survivors?”
“The Dullahan—Griniev—would like to thank your [Server], Ishkr.”
“Oh! Should I send him over?”
“What if he worked at the Haven for a day? Lightly—and we could send over eight of our staff? As part of our shared guest night?”
Barnethei appeared, and Erin jumped. She gave the energetic, dazzling [Vice Innkeeper] a long look but then nodded slowly.
“I guess that might work—but Lyonette needs lots of help, and Ishkr—”
“Not to worry. Our staff can adapt, and we just want to toast the brave Gnoll. He’ll mostly be fawned over.”
Barnethei winked, and Erin sighed.
“Well, sure. If Ishkr agrees, okay. Can Lyonette visit too?”
She didn’t miss the [Vice Innkeeper]’s wide smile—but Erin just frowned a second as Larra interjected.
“Just so long as that little child—Mrsha—doesn’t get up to too much trouble.”
Larra’s reservations echoed Erin’s in a sense, but where Erin was dubious about Barnethei…well, Larra was right to fear Mrsha the Conveyor of Mischief. Erin smiled politely at the other two [Innkeepers] and felt like this was all what Agnes, Ulva, and Timbor had wanted to do with her back in the day.
Only now, she really was among [Innkeepers] of her level. It was not entirely unpleasant—but neither was it always fun. Yet she could accept the Mrsha part. So Erin gave the two an evil smile.
“Don’t worry about Mrsha. She’s…going to have a fun day too. Heh. Heheheheh.”
She tried Elirr’s evil laugh, but Erin really didn’t have any natural talent.
 
——
 
Mrsha du Marquin didn’t see her friends as much these days. Oh, she had new ones who were just grand.
Nanette was settling into the inn. She was still getting to know people, and she’d follow them around all day to learn how they lived. She was endlessly curious, and she’d already spent a day sitting with Selys at the Adventurer’s Guild, petting Jeckel the Wyvern at Elirr’s shop, and being a credit to her age.
Mrsha, by contrast, had thrown mudballs at passersby on the main road with Gire until they got in trouble. But Gire had a job, and she was being a Chieftain, so Mrsha had to find other great peoples.
Like Vetn, Qwera, and Ysara, who were lots of fun—but Qwera didn’t want Mrsha ‘messing around’ when they were selling goods. Vetn was bored.
“Tesy’s off causing trouble again. I’m just guarding Qwera’s shop, but I’ll head off soon—she’s nearly done her bazaar work. I won’t stay with her. You be good. Have you seen that Wer guy?”
Mrsha shook her head as she and Vetn laced up skeins of thread. He was making a ‘grab pouch’ which would wrap around something if he delicately flicked it out—and like a miniature net, secure it for later.
Mrsha really wanted a few of her own, but the process was intensive and the grab pouches broke fast. She was really just waiting for more cool people.
In other words, Visma and Ekirra.
The context of Mrsha’s development as a child was—interesting. Well, being a Doombearer, the last survivor of a tribe, being raised in Liscor and being adopted by a [Princess]—that was all within the realms of normality.
It was all within the realms of this world. But Mrsha also had, to put a fine point on it, alien tutelage. Which was the cooler way of saying that Earth’s children had also invested in her upbringing with mixed results.
She had older brothers in Numbtongue and Bird. She also had Kevin, who would tell her stories of Earth and play his many, many pirated movies or songs and relay anecdotes of various quality with Joseph and anyone else.
Erin had told Mrsha about things like the nature of gravity as it pertained to mass. She had also described airplanes.
She also told Mrsha about cotton candy, and Kevin had broken down the lore of Lord of the Rings and Halo.
Mixed results.
The point was that this was at odds with Mrsha’s two friends, Visma and Ekirra. And they too were different. Visma had a doll collection that now included Antinium and was expansive enough to have intergenerational blood feuds.
She was normal. She was growing up in Liscor—Ekirra was the Little Crabs’ star player under Joseph, and Pallass was scouting him.
Yet they were kids, and so Mrsha was waiting for a fun day of…something. There was always something to do with cool people. But they had to be cool.
Erin was not always cool. Lyonette was dubiously cool at the best of times. The Thronebearers were uncool. Cool people could always find something to do, like fishing in the koi pond, exploring, trying to get a class—
And today, Lyonette had arranged a big group of people including Mrsha’s best friends. In fact, eleven other children, two Human, the rest Gnolls and Drakes, were lined up at the door as Mrsha saw her friends arrive.
Vetn waved Mrsha off as she raced over, looking curiously at the children whom she didn’t all know. But to her great astonishment—two of the children were from Riverfarm! Prost’s daughters!
“Miss Mrsha! Hello! Are you joining us? What are we doing?”
The girls were confused, and Mrsha realized she could show them the garden and all kinds of stuff! She was delighted—and Lyonette was smiling as she nodded to Ser Dalimont, who was, for some reason, apprehensive.
“Should we fetch the nets, Your Highness?”
“Not yet…”
Mrsha’s ears caught their muttered conversation, but she was shaking paws with Ekirra.
“Mrshamrshamrsha—introduce me to these people! They smell weird. Where are they from? Did you see my game? The coach let me score two goals! What are we playing?”
Ekirra was bouncing around with energy as usual, and he was wearing his jersey—he had four copies, and some of the other Liscorian kids were looking at him with awe and jealousy.
“You played in the game. Can I be on the team?”
A younger Drake tugged on Ekirra’s tail, and he turned.
“Don’t grab my tail! And only if you’re super-good and practice hard. You should come to practice. It’s fun!”
Mrsha listened as Ekirra told the others about the best thing ever—playing soccer. He had levels, and he was very cool to the other kids. Mrsha, herself, wished Ekirra had more time to play with them.
She expected Visma to be just as happy to see them, but the Drake girl was oddly subdued.
Visma? Where have you been?
“Mom was helping the Council do something. So was I.”
The evasive answer didn’t quite register with Mrsha right away. But she was waiting for Lyonette to tell them when they had to be back or ‘stay in the inn’. Still, her instincts let her down.
“I hope you all behave yourselves, especially you, Mrsha. And Ser Dalimont will be helping mind you, so listen to him, alright?”
The [Knight] bowed, and all the children but Mrsha looked up respectfully. Mrsha just wrinkled her nose at Lyonette as they lined up behind Dalimont. Were they playing in the city on the playground? That was cool.
