“I'm really sorry that I made you all worry so much about me.” Ren said, and took Andrela into another hug. “I really could have used your companionship a lot while I was gone.” He looked at the others. “All of you, that is.”

“Really?” Frikara asked, a little surprised. “You're not just saying that?”

“You can feel how I feel, and you can tell if I'm speaking the truth.” Ren said, and cupped the side of her face. Frikara's heart sped up at the gentle touch and the feelings he shared with her. “What do you think?”

“I think...” Frikara stomped hard on her automatic reaction to his direct attention, and looked at the other maids. “...that I'll tell you later.”

“I missed your brutal honesty, Frikara.” Ren said and chuckled, then let both Andrela and Frikara go and stepped back. “Now that I've greeted you all, I'd like to introduce you to the Ambassador of the Sea Dwellers...”

A stream of bubbles and water sounds came out of Ren's mouth as he motioned to the water being that still stood on the giant water hands. Everyone looked at him in surprise, and then at her.

“Oh, right! Sorry.” Ren said. “I'm too used to calling her by her real name.” He smiled. “We decided her land name should be 'Railyse'.”

“Greetings, land dwellers!” Railyse said and gave everyone an enthusiastic wave. She wore a very ornate dress made of Spider Silk Cloth, with sea shells and various other things woven into the seams. She stepped off of the giant water hands and onto the deck, and the giant water hands moved away from the ship. Ren waved to the massive water being, and it waved back and started to lay back down into the water.

Railyse walked over to stand beside Ren. “It's so nice to finally meet you!” She said to the personal maids, and shook each of their hands. “I feel like I've known you forever!”

Ren held in his laughter at the shock and surprise that flowed through the shared Aura.

“He talked about you a lot.” Railyse said. “I can't believe he rescued you from a Thieves Guild!”

“He told you all about us in only 3 hours?” Frikara asked her.

“Ha ha! Of course not.” Railyse said. “It took me months to learn to speak your language.” She said and smiled. “Of course, he learned how to speak ours much faster than that.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “I still (bubbles) when I should (gargle) (bubbles)!”

Railyse laughed and the sound of a gentle rain could be heard. The personal maids stared at them and didn't know what to say.

“Wait!” The captain said as he came down to the main deck. “Where's Smeg?”

“He decided to stay.” One of the engine room crew said. “He's married now.”

“He said it was a dream come true.” One of the others said.

“Married?” The captain asked, shocked. “You were only gone for-”

“It's been a year and a half.” Ren said, and everyone fell completely silent. “It's really nice to be back.”

****

“What did he just say?” Stella asked herself and pulled over the laptop. “Everyone seems so shocked.” She played back the footage at normal speed and turned up the sound.

“It's been a year and a half.” The video playback of Ren said. “It's really nice to be back.”

“Oh, my god.” Stella said, and she was just as shocked as everyone in the game was.
