The first few days were… bad. Ranthia had thrown herself into a routine until she realized she was on a tightly regimented—orderly—schedule. She probably overcorrected a bit, but at least the dwarves of Remera seemed to enjoy helping her to blow through the majority of the alcohol that Avyna had left behind in a single (wildly unproductive) day.

Hey, it was fun.

And fortunately, she was spared from discovering if a day of increasingly poor decisions would continue to spiral. The next morning, her new [Messenger] (new—as if the woman hadn’t served her for nearly eight years) found her and dropped a surprisingly hefty packet on her. An unexpected ‘letter’ (seriously, so many pages) from her [Mind Healer].

It was as good an excuse as any to free herself from her hangover, even if the translation process unsurprisingly required the bulk of the day. Avyna had tipped the woman off before she left (Ranthia never doubted that the woman she loved was far wiser than she was), and the [Mind Healer] had more than a few thoughts and suggestions for how Ranthia could move forward.

There was a lot of solid advice—something Ranthia had to remind herself of time and time again as she read—but one section in particular seemed to worm its way into her mind and linger:

Strength isn't found in those that are seemingly untouched by grief or those that fail to be staggered by tragedy. Instead, it is found in those, like you, who mourn and suffer, yet choose to stand again—because you know that life continues. Strength is found in remembering and carrying the memory of those you care for, even when their path diverges from your own or, as some must, comes to an end. Never doubt your own strength, just because you suffer. Suffering doesn't make you strong but remember that each day you choose to rise and do what you must, you are exhibiting strength—not weakness. Do not force yourself to dry your eyes or bottle your pain. To feel is to live and to live a connected life is to be strong.

Ranthia chose to treat the words like a refrain and recited—or reread—them often, whenever she needed to remind herself of her strength. Because each day she woke up in a bed that felt unnaturally cold. And with every morning that passed, the familiar—vaguely sweet—scent that was uniquely Avyna was a bit harder to find. The evidence of Avyna’s existence slowly faded from what had once been their home.

Exercise and duty were easy. In motion or faced with a clear objective, Ranthia was able to retreat into her Sentinel persona. But the quiet moments were harder to face. Once Ranthia relaxed and allowed her mind to wander, it was all too easy to lean for a source of warmth that was no longer there. When she was drowsy, she sometimes found herself whispering “I love you” as she sleepily reached for an absent cheek.

She was alone again, but after eighty years of companionship and happiness, it felt as though she had forgotten how to be alone.

Per the [Mind Healer]’s advice, Ranthia allowed herself to cry when the tears came. But she had to keep moving. She made her decision—even if there had never truly been any alternative—and she had to live with it. Because no matter what that damned hateful little voice in the back of her mind whispered, she would meet Avyna again—with a smile on her face.

Besides, she still had mage-rock for support. Ranthia had offered mage-rock’s stalwart services to Avyna when she was packing, but the elf seemed to treat the offer as though it were a joke and mirthfully declined. Perhaps she just knew that Ranthia would need mage-rock’s unerring strength in her absence.

Avyna had left a single project unfinished when she departed, and Ranthia had done her best to fill her beloved’s boots to see it to completion. But no matter how she harassed men and women to keep up their obligations to ensure that it wasn’t abandoned in Avyna’s absence, she lacked the effortless gift the elf possessed. It was hard to convince anyone to endure a short-term inconvenience just for long-term advantages—especially when they weren’t personally invested in those advantages.

Five different times the System offered Ranthia an increasingly broad social Skill that might—might—have helped, but Ranthia still had no free General Skill slots. And even if she did, an immortal memory Skill was her next priority. Besides, Ranthia had absorbed a few lessons from Avyna after eighty years: the essence of negotiation was to listen, adapt based on what she learned, and strike mercilessly when she found an opening. …Which admittedly was basically the same thing she did in combat, just embodied in a wildly different form.

If her negotiations killed anyone, something had to have gone somewhat wrong.

But even as the timetable that Avyna estimated (one season, two at the most) passed by, Ranthia continued to struggle. Sometimes it felt as though she had more setbacks than she made progress, but the project was Avyna’s legacy (…ignoring her shop, inherited by Numeria). And Ranthia was prepared to do whatever it took to see it done.

“And next on the agenda is what to do with storage allotment 19.” The base commander stated, as though it was something unimportant!

In Avyna’s absence, it took Ranthia well over a year to finally complete the work. And with it done—with the time finally come to put the rehearsal and instructions Avyna had armed her with—Ranthia was struggling to keep herself still in her seat! The urge to shout her suggestion had to be suppressed; Avyna had warned her to let others speak up first.

The first suggestion came from Ranthia’s least favorite advisor. Which wasn’t surprising, ever since the man had the panicked meltdown about the theoretical shimagu assassin, he had become increasingly vocal. His suggestion was a tavern, specifically one that sold nonalcoholic beverages, as “a way to return the pay of idle soldiers to Legion use.” Ranthia never even got a chance to speak up; almost everyone else axed it with a vengeance out of concern for how it would look to those higher in the chain of command.

The next suggestion was a training area that could be used when the weather was unfavorable. Surprisingly, many in the tent seemed to approve of it (seriously, they were legionaries, who cared if it was hot, cold, or raining?!), which forced Ranthia to speak up.

“Fabric absorbs smells. Just imagine what that tent would smell like after just a few seasons of most of the base personnel sweating in there as they train in the luxury of shade. Sure, it could be taken down to clean it, but we’d spend more time and effort on that. Just… train outside—it’s worked well enough since Remera was founded.”

Thank Xaoc, support wavered and fell apart after that.

Silence lingered as the men that the base commander chose to surround himself with tried to make convincing pantomimes of deep thought. It was time for her to speak up, but Ranthia still found herself hesitating. Avyna had written a recommendation for what to do with the space—and she had coached Ranthia on what she needed to say to ensure it wouldn’t pass. It was part of the plan, but… It still kind of felt like a betrayal, even though it was literally what Avyna wanted..

“Avyna left this in my care; she intended the space to be used for a hobby center. The details are on the scroll, but basically a space with ovens and various crafting stations that off-duty legionaries and dwarves can use.” Ranthia retreated deeper into her Sentinel Grace mask as she set the scroll on the table.

“Oh, the elf had a plan? Shocking.” One of their few remaining [Analysts] muttered under his breath.

“That said, I have some concerns. I reviewed her suggestion ahead of this meeting, and I can’t help but worry about the risk of fire with some of these stations and unskilled, distracted personnel. Keeping everything stocked would be an ongoing expense as well, which Avyna noted, though I think she tried to downplay it.” Word-for-word, exactly what Avyna had told her to say. Okay, the heat that crept into the first couple of words were pure Ranthia, but…!

…Those were the words Avyna wanted her to say, right? Gods and goddesses, she wasn’t as certain as she had been.

“I can see a potential risk for closed groups to utilize specific stations amongst themselves, without sharing. This could undermine the camaraderie I expect from my soldiers.” The base commander himself spoke up.

And with that, the scroll was closed and set aside. Avyna’s precious words, treated like another piece of garbage. It was intended, but it still hurt.

Next up, the base commander’s second—an utterly forgettable man who rarely bothered to remind people of his existence—suggested using the tent for a sparring arena to make more of a sport out of it. On its face it bore the same problems as every other suggestion—combined—yet several of the advisors were nodding along with it, as if it was somehow a valid idea!

“I think not.” The base commander killed it before Ranthia had to.

Silence fell again, and many in the tent were already looking disinterested. Ranthia was supposed to wait for another suggestion to fail before she struck, but with most of the tent seeming to be done with the problem… It felt like a safe enough risk, at least. If the issue was shelved, Xaoc alone knew when she’d get her chance!

“My recommendation would be to use the space to build a proper temple for Remera. A place where anyone can worship the gods and pray.” Ranthia projected her best Sentinel Grace voice to pull the wandering focus back.

“That would be expensive to set up.” The most loathsome advisor adopted a dismissive tone.

Just as Avyna had anticipated. Gods and goddesses, she was amazing.

“So put up a collection box that people can contribute coins or credits to. Sure, the initial cost might be somewhat high—though, honestly, I don’t think it’s higher than some of the other suggestions we’ve heard—but over time it should recoup itself and pay for any ongoing maintenance. And there’s no concerns about how it looks to the Legion’s leadership; I doubt anyone would be blasphemous enough to openly deride piety.

“But you know what, I’ll admit this is important to me. I’m a devout follower of Xaoc, so I’ll fund His altar myself. I’m sure we can attract a nondenominational [Priest] or two, but I can lead prayers to Xaoc myself from time to time, and perhaps…”

Ranthia trailed off. A Miracle was unlikely, but with enough prayer focused for a particular reason, it was possible for the gods to intercede. The formorians were famously defeated due to divine intercession when Remus needed it most, and with the war against the shimagu remaining in deadlock, the possibility would be enticing—assuming any of the men and women in the tent picked up on what Ranthia was implying.

Ranthia had always lamented that Remera lacked a proper temple. Her little home altar was fine—and was sufficient for her own prayers—but it felt wrong to not have a place for communal worship. Even the smallest towns in Remus almost always had a temple, even if it was a tiny one with only a single generalized altar. And Avyna had used some of her waning time in Remera to leave Ranthia a final gift: the temple she dreamed of.

It embodied a way for Ranthia to do more for Xaoc. There was only so much chaos she could raise in Remera. Ranthia’s preferred form of chaos brought joy to those in need, righted wrongs, or brought the truth to those that deserved to know it—messy events that represented and affirmed life. But it wasn’t like there were other crates of annoying instruments collecting dust that Ranthia could steal to scatter their contents for children to find. And there were precious few scandals or abuses of power in Remera that were better handled through chaos than through her own authority. With the opportunities to cause chaos minimized, especially with the absence of the shimagu in the area, Ranthia needed to do something more. …In retrospect, she had genuinely enjoyed the rare opportunities she found to lead prayers to Him in Ariminum.

And, thanks to Avyna, she would have the opportunity again. After the discussion circled for a while, the base commander signed off on her proposal!

“I really should have seen this coming.” The base commander grumbled.

“Probably.” Ranthia agreed, not bothering to even try to keep the smirk off her face.

The temple (still a tent) was in its final stages of preparation. The three generalist [Priests] had arrived, along with the altars that had been commissioned, and Ranthia had joined two of them to get everything set up. The base commander had decided to check in on the project—and discovered what she had done—but that was fine.

It wasn’t like he could change the reality of the situation.

The bulk of the temple-tent was laid out like the symbol of the five gods. Roughly half of the space within was occupied by a raised platform housing the altars dedicated to each of the five great gods. In the back of the tent was the altar to Seira, decorated with polished brass, perfect cubes, and other such orderly things. To the left was the altar to Aion, an altar adorned with hardy plants that could easily be maintained, even inside the tent. To the right was the altar to Thanatos, a place of tranquility with peaceful forms and, somewhat surprisingly, actual human bones. In the center was the altar to Papilion, covered in clever shapes and forms that seemed to shift and move just because of the angle from which they were viewed. And, in the front—the first of the five primary altars anyone would see once they entered the temple-tent—was a grand statue of Xaoc. Specifically, a sculptor’s reproduction of Ranthia’s description and careful sketches of the statues she saw in the world within. The statue held the grand altar, which Ranthia directed the sculptor to craft “as your whims desire.” And the result was beautifully lopsided and unpredictable.

So Xaoc’s altar was slightly bigger and grander than the others. Statue aside, the altar itself was barely twice the size of the others, which was practically minimalist! And what did it really matter if His likeness almost completely hid Seira’s altar from view until someone bothered to walk back there? Frankly, He deserved an altar twice as large and grand! But still, even the modest result was worth every contribution credit that it cost; Ranthia was quite pleased with how it came out.

