The stranger’s eyes darted to the side where the Death Corps were slaughtering Chosen without mercy, or possibly disguised prisoners who’d been forced into combat. Last night, the bossman kicked up a hornet’s nest by Orating from the outer wall, and Dastan heard it all from his cot. To be human, is to choose, a novel take on things, and it made sense from Falling Rain’s perspective, since he himself had been stripped of choice as a slave. This revelation made Dastan respect his bossman all the more, and it explained why he was so sympathetic to Dastan’s plight, and if he were here now, Falling Rain would give this man the benefit of the doubt, so who was Dastan Zhandos to deny him the same?

“Come up,” he said, gesturing at the stranger, but keeping his axe at the ready and praying he wasn’t making a grave mistake. “Slowly now.” Signalling for his partner to step back, Dastan waited until the stranger set foot on the wall and said, “Your helmet. Remove it and toss it here.”

The stranger hesitated, and this was enough for Dastan, but even then, the stranger’s thrust almost took him through the throat. “Death to the pretenders!” the stranger howled, his sunken gaze burning with fervent devotion as he executed a barrage of rapid-fire Amplified thrusts, each one aimed at a different vital point and forcing Dastan back as he barely defended against each lethal attack. “Death to the servants of the Dog Emperor!”

As Dastan drew back to attack, a Sending arrived from an unexpected source, and once again, Dastan stayed his hand. “Try to take him alive,” Kuang Biao Sent. “By order of the Legate.”

Which meant the bossman was watching. Snarling in frustration, Dastan parried and blocked while shifting into place, his Runic shield draining his Chi reserves as he did, for this foe was far stronger than a standard Chosen. In the Army, he might even be strong enough for the rank of Major, his Aura emanating wildly to the point where Dastan even felt pressured by it, though it was possible this was only imagined. Fortuitously catching a glimpse of Bulat lowering his weapon to fire upon the Chosen, Dastan shouted, “No. We need him alive!”

To which Bulat responded by firing anyways, and blowing out the Chosen Warrior’s foot in a spray of blood.

Right. Non-fatal shots. Since the Chosen was bleeding anyways, Dastan lopped off the hand affixed to the spear and shouldered him to ground, pinning him in place with a knee on his chest and the shield wedged against his throat. After some seconds of struggling, he realized there were four unfamiliar Royal Guardians on the wall with him, ready and waiting to take the subdued prisoner into custody. Leaving it to the Experts, Dastan stepped back and discovered he was not the only one who came across a fake prisoner, as Wang Bao had also subdued one by lopping off all four limbs and was busy binding the wounds so the prisoner would not bleed out immediately. Lang Yi had also taken a prisoner, though he was less effective at containing him, just standing over his defeated foe and delivering a stunning blow to the head using the butt of his spear every time the Chosen tried to move. The Death Corps had also subdued a handful of prisoners, no doubt ordered to by the bossman as well, though they were less kind about it than even Wang Bao, breaking multiple bones until the prisoner was rendered helpless before binding them in a painful, contorted position with frightening familiarity.

“Where are you taking them?”

Dastan only asked on a whim, not expecting any answer, but one Royal Guardian scowled and replied, “To see the Legate. He has... questions.”

It was clear the Royal Guardians didn’t approve, but Dastan was curious what the bossman would ask, so he excused himself from the outer wall and followed the prisoners. Rather than head back to the command centre where he expected the boss to be, the Royal Guardians marched back over to the inner wall and up to room on the parapets, where Falling Rain cut a regal and inspiring figure in his golden armour and jewelled hairpiece. A true hero through and through, yet still humble enough to greet Dastan with open arms and genuine smile. “Good to see you,” he said, clapping Dastan on the shoulder before helping him over to an ornate chair, the only one in the room and no doubt there for the Legate’s use only. “You look exhausted. I wanted to come see you and the rest of the retinue last night, but I got... distracted.”

Though he wanted to refuse the seat and remain standing, Dastan’s legs gave out as soon as the bossman said he looked exhausted, suddenly aware of all his previously ignored fatigue. “It’s fine,” he said, smiling in spite of the many glares directed his way for taking the Legate’s seat. “You’re a busy man, can’t be mingling with the common folk all the time.”

“Indeed, there are standards to be kept, after all.” The bossman’s boyish grin fell away as he glanced at the prisoners, his eyes narrowed in thought, rather than anger. “So which one tried to fake his way onto the battlements?”

“Him.”

Approaching Dastan’s prisoner with the intent to inspect him, Kuang Biao and several other Death Corps moved to bar his path, to which Rain responded with a sigh. “Er, right. All Death Corps and Royal Guardians. Out.” The Death Corps immediately obeyed, but the Royal Guardians hesitated. Seeing this, Rain explained, “Personal secret. I have my Bekhai guards with me.” That he did, with the fierce elder Naaran standing in the corner, and nine others Dastan recognized, but never got the name of. “Now shoo. I can’t do anything with you all crowding around.”

Exchanging curious looks as they left, the Royal Guardians obeyed, and Dastan snickered as soon as they were out the room. “I do believe they suspect you’re about to do something to your prisoners.” Seeing the bossman’s quizzical expression, Dastan elaborated, “Something... sexual.”

“Oh. Oh! Fuck!” Cheeks colouring in embarrassment, he looked at Naaran who nodded in response before daring to give voice to his intentions. “I was just gonna touch them. Not sexually,” he added, not at all helping his cause. “Just yanno... a... chaste touch of the cheek. Or wrist, yea, wrist is much better. Totally innocent, nothing deviant about it, I just wanted to check how Defiled these Chosen are..”

Dastan’s mirth died away as he understood the bossman’s intent, as he wanted to see if he could Cleanse the Chosen or if they were wholly Defiled and beyond his help. Though the Death Corps were gone, the Bekhai guards were no less devoted to keeping their charge safe, throwing the prisoner to the ground before devoting six Warriors to pin him in place, including Naaran whose sole purpose was to pin the broken hand in place for the bossman to touch. No doubt rolling his eyes at what he perceived to be overly cautious behaviour, he leaned over, touched the prisoner’s finger, and studied his restrained subject for several seconds before asking, “You feel... any different? Less... murder rapey and more... remorseful?

“Death to the sheep who follow the wolf into his den!” Came the reply, and Dastan could see the Chosen’s eyes still burning with ire. “Death to the Imperial Clan, false dragons one and all.”

“Aren’t you charming.” Stepping away and wiping his hands on a handkerchief, the bossman turned to Dastan and asked, “I take it he was convincing, else you wouldn’t have bothered reporting it. How believable was he when he pleaded his case?”

Thinking back on the haunted expression and trembling frame, Dastan replied, “He missed his calling as an actor. I’d have sworn he was telling the truth.”

“Hm.” Turning back to the prisoner, the bossman kept his hands to himself this time and squatted down to speak. “So, I’m guessing there’s a part of you in there that knows what you’re doing is wrong. Maybe the Spectres loosened your bonds, and let the real you slip through a little, just enough to convince Dastan there. I suppose it backfired, else you could’ve kept the charade up longer, but what I want to know is: do you regret your choices?”

“The Dog Empire left the West to rot,” the prisoner snarled, spitting as best he could with his face pressed against the ground. “And he would do the same to Central, North, and South if it suited him. Why pledge loyalty to a tyrant who demands everything and gives nothing in return?”

“You didn’t answer the question.” Ignoring the prisoner’s rhetoric, the bossman repeated himself. “Do you regret your choices? Joining the Defiled?”

“Defiled, Pei! We are the Chosen of Heaven, and we will right the wrongs inflicted upon us by the Imperial Clan.”

“You told Dastan you served in TieJian. Unless that was a lie, then you’ve only been with the Defiled for a few days, but no doubt you’ve seen your fair share of atrocities already.” Seeing the prisoner fall silent, the bossman tried a different tack. “You’re Central-born? You have family here? Parents? Siblings? A wife? A husband? Kids? Friends? A pet? You’ll never see any of them again you know. Even if I let you walk out the gates back to the Enemy army, you’ll never see any of your loved ones again. Do you regret your choices?”

Even Dastan could see that the prisoner was conflicted, for his words did not match his expression. “...My only regret is that I cannot rip your heart out and taste your blood as it still beats.”

“Fair enough.” Straightening up, the bossman looked out the open window and said, “The fighting looks like it’s dying down. Put him over there, and when the Enemy retreats out of range, send him back by way of catapult. Alive, please,” he added, causing Naaran to freeze in place. “So he can greet them as he approaches. The Imperial prisoners fear the Defiled, so they surrender far too easily, in a matter of days even. We cannot allow this to continue, so it’s time to remind everyone how the Empire treats the Defiled: with utter contempt. Doesn’t matter if they’re all dressed up in fancy armour and spewing righteous rhetoric, the only good Defiled, is a dead Defiled.”

With how kind and caring the bossman usually was, it was easy to forget how cold and merciless he could be. The other prisoners raised a ruckus with their howls, but the bossman was unperturbed, going down the line and touching each one in hopes of Cleansing them of Spectres, but either his gift was no longer working due to his shattered Core, or every prisoner present was too far gone to help. In truth, Dastan was glad none of the prisoners could be Cleansed, because then the bossman would insist on saving them, and thereby forcing himself into an awkward position when it came time to explain this to the Empire at large. Even knowing he himself almost turned Defiled and was saved by the bossman, Dastan still felt uncomfortable about the secret getting out, not because he valued his pride, but because he feared the response would not be what the bossman expected.

Like he said, the only good Defiled was a dead Defiled, and even Falling Rain’s most devoted admirers might balk if they learned their idol had almost turned Defiled. A former slave was difficult enough for most to respect, but an almost Defiled would be universally reviled.

With the prisoners taken care of, Rain turned back to Dastan with a smile. “Well, my friend,” he said, glancing out the window once more to see how the battle was progressing. “It’s been some time since we talked. How have you been? Also, you don’t have to answer if you don’t want to, but did anything ever happen with Sorya and Anrhi? I know they made a big fuss about cooking you a meal before you left, and they were all giggly the next day, so... details?”

Smiling as he looked upon his friend’s upright back, Dastan marvelled at how incredible a man this was. Even being Legate of the outer provinces hadn’t changed his perspective, still a friendly, empathetic, mildly perverted young man who would hopefully change the world for the better.

Because if even Falling Rain couldn’t accomplish this, then no one could.

Chapter Meme
