Not that he cared for fame, so Dastan focused on his bloody work and fought like a man possessed, smashing, hacking, booting, and brawling his way across the outer wall and slaughtering every Chosen he came across. There was no challenge here, no battle of skill and wits, just a seemingly endless grind in which Dastan raised and lowered his axe time after time after time, but this did not mean there was no way to progress. During the harrowing withdrawal from Sinuji, he’d joined the rearguard once matters grew desperate enough, and there he fought alongside some of the strongest Warriors in the Empire. Exarch Bralton and Exarch Eriene were awe-inspiring as they took up Dastan’s current role on the battlements, darting about the battlefield to lend support to whoever might need it. The pair defeated their foes through raw power alone, cutting though Demons like dry reeds until they kicked over the steel board that was the Dark Child.

In many ways, the married Exarchs embodied the dreams of so many Warriors across the Empire, Experts who reached the Peak of the Martial Path through sheer diligence alone. They had no Talents, no Blessings, no powerful Mentors or wealthy backers, lacking even a prosperous home city to support them with soldiers and supplies. Bralton and Eriene hailed from rival horse-rearing nomads who made their trade in and around the forests north of Shen Huo, and developed their skills over years of tribal conflict over the best grazing grounds. Since both tribes were so small they couldn’t afford the losses, these conflicts rarely tipped over into bloodshed, and soon these matches simply became a competition between the two future Exarchs. As news of their prowess spread, they attracted the attention of a travelling Major. After seeing Eriene in person, he became enamoured with her beauty and sought to take her as his concubine, but the nomads refused and earned the Major’s ire. This led to a heated exchange in which the Major killed Eriene’s father, only to be wounded by the enraged young woman in return. When the Major returned with loyal soldiers for revenge, Eriene pledged herself to Bralton if he would help her kill the Major, which he did, but only after refusing her hand in marriage.

“I’d be better off bedding your mare than marrying you,” Bralton was reported to say, though Dastan could hardly believe it. Eriene was a rare beauty, with alabaster jade skin and eyes as clear as limpid autumn water, not to mention the fact that they seem happily married to this day, but sometimes, rumours gained traction because the truth was too boring to be believed.

That said, Dastan was not so egotistical to think he could match the Exarchs accomplishments and rise to the Peak of the Martial Path with only base Insight and the Forms themselves. Instead, he took inspiration from another warrior on the battlefield, the underrated Brigadier Hongji himself, whose fine control over his Domain allowed him to strike his enemies down in mid-air without laying hand or sceptre upon them. The Ethereal Palm, the Brigadier called it, which he used to pull the husband and wife pair aside and rescue them from what seemed like imminent death. While his strength was nowhere near as overwhelming as what the Exarchs displayed, the juxtaposition between overwhelming power and dexterous control opened up new avenues for Dastan to explore.

Prior to that battle, he believed he needed more Chi and a larger Domain to get the most out of his Talent, both of which would only come with time, but after seeing Brigadier Hongji in action, he realized the raw strength was not the only option available. Utilizing one’s Domain to affect the physical world was nothing out of the ordinary, as most Martial Warriors did so unconsciously to bolster their attacks and defences, but the Brigadier had taken this basic aspect of his Domain and practised it to perfection. He even added in elements of Reinforcement and Deflection to allow him to use his Domain like a set of hands, grappling with foes from a safe distance or dragging wounded allies out of harm’s way. To Dastan, seeing this was akin to growing up in a remote village and thinking everyone in the world lived in some sort of blocky house, then going to Sanshu and seeing all the marvellous buildings for the first time. In this comparison, Dastan was the ignorant villager and Peak Experts were the majestic armoured gate houses, while Hongji was the towering Magistrate’s palace with its curved roof, elegant arches, and stunning zen gardens, a modern marvel of engineering and architecture.

This was a sort of mastery rarely seen in any Chi skill, much less one as basic as Domain deployment, and it was mind-boggling to think that Hongji had been languishing in relative obscurity before the West fell.

To this end, Dastan devoted his efforts to mastering his Talent, which as far as he could tell, was some mystical combination of Honing, Guiding, and Reverberation, as well as a few inscrutable skills he had no name for, because he couldn’t really describe it. However, if he could learn how to be more efficient with these skills and apply that knowledge to his Severing Cut, it might one day become possible to utilize his Talent at all times in place of Honing, allowing him to unleash a barrage of nigh unblockable attacks. If such a day were to ever arrive, then his opponents would have no choice but to dodge his every blow, lest they fall victim to the Severing Cut. Progress would not come quickly, but it was still faster than waiting around for his Core and Chi reserves to naturally grow, and this had the added benefit of leaving him more Chi to utilize in other ways. To this end, he spent long hours in his Natal Palace perfecting his Severing Cut, and here, in the midst of battle, he made sure to utilize Honing, Guiding, and Reverberation as often and efficiently as possible.

How quickly could he Hone the edge of his axe? How much Chi was required for an optimal Reverberation, one which stopped before exiting his target’s body? How sharply could his Guided Axe turn towards a new target? Dastan tested his limits and pushed himself as hard as he dared, because despite his eagerness to progress along the Martial Path, he did not let himself forget that this was a battle of attrition. The Chosen numbers were more or less matched with the Imperial Forces, but the Defiled tribesmen were almost too numerous to count, yet Dastan still had plenty of chances for practice as all too many of the Chosen were equipped with Runic armour.

It was truly a mystery how the Enemy could produce so many sets of Runic Armour, as even the greatest Craftsman etching the most simplistic Runes onto perfectly identical pieces of armour would likely fail more often than not. This meant the Enemy either had a multitude of Runic Craftsmen with unlimited resources or, more likely, they’d discovered some means to simplify the crafting process and raise the rate of success. Then again, it could be both, considering the Chosen had so much of it, enough to equip one in ten Chosen with a Runic helmet and maybe one in fifty with a breastplate. Considering there were more than a million Chosen in the field here at Castle JiangHu, this meant the Enemy likely possessed more Runic armaments than the three outer provinces combined.

So it was a good thing Dastan now had a method to circumvent the armour besides aiming for an exposed area, especially since his opponents were more liable to trade blows if they thought his attack would be ineffective. Together with his comrades, they held their section of the wall, while the Death Corps on either side of his unit fared just as well, because the slave soldiers were another exception to the rule and were trained to coordinate their efforts in battle. So long as the black-armoured Death Corps guarded a section of the wall, not a single Chosen ever set foot upon it as they were met with coordinated attacks from multiple directions as soon as they showed their faces. Group tactics were frighteningly effective against your run of the mill Warrior, but of limited use against stronger Experts and Peak Experts, so Dastan understood why they were generally ignored by the Warriors of North and Central. However, seeing the Death Corps put them to great use here on the outer walls of Castle JiangHu, Dastan wondered why such an arbitrary limit existed, and decided that it most likely didn’t. There had to be a way to pursue this Path to the Peak, one in which you relied on the warriors beside you more than the weapon in your hand, but it only had yet to be discovered and developed by the world at large. All Paths lead to the Dao, so why not a Path of Collaboration?

It was here Dastan realized his mind was wandering, which was a sure sign of exhaustion as any, but when he assessed the situation once more, he realized the Chosen pressure was dwindling in the area. Sending his concerns to his immediate commander, Bulat shouted back in reply. “Hang on,” he hollered, his brow dripping with sweat and voice weak from heaving with effort. “I’ll pass... yer concerns... up the line.” Glancing around for his aide, Bulat stopped and turned back to Dastan and said, “Actually, better if ye Send it.”

There was a part of Dastan which looked down on this overly obese man who had no place being in command, but then he remembered Bulat himself didn’t want to be here and came out of retirement to support the bossman. To be fair, though his physical prowess had deteriorated in these few short months of indolence, his commands were as on point as ever, rotating his troops about so no one soldier ever fought to exhaustion and reacting quickly when anyone was wounded or killed. This entire battle, Dastan had kept close watch on his comrades, but he paid little attention to the overall ebb and flow of the conflict, and never once thought to order anyone to rest or get some water. There were many aspects of command which had nothing to do with Martial ability, and while Dastan was lacking in all of them, Bulat excelled in most. A few weeks of fighting and the big man would be back in shape, and by then, there were few people Dastan would rather have commanding the warriors around him.

Sending his concerns to Mister Rustram’s aide, he received a reply shortly after. “The Chosen ARE givin’ up the cENtrE,” Silva Sent, his volume fluctuating between too quiet and too loud. “Mister RUSTRAM ses tHey’re focuSIN’ their efforts where the picKiN’S look eaSIer. Be ready to SUPPORT at a moMent’s notice, but ‘til THEN, HOld position and eNjoY the reprieve.”

Not what Dastan wanted to hear since he needed opponents to test his skills against, but alas, the Chosen were a different breed of Defiled. It was a lot like fighting rebels, or so he’d been told, though rarely was the Imperial army outnumbered and outclassed by rebels in Runic armour. It wasn’t like there were no opponents to face, just less of them since this was just a token effort to keep Dastan and the Death Corps in place. It could also be a gambit to get them to lower their guard, at which point a lightning-quick assault from Peak Experts and Demons could clear all resistance in the blink of an eye. Dastan had luckily not been on the wall when that happened, and most of the bossman’s retinue were either on the inner wall using their crossbows to great effect, or out on the plains hunting down errant bands of Defiled cavalry and promptly running them over. Lady Yan, Zian, and Tam Taewoong had all been in reserve, but Ishin Ken-Shibu’s unit had been hit hard, and rumour had it that his Peak Expert guardian died getting him to safety, an uncle everyone believed was a silk-pants wastrel, but turned out to be a hidden weapon of the Ishin family.

A shame. The bossman had his differences with the Ishin family, since a tiger was bound to come to conflict with a dragon, but no one could argue that the Ishin family wasn’t a powerhouse to be reckoned with, even before the reveal of another Peak Expert. How many more might they have hidden away? It could be one, or it could be a dozen, one could never tell when it came to the Martial Path.

“Don’t attack!” As Dastan’s axe was about to claim another life, the panicked plea stayed his hand and he found himself staring into the haunted eyes of a terrified Chosen. “I’m not one of them,” he gibbered, his head just barely peaking over the battlements as he clung fast to his ladder. “I’m no Chosen. I served at Fort TieJian on the front lines, and was captured during the withdrawal.”

The man’s complexion and accent identified him as a Central born citizen, but the Runic helmet and gleaming hooked spear had Dastan on his guard, so he Sent a report to Silva, who told him to delay. “Drop your weapon,” Dastan commanded, “Then we can talk.”

“I can’t!” Seeing him raise his right hand abruptly, Dastan almost took the man’s wrist off, until he saw what the stranger wanted him to see. “It’s bound tight,” he said, gesturing at the iron wires which affixed his hand to the spear. “They threatened to torture us all if we didn’t assault the castle, but I don’t want to die.”

