As the sun rose over the horizon and the Enemy marshalled for the attack, Dastan stood ready and waiting upon the walls of Castle JiangHu, eager to greet his foes with axe and shield in hand.

There were no tribal chants or macabre exhibits to weaken Imperial morale, no mocking screams or daring displays to entice a duel, none of the usual precursors to battle when facing the Defiled, for these were no mere tribal savages. No, the forces arranged against Castle JiangHu today were far more insidious than the usual heathen outlanders who worshipped the Father through torture and bloodshed. These faithless foes, the so-called Chosen dressed in their yellow brigandine armour with red-plumed helmets and marching in tight, disciplined formation, were former Imperials themselves, men and women of the Empire who knew enough not to wholly give in to base desire, yet accepted the Father’s lies and willingly fought on His behalf. At least the foreign Defiled had the excuse of not knowing any better, but these Chosen had willingly turned against the Mother’s light and marched against the Empire itself, because they believed their reasoning sound and their cause just.

In another life, one in which the Golden Highlands Coalition’s bid to conquer Sanshu succeeded and the Northern Wall was overrun, Dastan might well have counted himself as one of the Chosen, marching alongside Defiled ‘auxiliaries’ to overthrow the corrupt Emperor. This, more than anything else, terrified him to the extreme. On some levels, he sympathized with their cause, for their plight had been caused by the Empire’s negligence when they abandoned the entire Western Province without a fight the moment the Enemy broke through the Wall. However, while he understood the desire to rise up in rebellion to depose the Emperor, he couldn’t reconcile this with the depraved acts of torture and torment which were arranged for Castle JiangHu’s benefit. How did one go from a law-abiding, Mother-worshipping, Father-fearing citizen of the Empire, to a Chosen who forced captured Imperial soldiers to torture other prisoners, in the span of a single year? Perhaps less even, as the entire province was not conquered in a day, for surely Imperial Heroes made ready to resist as soon as the Wall fell. Were the morals of humankind so easily perverted? Were their virtuous ideals truly so fragile?

As much as he hated to admit it, the answer was yes, and he hated knowing it could have been him leading the charge against an Imperial fortification if not for Divine Intervention, because what else would one call the actions of the Mother’s Chosen Son?

Pounding drums sounded the advance, and the Defiled Chosen set out across the field, marching at a steady pace to the percussive rhythm, one which was neither fast nor slow. Once they entered range, Imperial horns raised a clarion call and the catapults creaked and clacked in response, unleashing their deadly payloads to whistle through the air like the piercing screams of the vengeful dead. Landing in an explosive spray of dirt and blood, the catapults drew first blood as they often did, but the zealous Chosen responded by picking up the pace almost before the beating drums could give the order. This was a mark of trust in leadership, with Officers anticipating their General’s intentions and preparing to follow through, something Dastan only read about and never saw in action until the Chosen took the field. The Enemy soldiers and Officers had full confidence in their commander here at Castle JiangHu, and it showed in their actions as they marched, jogged, and eventually sprinted headlong into the waiting Imperial defences, silent as the grave save for the steady cadence of beating drums and thudding boots.

To make matters worse, the past few days showed that their near fanatical trust was justified, for their commander was a formidable foe. Castle JiangHu was superior to Fort Sinuji in every imaginable metric, with taller, thicker outer walls arranged in ways to funnel the Enemy into choke-points and killing fields, and an inner wall festooned with crossbows and catapults overlooking the outer. There were more than three times the number of soldiers in Castle JiangHu than Fort Sinuji, and almost twice that many Peak Experts and Demon Slayers, all commanded by Brigadier Hongji, a hero who’d proven himself to be one of the most able field-officers in the Empire, but even then, the castle was almost overrun close to a dozen times in the last five days. Every few hours, a new crisis would arise and leave the defenders holding on by the skin of their teeth. While an unexpected assault from a cohort of Peak Experts and powerful Demons was to blame for the latest emergency, prior to this, the Enemy earned their near-victories through sheer numbers, ample training, and tactical acuity.

Dastan still remembered the surprise he felt on his first day in the castle, when the Enemy showed up outside the walls with reinforced ladders, stone palisades, and other makeshift siege equipment in tow. A logical development, all things considered, yet it was akin to seeing wolves working a forge or deer tending to a farm, a tale so absurd and fanciful he would’ve laughed outright if he overheard it at a bar. While the Enemy was a cagey and dangerous foe, Defiled tribesmen were more analogous to cunning beasts than devious humans, able to utilize tactics to some degree, but usually forgoing them in favour of raw strength. Even though their siege equipment was shoddy at best, ramshackle devices thrown together from materials salvaged from captured convoys and overrun forts from the front lines, the Chosen used them to great effect and almost took the castle walls that first day, and might well have if not for Hongji’s superlative commands.

Even now, after having seen them in action several times, the Enemy’s teamwork and coordination still took Dastan by surprise. Usually, they attacked with a screen of expendable Defiled out front, mixed bands of Northern, Western, and Southern Defiled who threw themselves at the walls without care or regard for losses, but this time, the vanguard was made up of frenzied Chosen, crazed bastards who were almost no different from your run of the mill Defiled save for their fancy armour and helmets. Behind this thin screen of attackers were the Chosen elites, or the siege-breakers as Dastan and so many others had taken to calling them, holding their iron, bronze, and in some cases even leather shields overhead with one hand and their ladders in the other. Arranged in two neat rows around each device, the Chosen carried their ladders like a battering ram as they ran headlong towards the castle walls, weathering the storm of stones, bolts, and arrows raining down from overhead. Never slowing as they approached, the foremost Chosen relied on the efforts of their comrades pushing behind them to run straight up the steep, slick surface of the castle walls, all but flying over the parapets to land neatly atop the battlements, where they fought like Demons to hold their position. One or two ladders were easily defeated, but repeat this several hundred times along the outer wall, and the Chosen were bound to find success at least once or twice.

Every time the Enemy gained a foothold on the outer walls, the Imperials paid a bloody price to dislodge them, a price they could ill-afford considering the numbers involved. The first day was the hardest, because while it seemed like a simple strategy to counter, the reality of the situation was not easily explained. Given the opportunity, Dastan was sure he and his comrades could replicate the Chosens’ feat, but they were veteran warriors who’d fought side by side for the better part of a year. How many Imperial units and retinues could say the same? Less than half, was Dastan’s best guess, and he’d be surprised if even a tenth of those remaining Imperials could execute this tactic with the flawless timing and coordination demonstrated by the Chosen. Every ladder went up the Wall and delivered their seige-breakers within seconds of one another, enabling them to work together to cause mass chaos atop the parapets, form a bulkhead, and keep the Imperials from focusing the ladders down one by one.

This was but one of the many clues indicating the Chosen were better trained and more unified than the Imperials arrayed against them, for Warriors were a prideful bunch more focused on individual strength than anything else. Very few officers bothered training their soldiers to fight as a unit, but unfortunately for the Enemy, Falling Rain was one such officer.

Leaving the Chosen on the left to Sahb, Dastan moved as soon as his target came into sight, delivering a Reverberating shield smash into the foremost traitor and sending the brave fool sailing out into empty air before his boots even touched the battlement floor. The next Chosen appeared almost immediately after, already moving up before the ladder was locked in place so that two Chosen on the wall might become four, then six, and eight, and so on, but he had the misfortune to face Dastan Zhandos. His battle-axe slammed into the Chosen’s helmet, neatly parting the crimson plumage and glancing off the Rune-reinforced steel, but Dastan expected as much and unleashed his Domain solely along the edge of his weapon. The air buckled and burst as an invisible blade detached from his Honed axe, bursting through the atmosphere and sliding down the Runic helmet before cleaving clean through his opponent’s face and skull. As the body dropped like a sack of rocks, a muffled shout of surprise sounded out and Dastan surmised that the plummeting corpse brought the next traitor in line down with it on its journey to earth below.

This was the Severing Cut, his Talent which was far more versatile than he first expected. In fact, he discovered this facet of his technique almost entirely by accident when sparring against Sahb. They wanted to know if his Severing Cut could pierce through a Runic shield, though in retrospect, they should have probably thought up a better way to test it than for Dastan to simply utilize it against his second. It turned out that his Severing Cut could not pierce through a Runic shield as expected, but it could go around it. Unlike a physical attack which would glance off the Runic shield, Dastan’s Severing Cut redirected itself along the surface of Sahb’s shield like a stream of liquid dribbling down the surface. Unlike a liquid however, once the way forward was no longer obstructed, the Severing Cut’s momentum continued unabated, shooting forward to almost bisect Sahb at the waist during testing. Luckily, the stony Warrior was made of sterner stuff and an old hand at treating grievous injuries with Panacea, because a lesser man might’ve bled out before being treated by a Healer. As far as Dastan could tell, his Severing Cut was nothing like Lady Yan’s Wind Blades, which behaved like a physical projectile, but rather it was more of an extension of his Domain, much like Hongji’s Ethereal Palm. His Intent was to Cut, which meant his attack would do whatever it took to carry out his will, even if it meant bending the laws of the physical world to do so.

Allowing himself a small smile of satisfaction over his perfect execution, Dastan fell into the rhythm of battle. It was a simple matter of chopping every head that popped up the ladder, while also keeping an eye on his comrades around him in case they were in need of assistance. Technically, he could kick the ladder away after chopping the lock off, a clever hinged device which swung up over the parapets to bite into the stone walls and clamp the ladder in place, but then he’d have no Defiled to kill save for those enterprising few who tried to surmount the wall through sheer effort alone. Better to kill Defiled as they came up rather than let them mill around at the base of the wall, where any fool with a Spiritual Weapon could cut their way through the stone and steel. It would take some effort of course, because even though most materials offered little resistance to a Honed edge, the walls were thick enough for three men to lay head to foot inside. Add in the possibilities of traps or soldiers waiting within to kill anyone foolish enough to try, as well as the utter dearth of Spiritual Weapons amongst the Chosen ranks, and few cared to try their luck at tunnelling straight through the wall.

For long minutes, Dastan slaughtered his foes with laughable ease until he noticed someone down the line in need of assistance. Calling for Camsul to take his place, Dastan sprinted down eight spots and shouldered Bulat aside, shifting the fat man’s prodigious bulk out of the way just enough so that the blow aimed at his neck landed on Dastan’s shield instead. Swinging his axe low, he took his foe’s leg off at the knee, shearing through the mundane armour with ease before following through with a shield slam to send his foe toppling off the battlements and killing a second Chosen beside him with an axe to the neck. There weren’t too many encounters which required use of his Talent or even his Domain, because despite their teamwork and training, most Chosen were still fairly average as far as soldiers went, and Dastan was a fledgling Demon Slayer of no small renown.

