“Spare me,” Nathan replied, rolling his eyes. But his friend’s efforts to cheer him up had worked, and he didn’t feel quite so crushed anymore. “We should talk more about our points. I've got some ideas, but I could use more feedback on them.”

“Ah, you’re smothering our fire,” Aarl complained halfheartedly. “I’d hoped to escape such mundanities as preparation.” His sister glared at him, and he sighed heavily. “Fine. If we're going to trade our lives for a chance to address the Questors of Davrar, I can spend some time practicing our aim.”

“Thank you,” Sarah replied politely. “I suggest mentioning that their current environment does not seem to challenge them. Their Insights and levels seem blasphemously weak for the length of their lives. They need to rework Davrar to be less about periodic Endings and more about inter-Questor conflict.”

“What about complaining that they’re bloodthirsty and want to kill us?” Aarl asked plaintively.

“Somebody needs to say it,” Nathan agreed. “Maybe wait until after somebody gloats that we’re just going to die.”

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 6

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 9

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 5

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina: 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 897

Limitless Focus: 9070/9070

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Perfected Mind 2

Inspiration 10

Impulse 8

The Sense of Magic 5

Forewarning 10

The Truth of Magic 6

Evasion 5

Wizard’s Palace 5

Veracity 4

Whiplash 5

Visibility Control 8

Blending 1

High-tier Battle Cry 7

Aura Mastery 6
