Name: Mato BahrRace: BeastkinActive Buffs: Bear Form, Natural ProwessClass: Druidic Shapeshifter – level 43- Arboreal Sanctuary – level 27- Swipe – level 27- Brutal Restoration – level 29- Bear Form – level 27- Rampant Growth – level 1- Bestial Combat – level 26- Natural Prowess – level 19- Survival Instinct – level 19- Battle Trance – level 11- Last Stand – level 1General Skills- Identify – level 10- Cooking – level 8Aptitudes- Languages: Common, Beast, Plant- Mana (Affinity): Nature- Strong (Racial): +7 to Strength- Tough (Racial): +10 to EndurancePatrons & Tithes- Mentor: LirasiaAttributes- Vitality: 242 (+97)- Strength: 179 (+80)- Endurance: 240 (+116)- Dexterity: 12- Perception: 43- Intelligence: 11- Wisdom: 83Equipment- Body: Banded Feral Plate Armor – level 20Armor: 1368Physical Damage Reduction: 53.18%Health: 2420/2420Stamina: 1920/2400 (480 Reserved)Mana: 830/830

“What about you, Malika?” Ali prompted. “Congrats, by the way, you earned the most levels of all of us.”

“Thanks,” she answered, smiling with happiness that momentarily startled her. Alexander Gray had been an extremely dangerous foe, a necromancer, summoner, and he had had more than thirty levels on them. Well, thirty levels on me, she corrected. Ali was higher leveled. Honestly, she had worried they wouldn’t be able to do it, even with all four of them against him and his summoned army. But she had been elated with how well her skills had stacked up against him.

It won’t always be that good a match, she reminded herself. But she couldn’t deny that using her Soul Strike to attack his mana, combined with the hasted attack speed from Divine Step, had proved the perfect counter to the necromancer and his abilities.

“Good work,” Mato said, “You really kicked his ass.”

“Only because you make a good healer, Mr. Tree,” Malika grinned. Standing within the blight aura had been excruciating, but with the combination of Ali’s Acolytes, her own continuous healing, her substantial investment in endurance, and Mato’s aura destroying the blight and siphoning the lion’s share of her damage, she had been able to endure it.

“And you make a good tank,” Mato said.

She reflected proudly on how far she had come with her class, grateful to have had the perfect opportunity to redirect her fate. She was still upset with the council and how they had cowered behind their rules instead of helping, and it rankled to see Jax Hawkhurst among them, showing his face as if his criminal activity were of no consequence, but that was a fight for another day. Maybe a day when she was stronger… I have to get stronger to survive.

There was that old feeling. Odd how abruptly she could become that girl again, being beaten up by common street thugs. Angrily, Malika thrust those feelings into the back of her mind, wishing nothing more than to crush them. Never again. Never!

“Let me see,” she answered, looking inward to find dozens of dense lines of blue-white text waiting for her.

Soul Monk has reached level 41 (+5).+50 attribute points.Martial Artist has reached level 20.Soul Strike has reached level 24 (+2).Healing Mantra has reached level 23.Enlightened Evasion has reached level 22.Divine Step has reached level 23.Second Wind has reached level 11.Clarity has reached level 9 (+2).

Level forty-one. Ali had been right; she had earned five levels for the fight. Either she had been close to leveling, or she had had a greater impact on the fight than the others. Probably both. Sometimes it went like that, and at other times the pendulum would swing the other way, she was certain. She decided to not dwell on it much, other than to be happy she was progressing well.

Fifty points, hmm… Always, her attribute allocation left her wishing she had more to work with. A little more dexterity and wisdom, this time, she thought. After a few quick calculations, she spent nineteen points on dexterity, immediately feeling a new lightness suffusing through her muscles. Then, she added seventeen points to wisdom. Given her need to tank pain and damage in the last fight, she split the remainder between vitality and endurance, spending seven on each. As soon as she applied her new attribute points, her notification chime sounded.

Great! I wonder what that unlocked?

Class skill slot unlocked.New skills are available for Soul Monk.New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 40.Martial Artist has reached at least level 20.Dexterity has surpassed 240.Spirit JavelinStamina: Project your energy forward, piercing through everything in its path. Range: 20 feet.Soul, Ranged, DexterityNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 40.Defeated multiple hasted monsters.Dexterity has surpassed 250.Flurry of BlowsStamina: The soul unlocks possible paths. Your punch is followed by [1 + skill / 10] additional hasted punches. Recharge: 30 seconds.Physical, Melee, Haste, DexterityNew bloodline skill unlocked.Inheritor of the Ahn Khen bloodline.Class level has reached 40.Martial Artist has reached at least level 20. Soul Strike has reached at least level 20. Wisdom has surpassed 180.Soul SightYou can see the flow of energy (stamina) all around you. You can sense hostile intent. You can anticipate the physical movement and attacks of your opponents. Range: 30 feet.Soul, Bloodline, Perception, Wisdom

Malika gasped. “I got a second bloodline skill!”

“Didn’t you say that was rare?” Ali asked.

“Very rare,” Lira put in.

“Yes!” Breathlessly, Malika shared the details with them.

“That’s an easy choice,” Mato said. “Soul Sight looks amazing.”

“I agree, congrats Malika!” Ali said.

“It’s one of the best starting combat perception skills in the Ahn Khen bloodline!” Malika said. She could scarcely believe it, but the text did not vanish as she studied it.

“Maybe with a perception skill you won’t run into walls in the dark?” Mato suggested, hiding a grin.

“Oi!” Malika retorted, but his joking did nothing to quell the bubbling excitement within her. This is perfect! Wasting no more time, Malika selected Soul Sight for her last skill slot, barely even glancing at the other two choices. As she added the skill, a not-quite-painful prickling sensation ran down her spine, grabbing her attention and making her heart quicken, but the sensation quickly passed.

It’s a passive skill, so it should just work.

“Mato, you use stamina, can you do something?” she asked, turning to look at him.

“Sure,” he said, making his body twist and warp into his Bear Form.

Instantly, the entire world lurched, and an intense stabbing pain shot through her brain, lancing all the way down her spine. She staggered as her vision flickered and flashed with an angry roiling vortex of shimmering colors and she saw the stone of the ground right before everything went black.

***

“Malika! Are you ok?”

She heard her name being called repeatedly and felt the gentle warmth of holy magic healing her. She groaned as her vision shuddered and she opened her eyes.

What happened? She put her hand up to her head where it was still throbbing. She felt several sharp jolts of pain as soon as she touched her head, and her hand came away with a little blood.

“You just passed out.”

Ali, Mato, and Lira were all looking down on her with extremely concerned expressions.

“You hit your head on the stone floor and cut it.”

“I just added the skill,” she said, leaning gingerly on Mato as she got up. She hissed in pain as another jolt of pain stabbed behind her eye. She looked around and hovering in her vision were several areas of warped shimmering haloes that followed her gaze around, leaving her severely disoriented and quite nauseous.

“I had a perception skill that was way too intense when I first got it,” Ali said. “I don’t think it was quite as painful as yours, but it did take some getting used to.”

“I have the worst migraine, I think I want to lie down,” she said. It was quite the understatement, she had never experienced pain similar to this – and for some reason, her endurance didn’t seem to be helping much.

Mato helped her over to a couch where she lay down and accepted a cup of tea from Ali’s hand.

“I think I’ll just rest for a bit,” she said, taking in her friends’ concerned faces.

“I’ll watch over you,” Mato declared at once.

The last thing she remembered was Lira’s artfully arched eyebrow and Mato turning a quite marvelous shade of pink.

Rezan sat in lotus pose on his favorite stone slab, wearing nothing more than his loincloth, gazing out over the raging waterfall as he had countless times over the years. This was his favorite meditation spot, the brisk, icy mountain air felt refreshing on his dark and weathered skin. Back at the head of the trail, his two disciples, Hala and Basir, struggled to keep their fire going, bundled up in their furs trying to ward off the snow and ice.

The cold will be good training for them.

He closed his eyes and slowed his breathing, and slowly opened himself to his Eyes of the Soul, the skill honed and passed down through his bloodline for countless generations. His mind soared up above the rock like a Snow Zephyr taking to the skies, and he saw himself suddenly far below as an intensely glowing kernel of yellow light. As he rose above the waterfall, his two disciples flickered into view. Smaller, but shining steadily; an intense white for Hala, and an obsidian gleam from Basir.

They grow well. If only they didn’t complain quite so much, like chattering cleft-sparrows.

His awareness continued to rise, soaring high above the land. Much of it was so barren and empty now, where once the children of Ahn Khen lit his sight like the constellations of the night skies.

He lingered, taking in the view of his small village, Kezda – as he always did – nestled at the foot of the mountain; a bright jewel filled with the many flickering lights of the awakened souls that lived there. Some shone steady blue, some raging red, and some flickered gently in the darkness. He knew each by name. Most of them, he had watched growing up.

He continued to soar above the clouds, watching the tiny lights sparkle and flicker across the ancestral lands.

So few now.

He slowed his breathing once again and relaxed as he spread his awareness out. He sat for several hours, just being aware while the scant light of the day slowly faded.

Suddenly, a light flickered far to the west. A tiny, blue-white nova shone at the edge of his awareness, which despite his many decades of meditation, still snatched his attention, causing curiosity to flare intensely within his heart.

Who are you, lost child? He shifted, his viewpoint crossing hundreds of miles in an instant.

The light flickered and dimmed dramatically.

Just an anomaly. Rezan sighed. He had seen it so many times before. When people touched their souls during their dreams, sometimes they would flicker briefly and return to normal.

It’s not an awakening.

He suppressed the pang of disappointment as the light dimmed and faded. I always hope too much, he chided himself. Beginning to withdraw his attention, the pale blue-white flame flared out once more and then steadied, pulsing slowly in the darkness. A tiny delicate thing, and yet cool and calm.

His breath caught in his throat. Though he watched the light for a while, it remained, stubbornly refusing to go out.

You are a determined soul.

Suddenly, the light flared, but shot through this time with sparks of angry red that threatened the integrity of the soul. Bravely, it tried to restore itself, but the fundamental instability of the red light had crossed its core and was beginning to tear the fragile thing apart.

No! For the first time in decades, the tranquility of his meditation shattered, and his eyes snapped open. Leaping to his feet, he rushed back to his disciples’ camp. They both looked up in surprise at his uncommonly short meditation.

“A soul has reached the threshold and is struggling to awaken,” he announced. “We have work to do.” He strode through the camp, leaving a trail of shock and scrambling in his wake as his disciples processed his words.

Can I even get there in time?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
