To master the path of the sword, the staff, or the fist, one must first master oneself.

- Kamari Ren, Ahn Khen Elder, legendary master and inheritor of the Ninefold Way: Fists of Coherent Integrity.

Mato caught himself staring at the now-empty spiral staircase ascending out of the library and the darkness into which his friend had just disappeared. With a start, he collected himself and returned his attention to his cookfire and the thick beef stew he was supposed to be stirring.

Please be careful. Calen had finally reached for his dreams, but now he was gone, and Mato would not be there to protect him as he had always done. It left him feeling strangely hollow inside.

“He’ll be ok,” Ali said, as if reading his thoughts. “He’s careful, and Lyeneru is strong.”

“Mhm,” he said, ladling a generous helping from the pot into a bowl and handing it to her. “But that was a Death Knight,” he said. By all accounts, Lyeneru Silverleaf was one of the most powerful Pathfinders in recent history, but even with her immense bow, she had only been able to drive the Death Knight off. She hadn’t killed it. Their hunt would be extremely dangerous, and Calen was not even level forty yet.

He shook his head and sighed, trying to dislodge the difficult thoughts. He would not be able to help, and the most he could do was wish his friend a good hunt.

“It seemed that Lyeneru was more interested in Calen’s tracking skills than throwing him into battle against that monster,” Malika observed, accepting the second bowl of stew and inhaling the aroma with obvious relish.

“Thanks, guys,” Mato said. Their efforts to make him feel better had eased some of his anxiety.

“Yum, you’ve outdone yourself today,” Ali said, as she rapidly spooned dinner into her mouth.

“How do you fit so much food into such a tiny body?” Mato grinned.

Cooking has reached level 8.

“Oi!” Ali exclaimed, but her words were muffled around a mouth full of food, coming out as a half splutter. She swallowed and then said, “You guys both hit level forty, did you unlock anything good?”

“Um, let me check,” Mato muttered. In the excitement following the death of Alexander Gray, the arrival of the Death Knight, Lyeneru’s dramatic entrance, the council nonsense, and the continuing mop-up operation against the remainder of the undead horde, he had totally forgotten about the notifications and his class growth. Sitting with a warm bowl on his lap, he finally directed his attention inward to inspect his growth.

Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 43 (+4).+40 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 27 (+3).Brutal Restoration has reached level 29.Natural Prowess has reached level 19 (+2).Survival Instinct has reached level 19 (+2).Battle Trance has reached level 11.

“Forty-three.”

“Great work,” Ali chirped excitedly.

“Nice. What else?” Malika demanded.

“Well, I got a lot of points for my passive skills and Arboreal Sanctuary,” he said, working his way through the skill notifications.

“That makes sense, you were a tree for most of the fight, and you were shouldering about three-quarters of my damage the whole time,” Malika pointed out. “Your Tree Form is interesting – you share a ton of health and mana regeneration, but I noticed you lose the stamina regeneration entirely.”

“I don’t have any stamina or endurance as a tree,” he replied, trying to bite down on his annoyance as Malika predictably pointed out his weaknesses. “But can’t you turn the extra mana regeneration into stamina?”

“I can,” she answered. “But… I lose about twenty-five percent in the transfer, and I miss those fights when you’re getting hit a lot and your Battle Trance is shared.”

“I didn’t think of that.”

“It was the smartest choice,” Ali chipped in. “That Blight aura was insane. Did you see how fast it wiped out my Forest Guardians?”

“Good point,” Malika nodded.

Hmm. She was right, his new Tree Form had been the perfect choice for the fight – much as he hated not being able to hit anything, neutralizing the Blight aura was the most critical role he could play, and he had earned four levels for literally standing atop his own roots. The only other thing he had done was to siphon a large portion of the damage Malika had been tanking to himself, soaking it all against his greatly increased vitality as a tree.

“I like my Tree Form,” he decided aloud. It was truly an extraordinary skill, but learning to use it was going to require him to figure out some strategic subtlety. He glanced at Lira sitting quietly by the fire to find her smiling softly.

In the corner of his eye, he saw Malika’s hand wave. “Anything else? Come on, you know I’ve the patience of a hungry squirrel.”

Chuckling in appreciation, Mato shifted his attention back to his notifications and the image of his inner tree. He spent twelve points on vitality, and then thirteen on endurance. While his Tree Form did not have endurance, it wasn’t like the points were wasted – they would be shifted to count as wisdom in the transformation. Seven points went to strength, five for wisdom, two for perception, and his last point went to boosting intelligence.

At once, a new notification impinged on his awareness.

Class skill slot unlocked.New skills are available for Druidic Shapeshifter.

Aah, there it is! Biting the inside of his lip, Mato read on.

New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 40.Survived a battle with less than 5% health remaining. Tanked an enraged raid-level threat.Last StandLast Stand is triggered automatically when your health drops below 5%.Stamina: Gain + [skill + endurance / 10] % armor and + [skill + vitality / 10] % additional temporary maximum health. Duration: 30 seconds. Recharge: 15 minutes.Physical, Defense, Endurance, VitalityNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 40.Mentor: Lirasia.Melded with an Elder Tree.Can communicate with plants.Grown plants with your aura.Fought as a tree with a wisdom attribute surpassing 325.Rampant Growth replaces Wilderness Lore.Rampant GrowthYou are one with nature, understanding the subtle balance of ecosystems and what disrupts it. You can pass freely through dense growth. Mana: Cause rampant growth in any plant you or your mana touches. Simply grow plants faster, or use them to slow, impede or even damage your enemies.Nature, Plant, Area, WisdomNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 40.Inherited a beast bloodline or race.Has communicated with more than ten beasts.Has three beast forms. Beast TamerMana: Tame a beast to use as a companion. Both parties must remain willing. Nature, Minion, Wisdom

Mato quickly shared the new choices he had with his friends, scanning them to get a sense for his preference.

“You survived a fight with less than five percent life remaining?” Lira asked, raising an eyebrow. She didn’t say any more, but Mato could hear the implication loud and clear. He had heard it all his life; “you’re too reckless”, or “be more careful”. But it stung a little coming from his new mentor.

“Um, that would be when Ali and I fell into the ruins and the Kobold Fire Mage almost finished us off,” he answered. It was not his finest moment, losing control to his old Primal Rage and nearly killing Ali. He knew it had been close, and he would never have lived if it wasn’t for Ali’s incredible efforts to save them both, but it was quite another thing to see just how close it had been, written plainly in a skill unlock requirement for everyone to see.

Lira nodded. “Sounds like that was a tough battle. Maybe we can talk about it another time?”“Er, sure.”

“What are you thinking you’ll take?” Ali asked.

“I don’t think Beast Tamer is my style,” he said, shifting his attention back to the subject at hand. “But the other two look good.”

“But you’re such a beast,” Ali quipped, and it was only when Malika chuckled that he realized she was teasing. He shifted uncomfortably, surprised at how sensitive he was being.

“Three beast forms?” Malika asked. “Your tree isn’t a beast…”

“I think it must be counting his Beastkin form,” Ali said. “You know, Beast-kin!”

“Oh, maybe,” Mato allowed. He wasn’t going to pick Beast Tamer anyway, but he was struggling to choose between the other two. “Last Stand looks great for tanking, but Rampant Growth looks like the best choice for balance, I’m not sure how to decide,” he said. There was also the fact that Rampant Growth was a direct result of his taking Lira’s mentorship and melding with the giant tree, which meant it was likely a much stronger offering than average.

I wish Calen were here, he thought, suddenly missing his friend’s clear logical reasoning and wealth of knowledge related to skills.

“I can see the case for Last Stand,” Malika said, “but why do you want Rampant Growth? With Ali’s Guardians, we don’t really need extra control skills.”

“I don’t have stamina or strength in Tree Form, so most of my active skills don’t work,” he answered. He had needed his Tree Form to push back the blight, but while the fight raged on around him, he had found he had little he could actually do, other than siphon damage intended for his friends. The form had incredible potential with the versatility of his greatly expanded Sanctuary aura and the ability to still tank damage for his friends, not to mention the enormous boost to health and mana regeneration. “Rampant Growth is a mana skill, so I would be able to attack with it while in Tree Form.”

“Oh, hmm, that’s a good point,” Ali said, her brow furrowing in thought.

“What do you think, Lira?” Mato asked. It was she who had recommended a more balanced approach, and this seemed to be a direct choice between balance and specialization in tanking.

“I would suggest Last Stand,” Lira said, much to Mato’s surprise.

“Not Rampant Growth?”

“Rampant Growth is a powerful skill, and I highly recommend it. It was the root and foundation of my Plant Mastery, Tree Meld, and Tree Passage skills when I was still a sapling,” Lira said. “But you are a tank, and your responsibility is wider than just yourself – if you die, it is not just your potential that ends, but that of your friends as well.”

She really didn’t like that five percent. Her advice seemed sound, though. He would never be able to live with himself if he didn’t do all in his power to protect his friends.

“Hey Mato, do you ever see yourself in a primary damage role?” Malika asked suddenly, interrupting his thoughts.

“Not really, why?” he asked, only moderately surprised now that he didn’t mind not being the one to do the most damage anymore.

“Well, you’ve taken to tanking and the bear, and you seem to be interested in developing the Tree Form, especially with Lira’s mentorship – which, by the way, I think is an excellent choice,” Malika observed. “But don’t you have a skill for Wolf Form that you seldom use?”

“I sometimes use that for tracking.” He liked the scent perception, tracking, and pack-fighting bonuses.

“We normally have Calen for tracking, and Ali has wolves. Besides, the wolf is primarily a dexterity-based damage form, isn’t it? You’re really not invested in the attributes to make the best use of it. When was the last time you used it?”

“When we were tracking Ali and Lira,” he answered easily, but he could see what Malika was getting at. “Before that, it was tracking you and Calen in the forest.” And that had been before the Goblins had laid siege to the town and they hadn’t even reached bronze yet.

“Are you suggesting he switch out of Wolf Form and instead take both Last Stand and Rampant Growth?” Ali asked.

“Yup,” Malika said. “Doesn’t it seem to make the most sense?”

A brief silence pooled between the companions. Glancing over at Malika, he saw a brief interaction between her and Lira – perhaps the Dryad felt she had underestimated her, and Malika sensed it? Malika’s expression of chin-jutting defiance, every inch the Street Rat, faded before Lira’s wise, knowing smile.

“That’s… I really like that idea,” he agreed, feeling a sudden rush of excitement. He could take the survival skill and still grow in the balanced way Lira had recommended. There didn’t even seem to be a downside; he would lose his Wolf Form and the unique skills it came with, but he could still talk to beasts, and now plants, so he could still supplement Calen’s tracking. Wolf Form was still only level four, so if he changed his mind, it wouldn’t take long to recover the lost skill levels.

He sought Lira’s eyes to confirm.

“You are wise to listen to the counsel of your friends,” she said, and with that, his mind was made up. Mato triggered the changes.

You have gained the class skill Last Stand.

Wolf Form will be replaced with Rampant Growth, all skill levels will be lost.

He studied the message for a moment, but his mind was made up: he accepted the switch.

You have lost the class skill Wolf Form.You have lost the general skill Wilderness Lore.You have gained the class skill Rampant Growth.Natural Prowess has been updated.

A chorus of notifications chimed in the background as the glowing green text flickered along the trunk of the tree in his mind. Noting the last one, an unexpected side effect, he pulled up the description for Natural Prowess.

Natural Prowess – level 19Attributes most appropriate to your form are increased by +67.3% [40 + skill + base wisdom / 10].Mana: Wisdom, Intelligence, and Perception are increased. Beastkin, Reserve: 20%Stamina: Endurance, Vitality, and Strength are increased. Bear Form, Reserve: 20%Mana: All attributes are increased. Tree Form, Reserve: 20%Nature, Buff, Wisdom

That makes sense, he thought. Natural Prowess seemed to be a modal skill – applying uniquely in each shapeshifted form – and losing Wolf Form had caused the skill to adjust accordingly.

“Good,” he said aloud. “Anyone still hungry? I’m eating like a tree, now.”

***

