“I honestly don’t know how I win fights,” Alden said. “I always wanted to be a support, so in that case, it wouldn’t be strictly necessary for me to be able to defeat another Avowed all by myself. As long as I could keep myself alive for long enough. But if we’re talking about me fighting people on my own…my skill will be great at protecting me if I use the right objects. It’s also got some interesting—”


“You can carry heavy stuff!” Haoyu said. “Isn’t it great? The first thing I did when I affixed was wander around the house lifting things I couldn’t before.”


“I haven’t practiced much with—”


“How much of a hit can that shield of yours take?” Lexi asked. “Magically and physically?”


“I’m not—”


“How big of an object can you protect?”


“I have no idea.”


Lexi frowned.


Haoyu looked amused. “How can you not know? Are you not curious?”


“I am! Of course. But…”


It’s changed since I practiced with Joe and Kibby. And it was a lot easier for someone like Haoyu, with superheroes for parents, to safely experiment with his limits before starting school.


“Well, don’t worry about it,” said Haoyu. “Try stuff you’re curious about in rank club. If the other B’s are cool, ask them if Lexi and I can come by sometime!”


Lexi sighed. “Don’t just invite yourself to dominate the lower rank—”


“I’m here to improve. They are too. Maybe they’d like to try their skills on a Dura Brute! And your weapon’s unusual. It would be great practice for all of us.”


“Don’t mention this idea to the B-list, Alden. Anesidora Social Dynamic—they’ll hate it.”


Haoyu flicked a caper at him. “You think everyone is a rank-biased backstabber. I bet the B’s are really nice and open-minded.”
 


Reading on this site? This novel is published elsewhere. Support the author by seeking out the original.


At 7:30 PM, Alden stepped out of the men’s locker room in the MPE building wearing his very own gym suit. It had been waiting for him in his new locker, along with a list of care instructions that boiled down to, “Don’t store it in your dorm. Don’t do experiments on it. Use the cleaner cabinet in the on-site laundry room before you start to stink.”


He crossed the hallway, wheeling his giant suitcase behind him. The gym doors opened before he reached them, and Max stepped through.


“You’re early, too,” the Adjuster said, taking in Alden’s unitard and the suitcase with a glance.


“Yeah, I thought half an hour was overboard, but there are already a couple of other guys getting dressed.”


“Suitcase?”


“I’m planning to experiment with it.”


And probably destroy it in the process. It was a good and faithful suitcase. And it was also taking up way too much space in his bedroom. Live and learn, and buy a stupidly large duffel bag next time instead.


He entered the gym. There was a girl running laps, and a couple of people were stretching off to the side. A boy was doing double-footed jumps up the bleachers.


“The floor’s off!” one of the stretchers called as soon as she spotted Alden.


“Floor’s off!” almost everyone else repeated in unison.


A safety call?


He went to the storage room under the bleachers. It was a large area with signs on the wall designating it as a back-up safe zone for multiple kinds of emergency. Though the people fleeing the emergencies would have to share space with a lot of equipment.


When I was here for testing day, I saw…


There. About halfway in, along one wall, there were stacks of elemental weights for Shapers. The sandbags were piled up between refillable water bags and larger “lifemass” bags. Alden wondered what exactly those were stuffed with.


Is there a sign-out sheet for taking these, or can we just have them?


He heard the storage room door shut. He didn’t think anything of it until the boy and girl who had just entered started whispering to each other a few feet away from him.


“Can anyone borrow these?” he asked, pointing at the sandbags.


The boy—death-pale with straight black hair that hung like curtains down to his collarbones—smiled. “That depends. Are you one of us? Or are you an interloper?”


“An interloper?” Alden asked.


“Those are B-rank only bags right now,” said the girl. She had the letter B on each cheek in green paint that matched her eyeshadow, and a frizzy blonde puff of a ponytail stuck up from the back of her head.


“Oh! I’m a B. I’m Alden. I’m here for the clu—”


“BeeBee,” said the boy, “he’s ours.”


Before Alden could fully appreciate the fact that there was a B-rank named BeeBee who wore two B’s on her face for makeup, she was upon him.


“Let us teach you your duties!”


Ding. Ding.


As Alden looked around to see where the ringing sound was coming from, BeeBee grabbed him by the hand and hauled him toward a Rules and Regulations for Gym Use poster.


“Do you have bells?” he asked the guy.


The other boy’s thumbs flicked against the underside of a pair of black rings he wore on his index fingers.


Dong. Ding.


“Rings that sound like bells?”


He soon found himself with his back against a stack of alternate-surface tiles for the gym floor. BeeBee and the dark haired guy were standing next to the poster with grins on their faces.


“Repeat after me,” said the boy. “‘The A-ranks are our enemies.’”


“Uh…they are?” What kind of kooky welcome ritual is this?


The storage room door opened, and Max stepped through.


“Are you new blood or an interloper?” BeeBee demanded.


“What do you—?”


A moment later he was trapped against the floor tiles with Alden.


“All right, again,” said the guy with the bell jewelry. “The A-ranks are our enemies.”


“Enemies,” BeeBee hissed.


Ding. Ding.


“Put the names of your first victims on The Beat List,” the guy intoned.


“This is The Beat List,” BeeBee whispered. Then, she made a dramatic downward slicing gesture with one hand, and the poster on the wall behind her tore in two.


Behind it was a large chart, with the names of club members on the left and boxes full of other students’ names out to the right.


[What’s happening?] Max asked via text.


[I’m not sure. Do you think we’re being hazed?] Alden replied.


Ding. Dong.


Max crossed his arms over his chest. [I just wanted to try some things out in the gym, and now I feel like this club might be a bad idea.]


“Every B needs a target.”


“Every B—”


“Not again, you two! We talked about this!” The guy who’d just stepped into the storage room was wheeling a pair of weapon cases behind him. They were stamped with the words:


Rahul M.


Wrightwork


DO NOT TOUCH
 


“You weirded out those girls last time so bad they never came back to club!I’m starting to think you’re doing it on purpose to hog advisor attention.”


“We apologized to those girls!” BeeBee protested.


“They were just too weak for the B-List,” the boy with the bell rings said. He waved at Max. “Welcome. Don’t run away. We require new blood to carry on our holy purpose.”


Max was looking over his shoulder at the chart on the wall. “Your holy purpose is…making a hit list for A-ranks in your combat classes?”


“It’s very simple,” said the girl, pointing first at Max and then at Alden. “As a B, you are not allowed to suck the most in your year. There must be some A’s beneath you. The first years have been letting us down hard lately.”


“BeeBee!” snapped Rahul.


“They can’t fight for shit.”


“Francis! Get lost, you two, before I tell Instructor Plim you’re abusing the new first years!”


“You wouldn—”


“GO!”


“You’re a mean old man, Rahul,” said BeeBee, bouncing past him toward the door. “I’m gonna break your guns before you graduate.”


Francis watched her leave. “I know what you’re both thinking,” he said to Max and Alden. He made a curving hourglass shape in the air with his hands. “She’s amazing, but she’s my girlfriend. We’re madly in love. Don’t make me use these on you for real.”


He flicked his rings.


Ding. Ding.


While Alden and Max watched with equally baffled expressions on their faces, Rahul grabbed Francis by the back of his unitard and dragged him toward the door.


“I’m not threatening them, man!” he said, laughing. “I’m laying down boundaries!”


Rahul shut the door in his face, then he turned to them. “Hi! I’m so sorry about those two. Most people here are sane. I’m Rahul. Third year. I’m already taking half my classes at uni, and I graduate from high at the end of this term when I pass the final combat course. Until then, I seem to be club president.”


He shook their hands.


“So you’re our new Adjuster and our new Rabbit,” he added before they could even introduce themselves. “Instructor Plim is…enthused. I mean she’s always that way. But she’s extra that way this time around.”


Alden glanced at The Beat List. If they were really keeping score of A-ranks they’d defeated, then Francis and someone above him named Ella-Clara were not people he wanted to pick a fight with.


Then what Rahul had said caught up with him. “Is Instructor Plim the B-list advisor?”


That would be great. The Creative Applications teacher was someone he really wanted to work with, and he couldn’t take one of her classes until next quarter.


“Yes. All the other clubs keep trying to poach her. It would be a disaster for us. Fortunately, there are an abnormal number of abnormal people at B rank. And she just loves the fact that we’re mostly desperate enough to try whatever she suggests.”


He rummaged in a cardboard box hidden behind the floor tile stack and pulled out another poster and a roll of tape. He started covering The Beat List with it.


“Don’t feel pressured to take part in this Defeat the A’s nonsense unless you find it motivating. It’s not a real part of the club. It wasn’t when I started at CNH anyway. B’s in the hero track tend to be extremely studious and hardworking, but our second years are all…viciously competitive…on top of that. It might be some strange side effect of being around Ella-Clara. Don’t bother her, and she won’t bother you.”


Rahul patted the poster into place and sighed. “Sometimes I feel boring in this club. A Wright specializing in multi-object launchers should be one of the odder people in the room, but not here.”


Max cleared his throat. “During my first time applying to the school…”


Alden looked over at him in surprise.


“…the interview committee for the final round said that a B shouldn’t expect acceptance unless we had something to offer that a higher rank with the exact same subclass couldn’t.”


“It’s not an uncommon point of view. A bit of a ‘prove you’re special enough or go back to F-city’ attitude.” Rahul shrugged. “It’s understandable, so there’s no point worrying over it. I suggest you see it as a challenge to rise to.”


He knelt and started unlatching his weapon cases.


“There should be plenty of people in the gym by now. Enough to dilute the more unusual personalities. Go say hello!”


“Can I use the sandbags?” Alden asked quickly.


“Sure. In general, it fine to use anything in here as long as you’re sticking close to its intended purpose. And if you want to use things for non-intended purposes, Intructor Plim isn’t exactly difficult to persuade.”


I bet not.


Alden unzipped his suitcase and started adding sandbags. Max grabbed a box labeled Ground Drone and headed for the door. The club president spoke up again just before he reached it.


“By the way, Francis’s class clown routine is partially an attempt to put people at ease. Since he’s a Sway. I don’t know that it works the way he means for it to, especially since he’s trying to make everyone think his mind control bells aren’t scary by using them to punctuate regular sentences…well, just a warning. Have fun!”


Max’s eyes widened. “Yes. I’ll try.”


What the hell is a mind control bell? Alden wondered as he loaded another sandbag in. He hadn’t felt himself being targeted, and he hadn’t felt the need to do what Francis said, so he guessed it was all right. “Alden…if you want a heavy weight, you don’t have to fill a suitcase with smaller ones. There are 120 kilo bags on the bottom.”


“This is better I think.” The big bags looked like giant sausages, and they didn’t have as many handholds as the suitcase did. Anyway, using luggage with his skill was poetic. When he had 100 kilos, he zipped it. Then he discretely placed Joe’s enchanted ring on the ground beside the handle. “Would you mind telling me to pick all of this up? It’s for my skill.”


Rahul looked up from assembling a large gun that had some unexpectedly squishy-looking parts.


“Sure? Pick it up.”


“Thanks,” said Alden. He found the part of his affixation that controlled the number of separate protective fields he could maintain. Don’t think of it as a switch. Go for something just a little more creative.


He grabbed the side handle of the bag. That part of the affixation tried to close—an automatic setting to prevent double activation. He held it in place, trying to paper-ify the process in his mind so it would fit with his new metaphor. Like keeping an origami piece that’s been partially unfolded from snapping back shut along the creases?


He picked up the ring. He slipped it onto the middle finger of his left hand, then he stood. Both items were preserved. The suitcase was light—physically at least.


He let his attention leave that part of the affixation, and he felt it close.


