A thin ray of light burst out of Ascoden’s wand. It was bright blue, close to a piercing white, and it shot into the nearest open doorway. But instead of just…stopping there like a laser pointer from Earth, it did something Jacques recognized.
It bounced. Like a pool ball ricocheting off the side of a billiards table—which he knew by heart—the ray of light bounced off the wall and then struck the opposite wall. Then it bounced again and again, criss-crossing the hallway. And it was one of hundreds.
Light spells. Just a thin ray of light, bouncing around the Scholarium. It probably seemed like a dazzling display as the spells struck students, bounced from classroom to classroom, and crisscrossed the Scholarium at, well, the speed of light.
The little rays did nothing, incidentally. A few [Students] flinched, but the light wasn’t even blinding, just intense. So what was the point? It was only when Milaw muttered that Jacques began to figure out what the Drake was doing.
“My [Measure Distance] spell—”
Then the Mage Lord grinned. His eyes were flickering, and it had taken him ten minutes to cast a Tier 4 spell. Most took seconds, if that. But the complexity had meant…he muttered.
“Four, five…six. Got you. Phase two. [Seeker Arrows of Lightning]. [Enhance Spell: Paralysis].”
Then he raised his wand and began firing dozens of crackling arrows into the sky. Jacques saw the arrows spin up—then curve crazily. They flew in six directions, into one of the towers, through a dome, and a dozen shot into the hallway that the first light ray had gone. Then—they began bouncing, copying the vector of one of the light spells precisely.
“Oh. Seeking.”
Eun slapped his forehead. Saif was gaping in amazement and delight.
“He just scanned them! Eun! No one at Wistram could do that! Did you see that? He just detected them and—”
—And now he had their locations. In fact, the light rays were still bouncing, so that even if the other [Mages] were moving—
Jacques saw a screaming Drake dive out an open window. He got up, began to cast a barrier spell, and a little beam of light shining on his back guided a dozen crackling arrows right into him. The Drake jerked as they struck him with flashes of electricity, and then he keeled over.
“Cureq!”
His friends shouted in horror as the paralyzed Drake did his best impression of a dead racoon. The students were pointing in delight and amazement. Only General Vors grunted.
“Too complex for anyone to cast except if they have time. The math required to fire those spells…it’s easier just to cast [Magma Wave]. But it is elegant.”
Light. Light and numbers and you could find anyone, no matter where they hid. Ascoden fired a second volley as he detected his targets decreasing in number. Some blocked his spells or evaded them, but the Mage Lord just stood behind Montressa’s barriers, cheerfully unloading on them until the last [Mage] surrendered and emerged, scorched and twitching with static. Ascoden raised his claw in a fist and shouted.
“To the Archmage of Izril! Has any [Mage] in Fissival created a spell like this in recent memory?”
The Scholarium rang with cheers, more booing, and arguments. Mage Lady Sooral scowled around as Montressa sagged in relief, and the [Mage Lady] hurried over to confer with Worpell. But where…where was Archmage Valeterisa?
 
——
 
The audience watching Fissival Today had witnessed Ascoden’s demonstration of Valeterisa’s spell. It was indeed complex. But did it change your mind about her? Already, a Drake was demanding Valeterisa show herself.
“I am Mage Dorigal, son of the great Mage Lord, Dragial. If the Archmage is so confident in her abilities—let her face me.”
“Oh, Ancestors. Look at that. He can summon monsters! It looks like he’s summoning some kind of Battle Golem.”
His audience watched as the Drake planted himself in the ground and, ignoring the Drakes trying to dissuade him, began summoning a monster from the ground.
[Transporter Chief] Istrix knew summoned monsters were both mana intensive and hard to create. It was easier to have a pre-made Golem or animate something. But some [Summoners] had powerful beings they could control.
By the looks of it, Dragial’s kid had inherited his father’s minions. A lot were not fans of this kid or his father, so they were somewhat eager to see the Archmage take him on.
“No question he gets knocked out. Did you know that the Archmage once dueled Dragial? Apparently she spanked him when they were students. She’ll swat his son like a bug.”
“No doubt.”
The Drake [Supervisor] had stormed off as the delighted [Ritualist] and other [Mages] and [Loaders] gossiped. They watched as the first head of the Battle Golem slowly rose out of the summoning circle.
“How do you summon a Golem, anyways?”
That was a puzzler for Istrix and most of the [Mages]. Someone replied after a beat, coming back from studying the teleportation circles.
“You would need to essentially ‘capture’ the essence of the monster, person, or creation you want to summon. He probably has the Golem’s Heart. So while it costs a ridiculous amount of mana, the Golem may be summoned again and again. People are even more complex, but heirlooms, even body parts, can be used to summon them.”
“Wild. But it’s still a Golem. You saw the Archmage fly. She could probably blast that Drake to pieces, even if he’s got a dozen summons.”
Everyone else agreed. However, the same voice sounded…dispirited.
“Of course I could kill him. But what is the point? We are more than killers. Is combat the only way to prove anything?”
Istrix opened his mouth, then he caught onto an odd word in that statement.
‘I’?
He turned his head and peered at the Human woman hovering behind him. Valeterisa stared at the [Transporter Chief] and then at the scrying orb. The Drakes turned and nearly leapt out of their scales.
“You? How did you—?”
“I was just curious. I’ve taken all the transcribing I need. I didn’t touch anything, but they never let me work here when I was in the Scholarium. I suppose I need to answer that? Good day to you all.”
Valeterisa cast around and then sighed as she watched the scrying orb. She flew off as one of the Drakes ran to tell the [Supervisor]. Istrix’s jaw dropped. He swung around—then his eyes flashed back to the scrying orb. She had been there. Now—
He turned to look at the boring room where goods appeared and disappeared. So few [Mages] ever came down here after the first time. There was nothing to see. The Teleportarium was old magic. Old and broken.
So why did his scales prick with a sudden chill? Suddenly, Istrix had a burning certainty that something was wrong with the Teleportarium. He called an immediate halt to the day’s teleportations and told everyone to go on break while someone inspected it. He practically ran up to the Scholarium to see the rest.
 
——
 
“Hello there. What are you doing?”
Dorigal jumped. He was a tall Drake and had inherited his father’s features. Dragial had been handsome, though a lot of what that meant was about the way your neck spines looked in conjunction with your tail, along with your face. His scales were turquoise, like a bright river flowing into a brighter yellow down his tail.
Striking. And he had a lot of magical potential. No wonder he was so popular. If he could summon at his age…
He was very much like Dragial. His glare was almost the same, but there was more uncertainty to it.
He was afraid of her. Valeterisa hovered in the air as everyone gazed up. Sooral stood next to Dorigal like she was trying to protect him, but he just pushed past her.
“Face me, Archmage. I challenge you to a duel. We may be levels apart, but I challenge you to a duel of summons!”
Valeterisa regarded him blankly. That would favor him, if he was a specialist. However…she just shook her head.
“What would be the point? If I win, what does that prove? I have beaten Dragial, your father, and I have bested other [Mages] of Fissival. Ascoden has defeated six [Mages].”
“Ascoden is not you, Valeterisa. Do you have the magic to impress the Scholarium?”
Sooral blustered. The Archmage of Izril floated downwards, studying the Mage Lady.
“Is the power to kill someone magic? Should I impress the Scholarium by winning a duel? I came home to show Fissival what I had learned. I have been gone for two decades. In that time, I have gone to every continent, studied thousands of spells. Is this…all you respect?”
She watched the rising Battle Golem, so disappointed that it made Sooral’s scales flush in anger.
“Spoken like an elitist Wistram Mage. Magic should be practical. We are at war with another Walled City. The Death of Magic is back, and the King of Destruction is awake! If magic cannot defend us, what good is it? I would lay down my life to defend Fissival. You want to be a Mage Lady and you cannot even stoop to a duel, Valeterisa?”
Valeterisa stood there, stooped, looking at Sooral. She glanced around, at the watchers, at the camera recording her, and spoke slowly.
“Then should I duel and kill you, Sooral? If you want me to prove myself that way—I will.”
The Mage Lady froze. Valeterisa drew her wand slowly. But Dorigal barred her path. He lifted a staff and glared at her.
“A true [Mage] should be a leader, a visionary, and inspire as well as defend. You are a self-interested Human, Archmage Valeterisa. That is why I intend to oppose you. You claim Fissival needs you so much we should make you a Mage Lady. Why should your magic supercede all of the Draconae Scholarium?”
That was the crux of the argument. Students and teachers nodded as they watched her. Valeterisa eyed the rising Golem and replied, again, without waiting, without hesitation.
“Because I am a better mage than you. In levels, in knowledge.”
Dorigal clenched his teeth, and Sooral hissed in fury. But Valeterisa just straightened, and now, a firmer tone entered her voice.
“A [Mage]. A [Mage] should be a leader? They should inspire? Why is that? A [Mage] should care about only one thing: magic. Magic is not good nor evil. It is more than a tool; it is the greatest mystery. It can solve any problem, perform any task. But we dip our toes in it and call ourselves [Mages]. This entire contest is not magic. It is a show of lights.”
Dorigal was outraged. He planted himself behind his summoned warrior.
“Then prove yourself better! Archmage! Face me!”
The Archmage of Izril turned and eyed the Battle Golem. She looked at Dorigal. Then she shook her head.
“I do not need to. But if you wish me to—fine.”
She walked away tiredly, and Dorigal sneered as he waited for her to summon a creature. He waited…but Valeterisa just stood there, tired.
“Will you face my creations with spells alone, Valeterisa? Can you summon nothing?”
She stared up at the sky, disinterested in him. Dorigal glowered, and the summoning sped up as Sooral stalked away. He hated to admit it, but he couldn’t fight her directly. But this?
“—ge Dorigal. Mage Dorigal, a word?”
Someone was calling out to him. Dorigal glanced over, irritated that he was being interrupted. However, he’d finished the summoning spell, so he was just pouring mana to complete the Battle Golem’s body. He saw someone gesturing to him from the crowd.
He’d thought it was Worpell, but it was just some Drake. He wore, of all things, a butcher’s apron, slightly stained, and he was one of the observers.
“What is it, sir?”
His father had always said it paid to be polite and mingle. So Dorigal bit back what he wanted to say and walked over. The [Butcher] was one of Fissival’s citizens, First-Class, obviously, but he was no [Mage]. Just one of the endless workers in the districts. Yet he was staring up at the Battle Golem.
“Young man. I hate to say this but—something’s wrong with your summon.”
“What?”
Dorigal instantly lowered his voice and turned around. He had sensed nothing wrong, but the [Magical Butcher] gave him a serious look.
“I can’t tell what it is—but it’s off. Like bad pork loin.”
“My Golem is like a pork loin? Are you mad?”
Dorigal glared at the [Butcher] then stormed away. Or tried to, because a Drake sitting in a chair floated up half a step. The [Summoner] blinked as a Drake who was practically all-gray raised his voice.
“It’s the second line, inner circle, young man. I’m fairly sure that’s where it is. I used to mess it up all the time. It’s the inverted ‘L’. You connected it backwards is my guess. Not hopeless! What you do is you splice in a secondary instruction circuit. Not sure where.”
“We could take a look at it. I’ve done it before. I used to work in the Teleportarium. Had to do that with magicore running around your ankles.”
Another Drake broke in, and Dorigal saw…what, a [Housewife]? But a number of other observers were calling out.
“What about freezing the spell circle? Do a quick-adjust—”
“Do you want to kill the boy? If that goes wrong, all the mana explodes! He can resummon the Battle Golem!”
A group of friendly…civilians were all calling out tips. Not a single one was a member of the Scholarium. Dorigal’s cheeks flamed red, and he spun on his heel.
“I will not be lectured by amateurs!”
The crowd fell silent, and the helpful chatter petered out in moments. Dorigal stalked back, trying not to stare at his rising Battle Golem. But the [Butcher] called out urgently.
“Something’s wrong with how it was made! Recast the spell! Recast the—”
The angry [Summoner] ignored him. Dorigal stood as the Battle Golem finally finished creating itself. It flashed as it moved, a beast of a war machine. Twenty feet tall, superior even to modern Golems, ancient armor now recreated out of mana, glowing with power. It had a face like a Drake, and it could exhale magical ‘breath’. One sweep of its tail could knock [Soldiers] flying in battle, and it was armed with a shield and sword.
…Normally. Dorigal couldn’t pay the mana cost of the sword and shield, so this one was bare-handed. It also couldn’t breathe any mana, but it would still do for whatever Valeterisa summoned. She still hadn’t done anything. Dorigal opened his mouth to call out to her, and then he saw the Golem turn around. He blinked up at it.
“What—”
The Golem swung a fist down at him, and Dorigal stared at it until his summoned monster punched him half a dozen feet.
 
——
 
Valeterisa watched Dragial’s son’s jaw and ribs break and him go slamming backwards into the ground. She wished it gave her any pleasure.
“Treachery! Save Dorigal!”
Sooral shouted as the Battle Golem took a swing at the nearest Drakes. The crowd ran screaming, and Valeterisa raised her voice.
“I didn’t do anything.”
