He had summoned it wrong. The Battle Golem whirled, fists raised, and Professor Worpell hit it with a flash of blue lightning that burned a hole straight through one side of its head and out the other. Unfortunately—that didn’t end the summoned being. It charged, and Worpell vanished.
Valeterisa studied the glowing material making up the summoned being’s ‘flesh’. At the heart of it, a copy of the Golem’s Heart that Dorigal had in his possession. Great magic. Elegant work.
It was still…there. Still functional probably thousands of years after it had been made. That was beauty and craft and, yes, magic. Now, a scion of Fissival couldn’t even control it and lay on the ground as Sooral poured a healing potion over him.
“This isn’t magic. Magic should inspire. Magic should be wonderful. Even when it is as simple as threading a needle.”
Valeterisa whispered. Did anyone hear her? Her apprentice, shielding a group of students from one fist? Ascoden, blocking the Earthers? The scrying orb, capturing the Golem’s rampage?
Slowly, she raised a finger. The Battle Golem turned towards her as Valeterisa aimed at its chest where the copy of the Golem Heart resided. It began to charge—and she shot a thin beam of light straight through the Golem’s chest.
“[Piercing Shatterbolt]. [Alter Spell].”
The first spell punched a hole straight into the summoned being’s chest. The second—the Golem stopped. It froze, mid-step, and Valeterisa saw it relax. As the citizens and Scholarium stopped panicking, they saw the Golem come to rest. It walked back to where Dorigal had summoned it and then bowed its melted head. Slowly, it began to fade away.
Archmage Valeterisa stood there, tired, though she had barely cast any magic today. She gazed around, opened her mouth, and Sooral, Sooral, beat her to words, as always.
“That—proves nothing. Dorigal made an error in summoning the Golem. He’s young. You have shown the Scholarium nothing.”
For a second, Valeterisa debated killing her. It would be so easy. Her thoughts were a milling rush, disorganized. She felt her old teacher’s eyes of disapproval and scorn on her. She felt…angry.
Hot, like someone pouring a bucket of melted slime parts over her head as she sat in the courtyard. Cold like seeing a room full of silent stares when she walked in.
Old, because this had all happened long ago. As young as the day she’d left. Nothing had changed.
Perhaps nothing would ever change. Valeterisa bowed her head and gazed at Sooral. She looked at Montressa, who was red-faced and angry. For her. She glanced sideways at Milaw, at Ascoden, lining up to kick Sooral with her apprentice.
That did make her feel a bit better. But Valeterisa just peered at Sooral’s furious face, around at the citizens, and saw interest or fear. Friendliness, support, opposition—
She didn’t see magic here. She eyed the Scholarium, home to the ancient teleportation grid, and focused on her shoes. She saw the magic running through the City of Fissival. But it seemed like a lie.
“Perhaps you’re right.”
Valeterisa replied to Sooral at last, and the Mage Lady blinked. Slowly, Valeterisa turned. Her feet left the ground, and she muttered.
“[Levitation].”
She began to float off, away from the plaza. Sooral’s eyes flickered as she tried to figure out Valeterisa’s trick. She decided for a parting shot instead.
“You cannot even fly, Valeterisa! If we had to take an Archmage, at least Eldavin could cast [Flight]!”
Valeterisa turned her head once, and Sooral ducked at the expression on the Archmage of Izril’s face. But Valeterisa just snapped back.
“[Flight] is a faster spell and far more maneuverable, it is true. But [Levitation] costs less than a quarter of the mana, because once you are levitating, you do not incur more mana drain. If you could cast either, you would know the distinction.”
Then she turned and flew off. She left her apprentice behind, her supporters, the people she had grown up with. The Scholarium, and even the City of Fissival.
Valeterisa flew into the air, away from it all. That was easy—but even if she flew high and far, this was her city. She peered down and saw the entrances to the Grand Library where Heorth resided. She gazed down and saw a few Drake children pointing up at her.
They were wearing robes and wands. She cast around and wondered if she could see a little Human girl, waving a wand and laughing at magic.
It should be wondrous. It should make sense. It should be logic and grace and art and deeper than all those things combined.
It would be easy to leave now. To say she had heard Fissival and depart. But. Valeterisa had shown Fissival no magic yet.
 
——
 
If you stood outside the City of Fissival, just past the walls by one of the guard-towers or the edge of the basin where it rested, you could see the greatest claim of the City of Magic.
The city flew.
Look at it. It was a tiny bit off the ground. Half an inch. See?
Plenty of people tripped or even broke toes on that little lip. Wagons broke wheels—the guards at the ‘gates’ had seen it all. And what a few had realized was that the ‘height’ of the flying city actually changed subtly.
It was like…breathing. Or floating in water. The city actually varied in that half an inch of clearance from the ground. A bit up, a bit down. At its ‘highest’, it might be two entire inches off the ground, and you could see a tiny bit of compressed dirt, then it would sink until it was actually level or lower than the ground.
So it floated in the air. Good for the city. Did it matter?
Well…the Human woman lying on her stomach and studying the slowly rising and falling city clearly thought so. One of the [Guards] was about to tell her to get moving—not that she was doing anything wrong—until they realized it was the Archmage of Izril.
“Er…Archmage Valeterisa, what are you doing?”
She didn’t answer at first. Her lips were moving, and she was…counting? She only raised her head when the [Guard Captain] spoke.
“How long does it take for the city to rise and fall in a full cycle?”
He blinked, but he was familiar enough with the city’s phenomenon that the answer sprang to his lips.
“Er—about fourteen minutes. Why?”
“Hm.”
The woman stood up, dusted her robes, and stared across Fissival. She backed up and peered around the huge city that was home to millions. Far, far too far for anyone to circumnavigate without a horse. She gazed down the long road leading up the plateau and then up.
“I suppose I can only try. Very well.”
She drew her wand, and the Drakes backed up. One raised his spear, and Valeterisa focused on him. The Drake lowered the spear.
“I am not doing anything illegal. I think. If I fail—pretend you didn’t see me?”
“See what?”
The [Guard Captain] got no answer. He saw Valeterisa take a few steps back, then mutter.
“I’ll have to time it—very well. [Delayed Spell: Earthen Spire]. No. [Expanded Range]. [Reinforce Spell]. [Delayed Spell: Earthen Bulwark]. [Synchronize Spell].”
She aimed her wand at the ground, and all the Drakes glanced back. The [Guard Captain] scrambled away, but no rising pillar of stone flew up. And besides, she’d aimed it—he turned, and Valeterisa spoke.
“…[Flight].”
Her feet left the ground. Not gently, but in a blur of motion that left the Drakes recoiling as a cloud of dust and grass swirled up after her. The Archmage of Izril flew up, arms still stretched out, and then she turned, curving through the air.
She skimmed along the rising wall of the City of Magic. Then she dipped—and her wand flashed as she recast that spell. The [Guard Captain] gaped at her—then he raced for his tower.
“What is she doing? High Command—Watch Captain—anyone, come in!”
She was a quarter of the way around the city before he managed to climb to his post and get ahold of someone in charge. No less than Supreme General Hexa snapped back at him.
“What is Archmage Valeterisa doing? Report!”
“Casting some kind of spell at increments around the city! They seem to be at systematic intervals. One spell at every sixteenth of the perimeter of the city?”
She was flying in a perfect circle, around the city of Fissival. The [Guard Captain] ran back to the lip of the floating city. Wait a second. Wait…Hexa was barking at him to apprehend her as if he could fly himself. But the Drake threw himself down.
“The gap.”
“What gap?”
The Supreme General had never gazed down at the edge of the flying city. She didn’t know that you could actually stick the tips of your fingers under the city and pretend you were ‘lifting’ it if you were a small child. Or an idiot. You could, then, lose the fingers as they were slowly crushed into less than paste.
But it was a popular thing for some tourists back in the day, until too many lost digits had forced the Watch to prohibit the trick. And yet…the Archmage of Izril hadn’t done that. But she had aimed her spell somewhere just underneath the city.
He could see it, if he bent down, the residue of glowing magic beneath the floating city. The city sank, and it disappeared from view, but he reported what she’d cast. Hexa muttered in a distinctly unconfident manner that the [Guard Captain] wished she wasn’t sharing with him.
“[Earthen Bulwark]? Why that spell…wait, did you say [Synchronize Spell]? What’s she synchronizing to?”
The [Guard Captain] glanced up as he saw the Archmage of Izril flying in a complete circle. She had almost reached his position, and she was so fast—he saw the city slowly rising up.
An entire city. Millions of people. How many pounds of weight he couldn’t even guess. A mountain’s worth of stone and steel and magic. Yet…it had floated, and the spells had endured for generations.
Impossible, even if it was less than impressive. Fissival flew. But as Valeterisa had said—
Once it was in the air, even half an inch, it was easier to stay there. He saw and felt a spell activate. The earth shook—and just like it did every fourteen minutes, the Walled City began to rise.
But this time, it kept going. The [Guard Captain] slowly got up as the magical towers came alive. Then he stood back, and his eyes were climbing to find the Archmage of Izril, whom he’d been laughing at with the day crew in the tower. Then he stepped back as a shadow crossed over his face.
And he looked up.
 
——
 
Montressa du Valeross didn’t blame Valeterisa for leaving. She sat with her head resting on her arms, staring across the City of Fissival. She would have jumped over the plaza’s high guardrails if she could fly away.
…She just hoped Valeterisa hadn’t flown off and left her behind. Behind her, the Scholarium was busy posturing and sneering about Valeterisa into the camera.
Montressa didn’t notice Hexa’s sudden agitation, but General Vors did as he congratulated Ascoden on his victory. Nor did Montressa notice anything else was amiss at first.
It was only when she heard Valeterisa’s name and saw the woman come soaring across the city like a loosed arrow that Montressa yelped.
“Archmage Valeterisa?”
Every head turned. Sooral’s jaw dropped.
Valeterisa was flying. Faster than she had even moved with Montressa. Her robes billowed out behind her, and her hair whipped like a storm. She seemed so incredibly unhappy about the wind resistance that Montressa understood at once why she hated flying.
“Archmage! What are you doing?”
General Hexa roared, attracting the cameras back to Valeterisa. The Archmage didn’t reply to Hexa directly. She came to a stop overhead, and Montressa saw the camera-Drake aiming the scrying orb almost directly up—
“Aah!”
She kicked the Drake in the shins, and the female Drake lowered the camera—then realized she had nearly given the entire city of Fissival a dangerous viewpoint from underneath Valeterisa. The Archmage of Izril floated down as the Drake retreated to a better angle.
Valeterisa was…panting. Montressa saw her drop to the ground, and the Archmage spoke a bit breathlessly.
“I have one last thing to show Fissival. If I can. If not—forget I mentioned it. But magic is more than this. It has to be. If I stay in the City of Magic—this will be my gift. My only gift is this search. I cannot do it alone. So…”
She peered around. Then Valeterisa shook her head. She took off in another jet of debris as Montressa shielded her face. She saw Valeterisa soaring off across the city, then she dipped down out of sight, below the lip of a building’s roof.
Everyone looked about in confusion. After a second, someone began laughing. Mage Lord Cureq shook his head in frank scorn and disbelief.
“I think she’s actually lost it. What are we supposed to see?”
He glanced around, and everyone searched—Ascoden cast a [Scrying] spell after Valeterisa, but predictably, she was warded.
“…She’s not answering her [Message] spells. However, Hexa is kicking up ten hells. Something about Valeterisa casting spells at the edge of the city?”
Vors reported in. Ascoden frowned, and he gazed at Montressa.
“I had no idea she could actually cast [Fly]. Did you?”
“No. I don’t get what she’s showing us. Milaw? What is Valeterisa doing?”
The [Tailor] and the [Crafters] were just as anxious. And upset, frankly, about their beloved childhood hero’s treatment. The [Clockmaker] peered around and shook his head.
“No sign of anything in the city. Maybe she’ll come back. She never lied. Not that girl. When she told me she could make a spell out of my magic…I believed her.”
He cast around, and Montressa gazed across the city of Fissival again. She saw a lot of Drakes craning their necks, looking for Valeterisa too. Probably two-thirds of the city were in range of a scrying orb, and she had to believe everyone had heard of Valeterisa, even if some were dismissing her.
But what was it? Montressa stared further, into the distance. You could see for miles upon miles from the Scholarium, the highest point in the city save for the towers. Of course, the great Scrying Tower could cast a spell anywhere, but visually, she could even see Salazsar’s city in the distance, a speck on the horizon. The southern mountain range, and if she went to the other side of this plaza, she could see the sea, beyond which the eastern edge of the world lay. Southwards, Chandrar—not that anyone could see another continent from here.
A breathtaking view. Montressa didn’t love heights, but she could admire how high Fissival was on its coastal plateau. Why, even the magical guard-towers seemed small from here, and she knew they were forty feet tall, even if they were at a lower elevation.
In fact, it was dizzyingly high from the Scholarium, and she said as much.
“The Scholarium must be a hundred feet—no, close to a hundred and fifty from the ground, is that right, Mage Lord Ascoden? It didn’t feel like that.”
