Vors’ head snapped up, and he focused on Valeterisa. She gazed at Cureq and cast around. The angry Mage Lady Sooral…even Worpell, Hexa? Valeterisa’s head moved around, and then Montressa felt an itch between her shoulder blades. She turned and saw a Drake watching her.
He didn’t look much distinguished from the other Drakes. Turquoise, which Montressa supposed was handsome or unique? He wore robes, and he was probably either a full mage or close; his aura was fairly good, but he was young. What made him stand out, perhaps, was the intensity of that glare.
It was venomous. And he stood next to Sooral and a lot of younger [Mages]. Valeterisa spoke slowly, glancing around. She was replying to Vors, but putting something together with a resigned air.
“Ah, I see it now. Dragial never really lost power, did he? I didn’t know he was so famous, but he was always well-loved here. Teachers liked him. And the students went on to become leaders. Dragial’s dead. But it seems…he had a son.”
Montressa felt a sinking feeling in her stomach. Worpell’s mouth closed tightly, and Vors glanced around and then clenched his jaw as something went click in his head. As for Valeterisa? She nodded.
“It makes sense. He was famously promiscuous as a student.”
Pexalix snorted, but Valeterisa was already turning. She gazed at Worpell and sighed.
“Will the Scholarium at least hear me?”
“Not formally for two months. We are unfortunately busy. If you would like to speak to other members, that is, of course, your right.”
The [Professor] replied with that same fake polite tone. Valeterisa exhaled.
“I will not be staying two months. Will anyone speak to me or listen before then?”
She cast around again, and the students watched her avidly, whispering, and now hearing rumors spread from her enemies mixed with old tales of her glory. Vors began to nod, but Hexa just turned away.
“You and I will have a cup of tea, Valeterisa.”
Pexalix spoke, patting Valeterisa’s arm, but no one else moved. Montressa saw, for a final time, Valeterisa’s head dip and how she focused on her feet. Worpell did smile at that. Right until a Drake floated up over the side of the plaza.
Magus Lord Ascoden could fly. And he knew how to cut an entrance. It was only, unfortunately, undercut by Eun, the young man from South Korea, clinging to one leg. The moment they landed, Eun fell to his knees and curled up. Montressa stared at the familiar face from Wistram.
Hadn’t Nailihuaile introduced her to…? And while she was cut off from Wistram, Bezale had said there was a break…out…
“Those tail-wanking, shit-stealing [Sneak Thieves].”
Hexa recoiled as Montressa breathed, realizing what they’d done. So this was where the Earthers were! She was furiously composing a message to the academy before she realized she was still expelled.
As for Valeterisa? She blinked as Mage Lord Ascoden strode forwards.
“Archmage Valeterisa.”
“Mage Lord Ascoden. You’ve returned.”
Worpell sounded uncertain as the Drakes turned to face him. They clearly knew him, but like Vors, he wasn’t with the majority of the group. And Ascoden was locked onto Valeterisa.
“I’m delighted to have arrived just in time. Archmage Valeterisa, it is an honor to meet you!”
He had his claw held out, but Mage Lord Cureq intercepted Ascoden. The scarred Drake—he had some kind of fresh wound, Montressa noticed—had to halt or run over Cureq as the other Drake spoke loudly.
“The Archmage was just leaving the Scholarium. She has been unable to meet with any members, save her closest friends…friend.”
He gave Ascoden an intent look, which was as un-subtle as you got. In reply, Ascoden calmly elbowed Cureq aside.
“Then she will meet with one. I would be delighted to hear anything she wishes to say.”
The Drake reached out, and Valeterisa gave his claw a blank, surprised look. Then, hesitantly, she took his hand and seemed just as astonished when he shook it. Ascoden gazed around, and if the Scholarium had been a solid wall against Valeterisa—
There was now a crack in it. Worpell almost hissed, but she turned it into a smile, conscious of the students.
“—And what would Magus Valeterisa wish to discuss with the Scholarium? If we are entertaining her requests.”
She glanced at Valeterisa, and the Archmage of Izril looked Ascoden in the eyes. Then she turned. She adjusted her spectacles and peered around at the Scholarium.
“…I was wondering if my old rooms were still here. I would like to see them. Oh, and if the Scholarium was interested in making me a Mage Lady of Fissival.”
Sooral gasped in outrage, and the crowd made similar noises. But Valeterisa just raised her voice calmly.
“If so—I would live here, take up my role as Archmage of Izril here, and teach and study magic. I am…”
She hesitated.
“I am still a daughter of the walls. I came back to see if there was a place for me here.”
She peered at the blank, surprised expressions of the other Drakes. At Montressa and Ascoden’s raised brows. But…even if she were an Archmage, she was no [Archmage]. Not yet. And that was why, despite Montressa desperately casting [Detect Truth] over and over—she couldn’t find a lie in Valeterisa’s statement.
Predictably—the fights began almost minutes later.
 
——
 
If you didn’t know about Archmage Valeterisa before today—well, you did now. The City of Fissival was abuzz with her name and her offer.
However, the real drama was about whether or not the City of Magic intended to take the Archmage of Izril up on her offer.
Her highly egotistical, nay, outrageous, provocatively dangerous offer. At least, to hear Valeterisa’s detractors describe it.
You see, two narratives were dueling. Or maybe two perspectives, between Valeterisa’s allies and her enemies, and they had everything from tales of her as a student to recent events like her participation in the war at the Meeting of Tribes.
It was charitable to say that Valeterisa was starting from a position of weakness in getting anyone on her side, but then again—Wall Lord Dragial and his followers were essentially the same bloc who hated Valeterisa and didn’t want her near any official position of power in Fissival.
They did not speak for all of Fissival. In fact, Dragial’s own actions, such as battling Lehra Ruinstrider and sullying Fissival’s name until he was expelled, spoke to the existing rift in the City of Magic. He had enough power to call upon an army, but the revelation that Fissival had stolen Gnolls’ magic had entrenched the differences such that while Valeterisa was being slandered by some powerful members of the Scholarium, that same divide was giving her allies who hated Dragial.
That was the broad overlay. Now—what were the stakes? Simply put, if Valeterisa got her way, Fissival got themselves the Archmage of Izril in residency. They would grant her all the rights of a Mage Lady of Fissival—and that was a powerful position theoretically on par with Ilvriss’ own authority.
In practice, it would probably be limited, but it was a lot of funding, free space, and authority that even Valeterisa would like. It would give Fissival a powerful, if erratic and sometimes-absent, ally and Valeterisa her base to continue magic studies and a lot of the Scholarium’s in-built resources.
A win for both sides, in theory. Montressa didn’t like it. She didn’t think Valeterisa needed to be part of Fissival or that the marriage would be good for either.
Surprisingly, Valeterisa’s closest allies seemed to agree. Wall Lord Ascoden, General Vors, and the [Crafters] were all shocked by Valeterisa’s announcement and tried to talk her out of it. This all took place as the Scholarium argued, students began to take sides and even duel over the issue, and the Earthers were introduced to Fissival.
Montressa knew Saif, the kid with the airsoft gun. Eun, from South Korea, Andrea, and Jacques were the only other ones she could identify by name. However, there were nearly two dozen more Humans, who found the City of Fissival as dismaying as it was interesting.
“Here comes the new jail cell, same as the old one. Speaking of which, I saw that Valeterisa person at the banquet. And Miss Montressa. Did we come to another continent just to see the same faces? How are they here when we were on that boat for weeks?”
Saif was complaining loudly. Magus Lord Ascoden was poking around the house that they’d allotted the Earthers. Montressa was still staring around.
An entire street would belong to the Earthers, entrenched in one of the districts alongside the Scholarium. Either the city had a bunch of houses they’d left unused or someone had been evicted, but that was a Walled City’s power.
They wanted to show the Earthers some hospitality, so Fissival food, including the weird Sap String, was being carted to the hungry Humans, who had come off a ship just hours ago.
And already, the other Walled Cities were getting mad. Ascoden came out of one of the rooms, tucking a bit of scorched paper into one pocket.
“Eyes of Pallass. The Cyclops must be mad; that seemed too obvious. Which means there’s something I’ve missed. Call for Geyasa.”
“Are we hostages now?”
Eun was sitting in a chair, and the Mage Lord nodded to him.
“Guests is the term. But mandatory guests, so yes. The other Walled Cities will argue, and some of you may go to the other ones.”
“We’re not parcels to be—parceled up!”
Jacques snapped, furious. He was from Ireland, and Ascoden leaned on a counter, seeming serious.
“No, and if High Command is smart, they won’t make Wistram’s mistakes. I’ll advocate for you all as hard as I can, but you have to understand, we do need information. So you’re not parcels. You’re citizens of what you all readily admit is a world power—or world powers—who may or may not be hostile. And who make movies about killing alien species. Think of yourselves like that.”
He was more up-to-date on Earth terminology and ideas than most people that Montressa had met. Nor did he lie, which some of the Earthers grudgingly appreciated.
“At least this place is bigger than Wistram. Do we have minders or something?”
“If you want to walk around, we’ll have a guide. Unobtrusive if you like. You’ll never see them. So this explains what I saw on Rhir.”
General Vors glanced at the Earthers, and Mage Lord Ascoden’s head rose sharply.
“Earthers?”
“They must have been. The ‘heroes’ of Rhir. You’ll need my full report. Later.”
Both of them were glancing at Montressa, who well knew that Rhir had some Earthers, but her ears were sharp. And besides—
It was Valeterisa’s presence that was the most uncertain. The Scholarium would have to vote, and by proxy, Fissival. That was the claim, at least.
In truth, Montressa doubted that the [Crafters] who had come racing to find Valeterisa had much of a ‘voice’, along with any Second-Class Citizens, but it was theoretically possible for public pressure to influence any votes. However, Vors, Ascoden, and other members of the Scholarium had the real authority.
…Which begged the question. How did either one know Valeterisa? Vors was easy; he didn’t know her personally, but he had been to Rhir and had been given the eye-opening experience of working in combined-arms units. He was opposed to the traditional Fissival views, especially the ones that led them into conflict with any force except for Demons.
But Ascoden knew Valeterisa. How?
 
——
 
“Professor Pex.”
The Mage Lord had a residence in Fissival that was quite large and quite magical. He invited Valeterisa and Montressa into it with Vors and a few guests to come. It was mostly empty, because of his long absence, and as Drakes loved to say, they had no [Servants].
Just employees who did the same job. And who were sometimes entire families who had a history of working the same non-servile job.
“Professor Pex?”
“That was what they called him, for a while. Not his nickname?”
“Professor Pexalix is what we called him.”
Valeterisa seemed uncertain if she found the nickname offensive or not. Ascoden drained a cup of purified water. He motioned, and a flying familiar offered a decanter to Montressa and Valeterisa.
His home was exceptionally…magic-techy. Every room’s walls looked oddly plain until Montressa realized that was because they were smooth and only had the semblance of wallpaper or rich wood. The interiors were richly decorated, but at any given time, the walls could turn transparent or vanish, such that a suite of many rooms became one, giant and interconnected.
It was fascinating…and sounded like a completely uncomfortable place to live in. Ascoden clearly agreed, because he only turned the walls off for guests.
“Some [Architect] decided a mansion full of magic walls was the thing to do. The last Mage Lady died in here. No one found her body because it was closed off. Guess who found it when he was touring the real estate?”
He held up a claw. Montressa shuddered, and Ascoden smiled.
“The bright side was, I got this entire place dirt-cheap. But I’m not often at home. As one of Fissival’s actual combat-ready Mage Lords, they have me on interesting assignments everywhere. Like breaking a bunch of Earthers out of Wistram. I thought it was a suicide mission, and after eating a punch from Cognita Truestone—or rather, a Golem she was controlling, I know it was a suicide mission. If it wasn’t for Archmage Amerys and Gazi Pathseeker causing havoc, we’d have never made it out. Even with Depth Magus Doroumata.”
“You fought Cognita?”
Montressa was awed. Ascoden motioned the familiar away as Valeterisa sipped from her cup.
“‘Fought’ is generous. She was somehow—taking over Golems remotely. Which no, I didn’t know she could do and wasn’t in any of our records about her. She still tore through every [Mage] she came across, proxies or no. I watched her shred through half my barriers and ran, screaming. I think she let me go out of pity.”
“You’re exaggerating. You have more magical competence than most [Mages] in Wistram on the Council.”
Valeterisa was more direct, and Ascoden smiled tightly.
“That’s gratifying to hear. Fissival hasn’t fallen that far behind. But I’m behind you in as many levels as years, I suspect, Archmage.”
That was surprising to Montressa. She knew Valeterisa was Level 52, but Ascoden was Level 48.
“Level 48, after surviving the breakout. Hugely gratifying. They’re already planning my 50th, whenever that is. But Level 48 and Level 50 are worlds apart. It’s easier to get from Level 40 to Level 46 than it is to gain one level for a capstone.”
This was all true, but it was still only three levels. Yet Ascoden was purely admiring.
