“Are you a daughter of the walls? Am I a daughter of the walls? He saw me—and knew me. He did not even know my name, but he saw it in me. I wanted to be. I would have been, but you did not want me.”
She peered around the Scholarium. Her words fell like her tears, a soft confession. Then—the voices of disbelief rose and silenced themselves before they could quite voice any objections.
For truth spells existed. But even if they had not—a continent listened. It would be easy to disbelieve Valeterisa. But the Meeting of Tribes had seen miracles and impossible deeds. Not everyone believed. Maybe most didn’t. But those that did felt it in their bones.
 
——
 
Wing Commander Embria’s forkful of noodles finally fell into her bowl and splashed some of the hot broth into her face. Imani’s attempt at ramen was growing cold in her new establishment, Barefoot Kitchens. You needed a reservation these days, and Wing Commander Embria had gotten one for the leaders of the other companies from Liscor’s real army.
Wing Commander Xith and Narkr sat next to Embria, open-mouthed. Narkr almost rose in outrage, her tail twitching in disbelief. Then she looked around at the silent Liscorians. They had all heard that voice, and an entire city listened.
General Sserys. She had seen Liscor’s army turn on Zeres and Manus. Slowly, Wing Commander Narkr sat down. She looked at Valeterisa, and those words made her scales chill without end. Not crawl, nor her stomach sink.
Daughter of the Walls. She had seen that in her very dreams. A helmeted head glancing the way of a girl born in Liscor’s army. A wild grin, and a voice. If you heard it, just stand up and go. That glorious [General] who had escaped even death to jump into one last fight.
 
——
 
“I am a Daughter of the Walls. If you had called me like him, I would have come. For twenty years I waited, but not once. Not during the Antinium Wars, nor any time since have you ever needed me.”
Valeterisa’s voice reached more than just Liscor, though it echoed throughout the entire city. A Wall Lord lowered his head and pressed his claws into his forehead.
Ilvriss, of Salazsar, wondered if he were looking at a mirror. Not of Valeterisa—but of the stupid faces of the Scholarium. He saw a reflection of an older Drake, but still, his head rose, and he looked at Valeterisa. He spoke to Osthia, Nerul, and Xesci.
“Her. We need her.”
 
——
 
Ilvriss’ gaze followed Valeterisa along with Fetohep of Khelt, sitting upon his throne in Khelt. The king’s golden flames burned brighter in their sockets, for here was an outrage to his nation. A servant, poorly served.
“They were unworthy of you, Archmage.”
 
——
 
The King of Destruction agreed. He looked at Valeterisa and turned to Amerys.
“Now there is your peer, Amerys. If she had stood on Zeres’ walls or against the Antinium, where would we be now?”
The Archmage of Chandrar turned to Valeterisa, and her gaze sparked with sympathy. But disappointment as well.
“If we had met on the battlefield time and time again serving two great causes, Wistram would now be free and I would be an [Archmage] in truth.”
Her eyes shone with fury for a rival lost and magic cast aside. The King of Destruction just nodded sadly.
 
——
 
And Rafaema of Manus looked at Valeterisa and wondered if that was how she would look in four hundred more years. She raised her claws to her face and wondered if Valeterisa’s tears were hot or cold.
For hers crackled with lightning, and they wouldn’t stop.
“No more. At least use us well. No more.”
She turned away, then turned back to keep watching, like someone seeing a vision of the future. Rafaema’s wings opened, and she almost flew out the window, but she waited.
Waited, because there was something else. There had to be. She looked north and then at Valeterisa.
Not her. She could not live like that. The Lightning Dragon spread her wings and roared until Manus’ fortress shook. She had a thousand questions to ask her kin. A thousand questions, like thunder, of how to stop this. How many had they thrown away? How many children of the walls? Rafaema turned back and watched the sorry end to this tale.
If only she had been a Dragon. They would have loved her too well.
 
——
 
Valeterisa had been called. And she had answered. Now, the Archmage of Izril stood in the City of Magic, weeping.
“I am a citizen of Fissival. Second-Class Citizen Valeterisa. [Mage] of the Scholarium. Even if my home has never loved me—I have always loved it. I always wanted the Scholarium to be a bit proud of me. Just once. I stand here, in front of you. Can’t you acknowledge me? Even now?”
She gazed around, and thousands of students, her people, watched her. But the eyes of the people she wanted passed over her face. As if they were afraid to linger.
Even Dorigal saw that. The [Crafters], Montressa—and Valeterisa herself. Just as she had known. She hiccuped and then shook her head. Valeterisa slowly produced a handkerchief, blew into it, and stared at it.
She probably hadn’t [Cleansed] it in nine years. She tucked it away and then nodded. Her voice was slowly returning to normal. And like the old memories…Montressa heard a sigh in Valeterisa’s voice.
“Yes. I have loved Fissival. Coming here, I have felt all the reminders of why I left. Love. Pride in my city. Exasperation. Frustration. I see what it could be—but what it is. But if General Sserys asked me a second time, I would go. Because that is what it means to be a daughter of the walls.”
Ascoden closed his eyes. Montressa saw Valeterisa touch her chest slightly, and someone exhaled. Then, the Archmage of Izril’s eyes opened, and that clear gaze sparkled, the only bit of magic in her. A dreamy cloud as deep as a foreign world waiting to be explored.
“I have come home. It was painful, joyful, and all these other things. Now, to do what I have put off for a while. For you are right, Headmaster Tierres. Sooral. I am a [Mage] who loves only magic. It is so hard to balance that against my love of home. So—”
Her finger rose, and it touched the side of her head. Valeterisa whispered.
“[Clear Emotions].”
Montressa’s face slowly turned to one of dawning realization. The crowd susurrated. Did she just—? Pexalix closed his eyes, but Valeterisa’s tears stopped.
Her expression cleared, and her back straightened. She dabbed at her face again and seemed mystified by the tears. Then she gazed around.
“That’s better. Ah, now I see. I see you all, with neither love nor hatred. Headmaster Tierres, this is an optimal time. In witness of the Scholarium, I would like to submit a patent. After all, a spell need only be witnessed by three members of the Scholarium in good standing.”
“A patent?”
The Drake seemed wary, but he could hardly refuse her. Valeterisa nodded, and Cureq spoke derisively.
“If it’s ‘Valeterisa’s Uplifting Magic’, we have seen it, Archmage.”
She gave him a blank look without anything more than a vague impatience.
“No, this is new magic. I am casting it now. Please stand back, Montressa. Or hold me, but do one or the other.”
Montressa clung to Valeterisa’s arm gently, gazing up at Valeterisa’s face. But she did not see a wreck of emotions buried by magic. Just…a kind of sadness. Valeterisa had cleared her emotions, but not erased them.
She took nearly a minute to cast her spell as everyone watched. Not even Ascoden and Vors, closest to Valeterisa, could see the spell. But Montressa could. Valeterisa patted her on the head.
“Stop crying, apprentice. It was a good visit. Now—”
Her voice echoed a bit, then popped, and Montressa stumbled slightly, though she hadn’t moved. Valeterisa caught her, and she kept speaking.
“—it’s time to go.”
That was all. Montressa felt nor saw anything else until she looked up. Then…she saw Tierres’ white face. His scales had turned dead white. And Montressa had to crane her head to see Worpell’s expression. Because…
She and Valeterisa were about two dozen paces left of where they’d been. The Archmage of Izril turned. A few [Students] seemed puzzled.
“That’s it? That’s just [Lesser Teleport].”
Cassa, one of the young students who’d first seen Valeterisa, muttered. Then someone kicked her in the tail.
“You idiot. You idiot.”
Kadril, the older student, muttered to them. He was shaking. He pointed a claw at Valeterisa and said what had all the other members of the Scholarium speechless.
“It’s impossible to [Teleport] in Fissival. Even [Archmages] of old couldn’t do it. Only the Teleportarium works! Only—”
Then his voice choked off. Valeterisa turned, and her eyes caught them all.
“I submit my patent: [Network Teleport]. It makes use of existing magics. I would prefer not to scribe the exact methodology of the spell.”
She stared down at her feet again, and this time…Montressa saw her tracing the Teleportarium, staring at the leylines written long ago. Valeterisa glanced up, and Headmaster Tierres was frozen in shock.
He only spoke after half a minute of dead silence. His voice wavered.
“Accepted. And I want to say, Archmage Valeterisa…”
His eyes searched hers as Valeterisa took his clawed hand and shook it vaguely. She neither smiled nor scowled. The Archmage of Izril bowed and then nodded to Montressa.
“Thank you, Headmaster. Now, I believe it’s time to go. Apprentice…no. Montressa. Are you fit to travel?”
It took a heartbeat for the Scholarium to realize that Valeterisa was walking for the edge of the plaza. Montressa began to follow, and someone called out.
“Wait. Where are you going?”
“North. Somewhere. I’ve missed my niece’s birthday for eight years. And I have other engagements. Including Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
Valeterisa called out absently. Someone ran after her.
“W-wait. When will you be back? We need to learn that spell.”
“Learn? Why?”
Valeterisa turned, and Mage Lord Cureq’s mouth worked.
“Because it’s teleportation. Along Fissival’s networks! We can go anywhere with it! If we restore the Teleportarium—”
“—You could go anywhere it reaches. Or build a new, self-contained grid. Yes.”
“So you need to teach us, Valeterisa—”
“Why?”
The Archmage of Izril stared at the Mage Lord. Slowly, she tapped her finger against her chest.
“I have the patent. For economic purposes, that seemed like a very wise investment.”
“But you have to teach us!”
Cureq shouted. Valeterisa just gazed at him.
“But that would devalue my magic. And it seems to me Fissival was never the right spot. I thought about the Great Plains, but…no. The High Passes.”
“The High Passes?”
He couldn’t catch on, but everyone else did. Montressa looked up, and Valeterisa spoke musingly.
“There is a door, but it barely works. I wish to study magic. Together. With apprentices and [Mages] and resources. I will do it somewhere with access to north and south. Building a new teleportation network is not impossible, and the most value is in the center of Izril. Liscor, maybe. If Fissival ever figures out the spell, I will, of course, expect my patent to stand. It has been witnessed by most of the Scholarium.”
Now they got it. Ascoden saw General Vors slowly sag as Hexa and dozens of other [Mages] tried to run forwards, but Valeterisa was just…going.
“Valeterisa, wait! Your position—give us a chance to say—”
“I heard you the first time.”
She looked back once, and they froze in their tracks. The Archmage of Izril gazed about and then down at Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] closed her eyes, smiling with that same bittersweet realization as she understood. Valeterisa stood in the city she had entered humbly, without ever showing them the spells she had learned. Either of them. 
The calm Archmage bowed her head to Tierres.
“I have always been a fine student of Fissival’s Scholarium. I learned all the lessons you had to teach, Headmaster.”
Then she took off.
 
——
 
Mage Lord Ascoden found Valeterisa before she had left Fissival proper. He rapped at Milaw’s door, and Eun and the Earthers crowded in as the Archmage of Izril shed her concealment spells.
“You are supposed to be chasing my illusion. What was wrong about it?”
The Mage Lord shrugged.
“Nothing. The Human element made me think you were here.”
“Ah. That’s not magic. Hence my failure.”
Valeterisa stood up and embraced Ierythe. She stood amongst the last gathering of Heneith Street, their Archmage. The last in Fissival.
Not just Heneith Street. The [Butcher], a [Baker], and possibly even a [Chandler] were among the Drakes and Humans and even a Stitch-man speaking quietly to Valeterisa. She remembered them all, and she had forgotten to change her clothing or what day of the week it was.
“Are you going to be okay? I have gold, I think. Sooral might be petty. I must go.”
Ascoden watched as Valeterisa cast a spell, checking Ierythe’s health, but the old [Tailor] looked healthier than she had been in years. And she was patting Valeterisa’s hands, squeezing her fingers tight with a grip so strong it shocked them both.
“My dear. My dear. You always had to go. We should have never let them take what they did from you, but you kept shining, even in all the mud they slung at you. Now? The entire city sees it. The only thing that’s changed is…”
Her eyes were awash with tears. Tears…but Milaw spoke with the same kind of terrible heaviness in Ascoden’s chest.
“The only thing that’s changed is where we’re supposed to be.”
The Archmage of Izril had lifted the City of Magic high and dropped it. Now, everything, all the anchors and ties were coming undone. It was still hard. As hard as something you loved and hated to break. Like family or home. But the Archmage of Izril simply tapped her forehead as her eyes watered.
“[Clear—”
“Stop that.”
A hand slapped down her fingers, and Valeterisa gently squeezed Ierythe’s shoulders. She sniffed.
“But tears are so inconvenient.”
 
——
 
They had a long time for Valeterisa to say her goodbyes to each person and cast [Restoration] the last few times she could. As she finally stepped back, the Archmage noticed Montressa trying to fend off the Earthers begging her to take them with her, name-dropping an inn. Valeterisa watched with urbane amusement, and she and Ascoden stood aside.
“I can’t let you have them. Although they’ll be going to other Walled Cities, some. I guess I am a son of the walls. I’ll have to study [Clear Emotions]. You know, if you call and the best [Crafters] of Fissival go—and some students and teachers and even a rogue Mage Lord or two—the City of Magic won’t allow it. It can’t allow it.”
Valeterisa turned, and Mage Lord Ascoden met her eyes, then stared into a vision of the future. She glanced back at Milaw and shook her head.
