Archmage Valeterisa cocked her head, studying the tree as the [Druid] gave a bow with a flourish and stepped back. Were they…testing her? Challenging her to match the green magic? She was an Archmage, so Istrix was curious to see her rebuttal. He knew Mage Lord Ascoden, General Vors, and the young [Mage] were on her team. But how would Valeterisa impress Fissival’s citizens?
She stepped up to the tree and inspected it. Then Valeterisa began walking around it and started speaking as she fiddled with her spectacles. She completely forgot that the scrying spell was there, so the camera-Drake had to hurry around to get a shot of her; she’d stopped with the tree in the way.
Valeterisa even spoke like one of the Scholarium’s [Professors]. That was to say, boring. Dragial’s fiery speeches back in the day had been ear-catching, even if what he said about Gnolls was sometimes insane.
But then Istrix began to listen as Valeterisa spoke, despite her poor speaking skills. She had a flat voice, which grew excited and sped up, but she lacked projection. Yet—and yet—
When she spoke about magic, he believed her.
“If we are competing, I would like to make a few points. The [Overgrowth] spell is…traditionally quite effective. In emergency settings. My own research into the spell suggests that it is often employed by Silver and Gold-rank adventurers. I cite, um, [Green Mage] Moore of the Halfseekers as a member currently using the spell. However, I would like to add that this spell is not traditionally employed by any [Druids] in any Circle on Izril or elsewhere.”
The citizens watched Valeterisa blankly, and she took this as a sign to go on. Mage Lady Sooral was smirking as Valeterisa fumbled with her bag of holding.
“I used to have a study…no. My notes are at home. The [Overgrowth] spell can create a tree like this in seconds. However, in 99% of all cases, the tree will wither and die within a week or less. The spell destroys the seedling’s potential for growth.”
The [Druid] had stopped smiling and glowered at Valeterisa as the citizens murmured. Istrix wondered if this was true. He’d seen this trick before…but come to think of it, he didn’t see random trees just littered around the parks.
Interesting. Valeterisa searched around and found an acorn on the ground. She levitated it up, and then some dirt and grass scooped itself out of the ground.
“Here is my spell. [Create Mana: Death].”
Something flashed in her hands. Valeterisa raised something, and her audience recoiled in alarm.
“Did she say—?”
Istrix saw the Archmage of Izril lift something up. Valeterisa held…a tiny bit of quartz. A plain little gem with mundane stone still clinging to it. Yet the clear bit had a dark luster that was unnatural and remained even in the light. Slowly, Valeterisa inserted it into the handful of dirt—and then produced another stone.
“[Create Mana: Earth].”
She repeated the process with four more pieces of quartz, inserted them into the dirt, and looked around vaguely.
“I need a pot.”
Her apprentice began to hurry around desperately, but Valeterisa pointed, and a granite bowl resembling a common planting pot rose out of the ground as the soil shifted. She dumped the dirt, acorn, and magical stones into the pot and stared at it blankly.
“[Water Spray].”
A jet of water hit the pot, and Valeterisa gazed at the muddy mess. She pointed, and it rose. She turned to her audience and spoke once more.
“—The fastest way I have discovered to grow a plant without Skills that will last and bear fruit is to embed mana stones into the ground. Not just life magic, but death magic. Noelictus’ fields are famously productive because plants consume and flourish on death mana. Fissival could buy quartz from Salazsar and enhance fields with mana.”
She put the pot down on the ground, then straightened. She peered around vaguely, met Sooral’s eyes, and coughed gently into one hand.
“I’m done.”
The Mage Lady blinked at her opponent. Then she chuckled behind one claw.
“So that is the Archmage’s rebuttal? Observe!”
She pointed at the muddy pot and the tree, full-grown. The audience laughed along with her, but Istrix did not. He rested his chin on his claw, mildly fascinated.
He had never known plants ate death magic, and to judge by the younger [Mages] of the Scholarium chattering, neither did they. Yet, clearly, Valeterisa was not showing off.
She might need to. The next [Mage] to step forwards had more muscles than most of the [Loaders]. He announced himself as a disciple of the Sinew Magus, Grimalkin. His demonstration was to have someone conjure a huge block of stone.
It looked like solid granite, six feet across and tall. The Drake inhaled and exhaled as he lowered his stance. Then—his clawed hand began to glow as it clenched into a fist. The Drake [Battlemage] leapt—and the impact shook the scrying spell.
He cracked the entire block of stone, and the fissures split the cube in half as pieces fell off. It wasn’t a complete shattering, but Istrix imagined being hit by that.
Valeterisa waved dust out of her face. She waited, patiently, as another block of stone was conjured. Everyone waited for her rebuttal. The Archmage of Izril floated over to the stone block and poked it.
“[Dispel Magic].”
It vanished with a gentle pop. Istrix fell out of his chair laughing. The expression on the affronted [Geomancer]’s face was priceless! However, Sooral objected at once.
“This is a show of magical ability, Archmage.”
“Does that not count? It is magical stone. If you want me to cast another spell, I can.”
Archmage Valeterisa sighed and waited as another cube was created out of the ground. She stared up at the sky for a moment—then poked the block.
This time, Istrix didn’t even hear her speak a spell. However, from the way the stone cube cracked and split in half before crumbling into pieces—
“That had to be some kind of shattering spell! [Fissure]? She split it! I bet the [Miners] would love her in Salazsar.”
“Well, they can take her.”
Again, the crowd was split. The [Battlemage] was shaking his head, denying Valeterisa’s spell. But she had broken the stone cube. The Archmage of Izril looked around, clearly wondering why people were booing her. Sooral’s smile grew wider as General Vors rubbed at his face.
Because that was the battle here, for Fissival. Show over substance. The Teleportarium’s crews watched, split just like the populace above.
 
——
 
—But one was the better [Mage]. Even if she didn’t show it directly, Valeterisa was higher-level and, more importantly, more adept at magic than almost anyone in the modern age. Anyone non-immortal, almost definitely.
He felt bad for her, though. This was not his arena. Nor had he known she was going to do this.
Archmage Eldavin watched Valeterisa, but hadn’t forwarded Fissival’s isolated broadcast to Wistram News Network for pickup. He wasn’t sure if that would be doing her any favors.
He was certainly not on Fissival’s side. They spoke to him of the same complacency and idiocy he’d seen in Wistram. Only magnified by bigotry.
So this was where she had learned the magic she spoke of. Efficient, even radical by today’s standards.
Function over form. Valeterisa was levitating blocks of increasingly-heavy materials, seeming exasperated by the contest. She could, upon request, cast [Fireball].
“But why would I? Magic is more than combat magic.”
“Then show us, Archmage. Can you create a Golem?”
The unpleasant Drake, Sooral, sneered at Valeterisa. The Human woman replied without hesitation.
“Yes, of course.”
Eldavin chortled at the supercilious expression on the Drake’s face. But she was quick on her feet verbally.
“Then—kindly make one for us now.”
“I have no materials. And the process takes weeks even for skilled [Golem Artificers].”
“Weeks? Then how, pray tell, will Archmage Valeterisa contribute to Fissival? Will you personally sow the fields with magic bits of stone? How would you help us? Provide a Golem every two months? Will you commit to that?”
Eldavin rolled his eyes as he sat in a tub of mana-infused water. He glared at the scrying orb bobbing in the waters.
“Can you make a Golem? What do you provide? Say that, Valeterisa. [Urgent Message]. Valeterisa…”
He angrily jabbed a spell through the air, but Valeterisa’s image was probably five minutes delayed. She replied absently as she lifted a hand. Eldavin watched, groaning.
He should be there. Should he try to make it in time? He doubted he could risk it, even if he wanted to try a teleportation spell. And—he received a reply to his [Message].
 
From Archmage Valeterisa to Eldavin:
I have this in hand. Thank you for your concern. This is my city.
 
She even added subject lines. Eldavin sighed—then he sat up in his tub as the Valeterisa on the time-delay began to reply to Sooral.
“Oh no. Don’t do it! Not here—”
The Archmage of Izril raised her hand. She spoke slowly, glancing around.
“Help farmers. I would not use Golems for that. If I were to change Fissival’s farms, I would infuse the soil with mana. And to till the ground in place of citizens, I would do this. [Summon Skeletons].”
In front of Eldavin’s horrified eyes, a glowing pile of bones rose. It wasn’t the same as [Animate Dead] because she had no body to use as a vector. And yet—it didn’t matter. The horrified Drakes cried out as Valeterisa pointed at the skeletons.
“In Khelt, skeletons till the fields. It was proven by the Archmage of Death, Perril Chandler, that skeletons can provide for a nation’s food supplies. When he lived—”
 
——
 
“—even Calanfer and the Dawn Concordat, nations like Pheislant, Desonis, and even Avel were experimenting with undead laborers. The stigma against necromancy does not diminish its ability to create a workforce superior to Familiars, Golems, or summoned beings. If we did teach [Necromancers] as Mage Lady Sooral suggests—”
Valeterisa got no further before a lick of fire magic blew the skeletons to bits and the crowd’s booing and shouts drowned her out. She glanced up, and a stone bounced off a magical barrier protecting her—and then her apprentice raised a shield.
Sooral stood, triumphantly shouting at the death magic on display. Like a demagogue leading the most passionate members of the crowd. Yet Valeterisa didn’t flinch. She stared dreamily upwards at the rain of stones, around at the booing figures—then straight into the scrying orb.
She knew it was there. She knew she was being watched. It was not that Valeterisa didn’t care. It was that she was competing in her way.
Madness. Yet—she was also correct. [Overgrowth] was a poor spell to raise plants. Skeletons could till fields.
She spoke to Eldavin like a [Mage] of old times, but the half-Elf barely remembered the names and times—only that she had that echo in her voice.
Yet there were still people who remembered, fully, what [Mages] had been like in days before Zelkyr had become the Archmage of Izril and everyone had followed after. Someone remembered that yes, other nations had asked for his students to provide them with cheap, inexhaustible labor. And he had modeled his skeletons upon Khelt as well.
Az’kerash, Perril Chandler, the [Archmage of Death], was watching her too. He had not concerned himself with Valeterisa any more than Amerys; they were living ‘Archmages’ on the level of Feor.
But she invoked his name. So of course, he watched her. A [Mage] who belonged in a different era.
Not even his. Not the flash and drama of the turbulent Naga Incursions, nor the rise of Az’kerash, but an older guard. She should have been a scholar of magic wandering ever upwards in Wistram’s ancient halls, pushing the boundaries of magic.
Not here. He stared at the crowd hurling so many objects that the contest had to be postponed, and Valeterisa just…flew off as her supporters and apprentice took over for her. She was not ashamed.
“Look at what the City of Magic has become. Zelkyr, you always hated it, and they made statues of you. This was one of their greatest students?”
His eyes picked out people in the crowd who didn’t jeer or shout. Humans, staring up at one of their own. Drakes, listening, watching her magic.
Could they see it? He thought they could. Look at her. Listen to her words and radical ideas, and she was a radical in any time, a distracted [Scholar] compared to the pragmatist-[Mages] you needed. But if Fissival had eyes—and they were a citizenry of [Mages]—surely they saw what he did.
Her magic was better. Her opponents used magic like someone fired a crossbow. They loaded up a spell with magic and fired it out. Valeterisa was akin to an [Archer]. She drew an arrow, pulled only as much magic as she needed, and loosed each spell perfectly. Her control lifting a block of stone wasn’t of someone heaving it up with pure mana, but instead holding it, balancing it with half the magic her opponent needed.
Yet. Perril Chandler’s fingernails dug into dead skin as he watched her. And he saw a future written ahead of her in his own image. A man, kneeling before a throne where no one would speak up for him.
“They will always betray you, Archmage of Izril.”
Az’kerash whispered in his quiet castle devoid of life. Save for a single slime—a world of death. Then he went back to his own studies and his children, his Chosen. For he was reminded of a vision. A Walled City in ruins, where death walked.
But he kept the scrying orb with him. Waiting, perhaps, to see another ending to the story he knew so well.
 
——
 
It became bloody after that. Although blood didn’t spill right away.
But it was the passion. The revulsion of Valeterisa’s enemies, their palpable, simmering dislike of her and everything she espoused.
As for Montressa? Likewise! She stood with Fyres’ staff in hand, glaring daggers at the Scholarium’s [Mages].
“Contest! A Magistorm Battle! Mage Lord Ascoden and Magus Montressa challenge the Scholarium’s [Battle Mages]! How many?”
Ascoden stood there, next to Montressa, and she looked up in surprise. The duels were inevitable. What was surprising was that Ascoden bellowed the challenge.
“What about Archmage Valeterisa?”
He winked at her as Vors glanced his way. It was bad form for a [General] to enter the fight, but Ascoden watched as Mage Lord Cureq and a cluster of overly-eager Drakes lined up.
“In truth, I would love to see Archmage Valeterisa fight. But I think I can swing some tails her way. She…is not the most flamboyant spellcaster. Her duel would be a thing of beauty, but sometimes we need a hammer to smack sense into brick-heads.”
He nodded to the crowd. They’d gone back to the Scholarium, and the ‘Magistorm Battle’, Fissival’s fanciful term for a duel, was best done in a place with enchanted walls.
