“Even without the level difference—[Mages] are among the slowest-levelling classes past Level 50. That’s true of everyone since it’s exponentially harder, but Archmage Valeterisa is still far more capable than I am in magic without having the levels to show for it.”
“And why is that?”
Montressa saw Valeterisa shift, seeming embarrassed by the compliment. She replied in a low voice, cheeks slightly flushed.
“Consider deeds. Like Professor Pexalix would say—the size of the rock matters. Or if you lift one at all.”
Montressa raised her brows, and General Vors sighed.
“I knew I should have taken his class. Now, can someone explain what the hell that means?”
Ascoden smiled.
“[Warriors] level by fighting. The dicier the situation, the more levels. You can reliably level in many classes from [Strategist] to most fighting ones by surviving, say, an Adult Creler. But a [Mage]? We gain some experience from fighting, but that’s not magic. To level as a [Mage]…”
“…Perform great magic.”
Montressa sighed. It all made sense. Valeterisa chimed in.
“It is also harder to work such great magics. It would be akin to a warrior scaling a mountain. Most spells cannot, in one cast, tax a Level 50 [Mage].”
“That’s just a lack of our spellcasting knowledge. Which is why I admire and am a proponent of anyone who can discover or create new spells. Like Archmage Valeterisa. Professor Pex referenced you, and I looked up your history. You have a few fans among the students.”
“For what?”
Valeterisa looked blank, and Ascoden chuckled.
“For graduating in four years? For winning countless duels and even knocking Dragial down? For being the Human who did all this, not a Drake? Becoming the Archmage of Izril didn’t hurt either. You created [Valeterisa’s Complex Seeker Projectiles]. It was the hardest Tier 4 spell I have ever learnt—harder than most Tier 5 spells, and even some Tier 6 spells. I leveled twice the night I learnt it, and I admired the ideas that went into the magic.”
Valeterisa was lost for words. General Vors rubbed at his chin.
“Valeterisa’s…of course. Practically impossible and impractical to use in a battlefield, but it has real application in tight confines against [Rogues] or at range.”
He gave Valeterisa another look, and Ascoden nodded. As he leaned over, another familiar rushed by with a dustrag. His weren’t shadowy, but bright, luminescent.
“Arcane Familiars. I had no idea anyone else had mastered [Familiar]-summoning.”
“I was Professor Pex’s finest student. In my year.”
Montressa blinked at Valeterisa.
“Professor Pexalix knows familiar-summoning?”
“Did you think I taught myself the subject? It is why he teaches his philosophy and other courses. And why he can talk to me without being removed.”
Ascoden nodded. He drained another cup of water and handed it to a familiar to carry off. Unfortunately, the crystal glass was either heavy or slippery, and the familiar dropped it with a crash. Sighing, Ascoden pointed a claw.
“[Repair]. They’re useful, but inept.”
“That is why I have Shadow Familiars. They can stick to their objects.”
“Really? I should have done that. Mine just glow and do interesting tricks with mana. Now, Archmage Valeterisa—what possessed you to apply for a Mage Lady position? I advise you, frankly, to withdraw your application, leave Fissival, and never come back.”
General Vors blinked. Montressa glanced up as Valeterisa frowned.
“Is that a threat?”
“No. A genuinely concerned statement. Fissival doesn’t deserve you. It may need [Mages] like you, but it will never be grateful. Wistram was in the midst of an upheaval when I left; that Eldavin and your return shook up the old corruption. I envied them, frankly, because Fissival is not better. Dragial is dead, and his son is already being put in his father’s place. He’s even studying summoning magic, and he’s better at spellcraft than his father was.”
“Hm. But he is not all of Fissival.”
“No.”
Both Vors and Ascoden chorused at once. The General uncrossed his arms.
“I have to object, Mage Lord Ascoden. With respect—we need Archmage Valeterisa if she’s willing to stay in Fissival. The City of Magic can offer her a lot, and we are falling behind Wistram with Archmage Eldavin returning to power.”
“And whose fault is that? Incidentally, Archmage, Miss Montressa, I will swear on any truth spell you want that I had no idea about Fissival’s conspiracy with the Plain’s Eye tribe. I don’t think General Vors did, either.”
The Drake instantly shook his head.
“Not I. I’m now trying to think if I ever heard references to it…but [Generals] are still below the highest level of Fissival’s authority. The Three—and a handful of [Mage Lords], [Generals], and yes, even Professor Worpell might conceivably have known.”
Montressa blinked, recalling the teacher.
“Really?”
She was that important? Ascoden just shook his head. He produced a handkerchief and spat into it, then seemed so aghast he gave it to another familiar to be cleaned.
“…And that’s why Archmage Valeterisa will have daggers at her back if she stays, Vors.”
“But we need her.”
The [General] insisted. He turned to Valeterisa as Ascoden raised his brows. Vors gestured passionately at the view of the Scholarium in the distance.
“Yonder lies the Scholarium, our teleportation grid used to hurt the Gnolls—have you seen it, Valeterisa, Ascoden? It lies below the Draconae Scholarium proper.”
Valeterisa nodded.
“I know.”
Vors studied the academy.
“We have great teachers. Better than Wistram, I would dare say. They don’t often make great legends—but so what? The foundation is fine. After the revelations about Doombearers and the Plain’s Eye conspiracy? Our next generation, arriving in the coming months and years, should be Gnolls. Gnolls, a continent’s worth of them! They should be students of Fissival and go on to make Izril stronger. But they won’t come because we were part of their betrayal. We will never mend those rifts. Not unless we can prove Fissival is changing. And no Gnoll will trust our voice. But they might trust a Mage Lady of Fissival.”
He turned to Valeterisa, and Ascoden sighed.
“I hate it when people make sense. I see that point—although if you think more than a handful of Gnolls would trust that, I’ll sell you this mansion, Vors.”
“A handful is better than none. An Archmage is better than no one. If it is Valeterisa’s will, I will support her and drag as many Drakes who’ve been to Rhir into voting with me as I can.”
Vors turned to Valeterisa, and the Archmage sat there. So quietly, thinking. She stared at the Scholarium and murmured.
“If they will have me…General Sserys asked if I would fight for Izril. His ghost.”
Both Drakes went quiet, and Montressa felt another chill run down her spine. Valeterisa went on quietly.
“What do I have to do to win Fissival’s favor? Even if it isn’t the Scholarium.”
Ascoden had been about to break open an expensive bottle of Amentus wine, but he sighed and left it corked.
“No time for drinks. If you want to win—do it publicly. Prove your magic is better than theirs. Looks like I’m not done with duels. But are you sure we’re worth it, Archmage?”
He focused on her, serious, and Valeterisa exhaled slowly. She looked at Fissival and nodded.
“I came back home to show them my magic. Whatever they decide—let them see it.”
The Scholarium said the exact same thing that evening. If Archmage Valeterisa wanted to become the first non-Drake [Mage Lady] in an age, if she wanted to claim her magic was so advanced the City of Magic needed it—
Let her prove it.
 
——
 
It was like some task of old. Some ancient fable, a Herculean myth where Valeterisa had to perform incredible tasks of magic.
The only problem was—the game was rigged. It always was. This was a contest of popularity, and as citizens of Fissival and students followed Valeterisa’s war with the Scholarium’s Drakes, Montressa realized the greatest problem.
Valeterisa had no stage presence.
She had, in fact, the opposite. The Archmage of Izril was so un-flashy, so quiet, that even though she had the magical power of an Archmage of Wistram, people still took her for an ordinary Human woman. She was no Elia Arcsinger or Saliss of Lights, who attracted the eye, like it or not, just by breathing.
Nor was she even an Erin Solstice, who could turn on a kind of magnetism when she needed to. Yet Valeterisa tried.
 
——
 
Mage Lady Sooral and a cabal of the Scholarium’s [Mages], many of whom had been close associates of Wall Lord Dragial, were the vocal face of Valeterisa’s opposition. This number included Mage Lord Cureq and the younger Drake who had been pointed out as Dragial’s son.
Professor Worpell, General Hexa, and the rest were more circumspect, carefully appearing neutral.
They were having their showdown on the central channel of Fissival Today, the premiere broadcasting news network that…no one outside of Fissival knew about. Pallass was supreme, and other Walled Cities, even, had declined to pick up the broadcasts.
Still, you could get a pretty good image even deep in the Scholarium’s bowels. More precisely, even the Teleportarium’s work teams got to watch the magical contest while waiting, transporting, and loading up goods for long-range transit to their vassal cities.
It was supposed to be lighter work since they were at war with Salazsar and thus a lot of cities were abstaining from the network’s trade, but in reality, now the Teleportarium had to pull in military supplies, send ‘secret’ documents that everyone knew contained something High Command wanted their allies to get that couldn’t be contained in a letter or was too dangerous to put in a [Message] spell.
It was obvious. You got a ‘top-priority’ delivery, and no one was allowed to sneeze on the boxes as they were loaded in. Then one of the members of the work teams you never saw regularly, or some Drake with the right clothing but who got in the way of everything, would linger around the boxes. You never saw them slip anything inside, but maybe they were just checking for tampering? Then away it went, and you’d never see them until the next delivery—or unless a pallet got lost.
The Teleportarium was a vast underground space filled with cargo docks and magical sending spaces; it was built into the very bones of the Scholarium, and if you glanced up, you could see magical power high above, laid into the very foundations of the ceiling.
[Transporter Chief] Istrix also got to rub shoulders with the technical mages who made sure the actual network was running. They repaired breaks in the magical circuits, dealt with magicore spills, and sometimes warned him to turn everything off like when the Magical Hurricane was present.
Istrix suspected the Drakes who maintained Fissival’s ancient teleportation spells only half-knew what was going on. He had a better sense for when something was off. Eighteen years at the job had given him an instinct. Plus, the Scholarium-trained mages looked down on the loader crews who performed the manual labor.
However, both groups were watching the scrying orb while ‘working’. A [Mage] who looked like he hadn’t seen the light of day for a long time peered at the contest.
“Is that her?”
He was doubtful. Archmage Valeterisa was…not impressive. Oh, she had faintly green hair, which was unusual on Humans, but she wasn’t as striking as, say, Mars the Illusionist. In fact, her hair was a frizzy mess, which was at least somewhat interesting, and she was blinking into a cup of tea as she cast around for her spectacles.
Which were on her head. Some of the [Mages] clearly against having her here, flunkies for the Mage Lords and their leaders, snorted.
“And this is the Human we should bend over backwards for and give a noble title to? Our Archmage of Izril?”
“Mm.”
Istrix kept his voice carefully neutral. One of the younger [Mages], a [Ritualist] in charge of sitting and watching the Teleportarium’s mana flow all day, scratched at his tail.
“I’ve seen worse. You know, she graduated in four years?”
“Probably an exaggeration. Aren’t you supposed to be on monitor-duty?”
The [Supervisor] snapped irritably. The younger [Ritualist] twitched his tail.
“In twenty minutes. I’m on my lunch break.”
“Well—don’t be late. I’ll be checking!”
The other [Loaders] rolled their eyes in sympathy. Everyone knew that the magical supervisors were cushy, boring jobs most of the time. The [Ritualist] ducked his head—then carefully cast a [Subtle Stench] spell on his boss and anchored it with a little rune.
Istrix grinned. Then everyone turned back to the scrying orb.
“Oh, look! The contest’s starting!”
On the screen, Magus Lady Sooral was speaking.
“—the Archmage is so assured, let us see some feats of great magic! She is one [Mage]. Fissival’s Draconae Scholarium has trained every class of [Mage] known to the world! From our own [Archmages] in times past to [Druids] of today! Observe!”
A Drake wearing a headpiece of bone stepped forwards and tossed a few seeds into the grass in one of Fissival’s parks. He struck the ground, and everyone strained to see—then a tree began to blossom in the dirt. First a tiny bit of green, almost impossible to see, then a rising stick blooming with leaves and branches. It grew wider and taller at an impossibly fast rate, and the citizens of Fissival gasped.
“Dead gods, it’s like Magician’s First Eve. That’s a powerful [Overgrowth] spell, though.”
One of the [Loaders] commentated, and Istrix nodded. He had never gone to the Scholarium, but there were still smaller classes you could take, and you didn’t get to his position without casting at least Tier 4 spells.
Magician’s First Eve was an upcoming celebration in the fall where magic was on full display. This was a contest of magic, so it reminded him of Mage Lords and Ladies competing for a vote by impressing the public.
However…down here, the Teleportarium crews were fairly jaded. Actually, a lot of citizens might be making the same comments as the [Ritualist], who snorted.
“[Mages] of every class, did she say? I haven’t seen any [Blood Mages] graduate, have you? I tried to sign up for a seminar on it.”
“They had a seminar?”
“They had a seminar about the existence of blood magic. We read sixteen books, and I submitted an essay on nations who still had blood magic. We don’t do [Necromancers], [Chronomancers], uh…who else?”
“[Shamans]?”
There was some nervous laughter. The [Supervisor] glared around.
“Silence.”
