She was peering down at what she could see of the plateau from here. Ascoden raised his brows.
“That’s a bit of an exaggeration. We’re barely…thirty feet up from here? Some of the walls are higher, though you can climb the Scholarium to maybe eighty feet. The towers…but not a hundred and fifty from here.”
“No, it has to be higher. Look. The guard towers are tiny.”
Montressa was insistent. Ascoden snorted, but then he walked over. General Vors had gone silent as he put a speaking stone to one earhole. The Mage Lord peered over the balcony and hesitated.
“Ancestors. They are small from here. But they’re taller than the walls of Fissival. It must be some trick of the light. You know, I never noticed that.”
“I didn’t either. I could have sworn they were of the same height. And see down there. There’s a city.”
“Uh…Kallisope? That’s fascinating. Vors. Vors. Look at this. I’ve never seen Kallisope from here. They should be all the way down the coast. Vors? Professor Pex?”
Now, Ascoden turned, and he saw Vors’ expression. Then someone began laughing. Professor Pexalix was laughing wildly as Professor Worpell glanced around. The Scholarium’s students and teachers gaped at him uncomprehendingly…but then Montressa began to feel something. It was subtle, but she had felt this before.
On Pallass’ elevators, when she’d gone riding them. A kind of…pressure when it went up and the opposite when it went down. A subtle resistance. It was replaced by a sudden lurch in her stomach. She turned—and Ascoden whirled around.
“No way.”
Montressa du Valeross began to run, searching for a better vantage point. The citizens glanced at each other blankly, and some followed her. But the [Crafters] just turned to Milaw as he realized what she had.
But unlike Montressa, he trusted to something else. The trembling [Clockmaker] raised a wand. He cast one spell.
“[Measure Distance].”
He aimed it at the nearest guard tower, seeming small, barely in sight. Then Milaw turned white. He looked around, and then word began coming in from the edges of the city.
For if the Scholarium, in the center, couldn’t detect what was happening—the guards on the walls, the citizens at the edges of the city, and especially the Drakes gawking up at the City of Magic saw it.
Fissival was flying.
 
——
 
They were only actually fifty feet up. Montressa was exaggerating, because they were so much higher than she could have imagined.
Only fifty feet into the air. A young Drake woman of about fifteen years of age peered over the edge of the City of Magic and saw the [Guard Captain] staring straight up at her. She gasped, stood, and nearly fell.
Someone hauled her back, and at this point, the Watch began urging citizens to stand back from the exposed city’s edges. Yet…even they couldn’t stop themselves from gaping.
Fissival was flying. Drakes were screaming to their relatives, sending [Message] spells to friends and neighbors in other cities and demanding they check the scrying orbs or spells.
“Fissival is flying!”
And they’d get a response like, ‘yeah, yeah, Fissival ‘flies’, I’ve seen it before, good for Fissival. What’s this really about?’
Then the disbelief would change to incredulity. The first [Scrying] spells captured the City of Magic leaving the ground—slowly.
Slowly. Painfully. At first, the audience had no idea why Archmage Eldavin himself interrupted Drassi’s broadcast about equal pay for female Drakes and cut to an image of the City of Fissival’s network.
Then…they began to pick up on what was happening. Yet—oh—
It was hard. Harder than she’d thought, and she had tried to calculate how much Fissival weighed.
She didn’t have to struggle with that element of the city, thankfully. It was floating, which suggested it was a net-zero weight. But as the Earthers who knew more advanced physics could have told her, even if something of Fissival’s size ‘weighed’ nothing, shifting it and displacing all that air?
Let alone moving it? The first fifteen feet were easy. That was because of her spells.
Sixteen [Earthen Bulwarks] of reinforced stone, grey and tough enough to withstand direct hits from [Lightning Bolt] spells, rose and pushed the Walled City of Magic from below. At equidistant positions, they rose simultaneously, pushing the city higher like fingers pressing it up. As one might hold a bowl with a sixteen-digit hand.
That…wasn’t bad. They were just spells, and even if she’d had to time them and anchor each one, they were only Tier 4 spells. Enhanced for radius and strength.
But the city began to rise, and she knew it would work. Fifteen feet was easy, but then Valeterisa knew that she needed another method to raise the city of magic. Which begged the question—how?
Even the highest-level [Warrior] in the world was only as ‘strong’ as his reach. And only half-Giants would have been able to reach the City of Magic once it had cleared fifteen feet of ground. The earthen spires kept rising, but they began to crack.
“[Pillar of Obsidian]. ”
A central spire rose directly underneath Fissival’s base as Archmage Valeterisa flew around, stopping the cracking spires and continuing to lift the city. Could they feel it yet? Most wouldn’t notice. The flying Archmage saw the city continuing to rise and tried to guess how high she could raise it with the mechanical advantages of geomancy alone.
Fifty feet? Sixty? The higher the spires extended, the more fragile they became and the wider their bases would need to be. There was a diminishing cost, and so she prepared herself. As soon as the base of the City of Magic cleared the divot in the earth, the smooth basin of dirt it had rested in so long—she would fly under it.
Something caught her attention. Dirt and debris were cascading down from the City of Magic’s underside, even root systems that had clung to the base of the Walled City of Magic. This least-defensible Walled City had never been impressive with its short walls. Even the Antinium had come close to attacking it.
Yet…Valeterisa had long wondered why Fissival, of all the cities, had such shoddy defenses. Her answers had come in the history books and studying its defensive protections: the city could project a dome to cover the entire City of Magic at need. She had wondered why. A dome was not as efficient as Pallass’ more pyramid-shaped [Cage of Pallass] spell, which could stop entire armies attacking.
That had led her to understand where the Walled City of Magic was supposed to be. Walls? Walls were for cities that feared conventional attacks. Walls were no good against foes with wings. And Fissival…had never been on the ground during wars.
For the first time in an age, someone glimpsed the Walled City of Magic as it truly was. As dirt fell away from the rounded underside of the City of Magic, Valeterisa saw something staring at her.
It was a Dragon.
Not a real one, obviously, but a mural. Raised stone, colored, but so old it had worn away. A Dragon, one of the long ones with a flowing mane like water and twin whiskers, was twined around the basin of the City of Magic. Riding upon its back were Drakes, even some Gnolls. It was chasing or flying with another Dragon that Valeterisa associated with storybooks, the Dragon’s scales…her scales?…glowing a faded white as she blew frost breath across a series of cities in the distance.
Crests. Cities. Valeterisa’s eyes widened and she spoke.
“Memorize this. [Capture Image]. Capture…”
She flew in a circle, eying the Walled Cities, ancient crests. Some she recognized, like Pallass. Others…others were gone. One had even been removed, visibly chiseled away from the rock face. The Dragons flew over tiny Drakes, building higher, learning magic from their Ancestors, until some stood upon a newly-built City of Magic. The greatest [Mages]…
And still the city rose. Now, Valeterisa sensed the [Pillar of Obsidian] faltering. Twenty-five feet while she watched? Barely enough space—and she was aware she might not have the strength.
But she had to try. This was already…already…
This wasn’t enough. Magic should be more. So Valeterisa dove and noticed that each eye of the Dragon and some of the murals had glassy orbs. Spells? Placed to do what? Rain fire or help the city levitate?
They were dead and dark. But they watched her as the daughter of Fissival flew down. Valeterisa gazed up at a second sky and got a bit of dirt in her eye.
“Ow.”
The City of Fissival was almost as dirty from beneath as Montressa thought her underwear was. But—Valeterisa put her hands on the stone.
“How to lift something like this? A puzzle. [High-Speed Flight].”
She upgraded the spell to a level she didn’t dare fly normally—even with barrier spells, she could and nearly had killed herself. But if she pushed—
“[Stoneskin]. [Body of Diamond].”
—She became the lever that moved mountains. And the lever could not break. Her arms began to scream, but the spells reinforced her, and the city…
Didn’t move. Of course it didn’t. How did you lift a rock? Valeterisa hadn’t enough force in her.
“Lift a rock, lift a rock…”
Her eyes alit on the rubble below her. Then Valeterisa blinked.
Rocks. Professor Pexalix. She swooped down as the city deadlocked twenty-five feet up. Then the first stone rose with the Archmage of Izril.
“[Levitation]. No—[Reverse Gravity]!”
Far better. Of course! Her thoughts were straining, trying to balance flight with the spells she had to maintain—Valeterisa began casting the spell again, then realized the rocks were trying to tumble around the dome, fly into the sky.
“[Sticky Webs].”
She anchored them to the underside of the City of Magic. This was pushing—pushing the boundaries of anything she had considered. She was not Xrn, the Small Queen. Yet look.
The city was still rising. Now, the [Earthen Bulwarks] were reaching the limits of their usefulness, so Valeterisa halted them, and they fell to the ground, breaking. The obsidian spire collapsed, and then it was just her and the city, floating as more rocks stuck to it. However—now it was like Montressa’s battle.
Mana. She had to maintain the [Reverse Gravity] spell on every single boulder. The larger they were, the more mana they cost.
“I cannot…keep enchanting stones.”
The city was slowly moving up. Inch by inch. Not fast. Why was it so hard? Maybe she didn’t understand the physics. She thought she had overcome the weight limit, so every extra stone should move the city faster, but it resisted her.
Valeterisa pushed with her own arms, and Fissival kept rising. She felt the mana burning out of her veins. Now it was forty-five feet in the air.
Higher. She gazed upwards and then looked around. Valeterisa wondered what they saw.
Show them magic. She only wished she had more of it in her veins. The first mana potion touched her lips as a single Shadow Familier held it up for her to gulp. 
Higher.
 
——
 
They rose so slowly, but when Montressa reached a place where she could look out over the edge of the City of Magic, they were rising.
The Scholarium was in chaos. Students leapt out of classrooms, running, or grabbed scrying orbs.
They were flying! But every inch took almost a minute. Something was wrong.
“It’s too heavy. We’re sinking! She can’t lift it alone! The mana cost—”
Ascoden was trying to imagine how Valeterisa was managing it! General Vors gaped around as Montressa just stared into the distance. It was almost midday, and she could see so much of Izril. But Vors heard Hexa muttering into a speaking stone.
“—keep the stabilization spells—”
He turned, but the Supreme General was already hurrying away to find the others of Fissival’s Three. The [General] saw citizens gaping out—but then—already—
The Walled City began sinking. He felt it as the sudden feeling of going up reversed. Slowly, the City of Magic sunk an inch. Then a foot. Then—
The Archmage of Izril appeared. She flew up back towards the Scholarium, wobbling, and the city held as she burned her mana, keeping it aloft. A crowd surrounded her as she dropped, and Vors knew, at once, Valeterisa had pushed too far.
Her face was not pale or white—it was gray. She was gasping for air as her body tried to recover some of the energy it felt leaving. But it was magic, not anything else. She almost fell to her hands and knees, but Montressa caught her.
“Archmage!”
“I cannot make it fly higher. Too much downwards pressure. It’s not enough.”
Valeterisa was whispering. The students and teachers of the Scholarium watched her, listening.
Not enough. Her head rose, and sweat ran down her face. Vors saw the scrying spells focus on her, and then someone spoke.
How he had the ribs left to draw breath, the [General] didn’t know. How he had the gall to speak…he beggared belief.
For Dorigal spoke, leaning on Mage Lady Sooral’s arm.
“Fifty feet.”
Every head turned to him. The son of Dragial pointed a claw at Valeterisa. He spoke, his voice carrying.
“Fifty feet. That is all the Archmage of Izril can show us. It is more than I can do. But some day, I swear to you all. I will see Fissival fly beyond the clouds.”
He gave her a long, frustrated look. And almost—Vors almost tossed him over the edge of the plaza, but the boy did look at her with the barest glimmer of respect.
It was more than his teachers. Valeterisa’s head lowered, and their descent began to pick up. Ascoden reached for his mana potion.
“If we could link…”
His voice was frustrated, and it belied his realization that even if he, Vors, and Montressa linked, they probably wouldn’t give Valeterisa more than…what, five more minutes? She had already, clearly, gone through a number of mana potions.
Montressa was already giving Valeterisa some magic. She heard Valeterisa whispering.
“I don’t understand how to lift it. I just—tried. No data, no studies. How do you lift something that high? Stones. Professor…”
She glanced up as the old Drake approached. There were tears in his eyes as he beheld his student.
“You have taken the first step. The rest is up to us.”
He laid a trembling claw on her shoulder. More mana, but a drop in the bucket being emptied. The Archmage of Izril’s head sagged, and a hand caught her arm.
“Look at you. A hundred spells. It must be a hundred and you’re doing it without sitting, or even help? Milaw? Milaw, come here!”
