Montressa was nervous; she didn’t know if she would win. She said as much to Ascoden.
“I’m a defensive caster, Mage Lord. I’ve fought with other [Mages], but I’m not a Gold-rank adventurer. Nowhere near.”
He nodded amiably.
“I know. That’s why I demanded a battle, not a duel. I need someone to cover me. We’ll be fighting across the Scholarium at range, if I know this lot. We’ll face six. Any six you want!”
The Mage Lord cupped his claws to his mouth, and Montressa saw Cureq stiffen in outrage. The Earthers were watching with interest, and so was the crowd. Ascoden knew a bit more of how to put on a show.
“Come on! Any six of the Scholarium against two [Mages] who support Archmage Valeterisa! Her apprentice and someone who’s studied her magic! Or would you like me to make it eight? Ten?”
His opponents grew increasingly furious. They had to know Ascoden’s level, but six [Mages] versus two…Montressa gulped as Cureq motioned another Mage Lord over. But Ascoden just winked.
“Don’t worry. So long as the military doesn’t join in, we’ll be battling [Battle Mages] at most. General Hexa has seen a battle, but this lot don’t like close-quarters combat. What’s your best barrier spell?”
“[F-Fivefold Arcane Barrier]?”
Ascoden’s eyes brightened, and he grinned toothily.
“That will do. Just buy me…ten minutes. They’ll open up slow.”
Ten minutes? Montressa grew more nervous, and she searched around for Valeterisa, but her mentor had just floated off after the booing. Where was she?
“Why would Archmage Valeterisa be a better duel? Or—more boring?”
Ascoden sighed as he watched his opponents arguing over who got to face them. He nodded at Professor Worpell and the silent, older members of the Scholarium watching with the students and citizens.
“Even Worpell…no, any [Mage] in Fissival. I would love to see Valeterisa duel them. It might not impress the citizens, but I would love to see her duel. Because unlike us—hers would be a thing of beauty.”
“How do you mean?”
Ascoden chuckled slightly.
“I mean, she wouldn’t win because of her levels. She would win because she knew better magic. She was an acclaimed duelist in the four years she spent at Fissival, and even Wistram. Not because she was some multi-class fighting expert. Rather, because she thought about how to break her opponent’s spells. I have always regretted not seeing that and that no recordings of the duels existed.”
Montressa thought back to Valeterisa’s duel with Fyres. She nodded. Then, at last, a team of six stepped forwards.
“The duel will take place in the Scholarium’s halls—endangering the public or students is unacceptable! This is not a duel to the death!”
Professor Worpell announced loudly. Ascoden muttered to Montressa.
“That means they’ll still be throwing [Lightning Bolts], but they can’t look like they deliberately want to kill you. Keep a personal barrier up and surrender if you need to.”
“What’s the plan?”
“Mm. Just cover me and yourself for ten minutes. I’ll finish the battle, but I need to cast a spell.”
It must be a high-Tier one. Montressa licked her lips. The ‘Magistorm Battles’ were a lot more organized than Wistram’s random duels. The other six [Mages] even had time to find a spot and fortify. But instead, they hurried into the Scholarium, disappearing through the open doors, and Montressa pointed in outrage.
“They’re hiding in the classrooms?”
The other students were still going to class or out and about. Ascoden grinned.
“Of course they are. Or I’d [Fireball] Cureq with impunity. In a sense, it’s more realistic. But they’ll be sniping at us. Ready?”
Montressa gulped. She planted her staff, and she was conscious of the scrying spells on her. Worpell counted down, her voice magnified and echoing throughout the Scholarium’s plaza.
“—four! Three! Two, one—”
“[Fivefold Arcane Barrier]!”
Montressa shouted and thrust the staff down before Worpell even finished. The Drake stared at her and stepped back.
A layered barrier of shifting, violet magic anchored itself around Ascoden and Montressa in a dome. It encased them from above and all sides—and just in time.
The first arcing [Lightning Bolt] crashed down five seconds later. Montressa flinched, but her [Arcane Barrier] took the impact without even the first layer going down, and it began to strengthen as she fed it mana.
She knew [Barrier] spells. Whether her opponents guessed it or not, she was a bad matchup for them at range. More spells began flashing out of the air, and Montressa gulped.
This wasn’t a rain of Tier 2 or even Tier 3 spells from low-level [Mages]. At least two of the Drakes on the other side were Mage Lords, and even if they weren’t almost Level 50 like Ascoden—
A hundred arrows of light crashed down on her shields followed by a boulder like a catapult’s shot striking her. More lightning crackled as her first ward went down. Montressa brought it back up at once, pushing more mana and restoring the broken ward.
“Not bad. You could find a place in my forces. Alright, nine more minutes.”
Ascoden stood there, one eye open to check on Montressa’s spells. Now, he closed both his eyes and stood, his wand glowing as he flicked it in subtle gestures. Montressa glanced sideways at him. She couldn’t even see his spellcasting—was he keeping it hidden?
“Nine minutes?”
She didn’t know if she’d be able to do it! All six [Mages] had spread out, and it seemed like they had found spots to snipe spells at her from all angles. They were cautious at first, waiting for her to reply, but when it became clear Ascoden wasn’t casting any spells, they started unleashing everything they had. No [Siege Fireballs]—ironically, their splitting up due to caution had prevented them from casting link spells.
She could stop at least one [Siege Fireball], but Montressa didn’t have unlimited mana. Ascoden just gritted his teeth.
“Sorry, I’m working as fast as I can. Don’t talk to me unless you’re going to lose the barriers. This is a stupidly tricky…”
He lapsed into silence, and Montressa raised her arms, her staff glowing as she just—held the barrier.
It reminded her of the Adult Creler smashing itself into the barrier, spitting that horrific deadly projectile as Crelers swarmed around her. She had failed, then, as well.
You could not defend forever. Maybe, if she had unlimited mana—but Montressa saw two wards vanish and then a third before she restored the first one. Five layers…the last one was toughest, but two minutes had passed and three were down and the fourth was melting under the onslaught.
And still, Valeterisa was nowhere to be seen. The bystanders were watching avidly. The sight of Montressa holding her spell up in front of six of the Scholarium’s spellcasters, even at range? She was doing Wistram proud.
Yet—yet—Montressa heard someone cheering her. Was it Milaw? She almost thought it was. She saw, out of the corner of her eyes, Saif and Eun cheering her. But the thought crept in as Montressa saw Ascoden’s lips move.
She was no battlemage or adventurer herself. That was true. Not everyone was cut out for the split-second decisions in battle, yet Montressa had at least survived close encounters with death.
And yet—even if she were no great warrior, Valeterisa could be a terror on the battlefield. Montressa studied her best spell, her barrier. And she knew it was worthy of a Gold-rank adventurer.
Yet how inelegant it seemed. Surely…
Was this all there was to my magic?
 
 ——
 
The Earthers were watching the magic duel, and some, like Eun and Saif, were cheering on Montressa. But others, like Jacques or Damla, were just…resigned.
“We left Wistram for the City of Magic. We’re still useless captives. What’s the point?”
He sat there, glaring at nothing in particular. He was wearing native Fissival clothing, which didn’t make him stand out that much. He could have been any Human from anywhere, and he certainly had no great class or levels, and he hadn’t picked up magic like some of the others.
The only interesting bit of apparel he had was, in fact, a glove on one hand. But only one hand. It was odd, and to many, practically useless.
Because unlike regular gloves, his was skin-tight, made from some kind of advanced material beyond cotton, and it exposed his fingers. The tips of his fore and middle finger, and both his pinkie and ring finger completely.
Why? It fascinated some of the [Crafters], especially the [Tailor], Ierythe, who had never seen the fabric before.
That single bit of clothing was Jacques’ only real possession from home, along with an object that was completely useless. Telim had been trying to help him, but the moody young man held what appeared to be a polished stick of wood with a chalk tip across his lap.
That, too, was the only thing he’d been holding when he arrived in this world. Damla patted him on the shoulder.
“Maybe you can build your game here.”
“Game?”
General Vors glanced over, and Jacques raised his head.
“Just a recreational game. No one had the time or ability to make it back in Wistram. It’s not as interesting as Saif and his gun.”
He scowled down. The [General] glanced around for an explanation, and Damla whispered to him. She had an accent, and she was another non-native speaker to English, an odd concept to the Drake.
“He’s actually a professional player at his game. It’s called pool or billiards.”
An expert in a game that didn’t exist. General Vors nodded in sympathy, then he watched Montressa faltering.
“She’s not going to last until Ascoden finishes his spell. Not like that. She’s running out of mana, and her barrier’s going down faster than she can replenish it.”
That was the opinion of the Scholarium, which meant that Ascoden would be in trouble. In fact, several [Teachers] were giving impromptu lessons to their students on the way some of the [Mages] were curving spells or sending rains of arrows high before aiming them down. They all needed line of sight, but they were doing that with scrying spells or sharing the coordinates.
It was hard to hit a target hidden in the Scholarium’s corridors, and even if Montressa had been intent on firing back, she couldn’t see her opponents.
And her barriers were failing. Vors heard a loud voice as one of the [Professors] decided the firestorm was too loud for her liking.
“You can see, class, that the [Aegiscaster] here has deployed her barrier well. It’s anchored, and she is replenishing multiple layers simultaneously. Even so, it’s wasting mana because it’s covering a wide dispersal. Nor can she block the spells; each strike eats away at her reserves.”
Vors raised his eyebrows as one of the world’s finest barrier-experts, Wardmistress Geyasa, began critiquing Montressa’s work less than three dozen paces away from the Human.
 
——
 
Montressa didn’t hear Geyasa at first, but when the [Wardmistress] began insulting her spell, she turned red with outrage. The Drake pointed at her barrier as her class scribbled notes.
“This is the kind of casting I’d use in a battle to protect magical artillery at range. But it’s flawed here. Our [Aegiscaster] is trying to bet her mana pool against six enemy [Mages]. She has…hmm. [Arcane Toughness] on her barriers and perhaps [Reinforced Wards], but they’re only buying her minutes at most. Shoddy.”
“Shoddy? You try blocking this many spells!”
Montressa nearly screamed back at Geyasa, but it only came out as a whisper. She was so frantically trying to hold the barriers up, it didn’t occur to her what the Drake was doing until Geyasa produced a little shield of her own.
“Some spells still defer to physics, and given the angle they’re coming down, I would have changed the shape of the barrier. But perhaps she never studied shaping her spells at Wistram?”
Her class laughed, and Montressa’s cheeks flamed with anger—then she blinked. She glared at Geyasa, with her back deliberately facing Montressa. The [Wardmistress] also ignored Worpell’s meaningful looks. She waited—then smiled as, behind her, the [Aegiscaster] suddenly dropped her shields.
“Watch it!”
Ascoden dodged a flaming arrow, and his eyes snapped open. But the next flare of a [Valmira’s Comet] spell flashed as it detonated in the air. He searched for Montressa—and saw her spell had shifted.
The dome was gone. Instead, Ascoden blinked at a hovering…shield? It seemed like a shield cut out of perfectly straight lines and angled such that it was surrounding a far smaller barrier around her.
“What? Ah, interesting.”
Montressa’s wards had changed. Now, a single layer ward was protecting the two of them. But while that seemed like a risky move…four hovering shields of arcane light were deflecting spells raining down on them. Montressa’s hands were moving as she directed them left, right, and Ascoden saw [Arrow of Light] spells bouncing off the magic.
“Deflection, not blocking, is ideal for an [Aegiscaster]. No mana wasted. If she’s wise, class, Mage Montressa will also reduce her mana in the two exterior shields to a bare minimum. That way, if that [Siege Fireball] Mage Lord Cureq is building comes her way, she can sacrifice a shield at minimum cost—like so.”
A roaring fireball blasted down at Montressa from a tower, and she threw one of the four shields forwards. The explosion made everyone duck—but the remaining three shields and her forcefield were completely unscathed. And even as they watched—Geyasa nodded as the fourth shield popped back into place.
“Technique triumphs over power. And the Archmage’s apprentice has some technique, it seems.”
Montressa laughed in gratitude. She was learning in a duel? But she might never have conceived of the floating shields without seeing how Tailor Ierythe could hold so many needles up. She gazed at Ascoden, and the Mage Lord grinned.
“Well done. Now, let’s show them some magic of the Archmage of Izril, eh? Sorry I took so long.”
He raised his claws, and Montressa’s eyes widened. She finally realized the spell he had been working on.
Clockmaker Milaw blinked as Mage Lord Ascoden shouted for the benefit of everyone watching.
“[Valeterisa’s—Extremely—Complex Seeker Projectiles]!”
He aimed a wand straight ahead as the onslaught of spells slowed and his opponents ducked. But they were out of sight, hidden in the Scholarium. How was he going to…?
Then Ascoden’s wand lit up, and Milaw blinked again. Because the Mage Lord fired ten—no, a hundred different spells in a moment. Montressa peered up, and she blinked as well.
“…[Light]?”
 
——
 
