Then, they saw. The students, the teachers, the citizens—
And the other cities.
 
——
 
The Teleportarium was in chaos. Supervisor Linnej had fled, and there was no point restoring the gravitational spells. The city was flying in Valeterisa’s hands.
So why was [Transporter Chief] Istrix here? He couldn’t have said why. He had looked out across the continent of Izril, and something had pulled him down here.
He stood in the map room of Izril and stared at the cities that pulsed when they wanted to send him something. He had long since stopped marveling—until the new lands had appeared and Fissival had sent dozens of ‘experts’ to confirm that this was legitimate and sell copies to the other Walled Cities.
Even now, the Teleportarium surprised Istrix. But he had forgotten…not all those surprises were bad.
Right now, the Drake was the only person seeing what was happening to the map. The glowing dots of the cities illuminated by Fissival’s Teleportarium network were…expanding.
Slowly. As the city rose, the bubble widened with increasing speed, and Istrix’s stunned eyes saw cities that hadn’t been part of the network for hundreds of years, thousands, beginning to glow. He didn’t understand—until he thought of the spell.
The spell. What if altitude…? Like someone trying to draw a straight line to the City of Fissival? It would be impossible unless the Walled City of Magic were in the right place.
Like a thousand feet straight up in the air. He saw shining lights appear and felt so weak at the knees he sat down.
“Zeres?”
 
——
 
Walled Admiral Asale worked in his section of Zeres as the Admiral of Supply, the Quartermaster of the Fleet. He had traditional office spaces accorded to him, although he hadn’t understood why until he studied old maps of Zeres.
This was the spot where Zeres had used to receive shipments that didn’t come in via harbor. But that was ages ago. Even so—the rooms that held so many goods were still used for that same purpose, even if no one sent anything anymore.
He was also watching the scrying orb showing Fissival along with the rest of the continent. So that was why, when he saw and felt the flash of magic running through the entire room behind him, he didn’t run screaming. Drakes and Gnolls streamed out of the storerooms where magical lines long buried flashed to life. Admiral Asale slowly reached for a cup of coffee and sipped at it.
“Someone find the Serpentine Matriarch. Check that. We might only have a few minutes. Ask them if they can send me a bunch of those sunrise mangos. I love those.”
 
——
 
The Walled Cities were aflame with [Messages]. In each city, rooms had begun lighting up. Some were still used for the same purpose—
In another, Watch Captain Venim freaked out as the Watch Barracks began to glow. He ordered a complete evacuation as Grand Strategist Chaldion himself came to look. The Grand Strategist stared at the rooms that could send things or…people and muttered.
“The Defense of Manus, Antinium Wars. Zeres’ Battle of Gorgons, Naga Incursions. Someone make a list.”
“Sir?”
A junior [Tactician] looked up as the Grand Strategist leaned on a cane. Chaldion glanced over.
“Make a list of every single encirclement or siege of a Walled City that isn’t Fissival since its Teleportarium network began failing. Make me three copies.”
“One for…?”
The Gnoll saw Chaldion remove his fake eye and rub at his eye socket.
“Each of Fissival’s Three. Which I will ram up their worthless behinds with my cane. There has to be a reason they stopped.”
“Well, yes. I doubt they get much foot traffic up there.”
Venim panted. He stared at the floating city in the scrying orb, already beginning to drift downwards. Slowly. Held aloft by a Djinni and a storm of winds. And the Archmage of Izril. Chaldion nodded slowly.
“Yes. If they can’t use the network, I suppose so. You’d need a great [Mage] to do that.”
He stared long at Valeterisa. Then he cursed.
“A shame they got rid of this one like all the rest.”
He scowled at the display, and Saliss of Lights walked past Chaldion, stared at the glowing Watch Barracks, and slapped Chaldion cheerfully on the back of the head.
“It’s a tradition in every city, old man. Take a good look around before you throw stones. They have a lot of high ground.”
 
——
 
Istrix was gazing at the network of Izril when he noticed something strange. The map of Izril had always been a picture of weakening magic, of failure as Fissival could only maintain the local region.
When he saw it light up…he had thought it showed a great mistake of the ages, some lost idea. But then he realized it wasn’t all incompetence and forgetfulness.
Because…Pallass was active, but the steady blue light wasn’t green for a ready delivery or red for a problem or telling him not to send.
It was orange.
Distinctly orange. There was no median point between blue and red. If anything, the orange-yellow color was crossed with a violet center, like someone really wanted you to tell this was not a normal status.
“What the hell does that mean?”
Istrix whispered. More Drakes were running downstairs, and General Vors and Mage Lord Ascoden stopped when they saw the map of Izril. Istrix just pointed.
“Look. Pallass…Hectval…that must be Liscor. All the cities in that region. Heading down…Zeres is clear, but—”
Dozens of cities in a kind of downwards stain were all showing the same color. As if something was…wrong. But what? From Liscor to Pallass, every city wasn’t ready to send. Dead gods, Zeres seemed like it was ready to send fish or something, and someone was trying to load a crate of mangos in exchange for ‘coffee’.
But what was this? Then Vors whispered.
“No. Forget that. Look. The north.”
Every head rose, and Ascoden’s scales shivered. He saw no cities there. This was an old map, and the new area had been added in. But…there were some dead lights in the north.
General Vors slowly turned, and he was no student of Magus Grimalkin. But he thought the Sinew Magus would quite have approved as Vors gave an order.
“Get me all the paper in the Scholarium. Copy—write everything down.”
There were even cities in the new lands. Old or new? But the map was already fading.
 
——
 
Fissival was sinking. Drifting downwards, unable to sustain its altitude. Maybe there was something about gravity that the levitation spells couldn’t fight.
Yet the proof was more than a permanent fixture in the heavens. Every single person in the city had seen the City of Magic truly flying.
That vision could inspire. It was something to reclaim.
It was already changing the world.
For instance, [Chief Engineer] Bellien was someone whose name you probably shouldn’t know. He had no expectation anyone would know his name.
[Chief Engineer] was a class. It didn’t mean he was in charge of all of Pallass’ Engineering Guild. Good thing too, because that was a political role, and he liked his place where he was on the day-crews. It was a fine time to be alive, working on huge projects and learning new concepts of…well, everything.
Ideas were flooding into the Engineering Guild so fast that even the best were sleepless, dreaming of new concepts. But they needed…industry. And more knowledge! And more points of reference.
Yet they had a guiding star, and Chaldion had promised more, soon. Bellien was eager to meet them.
Especially if they were easier to deal with than Troydel. The young man had given a lot of erratic lectures, and they needed someone who could start from the bottom, not tell them a Drake could fly and go from there.
He was a work in progress. For example…Bellien was hunting for a sheaf of documents. Every week, Troydel had to submit a new one, and he had achieved the Engineering Guild record for most proposals refused already.
Then again, most junior members didn’t have the right to submit proposals for budgets, but it was how Troydel was learning to submit and create blueprints. Bellien had to admit he’d gotten better, but that wasn’t, uh, a huge first step.
Most of what Troydel wanted to make was highly, highly complex, and while some ideas were being greenlit and in progress—like copies of the bicycles and the idea of flying—Troydel’s ideas had thus far never survived on their own merits. Pallass wanted projects and so they were beginning a number of independent projects. As Bellien understood it, someone was going to talk to Felkhr about getting the one Gnollish expert on flying on board as well.
It took a second for Bellien to find what he wanted, but then he pulled out a bunch of hand-illustrated images. They were pretty good, and the entire idea had been one of Troydel’s best, but he had personally refused to greenlight it.
The dangers of being above the earth were not unknown to Bellien. A two-floor elevator fall killed anyone but Grimalkin, or so their [Safety Consultants] loved to say. Besides that…it had been hard, even with Troydel’s explanations of physics, to believe.
Yes, birds and hot air and all that. But believing fire and air could lift people? Much less…well. Bellien stared at the image of Fissival. He had seen it rise. So, calmly, he hunted for his stamp and struck the paper describing a giant cloth balloon. Normally, he demanded a miniature proof-of-concept, and Troydel had never delivered one of those. But he supposed someone else could do the work for the lad. He struck the wood stamp down.
Plan approved.
 
——
 
Amidst it all, she descended. Archmage Valeterisa landed in the middle of the Scholarium, and Fissival’s citizens and students and [Mages] surrounded her.
“This changes nothing.”
Who said that? Montressa raised her foot to kick—
Mage Lord Ascoden. He stared up dreamily at Valeterisa. Smiling, but sadly. She landed on the ground and eye him.
“That is what I wanted to show them. I was challenged to demonstrate magic. So I have. Regardless of anything else—that is magic.”
Her eyes were alight, and she was almost smiling, but it faded as Professor Worpell and the Scholarium’s elite walked forwards. The Drake was not smiling. But even she looked at Valeterisa differently.
“Archmage of Izril.”
The whisper ran through the crowd. Valeterisa studied Worpell and waited.
“Valeterisa. You are without a doubt one of the finest [Mages] living. No one can deny that after this moment. You have done what Fissival has long known it can do. You seek the magics of old, and for your accomplishments, you have been acclaimed an Archmage, a title that speaks for itself.”
Worpell sounded exhausted, but Montressa didn’t miss what she’d said. Her eyes widened with outrage, but Valeterisa forestalled her. She simply listened.
“I have not the…the…strength to watch over the Scholarium. Headmaster Tierres, I leave it to you. I am tired. My great students pass, and I will not stand against Valeterisa’s instatement in the Scholarium.”
The old Drake seemed as though she aged with every second. The [Professor] sagged, and someone, Dorigal, helped her step back. Her scales were grey, but another Drake took her place.
Montressa had never met Headmaster Tierres before, but one look told her that the second of Fissival’s Three stood before her.
Magic’s director glanced at Valeterisa, and she blinked at him. He was as old as Worpell, and she knew him too.
“Oh, Headmaster Tierres. What would you like to say?”
The old Drake had gold-rimmed glasses, and unlike Worpell, he did use a magical tool to keep himself upright. But unlike Chaldion, his cane was magical and hopped; it was tall and shaped such that he could lean on it wherever he went.
Montressa could see why he didn’t move around much. But he was not ignorant of Valeterisa and the debate around her. The old headmaster spoke slowly.
“…I still oppose it.”
The Scholarium buzzed. Students were incredulous, citizens aghast. The second of Fissival’s Three went on as Hexa and a female Drake that Montressa didn’t know hurried forwards. Tierres went on.
“Your magic is undeniable. By deed, you have won over the hearts of many, perhaps, Valeterisa. But we are a city united by magic and…love of Fissival. You have left. You are the Archmage of Wistram and the north. You could have stayed. You were always rebellious, and when you graduated, I told you that the Scholarium needed great mages. But not of your kind. I oppose it—but I cannot stop your instatement as Mage Lady of Fissival.”
He turned away. Not once had he met her gaze. He gazed past Valeterisa. Then his head lowered as Montressa burst out.
“Why?”
She was vibrating with fury. The [Aegiscaster] met the old [Headmaster]’s gaze and guessed he might be Level 40. At least. He had enough power in that gaze to be that strong, or even, perhaps, Valeterisa’s level, but he was faded.
“What do you mean, Miss?”
“Why do you resent her so? She could have been your Archmage. If only you—and every Drake who was around her—hadn’t pushed her out of the city, she might have stayed. Was it so hard to admit a Human could do magic on par with you?”
“Human? This has nothing to do with her species, H—Miss. It was always about her attitude. She questioned, but she did it loudly. She pushed, alone, rather than worked together. She walks the loneliest of paths where magic is her only goal.”
Mage Lady Sooral hissed. Montressa turned redder. She opened her mouth to reply, then Sooral hesitated. Headmaster Tierres turned his head and focused on the Archmage of Izril. Montressa turned her head up, and her face fell.
“Archmage?”
Milaw gazed across the crowd in concern.
“Valeterisa?”
She was weeping. Tears ran from Valeterisa’s cheeks, hot and large, and she was no graceful weeper. Nor was she even the most talented blubberer, because the tears were not a waterfall.
She just cried. Yet it was the first such tears anyone could remember seeing, even people who had known her of old. Valeterisa’s tears landed on the Scholarium’s floor, and when she did speak, her voice was choked.
“He asked me to risk my life and fight for Izril’s sake. For nothing but pride in being me. It was a ridiculous thing for a [Mage] who loves logic and magic to answer. But he was there, and he looked me in the eyes and asked me, from one ill-loved child to another.”
“Who?”
Montressa knew. Valeterisa’s head moved back, and she stared, as she had stared at the Drake wearing Erin Solstice’s face once before. That burning gaze. The authority to command any army of Drakes.
“General Sserys of Liscor.”
Now, the crowd was wide-eyed and silent. Even Fissival’s Three listened as Valeterisa cast around. At her city. Her people. Second-Class Citizen Valeterisa. Mage of the Draconae Scholarium Valeterisa.
Archmage of Izril, Valeterisa recalled the words that the [Spear of the Drakes] had said to her.
