Archmage Valeterisa Imarris of Izril had met with the children of Earth briefly to understand their world and witness one of the great phenomena occurring in the present day.
Another world’s people, crossing over with this one. She had made numerous observations, mostly simple, including their ages, the patterns of location that occurred with some ‘groups’, and, of course, their lack of levels hither-to arriving.
She listened while other [Mages] asked questions of what they thought was interesting or dangerous. Guns and airplanes and internet, oh my.
Unlike some, Valeterisa took every statement at face-value. Space travel? The movements of stars? Relative speed-to-time? She believed it all—or a part of her did. Then she compartmentalized that full credulity and cross-checked it against factual evidence and her own understanding of physics and sciences.
—Yet, Valeterisa would well admit she had not spent nearly as much time with them as even the other Archmages. Not for lack of interest! It was just…
They had less to offer her. Their scientific understandings could be read once collated; culturally, a Human-only world was interesting, but Valeterisa had asked one Human—ironically, the same one now climbing the beach towards the City of Magic—a question.
Saif, the young man who carried an airsoft gun, now enchanted to be even more of a threat than it was before, had answered the Archmage of Izril’s most pressing question: what did he know of magic?
Stories, myths, pseudo-magic—Valeterisa had wanted to know. Saif had obliged her with a tale of a certain wizarding school, then found George for a legend of Elves, Dwarves, and a middle earth which assumed there were two other earths—whereupon they’d begun arguing about the deep lore of Tolkien.
The end result was incredibly disappointing for Valeterisa, and she had ended her direct contact shortly after that. Not because there were no depictions of magic on Earth or that they did not long for it. Rather, their magic sounded mundane.
Mundane, in the sense of fireballs and teleportation. There was a certain board game which made sense to most [Battlemages] as a representation in numbers of how much damage a spell could do. Magic in popular culture was still fantastical.
But it wasn’t magic. There was something behind the ability to conjure a storm of wind or levitate a cup. Something more profound, more useful, and simpler altogether.
Valeterisa had written her thesis on the subject. She’d almost failed to graduate. So she’d gone back to listening to Elena talk about celestial bodies. Magic had a place amidst the Earther’s knowledge of science, and that made more sense to the Archmage of Izril.
She might never have realized that, growing up, and become another [Mage] of Fissival. But despite the Scholarium having changed so little—as she stood, ignored, amongst her former peers, Valeterisa glanced around. If nothing else, she had once had an excellent teacher.
 
——
 
Ignored. Montressa du Valeross saw Valeterisa staring at her feet as they stood in the Draconae Scholarium, in the great plaza overlooking the rest of the city. The font of magic and authority was gathered here, professors and magical nobility and more.
All deliberately ignoring Valeterisa. Pretending she didn’t exist. Montressa was as red-faced as her hair, and she realized some of them gave her amused looks out of the corners of their eyes. She couldn’t help it.
This wasn’t right. It struck a chord with how she had been exiled. It—reminded her of Pisces, but this was worse than both in its way.
Because the Drakes here didn’t shun Valeterisa because she was a [Necromancer] or for anything she had done. They ignored her because she was the Archmage of Izril. The greatest [Mage] who had come from their ranks. And they refused to look at her. Refused to grant her a meeting—and Valeterisa seemed like she was a girl again, just studying the ground, too shy to speak.
For eighteen minutes, they stood there. Like a silent plea to be heard, as classes ended and Drakes moved around. The [Professors] and [Mages] milled about, talking, loitering, and sending their message.
In that time, Montressa waited for Valeterisa to do anything, but the Archmage held her ground, so Montressa did likewise. And the [Aegiscaster] realized there was a small benefit to that.
Because not all the Drakes were so studiously united.
In fact, the younger [Students] and [Mages] began to realize they had an interesting guest when they noticed the two Humans standing there.
It was not that they stood there; more than one citizen or tourist would do something similar, peer around the Scholarium and poke their tail everywhere, disrupt classes, and so on. Prospective candidates, etc.
Yet a pair of Drake [Students] trying to hold their [Aerial Shield] spells steady under Wardmistress Geyasa’s watchful gaze stopped teasing each other and trying to break the other’s focus. One of them cast around.
“Hey, you feel that? There’s some kind of…aura or something around here. It’s pretty strong. Cassa. Cassa, do you feel…?”
“Nope. I failed my detection class, remember?”
The other Drake grumbled, but she too picked up…something. Both the male and female [Student] glanced about, then they focused on the Human woman standing next to the shorter one with red hair and red face.
“Hey. Hey, Cassa. That Human’s got skin almost as red as your scales. That’s hilarious. Is that, uh, that sunburn thing that Humans get?”
“Don’t be mean, Toris. She’s probably a new student looking around.”
“Nah, she seems too old. And she’s got some magical power. Feel that?”
They were students, but still capable of detecting relative magical auras. Especially in Geyasa’s class; they might go on to be magical bodyguards or to ward houses, even venture into dungeons and remove traps. Even the negligent Cassa hesitated.
“Yeah, but not from the young one. Who’s that?”
They gazed at Archmage Valeterisa, and both of their ward spells flickered at the same time. The two Drakes flinched as someone spoke.
“Failure! Focus! Even if you turn your heads and chatter, I expect you to keep a spell up!”
That was accompanied by a thack, and a newspaper, rolled up, hit both on the top of the head. Both students groaned as the [Wardmistress] glared at them.
“If that hurts, consider how an arrow feels! Cassa, Toris, you have the luxury of remedial practice. See the assistant instructor for a date to make up your work. Everyone else? Class dismissed, well done.”
The two Drakes groaned as their fellow students grinned at them and relaxed in relief. Geyasa had been probing their basic air-shields, trying to disrupt the magical flow and even tossing flames or other hazards they had to weather.
“We didn’t fail because our shields failed! We just lost focus!”
Cassa glared at the sniggering classmates. One rolled their eyes.
“Same thing. What were you staring at? Hey—who’s that?”
And once again, the conversation repeated itself. Toris rubbed at his head and frowned.
“Some Human who wants to send her kid to school? But they’re both pretty good. Actually, even the red-haired Human might be on par with a full [Mage].”
“Did you fail your lessons like Cassa, Toris? She could be a teacher. And that’s the younger one. The older one…she must be from Wistram. Or she’s a new [Professor]. Check out her aura.”
The other students were noticing Valeterisa as their classes finished. Only the distracted students had noticed at first, but now…
“Who is that?”
They didn’t know. But they could tell Valeterisa was something. The students of the Scholarium pointed, but none of the teachers had approached the Humans, and so maybe they were waiting for someone?
The students were mostly Drakes, as befit Fissival, but they had a minority of Humans, even Dullahans and other species from further abroad. Stitch-folk from Chandrar were rare given the mage-schools on the continent, and likewise for Terandria. Lizardfolk were not common, so Humans were the second most common students. Dullahans, Selphids, and Centaurs along with Drowned Folk combined made up similar numbers to the Human minority.
Even so, it took ages for one of them to identify Valeterisa. Not simply because her name was almost unknown here, but because the Archmage of Izril had been gone for eight long years. Only when someone remembered a brief image they’d seen from Wistram did they suspect who it was. Then the whispers began.
“The Archmage of Izril? Really? I didn’t know we had an Archmage! Why’s she here?”
“I heard she was dead!”
“Maybe she’s come to exchange knowledge with Fissival? Or trade with our [Mages]?”
“Didn’t she fight in the Meeting of Tribes? Why’d anyone let her in?”
“Because she used to be a student here. Duh.”
A cluster of students broke up, and the younger Drakes parted. The other students backed up as a far older [Student] of the Scholarium broke in. He was thirty-four years old and, like High Magus Telim, an essential fixture of the Scholarium.
Unlike Wistram, which was notorious for being an expensive school to attend, much less get to, even with scholarships, the Draconae Scholarium offered generous scholarships that included room and board. Some students were so fond of the arrangement they became permanent students rather than graduate.
This Drake was, in fact, Cassa and Toris’ assistant instructor. As well as taking classes and studying in his own time, he often helped the busy [Teachers]. Even so—he’d been a student longer than some of the new students had been alive.
“No way, Kadril. That’s another lie, like kissing the statue of Obridein. I’m not falling for your lies again.”
“You kissed the statue? Gross.”
By that, they meant the statue most of the students were gathered around, which was named Obridein, a Drake kneeling on the ground in a surprisingly humble pose. But that was, perhaps, because the entire Walled City of Magic, in miniature, rested upon his back. It might have been a commentary on the role of [Mages] serving the city. Or maybe it was just ego. Either way, one of the favorite pranks on new students was to tell them it was good luck to kiss Obridein.
That was both highly unhygienic and unwise, because the older students would chill the statue so your lips stuck to the stone.
Anyways, Kadril ignored the younger students as he watched Valeterisa.
“Yeah, that’s her. Valeterisa, the Archmage of Izril. I saw her in the yearbook. Top of her class. Four year graduate. Pioneered her own magical spell, quit for Wistram, and then became Archmage of Izril.”
Cassa was still stuck on the first part. She raised a claw as she gaped at Valeterisa in amazement.
“…We had an Archmage? Graduate from here? Why didn’t anyone ever mention that?”
To that, Kadril just flicked his tail in a rude gesture and turned away with a snort. The younger students regarded each other, then they began to hurry off to spread word. The Archmage of Izril!
They neither knew her reputation nor her history. It was just her title that impressed them. But some of the Drakes, like Wardmistress Geyasa, paused a moment. She glanced around at her peers and didn’t break the veil of silence. So the [Wardmistress] stormed to her next lecture, seeming more annoyed than usual.
And still, Valeterisa waited. She traced her eyes over the worn flagstones of the Scholarium, and Montressa looked around.
Here was a level of magic few places in the world could boast of. She wished she didn’t hate it so.
Here was Fissival’s famed teleportation network. Somewhere in the Scholarium, goods from cities in the region would teleport in and be traded out as needed. Once, this network had criss-crossed Izril. These days, it had errors that sometimes lost entire shipments of goods, and no one dared use it for personal teleportation.
It had been co-opted by Fissival to steal the Gnolls’ magic. But once, it had been great. Just like the legends—once, Fissival flew. It still did, technically.
“Archmage. We don’t have to stand here.”
They’ll never speak to you. Montressa interrupted Valeterisa’s silence after another two minutes had passed. The Archmage’s head snapped up. She glanced around before turning to Montressa.
“I know. I hoped…”
A hand went up to touch her brow, but it hesitated, and she didn’t cast a spell. Valeterisa just glanced around and sighed.
“The classes are changing. Wait another few minutes. I want to see if someone is still here.”
“Who, exactly?”
A [Mage Lord]? Or lady? More than even Salazsar, Montressa had noticed the aristocracy of Fissival was present here. A blend of noble classes and magic. She could only guess that being well-connected in this Scholarium would be akin to being favored in Pheislant’s royal courts.
However, Valeterisa just shook her head.
“My teacher. Oh…I think he’s here. See if you can spot him.”
A rare smile crossed her face as her head rotated across the new classes coming into the courtyard. Montressa stood on her tip-toes, but she just saw a sea of Drake heads and robes. Valeterisa, though—she was smiling.
“It must be the start of a new semester.”
Who was she looking at? Montressa saw new classes beginning, and indeed, the most raw [Students] were taking their first steps to becoming [Mages] here.
[Students], not [Mages]. That fascinated Montressa. There were few of that class in Wistram, but Valeterisa spoke absently.
“Oh, yes. We have [Teachers] and [Professors] and [Students] here. Classes devoted to learning. It’s not always considered optimal, but I had a [Student] class which I consolidated into [Scholar]. Then it all became [Mage]. I have always missed that. Wistram has a different kind of magic—but its teachers are often quite poor at…teaching.”
Montressa was about to object to that with pride in her former academy—then she remembered Illphres’ entire class had been freezing a classroom and daring her students to unfreeze it for an entire semester. She had to admit—it was a fair point. Eldavin had been a rare [Mage] who was as good at teaching magic as casting it.
So, the [Teachers] in Fissival let the Scholarium take students who didn’t even know how to cast spells yet. A group of young Drakes and two Humans were holding their wands, some of them barely ten years old, and a kindly [Teacher] was showing them how to channel magic into their wands.
“No, don’t cast anything—just focus. Good. Pass! And you—”
“How do I focus, Teacher?”
A Drake girl seemed distressed as she tried to push magic into her wand. She was probably not a native of Fissival if she didn’t know how to even put magic into her wand. Montressa saw the Drake draw his own wand with a flourish.
