[Demon Larva - Lvl. 4] -> [Demon Larva - Lvl. 5]

Gained 5 Stat Points and 1 Skill Point!

Taburas saw Demons killing each other, and so she followed. With each level she gained, she felt more complete. With each Demon she killed, she reveled in pleasure.

Life had a simple meaning, and it was to simply kill and kill and kill and kill—

And she never once thought that an enemy would be too strong for her.

“What’s this? Another wild Demon?”

The blast of ice from the tall, green Demon sent her flying back. She tried to get up, but realized her entire body had gone numb. It was supposed to be painful— every other time she had been hurt, she had been in pain. Yet, her body felt nothing.

The other Demon— a gangly red one with a pair of wings— laughed.

“Of course it’s another wild Demon. Did you really think finding any survivors after the Advent would be so easy? You should’ve joined me in hunting for them before the Desolation came.”

“As if a Lesser Demon like me would survive that. Whatever, let’s just finish her off and go—”

Taburas struggled to get up. She glared up at the two Demons, not even registering her as a threat. Her instincts drove her forward— or was it what she learned from watching how the Netherworld worked? The ideas instilled in her by her surroundings.

She did not know.

But she pushed forward and everything went dark.

HAEC wondered why the others had to die. Why did his group have to be slaughtered. It was a thought that sat in the back of his mind as he fled from death.

He had been useless. Helpless to face the large Demon. And he ran like a coward.

That pained him for some reason. It made him feel… worthless. Like he had no reason to live. He grappled with that feeling, trying to survive. He fought the wild Demons he could— escaped the fights he wouldn’t possibly win.

But still, he found himself lost. Without a goal. Eventually face to face with the harsh reality that he, too, would die.

He had been resting at the bottom of a hill when the wild Demon jumped him. He did not know where it came from, just that it struck him from behind. His [Vitality] was high, but this wild Demon was higher leveled than him.

It clung onto him, smashing him as he struggled to break free. He tried to push it off, however it held on and smashed him again. And again. And again.

Why?

The single thought crossed his mind.

Why do I even have to live?

He wanted the question to be answered, but there was nothing to answer it for him. So eventually, he stopped struggling. He accepted that he would die, just like the others. He let his vision grow dark and the cold take over him.

His life ended here— snuffed out and put to rest.

.

.

.

Then there was fire.

A blaze of hope lit up inside him as he watched a silver Demon come and defeat the wild Demon. She stood over him, the red sky shining down on her— the wisps of flames around her fading slightly, but she was victorious.

The wild Demon lay dead.

And Haec found a reason to live.

Author's Note:

3,000 words.

So, I had this very cool idea in my head for the first Side Story, and... it was a lot harder to write than I thought.

Perhaps it's because this was my first time writing Tragedy. I'm not really sure how to write a tragic short story, so I felt like it fell a little bit flat. However, I'm not going to dwell on it. The only way I can improve my writing is to write more and experiment in different genres. This was a completely new genre to me, and I tried my hardest to write it well.

Anyway, these kinds of Side Stories will not be common. Future Side Stories will mostly follow the typical side character POV type thing, including characters like Haec, Saffron, etc. This is supposed to be the Side Story for last month, and I know I'm a little bit late, however I am unfortunately a tiny bit busy between Uni, Melas, Salvos, and having a life outside of it all.

That means there'll be another Side Story for this month, however, unlike this Side Story, it will only be available to the $10 tier. That's right, this is the first and only Side Story that will be made public. As mentioned before, my patreon tiers have changed and it is now as follows:

$1 - General Support, no reward but my gratitude.

$5 - Access to 19 Salvos chapters ahead on patreon, soon to be 20.

$10 - Access to Side Story chapters and lore stuff.

$20, $50, $69 - Vanity tier and a chance to contribute to the story in a significant way.

If any of this appeals to you, I do hope you consider supporting me on patreon. I am currently a full time student working as a full time author too, and I would really like to make writing my job after I finish Uni (soon this year) instead of going to Law School to become a Lawyer. Because I'll be honest, I have heard a lot of horror stories from Lawyers I know, and I'd rather not... deal with that.

So consider supporting me here: https://www.patreon.com/MelasD

I hope you enjoyed it, and let me know what you think! This was meant to be a Tragedy, provide a bit of backstory on Haec, and explore the Netherworld even more since I really liked writing about that place and the Demons in it!

The meaning of the names behind some of the characters here were quite obvious, but some are less so. Can you guess all of them?
