Spreading the mash of herbs over her stomach, I pinch the cut together, waiting for it to bond before I wrap it. She has more wounds, her shoulder and thigh, and those get glued together as well. Quick and dirty, but effective. I had to cut her pants off, and she lays before me, pale and exposed, looking so weak and vulnerable, at odds with how strong and confident she normally is. Despite her foul mouth and terrible attitude, I like having her around. She's an odd combination of fierce and sweet, someone who I want to call a friend.

Without warning, she begins to convulse, body flailing as she seizes. I shove a strip of leather in her mouth, holding her head steady, allowing her to flail about while keeping her head from smacking around. God dammit, that shit Elder, his attacks were incredibly brutal. My internals are bleeding from some sort of manipulation of his chi, and Adujan probably is the same. She needs to wake up to heal her injuries, but how can she while in the middle of a seizure? With nothing else I can do, I sit and watch as she struggles for life, praying that she can pull through.

Alsantset whispers to me, and I do my best to guide her to our location. She arrives soon, Huushal behind her, while I kneel on the floor, with Adujan's head in my lap, while she lays mostly naked in front of me. How did I ever think she was a man? Alsantset helps me treat the rest of her injuries before wrapping her in a blanket, as I treat the worst of Huushal's cuts the same way. While not as badly injured as Adujan, It'll seal well, but leave a scar as the compound breaks down slowly after the injury heals, and remain painful and tender until it does. After a few weeks, the scar can be healed, but until then, it'll be an ugly reminder of tonight's battle. I go to treat Alsantset, but she's untouched, her hair and clothes barely even out-of-place. It was like she went for a tranquil night ride, rather than a deadly raid. Unbelievable.

We head for the pre-arranged meeting area with Sumila and Song, a small hidden overhang. Huushal and Alsantset are now flush with arrows courtesy of Adujan's quin. A sweet affectionate animal, she dances back and forth on her paws as we wait, nuzzling her owner every now and then in a heartbreaking display of affection. No time to appreciate the wildlife, need to focus. There's still more work to be done.

Pulling out my black ring gifted to me by the OuYang clan, I put it on my thumb and fall into the state of Balance, doing what I can with my injuries in the short time we have. The Energy of the Heavens surges into me, a raging tsunami instead of poured water, and I struggle to direct it as it batters me down from within. Don't go with the flow, direct it. Keep control and everything will be fine.

This is why these rings are shit, who can even handle this crap? Sweat begins to drip down my neck as I concentrate, letting the energy crash into me as I break it into manageable waves, and even further down to small focused streams, trying to control it, while letting it heal and strengthen me, reinvigorating me for the struggle ahead. Sumila and Song will need our help dealing with the newest group of pursuers. I need all the energy I can handle, to make myself as powerful as I can be. The energy cycles through me, the heat and pain continuing to mount, but I still continue to push my limits, my thirst for strength driving me forward. I can do this, with more power, I can stop our enemies on my own, make them kneel before me as I manipulate the Energies of the Heavens, raining fire and lightning down upon them, destroying the Society with a wave of my hand. Those arrogant bastards will pay for this, and then I'll hunt down that damn merchant and crucify him for starting it all. The energy continues to move through me as I bind it, empowering me, a god amongst men, a vengeful, terrible God.

A different energy invades into me, stopping the flow and interrupting my concentration, my eyes snapping open. Alsantset smacks me atop the head. “Fool. Be more careful when using the ring. You almost died, little Rain, you need to keep control of the energy, not let it control you.” I feel short of breath, gasping for air, my lips and skin dried and cracking. She hands me a water-skin and I drink deep, tasting the metal tang of blood as I gulp down the cool, sweet liquid. Polishing off the entire skin, I accept a second, drinking half of that one as well. That must have been at least two liters, closer to two and a half. My shirt is wet with sweat and blood, my skin hot to the touch.

God dammit, I fucked up, even knowing how difficult it would be. At least my injuries are mostly healed, my body almost good as new. Well, good as it can get in the current circumstances. Still, it was too risky. I knew the dangers going in, but I was still seduced by the power involved. Fuck this ring. If Alsantset hadn't noticed, I would have cooked myself alive. The thought sends a shudder down my spine as I place the ring back into my pouch.

After quickly checking Huu and Adujan's injuries, I get comfortable, waiting for Sumila and Song, ready for yet another ambush against our enemies. It just doesn't seem to end, but to struggle means that I'm still alive.

We just need to survive, and Akanai will handle the rest.
