With an entire moon to expand into, Matt’s larger and larger mana pool as he Tiered up, and finally, the increased presence the guild had as it produced viable products, the more draw it had. They hoped to leverage that appeal into drawing in higher Tier crafters to Palustris. After all, if a few crafters decided to stay on Palustris once their contracts with the guild ended, who were they to stop them or shoo them away?

It was an idea which looked more and more plausible the more time passed.

After the aura rifts and the travel mana engines, the guild didn’t slow down. Beyond a few other minor inventions, the guild had been quiet until it released a potion which made Shards of Reality dozens of times more effective, as it allowed the effect to be paired and merged with an aura potion. Only formed when someone ascended, Shards of Reality allowed someone who hadn’t been there in the moment to harness some of that mystical power to form their next Domain Stage.

Normally, they wouldn’t last for more than a decade before their power faded without special precautions. But most of the time, the shards were scooped up at exorbitant prices to be used for wealthy scions and they were used well before then.

The new potion didn’t necessarily change that, the shards were incredibly expensive and would always remain so. That was why people had tried to double dip and use one with the assistance of an Aura potion to create something greater than the sum of their parts. Sadly, the effects hadn’t stacked and anyone who tried had ended up wasting their money.

Until now.

If someone drank Titans Torch’s new potion alongside a normal aura potion while under the influence of a Shard of Reality, any prepared Concept would instantly form, and be statistically stronger than normal. If they didn’t have a prepared Concept, it would instead give them a fully-formed Concept of their own, not unlike the ways in which Minkalla acted. That Concept was actually static for a given type of aura potion, something that his researchers were quite keen to experiment on, but they were still in the early days of that testing. The problem required far more budget than they had available currently to do what they wanted with it.

It was yet to be seen if the effect worked during an actual Ascension, but the researchers didn’t think it would be that helpful, as anyone who couldn’t form a Concept under the power of an Ascension had little hope of making anything more than the weakest, most ill-fitting Concept with an elemental aura potion.

Still, the discovery, which was freely shared, had caused another wave of interest to pass through the Empire. Liz liked to tease him that it wasn’t the entire Empire, just the parts looking at him, but Matt countered saying that everyone was looking at him and seeing what they were doing, which meant it essentially amounted to the same thing.

Titan’s Torch had decisively proven that it wasn’t a one trick pony or a guild that would only be working on aperology, despite their repertoire. They were a guild that was funding wacky projects and coming out with winners. Even if not every project was a superstar, the conditions they offered and the remunerations were immense, for the single downside that the products would be shared with the Empire at large. Though, that fact was starting to draw the attention of older, better-known researchers.

Which was why with every passing day, they had more Tier 35 or higher researchers, or crafters with an eye to pushing the limits, knocking at their doors.

They did need to be careful to not cross the line in trying to attract talent, or they could be subject to Imperial audits and censure, but that was just a matter of not actively trying to recruit people to Palustris under the pretense that moving there would get them or their project funded by Titan’s Torch.

Matt didn’t want to set that precedent, but he knew that some people would inevitably try exactly that to bypass the lines, which he was happy to take advantage of. Sadly, even if that scheme worked out, and they got a slow but steady trickle of high-level crafters, that only took care of Palustris and not the rest of their duchy.

Having reviewed Countess Walsh’s proposal to make the duchy a net exporter of aura potions, he and Liz decided to go ahead with most of the plan. They axed the more risky methods that were proposed in the brief but kept the core design.

In return, they gave Countess Walsh an official commendation, which she would be presented with during their first open court session, as well as a rare Tier 20 Natural Treasure she wanted out of the Emperor's vaults.

The problem was, once again, Tier. Aura potions sold for a large amount of money, relatively speaking, but it was still ultimately a Tier 4 product. Technically a Tier 4 through Tier 7 product, as there were many people who had used the old Bottled Concepts and could use the higher Tier potions. But eventually, once everyone converted to the new potions, there wouldn’t be any demand for the higher Tier variants.

Their main advantage was that there would always be a significant demand. Even if every Tier 4 rift in the duchy was converted into an aura rift and delved on cooldown with perfect efficiency, they couldn’t satisfy the Capital’s demands, let alone the numerous other high-Tier worlds and their populations. That, even with Titan’s Torch’s efforts making aura rifts simpler, came with significant costs, even ignoring the learning curve and inevitable failures.

Still, Matt was proud they were paving the pathway to immortality for far more citizens of the Empire in a way that the old Bottled Concept’s couldn’t manage.

To combat those issues, he and Liz decided that if they were going to go all in, they were going to truly go all in.

Tapping into their list of immortals requesting for permanent residency on Palustris, they notified all of the enchanters that if they wanted to bypass the waiting list, they could sign up for their aura rift making class. Once enrolled, they would be provided, at no costs, a set of formation plates to make aura rifts and guided through the process by either Matt himself, or more likely, someone he had trained. From there, they would just need to make a yet undecided amount of aura rifts per decade to fulfill their end of the agreement.

Matt had half worried that people wouldn’t accept the offer, as aperology just wasn’t that popular of a profession, but they ended up having to be selective with all the applicants. Anyone with even a modicum of enchanting ability was a bit too wide a net to cast, as most immortals had dabbled in all professions, even if they weren't masters.

Not that one needed to be a master to learn how to make aura rifts. Even an average Tier 15 formation master could repair the formation plates, and if they somehow managed to break the plates, they could just get a new set from their new school.

Their hope was that once they got the knack of it down, most of the enchanters could create aura rifts fairly reliably. Their early adopters showed that while none of them were breaking, or even meeting, the guild’s established success ratios, they were meeting the reported averages from the planets that had embraced aura rifts, which was good enough for Matt and Liz.

They even contacted and bought overviews of how aura operations were run, and more importantly, the issues they had run into during their development from already established aura worlds.

The funding of the aura potions didn’t end with the rifts being made. Liz oversaw the second half of the project, which was ensuring they had enough alchemists to turn the raw aura into a sellable potion locally, instead of outsourcing that to another duchy.

That meant creating entire training programs that could take any Tier 4 or higher and turn them into an alchemist capable enough of making a fairly difficult potion. To complicate matters further, neither of them liked the idea of just training alchemists to be one trick ponies who only knew how to make aura potions. So, they ensured that the training course was robust enough that once the twenty year contract was over, the alchemist could be capable of making it on their own in the profession, more broadly speaking.

It seemed so small, but that added scope quadrupled the initial set-up costs and doubled the operating costs of the alchemy schools they created. Their hope was that the increased proficiency of the alchemists would pay dividends in the long run, as more alchemists in their duchy would fuel the potions, powders, and pills economy in the higher Tiers. Typically, social services like that paid dividends when extrapolated out, but there was always the risk they were over-extended, which loomed over them and their budget.

They considered trying to expand the project to a full crafting school that could teach smithing, enchanting, talismans, formations, tailoring, bowyery, and any other crafting venture, but while a number of the faculties could be used by the other professions, there would still be new equipment needed for each crafting branch. In turn, that would balloon the theoretical expense, along with the raw mana costs that Matt couldn’t just wave away.

And the trainers. Qualified trainers who could teach just up to Tier 4 were expensive, and that price only increased the less popular the profession.

Maybe someday they could afford it, but that day wouldn’t be anytime this millennia.

The main advantage of the project was the increased economic draw on Tier 7 and 8 worlds, which could have the most Tier 4 rifts. Those planets all saw impressive immigration as ambitious people moved to those worlds to either delve the aura rifts or craft the aura potions. That, in turn, brought more smiths and enchanters into the area, as they had a much larger delving population than normal, which required more secondary supplies.

A good start, but not quite enough to immediately make the duchy truly profitable in the way they wanted it to be. Tier 4 economics just weren’t enough.

Tier 4, 5, and 6 planets did convert some of their rifts into aura rifts, allowing them to tap into the economic prosperity. But with their smaller capacity for Tier 4, their increases were correspondingly smaller.

Worst of all, that left the Tier 3 and under worlds as problems.

While the Empire gave funds to advance those planets’ Tiers, other Great Powers rarely bothered, willing to let nature take its very slow course. Tiering up low-Tier planets was a slow and expensive process, even when artificially sped up without outside mana expenditures, let alone when allowed to cycle on its own. At least, it was if it was done safely, and if anyone was dumb enough to do anything but safely feed rifts knowing his history, they would have to have the IQ of a corpse.

Or, they would once Matt got done with them.

But that didn’t change the fact that the worlds offered little beyond larger-than-average populations, thanks to the nearly nonexistent dangers.

Though not all of the low-Tier worlds were that populous. It was mostly a feature of the Republic's veil worlds.

An advantage that Matt was coming to appreciate as he and Liz were trying to figure out how they could help the local barons increase immigration.

The Empire typically encouraged people to settle low-Tier worlds through a series of tax breaks or outright tax credits, but the methods were only so effective. The issue was the worlds, thanks to their low Tier, had limited economic possibility, which meant the populations were typically so low that they were permanently net negatives when it came to funds.

Taking a page out of other duke's books, they offered anyone who moved to those low-Tier worlds greater access to resources for their children. Easier access and funds for trips to things like off-world rifts and colleges.

When that only had a minimal effect, they did something a little more drastic. They offered guilds more lands than normal on the planets, so long as they made efforts to improve their new outpost worlds.

People being people, that would, when combined with the other efforts, create an increase of the local populations. Fertility rates didn’t start to truly get impacted by Tier until Tier 10, which meant a bunch of Tier 5s and lower would end up having kids as they inevitably paired off and settled down.

Even knowing that, the guilds still happily took the offers. Eventually, those worlds would reach Tier 5, which would make those expanded land grants increasingly valuable.

They were given an idea that they decided to implement for those worlds, but it was risky. Large scale cultivation of alchemical ingredients. With low rift density thanks to the planet's Tier, they had correspondingly fewer dangers, which meant people weren’t so constrained to the coastline safe zones.

Low-Tier alchemical ingredients weren’t valuable but they weren’t worthless either. They would make great training supplies for their aura potion training facilities. Even if it didn’t work, it was only slightly more expensive than ordering the ingredients from a higher-Tier world, which grew the ingredients in rifts, and it was boosting their duchy's economy.

He and Liz tried their best, but things still went wrong.

They always did.

One of their planets had a bad bacteria with just one breach of containment, causing two other neighboring planets to lose significant portions of their evergreen tree populations, impacting a whole swath of things.

Eventually, Liz just went and wiped out all the infected trees with a tidal wave of ichor, repeating the process as needed until the bacteria was entirely eradicated.

Not that they could just leave at that point; they needed to then help the barons get the planets repaired, which meant large low-Tier expenditures.

