The high-Tier planets were just as bad. Two of their counts decided to start a feud due to one of them looking at the other the wrong way, or some other ridiculous perceived slight, sparking a fight in which they managed to kill each other.

Worst of all, the backers of each count demanded answers that they couldn’t give. Matt and Liz were confused, and without anyone to ask about what had actually happened, they couldn’t answer the backers, which made them look bad.

Even good things somehow managed to turn bad. One of their shipping lanes got raided and they lost not only a large shipment of aura potions, but the bandits managed to abscond with a rare shipment of Tier 20 materials which, as the local dukes, they needed to repay, as it was their duty to keep the shipping lanes free from such problems.

Worst of all, when they managed to catch the bandits, they had already sold the product and spent the meager money they had gotten in exchange.

It was pure annoyance.

Still, they solved each issue as it came up until they had a magical thing. Free time.

It didn’t last for long, as just a decade after getting Palustris, their final planet had arrived and been settled in, which meant it was time for them to hold their first court. It was supposed to be a ‘grand occasion’ according to tradition, and needed a level of pomp and ceremony they usually avoided.

Just getting their outfits right had taken over a day of effort by dedicated staff, and Matt considered taking Mara and Leon’s idea of forcing a fashion trend that they could just never move on from.

While the nobles with any sense had at least slightly tipped their hands ahead of time, Matt was sure many were going to ambush them out-of-the-blue with some inane request to create the Realm’s largest functional swimming pool or some other request in public, trying to get them to agree on the spot. Unless it was actually a good idea, it had no chance to work, but that never stopped people from trying.

Standing before their gathered nobles in formal ducal attire, Matt inspected each and every one of them.

Matt and Liz said in unison, “Let us commence the first official court of the Moore Duchy.”
