“Yes, Mom,” Carten said. Lightly, he touched his shield to the wall. The moment he did, there was another blast of cold air, and the barrier vanished, revealing an empty room beyond it, much like the previous one. Unlike the first, however, there were no additional tunnels that Rain could see, either with his eyes or with Detection. Glancing behind them, Rain cursed as he saw that the hallway they’d just traversed had sealed itself at the far end.

“One way forward,” Samson said, catching his eye.

“Moving in,” Carten said, carefully stepping into the room. Jamus followed, summoning a single Lightning Whip as he did. The others waited, giving them space. Jamus’s lightning magic was dangerous, as it didn’t distinguish between friend and foe. As Rain inspected the room more closely from the door, he saw a larger version of the shield symbol etched into the floor at the center, though it was dark at the moment.

“Not usin’ two, Jamus?” Carten asked, stomping toward the symbol. Feeling safe enough, Rain carefully stepped out of the hallway, motioning for the others to wait another moment.

“No,” Jamus said, shaking his head. “Stay focused, Carten. Check the floor before you step. And don’t step on that symbol.”

“Yeah, yeah,” Carten said, taking another step forward, a little more gingerly this time. “S’just ice, Jamus.” He looked back at Rain. “Nothin’ here but that.” He pointed at the shield on the floor. “You want I should step on it?”

Rain shook his head, then glanced back at the others. “Okay, I’m betting that the tunnel is going to seal itself once everyone comes in, so stay right there. Don’t move.”

“Oh, come on, Rain, let’s just get on with it,” Val said.

“No,” Rain said, glancing at him. “Carten, Jamus, come on. Everyone back in the tunnel.”

“What?” Carten said, standing up straight and abandoning his defensive posture. “Why?”

“I want to check if we can go back,” Rain pointed. The far end of the tunnel didn’t have a glowing symbol, but he didn’t want to just dismiss it.

“Seriously, Rain?” said Val.

“Val, shut it,” Rain said.

“Fine,” Val said, walking down the tunnel. The others followed, Jamus dismissing his whip. When they reached the end, they found the wall blocking the former doorway to be just as solid as the walls to either side. There was no symbol anywhere, nor any way that they could see to return to the room where they’d started. Smashing the ice also proved ineffective. It broke easily enough, but as Rain had feared, it wasn’t just a thin blockage. Short of mining all the way back up to the surface, they were stuck.

“Well, shit,” Tahir said as Carten stepped away from the wall. There was a nervous edge to his voice as he laughed, looking at Rain. “There is going to be a way out, right?”

“There should be,” Jamus said. “Back we go again.”

They retraced their footsteps back to the new room. Once more, Rain had everyone except Carten and Jamus stay in the tunnel. He spotted his rock near his foot, then bent to pick it up and tossed it to Jamus. “Rock on the symbol.”

Jamus nodded, then summoned his whip again and tossed the stone. Nothing happened.

“Carten, you next.”

“Finally,” Carten said. He tapped the symbol with an armored toe, and when nothing happened, walked directly onto it. “Huh.”

“Everyone, get ready,” Rain said. “Move out into the room.”

Rain waited until last before he followed. The moment he left the doorway, there was a blast of cold air, and the wall closed up behind him seamlessly.

“Shit’s glowin’,” Carten said loudly, clanging his shields together as he stood over the now-lit symbol.

“Here we go,” Mlem said, pointing with his sword to the far wall. As Rain watched, the ice shimmered, then vanished in a torrent of snowflakes, doubling the size of the room in an instant. As the snow settled, Rain saw a hulking creature headed slowly toward them, looking like nothing more than an iceberg carried by stubby dinosaur legs. There were what looked like shards of bone sticking out of the ice. Rain blinked as a blue head suddenly peeked out from a hole in the front of the iceberg, the monster’s name and level forming as it did so.

Ancient Icemont Turtle - Level 9

“Awesome!” Carten yelled, dashing for the monster, which was not-quite twice his height, the top of its iceberg-shell scraping against the ceiling. He planted himself in front of it, jamming his shields into the floor. “It’s turtle time!”

“Really, Carten?” Jamus said, echoing Rain’s thoughts. His lightning whip flicked into the turtle’s side as he moved into position at Carten’s elbow. “Hmm,” he said, taking a step back.

“No damage,” Rain said for the benefit of the unawakened. “From that, either.” Val had just blasted it with a Solar Ray.

The monster reached Carten, snapping at him with its blue beak, making a loud clang as it struck his shield.

“Looks like we’ve got a tough one,” Mlem said, stepping forward. His sword started to glow as he prepared to use Light Cut, the same skill he and Samson had used against the Memories. “Ha!” he shouted. He raised his scimitar above his head, then stepped forward and slashed down at the monster’s leg. Before the blade struck, the turtle pulled back into its shell, dropping to the floor. There was a ring like metal-on-metal as Mlem’s blade skittered off its icy armor.

“Damn,” he said, stepping back. “Misaligned the edge. That or that ice is as hard as adamant. Samson, how good is your sword?”

“Let’s see,” Samson said. He waited for the turtle to get back to its feet, then stabbed at its leg, again using Light Cut. Once more, the turtle retreated. The point of Samson’s longsword didn’t even chip the monster’s frozen shell. “No good,” he said, stepping back. “I can’t get through the shell.”

Rain frowned, turning to Tahir and Lyn and motioning them to stay back. There was no point in either of them putting themselves at risk, not without enchanted weapons. When he looked back, the turtle had gotten to its feet again. It plodded forward but was stopped in its tracks by Carten’s Shield Bash. It clicked its beak in anger as it pulled its head back, then shook itself, sending flakes of ice falling from the ceiling.

“Jamus,” Rain said. “Hit it with something stronger.”

“Lightning Ball?” Jamus asked, moving to the side as Carten was pushed back by the turtle, his boots scrabbling for traction. Rain and the others stepped to the side, getting out of the way.

“No, not yet,” Rain said. That’s AOE. We need better efficiency. “Overcharged Arcane Bolt.”

“I was afraid you’d say that,” Jamus said, dismissing his whip. He set his feet and pointed his palm at the turtle, bracing his arm with his other hand. “Ten seconds for full charge.”

“Damn floor!” Carten shouted. He grunted in frustration, his feet sliding further on the ice.

“Just hold on, Carten,” Rain said, rushing up to join him. He planted his own feet, pushing against Carten’s back.

The pale blue of the ice was quickly eclipsed by the purple-blue of Jamus’s magic. He was circling behind the turtle, the Arcane Bolt hovering in front of his palm swelling larger as he pumped more energy into it. Though Rain didn’t know Jamus’s exact skill-list, he could make some educated guesses. With Arcane Bolt at rank-thirteen, and with Arcane Mastery and Overcharge both at rank-ten, two thousand damage wasn’t unreasonable. The turtle would have at least a few hundred damage resistance on its shell, judging by the attacks it had shrugged off so far.

“Here we go!” Jamus shouted. “HA!” Jamus slid back a few centimeters as he released the spell, his arm flying up from the recoil. The unstable-looking bolt didn’t have far to go, almost immediately slamming into the monster’s backside, detonating in a brilliant flash and a crack like thunder. In an instant, the turtle’s health dropped by a tenth. There was a crash as a large chunk of ice broke off and smashed to the ground, followed almost immediately by the entire turtle, which had pulled back into its shell.

Only a tenth? Damn, this thing is tough for level nine. It’s bosses. This lair is all bosses.

“Nice work, Jamus!” Carten yelled once the noise of falling ice died down. “Oh shit!”

The turtle sprung back to its feet, snapping its beak. Rain had the feeling that it would have been screaming with rage if it had the ability to do so. It locked its beady eyes onto Carten, snapped its beak once more, then charged, the ground shaking from the weight of its strides.

“Rebound!” Carten shouted. There was a red flash, and the turtle stopped as if it had crashed into a steel wall, though both Rain and Carten were shoved back, the skill overwhelmed by the force. Instead of pulling back inside its shell, the turtle went completely berserk, legs scrabbling against the ground as it picked itself up. It charged again, but so did Carten, preventing it from building up enough momentum to roll right over him.

Rain cursed and stumbled aside as Carten was once more pushed back. I’m just in the way here. Better leave the turtling to the turtles.

“Let’s try this again,” Samson said, skidding on the ice as he rushed around the turtle. He stabbed at the spot Jamus had hit, his sword glowing again as he plunged it through the crater in the monster’s shell. From his new vantage point, Rain could see startlingly red blood seeping from the wound. Samson’s strike proved effective this time, flaking off the barest sliver of the turtle’s health. The swordsman hurriedly pushed himself away before he was crushed by the monster as it whirled to protect its weakened backside. The beast then spun again as Carten shield-checked it, his shield coming away red with its blood.

Okay, we’ve got this. If it bleeds, we can kill it.

There was a flash of light as Val took a shot, and the turtle’s health dropped further. Jamus joined in, using unboosted bolts this time, launched from his other hand. He was opening and closing a fist with the arm he’d used to launch the Overcharged bolt, the mageburn clearly affecting him somehow. The turtle kept spinning to face the painful attacks, but each time, Carten would smack it again, forcing it to remain focused on him.

Between Jamus, Val, Samson, and Mlem, the party began to whittle the thing’s health down steadily. Carten swore and spluttered the whole way through the fight, fighting for traction as the turtle tried to crush him over and over again. Fortunately for him, the monster lacked any significant offensive capability, other than its size. Its beak didn’t seem to be strong enough to dent his Force Steel armor, let alone his shields.

As for Rain, he stayed back with Lyn and Tahir for most of the fight, simply using Force Ward to protect Mlem and Samson as they darted in for their attack runs. He tested Immolate once but gave it up after a few seconds when it started melting the floor and making Carten’s traction situation even more precarious. It hadn’t even harmed the turtle in the slightest.

The only dicey moment was when Carten managed to get himself embedded in one of the walls. Jamus had then needed to use Arcane Bulwark to keep the turtle off the others, and the magical barrier was so large that it blocked everyone from attacking, and it could be neither moved nor dismissed. That had left the turtle free to use Carten’s leg as a chew-toy for a few seconds until it ripped him from the wall. Carten had come up angry, but unharmed, protected by his armor, and a little help from Rain’s Force Ward.

When all was said and done, the fight ended unceremoniously. The turtle collapsed with a heavy thud, the symbol on the floor vanishing as it did. After another moment, there was a gust of cold wind, and three tunnels appeared, leading into darkness.

“Damn it,” Carten said, kicking at the dead turtle. “If I’dah had grip, ye’d never ah moved me.”

“There there, Carten,” Jamus said, patting him on the shoulder, still with his left arm. “We all know you’re the best turtle there is.” He raised his other arm, wincing as he shook out his hand. “I’m going to have pins and needles for hours.”

Rain glanced at the lair display. Jamus had taken about two percent of his health in damage, just from that one spell. The lair’s integrity, he saw, had dropped by eleven percent. Acceptable.

“These are the same as before, Rain,” Mlem said, pointing at the symbols on the ground. “Sword, shield, and flame.”

Rain nodded. It was clear enough what this part of the lair was going to entail. Eleven percent was a third of a third, meaning they were looking at two more fights like this one. His bet was that they’d get to a new area after that, just from the symmetry of three. It would also be wisest to stick with the shield path. Better the turtle you know...

He shook his head, listening to the crunching of Carten’s boot as he continued taking out his frustration on the dead monster. Its shell was coming apart easily now, like regular ice. After a few more kicks, Carten threw his shields down in disgust, then stomped away, breathing heavily. Rain cleared his throat. “Good work, everyone. Let’s take a short rest. It looks like I’ve got a turtle to melt.”
