Skipping Rune Complex

When thrown, user and objects/entities of focus will be transported to the location of the stone upon coming to rest.

Cost: 18.8 mp/kg

Limit: 573.3 kg

Limit: 20.5 m

Cooldown: 5s

Skipping Safety Rune Complex

Skipping Rune Complex will not activate if insufficient space is available at the target destination.

Skipping Rune Complex will not activate if insufficient power is available for transit.

Skipping Rune Complex will not activate if the distance to the stone exceeds specified range.

Return Rune Complex

With focus, return the stone to the user’s hand, provided that it has been less than 30 seconds since the throw.

Cost: 100mp

Limit: 20.5 m

Cooldown: 5s

Greater Mana Core

Material: Grand Arcane Gold (10%)

Material: Grand Arcane Lead (90%)

Greater Mana Capacitance Rune

41,209/45,000 mp

Import Efficiency: 98%

Export Efficiency: 0%

Inscription Rune

A genuine Havenheild product

Serial Number: 0034

Warning: Excessive metal or non-mundane materials in the environment at either end of transit may disrupt the function of the artifact.

The Havenheild Company is not responsible for any death, dismemberment, or loss of property resulting from use of this artifact.

Rain shook his head, skimming over the description again. He’d almost choked the first time he’d seen it. The skipping stone had a significantly larger mana capacity than he’d expected, but that wasn’t the half of it. It was stupid-expensive, judging by what it was made from. And then there was the enchantment itself. Rain already had a list of questions prepped for Ameliah concerning telefrags, plus some less-distressing ones for Tallheart about the mana-storage capability of various materials. At the moment, however, none of that was important. He was only interested in the charge.

Finally. Just two minutes to full. He glanced back at his status. Ah, what the heck. I have time. Let’s get the real number for my mana income.

Rain opened his calculator, manually crunching out the exact quantity of mana he was regenerating at the moment, not including the costs for Winter or Mana Manipulation. He didn’t technically need to use the calculator for this, but that wasn’t the point. He finally had the thing dealing with division properly, so he was damn well going to use it.

23.205569444444446

7

8

9

+

×

4

5

6

-

÷

1

2

3

±

0

.

=

Rain blinked, looking at the result. Oh hey. The cost of Winter actually matters after all. 23.2 and change versus 23.1. I mean, it doesn’t MATTER, matter, but still. Who’da thunk it? Rain glanced back at the display for the skipping stone. Oh, it’s full. Neat.

After taking a minute to reset his stat balance, Rain started closing windows, making sure that he’d jotted down everything he wanted to remind himself of for later. He’d only been sitting here for less than half an hour, but he was already anxious to get moving again. They had a lair to clear. The longer they stayed here, the more Ameliah and Tallheart would worry about them.

Right, time to move.

Rain released his hold on Aura Focus and climbed to his feet. His mana would be back at full by the time they finished discussing their plan. Personally, he wanted to continue. The fight had been rough, to be sure, but they’d come out of it relatively unscathed. Just some minor burns and some fresh fuel for his nightmares.

Rain frowned, glancing at the party display again, which he’d left open. Lyn and Tahir still hadn’t taken their potions. Fine, you win. I won’t force you to take them. Damn macho bullshit. He shook his head, knowing that he’d likely have done the same. Hopefully, they’ve had enough time to calm down by now. I’m not going to force them to go on if they’re not up to it. Rain grimaced, stretching out a kink in his neck. Ameliah’s going to kill me when I tell her about that fight, but damn it, we can’t just give up. We can’t keep relying on her, even if it’s risky. We’ve got to be independent…

He snorted. I’ve got to be independent. I can’t believe she said I snore like a little kitten.

“Ready to go?” Mlem asked, poking his head into the room.

Rain nodded, walking over to him. He held out his hand, offering him the skipping stone. “Here.”

“Thanks,” Mlem said, taking it. He poked at something in the air. “How much mana did you manage to—BY ALL THE GODS IN ALL THE HEAVENS!”

Rain grinned and clapped him on the shoulder, then headed for the stairs.

An hour later, Rain jumped down into the ruins of the mill. His boots hit the floor with a solid thump, muffled by the layer of snow covering the packed earth. It had taken them a while to fully excavate the building, but it was better than leaving it to collapse behind them. It didn’t have anything to do with Rain not wanting to use the skipping stone. Not even a little bit.

Rain walked over to the circular hole in the center of the room. The mill equipment had vanished. In its place, there was now a staircase, steps of ice spiraling into the ground. It made a certain sort of sense, the stairs being here. They’d been led to the mill by the sound of the millstone, and then the Spirit Caller had attacked. Now that it was dead, the way forward had been opened. Clearly, they were on the right path.

Rain clicked his tongue. Video game logic. So weird.

He shrugged and started his descent. He’d already been down there once, and it was safe enough. Still, he was uneasy. Nobody had seen the staircase appear, and there was nothing saying that it couldn’t disappear just as easily, trapping him underground. He didn’t think it was likely, though, as lairs had rules. There was always a path to the core. While it would never be anything close to safe, it would never be completely unfair. The tunnels weren’t going to collapse on them or anything—at least, not all at once. Probably.

“Shit!” Rain’s foot slipped. He whirled his arms, almost falling. It was a near thing, but he managed to catch himself before he fell, the sharp tips of his gauntlets finding traction by digging into the wall like tiny ice picks. After a moment, he relaxed, freeing his hand from the ice and resuming his descent. Yes, hello, lair design council? OSHA would like a word. It seems that the entrance to your deathtrap is missing a safety rail.

The walls, floor, and ceiling were pure ice now, transitioning from frozen dirt after the first few meters. A pale blue light shone from the ice, growing stronger as the temperature dropped. By the time Rain reached the bottom, the light was brighter than moonlight, and the cold fiercer than that of midnight in the depths of winter.

“Finally, Rain,” Val said, his breath frosting the air.

The room at the bottom of the stairs was of moderate size, with a ceiling around three meters in height. There were three doorways leading to darkened tunnels, each with a symbol carved into the floor at the entrance. One looked like a shield, another like a sword, and the last like burning flames.

Rain looked around at his companions, activating Immolate as he did to break the chill. From his first trip down here, he knew that there would be no reaction. Slowly, the room warmed as his spell pushed back the frozen air.

“Ahh,” Mlem sighed, lowering his hood. “Much better.” He rubbed at his mustache, cleaning away his frozen breath. Rain snorted as he saw that Carten was in a similar situation. The big man might not have been bothered by the cold, but his indifference hadn’t stopped snotsicles from growing wild in his beard.

“Are you going to be able to keep that up?” asked Val.

“It should be fine,” Rain said. “There’s no snow to fight me down here. The air should hold the heat well enough for me to keep up, though I’m a bit surprised it’s cooled so much since I warmed it with my tests.” He walked over to the tunnel near where Val was standing, looking down at the symbol. “Have you figured out what these mean yet?”

Val shook his head. “Not a clue. Something about the three base classes, obviously, but more than that?” He shrugged. “It does do this, though. Check it out.” Val moved forward to stand on the symbol. As soon as his foot touched it, there was a flash of blue light and a blast of arctic air. Rain gasped, stumbling back, but nobody else showed alarm, merely annoyance.

“Depths, Val, I was just starting to feel my toes again,” Jamus complained.

Rain wasn’t listening, distracted by what he was seeing. The symbol was now glowing with a liquid light, a much more brilliant blue than the surrounding ice. The tunnel was also fully lit now, extending straight as a rail off into the distance. It ended in a wall bearing another copy of the flame symbol, glowing with the same liquid light. The other two tunnels were gone, the walls of the chamber seamless, as if they’d never been there to begin with. The darkened symbols, however, remained on the floor, marking where they’d been.

Rain took a deep breath, letting it out slowly in a freezing plume. Damn it, I should have told them to wait for me before they tried that. Luckily, it seems pretty harmless. Explains what happened to the warm air, anyway. Rain controlled his expression, then used Detection lightly on the air. The spell confirmed what he was seeing with his eyes. It was no illusion; the other tunnels were gone.

He tilted his head. Well, maybe not gone. Sealed, at least.

From his tests earlier, he knew that the ice wasn’t mundane. It was even worse than the snow above—Detection couldn’t penetrate more than a few centimeters.

“Okay, I think I see what’s going on here,” he said, pointing at the symbol beneath Val’s feet. “We’re meant to choose one tunnel, and one tunnel only.”

“Exactly,” Jamus said. “Rain, do you mind warming us up again? Somebody decided to demonstrate what the symbols did instead of just explaining it like a civilized being.”

Val rolled his eyes.

“Already on it,” Rain said, having activated the spell as Jamus spoke. He turned to Val. “So when you take your foot off that, everything changes back?”

“Yeah, after a few seconds,” Val said, gesturing. “I sent my light down one of the dark tunnels, but the wall wasn’t there at the far end. It’s like what you found earlier. Three straight tunnels going further than you could sense with Detection.”

“What happens when you go into the tunnel?” Rain asked.

“Nothing,” Val said. “The tunnel stays. I didn’t go far enough to try the symbol at the end.”

Rain nodded. Good. At least his brain hasn’t completely frozen over.

“The other symbols don’t work when one is active,” Tahir said, catching Rain’s attention. “We made sure no one was in one of the tunnels when we tried that, obviously.”

“Mmm,” Rain said, nodding. “What if you let it deactivate, then try two at the same time.”

“Didn’t try it,” Lyn said. “Haven’t had that long.”

“Well, let’s try then,” Mlem said.

“Why?” Samson asked, pointing down the lit tunnel. “It’s obvious. We pick one, and there will be a challenge at the end. It probably depends on the symbol. I vote we take the path marked with the sword.”

“No!” Carten laughed, pointing. “That one. Shield.”

Mlem ran a hand over his smooth scalp, an exasperated look on his face. “We can’t just pick a path!” He twirled, spreading his arms as he gestured toward the sealed tunnels. “Secrets, my friends, secrets! The more obscure the way, the greater the rewards for those that walk it. Rule forty-four. Hmm. What would happen if someone jumps over the symbol without touching it, I wonder? Or if they use the skipping stone?”

“Are you trying to get yourself killed?” Jamus asked. “Frozen in the middle of a block of ice for the rest of eternity?”

“Just have Carten do it,” said Val.

“Oi,” Carten said.

“No,” Rain said, sharply. “No skipping stone. We’ll test a few more things, but we’ll do it safely. Then we move on. Ten minutes. Max.”

It turned out that they didn’t need nearly that long. It truly was a simple choice between three options. The instant anything physical touched one of the symbols or crossed through the plane of the door, the hallway beyond would light up, and the others would be sealed off at the same time. There was no way around it, at least not with the tools available to them. Further, the selected hallway would stay active as long as it was occupied by a person or object. One of Rain’s Rocks of Trap Triggering—vital equipment for every adventurer—was currently sitting on the floor of the shield hallway, effectively locking it in place.

“So, shield then?” Jamus asked.

“Oh, why not?” Mlem said. “I suppose we’ll find out what it means when we get to the end.”

“Yes, shield,” Carten said heartily.

“Should someone stay back here, just in case the tunnel seals itself when we get to the end?” Lyn asked.

Rain shook his head, walking to retrieve his stone. He slipped it into his pouch and turned to face the others. “Never split the party.”

“Rule seventy-one,” Mlem said, nodding to him. “There are exceptions, but not in a situation like this.”

“Seventy-one? That high?” Rain said, raising an eyebrow.

Mlem laughed. “I’m a merchant first, and an adventurer second.”

Rain snorted. “Come on, let’s go.” I wonder what rule one is. Once you have their money, you never give it back?

Carten led the way down the hallway as usual, with Samson and Lyn bringing up the rear such that the squishy mage-types were in the middle. Rain, not feeling particularly squishy thanks to his armor, felt a bit out of place, but that was fine. They’d discussed their combat formation after the battle with the Spirit Caller, and they’d decided that Rain’s role was to protect the unawakened, barring another horde situation. Jamus and Carten were going to be the tip of the spear, as it were.

“The rock again?” Carten asked over his shoulder as they reached the end of the tunnel.

“Yup,” Rain said, extracting one from his pouch. He tossed it over Carten’s shoulder at the glowing shield symbol, but it simply bounced off, falling to the floor with a clatter. He didn’t bother asking Carten to retrieve it for him. He had more. “Touch it with your shield next,” he said. “If that doesn’t work, try your gauntlet, and only then your bare hand.”

