Ranthia had been tasked with searching half of an entire region of territory to—somehow—locate small groups of shimagu soldiers that were too few in number to leave prominent trails. Which presupposed that any such groups even existed—it wasn’t like they had a headcount of how many shimagu had been killed or fled in any given direction. Also, any remotely sane or coherent shimagu would have fled toward the west, where their remaining cities lurked!

But the Coalition was concerned about shimagu regrouping for another attack from an unexpected direction or starting hit-and-run operations or whatever, so Ranthia was patrolling half the map. Which meant she was dancing across the rocky wasteland aimlessly wherever her whims took her while she remained distracted by her own thoughts—she had more than a few things weighing on her.

With the war coming to its blood-soaked conclusion, complex morality problems were cropping up one after another. And she was a [Priestess]—apparently—one that had been granted the authority to carry Xaoc’s words, no less!—which meant that she really needed to be the voice of morality. Presumably!

Gods and goddesses, she would have traded almost anything for an opportunity to take a nap. Her head was still killing her and trying to figure out which shimagu deserved death, when they should be granted an opportunity to atone, and what such atonement should look like was… a lot. And that was, in some ways, the least of the problems! How should the Coalition approach the surviving shimagu? Was there truly nothing that could be done to help the victims of the shimagu that broke under their abuse or withdrew from the world? [Mind Healers] could help with the former, but it seemed as though only the elves had discovered the need for such a profession—which left them in short supply.

“Oh Xaoc, what am I supposed to do?” Ranthia finally released the question that she’d struggled to keep contained.

He had no answer for her. She knew that He heard her—He always did—but no answer came. It was frustratingly fair; it was very much a worldly concern that didn’t demand His direct involvement…

She still wished that He had a divine mandate that she could carry. Some grand solution that no one could ignore—a true path to a Miraculous era of peace and cooperation.

But if things were that easy, there would never be any war in the first place. If the gods had such domain over the minds and hearts of those that walked Pallos, there would be peace and cooperation without borders or conflict. Their world would be one that was free of the greed and ambition of men and women that coveted that which others possessed. But, for better or worse, every sapient being had their own free will, which meant a precarious balance between morality and ego shaped their world.

Ranthia took a deep breath and tried to clear her aching head. Her thoughts had snarled, and she was losing the threads of her actual quandaries. She needed to choose one question and focus on it, if she intended to make any headway. Something like…

“Wait, where am I?” Ranthia stopped moving forward—though she still danced in place—while she looked around at the nearby rocks and mesas.

For all that she liked to grouse that the wasteland looked the same everywhere she went, that wasn’t quite true. Sure, there were plenty of areas that were tricky, but much like the Reman forests she had grown up in, it was possible to learn how to navigate after sufficient exposure. And she knew the area she found herself in.

She hadn’t realized that she’d drifted so close to Remera. She was still at the outer reaches of what would ordinarily be considered a long-distance patrol from the base, but she was close by her standards. Her indecision lasted barely a second, before she renewed her dance—bound for Remera.

Checking with local scouts for any signs of shimagu activity in the area just made sense! It was a wonderful excuse.

“Hail friend! Sentinel Grace, returning to Remera. What has you out and about?” Ranthia called out.

It was more than a little unusual to see a solo dwarf in light armor, but it seemed as though he was leaving Remera, which… presumably meant he wasn’t infected. [Ranger – Gale] level 617, [Warrior – Light] level 553, [Laborer – Sound] level 444.

“Ahm in a hurry!” The man ill-temperedly snapped his response while he zipped past her. He didn’t bother trying to detour around her, he just kept moving and passed within arm’s reach—at speeds well in excess of what she was capable of.

That was more than a little unusual. He was a stranger and, as such, was presumably a [Messenger], rather than a scout. But she’d never met a dwarf that was so surly—hospitality was a major part of their culture, no matter which dwarven nation or city state they hailed from. Sure, no species was wholly monolithic and there was always the possibility that she’d caught him on a bad day or something, but… why would he want to be a [Messenger] if he was so readily willing to be rude?

Still, it wasn’t weird enough to try and chase him down—also, there was the minor fact that she had no way to do so. Even if he was a shimagu, he was alone.

A short time after her encounter with the dwarf, Ranthia reached Remera’s walls. She shouted her side of the greetings that she exchanged with those on the walls, shifted past the raised gates (it was basically habitual after so many years), and waited impatiently for an overly slow [Healer]—one that was far too low-leveled to pose a threat to any shimagu—to poke her. Despite the afternoon hour, Remera was still quiet, a reflection of just how few personnel were still stationed there.

“Heard anything about shimagu activity in the area?” Ranthia asked the first familiar face that she saw.

“Here? You’re kidding, right?” The legionary replied, narrowly stifling a yawn.

“Yeah, that’s what I figured. We broke the shimagu army last night, but the powers that be are worried some of them might have fled this way. Figured I’d check with the scouts here to see if there’s been any activity.” Ranthia explained.

“Wait, seriously, it’s done? By the gods… Oh, I think the morning scouting report should be in the base commander’s hands right about now!” The man had been on the cusp of running off, presumably to spread the news, before he caught himself.

“I figured, but thanks.” Ranthia offered the man a wry grin while she traded salutes with him, then set off for…

After taking a few moments to figure out what day it was, Ranthia set off for the day’s command tent.

“Grace, what are you doing here?” The base commander looked up, pursing his lips as though he expected dire news.

“Every known twin is dead, and their army is scattered. I’m here because I was asked to look into any signs of shimagu activity from the remnants.” Ranthia explained.

“Thank Herculix; we needed some good news. When the dwarves all retreated to their tent after some message, it was hard not to wonder if they knew something I didn’t. As for your task: Octavius’ teams didn’t report anything unusual, but they should be around their usual area if you want to ask them in person.” The base commander allowed his shoulders to sag for a few seconds before he decided their conversation was likely finished and turned back to his scrollwork.

Getting through Remera was a bit tedious. Almost every man and woman that she tried to pass seemed to want to stop her and ask why she was there and Ranthia took to claiming “things are going well, but I’m in a hurry,” just to save time. There wasn’t a single dwarf anywhere in Remera, which was strange enough that she swung by her home to retrieve the Ilan bread, some salt, and a small keg of spiced pear cider—gifts to bribe her way into the dwarves’ oversized meeting tent.

Not that she needed to bother. There was no guard outside their tent, but even with their enchantments she could hear the sounds of a fiery argument underway.

“We haf ta annihilate each and every last one ‘f those slimy sons of orcs!”

“Bugger that, ye really t’ink one of ‘em went ahl the way t’Khazad?! It’s the orcs returned; ah’ll bet ye anything!”

“We should be out there showin’ them our fury!”

“And abandon our charge and our honor?!”

From the instant Ranthia opened the tent—wholly ignored by its occupants—she found herself looking at red-faced, seething dwarves that were wholly preoccupied with screaming at each other. At the table in the back of the hall—a place that was usually filled with laughter, merriment, and boasting—the [Battlemaster], the shrubbery-looking [Healer], and a few other respected dwarves sat while they watched the madness.

It felt as though things would come to blows at any moment.

“It’s done! Every last twin is dead, the shimagu army is shattered, and the Coalition’s hunting down its remnants!” Ranthia shouted.

Ordinarily, she wouldn’t have stood a chance at being heard, but the [Battlemaster] (or some other Sound classer that was present) amplified her words until they drowned out even the roar of furious dwarves. In the aftermath, the oversized tent was utterly silent, and every last pair of eyes were fixed on her.

“Good t’ see ya lass. My thanks for bringing word.”

The [Healer] that aspired to live as a shrubbery had already been old—even by dwarven standards—the day she met him, and the eighty-two years since had taken an obvious toll on the man. Incidents aside, dwarves had a far greater lifespan than humans—two hundred fifty-six was practically the prime of their life—but the [Healer] should have retired many, many years ago. Every wisp of (abundant) hair on his body was pale and silvery and what little leathery skin was on display looked as though it was stretched over what little was left of the man.

Yet his advanced age still felt like an illusion, one that was shattered every time he spoke or moved. Beneath that withering skin, the elderly dwarf’s muscles still bulged and surged with every move he made. And if he chose to shout, the volume he was capable of could easily rival any Sound classer she had ever met. The man was ancient, yes, but he was far from decrepit—he just had to choose when and how to expend his waning energy.

“What has everyone so riled up? The commander already confirmed there was no shimagu activity in the area, and I know none of you would keep something like that to yourselves.” Ranthia aired her question while she dodged through the tightly packed crowds as she approached the table.

The acknowledgement from the [Healer] was an invitation—likely prompted by the obvious bribes that she was carrying. The uncanny silence in the cavernous tent held until she arrived at the table, bowed (a feat of dexterity with her arms full), and presented the items one-by-one. The keg of cider was offered to the table as a whole, but the Ilan bread and the bowl of salt were offered to the elderly dwarf that had once saved her from Black Crow’s talons.

The [Healer] perked up when he unwrapped the bread and took a massive bite from one of the two loaves—before noticing the side-eye his peers were giving him, at which point he made a show of dipping the fruity bread into the little bowl of salt.

“We respect ye, human, but ‘tis a matter for us dwarves.” The man that spoke was one of the more experienced [Warriors] and he was often seen protecting the [Healers] that served Remera. His words were offered without malice, in a kindly tone.

But Ranthia wasn’t the one that took offense to them.

“Bah, don’t ye even start! ‘Tis not a dwarven matter, ‘tis a personal matter and I chose to share it with ye. And it’ll be me that’ll share it with tha lass too! Dwarven matter my ass.” The shrubbery [Healer] grumbled to himself and deftly flung half the salt in the bowl at a man two seats away from him—without getting a single speck on the [Battlemaster] that sat between them—before he turned his gaze back to Ranthia.

Ranthia nodded and waited to hear what he had to say. A dwarf in her sandals might have offered some flowery words about being honored to hear about whatever the matter was, but—as hard as it was to believe—Ranthia wasn’t a dwarf. She had often found that the best way to interact with other cultures wasn’t to make a poor impersonation of their mannerisms, it was to offer respect in her own way. If they wanted her to conform to certain customs, someone would inevitably mention it—like how she learned to offer bread and salt to dwarven [Healers] that she met with.

“We jus’ received a message. Our King Under the Mountain—as some o’ this lot liked to refer to my kin—has been killed, alleg’ly by the shimagu just twelve nights ago. An’ the men and w’men ‘e surrounded ‘imself with decided to keep it a secret until this war of ours is done! They claim they’re making sure no one does ‘anything foolish’ while the war concludes, but ah don’t trust ‘em! Tha lad was me kin ‘n they waited this long to even tell me! Ta heck with te shimagu, I have half a mind to take me nail and go remind them what respect means!” The walking white shrub roared, his voice echoing through the open space they were in.

The [Healer]’s emotional state seemed to shift every few seconds, but that wasn’t entirely surprising—he was like that even when he wasn’t processing upsetting news. Ranthia bowed her head in sympathy. She hadn’t actually known her favorite shrubbery was related to the man, but she’d already known about the—

Wait.

“…They seriously aren’t telling anyone? Not even the heads of the Coalition?” Ranthia tried to keep her voice low, but the background chatter was amping back up again as the crowd’s outrage rekindled.

