Voracious sharks and giant squids aren’t so frightening once you realize they’re just a light snack for your pet turtle and aquatic weasels.

Ahead and behind us are a multitude of identical ships, though mine is one of the largest. The entire Sentinel army boarded north west of the Society Headquarters, saving everyone from an awkward situation where we’d have to pretend to get along. Oddly enough, Nian Zu and Han BoHai embarked with us, drawing a line in the sand to illustrate where they stand. It’s a welcome relief knowing we have strong allies at our side, but I’m not sure how it’ll affect things in the long run.

Enjoyable as the fresh sea air and adorable sights are, this isn’t what I came here for. Spotting Alsantset and Charok, I make my way over to see them. Hanging on the side of the ship, the twins point and laugh as they watch the quins' antics, while Li Song hangs back with most of my pets, though Mama Bun is conspicuously missing. Waving at the quiet cat-girl, I raise my voice to be heard over the wind. “Hi! Are You Enjoying It Up Here?”

With her long braid wrapped around her neck, Li Song responds with a rare half-smile, nodding as she motions towards Aurie. My big silly floof is having the time of his life, joining the twins on the rails with mouth wide open and golden-fur ruffling in the wind. His arms and head hang so far over I worry he’ll fall if we hit a rough wave, but Alsantset and Charok have the situation well in hand, keeping firm grips on both their children and my silliest of wildcats. Sarankho is more reserved in her gawking, sitting primly with all four paws on deck while her white-furred head rests atop the railing. Jimjam and the bears are apathetic to the sights, curled up together at Li Song’s feet while periodically moaning. The poor babies are seasick but they’ll be fine once we land. As sympathetic as I am, there’s nothing I can do to make them feel better. Besides, there are few things funnier than watching two bears and cat stumble around on dry land because they’ve grown accustomed to the swaying of a ship.

Tucked in their saddlebags, my little bun buns are the most docile of the bunch, sleeping happily in their wool-lined enclosures. To keep them from running about, Guard Leader fed them a second Spiritual Plant. To my dismay, Guard Leader wasn’t willing to share her purloined plants with my other pets, stubbornly keeping them for bunnies only. If I want to feed my other pets Spiritual Plants, I’ll have to find some on my own, but it’ll have to be in secret. I don’t want to upset Taduk any more than necessary.

Giving each bunny a tiny pat on the head, I notice Blackjack is missing from his pocket. Shooting Li Song with a questioning look, she points up into the sky. Holy shit, can he already fly? But he’s just a baby, probably even younger than the bun-buns. How can he already use Chi better than me? Unfair...

It soon becomes apparent I’ve misread the situation. Li Song isn’t pointing at the sky, but at the highest point on our ship, a tiny crow’s nest sitting above the main sails, at least 70 metres above the deck. Shielding my eyes from the sun’s glare, I see my lovely wifey Lin perched above the crow’s nest, clothes, ears, and scarf flapping in the wind.

Mother above, my wifey is crazy.

Bolting across the ship and up the rigging, I make my way up to the crow’s nest in what I can only assume is record time. Waiting at the top is one helpless lookout withering beneath Guard Leader’s stoic, imposing presence, though the overall effect is ruined by Mama Bun napping in her arms. Giving the expert warrior a look that says she should know better, I turn my attention to my precariously placed wifey. Putting one foot on the edge of the nest, I pull myself up behind Lin and wrap an arm around her waist while clinging to the mast for dear life. “Hey wifey,” I Send, knowing she won’t hear me over the wind. “What say you come back down now?”

Melting in my embrace, Lin instantly releases her hold on the mast and trusts me to keep us both alive. Flashing her toothy smile, she shows me Blackjack sitting in her palm, looking regal as can be. His ears fluttering in the wind, the newest addition to my family has a contented look upon his face as he stares out at the clouds, enjoying this taste of the heights he’ll one day soar through. Likewise, Lin snuggles in against my chest as her braids and scarf thrash about behind her, enjoying this stunning view of the world with her ‘Rainy’, wholly unconcerned about danger or risk.

Seeing Blackjack and Lin so at ease has a calming effect, and after lowering all three of us to the crow’s nest, I take the time to appreciate the view. From up here, the people, the boats, the sea, and the land, it all seems so small and distant. My problems, so pressing while down below decks, almost seem irrelevant in the face of such majesty, my worries carried away into the ether by the cold winds. Sometimes, Lin’s attitude aggravates me to no end, but I envy her ability to see the best in every situation. While we sail along the coast of the Azure Sea, I agonize and mope in the dark and she climbs high into the light, two people taking the same journey yet living worlds apart.

To think, I was so focused on the horrible things going on in life, I almost missed this incredibly beautiful view.

Balance isn’t just for the Martial Path, I need to have balance in all things. I need to stop focusing on the negatives all the time, who knows how many amazing things I’ve missed while worrying about the worst case scenario?

Wrapping both my arms around Lin, I hold her close and Send, “I love you Lin.”

This is why I always find her when I'm feeling down. She knows exactly what to do to cheer me up, even when she isn't trying.

Chapter Meme
