And most Earthers. There were only about forty—the reports were that the Blighted Kingdom had over a thousand, and it seemed their summoning, or whatever they’d done, had concentrated the majority there. The ones who had been found—alive—in Demon lands had just been scattered by the spell.
Most were shellshocked, terrified from what they’d seen before they had been rescued, or processing what had happened. Flora was trying to understand what was happening on Earth.
They had noticed Earthers were missing. Riots, wars, plague—it sounded like the end of her world because no one could tell where the children were going. It might be safer here than parts of Earth right now.
“What is the Blighted Kingdom throwing at us, Czautha? Balelight Stones? I don’t know that.”
Czautha looked grimly upwards as more faintly glowing stones fell. They shone a pleasing yellow, and they looked like, well, [Light] stones. But Flora’s [Dangersense] kept screaming as they landed in the soil that wasn’t protected by barrier spells.
“Poisonous stones. They won’t kill you today or tomorrow—but if you stand near a large one, you’ll fall sick and die quickly. So many on the ground? Countless Demons have died, skin melting, their very bones—rotting?”
“Wait. Is that—uranium? Is that radiation? We can’t be here! Get us away! Get us—”
Flora began writhing in horror as she realized what Czautha described. The Demon gently held onto Flora.
“Calm yourself, Flora. My body protects you, and Silvenia can cure it. It’s the scouts and anyone outside—and the land—which suffer. The Blighted Kingdom can throw worse at us.”
“We should hurl Vorepillars back. Or reply in kind.”
Bazeth muttered darkly, eying the now-terrible glowing stones littering the ground. Czautha just shook her head.
“We strike decisively, General. The Burnished Court would love if we tried to match them insult for insult. They have the resources. We do not.”
“Of course, Death of Chains.”
He was abashed, and she smiled at him.
“Focus on Silvenia, Bazeth. I think she’s gone slightly insane from having to duplicate all the necessities day in, day out.”
They were headed to the palace, and sure enough, Flora did see signs of Silvenia’s magic everywhere. Not just in the spelled barriers or amenities like cold air runes or food, which came from her ability to create self-sustaining gardens.
Silvenia had been making scrying orbs again. They hacked into Wistram News Network without being traceable. A Demon was waiting for the rain of Balelight Stones to stop. He had a cart full of two hundred scrying orbs and was watching the news from them.
Unlimited production. Nigh-unlimited potential.
Limited patience. Limited to one woman. And she was crazy.
 
——
 
“I’m going.”
“You can’t. Please! Someone stop her!”
The Minister of Defense was screaming from inside the outhouse at a floating woman with half a face. The other half was magical flesh, and if her robes shifted, you could see her internal organs, half in place, regrowing, as magic kept her from expiring on the spot.
Silvenia had taken more wounds that refused to heal than Flora could count. One eye was just gleaming, condensed mana. She was millenia old, radiated power like an aura, and silver-haired. Right now, she was floating upside-down around the outhouse, taunting the Minister of Defense.
About three dozen Demons were trying to stop Silvenia, pleading with her or trying to literally lasso her with anti-magic ropes. There were also half a dozen Earthers who were not helping.
“Silvenia! Can I go to the inn?”
“Why not? Hop on, Frederic. Though you can’t stay. The Blighted Kingdom will just kill you or torture you if they realize you’re from here. But why not? Anyone else want to go? Hands—”
Silvenia counted as seven Earthers threw up their hands, including one hopping up and down.
“Silvenia, Lady Silvenia, take me please, please?”
Oh no. Flora groaned as Czautha landed, and Bazeth strode over. Some of the new Earthers were—well, weird.
To her. She had emerged in Rhir to find the Deaths of Magic in stasis, to nearly be killed by suspicious Demons thinking she was a killer from Rhir until Bazeth took her to the Demon King and he heard her out.
She had been afraid, suspicious, and even fought at 5th Wall. The new Earthers had come as a community, more or less, and with Silvenia and the Deaths already active, rebuilding the Demon’s defenses.
Flora didn’t want to say it was ‘easier’—but it was definitely easier. Silvenia, again. And Serinpotva.
The Death of Wings landed like an explosion of feathers and panted, slightly, as Czautha flew over to her.
“Silvenia. Are you causing trouble?”
Serinpotva, the Last Harpy Empress, was as huge as a house, physically bigger than both other Deaths unless Czautha grew, and mighty. She was a ruler, and unlike Czautha, she was a mighty warrior, but not a dedicated shapechanger. Nor was she a spellcaster like Silvenia, though she could cast magic.
She was a [Leader], an [Empress], and her harpies cut through the air like fighter jets when she was awake, some fearlessly streaking through the falling Balelight, protected and empowered by her Skills.
“Oh, Serinpotva and Czautha and Flora? Minister, you’re annoying. I can’t do anything fun without being ‘managed’. Well, manage this. Besides, I was going to invite you all to come with me.”
Silvenia’s eyes were, sometimes, a bright yellow-green, like the swirling depths of some of the stars in the night sky. Other times, Flora swore they shifted depending on her whim. She covered her injuries with an illusion so she looked merely scarred, then twisted her fingers around.
“Aaaah! Stop! Please!”
The outhouse left the ground—then began to rotate. Much to everyone’s horror. The Minister of Defense tried to leave, but the door was sealed.
“Silvenia. Enough. She is doing her job. Leave her be.”
Serinpotva, unlike Silvenia, was serious and snapped. The magic went dead, and a smelling, covered Minister rolled out of the outhouse as Serinpotva canceled Silvenia’s magic.
“Ew. [Cleanse].”
Silvenia pointed as the Minister lay there, shuddering. The Demon gagged as she was cleaned—then stood up and hid behind Bazeth and Flora as Czautha lifted her hands.
“Peace. Silvenia, you’ve gone mad from duplicating mana stones. What’s this about a beach?”
“Hello, Flora! Hello, dear Serinpotva. Czautha, I’m not mad. Just bored. I was thinking about going on a vacation. It’s cold and wintery, and I need to sit on a beach to keep warm.”
Silvenia shivered ostentatiously as some of the Earthers cheered, and the Demons and other two Deaths…stared around pointedly.
It was cold, yes, but the Blighted Lands of Rhir was largely snowless at the moment. Even Winter Sprites didn’t like it here, and any natural snow was often…black. The rivers were not to be drunk from, at least on the Demons’ side, without purification magic.
Silvenia snapped her fingers behind her back, and snow began falling from the sky.
“See? Snow.”
Flora kept her face as straight as possible. Don’t humor her. Don’t—
“Snow, snow! Can you do a blizzard, Lady Silvenia?”
One of the Earthers shouted in jubilation at the pristine, white snow. Silvenia chuckled louder.
“Why not? Czautha could do it better—she actually knows how the air currents and condensation works. I just do this—”
Another snap and more snow fell, a snowdrift ploughing down to the delight of children—and Earthers.
“Please stop.”
Serinpotva was resigned, as an old comrade of Silvenia would be. The Death of Magic could be—erratic. Easily distracted, even whimsically silly if not at war.
She had multiple faces. The serious Death of Magic that Flora had first met, struggling to hold onto life. The woman who had set ruin to 5th Wall, the terrifying Demon that the world knew her as.
And this, the Silvenia who appeared amongst Demons.
At least, in part. It wasn’t like there were multiple personalities in her, just facets she showed off. Flora tried to be reasonable as Bazeth and the Minister of Defense nudged her forwards. The woman with Corusdeer horns hid behind Flora like a shield as the [Gunslinger] spoke.
“Silvenia, what if we did something else? You could…review the Earth history everyone’s working on. 2024 is when things got weird.”
“Oh, Flora. Thank you for trying. But why think of Earth when…we could see it? A little bird tells me there’s something fascinating at the Meeting of Tribes, Czautha’qshe. How would you like to see Earth in person? Beyond even my ability to guess?”
The Djinni’s magical mist-body grew brighter with interest. She could shapechange, but preferred the half-cloud woman. Other Djinni chose different forms, but each tended to have a handful that they regarded as their identities. Her body grew greener, and she sprouted two long, tufted Centaur ears.
“…What’s this now?”
“Czautha.”
Serinpotva, the most visibly old, turned and glowered. She was half-bird, half-woman, with great wings and a Human face. She looked annoyed that her partner was getting distracted. Czautha turned red with embarrassment.
“Oh, come now, Serinpotva. I hear the [Innkeeper] that contacted me also has the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Your ancestor’s legacy. Wouldn’t you like to see it? Mayhaps you could claim it back.”
The Death of Magic was cunning, and Serinpotva’s wings opened and closed.
“—It did not come to me. I am no thief, and much as I would like to see Sheta’s domain, it is dangerous beyond rationality.”
“I’ve gathered enough mana. Come on, there’s great reason to it. Are you a Harpy or a cowardly Garuda? Do you want to hide behind our barriers like an Oldblood Drake?”
“Silvenia—”
The Harpy Empress was getting annoyed. Flora raised her voice.
“Silvenia, isn’t it irresponsible to go off like that? The Demons rely on you. If you got hurt—what would we do about the Balelight Stones? What about the Antinium and the war plans?”
The Demon leadership nodded as Silvenia tried not to scowl at Flora. She was wavering, and Flora thought she could get the Death of Magic refocused; she only got urges like this every week or two. But Flora had forgotten—she was no longer alone.
And today really wasn’t about Flora.
 
——
 
“Silvenia! Silvenia! Thank you for the snow!”
Someone was dancing about as Flora tried to be the voice of reason. And that was another Earther, but with cat ears.
A cat…person?
Well, not a Beastkin, but they had cat ears. One of the Earthers, Frederic, had bright blue hair, his formerly crooked teeth were straight, and he looked like the protagonist from one of the cartoons he liked.
A video game character. It wasn’t just an illusion. A third Earther had begged Silvenia for three inches of height and gotten two—because it hurt like hell to grow, even with magic.
She was the purveyor of miracles. Even Demons didn’t usually ask her for bodily transformation magic because her time and might was limited, but for the Earthers, Silvenia had few limits.
She could—and had—transformed them into actual animals with polymorph spells. She had given some magic wands and indulged their whims. Flora herself could have asked for almost anything and gotten it.
…She may have asked for a pair of boots that let her fly for up to sixteen minutes each day. Silvenia had been about to make proper Boots of Flying, but she’d been ordered by the Demon King not to spend a week on the project.
Now, Flora was a responsible young woman invested in the war. Not all the Earthers were ready to do battle or fight or had that personality. Not yet.
But they had value, even if some Demons had seen them as feckless nuisances at first. Indeed, one of the most valuable had earned a class that sounded stupid when you heard it.
[Pillowfriend]. That was the Earther with cat ears, who was running around after Silvenia like, well, a lost cat, which he sometimes was. And he was valuable because he could get Silvenia to fall asleep. The Death of Magic would sometimes just forget or drink wakeful tonics or cast spells until she exhausted herself.
However…he was, right now, getting in Flora’s way as she tried to reason with Silvenia because he tended to encourage Silvenia to do more. And the other Deaths, who seemed bemused by the interest of Earthers. Demons held them with respect and a bit of fear at times, like mythological heroes, so they all seemed pleased by the attention.
Even Serinpotva. The little figure approached her as Silvenia argued with the Minister of Defense and Flora.
“Great Serinpotva, may I ask a question of you?”
“Yes? Rinu?”
The Harpy bent her huge head, and the cat-boy fidgeted.
“Can I…I know you’re busy, Your Majesty, and that you’re a legend and hero, and I’m just a dumb kid from another world. I’m sorry if I bother you—but I really want to know—can I hug your wing, please?
The Harpy Empress gave Rinu a long, confused stare, and several Harpies around cawed angrily.
“You dare? Her Majesty is—?”
“Quiet. Yes, you may.”
Serinpotva simply held out a huge wing. She let the Earther pet it gently, then embrace it. And she smiled.
“It’s so soft. And…oily?”
“Oil keeps my feathers from drying and the water from soaking them. You all may feel it, and you others.”
She spoke to the Earthers and Demons, who clustered around. They were wary of her, but it seemed that Serinpotva actually enjoyed the attention. The one called Rinu was hugging onto her wing with his entire body, dwarfed by her, when Czautha harrumphed.
She picked him off and put him to the side, where he beamed. Protectively, the Djinni shooed everyone else away.
“You are injured, Serinpotva.”
“My wings are fine, Czautha. We are more like ideas, terrible avatars of destruction to Demons. It is good for us to be people. Or are we to be worshiped like the Blighted King’s minions?”
That drew the Djinni up, and she floated back, scowling as she stared at the ground.
“…Those wings are mine to hug. They can hug your talons.”
The Harpy rolled her eyes and nudged her consort as a few Djinni flying around with tools laughed as they overheard. They worked or did deliveries fearless of the magical death-rain. One raised a huge, obsidian hand.
“Czautha’qshe, can you share the Death of Wings with us? I, too, would like to touch Her Majesty’s claws if nothing else.”
A beaming Djinni, who seemed unsure how to smile or jest properly, looked worried for a second that Czautha would take offense, but she just turned to the giant obsidian man.
“Keep practicing flying, Azam. I won’t share everything I own with you.”
