“I’ve asked them all to join me here. Please say you’ll attend? I can do thirty minutes. Please? We’ll discuss Earth, and I swear upon my magic it’s safe.”
She put her hands together, and Flos stared at the portal door that led to a blank room—
“Dimensional magic. Flos, I can’t sense anything, but she could be sending us to our deaths or imprisonment.”
Amerys was urgent as she tugged on his arm, but Flos had seen someone else entering the room, led by a clone of Silvenia, and he began to walk forwards.
“I could do that anyways, little lightning mage.”
Silvenia smiled down at Amerys, and the Archmage glared. But Trey’s mouth slowly opened as he saw…
 
——
 
Time stopped even more as Amerys told the rest of the King of Destruction’s vassals to get back into position. Gazi had to change what she was saying, but the truth was, even the Death of Magic didn’t want or have the power to stop ten people in time.
Three, plus herself, was already pushing it for half an hour, and it would only work in this dimensionally locked room she’d made, which had a table, chairs, and a bowl of cashew nuts.
Fetohep, the Quarass of Germina, and Flos Reimarch all traded looks as Silvenia rubbed her hands together.
“Flos Reimarch. Quarass.”
“Fetohep.”
The Revenant looked unfazed by this strange meeting, and the Quarass was cool and unshakable. Flos just rubbed his hands together.
“Oh, this has the makings of a conspiracy. In truth, I had planned on summoning you two together, but Fetohep has been cursedly obstinate and you busy, Quarass.”
“I tend to avoid danger to my kingdom. If the Death of Magic hadn’t insisted, I would stay away, but I was given an ultimatum.”
Silvenia laughed as she hurried everyone into chairs and seated herself.
“Ignore her. I’ve known the Quarass, and she is always reasonable. Khelt, less so. Thank you for joining me. Czautha will kill me, because she wants ‘diplomacy’, but all I want to do is talk Earth. We have twenty-nine minutes and twelve seconds, and so let’s begin.”
The three monarchs and Silvenia paused one second, then Flos began speaking.
“Do you wish for an alliance?”
“Khelt will not parlay with Demons in any visible way.”
“Nor Germina. Though it seems the Blighted Kingdom was the one who may have summoned the Earthers, including Trey and Teres. They have thousands.”
The Quarass murmured, and Flos’ brows darkened.
“Then the ritual that killed the children—”
“You cannot trust me on truth spells, but I swear by the Demons and my magic, it was not us. Othius can lie to truth spells. That is all I shall say on that.”
Silvenia placed her hand on the table as the three monarchs chewed on that. Fetohep’s golden eyes were blazing.
“If he has lied to me—I shall hold him accountable for the three children of Khelt who shall never know it as home. If this is true, and I trust even you, Flos Reimarch, know better than to trust a Demon’s word unguarded.”
He glanced at Flos, and the King of Destruction drummed his fingers on the table.
“This alone is valuable. But why did you say you were here to gossip?”
Silvenia smacked her arms on the table, and Flos nearly drew a sword on her. But she just stared down at the wood.
“Because I don’t care. I don’t care about politics or making allies for the Demons, even if I could. Let’s talk Earth. All three of you have Earthers. I saw that [Innkeeper]’s spell, and I replayed my memories, and you were all there.”
“That thoughtless, would-be wretch of a queen.”
Fetohep cursed Erin, unexpectedly vehement. But being held semi-hostage by the Death of Magic explained his agitation. The Quarass just sighed.
“And you wish for an alliance regarding Earth?”
Given what he knew about Earth…Flos’ brows drew together, and he thought even Fetohep might listen. In the unlikely event the two worlds met, the Demons might be a necessary ally to counter Earth’s pure destructive might.
Silvenia waggled a finger.
“I said, no politics, Quarass. How can you not understand me? You’ve been a Demon.”
“…I have not. And even if I had, it would have been for perspective. Nothing more.”
The Quarass avoided Fetohep’s and Flos’ suddenly intent gazes. Silvenia nodded, checking a magical hourglass ticking down time.
“No alliances. No promises. Just—let’s say we and Earth meet. Two worlds. Gateway, or our continents physically mix, or the worlds join across the horizon.”
“Is…that likely?”
Silvenia nodded.
“Magically, if the two worlds meet—that’s what happens when dimensions intertangle. Big door, lots of tiny doors. Or the two mesh together, in which case you will be lucky if you don’t fuse with the earth. Very messy.”
She meshed her fingers together, and Flos added that to a list of nightmares to have, including falling to his death. Even Fetohep looked queasy at the idea.
“Assuming it is not that calamitous?”
“Earth. Nations upon nations. Eight billion people, or seven, or nine, I don’t particularly care when it’s that high. Guns. Have you seen guns?”
“I have…been apprised of their effects, yes.”
Fetohep murmured. Silvenia looked around, eyes shining.
“Fighter jets. Nuclear weapons. No magic, and lots of disparate nations. But they’re all Earth, we’re all of this world. The instant the door opens. How do we kill them all?”
The Quarass had been frowning at the Death of Magic, clearly wondering where this was going. Flos had been wondering if she knew what a gun looked like in reality. Then the three rulers…blinked.
“Kill them…”
“Yes, hurry up! I was thinking—magical plague. Fire one through at each airport and then take cover and seal the exits. I was told that would probably work. They can’t cure magic. Now, they could destroy a city with their bombs, but I’ll probably dimensionally shift out, and they’ll have to work out how to follow. What’s your first move?”
She just…wanted to talk about fighting Earth. That was it. No deceit, no trickery. Just a level of battle-craze that would have had Adetr Silverfang checking in for rehabilitation.
Indeed, even Flos stared at her, and the Quarass put her face in her hands.
“All the power in the world in the mind of a female Flos Reimarch.”
“Come on. Please. Please. No one will engage with me, and no one’s smart enough! I have this cute little cat who tries, but I need you to make me smile.”
Silvenia was almost in tears. Flos looked at Fetohep, who was actually pinching himself. Apparently on the basis that if he felt something, he was dreaming. Fetohep glanced at the Quarass, and then all three reached for the bowl of nuts. Fetohep plucked a ghostly pecan and stared at it.
“Is this edible?”
“Please. I’ve talked to ghosts.”
He didn’t eat it, but it seemed to be sucked into his mouth, and Fetohep’s eyes gleamed as Silvenia watched. Flos saw Fetohep jerk.
“The taste of—! I had forgotten how food tasted. Repugnant. I hated cashews.”
He began to eat them as fast as he could. Meanwhile, the Quarass lifted a stern hand.
“Silvenia, you are approaching this under the assumption that if our two worlds met, we would not simply join hands and talk as reasonable peoples. Surely our nations would talk before making all-out war.”
Silvenia turned to the Quarass as Fetohep stopped eating and Flos looked at her. Then—everyone in the room began laughing.
Even the Quarass had to hold herself on the table before she literally laughed herself off her seat. Flos pounded the table and coughed out a pecan.
“Oh, Quarass—that was excellent. Alright.”
They grew serious. Silvenia rubbed her hands as Flos murmured.
“I have thought about the issue of guns before. You can make armor that is impregnable to mundane weapons, but I’m told that the ‘force’ of a bullet or missile will turn what’s inside to paste. Or bake the occupants alive. Or irradiate them. Which is this…”
“Yes, yes. We have that all over Rhir. That’s just a matter of making armor that can resist all kinds of things, including force. It’s not impossible—but you’d have one warrior. Unfeasible at scale. Djinni will probably tear their armies a new one, at least, the strongest of them.”
“Until they learn magic. Which they will. I consider their world magically-null, but if our worlds meet, they’ll acquire the power. And levels. So any advantage is lost after the first week. Potentially the first day.”
The Quarass had clearly been thinking of what a battle would look like. Flos rubbed at his chin.
“True, but we have the advantage in intelligence. Assuming—and I cannot prove this—that our young are not switching into Earth.”
Silvenia’s eyes gleamed as Fetohep raised a finger.
“To my understanding, they have not. Their world shares information, and if a similar amount of Earthers were switching places with our people…it would have been known.”
“So we have an advantage—but even if I planned out an attack, I could not fly a carpet into Earth and reach any targets fast enough. Relic-grade magic is rare, and if we compare mundane against mundane…their weapons will tear our steel armor apart.”
The Quarass was sour about the limits of their capabilities. Flos interjected.
“Kevlar Stitch-folk.”
“I love you.”
Silvenia burst out, then waved Flos to explain. Flos turned to Fetohep and the Quarass.
“Kevlar is this bulletproof fabric. If you made Stitch-folk out of it…”
“They’d simply burn or explode them. You are thinking too small-scale, Flos. As ever.”
Flos glared back at Fetohep.
“So says the king who could only take a beachhead on Izril by sacrificing ten thousand undead troops.”
Fetohep folded his arms.
“So says the ruler of Khelt who bested the Walled Cities’ armies in the field. As I recall, you never made it past Zeres. I didn’t even need to engage it. And I have a simpler answer to Earth’s conundrums, which is why I have not wasted my concerns on it. Ere we ever come to blow—it will be destroyed.”
Huh? Even the Quarass looked astonished, and Silvenia turned to Fetohep. He chuckled as they focused on him.
“Consider an undead’s perspective. Magic shall indeed leak between worlds if ours meet. Earth shall gain the power…and all the consequence, to quote a simple aphorism. What could you imagine might happen?”
It took Flos a second, but the Quarass just exhaled and slapped her forehead.
“Undead.”
Silvenia gasped in delight.
“Dead gods! It’s beautiful. Every single corpse in their world…?”
“Sadly, they do not practice mass cremation, and few caskets are lined with silver, let alone other means. I do not relish the thought; if anything, I am prepared to send immediate aid…once their nations begin to overrun. We may, in fact, wish to prepare not for armies of steel and thunder, but the greatest of undead feasting on the death magic of billions.”
Fetohep’s eyes flashed with his dark concerns of the future, and Flos sat there. He had never thought of that! Suddenly, the might of Earth became different in his mind. Even assuming that wasn’t true, Silvenia waved an urgent hand.
“Plagues, too. Magical plagues without even [Healers]? That could…transform the people of Earth. They apparently don’t do well with plagues. Imagine fighting horrific plague-monsters or super-undead.”
She sat back in her chair, closing her eyes in bliss.
“Thank you. This is what I came for.”
Then she cracked an eye open.
“We have nineteen minutes. Please, go on. The first thing I’d do, incidentally? If none of that happens, I’d just open a permanent gateway at the bottom of a sea floor somewhere in each nation I hated. They might dispel it…once they learn how to breathe underwater.”
“You’d drain our oceans?”
The Quarass looked horrified at the idea. Silvenia smiled.
“Sure. This world can be all land. Theirs can be all water. I also hear they have sensitive electronics. Even the Archmage of Lightning back there could probably turn off a nation if she could fly high enough.”
Flos Reimarch coughed.
“…Is there a quill or anything here? I could use a sheet of paper. But what about bullets? I still haven’t found a perfect way to beat them with my [Soldiers]. My current model for immediate defense is [Darkness] spells and commanding the Loquea Dree to attack, or using [Ricochet Arrows] until I get some. Or a full-scale [Anti-Flame] ward that stops the combustion-thing from occurring.”
Silvenia had been producing a quill and ink before her mouth opened.
“Anti-combustion?”
She began to write furiously and excitedly.
“I have to try this at home.”
All three monarchs looked at her, and Silvenia glanced up.
“What? You don’t have guns?”
She looked at their faces, and then a huge, happy grin spread over her face. She was very bad at keeping secrets, and the Deaths would kill her.
“You don’t have guns? Heh. Hahahaha. Ahahahaha—”
 
——
 
When Flos Reimarch returned, he had seconds to get into place and think of a way to refuse Silvenia. Amerys’ punch hadn’t been entirely fake, either.
She had parted happily, and he had a lot to think of—but he was not blind. Fetohep and the Quarass had looked at him the more they discussed Earth and agreed that, Silvenia aside—
They should meet once more.
The Death of Magic was not as simple as she pretended. Nor did she leave simply with a smile and thanks. She handed him something, and Flos Reimarch stared at it.
“What is this?”
A tremendously long weapon, heavier and wider than any longsword, but not yet a full greatsword, was wrapped in cloth. When he removed the wrapping, he stared at the wretchedly sharp blade and distinctive rust-red color.
“This? Just a little thank-you gift. I heard you lacked for a great sword, so I made this myself. Not the sword itself; I can’t smith. But I upgraded the magic. You had one forged of Naq-Alrama steel, but it was bad?”
Silvenia gave him an innocent look. Flos almost tried to return it, but the Adamantium blade was enchanted, and if she had enchanted it—the [King] of Reim knew it was potential trouble. The [Warrior] in him refused to throw it away.
Flos imagined he could claim he’d found it in an armory…if he used it. He wondered what it did. Teres and Mars would probably mug him for it if he didn’t use it. To answer Silvenia, he exhaled with disappointment as he shook his head.
“It never came to be. I gave my old one away. Death of Magic—I cannot be friends with Demons. Did you truly come to aid me?”
She winked at him.
“You are a great concern to the established nations. And if you should be my ally…I think you may be, in time, if you trust and listen to your Earthers. But regardless, just listen to me: the Demons have a story to tell. You have heard only the Blighted Kingdom’s. I could have killed you.”
