He came to a decision as he hefted the sword with a nod and hid it in a bag of holding.
“This is a beautiful blade. Who am I to turn away the greatest weapon I could lay my hands on? Assuming it isn’t cursed, I accept your gift.”
Silvenia smiled widely, but for once, her amusement faded and she gave Flos an almost maudlin look.
“I cannot smith, King of Destruction. It’s one of my great regrets, that I cannot create as well as destroy. I would be a better protector of Demons if I could. A worse Death. Take care of that weapon, but cast it aside when you find a true masterwork. That is just an Adamantium blade enchanted by me.”
“Name a better blade. Even Orthenon’s relic from Khelt…Mars goes through swords like I do spoons.”
Flos gestured at his frozen followers, and Silvenia just pointed.
“Her armor may be cracked, but look. No magic and it lasted her decades of war. Respect her blade, King of Destruction. And armor. For it was made by Dwarves.”
Flos turned, and Gazi, frozen in time, stared ahead as she put one hand on the claymore’s hilt. Her armor showed that telltale fracture, and he wondered if it would break. But come to it—he turned to Silvenia.
“I know it was made by Dwarves.”
“No.”
She swooped closer one second, and her eyes were suddenly focused. She leaned down and whispered in his ear.
“It was made by Dwarves.” 
Flos stared at her for a moment in frank incomprehension, then his eyes flickered and opened wide.
But before he could ask, Silvenia stepped back, ended the spell, and Flos stared at her as the drama played out.
When she offered him a toast…he looked her in the eyes. And he thought long and hard and wondered if he was being tricked. But then she was gone.
 
 
——
 
Silvenia was dodging hellfire on her way to the meeting place. She had to lose her trackers, travel under the ocean, but she still made it more or less on time.
Serinpotva had to preen her wings. She wanted to eat the shark like a civilized person and made Czautha gather local ingredients. Then, when the Djinni nagged her, she insisted they at least tour First Landing from afar so she could talk about when the Humans had come onto her continent.
She was…an [Empress]. And a history nerd. And sometimes, Czautha, who hated lingering around seats of power, had tiffs with her about timing.
But Serinpotva did have her ways. Once they flew to First Landing, they could either have gone through the sea around the entire damn continent to their destination or through the air.
Both ways would have gotten them detected; the Blighted Kingdom was narrowing its search for the duo, and Czautha could not keep them safe near a coast, even with her tricks.
The Walled Cities, the north, all had means of detecting foes, and even for the Deaths, it was a dangerous trek. Czautha would have gone all the way around to Izril’s south if it were her alone, via deep sea, but the sea was churned up, and a Kraken was dangerous to her.
Serinpotva had a unique solution that the Blighted Kingdom hadn’t dreamt of. It was arrogant, amazing—and no one noticed until they ran into someone just south of the High Passes.
It had been a three-hour flight with absolutely no danger. Indeed, the one person who spotted Serinpotva and Czautha might have been a threat…but really, the Deaths just sort of felt bad for her.
She made the mistake of inhaling and then began to choke to death. She leapt away—and Czautha, providing a bubble of air for Serinpotva, shook her head.
“Uh oh. Do you think she’ll tell someone?”
“I doubt she’ll ally with Rhir, but we’ll listen. I feel bad for her. Should I wave?”
The Harpy Empress fanned a gracious wing as she kept flying, and her shadow passed over Mihaela Godfrey as the woman reappeared—and flinched. She backed away, holding a wand, but Czautha just nodded. She tried to shout—and realized there was no air. So the Djinni just flashed her a peace-sign she had picked up from the Earthers, then a salute.
[The Courier’s Last Road] had no air. But the Djinni could produce some with her body, and Serinpotva flew down Mihaela Godfrey’s Skill. Normally, they kept away from the north, but since Mihaela’d been moving, they’d hoped she wasn’t using it.
Ah, well. The Courier stared up at the Deaths, completely dumbstruck. Let her tell the Blighted Kingdom that Serinpotva had her Skill. That wasn’t how the [Empress] was doing this.
This—was a Skill for the last Harpy Queen, the heiress of Izril. 
[Shadows of Empire: Every Door and Land Opens to Me].
Including Skills. The Empress of Wings realized that Mihaela was following them after a bit. She turned her head as they neared their meeting place. The Courier was slower, having to pause to breathe, but she had kept up. So—Serinpotva paused as a door opened for her, and she called back as air rushed into this place.
“Nevermore. Never again, but one last time. Remember who flew these skies.”
She dipped her head, once, and fixed Mihaela with a golden stare. Then she was gone. The only thing Serinpotva had ever wondered was if…
If her mother’s door would not open for her. She wished she could go to the garden, but it was too dangerous. Named-ranks and Walled Cities.
Someday. But not yet. They were bound for somewhere even more special, at least right now.
 
——
 
There was a lot of nonsense between the moment when the Deaths separated and reunited. When Czautha saw Silvenia’s injuries, she pulled on the half-Elf’s ear.
“Aah, ah, gentle, Czautha! It’s going to come off!”
“You can’t take such risks! Tell me it was worth it.”
Silvenia gave her two comrades a huge smile.
“It was. I gained a lot of valuable information, and I didn’t make people hate us more than before.”
“Amazing.”
Serinpotva’s remark was dry as she held Czautha’s hand. She stared at her hand, then felt at her toes, which she stared at as they wiggled in two colorful sandals.
“This is disgusting.”
“I know. But it’s so fascinating. So this is how it feels. My kin would love this place.”
The Djinni paused in scowling at Silvenia, who looked much like herself. Actually—she had bandages all over her face, and passersby, who were not shrieking about Deaths and Demons, were giving her concerned looks.
Possibly because Silvenia had on one of those green uniforms, and she had broken out of a hospital. But Czautha treasured this because, looks or not, she was a person amidst people.
A Djinni’s twisted wish. Serinpotva wasn’t over the toes. She pointed at them.
“They’re so fragile. And they make me hungry, like worms. Also, why do I have ten? They’re not useful. I know toes. They break.”
“Dear…”
Okay, maybe they weren’t blending in. For one thing, Czautha’s physical size had apparently meant that, as a Human, she was six foot six, and Serinpotva was actually shorter. Both liked that.
“So apparently, I wasn’t the largest of Harpy Queens. I told you I wasn’t overweight.”
She was very smug, and Czautha turned to Silvenia.
“It’s random, isn’t it?”
The half-Elf sighed.
“Am I just your walking encyclopedia for magic and Skills?”
“Yes.”
The half-Elf gave her a snide look as she sipped from her drink.
“Why am I covered in bandages? I am sure this Skill takes from reality. It doubtless has some random components, but logic supports Serinpotva’s assertion.”
“Aha.”
If it was not clear already…all three were Humans in the great Skill, [The World of You and Me], in the Meeting of Tribes. Czautha shook her head, amazed.
“The power of Gnolls. Even if this was made of Earthers, I could not imagine this happening in Wistram, even.”
“That’s shamanic magic for you. They don’t worry about having to justify all of this. Mages would have to build some kind of memory-based transference to logical data and…eugh. [Shamans] are simpler. Mind you, they can’t do spell circuits for shit.”
Silvenia was delighted by this place. She beamed around, and a woman hurried up to her.
“Are you—excuse me, are you alright?”
“What, this? Don’t mind the bandages. I’m fine, see?”
Silvenia removed her eyepatch and her gaping eyesocket, bloodied, stared the woman in the face. She screamed, then fainted.
“Weak. I changed my mind, we’ll conquer this place easily. Want to try?”
Serinpotva and Czautha immediately scolded Silvenia and hurried her off. But Serinpotva ran back to add a huge tip to their table.
“Serinpotva, they’re fake. This is pointless.”
Silvenia complained, but Serinpotva turned.
“I will not be a thief, even in a dream. Besides. Courtesy matters. Now, stop causing trouble. Didn’t you say you could break this Skill if you did too much? I would not trouble the Gnolls. Hopefully, they did not notice our entry.”
“They’re smart. They won’t bother us. Hopefully.”
Czautha was optimistic. Silvenia? She just beamed as she looked around. She smiled, and the years melted off her.
“Another world. This is worth staying alive another thousand years for, even if I have to build a proper bridge myself.”
She smiled and looked—young. A half-Elf who had figured out how not to age. Czautha envied her that, and even Serinpotva stopped to look around.
Earth.
They stood in a common destination for travellers, Los Angeles, a place that Rose, one of the creators of the Skill, knew well. There was a lot for the Deaths to do.
Including, but not limited to, scaring the piss out of everyone else that was here. Serinpotva was scolding Silvenia by pecking her with her face, which looked stupid.
“We are here to confirm things, Silvenia.”
“And have fun. This is already…magnificent. Look at all these cars. Although, they’re not that efficient. Let’s find that metroline thing.”
Czautha shook her head.
“I hear it’s dangerous and filled with urine.”
“Flora said that, but she admitted she’s never been to California and hates it on principle. Come now, Czautha, I can still cast magic. You could probably push over that skyscraper, there. But shall we save that for later? I need to find the internals of everything so I can copy the designs. Oh! And shall we see how many people in chains there really are?”
Silvenia’s eyes glittered, and Czautha, a huge woman with dark skin, drew herself up as she looked around. Serinpotva, who had long, braided hair and looked like she hailed from Inkar’s home or close by, interestingly, raised her brows.
“This land shines so vibrantly. But every happy land has a dark underbelly. We needn’t start there, though. We have…two hours?”
“Don’t worry about that. I’ll extend our stay. You can bully Skills.”
Silvenia said it like it was easy. They were so…normal. Normal and terrifying. Again—someone emerged from the restroom of a local pub.
“I need to go to the bathroom again. Dead gods, we’re dead. We. Are. Dead.”
Pisces jumped as Ceria whispered in his ear. He turned and nearly screamed at her—and then saw Ksmvr, Yvlon, and five Gnolls half-crouched and staring at the Deaths through the pub window. They were getting odd looks, but the terrified people in the Earth Skill were more terrified of the real…
“Pisces, what are you doing?”
Even Ceria was scared. Pisces was petrified so bad that he had leaked a bit into his pants, and he was shaking uncontrollably every time he stared at Silvenia’s raw mana leaking from her.
So he was about one fourth as terrified as his friends and the other Gnolls. He was less scared because Czautha…
He wanted to go over and thank her. But Yvlon would probably murder him first. He whispered back.
“What am I doing? I’m acting normal. If they see you squatting down, they’ll know you’re not from here.”
“He’s right! Everyone, act normal!”
Instantly, Yvlon threw herself into a seat and dragged Ksmvr into the seat. They pretended to be reading from a menu, and one of the Gnolls whimpered.
“Go to Earth, they said. Nothing can hurt you. If we die here, do we die in real life?”
“I bet you Silvenia could kill you in a dream and make it stick. I need to go to the bathroom again!”
Ceria fled into one. Pisces turned back. What were they say—
“Aha. Look what I found? A little [Necromancer] and a [Cryomancer]. Yum, yum. And some Gnolls.”
Silvenia appeared at the window of the pub. She’d turned herself invisible! Now, the bandaged half-Elf appeared as a Human with silver hair and bandages.
“Aaah!”
Pisces screamed. Ksmvr screamed. The Gnolls ran, shrieking, as Ceria leapt out of the bathroom, wand raised, jeans down around her ankles.
“[Ice Spike]!”
“No, d—”
Yvlon threw a wild punch, and her arms elongated and broke straight through the glass. The fake Humans screamed in confusion—and Czautha caught the fist.
“Silvenia. Stop scaring them. I apologize. We aren’t hurting anyone.”
The Djinni flicked the fist back, and Silvenia caught the trio of [Ice Spikes] in midair. She snapped off the tips and inserted them into her drink.
“Not bad ice. Hey, this one’s poisoned. Hello, sister. Hello, Antinium-thing. Mirrex will be happy I met one of you. And a metalflesh woman. They’re so interesting—”
“Do you want to have the Blighted Kingdom torture them?”
The Gnolls had run off screaming, and Silvenia pouted as she stared at the Horns. Czautha pretended not to know Pisces as he sat there, staring at her. Silvenia sighed.
“Oh, very well. I was going to invite them to—”
“No. Interrogation squads. Torture.”
“Right. Well, farewell. Oh, and here. This is a proper [Ice Spike], sister.”
Silvenia pointed at Ceria, and the half-Elf threw herself down. Pisces felt a faint breeze and then—silence. He stared ahead as Ksmvr and Yvlon took cover and saw Czautha yank Silvenia away with a sigh. Then Czautha’s head turned—
And she winked at him. Pisces whispered.
“Thank you—”
They left, and only then did he turn and see Ceria lying flat on the ground, staring at the hole just where her head had been. That hole had punched itself through the next fifteen buildings, and she lay there, staring at a perfect hole in the world before things began crumbling.
“I…I need new pants. Also, I have to see what that ice spike looked like. We’re alive, right? Horns, run like cowards! Tactical retreat!”
 
——
 
In the end, Serinpotva made them all fly to another city to get away from the commotion they’d caused. Even then, Silvenia ended up having to disguise them with magic. Czautha was staring at a phone, sighing as she spoke to Silvenia.
“They really are good at sharing information. Your face is on the news.”
Silvenia was in tears. When Czautha demanded to know why, she almost burst into sobs.
“I want to come back here every day. Imagine it, I could cause so much trouble—”
Serinpotva sighed, but Czautha was wondering how long they could stay. A little date with Serinpotva would be nice.
