Actually, the two holding hands were fairly conspicuous given Czautha’s size, and she had bought a bunch of clothing for a new look. What she liked wasn’t just that they were Humans—she liked the fact that, even here, there was a war to be fought.
She felt it in her bones. At least one older woman had not approved of her and Serinpotva holding hands and said something in whichever city this was—but before Czautha could say anything, another Human had come to their defense.
The entire fight was reassuring because it felt like a real world. Rather than focus on the negatives, Czautha looked at it as a place she could understand. Amidst even the world of chains—there was always something beautiful.
Like this bar, which was having an open-mic night and was, apparently, a shelter for her kind. She did not know the steps, but she knew the dance, and Serinpotva was questioning another person in here for all the cultural details.
“She wants to go to a museum. Good luck.”
Silvenia smiled evilly as Czautha groaned. They were going to split up after this, but as Rinu had asked…
What did the Deaths do together? This. They did this.
It didn’t matter where, or how short, or how long. Silvenia climbed up onto stage, microphone in hand, and got a round of applause.
“So we sing? My name is Silvenia, and I’m here with my two friends, Serinpotva and Czautha. And I don’t have practice with this style of song, but I—”
“Get on with it! No one wants to hear your life’s story.”
Someone else impatient for their turn shouted. Silvenia aimed a finger at them, then thought about it and merely smiled.
Czautha didn’t miss the magic that sent the person into the bathroom with [Crippling Indigestion], but that was restrained for Silvenia. The Death of Magic took a breath—then began.
“Your world hasn’t heard of me, but a terror I’ll be. I’m Silvenia, the Archmage of Demons. The person who…is the terror of legions! When my foes see me, they turn orange. A monster I can kill is called a Morang! Great Elves. This is so annoying.”
She made it about three verses, and then Czautha was reminded of Silvenia’s great weakness: she couldn’t rhyme. The audience laughed at her lyrics and Silvenia’s flush and Serinpotva gave Silvenia pity-applause, standing up, which only made the half-Elf grow more embarrassed. The Harpy muttered to Czautha.
“How can an [Archmage] capable of dual-chanting two Tier 7 spells into existence not rhyme?”
Silvenia came back to her seat and got a free drink from the bar for humiliating herself. She took a long drink, then responded, flushed.
“I always think of orange. If you’re so smart, you do better.”
“I wish Czautha to do it. You’ve been listening to them all night, and you have a look in your eye. Go on.”
Serinpotva prodded Czautha, but the Djinni waited shyly until there was a lull. When she got up, people stared at the giant among their kind, but Czautha just took the microphone and, unlike Silvenia, stood there in silence.
But it was an expectant silence, for her, and when she did speak, it was in a different style than Silvenia, a rush of words and emotions. And Czautha…
“Chain-born I broke them again and again until I learned also to mend. I wanted to see a Jinn’s face, but it was everywhere I looked only half of mine was fading away immortal flesh before mortal dreams love dangling on hooks. 
The longer I look the less villains I see only complacency—minds my flesh cannot change a thousand burning cities for each a brick I’ve laid. Someday I must be stopped but until I drop—my folk must be free first of all. 
We were gone already like Dragon and Halfling and Giant and more do you even remember them and their stories or wars? For all I fight and even if I win it’s done and lost but I stand here so it matters because they stood there and I watched them and here we are today. 
Endless hope no matter how deep it lies we rise.”
She didn’t know how well she did; the thunder in her heart and her closed eyes made it so that she felt alone. But when she cracked an eye open in the resulting silence—she saw staring faces. Then a whoop from Silvenia and applause. The Djinni raised the microphone and burst into a relieved smile.
Serinpotva smiled as she patted Silvenia on the arm.
“You were right. This was a good idea. We’re bound for another city, soon, if this simulation allows it.”
“Oh, where? I’m going to raid their military base and see what’s in it. Hopefully the Skill copied…reality.”
“Castro…in a city close to where we first appeared. It’s apparently a place for us, and there will be a street fair and dancing. You should come.”
“Once I visit my spot. I’ll try not to cause a national incident.”
In truth, Silvenia left them alone because when she found them the next day…she peeked at their smiles, and they had no end at what they had found, a happy place in this reflection of Earth.
And that—that was worth it.
 
——
 
That was just a fraction of it. It always was. To describe a day would take a day of writing, and it was enough to say that the Deaths took their time there. Silvenia had to be caught by Serinpotva and stopped from harassing the half-Elf she had taken a liking to. Czautha looked for misery and found it.
The [Necromancer] watched her, and Serinpotva took the Antinium aside for a quick chat to see what was up, although she had to throw his fierce half-metal guardian into the sea to get a word in.
Then they left, leaving the Gnolls alone, because their presence brought trouble. It was hard to be their friends or allies. Even if you wanted to be.
Serinpotva and Czautha took their secret route back, and this time with Silvenia. Then they broke for home, and the Blighted Kingdom was waiting once more.
They winged Silvenia, and it seemed like multiple nations had sent firepower down. But they hesitated, as they had this entire trip. From Nerrhavia’s Fallen to Zeres—they hesitated.
Wait, is this really Silvenia? Should we unleash our magic on…?
It was that hesitation that gave her the moment to dodge or live, but even then…
 
——
 
She was smoking when she landed in her tower, and her flesh was scarred further. The Demons were in uproar, triggering a return volley of fire to make the Blighted Kingdom relent their assault.
“Silvenia!”
Bazeth and [Healers] charged at her, and a terrified cat was almost trampled by Flora as Silvenia collapsed onto the ground.
She lay there, but then shooed them and the healing potions and scrolls of magic away. She was just hurt. She wasn’t dead.
The half-Elf dragged herself into her rooms. Bazeth was furious, and so was the Minister of Defense.
“Death of Magic, you’re hurt. You’ve burnt out your mana—and all for what? Intelligence? This is—”
Silvenia tossed a cat at the Demon, and the Minister fled. But Bazeth stayed, looking disapproving, with Flora worriedly staring at Silvenia. Yet the Death of Magic, Islandbreaker, the Curse of Elves just lay there, looking wan, exhausted, and panting.
Her eyes were still alive. She spoke to Bazeth before he could muster a complaint.
“Thirty-seven. I wasted thirty-seven failsafes in two days. Killing spells in vaults, held in reserve by nations like Nerrhavia’s Fallen. The like of which they used to burn that Gathering Citadel down to ash.”
His eyes widened. Silvenia smiled tiredly.
“Other nations panic when they see me. Thirty-seven, and I saw Earth. I had a beer, and I have all the designs I could plunder. What did you do today?”
Then she put a cat over her eyes and fell asleep on the spot.
