A roar from above. Silvenia laughed.
“[Sorcerous Curse-Needle of the Witch of Webs]!”
Her fingers glowed, and she threw a tiny speck of magic up. The glaring eye in the sky tried to close—but too late. She heard a refreshingly high-pitched scream—then the attacks ceased.
“I wonder who that was. It wasn’t regular [Mage]-magic.”
More enemies. Czautha would be angry at her, but the truth was that most nations in this world defaulted to ‘Demons must die’, and the Blighted Kingdom killed all the Demon [Diplomats] they could find. Silvenia had sniped the Great Knight because it was a perfect chance to rid her people of a talented enemy.
Perhaps that had been a mistake. And perhaps this was a mistake, but it was truly hard to send someone else in her stead. Czautha, Serinpotva were arguably better—but they couldn’t move as fast as Silvenia.
Besides, given who she was about to meet—Silvenia actually suspected she was the best one to do the negotiating. And wasn’t that hilarious?
They’d get to a ‘beach’ in time. But Silvenia made a detour, trusting that her two comrades would make a slower, more invisible journey. Serinpotva was a ruler of Izril; she had a trick once she got close enough that let her lose pursuers.
 
——
 
“Did Silvenia make it?”
“None of her direct magical enchantments are broken. She’s not dead—we have to assume she’s doing what we planned.”
Czautha and Serinpotva had used Silvenia’s distraction to dive underwater.
[My Wings Fly In Sky, and Under Sea].
Serinpotva cut the water like a great aquatic predator, and she actually stopped to grab a shark for lunch. Czautha was worried that the magic of the Blighted Kingdom would get them, but she was erasing their presence by reversing hers and Serinpotva’s magical signatures. Essentially creating a ‘null’.
You could spot it if you were…Silvenia…or knew how to track it, but they didn’t need to hold their breaths long. The air bubble that Czautha was creating for the two would pop soon, and the two spoke as they went straight for Izril.
“As soon as we reach the north of Izril, we will be safe. Until then—trust they can’t see us. I think that other mage actually fouled the Blighted Kingdom’s attacks. Whomever that was—they wanted Silvenia dead.”
“Mm.”
It would take hours for them to stealth their way to Izril. Silvenia could teleport using [Greater Teleport], but the Blighted Kingdom could actually lay ambushes even in that spell. Besides…the Death of Magic had two targets.
 
——
 
Silvenia reached her first beach after a day of travel. Once she’d lost the main spells tracking her, she spun off fourteen decoys, some cloaked, some as obvious as the sun, and sent them every which way.
Doubtless, the Blighted Kingdom was monitoring her via word-of-mouth, and they might have alerted other nations she was on the move, but the truth was that old Othius would have probably loved for Silvenia to start burning a city to ash.
Nothing like that to galvanize anti-Demon sentiment. If only they could beat his ability to lie and claim they’d performed the ritual spell.
Such was the power of rulers for you. Serinpotva was theoretically Othius’ check, but her kingdom was lost. And he was simply a good liar.
[Kings].
Silvenia chuckled sadly as she flew. She recalled that her lessons on Earth had come with the understanding that there was still royalty there, for some reason. Flora said they were antiquated…but Earth?
She wanted to see it. That was what had convinced the other two Deaths.
 
——
 
“We lack perspective, Czautha, Serinpotva.”
“Perspective? We have Earthers here, Silvenia.”
The Djinni was skeptical. Yet Serinpotva nodded.
“Words will never be enough. A single individual is a good picture—but only of them. I agree, Czautha. There is worth in Silvenia’s suggestions, more than even her other plans. Flora. I wish to see your world. If I could—what would you recommend?”
The young woman was blank—then began to suggest a bunch of silly and grand sights that she thought were the most worthy things the Deaths might like if they ever got a chance. And that convinced Czautha, who loved edifices.
For all her people had labored to make so much, and suffered—she liked the things made with hand and effort. Mortal creations the most, because she knew how hard it was for them to drag stone, unlike herself.
The prospect of seeing a mountain carved into faces, or cities, or gigantic statues, titillated the Djinni. Silvenia was actually disappointed as she took notes.
“So…it’s not a giant Golem that comes to life?”
“No magic, Silvenia. But how are you going to see it? Simulate it with magic?”
“I can’t do anything I can’t imagine, Flora. But I’ll take mage-pictures, and if it works—perhaps we should try to take you once the Blighted Kingdom stops burning us every time we leave Rhir. Czautha?”
The Death of Chains sighed longingly.
“Oh, very well, I agree. I must see Earth. It fascinates me. Another world.”
It still blew them all away. Even Silvenia, who knew other dimensions. She was delighted by it, but Czautha murmured as she turned her eyes to the sky.
“That world deserves a chainbreaker.”
Rather funnily, Flora grew instantly defensive. She glared around at other Earthers suspiciously, whom she had argued with, and began to speak, flustered.
“It’s had one. You don’t know my world that well, Czautha. It’s not—whatever the others have told you, I’m not defending any—”
Czautha placed a hand on her arm. She raised a finger, and Flora fell silent a moment. The Djinni shook her head.
“Oh, Flora. I don’t know your world so well. I have not seen it. I cannot judge it directly as I can this one. I meant it only so: the world always deserves a chainbreaker.”
That was her perspective. Silvenia? She just rubbed her hands together.
“Truly, I wonder how many other nations know Earth exists, yet. I can see why other nations would be concerned or preparing their own countermeasures or wars. The King of Destruction must be having so…much…fun. Dead gods.”
She dreamed of the two worlds meeting and their weapons of war meeting this one. Silvenia was sure it would be a great mess. Czautha and Serinpotva looked appalled at that vision of the future. But that was why they agreed.
They had to see it.
 
——
 
But first, Silvenia had a side-quest. She honestly would have liked to save this for the end for perspective’s sake, but this was a good cover for the other two’s journey. So she emerged onto a beach after canceling a [Waterbreathing] spell.
It looked, to anyone who saw her, like a silver-haired woman flying out of the surf. Silvenia flew low to the ground, skimming over the coast. She avoided cities via [Detect Life], but people still saw her.
She waved at a staring [Fisherman] holding his catch, skimmed over a remote farm, moving faster as she picked up speed.
Silvenia raced several flocks of birds, leaving them in her wake as the vibrant coastline turned dry. She left the people below her alone. The few who recognized her as a threat barely had time to scream before she was past them, anyways. There wasn’t anything aside from distant magics that could harm—
“Whoa!”
Silvenia stopped as a blade nearly cut her out of the skies. She dodged left, then realized it wasn’t an actual sword, but an aura of threat.
Like a warning. She glanced down, and an unremarkable farmstead in unclaimed land between nations…suddenly grew very interesting to her.
Someone had noticed her, and she halted a second. A man was standing outside his farm, and when she looked down…
The [Hero] of Zethe, Doubte, stared up at the Death of Magic.
She waved slowly. He drew his sword. Silvenia backed up, showing her hands. She scowled, but he kept watching her as she flew in an exaggerated circle around his home.
“[Heroes]. That one’s better than every single one in the Blighted Kingdom put together. Like weeds, really.”
She hated [Heroes]. They cheated their way to power. Fair was fair, so had she, but she’d found ways to parlay her magic into more power. They were given a boost from the start.
Aside from that one encounter, Silvenia had an uneventful flight. She only stopped once more.
“Hello! Are you open for business?”
The [Traders] jumped on the road and turned as a swarthy man with a huge mustache greeted them. Silvenia’s illusion beamed at the [Traders], who half reached for their swords, but she swaggered around, flashing gold at them.
“I would love to purchase your finest wares. People. Slaves. I meant, wares. That’s how you must think of them.”
She waved at the terrified people, seeing resignation in some eyes—hope in some others as she showed them her eyes.
They shone like a rainbow. But she didn’t let the rightfully suspicious Traders of Roshal see them. In fact, she earnestly haggled them down as she picked out two [Slaves], even produced a bunch of gold.
Then she dropped the illusion and let them run and scream and beg.
You had to have fun.
Half monster, half liberator. She couldn’t take the free [Slaves] with her, so she gave them the best advice she could. Hopefully, they’d escape capture, and she left the [Slavers] in enough pieces that they could be looted for their equipment.
Then she reached her destination after making a few other little arrangements. Silvenia felt her old heart beating faster as she flew across the open desert, and she felt the thrum of a recent battle in the air. She beamed wider and wider.
She had been asleep for so long that she’d had to be told about a recent legend of Chandrar. Then she’d been busy keeping the Demons on the offensive, repairing all her broken magics. But she just had to do it to him.
One legend had to greet another.
 
——
 
The sky split with horn calls, and lightning flashed from the Bastion-Fortress before the Death of Magic descended out of the clouds.
Archmage Amerys flew higher, surrounded by lightning, a living ball of electricity. But she hesitated and arrested her climb, flying downwards to join the rest of the King of Destruction’s vassals.
[Soldiers] were flooding back towards the fortress, but they halted and took positions; they wouldn’t get through the gates in time.
She had descended with virtually no warning. Silvenia, the Death of Magic, was here.
“Prepare for battle! She’ll be in the skies! Amerys, don’t go alone! We must take the battle to her or she will destroy us with impunity! Mars!”
Orthenon was roaring orders as Mars changed into armor. Even the Illusionist looked pale, but she was smiling through the sweat on her brows.
“I’ve got a spare pair of Boots of Levitation.”
The Lord of the Skies held out a wing-arm, staring up grimly at the approaching woman.
“Give them to me. She’ll tear my tribe apart if I send them up there.”
“Hold them back unless we have no choice. Your Majesty, inside!”
Orthenon shouted at a single figure staring up at Silvenia, but Flos Reimarch refused to move. He just exhaled slowly and shook his head.
“If she makes war, no walls will save me, Orthenon. I will not run from the Death of the Demon King. Stop baring your weapons. We greet her on the battlements.”
He rested his hands on the ancient stone, and Orthenon hesitated. Amerys was blazing with magic, but she, too, was staring in a kind of horror upwards. Even Gazi—all five of her eyes were aimed upwards.
“No being can have that much mana in them. What is she?”
Death of Magic. It was one thing to hear of her legend, another to see that recording of her on 5th Wall. In person?
Orthenon could not speak to what Gazi saw, but there was no time to make any plans. Parasol Stroll, the company of [Mages], was on the walls, and they were being contacted by the Blighted Kingdom, Wistram—
All eyes were on her. She came to a stop, a hundred paces from the walls, and then called out. Her voice was magnified, cheerful, and without fear.
“Sands hold ye a thousand seas, King of Reim! To the Shield Kingdoms and the thousand legacies of Zeikhal! I am the Death of Magic, Silvenia! In the name of the Demon King—I greet you! Will you speak with me?”
Speak? The company of Flos Reimarch had thought, when they sensed Silvenia coming, that she had been hired somehow to slay him.
Or that the Demons thought of the King of Destruction as a threat. But the sudden relief turned to a different kind of fear as Flos stared upwards.
Oh no. Orthenon was speaking into Flos’ ear, insistently.
“Your Majesty, the Demons are a foe to the world. You cannot—”
“Death of Magic! Silvenia, the Traitor of Wistram! You are a foe to every nation on Chandrar. I would make enemies just hearing you speak. Why should I not hurl my armies at you and banish you to your lands? What has the Demon King to do with me?”
Flos bellowed back, but his eyes were aglow with excitement. Silvenia wagged a finger.
“Not the Demon King. Just I, alone. And—do my eyes deceive me? Is the sand in my hair and the dryness of the air not Great Chandrar?”
She looked around, and Flos frowned.
“It is.”
Silvenia spread her arms, beaming.
“Then where is my greeting? I recall a land where any visitor could knock on any door, be it [King] or [Beggar], and receive welcome if nothing else! Or does the King of Destruction, who I have longed to meet, fear the Blighted Kingdom’s wrath over mere words? If I am foe to every nation of Chandrar—I could say no less of you.”
“Someone stop him.”
Orthenon actually tried to put Flos in a full-nelson hold, and Mars and Takhatres tried to drag him back. But the King of Destruction was too strong, and he just fought them off.
“Why then did you come, Silvenia? If you are truly here to speak—let us speak peaceably and not shout at each other! If you cast no spells, my people will not attack! Approach!”
He was going to get them all killed. But—if there was any one man stupid enough to speak to a Demon in public, and fearless of reprisal, it would be him.
Silvenia landed on the battlements and beamed. She ignored the ready vassals, the soldiers, but she did eye the girl with the sword and the sand-mage, peeking at her behind Flos’ defenders. Her eyes twinkled as the King of Destruction glanced at them and grew suddenly—tense.
“Thank you for sparing our voices, Your Majesty. I should love a brief word. Though, I warn you, my foes may soon send firestorms down upon me.”
Indeed, the only reason she hadn’t been blasted was probably because she was on top of the King of Destruction’s armies.
Many nations might consider that two birds with one stone…but even they hesitated to attack another sovereign nation with a cataclysmic spell the likes of which Thelican had used. After all…Flos Reimarch might decide to reply in kind.
