She began to smile and the cat ran around, meowing with excitement. English was not his first language, but they learned so quickly—it wasn’t translating cat that was hard, just the deluge of words. In meow-form.
 
I know you don’t like bragging when someone is praising you, but you’re the legend who fought Archmages, Crelers, Dragons—did you fight Dragons? There is no one who loves or knows more magic than you, and I bet…you’re over Level 80. You have to be! 
 
The cat rolled around, then sprang up and sat there, staring at Silvenia with shining eyes.
 
Tell me I’m right, Silvenia? I want to tell everyone about you!
 
She ended up laughing for a good minute as she lay on her fake beach, then finally sat back up, still chuckling.
“What a huge question! There are [Strategists] in Othius’ courts who would tear out both eyes for an honest answer, and you want to know? My class and level?”
He began to apologize, and she shushed him.
“I don’t mind. I am over Level 80. But not over Level 90.”
What? Whaaaaat?
The cat ran around, screaming, and Silvenia laughed so hard she nearly rolled into her conjured surf. She beckoned the cat over.
“Oh, yes. It makes sense, doesn’t it? I am not Level 90 plus, or I would have sunk the Blighted Kingdom myself. But I am not…here is a good perspective for you. Serinpotva is one grade below me, but she is an [Empress], and our powers are not the same. She, I, and Czautha are the lot who can fight Dragons. I have fought them, but never warred, because I too was born in an era when they were waning.”
She sighed longingly.
“No, I had them as teachers, mainly, and I respected them greatly. Yet consider: the greatest of mortal men, like Flos Reimarch, are probably over Level 60. The ‘nightmares’ of Chandrar besides me are the likes of Az’kerash, Belavierr—and I would put them at Level 70. Perhaps the Archmage of Death has gained beyond that, but I doubt it.”
“Neow?”
Silvenia waved a hand.
“He was a lich. They said he died, but a ‘mysterious’ Goblin Lord practicing Necromancy killed Zel Shivertail? I always assume a [Necromancer]’s alive. That’s sort of their specialty. That and huge armies. Dioname, that odd woman, was likely close to that level, or again, one rung below. She looked like she was taught by an immortal…but she was young. So is Az’kerash. They’re literal prodigies.”
“Heah?”
The cat did the best job of ‘huh’ it could with its mouth. Silvenia tapped it on the nose.
“Yes, two hundred years or a few hundred is a prodigy! If you gain immortality, even half of it, your levelling slows. They are both new to their power. Which is why Dioname could be brought down. That ‘Eldavin’ is another matter entirely. But no more secrets! Ask me another question.”
She rolled over, eyes bright, and the cat could have asked about the Creler Wars. Or the Antinium. Or Silvenia’s opinions about the existence of Vampires, or if she remembered the Circle of Thorns or the Eyes of Baleros.
“Meow nyn. Meow Snyamia, meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow? meow, meow! Haeck meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow, meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow.
Meow meow meow meow meow meow, meow meow meow meow meow meow, nyime meow meow meow meow meow meow, meow meow meow meow meow meow, meow meow Snyamia, meow meow meow meow meow meow. Meow meow meow meow, meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow, meow nyrar meow meow meow meow, meow hssk meow. Meow meow nyime meow meow Snyamia! Nyam meow meow meow!
Meow meow’t meow meow meow meow meow meow meow, meow Snyamia meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow? Meow meow meow, meow meow meow meow meow, meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow. Meow meow meow? Meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow, meow meow meow, meow meow shmnkt meow meow meow! Meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow?
Meow meow meow meow meow, meow meow meow, meow meow meow meow meow meow meow, meow meow, meow meow, meow meow, meow meow meow meow meow meow, meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow. Meow Snyamia meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow meow!”
Even Silvenia put her hands over her ears for a second.
“…Maybe I should have changed you back.”
 
Question 2. Silvenia, can I please ask you not to kill yourself in battle by being reckless or whatever? Please, please! You’re immortal and have those time spells that basically make you be any age that you want, but I am scared that people can kill you.
I know that you love war, I know that you love battles, I’m not asking you to stop fighting, that would be dumb and arrogant, but please Silvenia, be careful even a tiny bit. I love you, I love you so so so much, I don’t want you to die, please don’t die. Please I’m begging you Silvenia! You’re my greatest hero! 
Also—and I don’t know if this is okay to ask, but Silvenia how do you keep your resolve so high up? I often fail, I often have my faults, and I fail at things that are so much easier and so much simpler than stuff that you do. But you? I know that you sometimes have some setbacks, and it sucks, because it shouldn’t be like that! Like how can the Blighted King dare to do anything against you? 
But the point is that, no matter what, you always keep on trying and trying, another angle, another attack, another spell, another way to save your people, another way to get revenge on those Blighted Idiots. Silvenia I wish I knew how to have as much resolve as you do!
 
But she scooped up the cat as she thought about it. The Death of Magic looked a bit confused as she held it up. Gently.
“You know, I don’t truly know why you like me so much. The Earthers do, because I am like unto a Djinni for them, but you know what my people say of me. Silvenia, a horror of battle. You have seen me rain death on the Blighted Kingdom. Why like me?”
What do you mean? You’re amazing! The cat wriggled indignantly, but Silvenia hushed it.
“[Silence]. Now listen. Get killed in battle…I can’t promise that, so I shan’t answer it. But why do I fight? What motivates me in this endless war? I could tell you that I simply love battle. I love the rush of it. I love both the struggle and to slay my enemies and to see the looks on their faces as I appear. But that would also be a bit of a lie. Half of one.”
Silvenia flicked her hand, acknowledging the truth.
“Half of me is just a monster born in blood. But the other half…why do we Deaths fight for Demons?”
Rinu tilted his head, and Silvenia answered for him.
“It’s love and fire. It’s about making something for the next generation, little Rinu. Don’t you see? I broke to pieces in Rhir. I died.”
No, nooo! She ignored its shaking head, scratched the cat behind the ears, and sat on the beach as she spoke.
“There’s all kinds of death, silly child. Believe me when I tell you part of me died. The girl who wanted nothing more than to be the next Archmage of Elves perished there. And the woman who would one day be called the Archmage of Demon’s Bane, then the Traitor of Elves, then the Death of Magic was born.”
She stared back and conjured an image for him to see. A half-Elf with a broken wand, a [High Mage], staring out of a pool of blood and carnage, her patrol and friends cut down by Demons.
The cat’s eyes were awash with tears, and Silvenia herself stared at that girl before banishing her.
“There. You see? That was the start of it. That was how I began to be remade into a true mage of the battlefield. The part where I went to Demons? I warred mightily against the Demon King, then learned I was fighting for a lie. That’s how many of us came to the Demons’ side. Neither one is wholly…right, but the Blighted Kingdom personally outrages me. Yet that woman who went against the Blighted Kingdom and was exiled for it?”
An angry [Archmage], next, arguing in Wistram’s Council, fighting [Mages] who cast her out as she fled across the sea. The cat hissed, and Silvenia patted it as the image changed.
“Also not me. We always change. It gets harder as we age, but I am trying. That’s one secret to immortality, for me. You can be the same, do the same, but spirit atrophies after a year of drudgery. Imagine doing this for millenia? Either you let time pass you by and find ways to ignore it…or you change yourself. Neither is easy, but that is why I find meaning. Demons. This war is for a purpose.”
Then her eyes glittered, and she opened a window so they could see the land of Demons, shining like some kind of futuristic city. Buildings under forcefields, in blasted lands. Silvenia waved at it.
“Imagine this for your world of planets! Imagine my boundless gardens, my magic for others! It cannot be so long as Othius would see me dead, but if we win—this is why, Rinu. It is about pulling this world one step out of the sea, pushing it forwards. In my case, it is how I can use my talents and broken soul for some good.”
She wasn’t broken! The cat waved its head back and forth so hard he flopped around in her arms, and she nearly laughed herself sick.
“I’m not—? Oh, little cat!”
She tossed him up, and he floated there, swimming in the air. That was beautiful—but Silvenia pointed to her shattered body, and she smiled, bones showing through her magical flesh.
“I am the purest incarnation of war. More than Hayvon. More than Othius and his wretched line. I am too in love with it to quit. This is why the other Deaths are necessary. I am—but the Demons need Serinpotva and Czautha more than I. They are a reason to fight. For they deserve protection and justice and more. I would be nothing more than a mindless killer if I did not have cause. I still am.”
Nonsense! I love you! She laughed and laughed at the cat and let it float into her arms again.
“And you are ridiculously affectionate to a monster, which is why I quite like you. Silly cat. I wonder if you’ll think of me the same way all your life. I almost hope you don’t. But if I end up becoming your demon or inspiration—I hope I changed you.”
Her eyes glowed with magic and delight, and she looked him in the eyes.
“And so you see, you and this wildly entertaining world are why I continue. They could cut off my limbs—and they have tried—and I would drag myself through the mud with my teeth, will myself to live. For I want to see more. I want to one day take those Demons onto calm beaches and see them live in cities. For Bazeth to put away his sword…that noble goal keeps me going. And when that fails, I walk towards my next battle, for my foes deserve only Silvenia, the Death of Magic.”
Two shining brown eyes made her snort so hard she fell over in the sand. Then came the last question, though technically there had been a lot of mixed-questions in there. But the Death of Magic didn’t care. She was falling asleep again, and the little cat-Earther asked his final question.
Question 3. Silvenia, can you please give me a hug?
Somewhere out there, a would-be [Historian] exploded in rage, but Silvenia just chuckled. That was why she liked her one devoted follower, and she gently squeezed the cat as its eyes went wide and it possibly fainted. Then Silvenia took another nap.
“What strange days these are when children come from another world and follow great beasts like me around. What a silly world yours must be. I want to see it.”
And that…kept her going.
 
——
 
Silvenia, Czautha, and Serinpotva left the west of Rhir, the Blighted Lands, and made for their ‘vacation’. They took no Earthers.
No one would have survived, let alone silly cats.
“Silvenia!”
Czautha was sheltering Serinpotva as the Death of Wings flew. Her wingbeats sounded like thunder—but actual lightning crashed down.
Colored lightning, empowered with more than one element. Czautha could mitigate the electricity, but the burning red lightning that ignited the air? Freezing lightning that mixed electricity and ice?
That was how you fought Djinni. Yet she refused to budge, shielding Serinpotva with her body. Czautha was strongest of the three, able to heal her essence fastest with mana. Serinpotva was still wounded, but her aura was a lighthouse, destroying even Tier 6 magic raining down on them.
…But worse was coming. Silvenia was the lighthouse of the most attacks and the most fragile. She dove into the water, a thousand paces deep, as a storm raged around her.
The ocean began to turn to steam. How many fish, how much damage did the Blighted Kingdom do? She had put on every single barrier spell she knew…and they were melting away.
A check on even immortals. Czautha and Serinpotva were flying faster, but Silvenia slowed, drawing fire.
“Silvenia, don’t—”
She came up over the waves, skating on them, dodging left, right, slowing time—and looked up as she saw the sky open and gold shine down. Othius…wanted her death.
Silvenia bared her teeth—
 
——
 
Washed up on shore. She woke up after a minute and realized she had barely made it.
“…nO. wHEre AM i?”
Her voice echoed strangely. She felt leaden—and realized she wasn’t breathing. The magic that had followed her was—twisting. Silvenia looked around, realized.
Teleportation. She’d landed in the wrong spot.
“These lands are dead.”
She spoke as she pulled herself out of the [Greater Teleportation] spell. They were still following her, sending tracers. She shot magic back, a killing spell like she’d used on that Great Knight when she saw them teleporting, but it couldn’t pass between dimensions.
They were just…following her teleport. If she wasn’t careful, a kill-team would just appear right on top of her. Silvenia cursed and moved between worlds again—
Into a storm at sea, and the magic hummed on her skin once more as the onslaught resumed.
This was the price for ‘going to the beach’. She laughed upwards as, this time, Silvenia fired spells back.
 
——
 
Getting out of range of the Blighted Kingdom after that first hour made things easier. They had less options once she got far enough out at sea. The Deathslayer Arrows were annoying, but she made it.
What had nearly gotten her this time was the second party taking potshots at her with magic. She had thought it was Archmage Eldavin for a moment and had been considering heading to Wistram to give him a proper [Mage]’s thank-you.
…But that would have been stupid, even for her, even for Wistram as it was. Instead, Silvenia realized the talented spellcaster wasn’t in Wistram at all.
“Terandria? Ailendamus. What have I done to—oh. The Great Knight.”
She zipped left and right, dodging spells that came after her, then got tired and took aim at the glaring eye in the sky.
“Die, you wretched Demon!”
