“I hear The Wandering Inn has a beach. We should go visit it.”
Such innocuous words caused the Minister of Defense to lock herself in an outhouse with explosive diarrhea for the next half hour. They produced a chill in the air, a terror in all who heard them.
Beach. Four days of beach, after the cooking competition, and word was spreading that Erin Solstice, that crazy [Innkeeper] of Liscor, was back at it again.
With a cooking competition on a beach, no less. As other parts of the world froze their unmentionables off, they watched as chefs competed. It was a broadcast you wouldn’t forget, not just because Lasica ended up sweeping the competition with a handsome coconut sweet-n-sour soup improvised with ingredients scavenged around Erin Solstice’s beach—but because she won via an Orangutan, who tossed his competition into the water as they ran about, dug up their cooking ingredients, sabotaged the competition—
Including Lord Tyrion Veltras, who teamed up with an Antinium to the horror and incredulity of the world. The sight of the younger man being shoved face-first into the ocean by Lady Bethal and Mrsha was replayed across Izril.
And that was only the first broadcast of the inn. A certain ‘video recording’ of Two Ladies, One Fish was being sold on what could only be described as an unofficial blackmarket that was not Wistram-sanctioned.
But back to the beach. A lot of people were interested in it or making their own versions of the beach. In reply to Erin’s move, Larracel had advertised her hot baths. And Queen Geilouna, the Bedtime Queen, had sand dredged from her beaches and brought indoors and heated up so she and her pets could sleep on her own indoor beach.
It was not, if you had extensive means, impossible to copy Erin Solstice. So dozens of copy-cats began showing off their own ‘beaches’, trying to outdo the original.
Anyone knew that copycats were usually less impressive than the genuine article, though. Plus, it was Erin Solstice.
The fascinating [Innkeeper] who had sent that strange message to her fellow Earthers. Her inn was objectively fascinating, and as someone pointed out loudly—
“She owns the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Multiple gardens. We should visit the inn. It’d be a quick visit. In, out, what do you say?”
She fluttered her eyes as the Minister of Defense screamed at her from inside the outhouse.
“Absolutely not!”
“I’m going to do it.”
That was why it was terrifying. The woman who said these things did not…say things. She said something like, ‘wouldn’t it be funny if there was a mountain there?’
And then one appeared the next day.
When word spread that she was considering a trip outside, which was the term for anywhere past their borders, someone went running to get her handlers.
There were four people in this entire world who could handle her. One was called Flora, a newcomer from the world of Earth. Two were fellow Deaths: Czautha’qshe, Free Djinni and the Death of Chains, and Serinpotva, the Harpy Queen, the Death of Wings.
The last person that Silvenia, the Death of Magic, Islandbreaker, the Curse of Elves, the former [Archmage] and greatest living spellcaster of this world, respected was the Demon King.
Four people could rein in her worst impulses. That was…not an easy thing to deal with for the rest of the Demon Kingdom. It wasn’t that Silvenia was unreasonable. But it was that no one else in this entire world could stop her when she put her mind to something.
Anyone else you could talk down, reason with, or physically just tackle. Even Named-rank adventurers didn’t go on rampages—all the time—because the consequences would be [Bounty Hunters], [Assassins], rival adventurers, or armies hunting them down.
But how did you stop someone who was considered the enemy of the world, who had the power to conjure armies of foes at the snap of her fingers?
The nightmare of the Blighted Kingdom truly was only held back from doing anything she wanted because it was Rhir. And she, like a piece in chess, could move as she pleased, but her absence or weakness might get herself or her compatriots killed.
Yet when she was antsy…
 
——
 
“Flora, Silvenia’s in a mood. Come on—now!”
General Bazeth found Flora at a run, and she stopped gossiping with the new Earthers and groaned. They all jumped and looked up as the horned Demon with reddish skin came skidding into their quarters.
He wore magical armor, had horns like a literal demon from her world’s stories, and carried a huge greatsword. When she’d first met Bazeth, Flora had nearly shot him. However—he was a surprisingly normal man.
Like many Demons, he was not the evil army of the Demon King, but someone with hopes, dreams—but eternally at war with the Blighted Kingdom. War made him militant, but he could still weep or laugh, and it was a contrast to what the Blighted Kingdom said about him.
Right now, concern was all over his face. He was panting, and he had run into the Earther-rooms so fast that he’d actually conjured a breeze that blew in behind him, scattering pieces of paper.
“No, our notes!”
A girl from Idaho, Willow, went jumping for the summary of Earth’s recent history from 2016 to 2024. Flora grabbed at it, and Bazeth apologized as he yanked her up.
“I am sorry, everyone. But Silvenia needs Flora. Now. Flora—”
“W-what’s she doing now?”
“She’s talking about leaving for the Outside again. Izril! She’s going to visit The Wandering Inn if no one talks her down. His Majesty needs you.”
“Why me?”
Flora complained even as she broke into a run. They went skidding out of the open-air complex filled with smooth stone, built like a mansion from her world. It was set across the rust-red dirt and in a canyon protected by two barrier-spells. Towers, like radio towers from home, kept the magical forcefields shining strong, emerald and blue light shielding buildings where Demons lived and played.
They were also soundproofed, and Flora glanced up—and saw the explosions in the sky, bursting lights. She halted a second, but she was used to seeing that.
“Are we under attack?”
“They’re launching poisonous Balelight Stones at us again. Nevermind that. Come on! [Speedwind Charge]!”
Bazeth took her hand and began running. A [General] using a Skill just to get her to run with him—they went down the street so fast that Flora’s boots made the flagstones ring.
The road was glass. Unlike the rest of the canyon—which was just dirt and red stone—this glass pathway had been laid by Djinni. The mansion had been built by Silvenia, and almost every house they passed was either magical or erected with the help of artifacts or Skills.
Very little had been built by hand. Demons had no time to waste on building. They used Silvenia’s artifacts or other tricks to instantly erect domiciles to live in. The result was amazing homes, some already complete with furniture.
Zelkyr’s Instant Golem Mansion was one artifact that someone had. It looked like a model of a fancy mansion which, when placed down, would expand and turn into an amazing retreat complete with servant-Golems. Then you could undo the magic, take it elsewhere.
This was necessary because nowhere in the Demon Lands, save the palace itself and a few landmarks like Monarch’s Pass, was constant. The very land shifted as need be; the Demon King could demand new farming land grow or a lake emerge. Like Othius and the Blighted Kingdom, the territory of Demons was completely under the authority of their nation.
Unlike the Blighted Kingdom, though, the Demons had no walls. And their settlements moved because every month, or every year at the latest, the attacks from the Blighted Kingdom would grow so fierce they would need to relocate to buy breathing room.
Just look up and see. Flora, as she ran, saw more starbursts of light against the barrier.
Balelight Stones. The Blighted Kingdom was showering the Demons with them. They had to know it wouldn’t break the barrier spells, especially with Silvenia rebuilding them, but they were trying to cover the ground with them.
“What’s…Balelight…again?”
Flora panted as she jogged, rattling slightly with her shooting vest and a lot of gear that she normally didn’t carry. She had ammunition secured at her belt—in speedloaders ready to go into the revolver at her side—and it wasn’t just for show.
Even here, they might have to fight for their lives at the drop of a hat. Even with Silvenia around—the Blighted Kingdom was only half the threat.
The other half was having an Adult Creler unbury itself and try to eat you—something else Flora had experienced. Three times, she’d found herself shooting monsters emerging from below when the Blight of Rhir—the true horror of this continent held back by the Antinium—sent forth horrors.
One time, it had been this serpentine ‘wood’ that cloned itself again and again. Flora had shot over a hundred of them and run out of ammunition before Silvenia had finally managed to collect them all and hurl whatever it was at the 5th Wall.
Flora had no idea how you grew up like this. But the Demons thought that Flora and the Earthers, with a few exceptions, were the gloomy ones.
They were cheerful in this continued war, because of the Deaths, who were living legends to them, because of the solidarity between species. Many were happy-go-lucky, living in the moment.
Others, like Bazeth, were warriors dedicated to one cause: holding off or even one day beating the Blighted Kingdom.
Flora, as an Earther, was a strange, partly unwilling visitor to this eternal conflict, but she had given her support to the Demons. She had heard there were Earthers, people from home, on the Blighted Kingdom’s side.
She wondered what they knew of this conflict. Flora was a girl from Texas, and the Deaths of Rhir and Demon King were, uh—significant to her culturally. But she couldn’t see this as anything but an insane war of politics turned into a stalemate that the Blighted Kingdom was perpetuating to keep its authority in Rhir.
Then again—the Demons defended themselves by killing thousands at times. They were long past reconciliation. Long past words.
King Othius IV on one side. Paranfer, guarded by the Five Walls of Rhir, each one capable of hellish destruction.
The Demon King and his Deaths on the other side, each one of the most powerful beings in the world—but only three against a world’s resources and might.
Silvenia, Czautha, Serinpotva. Flora knew them all; she had seen them in hibernation, wounded beyond belief after the last great war with the Blighted Kingdom a century and a half back. But when she had touched Silvenia’s ‘corpse’ and seen how much poison ran through her veins, the half-Elf had stared at her, even in her coma. Flora had…saved her life.
With an epinephrine injector.
It sounded stupid, and Flora had said outright that there was no way a simple anti-allergen pen, even an expensive one for her dad, could save the Death of Magic. Silvenia had been dying of countless poisons.
However—she had handed it to Silvenia, and the Death of Magic had slowly cloned it, then told the Demon King’s [Healers] to distill it. It had taken two weeks for Silvenia to manufacture what she wanted.
She had cloned the Epipen, made two, and kept the original for Flora. The medication meant for her father in case he got stung at work—he was deathly allergic to bees, and it was a matter of life and death, so she had picked this up for him—was small.
But potent. So Silvenia had cloned it six more times and had the [Healers] create a vial of the valuable liquid after breaking the pen apart and collecting it all. Then she’d cloned that vial three times, each time substituting raw mana for the valuable epinephrine.
Skills had boosted the medication’s already potent abilities until it became something like a panacea. It had still taken two months for Silvenia’s toxic body to begin clearing the poison out, but the [Healers] had described it like a miracle.
Silvenia could have recovered in another century; this medication from Earth had sped the process a millionfold. While she was wounded, all her power was spent keeping herself, Czautha, and Serinpotva alive. But the more she recovered, the more mana she could divert to speeding her own healing—and that of her comrades. Flora had tipped the scales enough to bring back the Deaths of Demons.
The Blighted Kingdom should have given her a medal. If they’d known what had happened exactly, Flora was sure they would have sent it attached to a Deathslayer Arrow.
 
——
 
That was the power of Demons. That was the scale of the Demon King’s forces. You wanted bullets? Silvenia could clone bullets.
She claimed the most ‘expensive’ thing to clone, magic-wise, was the epinephrine and laptops, because the batteries required so much energy. The pen, she suspected, was because the ingredients were hard to get naturally. Even if not the epinephrine itself, the other components or perhaps, even more ironically, just the plastic were the real mana cost.
Even so, it was a lot easier than duplicating artifacts, and Silvenia was the greatest [Mage] in this world.
Similarly—the woman who swooped down towards the running Bazeth and Flora could have lifted an airplane of Earth and flown it around without a jet engine powering it.
Czautha, the Death of Chains, was not as powerful a spellcaster as Silvenia—but she was literal magic. She was nigh-invincible, could turn herself into a living storm, and survive things that no mortal could.
Djinni. The enslaved race of Chandrar. She passed through the barrier overhead.
“I heard Silvenia’s thinking of leaving. His Majesty summoned me. Flora.”
She nodded at the girl she credited with helping save her, which was why Flora, of all the Earthers and Demons, had sway over Silvenia. Bazeth glanced at Czautha then up at the exploding lights across the barrier.
“The Balelight Stones…”
“I neutralized the effects. I understand your concern, [General], but we have dealt with them before.”
He ducked his head, embarrassed, but Czautha just smiled. Flora panted.
“What are—eep!”
Czautha just picked her up and carried her. She looked like a half-real woman, half purple skin, half smog, carrying the great blade and shield on her back, and she expanded as she picked up Bazeth and sped up.
The Death of Chains flew like a storm across the settlement, calling out for the Demons not to be alarmed, it was ‘just Silvenia’, as they headed towards her abode. They passed out of a barrier, and Flora flinched—but Czautha’s body engulfed her in protective magic. They were heading to Silvenia’s domain, near the palace, where the most protections lay.
