However—the Blighted Kingdom could not allow this. Mirin, the [Mage] of Parasol Stroll, was speaking urgently in Gazi’s ear, and the Gazer spoke up.
“My lord—wghmf—we cannot allow this meeting to happen. Even your curiosity aside—the Demons are treachery and poison, and I must insist you turn her away.”
Her voice wobbled, and Gazi clapped a hand over her mouth, flushing as everyone looked at her. She shifted in place, and Flos exhaled slowly. He looked tired, suddenly, and lifted a hand.
“I suppose not. But look at her! Can I not exchange a few words? No—argh.”
What an unexpected reversal. Everyone not near Flos was astonished, but the King of Destruction was eying some emphatic [Messages] being held up to him.
“Oh, come now, King of Destruction. Where is your hospitality? Your willingness to speak?”
Silvenia stomped a foot and gave him a challenging look. He hesitated, clearly torn, as more [Messages] appeared.
“—I am being told even talking to you is toxic. And you are a spellcaster without peer. I would love to exchange words, but I confess—even I find a woman who would salt the ground with Crelers and kill cities somewhat abhorrent.”
Silvenia tilted her head, clearly let down.
“…Have you never sacked a city, King of Destruction? How pacifistic of you.”
He bared his teeth, refusing to rise to the bait.
“There are some standards in war, Death of Magic. Your Demons are known to slaughter innocents.”
“So you won’t…talk?”
“Greetings only. I will not go inside and sit at a table, merely parlay from here. Is that acceptable, Gazi?”
Flos looked like he might explode as he compromised. Gazi had to nod. She glared as Silvenia swung a displeased gaze to her.
“Well, well. It looks like Othius has his fangs even in the most famous warlord of this era. I should have met the Titan of Baleros instead. What a shame. But then—I suppose the whipping boy of Roshal wouldn’t have the guts to sit down with a Death of Demons. For a man who destroys, you chose to ignore the greatest foe.”
Silvenia sighed, rubbing her fingernails on her robes. Flos’ face went slack—then he reddened.
“Death of Magic. Watch your words, here.”
Orthenon’s voice was icy as Flos’ vassals put their hands on their blades. The Death of Magic looked around.
“How strange. Did I say anything wrong, [Steward]?”
“No. Please go on.”
Trey muttered so loudly that Silvenia started cackling. But Flos Reimarch calmed down surprisingly fast. He stared at the Death of Magic, standing on his battlements, then looked sideways.
“Amerys. Hit her.”
Silvenia’s head snapped up—and the bolt of lightning struck her straight off the walls.
She had seen it coming, but it had been so fast that even the Death of Magic couldn’t block the fist of the Archmage of Chandrar.
It looked like a hand made out of lightning, trailing seeking lines of electricity, striking the Death of Magic in the cheek—that was the image seared into everyone’s eyes.
Silvenia hit the ground, a hundred feet below, and bounced once. She lay there as everyone fell silent and looked at Flos in horror. He calmly waited—and Silvenia sat up.
“Hm.”
She felt at her cheek, and the faintest of scratches was on her magic-flesh. Then she flew up, seemingly unharmed by the blow or fall. Her barrier-spells had eaten most of the blow, but she still nodded.
“So. There is someone qualified to call themselves an Archmage of Wistram. Hello, apprentice. Who are you?”
“Amerys of Chandrar.”
The woman’s eyes were sparkling with lightning. Silvenia just rubbed at her cheek and nodded. Then she smiled like, well—
Like a Demon. Her teeth were pointed, her smile full of suppressed wrath. She turned to look at Flos.
“It seems I had far less pleasant a meeting than I wanted. Very well. In truth, I just came to look at you, King of Destruction. Your legend is not wholly exaggerated.”
“To hear an old monster of Rhir say it is a compliment. May I ask if you just came here to look at me? It seems quite an honor.”
Flos was tense, but he did smile. Silvenia slapped her thigh in amusement, sitting back in the air and letting out a genuine guffaw.
“Heh. Hahahahaaha. Did you think that we just sat around? Oh, Your Majesty of Reim! You do make me smile. No—why should I not meet a man who, the stories say, might one day trouble my Demon King? I respect might, even if you and I cannot speak peaceably. Fine, if we cannot meet—then at least this!”
She reached for her side, and Orthenon whirled his spear up. But Silvenia, with a look of amusement, just placed something down on the tip of his spear, aimed at him.
He balanced it, and the simple bottle of wine caught the fading light of the sun. Silvenia produced two crystal cups.
“Will you, at least, toast with me, King of Reim? Or do you not have the courage to drink some wine with Death itself?”
She taunted him, and he frowned—but then held out a hand. She tossed him the cup, and no one could stop him as the bottle floated, uncorked itself, and poured him a generous cup. Silvenia poured herself a cup. Flos inspected his cup as his emerald eyes flicked up towards the Death of Magic.
“What might we two toast on?”
“War, of course!”
She threw out her arms expressively. The skies were turning black, and spells were targeting her, preparing to be unleashed. Yet the Death of Magic just raised her cup to the sky. To the bloody battlefield, which she sensed even long after the blood and bodies had been cleaned away, here. To the King of Destruction—his armies—she took it in with a smile, and even Reim’s soldiers shuddered.
“Let’s toast to a broken world and an ocean of our foes! To our end, may it be glorious! You and I walk the bloody road of warriors to its end! To our deaths!”
She laughed as she lifted the cup, then looked at Flos. The King of Destruction’s crimson hair blew in the wind. His skin, tanned slightly, lifted the cup, and he stared into the red depths. He did not join her toast, though part of him lit up at her words. Instead, he solemnly held the cup out.
“To the journey’s meaning.”
Heads swung to Silvenia, and the Death of Magic pondered his offering. She nodded, and they sipped slowly. Then she thrust the goblet out to him, sitting cross-legged in the air.
What a sight.
“To a thousand shining souls for better or worse. Enemy and friend?”
He drank. Then Flos wiped at his mouth.
“To a reason for it all.”
He said it like a question, searching her gaze, and Silvenia lifted her goblet and nodded.
“Of course.”
They held their gazes, taking a measure of each other, and then Silvenia whispered.
“To a will to break this all apart.”
This time, they both drank, draining their cups down, and Flos tossed the crystal cup off the walls. Then, Silvenia’s chuckle was deep and satisfied. She straightened and held out a hand.
“Ah, you are a man worth the effort of visiting. Someday, King of Destruction. If I defeat the Blighted Kingdom and you unite your continent and break at least one apart, we might run out of foes. Perhaps this second world will never appear or we’ll just grow old and lose interest. We could war with each other, then. Doubtless, we’ll clash like beasts before then. Would you make a pledge with me, though? Just in case?”
“Pledge? What, exactly?”
He folded his arms, and Silvenia pointed. Eastwards, towards the horizon. And beyond it, the sea. Her voice grew eager, excited.
“A great fleet. If we have the chance—let’s sail it off the edge of the world. An armada, like the ones who went before. Armed with every weapon to shatter sky and land. Serinpotva isn’t interested, but I hoped you might be game.”
“If we both conquer our continents?”
“Yes. Say you will! I need an army, and you are the only king who might be game. I have promised it before, but I offer it to you again.”
She held out that hand eagerly, and Flos eyed it—then lifted his hand and turned away.
“I will drink and toast with you, but I cannot offer you peace, Death of Demons.”
Silvenia’s face fell, and she stood in the air. Then with a great sigh, she lowered her hand.
“Oh, another blind [King], however much I take to your warring nature. Your vassals are respectable, and you are braver than many, Flos Reimarch. But I fear we may have parted as enemies.”
“Did you expect anything different?”
She gave him a morose look.
“Perhaps. Had we spoken. But—very well.”
She straightened, sighed, and for a last time, everyone tensed. Yet Silvenia just flew backwards, staring up and holding out her hand as if the spells locked onto her were rain. She looked like she was regretting the visit, but she did pause as she floated away from the walls.
“Oh. One last thing. I suppose it was a fun little meeting—but one thing was personal.”
She turned her head, and her gaze snaked backwards. Amerys stiffened as Silvenia pointed at her. Silvenia touched at her cheek.
“The next time we meet, Archmage of Lightning, I’ll pay you back for that one. Stay away if you have a favorite city or nation. For it shall be ash between us.”
A cold chill ran across the ramparts—but Silvenia just flew off. Before she was a thousand paces away, foul, putrid lightning stabbed downwards.
A final resort, a spell of destruction from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Just like the Djinni they had sent against Flos, but they feared she could free them, so they sent just deadly magic instead.
Silvenia turned, cursing, and the bolt turned even her magic to rot.
She fled, and the King of Destruction stood there for a long moment. If the watching eyes saw his disappointed face—well, at least he had only drunk with her. Who knew what would have happened if they had talked.
 
——
 
Silvenia fled Chandrar as more spells meant for foes like her burnt the skies. Not every nation had the means like Germina, but even Khelt sent Razzimir’s Arrows after her, and she swatted them down.
They were weak compared to the actually dangerous putrid lightning and other spells that nations were unleashing on her. Silvenia fled to sea again and dove into it. What a wasted visit.
An attempt had been made, but even the King of Destruction had refused to parlay with her.
Doubtless, various nations were sighing in relief. Silvenia just smiled as she entered the sea, despite her new injuries.
That was what she wanted them to think.
 
——
 
“My lord—”
Gazi of Reim was speaking when the bubble of magic engulfed Flos Reimarch and the closest people on the battlements. It stopped in front of Mirin, snagging Flos, his Seven, Orthenon, Trey, and Teres.
“—what is your will?”
Gazi finished, then blinked in horror and drew her claymore. She was faster than Mars by a moment, but then the rest of Flos’ vassals realized something was wrong.
“Spell!”
Takhatres leapt at Silvenia—and she dodged back from the kick. The half-Elf floated backwards, and Takhatres caught himself on the wall’s stone battlements and pulled himself back onto solid ground.
“Hold, hold!”
Flos shouted, looking around. He stared left, then right—at the statues that had become of his people. He reached out to touch Mirin, who was speaking in a low murmur—or paused in the doing. Her mouth was open, and she was halted. Flos tried to move her, but even when he strained, she didn’t budge.
“You can’t move her or even harm her. Also, try to remember where you stood, everyone. The [Time Stop] needs to be convincing. Also—I’m burning magic here. So if we talk, can we do it faster?”
Silvenia floated back, and Trey stared at her.
“You stopped time?”
She winked at him.
“Ah, someone’s familiar with my magic. That’s Earth’s children for you. In this world, few people think you can even slow it.”
“Impossible.”
Amerys spat, raising her hands that shimmered with lightning…then stared at the particles of lightning that froze in the air. Anything that left their grip, even Teres’ sword, just hovered in the air.
Stopped in time.
“Impossible for you. For me? It’s just taxing. But we are in a bubble, and so we can talk without the Blighted Kingdom soiling their nappies, Your Majesty of Reim. May we speak? You can chase me off for the look of it, but I heard you were a man who had the daring and wisdom to at least speak to Djinni. The one you freed as a younger man told me the story.”
“You knew Couilekurne?”
Flos blinked, and Orthenon made to block him, but Silvenia came to sit on the stone battlements, smiling down at Flos.
“Of course. All Djinni flee to the one safe place if they are freed. I wish that Djinni you unshackled had tried to make it to us. Ah, but I won’t speak of Djinni or Roshal to a Chandrarian. Let’s talk about Earth, Earth! Hello, Trey Atwood and Teres! I have something for you.”
Both tensed, but Silvenia tossed something which Gazi intercepted. It was…Trey blinked at it.
“What’s that?”
“A ‘storage device’. Apparently it’s one for your phone, loaded with music and videos and whatever the children had. They prepared it when I said I’d meet with you. It’s a little gift. IT won’t work since your phones are apparently worthless without your internet, but if you ever have the right device…music, videos, and more.”
“It could have malware on it, Trey.”
Teres whispered, and Silvenia laughed.
“Oh, yes, it could! Or I could have stopped time and killed you all! Ah…well, it doesn’t work quite like that or I’d just stop time, walk into Paranfer, and kill Othius. Bubbles are possible, but we share them, and we can’t change the world beyond the bounds. One’s self in perfect stasis? I’d have to halt this very world’s turning to do it, and I’m not that strong.”
She spread her arms, and Trey wanted to write that down. But the USB stick—Flos Reimarch eyed it and turned to Silvenia as he indicated the bubble.
“Astonishing. So you wished to speak to me?”
“Gossip. Truly, just get your measure and perhaps talk about Earth. It’s so boring talking to the other Demons, who are responsible people like Czautha, who’s worried about another nation of slave takers, or Serinpotva, who’s all…politics and diplomacy. I wanted to talk to a real bastard, and the Titan of Baleros would probably run if I came close to him. Not that I’ve met him, but he’s said to be cautious. I can’t even get close to other Earthers.”
Silvenia sat there as Flos and his vassals eyed her. Then she lifted something up brightly.
“Plus, I even stopped time in two other places! And not to put a fine point on it, but keeping you here is draining my mana so fast I can’t keep up even with this mana potion.”
She began drinking it, then drew a rectangle in the air.
