She protectively hovered in front of Serinpotva, and the little Earther looked worried he’d upset the Death of Chains. But Serinpotva just pecked Czautha sharply and quickly on the arm.
“Ow.”
“[Royal Griffin Peck]. Be nicer. I was told it was this child’s birthday.”
“Oh…”
Czautha hesitated and looked down. Flora herself turned incredulously. It was hard to match up dates, but it had apparently been sixteen days to his birthday when he was taken, and celebrations were celebrations regardless of interdimensional travel.
Still. How did Serinpotva know that?
The Death of Wings paid attention to dates, especially birthdays, like she did to maps, names, distance, and time. She was a historian and had more maps and books and stories in her nested domain than anyone else in the Demon Kingdom.
In fact, she was more interested in Flora’s account of Earth and recent history than anyone else, and she had even asked some of the Earthers to put on a student-demonstration, modeling the United Nations or politics so she could understand the dynamics of another world.
And learn and implement. She had already insisted that Silvenia use some of her magic to try and create mechanized industry, hence the Death of Magic’s boredom. Harpies were, at this very moment, pecking at nuts and bolts as Demons with more useful digits screwed together a simple conveyor belt.
“If it’s his birthday…I suppose it’s fine. Djinni don’t celebrate birthdays, though. Every century—stop pecking me, Serinpotva. I understand. And at least we have your conveyor belts. They smell of oil and metal, though. Are you sure this is more important than Silvenia making mana stones?”
Mana stones fed Djinni, who needed lots of magic even if they generated it. Excess mana was one of the things that enabled them to reproduce or ‘grow’, so the two had been vying for Silvenia’s abilities.
Yet they were not parasites, and Serinpotva replied calmly.
“It may be worthless here, unless we set up a dimensional domain, but the ability to create at scale is the foundation of great empire. If we can trivialize some of Silvenia’s work…I have at least secured enough food for this winter.”
Her Harpies had been diving over the sea and harvesting fish off the safest coast of Rhir—the opposite end of the Blighted Kingdom. Rhir was close to The Last Tide, the edge of the world, but also to the Empire of Drath and the north of Baleros.
Neither area was as hostile to the Demons, and if they had any allies…well, neither Dullahans nor Drowned Folk nor Drath would ever declare friendship with Demons for fear of reprisal. But there could be at least neutrality and even trade, if secretly.
Rinu was bouncing up and down with another question since that was, apparently, his birthday gift.
“Lady Czautha’qshe?”
“Just Czautha. I am no [Lady], nor do I like the title. What is it, Rinu? Ask your question. It’s a gift since I did not know it was your birthday.”
“Can I ask…you’re a legend fighting for those weaker for you, for those who are chained and oppressed. Your consort is an Empress of Harpies, and your friend is an all-powerful Archmage. But you’re friends! Do you—this is my question—do you have a favorite way to spend time together? Or a favorite thing you’ve done together? A favorite memory?”
Of all the questions to ask…Czautha’s brows rose, and she and Serinpotva looked amused.
“See? Earthers have a perspective Demons have lost. Go on. Though if you mention my wings, I will peck you.”
The Djinni sat cross-legged in the air as she thought a second.
“Hm. Memories are difficult, Rinu, friends. Many are painful. I could say—the moment I broke my chains and came here, looking for succor and found friendship. Or perhaps great triumphs like the death of my foes. But that would be a warrior’s answer—a lie.”
She closed an eye and heaved a deep sigh as her body changed to water, becoming like a breaking wave, a Water Golem, tears of water across her face and eyes.
“In truth, my fondest memories are that of the other Deaths, when we sat and spoke of dreams. Of hopes. Yet the other Deaths before me have…died. So these memories are bitter. But oh so precious.”
Rinu almost burst into tears, and Czautha cracked one eye open.
“Argh. I suppose I have forgotten how to be kind. Don’t cry.”
“There. You see? You should spend more time with the Harpy chicks. It grounds you. We must not be tyrants. Thank you for the question, little one.”
Serinpotva patted Rinu on the head with one wing, then enfolded Czautha with another. Both Deaths paused, then, and turned sideways.
Silvenia, the Death of Magic, was older than both, and if you wanted to speak of grounding, of connections with her mortality—she beckoned with a smile.
“Are you asking them your questions? Where’s mine? Perhaps I should give you more than one, my napping pillow. Czautha, Serinpotva. How about it? A grand journey.”
He danced around excitedly, trying to think of one as she waved at her Deaths. Just one Earther among many, and it was the girl with the gun who had roused the Giants. But for today—he asked the questions that even the other Demons and Deaths wanted to know. Czautha heaved a huge sigh.
“I could indulge the idea. His Majesty will be wroth. Serinpotva?”
The Harpy Queen was normally the most defensive of the lot, but she fanned her wings idly.
“Daring is needed in this new age. Caution would have us dead. I see part of Silvenia’s reason. Give me three hours to make ready.”
With that, she took off, and Silvenia clapped her hands in delight. Then she flew off as Flora groaned, and the Minister of Defense tried to reason with Czautha. But it was true…the Death of Chains held out one hand.
“Silvenia seems mad or spontaneous at times, but she is cleverest of us all, if not wisest. We have done this before, Minister, General, Flora. And we must not stay here. Look—”
The rain of Balelight continued. Czautha could fly amidst it, change her nature so the deadly light empowered her, or change into a variation of it herself. But the Demons? This land? She spoke somberly, thinking of her brothers and sisters in Chandrar and the rest of the world, waiting for her. The magnitude of their foe—and they had built more walls, not less, over time.
“We cannot continue on the defensive. We must have allies. The New Lands and more…I could almost wish for this calamity on Winter’s Solstice to distract the foe from us. I will tell His Majesty. But we must go.”
The Demons did not argue overlong after that. If any Death died, let alone all three, they might be finished. But such was Rhir, a razor’s edge. They had to trust the Deaths.
Well, Bazeth and Flora let it go. But the Minister of Defense went to harangue Silvenia, and she pointed a finger at the Minister.
“[Polymorph: Dog]. [Polymorph: Cat].”
She turned her into a furious, huge Tibetan mastiff—and hit Rinu with a spell that turned him into a cat, much to his delight as he bounded around. Silvenia looked around.
“Anyone else want a spell? Anyone else have a comment? Because I could happily hit you with all kinds of transformation spells. Polymorphing is the nice one. No? That’s what I thought. I’m going to my tower. Come on, cat.”
The cat raced off as the dog howled and was restrained from being further insulted by several Demons. And now, the question.
The question, the burning question in the cat’s mind, as Silvenia flew back to her tower, was one the rest of the world might have. Fellow ‘Archmages’, curious historians. If you could ask Silvenia anything at all…
What would it be?
 
——
 
When she returned to her tower, Silvenia floated over to a hammock she’d strung up between two pillars. Then she released the [Flight] spell, lay back as a cat, an actual black cat with two white tufts on its ears, meowed.
“Aha. Outside. I’d bring you and Flora, but I fear you’d never survive the journey. Good work, Rinu. Three hours? That’s perfect for…”
She began to yawn almost immediately.
“…questions. [Greater Translation]. Just give me one second to nap. Okay? My precious pillow—”
The cat meowed gently, and Silvenia put her head back.
Her eyes fluttered as magic sprung up around her in this tower next to the Demon King’s palace. Protective wards that were set to go off—and the Death of Magic began to sleep, and snore, within seconds of lying down.
As ever, the cat lay there for a long while, petrified, trying not to disturb her sleep, but Silvenia, when she did sleep, slept like a log until someone called her name. So the cat eventually stared around the tower where Silvenia worked from.
It looked crazed, half-exposed to the elements, magical rooms hovering without proper stairs, dimensional magic stapled together.
You’d be wrong to think it was a representation of Silvenia’s mind. To hear her tell it, they were her different abodes and workshops she’d reclaimed by literally ripping them from their foundations when she rebelled against the Blighted Kingdom and left Wistram. Her tower was literally…a tower she’d yanked out of Wistram.
Death of Magic. Death of Magic. Purveyor of more war crimes than there were in most books about conduct in war. Seeding the land with Creler eggs was what Silvenia did for fun. So it was amazing…or perhaps predictable?…that she had her admirers.
Silvenia kept sleeping, and after an hour, the cat had to pee. He left the hammock and padded around, falling down stairs because Rinu had no real idea how to control a cat’s body like a cat. He did not land on his feet, but it didn’t really hurt.
The power to turn someone into a cat. The power to do so much…in this modern day and age? She didn’t fit with the world, but Silvenia claimed she was just like a Dragon, Giant, or even Great General Dioname—but better.
She was a relic of another era, and perhaps…one yet to come. Accordingly, her tower showcased an oddly modern mix of amenities.
Oh, a lot of old magic like the tower itself being of stone, or suits of armor taken from foes hanging up, plundered tapestries, and a picture of all the Blighted Kings and Queens she’d seen killed.
But also…mage-pictures. Images plucked from Silvenia’s memory, framed on the walls, beautiful pictures from lives of past friends. The cat stared up at laughing [Mages] in school, her first glimpse of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, gleaming in the sands, an angry Kraken—
“Krakens are as deadly as Dragons, you know. More, perhaps, given their size, but Dragons are nimbler, able to concentrate their force. You asked me how many ancient immortals are left in this world? Krakens, certainly, and I wouldn’t be surprised if the Wyrms weren’t all dead. I met two before their deaths. One was named Calthusveri, and he tried to steal my magic. They’re dangerous, cunning, and even we Demons might hesitate to ally with one.”
The cat jumped and nearly went tumbling off the balcony where it was staring at the pictures, and Silvenia caught him. She was yawning; she must have slept an hour, but waved off the urgent meows.
“Don’t be silly. I got an hour’s nap, and I always use [Time Slow] to sleep. You gave me rest…and you have questions. Now, where shall we have them? Aha—aha.”
She flew higher, up to the top of her tower, and into a room that Erin Solstice would have recognized. It had the same blank look as the Garden of Sanctuary that had held the beach, and sure enough, Silvenia began conjuring sand and water and sunlight.
“She must have had an elementalist’s workroom. A powerful one if it can create waves and sun and shine. I wonder if she found anything in it? I wonder if I knew the Archmage who owned it, or just—[Mage]. There we are. Sand. Beach. Drink?”
She snapped her hand, and both she and Rinu stared at a cup of water. Silvenia had created the crystal cup and water, and she sipped from it.
“Mm.”
She paused. The cat stared at her. Silvenia took a longer gulp.
“R-refreshing. Need some?”
She poured him a bowl. Then coughed. Then Silvenia scowled.
“[Teleport].”
She vanished in a pop and reappeared four minutes later with drinks.
“Magic cannot create good food except the hard way. The same with friends and art, really. Here.”
She had looted an Earther-creation, a milkshake, and sipped it as the cat had some too. It meowed after a second, and Silvenia nodded.
[Greater Translation]. Another spell from bygone eras, both in magnitude and…need.
“What’s that? ‘Why do I know [Greater Translation] if everyone speaks common?’ Silly cat. What about Drath? What about the languages of magic? Or Gnollish script? Or…the fact that there are and have been other nations with distinct languages? Goblins are one, but there are—groups that evolve without contact with the majority of races. And those had their own language.”
The cat tilted its head, and Silvenia yawned again as she stretched out, tanning her ruined flesh in the sun.
“…Yes. I’m young, you know. Young by the standards of my day. I still feel like a girl, just with more power and experience. When I was a little half-Elf, the [Archmages]—real [Archmages]—humored me with tales of the past. And some said that the other lands, other dimensions, had strange folk.”
“Meow?”
“Oh, you’ll see them if I ever use [Greater Teleport]. I have to pass through places that are…compressed in another way. One step there is a thousand here. That’s how the spell works, not that anyone knows it. Don’t think to find any peoples there, though. Most of the lands we now use to transit through are dead. War broke them, and those that remain are being found only now.”
She rolled her eyes, amused.
“Another reason why I wanted to meet the [Innkeeper]. I doubt I shall.”
“Meow…nya?”
“No, the beach was just the excuse to annoy the Minister of Defense. There’s little profit to going to that inn. It’s too dangerous and puts her in danger. I would like to, if only to see these ‘Free Antinium’…they did not speak the common tongue until I translated. Though Mirrex, that [Bard], was the first to master our language. Annoyingly fast.”
This was the real stuff, the secrets in the veins of time that Silvenia had. She was, right now, in a good mood, and she eyed the cat.
“Since I’m in such a good mood…I’ll let you have three questions instead of one. Three real questions. Are you ready?”
He had been up all night thinking of one, and the cat nervously meowed back. Silvenia listened and laughed.
 
Question 1. Dear Silvenia, if I may ask you, what’s your class and level? So many people boast about it, and I’m a [Pillowfriend], but you? 
 
