“That’s the hard part,” Nathan agreed. He grinned back at his friend, trying not to feel unsettled at the way the aether flexed each time Khachi spoke one of his tenets. “Sometimes I feel like I’m special, like it’s up to me to fix everything, and that justifies everything I do. But everybody’s the protagonist of their own story. If it’s not right for somebody else to do something, then I shouldn’t do it either. To believe anything else is ego.”

“Good is not a thing you are, it is a thing you do,” Khachi mused. “Every act must be weighed to the extent of your knowledge. Violence carries a shadow that must be balanced by mercy. But failing to take action is just as much a failure as acting wrongly.” He frowned, deep in thought. “It is a hard problem.”

Nathan didn’t want to break his friend’s chain of thought, especially when he didn’t think he had much to add. He felt good about his own moral compass - though he hadn’t always followed it as well as he’d wished. But his class didn’t rely on that compass. In some senses, he was pretty sure his assassin class would benefit from a more flexible take on murder. But for Khachi, it was entirely possible that this discussion would unlock incredible power.

That’s certainly not an outcome that’s possible from a normal ethics discussion!

They spent a few minutes in silence. Khachi had closed his eyes, but then he opened them again. They were calmer now, deep pools of light. “To act, when a decision is made. To not claim uncertainty and shy away from what must be done. I may be wrong, but when I believe that I know the correct course, I must hold the Resolve to take action. To strike down evil and raise good in its place.”

The wolfman nodded to himself, the action prosaic against the shuddering of the aether. “Humility, Virtue, and Resolve. These are the pillars of my Faith. Contrary to one another, but such is necessary to retain balance.”

“Is it still faith?” Nathan asked tentatively, not sure how to help Khachi claim the Insight.

“It is Faith I have in myself,” Khachi said simply. “The Faith that I have structured my soul well, that I am worthy to hold this power in place of the god I usurp.”

Nathan waited for the swell of divinity, the sudden light from the heavens that would anoint Khachi and boost his power. But it didn’t come. The Aether calmed around the cleric, who smiled beatifically up at the sun.

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 3

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 8

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 2

Forewarning 7

The Truth of Magic 3

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 3

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 3
