His room was empty, but sunlight came straight down through his window, while the smells of spices and meats drifted up from downstairs. He sighed out, laid there for a bit, then rubbed out moisture from his eyes and got up.

Al and Jane were there for a lunch that Savral had cooked. Erick had missed Savral’s cooking. He was really good with the local spices in a way that Erick and Jane were both still learning. There were some platitudes laid out for Erick, by everyone, though he could tell that Jane was holding back; mostly watching him for signs of breakage.

Sure, he was breaking, but sometimes that was a good thing.

After lunch, Al and Savral left with an invite to come to the farms tomorrow, then Erick [Stoneshape]d a boulder from the flat ground outside and floated it inside, to the south tower; his tower. He made three board games; chess, checkers, and the one that took him the longest: not-scrabble. He had no idea how many of each letter to make, or how many points they were worth, or how the board even looked. Was it 20 x 20? No. That didn’t look right. 21 x 21? That seemed better. 21 x 21 it was; the middle row was perfect for the starting star and the triple word scores.

21x21 was a big board, though.

Oh well. Should be fine.

The sizes for chess and checkers were much easier to remember: just line up all the pieces for chess and that’s the size of the board for both games. Castle x 2, Knight x 2, Bishop x 2, King and Queen, and then 8 Pawns, per side.

When he finished that and set them aside, he went out, and at Poi’s direction, he found what he was looking for in a general store on Merchant’s Row: Cards for Wizard’s Towers. He had liked the games he played with Bacci and Savral and Jane in the Sewerhouse, before they were attacked. As he looked at the thick paper card box, scrawled with ‘Wizard's Towers’ in fancy script, he chuckled. For such a bad word to be used so openly, this card game was a little scandalous, wasn’t it? He bought the cards from an exceedingly polite man behind the counter, and put them in his shoulder bag.

Then Erick went to the Courthouse, since it was on the way back home. He waved hello to Taro, the redscale guard at the front. Taro was busy with some people off the street, so he just waved Erick through a pair of guards stationed further in the Courthouse. Taro went back to talking to the people off the street; occasionally instructing a fresh-faced orcol recruit standing behind the guard station, behind Taro, on proper procedure.

Erick nodded to the two guards as he walked past them, and they nodded back. Erick had never seen any more guards in the Courthouse except for Taro and a few others; these two didn’t look new, but where they were stationed was certainly new.

At the floating, lightward globe of Veird in the center of the Courthouse, Erick looked right, toward the public offices and Silverite’s office. Then he turned left.

The solid blue door of Irogh’s office was already open.

When Erick approached, Irogh’s voice called out, “Come on in, Erick.”

He turned to Poi. “Please stay out here.”

“Of course.”

Poi moved to the side of the blue door, and stood, waiting. Erick walked inside, then shut the door. It clicked; the blue of the surface gently glowing for a brief second.

Irogh was much the same as Erick remembered; an exceedingly handsome man. But after living in Spur for over a month, Irogh was no longer the Most Handsome Man in the world. Sure, that short sleeved shirt did amazing things as it bunched up around his shoulders and his chest… And his arms. And that stubble was great—

“How can I help you?” He gestured toward the seats. “Please. Have a seat.”

“Sorry. That touch of the goddess is still very entrancing.” Erick joked, “And 20 vitality is doing a number on my physical responses. I feel like a darn teenager.”

Irogh laughed. “Don’t trouble yourself with such a concern.” He smiled. “There are much bigger shadows out there to concentrate on.”

Erick took a seat.

He breathed.

He thought.

Irogh waited, patiently.

Eventually, Erick said, “I want to kill every single Shade and empty Ar’Kendrithyst of shadows, but most importantly, I want to kill Bulgan —any Shade at all, really— the next time they attack, or show their face. Utterly, ruthlessly. Dead and gone forevermore. I’ll give up the idea of fighting inside Ar’Kendrithyst for the ability to murder any Shade that steps out of the Dead City. How should I proceed?”

Irogh smiled gently, then he started talking.

“Firstly, you must know that Shades are trapped, not by any spell or any power, but because that’s where all the other Shades live, for Ar’Kendrithyst is a trophy; the brightest jewel in Melemizargo’s dark crown. Kendrithyst was the first and largest wrought city to ever fall to the Dark Dragon. When the Dead City surfaced from the Underworld 950 years ago, the Shades— the priesthood of the Dark Dragon, they rushed to claim it, and they succeeded. Save for a very, very small section overseen by Killzone, the city is the Shades', utterly and completely, and it is massive.

“Ar’Kendrithyst is 140 kilometers wide with an average 50 kilometer depth, but it goes a lot deeper; the line between the Underworld and the Dead City is not always obvious. Inside the city, there are districts ten times the size of Spur, and those are the small ones. Bridges are everywhere, buildings are dozens of kilometers tall. There are still locations inside the Dead City unseen by mortal eyes and unknown by mortal minds, for nearly a thousand years. Finding a Shade when they don’t want to be found is almost impossible, for they look nothing like how they appeared on the walls, or the dark wind attacking Frontier.

“The manifestations you saw today were due to an ability called [Avatar of Melemizargo]. Killing an Avatar would kill the Shade, but the caster can abandon their ability at a moment’s thought, returning to their bodies inside the city. And inside the city, they are much, much more dangerous, because they have all their powers as an Avatar of the Dark God, but in their original, person-sized, bodies.

“[Withering], without modifiers, covers about 1 cubic kilometer. The dead city occupies almost a million cubic kilometers. If you wish to cull the city of shadows, you will need to get much, much stronger, or figure out some new way to use [Withering], or some other spell, because every Shade still has access to all the magic they had in life.

“All of them have [Ward].” Irogh added, “And now they know to use it.”

Irogh went silent, waiting for Erick to speak.

Eventually, Erick said, “All of these are problems to overcome; please help me do so.”

Irogh nodded. “Certainly.”

They talked for hours.

- - - -

END OF BOOK 1
