As she approached with a wary squad of Thronebearers, the answer became clear. The two sentries weren’t exactly…silent. A voice spoke, commanding and snappish.
“Stand straighter.”
Clackclackclack.
It was a woman’s voice. And Seraphel heard a clatter of…teeth? She walked around a tree and saw Strategist Veine poking the Skeleton Champion.
“You are slouching. Stand. Straighter. And you—you are dismissed. Sir.”
The skeleton rattled its jaw at Strategist Veine, making that uncanny clattering. It stood a bit straighter as she aimed the crossbow at it, and another voice protested. Softly. Pained and also hurt.
“I am your commanding officer, Veine.”
“That was before I died, Admiral Dakelos. I am now enlisted via Skill into the bodyguard of a [Princess]. Per my death, I would be struck from Ailendamus’ naval ranks. I think.”
Admiral Dakelos was sitting on a chair he’d clearly brought out this far. He was swatting at mosquitos, but his eyes were on Veine. When he saw Seraphel and his escort, he leapt to his feet.
“Your Highness.”
Both Skeleton Champion and Veine turned. She fell to one knee instantly; the Skeleton Champion waved and got a look from Veine.
Seraphel didn’t know what to think. It was hilarious; even the studiously neutral Thronebearers’ expressions were colorful. But it was also…she glanced at Admiral Dakelos.
“Am I interrupting anything, Admiral?”
“No, Your Highness. Merely—observing. I should get back to the ship.”
Dakelos strode away, then turned.
“Strategist Veine. Good night.”
“Admiral.”
She straightened and threw a salute to Seraphel, pointedly edging in front of the Skeleton Champion. It shouldered her aside to stand before Seraphel. When one of the Thronebearers blocked its way, the skeleton clattered its jaw at the [Knight]. The [Knight] raised a mace; the Skeleton Champion lifted its greatsword.
“Stop!”
Seraphel called out, and everyone around her stopped tensing. She noted Veine had not raised a weapon; Seraphel turned to Neranthei.
“Dame Neranthei, your, um, counterparts do seem more spirited than I recalled. Did I know they could talk?”
Neranthei half shook her head, but Veine interrupted.
“The moment at sea was not opportune to communicate, Your Highness. Tactical analysis suggested it was better to hide my ability to speak until we appraised whether you were in further danger from your own people.”
“Oh. Um. Strategist Veine, isn’t it?”
“Yes, ma’am! Strategist Veine, formerly attached to Admiral Dakelos of Fleet Kerandos, Wrmeriye’s Spittoon. Honorably dead in battle; full military accords and burial, and I have been awarded Maxeff’s Cross posthumously, to my understanding.”
“Oh my.”
She was a soldier! She spoke with precision, authority, and Seraphel wondered what had possessed her to steal one of Dakelos’ ghosts and Pisces’ warriors. Desperation.
They both looked rather competent. Veine ran an eye over Seraphel’s bodyguard dismissively.
“Dame Neranthei, you are to take up a flank position on the [Princess]’ right side. I’ll occupy the left. The rest of you Thronebearers, spread out and secure this perimeter. Clatterface, the front.”
The Skeleton Champion clattered its jaw again but stomped a few paces forwards. Its body faced forwards; it swivelled its head around on its shoulders. None of the Thronebearers moved.
“Your Highness. These…creations are your Skill? Can you de-summon them? The ghost has been ordering soldiers around and causing a disturbance. As for the skeleton, you can see the sounds it makes.”
The [Knight] leading the squad addressed Seraphel, and Veine interrupted.
“I am a royal bodyguard, Knight. Give me your rank and name, and the next time you speak out of line, I’ll have you brought up for insubordination! Your Highness, establishing a working chain of command within your living forces seems to be a priority.”
Seraphel realized Dakelos had left his chair and decided she needed it. She sat, staring at Veine.
“You talk. Oh, dead gods. And you—you’re a person?”
Veine caught herself. There was the briefest moment of uncertainty, then she threw a salute, stared past Seraphel’s ear, and barked. Loudly enough, Seraphel thought, that a slowly departing Dakelos slowed and heard it.
“No, Your Highness! I’m a fragment of Strategist Veine. Incomplete memories, few attachments—a functional soldier fit to command and lead. I don’t remember everything. I…I’m a copy.”
She hesitated, and a note of real trepidation entered her tone. Seraphel sat forwards.
“A copy? How? By the Skill?”
“The—rationale was not presented to me, Your Highness. I regret my information was incorrect. Strategist Veine is gone. I am merely her memories, personality, put together in a fairly accurate copy. I don’t remember her childhood. I don’t…know what she wanted. I don’t know her family. I know the crew. The political situation in Ailendamus around my death. Nothing more. Something went wrong. But I am here to serve. As is Clatterface. He’s just a Skeleton Champion with a [Duelist]’s reflexes.”
The Skeleton Champion flipped Veine off, which suggested he had as much personality as Seraphel. He clattered his jaw at Seraphel, and she got the distinct impression he was asking if she wanted him to hit something for her.
Clatterface was a bit of a brute. Veine…confident, but projecting. There was a real core of uncertainty to her. Both she and Clatterface were in excellent condition, though. Neranthei was the one who might have been recovering from her own bug-induced illness. As for Dalimont, he was absolutely fine, though Seraphel only knew he was far, far distant.
How did she know this? Her [Royal Bodyguard] Skill. It gave her the locations and basic conditions of her bodyguard. Seraphel concentrated silently.
Clatterface took two steps left, and Veine took a step right. The [Strategist]’s eyes lit up approvingly.
“Sadly, I am unable to give the same kind of command, Your Highness. Hence the need to establish my authority among any other members of your guard. Which I would like to discuss—the three of us are not ample protection in Baleros, if I may say so. If you’d choose to induct any more members into our guard, I do have a shortlist of fellow crew from Dakelos’ ship.”
“That’s not…not an option, I believe, Strategist Veine. Oh my. I have another bodyguard. Neranthei? I hope you can handle the company.”
“I—I’ll try, Your Highness. But the two, ah, dead beings don’t wish to take orders from me.”
Clatterface—it seemed like as good a name as any to Seraphel, and it fit—and Veine looked at Dame Neranthei. Both projected scorn.
“We outlevel you, Miss Neranthei. With all due respect, fall in and shut up. I recommend putting Clatterface on permanent sentry duty, Your Highness. I’ll be serving in more of an intellectual capacity.”
The Skeleton Champion lifted his sword up with both hands and shook it at Veine. He did it as if shaking water off the blade and looked quite pleased with himself as he ran a finger down it, then made a gesture as if letting something float into the wind. Seraphel tilted her head.
“What does that mean?”
“No clue, Your Highness. I think it’s trace memories of whatever bones he was animated with. I’m not up-to-date on skeletons.”
Veine was dismissive, but Neranthei blinked as a Thronebearer shifted.
“I think that’s a Chandrarian sword-oath, Your Highness. ‘You’re not worth the water on my blade’ and ‘you’re a speck of dust’, respectively.”
The skeleton brightened up and nodded. Veine shot him a dirty look, and Seraphel started giggling. She couldn’t help it. She laughed with delight, Veine smiled, and Clatterface clapped his hands together. Neranthei beamed as Beacle and the other Thronebearers stared in horror.
Her people felt it. Seraphel wasn’t alone. She thought that—then she grew afraid of losing her friends again. But at least—
 
——
 
Ser Thilowen was a good Thronebearer indeed. When Veine and Clatterface appeared on the ship, he didn’t protest, he just worked them into the security. But he also, pointedly, gave Seraphel a taste of her own medicine when she told him Veine and Clatterface were going to be with her and there would be no objections.
The Skeleton Champion standing on the roof of Seraphel’s cabin wasn’t an issue; he was on the alert for intruders, and Seraphel forgot he was there after a moment.
Strategist Veine, on the other hand, glowed like a nightlight. Seraphel tossed, turned, then sat up.
“Um. Strategist Veine?”
“What can I do for you, Your Highness?”
Veine leapt up at once from the chair she’d sat in. She closed the book she was reading, and Seraphel saw the servant’s door open. Beacle stared at Veine with much the expression Seraphel did.
“Can…can you perhaps exit the room, Veine? I am well guarded here, and your presence is a tad bit distracting.”
Neranthei was sleeping. Veine, however, just protested.
“Your Highness, I can be alert and present at every hour of the day. If I may say so, objectively, we are potentially more invaluable than our living counterparts. They may have Skills and the capacity for growth, but we are tireless. I shall be by your side in any conceivable circumstance.”
“When I’m asleep?”
“Of course. Sleep, bathroom—”
“Absolutely not. Get out.”
“Your Highness, nothing could disturb me, and I am utterly loyal to—”
“Out. You may make sure I am safe outside my room. But I do not need an undead nightlight. If I am in danger, you will sense it! Out!”
Veine was pushed out by Beacle and Seraphel, despite her objections.
“But, Your Highness—”
She tried to walk through a wall and couldn’t. She was more solid and less ghostly than Seraphel thought. The [Princess], on the other hand, just poked Veine in the chest, her hand going through her shut door.
“You may consider me safe on the Throne’s Will, so long as I am around so many Thronebearers. Why don’t you…read that book elsewhere? Or go play a game of cards with Admiral Dakelos?”
It was a shot in the dark, but Seraphel felt Veine hesitate.
“I could never—”
“That’s an order, Strategist Veine. Consider it…earning an income for me. By gambling.”
Seraphel pointedly locked the door. She waited until she sensed Veine moving across the ship and sank down. After ordering Beacle out of the room, Seraphel covered her eyes.
Oh no, I have undead servants. With personalities. I’ll never get rid of them.
She knew…
They could feel how dreadfully happy that made her. Seraphel giggled to herself until she fell asleep. If only Ser Dalius were here. Then she might have never been lonely…
Alas.
 
——
 
[Messages].
[Scrying].
The [World’s Eye Theatre].
They were indeed soon in contact with the outside world. In Rabbiteater’s case, the first appearance of Lyonette and Mrsha came as he was heaving on the side of the Throne’s Will with hundreds of volunteers.
“Rab—ter! Are you there?”
Lyonette came in fuzzily, and Rabbiteater slipped as she and Mrsha appeared. He leapt to his feet.
“Lyonette?”
“—zzy. I think there’s a scrying ward…”
He waved his hands at her as people turned, then he ran down the beach to get out of range of Calanfer’s protective spells. Even then, she was still somewhat fuzzy, but the theatre had more ‘punch’ than your average scrying spell. In fact, Numbtongue appeared as well, vaulting into the image and nearly smushing Mrsha.
“Rabbiteater!”
“Numbtongue!”
They gazed at each other, and then Numbtongue glanced away, flushing. Rabbiteater pretended not to notice the obvious shame written across the [Bard]’s face.
“Where is Erin? Is she safe?”
“They found her! She was clinging to a raft, and she’s in Talenqual! She’s, uh…Fraerling-sized.”
Rabbiteater’s jaw dropped. Everyone was recounting news to him, and he dearly wanted to have a word with Numbtongue, but Mrsha was demanding news on Badarrow for Snapjaw, which was fair, and Lyonette wanted to talk to Seraphel—and the entire conversation was completely derailed when Ksmvr ran over, demanding an update on the Horns.
Pisces and Colth were yet at sea, which distressed Ksmvr greatly, but the knowledge Ceria was well had him running off to get a [Mage] to send a [Message]. Lyonette turned to Rabbiteater.
“If you keep your anti-scrying spells up, we’ll have a hard time checking in, but it’s just as well you’re not easily found. The Iron Vanguard has engaged multiple Terandrian ships at sea. As for Rhir…”
“I didn’t kill any Rhirian soldiers.”
“You didn’t, Rabbiteater. But it appears they made the link between Erin and you. Let’s, um, say that your identity might factor into this. As part of Erin’s inn and as, you know. They’re not stupid.”
Ah. Wonderful. Rabbiteater had heard that of all the continents, Rhir had the lowest population of Goblins alongside Baleros, actually. He grimaced and wondered if he should mention his new class.
After a second, he decided the odds of Thilowen having someone tailing him were high and just nodded.
“We’re going to try to get out of here—soon. We just need to figure out where we are, then we can set sail.”
“How badly damaged is your ship?”
Lyonette eyed it with some concern, and Rabbiteater shrugged. It was starting to move, and not just because more people had joined the efforts to make up for his absence. He stared at a line of a hundred glowing figures pushing as a solitary man stood on deck.
“I don’t think it matters. It can’t sink if Dakelos helms it. Tell me—no. If Erin’s nearby, maybe I’ll jump ship to stay with her.”
He didn’t realize that was his plan until he said it, but it made instant sense. Badarrow was being tolerated, but only because he kept well out of sight. Erin would need him, tiny person or normal-sized. Rabbiteater only felt guilty about Seraphel. Cortese and Menrise might be able to join him if they wanted, but the [Princess] was duty-bound to the New Lands.
Maybe he could convince her to…?
Numbtongue seemed to read Rabbiteater’s hesitation, because the [Bard] interrupted the others. He seemed a bit distracted, for all his relief at seeing Rabbiteater alive. He reached out, and his fingers passed through Rabbiteater’s arm.
“Be careful. Hanging around Erin is dangerous.”
It was such a strange comment that Rabbiteater jerked back and replied without thinking.
“Living is dangerous.”
Everyone fell silent, and Numbtongue recoiled, looked guilty, then said nothing more. Rabbiteater felt bad as the conversation ended. But he concurred with Badarrow’s take. Something was wrong. Time to go home. Baleros looked nice, but he imagined it might suck, like every continent could at times.
