His hands. They wouldn’t stop shaking.
Day after day, and they felt so long. He felt weak as a kitten. Not that he really…knew what kittens felt like. He felt sick. He would have given anything to take his helmet off and breathe the air because it was so humid it felt like a blanket was draped around him at all times.
Rabbiteater felt weaker than he’d ever been since he was a tiny Goblin racing to catch rabbits to feed himself. He lay in the half-tilted cabin that Seraphel had vacated for him, sweating, sick.
The first few days after they’d run aground on Baleros, Ser Solstice, Rabbiteater, the Goblin Slayer of Izril, or whatever he was called—fell deeply ill. One second he was walking around, surveying the beached Throne’s Will and all the battle damage, the next, he was waking up with Badarrow threatening to punch the [Healer] if they took his helmet off.
“I don’t feel good, brother.”
Then he passed out.
 
——
 
“Ser Solstice? Ser Solstice? …Rabbiteater?”
He only remembered that was him after a while. Someone was feeling at his forehead. Tentatively; a cool hand that was wet. He felt like it had been poking his cheek, but now it was wiping at his brow.
His helmet was still on. The Goblin relaxed as the [Princess] whispered.
“He’s burning up. Beacle, get me more ice from the [Mage]. If he keeps burning up, we’ll have to take his helmet off, no matter what that Goblin says.”
No. Bad idea. Rabbiteater almost raised his head or said something, but he was so exhausted…the [Maid] dashed out of the room, and there was a splishing sound. The hand rested on his forehead again, cold and cooling.
She was putting her hand in ice water. The Goblin figured it out after a while. Putting it in water and then cooling his brow off. Neither one said anything, but she must have realized he was awake.
Or she just talked to herself. He’d believe anything of that silly [Princess]. Brave, though. She’d tried to put herself between him and Prince Iradoren. He…sensed her aura. A lonely, deathly, royal aura. Like someone standing in the middle of a vast, cold crypt, Rabbiteater would have said. But not in fear of the darkness or the dead. A [Princess] like a ray of light from that distant throne, filtering down into the catacombs among the restful dead, waiting for a friend to arise.
She felt different these days. Braver than the politely nothing-woman he’d met, who had no vision of the future nor the will to fight for it.
He was different too. Seraphel’s voice was low as she dipped her hand into the water.
“Cortese is sick too. So’s Menrise, Rabbiteater. But their symptoms are different from yours. Vomiting, nausea; Menrise is swollen up, and Cortese is covered by a rash. Nearly two hundred are down; the [Healers] think it was the bugs. Mosquitos. Dreadful things…so I think. My, um, circlet kept them away from me. Everyone else is complaining of the bites. But you’re not sick the same way.”
He could barely open his eyes. He didn’t think he’d thrown up. He just…Seraphel was feeling at his cheek. She jerked her fingers away. Dipped them in water and sounded guilty.
“There has been talk. About you and Badarrow. The Goblin. About Ksmvr the adventurer, too, but he seems more acceptable than…no one knows anything. Concretely. We haven’t seen the rest of the fleet; I think we were truly blown off-course to land on Baleros’ shores. There is a link. Ser Thilowen is in contact with Calanfer’s crown, but I don’t believe Father and Mother have said where we are. It is very, very complex. With Iradoren’s death.”
A dead man staring blankly at a knife exiting Iradoren’s chest as an [Innkeeper] pushed him aside. Eyes only for Rabbiteater. She had come across the ocean, through a war, to make sure the Goblin lived this time.
The clash of arms with the [Prince of Men] still made Rabbiteater’s arms ache. He tried to open one eye, but the faint light in the cabin showed him nothing of Seraphel’s face as she leaned over him. It was already…the lights danced behind his closed eyes.
“We are alive. I intend to see us all remain that way. Earl Altestiel. H-he’s being celebrated across Terandria. Along with the others.”
The Earl of Rains. Rabbiteater saw a man with violet hair, prone to sulking rain or a storm of anger—or laughter. Leaning against a broken ship’s wheel as the Bloodtear Pirates walked onto his ship.
It hurt. It burned him up, and he couldn’t deal with it. It was like losing his brothers again. Again and again…
It hurt less than his body. To stop the memories from pouring over him, the Goblin whispered.
“You don’t want to take my helmet off?”
She jumped and yanked her hand back. There was a pause—Beacle rushed back in.
“My apologies, Your Highness. So many people need ice that the [Mage] was overworked—”
“Very good, Beacle. Put it there. Check on Lord Cortese and Lady Menrise for me, would you?”
“Yes, milady.”
Beacle left the room. Seraphel got up and fussed with something.
“Can you drink, Rabbiteater? Here.”
She poked a straw through his visor and inserted it into one nostril. He found the will to maneuver it into his mouth and sipped. The water was cold, and he gulped it thirstily, then had to lay his head back down.
“You know.”
“Know what, Ser Solstice? I know you’re a brave [Knight] and a friend. And whatever Prince Iradoren thought…he was mad, attacking allies during a war. He is dead. At this moment, we have more pressing matters than pointing fingers at one another. We are lost in Baleros, and the Throne’s Will is badly damaged. Even if we get her back to sea, we have enemies. Roshal, Erribathe. The Blighted Kingdom has accused us of killing their [Heroes]—we didn’t even know they had [Heroes]—”
All this for the New Lands. She was avoiding the question.
“No one took my helmet off?”
“That…Badarrow fellow threatened to shoot anyone who tried. And Ksmvr of Chandrar insisted, as well as that furry Beastkin friend of his. They were quite convincing. Ser Markus and other Knights of Seasons were quite convincing too.”
“…Greysten. Where is he?”
“His ship survived the battle. I think they’ve reached the New Lands or linked up with other elements of the fleet. But the Iron Vanguard is at war with Terandria…no one removed your helmet, Rabbiteater.”
“You didn’t try?”
Seraphel’s voice hesitated as she sat back down.
“Well…it was locked in place.”
He began laughing at that. Seraphel sounded a touch indignant.
“I wasn’t going t—if you can laugh, I suppose you can eat.”
His laughter stopped. It had begun to get hysterical.
“Not hungry.”
“Are you sick? Tell me your symptoms before you pass out. You feel feverish, but it’s not as bad as Cortese. Did you get bitten by a bug?”
“Don’t think so.”
“Nausea? Headaches? Any pain?”
“No. Just tired. It’s too bright.”
“I-in the room? I could close that window, but there’s not much light.”
“The fireflies keep buzzing around my head. I keep hearing their voices.”
“Fireflies? Oh, Eternal Throne, you are sick. Here, let me try to cool you off. Maybe if I shave the ice I can squeeze it through the visor…”
She put a hand on his forehead, and Rabbiteater tried to shake his head.
“No. The lights…they’re all down there. They go on and off. Never seen lights like that. And the voices don’t stop.”
They were flickering around him, dancing. Small ones and vibrant glows. Like the lighthouses of Pheislant. One was a vast, shining beacon that winked on and off.
“They’re looking at me.”
“Rabbiteater? Rabbiteater, there are no lights. Stay with me. Don’t, um, don’t go towards them. More water. The [Healer]?”
“No.”
He caught her arm. The Goblin whispered. She had to understand.
“They’re real. The voices are…dead people.”
That should have set Seraphel running for help, but because it was her, she stopped and bent her head down.
“The dead, Rabbiteater? What dead?”
“Dead…men. And women. Lords and ladies and Kings. Whispering. Fighting. Dying. A thousand generations.”
Her breath caught. Rabbiteater’s head fell back as the memories pressed in. Faces. Names. People whose eyes he saw through.
Goblins.
He lay there, unable to do more than breathe, as Seraphel wavered protectively over him, raising her hands as if to ward something off. He didn’t know what was on her face, but he recognized the fear in her voice.
“Rabbiteater. Don’t…don’t listen to the voices. Can you sit up? Stay with me. Don’t—”
She tried to maneuver him up, and he caught her arms. She tensed, and he saw her face, alarmed, frightened, but not of him. Did she see his face, disheveled and sweaty, behind his helmet? Or just a flash of red in a steel visor?
She had to know who he was. The Goblin whispered.
“I’m tired, Seraphel. Of watching my friends die. Are you going to go away, too?”
She looked at him, blue eyes in a face full of too many sorrows. Not a scar on her skin; they were all buried below the surface. She held his arms, and her hands passed through his armor and touched his flesh. The fingers tightened.
“No. I don’t have enough friends to lose any. I wish I could have done something. For you. For brave Altestiel. I’m just a [Princess].”
He grinned. For a moment, he felt stronger.
“No one could help us but her. My [Innkeeper]. No one is stronger or braver. No one could have, and she paid for it. You’re just a [Princess]. And I’m just a [Knight]. A silly [Champion]. A Lord.”
He fell forwards, and she caught him and called for help as she got him back into bed. His entire body felt like it was changing. Rabbiteater remembered what the voice had told him.
 
[Conditions Met: Indomitable Champion → Supreme Chevalier of…]
[Conditions Overridden: Goblin Lord class obtained.]
[Class Consolidation: Knight of the Dawn removed.]
[Goblin Lord Level 40!]
 
<Reassigning class…>
 
[Goblin Lord {Unaffiliated} – “Rabbiteater of Champions”, Level 40!]
[Subclass: Knight of the Dawn assigned.]
[Condition (Body): Constitution of the Champion obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Toughness obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Strength obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Endurance obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Dexterity obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Charisma obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Speed obtained!]
[Skill Change – Aspect of the Champion → Supreme Aspect of the Champion]
[Skill – Supreme Aspect of the Champion obtained!]
[Skill – Form Squad: My Companions Are With Me obtained!]
[Skill – Brother, Hit That Target obtained!]
[Skill – Squad: Goblin Teamwork obtained!]
[Skill – Intercept Mortal Blow obtained!]
 
[Title – The Goblin Who Lived obtained!]
[Title Skill – Wondrous Deed: I Believe in Miracles granted!]
 
All those Skills and he would have traded them for one of his brothers back. Headscratcher, Grunter, Altestiel…
The Goblin Lord slept, fireflies dancing in his dreams, inspecting him.
 
——
 
Five days after passing out and a week after beaching on Baleros’ shores, Rabbiteater sat up in bed and felt alive.
He leapt out of bed and crashed down on the ground because his body was unused to movement. But then Rabbiteater was scrambling to his feet. He felt…different.
It was as if every movement that he’d made a few days ago were that of someone with weights on his body. Now, Rabbiteater felt more fluid, more flexible, more…swift.
There was a mosquito buzzing around the cabin, futilely trying to bite the armored Goblin. He grabbed it out of the air and then squished it.
It was like he was activating Aspect of the Champion…all the time. Not as strong, maybe, but it was permanent?
Rabbiteater spoke.
“[Supreme Aspect of the Champion]. Uh…”
He hadn’t really thought this one out. Rabbiteater scratched his helmet. There was nothing to punch safely in Seraphel’s cabin. Speed? Toughness? Not really as quantifiable as you wanted. Rabbiteater hesitated.
“…Intelligence? Can you do th—ah. Right, it must be [Supreme Intelligence] now. So is that the order of upgrades? Lesser to enhanced to greater to supreme? That im…plies there’s an even better version. Perfect? Maybe Ultimate Strength? Nah, sounds stupid. You probably get [Giant’s Strength] or it diversifies outwards. Diversifies. I sound like Numbtongue.”
His brain was telling him all kinds of stuff, some of it useless, like the fact that his identity was definitely known by anyone smart, or at least, they’d have guesses. But he wasn’t dead, so he owed Seraphel for that. Badarrow was the one in the most danger.
I don’t know if Erin’s alive. But I can guess from our rough position we’re on the eastern edge of Baleros. Given the humidity, it’s the middle to lower part of the continent, but the jungles indicate southeastern given the flatlands of the middle and frozen north. Also, there is clearly a Goblin Lord on this continent who is as aware of me as I am aware of them. Concerning; it’s not Greydath. It feels like they’re hiding. How do I know where we are? I know this because I was listening to Pisces explaining Baleros on a map to Erin, and I don’t think I like this intelligence thing.
“[Aspect of the Champion: Supreme Wisdom]!”
The rush in his brain halted. Rabbiteater took a deep breath. Then he walked over and poured himself a drink of water, opened his visor, and hydrated. He checked himself. No weapons, but he felt like he could take on a small army barehanded…which was overconfidence.
Level 40. He had passed Garen Redfang. Rabbiteater paused and suddenly felt awkward, as if that were wrong. Strange. Goblin Lord? Was every single Goblin who hit Level 40 a Goblin Lord? It couldn’t be, right?
Erin is alive. I have to believe that. Find Erin. Get out of Baleros safely. And watch out for mosquitos. Seraphel says they make people sick. Levels don’t make me better than Chieftain Garen was. 
Thus humbled and hydrated, Rabbiteater deactivated his Skill, because wisdom told him that he should get used to being normal rather than rely on something to make him smarter all the time. He left the cabin and surprised the first Thronebearer who saw him emerge, hale and hearty.
“Ser Solstice! You’re on your feet? Are you well?”
The Thronebearer bowed, then caught themself in confusion. Rabbiteater waved at them.
“I feel good. Is Seraphel around here? How’s Cortese? Menrise?”
“I—they are convalescing fairly well, Ser Solstice. I shall inform the [Captain] and Ser Thilowen you’re awake!”
The Thronebearer went trotting off as Rabbiteater rolled his shoulders and looked around. He was on a slightly slanted ship, waves continuing to try to roll the beached Throne’s Will around. The deck still bore marks of battle; shattered railings, countless destroyed artistic figurines, and tributes to Calanfer turned to slag from magical spells.
