Two souls left on the Throne’s Will. Dakelos saw a spider web of electricity arc from ship to ship, crisscrossing the sails, as Dullahans waved their hands and produced a network of lightning. Then they hurled it at him. The [Admiral] stared the vivid lightning down in the milliseconds it took to flash towards him. Then he saw the armored [Knight] raise his shield.
Rabbiteater’s sword was plain steel; his axe was gone, broken by the [Prince of Men]. His cloak was made of his brother’s blood. His armor was battered, and he was tired. But he swung his shield—and the lightning bounced. It burst off his shield and deflected into the air, curving, until it hit the forest in a flash. The thunder boomed, and the Goblin Lord pivoted. He swung his sword, and half of an iron harpoon skidded across the decks, just missing Dakelos’ feet. The other half spun and embedded itself in the mast of the Throne’s Will.
Admiral Dakelos watched the [Knight] catch himself, as surprised as the Dullahans on the ships. Rabbiteater didn’t look like he had a Relic-class shield. Dakelos knew that sword was a plain steel one.
It didn’t seem to matter. The Dullahans paused a second, then unleashed another volley. [Fireballs], this time. Dakelos watched the [Knight] gauge the timing of a burning [Fireball] made of molten strands of fire.
Like someone hitting a baseball, he swung his unenchanted sword and hit it back at one of the ships. Then he cut a [Fireball] in half, and another, and the flames enveloped him. When the smoke cleared, the [Knight] raised his sword.
Impossible was something [Ship Captains] said. The [Admiral] thought and murmured to himself.
“Aura.”
It was a physical thing around Ser Solstice. When he raised his shield, another bolt of lightning bounced off it. But it couldn’t stop everything forever.
The Dullahans were two hundred feet away now. The phantom crew readied themselves as Dakelos hunkered down behind the wheel, waiting. He saw too many [Soldiers] standing silent at the railings, ready for the first wave. And here came—
A rain of burning arrows, gouts of magical lava, instead of [Fireballs], and a bolt of [Grand Lightning] amid a flurry of harpoons. A splendid broadside from three vessels. Dakelos threw up an arm, and his enchanted cloak caught the arrows, at least, as they rained hot across his scorched skin. He looked at Ser Solstice and swore he heard the man speak.
“[Supreme Speed]. [Wondrous Deed].”
Rabbiteater took a huge breath and then exploded out of cover. He twisted, bringing his sword up in an arc under the moonlight, and cut the bolt of [Grand Lightning] in half. It exploded in a thunderclap, and he raised his shield.
The hail of burning arrows and magma parted in front of him and Dakelos, striking a glowing field around the Goblin Lord. Something as impregnable as the dignity of a Drake [General]. As soft and as welcoming as a home. The Goblin swung his sword, left, right, cleaving up and down.
Broken pieces of the harpoons struck the deck. One bounced up and hit Dakelos in the chest. He grunted, sat down hard, and wondered if he’d cracked a rib. When he stood up—the deck was burning around the [Knight].
Rabbiteater was unharmed. Dakelos got back to his feet.
“That’s a better class than [Admiral].”
He stared at Rabbiteater with the first hint of curiosity he’d felt since he’d woken up and realized he wasn’t dead as he’d been promised. Then Dakelos drew a sword, waiting for the Iron Vanguard to reach them.
The [Admiral] gazed across the deck, squinting as his crew extinguished the flames; the ship was mostly destroyed anyways, though it was still intact, because of his Skill. He saw no line of stolid Dullahans. Instead, he saw the rear of three ships pulling away from the beach.
They’d even stopped firing spells. Confused, Rabbiteater lowered his sword. He turned his head to Dakelos.
“But they outnumbered us.”
He pointed at them, and Dakelos eyed the [Knight]. Then the retreating Dullahans. There was a possibility that they’d pull back and resume the onslaught from a distance. But they didn’t even bother doing that. They kept going without turning back, and Dakelos watched Rabbiteater scratching at his helmet.
“Sound strategy.”
If they’d landed their ships or boarded Dakelos’ Throne’s Will, he’d have tried to fight towards one of their helms. As for Rabbiteater…Dakelos would have shot out any sails on the ship the [Knight] was on and avoided getting within a thousand feet of him.
Dakelos was tired, suddenly. He sat down, feeling his ribs screaming at him and various parts of his skin blistering in real time. Rabbiteater strode over and helped him up.
“Let’s get out of here.”
“Wait for the crew to finish unloading. You won’t get a second chance.”
The two waited, panting, as torches and people swarmed onto the beach. What the [Princess] and the other companions of that [Knight] thought, Dakelos couldn’t say. But he ordered everyone away from the ship.
When he stepped off the ship and onto the ramp, the Throne’s Will shuddered. Then, without as much sound as he expected, it just collapsed. Blackened pieces of wood crumbled downwards, and the mostly intact hull crumpled. Dakelos nearly fell, but Lady Menrise caught the plank, and he stumbled down it.
The ship collapsed along the beach as the [Admiral] saluted it. Captain Ennerev, tears in his eyes, raised a bandaged hand, and Dakelos watched the pieces of the ship roll onto the beach as the unforgiving night’s waves took the rest of the hull apart. Then he turned.
“I believe we are now stuck on Baleros. And my usefulness has come to an end.”
His eyes found Rabbiteater, who kicked at the sand. Cortese, clutching at his hair, the stricken Ksmvr, Vofea, who nodded to herself as if she’d seen this coming, the swearing Revi, Lady Menrise pointing at a piece of hull and ordering someone to ‘pick it up’. The horrified Calanferians, the adventurers, the narrow-eyed Badarrow—all of them were staring at the waves and the former ship.
Only Dakelos looked back and wondered why the [Princess] was smiling. Then she met his eyes, and it vanished. Dakelos kicked at a rock.
He didn’t want to tell anyone, but he really hated bugs.
