The problem was that when they found out where they were…someone made a mistake.
 
——
 
Admiral Dakelos did not talk to anyone. No one liked him, and to be fair, Seraphel du Marquin did not care for anyone from Ailendamus, but she had to own he’d saved them both by coming to the rescue and grabbing the helm and taking them onto shore during the storms caused by all the spells.
He was, she gathered, some kind of war hero, though she only vaguely recalled an Ailendamus victory at sea. Thilowen did have a small dossier on him; Dakelos was the last survivor of his ship. He’d been tricked earlier in the war into attacking Nadel, with predictable results.
How he had come here, to fight to the death alongside Erin Solstice, was a mystery. But he didn’t complain. He did, however, argue with Captain Ennerev endlessly on who was more suited to command.
The problem was that Seraphel actually agreed with Dakelos. He was an [Admiral] who could manifest a dead ship’s crew and could steer a ship through armageddon without it sinking, so long as he was alive.
Communicating this, diplomatically, took all her abilities over two days’ time as they worked out where they were. It was harder than you’d think; even if you cast [Scrying] and found, say, Ser Markus, you’d need to be a [Diviner] of some talents to make the image reveal any salient details.
However, nautical maps and a bit of guesswork placed them just below the lower third of Baleros’ east coast, firmly in Lizardfolk territory.
“The lands of the Jungle Tails company. Not a Great Company at present, but they’re attempting to defeat the Forgotten Wing. If we run into their forces, I would attempt extreme courtesy, Your Highness.”
Thilowen was addressing Seraphel as she had a rather stuffy dinner in the captain’s cabin with the [Captain], Dakelos, Rabbiteater, Cortese, Menrise, Ser Markus, Revi, Ksmvr, and Vofea. They were, in fact, some of the most important men and women present. Oh, you had officers and senior Thronebearers, but most of the Order of Seasons weren’t present.
Frankly, Seraphel didn’t know what to make of the adventurers. Miss Revi was a Stitch-woman, already exotic and foreign, but she didn’t appear to actually know Rabbiteater that well. She’d kept to herself, in mourning; she had apparently lost a dear comrade before joining the battle at sea.
“Why would the Great Companies have issue with us?”
Cortese patted his mouth with a napkin and grimaced; they were eating ship’s rations, which did not go well with his palate. Before Thilowen could answer, Revi spoke for the first time Seraphel could remember.
“Why? Because they remember Terandrian colonies, milord. Just like Chandrarians remember and see the colony nations still on our lands. A bunch of Terandrians landing in their jungles is going to get you exactly the sort of reaction you deserve.”
Cortese stiffened and shot a dour glance at Revi.
“I respect your opinion, Summoner Revi, as an adventurer, but I would point out that is an entirely separate affair from the present. Moreover, Kaaz has never launched any colony attempts within the last thousand years.”
“Terandrians are Terandrians. Doesn’t matter.”
Cortese’s eyes narrowed.
“That is a suspect comment, Adventurer. Small-minded of you, I would say.”
Revi’s eyes narrowed back, and she pointed at her face with a sinister smile to indicate Cortese had just walked into a trap.
“Oh yes? Then I’ll bet you a hundred gold pieces that if you asked anyone but a Thronebearer, they wouldn’t be able to tell which nation I’m from. I’m just ‘a Chandrarian Stitch-woman’ to them. Or do you know my nation of origin, Hundredlord Cortese of Kaaz?”
Seraphel hid a smile. She rather liked Revi’s manner of speech. The Stitch-woman waited as Cortese, never one to admit he was wrong, speared a link of dried sausage.
“I, for one, believe we Terandrians are hardly the most objectionable members on board the ship. That Goblin fellow and Ksmvr of Chandrar, with respect, are more famously enemies of most nations. Few groups might be so open-minded as we are.”
Rabbiteater shrugged as every eye turned to Ksmvr. Seraphel watched Ser Solstice like a hawk, but he just nodded.
“Goblins suck. Hate ‘em. That’s why I kill all of them. Except Badarrow. He’s okay.”
Cortese gave Rabbiteater a long look, and Ksmvr leaned over to Vofea.
“Recruit Vofea, you see, this is what is known as a racism. It is often perpetuated against non-Humans. You are to smile and nod and say nothing. And do not tell Yvlon or she will become violent.”
So saying, he turned to Cortese and raised his mandibles. Vofea gave the Hundredlord a huge smile.
“Thank you for the racism, sir! May we have another?”
Menrise sprayed her drink out of her meal helmet’s visor and started laughing for the first time in a week. Cortese spluttered in outrage as Seraphel held her sides, giggling. Revi gave Vofea an approving look and sipped from her cup.
“So we’re setting sail tomorrow?”
“We know where we are. There’s no real hazards; I’ll take command and put us straight for Wistram.”
Dakelos answered in a low tone, and everyone stopped laughing. Revi’s eyebrows bounced upwards.
“Wistram? Isn’t there a great big hole in it?”
“It’s neutral ground. They may have a way to repair the ship; at the very least, it’s a good midway point. From there, we may return to Terandria or go to a port in Izril or the New Lands.”
“Assuming Lord Admiral Dakelos doesn’t steer us into a Kraken to damn one of Calanfer’s royalty.”
Captain Ennerev spoke loudly, ignoring Thilowen’s pointed stare. He was still furious about having the enemy in his cabin, but Seraphel was ready for that. She replied with a hint of sharpness.
“Admiral Dakelos may be a strange bedfellow, but he has fought to save the Terandrian fleet, Captain. We may be, as Miss Revi says, rather collectivist in the end. We are all Terandrians in this moment, and I trust you shall work with the good [Admiral], Captain.”
“Yes, Your Highness. I meant no disrespect.”
The [Captain] paled, and Seraphel waited a beat before adding in a softer tone—
“I consider him as much a hero as you and your stalwart crew, Captain Ennerev. Trust that I shall commend the living and the dead to the Eternal Throne as soon as we are at safe harbors.”
He bowed low at that, and the table eased up a bit. Rabbiteater broke in, staring at Dakelos.
“Why did you come here? It was suicide. Like the Ailendamus nobles. What did Erin do to you?”
Dakelos blinked. He was playing with his food, and he spoke awkwardly as Thilowen’s eyes sharpened.
“I cannot speak for the nobility of House Shoel, I believe it was. I was…commissioned to the task. I didn’t know the [Innkeeper] until I met her.”
“Ailendamus put quite a lot of effort into her survival for a stranger, Admiral Dakelos.”
Seraphel spoke, frowning. She didn’t understand it herself, though she had noticed how the [Innkeeper] had rallied countless disparate forces to her. Antinium and Couriers and so many others. Dakelos paused before replying.
“…Perhaps she is a citizen or aided the crown of Ailendamus in some way, Your Highness. Ailendamus has often been a great friend to our allies and citizenry.”
“And made bloody war on any nation it chooses to absorb!”
Captain Ennerev shot to his feet, the temporary truce broken. Dakelos stood as well.
“The blood has littered all decks, Captain. I serve my kingdom, as do you.”
“We were not the aggressors, you damned warmonger!”
“We do not violate the accords of war nor bring Wistram and the Wellfars and all our allies into conflict.”
Dakelos didn’t raise his fists, but he glanced at Rabbiteater, and his cheeks colored with some real heat. Before the two men could go at it, Thilowen was in the way. The dinner party ended on an uglier note, perhaps, but at least it got Miss Revi speaking up. Seraphel heard her talking to Ksmvr and Vofea.
“I’m fine. Fine. Look, I’m a big girl. I don’t need rookie Gold-rankers talking to me. I’m mourning Halrac, alright? I’ll stick with you lot. The sooner we get to Erin, the better. The way things are going, the Terandrians are going to kill each other before we launch the ship. All those royal-kissers.”
“I do not believe it is royalty that is often kissed by Terandrians, Revi. Though I appreciate your attempt at humor.”
“What humor? I never said where all the kisses went. Their backsides, Ksmvr. Terandrians are royal-loving ass-kissers.”
Which struck Seraphel as quite…unfair. Rabbiteater began heartily agreeing until Seraphel poked him in the side. Then he jumped with such a shout he hit his head on the ceiling. Seraphel flushed as everyone turned to her.
It seemed he had plans to leave to go with the [Innkeeper] as soon as they were at sea. She wished he wouldn’t. Maybe she could talk to Captain Ennerev or Admiral Dakelos to avoid them swinging by the coast. It was sure to be treacherous with the Iron Vanguard around.
Seraphel du Marquin knew Rabbiteater was in danger. Menrise and Cortese kept glancing at him, and Thilowen hadn’t let Seraphel tend to Rabbiteater without a full squad of Thronebearers outside the door, no matter how she argued. But they were a group now, weren’t they? Or was it going to be like Cara? The Singer of Terandria who had gone on to more adventures. Like her, would Seraphel only see Rabbiteater a few more times if she was lucky?
Her worst fear was Cortese and Menrise’s reactions if they ever found out. But as it so happened, Rabbiteater’s companions were a bit more adroit than all that.
 
——
 
Ser Markus accosted Rabbiteater, in good spirits now they were set to be underway, quarrels aside.
“Ser Greysten was worried sick about us, Ser Solstice. He’ll be relieved to know we’re only delayed. How about some training to knock the salt off?”
“Sure. Can we invite Badarrow? I want to test my new levels.”
“Aha! I knew you had some! Just you wait! I have a new Skill that may surprise you.”
“Oh dear. Oh my. Coming, Ksmvr?”
“I shall attend with Rookie Vofea, who needs training. Miss Revi?”
They were out of the room and Seraphel, as always, was going to make up an excuse to watch when Cortese and Menrise grabbed her and abducted her. Menrise put a hand around Seraphel’s mouth, and Cortese maneuvered her out the door.
Thilowen held it open. Apparently, Thronebearers didn’t stop abductions among friends!
“What are you two doing?”
They dragged her into her private cabin, which Rabbiteater had vacated, and Cortese closed the door, locked it, and put a silencing charm on it. Menrise muttered a few spells.
“[Greater Muffle]. [Spell Purge]…damn. [Greater Muffle], [Ignite Lamp], and [Detect Magic]. You might as well activate your circlet too. I’m not sure if those Thronebearers can still listen in on us.”
“They can tell you what you passed in the outhouse, Menrise. Spells or not. They might have some trouble—what is this about?”
Seraphel sat on her bed, and Cortese folded his arms. He looked a bit better from his sickness; Menrise sat down on Seraphel’s bed and spread out.
“I want a bed like this. My tent has bugs in it. One got in my helmet! We abducted you because we need a talk, Seraphel. We were too sick for it, but…well? Cortese?”
The [Hundredlord] scratched at a fading rash on his arm. He paced around the room, and Seraphel remembered the lioness that would copy him. Oh, they’d all lost so much, and they were all haunted by it. She, Seraphel, had lost the least, really. Calanferians had died; she hadn’t known them. Altestiel had been the one true heartbreak. Too much, and that weighed on Cortese’s voice as he turned.
“Rabbiteater. Ser Solstice. He’s not a Gnoll or a Drake or disfigured like I thought. He—there’s a Goblin under that helmet, isn’t there? A Hobgoblin.”
Seraphel’s heart began to beat faster. She sat up and gave Cortese her most calculated raise of the eyebrows.
“A what? Cortese, what has gotten into you?”
Menrise instantly turned to Cortese.
“Told you she’s helping him. There’s no use playing dumb, Seraphel. It’s obvious from…well, everything. I can’t believe we didn’t sense it earlier.”
“I thought he was a Gnoll, with the manners and all. Baeris liked him. She doesn’t like monsters.”
Cortese folded his arms as Seraphel looked from face to face. She coughed.
“I—I understand what you saw, but we have no proof, you two. Besides—”
“Thousand Lances, Seraphel! We’re not going to kill him! If I wanted him dead, I’d have run him through the moment I had an inkling of who he was. But he’s a monster. It’s best if he gets off the ship and gets to this [Innkeeper], isn’t it? I just don’t know what to say to him.”
The Hundredlord’s snap was precipitated by him throwing himself into a chair. Seraphel breathed out, and Menrise waved her hands.
“I still have five gold on him being a criminal. But since everyone from Tourvecall is dead, I’ll have to take it out of their gravestone budget if I win. If he’s a Goblin, that’s fascinating. Come on, you think he’s a Goblin too.”
“I…would not knowingly consort with any dangerous monster. Ser Solstice has been valorous and brave, and he deserves his anonymity. It’s a matter of knightly honor.”
Seraphel tried to tiptoe around the truth, but neither one of her friends was having it.
“I like Ser Solstice. He’s blunt as a mace, peculiar, a damn good fighter, and refreshing. But if he’s a Goblin, then Prince Iradoren had a point. He’s dead, Seraphel. Erribathe’s future [King]—dead, and we’re harboring a Goblin. I’ll wager Ser Thilowen’s thought the same. It’s all our heads on the line if this comes out.”
Trust Cortese to state the obvious. Seraphel bit her lip. Menrise countered.
“He’s not murderous. Well…aside from Ailendamus’ [Generals] and [Pirates]. I wish I were back home. There are books on Goblins who weren’t hostile. Velan was one of them.”
“And look how he turned out. I’m asking you, Princess Seraphel, if you feel your class and duty are impelling you to…do something. If only let him go on his way. And even that may be something I will answer to Kaaz for. If they ever found out, of course.”
Cortese scrubbed at his hair, in true moral quandary over the issue. He looked truly and powerfully troubled over this revelation, shoulders hunched. Did his class weigh upon him? His duty to the crown?
Menrise was more unsure, her head swinging from Seraphel to Cortese uncertainly, clearly conflicted between her real like of Rabbiteater and his identity. But Seraphel?
Something’s wrong. Seraphel realized it because…she felt nothing. No fear of Rabbiteater, no guilt, just annoyance at Cortese continuing to call him a monster.
