Beyond the railings, Rabbiteater saw an emerald sea stretching out into an extraordinarily blue horizon absent of clouds. Paradisiacal; when he turned his head, he saw the white sands of the beach reaching towards an imposing jungle from which a clamor of wildlife, buzzing bugs, birds chirping, and even a distant growling emerged.
The only disruption to this scenery was the ship, which almost fit, and the sprawling camp of [Soldiers], [Knights], and [Sailors], who most certainly did not fit.
Yellow and gold were some of Calanfer’s favorite colors. The tents did not look good on the beach; dirt had already encrusted them, making the colors dingy. Yet Rabbiteater saw thousands of disembarked [Soldiers], Thronebearers of Calanfer, and [Sailors], all in good condition, more or less.
All alive.
The Throne’s Will had been meant for the New Lands of Izril. Its entire complement of soldiers and knights had fought against the Bloodtear Pirates, and while losses had mounted throughout that terrible battle, it remained a sizable fighting force on the ground.
Good. They might need it. Rabbiteater leaned on a railing and realized the ship was mostly deserted. There were, in fact, teams of people digging up the ground, trying to unbeach the ship. Not an easy task, Rabbiteater guessed.
He went striding along the deck, guilty at being sick so long, and saw a helpful gangplank leading down. Rabbiteater took it, and the first person who looked up and saw him was a [Sergeant] bawling tired orders at the Calanferians digging in the waist-deep water.
“Come on, put your backs into it, by the throne! Her Highness is waiting! You piss-stained peasants, do you want me to get in there and show you how it’s done? Get a—Ser Solstice!”
The man turned, saluted, and stared at Rabbiteater and then his hand. Rabbiteater tossed him a salute back, not sure if that was the thing you did to soldier-people.
“Hi. Do you know where Princess Seraphel is?”
“Right over there, sir! Er—glad to see you on your feet!”
A bunch of wet and soggy men and women with rolled-up pants and spades turned from the side of the ship. Half saluted; the other half bowed and nearly dunked themselves in a wave. Rabbiteater waved.
“Thanks.”
He walked on as a patrol of [Soldiers] instantly saluted him—then he came back.
“Hey.”
Rabbiteater saw the group of wet Calanferians turn to him, confused. He held up a thumb.
“We made it. The worst [Pirates] in the world in the middle of a storm and a Kraken. And the Iron Vanguard. And we made it. You protected the Eternal Throne and Seraphel. Next time someone says Calanfer can’t fight, tell them to square off with the Bloodtear Pirates. But they can’t. Because the [Pirates] are dead.”
They stared at him wordlessly until, embarrassed, he shrugged and backed away. Rabbiteater was hurrying off when he heard a cheer rising from behind him, and they started singing some kind of anthem.
Maybe they liked the compliment after all? Today was—weird.
 
——
 
Really weird. By the time he got to Seraphel, Rabbiteater realized everyone was saluting him or bowing. His arm was tiring of saluting back, [Constitution of the Champion] or not. Maybe it was [Lesser Charisma], but did that mean people went around saluting [Bards]? He’d have to ask Numbtongue if they ever met again.
In fact, people seemed to turn around before they should have realized he was there. Maybe he smelled. Rabbiteater sniffed at one armpit as a small group of weary-looking people stood around a map, arguing.
“—I will not entrust the Throne’s Will to an Admiral of Ailendamus!”
“Well, the ship won’t make it a dozen miles without my Skills. Your Highness, I am recommending we depart as soon as we can patch the keel.”
“You’ll sink the ship, you madman! She’s not seaworthy! She’ll take on water and founder not five miles off shore!”
“Not if I command it. What would you rather do, strike out on land? We still have no idea where we are.”
Rabbiteater stiffened as Admiral Dakelos of Ailendamus broke off from a heated argument with the [Captain] of Throne’s Will. He stood with Ser Thilowen, a very sick-looking Cortese, Seraphel, and Ksmvr, whose arms were folded.
All of them turned as Rabbiteater approached, and the [Captain] saluted. Thilowen’s arm moved slightly, and he turned it into a bow. Dakelos just blinked at the two of them, and Seraphel gasped.
“Rabbiteater! Ser Solstice, you’re on your feet! Are you well? You shouldn’t be moving—”
She rushed over, but Cortese was faster. He looked pale-faced and sweaty, but he reached out, and Rabbiteater clasped his shoulder.
“Back on your feet, Solstice? We feared you were almost dead of this damn plague the bugs brought.”
“Wasn’t the bugs. How’re you, Cortese?”
The [Hundredlord] made a noise in the back of his throat. He looked far less like the haughty noble of Kaaz he’d been when they’d first met. Losing Altestiel and Baeris, his pet lioness, had affected Cortese equally badly. His usually resplendently fancy coat was replaced by a half-open tunic, and he was stripped down to the lightest clothes he had and was still sweating in the humidity. He still carried his sword, though.
“How am I? Sick, bitten half to death by the damn bugs, and despite it being allegedly the end of winter, this damn continent is hotter than Chandrar’s sands!”
“Humid. It’s rather unpleasant.”
Seraphel was being fanned by Beacle as the [Maid] sweated, though Seraphel told Beacle to switch every minute to fanning herself. Cortese shook his head.
“The sooner we’re away from here, the better, but I don’t fancy another sea voyage…ever. Crash landing in that damn storm—”
“Beaching, sir. It was that or let the waves turn the ship. Those bombardment spells caused miniature tidal waves.”
The [Captain] retorted indignantly, and Cortese waved a hand.
“Yes, yes, Captain Ennerev, no one’s questioning your stalwart efforts. Menrise is still down for the count, Solstice. We were just planning on getting out of this hellhole, but it’s been hard to unbury the ship, and frankly, the sickness took too many out. Even if we get to sea, it will be hard going.”
“Hard how? Hey, Seraphel. Thanks for the bed, Ksmvr. Where’s, uh, B—the Goblin?”
The [Captain] made a choking sound, but Seraphel just smiled and answered as Ksmvr nodded at Rabbiteater. The [Princess] pointed.
“He’s scouting the jungle. I, um, have made it clear he is an ally of Calanfer at this point in time. I imagine all will be settled when we get to Izril’s New Lands.”
The [Captain] mopped at his brow; he was swarthy and brave and he’d led them through the fighting without fear, but it was the tall [Admiral] with a gaunt face that Rabbiteater eyed.
Admiral Dakelos. One of Ailendamus’ people, which made Rabbiteater want to punch him on principle, but the man had helped Erin get to Rabbiteater. He was studying Rabbiteater with obvious curiosity. The [Captain] broke into the staring contest.
“Or a port up north or south, Your Highness. With all due respect, the Throne’s Will needs time in a harbor to repair. But getting to Izril…that’s no easy matter.”
“Why?”
“Because the moment we’re seen at sea, the Iron Vanguard might take a shot at us. Or any [Pirates] still around. Or there’s just the fact the ship’s badly damaged.”
Cortese groaned as he messed up his already wild hair. Rabbiteater scratched his helmet.
“Ah.”
Everyone looked at him as if expecting something from him. Some…intelligence or leadership, and Rabbiteater was reminded of that feeling he’d had when Iradoren was trying to chop his head off.
He felt like if he gave an order, people might follow it. It wasn’t a light feeling; it reminded him of when he’d been leading Cave Goblins after rescuing them from the Raskghar. Was this being a Goblin Lord?
But Goblin Lords only worked on other Goblins…didn’t they? Suddenly, Rabbiteater sort of wished Greydath were around. He might be a bastard, but no one knew anything about Goblin Lords but him. Rabbiteater thought and came to a swift, economical decision born out of countless years as a Redfang.
“Right. You figure that out. I’m going to get something to eat. Where’s the food?”
 
——
 
At least they had provisions. Throne’s Will had been loaded for a colony expedition, so Rabbiteater grabbed a bunch of dried pork, bread, an entire salad, sprayed everything with a sauce, and then took his sandwich to eat somewhere where he could open his visor.
He was trying to unhinge his jaw to get the entire bite of his sandwich into his mouth when he took in the jungle again and just…stared at it.
A wall of vegetation crept up around him, bushes so prolific they were overrunning the trees. He literally couldn’t see an opening ahead of him, and while there was a gap in the brush a bit to his left, it looked literally carved out; branches and trampled dirt suggested someone had had to hack their way into this place.
“So this is Baleros. Wow.”
It looked really…green. Not bad at all, really. True, the humidity made Rabbiteater all sweaty, there were lots of bugs, and it was noisy as heck with the wildlife, but so what?
Noise camouflaged Goblins. Humidity was just humidity; there were worse things to deal with. Bugs? That meant food in a pinch.
Rabbiteater’s only concern was if there were nasty things in the jungle, like dangerous snakes or something. He munched on his sandwich and noticed a few midges swarming around his head.
“Yeah. Lotsa bugs.”
A mosquito flew inside his helmet, began biting his cheek, and realized that the Goblin’s skin was literally too tough to insert its proboscis into. Discouraged, it tried to fly out, and the Goblin’s mouth opened and swallowed it. Rabbiteater made a face.
“Eugh. Bitter.”
He was getting soft. The Goblin had been taken out—possibly by his transformation to Goblin Lord—but he’d wasted crucial days when he could be looking for Erin! Then again, he didn’t know where she was.
Rabbiteater knew he wasn’t that smart. Even with [Supreme Intelligence] or whatever, he was probably only just as smart as Chieftain Rags on an off day. He could only focus on what was important. That was the Ivory Five…the Ivory Four…Ser Markus, Ksmvr, and…
The Hobgoblin [Knight]—he still felt like one—was halfway through his sandwich when he stopped eating and made a curious whistling sound. Sort of like a bird’s twitter. Rabbiteater waited, whistled again, then shrugged. He ducked a second before the arrow whizzed over his head.
If he hadn’t, it would have just grazed the top of his head. As it was, Rabbiteater swore, then shouted.
“You stupid idiot! I was sick!”
“You too sick to dodge, you dead.”
There was a rustle—and Badarrow swung out of a tree, grinning. Rabbiteater tore his sandwich in two. He gave his brother a huge hug and then handed him half.
“Why are you here, stupid?”
“Saving you, loser. I’m not the Goblin so bad at fighting Erin had to rescue herself to save you.”
Rabbiteater punched Badarrow in the shoulder, and the [Sniper] punched him in the arm. Then they hugged again.
“I was worried they’d kill you.”
“Eh. Not-Lyonette made them stop. Plus, Ksmvr helped. If they tried to, I’d hide in the forest until you got better. Pretty easy. Lots of annoying bugs, but plenty to eat.”
Badarrow jerked a thumb over his shoulder and showed Rabbiteater an arm full of bug-bites. He made a face, and Rabbiteater realized that his brother had smeared mud liberally over his body. Not only did it camouflage him, the coating must have worked against mosquitos.
Rabbiteater was grinning, and he couldn’t stop.
“Is this a dream?”
He felt at Badarrow’s face and got another punch to the gut for his troubles. Since he was wearing armor, Badarrow shook out his hand, grimacing.
“If it’s my dream, there’s no Snapjaw. I don’t dream of getting stuck on another continent.”
Rabbiteater was instantly filled with guilt.
“Sorry.”
“Eh. Erin went. So I went. Had to. Brothers save brothers. Too bad Numbtongue’s not here. But he’d complain too much and play his guitar. And probably have sex with Helmet-Lady and the [Princess].”
Rabbiteater blinked at this rather scornful analysis of Numbtongue. He shifted uncomfortably.
“Where is Numbtongue? Was he hurt at the…Solstice?”
He had a vague understanding of what had happened there. Badarrow sobered at once. He scratched at his foot.
“Lots of people died. Less Goblins. Redscar nearly. Thunderfur got killed.”
“No. That’s terrible.”
Redscar’s beloved Thunderfur? It was a blow. Badarrow had shared some of what had happened, but he grimly recounted events.
“Kevin died. Halrac. Moore. Not many of the inn. Brave guy called Gershal…real Redfang in heart, you know? Chaldion didn’t die. Pretty bad for many, but less deaths than you’d think. Overwhelming overwhelming overwhelming death.”
“What, three overwhelming deaths? That’s joking.”
“Ten thousand Draugr to start with. Wish you’d been there.”
Rabbiteater swallowed hard. Suddenly, his dire war at sea seemed to pale in comparison—and Badarrow and Erin had come for him after all that.
“What about Numbtongue, though?”
“Eh. He’s fine. Archmage needed volunteers. Only a few could make it. I volunteered. He was too slow.”
That felt…wrong. Numbtongue would have argued or fought to be part of any group rescuing Erin, and Rabbiteater said so. Badarrow scratched one ear and avoided looking at Rabbiteater.
“He’s changed. Not cowardly, but he was just slow. Dunno. Doesn’t matter; wasn’t enough room when he argued, and he was sort of dead. Could have fought, but good thing he didn’t come. Even the Courier died. Thought he was Named-ranked, but he still died.”
The tattooed man. Rabbiteater hadn’t even caught his name. He nodded, and Badarrow slapped him on the shoulder.
“We get on the ship, we go back. I kiss Snapjaw, you go to the inn. We find Erin maybe, and then we can both slap Numbtongue.”
“Good plan. But it sounds like the ship’s going to have trouble getting to sea. Seraphel says a lot of groups want us dead.”
Badarrow gave Rabbiteater one of those blank looks he was good at as he fiddled with his bow. It was enchanted, and he seemed calm, silent. Rabbiteater had almost not noticed him. Badarrow had changed too; he seemed happier and more talkative, for one thing. Snapjaw…Rabbiteater vaguely recalled her, but he didn’t get what Badarrow saw in her. Still, he liked her if Badarrow did. The [Sniper] was the same in some aspects, though.
“I’m not a Chieftain. Chieftain Rags is. Wars are too complicated. I see something, I shoot it. Weird group, though. Everyone hates [Admiral]-man more than me.”
“Admiral…Dakelos. He’s from Ailendamus.”
