“So? He’s Terandrian. Human.”
“The Dawn Concordat was just at war with Ailendamus, Brother.”
A blank look from the [Sniper] as he chewed on some lettuce.
“So? We’re here now.”
Rabbiteater sort of understood, but he’d hung out around Humans long enough to get why they were so mad. He didn’t bother explaining to Badarrow how Humans carried grudges longer than most Goblin tribes. He just jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“I’m gonna check on Menrise and say hi to Ksmvr. You want to come?”
Badarrow hesitated, then shook his head.
“I’m Goblin. You’re Ser Solstice. Don’t be nice to me together.”
“Seraphel already knows, I think. And Cortese…”
Badarrow grabbed Rabbiteater’s arm. His red eyes were serious and sharp.
“Don’t get yourself killed now, Brother. Erin won’t forgive you.”
Rabbiteater hesitated—then nodded.
“You too. If anyone looks at you strange…”
Badarrow snorted.
“I sleep away from them. Don’t worry about me. Now go, go. Wait!”
He called Rabbiteater back. Then eyed the camp of Humans.
“Which one was the nice [Knight] who made you sad? I’ll go hit her.”
Rabbiteater groaned as he told Badarrow she wasn’t here. He’d forgotten how brothers were. Just as well Badarrow or anyone else hadn’t tagged along when he went to Terandria. Seraphel kept reminding him of how they’d met, but she didn’t get that Rabbiteater was the nice one.
 
——
 
Rabbiteater introduced himself to other people as he wandered the camp. Namely, Ksmvr and the weird, furry goat-lady he’d never met before.
“This is Vofea, the newest probationary member of the Horns of Hammerad. I am pleased you are well, Rabbiteater. The sooner we can depart from Baleros, the better. Though I hope you will convince the [Captain] to deliver me to Chandrar. Any part of it will do.”
Ksmvr was very—focused. He shook Rabbiteater’s hand, but he wasn’t buddy-buddy. Then again, he’d never been super friendly with Rabbiteater in the inn, but maybe this was because he was watching Vofea like a hawk.
“Ech, Ksmvr, I told yeh, it’s not like you can just get to Chandrar so easy. Fate’s a-muddle. We’re lucky we got onto the right future as is. I think we’re bound to Erin Solstice or this company. Hallo, Rabbiteater. I liked your battles in Terandria. I’m Vofea, a Satyr and former fae of the lands of the Faerie King, what you lot would call Avalon if you had any stories of us at all. Eh, I was a Winter Sprite too. The cutest one.”
She was definitely an Erin Solstice guest. The goat…Satyr…woman seemed pretty young, and she had a shirt on, no pants, a bandolier of stones around her back that looked hand-crafted, and a huge sling. Compared with Ksmvr, she looked like a junior [Warrior] on her first raid, and that was certainly how Ksmvr treated her.
“Vofea is a new member of the Horns of Hammerad, Rabbiteater. Ignore her and do not count her as a combat asset; she is highly fragile.”
Vofea stomped one hoof and glared.
“I’m plenty useful! You saw me slinging rocks at all and sundry back there! Plus, I have good eyes. Don’t mind him, Rabbiteater. He’s just mad because I’m fated to die.”
“What, die?”
Ksmvr broke in, voice raising.
“Ignore that too. She is not fated to die. She is an incompetent member of the Horns…who is under my authority. I am the team captain here since Captain Springwalker is in Chandrar.”
They were confusing the heck out of Rabbiteater, but he shook Vofea’s hand, and she peered at him.
“Ooh. Yer presence is twice as large as before. Are you one of them Goblin Lords now? You’re practically screaming at me to want to like you.”
Rabbiteater clapped a hand over Vofea’s mouth as fast as Ksmvr, and they glanced around. Ksmvr hissed at Vofea.
“Recruit Vofea, repeat what I said about unwise statements!”
“Mphm mmf mn mpghg. Ph.”
“Good.”
Rabbiteater took his hand away and gave Vofea an impressed look. Even if she was talkative, she had powers he clearly didn’t understand.
“So you’re like Ivolethe? The winter thing that followed Ryoka around?”
Someone had told him about Ivolethe in the context of explaining Ryoka’s weird run to try to save Erin. Clearly he didn’t get it, though, because Vofea instantly put her hands to her red cheeks.
“Who, me? Like Lady Ivolethe? Naw. Pshaw! It’d be as if I had the airs to call myself kin to Lady Shaestrel! They’re far, far older and grander than me. I’m bare over ten thousand years old, and that was all in the lands of the fae, so it doesn’t count. I can’t call an avalanche down in this form nor make a hill walk.”
“Oh. Can they do that?”
“Can they? If they were here in their true forms, they’d raise the seas and call down thunder with a word. Eh, mind you, mortals in this world can do much the same. Damn yer Skills and levels and classes. It’s why I don’t have any! That stupid voice keeps trying to give me classes, and I turn it down every night! Mind you, I think it’s distracted with something. It keeps giving me different class-thingies each night.”
The Satyr girl struck a proud, defiant pose, and Ksmvr smacked her lightly on the head.
“I told you to obtain a valuable survival class!”
“You can’t make me! I won’t be a plaything of the creators of this place!”
“You are a fragile member of the Horns of Hammerad. A single arrow could kill you!”
“Then use my body as a shield! I came here to perish bravely!”
“Don’t be ridiculous. Your corpse has no combat value!”
Their argument seemed to be more of a permanent state of things. Vofea skipped around as Ksmvr began to lecture her, and Rabbiteater scratched his head. Then he attracted both’s attention.
“We’re all on the same team, though. The inn-team. You, me, Badarrow, Vofea. Right? We stick together, we fight together.”
He held out a fist. Ksmvr turned and seemed to relax a bit. He nodded as Vofea grinned and tapped Rabbiteater’s fist with a hoofed foot instead.
“Until I find the Horns of Hammerad, I have promised to help find Erin and protect Vofea. We shall marshal our talents together.”
He fist-bumped Rabbiteater, and the [Knight] smiled behind his helmet. Ksmvr paused, then added in a lower voice.
“I shall invoice you for hiring both Horns of Hammerad later, Ser Solstice, unless Calanfer is a better employer? Probably Calanfer for our resumes. Don’t worry; since Vofea is a junior member, I shall discount her services. But I will find an Adventurer’s Guild contract for our duration of employ as soon as I can.”
Rabbiteater stared at Ksmvr and mumbled something about Seraphel and money. He’d forgotten how…weird Ksmvr was. At least he was good with a sword.
 
——
 
Getting situated with the camp and talking to Seraphel and Cortese and becoming acquainted with the status of things took most of the day. The Throne’s Will was in bad shape; it had been forced to beach, and the ‘keel’ was damaged. Whatever that was, everyone agreed it was bad-sounding.
Moreover, while they had a lot of [Soldiers] and [Knights] still, they were in a jungle, and rations were not unlimited. It made sense to head back to sea, and only the aforementioned issues of ship damage and their enemies had delayed that process, as well as the sicknesses.
“We haven’t been attacked by anything worse than a nest of giant snakes. I’d give anything for one of the Thousand Lances or some of my Kaazian forces here. I have barely thirty men left. It’s all Thronebearers and regular soldiers, so any actual engagement is something we should avoid.”
Seraphel was indignant at that. They were eating in her cabin, because, slanted or not, it was more private and nice than the beach.
“And what’s that supposed to mean, Cortese?”
His reply was forestalled by a low voice from Lady Menrise, who was staring at a bowl of soup with a straw in it.
“It means we could all die. All of us. Just like Tourvecall.”
She had no face to show, but her hunched shoulders, the way she seemed like she’d collapse if someone poked her…Rabbiteater remembered the Tourvecall ship exploding as it was overrun. He put a hand on Menrise’s shoulder and patted it gently.
“It was a battle for the history books, but not one I’ll ever proudly tell. We fought alongside brave heroes, whether we knew it or not. Earl Altestiel, Tourvecall…it’s a bitter price to pay, but I swear on Baeris, I will see us to safety before more pay the price.”
Cortese nodded awkwardly at Menrise, and his eyes flickered to Rabbiteater’s helmet. Menrise glanced at him as well, and Seraphel spoke brightly.
“At least we have [Message] spells! We’re getting in touch with the rest of the world. We’ve kept scrying spells from locating us—just in case, you know—but we are hardly isolated.”
That was, as Rabbiteater would soon find out, not necessarily good for them. He was realizing the situation with his current company was complicated. Not just his identity; the passengers had brought along a whole host of issues, and Badarrow might have been one of the easier of passengers. At least people knew he was a Goblin. Rabbiteater hadn’t even remembered another passenger who had come with Erin Solstice until that night. Mostly, because he’d been hiding from the sun.
 
——
 
Even in armor, Rivel val Lischelle-Drakle hid from the sun out of habit. He also kept well away from the other people in camp. He had…issues.
Blood. Blood was the issue. Rivel was a Vampire, a squire, and right now, the only member of the Order of Solstice present beyond Ser Solstice himself. He’d been lurking around the edges of camp, being largely useless, according to Badarrow. The [Sniper] pointed at the warrior swinging a sword by himself. Rabbiteater frowned and whispered.
“Vampire? What’s that?”
“Eh. Drinks blood? Allergic to sunlight and garlic? Chieftain Rags says they’re an old species. Used to cause trouble. Lots of people fighting on Izril and killing them. I help him. Kill animals and he drinks the blood.”
It wasn’t the weirdest thing that Rabbiteater had ever heard of, but Rivel stumped him. When the squire—who had emerged at noon for breakfast—spotted him, he raced over and bowed.
“Ser Solstice! I am Rivel, a squire to Ser Normen. What are my duties, sir? I’m still a junior squire, but I’m ready to serve.”
He seemed…zealous. Like a new Goblin warrior. Rabbiteater waved at him.
“Uh. Hi. I’m just Rabbiteater. Solstice is a made up name.”
Rivel hesitated.
“Then—er, Ser Rabbiteater. Will you be taking over my training or whatnot? Knight Embraim is—dead.”
His voice faltered.
“But he died heroically. I saw it. I couldn’t carry his flame. I—I’ll do my best, Ser Rabbiteater, to make up for everything.”
The Vampire saluted, and Rabbiteater gave Badarrow a side-eye that his brother ignored. The [Sniper] was edging away, and Rabbiteater grabbed for his arm and missed. This felt like a headache.
“So you’re a squire being trained by the Order of Solstice? Right, those guys with the fire. I, uh, I don’t do fire stuff. I can do light okay. You want me to teach you to fight or something? What’s your level?”
Rivel paused long enough for Rabbiteater to realize this wasn’t the right question. The Vampire looked around and motioned a ‘come hither’. Rabbiteater reluctantly walked away from the camp. A hundred feet. Then two hundred…
When they were knee-deep in jungle shrubbery, Rabbiteater stopped.
“Okay, this is far enough. What is it?”
“Ser Rabbiteater, I’m a—you know—”
“A Vampire?”
“Yes! My people don’t have levels! That is—I don’t—and I don’t have any lanterns or flames. I didn’t know what to do when you were laid up, so I’ve been practicing the sword drills that Normen taught me…what should I do now? I came to fight for Miss Erin Solstice. Now what?”
The young man slid up his visor and revealed a pale face, fanged teeth, red eyes…he was sort of handsome, Rabbiteater decided. Very Goblin-like features. He seemed like a good kid, despite probably being multiple times Rabbiteater’s actual age. But…the Goblin found a rock and squatted down on it.
“The Order of Solstice. I sort of know them. They sound fun. I’m not one of them, though. I don’t do flames. I can teach you to hit things good. But not as a squire. How about you promote yourself to [Knight] and we’ll get out of here? I’m looking for Erin. Just stay with me and don’t get killed.”
The Vampire’s eyes widened. Then he slapped a mosquito out of the air.
“Damn copycats. But, Ser Rabbiteater—you’re the second member of the Order of Solstice?”
“What? I am? Who’s the first?”
Rabbiteater stared at Rivel.
“Ser Brunkr.”
“Who? Oh—the Gnoll.”
This was all confusing to the Goblin. It sounded like…a joke. It was a joke, Rabbiteater thought. When he’d heard of Erin declaring the Order of Solstice, he’d laughed, because she’d done it for him, and it was funny. He’d liked it, of course, but it had felt further away. Rivel felt like someone with history. Another tribe, meeting his. It had been a great joke, Rabbiteater had thought, letting Normen and Goblins become [Knights].
Only, while he’d been overseas, the joke had become real. And they weren’t laughing at themselves. Rivel was trying to explain the different flames and Ser Normen, whom Rabbiteater had never met.
“He’s the burned guy, right?”
“He’s the Knight of Honor’s Flame! The Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice! He attacked the Bloodfeast Raiders all on his own to save as many people as he could!”
Rabbiteater scratched at his own armor, wishing he could take it off.
“Yeah. I saw that. He’s sort of tactically unsound. Even for a Redfang. Brave, though.”
Rivel’s mouth opened, and he nearly inhaled a cloud of midges. Rabbiteater’s cavalier attitude towards Normen the Tactically Unsound was sacrilegious! But the Goblin didn’t really like it. He didn’t mind being called a knight of the Order of Solstice. It was a good cover. But he wasn’t one of them. He guessed that he hadn’t really come to terms with how they had Erin’s fire. Her knights…
He was her [Knight]. She had given him a blessing of her inn. The Order of Solstice could share the name, take their powers from her, but he was different. It meant that when the Goblin Lord inspected the Vampire, it wasn’t with any real delight at having another person to watch or mind. But it was with an insight.
“So why are you a squire? How come you came for Erin?”
Why do you look so guilty? The Goblin’s intuition made Rivel squirm.
“Ser Normen gave me the chance to become a squire. My identity is secret, Ser Solstice. It’s probably fine, here, but I am…wanted in Izril.”
“For doing what?”
“Um…”
 
——
 
