It took twenty minutes to get an explanation from Rivel about his actions, burning down House Byres’ mansion and then kicking off a Vampire-Human war. Rabbiteater sat there as bugs chirped around the two of them. They didn’t actually like Rivel much; the Vampire seemed to be less appetizing than most people.
No wonder he was at Erin’s inn. He’s as weird as all her guests. The Vampire was also, manifestly, a problem. Rabbiteater could see why he was a squire, but he’d also come to fight the Bloodtear Pirates.
“How strong are you? You said you can heal. Anything else?”
“Uh—mistwalk. A tiny bit. That’s where I turn to mist and shift from place to place. I’m not that strong. Fierre is a real Vampire, now. Old Bamer and my father are stronger. But I can drag a wagon if I have to. Unloaded…but I can get it uphill. And I heal fast. Any cut’s closed within a day.”
Rivel sounded like he was flushing behind his helmet. Rabbiteater just nodded.
“Weak to silver, sunlight, and garlic. Heh.”
“It’s not as bad as Fierre. But I’ll tan in minutes, and garlic makes us sick. Or our throats swell up—”
“So I can kill with garlic bread?”
The Goblin Lord’s chuckling made Rivel tense slightly. He was like a young hothead. He unsheathed his sword, not to attack Rabbiteater, but more as a display. The sword came out fast and loud, ringing, like a [Swordsman]’s slash. Rivel intended to point it at Rabbiteater.
Rabbiteater’s sword parried Rivel’s blade and touched the young Vampire’s helmet. Rivel jerked; he hadn’t even seen Rabbiteater go for his blade.
“Not bad. You’re fast as a new Redfang.”
“How did you—?”
Rabbiteater rested the sword on his shoulder. He grinned behind his helmet.
“I’ll teach you how to be faster. Hitting someone tough sounds like fun. But don’t call me your knight master or whatever. Squires should fight other squires and do things like…polish armor and learn to ride horses. We’re going to have to kill other [Knights].”
“But I’m not a real knight. I did something incredibly stupid.”
Rivel was waiting for condemnation, but Rabbiteater just laughed. He turned back towards camp. The Goblin looked at that uncertain, red-eyed gaze, and it prompted a memory. On a sudden impulse, he turned and unsheathed his sword again.
“Why don’t I fix that? Your knight thing. You fought the Bloodtear Pirates. Kneel. And I’ll knight you.”
He grinned behind his helmet, and Rivel couldn’t see the Goblin’s smile, but he heard the tone. The Vampire hesitated, then his own eyes flashed from within his helmet.
“What? Knight me? I’ve barely been a squire for a few months.”
“So? I never was one. Come on. You nearly died.”
“—But Embraim was a Knight of Solstice. He died. He burned a ship with his flame. It was glorious. He—he was a knight.”
There was an intensity in Rivel’s voice that Rabbiteater didn’t miss. But the Goblin Lord just rested his sword on his shoulder.
“I never knew him. He must have been brave. Doesn’t change the fact that you were too. Kneel.”
And Rivel said—
“No.”
 
——
 
The Vampire was angry. He had always been angry growing up. Rivel had never been as good at pretending to be a warmblood like Fierre. He wasn’t as clever as Fierre, and Himilt had trained him to take over the farm.
The farm…when they should have been royalty, rulers of the night. Rivel liked Mister Fluffles. He liked growing plants, but he hated hiding his fangs. Hated gathering in old ruins and flinching every time he saw a [Knight] or the Watch riding around.
Burning House Byres had made sense. Then he’d been disgraced, and…Ser Normen had given him a second chance. Rivel hadn’t really got it. He’d liked dressing up in armor and swinging a sword and feeling like a warrior.
—Then he’d seen the Order of Seasons fighting. Really fighting, not on the scrying orb. Antherr tackling a Draugr. The Order of Solstice standing on the hill as every undead in the world charged at them. Embraim’s glorious flame.
Burning a ship to death. Knowing he was dying—in those pink flames, Rivel had thought he’d seen something more valuable than the name ‘Vampire’. Something to aspire to. And then he’d found himself in the company of one of the first [Knights], Ser Solstice himself.
Rivel knew that Rabbiteater was a Goblin. But he was so much less than the other [Knights]. He talked of Embraim like—he didn’t know them. He didn’t deserve to be a [Knight] of Solstice.
“Oh come on. You killed some [Pirates]. You came with Seve. With the others. You could have died. It doesn’t matter how well you did. You were brave. You are a knight. Class or not. Kneel.”
“No.”
Now he was furious, a twisting, familiar knife of contempt for Rabbiteater. Rivel stood straighter, gripping his own sword’s hilt.
“I am a squire of the Order of Solstice. Vampire. I apologize for my conduct, Rabbiteater. I didn’t realize…you don’t know the Order of Solstice’s traditions well. Or what I am. I shall try to explain both to you. And I will protect Erin Solstice. On my life.”
But I won’t learn from you. At least, not more than how to fight. Rivel actually expected Rabbiteater to take this as amusedly as the rest, but the Goblin tilted his head.
“I don’t know Vampires. Fair. You’re only the second one I’ve met. But you know me. I’m a Goblin. We both have red eyes. Fangs. People don’t like us. I know you. You killed [Pirates].”
Only four, hands shaking, hiding behind the better warriors, heart in his mouth. He was not the hero he’d thought he would be. Rivel refused. For the sake of his honor. The Order of Solstice’s.
“No. You don’t know me. Please—”
He tried to turn away, and the Goblin reached out and caught Rivel’s shoulder. He was fast—strong! Rivel tried to tear away, and few men had ever managed to slow him down, even the biggest. But the [Knight] dragged him back, and Rivel turned.
“Enough—”
About to rage into Rabbiteater’s face, Rivel froze. Something—an aura—unfurled around him. Like a white flag waving. Like an inn rising from the grass—massive. A presence crushed him.
Crimson light flared from within the depths of the helmet. When Rabbiteater spoke, Rivel’s knees shook and his heart fluttered.
“I have known your kind, Vampire. Some call you monsters. They speak of your death and danger. I have met your kind and seen their glory. You fought at that battle when anyone brave enough to draw their sword knew they would die. I do not know Knight Embraim. But I know bravery.”
His hand rested on Rivel’s shoulders, and the Vampire’s legs wavered.
“Kneel. If you are afraid or think you’re unworthy, fine and good. It will make your sword heavier.”
“I am unworthy.”
The Goblin’s voice was amused and weighty, like a millstone on Rivel’s shoulders.
“We are all unworthy. Kneel.”
Rivel knelt. It felt wrong, but his heart was quivering as Rabbiteater spoke.
“Do you swear by your honor to be more than anyone else before you? Human, Dwarf, Vampire, half-Elf, Goblin? Will you rise for the coming battles?”
His visor slowly slid up, and two bright eyes fixed Rivel with a stare that was as serious as the look Embraim had given him before the end.
“If you will—then show me honor that defies any words. Valor beyond any species or petty boundary. Swear to me and rise a knight!”
He extended his sword, and Rivel felt the blow on both shoulders, so hard he swore the armor dented. He swayed—then pushed himself up.
It was just a small thing. Two blows, a simple speech. But when he got up, Rabiteater clapped him on the shoulder, and Rivel felt the breath leave him.
“Call yourself a squire if you want. But you and I will know the truth. The next time we go into battle, I expect you to fight like Ser Embraim did.”
What an impossible task. Rivel was panting. Sweating cold beads despite the humid air.
“Wh—what was—you said you knew my kind? Was that a lie, or—?”
Rabbiteater sheathed his blade and replied casually, but never took his eyes off Rivel. His tone was light, but Rivel realized that was just how the Goblin talked. He would say things in a tone that suggested he was playful or having fun—but he meant everything he said.
“I remembered someone I met, once. A ghost. She made me swear the same thing to her. I just tried to copy how it felt. It probably wasn’t as good, but I tried. We are warriors, Rivel, you and I. If you kept thinking like a squire, you’d always be one. We don’t have time for that. Understand?”
Speechless, the young Vampire stood there. Rabbiteater turned, and Rivel began following him.
“Besides. Your crimes were never that bad.”
“But I started a war—”
“You didn’t know. What did you actually do? You killed no one. Burn down House Byres’ home? Everyone who meets Ylawes wants to do that. He attacked your people. You attacked his. That’s how it goes.”
Rabbiteater’s stride made Rivel jog to keep up, trying to come up with an argument. Then Rabbiteater turned his head.
“The real question is: did it make things better?”
“…No. No, it was a disaster.”
Rivel’s voice was quiet and subdued. Rabbiteater nodded.
“Then stop. Now you are a knight. You don’t do that sort of thing. This is your job, now. Get better at fighting. And say ‘on my honor’ a lot. That’s how you become a good [Knight].”
He was mostly joking. But questions on what made a knight a knight…the angst about honor and duty and so on? Rabbiteater looked around the jungle and then at the beached ship and camp. He caught Rivel’s arm and pointed.
A [Princess] was picking her way around camp, trying to talk to soldiers, who leapt to their feet. Rabbiteater stared at the silly [Princess] doing her best.
“Don’t think about whether you’re worthy or what you need to learn. Protect that, first. If you think you can, you’re stupid and I’ll hit you. Train harder. Real [Knights] run. Do sixty laps around camp each morning to start with.”
Rivel followed Rabbiteater’s finger and bowed his head. He whispered suddenly, as he felt woefully, inadequately unready, facing greater challenges than he had ever dreamed or wanted. Yet he swore he’d follow Rabbiteater anywhere he went, just like Ser Normen.
“Yes, Ser Solstice.”
“Stop calling me that.”
 
——
 
Seraphel du Marquin wished she had Rabbiteater’s attitude towards life. Things seemed so uncomplicated around him.
She lost track of him for an hour, and he now had a [Squire] in tow, whom he was showing how to swing a sword. Seraphel vaguely remembered Rivel, but he was hardly a concern.
She was doing her best to raise morale, mostly by thanking [Soldiers] for their efforts, speaking of Calanfer, and so on. Platitudes and artificial speeches. Seraphel felt like Aielef or Shardele.
What made her unhappy was that it worked. Seeing the common folk, from grizzled [Soldiers] to fresh-faced young officers, bowing to her in reverence made Seraphel feel guilty for each one who had died.
I should ask Rabbiteater to teach me how to swing a sword. It couldn’t hurt, though Seraphel wasn’t sure she’d ever have the muscle to fight properly.
She put it out of her head. There were other things she could do. Little things, like attend to some of the others.
“Where is Adventurer Revi Cotton? Here. Take this dress and have all the threading removed. It’s water damaged anyways; give the fabric over to a [Healer] for bandages.”
Seraphel was sorting through her clothing in the camp, much to the chagrin of her personal servant, Beacle.
“Your Highness, it’s such a beautiful dress—”
She was from Calanfer’s palace, loyal and brave, but she was still new to a [Princess]’ lifestyle. Seraphel carelessly tossed the expensive cream-colored clothing in a hamper with a dress that had a tear in it.
“It’s fair. I have too much clothing anyways; Mother must have expected me to be hosting balls in the New Lands. Miss Revi is an adventurer. A Stitch-woman. She needs this thread to repair herself. Plus, every dress we abandon is one less you have to carry around.”
She gave Beacle a pointed look, and the handmaiden hesitated, then silently held up a rather lacy piece of clothing.
“This is out of style, Your Highness. Perhaps to get rid of?”
That was the spirit. Seraphel made sure to get the dresses to Miss Revi Cotton personally. The adventurer was keeping to herself, but Seraphel felt like the little gesture wouldn’t go unnoticed. She was just about to retire for the evening when someone caught her.
“Your Highness. Since Ser Solstice has awakened, perhaps now would be a good time to look into the matter of your royal guard? You requested the issue rest…but I am afraid my counterparts have been attracting attention.”
Dame Neranthei, the only Thronebearer under Seraphel’s direct command aside from Ser Dalimont, appeared outside the cabin. She, like Ser Dalimont, had pledged herself to Seraphel after Noelictus, and she was the only person among the [Knights] that Seraphel trusted implicitly.
Oh, Thilowen was highly competent, but he answered to her parents. Seraphel turned to Dame Neranthei and recalled.
[Royal Bodyguard: Two of Life, Two of Death]. During the fighting, she had activated her Skill to gain an edge. It had certainly allowed the female Thronebearer to escape the fighting more or less unscathed. She and Ser Dalimont were the two that Seraphel had chosen as the living.
But the dead…Seraphel hesitated and sensed the other two were standing sentry at the edge of camp. Where she’d ordered them to go nigh on a week ago. Seraphel hesitated only a second as Thilowen’s head turned. He ordered a full squad of Thronebearers to go with her, but they were hers.
The [Deathtouch Princess], Dame Neranthei…
The Skeleton Champion created by Pisces the [Necromancer], and Strategist Veine, one of Admiral Dakelos’ former crew members.
Oh my. 
 
——
 
They were standing stock still, a tall, sturdy-looking skeleton with a greatsword on its shoulder, wearing battered, but golden armor, white flames glowing in its eye sockets, and a ghostly woman wearing a naval officer’s uniform, armed with a crossbow that fired Tier 3 spells.
To say they were mismatched was slightly an understatement. Veine was a proud-looking woman for all her death. The Skeleton Champion looked like a monster, all glowing eyes and magic. Seraphel wasn’t sure what to expect; the two were a good distance from camp.
She knew Calanferians feared the undead, especially after Az’kerash’s long reign of terror, but how disturbing could the two be? Out of sight, out of mind? They’d completely fled Seraphel’s mind while Rabbiteater was sick.
