I should be afraid or horrified. Dead gods, I’ve touched him. If I were younger, I might be screaming to wash my hands or that I’ll fall sick. That sounds so stupid, now. Was it my time with Cara? Seeing Noelictus and their relationship with the dead?
Ser Dalius?
Her mind flashed to one of her companions in Noelictus, an actual ghost. Seraphel bit her lip and this time pretended the other way.
“I won’t lie, Cortese, I’ve been mulling over that duty to my…class as well. Do you feel your class is pulling you one way, your feelings the other?”
“You have it in a nutshell. Kaaz may be one of the Restful Three, but we pride ourselves on being much like adventurers in spirit. I know what must be done.”
Seraphel stood up and faced the other way to not let them see her face.
“Then—tell me something. What does your sense of honor say? Not your class or emotions, Cortese. Menrise?”
Silence. Then Cortese slapped his knees. He stood, turning to gaze at the curtained windows.
“…What sort of man would stab a friend in the back?”
There was a world of emotion there, and Seraphel’s head rose, focusing on the strain in his tone. Cortese’s hand opened and closed by his sword’s hilt. Then he turned, face openly taut, but exhaling.
“It came—comes down to that, in the end. My honor wouldn’t have me run through a man I’ve fought beside. He and I saved each other’s lives in battle. But if he becomes a threat, a Goblin Lord or Goblin King—”
Don’t show any emotion. Don’t even hint. You don’t know anything, Seraphel. He was delirious. The [Princess] kept her body straight as sweat prickled down her spine. Menrise interrupted, voice dubious.
“If, if, if. What’s the odds he becomes one? Really? He’s not exactly a leader of armies. Although people are saluting him a lot, but that’s a war hero for you. I guess my problem is I like him. He’s the sort of person I’d marry if I were ever forced into it, but I’d much rather have him as a friend. I just wonder if I’m making a mistake in any way. Is it ethical? Ethical, listen to me. I sound like a Samalian.”
She made a disgusted sound and spat. Cortese and Seraphel looked at her.
“Did you just—”
“Yep. It’s gross. Hand me a handkerchief?”
Silently, Cortese did, and Menrise swabbed the inside of her helmet. Seraphel realized this was her opportunity. She spoke thoughtfully and had an idea and presented it as if she were coming around to it herself.
“You know, you two, I think we have an answer of sorts already. Because I think there is someone who knew who Ser Solstice was from the moment they met. And he never turned away or did anything but treat him as a friend.”
She waited, and Cortese sat up.
“Altestiel? No.”
“Remember how they were saying they knew Miss Erin Solstice? I think he knew, Cortese. He knew, and he never said a word. The Earl of Rains, arguably a more important man than the three of us combined. If I were to trust anyone’s opinion…”
Seraphel trailed off. Menrise sat there a second, and Cortese made a rumbling sound in his throat. Then Menrise leapt to her feet and rubbed her hands together.
“I’m sold. Alright, let’s go watch Rabbiteater beat down Ser Markus. I’m not serious about the marriage thing, by the way, Seraphel. I just volunteered for the New Lands on a lark because otherwise I would get paired with the most ‘eligible’ partner unless I marry someone out of love or whatever. And it’s usually a gremlin with a huge mana well and no redeeming qualities.”
She skipped towards the door, and Cortese flustered to his feet.
“You can’t switch over like that so easily, Menrise! Seraphel, talk some sense into her.”
“I…have to agree with Menrise, Cortese. He is our friend. Is anything going to change that?”
“Green skin?”
Menrise tossed a bit of flames at Cortese, and Seraphel almost wanted to smack the top of his head.
“Cortese! At the very least, we could see if he’s actually anything like the Goblins we’ve heard are monsters. Or ask him ourselves. If he…leaves the ship, that is one thing. But I doubt you will reveal his identity or challenge him to a duel.”
Cortese hesitated, then exhaled and pushed himself up fluidly.
“I suppose. It’s just damned odd. If he’s not the monster I think he is…is every damn Goblin like him? They can’t be. I’ve hunted them down when I was playing at being an adventurer. If they’re like him—”
He scuffed at the floor silently, and Seraphel bit her tongue, remembering hearing of Thronebearers going out to destroy Goblin nests and being relieved they were stamped out.
“Let us ask him. No, wait, let us ask Badarrow. What if we all befriended him? Then we’d learn something about Ser Solstice.”
“That fellow? I don’t like him. He’s surly and uncommunicative.”
Both Menrise and Seraphel pushed Cortese out of the door, fed up with his objections. They were hurrying down the ramp when Menrise put a finger to her head.
“Hold on. Oh spellbooks! Hey, did either of you send a [Message] to…the Titan of Baleros? I think he’s sending a [Message]!”
Seraphel and Cortese turned. It was dusk, and the sun was turning the sea an admittedly gorgeous orange. Seraphel almost felt like she was on holiday, now. Rabbiteater was chasing Ser Markus around with a practice sword on the beach, and Menrise was astonished.
“I don’t have a Mage’s Guild’s confirmation code-thing, but it feels like it’s from the right place.”
“The Titan of Baleros knows we’re here? Maybe someone informed him. There’s one to watch.”
Cortese put a hand to his sword hilt, but Seraphel encouraged Menrise.
“Perhaps he’s helping Ser Solstice? Or Calanfer reached out to him. He’s an ally of Erin Solstice, actually! He’s on our side, Menrise. Go on, what is he saying?”
“Hold on. He says—wait, that can’t be right. It’s in all capital letters. Wait. Oh no, he says—‘stop broadcasting your location on open channels, you morons’. What—what does that mean?”
Seraphel’s head snapped around suddenly. A Thronebearer pretending to swab the decks dropped the mop. Cortese frowned.
“Broadcasting our…but the scrying spells are still being blocked. Could we have alerted…?”
“Thilowen!”
The Thronebearer was already heading their way at a trot. Menrise began to repeat the [Message], but he held up a gauntleted hand.
“Message spells can be intercepted, Lady Menrise. Assuming this is the Titan—do not respond in any case.”
“What does he mean? Is it a fake?”
“It may be to get us to panic, Your Highness. I am having Thronebearers check—we have encrypted our message to the Eternal Throne with a code that cannot be easily broken. Hundredlord Cortese?”
“Don’t look at me. I sent my messages via the Eternal Throne. Menrise?”
“Hey! Aside from that half-Elf that Ksmvr wanted me to [Message], I’m fine, and I didn’t say anything about our location. He just wanted to know what to do, and she told him to keep the [Innkeeper] safe.”
Menrise lifted her hands, and Thilowen consulted a list.
“There should be no one here with [Message] abilities besides those here. Admiral Dakelos might have an artifact…find him.”
Thronebearers went storming across the ship, and Admiral Dakelos appeared, holding his hands up. When Thilowen produced a truth stone, he replied instantly.
“Orders? I didn’t send to Ailendamus for any. I don’t have any messaging artifacts; this was a one-way trip.”
“We may search you to be certain, [Admiral].”
“Go ahead, but I truly don’t…”
Something was nagging Seraphel’s mind. She snatched the list from Thilowen and ran her finger down it.
“Wait a second. Menrise, did you send a [Message] spell to anyone else? I assume Thilowen was keeping a lid on [Messages] for just this issue.”
Thilowen nodded, and Menrise shook her head.
“No one. Why?”
Seraphel felt a sinking sensation in her stomach and strode to the railing and looked down.
“Well then—how did Ser Markus tell the Order of Seasons we were all safe?”
Everyone looked at Seraphel, and then Cortese was running down the ramp with Thilowen, Dakelos, Menrise, and Seraphel hot on his heels. When they shouted at Ser Markus, he froze, sword raised, looking confused.
“What? The [Message]? Yes, I got one from Ser Greysten this morning. He was asking where I was—well, what condition we all were and everything. I had one in my pack, so I told him we were all well.”
“You did what? How do you know it was Ser Greysten?”
“…Because he said it was him? I say, is something wrong? I only said where we were roughly about.”
Markus’ face began to grow alarmed as Seraphel looked at Thilowen. He was already striding back to the ship.
“Captain! Make the Throne’s Will ready for launch! We are striking camp! Abandon everything that’s not essential!”
“Too late.”
That low voice came from Badarrow, who had lowered a practice sword and was staring out into the horizon. He pointed, and everyone turned, but Seraphel didn’t make out what he was looking at at first. Only when Menrise muttered a spell did Seraphel’s gaze amplify, but even then she only saw a black dot on the waves. Then another.
Ser Markus the Indiscreet stood there, pale-faced and babbling apologies as Admiral Dakelos strode on board the ship. He produced a spyglass and waited, looking for the flags as people below tried to get Throne’s Will into the surf. But the tide was against them. Dakelos just waited, then exhaled.
“Which one is it?”
Rabbiteater called up to him, and the [Admiral] looked down.
“The Iron Vanguard.”
 
——
 
Two frigates and a galleon found the Throne’s Will along the beach and opened fire as dusk turned to night. They gave no hails, nor responded to [Message] spells requesting a parlay.
[Fireballs] were one of the staple spells of choice; the Tier 3 spells rained down on the immobile ship as [Lightning Bolts] and magical arrows slammed down. They didn’t do much damage at first; the Throne’s Will was Calanfer’s lead warship. But it was a sitting duck and unable to properly fight back.
They tried; Captain Ennerev and a skeleton crew manned the war spells, trying to loose them at the distant ships, which maneuvered and dodged the broadside. The air was filled with smoke; Seraphel could see figures emerging from the cargo hold, throwing goods and supplies into the water.
She was well back from the ship. When it had become clear that there was no way it could get into the water, Thilowen had ordered it abandoned. The Calanferians had retreated towards the jungle, and there they waited.
If the enemy ships made a landing, the best place to meet them was on the beach. Soldiers and Thronebearers stood in silent ranks as Seraphel sensed a pair of figures hurling more goods into the sea.
Strategist Veine and one of the Skeleton Champions. Her bodyguards, empowered by her Skills. It was dangerous work; the Skeleton Champion went running back the way it had come, and something hit the decks, flashed across it, and took out one of its legs.
“What was that?”
That came from a horrified Ser Markus, white-faced with guilt. Thilowen answered shortly as someone loosed a bow.
“Iron harpoons. Some are anti-magic. They came ready to sink the Throne’s Will.”
A salvo of the harpoons struck the gilded ship, and this time, Seraphel heard wood breaking. She put her hand over her mouth. The ship that had borne them through all the battles was coming to pieces before her eyes. It felt wrong.
The Iron Vanguard. It was stupid to ask why they were attacking. But it was so…pointless after the war at sea. Wasn’t it?
As she watched, Throne’s Will launched a gout of glowing rays of light at one of the enemy ships and caught it, but the ship merely sailed on, turning to present its other side. They were losing without hope of any victory.
Only three factors presented the Dullahans with any surprise. The first was Badarrow. The Goblin stood on the beach, thousands of feet from the distant ships. He loosed another arrow as Seraphel turned. High, high into the air, whispering Skills as the arrow flew. He was putting another to the bow even as he grunted in surprise.
“Got one.”
Cortese was frankly disbelieving. Even Badarrow just shrugged.
“Lucky shot.”
He kept loosing arrows as the onslaught continued. Now, the Throne’s Will was breaking up as enchantment spells failed. But it refused to actually fall apart properly; parts of the ship turned black and ashy with the onslaught, but remained intact. Why?
Admiral Dakelos. He was standing on board the ship, holding the ship’s wheel. Futilely. His ship was damned. But so long as he stood there—it refused to sink. His phantasmal crew kept unloading the decks.
Madness. He was risking his life for food and supplies. But no one had stopped him. They might need every bale of food being carried out in Chests of Holding. The Dullahans knew he was keeping the ship afloat, though. As Captain Ennerev’s broadsides faltered and the attack spells ceased working, the Dullahans drew closer, intent on killing the [Admiral].
“Dakelos, evacuate the ship! That is an order!”
Cortese howled into a speaking stone and got a short reply.
“They’re coming for blood. If I leave the ship, my crew vanishes. If they sink Throne’s Will, they will bombard us from their ships.”
“They’ll fill you with holes before they board! Get off, man! You too, Rabbiteater!”
The Hundredlord was on the tips of his toes, staring desperately at the burning deck, for all his earlier comments about the monster that might be his friend. But he got no reply from either man. Seraphel’s hands were over her mouth as the ships closed in. She was looking at the little figure on deck.
Rabbiteater.
 
——
 
A trio of [Fireballs] flashed towards Admiral Dakelos. One missed, going high. A second exploded as a ghostly [Cook] threw himself in front of the blast, taking it for Dakelos.
The blank-faced [Admiral] flinched. Soot covered his face, and he was mildly burnt but otherwise unharmed. He didn’t move a muscle when lightning bolts flashed past his face or the metal harpoons shredded the deck. But the sight of a grinning man vanishing into the aether hurt him.
He refused to let go of the ship’s wheel. The third [Fireball] detonated in midair; a [Strategist] lowered her wand, checked it, and fired again.
In the distance, one of the Dullahans on the enemy ships fell. Dakelos’ ghostly crew were firing their small arms, ghosts with crossbows and wands, as the living ran from the ships, including Captain Ennerev. The Dullahans faltered in their advance and circled again, breaking off from their approach.
