The silence is another thing. I can tell most of the villagers haven’t been able to fall asleep out here and they’re too scared to make a sound. The gentle thumps of people adding wood to their fires resonates throughout the camp reminding me of public restrooms and the silence that always seems to happen when you need to go number two.

It takes a few hours but the forest adapts to our presence. Bugs and other small critters start chirping and I swear half the people trying to sleep stood up when the distant call of a farkas pierced the night. If they’re like wolves from Earth then they wouldn’t be howling if they’re hunting.

*Whistle*

Or maybe I’m wrong. Activating Double Step, I shoot through the dark forest, stopping when I stand next to Braddon.

One, four, six, six pairs of glowing yellow eyes are staring at the two of us. I’m deep enough in the woods that the campfires are no longer helping me see. The moon and stars are barely bright enough for me to see the outlines of the farkas pack.

Braddon whistles again causing me to flinch, surprisingly I’m not the only one. The whistle causes the pack of farkas to retreat a few steps.

I check over my shoulder as I hear two people approach from behind me. The two villagers that were stationed the closest to me have shown up. One is carrying a torch, lighting up the surrounding trees. The farkas look scarier now that I can see them clearly. The light starts to tremble and I can see that the villager holding the torch is preparing to run.

The wolves face to my left and start growling at a distant tree. Father walks out of the night with his usual confident look. The pack takes another couple of steps back and closes their ranks.

We need to hurry. If one of the villagers turns to run it will probably signal the farkas to attack.

“Aaliyah.” I ignore Braddon’s hushed warning and step in front of our small group.

My right hand tightly grips my axe handle. If this goes wrong, I’ll be the first one they attack. Straightening my back, I suck in as much air as I can.

With my lungs bursting with air, I howl as loud as I can while activating Intimidating Shout.

“Aaaaaaaarrrrrrrrrrruuuuuuuuuuuuu!!!!!”

Two of the farkas respond with their own howls while the other four whimper submissively. The two biggest farkas bare their fangs and I prepare for their attack. They hunch their shoulder ready to launch themselves at me… then they abruptly turn and run into the forest.

As the back of the last farkas disappears my legs turn to jelly. Before I topple over, father is standing beside me, lending me his arm.

The two villagers are pale and Braddon is standing there with his mouth open.

“Is our shift almost over?” I weakly smile at Braddon.

*Crack* *Crack* *Crack*

*Crack* *Crack* *Crack*

The four of us turn to see everyone from the expedition rushing towards our position.

Maybe the Intimidating shout was too much?

“Stay in formation! Match your neighbor’s pace!” God’s, I want to throw a rock at Camden’s face.

I thought yesterday was bad.

It took a while to settle everybody back in after the farkas left last night but the rest of the night was rather quiet. I managed to fall asleep for four whole hours before the camp was ordered to pack up before the sun had even risen.

After everybody had their supplies packed, we were herded together into what could be counted as a formation. Frontlines like father and I were at the forefront of the formation while the villagers tried to stay in organized lines behind us. Anyone who had a bow was stationed in the far back. We marched like that for half a day before the hunters moved from the backlines and started scouting our surroundings again. Though the hunters were allowed to leave their post the rest of us were required to maintain the formation till we broke for camp again.

The path we’re marching on has slowly started to incline. Most people are grouchy from the lack of sleep and everyone is probably thinking of ways to knock Camden off his high jelen. The man is obviously not a commander and can only shout at people to form up. He’s been shouting about how our formation will crush the goblins but I think he’s trying to convince himself that his plan will work.

“Come on! We’ll make camp just up ahead. I’ve been told there’s a clearing we can use.”

Those behind me yell for the front to speed up. They can’t see where the headman is pointing. His “camp site” is at least another mile up this incline. The donkeys see a carrot, so they take off running not caring about what lies ahead.

I swear, if another person pushes me from behind, I’ll toss them back down the hill with my bare hands.

I try to distract myself by listening to people gossiping about their skills.

“I unlocked the Marching skill.”

“Really!”

“That’s not fair!”

“I unlocked it too. You just need to try harder.”

They’re so happy over a single tier 2 skill? I could feel that I got the skill after an hour of marching. If they thought about it, they would realize it’s all about pacing yourself to someone’s command. If everyone wasn’t shuffling around all the time and properly stayed in line everyone would have unlocked the skill by now.

I started off being annoyed by the constant chatter behind me but as the day dragged on, I welcomed the distraction. It’s pretty funny how quickly the villagers would shift conversational topics. The best was when they were talking about food and someone brought up his aching feet. The conversation switched from everyone’s hunger to everybody’s aching feet so fast people were complaining how hungry their feet were.

I almost started to yell at everyone when they started raising flags about what they would do when they got home.

“Almost there!” Camden shouts again.

The group must have been slowing again. I can see the slope tapering off up ahead. Those of us in front have the most strength, so we have to hold back our strength to stay in formation. I don’t know if the others also saw that we’re getting close but we all move just a little bit faster.

Finally, after six hours of marching together, we reach our second campsite. While the backlines collapse in a tired heap, I look for the clearing Camden mentioned.

Father walks next to me, not tired at all from the march. As we move closer to the end of the hunting grounds the forest has slowly become denser and the trees themselves thicker. I don’t doubt the headman’s words but why would there be a clearing this deep in the woods?

My breath catches in my throat when we walk past a large tree and see the promised clearing. Small vines cover the clearing’s floor but that’s not what catches my eye. Growing out of the top of the vines are beautiful purple sunflowers. The vines only cover the ground by six inches but their flower stalks reach two feet off the ground.

I wonder if I can pick one of these for mother?

“A clearing full of dung weed… that’s his idea of a clearing.” Glancing over at father, he complains with a cheated look on his face.

What’s wrong with the clearing? The vines don’t appear to have thorns. We could probably sleep right on top of them.

I want to ask what’s wrong with the clearing, but the breeze that’s been following us up the mountain stops for a moment.

When the wind stops, the worst smell ever invades my nose. I try to cover my face with my hand but the smell is already stuck in the deepest parts of my nostrils. It smells like someone combined a pile of fresh manure with hundreds of rotten eggs!

“What is that smell!?” I yell at father from behind my hand.

With a scrunched up look on his face, father points at the clearing. “Dung weed; it grows in clusters like this, though this is the largest patch I’ve ever seen. The flowers attract insects with their horrible smell. The bugs come thinking there’s food, only to die when they bite into any part of the plant. The dead bugs act as a fertilizer. Parts of the plant are used in alchemy but no one wants to harvest them. The plant secretes a white substance that smells even worse than the flowers. The sap will cling to your body for days, no matter how hard you wash yourself.”

“The headman wants us to practice sparing here?” Just because the space is open doesn’t make this a good training spot.

A few of the more adventurous villagers walk up beside us and look at the smelly clearing.

“I know it smells bad! But make no mistake, the stench of battle will be worse. Make your camps around the clearing. The dung weed will help keep the wildlife at bay. I want everyone back here in an hour, we’ll assess your combat potential then!”

Everyone disperses around the clearing but father, Del, and I start setting up camp where we are. The hunters gather and start to play arrow-magic-sword, it’s this worlds form of rock-paper-scissors. An arrow beats a sword, sword beats magic, and magic beats arrow. The hunters need to spread their camps out and they all know the wind blowing against us will push the smell south. No one wants to camp south of the clearing.  Unlike earth, arrow-magic-sword is played with skill more than luck. The hand signals look close enough to each other that you can change your throw at the last second.

High stats make the game even more challenging. Strength, Dexterity, and Senses make the game extremely fast for high leveled people. Kids play games of three, adults do games of nine, and high leveled people…

I turn my head and watch Ronald’s hand blur forming a sword at the last possible moment. I couldn’t watch his throw. I heard that high leveled people play games of 99 matches, with each round lasting only half a second.

In a few minutes the winners are decided. Ronald makes camp a few feet from us while the others spread out to the sides and opposite end of the clearing.

Just like everything else, the highest leveled person usually wins.

“Enough!” Camden’s voice booms through the clearing.

Ronald, Arash, and Hayk distance themselves from the three villagers. The three men would probably drop to their knees if they weren’t afraid to land on the dung weed. Others have already paid the price during the previous sparring. Sticks were substituted for our weapons and only light blows were allowed.

“That should be everybody. I’ll discuss with Ronald on how we will position everyone during our assault on the goblins.”

“How come they don’t need to be tested?!”

“Yaa, I understand Del and Darrius but why does she not need to spar with us?!”

Lucas and Andre have been eyeballing me since the sparring has started. Even when they were helping the hunters test the villagers, they would send me challenging looks whenever they could.

“Stop your whining! She’s already shown her abilities to me.” Surprisingly it’s Braddon who steps forward in my defense.

“Sounds to me like you’re playing favorites. She shouldn’t get a free pass because she’s friends with your sister.” Lucas doesn’t give up his challenging look.

Surprisingly, Andre doesn’t immediately agree with Lucas’s statement. It takes an angry look from Lucas before Andre agrees with him. “T-h-a-t-s ri-ght.” His stammering portrays his confidence against Braddon.

Braddon challenges their resolve with a look that could shatter glass. Both of them deflate at his gaze but neither take a step back. At least they have courage.

Braddon casts his gaze towards me and gives me a single wink. What’s he planning to do?

Turning back to the troublemakers, they flinch at his voice. “Alright, fine. You want to test her? Go ahead.”

The two just look at each other, unsure which of them should step forward. So, this is Braddon’s game. Does he think this is repaying me for his attack? He must have seen that the two of them have been targeting me. He looks happy with himself, what a pain.

I take a few steps into the clearing, facing down Lucas and Andre. “Let’s get this over with.”

My nonchalant attitude angers Lucas the most, causing him to step forward. “I’m going to wipe that…”

“Both of you please. I don’t want to waste my time.” The two share the same expression as many of the villagers, pure disbelief. It dawns on them that I just insulted the both of them in front of everybody. Andre steps up next to Lucas and they both draw their sticks. Their sticks are the same length as daggers. The two of them have a handicap without their bows but every hunter practice’s their knife skills in case a beast gets to close.

“Pick up a stick!” Andre shouts at me. Lucas looks ready to charge me regardless of the rules. Andre hasn’t put as much effort in annoying me so I’ll go easy on him, mostly.

“I’m good. Come at me.” I raise my fists, guarding my face while bring my right foot back, taking a fighting position.

They run together, straight at me in their rage. The goblins will probably charge us the same way.

“AAAAaaaaa!”

I use Intimidating Shout and Double Step at the same time. The two freeze in place, just like the farkas did last night. Only this time I intend to attack, not bluff.

I move in front of Andre first and deliver a punch with my right fist using Precise Strike to his left cheek. It’s almost like watching a slow-motion movie. While Andre is falling backward, I see his eyes roll over, one down. Lucas is shocked at my sudden arrival but he still has his training as a hunter.

Brandishing his wooden dagger, he shakes off the lingering effect of Intimidating Shout and thrusts his imitation knife at my neck.

I bring my right foot back shifting my stance towards Lucas, helping me avoid his thrust. He doesn’t overextend and takes three steps forward, slashing at my face with each advancing step.

