“We make camp here tonight!” Camden shouts from atop his Jelen.

“Why are we stopping so early?” I whisper to my left. Father doesn’t look tired either and he’s carrying both of our gear.

“Look around, sweety.” Father moves to a flat spot up against a large tree and sets our luggage down.

Looking around, I can’t spot a reason why we’re stopping. The hunters around us are starting to prepare their own campsites.

Wait! Where’s everyone else? I turn around and try to spot the rest of our group through the trees. It takes a few minutes but the first man stumbles into sight looking ready to pass out. I’m reminded of a zombie movie as the second half of our group emerges from the forest.

“Why are they so tired? We only walked for like eight hours. I can understand if they focused their stats for crafting but why are the farmers just as tired?” One of the hunters who was herding the zombies laughs as he walks by.

“Help me set up the tent while I tell you.” Father calls me over to the base of the large tree where he’s started to unpack our tent. “They’re tired because they’ve never walked through the forest this much. Farmers may put some of their status points into strength but even someone with 50 strength will still find eight hours of marching through the woods quite a challenge.”

We bind the poles we brought together and tie one end of our canvas to the large tree. Using the poles, we rig the other side of the canvas to create a canopy over where we’ll be sleeping tonight. Looking around at the other camps, I see most people are setting up full tents. We don’t need to use a full tent because father’s and mine stats are high enough that our blankets are more than enough to keep us warm tonight.

Have I become disillusioned to the plights of normal villagers? The trek through the forest was easy and even the fall weather won’t pose a problem for me. I haven’t thought about it much but I’ve already reached a level most never obtain in their lifetimes.

“You build a firepit and I’ll get the wood?” I nod my head to father and go to check the surroundings for some stones while father disappears amongst the trees.

Most of the villagers are gathering close to each other, choosing to camp back to back. They’re forming a large campsite together probably feeling safer in higher numbers. The hunters are making their own camps like we did, spread out around the perimeter of the normal villagers. I walk around the surrounding campsites, picking up any stones I can find. I try not to laugh at some of the people trying to ask the hunters for help with setting up their campsites.

I’m surprised to see Camden and Braddon setting up their camp much further south than the rest of the hunters. The two of them are camped at least 30 feet in front of the group.  I would think the headman would be in the middle of camp, not at the spearhead of our little army.

Once I have my arms filled to the brim with rocks, I make my way back to our campsite. I’m not even surprised at who I see laying on the forest floor under our canopy. Master Del is lying on the floor in the same manner he sleeps on his favorite stone bench. If he can sleep on a stone slab, the forest floor must feel like a Tempur-Pedic bed.

“Is that everything you brought with you?” As usual, master doesn’t even open his eyes when he responds to me.

“Yep, everything I need.”

“I hope it didn’t take you too long to pack everything. God’s forbid you accidentally forgot something.” Every word is dripping in sarcasm.

Master looks comfortable laying in his armor. His hammer and pickaxe are resting beside him but it’s his other gear that exasperates me. Clipped to his side is his normal flask alongside the bigger one he told me he would bring. The booze can be forgiven but the only other supplies I can see is his bag of jerky.

“You better not try and ask for any of our supplies.” I move to a space just outside our canopy and deposit the rocks.

“If I need anything, I’ll ask Camden. He’d let me use his campsite if I asked.” Del talks in a low tone. We’re far enough away from the other villagers that as long as he talks quietly, they won’t hear him without an accent.

“You’re probably right,” I say over my shoulder. I start to pile the stones in the shape of a crescent wall. The wall will be used to block the wind and direct the heat towards us while we’re sleeping.

One stone after another, I quickly have my impromptu firepit ready. Leaving Del by himself, I search for some kindling. I saw plenty of twigs I could use to start a fire while I was collecting the stones earlier. I notice others are foraging for kindling but most are grabbing any wood they can find. I have to stop a few people who are gathering the wrong type of wood and warn them that the wood they’re picking up produces toxic smoke when burnt.

Shuffling around the camps, I gather some dried moss between some tree roots and find enough wood to start a fire.

Once I’m back at our campsite, I look through our supplies and find the fire starter. I take my time to carefully build my fire. I separate the different twigs into two piles. One pile is made up of the ones I know that will burn quickly and the others that I will use to build a lasting fire. I place the moss in the center of firepit, reaching over, I grab the flint and steel.

Striking the steel against the flint, I watch as small embers land on the dry moss. I need to blow some air to make sure the embers catch. It sucks that I have to be frugal with my magic. Anything can happen in the forest and the closer we get to the goblins the more likely we will encounter their scouting parties.

The embers catch in the moss and I can start building my fire. Glancing over at Del, who still has his eyes closed, I try and estimate how many fires I’ve started since I started working for him. “At least a thousand.” I mumble under my breath.

*Crack*

Hearing something moving behind me, I twist around, scanning my surroundings. I use my axe’s strap to swing my weapon off of my back and into my arms.

Before I can see anything “Easy… it’s your dad.”

I relax the grip on my axe when I hear Del. A few seconds later, I can see dad walking through the trees with a large load of wood on his back.

“Is that anyway to greet your father?” Chuckling to himself, dad enters our camp and notices master. Fathers smile fades to a neutral expression. “Del.”

Master finally opens his eyes. “Just making sure my apprentice was doing fine.” Father and Del stare at each other until Del climbs to his feet and moves out from under the overhang, moving a few feet away before he finds a new spot to lay down.

“I’ll be back in a minute.” Dad walks towards the center camp and dumps the wood he collected into a large pile. Before the villagers start grabbing logs, dad grabs enough wood to last us the night.

As dad walks back to our campsite, I make sure the fire has grown enough to add one of his logs that he carried back.

I can see almost every villager opening bags and pulling out some form of jerky. Me and dad have been snacking on any berries and fruits that we’ve scavenged from the forest all day, so we’re not that hungry.

I sit and watch the fire in front of me. I’m used to adjusting a fire for smithing but this is just boring. I know it’s considered good that we didn’t have any problems while traveling but other than a change of scenery the march today was too monotonous.

“Everyone! Gather around!” Camden’s voice echoes throughout the trees.

I place an extra log on our fire incase this takes too long. Followed by father and Del, I walk towards the headman.

“Hurry up! You don’t want your fires to go out, so gather quickly!” Nobody wants their fire to go out so even the most tired villagers hustle to gather around the headman.

“I know most of you are tired but we need to be prepared for tonight. We most likely won’t see any goblins until we get closer to their camp but that doesn’t mean we can let our guards down. Ronald will visit everyone and divide you into one of three guard shifts. Ronald also observed our progress today and we decided that we will try to move in formation tomorrow. When we break for camp tomorrow the hunters will then help me evaluate everyone’s fighting skills and we will form ranks. If we work together, we can overcome the goblins. Try to get some rest.”

Not the most inspirational speech I’ve ever heard.

The three of us make our way back to our camp. I need to pass the time without wasting my mana. I find a spot under the canopy and spread my blanket. Laying down, I pretend that I’ve fallen asleep and enter my meditative state.

I pull up my status page but ignore the information that appears in my head. The small translucent flame that has moved into my head is what I’m after. If I don’t look at my complete soul in my chest there’s no chance that I might accidentally knock myself out. Focusing on the representation of my status page can still help me raise Mental Resistance and Sense Soul.

First, I check how close I am to passing the tests I’m stuck on.

Cleaning (LV50)(50%)

Blacksmithing (LV50)(90%)

Charm (LV50)(70%)

Inject Mana (LV40)(90%)

I’ve felt that Inject Mana and Blacksmithing have been close to passing for a while. Master said I just need to push myself really hard to pass the first Blacksmithing test. That’s why I want to try and make a katana when I get… when I make my next sword. A Japanese katana has a soft core and is then covered in stronger metals, and treated with differential hardening. Forging a sword that looks like a katana would be easy but trying to authentically replicate the iconic weapon should be enough to finally push Blacksmithing into level 51.

I also need to talk to Kervin when he comes back to the village. I promised him some more weapons but depending on how long this expedition will last, I might not be able to supply him with half the amount I usually make.

Stuck in my thoughts, I feel a hand gently shaking my shoulder. I make sure to slowly open my eyes. Pretending to wake up is harder than it sounds. Slowly cracking open my eyes, I see father bent over me.

“Wake up sweety. Ronald is here.” Dad explains to me as he sees my eyes fully open.

Sitting up, I notice Ronald scanning the forest behind our campsite. We make eye contact and I try to not turn away from his gaze.

“Darrius, Aalyiah, first watch. Del-Razen, you have the third watch. First shift starts at sundown. Report to the headman’s camp for the first shift.” It’s rare to hear Ronald speak this much. His soothing voice has an even tone that’s a sharp contrast to his piercing looks.

He must assume we understand because he turns around and starts walking towards the closest hunter’s camp. I look over at the center most camp and can see Camden talking to the regular villagers. The villagers have unsure looks on their faces. The idea of standing watch must be terrifying for them.

I must have been meditating longer than I thought because the sun is already disappearing behind the trees.

“We should make our way over to the headman’s camp.” Father leans over and offers me his hand. He easily pulls me to my feet in one smooth motion.

Double checking my axe and knife, I follow father over to the headman’s camp. When we reach the headman’s southernmost camp, I can see Braddon and two of the other hunters standing ready. I can see eighteen other villagers standing around holding their impromptu weapons. Wait, some are holding spears and swords. The headman must have passed out his weapons to those he thought worthy.

One of which I can see holding a spear is Ezekiel. The man is holding the weapon like it’s a snake. Most of the villagers are wielding the same farm tools that I usually see them using in the fields.

“Listen up!” I stop examining everyone when I hear Braddon’s shout and turn to face him. “We will be taking the first watch. Myself, Arash, Hayk, and Darrius will patrol the woods surrounding the camps. The rest of you will fan out and stand guard just outside the perimeter camps. If anyone sees anything make sure you whistle. Only shout if the threat is great enough that we have to alert the whole camp. If you hear a whistle only the closest to the disturbance should respond. Everyone else needs to remain alert even when we’re dealing with a threat.” It sounds like he’s thought a lot about this.

“How do we see anything? It will be too dark for us to spot our feet let alone a hungry farkas.” Ezekiel asks nervously.

“Did you not bring a torch?” Braddon motions to the villager standing next to Ezekiel. The man is holding an unlit torch in his left hand. Ezekiel and a few other men look troubled realizing they forgot something important. Braddon reassures the men who forgot torches before they can complain.

“You won’t be that far from a hunter’s campsite which will have a fire going. You are only our backup if something decides to attack our camp. It will be the four of us who will have the job of scouting the area. Go and spread out, we only have a few more minutes of sunlight.”

With that we disperse and take positions in the surrounding area. I take my position close to our campsite so I can keep an eye on our fire.

The last rays of sunlight disappear over the horizon and night swallows the forest. The night sky is partially cloudy, obscuring the moons rays and the distant starlight. The lack of light doesn’t affect me, the mine is darker than this. The multiple campfires cast enough light that I can still see twenty feet into the forest.

