I see a small opening when he goes to take his fourth step. He stays just out of my reach, avoiding the same fate as Andre.

Unarmed combat is considered a last resort to most warriors in this world. With skills aiding the production of weapons and the skills boosting weapon use, everyone can buy and use a cheap dagger.

To some degree I have to agree with those ideas. Most of my training with dad has focused on my axe skills, so without an axe in hand I’m just as handicapped as Lucas.

The strike with my fist against Braddon in his family’s cellar was the usual result of using unarmed combat against a high leveled person.

However…

Lucas could not even be level 30 yet. His training may have given him the skill required to judge a weapons distance. And without a weapon in hand, he has the utmost confidence in his victory now that I can’t sneak attack him like Andre.

Too bad unarmed combat is looked down on so much. In between his third and fourth step, I can’t reach him with my fists…

…So, I kick the shit out him with my back-left leg. Pivoting on my front-right leg, I twist my body increasing the striking force. He only considered the range of my fists not my legs. I land a clean hit right where his gut should be. I thought about using Double Strike but that would have been overkill.

I held back quite a bit when I struck Andre in the face, using only a half of my strength to knock him out. I used 100% of my strength when I struck Braddon and he was able to get up quickly enough.

Just to be safe I used 70% on Lucas.

The sound of my boots impacting his hide armor sounds like a low-caliber gunshot. Unlike Andre who fell straight back, the force of my kick sends Lucas tumbling across the dung weed clearing. Once he finally stops rolling, he empties what little contents of his stomach on the forest floor.

Unlike Braddon, Lucas doesn’t get back up. He’s supporting himself with one arm while on his knees and the other arm is tightly holding his stomach.

“Was that necessary, Aaliyah?” Why is Braddon questioning me now? He knew what was going to happen when he let them fight me.

“Sorry, I thought I held back enough.” I try to make myself sound innocent for the audience’s sake. Everyone is already whispering to each other about the fight.

“You hear that Lucas! She went easy on you. People are quick to forget she’s Del-Razen’s apprentice. Her Strength stat probably rivals the senior hunters. Multiple high leveled people vouched for her before she even agreed to join this expedition. I allowed this fight to try and beat some Senses points into your big head.”

Braddon takes a step back and his father walks to the front. “I didn’t order you all to spar just to watch the hunters throw you around. We need to work together in the coming battle and knowing what each of us can handle will be paramount to our formation. We will adjust the formation tomorrow based on what we observed today. We still have another half day of marching before we reach the spot that we’ll use for our assault. The front lines will soften the goblins and the middle guard will provide backup for the front as well as providing protection for the archers. We’ll use the same watch system as last night. The rest of the time is yours, make it count.”

Bruised and smelly, people hobble off to their individual camps. A senior hunter caries Andre out of the clearing and another supports Lucas, allowing him to limp into the tree line.

I nod to father and Del, letting them know I’m staying for a minute.

When only Camden, Ronald, Braddon, and myself remain in the clearing I walk up the men.

Braddon greets my approaching figure first. “You sure showed them. That blow was pretty strong.”

“I didn’t think his defenses were that weak. Thanks for ruining my day by making me kick two snarling puppies.” I never wanted to fight them. They had a right to complain and challenge someone they thought was getting special treatment. My ego isn’t large enough that I need to show my superiority.

Braddon looks utterly confused by my statement. “I thought you would want to put them in their place? When I got on your bad side you dealt with it the same way.”

“As I said, they were barking. You tried to bite me.” Braddon winces at my words.

“No need to bring up the past, you two. What can I help you with, Aaliyah?” Camden interjects in case we start to argue.

“I had some ideas about our formation. I would like your opinion if it’s not too presumptuous of me.”

The three of them raise their eyebrows together.
