I don’t know how he can stand this.

Ameliah jiggled her knee, barely aware of the motion as she sat in sensory deprivation. Aura Focus was active, alongside Amplify Aura and Extend Aura—the three Aura Metamagic skills that she’d taken as a foolish child determined to never let anyone die to poison ever again. She wasn’t using them with Purify, however.

Spring felt like…warmth and change. The magic seemed to fill her with the urge to grow. To improve. To do. Even unleveled, her metamagic made the effect more than strong enough to make sitting here utterly intolerable, and yet, that was the task she’d set herself.

Stupid low mana cost.

Rain, the massive hypocrite, had called her crazy for trying to power-level it, but training was never easy, nor was it always fun. She needed Spring if she wanted to unlock Energy Well, which would give her the stamina she’d need to rank up other stuff. The sooner she had it, the faster she’d be able to progress.

There were other ways to boost stamina regeneration, obviously, but Energy Well was the only skill she knew of that converted mana directly into stamina. It would let her take advantage of Rain’s frankly stupid mana output, and it would be able to function mostly unsupported. Once she had it unlocked, she could then dump Spring, Purify, Amplify Aura, Extend Aura, and Aura Focus to free up five valuable skill slots.

Can I really do that?

Ameliah grimaced.

I haven’t been without Purify since…ever. I need the slot, though. I can’t afford to waste a point on something Rain already has. I can rely on him. He’s already relying on me. We can both benefit. I…should take the other seasons too. Not now, but once we’re back on the surface…

She sighed.

But if I do that, I could get stuck. The entire COMPANY would be relying on me, not just Rain. I’d have to stay until—

She sighed.

Damn it. Why does this have to be so hard for me? I WANT to stay!

…

Why can’t I get past this? Rain’s not like…him. Besides, there’s Tallheart and Jamus, even that goof Carten. My…friends. Not just them. Meloni, Vanna, Samson, Myth and Reason… Everyone.

I don’t want to leave. So why can’t I just trust that—

Something shifted in Ameliah’s mind, and she sighed, relieved by the distraction. The feeling was like that of a stuffed nose becoming unblocked. She hadn’t had a cold since before she’d left Brightside, but that was still how she thought of it.

Looking inward, she focused.

She pictured herself standing beside a well, a pouch of stones hanging at her waist. The image was sharp and clear, partly because she had no natural senses to distract her at the moment, and partly because of all the training she’d been doing in an attempt to enter her soul. That wasn’t what she was here for now, however.

The pouch at her waist was open. She reached inside to remove a single red stone, then tossed it into the well. As she did, Magma Catapult vanished from her mind like a candle extinguished. Then, she knelt and extended her arm into the water, reaching down to the very bottom in complete disregard of the depth. There were many stones there, added over years and years. She selected one, then dragged it back to the surface. It was a neutral gray, but she didn’t bother to inspect it before placing it into the pouch with its fellows. She knew it was the right one.

Ameliah smiled as Channel Mastery appeared in her mind. She let the image of the well fade, then turned her focus back to Spring. With a thought, she used Channel Mastery to double the aura’s mana consumption in an instant, and her smile took on a strained quality. As expected, her restlessness had doubled as well.

Rain can put up with this, and so can I.

With an effort of will, she forced herself to stop jiggling her knee.

Spring is annoying, yes, but the feeling’s nowhere near as strong as Winter yet. I can do this. I WILL do this. Now that I have Channel Mastery, it should be earning twenty-seven experience per hour. That makes it just under four hours left until rank two, which means I can get four more skills switched before I’m done, easy as just sitting here.

She sighed, then let herself fall backward, not feeling a thing as she struck the ground.

Joy.

[Dozer, stop!] Rain mentally shouted, wriggling away from the playful slime as fast as he could. Snek was larger now, but nowhere near as large as Dozer. Keeping ahead of the colossal slime was consuming valuable attention that he needed for other things.

[Tube-Slime! Play!] Dozer replied happily, jumping and slamming into the wall of the Bastion with enough force to shake the entire structure. Rain had built a basic platform of essence so Dozer wasn’t just pooled at the bottom of the sphere. He’d then changed the paneling back to glass, leaving the braces as adamant. It looked like a domed island again, floating in the sea of chaos, even more so since he’d made the platform green. His core was braced in the middle still. The adamant structure holding it ruined the image of the island somewhat, but there was no helping that. There was also no helping the fog, which was quite thick at present. The rate at which his core was generating it seemed to have increased, along with its size and the size of the Bastion.

[Dozer, now is not the time!] Rain sent, slithering behind one of the ‘adamant’ pillars where it met the ‘ground.’ He continued his retreat by slithering upward, winding around and around the pillar as he climbed. By his estimate, he only had a few minutes left before his alarm would go off, triggering the leveling process. He wanted to be in Snek when that happened so he could see his core from outside. He also didn’t want to be flying around, which meant he had to park his avatar in a safe spot. The problem was that there was no safe spot.

[Play!] Dozer was climbing after him, sticking to the beam and making it groan under his weight.

[Damn it, Dozer, you asked for this.] With his will, Rain snapped the beam right above Dozer, pushing it back toward the ground. The hardened essence couldn’t bend, so it broke, tearing a gaping hole in the platform where the beam passed through. Rain widened the hole further, dropping Dozer and the broken piece of the beam beneath the floor. Working quickly, he patched up the hole, then hardened everything, green darkening to gray as the pseudo-grass became pseudo-metal. [You’re in time-out.]

[Game!] Dozer sent back happily.

Rain hissed in exasperation. It was wonderful having the slime back, but there were some definite downsides. First, he wants to play, then he’s moping because he couldn’t understand my questions, then he’s all wound up about the ⟬filth⟭—damn it, filth—and after that, he’s back to wanting to play again and won’t take no for an answer. Dozer, buddy, we’re gonna have to work on some stuff.

Leaving the link open, but ignoring the slime’s happy confusion over the rules of the new ‘game’ he thought they were playing, Rain returned his attention to his core. He slithered his way to a more secure position, wrapped Snek around a beam, then settled down to wait.

Any second now…

He held his breath, and then suddenly, it began. The Bastion trembled, and he became aware of a sense of pressure against his scales. The chaos outside roiled, pressing against the glass. He felt that, too, despite being inside Snek. His entire soul was being subjected to some sort of stress. The Bastion groaned as the pressure grew.

No…

Rain tried to hiss in denial but found himself unable to expand his lungs. The pressure was coming from everywhere.

The fog thickened, and as Rain stared at the walls, he realized that it was coming in from outside, phasing straight through the glass like a fog bank rolling in. Faster and faster, the Bastion filled, the fog soon condensing to an opaque liquid that completely blocked his view. He tried to switch back to his core and failed. He was trapped in his avatar, unable to escape the terrible, yet oddly painless pressure. The liquid was flowing past him toward his core, faster by the moment, trying to tear him away from the beam. Dozer felt it too and was panicking, flattened against the underside of the platform by the current. Beneath the slime’s fear, Rain could feel a kernel of recognition. Dozer had felt something like this before. Rain used that fact like an anchor to keep his own fears in check.

If it’s happened before, it must be normal. Nothing to be worried about.

The pressure continued to build, and the current became even stronger. Rain’s vision narrowed to a point as he desperately fought to hang onto the beam.

This is fine…

Suddenly, the pressure was gone, as if it had never been.

Rain sucked in a breath, finding the liquid gone and the air perfectly clear. The Bastion was still there, undamaged, only now free of even a wisp of fog. Dozer fell, then began pinballing violently about his confinement, making the entire Bastion shake. The slime was unharmed, but frantic, desperate to find Rain and defend him from the threat, whatever it had been.

[Calm down, Dozer, it’s okay,] Rain sent, staring in wonder at the chaos beyond the Bastion’s windows. It was still churning, but it was calming quickly, soon returning to more-or-less normal as he watched. He sent more soothing feelings in Dozer’s direction. [Just hold tight. I’ll let you out in a minute.]

It seemed to work. After a few more jumps, the slime stopped trying to destroy the walls. Waiting for Dozer to finish calming down, Rain turned his gaze once more toward his core. It didn’t appear any larger, but the light that it emitted was ever so slightly brighter. He was sure about that, even though it was hard to make a comparison against only his memory. The knowledge was instinctual, somehow. He just knew. He watched his core, thinking hard as it transitioned from panicked red to a deep, contemplative blue.

Bartum said the daily cycle looks like breathing. Out, and then in. This must be the same, only stronger. I need to try this when I don’t have a level pending to see if it is any different. The paling must…contract or something, squeezing essence into my core. That’s clearly what just happened, but… How did it ignore the Bastion’s walls like that? And where did it all come from? Was there pure essence out there, mixed with the chaos? How could it have been? Even if it was, how did it get there? My core is my link to my body, which is why the essence comes in from there, unless— Wait, how did any of this work before I even HAD a core? There would have been nothing to compress the essence into and nowhere for it to come from. How did I level when—?

Rain hissed in frustration, cutting himself off. Damn it! It’s just more questions!

Abruptly, there was a colossal thud. Had Snek not been wrapped so securely, Rain would have fallen.

[Play?]

Tallheart kept his eyes on the treeline, passively scanning for monsters as he waded through the lava, dragging an enormous metal pipe behind him. He didn’t bother trying to keep it above the surface, as it was too unwieldy to carry. The diameter wasn’t quite wide enough for a person to fit through, but it was close.

Reaching the spot he’d selected, he paused, then hauled the pipe up beside him. Bending to grip it around the middle, he lifted it, lava pouring free from both ends. He then slammed it down into the brittle stone bank of the lake, right beside another pipe that at first glance appeared to be its twin. It wasn’t, however. The first pipe had a filter at its inlet that would block iron but allow everything else through. This one was the opposite.

Not satisfied with the placement, Tallheart frowned. He lifted the pipe again, then slammed it down with ever so slightly more force, shattering the stone further and getting the inlet almost fully submerged this time. He wasn’t worried about damaging the pipe, having enchanted it for more than just Heat resistance. Basic Durability runes were so simple that adding them was no trouble at all. He was more worried about the bank, hence why he’d approached it from this side.

As the filter warmed, a pitter-patter of molten metal told Tallheart that it was working. The flow rate would be nothing compared to that of the stone passing through the other pipe, but that was only to be expected. Hopefully it would improve as time went on and the iron became more concentrated at this end of the lake.

Tallheart nodded to himself, checking for monsters again as he waded back the way he’d come. Once he was far enough away, he clambered out, stone cracking beneath his feet. He shook himself free of the majority of the lava, leaving the rest to cool as he walked back along the shore, before stopping to survey his handiwork. Planting his hands on his hips, he watched as a rivulet of molten metal trickled along the temporary channel he’d dug, flowing beside the much broader stream of waste lava.

Once he was satisfied that everything was going to stay in place, he walked away, hardened stone breaking free from the joints of his armor. He stopped when he reached his anvil, near where Ameliah and Rain were lying senseless on the dirt. Both of them had their eyes closed. They were even blinder to the world than that would suggest, though for different reasons.

Tallheart checked the tree line once more. He’d set up trip lines all around the area to give him even more warning, not trusting his hearing alone, sharp though it was. There was no motion save for the faint rustling of leaves, and the only sounds were those of insects and small animals. It was unlikely that anything would emerge during the day, but it was not possible to be too cautious.

Satisfied for the moment, Tallheart grunted, then bent to retrieve the ten-bar mold he’d prepared earlier. It was enchanted to speed the dissipation of heat, and he suspected that he would have several hundred ingots fully cooled before either of the silly humans decided to join him for dinner.

It is a start.

Dozer sat motionless in the small room Rain-King had constructed for him. He could hear the shape of his box-bed behind him, and the tree, and the wet pond, and the two shelves, one high on the wall and the other low. Mostly, though, his attention was on the ⟬tube-slime⟭ sitting in the center of the room near the pond. Rain-King had told him to leave it alone, and Dozer was being good.

The tube-slime moved, and Dozer quivered, almost leaping for it before he restrained himself. He settled back down as Rain-King spoke to him through the ⟬king-link⟭.

[Okay, Dozer, you see that balance plate up there?]

[?] Dozer replied. He knew Rain-King wanted him to find something, but he didn’t have any idea what.

The tube-slime moved again. [That, Dozer. Look.]

[⟬tube-slime⟭?]

[No, Dozer, look where I’m pointing.]

