[Rain-King? Where?]

[Aargh, come on, Dozer! The snake! Look where the snake is pointing! The ⟬tube-slime⟭!]

[⟬tube-slime⟭ point?] Dozer sent, thinking hard. The ⟬tube-slime⟭ might be pointing at something, he decided eventually. Which end was doing the pointing, though, he had no idea.

He quivered, upset at his failure to understand, sending this feeling through the ⟬king-link⟭. [Dozer bad.]

[No, Dozer, don’t…] Rain-King sent, seeming upset as well. [No, you’re not bad.] Rain-King paused, the link narrowing for a moment before it opened fully again. [That was my fault. I wasn’t explaining it right.]

The ⟬tube-slime⟭ began to fly, and Dozer stopped quivering, entirely focused in an instant.

[Play?] he sent.

[No, not play,] Rain-King sent. [We already had play. It’s time to work. There’s filth outside, remember? You warned me about it.]

[⟬FILTH⟭!!!!] Dozer sent, quivering with anger. How had he forgotten!? Wait, had he forgotten? If he had, it was the ⟬tube-slime⟭’s fault! It had distracted him. There was ⟬filth⟭ everywhere! He needed to—

[Dozer, calm down,] Rain-King sent. [I’m trying to show you how to get out there so you can do something about it. Damn it, I’m doing it again. Dozer?]

[?] Dozer replied, mostly at a loss.

[Do you want to help me?] Rain-King asked.

[Yes!!!] Dozer sent. Rain-King wanted his help!

[Great,] Rain-King sent. [See the ⟬tube-slime⟭?]

Confused at the change of subject, Dozer listened hard, then popped a bubble. With the help of the echo, he found the ⟬tube-slime⟭, now sitting atop the shelf high on the wall. [Yes?] he sent, unsure. [Play?].

[Yes, play,] Rain-King sent. [Go get it.]

[Happy!] Dozer leapt immediately. When he landed atop the ⟬tube-slime⟭, however, the shelf moved in a way that he hadn’t been expecting. It slid down the wall slowly, the other shelf rising as it did. At the same time, a crack opened in the wall, and there was a hiss as ⟬filth⟭ began flooding into the wonderful room that Rain-King had made for him.

[⟬FILTH⟭!!!] Dozer screamed into the ⟬king-link⟭, the ⟬tube-slime⟭ that he’d crushed beneath him completely forgotten.

[Yes,] Rain-King sent. [You should be able to fit through that hole. Leave the essence outside, please, like you did before. When you get tired, come back in, then jump on the other plate to close the… Who am I kidding? Just let me know when you need to rest, and I’ll come close it for you, okay?]

[⟬clean⟭!] Dozer sent. He hadn’t been listening to what Rain-King had said at all. It was too confusing. He understood that Rain-King wanted his help and that he would get to ⟬clean⟭ as much as he wanted. That was enough. His instincts and his new emotions agreed that today was the best day ever. Already, he’d started pulling in the vile ⟬filth⟭ through his membrane, moving toward the hole where it was coming in. He needed to get out there. [Happy!] he sent through the ⟬King-Link⟭, feeling Rain-King’s attention on him.

[You good? Yeah, you’re good. Have fun, Dozer. I’ll tell Ameliah-Queen and Tall-Brother you say hi.]

Dozer paused in his cleaning, holding the ⟬clean-need⟭ at bay with a great effort as he considered the other slimes.

He wanted to see them. Not just them, but all of the others. Fluffy-Cloud and Picky-Picky and Big-Loud and Crazy-Fire and…

Dozer couldn’t find a way to describe his desire with a simple word, so he sent it through the ⟬king-link⟭ as it was.

Rain-King seemed surprised. He paused for a long time before responding—so long that Dozer began to think he hadn’t understood. Eventually, though, Rain-King did respond, and his thoughts carried a complicated emotion that Dozer couldn’t identify.

[I’m sorry. They can’t come visit, and you can’t visit them. Maybe if… Sorry. I’m working on it.]

[Okay!] Dozer replied.

Whatever the problem was, his ⟬king⟭ would fix it. There was nothing to worry about.

He returned his attention to the ⟬filth⟭ with enthusiasm. It was time to ⟬clean⟭.

Sweat was pouring down Ameliah’s forehead as she panted, trying to catch her breath. The air of the Ashen Jungle burned in her lungs, the heat being no less oppressive even this early in the morning. She’d sat around too much the day before, and today was shaping up to be exactly the opposite. Seeing an opportunity, she lashed out with a metal-wrapped fist. Rain yelped and managed to fling himself out of the way, and she didn’t chase after him.

Her arms felt like lead. The iron plates encasing them were thicker than her thumbs. The entire suit of armor she wore was like that. Tallheart hadn’t bothered with a Weight enchantment, merely adding more and more material until she could barely move.

Tiredly, she raised her guard to catch Rain’s fist as he swung for her head. There was a loud clang, metal on metal. The hit was heavy, but the sheer mass of Ameliah’s armor let her weather it without moving.

Rain wasn’t holding back.

She was proud of him for that, having wrongly expected that she would need to spend hours convincing him to even throw a punch at her. The issue was that he was cheating like a dockworker at Nine Dice.

After the hit, Rain danced around behind her with Velocity, managing to strike her four more times before she forced him away. Unlike the first blow, the follow-ups carried no force, mere taps by comparison, but that didn’t matter. Each one was a point.

Gritting her teeth, Ameliah activated Mountain Stance, having dropped out of the form without intending to. When Rain next came for her, she caught his wild hook with her left arm, then countered with a brutal cross from the fourth form of Bear Kata. As her fist connected with his jaw, she felt the lobstered iron plates protecting her knuckles bend from the force, one of them tearing free from the uncured monster hide holding them together.

Rain’s head was snapped to the side, and he cried out in surprise. He stumbled away, barely managing to keep himself from falling over.

She wasn’t holding back either.

She would have needed to, of course, had she been specced for melee combat. Fortunately for Rain’s bones, she was still mostly a Fire Mage. Other than her passives and the two Heavy Armor skills she was training, she had nothing to help her in this fight, not even Bear Kata. She was just using its forms from memory, and her motions felt slow and uncertain, not instinctive like they should have been. Had that been the extent of her handicap, she would have still taken him apart easily. Rain wasn’t a melee fighter either, whether you were talking about system skills or the regular, everyday kind. He was only able to compete with her at all because of the ring Tallheart had made him.

His armor, too, was incomparably superior to hers, not only in terms of durability, but also in design. He could move freely, while she felt like she had to bend metal every time she tried to extend her arms. Tallheart hadn’t put much effort into making the iron abomination she was wearing. She was beginning to think he’d deliberately made it wrong as some kind of practical joke.

“Haa!” Ameliah yelled, fighting through her frustration as she struck for Rain. He lurched away only to dash back in and carve four shining lines across her breastplate with his adamant fingertips. His movements were wild and unsteady, but fast. The speed came from Velocity, while the unsteadiness came from his positively atrocious footwork.

“Too slow!” Rain wheezed, even more out of breath than she was.

Ameliah had to admit that it was starting to get to her—not the taunting or the blatant cheating, simply the fact that he was giving her trouble in the first place. She was getting tired, slowing down, while he only seemed to be getting faster, more confident in his movements.

Still in Mountain Stance, Ameliah stepped forward, feeling the strength of the Earth beneath her. The sensation was similar to that of Rooted, but also different, and not nearly as strong, given that it was only rank one. Fighting in heavy armor was different in general, she’d discovered. She wasn’t only fighting Rain, but also her instincts. She needed to trust the ridiculously thick armor to protect her instead of dodging, no matter the rules she’d agreed to. When she moved, it had to be with purpose. Anything else was a waste of stamina.

Rain stumbled over his own feet, and Ameliah immediately lunged forward, slamming into his side with her shoulder to topple him over. Her eyes widened the moment she made contact. The impact had felt wrong, and she found herself stopped dead. A distortion had rippled through the air—Force Ward.

In that frozen moment, Ameliah realized that the stumble hadn’t been real. Shit. He got me.

She wasn’t able to dodge away before Rain’s Velocity-enhanced hammerblow caught her across the back of the shoulders. The metal backplate protecting her spine crumpled from the force, and there was nothing she could do to stop herself from getting a faceful of dirt through her visor as she was brutally slammed into the ground.

“Yes!” Rain gasped from above, elated. “Did you see that, Tallheart? I finally got her for real!”

He’s right... I actually lost health from that.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled from outside the ring. “Good. However, you have taken your eyes off of your opponent.”

“What—?” Rain began, but his question was cut off in a strangled squawk as Ameliah yanked his legs out from under him. She clambered up his body until she was sitting on his torso, then began pummeling him about the head and neck, relying on the ridiculous weight of her armor to do most of the work. He tried to wriggle free, but she didn’t let him. She’d warned him not to let himself get distracted, let alone pinned. The telltale distortion of Force Ward began appearing with each strike, but she didn’t relent. He’d run out of mana soon enough.

I win.

No sooner had she thought that than there was a tremendous impact on the side of her head. Ameliah found herself blasted away from Rain, rolling several times before she tumbled to a stop. Her helmet had been deformed by the force of whatever had hit her, and the warped metal was pressing uncomfortably against her skull. More shocked than hurt, she pushed herself up quickly, searching for the threat. What the hells was that? If there’s a monster—oh. She relaxed. It’s just foul play.

“Foul!” Rain cried, and Ameliah smiled to hear him echoing her thoughts. “Tallheart, you—“ he wheezed, struggling for breath. “Wait, was that an iron ingot?! You can’t just throw—!” He paused to hack, choking on air. “That’s dangerous!”

“Hmph,” Tallheart snorted. “Hardly. She lost focus on her surroundings. As have you.”

This time, to Rain’s credit, he managed to block Ameliah’s fist, though Tallheart’s warning and the grinding of her armor probably had a lot to do with it. Rain tried to get out of her range again, but Ameliah was ready for him. She kicked him in the side of the knee, hard, sending him down in a heap. Rather than follow the strike with another pummeling, she rose out of her stance, struggling to hide just how winded she was. She fought to suck in air through the mangled visor. It was bad enough that she could barely see out through the eye slit. The dented backplate was constricting her breathing, preventing her from adequately filling her lungs.

“Is that…all you’ve got?” Rain asked, rolling over to lie flat on his back, panting up at the sky. “I can do this…” he wheezed, “…all day.”

Ameliah grunted, fighting with her helmet. Once she managed to get it free, she tossed it to Tallheart, who didn’t attempt to catch it. The broken thing fell to the ground at his feet with a clatter as she rubbed at her sweat-soaked hair with her forearm. Still breathing heavily, she deactivated Mountain Stance, leaving only Spring active as she looked between Rain and Tallheart. “You two are annoying, you know that?”

Rain laughed, sitting up with an effort. He grimaced, rolling his shoulder.

Ameliah tensed. “Your shoulder, did I—”

“No, no, no,” Rain said, quickly raising his hands. “I’m fine. You didn’t hurt me. My armor, yes, but not me. My pauldron is just bent, look.”

Ameliah relaxed, closing her eyes. She took a deep breath, then opened them. “You did ask for it.”

“Yeah, yeah,” Rain said.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Telling her not to hold back was the first of your many mistakes.”

Ameliah smiled, then shook her head. “Let’s see how I did, shall we?”

“I don’t follow,” Rain said, removing his own helmet, then gasping in relief. His hair, too, was plastered to his forehead. “Wait, you mean the score? You lost track?” He looked at her, still breathing heavily. “Actually, so did I.”

“Never mind the score,” Ameliah said, well-aware that she’d lost. Rain was utterly transparent. He was trying to spare her feelings, but her feelings didn’t need sparing.

It hadn’t been a fair fight.

She had nothing to prove.

And yet…

She shook her head, refusing to let her poor performance spoil her mood. This was going to make up for it. It was finally time to reveal the secret she’d been hiding all morning. “I figured out your trick.”

“What?” Rain asked, blinking at her owlishly. “What trick?”

Concentrating, Ameliah took a deep breath and held it. She focused on the feeling of pressure that Rain had described, then pushed, willing herself into tomorrow. A chime sounded in her mind, and she felt the experience she’d just earned settle into her, bringing Heavy Armor from rank one to rank five in one shot and Mountain Stance from rank one to rank four. Spring also gained a bit of progress toward rank four, but not quite enough to get it there. She managed to keep her satisfaction hidden as she noisily raised an arm, her warped armor making the motion difficult. The Heavy Armor skill shared its name with its tree, and it was quite literal in what it did. The armor didn’t feel any heavier, but that wasn’t how it worked. It was heavier, yes, but just not to her.

“Nice,” she said, making a fist.

She looked at Rain, then smiled. “Okay, now I need to start holding back.”

Rain’s eyes widened, and he struggled to push himself back up into a sitting position. “Did you just…”

