Ameliah nodded, allowing herself a grin. “I figured it out before we had breakfast. It’s less about the alarm for me—I’ve been able to disable that for years. It’s more about…time in general. Also, the squeezing thing you described helps. It’s a good image. I think you might be on to something there.” She shrugged. “Not very compatible with how I see my soul, but whatever. Anyway, Heavy Armor is up to rank five and Mountain Stance up to rank four. I can take the various Plate passives now. I’m thinking Thickened Plate and Conductive Plate to start.”

“Yes!” Rain shouted, pumping both fists up into the air. “Ameliah, that’s awesome! You’re awesome!” He pointed straight at her, looking at Tallheart. “Tallheart, tell her how awesome she is!”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “Quite awesome.”

“Stop that,” Ameliah said, fighting off the threat of a blush. “I told you, I’ve been messing with my system for years. You figured out how to do it in like a month.”

“So?” Rain said, beaming at her as he struggled to his feet. “I’m a Dynamo. I cheat.”

Ameliah snorted. “I’ve noticed.” She crossed her arms, the motion difficult thanks to the damaged armor. “Who was it that said ‘no magic’ again?”

“Uh…” Rain said.

“Mmhmm,” she said. “Tallheart, can you make me a bow and some arrows, please? Just steel or something is fine.” She uncrossed her arms to tap her chin. “That should hold up. Probably.”

“For a time,” Tallheart said, bending to retrieve the helmet at last. “I will add Durability runes. Will you require any other enchantment?”

“Nothing like that,” Ameliah said, waving her hand. “It only needs to survive me using Shock Arrow a few hundred times.” She smiled wickedly. “Rain needs to rank up Arcane Ward, remember?”

“Oh shit,” Rain said, looking for somewhere to run.

Tallheart chuckled. “I will see what I can do.”

Tallheart raised his head at the sound of a footstep, seeing Rain shuffling tiredly toward him. He was holding his helmet under his arm and looked mostly alive. His armor was quite badly scorched and bore several dozen new dents. It would need to be resized soon anyway, however, so that was of little concern.

“Hey, Tallheart,” Rain said cheerfully, but with a deep note of exhaustion dragging at his words. He edged around the untidy pile of iron ingots, moving to stand next to him. “We’re done for the day.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said, then returned his attention to the compression anchor. Outwardly, it looked like an enormous block of pure iron, a perfect cube fifty centimeters on a side, sitting atop a tree stump. Inwardly, it was much more complicated than that. Runes were layered all through the cube, invisible to anyone without the skills to see them. Etching such complexity with a Telscribe would have taken weeks and required much more space, perhaps an entire room dedicated to the array.

He had done it in an afternoon. Such was the advantage of working with pure metal.

Atop the anchor sat an iron ingot, about the size of a hand. Like those in the nearby pile, it was roughly cast and imperfect, but no less pure for that. It nevertheless looked out of place atop the anchor’s polished surface. Tallheart was presently touching the ingot with one finger, holding its structure in his mind as he compared it to its runic representation within the anchor. There was discord. Something out of alignment. He focused harder, frowning as he searched.

“What are you working on?” Rain asked, setting his helmet down and bending to inspect the anchor, wincing as he did. “Is this a new anvil or something?”

Tallheart’s eye twitched imperceptibly at the distraction. “No.” A moment later, his frown faded. I see it.

Reaching deep, he isolated a single rune, then a single stroke within that rune. With precision born of long practice, he made a minute adjustment and hummed to himself in satisfaction. The discordance had faded. He took his finger away from the ingot, then blinked, and the runes hidden within the anchor vanished to his eyes. With a soft sigh of released tension, he knelt to retrieve his gauntlets.

I am over the pass.

“Okay…” Rain said. “Still the compression project, then? Is this like a mega-ingot or something? It’s going to shrink?”

“No,” Tallheart said. Now wearing his gauntlets again, he grasped the model ingot, then slid it across the anchor’s perfectly flat surface. It snapped into place at the center with an inaudible thump, held solidly by an invisible force. The fixing array was working, and the model had been accepted.

“What is it, then?”

“Watch,” Tallheart said. He reached for the pile of ingots, then selected one. Outwardly, it was identical to the model. Inwardly, it would be different in an uncountable number of ways. The crystal structure of the ingots was a mess—an obvious result of the accelerated cooling process. It was of no concern. Fixing it was one of the functions of the anchor. In the past, he would have needed to make the ingots truly identical before he could overlay them, but he’d learned that there were better ways. Alchemy was a broad discipline, often with several paths to the same goal. This was his.

“What am I watching?” Rain asked.

“This,” Tallheart said, placing the second ingot in the same space as the first. There was no flash of light, no fancy effect, only the faintest resistance to the movement before the ingot snapped into place. That came from the delay as the anchor forced the new ingot’s structure into alignment with that of the model. Beyond the physical resistance, Tallheart had also felt a slight draw on his stamina as Phase Metal activated. The anchor would have been nothing more than a useless lump of iron had he not possessed the relevant Alchemy skills.

Creating a freestanding phasing effect was not an option here, as it was for a filter. The mechanism was entirely different. A permeability rune was complicated, but required little enough power that a small mana reservoir was sufficient. The anchor’s phasing enchantment worked differently. It was more like a focus. It and the anchor’s other enchantments were keyed to his skills, built to leverage his power. He would need to remain nearby until the process was complete.

Tallheart took his hand away. Both ingots remained, though there appeared to be only one.

“Whoa,” Rain said.

“Make yourself useful,” Tallheart said, reaching for the pile and grabbing another ingot. He added it to the stack, then another, his hands moving quickly. A dark powder quickly became noticeable as it built up, dusting the surface of the anchor—excess material that had been forced away.

Rain just stared. “Tallheart…what…?”

“Approximately one thousand ingots must be overlaid before I can activate Metallic Condensation. That is the threshold of stability for iron.” He gave Rain a significant look. “It is a tedious process. If we do not finish promptly, there will be an explosion.” He paused for half a heartbeat. “A large explosion.”

“Yes, helping, got it,” Rain said, grabbing a pair of ingots. “I just put them…?”

Tallheart nodded, pausing to watch Rain add the two ingots to the stack, one after the other.

“Wow, it’s like…ghost metal. That’s freaky. Hang on, did you say a thousand? It wouldn’t happen to be one-thousand and twenty-four, would it? That’s…a lot. Adamant’s dense, but not THAT dense, right? What happens to the rest of the mass? How does—”

Tallheart grunted, interrupting Rain before he came close to breaking his question record. “Remember to breathe. And do not stop.” He puffed a blast of air through his lips, imitating a detonation.

“Sorry,” Rain said, hastily reaching for more ingots.

Tallheart snorted. He was overstating the urgency, but Rain did not need to know that.

“What are you two up to over here?” Ameliah asked, walking up behind Rain. She looked less battered than he did, even though her armor was mere iron. Her skills had come a long way since the last time Tallheart had repaired it. She peered over Rain’s shoulder, then froze. “Whoa.”

“Right?” Rain said, he and Tallheart having found a rhythm, their hands moving in sync. “Tallheart was just about to explain how it works.”

Tallheart quickly hid a smile. “I was not.”

Rain’s look of consternation was everything he had expected it to be.

Ameliah laughed, and Tallheart rumbled, amused.
