Erick had enchanted knives to be sharp months ago, along with all the other uses of [Prestidigitation] trinkets, and wands of [Force Bolt], along with all the other little enchants that everyone learned in their first months of Enchanting 101. There was nothing that impressive about basic enchanting. To enchant something like [Force Bolt] into a wand, all you had to do was take your basic rad stylus, and using this metal-erasing magic tool, carve out the Ancient Script words for [Force Bolt] into an appropriately sized length of wrought-quality metal. When that was done, you dusted the carving with rad dust, then said your rhyme, hoping the separate pieces of the puzzle came together in a correct manner. Done correctly, you thus created a magical item. This was the basic methodology for all spell enchanting.

So basic, that his wands of [Force Bolt] were only capable of 10 casts before they broke, and to attempt charging them higher than that usually caused the wand to melt, or explode, or, in one interesting instance, to twist in on itself, almost cutting off a finger.

To call this ‘enchanting’ would be as placing a painting done by a 3 year-old into the same category of ‘it’s a painting’, as you could a painting created by a 400 year-old wrought who had devoted all of their time to color and composition and the study of anatomy and everything else that would, by all that practice and understanding, give every one of their paintings a real chance at being labeled a masterpiece. There was a surface comparison between the two, sure, but not much more than that.

This was the gulf of difference between Erick’s current enchanting capabilities, and even those who plied their trade in Spur, like Ulrick Ulrick.

And that wasn’t even taking into account the ‘Enchanting Spell’ that every capable enchanter possessed, and that Erick had been warned many times, through all of his books, that he shouldn’t even think of attempting to create. Not yet, anyway.

Rings were easy to make. Everything else was beyond him, for now.

But at least Erick knew at least one way his current enchants were failing.

His ‘calligraphy’ was atrocious. Each time he succeeded, it was by the barest margins. A success looked like this: When he etched the final bit of the writing for [Force Bolt] into the appropriate length of metal, and after dusting the writing with powdered rads, he said the rhyme straight out of the book. Powdered rads then crystallized into a whole, in the grooves of Ancient Script, like sugar precipitating out of a solution. The wand of [Force Bolt] was thus complete. If left to soak in the light of grand rads, those disjointed mana crystal would then fill up, granting more charges to the item.

Mostly, though, Erick endured failure after failure. Failure only happened at the end, though. It wasn’t till after the rhyme, till after his attempt at solidifying the spell into the metal, that the metal would warp, or burn, or break. Sometimes, the warping and the breaking wasn’t so bad, and Erick could troubleshoot his mistakes. This was where he discovered stray scratches that ruined the whole work, or too-shallow etchings that also ruined the work, or parts of the metal just melted for no apparent reason.

His first theory into how to fix all his enchanting problems was to pour all his effort into a stamp, and then stamp the iron with a perfect-calligraphy ‘[Force Bolt]’. Then, he would just powder the rads and pour them into the groves. So how about inventing a stylus that etched it all, all at once?

Kiri nixed that idea. Machines could never overcome handwritten Ancient Script. People had invented stylus stamps before, and they always failed.

Yet another enforcement of the Script, no doubt. Maybe this foible came directly from Rozeta. She liked handwritten books, but mass-produced machine copies were not her thing. Thinking about it a bit more, this restriction was probably an enforcement of the Script so that the Script couldn’t be abused by automation. Some variation of the Propagation Ban, perhaps?

For that’s what enchanting was, at its core. It was turning the usefulness of the Script into items separate from oneself. Self-propagating machine magic was therefore nixed before it ever got off the ground.

But anyway!

Tangents.

Anyway, that was just the first form of enchanting. There was another form of enchanting that was slightly different. Erick hadn’t begun to make inroads in this second form of Script weaving, either.

This second form of enchanting was creating items that could be refueled through the use of sticking rads into receptacles. This was how the enchanting stylus was created, and how the Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove was made to work. Almost all household items and magic tools were of this nature, and ranged in price from 10 gold, to 50 gold, on average, or a lot, lot more, for the higher end enchantments.

The major difference between the first and second types of enchanting, was that the first type used set-down mana to create a spell, and the second type used the ‘offgassing’ of rads to fuel their working. The first type broke from too much use. The second type was pure mechanical trapping and rounding of ambient mana, fueled by the rad that had been placed inside.

In this way, it was not totally incorrect to say that this second type of enchanting was similar to dungeon creation and maintenance, where instead of priming the area for slimes to spawn, you created magical effects based on how mana flowed through hollowed out areas of Ancient Script and their adjoining circuits.

But all enchanting required perfect calligraphy, and in this way…

Erick wasn’t doing so well.

Erick hunched over his desk, in his tower, painstakingly inscribing [Force Bolt] into a length of iron. His hand slipped. The stylus carved through two letters, easy as marring the frosting on a cake, but this furrow left ethereal rads in its travels and ruined the entire piece. The metal even flickered at him, like a light bulb breaking. Anger flowed into Erick. He sat straight. He waited for the anger to pass, like a warm breeze. When it did, he sighed. He cast a [Mend] onto the metal bar, and the whole thing flexed back into its starting shape, ready to accept more calligraphy.

… It would have to accept that calligraphy some other day.

He still had yet to make the ‘enchanting spell’ that people like Ulrick Ulrick used to ‘automate’ this process, but much like how most people couldn’t make a good spell without knowing the basics, his own ‘enchanting spell’ was outside of his reach, for now.

Killzone had yet to show up, or send word.

- - - -

Kiri sat a huge bag of sugar on the kitchen counter, saying, “They just gave it to me.” She put her hands on her hips, adding, “This thing is worth 15 gold. That’s a full day’s pay at a really good job.”

Erick smiled, as he stirred the almost-boiling pot in front of him. A good dozen long black bean pods, each split in half, soaked in the water, filling the house with the smell of vanilla as the water turned darker. He said, “I hope you paid them anyway.”

“Of course I did!” Kiri said, as she smelled the air. “Left it on the counter; wouldn’t take ‘No’ for an answer.”

“Thank you, Kiri.”

“How’s the chocolate looking, outside?”

“Doing fine.” Erick said, “I made a ‘conching’ machine out back. Go take a look and tell me what you think.”

“… What’s ‘conching’?”

“No idea where the word came from, but I messaged Jane about what was going on, and she gave me a few more tips. A conching machine is all about the second grind. All we’ve done so far is the first grind.” Erick pulled the pot off the stove, and then poured the whole steaming contents through a sieve, into another pot. “One of those tips was about vanilla, which, thankfully, I already made.”

Kiri walked closer, to see what he was making.

Erick set the first pot aside, then discarded the spent beans. He said, “I think I’m supposed to do this with high-quality clear alcohol, but that’ll take three weeks, and ain’t nobody got time for that.” With a concentration given to the brown-liquid pot, Erick cast [Distill]. The brown liquid flashed white. Brown settled to the bottom. With another cast, Erick [Watershape]d the liquid out of the pot, and dumped the water down the drain, leaving a dark brown sludge at the bottom of the pot; all the vanilla flavor. Erick picked up this sludge with his [Watershape] and pulled out as much actual water as he could, leaving behind an almost-dry paste.

Kiri asked, “Have you made this before? Or was this just another experiment?”

“I did.” Erick said, “When I made vanilla ice cream. You weren’t there for that, but I probably made it wrong, then, too, but whatever. Ah! I need to make more ice cream. It’s so much better than icies.” He scooped out what may or may not have been an appropriate amount of vanilla, into six normal-sized spoons; one each, for each grinding outside. “But that’s for another day.”

Kiri eyed a pile of white powder, sitting to the side, in a bowl. “What’s that for? Some other distilled item?”

“Yup! That’s powdered milk.” Erick grabbed the bowl of powdered milk, and held his spoons of vanilla paste in his hand, saying, “Come, it’s time to add these. You can tell me if the conching machine looks wrong.” With his Handy Aura, Erick also picked up the bag of sugar, and walked out to the back porch.

In the backyard, Justine stood beside a metal rolling device, set inside a curved basin.

Erick said, “Does it look good?”

Justine turned, looking like a deer in headlight, then seeing Erick, she calmed. She breathed out.

“Sorry for scaring you,” Erick said.

Justine shook her head. “Not your— Never…” She gestured to the metal contraption. “This looks interesting. I can see the intent in the design. It’s a finer grind, I am guessing?”

“You guess correctly.”

A thick and heavy cylinder of steel, half a meter wide, sat in a curved steel basin. Raised slopes ran along both sides of the basin, ensuring that the chocolate would always flow to a grinding point, via gravity. The cylinder itself was ribbed to stay on tracks, and attached on both ends to a metal arm, reaching down from a position above, that would also ensure the cylinder stayed on track. The weight of the cylinder would do more to ensure proper conching, than any pressure from that arm.

Erick said, “It’s probably going to break down pretty fast with chocolate getting in that gear, but it might not!”

Justine said, “You can solve that with a creative use of [Control Item], but a better way to solve that problem is with [Alter Friction] and [Control Item]. With these two, you might get [Control Machine]. That spell tends to make all machines work like they’re properly oiled and cooled or heated, even when you have none of that on hand. Sand stays outside of gears. Belts don’t slip that often. That sort of thing.”

Erick had a moment. Could using Jane’s car, if he ever found it, be as easy as one spell away? One simple [Control Machine]? Erick laughed, as he set that project aside for another day. He’d need to find her car, first, and where the heck could it be? Inside Ar’Kendrithyst?

Eh. Probably.

“I was wondering if I’d ever find a use for [Alter Friction].” Erick said, smiling. “It was a part of Oceanside’s enrollment, but I never used it before.”

“I don’t have much knowledge of that spell, but...” Kiri said, “But the point is to have friction. To grind the chocolate? You can’t grind without friction.”

“Eh!” Erick said, “I can make it work. Probably just requires a shaped spell.”

Justine said, “It shouldn’t require a shaping. Just an intent. This will inflate the spell cost depending on how complicated you are with the working. More complicated machines have a very high [Control Machine] cost, or else your cast will just tear the machine apart.”

“… Oh.” Erick said, “Well then. Good to know.”

Maybe his idea of a single spell to control an entire car was too fanciful.

Erick set down his spoons of vanilla paste, his powdered milk, and his sugar onto a nearby short table, and then rubbed his hands together, smiling. He held his hands apart, and listened; Ophiel leaning forward on his shoulder to hear, too.

In one hand, he channeled mana through [Control Item], producing the sound of endless, controlled movement. Of puppets on strings, and gears grinding away at some labyrinthine process.

In the other, he channeled mana through [Alter Friction], producing a slickness and a stiffness at the same time. Silky smooth movement, and halting refrain.

… Despite the two vastly different sounds, there was a harmony there. A melding that was close to being perfect, already. With some mental gymnastics and the help of the Ophiel on his shoulder, echoing his spells and blending them together, Erick cast upon the conching machine. A blue box appeared.

Control Machine, instant, close range, 15 mana + Variable

Imbue a non-living machine of complicated processes with your intent. Very Fine control. Lasts 100 minutes.

The metal cylinder in the conching machine began to roll back and forth in the basin, slowly, but surely. Up one curved slope, then back down, then up the other. There were no halting movements here, just the silent rolling of a great weight, and the minuscule strain of the metal arms moving that weight back and forth. Erick instantly saw a way he could make his machine work better; he needed to make the strain on those arms less, by adding some weights to a disk, or something.

But! This was fine! This was great. Once the chocolate was in there, the straining noises might vanish.

Erick distributed the box, saying, “How’s this look?”

Kiri didn’t know what to make of the box, since that was all outside of her usual wheelhouse, but Justine’s ruby eyes went a bit wide.

“That ‘Very Fine’ is usually the sign of a great spell,” Kiri said.

Justine said, “That’s a good version. You should have no trouble keeping the parts of the machine you wish to keep clean, clean, with that version.” She stumbled over her words, saying, “And you just… You just made it. Like that. I had heard... Seeing is different than listening.”

Kiri smirked. “I know what you mean.”

“And now that you know the method, you can try too,” Erick said, using his Handy Aura to pick up the spoons of vanilla paste and sugar— He paused. He smiled. He looked to the grinders, still grinding away, still sparking with light instead of sounding like minor avalanches. “Instead of scraping the insides, I can use [Alter Friction] to dump out the contents.”

