But first, Erick went back to his book, ‘Enchanting for Beginners’, and read the preface in a different light.

- -

Enchanting, in a few words, is about imbuing Script effects into items outside of yourself.

Stats are nothing more than mana given function; manalight trapped in gems that will resonate with your aura, and push your own Stats that much higher.

Spells are nothing more than intent given form; mana laid down and organized so that another might flick their aura through the item, causing the imbued spell to manifest.

Abilities, Alters, Shapings, and such, are nothing more than additions to the natural spellcasting process that are familiar to any mage. These items taint your aura in specific ways, changing how you cast your magic.

Ranked from easiest to hardest enchantments, we have Stats, Spells, and then all the rest. Why is it this way? Go and ask Rozeta, and good luck. But for those of you who wish for the best answers that this author has discovered in his lifetime, read on.

- -

Erick sat back, and thought.

Everything a proper mage did came down to aura work, didn’t it? They didn’t talk about auras at Erick’s two months at Oceanside, or even in his Esoteric Magic classes. The first time he had really heard about aura was after he had stumbled into his use of [Greater Lightwalk] to recreate some spells—

He had more spells to recreate.

… He’d do that later. That task sort of fell to the side, along with a dozen others.

—but apparently every good mage worked with their aura in order to cast magic in useful ways. It was easy, then, to understand why ‘Aurify’ was a part of Mana Shaping. The process of utilizing your aura, was the process of mana shaping, and vibrating, and ‘using’ your mana, but without actually spending mana. Al had been very clear on that last part, in all of his ill-guided attempts to help Erick with his aura. Proper aura utilization came with no mana cost.

Proper aura utilization also didn’t do anything, unless you used mana.

Erick was still unsure how those two ideas worked with each other.

But still! Proper aura control let you cast spells from your hands, or other parts of your body. Proper aura control was also the only way to activate a great many magical items, for putting buttons on your wands of [Force Bolt] was okay, but that had a tendency to use up extra charges with each cast.

Looking back on it, Erick had cast [Force Beam] from his eyes instead of his fingers, back when he and Jane were looking to buy property in the Human District, all the way back in the beginning of his time on Veird. At that time, he thought nothing of it. Casting from his eyes made it easier to aim at the shadowolves that attacked them. Erick smiled at that thought, then got back to thinking.

Another major use of proper aura control, was that it let one recreate spells and add them to their Status for free. Erick had bypassed the requirement of precise aura control because [Greater Lightwalk] let him skip that step. But good aura control was still useful in other ways.

Specifically, in using magical items.

Erick held out his hand, and with Meditation active, mostly just saw the dense air of the [Prismatic Ward] that surrounded and pervaded the entire house.

… There would be no aura monitoring in this environment.

He got up from his chair and went to the third floor classroom, the only space in the house that he had left without the [Prismatic Ward].

Stepping through the door to this room was like stepping outside. Here, using [Meditation] showed the normal chaotic whorls and streams of mana that normally inhabited the world. Here, when he held out his hand, he could see, ever so faintly, a difference between the air just above his skin, and the air a centimeter out.

Like a heat mirage, the air around his skin bent the whorls of mana that flowed unimpeded everywhere else.

He tried pushing that heat mirage out further from himself. Failure. He tried for twenty minutes, and got twenty more minutes of failure. He was obviously missing something important, and it was either time and effort, or some physical or ethereal need. He was banking on the first.

But this was boring, and much like how he had too many things to do to learn mana sensing, to learn [Witness] like Teressa had learned, Erick had too many things to do to devote the proper time necessary to learn proper aura control. Besides—

Erick transformed to light. The whorls of mana in the room remained exactly as they were before, but now, his lightform self and the heat mirage of his aura, ended at the same place. Erick reached out with his own light, easy as blinking, and his lightform hand deformed at his command, deforming his aura at the same time. With [Greater Lightwalk], he was his aura, and his aura was him.

A thought occurred to him.

What if there was a way to mix harmonies and spells and rads and wrought-iron all together? Without the need for inscribing and all of that? Not a single book Erick had ever read, spoke of harmonious magic. What would such a magical item look like?

A tuning fork?

Erick smiled, imagining a large creation of spiked steel, reaching up to the sky. At the touch of natural wind, it vibrates, gifting the world a song that brings the rain, thus ending its own contribution to the sky, to only vibrate out again when the controlled weather was no more.

… For not the first time, Erick considered a journey to the Songli Highlands of Nelboor, where songstresses sang their magic into existence. They probably had a more natural way to enchant than everything he had read, so far.

Like, come on! Erick had created [Call Lightning] by singing out his desires to the world!

He really should have planned a trip to the Highlands long before now, and enchanting really should be much easier for him than it was. Besides, how did people enchant their higher tier spells, where the Ancient Script of those items was an unknown jumble of words; a secret held in confidence by Rozeta and the Script?

Oh. Wait. Erick knew this answer.

Kiri had once said that the only way people knew of Ancient Script was through well-made spells that displayed that script, like Erick’s own [Teleporting Platform] displayed the Ancient Script words for [Teleport]. It was only in these higher tier spells that the runes appeared at all.

But that meant, that Erick’s ‘Esoteric Elements’, with all of its Ancient Script writings, were all parts of spells?

No. That didn’t make sense.

Maybe some wrought leaked all the Ancient Script. Or, more likely, Melemizargo did.

That makes more sense.

… Erick was getting so off track. Sometimes he wondered if he had ADD.

It was time to make some magic.

With a quick shifting from where he was, to his mage tower, using [Greater Lightwalk]’s pseudo-[Teleport] ability, Erick grabbed some supplies, then went back to the third floor room. Here, in this barren room, where lights lit the corners of the orange stone and anyone could appear at any moment, Erick felt shadows watching as he prepared a small experiment.

He was going to try and make an ‘enchanting spell’, like all good enchanters used to enchant.

All the books said that he would fail at this spell creation unless he knew exactly what he was doing. This was true for all magic. But there was another truth. Since [Metalshape] was tier 2, the resulting spell would only be tier 3, and a failure only meant 10 days to try again. Big deal! 10 days was nothing he couldn’t handle.

Erick smiled as he grabbed some stone from outside. With a minor thought, he crafted a circular table in the middle of the room. It stood upon three legs, with a thick stone top that came up to Erick’s waist. With expert control, he turned the top of the table to liquid stone, leaving solid a rim around the edge. The liquid leveled itself, perfectly.

Another thought came to him.

With a quick check on Candlepoint and the dismissing of three idling Ophiel, Erick came back to himself, and reconjured those Ophiel. They joined the fourth Ophiel already here, floating around the room. Erick had them turn small as could be, and take their positions on the circular table. North, South, East, and West. It seemed appropriate, and right. Then he placed a cube of metal in the center of the table, along with eight 10-mana rads, placed evenly around the circular space.

Then, he gave a piece of the puzzle to each of Ophiel.

[Metalshape], [Prestidigitation], [Conjure Item], and [Airshape].

Everyone made their own enchanting spell differently, but these four options seemed best, to Erick.

One spell to shape the metal, another to call upon the varied depths of magic, another to create shapes that would disintegrate and leave a working item behind, or give form to what would become, and finally, a spell to flow it all together, and harmonize with the world. Each Ophiel sang their part, then handed off their part to another, flowing their song together in a wonderful harmony of metal and creation.

Erick joined them,

“Here is a spell, of mine to share, a shape and form; entrusted care

“Vibrations now, a primal touch, a call to mana, in the clutch,

“Here is a spell, of mine to share, a shape and form; entrusted care

“A sympathy, runes in here find, a symphony, now here [Spellbind].”

Erick finished. Ophiels continued to sing, but harmony became something… not.

The metal cube, once shiny and dark grey, turned matte, and globular. The eight rads broke into fracturing glitters that spun into the center of the table, into the grey metal.

Metal twisted. Broke. Reformed. Shaped itself. Cubes became rods, became triangles, became crystals, that flickered back a perfect sphere. The circular table cracked. Ophiels fluttered away, their song ended prematurely as their sitting spots fell to the floor in pieces.

And still, the metal orb hovered there, in the center of the room, atop a crumbling pile of stone.

Time slowed. Ophiels hovered in the air; unmoving feathers and unshifting eyes. Stone fell, but paused on its descent. The night sky outside turned a shade darker, as a deep shadow flowed around the room, inspecting. Curious for a moment, but then judgmental.

“You have crafted the castle without founding the foundation. You tried this much too soon, and you should have used higher grade materials and a larger ritual. Try again another day, or with other components.”

The shadow left. Time resumed.

The metal orb flared out into a frozen splash of spiked metal that crashed to the stone pile with an annoying clang. A blue box appeared.

Enchant, special cast time, close range, 10x cost of target spell + Special Material Costs

Using appropriate materials and appropriate ritual, imbue a clean metal item with a known spell. Impossibly low success rate. <Success rate cannot be improved.>

Erick frowned at the spell. “Shit.”

And then he frowned at the room, but said nothing.

It was time for bed, anyway. Erick left everything like it was, and tore apart [Enchant]. The spell wasn’t even named correctly. Bah! He’d try again in ten days, if he lived that long.

… Or he could try with different components, tomorrow?

But the ones he chose seemed so perfect?

Eh.

Time for bed!

- - - -

In the morning, after breakfast, Erick first went out and grew some more beans to make more chocolate from the beginning. He left the growing and preparation to Kiri, though, because while that was going on, he began more experiments with the chocolate he had made from yesterday. It was all cooled by now, and though it was still good, each batch he had made was as stable as caked mud. It was all very untempered.

Jane suggested a marble cooling table and agitation with big spatulas, but had no help beyond that. She wasn’t quite sure what was needed to temper chocolate, either.

Erick decided to use the main floor dining room for his chocolate experiments. It was a sparse room, with bare furniture and a long table that also never got used, but now all that furniture was shoved to the side, and a large stone table placed into position. Erick leveled the table off with [Stoneshape] while ensuring the top was as smooth as glass. Somewhere in the rearranging of furniture, the conching machine came inside. The grinders stayed outside.

And then came the [Heat Ward]s and the variable temperatures and the [Cooling Ward]s on the table itself and lots and lots of trial and error. Heat the chocolate to liquid, stir it a lot, cool it down fast while mixing, and then…

More brown slop. It was good tasting brown slop, but it was not tempered.

Maybe Erick had made the cocoa wrong, or maybe he had screwed up somewhere in the tempering process. Either were valid points of failure. Justine, Kiri, Teressa, Poi, none of them were any help figuring out how to accomplish what Erick wanted to accomplish.

“It’s supposed to get hard and shiny?” Kiri said, “I don’t know of any candy like that, that isn’t mostly made of sugar.”

“It’s supposed to snap, too, when you break it,” Erick said.

“There’s a spell to make sugar crystallize out of solutions...” Justine added, “But I take it you don’t want that one?”

“No. I’m pretty sure its the fats in chocolate that crystallize,” Erick said.

“Fats turn to crystal? How does the white part of beef become crystal?” Teressa said, “That doesn’t make much sense to me.”

Erick grumbled.

After a long moment, Poi said, “I can truly say that what you are attempting to create is completely new.”

“… hmm.”

Right as Erick was getting ready to tear his own hair out, Killzone showed.

FINALLY.

- - - -

Killzone towered over Erick, radiating restrained power, but that was nothing new. He was only slightly taller than Al, and a bit taller than Teressa, and while Killzone was shaped like an orcol, he had none of that natural charm common to all orcols. His face was nice to look at, but it wasn’t as utterly enamoring as every other orcol Erick knew.

For a brief moment, Erick wondered how wrought chose their forms. Why did Silverite become a female dragonkin, while Killzone became a male orcol, and Anhelia became a female incani? But that was a question for another day. Somehow it seemed a rude question to ask any wrought.

Erick welcomed Killzone into his house, saying, “I was beginning to worry if you were okay, but Poi and Teressa kept saying you were.”

Killzone stepped into the foyer, saying, “Shucks. I’m fine. Sorry if I worried ya. I know I’m a bit late, but there were some complications that bear no more mentioning.”

Erick blinked a bit, having forgotten that Killzone liked to affect an easy speech when things were going well. Come back to the moment, Erick said, “So I’m supposed to bring some desserts and some magic. I made chocolate. Would you care to try some?”

