“I suppose I should, but fleshy food isn’t my thing like it is Silverite’s.” He asked, “Is that what I’m smelling, in the air? It almost smells like candy, but it’s not.”

“Yup. That’s chocolate.”

Erick swung Killzone by the main dining room, where Justine was hard at work, taking up where Erick had left off. She stopped as Killzone appeared, looking a little scared as she stepped back from the stone table. Kiri had been standing to the side, dumping freshly ground cocoa sludge into the metal concher, but she too, stopped, as Killzone appeared. Her eyes went a little wide.

Erick turned, sensing something amiss—

Killzone stood in the doorway to the room, stock still, his eyes wandering over the scene, taking it all in. Erick turned back to the room, wondering what he was looking—

Justine’s hands covered in brown. Brown slop slipping back and forth under metal rollers. Aprons covered in brown. Ah. So that’s what it is.

Killzone’s face broke into a smile, as he chuckled, then laughed. “Oh Rozeta, you’re going to make them eat shit.” He laughed again.

“It’s not shit!” Erick said, probably more defensive than he meant to say. “It’s chocolate!”

Killzone laughed louder.

Erick went over and grabbed a small block of chocolate. They hadn’t managed to temper it to smooth and glossy, but it was still mostly hard when cooled. He handed it to Killzone—

He tried to hand it to Killzone.

Killzone backed away. He had dropped to a chuckle, but now, he was back to a laugh.

“Just try it!” Erick said, breaking the piece in half. It did not snap, but at least it broke cleanly. “It’s good.” He ate the other half, and it was good, no matter that it didn’t look perfect and glossy.

Killzone’s laughter turned to something smaller. He breathed in, then out, then accepted the piece of chocolate. He put it in his mouth like he hadn’t just called it excrement.

Erick waited.

Killzone didn’t really chew. But after a few moments, he spoke in a normal manner, “It’s fine, I guess. It’s not shit, but I don’t like fleshy foods, either, so my expertise is not useful in judging the quality or taste of this product, but it should be a fine showcase of magical skill. Most people cannot make new foods, and you’ve made more than your fair share.” He looked around the room, saying, “You’re going to have to find some other way to present this ‘chocolate’.”

Erick was less than happy with that proclamation, but not everyone liked chocolate. He said, “You can use it as flavoring in almost anything. Cakes, candy, cookies, brownies— Brownies are really good. They’re like a thick cake. You can make hot drinks out of the powdered stuff… But I can see how I shouldn’t be bringing in brown bars to the Feast.” He changed his mind, “Actually. No. I can’t see that. They’re going to eat chocolate bars and if all they can think are horrible thoughts, then that makes me feel a whole lot better about all of this.”

Killzone smiled. “That’s a good attitude.” He said, “Let’s talk somewhere.”

Erick lifted his hand toward the door, saying, “Let’s go to the sunroom.”

Once inside the cozier room, Killzone situated himself on his couch, while Erick sat across from him.

Killzone began, “Where would you like to start?”

“What is Shadow’s Feast? I mean— What does it mean to the Shades?” Erick said, “I heard that it was a holiday only celebrated by the Cult of Melemizargo, but anything beyond that was only spoken of as an afterthought, as the time that comes before the Triumph of Light, which is the actual name of Festival Week, after the last month of the year.”

Killzone nodded. “The original Feast happened way back in the beginning of the Script, when people were still racing away from the collapsing Old Cosmology, when Rozeta and the Relevant Entities were working to create the life raft that is Veird. When Melemizargo fell here along with all the rest, he twisted Divine Creation itself into making monsters out of the living, to fight the Script from all sides. This moment, this creation of monsters, was the first Shadow’s Feast.

“Since then, Shadow’s Feast has become the day when Melemizargo’s cult celebrates everything that the Dark Dragon and they have managed to do in their pursuit to tear down the world and the Script.” Killzone said, “Usually, the Feast is done in private, in the small cult hideouts scattered across the world. But in Ar’Kendrithyst, this celebration is turned into a week long affair.”

Erick felt his blood drain away. “Oh fuck. An entire week?”

“It lasts a week.” Killzone said, “But the party takes place in a single night.”

“… Right. Melemizargo does have those time magics.” Erick decided he needed to have a private chat with Phagar, the God of Death and Time, before he went to this Feast.

Erick and Killzone sat in the sunroom, and spoke of Shades. Of power dynamics. Of too many things to consider, and of grand overviews. The conversation took many turns, with Erick diving down many tangents, but Killzone brought the talk back to the bigger issues, and the bigger topics.

The talk ended faster than Erick would have liked. Killzone was a busy man, called off to duty well before Erick was comfortable with any of what was to come.

He’d probably never be comfortable with walking, alone, into Ar’Kendrithyst.

But that’s what was going to happen.
