The seedpod smelled fine; like a casually fruity fruit. It peeled just like the original, too; like a banana. A [Cleanse] revealed no thick air, either on the pod, or in the tree itself. Erick smiled. There was practically no flesh to this seedpod, with the seeds and their stretchy, white coverings taking up most of the interior. It almost looked like an egg sac. Each seed was still the size of a walnut, and there were a good hundred to each pod.

With a light touch, Erick pulled apart the seeds.

If he remembered correctly, eating the seeds was fine, for chocolate. While the fruit should be fruity, the seeds themselves, or rather, the beans, in this case— The beans should taste like bitter chocolate. Really bitter chocolate. Erick eyed the beans. The [Cleanse] had come up empty, so…

Erick plucked a bean and shoved it in his mouth.

Kiri’s eyes went wide, watching him chew.

He did not bite into the bean right away. First, he chewed the white coating around the bean. It took him a moment to come up with the flavors he was experiencing. Cherry, yes. Maybe some lemon? Something tart. It was a complex flavor, for sure. When he was through with the coating, and most of that complexity was gone and swallowed, he bit into the bean.

An almost forgotten flavor burst into his mouth. Coffee. Bitter, barely sweet.

Memories flooded to the forefront of Erick’s mind, as familiar and unfamiliar tastes exploded in his mouth. Of sitting on a porch and watching the sun rise, as his daughter got on the bus and he drank his dark brew before work. Of watching Jane try her first cup at 16 and then spitting it out into the sink, and then laughing about that every so often, for years and years to come. He laughed about it right now, remembering that day.

Oh! And there were more flavors, as the chewing commenced. There was a richness that was slightly fruity, too… Wait.

Okay. This was not coffee.

Or maybe?…

No. It was similar, and maybe he could use his chocolate tree to make a coffee tree, too, but—

This was chocolate. A supremely dark chocolate. But yes, chocolate.

He smiled, as he spat the seed bits into the dirt.

Kiri glanced at the brown bits in the dirt, saying, “It looked like it could have been a winner to me?”

“It was!” He said, “Still bitter as hell, though.” He added, “I made chocolate, but I could also make coffee with a few more iterations. Real coffee. This could go either way. The fermenting and drying process for both is similar, if I recall correctly.” He plucked more pods from the tree using his lightform tendrils, then began peeling them and discarding the unwanted bits a dozen fruits at a time. With some casual concentration, he dumped the unwanted bits into the compost bin, while keeping the seeds and their white coverings in a floating ball.

Kiri eyed the ball. “Don’t you want to get rid of the white parts, too?”

“Nope.” Erick floated the hovering mass of seeds and white fruit flesh over to a stone box he had already prepared. Holes, much smaller than the size of the beans, had been carved into the bottom, and the box itself stood on small stilts. Erick dumped the beans into the box, then asked Kiri, “Let’s try a [Fermentation Ward].”

Kiri frowned a little, but she banished that look off her face and stepped forward. She cast into the box. A green glint took hold of the air around the stone structure. White beanflesh turned tan, then brown, in a matter of a dozen seconds. Erick used his Handy Aura to stir the beans. When Kiri asked why he was doing that, he responded that it was to ensure a proper fermentation. When Kiri said that he shouldn’t need to do that for a proper fermentation, Erick paused.

“Why not?” Erick said, “Fermentation is a bacterial reaction, isn’t it? And I want the bacteria everywhere.”

Kiri frowned. “Not… really... It’s not a bacteria. [Fermentation Ward] is a combination of [Grow] and [Ward], but targeted to the yeast that ferments, and that stuff gets around. But don’t take my word for that. Alchemy was not my area of study. At all.” She looked down to the browning box of slime and beans. “I am not sure if I did it right.” She added, “Oh. Yeah. I did that wrong.”

The beans turned black, in bits, then seemingly all at once. Erick stepped back as a rotten smell of decay flowed into the air. Kiri reacted with a [Cleanse], and to disperse her green [Ward].

Black sludge turned to thick air. Kiri said, “Sorry.”

“Don’t worry about it.” Erick looked to the house. “Justine was an alchemist. I am just now remembering this.”

Kiri said, “I’ll go get her.”

While Kiri ran off, Erick [Stoneshape]d the now-clean bean bin, plucking it from the ground. He set it next to the porch, where Justine could still stand in the dense air of the house, while still being able to cast her [Fermentation Ward] into the bin.

Erick went back to the successful tree, and cast [Tree of Light]. The tree flexed, regrowing pods, stretching tall to soak up the sun, thickening its trunk as roots curled outward, digging deeper.

With a second batch of pods plucked, cut open, and their beans dumped in the bin for Justine, Erick sat down, next to Poi, and waited. He offered to get Poi a drink. Poi accepted, but for something non alcoholic. In two minutes, the two of them each had a tall glass of lemonade in their hands.

Kiri came outside, with Justine appearing right behind her.

“Hello,” Justine said, “I understand you want a [Fermentation Ward]?”

Erick smiled at Justine. “Hello! Yes, please.” He pointed at the bin, just outside of the [Prismatic Ward], full of white, fleshy beans. “Is that close enough?”

“Yes.” With a twist of her hand, a red [Ward] sprung up around the stone bin. “It’s a common enough spell. Would you like me to teach you? We would need a microscope, though. The yeast this [Ward] is meant to [Grow] is a very specific shape, and it is best to see this for yourself before you attempt this spell.”

“Would a picture work?” Erick asked.

Justine shook her head. “It is better to use a microscope. Being able to see and directly interact with the yeast before creating the spell always produces better results.”

Erick said to Poi, “Then I need a microscope. Can Liquid procure one for me?”

“They’re something like five thousand gold.” Poi said, “I know you don’t care about that, but I’m telling you, anyway.”

Erick smirked. “You’re right. I still want it.”

Poi looked to the air, sending out a tendril of thought.

Erick stood up and went to the bin. With Justine’s spell working on the beans, their white coating was beginning to tan. He asked Justine, “What does this spell do, exactly?”

Justine stepped closer, looking down to the box, saying, “It’s a [Spell Ward], with [Grow] as the imbued spell. This particular one is imbued with 500 spell mana, which activates [Grow] every second, for 5 mana. I don’t actually have [Ward] or [Grow] high enough to make a spell with them, so I can’t show you [Fermentation Ward], but a properly made version would cost around 250 mana with Clarity, and last for a good five minutes.” She gestured to the box. “This one will not do that, since this isn’t a true [Fermentation Ward]. But it should work, anyway. It looks like it’s working. You’re going to want to stir that.”

Erick reached out and stirred the seeds around with his Handy Aura. In a short minute, the box of tanned seeds became a box of brown, muddy seeds. Trace amounts of steam flowed up from the filled bin, to vanish in the northern wind. Slowly, but surely, a fruity, bread-like smell rushed out of the box. It was actually a pretty good smell.

Justine sniffed the air, following Erick’s own sniffing. She smiled. “That’s the correct smell. If you smell anything other than that, you’re either fermenting something weird, or your spell went wrong.” She asked, “How far do you wish to take this fermentation?”

“I have no idea,” Erick said, as he stirred the beans. “This is all an experiment.”

Justine nodded. “This is just a guess, but I would suggest you go until the majority of the flesh is gone, or turned muddy.”

“Sounds good to me.” Erick asked, “Do you know a lot about fermentation?”

Justine gave a sad smile, as she looked down at the box of beans. “Had to keep the sanity somehow, when I was in the Dead City.” She looked to Erick, then looked away. “A lot of us made alcohol however we could. It was better than the drugs we would sometimes smoke. Shades could smell smoke a lot more than they could smell alcohol out in the open, and getting caught never turned out well.”

Erick said, “If this peace turns out to be true, we’re going to want to free everyone from the Shades, including those still stuck in Ar’Kendrithyst. I’m sorry you went through that, Justine.”

“I’m sorry you’re going to Shadow’s Feast,” Justine said, trying to change the topic away from her. “It won’t be easy, but you should be fine, according to everything I know.”

Justine had overheard all the talk at yesterday’s dinner, but she hadn’t said anything about it until now. That was probably a good thing. Jane would have ripped into her, even more than she already had. Though the gods had something closer to a real interaction with Melemizargo, and thus they were privy to ‘real’ information, all the mortals like Erick and Justine had to go on were the words of the gods, working behind the scenes, and the words of people in power, like Silverite, and Killzone.

Like a minor heart attack, Erick realized: Justine didn’t truly have anyone on her side, did she?

He said, “Thank you, Justine. I know you’ve been through a lot, but still you’re looking out for me. I can only hope to do the same.”

Justine stood still for a moment, as she just breathed. She sniffled, then tried to pass it off as sniffing the air, as she brought a hand up to her face to hide her eyes. From one moment to the next, she seemed to ignore or discard whatever emotions she was having, as she flapped a hand at the box. “They’re done!” She stood just a bit taller than she had before, as she cancelled the spell. “Now what?”

The beans were wet, and covered in what could almost be a red mud-like substance. Erick pulled a handful out, letting beans and not-mud fall between the fingers of his telekinetic hand, saying, “Now, they dry.” He put the beans back, then picked up the whole box with a [Stoneshape] breaking the stilts and lifting it higher. A puddle of red muck sat below the box, having oozed out from the fermentation. Erick walked the box over to to a stone table he had already set up in the sun. It was nothing more than a long slab of stone, raised from the ground, and with a lip all around. He dumped the box out, then spread the beans wide enough to form a single layer. He set the box back down next to the house, back on its stilts, then cast a [Cleanse] over the fermenting station, ridding the box and the ground of its red muck. With a turn back to the table, and another cast, a white [Drying Ward] filled the table. He did not [Cleanse] the beans. Erick said, “And that’ll take an hour.”

Justine asked, “I saw you working on tarip, but I don’t know what you’re actually making?”

“It’s an experiment in chocolate,” Erick said, turning back to her. “I might have gotten it right. But maybe I didn’t. We’ll know soon enough.”

Poi spoke up, “A runner will bring your new microscope here in an hour. Liquid has already deducted the bill from your account, as per your permissions.”

“Excellent!” Erick said, “No need to send Kiri out for this one.” He looked to his apprentice, who was currently standing next to the bean table, watching the red-muck beans become red-dust beans. They’d spend an hour under that [Drying Ward] before they would be ready. He said to Kiri, “Teressa had to run all your errands while you were gone.”

Kiri shrugged, looking up to him. “Got any errands for me, now?”

“Not really.” Erick said, “But it is time for lunch.”

Kiri nodded. “I’ll get that started.”

Erick smiled.

Killzone had yet to show up, or send word. Poi said that this was normal, and Teressa backed him up. Kiri gave a shrug at Erick’s open wondering of Killzone’s whereabout, the young woman not having nearly as much experience with the General as the other two. Killzone would show up when he showed up, as was his prerogative.

- - - -

As the sun passed over the house, the microscope arrived, and ten minutes later, Erick made a new spell.

Fermentation Ward, instant, close range, 500 mana

Support the rampant spread and life of fermenting yeast, in a small area. Lasts 5 minutes.

It would be a useful spell.

It was also slightly terrifying. Could he make a spell like this for animal tissues?

… Ew.

And also, oh no.

Erick left that thought far behind for now and went back into the backyard, to check on the beans. They had sat under the sun and a [Drying Ward] for a full hour, and they had both done their job. Where once was red muck, now was brown bean, almost all of the red having turned to dust and blown away on the northern winds.

There were more than a few reasons why he had not done much with chocolate before now. One of them was that this middle process was a mystery to him. Oh, sure, he knew the broad steps. The raw beans tasted like bitter fruit. Fermentation and drying helped develop the proper flavors. And now, he needed some sort of grinding to bits, thing…? Roasting, for sure. Then a lot more grinding, under heavy stones, to produce a fine, fine texture. That part he was sure about. Heavy stones, grinding brown muck to something closer to liquid chocolate.

… And then there was more.

And then you had bars of chocolate!

Simple! Right?

Eh. He’d go as far as he could. Getting to the stone-ground process would likely be good enough. And then you’d add powdered milk and sugar and stuff—

Oh! And then you’d grind some more? Right? That had to be right. There was probably a word for both the first grind and the second grind, but Erick had absolutely no idea what those words could possibly be, or if they even existed, or if there was only one grind necessary.

… Two grinds seemed necessary.

He turned to Poi, standing behind him, asking, “Is there some Mind Mage way to help me remember something I’ve forgotten?”

“No.”

“… I feel like your ‘no’ is a lie.”

“Your feelings sure do exist.”

