281 (II)

Loss

Slowly, the outline of a human manifested over Can Hu, ebbing outward like a ripple in a placid lake’s surface and gaining more and more detail.

"Well done, well done. This has turned out far better than I expected. I anticipated at least some losses. Culturist, your determination to see yourself deprived and humiliated at every turn by my father astounds me. Deathless, your willingness to control yourself and not cut loose has probably done you more favors than if you'd gone down a more monstrous path. Surprising, I suppose, but that's the beautiful thing about these experiments. Surprises! They always keep things interesting."

A wave of varied responses swept through the bridge. The orcs snapped to full alertness, their eyes locking onto Can Hu. Spells were shaped. The bridge came awash with Biomantic red. The Court Leviathan's interior was layered in ridges of bone, and tendrils sprouted free from the walls. Blades erupted around the Penitent, trapping it in place.

"Rose!" Roland cried out. "Udraal! You—”

"Don't worry, my favorite anomaly," Udraal replied, cutting through the Town Lord's anxiety. Trapped between those jagged teeth of enamel, he simply held up a hand—Can Hu's hand. "I will not see your beloved harmed. Currently, she's cursing at me inside this metal shell. I am also sorry, Penitent. I need to borrow you for a while. I can't risk a valuable instance of myself, not with my father present, though I would argue he is still more of a pale shadow than anything."

Shiv caught a snarl on the Culturist’s face, but he held himself back—his head snapping to the Educator, who stood with an impassive look on her face.

Udraal commanded Can Hu to turn. The unshadowed outline of Udraal looking over it now faced Valor, and the ancient Pathbearer strode past the orcs, only blocked by Jessica. Jessica, who had her blade high, who was staring at Udraal, her body language betraying the first hint of worry. She too had been caught off guard.

Shiv saw it then, the faintest tendril, almost invisible, thinner than a hair. But it was there, a trace of fear, running from her to Udraal Thann.

Udraal cocked his head. "I must say, Father, seeing you like this breaks my heart. You should have reclaimed yourself instead of having someone else intervene on your behalf. It's not the way I wanted you to turn out. It's not the lesson I wanted you to learn."

Udraal's shadowed self folded his arms, tutting in mockery of his own father. Valor, meanwhile, clasped both hands behind his back. Then his flesh faded. It was like he didn't want to present himself as a person to his son. Instead, he chose his deathly visage.

"Udraal," Valor said. "I thought I'd felt something wrong in Can Hu earlier…”

"But you did nothing. You ignored. How pitiful. You are still incomplete. Your Animancy remains lost. Your Awareness is deprived—and so your Stealth is not whole. I recommend that you reclaim yourself before our next conversation. It might not be so pleasant, Father. And it would be a shame to shatter you once again, making all this for naught. Nonetheless, today, I'm simply here to congratulate you, Deathless.” Udraal turned to face Shiv. “Things are finally back on track. You're with Roland, and you have all the resources I expected you to have by this point in your life. Now we might embark on the path of conquest and see this world truly elevated in anticipation of what is to come."

Shiv scowled at his creator, his predator, the creature that had stolen the face of his mother. Where he would have responded like a barking dog before growling his hate or perhaps a slurred demur at his adversary, the Deathless held his tongue and went over Udraal's words once more in his head.

And there it was, that vibration from earlier, Gardener of Doubt was right. Shiv's anxiety was rewarded. Of course it had to be rewarded. The path ahead was war. Everything they had now was a good foundation for Gate Piety to be expanded, to be built up. Adam and Shiv's brief conversation was the seed, or perhaps it was an inevitable outcome. After everything they'd experienced and helped set in motion, with what was coming to the Republic, with the Abyss, the First Blood, Compact, war was ultimately inevitable. Shiv didn't need to ask about that. But there were other things he wanted to know. And he might as well just try asking.

"Is this all part of your plan to raise the world's Ambient Mana Threshold?" Shiv said. "To make me strong enough to force another premature incursion before the nations across the world are ready?"

Udraal hummed, and he merged through the Animancy, his thin but handsome face surfacing from the mana as if it were a still pond. This version of him wasn't fully human; his skin appeared to be sculpted from glossy obsidian, and his eyes scintillated like stars plucked from the night sky. This was another vessel rooted in Can Hu. Layers of redundancy went into Udraal's every action to protect himself.

But even so, he had bypassed one of them to smirk at Shiv. It felt like a showing of twisted respect. "Ah, and you're maturing quickly too. Your Psychology Skill is advancing at a prodigious rate. Wonderful. I expected you to be more feral after everything, but you never do stop impressing me in certain ways. I guess there are major benefits to being a rational individual as well. Though don't let go of that bestial side.” Udraal winked. “You're going to need it soon.”

"What is that supposed to mean?" Adam asked. He had a Veilpiercer nocked, but there was little point to this. He couldn't risk hitting Can Hu, and both of them knew Udraal likely couldn't be wounded by a Master-Tier Skill either way.

"The answer is yes," Udraal said, ignoring Adam. "I am trying to accelerate the incursion. Thus far, only one part still vexes me: the fact that you haven't released the unborn child nested inside you. Unless you've digested her soul essence somehow, which… would be worrying… dear Adam's sister here should have long emerged. No matter. I will keep testing. We will see you keep evolving. Perhaps she will appear at some point. Perhaps she is still nested in one of your Skills. I cannot say for certain. What I can say, however, is I look forward to seeing if your resurrective capabilities are truly functional. On that note, you should go visit that Head Chef of yours.”

“What?” Shiv breathed.

Udraal clicked his tongue. “Anyhow, I bid you adieu—and before I leave, Jessica, carry a message to Veronica for me. Tell her that I've sold the Undying Tarrasque to the Court of the Shattered Moon, and that the Jotun will be marching within a month. Good luck, my Deathless. I look forward to you proving your superiority over Sullain’s poor knock-off of my work. I insist upon it. Don't disappoint me. Enjoy your peace and deal with your emotions in the meantime.” Udraal’s expression suddenly turned wistful. “Oh, to be young and unscarred…"

"Wait!" Shiv called out, but Valor's son vanished as quickly as he came. The faint blue of Animancy surrounding Can Hu faded in an instant, leaving the Penitent itself once more.

Rose's face contorted as Can Hu opened up. "You godsdamn cock-sucking piece of shit motherfucker—"

Shiv ignored her ranting, ignored everything. He was about to ask Roland where Georges was, where all the sick were being held right now. But, as usual, Adam was a step ahead. Adam always had Shiv's back. An arrow was fired. A rift opened. Adam took Uva under the shoulder and nodded at Shiv.

"Go," Adam said, and Shiv was across the dimensional channel, tuning the static that danced around him. On the other side of the tunnel, he saw white curtains fluttering. He saw a blanket and the outline of a foot, a lower body, and more besides. He erupted out on the other side—and the air stank of decay. He ignored how there were no vitality signatures in the room. He ignored how he couldn't hear any breathing. He ignored everything until he found himself standing at a bedside.

A white blanket covered the Head Chef of the Swan-Eating Toad. One of his arms hung off the edge of the bed, rail-thin and covered in pustules. Shiv stared. Uva said something to him. He didn't know when she'd followed him. She said something else. He couldn't hear her. She touched him, her face pressed against his, but he was someplace distant, some place deep inside himself. He just stared at that bedsheet. He stared, then he looked at Georges' arm again, then the bedsheet, and then he stepped away. He walked around the room. He looked at the other bodies. He tried to see, no, willed himself to see a hint of life. A flicker of vitality, the pump of a heart, displayed upon his Atlas.

But there was nothing. There was nothing.

He returned to Georges, still lost in a haze, and Adam was in the room as well, Uva still held up by him. He called out to Shiv, but Shiv couldn't hear him either. Only the roar of his blood in his ears.

Looking down at Georges, Shiv's body shook. He clutched his hands tight, and through a forest of disbelief, a refusal, and building misery, he reached down with a trembling hand and, after what could have been a lifetime as much as a second, pulled the sheet off the man's face. He half expected some kind of insult, a demand for cigarettes, a curse followed by a question whether he was a single-celled organism or just stupid for shining light into Georges' eyes like this. Something. Something. Something. Not nothing.

But Georges... Georges wasn't Georges anymore. His face was too pale. His mouth was pressed together flat. His flesh was winnowed. He looked deprived of all fat, and his bones settled high, nearly piercing through his jaundiced skin. His hair was utterly missing as well. Only faint, fuzzy patches remained. Faint, fuzzy patches between large sores that still wept black pus.

Worst of all, he was silent. That was the strangest part.

And so Shiv waited. Waited for something to prove him wrong. Waited for Georges to suddenly crack open an eye. Rise up and flick Shiv's forehead with a sneer. Shiv could hear his Skills talking to him. He refused to acknowledge them. He couldn't hear what they were saying anyway. He kept waiting and waiting and waiting. But Georges wasn't Georges anymore. He wasn't even a person. There was no life left, no vitality. Just flesh in transition to dust. A person had become an object. So much character, and so much history was a corpse.

So much history was a corpse.

Shiv kept staring at Georges. And he bit his lip for the first time.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Shiv, Shiv, he's dead, but Udraal got our attention for a reason. It has to be for a reason. There has to be something we can do right now. Go over, reach into him with your Vitae. Reach into him. Reach into him and bring him back. You brought Rose back, you did! Death is not the end, death is not the end. We can change this, we can. MOVE!

Once more, Shiv snapped into motion. He gave a stuttered reply. His words barely made sense as he muttered an apology. Uva and Adam both called out to him, but he ignored them. He was possessed once more, but this time there was momentum behind him. He was no longer stunned; there was purpose. He had to do this; he had do this; he had to.

He reached into Georges using his Vitae. His red-white strands of mana burrowed through the flesh, deeper and deeper and deeper, but… there was nothing there. There was no “deeper.” He was just carving bloody holes in the body. There was no soul to reach into, no Magical Resistance, no mana. He sensed nothing; there was nowhere to go.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Focus. Focus, you subhuman piece of shit! Focus, you useless, stupid creature. It's there. It has to be. He has to have something. A Skill, or… The System doesn't—he existed. There should be a soul left. There should be!

And Shiv's hand began trembling, and so did his Vitaemancy. His red-white strings quivered as his lip began to shake, like it hadn't since he was cast out of the orphanage, released into a world that didn't want him, into streets that hated him, into alleys that were so cold it hurt to breathe at night, into a seemingly endless struggle.

That was what his life had been: a miserable struggle. Until he ran into Georges. It was when he was digging through the trash in the alley behind the Swan-Eating Toad and the back door creaked open to reveal a red, scowling face with a cigarette in its mouth that everything changed. He got the chance to be a person for once. Georges saved him. Georges turned everything around. Everything. Georges was the only reason why Shiv was even Shiv. Why he was even alive.

And now there was nothing Shiv could do. He couldn't find any hint of a Skill or a soul or vitality or a mind or anything. He didn't know what he was doing. He tried harder, he used more of his anger, but there was no anger to draw from, there was nothing to be angry at. He tried sinking deeper into his hatred for Udraal, for the System, for everything, but he didn't know what to do even with power; it was just blind. There was nowhere for it to go.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Don't give me this shit! Focus, focus! You stupid fucking thing. Focus. It's right there. It has to be. Do it. Do it. Just bring him back. Just reach deeper and pull him back. Fucking do it!

Gardener of Doubt: Shiv, Shiv. That is enough. Anger is not the solution here. He is gone. You need to stop. You need to speak with Valor or someone and figure out how a soul works before you can hope to attempt anything.

The Deathless did just that. He turned away from Georges' body—and found Valor standing right at the exit rift. But the ancient Pathbearer's face was a map of remorse and sadness.

"Valor—" Shiv began.

