But the lich cut him off with a shake of his head. "No, Shiv. No. There is nothing left. When vitality is dissolved for good, nothing remains. No Skill, no soul, no mind. There is nothing we can reach into. How Rose was retained during that ritual, I don't know. Perhaps if I had my Animancy Skill, if I was entirely myself… But no—even that is false hope. Even Udraal doesn't truly know how to return a being to life. I think he simply provoked you into this so that you might be able to force an Evolution or discover another surprise. He doesn't yet understand how your Path works, and if you couldn't do anything right now, then—"

"No," Shiv growled. "No! No! No! You've done this before!" He reached out to grab Valor by the shoulders, and his mentor didn't resist. "The ritual! You've split souls before—How does that work?"

"Not when one is already past," Valor said, his voice warm but heavy.

"Then I'll do something else!" Shiv said, his voice quavering on the verge of a tantrum. "I'll do something! I'll think of something! Something!"

Shiv clutched at his head, and his teeth raked across his lips. His eyes narrowed in on Georges' body again. And it didn't even look like Georges. Maybe he'd made a mistake. This one, this man was too thin. The arms didn't look like the right length.

"Adam!” Shiv snapped. “Adam, are you sure this is him? A lot of these bodies, they might look the same." Shiv wandered over and pulled off another bedsheet. This one was most definitely not Georges. It was a girl, now a little more than torn skin and bones.

"Shiv," Adam said, trying to be gentle, trying to get his friend to stop.

"You could have gotten it wrong. You've gotten things wrong before," Shiv said. "You could have."

And then something brushed his mind. It bounced off his Shapeless Tides, clashing against his Magical Resistance. But he felt it. Uva's touch. The touch of Psychomancy. He turned, and she didn't need to use her typical empathy to communicate what she wanted to say. She simply stared at him. She held up an arm. It took a considerable effort on her part, an immense strain after everything she had spent trying to survive her ordeal.

The Deathless struggled. He shook as he stood in place. He still looked into her open embrace, but he didn't want to walk into it. He didn't want to submit. He looked back at George's, and he bit his lip as he tried again. He reached into him and tore, jabbing his Vitaemancy into the corpse over and over again. Darkened blood spilled out—and so much of the body was rotted and ruined on the inside. There was so much wrong. Maybe if he could start the heart again, maybe—

Shiv suddenly spun, blubbering through his words, "Get Helix! He's, he's way better than us at this. Ekkihurst talked about this once, I remember it. If he can get the oxygen and the blood flowing again—"

"Shiv," Valor said, his voice heavy. "That's enough. It's enough."

"No!" Shiv shouted. "No! Just get Helix. We have to try. We have to."

"He is dead," Valor said, his own voice rising. "He is dead," he repeated. Shiv began shaking his head. Valor loomed closer. "He's Dead, Shiv. I didn't want this to happen to you, but I have always told you; eventually, you will take a wound. I suspected you would when you were trapped inside that teleportation anchor. When you were going to lose Uva and the others. You managed to subvert that outcome. Then I suspected you would at Theborn, when we were fighting the Recollector. You prevailed against the odds. I suspected you would so many times, but you defied all those moments. But defy is only delay. You live, and you continue to live. You do not die, but people around you are not the same. You have taken a wound. There is no avoiding this. Your heart is bleeding. There is no avoiding this."

Shiv clutched at his head. He clawed at his face and scratched bloody grooves into his skin. He tried to silence the thoughts. He tried to force his mind to get angrier so he could think better, so he could come up with a better plan. His Sage of the Enkindled Heart was white-hot with rage, screaming at him, calling him every kind of curse he'd ever suffered in his entire life. He drew at them. He accepted those insults willingly. If it could just give him some hint of inspiration. If it could just… just…

"What am I supposed to do?" Shiv asked. He was speaking to himself, but it wasn't he who replied.

"There is nothing you can do," Valor said, grasping his shoulder.

"It's not your fault," Adam said, though he didn't sound like he believed it either. The Gate Lord was also taking a wound, if not the same as Shiv's. His face was pale, and his eyes were misting as he stared at the other bodies here. Dozens of them. He recognized many of them, and he'd failed all of them. At least that's what his expression told Shiv. He was the Young Lord of Blackedge, and now he was taking in the butcher's bill of Vicar Sullain, his long-sought revenge exacted long after the man's own demise. Shiv remembered Sullain, then, what he'd said to him in Blackedge, his words during their final battle, and when Shiv had finally killed him.

He would say he could almost hear the Vicar laughing at him, but he couldn't. There was only silence there.

"Shiv, come here," Uva said. Her voice was authoritative but thick with emotion. “Come. We’re right here.”

Shiv stared at her. He stared into her eyes, and then he looked away. There was a finality there. But turning away from her, Valor stepped into view once more, and his mentor did something heartless. He raised a hand, and he pushed Shiv away. His shove was gentle, but it was determined.

"Go," Valor said, his own voice hardening. "Go now. You are bleeding. Deal with the wound. You have no choice. Do not pretend it doesn't exist. You have never been a coward, Shiv of Blackedge. Don't turn away from a fight now. Even if it's going to destroy you."

Shiv clenched his jaw tight. It felt like something inside of him was tearing, something inside of his mind was threatening to collapse.

It shouldn't have been this way.

They'd saved the town. They'd done everything right. Everything had been for this. And everything had gone perfectly. They'd won.

But the System, it had to take something from him. It had to do something like this. It had to. It just had to. His anger rose, and it went nowhere. There was nothing to vent it on. There was nothing to do.

Shiv took a step forward and then another. It felt like his body was a lead brick and that he was Pathless again, barely able to move the weight. But somehow, some way, he found his way over to Adam and Uva, and he leaned against them like a wounded animal pressing against a light post, slumping down to die.

"I was supposed to save him," Shiv said, as if he were lost in a fantasy. "I told him I would. This wasn't—"

Uva tightened her arm around his neck and pressed her forehead under his chin. Adam reached out and hugged her as well, pulling them both close. The Gate Lord hid his face away, the first to cry for the fallen. He did it with silent dignity.

Shiv knew he couldn’t manage the same.

I should have looked at Georges' body again. The man was too thin. It could be a mistake. It really could be—

And then Shiv let out a noise—one that sounded like a dying beast. It hurt. Everything inside him hurt. "I never got to…” He choked on his words. “He never got to see who I really became... I never got the chance to…" And the part that was breaking inside of him collapsed entirely. "Oh. Oh, gods. Oh, Broken Moon. I was too late. Too…"

And the pain Shiv felt then hurt worse than being burned alive in an anchor. Being torn apart from the inside. Having his soul and mind ripped asunder. It hurt more than all those things, and it just didn't stop hurting.

"I was supposed to come and save you in time," Shiv whispered.

Something rolled down his cheek, something hot. It was followed by something else. He hated it. He hated all of it. He hated being human. He hated this pain, and it just kept building until it turned into a solid block at his heart. A pitch-black color began to expand at his emotional core. It was fluid like mercury. And it wasn't rage. He had no means of controlling it.

The Deathless was powerless.

The Deathless was lost.

The Deathless wept like the child he still was.
