"It is," Leo muttered. "She has—I didn't notice it before, but she's got—Dammit, this shouldn't be this hard to say."

He took a deep breath. "My family sigil is sewn into her pack. Hand sewn. She casts the way my parents used to teach me to cast. I think they're—they must be teaching her. In the Red Hunters, I mean."

"...Ah." Cale frowned, and Damien went right up to Leo to give him a firm hug. The minotaur stiffened a bit at the contact before forcing himself to relax.

"So yeah," Leo said. "It's not the labyrinth magic that's bothering me, it's just... everything else about her. Everything else she implies. Can we just talk about this later? I don't... I don't want to think about it right now. And we still have to finish dealing with her, then deal with the rest of the Red Hunters, and I can't do that while I'm thinking about this."

Cale glanced at Damien, who nodded. "Sure," he said easily. "Want to hear the rest of the plan instead?"

"Yes," Leo said immediately. "You've been keeping it a secret. Spill. What's this big final part of your plan?"

Cale grinned. "Well, my first hope is that the Observer on duty just assumes Dekora made some kind of infernal deal for power, which would explain why her apparent power drops so much." He inclined his head toward Professor Trilia, who was in the process of performing a fascinating impression of a gasping fish. Presumably, that was part of another illusory spell. "But I'm betting they'll keep chasing because they know there's a—whoops, hold on."

The artifact he was holding had cracked. Cale tossed it into a nearby sack with all the other mana channeling relics he'd been using to share his power with the Haelforge students and professors, then picked up a new one. This was by far the most expensive part of the operation, apparently, but the Haelforge professors hadn't even hesitated when they heard the offer. It wasn't every day you got to practice with virtually no mana limit, after all.

"Anyway," Cale said. "I'm pretty sure they're going to try to figure out the real reason Dekora's all messed up, so they're going to chase the trail we planted."

"Which is?" Leo asked impatiently.

"Well, thanks to Serof, we know about the Red Relics," Cale said, leaning back in his seat and tossing the mana channeler up and down in the air. Delia paused her cheering to give him a mortified look, which he ignored. "And we know whoever's running the Red Hunters has some experience with the Great Realms. You don't forge artifacts using Abyssal power unless you've been around a few of them."

Damien's brow furrowed. "So you're... doing something only someone who has been around the Great Realms will recognize?" he asked hesitantly.

Cale beamed at him. "Exactly! One point for you."

Leo sputtered. "When did you start assigning us points? How many points do I have?"

Cale continued beaming. "In any case," he said. "Here's something interesting about dark lords. You'll want your notebook for this one, Leo."

He waited for Leo to pull out his notebook, then spoke. "A dark lord is an intrinsic fact of any universe that has developed at least one divine power," he said. "They are an ontological reality. A response, if you will, to the divine. Where they exist, they corrupt everything the divines sustain. That might include any holy magic used to keep people alive, and on Utelia, it would include..."

Cale paused, waiting.

"The Gift," Leo said, suddenly straightening. "That's why no one ever comes back from the Corrupted Lands. The Gift doesn't work there?"

"Probably! Not like I've been there to check. But you've got the gist of it." Cale tapped his fingers briefly on the mana channeler, thinking. "That's not really the important bit, but I figured you might want to be aware in case you ever end up there. The important bit is that dark lords as a whole have access to certain types of magic no other mage is supposed to be able to cast. It comes with the whole ontological opposition thing. If you haven't been to more than one Great Realm, it would probably be difficult to recognize as something specific to a dark lord, but if you have?"

Cale smirked, then tossed the mana channeler straight at Leo, who yelped and tried to catch it, nearly breaking it in the process. "It would stick out like a sore thumb," he finished.

"Don't just throw fragile expensive artifacts at me!" Leo said, looking like he'd just experienced a heart attack. He deposited it reverently back into Cale's hands. "And are you saying you're setting the Red Hunters up against the dark lord? Because I can't decide if I should be impressed or worried."

Damien, for his part, raised a hand. "Also, how do you even know how to do dark lord magic?"

"Stop raising your hand for questions!" Cale said, exasperated. "And because I've been one, obviously."

There was complete silence. Damien and Leo both stared at him.

"What? I've been around!" Cale folded his arms over his chest defensively. "It's not like all dark lords are evil, you know."
