Green and Blue auras keep pulling at the core of my consciousness.

At first, these energy signatures appear only as outlines of Abby and Maria, the physical manifestations of what I recognize in this current system.

Yet, the memories start to focus deeper and slow down. Everyone without these auras becomes filtered out, and I begin seeing the forms for what they really are.

Unlike the vast and seemingly randomized different races and energy types that the soul weapon wielder and golden immortal take form in, the traces of green aura that I lock in on are very consistent.

I see other Dryad races in galaxies that are completely unfamiliar to me start popping up.

Sometimes, they appear to be in different forms, like deer with crystalline horns, or birds that form nests and bond with other tree-spirit races.

A few of these memories make it so that this green aura is quite literally born as the trees themselves, or various types of sentient fruits and flowers.

This lifeform is constantly brought together with the wielder of this blade, many times acting as their healer; and other times holding together empires that he leaves behind.

The imagery of veins of roots, patches of flowers, and connected worlds in countless galaxies tied together by this green aura fly by. No matter how many new ones I see, they all resemble the network of highways and ancient arrays that were left behind in the Lower and Upper Realms when we left.

There is no explanation at all, only snippets of the past, and dense energy signatures I can use to compare. It makes the similarities fascinating, but also extremely eerie.

It makes my instincts twitch on edge, as I can't ignore the conversation between Ember and Noctus I've just overheard.

All of these images are from galaxies and systems I've never seen before. It's impossible to tell if they're outside this membrane right now, or if none of it is even real at all...

My consciousness is being fractured millions of times over by the pressure of this Overseer's aura, making it even harder to concentrate. However, the disruptions actually make it more difficult for the golden threads to completely take over my mind too.

Every time my mind and soul are shattered to pieces, they grow back slightly stronger, and give me enough edge to react and fight off the phenomena trying to delete information from my mind.

Though, the most important detail in all of these memories is still impossible to extract.

It occurs every time this soul weapon, wielder, and golden immortal break out of whatever system they're a part of.

I get unreadable energy signatures that feel just like this darkness we float in now.

It's always completely overwhelmed by golden threads before I can see what is on the other side, but after training my mind on sifting through Abby's green aura, I find a common link in all of these memories too.

There is a light blue aura that sparkles with an energy source I cannot sense through memories alone, but I know exactly what it is. The presence of source resin makes itself known every time the seals on galaxies are lifted.

It is for a single frame of memories at most, and only appears right before my access to memories is cut out.

However, I hone in on this sensation, and start forming shadowy images in my mind.

Many of them subconsciously morph into a perfect rainbow angelic image of Maria that I'm interlocked with right now. However, some truly appear this way without going through any mental shifts.

Flashing images of an Angel keep showing themselves in my mind.

However, not all of these images are so pristine and awe-inspiring.

Half are exactly the opposite. Whenever her energy signature appears, it's like a void envelops my entire mind.

The images in the memories themselves start to turn black, as even the thought of what I'm seeing starts to affect the balance of the worlds they're portrayed in.

Yet, the more images of the bright icy angel and dark all-devouring angel I see, the more they feel exactly the same.

They feel just like the darkness we're floating in.

When this clicks, countless images of faceless, formless Void Creepers invade my consciousness. For a moment, I'm able to see a glimpse of the darkness outside of these galaxies. However, it shocks my system far too much to concentrate for long. The golden flashes of divine threads spread through the cracks in my mind and snap me out of it before I dive any deeper.

In the same moment, I feel a pulse of energy rippling through the crimson primordial aura of my sword.

It echoes all over the outside of my origin body, and the constant fracturing of my mind and soul stops instantly.

I feel the resistance holding my ether, primordial aura, and royal vibrations start to dissolve.

There is a slight tug in my chest, as I feel my soul energy core and royal demon's core both fall closer to each other at a slow and steady rate; nearing the True Purple Divine Core in the center of my being.

The closer they get, the hotter and more intense the waves of metallic advanced primordial Aura flowing through me become.

In fact, there are flames that react with the darkness like solar flares, flickering and pulsating off me into the void. Some of them even hold a fragment of my will for a few moments after disconnecting with my Origin Body.

A domineering icy pressure floods off Maria's wings and halo too, radiating outward to make an actual dent in this strange void.

The reaction time for this darkness to claim our aura and resummon it is far longer.

It also makes our vision far more clear, looking at the dragon shielding us from a demon with far more definition. Every flow of golden aura that looked simple before now has hundreds of thousands of more intricate fluctuations and energy streams that we couldn't recognize before.

The purple and silver demonic attacks splitting through become far more intricate as well.

Ember's eyes sharpen when he feels this change, and his entire body fluctuates with the serene white and black light.

He doesn't physically move, but our perception of him in the void does. He's starting to turn, and shifting a bent wall of his aura to allow us to see what is behind him on the other side...
