 stared at him in bewilderment. Gus pulled back, looking ashamed of his outburst.“I... Father hasn’t given me orders to enter the Dungeon,” he said quietly.“He won’t mind,” Deo said, confident because his Dad was the best and thus all dads had to be as cool as his dad. That was just how it worked.“Maybe, but I’ve worked so hard and long to get this far. To ignore his orders or... lack thereof would be an insult. It would be throwing his trust in me in his face. I can’t do that... not after everything he’s done for me,” Gus pleaded, sitting down on the grass, turning his back to the Dungeon.Deo sat facing him, a habit he still had from when he read lips. “What did he do? Did he arm wrestle a dragon or suplex a hydra or maybe he disguised himself as an old woman to rescue you from evil dwarves who wanted to use you as a free maid?” he asked curiously and with no hesitation. Gus sighed and looked a little amused at Deo’s question.“You just speak with your heart on your sleeve, don’t you?” he asked dryly.“I speak with my mouth. A heart on my sleeve would make it dirty,” Deo said factually, arms crossed and sounding serious.“Fine...do you know about the disaster up north involving the Silver Dungeon?” Gus asked, twitching at the name like it was an old wound he prodded.“An event involving a massively developed Dungeon that turned corrupted due to an unknown influence. Its corruption resulted in about twelve villages in the upper mountain range being wiped out in one of the world’s largest loss of life recorded since the Great Tree turned on the people,” Deo reported dutifully. Gus stared, mouth agape.“My teacher likes history. He said it’s filled with fools and slightly less foolish fools,” Deo explained fondly.“I-I see... Well, I was there. I saw the village of Plata go from a peaceful exporter of silver goods... to hell,” Gus said slowly, his eyes going distant.“Plata was the closest village to the Dungeon. It basically rose up based off its treasures. The people were happy... I was happy. It was....then it was gone one day,” Gus went on as a breeze blew through the meadow.“The mountain cracked open like an egg and Silver left the Dungeon, followed by tides of deformed melting nightmares. Some boiled people alive with molten silver. Some became one with the villagers, becoming Half-souls...but no matter how hard I moved in any direction. I found people I had seen growing up. People I had come to know so well... my home was destroyed,” Gus whispered, his voice becoming quieter.Deo stared, unsure on how to respond for a moment.“Your mum? Dad?” he asked uncertainly. Gus didn’t speak for a while.“I was too young to remember them really. They were always busy working and I don’t think... We had many memories together. But when I laid there in the cold, weeping and trying to remember how to do anything but scream and weep... my father found me. He picked me out of the snow and wrapped me in his cloak,” he said and smiled.“He asked my name and I was so young back then I tried to use big words to impress him. I don’t remember my old family name, but he called me ‘Argus the Gentle boy’ because I kept crying if he left me alone,” he huffed at the memory. Deo smiled now, feeling that Gus really loved his adoptive father.“Did you ever... go back?” Deo asked him.“Never. The idea hurts so much it makes me sick inside,” Gus admitted as he twirled grass between his fingers.“Delta isn’t like Silver. She won’t hurt you,” Deo prodded and Gus shook his head.“I’m not afraid of Dungeons. Not Delta or any other. I’ve been near others before and I got over my fear. It’s just... if you love someone, you want to make them happy and I love my dad. I want to be someone he can be proud of and this?” he gestured to Delta’s entrance, “isn’t how I do that,” he said with firm determination.“When can you come? I want to have an adventure with you!” Deo whined a little, but batted his eyes excitedly at him. Gus smiled, it was a real smile with his eyes sparkling.“When Fairplay comes in earnest and I get to be the head of the operation thanks to the Elders... I’ll have a party with you and we can let Delta blow me away, that sound good?” Gus held his hand out to Deo.Deo shook it.He couldn’t wait for that day to come.
