, gently holding his hands out.“Hey... hey. We’re here,” he said in the smoke and smog that obscured everything. Estal could have swooned and fell to her knees in what could have been main character energy, her the beautiful heroine who blew apart the very unpleasant tree... but she was too tired so she just smiled as Hazur and Silver joined them too.Everyone looked like hell.Hazhur had a massive bruise on his face that was already swelling. Karn was limping badly and one of his thumbs was bent the wrong way... Silver without his cloak just looked like a badly beaten pulp of silver and skin, all blurred together by Wyin’s sheer relentless blows.It made Estal wonder how she looked? Other than cooked and smug?“That was insane, but we won!” Karn announced and Estal couldn’t help but giggle in sheer delight. Hazhur clapped Silver on his back, also grinning.However, through the smoke and ash, a familiar voice made them all turn slowly, as one group, to stare at where Wyin should have been laying, defeated.“I have a lot of curse words I could say right now,” Wyin’s voice said, smoothly as if nothing was wrong, “but I am a classy woman, so I’ll settle for a simple...” the smoke cleared to show Wyin moving her branch arms away from her face, waves of green falling off her and more branches simply snapping off.Her torso had one lone angry red crack in it, traveling from her base all the way up across her face. In her roots was Hazhur’s axe, the thing blackened, but not ruined. Wyin easily threw it up into the air and caught it over and over.“Ow.” she concluded, her face devoid of emotion.“How... how are you alive?” Estal stuttered and Wyin batted her one remaining eye innocently as the other burned red with the heat of the attack.“Spite, my sweet things. Delicious sweet spite. Like pain, you can use it to do some truly amazing things if you have enough of it,” she purred, her voice a little hoarse from the damage.“Do we have any options left?” Karn asked seriously and they all shared a look.“I can throw myself at her remaining eye with my fingers. Claw it out?” Estal said, standing up straight despite everything inside her wanting to just lay down... and...‘Pathetic.’Rip this mouthy tree’s remaining hair out one by one. She should thank her father for the amazing motivation he granted Estal through the years. Estal would have to actually want to see the man first, but that was semantics.“Tell me, axe-man,” Wyin suddenly spoke, twirling the axe with a smirk that made the group become instantly warily. Hazhur seemed to narrow his eyes with suspicion.“If I were to let you all pass, but in return, you had to leave this axe behind? Would you do it? It’s only gained surface damage... it will serve you for many years to come...” Wyin trailed off as the head of the axe glinted slightly in the light.Estal felt hope rising her chest and Karn shot Hazhur a curious look.Silver simply watched as his more human-aspects sculpted themselves back into shape. Hazhur seemed to consider it for a moment.“No. But it’s not about the axe,” he said and Estal’s jaw dropped open.“We lost... it’s not going to get easier and I won’t risk my team because of my pride,” Hazhur said softly and Estal’s anger drained away. Hazhur was always so stupid and... noble….He had the best traits of their family.“Very well... you all lose,” Wyin announced simply and the magic over the doors snapped with a pop, unsealing them.Estal felt like that was the most damage Wyin had done to her the entire fight so far. The gut-wrenching feeling that she failed... that she lost seared into her like a branding iron.There was an awkward pause as Wyin handed Hazhur his axe back as if being prodded by some invisible angel on her shoulder.“Before you all go, I must relay that you’re all invited to attend a ‘you cleared nearly two floors’ party in your honor on the next floor. There is free food and a resting spot... Delta is quite pleased with you all, but-” Wyin’s relaxed form looked suddenly dangerous once more.“The door at the end of the hall is sealed. Attempts to open it will ensure you are escorted out by the Guards,” she warned with a smile.“We can go on?” Karn blinked.“As losers, yes,” Wyin said sagely.“Do you have to rub it in?” Estal scowled. Wyin eyed her with her lone eye.“With salt and sand,” she said with sickening sweetness.Estal hated her.So much.But she also respected Wyin a little. Estal liked her confidence and lack of concern about others feelings. It was admirable... if Wyin wasn’t such a massive-“Smile and wave goodbye to the murder tree,” Hazhur muttered, shoving her on before Estal could say exactly what was on her mind to Wyin.Estal used her hand to send a message, but she didn’t wave.Wyin’s delighted laugh was the last thing she heard as they climbed the sudden stone steps down into darkness. All the while, Silver was muttering to himself.“Onwards, but not with victory. Right, wrong? Invited... but not progressing,” he said and Estal hoped this ‘feast’ was something or she was going to scream.This Dungeon was simply the... weirdest thing she had ever encountered.
