A heavy fog descended upon Nathan’s mind, pushing at his consciousness. His eyes prickled and magically slid closed. Nathan felt his focus sharpen with [Focused Mind], and he was able to hang onto awareness by his fingernails. Taeol spoke again and the words were spikes of meaning that Nathan grabbed onto to avoid falling into the pit of nothingness. “Take him to the Golem creation room, put him on the table”. When the sound faded, Nathan focused on the cold stone hands that manhandled him into an over-the-shoulder carry. The golem’s steps were smooth, but he still bounced on its shoulder, the hard stone digging into his stomach and hips. As he was carried out the door and down the hallway, the suffocating pressure on Nathan’s mind lessened.

He was still paralyzed, but at least he wasn’t threatening to pass out entirely. He could feel the wispy sensation of the magic more clearly now. It was filling his head like a nasty hangover, itching and cloying. It wouldn’t slide off like the Charm spell, or sink into his bones like paralysis did. It was just sitting there, a sticky fog adhering to thoughts, weighing them all down. So, Nathan tried to think as fast as possible, to recall as much as possible of that manic state he’d found after trying out some internet-ordered stimulants. He imagined bright blue skies over the mountains he’d grown up in, dredged up memories of the martial arts he’d done in high school and the beautiful design of the optics in superresolution microscopy.

The sleep spell was swamped by the number of topics. It tore apart into fragments and was subsumed by Nathan’s mind. He tried to sigh in relief, but he was still paralyzed and draped over the back of a golem.

Right. One thing after another, ain’t that just the way

The humor kept the fear at bay, a bit. He knew how to break the paralysis, and it was much easier to do now. As he concentrated, the tingling sensation faded. He didn’t know if that was his focused mind, the rank-ups in the magic resistance, or just practice feeling the spell and breaking its patterns. Before he was quite finished, the golem smoothly followed Taeol into a room and gently lowered him onto a large stone table filling the center of the room.

But before Nathan could do anything, Taeol cast another spell.

[Chains of Restraint]

Nathan hastily shut his eyes again as slick magical chains sprung from the base of the table and wrapped around his limbs and across his torso. He surreptitiously flexed his arms and legs to check the paralysis and the chains tightened to restrict him further.

Oh come on! This jerk is so damn paranoid. At least he’s using magic and not real chains. I can break these cuffs!

He was definitely feeling a bit punchy, but Nathan wasn’t sure if it was a response to the mind magic he’d resisted so far or his impending doom and fate as an animated rock. Breaking the thin but immobilizing chains seemed like an important next step. Nathan tried tugging against the chains but felt absolutely no give in them. His admittedly limited strength was not the answer here - he needed to use his Talent for it. Once again he reached out to a new kind of magic, hoping he could resist it somehow.

And it’s not like I have a plan B!

He focused on where the chains dug into his flesh. There was a feeling… beyond the merely physical. He visualized the chains, felt them engraved in his consciousness by more than just touch. The feeling wasn’t wispy this time, but harder, more structured. Nathan didn’t think he could do the same thing he’d done to the mental spells here - the magic couldn’t flow. But maybe it could break? He tried hitting the structure with his will, making a hammer of his consciousness to shatter the chains. Nothing happened.

Taeol was busy against the back wall of the space, sounding like he was sorting through a full toolbox. He commanded the Golem “Go get an empty golem core from the second magical storage space. One of the grandmaster-quality ones I think, I want the highest-quality imbuing right now.” Nathan heard the door open again and close.

The golem is gone! Now or never. This may be impossible, but you only win if you play as if it is possible. How would it work?

He’d succeeded in resisting magic by utilizing the inherent magic resistance of his body and some sort of magical sense the skill had given him. To resist charm magic, he’d noticed and denied the intrusive thoughts and the spell had evaporated. The paralysis had needed to be drawn out of his muscles and into his bones. The sleep magic had been overwhelmed trying to suppress frantic thoughts. In each case he’d found a key element of the spell and subverted it until the whole structure had fallen apart. What was the appropriate key element of these chains?

They had a detailed structure, as if each link in the chain was a tightly packed mass of geometric shapes. It most reminded him of the representations of how DNA was packed into chromosomes - coiled strands made of looped string, itself made of tightly wrapped but unknotted… energy? The analogy fell apart at that level. The strings themselves felt tough, like an extremely thin metal wire. Nathan picked a chain that was tight around his stomach, focused on a link directly over his belly button where he imagined a single loop in a single coil. He focused on grabbing a single wire and pulling, yanking with his mental fingers right into his gut.

The string responded quickly to Nathan’s intention. It flowed into him and stung slightly, like a needle poking into skin. But as the magic entered his body it became less substantial, sliding down some sort of energy gradient from solid to insubstantial to nonexistent. The link Nathan had focused on fuzzed out, and the entire structure of the chains loosened slightly.

Nathan wasn’t paying attention to his surroundings, and he flinched a bit as his head was lifted by fleshy hands. Taeol placed some kind of metal construct under his head, folding up flexible arms that encircled his head with cool metal. Nathan tried to ignore it and started pulling on more threads in more chains. He could only manage three at a time, focusing on his arms first. It only took seconds per chain, but there were a lot of chains.

Then, all of a sudden Nathan could do four at a time. Probably a rank-up, but he didn’t open his eyes to check. Now that he could do something about the chains he was feeling claustrophobic, and he wanted out. The chains across his chest were suddenly unacceptably tight, and Nathan tried to ignore the rising tide of panic as the last chains around his arms loosened. It was getting easier now, the entire structure of the spell falling apart. From directly above him, Nathan heard a gasp, and knew he had run out of time. His eyes snapped open.

The boxes vanished, revealing Taeol’s face, wide eyed and staring at the snapped chain links. He was standing to Nathan’s right and was holding a spike capped with a green gem in one hand and a small hammer in the other, poised to drive the spike into Nathan’s solar plexus. Nathan’s left hand came up across his body, and his hips and shoulders twisted as he drove a palm into Taeol’s face.

Or, at least tried to. Nathan’s palm skated off a barrier of slick force a few inches in front of Taeol. The orange-robed man staggered back a few steps from surprise, though the force of the blow seemed to affect him not at all. Nathan sat up, pulling away from jeweled and engraved metal arms folded across his forehead. He tugged at the last few chains around his ankles as Taeol took further steps back, pointing at Nathan with the spike. “You… how? What kind of toxic power do you have?” Nathan replied by shutting his eyes again, frantically pulling on the strings of the remaining chains. They fell away in moments, and he pushed himself up, and towards Taeol.

The mage had backed up until he ran into the workbench, and his eyes flicked to the door. Nathan sprung at him, and Taeol cast just as quickly as last time.

[Paralysis]

Nathan was ready this time. He saw the gesture coming and balanced himself so he wouldn’t immediately fall. Then, he drained the feeling out of his muscles nearly as fast as it came in, staggering but not falling. Taeol’s eyes bugged out further, and he reflexively held his hands out in front of him. Nathan charged into him a moment later, relying on momentum to get through the defense spell, or at least knock Taeol over. The barrier flexed as Nathan hit it, but he bounced off as if he’d shoulder-checked a padded bag, and Taeol wasn’t pushed back in the slightest.

Magic is bullshit. Conservation of momentum is a core physical law!

At least Taeol seemed to be panicking. He stared at Nathan’s face like a man with a hundred hammers seeing a screw for the first time. Nathan loomed over Taeol and wrapped his arms around the smaller man, feeling the barrier a few inches above Taeol’s skin all over. It flexed under his arms, but didn’t break. Then Nathan dug his fingers into the barrier behind Taeol’s shoulders and pulled as hard as he could, trying to rip the barrier apart. It cracked and tore, a brief blast of force pushing Nathan a few steps back. Taeol’s lips were moving, and Nathan could feel the mana of the spell he was weaving from feet away. It was more powerful than anything Nathan had felt Taeol cast before. Nathan raised his hands protectively in front of him.

[D-d-d-DISINTEGRATE]

A thin beam of pale green light shot from Taeol’s pointing finger and hit Nathan’s left palm. Taeol’s face pulled into a satisfied rictus as Nathan’s left hand fell apart. Pain blasted through him as first his wrist, then his forearm turned to black dust. He screamed.

The wave of magic swept down Nathan’s arm and he felt his Talent fight the spell consuming his inherently magic-resistant flesh. Nathan clutched his left arm with his right hand, unable to do anything but watch and feel his arm slowly disintegrate. The advancing wave of mana felt like a hungry void, a consuming pit that would never be sated.

Nathan tried to push back, he tried to arrest the advancing tide of entropy. Not with any clever ideas, just with frantic desperation. And maybe it made a difference, as the spell passed his elbow and slowed to a crawl. Both Taeol and Nathan’s eyes were glued to the advancing black line. Then, a few inches from his shoulder and with one final notification, it stopped.

Nathan fixed tear-filled eyes on Taeol, whose victorious expression paled into terror. Nathan stalked forward.

[Paralysis]

Nathan barely stumbled, overcoming the spell with sheer rage and desire to beat Taeol’s face in. Taeol started gathering magic for another powerful spell, but Nathan took a long step and pivoted his entire body, smashing his right elbow into Taeol’s nose. Nathan felt cartilage pulping under the blow, and continued his turn, stomping on Taeol’s left knee with his right foot. The knee folded with an unpleasant popping sound and Taeol dropped to the ground with a whimper past bloody lips.

Nathan’s left arm hurt, and he tried to cradle it as he turned to the door. Time to get out of this place. Especially before the golem came back. He stumbled to the door, pushed it open and was ten steps down the hall before he paused and turned around.

I hurt him, but he won’t die. I need to kill him. He’s tried to do worse to me. He deserves to die. He’s a powerful, vengeful mage and if I don’t kill him now he’ll come for me.

He’s also a man named Taeol dho Droxol, who seeks knowledge. If I kill him, I kill a story, and all of the potential he could have.

Nathan’s face hardened, and he walked back to the door into the Golem creation room.

A potential for great evil. Fucker took my arm. Kill him now, think about it later.

He turned the corner, and Taeol looked up at him from across the room, pulped lips stuttering.

[t-t-Teleport]

And with an orange flash, he was gone.

Permanent Talent 1: High-Tier Magic Resistance 10

Talent 2: None

Talent 3: None

Class: None, level 9+

Utility skills:

Low-tier Focused Mind 5

Low-tier Earnestness 3
