Chuckling at their unrestrained attitudes, all he could do was shrug. “He is who he is, and even with all his flaws, he has my friendship and respect.” Leering at both of his loves, he quickly changed the subject before they could voice more arguments. “Now, what say we emulate the great hero Rain and rest early.” His words brought a blush to their cheeks, scolding him in unison for his lusty behavior, while at the same time meekly preparing for bed, both of them as eager as he.

Life was good and there was nothing he would change.

Well, perhaps a third sister would not be so terrible, but he knew his limits as a man.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Shivering in the rain, Fung continued to kneel in place, his determination wearing away slowly from the cold gusts of wind, chilling him down to the bone and paining him despite the numbness threatening to overcome him. His guards stood nearby, silently suffering along with him despite his orders for them to seek shelter; no sense in having all of them sick as well. With the way things were progressing, he would be dead of pneumonia in a few days, choking on the fluid in his own lungs. He'd heard drowning to death was like falling into a peaceful sleep, although none who spoke of it had firsthand experience, leaving him to question how they'd come to that conclusion.

“Hello handsome.” Adujan's voice snapped him out of his thoughts and a scowl covered his face before he could stop it, an involuntary reflex hammered into him over the past few days. How would she trivialize his efforts this time? Her wet clothes stuck tight to her body, his eyes drawn to her curvaceous hips and long, slender legs, his body igniting with desire. He'd left his courtesans behind, knowing they were unable to keep pace and their absence was painfully noted, hand-to-gland combat only going so far. “How are you holding up? Do you need anything? Tea perhaps, or a change of clothes? I'd be more than willing to help get you out of your outfit.” Reaching out, she brushed his hair aside, smirking while she eyed him up and down.

She was lovely, of that there was no doubt, but her acerbic tongue and ruthless demeanor caused him no small amount of pain in the last week, not to mention he was unaccustomed to being the prey, her forward manner leaving him tongue-tied and blushing. She'd arrived panting and exhausted, covered in sweat and dirt while carrying the carcass of a Meng-Zhua and still she managed to look erotic. Carrying the heavy load by herself was training according to her, cementing the idea that the Bekhai were all insane, practicing to the point of self harm, obsessed with increasing their strength, it was both inspiring and terrifying.

Ignoring her flirtatious advances as best he could, he stared forward at Lieutenant General Du Min Gyu's tent and asked, “How did you manage to convince Great Hero Du to take you as a student? I have pleaded with him for over a week now, every spare moment spent on my knees, and he only spoke to me once.” His teeth chattered as he spoke, his voice pleading for help. “All he asked was if I had any siblings before dismissing me. Please, help me convince him, or tell me how you caught his attentions.”

Du Min Gyu, the Sanguine Tempest of the Central Province, an Exarch who rose to prominence during the Hoplesh Rebellion, taking command of the Imperial troops after a suicidal strike managed to kill both General officers in command, the first of his long list of achievements. Known for his decisive actions and unyielding demeanor, the man was a living legend, carving his achievements in the blood of rebels and Defiled, his last duel with the Butcher of KunLun Mountains had even been made into a two-hour epic, performed across the Empire to the delight of all. After the duel, his injuries hindered him from fighting again, but he instead surprised the Empire once more, his disciples and students all finding great fame and fortune for themselves, bringing him even more praise and respect, as well as a new title: Great Teacher Du. To be his student even for a single lesson was a thing to boast of, as it showed you were worth teaching in the eyes of Du Min Gyu.

And standing before him, dressed in military garb, holding an umbrella in the heavy downpour, was one such student, Adujan, Khishig of the Bekhai, who idly shrugged with a contented smile pasted across her fair face. “I didn't have to do any convincing, Teacher Du asked me to be his student.” Her smile widened into a grin at his expression of disbelief, shrugging easily. “Teacher Du has instructed me to inform you to take shelter. While he cannot in good conscience leave you behind, he will not slow his pace for you, dragging you along if need be.”

Elated at having received permission, he leaped to his feet and ignored the painful sensation of blood rushing back to his deadened legs, striding confidently towards the tent. Stepping to block his path, Adujan shook her head apologetically. “Teacher Du meant for you to retire to your own tent.” With a small shrug of apology, she sashayed back into the tent with her Teacher as Fung watched, despairing that all his efforts had so far amounted to nothing while also admiring the sway of Adujan's hips.

Allowing himself only a moment of self-pity, he grimly strode away, the tent already being set up by his guards, relieved to be out of the worsening storm. Soaking wet, he made his way to Ong Jing Fei's tent while he waited, standing silently while her attendants helped him change into something warm and dry. Sitting next to the blazing brazier, he wracked his brain for some method to display his worth to Du Min Gyu, besides following him around like a lost dog.

A large hand clapped down upon his shoulder, the Divine Blacksmith's fearful visage coming into view, whispering quietly. “Worry not, that man is a testy sort, wouldn't even let me into his tent. He's old and prideful, has the shakes something awful you know. It happens with age.” Handing Fung a cup of tea, he shook his head ruefully. “A shame, it's been some time since my wife found a new warrior who could match her. Don't seem like little Yan's new teacher is long for this world, the poor girl.”

The Divine Blacksmith's words did nothing to diminish his determination, only further fanning the flames. Should Du Min Gyu pass away, then the Empire will have lost a treasured warrior, and any words of wisdom he could give before his passing were all the more valuable. Fung would become his student, if not his Disciple, no matter the cost.

Smiling as he held his teacup in both hands, not daring to drink it lest it contain some aphrodisiac or sedative, he contemplated how the Society would react when they learned that the Great Hero Du Min Gyu stood against them, laughing in anticipation of the sight. It was time the Society got taken down a peg, and The Herald and her Kin were poised to do so, gathering their allies high and low, all congregating at the Bridge. Determined to witness the event, if not take part himself, Fung expected it to be a grand showdown that would spawn epics of its own given time.

Until then, he would need to keep his wits about him, as in spite of the threat to his life should she become pregnant, Ong Jing Fei was looking more alluring by the day. He truly considered accepting the risk and bedding her, if only to calm his nerves, Adujan was driving him insane with her incessant teasing, yet it was clear she had her heart set on another. Simple enough for him to discern from the forlorn look in her eyes when she groomed the roosequins, a longing for some lover left behind. He pitied the man who had won her affection, the girl was a she-devil in human form.

The Mother have mercy on that poor fool's soul, but at least he was likely to die with a smile upon his face.

Chapter Meme
