“As with all things, My Lord, it depends. If we can find a software that has been published even in small amounts, I’d put my money on someone just using it to distance themselves from the method of making the video. If we can’t find such evidence, and the software seems truly unique, then it was most certainly a society behind who made the video.”

That was close to Matt’s own thoughts on it all, though he didn’t like that. He had been hoping Cato would have better news.

“What's the worst case scenario with the societies?”

Cato took a long time to reply, which only made Matt more nervous. “Worst case depends a lot on the truth of rumors I've heard. Most societies are… harmless. It's a school tradition without much behind it. My own society was of that type, but there were rumors about societies who were far more powerful and demanded steadfast loyalty, even out of the academies. If the rumors are true, the strongest societies are led by dozens of Tier 46s, guiding them from the shadows. These are people who control Empire-wide corporations, guilds, even noble families. Those societies have an uncountable amount of people in various positions inside everything. They could be the principal, a teacher, a lowly janitor, or anywhere in between. Those types also tend to be incredibly loyal to the society. I would caution you, My Lord, that not all societies are like that, and I don’t actually know if any are, but those are the rumors.”

That fit what Matt saw in the government documents, but it only painted a picture he didn’t like.

It wasn’t exactly a surprise that they had high Tier enemies, but a high Tier secret society was about the worst possibility Matt could think of. How were they supposed to get their vengeance against a group whose entire purpose was to be secret? It was doubtful there would be a convenient list of members for them to find.

After sharing what Cato said, Matt went back to looking through the information, but, having a better idea of what he was looking for, he found the relevant notes in the Imperial databases. Clicking into the first, Matt blinked as he checked his permissions to make sure he actually had full access to the document.

There were only a few tens of thousands of words about the secret society, the Dust Fall Order, who, according to the reports, were believed to have orchestrated the downfall of at least one Ducal house, at least three guilds, and over a dozen corporations in their seven hundred thousand year history. ‘Suspected’ being the key word because, as the document made sure to mention at least a dozen times, there was little evidence to link any of the acts to them.

The same went for each of the other five highest profile secret societies.

The Society of Stagnation, the Order of Progress, and the Circle of Ever Flame were Matt’s three most suspected secret societies. The Round Table of New Men and the Rage of the Forgotten weren’t written off; it was just that their modus operandi didn’t quite fit in with what they had seen in any of the attacks on them.

The thought almost made Matt laugh.

All of the societies were known for their secret maneuvering, but the three he picked out were the ones that seemed more likely to have overlapping goals with the three of them. Or believed goals. Everything was speculation.

The Keepers of The Golden Age, or more derisively the Society of Stagnation, hated progress in seemingly any form, and were known for attacking research and development groups while also championing a resurgence of older laws. Because of that, they tended to have more noble members. From the reports, they were a group who rarely found recruits thanks to not accepting anyone they deemed unworthy, which was pretty much anyone who wasn’t from a noble family that was at least a hundred thousand years old.

They would have obvious reasons to attack Matt’s guild, as well as his aura potions. The same logic would apply to Liz’s research group, but it didn’t make sense for Aster’s attacks, as they seemed to have zero involvement with bloodlines unless it had to do with their technical advancement, which wasn’t what Aster was working on.

She had shared what she had learned when they returned to the room, and people had been encouraging her workers who were in charge of winter bloodline materials to be more selective with who got the items.

She had only been able to catch a few of the bad actors, but they were mostly Tier 15s who wanted to keep the prices of winter bloodline materials down. Aster's act of buying them up was hurting more than the Winter Wolves, and they had taken matters into their own hands.

The Winter Wolves had been Aster's initial suspect, but even with eight months of investigation, she hadn’t found a single link to them. Initially, she had been sure they were responsible for stirring the pot, but now wasn’t so sure.

And the Society of Stagnation didn’t have a history of attacking beasts, leaving a question mark there.

It was possible both the society and the wolves were attacking the three of them, but that seemed unlikely.

The second secret society, the Order of Progress, was the polar opposite of the Society of Stagnation and, according to the Empire's information, the two orders were sworn enemies.

That might have made Matt inclined to like the Order of Progress, but they were just a different flavor of bad. They might believe in progress, but the progress they believed in was progress controlled and doled out by them and them alone. Wealth and power were their bread and butter.

Eyria de Solis would fit into their group like a glove, which made Matt suspicious given the timing of the attack so shortly after their confrontation. Was she a member, and attacked them in anger? It seemed too obvious, but it was a possibility.

Additionally, the Order of Progress was also known for its corporate espionage and hackers, feeding into Melinda’s information about them holding the information for ransom.

They wanted to push Empire society forward, but they wanted to be the primary beneficiaries of said growth.

The Circle of Ever Flame was a mixed bag, but still suspicious enough to warrant Matt looking into them.

They weren’t as societally driven as the other two orders, but they were business minded. Almost exclusively so. They had noble families in their ranks, as well as guilds, but their main focus was on accumulating wealth in all its forms and a lot of their members were in charge of corporations. One report estimated as high as one tenth of a percent of all higher Tier businesses were owned or funded by members of the Circle.

They were less about innovation and more about making money, which put them at odds with the Order of Progress, but what made them stand out to Matt was their history of attacking market disruptors.

That description fit all three of them.

The information about the group was speculation, just like the others, with only a few members ever being confirmed.

In addition, it all fit too nicely with Melinda being contacted through information found in corporate espionage.

Or their attacker could have been one of the numerous smaller secret societies.

Thankfully, Esmeralda and Jericho came back just a week later.

“We believe we found where the software originated.”

Liz leaned forward, blocking Allie from doing the same. “Who, what, where, how?”

Jericho coughed. “The how is bet—” Realizing who he was talking to, he stopped and chuckled softly. “Sorry, in the corporate world like this, we usually try to pretend we are doing things legitimately. We hacked into dozens of academy repositories and looked for information about anyone who did anything with video software. We then cross referenced that with people who stopped doing so. That is fairly typical for something you want to keep clandestine. Sifting through that, and comparing the names to the academies they came from and/or still work at, along with the locations of the attack on the generator, we actually found a match. Raffi Opolski, a Tier 20 teaching assistant at the Ravens Loft Tier 10 Academy. He's been there for five hundred years and is well respected by his students and academy staff alike.”

“Could it be a set up?”

Susanne's question earned a nod from Esmeralda. “It very much could. That said, I think not. When he was Tier 5, he developed a video software from the ground up that isn’t noted anywhere except a single personal journal, who complained that Raffi had beaten him in a competition and mentioned how the software wasn’t even that good. Said journal was deleted, which the owner complained about, but we found a backup of it on a scraper server from an illegal pirate website. In addition, when we say we tracked the information burst to him, we didn’t track it to his office or his home. We tracked it to a safe house we have good reason to believe is his. When a fight between delvers happened in the area forty years ago, alerts went out and he flinched mid-lecture at the same time the warning signal was broadcast.”

It was a lot of tangential information, but that was how these things went.

If it was him, fantastic, but if they hit the wrong guy they would have genuinely fucked up. And for all that Matt was angry at the perpetrators, he didn’t want to harm the wrong person.

Allie snatched at the air. “Ok, I have a waypoint just two worlds away. Let's go check out Mr. Opolski and see what shakes loose.”

Liz’s face was hard as she stood. “Let's mask up and go in quietly.”

A second later, after they donned masks, Allie [Teleport]ed them across the Empire.

Matt hated to admit it, but Allie made everything so much easier. Instead of nine months of travel, they had arrived in a second.

Pushing through, they arrived at Ravens Loft Academy, where Mr. Opolski taught.

From their scant information, the academy didn’t have a societal lean, but with just how secret everything was, they wouldn’t be able to tell even if it did.

However, before they even neared the academy Mr. Opolski scanned them and everyone else approaching the academy with his spiritual perception.

That wasn’t suspicious in and of itself, but it was unusual for someone teaching a class to be on the lookout for anyone even entering the city near the academy.

They were Tiers stronger than him, well trained in how to obfuscate themselves, and masked, so went by unnoticed, but it made them far more suspicious of the man.

Making sure to keep their distance, they watched him for a full week before they followed him going to an apartment two cities over that didn’t officially belong to him. There, he sealed the deal by entering a well disguised room even their spiritual perceptions hadn’t been able to find.

The moment he opened it, all of that stealth vanished, giving them a good long look at a very advanced hacking suite, and Allie teleported the six of them into the room. Allie, Susanne, and Zack vanished just as quickly as they had appeared, leaving the three of them.

Liz had appeared directly in front of Raffi, and, with a slight puff of breath, threw him onto the room's couch.

Instead of fear or panic, Raffi laughed self-deprecatingly. “Ah, it was too good to hope I’d escaped notice.”

Liz smiled innocently, cutting his next words off with a squeak as she hardened the air around his throat. “Your next words should be helpful.”

“What do you want me to say? If you're here, I’ve been caught.” He pressed his hands together making it easier to cuff him. “Take me away. I have no objection. I played the game, made a gambit and failed.”

Liz towered over Raffi silently, the smirk unmoving from her face, and Matt could tell she was contemplating just killing the cretin. He could read it in her every move and gesture.

Matt shared a pulse through his bond with Aster wondering if they needed to step in, but Liz spoke before they decided.

“I think you have fundamentally misunderstood your position here, Raffi.”

With that said she hooked a toe under the couch and kicked it into the far wall just hard enough to send dust and pictures flying, but Raffi was held in place by her hardening the air around his wrists and ankles.

“The situation you are in—”

A flicker of fear traced across Raffi’s face, and Matt watched as he realized just how much danger he was in, but it was quickly replaced by calm indifference, and he cut Liz off. “I assure you, you will find torture ineffective. Let us talk like reasonable people. I have information you want, but I’m also willing to die if I must. I always knew that was a risk when I made my move, and death is a better alternative to what you could do to me.”

Piercing the man’s veil with his spiritual perception, Matt could feel Raffi start to spin up his core in preparation to detonate it. It was less of a threat to them and more a threat to their source of information.

It was a good play, if he was actually willing to go through with it.

Few people were willing to actually kill themselves, let alone via one of the most anathema methods. Dying was one thing, but deliberately sacrificing all of that hard work which had gone into one's cultivation took a stern will, even if death was already inevitable.

Sadly, death via core detonation wasn’t so easy while Aster was around.

The air took on a sharp quality as the temperature dropped and ice started to condense on everything, but Raffi drastically misinterpreted the ability as he shouted. “I wouldn’t do that if I were you. I’ll do it.”

His shivers weren’t only from the cold, but Liz held up a hand, and the temperature rose slightly, which seemed to set him at ease and gave him a measure of confidence, but that did nothing to stop the frost that had started to creep onto his cores.

