Liz’s smile faded, but she remained silent. Despite the heat, Matt almost quivered at the chill coming from her eyes.

Raffi’s demeanor slowly melted further. “I have information I would be willing to share if you forget all about me.”

“Why did you attack me?”

“Why shouldn’t I? You are a plague to the—”

This time, Liz didn’t wait for him to finish, and slapped him across the face hard enough to crack his jaw.

As he was healing, she calmly spoke. “Don’t insult my intelligence by trying to play up the drivel. You wouldn’t do so after refusing to name your organization unless it was bait.”

Raffi’s jaw slowly moved back into place, and his eyes met Liz’s again, though a small forced smile was now on his face.

Her tone was calm and deadly flat once more. “Which society are you a part of and who ordered you to do the hit piece on me?”

Raffi's smile turned genuine. “I’m far too loyal to tell you that. If I die, the trail ends with me. The society behind me will protect what I hold dear in the event of my death. Here is what I’m offering. I can give you the information about the remaining blood research facilities. In exchange, I go free unharmed and untracked. The society behind me will also back off, despite the repeated provocations you and your husband have been doing.”

There seemed to be real fire in his eyes when he glared at Matt.

Liz stared down at Raffi. “Anything else you’d like to say?”

“I’ll blow myself up.” He clearly mistakenly saw it as an actual threat to them.

Liz shook her head as she crouched next to Matt. “No. No, you won't.”

Raffi tried to spin up his core, but panicked as he found his core chilled and unresponsive as Aster's spirit space fully locked onto him.

Liz leaned in close. “Raffi. If you really were the person who found the blood magic research facilities, you should have the barest inkling of what I’m willing and capable of doing to you.”

Surprising all of them, he spat in her face in a rage, as his carefully laid plans fell around him. “Fuck you, you stupid bitch! You think you're so clever. All your reforms and new rules you’re testing out... You think we didn’t see!? That I didn’t see!? Everyone with eyes can see that you are weakening noble power, ready to push more reforms. Take away from those of us who clawed our way out of the faceless masses and kick us back down. I won’t go back! You do it, but it doesn’t matter for you because you are above the rules as a high and mighty Ascender. But not today. No, not today! If you think me, with twenty minutes of editing, can ruin your reputation, wait until you see what happens to you when I die! You’ll be questioning your own actions when you see the proofs we publish.”

Panting, Raffi stared at Liz as she wiped away the phlegm with a finger, and flicked it back onto him.

What he couldn’t see was the tiny drops of golden ichor that was mixed in with it.

“Does it feel good to get that off your chest?”

Once more, he almost mustered up the ability to speak, but failed as Liz’s ichor crackled and ignited across her body. “While you are really testing my patience, unfortunately for you, I’m not a rabid dog who will snap because you want me to kill you, Raffi. Now I want you to listen to me. I’m more displeased at the group behind you than any emotion I have towards you. I want to know who they are. If you give me that, and the information, I let you go without torturing you. If you're really helpful, I’m even willing to help. Get you a new identity. You joined this society for a reason, did you not? I can probably help you fulfill those reasons.”

“I won’t be—”

Liz cut him off by leaning forward like she was whispering into his ear. “Last chance. Call your puppet master, because you all fucked up and I found you. Now I’m thinking about calling in every favor I have with Shadow, and then go into debt to set her loose on your origination. Every facility she can find, raided the moment your guard is let down. Every agent identified and publicized. She’s got nothing but time on her hands after being so fucking scary that all of the other Great Powers didn’t want to fight her anymore.” Raffi was about to speak when Liz added. “Oh, and you’ll give me the information about the blood research facilities still hidden. You may be willing to die, but I assure you, that isn’t an option any more. You aren’t getting around Wraith's suppression even with that bomb in your brain. I already disabled it.”

“I'd rather be tortured.” The words were growled out with such anger Matt almost respected it. “You’ll get nothing from me, and then you'll have to suffer as you are attacked from the shadows when you least expect it.”

Liz smiled. “Funny you mention that.”

As she spoke Allie, Zack, and Susanne appeared in the room, holding all of the data storage devices from both safehouses.

Raffi quivered as they stared at him, and they could see from his facial tics and frantic eye movements that a decision had been made.

Aster swished her tail. “You've got no cards left. You shouldn’t have let yourself become someone else's sacrificial pawn.”

Raffi’s face settled into horror as he realized he had just lost all value to them.

Staring down at him, Liz smiled. “It's fine you didn’t want to talk to me, but I’m sure the Imperial investigation team can get you to talk. After that, you’ll be destroying asteroids and recreating them for a long, long time.”

A quick [Teleport] from Allie, and they left him at a secure facility where the professionals could take a crack at him.

They would surely get some information out of him and it was only a question of which was faster to crack: Raffi or the data.

If worse came to worst, they could always ask Kurt, their former Trainer when they were on the Path, to mind control him. They had discounted it because of how much they knew he hated doing so, but it was always an option.

Leaving the man as Imperial agents confined him, the six of them returned to the Capital.
