Elise took out her tablet and checked it. “You have a ton of time made up for your work with the giants and the Garrison.” She said. “If you keep to your 8 hour a day schedule at the mine, you'll finish about a week before you have to leave.”

“Nice.” Ren said. “But, if I stay for an extra couple of hours each day, I should be back on schedule in no time... or even ahead of it if I'm lucky.”

“You could just work for the Garrison.” Elise said. “That was a smart thing to add to your contract.”

“I was tempted to add it to the standard contract when I was at the Main Keep; but, not everyone can work for the Garrison.” Ren said. “At least, not in the same capacity as I can.”

“There's not a lot that anyone else can do in the same capacity as you.” Elise said and smiled.

Ren was about to respond, when his room door opened.

“Hi, everyone.” Barbara said.

“Hi.” Ren said.

“Hello.” Elise said.

“Madam Barbara.” Stella said, and Barbara smiled.

“You're starting on me early.”

“Starting?” Stella said. “I never stopped.”

Barbara chuckled. “How did everything go today?”

That started the story of the adventure they had at the television studio, and about how they picked up clothes for Denise.

“She complained about having to go through all the trouble; but oh boy, was she ever happy.” Ren said. “She's been dealing with clothes that didn't fit for years.” He shook his head. “I couldn't let her keep living like that, once I knew what she'd been going through all this time.”

“We're supposed to be taking care of you, not the other way around.” Barbara said, and put a hand on his arm. “You're too kind.”

“She bought me french fries afterwards.” Ren grinned. “It was totally worth it.”

They all laughed.

*

Officer Stonewall had taken pictures of everything, and put each piece of paper into it's own evidence bag.

“Now what do we do?” She asked as Detective Ramirez put the wall panel back into place.

“We go about our business like nothing happened.”

“WHAT?!?”

“If anyone finds out we found anything, and here of all places, they'll take it from us and we won't get to do anything else to help.”

Officer Stonewall sighed. “Then what...”

“We're going to split the list of names, see how many are in that drawing, and see who and what they are. Both then and now.”

“Should we send it to the FBI?”

“Not yet.” Detective Ramirez said. “We don't know how far up these names go.”

Officer Stonewall's eyes widened slightly, and he nodded.

“Right.” He said. “Some of them could be in the FBI, either then or now.”

“Oh, damn.” She said, and Detective Ramirez chuckled.

“I thought that idea would send you into the realm of cursing.”

“Not yet.” She said and smiled. “I'll save it for when we see who they are.”

“Me, too.” Detective Ramirez said. “Mainly because I'm pretty sure I recognize one of the faces now.”

“Who do you think it is?”

“Senator Eddlemere.” He said, and smiled as his partner cursed.

*

Stella gathered up her things, gave Ren a hug, and said goodbye to everyone.

“I'm looking forward to Saturday.” Ren said. “I can't wait to see the setup you have.”

“You say that now.” Stella said and winked at him. “Let's see what you say after the first day of tests.”

“I'm in capable hands, so everything should be fine.” Ren said. “Plus, Gloria will be there to stop you if you try anything too outrageous.” He said and laughed.

“What if it's her idea?” Stella asked. Ren stopped laughing immediately and held his hands out to Barbara.

“Save me!” He said, and Barbara laughed.

“Geez, I'm just kidding.” Stella said. “I'll be by to pick you up first thing Saturday morning.”

Stella left, and Ren talked with Barbara and Elise a bit more about the recording session, and how easy it was. It didn't take long before it came time for him to log back in. Barbara excused herself to go to the bathroom, and he turned to Elise.

“Thanks a lot for having dinner with me tonight.” Ren said to her, and took her hand. “I know it wasn't what you would normally expect to have as a first dinner date...”

“Of course it wasn't.” Elise said, and gave him a quick kiss. “Normally, it's some pretentious jerk who thinks that because I agreed to have dinner with him, he can ignore me and my feelings while we eat, and then expects me to sleep with him afterwards because he bought me dinner.”

“Oh, wow.” Ren said. “That really is pretentious.”

“Isn't it?” Elise grinned. “But, unlike them, you were attentive, kind, didn't call other people while we ate, or treat me like I'm only a nice piece of ass.”

“What in the world could they be thinking?” Ren asked. “You're giving them the gift of spending time with them.” He shook his head. “How could they even think about ignoring you?”

“I guess they're not as smart as you.” Elise said, and took his hand. “I have to get going, though.”

“I thought so.” Ren said. “I hope you have a great night.”

“I already did.” Elise said, and they kissed. “Thank you for dinner.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said. “Are you available tomorrow night?” He asked. “I'd like to watch the next episode of the show with you, if you're free.”

“I'd be happy to come by.” Elise said. “If I'm running late, I'll call.”

Ren nodded. “See you tomorrow.” He said, and cupped the side of her face. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Elise said, leaned in, and they kissed again. She started to lean away, and he held onto her. They continued to kiss; and a minute later when he let her go, they both had big smiles on their faces. Elise got up, went to the bathroom door, and knocked.

“Thank you.” Elise said to Barbara, gave Ren a little wave, and left the room.

“I'd like to add my own thanks to hers.” Ren said when Barbara came out of the bathroom. “Thanks, Barbara.”

“You're welcome.” Barbara said and smiled. “But, I was actually using the bathroom.”

“Oh.” Ren said, and then he laughed. “We thought... ha... you were giving us... ha ha... some alone time!”

“I was the one that needed some alone time.” Barbara said, and Ren laughed harder. When he calmed down, Barbara gave him a set of pajamas to change into, because he still had his dress clothes on that he'd worn since noon. Once he was ready for bed, he climbed up onto it and settled back for another night of playing the game.

“I might stay in overnight.” Ren said. “I have got to catch up on some sleep.”

“I agree.” Barbara said. “I'm glad I came in early so I could spend this extra time with you.”

“Me, too.” Ren said. “Don't worry, though. It won't be long before my sentence will be over and I'll get back to a normal schedule.”

Barbara smiled. “A normal schedule? Really?”

Ren laughed. “Okay, a regular schedule. How's that?”

“More realistic.” She said and helped him put on the VR headset. “Have fun, dear.”

“I will.” Ren said. “See you in the morning.”

“I'll be here.” Barbara said.

“Flow Login Start.”

********
