By the time she was done, Callan hadn’t spoken a word. The other side of the wall was silent, and she might’ve thought the ghost had left if she couldn’t still see that blue splotch where he was.

Finally, after nearly a full minute of silence, he spoke.

“…What?” Callan’s voice was faint and even more muffled than before. “Are—Are you sure that’s what he said?”

“Pretty sure, yeah.”

Behind the wall, the blue gradient began hovering back and forth, pacing.

“I can’t believe it,” Callan muttered. “They figured out how to cross the Spine? Now?”

“I mean, there’s magic and shit. Wouldn’t surprise me if they found some spell to make it through.” Hell, they might even be able to fly over or something. That seemed like the least that magic could do in this world.

“They’ve tried before,” Callan said. “The Empire’s managed to get a few smaller squads over, but they don’t have the power to transport an entire army across. Plus, Auren’s been focusing all their efforts on shooting down anyone trying to fly or teleport over.”

“I don’t know what’s changed,” the ghost continued. “I haven’t heard anything about this at all.”

“Lord Bellhein did make it sound like the nobles’re keeping it a secret,” the demon pointed out. Callan made a disgruntled noise.

“I’ll bet. And—” He cut himself off as a new thought suddenly occurred to him. “Wait, you said he said they’d invade this month? Magrath specifically?” He sounded incredulous. “The border’s on the other side of the country!”

“He said he suspected they would. To be fair, he does seem like a bit of a paranoid fucker, so it might not happen.”

“That’s still really weird,” Callan muttered. Pyre couldn’t say she disagreed. The whole thing was pretty strange.

“Well, at least we’ll be gone before any invasion happens,” she joked. The ghost just made a noncommittal sound, clearly still preoccupied thinking about the empire and the impending conflict. She couldn’t really blame him. For people who’d grown up with this war going on, this was probably pretty earth-shattering news. There wasn’t anything they could do about it, though.

Pyre glanced at the sky, peering up at the silvery moon. It was still dark out, but she thought she could make out the faintest traces of light near the horizon. Her schedule started pretty early, if she remembered right. It was probably time to return to the manor.

“I should head back soon,” she said. “I can meet you here again in two nights, same time. I’ll let you know if I find the key.”

The blue gradient bobbed in a nod. “Okay,” Callan said. “Tomorrow’s your first official day, right?”

“Yep.” She popped the ‘p’ for emphasis.

Pyre thought back to that brief meeting she’d had with Daphne. Guarding the noble didn’t seem like it’d be too bad, but she’d have to wait and see how things turned out, she supposed. One conversation wasn’t enough to say for sure how well they’d actually be able to work together. Worst case scenario, she’d just stay silent and follow the noble around.

“I’ll try not to burn the manor down,” the demon added jokingly.

“Please don’t,” Callan said, but there was a hint of exasperated amusement in his voice. “Take care.”

“You too.”
