Looking up at the night sky, I’m awed at the beauty of the heavens. There is no light pollution in this world, and the moons are just bright enough for my eyes to work in the middle of the night.

Rubbing my hand across the boulder I’m sitting on; I remember the first time I distributed my status points. It was on this rock I overcame my first challenge with my stats. Well, next to it, I also remember falling off the boulder and Richard laughing at me.

I came out here to regain a sense of focus. I decided to embrace my new skill, and already entered my weird dream five times tonight. I figured I could condition myself to the sensation of having my soul observed, only to wake up each time trembling in my sheets.

With each consecutive look at my soul, I would technically pass out and sleep, but I would never feel rested when I was forced awake. So, now I’m stuck in a weird sleepy/awake limbo.

I’ve never come outside this late at night. The moons are almost finished changing to blue, signaling fall approaching. The night sky is only partially cloudy, a rarity this time of year. The thousands of stars create a truly magical picture. Raising my hand up, I imagine plucking the beautiful jewels from the sky.

“Creeekkkk.”

Looking over my left shoulder, I watch father slowly stride over to my impromptu seat. “Everything ok sweety?” He’s trying not to show how worried he is about finding me out here.

Gripping the rock with my hands, I easily pick myself up and shift positions so I’m facing father. “Not really, dad. I keep having the same dream. It’s not a nightmare anymore, but it’s tied to a new skill I got and it won’t let me sleep properly. I thought I could sneak out here and clear my head. I’m sorry for waking you up.”

My sudden confession startles him so much he can only stand and rub his arm trying to think of a response.

…

“We should talk inside; you’ll catch a cold dressed like that.” Looking down, father reminded me I’m still in my nightgown. The gown can’t be considered risqué, it’s just thinner than my usual clothes and was meant to be worn under my blankets.

“Don’t worry dad, I’ll come back in a moment. I’m using one of my magic skills, so I don’t feel cold.” I’m channeling Mana Skin, making sure the early fall breeze doesn’t affect me.

“Then I’ll sit out here with you, till you’re ready to come back inside then.” Before I can object, father is already sitting with his back to the boulder. He’s close enough that we can talk in a whisper, but still far enough away to give me my space.

I try to ignore him, but I can’t help but turn away from the night sky every few seconds to check on him.

“Haaa,” this is going nowhere. Before dad can ask what’s wrong, I slide down the side of the boulder, and snuggle up against his side. His huge arm drapes around me, allowing me to continue viewing the stars with a new sense of peace.

After looking at the stars together, I feel confident enough to ask for father’s help. “I don’t know what I’m doing wrong, daddy? No matter how hard I try, I can’t figure out how to use my skill. If I can’t figure out how to utilize it properly, I’ll probably never be able to sleep soundly again.”

“Huh, that does sound like a problem. You’re a handful when you’re rested, I don’t want to see you when you’re sleep deprived.”

Elbowing father, I complain about his joke. “I’m serious! No matter how many times I use my skill, the same thing just keeps happening.”

“That sounds like your problem to me.”

My eyes go wide, as I try to shift my position so I can look at dad’s face. “What do you mean?”

“It sounds like you’re trying to force it to do something, when it might just be a support skill.”

“That’s a good theory dad, but I don’t think it’s a support skill. I can feel when it activates.”

“Maybe at higher levels, your skill is supposed to work on its own, but remember you just obtained it. You should think about what your skill affects and try pairing it with other skills or physical activities. Start small and see if that helps.”

I can only stare dumbfounded up at father. “Are you secretly a genius, dad?”

“You should tell your mother that, she doesn’t believe I have good ideas.” Chuckling at dad’s joke, I move onto his lap and give him a hug.

“Thanks for helping me again,” I whisper in his ear.

Father responds with a soft tone that conveys all the love in the world. “Anytime sweety. Let’s go back inside. I won’t tell you to go back to bed, but you can’t stay outside till dawn.”

Still in a bear hug, father picks me up and carries me back inside. Kicking off our work boots, neither of us bother with our indoor shoes. Back on the ground, we walk down the hallway, and father tells me one last thing before we go back to our rooms. “I’ll tell your mother that you might be tired tomorrow and she shouldn’t disturb you. Take your time with your skill. I know you’ll master it soon.”

With a final kiss on my forehead, I watch dad silently slip into his room and close the door silently behind himself.

Climbing back into bed, I’m anxious to try out my skill again. However, this time I take father’s advice and think about what my Sense Soul skill affects.

…Well my soul for one.

But what else does it do?

Master Del said stone kin believe everything comes from the soul. So, should I try to use it to change my emotions? Maybe I can use it to increase my magic abilities, no I already tried that. I need something that comes from my soul, that’s easy to feel…

…why can’t I just unlock a skill for this!

Skills!

My Status Page!

Master Del said that skills might originate from the soul, so the status pages everyone pulls up must come from the soul too.

I decide to try something new. I enter my meditative state, and focus on the general area of my soul. I stop once I sense the smallest flicker of translucent flames. I know from previous attempts, that if I delve any deeper, I’ll pass out and end up in that annoying dream again.

Let’s see if my hunch is correct. I mentally pull up my status page, looking for anything coming out of my soul.

LV: 58 Experience: 231,571/ 353,634Health: 2,000/2,000 Stamina: 1,248/1,250 Mana: 782/1,000Vitality: 200Endurance: 75Strength: 100Dexterity: 100Senses: 60Mind: 60Magic: 100Clarity: 75Status Points: 21Skills: Sense Mana (LV76), Acting (LV30), Meditation (LV76), Expel mana (LV53), Charm (LV50), Running (LV66), Cleaning (LV50), Mathematics (LV30), Writing (LV32), Mana Manipulation (LV41), Wood Carving (LV19), Drawing (LV37), Axe Skills (LV50), Inject mana (LV40), Mining (LV37), Cooking (LV29), Sewing (LV24), Chanting (LV41), Blacksmithing (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV45), Measurement (LV36), Intimidating Shout (LV26), Spear Skills (LV2), Dagger Skills (LV31), Trading (LV26), Hammer Arts (LV34), Axe Arts (LV29), Dagger Arts (LV12), Double Step (LV39), Increase price (LV7), Lower Price (LV4), Double Strike (LV21), Precise Strike (LV18), Mana Skin (LV29), Sense Soul (LV4)

The only thing that’s changed is the Sense soul skill leveled again but that doesn’t matter right now.

I dismiss the page and wait 30 seconds before I pull it up again.

I quickly lose track of time, as I continue to summon and dismiss my status page, until I get a firm sense of the sensation that summoning my status page generates.

I never noticed till now, that the status page is formed from a different energy. I always thought my status page was conjured with a tiny bit of mana because everyone has at least a little mana in their bodies. Once I have the feeling down, I try and trace its origin.

My hypothesis was correct. As I trace the appearance of my status page back to my soul. I can’t tell if my status page is coming from the circle inside the flames or the translucent flames themselves.

What would happen if I pull my status page up at the exact time, I activate Sense Soul?

I make sure I’m comfortable, just in case I pass out again.

I don’t know if chanting your skills really helps, but it couldn’t hurt. “Status Page, Sense Soul!”

With my skill activated at the same time as I pull up my status page, I watch as the tinniest bit of the flames peel off and move up to my brain. Once the flames reach the back of my brain, my status page materializes in front of me.

Dismissing my page, the flames move back towards my soul, following the same route they took to my brain.

Del would freak if I told him I could prove that status pages come from the soul. Now that I think about it, if it’s in their lore, a stone kin must have gained a similar skill once and figured it out. Maybe even some humans are aware of the fact and they just keep the knowledge classified like everything else.

Back to my skill, I shouldn’t distract myself now that I’ve finally made some progress. Next, I should try manipulating the flames as they travel to my brain.

After two hours of trying to stop, slowdown, or even speed up the small flames, I’ve come to the conclusion I can’t alter their path in any way right now

Maybe I’m getting ahead of myself again. My skill is Sense Soul, not Manipulate Soul. Activating my status page for the hundredth time tonight, I watch the flames once again settle in my brain. Now that these flames are separated from the whole, maybe I can use my skill on the small bit of flames without knocking myself out.

I ignore my status page floating in my vision, this time using my Sense Soul skill on the flames in my brain. These small bits of flame should be information about my status points and skill, so I should already know what the flames represent.

Focusing my Sense Soul skill on the….

I immediately fall on my back, clutching the sides of my head. My eyes feel like they’re going to pop out of my head as the worst migraine assaults me. The headache is so bad I can’t focus on anything around me. The status page in front of me has warped into something illegible.

!^)^$@73* )^7$(%^@^%*(% %$@%^^ &^5*&(#@^#& &$$&**44 $$*%$*%$$!!^*)

Clenching my teeth, I try not to whimper too loud. If I wake my parents right now, there’ll be no end to my problems.

In my pain, I dismiss my status page. Once the flames leave my head, the pain slowly fades away. Once the pain reduces by half, I try to meditate, hoping it will help in removing the pain faster.

I spend what feels like an eternity suppressing and clearing the pain in my head. I’m wide awake now. The pain was so great, I now have a rush of adrenaline.

Is my status page broken now? The fear of the possible pain is suppressed by my rush of adrenaline, so I re-summon my status page, praying I won’t be assaulted by the headache again.

LV: 58 Experience: 241,171/ 353,634Health: 2,000/2,000 Stamina: 1,248/1,250 Mana: 782/1,000Vitality: 200Endurance: 75Strength: 100Dexterity: 100Senses: 60Mind: 60Magic: 100Clarity: 75Status Points: 21Skills: Sense Mana (LV76), Acting (LV30), Meditation (LV77), Expel mana (LV53), Charm (LV50), Running (LV66), Cleaning (LV50), Mathematics (LV30), Writing (LV32), Mana Manipulation (LV41), Wood Carving (LV19), Drawing (LV37), Axe Skills (LV50), Inject mana (LV40), Mining (LV37), Cooking (LV29), Sewing (LV24), Chanting (LV41), Blacksmithing (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV45), Measurement (LV36), Intimidating Shout (LV26), Spear Skills (LV2), Dagger Skills (LV31), Trading (LV26), Hammer Arts (LV34), Axe Arts (LV29), Dagger Arts (LV12), Double Step (LV39), Increase price (LV7), Lower Price (LV4), Double Strike (LV21), Precise Strike (LV18), Mana Skin (LV29), Sense Soul (LV6), Mental Resistance (LV1)

Oh gods! Two levels in Sense Soul, a level in Meditation, and a new Tier 4 skill. I finally got a resistance skill; they’re considered the hardest tier 4 skills. Was the headache that bad? I’ve always had a strong Mind Stat, so maybe this experience was a tipping point. Mental Resistance might be the solution to my problems, being a tier 4 skill, it should level quicker than Sense soul. Maybe once Mental Resistance Is high enough, I can sleep properly again.

There’s only one way to level my skills quickly… this is going to hurt.

Why can’t I have a training montage skill.

“I did it!” Unfurling my legs, I jump off of my bed and start hopping around my room. Opening my bedroom door, I run into our kitchen shouting for mother. “Mom! I did it, I finally managed to find a use for my new skill!”

“I’m so happy for you, sweety.” Mother’s expression can barely be counted as a smile.

“What’s wrong mom? Something bad happen?” I innocently move closer to mother.

Now she looks angry, what did I say? “What’s wrong, she says. What’s wrong is my daughter hasn’t left her room for five days except for eating and using the bathroom! Every time I came to check up on you, you looked like you were trying not to cry! We’ve been worried sick! Even Del has been stopping by each day wondering when you’ll come back to work.”

“It’s been five days?” It felt like three max. Mother does not like my response, her expression turns savage. “Yes… five days. You avoided everyone for five days after telling your father you couldn’t control a skill.”

Oh gods, her voice went quiet! “I’m sorry for worrying you mom, need help with dinner?”

Take the bait! Take the bait! Her eyes are only narrowing!

“Sure, you can help. Peel the pomme for me.” Why did her expression suddenly turn to joy? Taking slow steps into the kitchen, I pick up a pomme.

Mother is sitting off to the side watching my every movement. Grabbing a knife, I slowly try to peel the pomme. When I have the pomme a third of the way pealed I lose control of my strength. My grip pulverizes the… Vegetable? Is a pomme considered a Vegetable or a fruit? It looks like a potato but grows on a tree.

