Dismissing my botany question, I turn to mother, who is still watching me. “Mom, can you help me with the peeling?”

“What’s that? Sounds like someone was asking for help. Couldn’t be my daughter, she secludes herself without warning anybody. I’m sure she can handle dinner on her own.” I see what she did there. She must have been really worried about me. If my punishment is to make dinner by myself, I can see how that’s reasonable.

Four crushed pomme later, I’m starting to rethink how difficult my punishment is.

I wonder if father or Del will try something similar? I’m the one who makes Del clean his house, so I don’t think he has anything to punish me with. Now dad on the other hand, I work with dad once a week. He could make my life hell in the forest.

Tonight, is going to be a long night.

Back in bed, I rub my eyes, trying to work the stress out. Mother did not go easy on me. She had me moving back and forth between cleaning and cooking, she made sure I had the house spotless before father came home. Luckily dad wasn’t mad at me, but he realized what mother was doing, and smartly stepped back while she distributed the punishments.

I spent all dinner listening to mother throwing in jabs at my secluded training. The only thing I said all night was, “yes mother” and telling mother and father that I’m going to Del’s tomorrow.

Despite the chores and verbal berating, mother gave me a kiss and a hug goodnight while whispering that she was happy I’m all right. Father likewise gave me an encouraging hug and asked I not seclude myself again. I shouldn’t be amazed by their love anymore.

Relaxing, I want to feel bad but the gains from the last five days were huge. I vastly leveled my two new skills while subjecting myself to what amounts to mental torture.

When my Sense Soul skill reached level 15 and Mental Resistance was able to hit level 20, I was finally able to look at the flame that is my status page. Once I was able to look at the smaller flame, I continued to train my skills even higher. The best part was figuring out the flame contained much more information than what is normally shown. After sifting through, essentially a mass of constantly moving data, I could reorganize my status page.

LV: 59 Experience: 28,287/ 385,461Health: 2,000.00/2,000Stamina: 1,083.71/1,250 Mana: 892.67/1,000Vitality: 200.00Endurance: 75.00Strength: 100.00Dexterity: 100.03Senses: 60.11Mind: 61.92Magic: 100.08Clarity: 75.04Status Points: 31Skills:Tier 1:Meditation (LV77), Running (LV66), Cleaning (LV50), Axe Skills (LV50), Blacksmithing (LV50), Hammer Skills (LV45), Chanting (LV41), Mining (LV37), Drawing (LV37), Dagger Skills (LV31),  Acting (LV30), Cooking (LV29), Trading (LV26), Sewing (LV24), Wood Carving (LV19), Spear Skills (LV2)Tier 2:Sense Mana (LV76), Charm (LV50), Double Step (LV39), Measurement (LV36), Writing (LV32), Hammer Arts (LV34), Mathematics (LV30), Axe Arts (LV29), Intimidating Shout (LV26), Dagger Arts (LV12), Increase price (LV7), Lower Price (LV4)Tier 3:Expel mana (LV53), Mana Manipulation (LV41), Double Strike (LV21), Precise Strike (LV18)Tier 4:Inject mana (LV40), Mana Skin (LV29), Mental Resistance (LV24)Tier 5:Sense Soul (LV17)

Tier 5 skills are strong. Leveling Sense Soul and Mental Resistance earned me enough experience to reach level 59, and that’s only the smallest bonus.  Using Sense Soul, I can organize my skills not only into the different tiers but also by their overall level, and that’s not even the best part. The most amazing part of my new status page is the increased details of my stats.

I can track the use of Health, Stamina, and Mana to a much finer degree. But it’s not just my three main stats, the most eye opening is the improved details of my Vitality and other stats.

I can now see how close I am to naturally earning a status point. If I’m close to gaining a status point in a particular stat, I won’t waste a free point raising it higher. I wish my status page was this detailed from the start. Who knows how many points I was close to earning during both of my status distributions?

Pulling up this extra information still generates a small headache, even with my Mental resistance at level 24. While my page is still up, I dig through the information in the flames and isolate a specific skill.

Tier 1, Blacksmithing (LV50, 84%)

It is much more difficult, but if I focus on a skill, I can see how close it is to leveling. Dismissing all the information, I sit back waiting for my small headache to disappear.

Looking down at myself, I’m reminded about how dirty I am. Spending five days in your room doesn’t leave you smelling great, especially in a world where deodorant is an alchemical concoction that sells for 2 silver coins.

Standing up from my bed, I use the greatest spell ever. “Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

The blood, sweat, and tears fall away from my body, as the magic mist removes any traces of my secluded training. I shake out my clothes and watch a few nodes of dust fall to the floor. Finally, clean!

Hopping back in bed, I can’t wait to try sleeping now that I have Mental Resistance. Hopefully the skill will keep the annoying dream away. This is the first time I’ll be trying to sleep normally without purposely knocking myself out with Sense Soul.

Pulling my blanket over my head, I try to sleep. But….

My bed smells!

When was the last time I washed my sheets? I think it was a few days before my training started, maybe longer? I usually use my cleaning magic before I go to bed, but constantly passing out during my training rendered that a moot point.

Now that I’m clean, my sense of smell can pick out the body odor emanating from my bed. I’m sure mother would yell at me if I tried doing laundry so late at night.

If only my cleaning spell had a wider range.

Well it does clean my clothes too.

Maybe I can be creative about this! Removing my nightwear, I wrap my blanket around myself as tight as I can get it. The material sticks out farther than my clothes, but let’s see what happens.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

Once the mist fades, I notice the outer layers of blanket don’t look any different. There’s only a little dirt under my feet, maybe my blanket wasn’t as dirty as I thought?

Unfurling my brown wool blanket, made from bivol fur, a cloud of dirt explodes from the folded blanket. Looking at my blanket, a little more than half is a light brownish color, while the other part is still the blackish brown I’m used to. My plan worked!

Rewrapping myself, with other side of the blanket first, I cast the spell again. “Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

This time when I unwrap my blanket, I’m holding a beautifully clean blanket. Magic can be such a cheat.

“Ahyt ls weem appiss!”“Ahyt ls weem appiss!” “Ahyt ls weem appiss!”

After switching between my sheet and pillow, I even clean the hides that make up the base of my bed. Eight uses of the cleaning spell have left me close to my 20% limit.

Fighting off the new sense of tiredness that comes with low mana, I reassemble my bed. My bed is the cleanest I’ve ever seen it. With everything magically scrubbed, the materials are brighter, and even shoving my nose into my blanket, I can only smell wool.

Slipping my nightgown back on, I snuggle tightly into a ball and let sleep take me. Even with mom’s disciplinary measures, today was a good day.

Without opening my eyes, I feel the morning sun’s rays wash over me. For the first time in forever, I had a peaceful sleep. Like a battery recharged fully, I feel amazing. I think I’ll lie here for a moment, enjoying the best morning I ever had.

My peace is interrupted as I hear the patter of footsteps down the hall. Father should have already left for the woods, leaving mother and myself as the only people in the house. There is only one reason she would be walking this way right now.

Turning away from the door, I try and pretend to be asleep.

“Knock-knock,” mother taps the door a few times before I hear it swing open.

“Aaliyah, are you up? You said you wanted to…... AALIYAH, WHAT HAPPENED TO YOUR ROOM!!”

The hairs on the back of my neck stand straight up hearing my mother’s shout. Nervously, I turn over and open my eyes for the first time this morning.

Mother’s wrathful gaze isn’t pointed at me; no, it’s pointed at the floor.

Looking at the floor, I tremble at the sight. My bedroom floor is covered in black flakes of filth. In the light, you can see how dirty my bed was.

I completely forgot to clean up the mess I made last night. “Oh Crap!”

Realizing I said that out loud, my eyes travel from the floor up to mother’s face. Is that fire in her eyes?

It’s official, I’ll never have a good morning.
