His decision made, Hongji turned westward to study the terrain, despite having already memorized every nook and cranny of the sprawling plains before him. While meant to display his intense concentration and keep the soon to arrive young commanders in waiting, it also never hurt to review one’s surroundings, especially since said surroundings hid bands of Defiled. From his command tent in the centre of camp, he could see for kilometres around. In the absence of shepherds and their herds, the grass had grown as tall as a man, and more than enough to obscure his view, but one merely needed to watch for the rustling grass to pinpoint any incoming Defiled. Under such conditions, the Defiled had taken to launching night attacks, but then it became a simple matter of getting enough traps, sentries, and other defences in place while also ensuring half his soldiers rested during the day so they could mount an effective night watch. That was the extent of his tactical planning, to dig in and hold this position from now until the final brick of the new Western Wall was in place, however many years that may take.

No fancy schemes or complicated ploys were needed. So long as Chen Hongji still drew breath, his soldiers would hold this ground or die trying, because Central, nay, the fate of the Empire itself depended on it.

While he posed in what he hoped was a suitably heroic manner, he listened as the recent arrivals gathered to greet him. Knowing how the game was played, his second in command quietly warned the eager newcomers not to disturb ‘the Colonel’s contemplation, or else’. Always better to leave the punishment to the imagination, lest some fool with more backbone than brain think five lashes worth it to save himself a few minutes of waiting. It wasn’t, but young warriors always believed themselves untouchable and invincible, when in reality, they were anything but.

Hongji counted to three hundred before turning around. Without even glancing at the newcomers or his second, he strode into his command tent to loom over the unfurled map of their surroundings, marked with several chess pieces which meant nothing at all. Shifting a few of the pieces about, he pretended he’d had an epiphany while studying the terrain, knowing full well his second would be holding the tent flap open as he ‘reminded’ Hongji the newcomers were here to greet him. “Oh? Fresh blood to be spilled?” he asked, affecting an absent minded tone as he spoke louder than necessary. “Well, I hope these ones do better than the last bunch, bless their souls.”

While bad for morale, over the years Hongji learned it was easier to instill courage in a coward as opposed to caution in a courageous, but over-confident buffoon.

Putting the chess piece down with a sigh, he strode out to meet the newcomers with a disgruntled frown, as if he saw something wrong with each and every one of them. Most of the newcomers bristled at his gaze, and few were bold enough to stare back, but when his eyes met Falling Rain standing at the head of the group, the scrawny and unimpressive looking young warrior smiled and winked. Taken aback by the insolent display, Hongji had yet to find his voice before Falling Rain clasped his hands and bowed. A full bow at the waist mind you, not a mere military salute or slight incline of his head. “Second Grade Warrant Officer Falling Rain,” the boy said, his head still bowed, “Reporting to Colonel Chen Hongji for duty.”

“Rise,” Hongji replied, faster than he’d like. Was the boy trying to trap him? As an Imperial Consort, he need not bow so deeply to a mere Colonel, even if said Colonel was his field commander. “Dispense with formalities, this is the battlefield, not a banquet hall,” he said, though what he really wanted to say was, “Small one dare not accept this bow.”

“With respect Colonel,” the boy replied, standing at full attention and still barely tall enough to reach Hongji’s chin, “In this one’s eyes, being on the battlefield makes courtesy all the more imperative. Courtesy implies respect, and without respect, there can be no discipline. Without discipline, we are no different from our enemies.”

Some of the newcomers gasped at Falling Rain’s forthright statements, but Hongji found himself nodding along and repeating the catechism in his mind. It sounded much better than what he’d come up with earlier, mostly because by eschewing any mention of strength, it implied Hongji was worthy of respect through rank alone.

Recognizing Hongji’s appreciation, Falling Rain scowled at the young warrior beside him and asked, “Well? What are you waiting for? An invitation? Why have you not introduced yourselves to the commander?”

Good, good... Perhaps Falling Rain wouldn’t be so difficult to work with after all...

Though he already knew their names, Hongji pretended he was hearing them all for the first time. In truth, few of Falling Rain’s travelling companions were well-known, with the most famous youths either already on the front lines or safely tucked away somewhere or the other. Once finished with the introductions, Hongji addressed them as a group. “Welcome to the front lines,” he said, keeping his voice flat and monotone. “Some of you are here to reinforce the camp, others will be sent out on patrol. Regardless of your task, out here, we are the first line of defence against the Defiled, and should you all follow my commands perfectly, the only line of defence the Empire requires.” Not entirely true, but nothing wrong with building their pride a little before knocking them down. “If you’ve come for honour, glory, fame, or wealth, then turn back now, for you will find none of that here. We are here for one reason and one reason only: to defend the Empire. No more, no less, understood?”

“Yes Colonel,” Falling Rain replied, his voice loud and confident. The others in the group chimed in soon after, following his example and showing Hongji the respect he thought he’d have to fight for.

“Good. Rest well, but be ready.” Dismissing them with a wave of his hand, he added, “The Defiled have attacked every night for the past week, and I see no reason why tonight will be any different.” The gravity of the situation had finally dawned on the last of the spares, but Mother help him if most of these brats didn’t look eager for bloodshed, Falling Rain included.

Instead of turning to leave, Falling Rain moved a step closer and asked, “Permission to speak to Colonel in private?”

Here it comes. “Come with me,” Hongji said, heading into his tent. So long as the boy remained respectful and disciplined in public, Hongji would be happy to swallow his pride and hold his tongue in private.

Inside, Falling Rain studied the map with a puzzled expression before hiding a smirk, having figured out Hongji’s game. Nevertheless, the boy offered a salute and said, “I might be overstepping my bounds, but I noticed a few issues on the way in and thought it best to bring these matters to Colonel’s attention.”

And so it begins. The Imperial Consort’s camping grounds were too poor, his fare too plain, and so on, and so forth. “Let’s hear it then.”

“The tall grass provides too much cover to any invading force,” Falling Rain said, again catching Hongji off-guard. “Although you’ve already cleared most of the grass around us, laying stones and rubble will keep the grass from growing back and impede the progress of anyone travelling over it.” Too surprised to respond, Hongji blinked and stared at the strange young man, and Falling Rain took it as permission to continue. “We could also hide traps among the rubble and leave clear paths for troop movement, which will also -”

“Funnel the Defiled where we want them to go.” Finally finding his voice, Hongji jumped in so not to seem the fool. “Clever, but is it worth the effort? With constant night raids, the soldiers need to rest during the day.”

“True,” Falling Rain said, unperturbed by Hongji’s rude interruption. “However, another benefit of laying down stones is we now have a firebreak ready.” With a grin which made him look even younger, he added, “You know... so we can set everything on fire before we leave.”

Mother in Heaven...

Imagining the screams of a million Defiled burning to death on the western plains, Hongji smiled for the first time all night, possibly even all week. “Yes... but you think too small. With a little preparation, we could ignite a blaze visible even from Nan Ping.” A few oil caches out in the middle of nowhere would pose no danger to his troops, not if they stayed inside their patrol routes. “This...” Hongji hesitated, wondering how to best frame it. “This goes beyond my reach. I’ll need to speak with the other commanders down the line to coordinate our efforts, perhaps even bring it before high command, but if they see the merits as I do, there will be great rewards in store.” Promotions, wealth, reputation and more...

“Then I must trouble Colonel to do so.” With a nod of his head, Falling Rain continued, “As for rewards, there’s no need speak of such things. All I did was make a simple suggestion, and Colonel was amicable enough to listen. Besides,” Falling Rain added with a careless shrug, “Any reward will be meaningless if we can’t hold the Defiled here.”

Cheeks burning with shame, Hongji steadied his breathing and reassessed the warrior before him, so shrewd and level-headed at such a young age. No wonder the Legate saw fit to reward Falling Rain with Imperial Peerage, for even without his prodigious Martial prowess, this was a man destined for greatness. “Well said, well said.” Thickening the skin of his face, Hongji swallowed his pride and asked, “Have you any other suggestions?”

Forget keeping the rewards for himself. Hongji would proudly attribute everything to Falling Rain so the world could be inspired by his greatness.

This time, it was Falling Rain’s turn to be surprised, before beaming with joy. “Certainly,” he said. “For starters...”

When the meeting came to an end, Hongji peered down at his notes, awed by the wealth of knowledge contained within them. A consummate young talent, brilliant innovator, talented tactician, and Mother knows what else, if not for Falling Rain’s terrible calligraphy and diminutive stature, Hongji would have thought the amber-eyed young man was utterly without flaw. If the other young talents had one-tenth... no, one-twentieth of Falling Rain’s brilliance, then Hongji was confident the Defiled would be swept from the Western province in a mere twenty to thirty years.

Assuming some Ancestral Beast didn’t slag them all first.

Inspired by Falling Rain’s attitude, Hongji made a small revision to his poem.

When Gods stride out to meet in battle,

Heaven and Earth are torn asunder,

and Mortals can do naught but persevere.

Chapter Meme
