“FUCKING—RAT BASTARD! How do you keep doing that?!” Longinus’ voice took on a hysterical quality as his eyes locked onto Shiv.

Shiv added a taunting laugh to his telepathy for good measure, and the god’s visage flickered, then glistened, then cracked. Like glass.

“Yeah.” Shiv snorted. “That’s what I felling thought you predictable—”

A blazing lance punched clean through his chest and cracked something deep inside his soul.

Skill Damaged: Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides

That body died. Shiv’s Severed Shadow curled in on itself as a wave of torment washed through him.

But it didn’t stop him from crossing back over behind the curtain, watching as the Wanderer’s chiseled visage twisted in near-mad loathing, before it faded from view and his soul traveled beyond the grasp of the System proper. The world turned into a mess of twisting colors and vistas as he tore across dimensions, beyond the Fairwoods, beyond Integration, beyond even the Outside, and as he beheld the world around him blurring, he felt a chain of skills shatter inside him and start to fuse.

“Thanks, Longinus! You were a real help!”

Such was the final telepathic echo that lingered in Shiv’s wake.

Strangely, he didn’t remember casting those thoughts. And maybe, he didn’t. Maybe something else decided to defy the flow of time, and to perform a first act of self-determination.

Inertial Overdrive: 318 > 322

Pillar of Orichalcum: 399 > 404

Psychomancy: 44 > 51 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Strider of the Unbending Path: 196 > 202 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Sticks and Stones: 98 > 103 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: 195 > 201 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Skill Evolution: Psychomancy (Initiate) > Inland Fortress (Adept)

Skill Evolution: Strider of the Unbending Path (Master) > Strider of Inevitable Ends (Heroic)

Skill Evolution: Sticks and Stones (Master) > Breaker of Spirit and Stone (Heroic)

Skill Evolution: Sage of the Enkindled Heart (Heroic) > Gnostic of the Traitorous Will (Legendary)

Skill Fusion: Inland Fortress (Adept) - Strider of Inevitable Ends (Heroic) - Breaker of Spirit and Stone (Heroic) - Gnostic of the Traitorous Will (Legendary) > Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin (Legendary)
