“Meow! He was a true American. He followed his orders, but couldn’t live with his conscience. Your own Marine manuals…”

The Chorus lost it. They fell to their knees and began to laugh, tears streaming from their faces.

Cooper’s pen stopped its note-taking. “Miss Fontaine, was that really necessary?”

Her tail moved.

The wire armature, designed to hold a specific curve, had developed an opinion of its own during Costello's morning session and now responded to Eppie's slightest shift of weight by sweeping slowly and independently to the left.

“I am sorry, Sir,” Eppie apologised.

But the scene of an apologetic cat, especially one with her face, was simply too much for the audience. From the wings, someone who sounded like a dying Chelsea made a sound like a very small kettle releasing steam.

“Continue,” Cooper commanded. “Chorus, get a hold of yourselves.”

The Chorus picked themselves off the floor. They were an orc, a Fiend, a bald spearman, and two Wizarding Witches.

They found their positions. They opened their mouths to demand answers from Creon. They were the Chorus of Fourth Estate.

"Secretary, how will you respond to allegations of the Pentagon giving explicit orders with clear outcomes that constitute War Crimes?"

Eppie hissed at the Vampire Creon.Vampire Creon, fangs and all, hissed back. Eppie covered her ears with her paws. The Chorus and everyone else collapsed again into laughter.

Prospero stood up. "Are we done?" he said. “I think we’re done for now. You, kids, are clearly not in the mood for Theatre.”

Eppie heard a crack in his voice. The man was wholly serious, but he was now turning away from them.

"Mr Cooper," Eppie came closer, her tail bobbing, her eyes cat-like and inquisitive. "Are you laughing?"

"I am not laughing," Cooper said, in the voice of a man who was not laughing. "Everyone on their feet. From the Chorus entry. From the start. You there, Cat. Not another Meow from you, Miss Fontaine!"

Cooper sat back down. Opened the script book unnecessarily. And then, very quietly, he held it against his face.

Eppie, from centre stage, tiptoed with cat-like agility around him to see what her instructor was doing. Her face slowly appeared within her teacher’s field of vision like a cat blocking a TV screen.

The man was laughing, she saw. Old Coop was actually laughing.

Someone sighed in the background.

“Meow?” she made the same face toward Costello, pawing her ears. “Meow, meow?” The stoic Italian turned away to face the wall, his shoulders shaking.

Ah— Eppie returned her body to neutral. What a lark it is to be young again.

From the back of the Black Box, Susanna Tyker uncapped her pen and wrote a single line in the folio, then snapped her folder shut.
