“But if you were a villain, you'd have a secret villain cave but ‘Minion Cave’ doesn’t have the same ring as ‘Goon’-” Mas complained, agreeing with Deo.

Fran charged into them, the first hints of excitement growing inside him.

How does a ‘commander’ stack up to a ‘captain’?

He swiped at them.Deo, to Yattina’s left, tilted his head and Yattina acutely watched which way the boy was leaning before she ordered the group to move to the right and around. Fran was already swinging his weapon so he couldn’t change directions as the group easily moved around his opening attack.

“Mas, Deo, forward!” Yattina commanded.

Mas cheered and slashed at Fran while Deo headbutted Bacon, sending them both crashing back as Fran tried to adjust for Deo’s strength and Mas’ speed, ending up being neither as strong or as fast as either of them.

“Serma, go! Kemy, bind the pig’s back legs!” Yattina ordered as the group kept moving in a rough formation.

Like last time, Fran could block Serma by matching and exceeding her speed, but it left him too slow to properly match the faith energy snapping Bacon’s hind legs together and sending both of them tumbling to the sand in a crash of white dust.

Fran rolled, swiping up as Deo and Serma came at him with a cheerful and grim expression respectively,and Fran caught both of their strikes with a block of his lance.

“Grim, now!” Yattina said, sounding as firm and assured as ever. Unseen from Fran’s side, Grim emerged from the floating cloud of sand, a knife held up.

“This is my pig sticker!” he cried, looking like he lost the battle to hold back the comment. Fran leaned back and snapped his mouth over the blade as it went for his shoulder. Fran focused and seconds later, the knife shattered into a dozen pieces as the goblin bit down with force.

“That cost me 5 silver!” Grim cried and he did something Fran was sure even Yattina could not have predicted. He bit Fran back.

Fran felt like something shot past his surface armor, past his muscles, deep into his very mana and inhaled.

Grim pulled back, his tongue burning orange as he stared into space with surprise.

Fran raised his lance, ignoring the wound on his shoulder as he stepped back, blinking as Grim seemed to flex, his veins becoming visible as he exhaled a mix of green, blue, and orange mana into the air. Fran tried to aim his lance and frowned as his very self had a small chunk taken out of it. It felt not like a wound, but not like magic either.

Some part of Fran was simply gone in a bite, but it wasn’t gone forever. Even now, small parts of the damage were growing back.

Grim had bit into not just his flesh, but who Fran was.

He had bitten into the goblin-shape Fran used to exist.

“I feel... so honorable... it burns,” Grim cried as he turned a pale shade of green and his ears turned pointed, followed by a slight hunch of his back.

“Is he turning into a goblin?” Mas asked with concern, getting ready to call the fight off to aid Grim and fetch help.

“Grim... goblin? Griblin? Groblin?” Deo asked, looking amazed.

“My stars above,” Yattina said as Grim looked up slowly, showing bright yellow eyes.

“He’s a Gremlin,” she declared.

“How are you not worried about this?!” Serma asked Deo who shrugged.

“My friend Poppy does this too. She eats food and becomes monsters. She said it was a lot like part of them lived inside her as well,” he explained.

“I...” Grim said as he looked at Serma and the princess looked back with suspicion.

“I am so...I am sorr...” he began to splutter.

Serma stared, looking like some magic unicorn was emerging before her.

Grim opened his mouth and every inch of him rejected the words trying to escape him as he exhaled a lot of roaring orange mana and what looked like a transparent shoulder piece.

“I’m so sorry you suck at following orders!” he yelled, features snapping back to normal.

Yattina looked at Fran.

“I’m going to forfeit us until we can make sure he’s okay. You okay for another round soon?” she asked as everyone around her burst out into protests but Fran respected the woman for willing to pull back out of concern.

“Out of fairness, if you return, you may come straight here for the rematch. Only for the next time, after that it's through the grove and fortress again,” he said and Yattina looked a little let down at that.

Fran focused and held out a hand, forming a sort of treasure to celebrate their efforts. If Grim hadn’t acted strange, they would have won. It was his honest opinion.

He formed a mighty leather hat bearing the likeness and majesticness of Bacon!

“What does it do?” Grim asked instantly, his eyes searching for some hidden ability as he moved passed his impossible biting skills with the attention span of a teen.

He handed it to Yattina who eyed it then pressed the snout, getting a little ‘oink’ from it.

“It reminds you to have honor and justice in your heart,” Fran said proudly.

“...Deo or Mas can have it,” Grim decided and Kemy smiled at his ‘generosity’.

Serma looked paralyzed and Yattina held it out to her and she made it oink.

“Ah...” the girl said, voice choking as if she was deeply affected by it. Yattina shook her head and put it on Mas’ head who beamed with delight, booping it and making Serma breath hitch each time he did so.

Fran liked them. He was confused by them, but they had spirit.
