Fire streaked across the sky as the Citizen started retaliating. A veritable torrent of bolts tracked the blue figure unerringly as both combatants fell toward the city. Rain could make out more detail as they approached, but any appreciation for the spectacle was subsumed by his fear for the city, not to mention himself. Suddenly, Halgrave shot forward with an attack that sent out a shockwave of force, visible thanks to the smoke rising from the chimneys of the city. A stray Firebolt flew over the peaks of the houses, striking the ground outside the city like a meteor.

“What do we do?!” shouted Myth over the panicked screams of the crowd. He, Meloni, and Reason had followed Rain over to the bench. They were looking at him like they expected him to be able to do something about this. “They’re going to set the whole city on fire!”

Rain shook his head, looking down from the battle. Halgrave had just landed a hit, sending the citizen flying. It was clear from the continuing fire that this was only the beginning, the Citizen far from finished. Rain looked around at the panicking townspeople, his eyes wide. He shook himself. This was no time to stand around rubbernecking.

He climbed up onto the bench and took a deep breath. “Everyone! Listen! Get to the sewers! We need to get underground!” He waved his arms, trying to attract more attention. “Stay calm! If you can hear me, get to the sewers!”

A few people around him looked like they had gotten the message, but it wasn’t enough. The scene was utter chaos. His voice just couldn’t cut through the riot and the noise. Damn it, please don’t let this be a mistake.

He readied Purify and launched a full-powered nova with a shout. The shell of white light expanded out from him, tearing the people’s gaze away from the sky and forcing them to look back at the ground. People cried out in fresh alarm, scrambling back as the harmless white light passed over them. “LISTEN!” Rain shouted. “Follow me! To the sewers! Get to cover!”

A wave of red light flared over the city as another series of explosions tore across the sky. Rain hopped down from the bench and prepared to run for it, pulling the old man back to his feet. “To the sewers!” he kept shouting as he pulled the old man through the crowd. Thankfully, mercifully, people seemed to get the message. They started to follow him, first a few, then in larger numbers. Not everyone, though. He saw people disappearing into buildings and down side streets, running in a panic. Yet more people were frozen, staring at the sky. Rain swore, using a second Purify nova. “Damn it, you idiots! You think your house will protect you from that? Get to the sewers!”

“To the sewers!” Myth’s accented voice shouted, echoing his own. “Spread the word!”

“To the sewers!” a man in the crowd echoed. The call caught on, voices crying in unison as the crowd took up the chant. More people started moving, jostling him as they pushed past each other in their rush to make it to the nearest stairwell.

“Myth!” Reason shouted. “Where is Meloni?”

Myth swore. Rain looked around, spotting her fighting against the crowd, headed back in the direction of the shop. “There!” he said, pointing.

“Damn it,” Myth said. “She is going for the damn dog. Come on, Reason, let’s go get her.”

Rain swore, conscious of the frail old man that was still clinging to him. He couldn’t save everyone. He turned to the old man. “Come on, let’s go.” He turned, lifting the man from his feet and fighting through the crowd as he half-carried, half-dragged him toward safety.

Westbridge frowned. He and Halgrave had been exchanging blows for several minutes now, and it was clear that unless he stepped up his assault, he would tire before the warrior did. Also, Velika had come under fire from the Watch, the sentinels and officers launching volley after volley of spells at her as she dodged through the sky. She could handle them to be sure, but without killing them? No, it was best that he finished this quickly.

He focused, concentrating as he continued to dodge Halgrave’s attempts to swat him down. “Three are thy names, but by my word, become the confluence of one, Hybridize. Primary: By the will of the fire, mine is the flame that scorches the world, Conflagration. Secondary: Soul of the world, become as one with my intent, sprites from the aether, glow by my will, Summon Arcane Spark. Tertiary: Within the depths of the soul, the power that brings destruction. By my art, let it be released. Final Detonation. Hybrid skill: Myriad Constellation of Burning Stars.”

As Westbridge finished his chant, he forced his will into the hybridized spell, shaping it with additional metamagic as the effect took hold. He felt his mana drop precipitously as he duplicated the effect with Triplicate Casting combined with four layers of Spell Recursion. It would be worth it. This combination of spells was particularly efficient in the long run, justifying the initial expense.

Two-hundred and forty-three blazing stars of fire appeared, rapidly spreading into the constellation that had earned this spell its name. Each one was a summoned construct, an Arcane Spark, turned to the fire aspect by the hybridization. They swarmed and darted, launching gouts of fire at the annoying warrior as he pursued Westbridge through the sky. The pair were fighting just above the rooftops, Westbridge being careful to keep himself positioned lower than the incensed branch-leader. The warrior was forced to restrict his blows to avoid devastating the city. Likewise, Westbridge was obliged to restrict his magic to prevent undue destruction. He had given his word, and he needed the residents alive to fuel the barrier besides. That didn’t mean he couldn’t use the terrain to his advantage, however. Halgrave was hardly going to place himself between Westbridge and the city for fear of collateral damage. Thus, he was forced to stay above him where he was an easy target.

[Careful, those will detonate if you strike them,] he sent as Halgrave swiped at one of the nearby sparks. Luckily for the city, Westbridge was able to instruct it to dart away in time. [I would stop doing that, if I were you.] The feedback that signaled blocked communication didn’t come, meaning Halgrave was once more letting his words through.

“You fucking bastard!” Halgrave hollered as he launched himself forward. Westbridge darted lower, barely escaping one of the shockwaves that the man had started adding to his strikes. He’d been clipped by those enough times already; the stamina-enhanced wind carried the full force of that hammer along with it. It was problematic. He had to admit, Halgrave was much more dangerous than he had originally given him credit for. The blood trickling from his lip was proof enough of that. Fortunately, it appeared that the man was finally starting to lose his cool under the endless assault of flame.

The shockwave that Westbridge had dodged struck one of the errant sparks, causing it to detonate in a conflagration of fire that flattened several nearby buildings. Halgrave roared in outrage and stopped his pursuit. “Damn you!” he shouted. “Keep the city out of this!” The flaming stars swirled around him, continuing to blast him with gouts of flame as he stood motionless, powerless to fight back without further damage to the city. “Is your word worth nothing?”

[Obvious provocation. You would have me tie my own hands. Very well.]

Westbridge smiled as he shot into the sky, relying on the advantage of Flight’s speed to keep him out of range. He wasn’t as maneuverable as Halgrave, but he would be able to outrun him. He just needed to focus on that while his constellation did its work. Halgrave’s armor was already glowing red-hot. The residual heat from the constant waves of fire would have been enough to melt any normal metal short of adamant. Westbridge was unsure if he would be able to overcome the armor directly, integrated with the man’s body as it appeared to be. There would come a point, however, when the heat grew too intense to withstand. That heat would tax the man’s soul. It wouldn’t be long now. Soon, it would start to overwhelm his heat resistance and start dealing actual damage.

Westbridge cursed as he was forced to use Flash to dodge another of the man’s shockwave-enhanced strikes. Dangerous. I can’t lose focus. Several more of the fiery stars exploded, bathing Halgrave in fire as they were torn apart by the force. Westbridge could only keep track of the man with Mana Sight and Piercing Gaze, normal vision being blocked by a constant maelstrom of magical fire. Westbridge redoubled his focus, continued to blast at Halgrave with Firebolts, enhancing them to burn as hotly as possible.

Halgrave bellowed and chased him ever higher as they rose above the city. The arc of the magical dome covering the city was rapidly approaching. It was perfectly transparent, but to Westbridge’s sight, the sphere of magic was fully visible. He hid his smile as he flew straight through it, the barrier letting him pass with not even a tingle to indicate its presence. The sound of the city vanished as he passed through. Damn. He quickly readied a Fireball—a proper one, not a puny Firebolt. He built it up quickly, using Overcharge to pack it full of mana. He wanted the detonation to be as loud and distracting as possible. It wouldn’t do for Halgrave to notice the sudden loss of sound or the disappearance of that pesky notification.

He launched the Fireball just as Halgrave reached the barrier, smiling as Halgrave slipped through the barrier to swing his hammer at the massive ball of fire, easily the size of a house. As expected, he’d rather take it head-on than let it hit the city. He has no idea he’s outside the barrier.

The Fireball exploded as Halgrave’s hammer struck, the force of the detonation shattering the silence as the world was consumed in flame. Westbridge was launched into the sky by the reflection of the blastwave as it rebounded from the barrier. The hemisphere of flame and wind shook with secondary explosions as hundreds of the fiery stars that had followed Halgrave through the barrier detonated. His armor was beyond red now, glowing white-hot with a light that was blinding even to Westbridge’s sight. Humm, he really is quite durable. Good. I do not actually wish to kill him. He glanced at his mana. If I even could manage it at this point. I hope that this will be enough to have weakened his defenses.

Westbridge flew higher, moderating his speed to allow the warrior to keep up. The remaining stars were trailing after them, continuing to blast Halgrave with fire. Now that they were away from the city, the man had started swatting at them with his shockwaves, destroying them rapidly. There wasn’t much time, but Westbridge knew there would be enough to do things properly. He cleared his throat.

“Time is a river, heedless of the currents of men. Before time, we are all naught but dust. Let the might of the river be turned upon you, drawing you down to the depths.” He Flashed forward, pressing his hand against the searing metal of Halgrave’s chest. “Stasis!”

The hammer froze a finger’s breadth from Westbridge’s skull. Stasis had stopped Halgrave’s counter in its tracks, locking the warrior down completely. Westbridge didn’t even pause to smile, hurling himself down at the city as fast as he could. Stasis wouldn’t last long on someone like the Guild branch-leader. He’d given it even odds of working, even as it was. Depending on how completely Halgrave had shifted his defenses to deal with the heat, Westbridge had anywhere from minutes to seconds. It is good that it worked. I never expected him to be able to challenge me like this. Have I grown overconfident in my old age?

The air shuddered at his passage as he raced back through the bubble protecting the city. He kept accelerating, heading for the barrierstone. The ground exploded as he once more plowed through it, buildings vanishing in a shower of pulverized stone. He came to a halt at the artifact, slapping his hand against it even as he struggled to cancel his remaining downward momentum. Quickly, he accessed the list of residents, scrolling to the end. Westbridge smiled as he removed Halgrave’s name from the list.
