Halgrave bellowed loudly and made a show of lifting his hammer over his head. The Citizen watched him unconcernedly, starting to drift backward through the air. Combat between mages and warriors was all about controlling distance, a fact of which Halgrave was well aware.

Let’s see if he’s on his toes. Quickstep.

Stamina surged and Halgrave shot forward in a blur. There was a crack of thunder when the air shattered as he jabbed for Westbridge’s neck with the haft of his hammer. The mage vanished in a flash of light, just before impact.

Oh well. It was worth a try.

Halgrave caught himself with Airwalk, then swung his hammer in a circle defensively. It struck nothing but air. He spotted the mage hovering a few stride below him, gliding down and away at an angle.

“Rude,” said Westbridge, “but not an ineffective strategy. Nonetheless, it has failed. Warriors are nothing if not predictable.” He was forced to speak aloud, as Halgrave had blocked any further mental communication from the man. The mage drifted backward, the gold of his rings catching the setting sun as he spread his hands.

The mage’s words were worthless, so Halgrave ignored him. The time for talking was done. There was no place for that kind of thing in the middle of combat. Westbridge was either a fool who liked to hear the sound of his own voice or this jab was a feeble attempt at provocation. Halgrave wasn’t going to be baited. He dove for the mage, not using any skills other than Airwalk and those needed to maintain his transformation. This would be a slog, as fights between high-leveled individuals always were on the surface. He needed to conserve his stamina and not waste it on boosting his strikes pointlessly. He’d get the feel for his opponent before trying anything else.

He swung his hammer at the man in a slow, lazy arc. The head was moving deceptively quickly thanks to the length of the metal haft. The mage wafted himself away, dodging easily. A trio of Firebolts sprang into existence above the mage’s shoulder and flew toward him, impacting harmlessly against his metal skin. Dislocated Casting. As I suspected. Why Firebolt, though? He is trying to get my measure as well, of course, but there is no call for using such a pathetic spell. Another insult?

Halgrave used brute force to redirect his swing, kicking off of the air and launching himself hammer-first in the direction he predicted the mage would dodge. The mage either anticipated this or got lucky, dodging in a different direction. Nine Firebolts burned to life, forming a circle around the man and rushing toward Halgrave. Again, he didn’t bother to dodge. The flames were swallowed harmlessly by his armor, the magic drawn into the metal. Twenty-seven Firebolts followed, flickering into existence around the mage in a cloud. Halgrave grunted. This is going to be annoying. He’s using Triplicate Casting and Spell Recursion. How far can he take it, I wonder? The burning orbs of fire rushed for him all at once. This time, Halgrave actually felt a flicker of warmth as the magical fire struck him. It was nowhere near enough to damage him, but still, anything making it through his armor at all was proof enough that there was metamagic at play. These were not normal Firebolts. Each one could have probably destroyed a building all on its own.

He didn’t bother counting the next cloud of projectiles. There were eighty-one of them, he already knew. This time, however, the bolts didn’t all rush for him at once. They spiraled outward in a twisting helix, then shot for him in twos and threes from all angles. Trying to overheat me? Halgrave snorted. More Firebolts were popping into existence, keeping the number of waiting projectiles more or less constant. Thanks to Dislocated Casting, the mage was able to summon them anywhere within a reasonably sized area. The bolts were also tracking him as he dashed for the mage, curving their trajectories to intercept him at every turn. So far, not a single one had missed. Impressive. Wasted effort, but impressive.

Halgrave checked the distance to the city, then lunged again, throwing himself at the mage who was still floating downward. He swung his hammer in a wide sideways swing with one hand, simultaneously launching a punch with his offhand, clenched into a fist. If the mage dodged left, he’d get the hammer, right, the fist. Staying on his current trajectory would get him clobbered by Halgrave’s charge. As expected, the man drifted straight back to get out of range. Halgrave grinned and loosened his grip on his hammer. Quickstep.

He shot forward, his hand sliding up to the head of his hammer as the distance disappeared. He was still continuing both swings, driving his fist toward the anvil that was the hammerhead. The pesky mage was trapped between. He’d have no choice but to teleport again, or to reveal something new. True to expectations, the mage vanished, appearing below with a crackle of thunder that was drowned out by the massive shockwave of hammer meeting fist. Halgrave grinned. Spatial warping skills were not cheap. That was twice now that he’d forced the man to use his short-ranged teleport—probably Flash, judging by the tracers of lightning the skill had generated. Fire and Arcane so far. Matches what I’ve heard about him. Okay, time to get a bit more serious.

The Firebolts had continued all throughout this exchange. The mage’s concentration and control were up there with the best Halgrave had ever encountered, even if he was wasting them on such a pointless spell. The fact that not a single one had yet to miss was proof of that. It’s annoying if nothing else. He’s hitting me easily and making me chase after him. Well if he wants to be a gadfly, then I will swat him like one. Alacrity.

Halgrave’s speed doubled, then doubled again. He didn’t manage to catch the mage by surprise, but it didn’t matter. Mages using Flight were slow to change direction. Airwalk did not come with the same limitation. His hammer crashed into the mage with an explosion of sound. The man disappeared as if he’d used his spatial skill once more, but it was not dimensional magic that moved him. It was simple physics. Westbridge had been struck by the relative weight of a mountain, the hammer barely reacting to the impact as he was blasted into the sky. Halgrave had swung upward to avoid sending the man crashing into the city.

He grinned. He’ll have felt that for sure, damage limit be damned. A Firebolt whizzed by his head, its path curved by the attraction of his armor. It hadn’t been enough, the bolt missing by a finger’s breadth. His grin widened, his metal features now fully formed. His smile was wrought in azure steel within the wiry blue tangle of his metal beard. Made you miss.

Attention

The defense field is active. Please remain calm.

Ingress and Egress from the protected volume is restricted to outpost residents.

Warning: Barrier Integrity Critical

Mana Siphon: Active

By Majistraal injunction, residents and guests are hereby directed to use all practicable methods to enhance collective mana rejuvenation.

“What the hell?” Rain exclaimed as the dialog appeared before his eyes. He looked around the inside of the shop, the dialog moving with his gaze. It had popped up right in front of him instead of being suppressed by his notification settings. He thought he’d turned that sort of thing off. What the dialog was saying was also quite alarming. It didn’t seem to be from the system; instead, it read like one of those emergency messages from the government that had occasionally taken over his phone. He recognized the word ‘Majistraal’ from a brief discussion with Staavo concerning the limits of magic.

“I thought they were dead,” he said, swiping at the dialog. It moved, but didn’t disappear as he’d wanted, just sliding off to the side to hover at the edge of his vision.

“They are,” Myth said, hand extended in the air. He waved it around, manipulating what had to be his own copy of the dialog. “Curious.”

“What’s it mean?” Meloni asked. “A barrier, obviously, but what’s a mana siphon?”

Rain looked at her. “Well, based on the message, I’m pretty sure…” He opened his statistics display. He swore as he saw his mana regeneration.

Mana

5700

5700

0

100%

M.Regen

0.157/s

0.212/s

-0.05/s

97.6%

“It’s reducing mana regeneration,” he continued, “Look at your status.”

“I can’t,” Meloni said. “I’m not awakened.”

Rain blinked. Shit, I forgot about that. “Oh, sorry. It’s, um…”

“For me, it is nine parts in ten,” Reason said, joining them from the curtained hallway in the back of the shop.

“Impossible,” said Myth, still swiping at the air. “I see the same.” He rounded on Rain. “What about you?”

“Yeah, same,” Rain said. Winter’s normal boost to his regeneration was missing a zero. Whatever the mana siphon the dialog mentioned was, it was causing a 90% reduction.

“Impossible,” said Myth again. “Arcane resistance should—”

“Bip,” Meloni interrupted. “How do I make it go away?”

Myth turned to look at her. “You can see it too?”

Rain froze. Wait, she can see it? I didn’t even realize… She’s not awakened, meaning she shouldn’t be able to... What the hell? That’s impossible…

“Majistraal,” Reason said in a reverent tone. “Works beyond imagining, powers beyond mortal ken. Through mastery of magic, they became the masters of themselves.”

Rain looked at him, raising an eyebrow. “Is that a saying?”

Meloni scoffed. “Ignore him. He’s always saying things like that. He thinks being cryptic is the same as being wise. It’s all just an act. At least Bip knows when it’s time to give it a rest.” She glared at Reason. “Okay, Bop, if you’re so wise, how do I make this damn thing go away?” She swiped at the air. “Oh, hey, it moved.”

Bop? And Myth is Bip? Those can’t be their real names. No way.

Reason made a few motions with his hands, then nodded seriously, as if considering. Finally, he spoke. “What is seen is meant to be seen.”

“Translation: he doesn’t know,” Meloni said. “Great.”

“It’s some kind of emergency message,” Rain said. “I think Reason is right. You probably can’t just get rid of it. Maybe it will go away once the crisis is over.”

“What crisis, though?” Myth said. “That was no earthquake. That was an impact. It came from the center of the city.” He walked to the door and opened it, letting in the unsettled murmur of voices. The street was rapidly filling with people, staring at a cloud of smoke rising in the north.

The others followed him out, joining the crowd of anxious onlookers. Cloud was content to cower under the counter, so they left him there. Rain surreptitiously retrieved his helmet from his waist and slipped it on as he stepped into the street. I’m not getting hit in the head again. Not today.

He looked around as more and more people joined them. A few loud voices rose over the crowd and he paused to listen.

“I’m telling you, it was an attack! The Adamants are here and they’re gonna kill us all!”

“No, it were a dragon, I saw it!”

“A dragon in the city? Impossible?

“Hush, it can’t be a dragon. It’s monsters, though, that’s for sure. It’s the rank shift, like I was telling you!”

Any further discussion was cut off as a sudden voice spoke in Rain’s ear. [Attention, resid—

Screams erupted throughout the city at the sudden voice. People jumped and swore, spinning wildly, searching for the source. Rain, recognizing the spell as Message—or something like it—reacted only slightly better than the others around him. He tuned out the clamor, focusing on the words. Looking around would do no good; the mage sending this message could be anywhere.

Protected territory? Annexation? What the hell?

“Up there!” someone shouted as the man continued to speak. Dozens of heads tilted in unison, looking up to the sky. Rain saw two figures standing there, though due to the distance, he couldn’t make out much detail, even with his improved eyesight.

Okay, flying magic confirmed. Rain blinked as the man continued to speak in his mind. Wait, no entry or exit? We’re trapped? What the fuck is that? He apologizes for the inconvenience? Bullshit!

He grimaced. The entire city was screaming at the man now and it was growing increasingly difficult to tune out the roar of sound. The mage’s words were coming directly into his mind, true, but it was still distracting. He froze when the DKE Citizen mentioned Velika’s name, but he didn’t have time to process it further before another explosion rocked the city. So loud was Halgrave’s shout that he felt it in his chest as the pressure wave struck him. It was as if he’d put his head directly in front of a speaker at a rock concert. His ears rang as silence washed over Fel Sadanis, the clamoring citizens stunned into silence. That lasted all of two seconds. The cries of outrage quickly returned, accompanied by those of pain, terror, and confusion.

Rain rushed quickly to help an old man who had fallen to the cobblestones, getting him back to his feet as the mage responded to the provocation. He couldn’t hear Halgrave’s side of the conversation, but it seemed like he was trying to negotiate with the Citizen. That’s good. If they fight…

He got the shell-shocked old man over to a bench, easing him down onto it as Westbridge called a vote. Rain turned his attention back to the sky, spotting the pair facing off against a hulking blue form that had to be Halgrave. The scale looked wrong. Halgrave was huge, but not that huge. Whatever skill he had used to get that effect, he now dwarfed the other two. There were red and green points of light, the results of the vote, flickering into existence near the DKE citizen. That made the third figure Velika.

The crowd gasped as Halgrave vanished in a crash of thunder. Rain swore. This wasn’t going to be good. Halgrave had said he’d destroy the city if he fought seriously. Rain believed him. He’d never seen a goldplate fight, but going by what he could do at level eighteen, someone at level fifty would be an absolute monster, basically a living nuclear bomb. Their only hope was that Halgrave could keep the fight away from the city.

