However, the Gnoll [Underworld Mercenary] had been resourceful and turned the bad stroke of luck into an advantage, replacing his teeth with custom, steel teeth. Serrated edges, even poison if need be. When he bit you—you felt it.
He cursed as he nicked a finger in the dim, half-rotten hole of a hiding place. This was not where he’d prefer to be, but this damned Drake city had few amenities. Their criminal underworld had all the depth of a glass of water. Which of course meant that Dramaw and his gang could run amok without the Watch to stop them, and then bail when it got too hot.
However, the prospects of meager earnings were not enticing to the Gnoll. He growled; he was in a bad mood. They’d come all the way up this far north—further still, actually—then had come back this way, barely making any money and wasting time.
His gang was small, but deadly. Dangerous Gnolls, each one capable of walking into a city and turning it on its head. Only Pallass and the best cities had the law enforcement to tangle with them. Recently though—they’d suffered setbacks.
One of their members had died. She had been good, too. The fact that she’d bit it in a no-name, border city like Liscor infuriated Dramaw. Not least because it was all the fat coin down the drain. He snarled, throwing his whetstone at a bug running for a crack in the wall.
That made the following incident all the more curious to Dramaw. One of the two Gnolls who’d come with him spoke via a speaking stone on Dramaw’s table.
“Boss? Boss.”
“What?”
The Gnoll snarled back. The younger Gnoll, Shank, since he had no good name yet, was breathy. Something had scared him and Dramaw tensed reflexively. Was it the Watch? Bounty hunters?
“Boss. I just saw Bearclaw.”
“What?”
Dramaw sat up. Shank spoke, urgently.
“I was in the tavern and she walked in and signaled me. Bearclaw!”
“You’re mad. There’s no way it was her. Some Senior Guardsman did her in.”
“I swear, Boss! You know Bearclaw! You can’t just look like her!”
That was true. Dramaw hesitated. Bearclaw? She had to know they were here; this was one of the cities they’d fallen back to. If she’d survived, if the Watch had been wrong—of course she was here!
“Where is she now?”
“Don’t know. Should I try to find her? I just saw her from across the bar—”
“Yes, damn it! Find her!”
Dramaw sat up. He was going to tear strips off Bearclaw, but her returning was something! If she hadn’t gotten that White Gnoll though…well, it might have been too hot in Liscor after the Senior Guardsman.
He was debating how to respond to her and assert discipline; she’d fight back if he provoked her, but he needed to punish her. Dramaw was getting up when someone knocked on the door, using his gang’s code-sign.
“Dramaw? You there?”
The Gnoll’s head turned.
“Bearclaw?”
He got up from his desk, slowly. Warily too; he wasn’t an idiot. If this was some Watch trap…the Gnoll walked towards the door.
The gang in this city had poor safe houses, but they weren’t complete idiots. He opened the spyhole, tilting the metal cover, and stared through the plain glass hole. He saw…the Gnoll’s eyes widened.
Bearclaw stood in the dark alleyway, amid the shadows and trash. It was her! There was no mistaking that burly form! He spoke, loud enough to be heard through that door.
“Bearclaw, you bitch! Why didn’t you send word you were alive?”
“Had to keep moving. They were on my tail. Mind letting me in already, Dramaw?”
He nodded, and began to work at the locks. Then—the Gnoll hesitated. He glanced through the peephole again.
It was Bearclaw, wasn’t it? She looked like her. She was standing back, to get into full frame of the spyhole for him. Yet the Gnoll felt a little prickling of unease.
“One second, Bearclaw. Just let me check something. What was the last thing I said to you?”
The big Gnoll paused. She spoke after a moment.
“—‘don’t screw this one up. But get us that bounty and I’ll let you take half of our people and start your own group. Under me.’”
Dramaw relaxed, slightly. That was true. He began to open the door. It budged open a crack and then a chance breeze blew down the alleyway.
The scent of the street, the city, refuse, piss, and Bearclaw blew into the little room. Dramaw sneezed—then coughed. And coughed again. His paw froze on the door.
“Bearclaw? What’s up? You don’t…smell…”
The scent of blood and death filled his nose. Not that he hadn’t smelled that before many times with Bearclaw. Yet this smelled like old death. Underneath it—
‘Bearclaw’ tried the door’s handle and it didn’t move. The door had re-shut. She pulled on the door, gently, then harder.
“Dramaw? What’s wrong?”
There was no answer at first. Then a slight sound as the other Gnoll adjusted the cover of the spyhole again. His voice was muffled from within the safe house.
“…What have you done with Bearclaw?”
The female Gnoll laughed, derisively, and slapped her chest.
“Don’t mess me about, Dramaw! It’s me!”
There was no response. The leader of the gang looked down from behind the now too-thin door. His paws were shaking.
“You’re not the Watch. What in the name of Rhir’s hells are you?”
Bearclaw stepped back. For a second, he thought she’d curse him out and hit the door. Then—the figure began to chuckle. Dramaw stared as, suddenly, Bearclaw—vanished.
Something, someone far taller and bigger than even the Gnoll woman adjusted herself. The cloak she wore, the ragged clothing, shifted as the breeze blew again. Dramaw’s eyes widened as he saw and realized—
That wasn’t a cloak. That was Bearclaw’s…
That was Bearclaw.
He leapt back, scrambling for his speaking stone. Outside, someone began to try the handle, pulling, hard. Yet the enchanted door had enough strength to resist whatever it was.
“Come now, let me in. I didn’t think you were a coward.”
“Shank, Beilfang, report!”
Dramaw was scrambling for his speaking stone. He watched the door, grabbing for his weapons. He heard a muffled sound—then one voice.
“Boss? What is it? Did you find Bearclaw?”
“No! That’s not Bearclaw! Beilfang! I don’t care if you’re shitting or in bed, respond!”
There was no response. Dramaw’s fur began to stand up taller. He stared at the door, now rattling as something hit it.
“Boss?”
Shank was worried. Dramaw spoke, rapidly.
“Shanks, that’s not Bearclaw. I don’t know what got her, but get out of the city. She’s right outside the safe room. She wants me—she might have gotten Beilfang.”
The other Gnoll swore. Dramaw shouted.
“Shanks? Get out of the city! Don’t go to any of the safe houses! She knows all of them! Go to where we last were on our way here! Move!”
“Got it!”
The Gnoll was already running, cursing, when the speaking stone’s sounds died. Dramaw crept back to the door. There…he saw her again.
She was standing in the alleyway. Her, and two more. Giants—he rubbed at one eye. They looked like Gnolls. Until you stared at them closely and realized what they were wearing. Until you smelled them.
“What the hell do you want?”
Two moved off, into the street. After Shank. The last—Bearclaw—turned back to him. She grinned, and Dramaw recoiled slowly.
“It’s so hard to find people no one misses. Bad little Gnolls are easiest because no one knows they’re there. Don’t you want to know what happened to your friend?”
Dramaw backed up as Nokha pressed herself against the door, a huge eye peering in at him.
“Get—get—I don’t know what you are, but I’ll find you and you’ll regret this.”
With shaking paws, he slid the cover of the spyhole shut. He heard laughter from outside. The door began to move again, as something huge struck it. It wouldn’t last forever.
Yet Dramaw didn’t wait. He turned, and ran across the room for his belongings, and the secondary bolt-hole. No safe house had just one entrance. He was leaving. Damn this region! He was heading south, away from the Bloodfields and whatever cursed thing had gotten Bearclaw. If Shanks lived—
The secret passage led outside, through another building. It had to be magically unsealed. The door shook behind him. Dramaw undid the magic—and hurtled through the second exit as he heard the door begin to crack behind him.
It only occurred to him then, as the door flew open and he crashed into a huge, furry chest, smelling of the same foul odor as ‘Bearclaw’, that he had made a mistake.
Whatever wore her skin had known everything Bearclaw did. Which meant it also knew about the bolt hole—
The Gnoll screamed once as the Raskghar grabbed him. Then, the predator of Gnolls undid the door and let Nokha in. She shut the door, and grinned. The two full moons shone, giving her kind intelligence and strength beyond compare.
At this point though, it didn’t matter. They didn’t need the full moons anymore.
“Finish up. Hurry up. We have to move south faster.”
She told the Raskghar. She had heard about the Meeting of Tribes. It sounded like exactly the sort of thing she wanted to visit. After all—her kin were going there too. Normally Raskghar wouldn’t be welcome, of course. Yet—Nokha checked the cloak she wore and smiled.
It was just a matter of perspective.
 
—-
 
On the day when two moons shone bright over the world, Lady Rie Valerund cried out. Her skin burned.
Faint, nigh-invisible marks along her arms flared to life. Burning with an agony unmatched.
Then—abruptly—stopped. Yet the pain was replaced by compulsion. Magical and mental.
Come hither.
She knew what was calling her. Lady Rie fought it, gasping, retreating to her home to lie in waking agony. At any other time she would have heeded the call with alacrity.
The Circle of Thorns was broken, though. Which was why she had refused the other, far less onerous summons sent through private means. She had thought the Thorns of Death were dead or disbanded!
At least one lived, she now knew. Or perhaps someone was calling her to a trap to reveal her position? Either way, Lady Rie screamed into a pillow, the marks twisting, calling her, pain vanishing and reigniting over the first hour.
She did not know what to do. If she understood the summoning correctly, it would not end until she went—or she died. Her two loyal subordinates, uncomprehending, thought she was just sick. Lady Rie felt the desire to get up and find a horse, to hurry without rest growing stronger with each minute. The magical markings she had accepted to rise to her position even pointed the way.
Lady Rie was one of a handful that felt the inexorable call. Others did, and the weakest-willed or those hoping to find some purpose obeyed first.
Others did not. When she felt the sting of magic, far weaker given she had never been ranked as highly, Lady Ieka Imarris stabbed her arm with a dagger, killing the malign hex. She begged her aunt for aid and soon was grimly preparing a countermeasure.
In this case, extenuating circumstances changed fate. Before Valeterisa could even reply to begin undoing the hex, Ieka felt the pain subside. Shocked, she gazed at her arm and saw the magic fading, erasing itself.
She did not understand why—until she recalled the words of Melidore.
“Your guilt shall not touch you unless you continue; that is my favor.”
Shaken, relieved, she found herself freed. A luck that did not extend to the others.
More than one individual resisted the call, however. Beckoned by the same power—and she was quite amused by this—a certain [Witch] pulled out a bit of cloth, stitched to look like an arm. Belavierr eyed the twisting runes burning into the skin and actually chuckled for a moment.
Someone else laughed, richly amused by the entire thing, Lady Rie’s suffering notwithstanding. No—amused because of it.
Laken Godart poked the tomato in front of him. Well, tomato sliced and added to a salad. He didn’t touch his plate. It wasn’t a good cut either. A wedge of tomato. Boiled pasta, which was about all you could say for it. Some pumpernickel bread which was quite good, with butter. A few pastries in the pantry—
However, the meal was decidedly lacking. The [Emperor] had tossed it together with about as much enthusiasm as someone shoveling manure. Nevertheless, a number of dishes had been emptied.
The [Emperor] had a guest. The guest laughed, and chuckled, pausing from devouring the food as a starving man, to look up.
“You see? Thus do traitors earn their due. Fools ensure loyalty by fear and pain.”
“Or by trickery and deceit. Not to put too fine a point on it.”
Laken folded his arms. His…guest…had arrived uninvited. He paused, looking irked at the rejoinder. Then smiled.
“The desperate do what they must. This is old magic, Laken.”
“That would be ‘your Majesty’, to you. Peon.”
Instead of rising ire, his comment only elicited a laugh. The other man rose and swept a bow. Laken never opened his eyes obviously, yet he sensed the motion.
He shifted uneasily. He hadn’t been able to do that last time. This time, his guest, Tamaroth, was visible even to his [Emperor]’s senses.
“I don’t suppose that you’ll drop dead of poison?”
“Did you put it in the food?”
No, just an unseemly amount of salt. If he’d had Wiskeria’s poisons to hand, Laken wondered if he would have been able to add it. He sat there, arms folded.
“Will you be leaving soon?”
“Don’t be so hostile, Laken Godart. We are allies. I have come here, at great effort, to help you.”
The man was in a better mood, not as rushed as he had been every other time. Laken raised one brow.
“By emptying my larder?”
“Indulge me my hunger. Now—ah, now—do you know how it is to starve so long you forget what it ever was to be full? Yet time is never unlimited.”
“How terrible. The door is over there.”
Laken indicated it with a nod. Tamaroth chuckled and wiped at his beard.
“Do you really want me to leave, Laken? Lady Rie Valerund screams in agony. She will not resist long, though she has a strong will. Does she leave, you will never see her again. At least, not the woman you knew. What will return, if she does return, will be a weapon forged in blood. You would do well to slaughter her where she stood rather than stand in her presence a minute longer than you must. Tell me—do you want that?”
Laken’s skin crawled. His guest knew. He knew many things. Too much. Yet his advice had proven prophetic before. So Laken listened, unwillingly, but listened.
“Your agenda is not mine…Tam.”
“Tam?”
The other man echoed the word, incredulous for once. Laken shrugged.
“Call it a pet name.”
He waited for the fury. But again, the man was amused.
