Rain considered this, then nodded as well, accepting it. The older a monster was, the more its behavior would diverge from the instincts with which it had spawned. Outside of lairs, it wasn’t uncommon to find monsters imitating nature, banding together in ‘colonies’ or ‘packs’. ‘Aberrant’ meant either a lone monster or a group that had reached the point of forming its own identity. Sometimes, in very rare cases, an aberrant would even be granted a unique name by the system. Some of the most lucrative Guild contracts involved dealing with such things, though monsters typically died long before reaching that status, killed either by humans or other monsters. Once formed, however, aberrant packs were self-sustaining. They would grow over time if unchecked, adopting freshly-spawned monsters and indoctrinating them into their identity.

The implications were unsettling. The existence of a hyper-violent pack of roid-apes was horrifying enough without them having learned to make tools. It raised terrifying questions about just how intelligent a monster could be. A few months ago, Rain might have had qualms about killing such creatures, but no more. He didn’t trust the opinion of just anyone, but he trusted Ameliah. If she said diplomacy wasn’t an option, then it wasn’t, end of story. The smarter a monster was, the more urgently it needed killing.

Monsters were monsters. They might act like they were alive—eating, sleeping, even playing and forming complex social structures—but they weren’t. They didn’t need to do these things, though it was complicated in the case of eating. Kin, for example, could sustain themselves in unranked areas, provided that they had enough food. It was one of the things that made them so dangerous. It wasn’t about physical sustenance. It was about essence. In a ranked zone, monsters drew energy directly from their environment.

In any event, it struck Rain as perfectly reasonable for a colony of Hababas to have formed here, isolated in the depths. There was nothing in the Ashen Jungle that would be able to kill one, after all. Even if the pack had started with a lone aberrant individual, a colony could have developed over the course of years and years. Or centuries. Monsters didn’t age.

There were other explanations for the missing stones, of course—some natural instinct, like a Crystal Slime’s need to sort things, for example—but an aberrant Hababa colony was the most dangerous explanation. Thus, it was the scenario they would prepare themselves for.

Rain turned back to face his companions, checking the time as he did. “It’s almost noon. I vote we set up camp here, then stash our stuff and use the rest of the day to search for the colony.”

“Agreed,” Tallheart said, blinking slowly.

Ameliah nodded in agreement, so Rain pulled the ripcord to jettison the Double Gamgee. It fell to the ground with a heavy thump, and he took the opportunity to stretch his shoulders. It would have been nice to reach the end of the jungle today, but stopping to set up camp had always been the plan. In wide-open areas like this, Tallheart said that you should never go past third bell without knowing where you were going to sleep. Now that they were treating the Ashen Jungle with the respect it deserved, they would stick to that rule.

“Stealth camp or strong camp?” Rain asked, removing a sasu from his pack. He bit into it, sour juice running down his chin. “Have you decided yet, Tallheart?”

“Strong camp,” Tallheart said. He pointed to a grouping of three trees, forming a roughly equilateral triangle. “There.”

Ameliah patted Rain on the back as she walked past him. “I’ll have a quick look around up top. You two have fun. Don’t worry. I won’t go far.”

Rain smiled at her, mouth too full to respond as she wriggled out of her boots, then bounded into the air.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, watching her go. He turned to Rain, having removed his own burdens as well. “Let us begin.”

With that, they set to work. Rain cleared out the underbrush while Tallheart felled the three mighty trees, doing so carefully such that they landed in a triangle. Those formed the main walls of a three-sided fort, which Rain worked to shore up with branches and dirt until they had a respectable redoubt. With the trees gone, there was a gap in the foliage through which the glowing ceiling was visible. Ameliah returned from her scouting, never having left the range of Detection, and the three of them pruned back neighboring trees until the air was entirely clear above their stronghold. There was no point to walls if things could just drop down on you. They also cleared the surrounding area of brush in a wide radius, ensuring that whoever was on watch would be able to see any threats coming.

All in all, it took them around two hours, with only one interruption from a curious Deepcat. Rain smiled, standing next to Ameliah as he surveyed their handiwork. He was starving and exhausted, but also proud of what they’d built. His Dozer instincts were screaming at him that the angles weren’t exactly perfect, but he was well-used to ignoring them at this point.

Who needs construction equipment when you have a Tallheart?

Ameliah laughed, seeing his expression. “I think we got a bit carried away.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “I used more stamina than I would have liked.”

“Do you need me to refill you?” Ameliah asked.

Tallheart shook his head. “No. You would drain yourself in the attempt. Rain is but a shallow pool, while I am as the ocean.”

“Hey,” Rain protested, not really mad.

Ameliah laughed, wrapping an arm around his shoulders. He felt stamina flow into him, and he hugged her back in thanks.

“Mmm,” Tallheart said. “I will be fine for today, but we must plan for the future. Eventually, I will need time to recover.”

“I want the other seasons so bad,” Rain said, motioning to Ameliah to stop. “I’m full, thanks.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah said, releasing him. She turned to Tallheart. “Come here. I’ll give you a little, at least. My regeneration is decent enough with Mute, and we’ll have time for me to get back to full. I could feel Rain’s stomach growling through his armor while we were touching.”

“No, you could not,” Rain scoffed, heading for his pack. She was right, though. His stomach wasn’t growling, but he was hungry. He’d set aside the Deepcat, intent on eating it, for all that he knew it would taste like soggy gym socks. Meat was meat. He couldn’t afford to be picky.

He fought back a sigh, reaching for the Pan of Frying. “That’s half an hour for lunch, everybody.”

Rain watched from his vantage point, terrified and awed by what he was seeing. There were six Hababas on the ground about thirty meters from the base of the tree he was hiding in, cavorting around what had to be the fattest Fatbird he’d ever seen. It was lying on the dirt in a pool of its own blood, struggling futilely. Its immense weight wasn’t what was preventing it from rising; rather, the problem was that its legs had been torn off. A seventh Hababa with a wooden crown was standing nearby, waving one of the Fatbird’s severed limbs like a baton as it directed the others in their celebratory dance.

Playing backdrop to this scene was the Hababa colony proper. The trees ended abruptly, their splintered trunks telling of how they’d been cleared with brute force. Crude huts built from wood and bone surrounded a mountainous stone outcropping in the center of the clearing. That wasn’t even the most defining feature of the area. That honor went to the river of literal lava. Rain could feel the heat of it even from this distance. The question of the missing slimes had been answered as well, as dozens of them were oozing around near the river’s banks, appearing to be made of lava themselves. They were too far for the system to display their names, but he was sure that they were the Lava Slimes Ameliah had mentioned.

Not that they’re important right now…

Rain clenched his teeth, watching as yet more Hababas rapidly filtered out of the colony, some of them emerging from the huts and others from a large cave in the side of the mountain. They loped toward the dancing ring, weapons clutched in their hands. Most had clubs, but three or four had blades seemingly identical to the one from the first group they’d encountered. Rain could feel sweat breaking out across his forehead as he counted.

Fifteen… Sixteen…. Shit. Just how many are there?!

As each new monster reached the Fatbird, it would throw down its weapons before joining the jamboree. The wooden-crowned Hababa thrashed its meat baton at them furiously, screaming up a storm, but it was mostly ignored for its trouble. There was nothing special about it, it seemed, as far as the system was concerned. It read as a level nineteen Hababa, exactly like all the others. The wooden crown looked like it had been made by hand.

A monster with delusions of grandeur?

“I believe we have found the colony,” Tallheart said, keeping his voice down. It was barely audible over the chaos.

Ameliah swiftly raised her hand, forming the codesign for silence.

“They will not hear,” Tallheart said, but closed his mouth and made a placating gesture when she glared at him.

Rain glanced at Ameliah anxiously, then back at the monsters, afraid to let them out of his sight. When the noise had started, they’d come quickly to investigate, but they hadn’t expected to find…this.

We’ll have to retreat. We can’t fight that many, and it’s only a matter of time before one of them looks up. We can come back once they’re done doing…whatever they’re planning on doing to that Fatbird. We can try to lure them out one at a time, or—

[Get ready,] Ameliah said in Rain’s mind, pointing her palm at the dancing ring and bracing it with her other arm. [I’m going to use Meteor.]

Rain blinked.

Or that.

Ameliah started chanting, her voice audible by necessity. Rain clutched the straps of his shield tightly, the leather creaking from the strength of his grip.

“Wait,” Tallheart said, laying a hand on Ameliah’s shoulder. “Something else is coming.”

Ameliah bit off her spell, then glanced at him. “Where?” she hissed.

Tallheart gestured with his chin. Rain squinted, searching until he made out a shadowy form within the cave. Slowly, an enormous figure walked out into the light, ignoring the two regular Hababas that had prostrated themselves in greeting.

Ameliah inhaled sharply, then spoke, no longer bothering to keep her voice down. “Okay, what the hells is that?”

Rain shook his head wordlessly, staring.

It was a Hababa, but not. It was tall and skeletal, its muscles more like those of a starving meth addict than a bodybuilder. Its face was animalistic but also regal, thanks in no small part to the ornate silver crown that rested across its brow. While it still had four arms, they were slimmer and disproportionately long, to the point that they were almost dragging on the ground despite its great height. The two regular Hababas stood as it passed, appearing short by comparison, then started following after it like attendants.

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled. “A king. This explains much.”

Rain opened his mouth to say something—he wasn’t sure what—but before he could, he was interrupted by a booming thud as all of the Hababas below slammed both right fists to their chests in unison.

“Oooh!”

They had all turned, standing to face the newcomer. The booming crash came again as they slammed their chests once more, with both left fists this time.

“Oooh!”

Each of them then pumped all four arms in a salute, two fists straight up, and two out to the side, roaring as they did.

“AHH!”

The legless Fatbird wailed, but the Hababas ignored it, beginning to chant together in unison. They ran through the same sequence again, slamming their fists against their chests to the pattern, then performing the salute. With each repetition, they became faster and more synchronized.

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

Rain pressed his hands to the side of his helmet, not that he expected it to help. The noise was overwhelming, though it wasn’t an attack like yesterday. He could still feel the air vibrating, deep in his chest. The bizarre Hababa was close, now. Rain’s jaw dropped as a name flickered into existence above its crown.

Ahbahabam, Greater Hababa Shaman King – Level 24

Rain’s heart skipped a beat, then several more in quick succession. It was a blue, yes, and one with a name and everything, but that wasn’t the most alarming thing.

Level twenty-FUCKING-four?!!! What the FUCK is that!?

His eyes flicked to the depth gauge, still safely strapped to the back of his shield. The needle remained stubbornly fixed on fifteen.

Is this thing broken, or what?

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

In the corner of his eye, Rain saw Ameliah shift her arm to point at the new threat. She had started her own chant again, but her voice was swallowed by the continuing noise. Quickly, Rain made sure Winter was active and that she wasn’t blacklisted. As long as she was under its effects, he would get at least a token amount of contribution for the kill.

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

“Oooh! Oooh! AHH!”

“OOORAHA!”

Acting as one, the Hababas all suddenly flung themselves down, pressing their foreheads to the ground in the presence of their monarch. The one with the wooden crown had only gone to its knees, and it was holding the Fatbird leg above its head like an offering, its gaze firmly directed downward.

Silence fell.

No, not quite silence.

The Fatbird shrieked.

Ameliah spoke the final syllable of her incantation.

She stood to her full height, then raised her arm above her head. She hauled at the air like she was trying to tear down the sky, her bicep standing out in definition as she pulled at something more than physical. Light flashed from above the canopy, blindingly bright even through the leaves. There was a roar like the rushing of a waterfall—displaced air, Rain realized.

The world exploded.

Rain was blasted backward by the shockwave, but was jerked to a stop by a hand on his collar before he could tumble from the branch. He grabbed frantically at Tallheart’s forearm, clinging on for dear life as the second and third meteors struck, precisely one second passing between each impact. His eyes burned with the afterimage of the first meteor, seared into them before he’d managed to look away. His ears rang, not only from the blasts, but also from the torrent of kill notifications.

