The Hob looked stricken. The other four Redfang Warriors emerged from the waters. Where had they come from? No—Erin grabbed at Numbtongue, trying to staunch the bleeding.
“He’s alive! We need to get him to the Hive! Now!”
A flicker of understanding ran through Numbtongue’s eyes. He leapt to his feet. The other Hobs didn’t waste time. They moved as one, grabbing Bird. Headscratcher shoved Erin aside and took hold of the bloody wad of cloth. He pressed mercilessly, and Bird made a terrible sound. But he was alive. And the bleeding stopped.
“Go.”
Shorthilt pointed. The Hobs charged up the hill. Erin ran after them, seeing Mrsha dart up the stairs. The Hobs knocked aside the guests, ran for the door. Mrsha was already there, scrambling at the bowl with paws soaked green with blood. Erin grabbed the mana stone and pressed it against the door.
Liscor opened in front of her, the streets damp but no longer rainy. The Hobs stared into the streets. For a second, they hesitated and looked back at Erin. They had never been there. She spoke, her heart tearing out of her chest.
“Go.”
They ran. Four of the Hobs carried Bird between them. The fifth, Numbtongue, raced ahead of them through the streets. Erin and Mrsha were with him. They didn’t know where to go! Erin screamed directions, and Mrsha howled.
She could see people staring at them as they ran. Erin heard voices from above, almost like she was in a theatre watching herself run while an audience commented on her every move. She heard an exclamation, then a shout.
“Goblins in Liscor! Sound the alarm!”
“No, it’s just—”
The [Guardsmen] hesitated. Erin saw figures running along the walls, and then a horn blew. She didn’t care.
“Klbkch! Tell Klbkch!”
She screamed into the face of a passing Gnoll then ran. Mrsha was howling, not one long howl but a series of panicked notes. Erin heard answering calls in the distance. It mattered and didn’t at the same time. All of her energy was put into running, staying with the Goblins. Numbtongue ran with her, chest heaving. He looked exhausted. So did the Hobs. But they stayed with her every step, refusing to slip. Blood dripped in their wake, leaving a trail on the wet cobblestones.
They were running out of time. Erin couldn’t hear Bird anymore. She spotted the Hive at last and ran towards it.
“Go there! Find Klbkch!”
The Hobs ran for the entrance. They ran down the sloping entrance and then stopped. A wall of Soldiers charged out of the tunnel, slamming into the Hobs. Erin screamed as Bird nearly fell. Numbtongue went sprawling as a Soldier leapt on him, punching him. She screamed at them.
“Stop! Stop! It’s Bird! Stop!”
She tried to push them. But she wasn’t in her inn. The Soldiers kept attacking, and the Hobs backed up. They moved back until, suddenly, the Soldiers froze. They straightened and moved aside.
“Erin!”
A familiar voice snapped. Erin looked up and saw him striding towards her. Slender, two hands on his swords. Klbkch paused. He was shaking with fury.
“You cannot take Goblins into the Hive! The Soldiers nearly killed you! What—”
He froze when he saw Bird. The Antinium was curled up in the arms of the Goblins. Erin pushed forwards.
“It’s Bird! He was hurt! I don’t know what—the bleeding won’t—we used potions and—”
“I see. Soldiers, lift Bird.”
Klbkch raised one of his hands, and Erin went quiet. The Soldiers gathered around Bird. They lifted him. One grabbed the bloody bandage, but there was so little blood flowing from Bird. He didn’t respond as Klbkch bent to inspect him. The [Guardsman] stared for what felt like forever at Bird, then he looked up at Erin.
“He has no chance, even if I were to apply a regenerative gel. He has lost too much blood. His only hope lies with my Queen.”
He turned to the Soldiers.
“Run. Take him to her. Clear the Hive.”
His words seemed to ring. The Soldiers didn’t hesitate. They charged down the tunnel, disappearing out of view. Erin wanted to run after them, but Klbkch blocked her with one arm.
“Bird. Will he be okay?”
She wanted Klbkch to say ‘yes’ so badly. But all the Antinium did was shake his head.
“Erin. My Queen is familiar with Antinium biology. If she wishes to save Bird, she will. And I believe she will. She has an…attachment to him.”
“But will she—”
“I do not know. He may live. Or he may not.”
“Can you bring him back? What about the Rite?”
Erin clung to that idea. Klbkch hesitated.
“I do not know. Only Prognugators undergo the Rite, and only the strongest. He must have enough levels, and his mind—I do not know, Erin. But tell me.”
The Antinium looked around, and his hands moved to his swords.
“Who injured Bird?”
Erin sagged. She felt like someone had cut her strings. Suddenly, she couldn’t breathe. Her legs were on fire. She looked down and saw the green blood on her hands.
“I don’t know. I heard a crash, and I—I don’t know what happened.”
“We do.”
A quiet, wretched voice answered for Erin. Klbkch and Erin turned. Numbtongue stood with the Redfang Goblins. He bowed his head. His face was shadowed in the tunnel as he spoke.
“It was a Goblin.”
“A Goblin?”
Erin stared at Numbtongue. She felt the bottom drop out of her world. Klbkch said nothing. He just drew his swords. Erin turned to him and heard the shouts from above.
“Erin!”
Olesm was on the surface. Thirty of the City Watch surrounded the tunnel. Erin saw the Redfangs emerge into the sunlight and freeze. More [Guardspeople] arrived, training bows and spears on the Hobs. Olesm stood behind the first rank. His face was pale.
“Olesm—it was Bird—”
The [Strategist] turned as Erin lurched towards him. He held still as Erin tried to make him listen. At last, he nodded. She didn’t know what she’d said, but Olesm gently held her.
“Erin, I understand. Senior Guardsman Klbkch—”
He motioned to Klbkch. Erin turned and saw the Antinium had drawn his swords. The Redfang Goblins stood together, staring at her, staring at the ground or the sky. Erin caught her breath.
“What—”
“It’s not just the Goblin, Erin. I’m calling a full city-wide alarm.”
Olesm looked at Erin with terrible pain in his eyes. She looked at him and only now heard the horns blaring a warning. Far too many horns for just six Goblins. She looked around and saw Gnolls and Drakes looking upwards. Olesm stared at Erin. He spoke slowly and carefully, enunciating every word.
“The Goblin Lord is coming to Liscor. He’ll attack the walls. The Humans…the Humans are going to give him a way to attack our city.”
“What? Olesm, I don’t—”
He went on slowly.
“As [Strategist] of Liscor, I have no choice. Under military law, I am confiscating your door, Miss Solstice. A detachment of the Watch will be sent to collect it. As for the Goblins, I cannot risk them endangering the city. We will find this Hob and kill it. As for these five—”
Olesm turned. A Gnoll with a pair of iron manacles approached the Redfang Goblins. Olesm swallowed as she looked at him. Erin opened her mouth to say something. Anything. But Olesm went on. He looked at Numbtongue as the Hob stared at Erin. The Gnoll slowly closed the manacles over Numbtongue’s wrists. Olesm bowed his head.
“They are under arrest.”
