The Hob played five more notes, and lightning shot down from the sky, blowing Badarrow off his perch and sending his students fleeing. Numbtongue looked up when he heard the screams and raced outside with the others. He paused when he saw Badarrow lying on the ground, weakly waving his arms and legs, and stared at the smoldering crater that marked the spot where lightning had struck.
“Uh? Uh?”
That was all Badarrow said for a while until the color came back to his face. When he did finally manage to sit up and got an explanation from the babbling Goblins around him, he chased Numbtongue about, shouting and kicking at his back. By the time Badarrow had vented his considerable pique, Headscratcher had returned with his group. The Hob slowed to a stop as he ran towards the crowd of Goblins. Sweat was covering his bare chest, and he was naked save for a pair of pants and the enchanted axe on his belt.
He’d taken his group on a run. Headscratcher stared at Numbtongue’s guitar as they explained what had happened, and then he nodded.
“Sit?”
The four Hobs present looked at each other. They nodded. Numbtongue looked around.
“One of you find Shorthilt. Tell him we are going to have a war meeting.”
 
——
 
War meeting. This was another thing they were teaching the Cave Goblins, something the Redfangs had learned from their tribe. The five Hobs sat in their cave while Goblins crowded around them. Many had to sit outside, but whatever was said or done was instantly conveyed to them.
Numbtongue shifted uncomfortably as he sat next to Shorthilt and Rabbiteater. This was an old practice. It was a Redfang tradition after encountering a tough foe in the High Passes. The entire tribe would sit together, just like this, and come up with a plan to defeat their enemy—or avoid them. It was just like this, except it wasn’t like this.
Normally, Redscar would be…there. Right across from Garen Redfang himself. The best warriors and Hobs would be sitting in the center, with the weaker ones slowly radiating outwards. Instead, it was the five Hobs sitting in the center and all the Cave Goblins watching. It felt different. Wrong. And yet, it was all the Hobs knew.
Headscratcher opened the war council up by clearing his throat. The Hob couldn’t speak the common tongue well, so he defaulted to the Goblin’s tongue and sign language. Only Numbtongue spoke in common for the benefit of his faction.
“Lightning attack good. Is good Skill. Not hurt Badarrow is good too.”
The other Hobs nodded. Badarrow growled.
“Stupid Skill.”
“Good Skill. Powerful. Like Silver-rank spell. Tier 3.”
Shorthilt shook his head. He nodded at Numbtongue, who nodded back. Badarrow folded his arms and grunted moodily. Rabbiteater grinned.
“Powerful! Can do again? Many times?”
“No!”
All the Hobs reacted when Rabbiteater pointed to the guitar. Numbtongue shook his head.
“It takes a while to work. The Skill is not…convenient. But I think I can do it again. It’s probably stronger on cloudy days.”
The Goblins glanced towards the cave entrance. The rainclouds that haunted Liscor were still pouring. It was definitely a phenomenon of the weather; in their cave outside of Liscor, they often got showers, but only in the floodplains were the rains ever-present. Headscratcher nodded.
“Is good. Skill good. Could hurt Gargoyles with lightning.”
“Mm.”
The other Hobs nodded. That would be useful. Shorthilt looked around in his seat at the watching Goblins.
“Gargoyles tough. But new not-tribes strong. Maybe enough to fight in High Passes?”
The other Redfang Warriors considered the question. They glanced at their factions, assessing. Of course, they were all regular Goblins and thus a lot weaker than a tribe with Hobs, but Numbtongue thought that was a temporary situation at best. Recently, several Cave Goblins in his faction had begun eating far more than the others. And some were getting…big.
“My warriors strong. Could beat regular Goblins in fight.”
Headscratcher nodded decisively. Shorthilt raised his brows.
“Good. My group could kill Eater Goats. Maybe.”
The two Hobs stared at each other appraisingly. Badarrow rolled his eyes.
“Going to High Passes?”
He interrupted the beginning of an argument. Both Hobs quieted down. At last, Headscratcher shook his head.
“Good food here. Nice…place.”
The other Hobs nodded in agreement. This was a nice place. And yet—what came next? They’d agreed on the essentials. Their Goblins were getting stronger. Numbtongue being able to call down lightning, however sporadically, was good. But what came next?
“Fight in dungeon? Hunt down hiding Raskghar? Eat fish? Train?”
Rabbiteater counted down their options. The Hobs nodded. Each option sounded good. And yet, they knew that these were all transitory activities. Numbtongue was the one to say it.
“When the rains stop, what will we do next? We’re in the middle of the road and close to the city. And Erin cannot feed us forever.”
The other four looked at him with expressions of resignation and dismay. Numbtongue felt guilty himself. Why did he have to say it?
None of them wanted to think about what would happen soon. They knew this wasn’t sustainable; despite Rabbiteater’s faction constantly fishing and Badarrow’s group bringing in food (and Headscratcher occasionally killing something while on his runs), Erin was essentially paying to feed all the Goblins. She was constantly bringing in bags of flour, produce, and so on through her magic door. And while she claimed she was ‘good for it’ thanks to the bounty Ilvriss had paid out, Numbtongue was aware of how much she had to be spending per day.
“It’s a lot of money.”
He hunched his shoulders. Headscratcher nodded slowly. He looked towards the far end of the cave. There, propped up against the wall, was the door. While the Cave Goblins had placed bedrolls and supplies practically everywhere else, the spot around the door was kept clean, and no one was allowed to sleep there. It was like a shrine, although the Goblins had no understanding of what a shrine was. But they venerated the spot nonetheless because of where it led.
“Can find more shiny metal in dungeon. Probably.”
“How much?”
Shorthilt wrinkled his nose. The Goblins knew in abstract how much gold was worth, but they hadn’t placed any value on it. The reaction of the adventurers had told them what they’d given away, but the Goblins couldn’t bring themselves to covet the useless, glittering stuff. Headscratcher frowned.
“Don’t know. Numbtongue find out? Go get food and check?”
He looked carefully at Numbtongue. So did the others. Numbtongue froze.
“Why me?”
The other Hobs rolled their eyes. Only Numbtongue could read, obviously! Rabbiteater kicked Numbtongue in the side, and Badarrow leaned over to poke him. Numbtongue growled, but in the end nodded.
“Fine. I’ll see what the menu says. Or ask.”
He stood up. The other Goblins moved back as Numbtongue moved to the door. He glanced back at the other four Hobs as they began to discuss more training and the idea of hunting something bigger down, like a Rock Crab. But that was all for show. He knew that Headscratcher’s idea about finding money to pay Erin with was just that: an idea.
It still didn’t solve the problem. It still didn’t change the fact that there were too many Goblins and they didn’t know what to do. Numbtongue knew that, and it weighed on him. Soon, very soon, they would have to do something. He placed his hand on the door and felt the trembling that told him it was connected. He wished, at times, that he wasn’t the only one who could speak Erin’s language. Because that meant that someday, perhaps very soon, he would have to be the one to tell Erin goodbye.
But for today at least…he stepped through the doorway into The Wandering Inn and inhaled slowly. The air was warm, and the inn was bustling. Gnolls and Drakes waited tables while a smattering of people sat and ate. Humans, Drakes, Gnolls, all looked up when Numbtongue stepped through the door. There was a moment of hesitation, but just that. Then they turned back to their food. No one screamed. No one grabbed a weapon. And Numbtongue felt safe here.
That was happiness.
 
——
 
“Numbtongue! Are you here for today’s lunch? Sorry, it’s not done just yet. I’m showing Pebblesnatch how to make it. Mind waiting for a bit? Can I get you a beer? I have a dark lager.”
“A what?”
“Um…a kind of beer? Here, I’ve marked the keg so I know exactly which kind it is. Hold on, Ishkr, toss me a clean mug! We’re all out over here!”
Numbtongue blinked as Erin waved energetically at a Gnoll heading out of the kitchen. He saw Ishkr toss a mug in a lazy arc at Erin. The [Innkeeper] jumped up for it. And missed.
“Uh oh—”
The Hob snagged the handle of the mug and handed it to Erin. She smiled sheepishly at him.
“Thanks, Numbtongue.”
“You’re…welcome.”
The Hob felt awkward, but Erin just grinned and filled the mug with the dark liquid. She handed it to Numbtongue.
“There. Have a taste and let me know how it is. I think it’s awful, to be honest. But I don’t drink alcohol. [Immunity: Alcohol], you know. I could disable the Skill of course, but what’s the point of drinking alcohol anyways? Fruit juice tastes better.”
“Mm.”
Numbtongue sipped from his mug as he leaned against the bar. The dark lager was indeed not nearly as sweet as an ale or fruit juices, but he thought Erin was doing it a disservice. It was certainly better than stagnant pond water or drinking blood. Actually, if that was your standard then a lager was the greatest drink in the world.
“How’s everyone doing in the caves? Eating enough? Do you need me to go on another supply run? And by me, I mean getting Ishkr and the guys to do it?”
Erin stood and chatted with Numbtongue as they looked at her busy inn. She was busy but not at the same time; there were any number of people Erin could chat to, and she could cook in her kitchen or help wait tables, but she didn’t have to do anything. Her inn staff was now large enough to take on all the roles needed, and Lyonette was cooking more and more of the dishes with Mrsha as a ‘taste tester’.
“They’re…good. I learned to play another song.”
Numbtongue decided not to bring up nearly frying Badarrow with lightning. Erin smiled.
“Ooh! Which one?”
“The one about fire.”
“You mean, I See Fire? By Ed Sheeran?”
“Mm. Yes, that one. Good song. Relaxing.”
“You should have seen the music video. It was made for The Hobbit, you know. I really liked those movies, no matter what everyone else said. They’re so long that I could play chess and just watch them on my laptop…but you don’t understand what I’m talking about, right?”
“Nope.”
Numbtongue leaned back, mug in hand. He tried not to smile. Erin’s ramblings were enjoyable to listen to. But he didn’t want to let her know he enjoyed them. The [Innkeeper] shot him a sidelong glance.
“Okay, I know this is a lot, but I’ve explained electric guitars to you, right? Well, you see, movies are these things that run on electricity. Sort of. They’re these pictures that appear on a screen. Like magic. Actually, that’s the best way to describe all of this. It’s all these magic moving images with sound that tell stories. And the Hobbit’s about…oh, hey Pawn!”
Erin broke off and waved. Numbtongue looked over and saw that the magic door had opened to let Pawn and several Soldiers in. Drassi waved them through and then adjusted the door to Celum. She opened it, checked for waiting visitors, and then closed the door. Erin had come up with a rotation system so that no one would be left waiting longer than ten or so minutes in any location. Now, Erin smiled at the rain-soaked Antinium.
“Sorry, Numbtongue. I’ll be back. Hey, Pawn! How are you doing? And hi, Yellow Splatters, who’s this pink guy?”
The young woman walked over to greet the Antinium Worker and Soldiers. Numbtongue stayed where he was, sipping his drink and watching. He saw Erin usher the Antinium over to a seat and call for food. Then she began pointing back at him. He saw her return.
“Sorry about that! Where were we?”
Numbtongue blinked at Erin. He glanced at the Antinium, who were alternatively looking at Drassi who was heading towards them with a trio of steaming bowls of soup and at Erin.
“You aren’t going to stay with them?”
Erin frowned.
“Well, yeah, of course I’ll go back to chat. But I was talking with you. We don’t see each other anymore; the least we can do is chat for a bit. You want a snack while we’re chatting?”
“No. Thank you.”
The Hob blinked at Erin. She smiled and took a seat on a bar stool.
“Okay then. Where was I? Movies, that’s right. Let me know if I’m boring you. Or you want to talk. But the thing about movies is—”
She began telling Numbtongue a strange story about small not-Dwarves going on a mission to steal treasure from a Dragon. Interspersed with her commentary, Erin kept interrupting to give Numbtongue context about her home, about a place called Hollywood and why everyone didn’t like the movie as much as the original movie, which was about a bunch of small not-Dwarves going to deliver a ring to a volcano. Numbtongue listened, grunting where appropriate. He was enjoying himself and couldn’t help smiling, so he covered it by drinking two lagers in quick succession.
After a few minutes of chatting, both Erin and Numbtongue simultaneously realized they had company. Goblin and Human turned to look at Pawn, who was silently standing behind the bar. Listening to them.
“Uh, hi Pawn. Is something wrong?”
The Worker shook his head. He glanced sideways at Numbtongue.
“No, I am just standing here, Erin. Listening. Please continue.”
Erin wavered. She looked at Pawn and then at Numbtongue.
“Well—okay. But I’m sort of talking to Numbtongue here. It’s not anything secret, but—I’ll come over to talk with you guys soon, okay?”
Pawn nodded. He didn’t budge. Erin looked at him.
“Pawn?”
The Worker folded all four of his arms.
“What? I am standing here. I would not wish to take away time from Numbtongue. So I will simply stand and listen here until you have time to join us. Please ignore my presence.”
Erin and Numbtongue exchanged a slow glance.
“Do you want to speak with Lyonette, Pawn?”
The Antinium shook his head.
“She is busy. And I have spoken to her already yesterday. I am perfectly content not speaking with Lyonette. I will just wait here until you are done, please.”
His tone was surprisingly hostile. Numbtongue eyed Pawn warily. He’d never really talked to the Antinium, and the Worker was giving him a long look. Erin narrowed her eyes as she looked from Pawn to Numbtongue. And then, suddenly, she blinked.
“Are you…jealous, Pawn?”
“…Maybe.”
