Veron raised his eyebrows, trying to keep up with the movements. He blinked his eyes when Jayce’s form started to blur slightly, as if she had split into several versions of herself. He could see blood dripping from her eyes as Aaron rushed her.

His sword glowed slightly before it broke through appearing chains, then he rushed forward again, as if he was flying. His sword scraped past something invisible and then the tension snapped, a horizontal strike cutting through one of the strange apparitions. An arrow caught him in his side but his movements didn't change, fluid and confident steps bringing him closer to the blurred forms of Jayce.

He cut through another one and Veron thought it was over. A blinding flash of light flared up, Aaron caught in chains when the light faded.

Jayce shot three arrows into him, standing now in front of him with another arrow pulled back and aimed towards his head.

“I could take that,” he said.

“You want to test that theory?” she asked.

Aaron lightly pulled on the ethereal chains and sighed. “Alright. You got me.”

The strange blur around Jayce vanished and she cleaned away the blood that had run down from her eyes. Veron now noticed the smells of metal.

Blood and Fae Relics. Illusion and Light?

“You seem impressed,” Stewart said.

“He seemed unstoppable,” Veron said. Even now, he was watching Aaron pull out the arrows that had pierced through his armor one by one. He didn't even flinch, and their healer didn't make a move to help him either. As he watched the light emanating from Aaron’s hand, he wondered if he had the Way of the Healer as well, or if he was using a Relic from his own Path.

“Yeah, it's usually a toss up between those two. Though, she's gotten better with that light relic. You can tell he's hesitant because of it.”

“You can?”

Stewart gave him a look and smiled slightly.

“What's the general Path level of your group? Sorry if that's an inappropriate question.”

“What's yours?” Stewart countered.

Veron looked at him. He knew they were higher than him, and he had a feeling they knew that already, and he still felt reluctant to share it. Maybe because it would make him feel vulnerable, but more so, because he almost felt embarrassed. The realization amused him and confirmed once again that he was becoming a little more competitive.

“I'm a Modest path.”

“I see. Would have thought at least Adequate, but maybe you just seem more experienced than most at your level. Most of us are Greater. High Silver or even Gold rank in terms of the Hunter’s Guild.”

“Right,” Veron said. He was getting a little more of an idea of what that meant. He had seen plenty of Gold ranks fight in Perrion, but they didn't stand much of a chance against the cursed either. Seeing the bout here and having Stewart explain that they were essentially Gold ranks felt sobering.

They were far beyond what he had seen from the Wolves.

“Who wants to go next?” Aaron called out.

Veron glanced at Stewart, then back at Aaron. “I’d like to try.”
