CloneRequirements: Creature with mana.Source: Living FlameDomain Respawn creates two [boss], three [raid], or five [champion] identical copies of this monster. Each clone of the enhanced monster gains the following skill:Mana: You may domain-respawn any dead clone. Requires full mana pool and focus – getting hit cancels the summoning. Cast Time: 10 seconds. Skill – Domain Magic

“I forgot about that,” Calen said, pursing his lips in thought.

“What, a malfunction in your infinite notebook?” Ali snipped cheekily, having the satisfaction of seeing his ears redden.

“They do have barriers, though,” she added, recalling the Living Flames with their impenetrable shields allowing the free cast for respawn. “We need a solution for that. My ice mages, maybe?”

“I can shoot through barriers, too, remember?” Calen said, his mind clearly calculating options. “So can Seth with his damage curses. Also, the light mages with their beams. I think we can do this, Ali. This is a workable plan, and we even have redundancy. Come, we can work out the details on the way back to the guild meeting.”

Somehow, the idea of turning the tables on the monsters and shooting through their barriers felt like a suitable kind of reciprocal karma.

***

Ali hovered in the air, surveying the scorched-earth devastation the raid had unleashed upon the area. Nothing moved – alive or undead – except for the Galdrone Tetrad themselves.

She had thought the guild meeting would be a quick one and that they would return and attempt the fight within the hour, but the strategy discussion had taken ages. Vivian had postponed the fight for an entire day, insisting the guild take the time to stock up on enough mana potions and mana leech gear.

In retrospect, though, Ali felt she had been able to use the time quite well. Below her, and all around, towering above her, was the strangest minion army she had ever summoned. Also, likely the most expensive, costing nearly twenty thousand mana and leaving her with a little less free mana than she was really comfortable with, but she tried to trust the plan. Better to have the mana tied up in minions than having it being stolen by that Mana Short ability.

She glanced at the minions bringing up the rear of her army.

Malevolent Lirasian Oak – Ancient Treant – level 180-188 (Nature / Death) x5.

She had brought an ancient forest to this blasted land of arcane magic and corruption. The giant, dark trees loomed ominously, creaking and groaning as they picked their way inexorably across the corrupted dirt to the positions that she had assigned them. The lynchpin of her strategy, these hulking monster treants, twisted and warped remnants of Lira’s magic, would serve as mana generators for the raid, primary healers, and area damage all in one.

Looking insignificantly tiny, marching along among the writhing roots of the ambulatory forest, were her primary ranged damage dealers.

Archer – Sylvan Elf / Plant – level 140-144 (Nature / Death) x5.Sylvan Storm – Sylvan Elf / Plant – level 139-142 (Nature / Lightning) x5.

Calen had decided in favor of Death’s Grasp, so Ali had summoned the original sylvan archers with their nature and death affinities to take advantage of his weapon’s curse. Her new Sylvan Storm archers were her answer to the dungeon’s continuously summoned undead. Each of her Sylvan army moved in the shadows of a massive treant, taking advantage of their Dark Restoration plant restoration aura. The sylvans all sported parasitic rings and either Death’s Grasp or The Scourge of Deadly Creep as their weapons, save for the sole Sylvan below level one-forty who sported Calen’s max-leveled hellfire bow. Zor’kan had helped her learn the Vampiric Bracer of the Bat, so her archer army would be entirely self-sufficient, with both mana and health leech. Just in case, every one of them carried a dozen stamina potions, too.

It was the theme of her choices; everything she could do to circumvent the mana lock.

Bloodwielder of Aman Rak – Troll – level 169-173 (Blood) x5.

Other than the Treants, her only healers were blood shamans – immune to mana hijinks, and able to offer the raid Vampiric Hex, led by Joraa.

Carnage Berserker – Giant Troll – level 170-176 (Blood) x5.

Seeing five carnage berserkers striding forth in modified death knight armor, wielding the greatswords and greataxes they had plundered from the Crypt of Kings was a terrifying sight indeed, especially with Tol’brekk standing a head and shoulders above even the other giant trolls, but she had to admit, Thuli had performed a miracle working the anvil and forge overnight. Again, not a speck of mana in sight.

The rest of her forces were designed to operate at range, supporting the raid.

Eye of Agnor – Demon – level 158 (Ice / Lightning).Eye of Agnor – Demon – level 158 (Arcane / Lightning).

The Eyes of Agnor brought Lightning Vulnerability and chain lightning. The curse alone would be worth it, given the number of Sylvan Storm archers she’d made. The ice magic was merely an optional extra, although the Glacial Chill curse would improve the damage of all the ice magic wielders. However, against a caster boss, the Interrupted Casting arcane curse would be worth its weight in reduced raid healing.

Spirit Walker – Troll – level 159-162 (Soul) x3.Mage of Piercing Frost – Troll – level 150-156 (Ice) x3.

Rounding out her last two roles, she brought some of her most trusty trolls. Although for very different purposes this time. The ice mages were the only mages she possessed that could shoot through barriers like Calen, and this was a key aspect of their strategy for defeating the respawn magic of the clones. Without them, the raid would be forced to kill all the cloned bosses simultaneously. Finally, Kir’vella and her witch doctors could drain mana with Soul Drain, and gift it with Ritual Infusion – a second effective way to control mana which might prove essential. Ali had high hopes that they could dodge the Mana Short by escaping to the spirit realm. Each of her mages and witch doctors had a Tusk Ring with a storage enchantment crammed full of mana potions.

“Looking good, Ali,” Calen observed.

“I just hope everything goes according to plan,” she answered.

“It won’t,” he said, grinning at her. “But that’s what redundancies are for. Come, let’s get this show on the road.”

Mato growled, feeling uncomfortably small even in his Dire Bear Form, but he supposed it was inevitable, after all, he stood among the massive berserker trolls and the even more enormous treants.

He summoned his Lirasian Sage, feeling the familiar sensation of its powerful vitality aura augmenting his health, and sent it to orbit Ali, who sat on one of the lower branches of her biggest treant.

Riding into battle, he thought, grinning a little.

It was a complex strategy, but even though he had fully internalized the details, his own job was remarkably simple. He had the third Galdrone Tetrad from the left.

Hit it hard, get hit harder, he thought. Oh, and don’t die. It was a joke among the guild tanks, and he had to admit he quite liked it.

“Ok. Let’s get this started,” Lyeneru said. “Healers ready?”

“Aye,” Belmar answered on their behalf.

“Tanks?”

“Ready,” Sabri called out after a brief hesitation to meet his gaze.

“Ok, begin.”

With that, Mato ambled out in front with the rest of the tanks, chuckling inwardly that the raid leaders always checked with the healers and tanks, but nobody ever asked if the damage dealers were ready.

Ali had mentioned the mana resonance, and now that he was aware of it, he felt the subtle buzz as it hit his Sanctuary aura, and the instant it did, the floating cubes smoothly morphed their way to the ground, as if unwrapping and unrolling their geometries was a form of locomotion. A great chaotic mess of purple elemental facets and prisms approached, seemingly smooth and slow, but covering ground deceptively rapidly.

He had his target. With a glance behind to confirm his Blood Shaman would be in range, he charged forward, crashing into hard elemental plates with a roar and a slash of void magic. It buzzed angrily at him, and he struck a second time, stacking up a second charge of Brutal Restoration. Slowly, he backed out of the chaos as the other tanks fired rocks, smote, or shouted to secure their targets.

A rippling cascade of magic burst from within the elementals, tearing through all the tanks as Arcane Burst detonated among them, and less than a half second later, he had a druidic restoration buff and a crimson streamer of Blood Siphon restoring his health.

Healers are on point today.

Several glowing spheres materialized orbiting the cubes, whipping around to impact against his armor and shoulders: blunt physical damage. He simply treated the attack like he would a mace. With Critical Block. The familiar crack drove his paws into the soft, squishy ground as tremendous damage was reflected back into the elemental.

But then it flickered and vanished, leaving a rapidly expanding bloom of magical energy that shredded through the tank group, picking him up and tossing him flying.

Fuck, it didn’t do that last time. Frantically, he searched for his target, finding it twenty yards away, trying to smash his shaman healer’s ribs through its spine. Still flying through the air, he saw the sphere-mace crack down upon the shaman’s shield, driving her to her knees in the muck from the massive force of the strike.

Hold on, he thought, triggering his Charge the instant his paws touched the ground. Mud and worse sprayed into the air behind him as his heavy body barreled into the Galdrone Tetrad, claws trailing streamers of void magic.

Buzz off, sparkles! Leave my healer alone!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
