“Ah! S-Sorry, my brain just buffered a little there. I-I mean uh— I was just thinking. About where to put the knife. In the giant monster pig.” She winced at herself as she felt all three of them staring at her strangely. “Anyway! Here I go!”

She tried her best to shake off the embarrassment as she began cutting.

Saelin and Draven gave each other a look, and Saelin used a fist to make a knocking gesture on the side of her own head, probably referencing Elva’s Direwing fall. Draven nodded.

At least I have something to blame my stupid crap on, Jessica thought ruefully as she pushed the dagger through the meat. Even back on Earth, she had a habit of letting her mouth go on autopilot with babbling nonsense while another part of her brain tried and failed to tell herself to just shut up.

Guess some things never change…

She forced herself to focus on getting the knife under the Grubboar’s skin and then cutting it free of the flesh as Korrin had shown her. She made a bit of a mess of it; it certainly wasn’t as clean as his. But still, he nodded approvingly. She then worked on cutting into the meat and trying to make steaks the way he had, which, to be fair, she didn’t do too bad a job of. It was better than the messy strips she had cooked when it was just her and Iris in the woods, but not nearly as nice as his.

A short while later, the carcass had been reduced to little more than bones, scraps, and stringy bits of meat still clinging stubbornly to the skeleton. They wrapped the cut steaks in a waxed bag Draven produced. Besides all of that, there was a small pile of wasted bits lying around that Jessica noticed Iris was eyeing. Korrin noticed as well and asked, “Can I give her a scrap?”

Jessica looked at Iris.

Iris said, “I will bite him.”

“She’ll bite you,” Jessica said, reaching for one of the scraps herself and tossing it to Iris. She plucked it out of the air and devoured it with a few quick chomps.

Draven examined the sky, noting how it was getting dark. “I know a good spot to set up our camp. Everyone, follow me.”
