“I was not strong enough to kill them all at once. The assassin and the archer finished me off,” the giant troll answered, pointing to a corpse that seemed to be more paste than body and hanging his great head in shame. “The Seeker was forced to use her magic to respawn me during the fight. She never returned.”

“She threw the boss at them… twice? That’s nasty,” Malika said, surveying the scene thoughtfully. “Makes a little more sense, now.”

“Thank you,” Calen said, inclining his head toward the Troll and scanning the remains once again.

“Please find her,” Tol’brekk said, suddenly interrupting Calen’s return to focus on the remnants of the battle, a surprising depth of concern in his voice. “She is afraid, and I cannot defend her from here.”

“We will,” Calen answered, nodding to the berserker. He had certainly not expected a summoned monster to express such concern over his summoner, but something had most definitely changed when Ali evolved her class. Something he would need to discuss with her later when they tracked her down.

He turned to find Malika clearing the battlefield of corpses and items.

“I’ll get the one that fell off later,” she said, glancing up from the corpse of what looked like it might once have been an archer – at least by the appearance of the remaining gear and the strange smoking bow she had in her hands. “Here, you should upgrade.”

Malika tossed the bow at him, and he caught it easily, eyeing the blackened bow that immediately warmed the skin of his palm. He almost dropped it before sheepishly remembering that a little heat was neither here nor there, at his level. Not anymore. The sleek, sable surface reminded him of a Drake’s scales, almost mesmeric in its blacker-than-black perfection, but it was the sense of power thrumming at his fingertips that truly made him bite his tongue.

A moment later, his chime sounded as Malika shared the details with him.

Cinderstrike, Longbow of the Heretic – level 102An exquisitely wrought longbow of blackened ironwood, constantly emitting swirling wisps of dark smoke and perpetually warm to the touch.Damage: Ranged, Fire.+100% of Physical damage is converted to Fire.+23% to Magical damage with Ranged attacks.+35% chance to Ignite (+50% additional fire damage over 30 seconds).+61 Dexterity.+2 to skill level of Ranged skills.19% chance to inflict level 12 Slow curse on hit.Requirements: Dexterity 1071, Intelligence 357, Strength 97.

Created by Draevan Blazewright.Two-Handed – Bow

“Holy shit! Six enchants?” Calen exclaimed, profanity coming unbidden to his tongue. He read it again, unable to believe what he was seeing.

“Nice, isn’t it?” Malika grinned.

In that moment he felt a sudden rush of gratitude for his mentors’ insistence that he invest in strength – without that commitment, he wouldn’t even be able to hold this powerful bow. Cinderstrike… The amount of damage this bow was capable of, even without the ridiculous enchantments, was unbelievable. There was no comparison to his Howling Hellfire bow.

No physical damage? he wondered. How exactly would that work with crafted arrows? Will it turn them into fire? There was a moderate percentage increase to magical damage, but if everything was fire damage, then that would translate into a substantial boost – far beyond its appearance.

That magical damage enhancement should imbue all his light magic arrow enchants with Arrows of Brilliance or Motes of Light.

The increase to dexterity was a top-of-the-line enchantment for his class, but his eyes widened in surprise as he considered the final two enchantments. A ranged skill enhancement was extraordinary – his primary damage skills would all be enhanced simply by using this bow. The final cherry on the top of the cake was an on-hit proc which would slow any enemies he hit with a curse.

Given the way he had developed his class; multishot with magical arrows, and the enhancement of Spirit Arrows piercing through every target, any on-hit proc enchantment was multiplied in effect. He could very likely curse every single monster on the field with that slow, not to mention the potential of triggering the additional fire damage from Ignite on every strike as his arrows pierced through everything. Combined with something like his Grappling Shot, he would wield unprecedented control over any battlefield.

“Well? You going to use it?” Malika said, and Calen realized he had been staring at it with his mouth hanging open in surprise. His teeth made a little audible click as he hastily shut it.

“Yes,” he said, storing his old bow. “I will need to give up my stamina leech, though.” The one thing the Howling Hellfire Bow had over this one was an infinite well of stamina.

“Stamina potions?” Malika suggested.

“That’s one approach,” Calen admitted, twisting his mouth into a grimace. He did have a stamina cost reduction advancement, which should mitigate the cost, but then another idea occurred to him. With a little practice, he didn’t see why he couldn’t simply switch bows mid-combat to fill up his stamina and then swap back. Certainly, such a strategy would be a lot cheaper; he was still loath to return to the days when every fight would break the bank from the sheer cost of the mana potions he had needed. Even if Ali could just make them now – it was the principle. Besides, he’d much rather drink accuracy potions to increase his chances of critical damage.

“Calen,” Malika said, catching his attention with a sudden turn of seriousness to her tone. She was bent over the corpse of what had once been a priest. Whatever had happened to him or her had been incredibly violent, and the body looked like it had been through a shredder. But Malika was handling an unfamiliar ring. Then, she retrieved something from its storage; a two-foot-tall artifact of black stone with unlit runes etched into its surface.

The shrine.

Not any shrine, the shrine. He didn’t even need her to appraise it to recognize it as the one William Turner had used when they had all set out on their first quest to unlock their classes.

“We need to talk to Aiden,” he said, letting Malika know he understood the significance of her discovery. Its presence here on the body of a platinum-ranked dungeon exterminator from the capital had dire implications.

“Definitely not looters,” Malika said soberly.

“That’s for sure,” Calen said. Someone had used the shrine to purchase the services of this team to wipe out Ali’s dungeon – and that someone was linked to the assassination of the mayor, William Turner. There could be no doubt.

We need to protect her better than this. It seemed like a game, before… no longer. I don’t care if she has to ride around on Tol’brekk’s shoulder!

But first, they needed to find their friend.

Calen’s attention returned to the scene of the recent battle. He spent a coin to boost his tracking and perception skills with a fresh Blessing of the Wanderer and then shifted his attention to the strange sight that had come with his class evolution. Staring into the Spirit Realm – a place that was always there, somehow just beyond reach – felt like squinting at something perched on the bridge of his nose while underwater. Mana swirled around, wispy and ethereal, as his perceptions showed him confusing blurry remnants of the movement skills used during the battle and the echoes of magic leaking through, hazily reflected to him from beyond the veil.

“Here,” he said, finding himself in the center of the ring, standing beside the berserker. “This is the last sign of Ali.”

Her trails and the remnants of her magic were clearly drawn to this point and then culminated in some powerful spell, after which her trail stopped.

“That is where she was attacked,” the troll berserker confirmed.

“Alright, let’s go,” Malika said, and her body shimmered and vanished – just like one of those slippery Aman Rak witchdoctors ducking in and out of battle. But this time, he saw her appearing as an ethereal shade, wispy and insubstantial, on the other side of the realm veil. Her ghost turned toward him and beckoned.

He didn’t need to be asked twice; he activated Explorer immediately to trigger his Realm Hunter movement skill. His mana surged as his skill latched onto the fresh trail of soul magic Malika had just used and spun a spell-echo of it out of light. His body shimmered, becoming briefly insubstantial. The color leached from the world, draining away until he found himself standing there beside the only thing that had color in the entire area, Malika.

Without needing to consider it, he retrieved a ghost mushroom and ate it as he knelt to observe the ground. As the light saltiness of Mato’s ghost mushroom snack filled his mouth, his skills activated, showing him that indeed Ali had been here, but she hadn’t actually moved anywhere. Rather, it seemed that she had been subjected to some external force that had whisked her away – his skills could tell some movement skill had been activated, but the traces remained murky and indistinct. Sense Prey could tell him that Ali was somewhere near, but the where of it confused his spatial perception, twisting everything he knew in ways that didn’t make sense.

“Her presence is being obscured,” Calen observed, frowning at the sensation.

“Can you follow her?” Malika asked, looking around too.

“I’m not sure if I can, but I’ll try,” Calen said, getting to his feet, but several attempts later he was certain that whatever it was that had whisked Ali away had been skilled enough to conceal their tracks thoroughly – there was not enough of a trail left for Realm Hunter to follow.

“Not working?” Malika asked.

“No,” he growled, glaring at the dispersed remnants of mana as if he could cow them into submission with his eyes. “Whoever took her knew what they were doing. We’re going to have to do this the hard way.”

He retrieved his notebook, carefully recording everything his senses could track while the trail was still fresh. Who knew how long it would take to find Ali, and the trail wasn’t going to get clearer over time.

“As long as we find her,” Malika said, her lips drawn into a tight line.

Before anything bad happens to her, Calen added, but he kept the thought to himself. Write faster. Think of a plan. Think!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
