Ali stood in awe before the Gate, staring at the area beyond the shimmering ripples of space magic. She had not forgotten the dire situation she found herself in, nor the active raids she was still engaged in. Mato’s group had just pulled a nasty-looking cloned Ghoul boss while Calen’s group was deep into a fight against a powerful abomination that looked like an undead Fleshcrafter’s needlework project. The group led by Vivian Ross tackled a Mana Eater, struggling more than a little with a rough fight that denied mana to most of the group.

But the final raid group had just successfully defeated their Rock Beetle raid encounter. Malika sat beside Sabri, chatting quietly, so Ali approached them with her Kobold acolyte.

Malika will find a way to save me.

“Come on, it will be fun!” Cael said, dragging her attention back to the stark white polished marble of the room, and the incredible magic of the space-affinity Gate before her. She couldn’t activate her study trance, but she was most certainly memorizing every single rune she could see.

“No, it won’t,” Gage replied, his voice sounding sullen. Somehow Cael did not seem bothered in the slightest by his brother’s denial.

Who are these guys? Cael and Gage were not common names in this era. Definitely not Elvish or Gnomish – nor Dwarven for that matter. Given that they were speaking in Dal’mohran, they might even be Fae names from her bygone age, except they didn’t speak like any Fae she had ever known. Their manner of speech oscillated like a demented pendulum between the extremes of scholarly arrogance and petulant child, and she would almost certainly have heard of any space mage of this level of mastery if they’d lived anywhere near Dal’mohra. I guess I won’t be able to get out unless I go through.

Other than the Gate itself, there were no entrances or exits to the stark white room she had been trapped in. She studied the flows of ambient mana washing up against the surface of the Gate, noting with curiosity how they were rebuffed by the surface of the gate itself. She took a step forward, stepping into the magic. A chill played over her body as her face plunged through the shimmering surface of space magic as if she had just dunked her head below water. A weird rippling sensation passed briefly across her skin, and she emerged from the other side entirely unharmed, but with the lingering sensation that she should somehow be wet and struggling to breathe. She pushed it away, deciding her mind was just trying to relate the inexplicable experience to something familiar, and if she had to say it felt like entering a pool of water when she had stepped into it, disconcertingly it felt like emerging from the pool of water on the other side as if she had somehow entirely skipped the submerging part.

The experience only made her want to stop and study it more, but finding her way out was much more pressing.

“There you go, that wasn’t so hard, was it?” the disembodied voice of Cael sneered.

“No,” Ali answered quietly, finally relenting and acknowledging her captors’ comments. There were always more ways to wriggle out of a trap than what was presented to you, and the two brothers were clearly a part of the puzzle. Engaging them in conversation was the surest path to having them slip up and reveal a hint or a clue.

“This is my favorite room,” Cael said. “I think you’re going to love it.”

“I hate it,” Gage added. “Can you make her die quickly so I can harvest the experience?”

Harvest? That’s just nasty.

“What do I do?” Ali asked, pointedly ignoring Gage’s blatant bloodthirst as she studied the vista laid out before her. She stood on a platform of white stone with the still-active gate behind her. Several hundred meters away, another Gate floated above a similar platform, but the space in between was vast and empty. Ali’s eyes were drawn inexorably downward, struggling to make out the tiny features of the gray-cast land so far below that it looked like a map drawn with charcoal or pencil.

Dotted throughout the empty space between the two platforms were islands; large chunks of rock and stone suspended in the air, held aloft by the thick weave of the space magic woven throughout the domain and suffusing the area with thrumming power and energy. Each floating island was topped by the ubiquitous polished white stone, crystal growths, and the glowing golden arcane trees that still defied easy explanation.

“You must reach the Gate at the far end,” Cael said, confirming the obvious setup.

“And how do I do that?” Ali asked, staring down at the yawning abyss below her feet while irrational dizziness made her knees wobbly.

“You can walk along the islands, use the floating barriers, or be transported by the drones,” Cael explained.

Ali studied the scene before her. Several of the islands were joined by arches, bridges, or stepping stones made of a golden barrier magic just like her own. Strangely shaped geodesic monsters of glowing golden arcane mana floated slowly about, some going up and down, while others drifted back and forth, each projecting small platform barriers above them.

Arcane elementals, she identified them without the benefit of her Identify skill, judging their mana to be similar enough to Nathaniel’s Arcane Elementals. Although, these seemed substantially less powerful, intended to be mobile platforms, no doubt. Nice try, she thought, still very much worried about Gage’s blunt preferences for her death.

“Cael! Stop giving her so many hints. She is our prey, remember?” Gage objected.

“Obviously,” Cael said. “But we want her to have a good time.”

“I don’t,” Gage retorted, sounding a little annoyed with his good-natured twin.

Ali tuned their bickering out while she studied the scene. Linking her platform with the far Gate was a sinuous broken line of floating islands and suspended golden barriers – a softly curving path of steppingstones leading to the way out. However, the gaps between them were so wide that there seemed no way to cross without falling to her death. Still, Ali eyed the golden arcane mana with a deep sense of suspicion. Only Mom had my mana, she thought. And Ryn. How has it come to be here?

To her left, the floating islands and barrier bridges hovered in a strangely evocative spiral shape with arcane elemental platforms lazily traversing the spaces between them.

Something about this shape… Her Sage of Learning nibbled away at her mana as she studied it, but other than realizing there was something more to it than the obvious, no enlightening revelations came to her.

To the right, the islands fell away in a dizzying terraced zigzag that shrank to a tiny, toy-like appearance in the distance. Arcane elementals carried barrier disks like elevators. Several floating barrier shapes were arranged into lazy staircases, much like the stairwell she had made to enter her forest cavern.

This is crazy…

Suddenly, the entire world flickered, reminding her that despite the color of the dungeon’s magic, she was still most definitely trapped within the spirit realm. Every moving platform reset with the spirit realm echo and began moving again from their new positions.

“Well?” Cael asked. “What do you think? I spent a long time designing this and you have the honor of being the first to test it out.”

“It’s impressive,” Ali admitted. “How do you make the Gates?”

“Trade secret,” Cael said, his disembodied voice sounding far too smug.

“That’s too bad,” Ali answered. She hadn’t exactly expected he would launch into a detailed explanation, but it was worth the attempt. Still, it wasn’t a waste. He obviously found her question flattering, which was what she needed to do to get him to open up.

“Let’s all have fun!” Cael said, with an entirely inappropriate amount of enthusiasm and excitement as Ali stared dubiously at the terrifying drop below her.

Gage growled grumpily in the background.

“Calen, I need you.”

Calen whipped his head around to find Malika rushing through Weldin’s Town Portal the instant the guild’s Gnomish storekeeper summoned it, linking the tiny outpost of green amid the blighted woods to the guild hall back in Myrin’s Keep.

“What is it?” he asked, all details of the in-progress fight postmortem discussion with his raid group fleeing from his mind at the sight of her uncharacteristically flustered urgency. His gut clenched with a chilling premonition.

Something very bad has happened.

“It’s Ali,” Malika gasped, catching the momentum of her headlong dash with the disconcerting suddenness of her momentum control skill. “She’s trapped in the Spirit Realm!”

“What? How?” Calen’s eyes flickered over to the demonic minions Ali had provided to assist his group amid further gasps of shock from the assembled raiders. Even though Ali had remained at home in her dungeon, she had been fighting all day using the demons as proxies, never missing a single beat.

“The dungeon was attacked while we were out,” Malika said, already gesturing for him to follow. “Platinum group from Southport. During the fight, she tried to escape and was trapped… somehow.”

“Is she ok?” Calen asked.

“She said she’s fine…” Malika said, her brow furrowed in concern.

“But?”

Malika looked up to catch his gaze. “She had to kill them, and you know how she struggles with that. She’s holding it together – barely. We need to track her down and bring her back.”

“How are we going to do that?” Calen asked, several ideas springing half-formed into his mind at the shocking news. Ali? Trapped? We must save her… but how do we even get there? The Spirit Realm presented many challenges, but he was a Realm Hunter now, surely some of these new, unique skills at his disposal would prove useful.

“I can use Spirit Walk,” Malika answered, tapping the edges of the soul-affinity runic tattoos that peeked out from under the neck of her shirt. “And you can follow… can’t you?”

“That’s a good idea. Wait for me,” he tossed back over his shoulder to his group as he darted through Weldin’s conjured shimmering portal, rushing after Malika as she shot downstairs to the guild’s runic circle. He flared his wings as he appeared on the ground floor of the Grand Library Arcana, causing several nature wisps to dart away to hide behind the elder tree’s enormous trunk. Malika was already sprinting up through the air and he leaped after her, his wings catapulting him across the atrium and out through the second-floor doorway, leaving a chorus of screeching Glitter Dragons scrambling in his wake.

Calen froze. The dusty ruins were still encrusted with thick layers of bone, the scored flagstones, the ancient city rings, and the dark abyss over the edges – it was exactly like stepping back in time. This was a scene that had been burned into his soul by his own fear. The moment he emerged from the doorway, the view presented to his eyes was overlaid with the traumatic memory of falling from the high platform of the floating city rings, way back before he even had his wings. If Ali hadn’t thrown herself after me… He fed more mana to his wings, making them flare brightly, as to grant his past self the ability to fly. It was that desperate plummet and Ali’s subsequent spectacular rescue that had resulted in his being offered his Azrael’s Wings skill in the first place.

Get a grip, Calen. That was then. Ali needs you at your best.

He dispelled his memories and scanned the area. The Piercer Scorpion was long gone, as were all traces of the Ruins of Dal’mohra’s domain mana that had once infested these ruins. In its place squatted the largest giant troll berserker he had ever seen. Two greataxes lay propped up against a boulder within easy reach of his enormous hands and a heavy Eimuuran steel breastplate gleaming darkly on his chest. Tol’brekk. Calen would recognize him anywhere. Strewn about, staining the flagstones, were the mangled remains of what had once been people.

Keeping a wary eye on the giant troll, Calen swooped closer and touched down outside the broad ring of glowing green swirling mana – magic he recognized as one of Ali’s runic healing circles.

“Four?” he asked, glancing from the various corpses to Malika for confirmation. All the dead were extremely high-leveled. All of them wore – had been wearing – extremely expensive, high-level gear, by the looks of it, but the bodies were badly mangled. His eyes took in the tracks, scuff marks, and scorched remnants of magical attacks, rapidly piecing together the flow of the battle in his mind with the aid of his tracking skills.

“Looks like it,” Malika answered.

“Five.” The troll’s voice was deep and resonant, and Calen’s eyes snapped up to meet the intense gaze of the seated giant in a silent query.

“I threw the first one over the side,” Tol’brekk added, gesturing backward over his shoulder with an enormous thumb. “It is also dead. Puny weakling.”

“This doesn’t look very puny to me,” Malika suggested, poking half a witch with her toe.

“That one was level one hundred and forty-three,” Calen said.

“What? How did Ali kill her by herself?” Malika gasped.

Calen locked eyes with the giant troll for a long moment. It was clearly one of Ali’s, but even though he had faced Tol’brekk as a Death Knight, this incarnation felt more powerful somehow. His mana sight was nowhere near as advanced as hers, but even he could see the potent flows of domain mana swirling up through the giant as he squatted there quietly observing them, ready to spring into action at a moment’s notice.

“You killed them all?” Calen asked, finally deciding that if the boss was willing to talk, that would be the fastest way to the answers he needed. Certainly, if the troll berserker had dealt with the missing tank early in the fight, and the tracks and signs seemed to support that theory, it explained how the tremendously unbalanced fight had come out decidedly in Ali’s favor.

“The Seeker and I faced them together. She gave them the chance to withdraw, but greed drove them and we were forced to fight,” Tol’brekk rumbled.

“Greed for what?” Calen asked, looking around at the desolate ruins.

“They wanted magicite,” he answered, turning and pointing a massive arm toward the outer ring where the distinctive glow of the pool of liquid light-affinity mana seeping from the ancient, cracked mana condenser broke the gloomy darkness.

“I see,” he said. Clearly, the group had been driven by a desire to loot the artifact, but the troll had to have been leaving out a lot. Ali would not have been willing to kill them unless she had no other choice, even if she had to give up the magicite to a bunch of looters. “Where is she now?”

