Ren walked back to the Garrison and through the busted door. He didn't go up the stairs, though. Ren held his head up high, concentrated on his personal Aura, and smiled as he walked through the throng of dwarves coming to see the aftermath of the battle. Ren walked all the way through the Garrison to the main gate to Dornrach. He nodded slightly to the guards there, who opened the gate for him. Ren took a deep breath as he stepped outside the gate and it closed behind him.

You've been quiet this whole time, Teepo. Ren thought to his friend.

“Yeah.”

You don't have anything to say about all of this? Ren started to run.

“I wanted to wait until we were alone.”

We can't get any more alone than this... so, what did you think?

“That... was... AWESOME!” Teepo shouted and then chittered in delight.

Ren laughed and then ran all the way back to House Neram. He came to the gate and saw that it was locked. Ren smiled, looked around to make sure no one was around, then climbed the 8 foot wall easily. Most of the mortar was missing from a lot of the bricks, and it made great handholds.

I'll be fixing this outside wall first. Ren thought. It's way too easy to get in this way.

Ren hopped off the other side and crossed the courtyard. He entered the house and heard 2 female voices talking, and shut the door.

“I'm back early.” Ren said, walked into the main room, and saw that Nathalia and her mother sat at the kitchen table.

“Hi, Ren.” Nathalia said.

“Hi.”

“Good afternoon, Ren.” Narhilda said. “I like your red leather armor.”

“Thank you, My Lady.”

“The discharge came today, then?” She said.

“It did.” Ren said. “I assume that means...”

Narhilda held up several pieces of parchment. “These are notices that all of House Neram's debts have been settled.”

Ren smiled. “That's fantastic.”

“It is.” Narhilda said. “Nathalia and I were just discussing something very important.”

“Oh? What was that?” Ren asked.

“What we were going to do with you.”

“My...My Lady?” Ren said, surprised.

“Well, with all of the House's debts gone, that part of our contract with you is null and void.”

Ren widened his eyes. I didn't receive a notice about it, though! Ren thought. “And have you come to a decision?” Ren asked.

Both women nodded slightly and Narhilda shuffled the parchment papers a bit. She took a folded one out from underneath the small stack and stood up. She waved Ren over and handed him the parchment paper. Ren held it in his hand, but didn't look at it.

I don't want to read it. He thought. If it's a paper ending our contract, or an eviction notice... I... I don't know what I'm going to do. I dont want to leave here. Ren closed his eyes and took a deep breath. I have to read it, or I'll always wonder what it said. He opened his eyes and unfolded the parchment paper to read it.

It was a note of recommendation to see a stonemason from the Guild.

“My... My Lady!” Ren said, surprised. Narhilda laughed.

“I told you he'd think we were kicking him out if you did it like this, Ma.” Nathalia said, a little unhappily, and shook her head. “I'm sorry, Ren. She's getting to be a terrible tease, lately.”

“I... I'm sorry...” Narhilda said and kept laughing. “I couldn't... be sure...” She said, and then eased her laughing to a stop. “But... the look on your face... it let me know that you care as much about staying here, as we do about having you stay here.” Narhilda stepped close to Ren and took his hand. “I wanted you to know that neither I, nor my daughter, would ever ask you to leave, Ren.”

Ren squeezed her hand slightly.

“After everything you've done for us...” Narhilda said. “...this will always be a home for you, whether you need it or not.”

Notice!

A new Spawn Point is available to you. Activate now? Yes / No

“Yes.” Ren said, and smiled as a medium-sized spawn point appeared in the main room. “Even though you were only teasing, it made me realize how much I wanted to stay here, for as long as I'm in dwarven lands.” He walked over to stand on the spawn point. “Set Spawn Point.”

Notice!

You have selected to change your spawn point from Safe Zone: (MASTER OF ALL, JACK OF NONE) to Safe Zone: (HOUSE NERAM).

Confirm: Yes / No

“Yes.”

Spawn Point Set!

Whenever you die, you will appear on this spot after the respawn timer expires.

“Thank you.” Ren said. “Both of you, for letting me come into your home like this.”

Both women came over and gave him a hug, as a second key formed around Ren's neck.

“It's as much your home as it is ours, now.” Narhilda said and Nathalia nodded, then both held out their hands for him. Ren took Nathalia's hand, stepped in close and gave her a quick kiss on the cheek. She widened her eyes and put a hand on the spot; then he did the same to her mother Narhilda, who blushed slightly and lowered her head a little, to try and hide it.

I guess they only expected me to kiss their hands; but that's not part of the Acceptance ritual. Ren thought and smiled. He held up the piece of parchment. “If you will excuse me, I have an appointment I need to get to.” He said, bowed slightly, and walked through the main room to leave the house.

“You definitely surprised them, that's for sure.” Teepo said.

Why is that? Ren thought and started to run to the main part of the city.

“Well, if my knowledge of Dwarf Mourning Rites is still right, that was the first kiss Narhilda's had in the 12 years since her husband died.”

Ren nearly stumbled, but caught himself and kept running. You're joking!

“No. She's got another 3 years before she can even announce that she's no longer mourning.”

Wow... that's a long time to not have someone kiss you. Ren thought. I have a hard time waiting only a few weeks to kiss my girlfriend!

Teepo chittered in laughter and Ren entered the main city. He took the corner and went in the opposite direction that he'd go to arrive at the Garrison. He made it to the Stonemason's Guild and came to a stop outside. Ren admired the structure, as he was sure that was the intent of building the thing. It almost defied gravity with the way some of the terraces were set up, and the balcony at the top was halfway over the street. Ren walked up to the doorman and showed him the parchment. The doorman told Ren where to go and opened the door to let Ren step inside. The lobby was just as outrageous as the outside and Ren smiled.

They definitely know their stone masonry. Ren thought and followed the doorman's directions. No one stopped him from walking anywhere he wanted. Ren was tempted to just wander around and see what he could find; but Narhilda had gone to all the trouble to set this meeting up, and Ren didn't want to disappoint her by slacking off. He found the door he was looking for and knocked.

“Come in, my good man.” A hearty voice said and Ren opened the door. “I heard you coming down the hallway.” The dwarf said. “Sit, sit!” He waved to what looked like a hard wooden chair. “I'll be with you in just a minute.”

Ren walked over to the chair and looked at it. That is not a good chair. Ren thought and moved it out of the way, replaced it with the big comfy one that he'd made in the brig, then sat down. He watched the dwarf play with little stone blocks, as he tried his best to stack them without having them topple over. He wasn't having any success with it, however.

“Bah!” The dwarf said and pushed the blocks off to the side and then looked at Ren. “I'll get it one of these da... where did that chair come from?”

“Me.” Ren said and smiled.

“Well, at least it looks better than that monstrocity.” The dwarf said, waving at the offending chair. “Worst 10 gold I ever spent.”

Ren widened his eyes. I might pay 2 copper for it, but that's only if I wanted it for firewood.

Teepo chittered in laughter.

“About House Neram...” Ren said.

“Ah, yes. You want to hire me to work on it.”

Ren shook his head. “No, I'd rather learn from you.”

The dwarf's eyes widened. “You WHAT?!?”

“I'd like to learn your trade.” Ren said.

“Get. Out.” The dwarf said, angry.

“What is it?” Ren asked. “I can pay...”

The dwarf stood. “I was willing to see you as a favor to Lady Neram, because we were old school friends, but I won't sit here and be insulted!”

Ren stood as well. “How did I insult you?”

The dwarf scowled. “Asking me, a High Tier Professional, to teach!” He said and huffed. “As if I'd reduce myself to teach a commoner all of my tricks... ah, techniques. Techniques!”

Ren stored his chair and slid the ugly wooden one back to it's place. “My apologies for unintentionally insulting you.” Ren said and stepped away from the desk. “Before I leave, however... do you know of anyone who would be willing to... reduce themselves to my... commoner status?”

The dwarf clamped his mouth shut and Ren pulled the comfy blue chair out again.

“I'd be willing to... ah... forget that I left this chair here... if, somehow... I might have found a name somewhere...” Ren hedged and slid the chair forward.

The dwarf looked at the chair, then at Ren, then at the chair again. He took a piece of parchment from his desk, wrote something on it, and held it out. Ren walked over and took the parchment and put it in a pocket.

“Now... where did I leave that really comfy chair?” Ren said and turned around to walk out of the room. He got to the door, opened it and stepped into the hall. “Nope, it's not in here.” Ren looked at the dwarf, and saw that he was already slumped in the chair. Ren closed the door and took out the piece of paper. He smiled and left the Stonemason Guild's building. He walked a half dozen streets over, and came to a run down 1 storey building. Dust covered everything, and there were stone bricks everywhere. Stacks and stacks of them filled the courtyard, and Ren saw several people moving around, also covered in dust. Some were even carving stones into different shapes.

“Yes, I definitely like this place much better.” Ren said and smiled.

“Me, too!” Teepo said and hopped out of the hood, and skittered across the courtyard.
