I'm going to try and get Groggot out of here, before he gets trapped in a job he's going to hate so much because of boredom. Ren thought and smiled. “Thank you, sir.” Ren said and saluted.

“You don't have to do that, either.” The Commander said, but saluted back when Ren held it in place.

“It was an Honor meeting you, sir.” Ren said and left the Commander's office. He equipped his Travelling Clothes and went back to the training area to talk to Groggot. After several failed attempts to convince Groggot to give up the service, Ren told him that he had 2 more weeks to change his mind, and bid him farewell. Ren said goodbye to the other Recruits, and then to Ghomhan the Knight. Ren turned around and walked to the gate, and just as he reached to open it, a klaxxon sounded.

“Recruits! Fall in! Move it! Move it! Move it!” Ghomhan hollered.

“What's going on?” Ren asked as the Recruits formed a line by the gate.

“Evacuation to the bunker.” Ghomhan said and opened the gate. “Forward, march!”

Ren followed them into the next area and saw that all gates were now open. “Ghomhan, what's really going on?”

Ghomhan sighed. “Trouble at the front. We evacuate to the bunker before the catapults start firing.”

“Catapults!?!” Ren nearly shouted.

Ghomhan nodded and pointed up. “On the battlements. They're just barely strong enough to reach the front lines of attack.”

Ren looked up. “Where are the stairs?”

Ghomhan looked at Ren like he was crazy. “What?”

“Where are the stairs? I gotta see this!” Ren said, excitedly.

“4F3R, but you'll never get up there.” Ghomhan said. “Warriors only.”

“Thanks!” Ren said and turned around. “Groggot!” He said. “Are you bored yet?”

Groggot nodded slightly.

“Then follow me, my friend. We have to see what's happening!”

“He can't do that.” Ghomhan said. “He has to get to the bunker.”

“What if this is just an exercise?” Ren asked. “Is he under orders, or is this just procedure?”

Ghomhan sighed. “It's just procedure.”

“I'm going up, Groggot! You can come if you want to!” Ren said and ran towards the open gate of 4F3R. Ren went inside and there was a huge set of stairs there, but no guards. He could hear running footsteps, though. Ren started to climb up the 50 feet of stairs and Groggot joined him when he reached the first platform. Ren smiled and they jogged up to the top. Once there, they saw a sight they'd never seen before.

What looked like a thousand dwarves, swarmed over the battlements. All of them carried some type of weapon, but most were crossbows of some kind. Some tended the catapults positioned at certain junctions that were wider than the others, about every sixth crossing. Ren concentrated on his Command Aura and ran forward. Groggot followed closely behind. It only took about 10 minutes for Ren and Groggot to reach what the dwarves called 'The Front', and they stopped at the last battlement, surrounded by dwarves. The dwarves paid them no attention, however.

Ren saw a huge open field that was several miles across, and nearly a mile long, and ended at a thick forest. The field was pitted with craters and debris, and some of the craters were filled with what looked like rancid water. Ren stared at the foot shaped divots in the ground near some of the craters, and followed the path right up to the battlement he stood on. The foot shaped divots were about 4 feet long and 2 feet wide.

“No way.” Ren said. “No WAY!”

“What is it?” Groggot asked.

Ren put a hand on his shoulder. “Giants, my friend.” Ren said. “Giants.”

Groggot grinned and pulled the battle axe from it's sheath on his back. The klaxxon sounded again and everyone froze; except for Ren and Groggot, who almost shook in anticipation. Ren heard a rustling in the trees and a giant, about 20 feet tall, stepped out of the trees and saw the dwarf wall. It leaned back and bellowed some kind of war cry, then started to run. It wore scraps of leather that were barely sewn together.

“Fire!” someone said and Ren watched as catapult after catapult launched their loads against the fast moving giant.

“He's not even trying to dodge.” Groggot said, as flaming rocks landed close to the giant's path.

“He doesn't have to.” Ren said. “He's moving too fast for the catapults to range on him.”

Each shot fell short, or went a bit too long, and the giant kept coming.

“Stairs!” Ren shouted to the nearest dwarf. “Where are the stairs?”

The dwarf looked at him in surprise, but felt Ren's Command Aura, and pointed.

“Groggot, let's go! We don't have much time!” Ren said and ran for the stairway, making it down to the ground as the giant was about halfway across the field. The gates were barricaded, but Ren saw a dwarf sized door near the edge of the wall. He ran for it and tried the handle... but it was locked.

“We don't have time for this!” Ren said, pulled out his hammerpick, and smashed the door to pieces. Ren and Groggot ran outside to the startled looks of about a hundred dwarves in full plate armor, crouched behind barricades.

“Don't mind us, we're just passing through.” Ren said and jumped over the series of barricades that were arrayed in front of the main gate, on this side of the Garrison. “Groggot, gather up as much debris as you can. Nothing heavy.” Ren said and pulled out one of the giant leg-holding traps he'd made. It looked just like a bear trap, but it didn't have any teeth. He set the trap and hammered the giant spike into the ground to hold it in place. Ren could see the giant coming, shifted the trap over slightly, and tossed some dirt over the ends of it.

“Groggot! Hurry!”

Groggot came over with plenty of debris, and Ren placed most of it around the trap, to make it look like part of the landscape.

“Lay down here.” Ren said to Groggot, then covered most of him with light debris and some dirt. “When the giant hits that trap, he's going to fall... and probably be really pissed off.” Ren said. “Come out swinging!”

Groggot nodded and Ren went to the other side of the trap, equipped his red leather armor, and laid down to cover himself as well. Then waited. A minute later, thunderous impacts could be heard and the giant's footfalls shook some of the debris off the trap.

Nothing to do about that now. Ren thought. It's almost here.

The catapults stopped firing because the impacts were getting close to their own troops, and in the next moment, the giant tried to run by Ren, stepped on the trap, which clamped onto it's boot.

“Raaargghhh!” The giant yelled, then it face-planted into the ground, and it's ankle snapped. Ren jumped up, equipped the Great Earthshaking Hammerpick of Reaping, and lunged at the fallen giant.

Groggot was right there with him and they started swinging. Using Ghomhan's overhead strike, Groggot severed a hand, then almost took the giant's whole arm. Surprisingly, there wasn't a lot of blood. Ren on the other hand, tried to smash it's head, but it raised a hand to ward off the blow. Ren crushed that hand, and the shockwave shattered the elbow, but it was enough to deflect the killing blow. The giant bellowed and tried to roll over, but it's leg was caught and Ren heard the grinding bones as it struggled. It swung it's tenderized fleshy hand at Ren, who ducked it easily. Groggot took that opportunity to slice open the giant's side, then flipped the battle axe around and jammed the end into the open wound.

“Raaargghhh!” It bellowed again and rolled over to try and get Groggot, the one who had severely hurt it. Ren absorbed the quadruple Dark rune glyph from the hammerpick, and put the double glyph of Dark runes on it 5 seconds later. Ren hefted the hammerpick over his head and brought it down as hard as he could, to smash the giant's skull. Everyone nearby heard the sickening sound of bone crunching, but the giant kept bellowing and fighting. Groggot dodged the giant's flailing stump, and swung his battle axe to slice open the giant's throat. It gurgled as it tried to keep bellowing and swung at Groggot again. Ren took pity on it and took another swing at it's head. Another bone crunch was heard as the skull collapsed, and the giant was silent after that.

Notice!

Congratulations! You have killed a (Demented) Giant!

Feared throughout the wilderness, it is a mindless creature that feeds upon the flesh of anything that it catches. Knowledge of this half-starved giant is kept secret from the general population, as it is the bane of the Dwarf Army.

Rewards: 5000 XP

Fame Bonus: +30%

Level up!

You are now Level 6!

10 stat points automatically allocated.

Ability Change!

Slow and Steady: XP required to level up +105%, XP gains reduced by 25% (Capped). When leveling, 10 stat points will be gained instead of 5. Skills gain XP 55% faster

Notice!

You have put your life on the line to protect the dwarves and their homeland, for no other reason than because you could.

Influence: +500

Honor: +500

Notice!

You have defeated a creature 110 levels higher than you.

Fame: +250

Notice!

You have gained a new title: Giant Smasher

This title grants you: Strength +20, Deep Impact Level 1 (Beginner 0%), and Skull Cracker.

Ren dismissed the popups and switched from his Command Aura to his Camaraderie Aura. He stood there by the giant's body with Groggot and they looked at each other. Neither of the two had a trace of blood on them, and after a minute, a single dwarf cheered... and that was soon followed by hollers and cheers from every single dwarf that could see the battlefield. Groggot stepped around the giant's body and clapped Ren on the shoulder.

“That was fun!” Groggot said, loudly.

“That's my motto.” Ren said and laughed, as they were surrounded by armored dwarves and congratulated. A few minutes later, a hush fell over the crowd as they made a path for someone to walk through. The Commander stepped up to them and shook his head.

“I should have you arrested for interfering with a military operation.” The Commander said to Ren, and looked at the mangled body of the giant. “Seeing as how you've helped us with our little problem, though... I think I'll overlook it this time.” He said, then motioned to the giant's 21 foot long corpse. “As long as you don't tell anyone about this.”

Ren smiled and walked over to the giant's trapped foot, opened the leg-holding trap, and pulled it from the ground.

“What the hell is that?” The Commander nearly shouted.

“This?” Ren held up the giant trap. “It's a giant leg-holding trap.” He said. “Or... I guess it's now a giant leg, holding trap.” Ren grinned and stored it.

The Commander looked at Ren. “Where did you get it?”

“I made it, of course.”

“What?!?” The Commander said, shocked. “How did a Tailor make that?”

“I'm a Blacksmith, too.” Ren said, and most of the gathered dwarfs gasped. Hearing a group of men gasp is a little weird. Ren thought.

“You're a Tailor?” Groggot asked, surprised, and Ren grunted.

Quest Update!

Your Mentor Donan, told you to show the world what you can do. You've taken the first step on that journey.

Rewards: Fame +500

1000 XP

Fame Bonus: +38%

I forgot all about that Quest, actually. Ren thought and dismissed the popup. He looked down and remembered that he should loot the body. Ren knelt and did that, finding 20 gold coins, a giant pocket watch, a clump of brown hair tied in a ribbon, and a pair of high quality boots (giant-size).

What's a savage creature doing with these things? Ren thought and stood up to give Groggot the 20 gold coins. Groggot tried to refuse, but Ren told him that they couldn't split the boots or the watch and clump of hair, so giving him the gold seemed the only fair thing to do.

“That leaves you with just the junk!” Groggot argued and tried to hand 10 of the coins back.

Ren shook his head. “That's okay, Groggot. I love junk.” Groggot sighed and kept the money.

The Commander stepped forward and looked at Ren in the eyes. “The military wants to buy that trap.”

“Sorry, it's not for sale.” Ren said. “I only have two.”

“You have two?!?” He said, shocked.

“I told you the story about fighting the two greater stone golems.” Ren said and smiled. “I swore when I made the traps that I'd never go anywhere without them.”

“Then... can you make more?” The Commander asked.

Ren shook his head. “No, I'm sorry. I have a lot of work to do before I can even think about setting up another forge.” He said. “I even forgot to bring my high quality iron ingots.” Ren sighed. “I'll have to mine more ore and then smelt it, or maybe I'll just buy some.”

“What if I provided the facilities and the metal? Could you do it then?” The Commander asked, with a bit of twinkle in his eyes.

I'm glad Donan warned me about this. Ren thought. “I'm sorry, but no.” Ren said. “The forge needs to be set up a certain way; and the smelter isn't standard, either.”

The Commander frowned, trying to detect a lie; but since everything Ren had said was the truth, he couldn't call Ren a liar. Ren saw that The Commander was trying his best to catch Ren at something, just so he could keep Ren at the Garrison.

“All right...” Ren sighed. “I'll sell you one.” Ren looked around at the dwarves in the crowd. “I can't let you face giants like you've been doing, now that you know how much easier it can be.”

The dwarves cheered again and the Commander waved them to silence. “How much?” He asked.

“200 gold.” Ren said.

The dwarves gasped again.

“There's about 120 gold in iron alone, not to mention the work that had to go into it.” Ren said. “Plus, once you have it... I'm sure your blacksmiths can get the plans for it, then duplicate it.”

The Commander looked at Ren, nodded slightly, and handed over 2 platinum coins. Ren's eyes widened slightly as he'd thought they would have to go all the way back to the Commander's office to get the money. Ren pulled out the trap he'd stored into inventory, and put it on the ground.

“Now that you've seen how effective it can be... you're going to need some big strong dwarfs to carry the thing to the right spot, and hammer in the spike to hold it.” Ren said and clapped Groggot on the shoulder. “Otherwise, you're just giving the next giant something big to kick you with.”

Several dwarfs laughed, including Groggot.

“I better get out of here, before I'm drafted again.” Ren said and even more dwarfs laughed. Ren nodded to the Commander and walked over to the busted out door. Ren Appraised it at 2 gold and walked back to the Commander, holding out 2 gold coins. “Sorry about the door.” Ren said and put the 2 gold in the Commander's hand.

