After two subjective days of grueling soul work, Rain woke, had a quick breakfast with Ameliah, then left to freshen the camp and seek out Romer before either of them got caught up in something. He found the Runescribe picking up a large urn of ink from Myth. In the following conversation, he learned that the shininess of the liquid didn’t only come from Tel, but also from Arcane Crysts, though not as many of them. For Muffle runes, Romer needed Arcane-aspected ink, and that’s where Myth came in.

Normally when Tel and Crysts were shattered—which took quite a bit of doing—they would dissolve away into nothing, much like the bizarre Telmetal alloy Tallheart had made once upon a time. It took an Alchemist to properly powder them and bind them to the pigments.

The runes themselves were interesting too. Unlike the spell they were named after, and unlike the Muffler Tallheart had made for the forgewagon—currently quietening the steam engine powering the camp’s lighting—Romer’s runes didn’t dampen sound in an area. Instead, they blocked it, following the surface of whatever they were painted on. When multiple runes were used, they linked up with each other in some way that Rain didn’t understand, basically forming a shell of silence through which sound could not pass. This was a significant step up. Unlike with the Muffler, one could hold a private conversation inside the protected space without resorting to hand code.

One caveat to all of this was that Mana Manipulation couldn’t charge runes directly. Specially-designed intake runes were needed for that, and while Romer could draw them, he hadn’t yet worked out how to link them to anything else. Until he figured that out, he and Tallheart would be the only ones able to recharge the Muffle formations via the Energize Runes skill. Myth’s ink was capable of holding enough mana to power a Muffle rune for a few days, so it wasn’t exactly a problem, but it did mean more Tel spent.

Crafting was expensive. While it was true that Rain, Tallheart, and Ameliah had brought back a small mountain of Tel and Crysts from the depths, the company’s only real source of income right now was Dozer. Rain had several experiments queued up related to the slime’s money-conjuring, but as things stood, the tiny Essence Slime was only able to condense a dozen or so Tel in a day before he began refusing Rain’s mana. Unless that changed, there would simply be no way he could keep up with demand.

Bidding Romer farewell—off to visit Tallheart and Staavo as his first customers—Rain went to find his adjutant. At his request, Tarny had collected a list of items requiring either the captain’s authority or his particular set of skills.

First up was a quick meeting with Samson on the camp defenses, in which Rain learned that one of the hunting teams had encountered a crawler vine yesterday. He readily agreed with Samson’s suggestion that the teams be doubled up for safety, given the danger that the animate plants presented. Tallheart would be pleased to learn they were around, certainly, but for humans, there was no upside. They weren’t even monsters, somehow, so they didn’t drop Tel.

The next item on Tarny’s list brought Rain down to the blasted area he’d created the day before. People had started referring to it as ‘the scar’, and the plan was to use it as a staging ground for the caravan. The far bank of the stream was abustle with activity, but Rain’s current task had him visiting Corrin and Clubbs, who were presently working on this side to deepen the stream and dry and flatten the surrounding land. As a Geomancer and a Hydromancer, they were both able to sculpt mud, using Earthmolding and Hydrodirection from the Earth Manipulation and Water Manipulation trees respectively. In speaking with them, Rain learned that the two skills seemed to synergize when used in tandem, becoming surprisingly efficient for this task. As promising as that discovery was for the future, it was still a large area they’d been asked to de-swamp, and that was where Rain came in. The moment he’d finished refilling their mana pools, however, Tarny pulled him away, off to the next item on the list.

That turned out to be the authority-requiring kind, a meeting with Vanna and Mayor Graymond to discuss the plan for the caravan. Rain and Tarny crossed the stream, not using the partially constructed bridge Vestvall’s carpenters were working on, but simply wading across. Once the bridge was finished and the ground was dry, the entire camp would be moved to the far side, but for now, only the logging operation had been relocated. The second of Ascension’s two steam engines had already been set up to drive the table saw, and without a Muffler, it was making quite a racket. Shena was nearby, using her skills as a Woodsmith—Rain STILL couldn’t believe they called it that—to strip the bark from the planks the saw operators were piling beside her, straightening them while she was at it.

The loggers weren’t why he was here, though. Vanna and the Mayor were up near the tree line, so Rain waded through the mud to meet them, leaving Tarny behind to use Fall on the collection of workers while the leaders spoke, because why not. The meeting, mercifully, didn’t take that long, with everyone being in general agreement on the plan and the path they’d take down to the plains. When it was over with, Rain slogged back to Tarny, cleaned the mud from everyone in range, recharged Shena, and then Corrin and Clubbs for a second time. Only then did he head back to the main camp, this time to see to a matter of justice.

Yesterday afternoon while Rain had been out on his jog with Jamus, Smelt had been taking his daily inventory and had discovered a pair of enchanted aluminum longswords missing from the armory tent. He’d then gone to find Gardener, Rain being unavailable, and the Tracker had used Follow Trail to track down every single person who’d visited the tent since it had been set up, proving that Tracking skills were bullshit. The culprit turned out to be a Vestvallan grocer by the name of Larus. A search of his belongings had revealed the swords wrapped up in his spare bedroll.

Larus, of course, had denied everything, claiming ignorance of how the swords had gotten there and that he hadn’t ever set foot in the armory tent. Never mind that Gardener was able to match the very boots the man was wearing to the tracks. Never mind that he’d been badgering Smelt to sell him one of the swords for weeks now despite being told that Ascension’s equipment was not for sale. Never mind that several people had seen him carrying an oddly-shaped oblong bundle through the camp yesterday during the party.

The trial went quickly, ending with a confession in the face of the overwhelming evidence combined with some highly-effective looming. Larus, it turned out, wasn’t a total idiot, just the kind that thought stealing from the awakened who were helping you was a good idea and didn’t understand how Divination skills worked. He’d been well aware that there was no one out here to sell the swords to. His plan had been to carry them all the way to Three Cliffs, operating under the assumption that Rain’s Detection wouldn’t be able to sense the metal.

That just left the question of what to do with him. Rather than slapping the thief with a fine for the cost of what he’d stolen—which was basically impossible to determine, as aluminum was unknown to the market at large—or lopping off his hands—which was suggested a depressing number of times by people who should have known better—Rain sentenced him to time out. Larus would be free to make himself useful, such as on the axe teams or the construction crews, but otherwise, it was imprisonment and basic rations only while he thought about what he’d done.

…In a cage they’d need to construct specially for him, which was yet another thing to deal with.

This wasn’t the first trial Rain had presided over since Vestvall, but it was the first that resulted in serious punishment. Unfortunately, it wasn’t to be the last, as bad things tended to come in pairs. With Larus handled, he now had to deal with the matter of Mig and Del, the two Aspirants who’d been tasked with securing the armory during the party. They’d abandoned their posts to join the festivities, allowing the theft in the first place. That was arguably the greater crime, given what was in there.

All the enchanted aluminum equipment Tallheart had made. A considerable quantity of Tel and Crysts. Hegar’s sword and Anton’s bow, both still bound after all this time. More.

Rain had only trusted Aspirants with the task in the first place for the very reason that there was no place for a potential thief to go. Clearly, he’d have to revise his policy.

Using the codes as his guide, Rain fined Mig and Del in credits so heavily that they’d be paying it off for months, given the lack of potential jobs in an unranked zone. Even doing that much had been hard for Rain. Unlike Larus, he knew these two—liked them, even—but he couldn’t just let it go. He didn’t want Ascension to be a military company with strict discipline, rigid hierarchy, salutes, titles, and so forth, but neither could he allow it to be comprised of complete rabble. Discipline was a balance, and it was his job to ensure that it was maintained. Such were the woes of being in charge.

Further woes followed, dozens of tiny things needing his attention, from arguing with the nobles, to reviewing scout reports, to hearing petitions. Most of the last were trivial, easily settled or delegated, but one of them stood out, meriting more consideration.

Ujesh and Finn wanted to leave on a multiple-day monster hunt. It wasn’t the first time they’d asked.

As a Tamer and an Arcane Shifter, respectively, both were struggling to advance. The only monsters they had easy access to were the Crystal Slimes the company had carried here all the way from Vestvall—and Dozer, technically, but he didn’t count, being bonded to Rain and thus immune to their skills. Ujesh could have easily bonded any of the slimes, but he hadn’t, not even one of the ‘Greater’ variety. Crystal Slimes had basically zero combat ability, and Tamer bonds couldn’t be revoked without a skill in a tier he didn’t have access to.

Finn had a different problem. Arcane Shifters could inherently reacquire monster patterns, though they only had one transformation slot to start. Overwriting it basically meant starting over without any of the alterations you’d made to your form. That was a minor issue. The real problem was that being a Crystal Slime was apparently quite unpleasant.

Finn had gone into great detail describing the claustrophobic lack of sight, the unsettling bonelessness, and the overwhelming urge to clean everything in…hearing. The echolocation and the difficult-to-describe full-body-taste-smell-sense were also problems. The total package worked great for Dozer, but for a human mind, it was a bit much, especially when you considered the transformation process itself. Feeling your skeleton dissolve while your skin sloughed off only to reform into the clear, gelatinous membrane that would contain your newly liquefied organs…

Needless to say, Finn wanted something with a more familiar body plan. The trouble was finding it. Decently-leveled monsters weren’t unheard of in unranked zones, as Rain had discovered when he’d gone out to track down a murder-beaver, but they weren’t exactly hiding behind every bush and tree branch. Finn and Ujesh would have been over the moon to encounter anything as strong as a Skiffun.

Generally, monsters outside ranked zones were aberrants, having spawned, gained some level of intelligence, then left to wander in contradiction of their instincts. It wasn’t likely that such a monster would mindlessly attack the caravan as a younger one might. They would be old enough and smart enough to know better. A smaller group, therefore, would have a much higher chance of being attacked, hence the request.

After some discussion, Rain decided that the potential benefits outweighed the risks now that they were stopped, then authorized a five-day scouting and hunting expedition. He called for Ruce and Gardener—Diviner and Tracker—to go with them, to which they readily agreed, given the chance it would give them to practice their skills. To keep the four utility classes safe, Rain then recruited Lyn and Mahria, who’d been lazing about nearby and not doing anything productive. Six people was probably pushing it, but it was a damn sight better than eight hundred.

Before they’d left, Rain had discreetly called Mahria aside, then gave her a pair of accolades for messaging in the case of an emergency. He hoped that by trusting her with the secret—minor as it was—she’d feel more closely bound to the company as a result. He also hoped that the responsibility would encourage her to take things seriously. He’d almost picked Kettel to go for a similar reason. Fortunately, he’d regained his sanity in time.

Kettel, along with most of the other combat mages, had gone down to the scar for magic practice while Rain had been busy with the petitions. As soon as Rain was free, and before Tarny could appear with more work for him, he decided to head down there himself. There was something he wanted to see to on his personal to-do list, rather than the company’s. He didn’t need Kettel for that, though, but rather Nails.

When he arrived, he found the Mentalist indeed there, but he was presently in combat, facing off against Delfina in a one-on-one duel. Val was supervising, and a bit of a crowd had joined the other mages to watch at a much safer distance. Rain surreptitiously inserted himself into the spectators—as surreptitiously as his height and recognizable armor would allow—then turned his attention to the combatants.

Both wore leather helms, gambesons, and padded leggings. They had small aluminum bucklers held in one hand, leaving the other free for magic. Neither of them spoke as they circled each other, but that was hardly surprising, given who they were. Val was wearing a patient expression, watching with his arms crossed. His rapidly tapping foot gave away his real feelings on the standoff.

From the equipment, it was clear what drill they were doing. The goal here would be to strike your opponent’s body, which was made difficult by the attractive force of the metal bucklers. It was less about raising skill levels and more about mastery of one’s domain.

