Inviting Nails into the tent, Rain explained what he wanted, quietly so as to not disturb Ameliah. Then, he sat beside her and retreated to his soul to wait for Nails to send the time.

Message, it turned out, didn’t have the same problem as the king-link when it came to time dilation, or rather, it did, but with an asterisk. Where Rain had expected Nails to sound like Treebeard on Valium, he’d instead gotten single words with long pauses in between. Each word was spoken at a normal rate—’What…do…you…call…a…three…humped…camel?’ and so forth.

When Ameliah had helped Rain with this the last time, the time acceleration hadn’t been so extreme, so the effect hadn’t really been noticeable, nor nearly as annoying. Regardless, despite the new entries on Rain’s to-do list for determining how and why, the effect was welcome. It meant that as the acceleration continued to increase, inbound communication would remain possible.

Once Nails transmitted the first number of the second time stamp, Rain calibrated his clocks, then took a moment to work out the time acceleration factor. It was 4.96x, roughly what he’d estimated before. Returning from his soul, he then had Nails send the time to Ameliah, prefaced by a warning that he was about to do so. She woke almost immediately after the final message to thank him, and not long after, Nails left, neither knowing nor having asked about what any of this was for. He was cool like that. In his shoes, Rain would probably have died from curiosity.

The moment the flap closed behind Nails, Rain turned to pounce on Ameliah. She, knowing him all too well, smiled and stated a number before he could even voice the question. After a quick retaliatory kiss, Rain opened his interface to work through the math for the acceleration factor she’d given him.

Time Acceleration = 1 + (Effective Clarity) * (Class Mod) * (Coefficient)

Rain

Time Acceleration = 1 + (470) * (17) * (496.1 μs/s)

Time Acceleration = 4.96 s/s

Ameliah

Time Acceleration = 1 + (313) * (2.6) * (874.4 μs/s)

Time Acceleration = 1.71 s/s

Tallheart

#todo make clock

#todo rumble rumble rumble

It turned out that Ameliah actually had a higher coefficient than he did in the underlying formula. The difference, they supposed, was probably due to her having been awakened for longer despite being newer to soul manipulation. Really, though, it could have been anything. Natural variation between people, the fact that she had never damaged her soul, her general awesomeness…on and on it went. Rain made sure to jot down some notes for later pondering.

Ameliah, meanwhile, stiff and hungry, decreed that it was lunchtime.

Rain banished his interface with a flick, deciding that this was a pronouncement of both great wisdom and discernment.
