Kirginatharp decided to further assist Erick by returning to Oceanside, and using his [Eyes of the Goddess] to find, roughly, the Sovereign City royalty, wherever they might have gone. Syllea and Treehome went to Candlepoint, to act as backup for the Gate District, though they would return to the front lines for the assault on the other four Cities.

While Ophiels were doing five transformations at a time, and Erick was interviewing people as fast as he could get them to calm, and to talk, Nirzir and Grand Matriarch Lingxing Void Song paid Erick a visit in person.

The young woman and the older woman from Songli stood atop the stone of the city square, looking almost ageless in their white-skinned beauty, and in their white and violet dresses. They both bowed to Erick.

And Erick finished off the transformation of the person in front of him, saying, “One second, Nirzir, Lingxing.” With a flourish of power, Erick sent the sleeping Option 3 person into a waiting room that was inside a [Fairy Stronghold], and also inside a [Slowing Enclosure]. “I need to put all these new people away so that I can release them all at once, when the other cities fall… And that’s that one.” He turned to the archmage Songstress and the normal Songstress. “What’s up?”

Nirzir said, “We wish to speed along the creation of a Local Area Gate Network in Songli. We’ve been in talks with the other High Clans, and we’re ready to resume talks with you, though I assure you they will be rather quick if you are amenable to the normal sorts of trade agreements that you seem to be working towards in all other lands. As for my own indiscretion of requesting a marriage last time, that was uncouth, and I apologize.” She bowed again.

Lingxing bowed again, too.

Erick was emotionally drained from listening to people rant at him and then having to shove them into bodies and choices that they had not agreed to, but hearing Nirzir and Lingxing speak of movement in the High Clans… It was a good feeling. Erick smiled softly, and then he nodded. “I look forward to opening some Gates soon. Thank you both for showing up for this… It’s rather awful business but… Thank you for being allies.”

The two women straightened up.

Lingxing said, “Good day, Wizard Flatt. We will be taking our leave now, unless you have dire need of us. But, from the earlier discussion, you do not?”

“Not right now, and everyone has their own lands to protect. Thanks for staying as long as you did.”

“We will stay longer, if you desire it, but I honestly feel superfluous.” Lingxing glanced upward, at the Stars and lines of light hanging in the mid-morning light. “I have never seen a magic of such scale and precision and power before.”

Erick smiled a little. “If Nirzir wants to learn about the lines in the sky, she’s more than welcome to come by the House whenever. I have an art contest for how to best shape those lines over the Gate District. It explains about what the spell is and does; I am absolutely sure she can figure it out from that alone, once [Renew] is in the Open Script in a few months.” He added, “I haven’t actually gotten any of the people you wanted [Reincarnation]ed yet, Lingxing. Have them show up whenever, too— Whenever this war is over, anyway.”

Lingxing and Nirzir glanced outward at the Slowed nobility and soldiery of Killtree.

Lingxing looked like she had a lot of thoughts on Erick’s casual offer of [Reincarnation]s, but she kept those thoughts close to her chest, and simply bowed, saying, “I will endeavor to ensure that they make those appointments they were supposed to make.” She rose. “Good day, Wizard Flatt.”

Nirzir bowed once again, quickly this time.

And then the two women blipped away.

Erick went back to turning nobles into better people.

- - - -

Erick stood with Kromolok, Quilatalap, and Mox, in the middle of an empty city square as night began to fall once again. Dragons stood here and there on the roofs, and in the stands, while wrought and Elites from Oceanside stood apart, but only a little. Killtree was completely subjugated. Now came the necessity of occupying this foreign land.

Erick spoke to the crowds of allies, and House members, “Killtree has fallen, and Killtree will rise again. Hopefully, with the transformation of their nobility, their city will follow.

“Hopefully, there will be fewer horrors. Fewer monsters in the sewers, and in abandoned houses, and under beds. Fewer monsters in the palace, sitting on thrones made of tyranny. But there are still monsters coming down from the north, from the Forest. That will never change.

“I know some of you here wish to ensure that Killtree will rise correctly, and that includes many of the people of Candlepoint who did not participate in this capture, but who are watching through [Scry]s. So, I will allow any who wish to stay behind and control this land in the interim, to do exactly that, as long as you fulfill the basic requirements of governance; until the people of Killtree can once again fend for themselves.

“And so, I’m splitting our forces here.

“Overseer Mox and her hidden people, alongside many others, will be the start of those who remain in Killtree. They will also follow behind and set up interim governments that anyone else here can participate in, through to-be-determined mechanisms of government oversight.

“Inquisitor Kromolok and I, and any who wish to continue, will be continuing on.

“When we conquer the other Cities, more and more of you will likely split off, either to place yourselves in charge of the other cities, under Overseer Mox, or to do whatever you want. At the end of this war, I expect my dragons to form the bulk of the actual interim government, under Mox, as I have spoken with all of them and they all seem rather keen on that. The Dicers might slot in there as well. Kirginatharp’s forces will likely slot in there as well.

“As for our allies, I will be granting you all whatever sorts of spellworks and otherwise you think you might want, as rewards for this arduous task. I offer magics and my own promise of work, but not how to make those magics work. You have someone who wants a [Reincarnation]? Ask, and you will probably receive.

“The battle will resume in one hour real time.” Erick said, “If anyone wishes a night of rest in a [Hasted Shelter], let me know, and I will begin doling those out.”

The dragons bowed, their fealty openly displayed as their massive scaled heads and horns and bodies all dipped, and their eyes briefly shut. The Elites of Oceanside nodded, for though they would not bow to a foreign power, they were more than willing to show respect. A lot of people took after those Elites.

But the people of House Benevolence all took a knee, with many of them slamming a fist on their chest as they went down, lowering their heads. Only Mox remained looking at Erick, like Erick was the sun, and Mox loved to see the day.

Kromolok spoke some words of organization, and people started moving again.

Quilatalap merely smiled a little.

Erick took over a grand hotel of a thousand rooms with an [Expanded Hasted Shelter] in order to give half a day of rest to everyone who wanted it. Thirty minutes later, the flight of dragons and House Benevolence continued on to the next Sovereign City.

- - - -

The grand kingdom of Charme was located on a peninsula about 1,500 kilometers south of Killtree, and 1,500 kilometers west of the Curios. It was known as the land of a thousand Princes, with hundreds of smaller fiefdoms connected by well-maintained white roads to the shining white Sovereign City of Charme itself, which was positioned at the end of that peninsula. Surrounded by harbors and stone towers poking up from the Wikwacchi Ocean like distant lighthouses, the City itself was one of the most well defended oceanic cities in the world, on par with Eidolon in Continental Nergal and Eralis over in the Songli Highlands. The fiefdoms surrounding the City, spreading out across five hundred kilometers from the white city itself, were also a great defense against the armies of the other Sovereign Cities, who preyed upon Charme as Charme preyed upon them in turn.

Erick and his people had torn through all of those land-based defenses in the matter of a single night.

Erick had briefly considered flying right over the ‘suburbs’ of Charme and going straight to the capital in order to solve this ‘war’ right away, but Kromolok, who was very familiar with war and also with the various problems of Charme, advised Erick against a direct assault. After attacking the first major suburb about 200 kilometers outside of Charme, Erick knew Kromolok’s suggestion to be the correct course of action.

Erick opened with an [Undertow Star] upon that fiefdom outside of Charme, positioning it right above a grand hilltop castle. As tendrils of shadow and light touched down, the buildings, keeps, towers, and houses began to boil with people trying to escape in any way they could. Many of these methods of escape were yet more horrors for Erick’s nightmare vault, where he kept his thoughts on Shades, and on Terror Peaks, and on all the other shit he had needed to live through here on Veird.

The man who was the Prince of this hilltop town was an expert in Blood Magic, and that right there was almost enough to judge the man long before Erick actually saw him. But then Erick saw him, and it was so much worse than his imagination. As that Prince raced out of his castle he began spewing mutative magics, likely [Baleful Polymorph]-based, transforming guards and others into physical copies of himself. Suddenly there were dozens of tall, fit Princes, with blonde hair and blue eyes, running everywhere they could, trying to get away. It would have been comical to see so many men in dresses, or wearing nothing at all as their child-sized clothes burst, or watching them being trapped in armor that was a size too small, but Erick knew what he was looking at. There was no humor here.

There were simply people, temporarily transformed against their will, into other forms.

For a brief, irrational moment, Erick felt that the actions of the Prince mirrored Erick’s own actions in the transformation of Killtree. But then the duplicated people did not remain duplicates, and Erick realized he was being dumb. Half of the transformed simply exploded when Erick’s forces surrounded them, filling the air with even more transformative Blood Magic, of the subset known as Disease Magic. The other half turned into ravenous blood oozes when cornered.

None of those secondary clouds of Disease Magic produced more transformations, but they did leave a nasty Decay effect on anyone who got too close. Luckily, the Undertow Stars in the sky killed those clouds of magic, too. The Propagation Ban was already in full effect, though, so those clouds of Disease were not nearly as ruinous as they could have been. If it weren’t for that Ban, Erick suspected that Charme would have overrun Veird with copied Princes and blood oozes, long before now.

It took half an hour, but Erick and his people cleaned up that castle, while Quilatalap brought back the recently dead, and Erick turned blood oozes back into people.

Erick didn’t give the next Prince’s castle any warning at all. Their collective forces directly collected ‘Princes of Charme’ right out of their castles, first, and then they went for every single person who caused Erick’s [Undertow Star]s to really focus on them. Those tendrils of shadowed light easily showed who was Matriculated and who was not, based on the thickness of those tendrils and the light therein.

Assaulting and controlling Charme itself was a much larger task, for the city had a population of 150,000, and it was 75% well-maintained, with the slums only existing outside of the main city walls. Everything inside was stone, and it was built up in three levels, with the palace of the King of Charme located at the top level. It was well defended, and those defenses were half-active.

But as the sun began to rise, Kromolok and a newly expanded squadron of wrought inquisitors, priests, and soldiers of Stratagold, showed that they knew how to win a war in the span of a few hours. With Erick providing supreme air control and lockdown magics, they managed to capture and contain Charme in under an hour, even with all of Charme’s defenses and powers-that-be on high alert.

This was not a Forgotten Campaign, but Erick could definitely see that some of the new wrought thought of it as such. By the time the fighting was over, Erick had heard the phrase ‘Forgotten Campaign’ more than a few times from the contained populace.

Erick brought up the topic with Kromolok.

Kromolok said to Erick, “This is not a Forgotten Campaign at all… But it is close, which is why Rozeta had me come here and assist you, and why I chose to accept this godly command. Hopefully what we’re doing here is all we really need to do to clean up these Cities and leave them a lot better than how we found them. Soul Magic like your Blessing has needed to happen before, to properly contain some of the worst magics this world has ever produced, so we know that this works.” Kromolok said, “But, in an effort for transparency, you might be called upon one day to do this exact same thing, under my command instead of me being under your command, if it turns out that a magic you have made and released out into the world requires this level of ‘correction’. More likely, though, is that someone else will cause a problem that requires an actual Forgotten Campaign. You will be asked to assist with that, and I hope you will accept. It is our hope that you do not falter when we ask you to assist us to remake the world should something like that happen.”

“… Of course, Kromolok.” Erick said, “If you need me for a Forgotten Campaign, I will comply, but I say now that I would hope whatever horror happens doesn’t require a Campaign, and that Benevolence can see those problems before they get that big.”

Kromolok relaxed a fraction. “That is our hope, too. Thank you, Erick.”

A blue box appeared.

Thank you, Erick.

The box closed.

Kromolok added, “We should talk about waking up some of the people from Killtree, instead of letting them all sleep till the end of the war, too.”

Erick wasn’t sure about that. “Ah? Okay?… It’s a bad idea to let them all come out at once, I take it? Why? Less of a headache to deal with those people all at once, I would think?”

“You really should consider letting people get back to their lives, post-Blessing, and by doing so, you will show that if people comply then they can go back to their lives as quickly as we can get to them. We might even get some of these cities to voluntarily submit instead of fighting us every step of the way.”

