“… Ah. That’s a good suggestion.” Erick thought for a second. “We’ll make some overtures to the Curios, after we’re done with Charme and I release both Charme and Killtree to their interim governments.”

Kromolok nodded solemnly.

Erick turned his attentions back to Charme.

- - - -

The sun held halfway up the eastern sky. It was maybe 9 am.

All the nobility and powers-that-be of Charme had been gathered together at yet another city square. There were roughly 7,500 people there in that square. There were a lot of members of the royal family, which was extensive, and a lot of them looked rather exactly the same, but with minor variations. There was a clear gender expression differentiation between the men and the women, but between those two groups, extensive blood magic was on clear display in the uniformity of statures, noses, and body types. Most of the nobility of Charme was directly related to the royal family in one way or another, so they almost fell into those same sorts of looks.

Then there was the guard of the city; the first real group that looked truly different. The guard came from every kind of person.

Erick’s raid had uncovered various Hunter guilds that operated underfoot, in the sewers. The Cinnabar Hand had many chapters inside this place, with many face stealers among the people. Erick uncovered most of those face stealers simply by virtue of how his [Undertow Star] tracked the powerful, and though there might be a reason why a young woman working as a nondescript teacher in an orphanage (as one example out of a hundred) had multiple thousands of Mana and Health, there was only one reason that made a whole lot of sense.

He had also uncovered blood oozes in the sewers. These ‘monsters’ had once been people, but through the punitive justice of Charme they had been turned into ‘automatic’ sewer cleaners.

Erick hated this fucking place.

He almost wanted to wipe it from the map. Over half the people in the crowd were directly responsible for at least one horror, inside their own homes; some of the Princes had blood oozes in their private cesspools underneath their mansions. The other half were complicit. Maybe 5% of people Erick and his allies had rounded up were ‘innocent’, for a certain definition of innocent, but Erick wasn’t about to split hairs to free those people from what was about to come.

Of the worst offenders of Charme were either the royals, or those from The Blood Halls; Erick wasn’t quite sure. The Halls were a magic school that taught variations on Blood Magic, like Abomination Magic, Cosmetic Magic, Lineage Magic, and the ‘Princely’ Disease Magic. Quilatalap expressed displeasure at their whole school, saying it was full of idiots who had no idea what they were truly doing, and that the only reason they were powerful at all was because it was easy to do horrific things with Blood Magic.

Erick gathered all his thoughts on one he had seen, as he stood before the gathered forces of Charme, and then he spoke,

“I and my allies have taken Killtree and remade its nobility and thus the entire city into a better existence. I had originally thought to transform every City like I did to Killtree, before waking all of you up at once and letting you go about your lives, but this was an untenable idea. I have instead decided to wake up Killtree when I wake all of you. Maybe, by this act of openness, I can prove that this is not a bad thing that I am doing to all of you.” He almost spoke of the horrors he had seen, but then he realized there would be no need, for though a lot of the people here would probably pick [Reincarnation], Erick would be forcing Empathy on the lot of them, too. Erick said, “Charme is getting the same options as Killtree. Option 1: [Reincarnation]. Option 2: [Blessing of Empathy]. Option 3: Both. But this City needs a major change, more than most, so a lot of you are getting Empathy even if you don’t pick it; especially all the people in your courts and your royalty and in your Blood Halls… And probably more places, too.”

People in the audience held a brief flicker of hope, and then that hope died and turned to ash as Erick went over their ‘Options’, and spoke of Empathy.

Not wanting to be a party to this, several people in the audience activated Blood Magic failsafes, rapidly transforming themselves into blood amalgamation oozes, or something similar. Erick suspected they used [Second Wind], which instantly replenished some measure of Health, in return for a day-long debuff of burning a large portion of one’s base Health. They had then used Health along with the Blood Mana Class ability, which Erick had, to spend that Health on magic, which allowed for their internal transformation magic when all external magic was Star’d away.

Such last-resort measures did the monsters of Charme no good.

Erick solved the interruption to his decree with minimal casualties, and then transformed those blood oozes back into people while the rest of Charme watched. And then he put those onlookers into a [Slowing Enclosure].

A day later, all of Charme’s leaders had been transformed in one way or another. In many cases, the leaders had gone through an intermediary step of being a blood ooze, before Erick could turn them back into people.

- - - -

With Mox and many dragons and otherwise standing by, Erick began waking up the transformed people of Charme and Killtree in batches.

It was a clusterfuck of crying and thousand-meter stares. A small amount of their horrors had been over what had been lost, from important spells that people complained that they would never be able to get again, to the loss of godly blessings. A lot more tears were shed over what they had done to others; this was particularly true in Charme. Nobles roared at the sky, begging for forgiveness that they knew they would never receive. Many begged to be allowed back to their homes, into positions of power, to fix what they had done wrong. Many wanted to run away from what they had done. None were allowed to leave just yet, though.

Two days passed.

Slowly, under observation from Stratagold and a lot of other people, including Rozeta, people returned to their lives. Mostly. The vast majority of Princes could not make themselves go back to their cities or villages out there, in the lands outside of Charme; they wanted to run. Even those Princes who only received a [Blessing of Empathy], and who kept their bodies and their power, all expressed real, true remorse at their previous lives, and at what they had done.

Erick wasn’t sure how, exactly, it had started, but somewhere in all of the mess of waking people up and getting Charme and Killtree back operational on their own (but with oversight), people started divulging everything they had done wrong, in an effort to cleanse themselves of their sins. Erick heard it all. Rape. Murder. Bribery. Theft of lands. Theft of money. Theft of power. Soul mutilation and body mutilation.

A select few people even spoke of the true reasons for this war with Erick, though many different people had ideas of what the ‘true reason’ was, and so Erick didn’t think about all that talk too deeply. There was no way to separate fact from fiction with only two populations speaking about a 5-population-involved war.

From a certain perspective, the ruling class were perhaps the worst offenders of basic morality, using everything in their physical and magical might to subjugate those below them. But the people below those ruling classes were also guilty of so many more types of crimes. Erick had trouble guessing which one was worse; the people at the top who harmed others with threats and made the world work the way they wanted it to work, or those people directly below those at the top, who happily carried out those most heinous orders because that was what they loved to do.

Either way, Erick didn’t need to think too much about the recidivism of Charme, because every single person he transformed became a different person. [Reincarnation] and [Blessing of Empathy], together, produced the most possible change, turning even the most hardened serial killer into someone who wanted to raise orphans and build houses for the homeless, instead of murder both orphans and homeless every chance they could. [Blessing of Empathy], on its own, was likely going to be responsible for a full change of the guard, resulting in eventual governments of both Charme and Killtree that would do better tomorrow than they had done yesterday. [Reincarnation], on its own, would be more of a long-term sort of effect, for all Erick had really done in those cases was to take away a person’s magic (which was absolutely necessary for every single noble who had that nasty Disease Magic (those people also got Empathy’d without recourse)) and remake them into a person with a brighter future than the one they had had before.

And so, over those two days, Killtree and Charme mostly resumed normal operations.

Everything had changed. Everything was different.

But commoners still went to work. People still needed food. And the ruling class wanted to make it work; they wanted to make right by their people. They wanted to make Charme and Killtree places where people wanted to live, not where people had to live because to live elsewhere was to die to monsters.

It was complicated. It was messy.

But in those two days, everything… sort of worked like it was supposed to work?

But also not at all.

And yet… it was okay, for a certain definition of okay.

The Benevolence dragons were pulling some major monster-killing work, too, which made the whole thing a lot more palatable. Those dragons were also being fawned over by the new ruling class, which made them fall in love with these cities quite easily. This same thing was happening to Erick too, because he didn’t know all of the awful, real history of a lot of these people, and it was easy to like people who wanted the best for others, and then went out and did that; raising houses, clearing out sewers properly, reinstalling water that had been shut off, and systematically dismantling the systems of oppression that they had themselves instituted.

It would still take years for Killtree and Charme to show any real transformation.

Erick and his dragons would help with that transformation in the long term, too. Aside from remaking the leadership of Charme and Killtree, Erick had stopped 31 attempted murders of that new nobility in those last two days. And then he ‘solved’ those attempted murders by fast-tracking those would-be murderers through a justice system and Empathying them for their crimes. He suspected that he would be repeating that action for a long time to come, for he was already in talks with judges and new royalty about implementing [Blessing of Empathy] as a new outcome for what had traditionally either been transformation to blood ooze, or forced conscription. There was a lot of work left to do in Killtree and Charme...

But Erick still had three more Sovereign Cities to conquer.

Thankfully, as predicted by Kromolok, showing the world that Killtree and Charme were mostly intact had caused North Curio and South Curio to reach out to him, to beg for peace talks. Maybe Erick could remake both Curios without needing to capture and contain them all, first? It had to be a trap, though. Almost 100% a trap.

But Erick still had to try for peace, because that was what reasonable people did. Even if it was a trap, and even if the other side would never actually accept Erick’s form of ‘peace’, he still had to try.
