Some people were truly innocent, though. Erick knew this. Of those who had been caught up in the ‘battle’, and who were likely not guilty at all, the merchant nobility was a large portion of that. There was also the guildmaster of the Adventurer's Guild, Guildmaster Rohn, who was decked out in full, off-white [Conjure Armor]. He stood with the royals. The Mage’s Guildmaster was a man in purple who stood beside Rohn. Next to them stood others who were undoubtedly guilty. Like the woman named Redwood who had been Jane’s handler when she was here on a unicorn hunt. Redwood was an Elite of Killtree, and so she was surely guilty of something. If nothing else, sooner or later Redwood would have been a part of the campaign to kill him, and Candlepoint, and Redwood worked with Rohn… So.

Fuck ‘em.

They were all guilty.

They would all be judged.

Erick turned to his own forces, directly next to him.

Quilatalap, the Archlich of Necromancy. He stood next to Erick, but two meters away. A lot of people were wondering about that, but they could continue to wonder.

Kromolok, the Inquisitor. He stood four meters away, with a few wrought. He was an incani-shaped white-metal man, and his incani shape had made a lot of people wary simply due to his shape. But for those in the know, like a few royals, and the Mage Guildmaster, seeing Kromolok here was like seeing death itself.

Kirginatharp, the Second of Rozeta. The Headmaster of Oceanside stood closer to Kromolok than to Erick. He wore his normal gold and white emperor-like robes. Everyone knew him, and by that knowing, they knew they were truly fucked. No one was coming to save them. They had been condemned.

And Erick readied himself to do that condemning.

The rain of notifications had stopped and so Erick stood upon the center of the square, ready to speak. He knew long before then that this was not just a trial of Killtree, but it was also a trial of himself, and of Quilatalap, and of how the world was supposed to be, going forward. Kromolok and Kirginatharp were allies, yes, but this was a big deal, and so, Erick was being judged by them, too.

Erick had workshopped what he was going to say before now. Those words were probably imperfect. Mostly, all he could really do was to be as clear, concise, and as moral as he possibly could.

Erick had an Ophiel open up his [Physical Domain], allowing him to speak to the entire city of Killtree, all at once. The sky filled with silence as Erick physically silenced all others. People who had been whispering grabbed at their throats, worried that something was happening to them—

The eyes of the nobility went wide—

Erick’s voice pressed down upon their whole world,

“If one does not shy away from the problems they see all around them, and if one has the capability to change those problems, then to do nothing is to commit evil. And since I am not an evil man, and since I can see much of everything wrong with your city, I must use my power to enact change.

“I offer Killtree three options to remove yourself from under my direct power. You of the nobility must submit to one of three options, and none of those options are death.

“Option one: Accept a [Reincarnation], with your future chosen by me, and your body chosen by you. This will reset you to level 0, and strip you of all your current power. I can turn a 90 year old person into a teenager again, if they wish for it. This will give you another life to live. This is the least option of the three.

“Option two: Accept a [Blessing of Empathy]. This will not reset your level. This option ensures that you might be able to maintain some of your power, but how you choose to use that power will change, because your entire person will change.

“Option three: Accept both a [Reincarnation] and a [Blessing of Empathy], and gain protection and assistance from me and mine for a period of one year. This assistance includes monster kills and various other kindly powers, such as a Gate from here to my Gate District. Fees for those who accept Option 3 will be waived, entirely, for a year. People who choose option three will become the new ruling class of Killtree, as determined by me and mine.

“Whatever option you choose is up to you, but you will choose one of them, for those are the only options I am giving every single one of you.” Erick said, “Killtree chose to go to war, and now we are here.”

Erick pulled back his [Physical Domain] slightly, allowing for a sudden outburst of talking and shouting, crying and wailing, yelling and screaming. Their words were worthless right now. Their pleas fell into an abyss of determination. If they didn’t want this to happen, then they shouldn’t have gone to war with him. Some of them were even yelling about how this war wasn’t their fault, and that they shouldn’t be blamed for the actions of their royalty.

The time for arguing was done, though. Erick had won, and this was going to happen.

When Erick and his dragons and his allies placed the nobles and near-nobles in this city square, they had placed the probably-important people near the front, closer toward Erick. And so, Erick was able to see important people react to his words, first. Guildmaster Rohn and the purple Mage Guildmaster, and some of the royal family and the stronger nobles and merchant nobles. The sergeants and captains and otherwise of the army were also nearer to the center of the square. They were all a good hundred meters away, though.

And they all looked guilty, in part.

Erick stretched his [Physical Domain] out once again, silencing all others. His voice raised above that silence, “I will not remain in this land once I know I am not leaving behind enemies. If there is anyone here who would take the third option and become the new king or queen of Killtree, under my power, speak up now.”

Erick pulled back his [Physical Domain].

There was a lot of sudden yelling. Most people screamed about how this was wrong, and about how Erick shouldn’t be doing this. Some yelled about how he should choose them, roaring at how they were the best person for the job. Some wanted to be king or queen while also denying Erick’s demand of them, shouting assurances that they would follow Erick’s demands without soul shackles placed upon them.

One complaint caught his attention.

“Fuck you and your Forgotten Campaign, Dark Tyrant!”

It was a small complaint in the center of a hundred larger complaints, said by a man from the royal side of the square, who was dressed in mage robes and looked rather old. Maybe 70. Maybe 85. Hard to tell with Vitality and the various other boons of the Script.

Erick let it pass without remark, even as those words hit him harder than he thought they would have.

He was busy listening to them all, sorting the anger from the hope.

He was also listening to himself, to Benevolence, trying to understand if it pointed at anyone in particular—

And then he heard it. Like a chime inside a voice that resonated with himself.

He flooded out his [Physical Domain] again, silencing the crowd. With a flicker of light, a woman got pulled out of the crowd. Anyone who had been near her would have heard her say something serious, but now, her words were silent, and everyone focused on her.

Erick spoke, “Say that again.”

The woman, who was suddenly terrified, regained some of her fervor. She was around 45, with a ruddy face and dark hair, and she had come from the merchant nobility, unless Erick was truly mistaken. She spat, “Anyone you crown is gonna get dead in a day! And they’d be right to do it!”

“That’s not what you said inside the crowd, where you thought I did not hear.”

The woman went silent, her eyes going wide.

Erick continued, “Those aren’t your true feelings. Your true feelings are much more revolutionary. So. Tell those true feelings to the crowd. It’s not like anyone here is getting out of this without accepting one of my options, and hey, if you tell the truth, you might even get a queendom out of it.”

The woman stared. “You’re really doing this shit to us?”

“Yup. That’s what happens in a war. Stuff happens that didn’t need to happen. Blame your rulers and yourselves for this.”

“… I’ll pave all the roads and [Cityshape] housing for all and matriculate the populace like how Rozeta wishes us to be,” the woman said, and suddenly a cacophony of naysayers and worse roared from the sides, as they realized she was going to get to be their queen because she bowed to Darkness.

A hundred meters separated the crowd from Erick and the woman. The crowd had been forced to remain inside the square, with many people trying to leave, but there were dragons in the way. But now, seeing that this was really going to happen, that some new person was going to be their queen, anarchy erupted. People surged forward. Some collapsed onto the ground, trying to hide in the open. Some tried casting magics, or willing their auras out, trying to disrupt the spellwork all around them, but the Stars above both Drained them harder, and cut their magic apart with Extreme Light—

Erick threw out a Shaped [Slowing Enclosure], enveloping all of the nobility, as he mentally instructed the Stars above to stop Draining and Extreme Lighting the people, so that the Slow could take hold.

In the sudden silence, Erick asked the woman, “Do you accept the burden of royalty?”

The woman shuddered, then steeled herself. She spat, “Ha! Burden. All they do is collect my tax money and spend it on themselves. Ain’t a single one of them worth anything at all!”

“Then you must correct that error, and be better than them.”

The woman stilled. She stared. “Aye. I suppose I must.”

“Do you accept a [Reincarnation] and a [Blessing of Empathy]?”

“… I do.”

“Got a name you’d like? I might be able to get you that name. Any preference for body?”

“… No preference for name…” The woman’s words left her for a moment, as the gravity of the situation hit her like a punch to the gut. “… Myself, but queenly?—” She scowled. “No fucking red hair, though. Killtrees are fucking dead to me, and good fucking riddance. My name is Bertha.”

Erick couldn’t help but grin. “Like the play?”

“Aye; like the play, but I like my small tits just fine, thank-you-kindly.”

Erick began Bertha’s transformation.

- - - -

To most of the people in the doughnut-shaped bubble of Slow, the sky shifted from star-filled night, to dawn, and then midday. The people furthest from the center, furthest from the Wizard, had the unenviable position of being able to see those people nearest the center vanish in flicks of light over the course of several seconds. It was almost like a wave of glowing white that spread outward, capturing all who it touched. They all saw what was happening. They thought they knew what the ‘bad outcome’ was when they decided to attack the Wizard of Stars. And now, here was one of those bad outcomes.

A lot of people did not take this well.

A woman in the very back of the soldier section of the field stood with another woman. Both of them were officers. Both were grey haired, and scared. They watched as flickering light grabbed more and more people, taking them away to be transformed by the Wizard. The soldiers in front of those two women, and many of those behind, roared and cried and screamed.

But the two old women had been through a lot of horror in their tenure as soldiers. They had faced bad odds before. They had seen friends die, and their world changed in a matter of moments. But nothing they had ever seen was as certain to change who they were, than this. They had been prepared for this, though, for as soon as the higher-ups started working out how to go to war with the Wizard, the two women had both thought that this was what would happen.

Or something like this.

In the dark nights, over candles and beer, they had spoken of hypotheticals. Of strategy and tactics that might be useful against Erick Flatt, Planar Human from Beyond the Stars, and Wizard of Darkness. How fitting that he used stars above to contain them all. Neither of them had guessed that particular outcome.

They had also spoken of good outcomes. Of Erick changing their society into something better, for that’s what he was doing over there in Candlepoint, with that Gate Network. Anyone caught saying those good words would be flayed till muscle and skin hung from the back in ribbons, though. But the people in charge knew what was what. They saw through most of the propaganda. Mostly. And so, the conversations between the women had worn on, and the women had spoken of times they had lost, and which they could never get back. Of what they could do differently if they had a [Reincarnation], like all those rich and powerful folks willing to bend the back to the Wizard.

And now, they were here.

And now, this was happening.

The first woman finally gathered the courage to say to the second—

Right as the second one began, “Let’s be together, okay?”

The first woman smiled. “Yeah. Let’s be together.”

“Option 3? Sounds like ruling class.”

“If you want to. I’m going for option 1. A farmer, maybe. I’m done with war. Ain’t nothing we could have done differently here.”

“He rolled us right over, didn’t he.” A smile. “I think I’d like to be a man next time.”

“You’re really going to do that, eh? Then maybe I’ll do it, too.”

A laugh. “You sure about that?”

“Not at all. I think I’ll stay a woman. I would like to be purposefully more humorous, though.”

A hand reached for another, as the wave of light came closer. It was half a minute away now. The sky was bright with daylight. Time had passed. A hand squeezed in a hand, and then both hands squeezed hard.

“I think you’re hilarious,” said the second woman, her voice a fragile thing.

“You can be a man; fine. But you’re not allowed to be bad at sex,” said the first woman, deadpan. “Don’t lose that part of yourself, you hear?”

Laughter.

And then light.

- - - -

After the battle was over, as Erick’s allies started to talk, to dissect how the battle had gone, it became apparent that Erick was fully capable of doing the entire capture and transformation of a city with as little as 20 active dragons, 10 passive dragons working the edges to make sure no one escaped, 50 other people, and with some Inquisitor and Mind Mage backup. A hundred people to take a city of a hundred thousand. It also became rather apparent that Erick truly was going to transform the entire nobility of Killtree, and his threat of ‘options’ was not a boast.

