David and Niala, followed by Ariala and Soyana, walked around town, looking for opportunities for the two hummers to interact with the populace.

The octuple had done as Niala had instructed them to the best of their abilities, but as they kept doing nothing but walking around town before retiring to their quarters, something became apparent quickly: they had no idea how to just be “people”.

So she'd taken it upon herself to teach them.

The results so far had been... interesting, as David had put it. While she agreed that paralyzing a pet cat to retrieve it from a tree was an interesting method, the woman screaming when it had thumped on the ground was something she really wanted to avoid repeating.

It was only the second day, though. She wasn't giving up this early. They just needed some mundane occasions to help, to show the two hummer girls what being helpful citizens meant.

And there, just ahead of them, an older woman's basket broke, one of its handles ripping off the over-burdened woven wicker.

Ears up high, Niala turned her head toward the hummers behind her. “Soyana! See that woman ahead with the broken basket? This is a good opportunity to offer your help! Remember, appropriate use of force only!”

The tall white woman looked ahead, nodded at Niala, and pushed ahead toward the citizen in distress.

David settled on his legs to watch the entertaining catastrophe about to happen while Niala secretly crossed fingers behind her back.

Bernice silently cursed the blood pits as her old hand basket tore open fully. She'd felt the handle struggle, had heard the minute rips opening, but she'd hoped it would hold until she got home.

She watched her groceries roll around for a few seconds before she let out a heavy sigh and bent to retrieve them, one arm looped around her basket.

She flinched when a heavily accented voice addressed her. “I desire to provide assistance.”

Bernice slowly looked up to find one of the strange tall white people she'd seen walking around town. She was staring down at her, unblinking. Bernice stared back, frozen.

This went on for a few moments until the white woman spoke again. “I desire to provide assistance.” She repeated.

And remained motionless.

The two women kept staring at each other.

“I desire to provide as-”

“I-I heard you the first time, my Lady! I apologize, I didn't know what to say to a noble offering her help to little old me!”

The white woman finally blinked. Once. Weren't her eyes dry? “I am Soyana Three-forty-two. I am not a noble. Do you accept my assistance, citizen of the town of Riverwall and subject of sanctified Niala?”

It was Bernice's time to blink. “Subject of who?”

“Sanctified Niala, our sanctified One who has declared this town her domain, who rules over all its citizens, receives their devotion, and gives back her protection. She has deemed you in need of assistance. I wish to offer assistance. Please accept.”

The old woman's brain needed a few breathing cycles to parse everything, and still failed. The only part that stuck was that the white woman was somehow offering her help. She eyed the stranger. “I... guess I could use the help? Do you want me to-”

“I shall now render assistance. Please do not be alarmed.” Soyana said before holding out a hand and retrieving a small white knife with the other.

Bernice was very alarmed.

The white woman slashed the knife across her forearm, while blood quickly dripped from the wound and pooled on the ground. She intoned a few indescript words and the wound sealed up, her skin unblemished.

At the same time, the thin layer of blood began bubbling. Bernice yelped and stepped back, eyes widening and mouth hanging as the blood split into smaller blots, formed into small spheres, and sprouted tentacles.

The tentaclings turned toward their mother, who pointed at the various groceries littering the ground and uttered a few unintelligible words.

As one, the little horrors turned and coiled their limbs around the goods before ambling with a snake-like motion toward Soyana, who remained still as they clambered up her tunic, all the way to her back. There, they formed into a sort of interconnected fleshly backpack.

Within a minute, the white woman had all of Bernice's groceries hanging from her back like an eggsac made of cans, cartons and fresh produce, held in place by a web of white tentacles.

She turned toward Bernice. Her lips formed into the approximation of a smile, as if she had forgotten what it meant. “I am ready to escort you to your destination, where my bloodlings will release your goods.”

The old woman remained frozen in shock for a moment, then she realized everyone else on the street had stopped moving and were staring at the two of them.

Slowly, she brought her eyes back to the white woman, who was still beaming the weirdest, most artificial smile she had seen.

She swallowed “I- I guess you can come along, ah... Soyana, was it?”

The white woman nodded.

Bernice allowed herself an uncertain smile. “Then... well, come along. My house isn't too far. Thank you for the help, Soyana.” She said, pushing in as much recognition as she could, hopefully enough to drown out any of the fear her instincts were screaming at her.

Soyana nodded once again, waited for Bernice to turn and start walking, and followed after her.

Slowly, the rest of the street returned to its usual busy state.

As they trundled along, Soyana puzzled at what she was feeling. It was similar to when she complied with one of sanctified Niala's orders, but, somehow, it was deeper.

She had no idea what it meant, but compared to most new experiences she'd had in the past few weeks, this one didn't fill her with dread.

It was, instead, kind of warm.

A fair distance away, David leaned toward Niala. “She remembered to use appropriate force.”

She looked at him with a defeated expression, her ears flattened.

“Hey, cheer up: this was an improvement; nobody screamed,” he remarked.

She hid her face in her palms.

The two last hummers eventually “succumbed” to the same breakdown of their mental shackles. Over the next few weeks, and always accompanied by at least a few town guards, the octuple was made to interact with the residents.

Little by little, they began to adapt, and they each developed the rudiments of a personality. Between Anaakendi “observing” their psyche and Marshalla's constant testing and measuring, the group came to accept the theory as truth: The octuple's minds were not artificial.

They weren't quite certain what to do with it. Niala was adamant that a rescue operation for the seven missing workers had to be organized, but she also agreed that leaving now, without more information and preparations, would be dangerous and potentially pointless.

Ultimately, they decided to try a different approach and kicked it upstairs, though they would keep an ear to the ground, in case the authorities tried to ignore the problem.

Leandro thought this was unlikely; while seven individuals might not have been enough to warrant a full expedition, he also knew that the kingdom's military had not forgotten what the fight in the Deadwoods meant.

They had learned that the fel they were used to fighting were potentially a lower form of the creature. That more advanced, fiercer ones existed for which they didn't have the tools to properly fight against was a concern they sought to address.

He said, then, that they had already been planning an expedition, and the seven lost citizens would only be additional arguments for the plan's proponents to fire back at its detractors.

Nobody knew exactly what the expedition would look like, but David and Niala said they wanted to be part of it. Leandro had smiled and said he'd let the right people know, though he also suspected they would have been asked anyway.

Until then, they would have to find out everything they could from the hummers in town, and try to get stronger.

Leandro's expression at that time made them reconsider if they really wanted to participate after all.

Leandro had his hands balled and resting on his hips.

“Ha ha! That is what I want to see! Warriors fighting against their limits! Back straight! Feet high! Keep your posture, or you are doing another lap!” He happily barked.

Before him, on the track-and-field lot set up for their house troops, the Scion guards were doing their 20th lap, each one sporting a rock-filled backpack. Every face was drenched, and every mouth gasped for lungfuls of air.

Just behind them, David did his best to keep up. He hadn't exactly stopped training since Leandro had been hired as their Marshall, but he would admit that the intensity had been lessened.

Niala, though, had shoved it out the door, which was why she trailed behind, barely standing, yet refusing to give up. To her credit, she was still in very good shape compared to the average person.

That was, unfortunately, not even on Leandro's scale of acceptable physical fitness. The man only had two approved states: perfect, or trying to be.

Over the past two weeks, the old general had taken over their daily schedule, reserving at least half a day for aerobic and strength training. Niala was then allowed the rest of the day, while David spent every other afternoon with Leandro working on his imbuements.

On that front, they had received a bit of help; the Wardenfel had compiled the full list of all imbuements David had received, and put them all in a triple-mana-locked tome, delivered to him via military airship with full escort.

Coupled with his newly-found ability to perceive the runes of his imbuements from within his inner realm, they now knew every power he could potentially master.

There were a lot; a hundred and fifteen to be precise. Of those, only about twenty were standard Azure Guard imbuements, ones that Leandro knew well. Another fifty were known to him, but he either had little experience with them or only ever had the name and a description.

The remaining ones were either new, created specifically for David, or had never been used before.

Mastering them all would be at least a decade's worth of work and training. Instead, they had made a short list: four common Azure Guard powers, two of the lesser-known, and two brand new.

The common imbuements were:

CLEAN LUNGS, which would filter out airborne toxins or particles.

PURIFY BLOOD, to supercharge his kidneys and take out venoms or poisons from his blood.

EMPOWER WEAPON, a mana-intensive but powerful ability that made any wielded weapons strike harder, at the risk of damaging weaker implements.

And MARATHON, a mana-efficient, long-lasting boost to stamina and muscles; a mix of Quick Step and Energy Burst, but which could be kept up for bells on end.

The advanced ones were:

LIMIT BREAK, a powerful but dangerous ability that pushed one's body beyond its normal physical limits. By itself, it could be used to deliver powerful strikes and blows. Its real use was to multiply other abilities, at the risk of self-injury.

ENDURING FLESH, which strengthened bones, muscle tissues and organs. Used in conjunction with Iron Body, which provided an external layer of defence, this could turn someone into a veritable juggernaut. It was also almost a prerequisite for using Limit Break.

And the final two were:

MIND FORTRESS, which was the imbuement that David had discovered on his own and used during his fight with the ascended fel. He felt it could be useful, though he was wary of its effect on his personality. Hopefully, using it at a lower intensity wouldn't result in the same mental flatness as before.

MIND ACCELERATION, a completely unknown ability. The description said it would accelerate the processing of information, and warned against overuse, which would lead to the overheating of the brain and nerves. The expected result would be the dilation of the flow of time from David's perspective.

Thanks to Leandro's familiarity with them, the common powers would only take a week or two each, at least if David demonstrated the same ease of learning as he had in the past.

The rare ones would take a bit longer, and they weren't certain how much time would be required for the rest.

This training regimen left him with a few afternoons every week to spend as he wished, which he did on his enchantment studies.

He wasn't exactly expecting to gain much in terms of raw power from this. However, between the knowledge gleaned from the master engravers, observing Niala's experimentation with hybrid potions, and the apparent link between the runes that made up his imbuements and the ones used in enchanting, he was certain there was some hidden truth.

He had a pretty good gut feeling about it.