Sighing deeply, I crouch down and lay my forehead against my knees. Great. As if talking to myself wasn't bad enough, I'm talking to a version of me that is bat-shit crazy. “So, you talk to dead people. Great. Go away now.”

With a thought, he begins to disassemble, pixels breaking away to pieces, fading as he disappears into the void. “No, stop! You need to wake up! We must survive!”

“Yeah, okay, bye bye now.” Waving at his fading form until nothing remains, I return to watching the dreams, trying to immerse myself within them once again. I'd almost forgotten what it feels like to be carefree and content, forgotten my life before this one, but the small glimpses of what I had was enough to let me know what I was missing. No more training until I am so exhausted that I can finally sleep, no constantly checking for hidden dangers, no worrying whether a stranger wants to murder me because of an off-hand comment. Just a quiet, peaceful existence with my family, both old and new.

Why can't I just stay here forever?

A memory jumps out from among the others, calling to me and I focus, drawing myself into the illusion, living within it and not watching. Success. I'm sitting on a familiar, beat up couch, the dog curled up beside me, the two of us watching a screen, flicking through different scenes without really paying attention. The emotions flood into me, and I feel despondent, discouraged by the lack of replies, jobless due to 'corporate restructuring'. With no other options available to me, I've moved back in with my parents, unable to afford living on my own anymore, a failure. No girlfriend, no home, no job, I live a  worthless existence. The channels flick by, my eyes unfocused as I seek distraction from my problems. Not exactly the feel good memory I was going for.

My parents walk in, moving me aside so they can sit on the couch with me. “You've been sitting around for a few days now.” There is no accusation in my dad's voice, just a plain statement of fact. I shrug in answer, watching some mindless people chatter about mindless things on-screen.

My mom reaches for the remote and turns off the screen. “Look at us, Rayne.” I turn towards them while avoiding looking at their faces, knowing that if I do I will see no details. I don't need to see them, I just want to hear their voices, feel what it was like with them. “All you're doing is hiding, and that solves nothing.”

I want to tell them everything that has happened, that I miss them and love them, but the words freeze in my throat, with predetermined ones falling out. “What else am I supposed to do? I worked hard, piled up debt so I could go to school, worked hard at my job so that I could earn a living, and what do I have to show for it? Nothing, except for more debt. Ten years of hard work, and here I am, 30 years old, living with my parents. It's fucking humiliating.”

My mom is unphased by my tantrum, her hand reaching out to hold mine, squeezing with reassurance. “I understand, you're angry, and that's fine, but you can't let it control all of your actions. It's time to move past it. There are things in this world that you cannot control, but you can't let that stop you from living your life. If all you do is worry about what might happen, then you might as well just give up.” Her tone softens, and she takes me into a warm embrace. “But you are not a quitter. I know this, because you are our son, and you will always have us to fall back on. We love you, Rayne.”

My dad pulls the both of us into a hug, chuckling. “Don't worry son, I like having you around. It just means that I don't have to mow the lawn anymore.” The scene fades away as we laugh together, and I stand in the void alone while tears stream down my face.

Question asked and answered.

Despite knowing they can't hear me, I say the words that I wish I could have told them. “Mom, Dad, I'm sorry I couldn't say goodbye. Take good care of my dog, please. Thank you for everything. I love you.”

After what feels like an eternity, I finally stop crying and sit down, thinking over my Mom's words. My head feels clearer than it has in weeks, a fog lifted from my mind. I don't know if that was a real memory, or if it was just a dream, something I subconsciously know, but I needed to hear.

Get past my anger and stop hiding.

Don't worry about things I can't control and just live my life.

Most importantly, I have people who love me, family and friends that I can rely on.

New rules to live by, one step at a time.

With one last, wistful look at the myriad of dreams, I close my eyes and will them away. I feel them shatter and crumble around me as the world falls apart, and when my eyes open once again, I am staring up into the starry night sky, as I lay upon a field of dirt, blood, and corpses, my body shivering in agony from broken bones and overtaxed muscles.

I immediately regret this decision. The real world sucks.

Struggling up while choking down my screams of pain, I sit, exhausted and overwhelmed. I should have stayed asleep. Maybe it's not too late and I can still go back if I just concentrate.

A crash of steels sounds beside me, and I open my eyes in time to watch a giant, bone-white creature crash to the ground only a few meters away, sliding in the red mud. The Demon Formerly Known As Vivek looks somewhat battered, its bony protrusions on its back broken and snapped, several gouges in the previously smooth frame of its new body. The wide, flat face looks up at me with black eyes staring in fury as I stare back, too afraid to even blink. Akanai enters my peripheral vision, close by with her weapon held limply, looking tired and drained, her strength spent. The Demon struggles to its feet and grabs a nearby corpse, devouring it whole, grinding it to paste within its mouth, the wounds on its body healing before my eyes, a pearly, lustrous sheen emitting from its bone-like frame, growing and repairing before my eyes.

Tch.

Fuck my life.
