

Mieriel dropped a familiar card on the table. “Merchant this time. Right beside the South Gate.”

“I was hoping for good news,” Vivian said, eyeing the blatant advertisement of the Silent Assassin’s reign of terror. With a sigh, she retrieved another pin and pushed it into the map at the appropriate spot.

“I have a name,” Mieriel said, locking eyes with her as her head snapped around from regarding the map. “Tala Kane.”

“Tala…” Vivian said, the name pricking her memories for a moment before she placed it. “Wait, the Town Watch girl who did her trial with Mato, Malika, and Calen? The Dagger Rogue?”

“Yes,” Mieriel said. “That’s the one.”

“Are you sure?” If true, this information was the link she needed to prove Mori’s involvement.

“She finally made a mistake,” Mieriel said, producing an extremely expensive set of novice boots and placing them carefully on the desk before her, rotating them to display the spell-thread embroidered monogram ‘D.A.’ on the outside edge of the upper, beside the laces.

Vivian recognized the boots immediately. There was a clearly scuffed section of distressed leather where the Asterford House crest had been removed, likely with a sharp knife.

“She secretly sold these to a Kel’darran merchant destined for an out-of-town black market, and she killed the witnesses as usual. But she left the Kel’darran alive…” Mieriel said. “It was a simple matter to unravel the thread from there.”

“Did she…”

“Kill him?” Mieriel asked, completing her question. “I believe so – these boots show several months of wear, and Tala was wearing brand-new ones. At least, when the Kel’darran merchant last saw her.”

“This… this changes everything,” Vivian said, the implications slamming into her. Bastian believed his son had died in an unfortunate accident on his trial, like so many before him, but for all his haughtiness and rigid adherence to the crown law, the man had loved his son. He was not going to take this news quietly.

“Are you going to tell him?”

“Oh, yes,” Vivian said, allowing a grin to curve her lips. “We’re going to pit Bastian against Mori and get rid of our assassin problem in one stroke.” Bastian may not have the power to oust Mori, but the Town Watch couldn’t make a move on the noble without dire consequences either. But making them enemies would hamstring both in so many ways. “Tomorrow’s Town Council meeting?”

“Perfect,” Mieriel said. “It will be tight with the meeting being so soon, but I will make the necessary preparations.”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
