“I do know I’m awesome, yes, and also I’m a little offended that you assume my race is only comparable to those two. Who’s to say I’ll have a race evolution quest when evolving to A-grade? Or S-grade? Perhaps I’ll even make it all the way to godhood without seeing one!” Jake said playfully.

“We’ll cross that bridge when we get there. For now, let’s marvel at how great you already are,” Villy returned the same joking energy. “As for what else was weird about your Race Evolution quest... it must be related to the system message itself, which means it must be something with the flavor text.”

Jake didn’t say anything but just motioned for the Viper to continue, as he would not let the snake god get away with just stating the obvious.

“Okay, okay, let me think for a moment... alright, I’ll guess that the flavor text referred to other powerful humans you had encountered during C-grade, including your meeting and battle with Valdemar in Nevermore. Both of them,” Villy ventured what Jake had to admit was actually a pretty good guess.

“I like your thinking, but no,” Jake shook his head. “It’s a lot weirder than that.”

“The First Sage?” the Viper asked, his tone suddenly more serious.

Jake shook his head. “Nothing related to anyone.”

“Alright, this is actually hard. It’s only to be expected that your Bloodline is referred to, so that one’s out. Your arcane affinity, maybe? Nah. Wait... seeing as you didn’t get any objective... didn’t you receive any flavor text with your Race Evolution Quest?”

“Close enough that I’ll give you the answer,” Jake finished joking around. “I got the exact same flavor text as when I evolved to C-grade.”

The Viper was silent for a while before speaking.

“Huh. Yeah, that is weird.”

“Ever heard of that happening before?” Jake asked curiously.

“Nope, but I can’t rule out that it has happened before. People rarely share the contents of those flavor messages. Though I will guess that if it happened often, others would be talking about it, so for now, I think it’s a safe assumption that this is another quirk of your weird race,” the Viper answered.

Jake nodded slowly. “Speaking of my weird human race... any new interesting theories?”

“I do have one. One I even believe we have alluded to before,” the Viper said. “How about you?”

“I also have a pretty strong theory on the matter, so hey, let’s compare notes,” Jake said with a smile, knowing that while they couldn’t get any definite answers, it was still fun to make theories and guesses.
