“Almost... almost...” Ren hammered in the last of the supports. “Got it!” He equipped his hammerpick and joined Tee-one at the hole into the Keep. Ren kept activating his abilities, and about every third spider pretty much exploded from the Killing Blow special ability. Take Them Down and Opportunity Knocks drained Ren's Mana Pool pretty fast.

“I need to recharge my Mana!” He had to yell to Tee-one, even though they were standing next to each other.

“Go ahead!” Tee-one yelled back. “I've got this for a minute or two!”

Ren took out several pieces of wood and his fire enchanted brick. He set them ablaze, and absorbed the fire with his hands to recharge his Mana, then stopped.

“I am such an idiot for using my hands!” Ren said, then stood in the fire, and used his Fire Manipulation ability and Absorb Fire ability. “I can absorb it through any part of my body!”

The wood kept burning, but Ren absorbed the fire before it could eat much of it. He took out a fireball wand and started firing at the spiders on the ceiling. Spider bodies rained down onto the spiders on the floor and some were crushed; but the bodies were building up, and the pile was making a kind of barrier all on its own.

“I think the attack is slowing down!” Teepo said. “There's not as many spiders coming to the room.”

“I didn't think there would be this many inside.” Ren said. “I'd have gotten some more help first.”

“Why?” Tee-one laughed. “We're almost done.”

“Stop doing that!” Teepo shouted. “Aw, crap!”

“What is it?”

“These are just the first wave, apparently.” Teepo said. “They sent in the small ones first to soften you up.”

“These are the small ones?!?” Ren asked. “Wait, did you say 'soften us up first'?”

“Yeah.” Teepo said. “Here comes the 5 foot ones to trample you.”

“Oh, FUCK!” Ren cursed, then ran into the room. He easily jumped over the pile of bodies with his new boots, and landed on several spiders. They went squish, and covered the boots in blood, gore, and poison. He switched the wand for his hammerpick, and swung both that and his shield to smash the spiders he could see out of the way. He stored the 6 foot long bolts for the Ballista that he could reach, then ducked as a spider tried to swipe at his bare head.

“Get back here!” Tee-one and Teepo said at the same time, and Ren jumped back over the pile of spider bodies, just as one of the 5 foot ones came into the room.

“Turn around!” Tee-one said, and grabbed the spider that had climbed up onto Ren's back. He threw it on the floor and stabbed it. Ren stored the hammerpick and shield, gave Tee-one the fireball wand, and loaded the Ballista's cartridge with the recovered bolts. Tee-one fired the wand over and over, and the smell of burning spider hair and flesh filled the room. He'd killed the first one, and another came into the room, trampled the smaller spiders as if they weren't there, and pushed the body of the first one out of the way.

“Ren!” Tee-one exclaimed.

“I got it!” Ren said, then opened fire. The first shot hit the spider in the abdomen and it squealed in pain. “Dammit, I forgot Hail Of Arrows!” He activated the ability, and fired again. Two 6 foot bolts hit the spider in the abdomen, and the body burst open and covered the smaller spiders in gore and viscera.

“By the gods, that's disgusting!” Teepo said.

“It'll work for what I want, though!” Ren said, and generated two Elemental Grenades of Lightning and threw them over the spider body barrier. The grenades exploded and shocked the spiders into immobility.

“Go! Go!” Ren said, and Tee-one climbed over the barrier and sliced at the spiders. “Oh, damn! Duck, Tee-one!”

Tee-one swiped at the next spider and ducked down at the same time, as a large spider came into the room from the hallway. Ren fired again and hit it with 4 bolts; 2 normal, and 2 magical. It's body exploded, and Tee-one jumped out of the way. He landed on his side, and fresh spiders from the hallway came in and swarmed over him.

“Dammit! I can't fire!” Ren said, then looked down at the fire brick. He grabbed it, jumped over the spider body barrier, and hosed the spiders with it. Most of them were killed from the intense heat, but some were only singed and scampered away.

“REN!” Teepo shouted, and Ren looked up to see a giant spider, slightly taller than him, clamp onto his armored arm.

“Oh craaaaaaaaaaaap!” Ren yelled as the spider picked him up, shook him slightly, then turned to take him from the room. The spider jerked once, then twice, and it started to twitch. It shook Ren a bit more and pulled on his arm; but it gave Ren an opportunity to make a fist. He punched the spider in the mandibles several times, to no effect. He looked at his rings.

This is going to hurt. Ren thought, and activated his Lightning Ring.

“Ren, NO!” Teepo shouted as Lightning engulfed the giant spider and Ren. The two of them convulsed and shook, then Ren deactivated the ring. They collapsed to the floor, and the spider let Ren's arm go.

“Yeah.” Ren groaned, and held onto his arm. “I was right. That hurt like hell.”

The spider had clamped down on Ren's armor and dented it, partially crushing his arm with it. Tee-one cut the spider's body in half, and came over to Ren.

“Can you walk?”

“Walk?” Ren asked, and rolled into a crouch. “I can run!” He took off and jumped over the pile of spider bodies. The room was nearly full of them now, and he made it back to the Ballista just in time. Two more 5 foot spiders came into the room and he used his good arm to fire the Ballista into them.
