"Alriiight!" a loud voice echoed from all the rifts. It turned into a maniacal cackle of laughter, and from a pathway right next to Andra, a simmering incandescence began to flow, and the flickers of a distant flame grew closer and closer. Suddenly, the temperature spiked. Suddenly, there was a struggle as water started to rain down, as the ice turned fluid, and Candles entered the fray, rubbing his shoulders exaggeratedly. "Who left the fridge open?!"

A blast of Cryomancy exploded out from Andra's clone, but she did something else as well. She pointed a finger down at her original body, and a dense block of ice formed over her mangled form.

Shiv cursed as he swung his frying pan down. A moment too late, as he chipped a bit away from that ice, but then it began creeping over his pan. As he ripped it free, he barely dodged a lashing backhand from the cryo-clone. Gone struck the clone under the armpit like a cannonball, and then vanished before it could strike back. However, Shiv caught sight of the goblin staggering away, and she was rapidly slowing as she vanished down the length of a pathway.

The Deathless winced. Just being near Andra cost Gone her full potential. But that might not last.

As Candles fully emerged, he stood before Gone and summoned a column of fire by his side with a snap and a flourish of his arm. The column spread, igniting even the Jotun’s ice itself. But then, undeterred, unbowed, the cryo-clone unleashed her powers as well. The ice magic she wielded was immense, and she ignored Shiv in favor of facing her nemesis, the opposite of her element.

That proved to be a mistake. The Deathless slammed himself into her again. His Shapeless Tides rattled and burst inside him as he felt the full power of her Cryomancy. She also felt his full power as well, and instead of her being frozen and him resisting, both of them were flung back. She slammed against the wall. Candles unleashed two fistfuls of fire by throwing sloppy jabs, and they burned holes entirely through her torso, at which the cryo-clone threw her head back and let out a piercing cry.

Shiv rolled over and shot to his feet once more. He reached out and seized the cryo-clone's ankles. Then he started to drain. There was a slight flicker of vitality there, just a bit, and it took little effort to sever.

The clone burst apart in a spray of red, and the ice sustaining it collapsed as well. But then, at the same time, the block of ice encasing Andra's original body exploded, and from within the Jotun rose once more. She was still half-flayed, and her neck hung at an awkward angle. But the tattoos lining her flesh glowed bright, and she was rapidly regenerating.

What's more, she felt more powerful than ever. It seemed that she had only severed her connection to the cryo-clone, and instead of that destroying her power, it reset it. She was mighty again, fused with her Cryomancy, and undaunted by the growing foes entering the fray.

Despite her injuries, she managed a vicious sneer. "I am Andra, Prophetess of the Dead Realms, and I will not be denied my freedom, not by the Republic's dogs, not by the Ascendants, and certainly not by you."

Her words echoed as if an emanation of her spirit, her mouth remaining utterly still. Her teeth were clenched tight, and her eyes blazed with power, but it wasn't Cryomancy. Instead, violet energy spilled free from her, and she drew back her javelin.

She launched it through the air, just as Shiv and Candles attacked at the same time. A veil of frost swirled around her. The Deathless crashed into it with his shoulder, but found himself struggling to break through. He managed a second later, as a jet stream of hyperheated plasma plowed past her wards. But it was too late. Too late to strike at Andra, who sank down into the ice around her. Too late to stop her from throwing her javelin as well.

It soared—then vanished in a burst of light. But still it sailed, aimed for someone or something Shiv couldn't see. A cold feeling erupted inside of him, and he prepared for one of his allies to fall.
