Flashes of light joined the vines as Zac activated [Evolutionary Edge]. They struck the frontmost Rapture Beasts in a shower of violence, and the following scene made Zac pause in surprise. The simple skill was surprisingly effective at dismantling the Middle D-grade creatures. What was meant to sound out their defenses caused significant damage.

Despite being weakened by the atmosphere, the blades dug deep into their goopy flesh, destroying eyes and severing wings. Feathers fell like rain, turning into oily sludge that joined whatever the ground was made of. However, his assault wasn’t enough to bring down the angels. They were drawing new matter from the ground as quickly as Zac cut it off.

“You need to destroy their cores to banish them,” Tavza reminded from the side.

Zac had already gathered as much. He disappeared in a flash, tearing through space with [Skystriker]. He became the blade itself, carving a path that cut straight through the closest Rapture Beast. He’d already sensed a cluster of intense death hidden in its depths, similar to the life runes of Qriz’Ul. As it collapsed, the whole beast crumbled.

It looked like the feathers underwent a thousand years of decay in the blink of an eye, and the first victim was soon joined by others. Haro hadn’t been sitting still. He only needed a slight nudge to intuitively target their energy cores, and he gleefully ripped apart beasts to display his dominance over death.

Blasts of evil stares pelted Zac the moment he came to a stop, filling his body with the chill of death. However, the ocular attacks failed to accomplish anything of significance. Part of it was due to Zac’s unfair advantage. Using attacks imbued with Life was extremely effective at culling the Rapture Beasts, but the opposite didn’t apply to Zac.

His resistance to Miasma and Death-attuned attacks was extraordinary, far greater than most native undead. It looked like his earlier assessment was overly negative. His human body might prove more effective in dealing with this threat after all, especially if there were a large number of Rapture Beasts lurking within the sphere.

Secondly, Zac could see that there was a soul-killing component to their attack, as was quite common with eye-based skills. However, now that Zac’s soul wasn’t located where it was supposed to be, the attacks failed to accomplish anything. At most, they managed to make his spiritual body a bit sluggish, but he had plenty of counters to that.

Zac moved like the wind through the beasts, cutting them down one after another with mechanical precision. He didn’t bother activating [Conformation of Supremacy] or any of his stronger skills. There was no need to. Altogether, it took him less than ten seconds to deal with the twenty-odd Rapture Beasts.

When he was finished, he could feel there was a noticeable difference in the environment. The ambient energy was roughly at the same level as before, but the depth of the Dao had grown shallower. It was like the difference between pondering the Dao on a Primal Heaven like the Left Imperial Expanse and doing the same on the frontier, and his other body no longer clamored for the energy.

“Is that it? I would have figured you could deal with something like that without missing a beat,” Zac asked, turning to Tavza with suspicion. “Don’t tell me you’ve been slacking off to cultivate?”

Tavza scoffed. “Of course not, and don’t get ahead of yourself. This is as weak as it gets. The ambient energy is at its lowest after the bridges have siphoned off the excess. It gets worse the closer we get to the eye and the longer it’s been since the last eruption. Oh, the beasts also grow significantly stronger wherever the canopy faces, to the point that they gain new abilities. It’s a shame; it also makes for an excellent cultivation ground.”

“Look at you, cracking jokes,” Zac commented. “Ogras would be proud.”

“Don’t remind me of that scoundrel,” Tavza said. “We should set out. Apart from the broken section, there are a few more spots we need to hit now that you’re here.”

“Spots?”

“Getting nothing is fine, but there is no reason to deprive ourselves if there are treasures waiting for us, is there?” Tavza said. “Like you, I don’t wish to wait a million years before accessing this energy again if I can help it.”

“You’re saying…” Zac said with gleaming eyes as he glanced at the cluster of abandoned buildings in the distance. “Treasures?”

“Long exposure to the eye has birthed a few unique items. I didn’t dare target them while I was alone; if I got hurt, it could ruin the mission. With you here, I feel we can make a play for at least a few of the items lying around,” Tavza said. “If you think it’s wasteful, we can collect them after we’ve secured the treasure. I’m just afraid that sealing the Lord’s eye might harm their spiritual nature.”

“Don’t be silly, let’s go with what you said,” Zac quickly replied. “Just point me in the right direction, and I’ll do the rest.”
