With one more deep breath, he steps into our body and takes control while I follow along beside him, taking a backseat inside his emotions. His grief is palpable as he stares at Ai-Qing’s body, his arms tightening around the little cubs, seeking comfort in their soft fur. Warm tears fall from his eyes as his shoulders shake, a hollow emptiness emanating from his chest. Whimpering softly, the heart-wrenching sound which pierces through me. I keep forgetting how little life experience he has. I came in and took over when he was twelve, and he remembers nothing before that. With me around, he’s floated through years of life, with only brief glimpses of my life in his waking moments. It took four years before he was strong enough to speak out, and even then, he was never in control. Out on his own for less than a month and he fell so deeply in love, I don't know if I'd call that lucky. It might be puppy love, it might not, but either way, the pain is all the same.

After a few minutes, his tears subside, though his body continues to shake. Unable to comfort him, I speak softly. “Why don’t you say a few words?”

At my prompting, he stands and gingerly strokes her cheek. “I’m sorry Qing-Qing. I couldn’t protect you. You were scared, so you left, and that’s my fault. I didn’t realize how difficult it must have been for you, a young woman out in the world with a stranger. When I told you about your village, I should have thought to bring you to see them, or reassure you and make you feel safe.” A lump forms in his throat, choking me as the tears begin anew, but his voice remains steady, determined. “I failed you, but I will find you in the next life, and I will do better. Then again in the next, and again, and again. I will spend ten-thousand lifetimes protecting you, loving you, cherishing you, and then ten-thousand more, even if you never return my affection.” His arms tremble as he lifts the blanket to cover her face. “Rest peacefully in the arms of the Mother, and move on to your next life when you are ready. There is no need to wait for me, we will be together. No matter the cost, I will gladly pay it.” Stepping back, he crouches down and lights the torch in one strike of the flint, tossing it at the base of the pyre. Gathering the cubs in his arms, he sits down to watch as the flames grow slowly, consuming the wood and flesh before him.

Feeling awkward during what should be a private moment, I say something to make myself available. “That was a beautiful eulogy. I’m sorry for your loss. From what you’ve told me, she would have fit right in with Lin and Mila.”

A sad, half-smile forms on his face. “Liar. Mila would have beaten us bloody for coming home with another woman.”

“True, but she wouldn’t have held it against Ai Qing.” Rewarded with a small, sobbing chuckle, I continue. “You don’t have to stay for this, I can handle the rest.” Burning corpses are not pretty to look at. Or smell.

Hiding behind his cubs, he shakes his head in denial. “I need to see this through. She was all I had. I have nothing now that she’s gone.”

Ah dammit... Now I feel even guiltier for taking his place. “That’s not true. You’ll always have me.”

“...Thank you brother.”

“Anytime... Brother.” Defiled or not, I mean it. We’ll figure this out together.

Subsiding into silence, we watch the flames together, Baledagh grieving as I remain available to him, wracking my brain for a solution. I can’t keep usurping his place, there has to be a way we can both live full, happy lives. I mean, ignoring the ramifications of splitting up for now, if I can regenerate whole limbs, how much harder can it be to make a new, separate body?

...Probably really, really, really hard.

Nothing is ever easy.

Chapter Meme
