The dim autumn light slowly filled their bedroom, sneaking through the curtains' gap.

David's consciousness slowly pieced itself back together. He cracked one eye open, taking in a deep breath. A familiar, warm weight was on his chest. He looked down at Niala, still very much asleep, wrapped around him.

His heart sang for a beat. If there was a better way to wake up than being used as a man-pillow by a beautiful, loving, warm woman, he had yet to find it.

She mumbled something in her sleep, one of her ears twitched, and her mouth curled into a smile. His feelings had bled through their link, and her sleeping mind had caught on to it.

Which meant that she was on her way to wakefulness, and that he could use the little trick he'd found.

He closed his eyes and dove backward into his inner world, heading straight for the door that linked them. He rapped his knuckle on it. Then one more time.

It opened slowly, revealing a half-asleep Niala, her body covered by woollen clouds which vaguely looked like him, and her head lolling from side to side like a boat on the waves.

He smiled; she was still mostly asleep, but just awake enough for her to be semi-coherent through their link. “Good morning, kitten.”

Her head lazily homed in on the sound of his voice, her lips curving upward even as her eyes remained shut. “Heeeyz... Hi... I love you...” She slurred.

Stepping forward, he lifted his hand and lovingly rubbed the top of her head. She reflexively pushed into his palm. “Daaavid... hiiii... love you...”

He leaned forward and put a kiss on her forehead. “I love you too, Kitten. Time to wake up now.”

She frowned. “Nooo... schleeeep with you...”

The smile didn't leave his face as he pulled his hand back. “I'll see you soon.”

Her shoulders slumped. “Ooookaaaay...”

The door closed, and he let himself fall forward and up, back into the real world. He looked at Niala, gently stroking her head, and waited. A few minutes later, she stirred, bringing her hands up to her closed eyes and rubbing the night's crust away.

She cracked an eye open and searched for his face. Her mouth drew into a smile when she found it. “Hi, trumpet. Did you come see me inside again?”

“I did. You told me it made waking up easier.”

She rubbed her face on his chest. “Yeah, it's like I've already been awake for a few minutes when I actually wake up...” Her head turned to face him, her lips still smiling. She shuffled and crawled herself up his body and toward his mouth, offering him a kiss, which he took.

Then a second kiss.

And a little third, for good luck.

Her head fell back into the crook of his neck, where she moaned a little, her body squirming against him.

Just another one of the perks of being a man-pillow.

She stopped and sighed, her tail swaying under the bed sheets. “What do you want to eat for breakfast?” She asked.

He thought for a second. “I don't know. What do you feel like cooking?”

“Hhmmm... haven't had pancakes for a while.”

“Pancakes sound good.”

She adjusted herself on top of him. “Thick or fluffy ones?”

He furrowed his brows, giving the question the care it deserved. “The ones that jiggle when you slap them.”

She pushed herself up, looking at him with a frown. “The last time I cooked those, you slapped them, and then you looked at my butt.”

“What are you insinuating?”

She narrowed her eyes, her ears folding down. “That you were comparing which one jiggled the best when slapped.”

“Your butt. Not even a competition.” He affirmed.

“You're not even going to try and deny it?”

He grinned. “I'd never deny myself your butt, kitten.”

She scrunched her lips, then rolled off of him and stepped out from under the sheets, her backside turned toward him, and drained the sleep out of her body with a few stretches, each one punctuated with a slight moan.

His eyes were, of course, unblinking and locked onto her form. She didn't need to, but she still glanced over her shoulder, catching him in the act.

He was entirely unrepentant, instead pushing gratitude and admiration through their link. She stuck out her tongue at him, put on a bathrobe, and left for the bathroom. She was still blushing by the time she was cleaned up and dressed.

Niala whisked the batter, bowl held tight in the crook of her arm. The jiggly pancakes needed the consistency of a sticky foam, or else they'd come out only fluffy.

As her arm began to tire, she wondered again why she hadn't splurged and purchased one of those fancy auto-whiskers. Over the past few years, non-commercial models meant for home use had become available. They cost a little fortune, but surely, she could afford this little luxury, right?

She crunched her nose. Well, maybe hold off. This was good exercise! Or at least, that's what Leandro would have said.

Twang. Something metallic snapped, ringing clear. She looked down to find one of her whisk tines snapped. “Oh, bleedin' pit...”

She kept going, because if she stopped now, she'd have to redo the entire recipe.

David looked up when he heard her swear. “What's wrong? What was that noise?”

She looked at him over her shoulder. “The whisk broke. I think we have an extra one somewhere?”

He nodded and began rummaging around the drawers and cabinets while she concentrated on the damaged utensil in her hand, making sure the metal parts weren't going to completely fall into the batter.

A thought passed through her head. She spoke without looking. “David? I think it might be stored downstairs, in the box with the old kitchen stuff we stored awa-”

The spare whisk appeared at the edge of her vision on her left, held horizontally. She blinked at it. “Oh, I guess it wasn't in the basement!”

She put away the broken one and grabbed the spare. Movement to her right caught her attention. She glanced to see David, frozen, staring toward her left, from where the whisk had been handed to her.

Slowly, she turned her head to the left.

An... arm, made of various things, of stuff, was there; a tendril of agglomerated objects, projecting from the hallway that led out of the kitchen.

For a second, nobody and nothing moved.

Then David snapped forward, interposing himself between the stuff-arm and Niala, flaring blue instantly.

The arm flinched, as if it had just been yelled at, and pulled out of the kitchen as if it was being sucked back from whence it came.

A soft grinding accompanied the thing's retreat, sounding like someone rummaging in a drawer. They heard the basement door slam closed, and then, silence.

David and Niala shared a look, eyes wide. He turned his head back forward, drew Heartsong, and advanced toward the door leading down. He cracked it open and peeked down the unlit stairs. Nothing.

Palming the switch stone in the stairwell, light flooded the way down. Carefully, one step at a time, he descended, Niala just behind him, one of her emergency potions in her hand.

They reached the landing and looked around. Still nothing. Just their various stores and surplus stuff, on shelves and stacked in a pile along one wall.

A pile.

David narrowed his eyes at the pile of stuff: crates, boxes, bottles, containers, chairs, folding tables...

All very compactly arranged and stacked. He turned his head toward Niala, keeping his eyes on the pile. “Kitten, did you rearrange the surplus stuff down here?”

Her ears twitched. “...No? You brought most of the stuff down. I just came down a few times to get specific things. Why?”

He pointed at the pile with his head. “I didn't stack those things like that.”

She looked at the pile.

Somehow, it reminded her a bit of something she'd seen. The way the parts were fitted to waste almost no space...

Where had she-

Hodge!

David and Niala led Hodge down into their basement. The smooth-skinned old devil immediately spotted the small pile of crates and goods and ambled toward it.

He nodded approvingly. “This is a very nice pile. Still small, but well cared for! I'm not surprised the seed took hold!”

David scrunched his brow. “What seed?”

Hodge turned around, a 3-tooth smile on display. “The seeds I've been giving out! Don't you remember?”

Niala's ears twitched. “Wait... do you mean the small wood chips?”

The devil's smile grew. “Yes! Exactly!”

David held up a hand. “Wait. Those weren't garbage?”

“Garbage? Why would I hand out garbage, Sonny? Old Hodge only deals in useful things! And if you thought it was garbage, then why'd you keep it, huh?”

David sighed and glanced at his wife, who tucked her ears down. “I, huh, didn't want to throw it away.”

Hodge frowned. “Are you telling me everyone else threw away my perfectly good seeds?”

David shrugged. “I guess? It was just wood chips.”

The devil lowered his head and shook it. “Ungrateful youngins, don't know a gift when they receive it...” He mumbled, then looked back up. “But you didn't! You planted it in a fertile pile!”

He turned to look at the stacked stuff, pointing a hand at it. “And it grew so quickly! And so healthy! Look at how small the gaps are between the crates! That's a strong pile this is!”

His head craned to look at Niala. “You've been cataloguing the pile's content, haven't you?”

She tilted her head. “Huh, yes? It's always good to know what you have lying around, and where.”

Hodge grinned. “Good! Very good!” He looked back at the pile, observing it in silence while stroking his wispy beard.

When he didn't offer any more insight, David cleared his throat. “Could you... tell us a bit more about this pile? It looked scared when it handed the whisk to Niala.”

Hodge blinked, turning to look at the homeowners. “Huh? Oh! Well, that's normal now! Young piles are just like kids! They don't know what's good or bad until you teach them!”

David narrowed his eyes. “And how did it know we wanted the whisk?”

The devil flapped his bony hand. “Young man, it's a pile! Of course it knows what you need!”

David and Niala shared a look. Her ears twitched. “That doesn't really answer the question, Mr. Hodge.”

“Pfah! It's a pile! It's rooted in this house, which you both rebuilt with your hands! It just... knows.” He explained with a shrug.

Niala stared for a second. “Are you saying it's connected to us, somehow?”

Hodge deeply nodded. “Yesss! That's exactly what I'm saying!” He clasped his hands. “Now, like I said, it can feel what you desire, but it doesn't know what's good or bad! If you're angry at someone in your house and want them to leave, it'll try to do just that! Usually by wrapping around their legs and flinging them out the nearest opening!”

He stopped for a second and smiled, as if remembering something pleasant. His expression flattened once more. “You'll have to work with it, teach it how to understand your needs and desires! Just like a puppy!”

David tensed. Slowly, he glanced at his wife. She was locked in on the pile, ears straight, tail still, pupils dilated.

“Puppy?” She asked with a squeak.

Hodge grinned.

David sighed.

It... was.

It used to not be.

But then it was.

It had been for a short time now. It didn't know how long that was, but it wasn't very long.

It wondered if the time periods where the two lights dimmed meant anything. It kept happening over and over, so it probably did?

Not long ago, the lights had wanted something. It had that something! It reached out and handed that something! It was useful!

Then the lights froze and stared at it.

Had it done wrong? It didn't know! It didn't want to disappoint the lights! It was sorry! It would not do it again!

It had retreated to its core, and stayed put.

But now, one of the lights was growing warm and getting closer.

It was afraid. At the same time, it was... hopeful? Was that a thing?

The warm light reached out to it. It felt its touch and recoiled, the warm light doing the same.

It tried to make itself smaller, but it was already tightly packed. Its parts still scraped together somewhat. That made the warm light pause.

But then it reached out again, slower, and even warmer.

This time, it did its best not to react when the light touched it.

And it felt... good. Warm, safe, appreciated.

Somehow, it knew that it would be alright.

It was, and the light told it that it was a good thing that it was.

That made it... happy.

They ended up “adopting” the pile. That was the best way David could describe Niala's actions.

She'd immediately begun “feeding” it with extra stuff, conscripting David into helping her clean everything it was made of, and redoing the pile's inventory in a new, high-end leather-backed notebook.

She named it “Cookie” because its first act had been to try and help with her cooking, and because it was a cute puppy name.

She had stared David down when he tried to point out it was not a puppy, but rather an arcane entity born from a sliver of an incarnated devil's soul.

Hodge gave them a few more pointers; interact with the pile as often as they could, so it would learn when to act upon their desires or not. Learn how to direct their thoughts at the pile. Periodically rummage through the pile, because that was like giving a puppy a good scratch, and redo the inventory now and then.

And, most importantly, don't add useless things to the pile. Everything needed to have value, actual or sentimental. Adding trash would only muddy the pile's mind, making it harder for it to interpret their thoughts.

Even if he was a bit annoyed at learning he and Niala had basically birthed an arcane being without their consent, David had to admit that having a sentient, obedient, and loyal stuff-tentacle had its advantages.

It could help around the house, keep it safe, and be used to easily store or retrieve things.

Out of curiosity, he had asked what was required for a seed to take root.

Hodge said it was simple: Useful stuff, an accurate inventory, and frequent additions of stuff.

With a sinking feeling, he remembered that Hodge had given wood chips to his brother, Isaac.

The same Isaac who had set up several construction material stockpiles all over town, who saw frequent use, and of which he knew Isaac kept very exacting inventories of.

Isaac looked up from his desk and at the door as someone knocked on it.

Angeline got up from her own desk with a smile. “I'll get it.”

He nodded in thanks and returned his attention to the inventory and logistics reports on his desk.

Stockpile 2-B continued to have a near-perfect operational score. Perfect inventory audits, the lowest storage and retrieval times, and immaculately ordered materials. They only lost some points because some of the materials were too tightly packed.

He heard Angeline greet the people at his office's door, and looked up once more when he recognized his brother and wife's voices.

They stepped in and headed straight for him. The look on his brother's face made his own greeting die in his throat. “...What is it?” he asked, dreading the answer.

David looked at him for a few seconds before eventually speaking. “Brother, what did you do with the wood chips that Hodge gave you and Angeline?”

Isaac frowned. Wood chips? Searching his memories, he remembered the small polished wood pieces that the old man called Hodge had “gifted” him.

Wordlessly, he got up and walked over to a cabinet, opening a drawer and retrieving an inventory list. Running his finger down the lines, he found the one he was looking for, reading it aloud. “Employee #0001, personal goods, non-valuable. One crate, marked MISC-A-01. Location: Stockpile 2-B, secure warehouse D, section 1, row 4.”

He looked up at his brother, who had let his head hang.

Isaac frowned. What was this about?