211 Tier 45 mana stones, which made the Tier 14 Spectral skill upgrade orb one of the items in the auction that had the largest difference between its Tier and its final selling price. If it had been a Tier 26 orb, Matt was fairly confident the price might have been even higher even if the relative difference was smaller. However he didn’t dwell on such possibilities and was content with what they’d gotten so far.

Instead, he raised his glass to Allie’s incoherent speech and fell back into a couch with Liz, enjoying the satisfaction of a successful expedition.

Sending a message to the rest of the crew to mark the celebration, they looked to see even Susanne being visibly moved by the final price. Matt knew how hard she worked to cover the resource gap inherent between Ascenders and everyone else, while also not relying on any of them. While well taken care of in the army, she wasn’t as free as they were, and many of her merits were spent as fast as she got them.

Seeing her giggle repeatedly even got Zack to laugh, prompting exuberant comments from everyone else, which culminated in him finishing two drinks in rapid succession to even louder cheers.

Having incredibly flush pockets, they were a bit more aggressive in their following bidding. While none of them went crazy, all of them let things they didn’t really need go when the prices got too high, they didn’t hesitate to go all-in when they did need something. Given they were mainly buying for themselves, it wasn’t too hard, as the items they were mainly interested in were in the Tier 30 to Tier 35 range. Thus preventing most Tier 40s from being able to snap them up.

They were watching the final moments of a displacement flower when Susanne changed the projection, but she only rewound the video to the item's description to several boo’s.

“Only working for those with air or force aspected mana, this Natural Treasure creates a hyper fine edge on any weapon. Best used with skills like [Wind Cutter], [Wind Slash], [Wind Blade], [Hypersonic Edge] and so on, it's a must have fo—”

The man's voice was cut off as Susanne skipped ahead to the current bidding, to several more good natured protests.

She ended up getting the item, but the Tier 31 Natural Treasure ended up costing her 210 Tier 39 mana stones after she got in a bidding war with a Tier 35 who seemed to want it as badly as she did.

Thanks in large part to their recent elemental orb sale and her cut, Susanne was more than capable of holding out, despite the five Tier gap.

However as they entered the final day things truly started to heat up as the best items the Empire had wrestled out of the breach were unveiled.
