Not that it took too long for items and treasures they did want to start appearing. A large portion of the month flew by. Though, unlike most of his vacations where he was able to visit friends, he didn’t dread the ending, knowing many of the people slipping in and out of their suite would go to the Corporations.

Thankfully, he found almost all of the items he needed sprinkled through the month. He paid close to thirty percent more than the base price on average, but he didn’t care, only happy to find them at all. That was the advantage of scale. With enough people, someone was bound to have found at least one of most of anything.

Most wasn’t all though, and there were two Natural Treasures he’d seen neither hide nor hair of. The first and most worrisome was a Tassal of Lament, which, according to JR’s design document, would be one of the core items required to stabilize his mana gems.

Already the rarest type of Natural Treasure, its effect didn’t lend itself to being sold at all. Able to stabilize the spirit even in the case of horrific spiritual damage, giving a second chance at life, Matt was hoping his mention in the Ascender chat would find him what he needed. No one in the Empire had even heard a rumor of the Natural Treasures appearing, but that meant little for the others.

At the same time, he was already looking into the alternatives. But sadly, he had none for the second item he hadn’t found yet.

Rather than a specific item, JR had simply given him a criteria on mana throughput to meet.

The problem was that he hadn’t seen anything better than a Gilbert Fiddle, which only reached eighty percent of his requirements. As much as he’d love to blame JR, the problem was entirely Matt’s. Mana throughput wasn’t too rare of a secondary effect in Natural Treasures, but with how much mana he made, the item either needed to be much higher Tier and have it as a secondary effect, or have it as a primary, core effect.

However, he’d found nothing in weeks of searching and was hoping to get a pleasant surprise in the final week. Thankfully, his luck wasn’t everyone else's.

Liz made out excellently, getting three blood based Natural Treasures she wanted to try and alchemize into herself in as many days. The first, U-Rapture, was typically used by blood mages who wanted to add a degree of hallucinogenic to their spells, but that wasn’t what she wanted with it.

At least not entirely.

Liz didn’t just want to add the effect to her Ichor spells, she wanted to add it to herself. The same went for the Last Drop Blood Ginseng and the Violent Vitality that she managed to get her hands on.

Entering the final week, things started to pick up, with the true big ticket items getting released. Paradoxically, the outside venues also got more rambunctious, as most had no more money to spend, while their room calmed down as they prepared to get serious.

Not that it stopped all of the partying, as their friends turned each auction into a reason to celebrate or commiserate.

Only twenty minutes into the day’s auctions, Matt took over the main room’s projectors to the hoots and hollers. However, they died down when they saw the ‘cannot bid’, indicating it was one of their items as everyone grew interested.

Same as most, an attractive staff member brought the covered items out, letting the moment build as their steps echoed on the recordings.

The auctioneer did her part, launching into the introduction as the music started to rise. Being in the main hall, she had more than a few interested eyes, but she didn’t rush, forcing everyone's attention to her.

Only when she had it did she speak, “Ladies and gentlemen, don’t let the appearance of these items fool you. They are worth every mana stone we are asking for. We have three of these novelties now, and only a few more during our grand finale. If you haven’t believed a single word I’ve said this month, believe this. Don’t let this opportunity pass you by.”

Having teased the audience enough, the auctioneer pulled back the covering, revealing two Tier 14 and one Tier 26 skill upgrade orbs laid out in a standing triangle.

Spiritual senses swept the items from everyone as people tried to figure out how something as ordinary as skill upgrade orbs made their way onto such an important stage, but feeling that only made Matt giddy, knowing what was coming.

Having expected that as well as Matt, the auctioneer spoke as the viewers finished scanning, explaining what they probably didn’t believe. “As verified by both the auction house and Imperial government, these are elemental skill orbs. As their name might imply, these skill orbs function similarly to normal skill upgrade orbs, effectively raising the Tier of a skill, but these impart a specific elemental aspect to singular spells. With so few orbs, testing was limited, but it’s confirmed that opposing elemental pairings work just as well as same mana pairings. Though, neither are believed to be the best use case of such items, so do consider the results carefully. More information is being made available now on the listing and everyone has one minute to review before the auction starts. As for the three presented here, let me introduce them. We have one Tier 26 Air elemental orb, one Tier 14 Metal upgrade orb, and finally, the crowning orb of this batch: one Tier 14 Spectral mana orb. As the first time these items have been seen, we have been permitted to start the auctions for all three as Tier 26 items. Good luck everyone.”

For those who hadn’t gone into chaotic space, they turned to Matt and the others and demanded to hear about the strange realm that produced them.

Their curiosity wasn’t uncommon, which was why Titan’s Torch had coordinated with the auction, revealing what information they’d learned about the elemental skill orbs.

So far, they hadn’t been able to make a rift that produced them, but that was part of the reason why Matt was willing to sell the possibly unique orbs at an open auction. He wanted attention and a high price tag.

Having buried his hatchet with Mackenzie Harrington and her ilk, Matt wanted to remind not only them, but everyone else, that rifts could do far more than make aura. Aperology was a dreadfully underfunded branch of research, and he hoped stoking people's desires would see the field widen further. For all of their reproducibility issues, such as the Talented aperologist being unwilling to travel, they had a better chance at forcing the creation of a rift that dropped elemental upgrade orbs than his guild.

That admission wasn’t Matt giving up on the idea of his guild or other non-Talented cultivators discovering the true science behind aperology. Far from it. However, he acknowledged that while he'd done a lot, he hadn’t truly changed the way people looked at rifts. Funding for most projects was both limited in amount and targeted in scope.

Privately, in his wildest aspirations, Matt envisioned a realm where every rift was bespoke. Where its creation was scientific, where its monsters were known, where its layout was expected, where the set rewards were exactly what a community needed because they chose them. It was far from realistic in the short term, but entirely possible in theory, so far as he understood the development of the various cultivation industries; the same way that in the beginning of the Realm’’s history, only Talented alchemists could make potions, whereas now anyone with some training could perform once miraculous acts as a commonplace routine. It might take a few trillion years after his ascension but he wanted to firmly plant those seeds.

Watching the traffic to the news stations, as well as seeing the wave of messages being blocked by his filters, Matt hoped he might have shaken up people's beliefs on aperology, but knew only time would prove him right or wrong. That was, in fact, why they were selling all but two of the elemental upgrade orbs, with them being kept around as scientific references.

It was also why they’d saved a few for the Minkalla auction. Matt felt a little bad about what they were going to do to Gideon and Eclavorn with the Plasma orb, but not so bad as to change their plans. The dragon deserved a twig on the tail for his reaction to Matt before the expedition.

He hadn’t wanted to work with Mackenzie Harrington, but when she reached out a year after their initial aura reforms, reporting the first of her punishment rifts completed, he’d brought up the orbs and their potential. It was both a carrot to reward her for creating rifts whose physical layout perfectly suited the farming needs of the local community, instead of taking an easy way out, and a way to remind her that he wasn’t done making aperology a household idea.

He still felt slimy working with her, but he’d demanded his own restrictions for any Talented aperologist who managed it, which he felt was a worthy price.

Not that his requirement was onerous. He only demanded they actually make the rifts and not deliberately create artificial scarcity. Not that he set the quotas high. He wasn’t interested in forcing people to work against their will, but creating a hundred rifts over the same number of years was far from onerous when he didn’t set price limits.

Matt was confident they only needed one success for widespread investment to come pouring in. Until then, everyone would be burning their personal funds at an atrocious rate, trying to make a rift that dropped elemental upgrade orbs.

Once the Tier 14 metal one started taking bids, the price immediately shot up to a Tier 35 mana stone, where it continued to climb without pause until it reached 122 Tier 37 mana stones.

Scanning the general crowd's reactions with his spiritual sense, Matt smiled. Everyone he observed in the open crowd was talking about the limited testing they’d shared. Many dreamed about rounding out one of their main spells with an extra element, or covering a weakness by circumventing their element’s counter.

It was all theoretical, but the buzz was there.

When it finally sold to a Tier 40 fire cultivator for 316 Tier 39 mana stones, Matt joined everyone celebrating their luck.

“Aster, no!!!!” Cameron protested as Aster used her and several others of her late arriving friends tried to get a wave started, before it devolved into something closer to a mosh pit.

Even with the larger crew split, they were making a fortune on the first orb alone. And it wasn’t even the best thing they had to sell.

Riding that high, they watched in anticipation as the Tier 26 air skill upgrade orb ended up selling for 173 Tier 43 mana stones. They’d expected a higher price thanks to a multitude of factors but they hadn’t dared dream quite so large. However, even that new high was merely an appetizer to the spectral elemental upgrade orb.

Watching the auctioneer introduce the spectral orb, Matt wanted to give them a hug. “While I’m sure the interested parties are already aware, let me explain for everyone else. Spectral mana is an incredibly rare mana type with many explorations never finding any related Natural Treasures. Why you ask? Because of its composition. It's a Level 3 mana type, and as such, it's made out of Mist, Shadow, and Illusion mana, which means two thirds of its component mana types are already rare Level 2 mana types, and the Level 1 Shadow mana isn't exactly common.”

Pausing, the auctioneer smiled, giving the crowd time to speculate and look up relevant information. “While this may not surprise many, that results in intangibility. While combatants have little need to explain why they might desire such an ability, it is more sought by crafters. While I wouldn’t want to speak on secrets, the most common use of a spectral crafting skill would allow, say, a smith the ability to selectively forge the internals of an item with their main forging implement. Good luck everyone.”

Similar to the other two orbs, the Tier 26 starting price was quickly forgotten about. It quickly rose to Tier 40, but things only started to slow down deep into Tier 42.

As the auctioneer said, Spectral mana was famous, even infamous, in crafting circles. Even limited to a single skill, it offered incredible versatility to any crafter’s arsenal, which was why they’d make it the third orb sold, rather than the first. They needed news to spread and for interested parties to start paying attention. Originally, the auction house planned for it to be in the final day's auction, but at their group's urging, the presenters ultimately chose to present it as the pinnacle elemental upgrade orb of the first batch, rather than the second best of the final day.

After running the simulations, they were even happy to do so after seeing how much higher it would drive the price of the Tier 26 Firmament upgrade orb. As tempted as he and everyone else had been to keep the stupidly rare upgrade orb for themselves, it was of too low Tier to be used on their core skills, and as such, they’d decided to sell it after getting the okay from Manny.

Seeing the price tick over into the Tier 45 mana stone range, Matt watched in trepidation with everyone else as the countdown slowly edged closer and closer to zero. Each new bid bought them five seconds of relief, at least five seconds relative to a Tier 25’s perception. That same amount of time could be an eternity for the Tier 40s who were engaged in the bidding war, but one by one, anonymized ID’s stopped appearing as the price ticked higher.

When it finally hit zero and the bidding officially ended, their entire room sagged in relief, before exploding in celebrations at the final price.

