Kessiah murmured, “No, that’s impossible. Why would you want him to?”

A giant set of pincers raised out of the ground and clamped onto my waist. A giant beetle with armored plates all over it rose out of the ground and dashed towards the house. Like chunking a sack of flour, the beetle tossed me through the window.

I flew before smashing into the window. Bits of drywall snapped along with the shattered glass panes. I tackled into the floor, tearing through a few planks of wood. As I glanced up, Kessiah had her hands on her hips while Torix crossed his arms.

Torix mouthed, “Shame on you, disciple.”

Kessiah shook her head, “And here I thought you were trustworthy. Tsk, tsk, tsk.”

I stood up, lunging up off one knee while Torix glanced his eyes at Kessiah,

“As trustworthy as a snake.”

I rolled my eyes,

“Alright guys, you got to admit you were both being suspicious. Besides that, what did you mean by exile?”

Kessiah propped her weight onto one hip, “You remember the sentinels?”

“Uh, yeah.”

Kessiah opened her arms, “You remember how they’re level 5000 with spears that tear through dimensions?”

“That’s a hard thing to forget.”

“Who knows, you might find a way. Any who, those spears aren’t all that good for cutting people. Sentinels will grab you, slice a hole in the fabric of space time, and chunk you in there.”

I frowned, “So in other words, they exile you.”

“Bingo.”

Torix nodded, “You’ve been there before. Whenever we opened the portal using the ancient ruins in BloodHollow. Who was it…Ah yes, Baldag-Ruhl I believe. He is the maker of that rift. You were put within it.”

I nodded, “Yeah. I remember it being utterly terrifying, meeting Etorhma and everything.”

Torix raised a palm to me,

“But you see, we now know you can survive exposure to the dimensional energy within the eldritch’s dimemsion. You can survive the exile.”

I shrugged, “I mean we only put my arm in there. Shoving all of me in there is a big step.”

“Etorhma pulled you through the portal, and you lived. That is more than enough proof. Your armor prevents you from dying. Yawm on the other hand, we don’t know if he will or not.”

Kessiah placed a hand on my shoulder,

“You can pull Yawm into the eldritch dimension with you. So, what do you say?”

I brushed her arm off,

“Fuck no.”

Kessiah frowned,

“Well, I wouldn’t wanna go in either, but we don’t really have any other way of killing Yawm. You and Althea are going to struggle to get over level 1500, even with doubled experience. That’s nowhere near enough to defeat Dakhma, let alone Yawm or Ajax.”

I sighed, raising both hands, “Here’s the thing. Why not just use a ghoul or something you summoned Torix?”

“The issue with using one of my summons comes with how the sentinel’s spears are designed. Think of them as enemy specific. They are designed to destroy eldritch, and to be able to allow the sentinel’s to travel. My minions, while not actually eldritch, are registered as eldritch.”

I raised an eyebrow, “How do you know that?”

“Because the dumbass tried capturing one once.”

Torix frowned, “An entire army of minions disintegrate in seconds.” Torix sighed, “You’ll be able to sustain yourself within the dimension as well. My minions disintegrate into mana when exposed to the eldritch’s domain.”

“Man…Fuck. Gah, that sucks. Like, that really, really sucks.”

Torix nodded his head, “Indeed it does. I’m sorry the burden of this task belongs to you. The fortunate piece of this puzzle is that you have time. Time to forge yourself into a warrior that even Yawm may fear.”

I leaned onto my knees, breathing out for a moment. Despite how insane the plan sounded, defeating Yawm by whittling away his entire army of followers sounded even more insane. Yawm had so many strengths, beating him in direct combat may not even be possible. Using this kind of cunning would work well by comparison.

Besides, I didn’t want to spend the next 50 years reaching Yawm’s level.

I banged my fists into my knees, the force of the strikes breaking the planks of wood further. My dexterity and heightened senses let me disperse the force better. Otherwise I’d fall through the floor. I lifted myself up,

“Alright, I’ll do it. I have a better option though.”

Torix raised an eyebrow, “And what might that be?”

“We kill one of the followers, get sentinel rights from Schema, then use the spear they give us.”

Kessiah leaned back, her lips pursed, “Heh, I guess we could do that.”

Torix cupped his chin, “Indeed we could. We could then send each of his other followers to random worlds or dimensions. That would leave Yawm all alone, ripe for the taking.”

I opened my arms, “I know right? I’m a genius.”

Torix lifted out his hand and thumped my nose. With my armor reinforcing my flesh, Torix’s finger clanged against the skin and bone. Torix pulled his finger back,

“What in the name of Schema is that?”

I tapped my head with my gauntlet. A dull clang let out like a piece of metal covered in playdough. I grinned,

“The armor reinforces my bones and muscles. That’s why my damage resistance is up to 98%.”

Kessiah walked over. She put her thumb into her mouth, biting down through her skin. Blood leaked down her hand before she wiped it onto her index finger. She walked over and flicked me. My head swung back like I was impacted by a sledgehammer. She grinned,

“I’ve got a few new tricks up my sleeve.”

I frowned, “What the fuck was that?”

Torix frowned, “Hemomancy. The process of using blood for magic.”

“What the fuck? Where was that when you fought Dakhma?”

Kessiah glanced down, her face harsh. She grimaced, “I didn’t want to use it.”

I spread my hands, “What, why?”

Torix shook his head, “It’s long and complicated. We’ll speak with you later.”

She placed a hand on his shoulder, “Enough of that. He isn’t some kid you took under your wing anymore. He’s one of us. The guys going into a different dimension for Schema’s sake. The least I can do is explain.”

She glanced back at me, “Uh, well…” She let her hand off Torix, letting her arms flop on her sides,

“I’ll get to the point. I had a daughter. She was very…talented in hemomancy. Most of my family was. The thing is, hemomancy is tough to control. Once the spell has been cast, it will draw however much blood it needs from you. Even if you die, it will continue draining you to a dry husk.”

I frowned, “Did your daughter mess up a spell?”

Kessiah shook her head, “No. Another one of her classmates did during a demonstration. The way it works is the spell will drain you of blood till you die. If it still needs mana, it will take on hosts until it has enough to complete itself. Her classmate overexerted herself and died. The spell kept draining blood from her classmates.”

Kessiah stopped talking for a moment. She took a breath, “And my daughter, being the brave little girl she was, tried to help her classmates. She ended up stopping it from draining the entire room. But…”

Kessiah closed her eyes. A moment passed again, and she opened them, “The spell cast and destroyed the entire portion of the space shuttle. Everyone died. Everyone.”

I glanced at the broken planks beneath me. A long, awkward silence passed the room. It was a suffocating sort of silence, one of those kinds of silences that makes the air heavy and makes you wish you were somewhere else.

Torix interrupted that silence, “The greatest tragedy is for a parent to outlive their child.” He placed a hand on her shoulder. Kessiah shook her head, and as if the gloom was never there, she shrugged,

“And that’s why I haven’t done any hemomancy since. It’s dumb, childish even. I couldn’t bring myself to do it until after you saved me from Dakhma. Made me realize this isn’t some game. I can’t be a spoiled kid and not do something just because it’s unpleasant.”

A sad, slight grin traced her lips, “If I keep living in the past, I’ll never have a future.”

She took a step forward, ruffling the hair on my head.

“Come on big man. We got a mission we need to finish. You need the dungeon cores right? You gained a few levels.”

I glanced at Torix. He was pokerfaced, so I just turned back to her,

“Uh. Yeah. I forgot to mention it, but one of my trees lets me get more dungeon cores. I need, I don’t know…at least ten.”

Kessiah nodded, unzipping the gray knapsack at her side. Pulling out the ring and opened the starry sky portal. Reaching her hands into it, she pulled out five dungeon cores. She handed them to me before reaching into the portal and taking out a few more.

The cores sunk into my armor on contact, notifications popping up in the corner of my vision. It took a total of seventeen cores before my armor ceased absorbing them. Torix sighed,

“This is a fortune’s worth of cores. I hope you’re willing to pay that debt in time.”

I picked up a dungeon core from the floor, the black sphere surrounded in red clanking onto the floor. It bounced off my armor, no longer sinking in once I hit my dungeon core cap. I glanced at it,

“I think hopping into that dimension will suffice.”

I handed the core back to Kessiah, “Thanks for all the cores. I’ll put them to good use, I assure you.”

Putting the core back into the portal, Kessiah pocketed the ring,

“You damn well better. That was a couple years on a fringe world I just handed you.”

“And hopefully, you won’t ever need to again. Besides, I’ll be able to pay you back with interest later. How does a suit of sentinel armor sound?”

She grinned, “I suppose that’ll do.” She walked towards the doorway, “I’m going to get Althea. You can do whatever with your status till we meet back up here.”

Kessiah left before I turned towards Torix,

“Man…That really sucks. I mean fuck...”

Torix nodded, “Grieving. It’s a painful process. Neither of us were any good at moving on. Tough to be immortal and not know what to do with your time. It’s like life becomes some sort of curse. Combine that with Schema’s oppressive labeling of us as unknowns, and life turns to a boorish chore. This whole venture was revitalizing for both of us.”

Torix paced back towards the floor. After opening a portal, he pulled out a brush made from hair. He pulled out a bowl full of red liquid. Dabbing the brush into it, the color changed to black and the consistency to a thick sludge. He marked on the floor, designing a new ritual.

I watched in a daze, sort of numb from Kessiah’s sudden story. I guess saving someone’s life had a way of making them open. Regardless, I walked over towards a wall and sat down. My back pressed an inch into the dray wall, leaving an impression. I sighed as I opened my status.

Up till now, I’d invested all my skill points from cores into Boundless Storm. It was my only mythical skill after all. That was something I never focused on, the level of my skills. I figured it was a hell of a lot more productive to focus more on learning than checking them out. Now I figured it was time to give them a look see.

Most of the skills related to my studies had made damn decent progress, capping out around the 60 to 70 mark. The only standouts where pain resistance and Boundless Storm. Pain resistance was at 100, giving me 99.9% pain resistance. On the other hand, boundless storm was at 167. It was a skill over level 100.

I turned to Torix, “Can skills go above 100?”

“Only mythical skills can. They have a cap of a 1000. In other words, you may increase them endlessly.”

“For real?”

Torix glanced up from his marking, “Of course. Why else would you be willing to sacrifice 15 different skills and half the points you gain from them. There’s no other reason too otherwise.”

“And about that blood magic, it seems like it isn’t any different from Arcane Blood.”

“Of course it is. Arcane blood converts mana into health. Hemomancy sacrifices health to create temporary buffs. You couldn’t harvest a hemomancer’s blood and use it as fuel for instance. However, that is possible with someone with Arcane Blood.”

“What are they sacrificing their blood too?”

Torix sighed, “Baldowah. One of the nastier Old Ones.” He pointed his brush at me, “Enough questions. Finish allocating your points. They’ll be back soon.”

I nodded, glancing back down at my menu screens. With such an enormous bonus towards my skill point total, I could even max out a few stats if I wanted to. I turned towards Torix,

“Is it ok if I ask some questions about skills then?”

Torix resumed his markings, “What do you need to know?”

“What would happen if I maxed out ascendant manipulation? Wouldn’t I become some sort of savant in an instant?”

“No. Some skills give bonuses that are absolute. Pain Tolerance is a perfect example. You may max it and gain it as an ability. On the other hand, learning skills act as multipliers. However effective you are with the ascendant mana, your skill total will multiply that. Even Schema cannot zap knowledge into your brain. Knowledge is one of the few things you cannot buy. It must be earned.”

“So if I maxed out ascendant mana, it would double how effective I am with it, but I would still need to actually learn how to use it?”

Torix nodded, “Think of Althea when she first sparred you. Her aiming skills were top notch. They allowed her to shoot precisely where you were. With a few jerks in random directions though, she couldn’t hit you at all. That is the difference between having a skill and knowing how to use it. Your mythical skill, Boundless Storm, bridges that gap for you in most instances.”

