Torix dabbed the brush into the thick, black sludge, “It’s a powerful skill, even by mythical skill standards.”

“Alright, cool. Thanks for the explanation.”

“Keep one fact in mind. Just as it is the responsibility of the tutor to give good answers, it is the responsibility of the student to ask good questions. As annoying as it is to be interrogated by you, these are still good questions.”

I nodded, glancing back down towards my status. Putting points into knowledge centric skills wouldn’t do much for me then. Plus, focusing on higher level skills gave greater returns anyways. With a level 1 skill, gaining a point in the ability was simple. On the other hand, bridging the gap from 99 to 100 took a very long time.

Taking my time allocating those skill points was a good idea for the long run. Just like with allocating my attributes, I kept being efficient. There wasn’t really a point in stopping now. I would wait until a skill was level 90 before I invested into it, besides for my mythical skill. I’d wait till it was at least over level 200 before making that one increase.

With that handled, I came to the far simpler business of using my attributes. It seemed like stacking endurance would remain the end goal for now, though putting points into constitution here or there was a good idea too. Over time, I would find some sort of balance between them.

Once I had a firmer grip on how gravitational and telekinetic energy worked, making these decisions would be easier. Honestly though, constitution and endurance were all I needed. Since my leveling perks ensured a solid baseline in seven of my nine attributes, I only needed to beef up what made me strong.

That’s right. I needed some moar motherfucking health.

I furiously allocated the points into endurance, needlessly pressing on the virtual button. I could just use thought to put the points in them if I wanted to, but the satisfaction of pressing the button was too great. Once I finished, I set my eyes onto my status screen. Like the slow coming of a red tide, the amount of health I had was awe inspiring.

Level 563

Strength - 252.6 | Constitution - 562.1 | Endurance - 960

Dexterity - 100 | Willpower - 447 | Intelligence – 158.1

Charisma – 57.2 | Luck – 71.43 | Perception - 100

************************************

The thing is though, most of my other stats beefed up along with endurance. My core build was turning out to be constitution, willpower, and endurance. Secondary stats were strength and intelligence. The other stats were all solid besides charisma and luck, though neither were incompetent either. All in all, it turned my build into a very well rounded one.

With that handled, I began practicing telekinesis while waiting on the others. Something I figured out early on was that when you used telekinesis, there was a pull on you as well. If I tried pushing a boulder in the distance, it would push back. Think of Newton’s laws of physics. For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.

That made all my constitution much more valuable. The reason I hadn’t noticed it yet was because I only did small things, like stopping arrows or lifting rocks. When I tried moving something like a car, my feet would slide back and it felt like I was lifting the car.

Even more limiting, the further away I was, the worse the conversion was. Strength and constitution both became limitations because lifting even small objects from afar was very difficult. The telekinesis also couldn’t lift from the inside of an object. When I lifted a clump of dirt, it lifted it from the outside.

Adding even further to the complexity was how I ‘held’ onto an object. If I was lifting a block of wood, the solid grip made lifting it easier. Lifting a block of sand was much more difficult, because I had to extend my grasp so that it didn’t fall through the gaps. The most effective use of telekinesis so far had been close range amplification.

In other words, using the telekinetic power to enhance my own strikes and defenses. I could also use it like a bullet up to about 4-5 feet away. With a bit of focus, I could condense the surface of the telekinetic burst. The smaller it was, the more force I could put into it. This also gave it more piercing power, like I was using a sharp point of a sword instead of the dull hammer.

In fact, telekinesis worked a lot like extending my limbs in fact. Even though it sounds complicated, the rules just worked like I was lifting something with stretched out arms or something. I’m guessing that intuitive understanding stemmed from Boundless Storm like Torix said. He said that most people had to learn vector calculus at the very least before being an effective psionic.

Instead of running calculations in my head, I just felt my way through the power. Torix told me my massive health/mana pool worked in my favor as well. Telekinesis was dangerous for that reason. If you worked within the bounds of your strength, then the mana cost was minimal. Once you went outside the limits of your physical power, the mana cost for telekinesis was absurd.

It was easier to use my runes to increase my strength instead of trying to use mana for the telekinesis. All these little tips and tricks are what we focused on most over the last week. It let me come up with a few ideas for the power.

I walked outside, walking a block or two over towards another house. Beside the ugly, yellow building was a thick oak tree. I walked beside it, and set up into my normal fighting stance.

Something I’d been working on for a while had been the idea of adding a spin to the telekinetic strikes. I took karate when I was a kid, and the punches they made you do involved turning your wrist and palm. This caused a twist in the punch.

Honestly, in a normal punch this drill effect was almost useless. Your fists simply aren’t sharp enough to get anything from the extra twisting in the punch. The telekinetic powers changed this. If I extended out little fields just in front of my fists and ended them in sharp points, it acted like wedges on my fists.

Standing in front of the tree, I let my right fist lay beside my hip. My palm faced upwards. Before I stomped forward to add power to the punch, I let out tiny, invisible fields to the edges of my feet. Imagine them like snowshoes.

You see, the dirt mushed underfoot now. I was dense and hard enough that dirt didn’t give me enough grip use my full strength. I mean still I got enough resistance from it to add serious torque to my punches but not my full potential. It’s like punching while standing on eight feet of snow. Your feet will just dig into the ground once you try getting some power from the ground.

I used my telekinesis to make my feet effectively larger, just like wearing snowshoes. It gave me a better grip on the soft earth, letting my slam my fist harder. If I was on sand, it would make a much bigger difference. It would help even on concrete.

And if there was something I learned from fighting to the death, it’s this - every little bit counts.

I stomped forward, my feet barely digging into the earth. Cracks webbed through the ground. My arm shot straight forward as the force moved through my core and into my shoulders. Like firing a cannon, the built-up force exploded into my arm into my hand. My arm twisted as it bolted forward, my fist clasping as my palm turned to the ground.

With the telekinetic wedge at the front of my fist, my arm drilled forward. It spiraled right into the wood, crunching through the wood with ease. The tree cracked down the middle before my fist blew out the other side of it. Portions of the tree splintered, but my fist almost pierced the tree like an actual knife.

There was a circular impression made out in the tree, like a tornado had burrowed through it. At the back of the tree, it was like the exit point of a bullet wound. My fist had blown the back of it away, leaving a missing chunk of it.

I sighed as I pulled my fist out of the hole. I wanted my hand to drill all the way through. It would give me a piercing move against armored foes, which were my biggest weakness. If I faced Gabriel without using these new techniques, I may not be able to get through his armor. With that punch though, it may be possible.

It still wasn’t perfect though, so I pulled my hand out of the tree. I could drill through the walls of houses, but trees were still a bit too much. I didn’t just tear the tree in half though like when I first tried. The move would be difficult to learn. It was a combination of all my skills and stats up till now.

Strength and constitution’s assistance was obvious. The other skills, not so much. Dexterity helped with the tiny adjustments mid strike and the flexibility helped me torque my arm more than a normal human. Perception let me spot the weakest parts of the tree, striking at tiny, minute cracks in the wood and bark.

Boundless Storm helped smooth out all the different parts I was working on. I mean, imagine trying to use fifteen different skills all at once. It’s a nightmare. Boundless storm was easy as breathing to use, and let me focus on incorporating new techniques into my fighting style. It even made most skills easier to use while it was activated. The skill really showed its worth over time. Now that I was trying to amplify my fighting style with the telekinesis especially.

Those thoughts raced in my head as I wiped some splinters off my arm. I already heard a set of steps landing on the pavement of a nearby street before I even punched. I turned around, Kessiah and Althea walking up.

Kessiah put her hands on her hips when they reached me,

“Well I’ll be damned. What was that?”

“Something Torix and I’ve been working on.” I turned to Althea, “You ready to end some eldritch?”

Althea pursed her lips, “As ready as I’ll ever be.”

I walked forward, the grass ripping underfoot,

“Then let’s crush them to powder.”
