Scenting the food, their little party was soon surrounded by a small pack of animals, led by a pair of bear cubs running straight into Rain’s lap to beg for scraps. A massive wildcat larger than most dogs took a seat right next to Zian, staring him down and licking its jowls. Though he wouldn’t fear the creature with weapons in hand, it was unnerving to have it breathing down his neck as he ate.

Was this all a scare tactic? Wear him down with the long carriage ride, shock him with the slave and unknown warrior’s skills, threaten him with the voracious birds, and then terrorize him with this wildcat? Glancing at the animal out the corner of his eye, he watched it lean in closer and closer as time moved on, fighting the urge to fight, run, or cringe. He was Situ Jia Zian and he would not be intimidated by this... kitten. Soon, the creature was only centimetres from his neck, its hot breath brushing his cheek as it started to growl, emitting a deep, resonating rumble from its chest.

Perhaps it was time to rethink his decision to join the Bekhai hunt for treasure. Though he intended to abandon his place as Situ Clan heir, he was still the son of a magistrate, and a wealthy one at that, with no real need of more gold.

“Jimjam, leave Zian alone.” In response to Rain’s harsh tone, the wildcat yowled in protest, displaying a mouth full of razor-sharp teeth. After huffing in displeasure, ‘Jimjam’ padded over to headbutt Rain in the chest, transforming from a ravenous murderer to harmless pet in the blink of an eye. Amazed by the sudden change, Zian choked on his soup, sputtering and coughing for a good minute before catching his breath.

Falling Rain, a worthy rival indeed.

After finishing their delicious meal of succulent deer steak and wild mushrooms, Rain cleared his throat and moved in close. “I have a proposition,” he said, glancing at each of them in turn. “I’ve someone in my employ who can lead us to Yo Ling’s secret island. Now, in the interest of mending fences, I’d like to extend an invitation for you to join us. We split what we find 50/50 and never speak a word of it to anyone. How’s that sound?”

Taken aback by Rain’s sudden honesty, Zian glanced at his companions. ZhiLan and Ryong indicated they would follow his lead, while BoShui couldn’t be bothered to even shrug, gulping down wine like a man dying of thirst. Turning back to Rain, Zian pursed his lips. “50/50? I think not. We have four Warrant officers against your three. Our retinues count twenty former Captains and Senior Captains, eight former Majors, and a former Colonel, while you have one Lieutenant Colonel, one former major, and two senior Captains. Since we’re bringing more elites, we deserve a larger share. 80/20 in our favour.”

“Ha, no.” Shaking his head, Rain countered, “Doesn’t matter how many former officers you have, they’re all subordinates. Don’t insult my intelligence and tell me you’re gonna give them an equal share. On the other hand, we have three current officers who outrank you.” The hateful savage, emphasizing his recent promotion. A senior captain outranked a Third Grade Warrant Officer, but was only equivalent to a Second Grade Warrant Officer. “Tally it up and we have six officers versus your four, so it should be split 3:2 in my favour. Plus,” he added with a smirk, “You need me or you’ll never get to the island. I don’t need you, I only need your silence. I’d prefer to buy it, but-”

“Oh? Making open threats now are we? You’re welcome to try buying our silence with steel and blood.” Zian sneered. “You’ll find it more costly than you can imagine.”

Zian’s declaration was met with a chuckle. “So confrontational. I was going to say, I don’t necessarily have to loot the island anytime soon. The Butcher Bay Bandit hideout has been hidden for fifty years, and I expect it’ll remain hidden for another fifty. I could come back anytime and you’d be none the wiser.” Extending his hand, Rain looked Zian in the eyes. “50/50, no one talks. Deal or no deal?”

Inwardly scowling, Zian cursed himself for a fool. In his overwhelming greed and thirst for adventure, he’d overlooked the simplest of solutions. All Rain needed was patience and he could keep all the spoils for himself. Even if Zian revealed Rain was sheltering former Butchers, nothing would come of it. At worst, Rain would be forced to execute the bandits after forcing them to reveal their secrets. Hell, with the stories of Gao Qiu’s valiant last stand against Yo Ling, public opinion might even side with Rain. The people loved their folk heroes and former bandits turning against their Defiled comrades to defend the Empire sounded like something lifted straight out of a drama. Stifling a sigh, Zian shook Rain’s hand. “Deal.”

It seems he was a long way from mastering the art of diplomacy.

Chapter Meme
