And there were people here that were like that, both students and professors alike. But there were plenty more who simply loved magic for what it could be. Who wanted to learn not because they thought of it as a mere tool, but because they thought they could better themselves or the lives of others with it, or because they believed there was a profound joy in the act of magic itself.

It was a strangely nostalgic reminder of how he had once seen magic. Those days were blurred to him now, but sometimes he thought he could remember glimpses of a time when he had wielded his magic for joy rather than brutal purpose. A time when his spells provoked laughter, rather than fear.

He supposed there was a certain hypocrisy to him now. He despised the mages that saw magic as nothing more than a tool, but when was the last time he'd done anything different? His role as a dark lord meant he had to be purposeful with his magic. He had to grow strong enough to oppose the realm, after all, and there was no room for joy or whimsy in that. It would only make what he would eventually have to do all the more difficult.

There was an odd irony to the fact that it was only now, infiltrating the enemy and playing the role of a dedicated student, that he could once more embrace the joys of magic. He had planned to steal the Anchor at the upcoming tournament, but his spies had not yet managed to identify what wards it would be protected under, and Kelegas had decided it would be best to have a backup plan.

That backup plan was simple: he would simply lead the Ironblood team to victory and claim the Anchor for them, then steal it once it was safely within their grasp.

Of course, for that plan to work, he had to train the mages he would be fighting alongside. There was a reason this academy was relatively unknown and unacclaimed. Even their wyldfire mages were unimpressive, and the small team of mages selected to support them at the tournament were even worse. He and Steve had a lot of work to do if he wanted to get them up to par.

So he taught them what he could, and to his own surprise found himself enjoying the process. Irasia was an elven mage who truly loved her magic and had achieved wyldfire with it, but had not yet learned the true power of the unfortunately very specific nature of her mana aspect. She specialized in floral scents, of all things. Other mages might have given up on her, but Kelegas saw the potential.

Symbolic power was essential in advanced magic, and flowers were so often used as symbols of things—of feelings and of omens. There was an entire language Irasia could learn to speak in, and once she did, she would be near unstoppable.

The same went for Igneous, who Steve affectionately called Iggy. He was a lava construct who wielded raw, destructive power at his best, but instead preferred to use his magic to sculpt pretty, delicate things. How he had achieved wyldfire with that baffled Kelegas, but he found he enjoyed the time he spent with the gentle mage, and it didn't take him long to realize that his sculptures held real power. They were minor effects, for now, but trained correctly he would be able to replicate the effects of entire artifacts and relics on the fly, an invaluable skill for any mage.

Kelegas wondered, sometimes, if he would be able to convince them to join the Dark. He would not reveal himself now, but if he planted the right seeds...

He even found himself enjoying the process of teaching the supporting team of mages, who were all relatively weak as mages but made up for that weakness with enthusiasm; they took to anything he taught with fervor. More than once, he caught himself wondering how far they might go if given the chance.

But they wouldn't get that chance, would they? When the time came, he would raze this academy to the ground, too. He liked the mages here more than he thought he would, but the rage that bubbled within him was greater than ever. Sometimes, it broke through the walls he had constructed around it.

“What’re you thinking about?” Steve asked curiously. Kelegas glanced down at him and shrugged.

“Nothing,” he said. “Dark lord things.”

“Oh.” Steve was silent for a moment. “Is the anger getting bad yet?”

“No,” Kelegas lied. “It helps to see the people I would conquer as people.”

“Good.” Steve seemed relieved; he fell back onto his pillow, pulled Kelegas’s arm to him, and quickly fell asleep again.

Kelegas had no idea why this human had decided to start using his arm as a sleep aid, but it wasn’t like he needed it for anything while he was pretending to sleep. He didn’t need sleep—couldn’t get it if he tried. One of many things that was lost when the influence of divinity could not reach you.

He felt the anger stir within him again.

It was true that he didn’t despise the people at Ironblood Academy as much as he expected, but he despised them nonetheless. He fought constantly between those two sides of his being: the one that had begun to care for those around him, and the one that wanted to burn it all down.

Kelegas closed his eyes, and a vision flashed into his mind. The thought of slaughtering all those at the school and venting his anger out on them became briefly overwhelming, and a shiver of pleasure rode up his spine. He gritted his teeth and held still, jaw clenched, focused on the feeling of Steve’s hands clutching his own.

That was the other reason he allowed this. A dark lord was not supposed to spend time in the realm like this, with their powers of the Dark so greatly suppressed. The more he forced it down, the greater the consequences might be once he let them lose.

In the back of his mind, the Lesion pulsed out a warning. It didn’t want him to do this. But the darker aspect of it, the voices crowded within the Lesion, cried out at him too, demanding justice against the gods. In a way, it was comforting. It was conflicted in much the same way he was.

Kelegas waited, shuddering and tense, until the feeling passed.

The Anchor would stabilize him. He just needed to last until he got it.
