Erick gave Al a flat look, and said, “Okay. So I can tell you are hurting, but for real though. Your pain is 25 years old and —by your own admittance— compounds yearly due to your continued draconic existence. Maybe if you had a mortal body you could leave behind that pain. And I’m still going to be around for a long time, so I can do a [Reincarnation] again for you in 50 years. You never have to be old unless you want it, Al. You can even become a dragon again if you want to in the next un-Cursed world, whenever that happens. There’s no downside to leaving behind your draconic life aside from leaving behind your endless pain! Pain is not a virtue, Al. Pain is just pain. If you can safely set it aside, then you have permission to do so.”

Al got a dark look. “Of course you don’t fucking understand. I would die without being a dragon, Erick!”

“Well I don’t want to become a dragon myself in order to make Benevolence Dragons! And you won’t die! You would just—”

“Stop.” Al blinked. “What? What are you talking about? About you becoming a dragon?”

“… That’s how it works, right? I become a dragon, then meld my Wizardry with the Dragon Essence, thus making Essence that is both Draconic and Something Else.”

For a brief moment, Erick had thought that Illustrious had lied to him about what was needed to make a Benevolence Dragon.

But then Al shouted, “You’re a damned Wizard! Why do you need rules?!”

Illustrious had not lied to him.

Erick tried to be calm as he said, “Because rules delineate how things work, and I am going to follow the rules to ensure that I don’t break anything that should not be broken, and I’m certainly not going to mess with the Dragon Curse without Kirginatharp’s support and presence.”

Al’s brown-green skin briefly flashed over in black scales, and then he growled and pulled those scales back in, saying, “Don’t. Don’t say his name.”

Erick breathed a few times; maybe he should have said ‘The Headmaster’. There was a reason beyond politeness that people used his moniker instead of his name.

Al simply breathed, too, but black light flashed in his eyes. After a moment he winced, and stared at the ground. “This was a mistake. I should have stayed away.”

“If you think I’m going to endanger the world for one person, then you don’t know me at all.”

“No, Erick. I thought— I thought it would be easy for you. I didn’t think that this would be difficult at all! I thought you could just ZAP and then it’d be done, and I could go back to my life as a normal orcol! I could pretend to not be a dragon for a while longer. Maybe I could actually die as a normal orcol, too; of old age and forgetting about the pain of my youth.”

What the fuck?

Dying of old age?

And now Erick was mad. “You’ve already given up, haven’t you? Completely!”

“Well I’ve certainly given up now.”

“Gods dammit, Al. You gave up when Alaidria was murdered, didn’t you?”

“… I have not,” Al said, lying.

“You’re not allowed to give up, Al. As your friend I demand you think my offer of [Reincarnation] over for a day or four. Okay? You can stay here or I can make you a home on Yggdrasil—”

“No. I can’t. I’ve already thought it over and if you cannot help then I must… I must do something drastic.”

“Do you even know what that ‘something’ might be?”

“Yeah! Find a way to kill that fae who demands this of us dragons!”

“Might as well try to kill the stone under our feet; all you ever do is end up moving it around, and if you’re not careful, you bury yourself.” Erick said, “You told me that one time.”

“Look. I can’t stay here, anyway. You think I’m the only dragon coming to see you? No. I haven’t seen any others and I don’t want to know if there have been others, but I will not start a fight in your lands.” Al said, “And I need to get my things in order. Settle debts. Set up Savral for the rest of his life. Attempt to take down that fairy.”

“Al. Please.” Erick said, “Don’t do anything drastic until the last possible minute, and please think of my offer. Don’t just dismiss it out of hand. At least consider it—” Erick had a thought. “And I do not want to give you false hope, but I might have other options opening up. I don’t know what those options are, but they might work. DO NOT do anything you cannot undo. Okay? Please, Al.”

Al looked lost.

And then Erick got really mad. “You just dropped this fucking shit on my lap and expect me to clean up your mess but also fuck up the entire balance of the entire world! And for fucking what! So you can be stronger than the people around you! So you can hold onto your pain! That’s bullshit, Al. FUCKING BULLSHIT. So you will WAIT. And you will SEE. And I will TRY to see if I have other options than [Reincarnation] or LETTING YOU COMMIT SUICIDE!”

Al gained a faint smile—

“Don’t you fucking smile at me you fucking selfish piece of shit. Go home, Al. And DON’T DO ANYTHING STUPID, ASSHOLE.”

Al said, “Thank you, Erick.”

And then Al left with a blip of black magic.

He was probably experiencing some minor time-decompression sickness for leaving like that, but FUCK HIM. He was fine. For a long moment Erick just stood there in the [Fairy Stronghold], seething.

When he had calmed down enough he canceled all the magic around him and stepped away, through the light and about 75 kilometers away, to his next destination.

- - - -

The True Interfaith Church of Candlepoint loomed before him like a gothic white and black edifice to divine power. The large doors were open, inviting all the world to come and see the gods, and to hear the good word. A few people were coming out of the church. They looked like adventurers, with mismatched armor and magical items on their belts, and twitchy hands that reached for weapons in scabbards.

They were foreigners on an investigative mission. Erick had seen many people like them come and go from Candlepoint, even from way before he ascended to power in this land. He saw adventurers all the time back in Spur, too. Back when Erick was living at Spur, when adventurers saw him they got a shock of recognition and then smiles and bows happened.

This time the adventurers recognized Erick (mostly Ophiel on his shoulder) and one of them screamed ‘Wizard!’ All of them rapidly vanished in a coordinated splash of [Teleport], likely all of them headed toward some prearranged destination.

Whatever!

An acolyte of the church, who had been trailing the adventurers to make sure they didn’t do anything stupid, heard the cry of ‘Wizard’. That guy was much more respectful to Erick. He apologized on behalf of those who didn’t know any better.

Erick halfway-ignored the acolyte and walked inside.

Any other day, Erick would have wanted to strike up a conversation with the acolyte, and then with all the priests who came running as soon as they heard that Erick was nearby. He could not, though, and there was nothing dangerous happening right now besides Erick’s own presence. He acknowledged the acolyte’s efforts with some curt words, though, then said a few small words of greeting to the priests who came out to see him. He tried to be personable with the various parishioners who came out of nowhere to see him—

He excused himself and continued on into the back. Toward the hall of the gods, where each god had a space dedicated specifically to them. Erick was on a mission.

He was going to find a solution to letting certain dragons stay on Veird without resorting to curing the Dragon Curse, or [Reincarnation], or dealing with Fairy Moon. It was probably time for him to come here, anyway; he had been putting this off for months.

And he had to talk to Melemizargo about Shadow’s Feast, to make sure nothing bad was going to happen.
