How had he gotten that body? Through the dragon-based [Perfected Polymorph] route, or did he eat the previous owner? Al had once said that it was Savral’s mother who was the dragon, but that had been a lie, hadn’t it? A lie of necessity, for the Dragon Curse certainly did exist, and so did the Dragon Stalkers. Those dragon hunters had probably accosted Al at least once or twice in his life, since they tended to do that to non-dragonkin who had dragonkin children. Those Dragon Stalkers had even pursued and killed Poi’s family for much the same—

“Ah, sorry, Poi,” Erick whispered, while not looking away from Al.

The door was open between Erick and Al, but Al could not see the door, and Erick had not shown him the door yet. Al searched high and low for the door, though, moving back and forth on the grassy sand, looking for that which he knew was here but which he could not see. He was rapidly becoming disgusted with himself.

Poi said, “You don’t need to apologize for your thoughts, Erick, but you do need to give Al some help finding the entrance.”

Al cursed at the sand, and at the air, he was angry at himself and a tendril of thought went away from his head—

Erick stepped up and stepped out of the [Fairy Stronghold]—

Al saw him, and froze. His tendril of thought broke.

A thousand thoughts flitted across Al’s face in that moment. A thousand unsaid words whirlpooled through Erick’s mind as well, without settling out into coherence much at all.

Neither of them had spoken to each other since Erick had left on the Worldly Path, and not even much before that. They had sort of fallen out of touch when Erick moved into his new house at the Human District and they stopped seeing each other every day…

Well.

Not ‘fallen out of touch’. Not really.

Erick had romantically pursued Al, and Al humored Erick for a little while. They had even gone on a date, and fucked in the Red Dream, though that… action… was more a result of fumbling minds and dreaming, than anyone actually meaning for it to happen. They had laughed about it afterward… A little. They had gone on with their lives a little. But then, it ended.

It was easy for Erick to recall their last meaningful interaction.

After the Red Dot had fallen, and Caradogh Pogi’s hunters had killed a bunch of people all around town, Erick had found Al sitting in the wreckage of the Sewerhouse. His son, Savral, was dead. Al preserved the body in a glass tomb. At Al’s request, Erick had asked Messalina for a [True Resurrection] for Savral. A lot of people chose to do that, and a lot of the dead came back to life. But [True Resurrection] wasn’t a perfect spell and Savral had vanished into the desert to try and find himself, to heal from that soul trauma.

It was in an orcol bar, with Erick sitting beside Al, enjoying the music and trying to take their minds off of their problems, when Savral decided to return. Savral had walked into the bar, and then into the welcoming arms of his father, and Erick left the two of them behind.

And that was one of the last times Erick had really seen Al.

And now, here he was again, and silence stretched.

Erick broke the silence, gesturing behind him into the protected space. “Come in for a chat?”

Al stood straight. “Yes.”

Erick moved inside, and Al followed. Poi said something about leaving them to it and then blipped away, back home. Ophiel was still here, though, sitting on the back of Erick’s chair, quietly whistling in uncomfortable flutes and unsure guitar twangs. Another Ophiel by the door gently swung the door shut. The space was now fully protected from spying… Probably.

Moments stretched.

Erick broke the silence again, asking, “How is Savral?”

“He’s doing great.” Al said, “It’s been a trial since… Since the murder, but he’s finally gotten some help with some Mind Mages in the last four months and… He’s a lot better. He had a few rough times with his girlfriend Bacci, too, but that seems to be evening out, and…” His voice trailed off.

The two of them stood in silence in the middle of the room.

“… Are you a dragon, Al?”

All the wind seemed to fall out of Al’s sails. “Yeah. I am. Are you making Benevolence Dragons?”

“… I don’t know about that. Seems like a step I don’t want to take.”

With a soft smile, breaking Al’s usually menacing face into something more normal, and yet still sad, Al said, “I don’t blame you. Who wants to be around dragons? Certainly not me.”

Al was still a deflated man, though he was doing his best to hide it. He had come here prepared for Erick to deny him, and yet now that the denial had happened, he still found it impossible. Now, he was faced with the unenviable choice of dying to Fairy Moon, or leaving behind Veird, to live in Ar’Cosmos for the rest of his life, however long that might be. Could be a long time. Or it could be as short as ‘step into Ar’Cosmos and piss off someone in charge, and get gutted within the hour’. With how many dragons Fairy Moon was forcing to come to Ar’Cosmos, and according to what Illustrious Moon had said…

And the refugees coming to Candlepoint’s lake…

If it wasn’t already, then Ar’Cosmos was going to become a bloodbath. Soon. Erick already guessed how that bloodbath would end, though; with Bright Smile in charge, or at least set up to take charge in the future.

Erick dismissed his thoughts of Benevolence tangles and asked, “Do you want a [Reincarnation] into your current form? To rid yourself of your Dragon Curse, and [Dragon Body]?”

“I’d be dead the next time someone attacked if I wasn’t a dragon.” Al said, “There are some side effects to being a dragon… Downsides. But I keep my head down. Haven’t met another dragon in a century. Silverite helps keep it that way.”

Erick tried to come up with another option. “Do you want me to put in a good word for you in Ar’Cosmos? I’m sure I can… Ensure you get preferential…” He stopped talking.

Al was shaking his head. “No. I’m not going into that small world, even if it is getting bigger. Savral is out here. I think he’s going to ask Bacci to marry him and I want to be there for them, and my grandchildren.”

Dreading the answer, Erick asked anyway, “What are you going to do?”

“I don’t know. If I could I would organize with other dragons and push back on Ar’Cosmos’ demands. We would be fighting that immortal fae, but… We can’t even attempt that, because of the Curse.” Al held out one final hope, asking, “Are you going to break the Curse?”

“… I can’t. It’s too much change. I’ve already promised not to interfere with that. I’m already doing everything I can for dragons… My offer is [Reincarnation]. I can offer the same to Savral. To Bacci, too, if she wants that. You can all start a new life somewhere else. Maybe in Spur? It’s getting big, right? You can lose yourself in… there...”

Al sighed. He eyed the large chair sitting beside the table, with the tea and the cookies. He went over and sat down, then he looked over at Erick, saying, “They don’t know I’m a dragon, and I never want them to know either.”

Erick sat down in his own chair.

Al said, “I don’t know about [Reincarnation]. Do you have time to talk, Erick?”

Erick smiled, saying, “I have all the time in the world. Just let me cast this spell here—” With a twitch of magic, time began to flow differently inside the [Fairy Stronghold] as a [Hasted Shelter] went up within the space. “—and now ten minutes might pass out there, but we have ten hours in here. Time Magic makes great sleeping magic.”

A bit of Al’s usual brightness came back. He chuckled, then laughed loud, and then sad. He breathed, and said, “You’ve done a lot more than I ever expected you to do, when you walked into my sewerhouse almost two years ago.” His joy seemed to return in full force as he teased, “You couldn’t even cast a [Gravity Ward] properly.”

Erick chuckled. “You were a shit teacher!”

“Bah!” Al laughed. “I taught perfectly normal Arcanaeum-approved curriculum! Just without all the math. You never liked all the math, anyway.”

“And I still don’t.” Erick asked, “So how has Spur been changing since I couldn’t go back? I haven’t looked. How have you been, Al?”

With a softer tone, Al said, “It’s been strange, finding out you were a Wizard. The garden committee— those people who worked the replacements for the Farms, the plots of lands around the Human District? They never stopped supplying Spur with food because your girl Kiri keeps the rains coming, but there were almost [Fireball]s in the streets, oh, tens of times.”

“Let me guess. Calizi versus Rollo. A fight over some crop or another?”

“I thought you hadn’t been watching?” Al said, with a smile.

“I haven’t been, but those two were always at each other’s throats. That much guessing is easy.”

Al nodded, saying, “It started with the sugar cactus fields...”

Al spoke of small time drama. Erick listened and asked questions. For a good long while, that is all they did. Erick canceled the [Hasted Shelter] to grab some beer and some food from the restaurants of House Benevolence, then the Shelter went right back up, and for a longer time.

Sitting there, eating fried monster chicken tenders and drinking beer with Al, as they each told each other jokes they had heard, was perhaps one of the best times Erick had had in the last few months. It reminded Erick of when the two of them used to go out to eat in Spur. He missed that.

He missed that a lot.

They spoke of everything under the sun which was not anywhere near the current crisis, or any big events.

Eventually, after several subjective hours (and several real minutes) the conversation drifted down to those heavy topics. Al spoke of his life as a dragon, and what it meant to have [Dragon Body]. They bounced off that topic hard when Al spoke of a Dragon Fight he had had when he was younger, where he killed a hundred people on purpose, and a thousand people accidentally. It was the opening of an old wound.

Erick opened his own wounds when he spoke of Terror Peaks, and the Chelation War.

And then… Everything just sort of spilled out of Erick in a horrible mess. All the death he had seen. All the death he had participated in. All the horrors of Veird.

He managed to pull it back a bit when he spoke of all the small wonders here and there, like seeing the White Palace of Stratagold, and the Core, and the adamantium chains of Enduring Forge, and clearing the Forest of Glaquin of moon reachers and deathsoul shrooms. He spoke of fighting monsters with Domains, and ending threats from half a world away for people who came to petition him for help, which he was easily able to give. He spoke of meeting new friends…

And reconnecting with old friends.

At that last part, Al’s happy demeanor shifted back to something more serious, as though he remembered that they were technically on a clock, even if that clock had been slowed way down. Which was probably exactly what happened.

Erick refilled his beer. But Al did not pick it up and drink.

Instead, Al said, “I never reciprocated your feelings because I lost my love a long time ago—”

“We don’t have to talk about that.”

“… I know. But I want to explain. You deserve that much. You deserve a lot, Erick, and I cannot give it to...” Al touched his chest, saying, “This person is not who I was. I did… Savral’s mother was— Let me back up. And don’t interrupt. I have to get this out there and then it’ll be said.

“I’ve been living in Spur for the last few hundred years, changing forms every so often depending on what positions were open in the town, under Silverite. Usually some sort of guard. Twice before I’ve been the Sewermaster. Whatever I could get in order to continue to benefit from Silverite’s protections, and in turn, to protect Spur when the need arose. Which I did just fine. Al was a form I adopted in Spur 35 years ago when it was time to remake myself. I invented him completely. He was not the first person I invented, but…

“But something stupid happened this time. I messed up my brain, or something, and I fell in love with a woman. An orcol woman named Alaidria. She was an adventurer. When we first met, she joked that we could be called ‘Al and Al’ on the wedding cake.” Al smiled, and then he lost that smile. “Eventually Alaidria knew everything about me, even about me being a dragon. Silverite told both of us that it was a stupid risk to go through with the pregnancy, but we went for it, because I was going to stick around and raise the kid even if Alaidria and I had to move away and I needed to change forms to a dragonkin to make Savral make sense. She gave birth to Savral.

“And then the Dragon Stalkers came down on us, exactly as Silverite had told us they would. Faster than we could have prepared, too. Silverite protected us as best she could, but…

“Alaidria died—” Al spoke solidly, “She was murdered, for she was a Shadow Mage and she pretended to be a black dragon and they all focused on her. I kept my cover.”

Silence.

Erick’s mind felt suddenly blank. He had no idea how to respond to that information.

Al wasn’t done. He said, “There was more to it than that. A cover up. People already hated Alaidria because she was a Shadow Mage and those always get a bad look around Ar’Kendrithyst. It was easy, in the end, for the unknowing public to believe that the ‘evil Shadow Mage who was probably a Cultist, too’ had been a dragon in disguise who had ‘corrupted the poor sewermaster’. That’s what dragons do in all the stories, after all. In public, Silverite ensured that the normal narrative held sway in Spur, but in private she held me when I cried.

“And that was over two decades ago. I thought I had gotten over it… Several times, actually. After Alaidria, I reverted to what I was before she came along. I just fucked people, Erick. No love, ever again. Mog was my hope for a stable, new relationship for a long time, but that just didn’t work.” Al said, “And that’s why I couldn’t be with you. You’re looking for something that I am incapable of giving anymore, because I already gave it all away to Alaidria. Dragons hold on to love trauma for a long, long time.” Al breathed in, then said, “And I’m a dragon.”

Erick sat there for a moment.

Al waited.

Erick asked, “So you’ve given up on your life, then?”

Al shifted in his seat, going from melancholy to a little bit angry. “I’d like it if a Wizard could solve my problems for me, but that’s not going to happen.”

