Citadel Frostflower was located between the North Ar’Civ river and the South Ar’Civ river, in central Quintlan, west of where the two rivers joined to become the Ar’Civ river. This city was not the largest of the Fractured Citadels of central Quintlan. That honor went to Death Throne, further inland and sprawled across a thousand kilometers like an open-air labyrinth of stone castles, deep canyons of shadow, and lots of ooze. That place was filled with all manner of undead, both aware and not. Mostly not.

Frostflower was filled with undeath, too, but also a lot of life. It was perhaps the nicest and safest of the Fractured Citadels. Built in five concentric circles, with the outer circles shimmering with ice and filled with protective magics constantly layered down by the residents, Frostflower got its name from all those layers of spells. From the outside looking in, the place almost looked like an ephemeral, frosted flower. On the inside, it was a bustling land of mortals like any normal kingdom you would find anywhere, but it was ruled by undead masters in the central circle. Anyone could ascend to undeath in Frostflower, and become one of those masters if they wished. It took personal power, skill, and patronage to ascend, but those things came easy to those who tried. Usually.

The mortals toiled in the soil outside, growing magical plants in the hopes of one day ascending to undeath.

It wasn’t perfect, but it was one of the best places to be for a person like Quilatalap.

Many of the Archlich’s former students lived here. The master of this land could even trace her necromancy and power directly from Quilatalap himself.

That particular student had come to Quilatalap in a fury of worry and terror in the last hour, alerting him to a certain event that was probably going to happen any minute now. She wasn’t sure what was going to happen, but she needed Quilatalap there when it did. Fairy Moon was coming and she was bringing ultimatums. Maybe Quilatlap’s student could escape Fairy Moon, but probably not. One might be able to fight off that immortal fae a thousand times, but Fairy Moon only needed to win once.

… That saying sort of wore down when it came to Fairy Moon versus necromancers with phylacteries, but it was true enough.

In the main meeting hall, at the top of Frostflower Keep, where windows opened up in every direction so that the ruler of this land could see all of her domain at once, Quilatalap sat on a guest throne on a dais kept to the side. The guest dais and the guest throne were a recent addition.

The main dais dominated the center of the open-air tower, and Quilatalap’s former student waited there, coiled and ready to strike.

Zenipeq lorded over her domain, her flowing, frosty form curled into herself like she was a dragon-shaped wraith. She was not exactly a wraith, but if someone made that mistake, it was forgivable. She had been panicking when she had come to Quilatalap, worried out of her mind, but now she was settled and strong; a queen in her own country, which was exactly what she was.

Quilatalap still remembered when he found Zenipeq almost 1200 years ago. She was a dragon who had lost her life in a failed attempt to replicate the powers of the Houses of Ar’Cosmos, casting herself adrift in the mana as a barely-there wraith. Quilatalap helped her come back together because it seemed like the right thing to do, to help a fellow necromancer. When she came back to herself, Quilatalap gave her some small insights into Paradoxing Dragon Essence and Ice Essence. Zenipeq’s second attempt at Paradoxing her way into the powers of the Houses turned out much better, though she still fell short of the ultimate goal of a True Paradox, for she was not a Wizard. Even so, all that meant was a bit of maintenance every few years; to store her magic into a core that she could break later to use her own mana to reinforce herself properly—

Quilatalap saw a change in the mana long before Zenipeq did. He said, “She comes.”

Zenipeq settled her nerves, her large eyes flashing white and blue as she focused on the air in front of her. She saw it now, too. The mists in the room, which were always under her control, began to swirl outside of her control, like someone was floating invisibly through the windows and into the space. Fairy Moon certainly could have avoided such a display and come in without anyone knowing any better, but she was delivering proclamations today; not murder. Not yet.

Fairy Moon stepped onto the white stone before Zenipeq, her white, pink, and green clothes looking like flowery armor. She was physically smaller than one of Quilatalap’s legs, and much, much smaller than the gargantuan form of Zenipeq. The Ice Wraith Queen physically dominated the space, and her ghostly frozen mists spread even further, but no one was fool enough to believe that Fairy Moon wasn’t just as powerful.

“Why have you come to my kingdom, Fairy Moon,” Zenipeq demanded to know.

“Ultimatums and ultimate ends!” Fairy Moon said, “In accordance with the accords struck between me and the mistress of the Script, all dragons who are dealt the Curse are compelled to come to Ar’Cosmos within the week! No exceptions!”

Zenipeq startled, and there was no use in not showing that startling anymore. “A week! But I thought—” She cut herself off. She had thought they had till the end of the year.

Quilatalap had thought that, too. Damn.

Zenipeq regained some of her composure, then tried, “I am not a true dragon. I have ascended past the Curse and mortal flesh. I do not count myself among your kind, in any possible way, therefore your bindings have no place upon my person. And I have a kingdom here!” Zenipeq’s sorrow finally failed in the face of her anger. She shouted, “And I have been selling necessary goods to Ar’Cosmos for centuries! I AM DUE MORE RESPECT THAN YOU HAVE GIVEN ME, FAIRY MOON!” She pulled back a fraction, though her anger was now on full display in the rippling ice forming out of her mist, like snowflakes turned to swords and daggers. “I will remain here, in my place of power, and continue selling to Ar’Cosmos as I have. Rescind your ultimatum, leave, and I will forget this breach of decorum ever happened.”

It was a good thing composure rarely mattered with the fae, as it usually mattered with everyone else. Zenipeq was losing it. Zenipeq was facing the end of her long rule, though, so all of that was forgivable.

Fairy Moon was unmoved by Zenipeq’s words, because of course she wasn’t. “A true Paradox needs no preservation while yours requires copious consumption of cores. You could fall and fight with other deadly dragons at any damned time. You have before, you will again, and so—”

“The last time I lapsed was 350 years ago!”

Fairy Moon continued, “—you are required to return to ancestral Ar’Cosmos.”

Zenipeg’s frost swords faltered. She tried bargaining, “I want a month! Till the end of the year! I heard that is what you were giving everyone else! I want a month.” Softer, she said, “Please.”

Fairy Moon considered this, then she said what she was always going to say, “No.”

And then she vanished.

Her departure didn’t disturb any mist, or make any subtle sound—

Quilatalap turned his soul’s sights upon the alteration in the air. Ephemeral teeth ripped and tore at foreign magic, and soon, there was no more foreign magic. Fairy Moon had left.

Zenipeq collapsed to the floor. Great big tears of frozen death fell from her misty eyes as she breathed out, “Will my flower continue to blossom, once I am gone? Death Throne encroaches on our fields, always, and the oozes are getting violent, always, and… I don’t think I’ve done enough for my people, Quilatalap. Not nearly enough…” Her voice turned whispery, “The school is still filled with the living… They haven’t transitioned yet. I’m going to miss that joyous time.”

Quilatalap stood from his chair. He was not a harsh man when he did not need to be. Mostly, he tried to be as easy going as he could. But now was not the time to be an easy person. “Despair if you must over your personal loss, but do not fret for your people; they will be fine. You have built a lasting empire. It is unfortunate that neither of us can remain to see it continue, but truths are sometimes like that.”

Hope blossomed on Zenipeq’s face. She righted herself and stared down at Quilatalap. “You could be the king here! They will all fall in line and worship you as their creator if you will allow—”

“Nope.”

Zenipeq dropped her head to the ground again. Quiet tears flowed.

Quilatalap said, “I know myself, and one of those truths is that I am shit at governance. The most I can ever be anywhere is a simple guest with some appointed duties. If you put me in charge of anyone, then one of your people would inevitably ask me for something that I shouldn’t give them. I will, at the time, think that such information would not be harmful at all, and so I will acquiesce. And thus, in 25 years this entire place falls to some cataclysm that I enabled.” He said, “If the crusades don’t track me down and level this place, first, which is something that That Fae is absolutely going to try, now that she knows I am here and you will not be here to dissuade such attempts.”

Zenipeg’s frozen tears continued to collect upon the ground, piling beside her face.

Quilatalap felt a tug on his dead heart. He didn’t like seeing anyone in despair. “That Fairy is likely only giving you a week so that you can show up before the big rush, so you can claim properties before others.”

Zenipeg breathed out, “I don’t want to be a part of House Death, Quilatalap. They’re fine people but... I hate That Fairy.”

Ah. Well. That was a different problem entirely. Quilatalap hated That Fairy, too, but it was like hating storms or hating the color green; it was best to just stay away from those things if one could. Zenipeq would do fine in House Death, though, even if she didn’t want to—

Quilatalap wondered...

For the past three months, a certain topic had made its way across the world, and settled into the Fractured Citadels like a rabbit in a den of wolves. From the tallest citadels to the lowest caverns, and even beyond to the Underworld, everyone who was anyone had been in at least one debate about a certain truth, trying to understand how. How had such a magic happened outside of the Fractured Citadels, this land where Necromancy ruled with a billion skeletal fists? Had someone else come up with that type of magic before? And then hidden it?

Or was the Wizard’s magic truly so new?

What, exactly, was [Reincarnation] doing to a person, and why hadn’t they figured out that miracle first?

Quilatalap had participated in many of those conversations, himself. And now…

“If you wish to remain in this world, then it is time for you to see Erick Flatt, and to ask for a [Reincarnation].”

Zenipeq froze. After a moment, she steeled herself. She rose from her flat position, and gazed to the southeast. Past the Ar’Civ rivers, looking to the sky beyond. “Do you think he could make a Benevolence Dragon?”

“Absolutely. But would he? Doubtful.”

“… Then this is the end of my life as a dragon, one way or another. I won’t be going into Ar’Cosmos if I can help it.” Zenipeq turned back to Quilatalap. “Will you come with me, my old master? To Candlepoint? If the Wizard should grant my request, would you verify that it is me on the other side of that magic?”

“I will do this for you, provided he agrees to the procedure.”

And while Zenipeq asked for a [Reincarnation], Quilatalap decided that he would ask for a residency at Candlepoint, or wherever. There were few places in the world where Quilatalap could go without attracting a crusade, and Erick’s House Benevolence might just be one such location.

He wouldn’t know until he tried.

Zenipeq lowered her head a fraction. “Gratitude.” Then she rose. “I will be ready to leave within four hours, if that is acceptable.”

Quilatalap nodded. “Best get to moving.”

Zenipeq took her leave, turning to mist and vanishing out the windows to crash down into the city below like a fog bank. Sentient gargoyle turrets made of ice and death briefly flickered their undead senses at the quick movement of a nearby soul, but then they turned back to ice statues at the verification of Zenipeq. Far below, the Ice Wraith Queen began spreading through her land, controlling the outbreak of the day’s big news as she went about preparing the city for her eternal departure.

Theoretically, she could come back here once the Dragon Essence was cleared from her soul and she was reborn again, but she would have to regain her power and her magic in order to be a ruler once again, and she would have to do it without Dragon Essence powering all of her spellwork. Regaining her baseline power might take a few years if she never misstepped, but the loss of Dragon-based power would put her at the current level of her second in command, and third and fourth and all the way through to at least the eleventh, if Quilatalap was guessing correctly and Zenipeq had not lied about that. She could not rule this land again through power, as she always had.

Which meant that she could never really come back. She would be killed within the year, if not on-sight.

And, as she had confessed to Quilatalap in calmer spaces with some enjoyable drink, she could see herself enjoying a new life in a living body. Taking it easy. For a while, at least.

Quilatalap stepped forward and gazed across the land. Death Throne was a line of darkness and spikes of the same all across the western horizon, while the ice towers of Frostflower poked up here and there among the somewhat pastoral lands of Zenipeq’s domain. All around this land were the houses and fields of people who used their undead servitors to grow —not [Grow]— quite a lot of semi-magical and magical plants.

For half a moment, Quilatalap thought about bringing some plants to grow at his next house, and possibly even at Candlepoint if that option should work out. But then he remembered that he was shit at growing plants. The box for [Grow] might as well have read ‘[Blight]’ for him, as the saying went.

But maybe Erick would like a gift? A gift might make Quilatalap’s request for asylum more palatable. And hey! Maybe Erick could use a proper necromancer for his new Wizardly empire? Most places could use an archlich necromancer, in Quilatalap’s opinion. People died way too often, in his opinion. Not many places could bring back the dead, and with Erick able to make them actually young again? Well… That would be pretty amazing, right?

