For there were hundreds of routes that fed into the various thoroughfares, some large enough for six wagons abreast, while others too narrow for even a simple hand cart. A rat’s maze indeed, and Hongji utilized them to harass the Enemy and delay them wherever possible. Whenever a force was dispatched to meet him, he either arranged for an ambush or navigated his nearby soldiers safely away, where they would then strike at another unaware target. Defiled soldiers were lured into dead ends and left to find their way out, while less than fifty metres away Hongji’s cavalry ran roughshod over another unit of Defiled before melting away into the winding side-streets. A mixed force of Irregulars and soldiers lay in wait as Defiled troops passed by, and when the time was ripe, he gave word to his waiting troops to launch their attack, cutting off a significant portion of Chosen from their reinforcements who were then peppered to oblivion by waiting Irregulars. Having only to hold a single direction along the thoroughfare, the Enemy advantage of numbers was not so pronounced, and Hongji’s soldiers were able to hold the Enemy off and escape largely intact thanks to his guidance from above, leading them through the rat’s warren to lose their Enemy pursuers.

All across the Citadel, various retinues struck at vulnerable targets and killed without being killed, a widespread guerrilla effort that paid off in spades. Hongji didn’t just target the rank-and-file either, for he arranged his Peak Experts to move in groups and directed them to pick off Demons, Peak Experts, and more with near impunity. Having recovered just enough to rejoin the battle, Shuai Jiao displayed the full extent of his strength with Hongji’s assistance, slaughtering Defiled in droves time and time again with the help of his elite cadre of Peak Experts and slowing the Enemy advance more than even a thousand cavalry could. Most important of all was Hongji’s ability to detect the Wraiths Bai Qi sent out to scout in force, resulting in a one-sided slaughter of the Defiled assassins as they sought out unsuspecting prey and found battle-readied soldiers awaiting their arrival. He even pulled a trick to target the traitor general himself, revealing the last three remaining catapults to deliver a payload of burning pitch and oil unerringly into Bai Qi’s newly erected command tent, mere seconds after the Enemy commander stepped foot inside. Hope flourished as he watched Bai Qi go up in flames, but the Prince of Barbarity emerged burned and injured, but alive thanks to the intervention of a Water-Blessed Demon, his charred, smoking figure a sight to behold as he glared at the offending war machines. Three Irregulars had stayed behind to launch the devastating attack while the others left well in advance, but it was to Hongji’s great regret that he was unable to guide those heroes out safely before they were slaughtered and consumed by Demons. That being said, he watched them all die with smiles upon their faces, for they died knowing they’d almost killed Bai Qi, which was more than even Commander General Shuai Jiao could say.

Minute by minute and hour by hour, Hongji commanded his troops and sold their lives dearly while holding out for as long as he could, but neither bolt, blade, or flame could stop the Enemy’s relentless push. With so many Demons and Demonic Warriors at his beck and call, Bai Qi only needed to have them move out in force and Hongji could do nothing besides give ground and take the fight elsewhere. Eventually, he would run out of room to retreat however, but he saw the writing on the wall once the Defiled cavalry gave up on their assault on the outer walls and circled around to enter the Citadel from the already conquered western front, where the only obstacle were their allied troops blocking access into the thoroughfares.

At the very least, this provided Hongji’s troops with a brief reprieve which he used to gather all forces inside the Bulwark before the inevitable, final assault, one that would cost the Enemy dearly, but would ultimately end in an Imperial defeat. Given this lull in the battle, he sat back with a sigh and released his Scrying, only to regret it as his throbbing temples signalled the onset of an oncoming migraine, a sign he’d overexerted himself by using too much Chi. Glancing at the sun which sat high in the sky, he closed his eyes when he saw there were still several hours before it would set, doing his best to stifle his regret and wonder if he could’ve done better. If he could have bought more time for Imperial reinforcements to arrive, then the Bulwark might well have stood a fighting chance, but alas, even if they’d moved with all haste, the reinforcing armies were at least twelve hours away, and twelve hours might as well be twelve years as far as the Central Citadel was concerned. The Imperial reinforcements would arrive to find the defenders slaughtered and the Citadel in Bai Qi’s hands, but at least the traitor general would not hold it for long.

No matter. Hongji waved away his internal regrets and prepared for the final battle ahead. He’d done his best and made the Enemy bleed today, but that was all he could do, so what came next was merely a matter of fate. Make no mistake. He would not surrender, would never give in, not until after he drew his last breath, for though he was but a mere mortal, he knew to persevere until the very end.

An end that would come sooner rather than later, but such is life.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
