Despite having yet to take part in the battle itself, three days of constant Defiled aggression left Hongji mentally exhausted like never before.

Fighting was often the easiest part of a soldier’s lot, because once swords were drawn and spears brandished, all that was left to do was swing your weapon and stay alive. The prelude to open combat was usually where ultimate victory or defeat was decided, so it was here where officers and commanders poured most of their efforts into, and Hongji was no different. Having been appointed to command the Bulwark, the Central Citadel’s last bastion of defence, he spent his days readying the inner fortress to take in as many wounded and civilians as possible, on top of reinforcing the already considerable fortifications. What pained him the most was knowing that there was no way the Bulwark could physically house every soldier and civilian currently living in the Citadel. Thus, if the Defiled were to breach the outer defences, he would have no choice but to close the gates to non-vital personnel and watch from behind his walls as they were slaughtered wholesale by the Enemy. The only way to avoid this was to hope the Citadel defences held firm, but with Commander General Shuai Jiao and Colonel General Ryo Dae Jung taking personal command of the outer defences, there was nothing the lowly Brigadier Chen Hongji could do to affect his own fate.

There was nothing he liked less than being powerless to act, but all he could do was hope for the best and prepare for the worst, the latter of which seemed all the likelier with each passing minute.

Today marked the fourth consecutive day of non-stop attacks, and while they were still three hours shy of noon, it felt like the early hours of the morning had stretched on for thrice as long as they should have. Having faced him across the battlefield once before, Bai Qi had already proven himself to be a canny and relentless commander, one who excelled at applying constant pressure across the line and seizing any and all opportunities which presented themselves. This was not a man who made a plan with contingencies, but rather one who understood the flow of battle and moved according to the situation. This wasn’t to say Bai Qi had made no preparations, but rather that he had accounted for a vast array of variables beforehand and was now proceeding as necessity dictated. This was the mark of an experienced commander, one who’d been through countless battles before, and while Commander General Shuai Jiao might well be one of the foremost strategists alive, it was clear from the offset that he was outmatched in terms of raw experience alone.

This disadvantage was most evident in the minor, almost imperceptible difference in speed of reaction, for every time Bai Qi moved in an unexpected manner, Commander General Shuai Jiao took just that much longer to respond, whereas Bai Qi’s strategic movements and tactical transitions arrived so quickly it seemed as if his prepared troops had been waiting in place for hours beforehand. A difference so minor it could be measured in seconds when it came to relaying orders, but as those orders were passed down the line, those precious seconds translated into real-world consequences such as lost initiative when orders arrived too late or countermanded however the on-site Officer had reacted. Most might not notice this watching the battle unfold in real time, and perhaps even a good number of historians might overlook this seemingly minor and inconsequential detail, but to Hongji’s eyes, it felt as if Commander General Shuai Jiao had been on the back foot since Bai Qi arrived.

To be fair, even as the most active Colonel General of peaceful Central, Shuai Jiao’s battle records paled in comparison to Bai Qi’s service in the West, a resource rich and food scarce province rife with rebellions and internecine conflicts on top of constant Defiled incursions and outbreaks. Before Bai Qi’s rise to prominence, famine and rebellion had been all but common place, and he made a career of breaking the backs of insurrections and uprisings with ruthless efficiency, many of which were led by local Magistrates who used their control over food and resources to become hegemons of their largely isolated cities. With more experience in siege warfare than any other man alive, it was obvious Bai Qi was a foe to be reckoned with, and Hongji couldn’t imagine anyone faring as well as Commander General Shuai Jiao had over the previous three days, but now matters were coming to a head and the differences could no longer be ignored. Finally finished testing the Citadel’s defences, Bai Qi had launched an all-out offensive on the third day, utilizing everything he’d learned thus far to assail the walls with the full force of his considerable army, and it was clear the Commander General was struggling to keep up. Already, both he and Colonel General Ryo Dae Jung had been forced to commit themselves to the fight, never a good sign when the Enemy Commander had yet to take the field himself. Between the Wraith assassins, Demon attacks, and coordinated groups of Peak Experts all aiming to take their heads, there was no way either of the highest ranking officers present were in top-condition, yet the formidable Bai Qi was fully rested and ready to fight.

And this time, there was no Lieutenant General Akanai of the Bekhai to keep him in check.

No man is an island. This was the thought Hongji used to reassure himself, but he knew full well that the highest ranking officers were the pillars holding up the roof which kept the Heavens from crashing down on the rank-and-file soldiers underneath. While no prominent Peak Experts had fallen in battle just yet, it was only a matter of time before word of some famed Warrior’s death arrived to shake the morale of every soldier present, which might well signal the beginning of the end for the Central Citadel, and in turn, the outer provinces themselves. It took five days for an army to travel from Citadel to Citadel, meaning they would have to hold out for the rest of today and all of tomorrow before there was even the slightest chance of reinforcements arriving to save the day. Bai Qi knew this as well as any, and it appeared he’d committed to taking the Citadel before an army from North or South appeared on the horizon, a goal Hongji was not entirely sure they could keep him from achieving. Aside from the Bulwark’s dedicated forces, the rest of the Citadel’s Peak Experts had already been committed to battle, but the Defiled still had plenty more in reserve, as several Officers had already noted based on the arrangement of Enemy forces. Not only were there Demons who had yet to join the battle proper, it was clear Bai Qi had at least a few thousand Warriors cloaked in Concealment, but whether they were true elites or merely a ruse to keep the Imperials on their toes, it was impossible to say until they moved out.

For this reason, Hongji kept a close eye on where the Concealed Enemy forces were stationed while Scrying upon the battle itself, and thus was among the first to notice when they revealed their presence. Having seen them once before, Hongji immediately Sent a warning directly to the Commander General, who was currently holding back a concentrated push along the centre alongside some of the most powerful Peak Experts Central had to offer. “Bai Qi’s reserves are in play,” Hongji Sent, desperately trying to keep the panic out of his voice. “Armoured Demons as suspected, similar to the ones encountered in JiangHu. Caution advised, may possess advanced Aural attacks that bypass our known defences.”

“Acknowledged,” the Commander General replied. “I will hold the second wall, while overall command of the Citadel is yours.”

And then there was no more time for Shuai Jiao to Send, for his foes were upon him.

An ear-splitting crash heralded the start of this epic contest of champions as Bai Qi made his grand entrance upon the battlefield here in the Citadel, but Hongji saw only the aftermath. Stood atop the crenellated walls, the Lord of Martial Peace held his signature Green Dragon Crescent Blade overhead and readied to strike, a sight which seemed almost comical when seen without context. The massive weapon measured in at just over three metres in height, with a full third of that taken up by the nine-ringed sabre blade up top. The weapon dwarfed the slender, willowy Bai Qi’s two-metre height, but there was not a Warrior alive who would dare look down upon the Prince of Barbarity, especially not after witnessing the power of his attacks. In contrast, the empty-handed and plainly dressed Shuai Jiao made for a sorry sight, even to those familiar with the ascetic Commander General. A Martial Warrior who stood at the Peak of Strength, he was famed for rising to such lofty heights without having ever bound a Spiritual Weapon, a feat which led many to wonder what he would be like with a weapon in hand. Now, for the first time in his storied history, it seemed as if his decision to do without would spell his doom.

A modest and unpretentious man, Shuai Jiao’s plain brown robes were now stained with crimson blood, but the bright white bone jutting out was far more alarming a sight. Broken and made useless in a single exchange, he cradled his right arm with the left and gaze up at his foe with wary trepidation in his tired, half-lidded eyes, a sight which made Hongji’s heart skip several beats before resuming its life-sustaining work once again. Flowing Sword Ishin Shingen, Steel Fury Yari Hagane, and Earthshaker Eccentric Gam moved to support the Commander General, but they in turn were intercepted by those strange, armoured Demons with their all-too-human eyes and indecipherable Aural attacks for which the Empire had no defence against. The survivors spoke of having been overcome with indescribable terror, which was hardly out of the ordinary when fighting powerful Demons, but also crippling despair, so poignant and overwhelming it threatened to break the very spirits of all who felt it. Hongji himself had not experienced it then, and he was too far removed from the battle to feel it now, but he could see the impact it had on these most powerful of Peak Experts, as well as the toll it took on the soldiers all around them.

Panic and desperation visibly spread down the lines, rippling outwards from the source as soldiers and officers alike threw down their weapons and fled for safety, but the Enemy was not so kind as to allow them safe retreat. One moment, the Imperial soldiers held firm atop the second walls, beating back the Defiled tide threatening to surge up onto the battlements, and the next, the floodgates broke open as the Enemy deluge surged through to overwhelm the terrified defenders. Wholesale slaughter ensued as dark-armoured forms swarmed the battlements and left none alive, not even those desperate souls who dared to leap off the walls in a frantic gambit to survive. Axes and javelins thrown by Defiled tribesmen flew true and pinned those poor unfortunates to the stone, their dying screams unheard over the cacophony of terror and bloodshed taking place overhead, the tides of battle flipping in an instant as the Enemy took root atop the centre of the second wall.

One bright note to keep in mind was that even though this Aural attack was formidable to the extreme, the range was strictly limited to a paltry handful of metres from the armoured Demons, unlike standard Aura which could cover dozens, if not hundreds of metres at a time. Thus, even though most of the centre fell almost immediately, the left and right flanks still held strong, if only for the time being. Having already anticipated this outcome, Hongji watched with bated breath as long seconds passed before he finally saw signs of Imperial soldiers moving in to reinforce, a timely delay which made him rethink his criticism of Commander General Shuai Jiao’s lacking abilities. Worst of all, Hongji wasn’t even sure if sending in reinforcements was the right call since he had no forces to match those formidable armoured Demons.

Or so he thought, right up until a friendly force emerged from Concealment to support the Commander General.

The next five seconds were an incomprehensible blur as Hongji struggled to make sense of what he witnessed, with hundreds of Peak Experts Cloud-Stepping onto the battlements and unleashing their devastating attacks in concert. Swords flashed, spears thrust, hammers swung, and more, but to put it so simply did not do the scene justice. A single blade scythed through an offending Demon and injured the three behind it. A spear lanced out to impale its target until the cross-guard sent it flying. A descending hammer pulped its target and directed the spray of Ichor out and away. Each and every attack contained countless vicissitudes of Chi manipulation, most of which were above and beyond Hongji’s meagre understanding, attacks he would have previously expected from a Warrior on the level of a Major General at the very least. An Expert like that should have been instantly recognizable anywhere in the Empire, if not at least familiar to someone in Hongji’s position, but he didn’t recognize a single face in the crowd of unexpected reinforcements.

Which only made sense, as these were no common Peak Experts, but Warriors hailing from the Imperial Clan itself.

