Clad in their distinctive and resplendent red and gold armour, the Royal Guardians made an unforgettable entrance upon the field of battle, their weapons raising sprays of blood and clouds of dust as they moved to support the Commander General. A single, dark-armoured form stood out amidst the crowd, one Hongji recognized as Legate Falling Rain’s Death Corps Guard Kuang Biao, the former Royal Guardian who’d been reduced to a lowly slave. Even then, the man’s prowess was undeniable as he fought with fury unmatched, his sword a blur as he fended off three Demons at a time. The man’s presence also explained where these Royal Guardians had come from, dispatched here by the cunning Imperial Consort Zheng Luo to support the Commander General in secret. The girl was a brilliant politician, but lacking in tactical acumen, so Hongji could only imagine that these powerful Peak Experts had been requested by the Commander General in exchange for some sort of political concession, a move which might well prove pivotal in the defence of the Citadel.

For whatever unholy Aura those Demons had at their disposal, the Royal Guardians appeared wholly unaffected as they drove back their fiendish and unrelenting foes.

Even this wasn’t enough to save the second wall however, for despite their formidable prowess, none of the Royal Guardians were strong enough to affect the battle between Bai Qi and Commander General Shuai Jiao. In the blink of an eye, the two pinnacle existences traded dozens of blows and the traitor general emerged victorious, with injured Shuai Jiao only escaping with his life intact thanks to Ryo Dae Jung and Jeong Hyo-Lynn’s appearance upon the battlefield. Only after the arrival of this formidable husband wife pair did Hongji notice Bai Qi was not fighting alone either, flanked by two armoured Demons who stood out from the rest. One bore a pair of penetrating amber eyes, an attribute he’d never seen in anyone outside of the Bekhai, while the other bore a startlingly familiar face behind the Demonic headpiece, one Hongji would not have been able to identify if not for the banner flying behind his back, a purple banner embroidered in golden thread to display the name and crest of the Mataram Clan.

So this was Mataram YuGan, Patriarch of the traitor Clan and father to Mataram YuChun. Was he human or Demon now? Or some strange mixture in between, like the Herald Gen had become? Were all these armoured forms the same, half-Demon monstrosities who retained their human intellect? How terrifying a prospect, for the greatest weakness of Demons had always been their near bestial thought process, but now, it appeared that the Enemy had found a means to mitigate this weakness in thousands of Demons, a force Hongji feared would stand unmatched against any one province.

Carrying a spear twin to the one his son and clan soldiers used, the Mataram Patriarch moved to engage Ryo Dae Jung, seemingly to make up for his son’s failures. The amber-eyed Demon, who Hongji now wasn’t sure was a Demon at all, matched up against Jeong Hyo-Lynn, leaving the injured Shuai Jiao to face Bai Qi on his own, and as far as Hongji could tell, the Commander General was faring far worse than Lieutenant General Akanai had. Granted, she’d had the freedom of an entire battlefield to traverse about in her exchange, striking and retreating wherever necessary, while Shuai Jiao was forced to stand and face his opponent head-on, but it was clear there were few alive who could match the Prince of Barbarity in sheer physical might. Even Shuai Jiao, who possessed the Auxiliary Blessing of Wood and therefore had access to the body strengthening properties of the Blessing of Earth, was unable to muster a defence against Bai Qi’s overwhelming attacks, and Hongji feared no one short of a Half-Step Divinity could match this traitor general. The problem was, Half-Step Divinities were so rare they might well be a myth, for Hongji had never met one in person or even the names of any possible contenders, until seeing how Bai Qi’s strength measured against Shuai Jiao himself.

Sure, Lieutenant General Akanai had proven herself strong enough to match Bai Qi, but she was an unknown individual. At most, Hongji thought she might be a match for Shuai Jiao as well, but seeing how mismatched this battle between Colonel Generals had proven to be, Hongji couldn’t help but wonder if Akanai and Bai Qi were Half-Step Divinities themselves...

Brandishing his ponderous weapon with inconceivable ease, the traitor general’s Green Dragon Crescent Blade repeatedly crashed against the Commander General’s Deflection defenses, but while he was at a distinct disadvantage, Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao would not sell his life cheaply. Growing before their very eyes, a tangle of viridian vines sprouted from the stones around the Commander General’s feet, a shimmering tangle of grappling greenery that wrapped around ankles, wrists, and throats alike, hindering his Demonic foes while leaving allies untouched and unimpeded. More than unimpeded in fact, as Hongji spotted a plethora of Shuai Jiao’s personal guards and allies use the vines to their advantage, riding the growths and coordinating alongside them to dispatch their foes with unbelievable alacrity. Mixed within the verdant vegetation were russet protrusions, thorny creepers that pierced through the armoured Demons and left them naught but withered husks, while ‘feeding’ the grasping vines around them and further fuelling their rampant growth.

Soon enough, the vines covered the section upon which Shuai Jiao stood, but they proved no obstacle to the Prince of Barbarity. Any vine that drew too close was severed and destroyed as he whipped his polearm about, a combined whirlwind of offence and defence in one. This more than anything delineated the difference between these two Peak existences, for while Bai Qi’s specialties lay in sieges and single combat, Shuai Jiao had spent his career honing his ability to enable those Warriors around him, driving them to success as a whole while embodying the concept that no man is an island alone.

No man, but it was entirely possible that Bai Qi was no longer strictly a mortal, and might well have embarked upon his journey to Divinity.

Valiant as their efforts were, the Enemy forces were too numerous for the Imperial defenders to overcome. The Royal Guardians alone were not enough, their meagre hundreds unable to hold back the thousands of dark-armoured Demons arranged against them. In similar vein, the Peak Experts of Central were unable to carry the day, not with the likes of Bai Qi and Mataram YuGan on the field, the latter of which was so formidable their strengths might well be comparable. Where before, the Sword King dominated every one of his opponents, it was now his turn to be dominated as YuGan’s spear flashed and blurred until it seemed like every thrust contained ten-thousand illusory spears attacking alongside it, resulting in countless variations the Sword King was unable to defend against. Two hands cannot block four, so how can a single sword stop ten-thousand spears? Previously, Hongji had been under the illusion that YuChun had chosen his nickname for the retinue of soldiers who stood behind him, but now it was clear it was a declaration of intent, that he would one day match his father in strength.

The Amber-Eyed Demon was also a force to be reckoned with, fending off Jeong Hyo-Lynn, Eccentric Gam, and two more Ryo Family Peak Experts with longsword and glaive. Holding the advantage despite being outnumbered, he switched between his weapons with unmatched grace as the Sword Queen’s trio of blades repeatedly glanced off his armour in a symphony of discordant chimes and Eccentric Gam’s ground-shattering blows bounced off without effect. The other Peak Experts fared even worse, sporting a number of grievous injuries from their opponent’s wicked blades that would have incapacitated lesser men. These were not men however, but women, ones Hongji belatedly recognized as young Seoyoon’s sword maidens, who judging by their fighting styles and Ryo Family armours were also Hyo-Lynn’s personal Disciples. How the Sword King’s beautiful queen had gone unnoticed for so long was a baffling mystery to be sure, but even their unexpected contributions were not enough to sway this most momentous of battles.

To think that there would come a day when the finest Warriors of Central pitted themselves against the Enemy and were found lacking. Were Hongji not in command, he feared he would have broken down crying on the spot.

There was no turning point or pivotal moment which spelled defeat, merely a slow and unstoppable procession towards inevitable collapse, but Commander General Shuai Jiao was too ingenious to allow matters to progress so far. What Hongji had previously believed was an unwise push turned out to be a clever ruse, one which bought time for the Imperial defenders to slip away from the second line of defences and man the third line behind them. This minor victory came at no small cost as Ishin Shigen was the first famed Peak Expert to fall as he found his twin swords trapped in his opponent’s body and unable to block the death blow coming in from another foe at his side. Yari Hagane fell next, his face pulped into an unrecognizable mess after receiving a headbutt from his Demonic foe, and matters did not end there. Peak Experts of prominent families died one after the other, rising dragons of multiple generations falling before the Enemy’s blades, only for their earthly remains to be drained and absorbed into the Demonic armour’s unholy flesh, their lives given over only to strengthen their foes even more.

Time froze for an instant and the world came into crystalline clarity as Hongji’s eyes were drawn to the event without even knowing it. A keening wail erupted from Hyo-Lynn’s throat, her lovely features twisted in inconsolable grief and rage as one of Mataram YuGan’s ten-thousand spears pierced through Dae Jung’s chest and erupted from his back. So close to her husband that his blood sprayed across her cheek, this minor moment of distraction cost the Sword Queen dearly as her Amber-Eyed foe took full advantage and drove his sword deep into her abdomen. Only Eccentric Gam’s quick thinking saved the woman from instant death, using his staff to divert the sword down and away from the intended target of her heart, but though he managed to preserve her life, it would be some time before the Sword Queen could fight again, assuming she could disengage and get to a Healer in time. As for Ryo Dae Jung, Hongji could do naught but watch as the Sword King’s corpse was drained to a husk by Mataram YuGan’s Demonic armour, the black-steel material glimmering with a liquid crimson hue that made it shimmer and writhe in the sunlight.

And so fell the youngest Colonel General of the past thousand years, a man who might well have one day reached the pinnacle of human might, only for his Path to be cut short by the trying trials and tribulations of these calamitous times.

Despite the devastating loss of a Colonel General and the grievous injury of his equally talented wife, there was no lull in the battle or moment to mourn a fallen hero. The battle continued unabated as soldiers of the Empire gave everything they had to hold the Enemy back, if even for a single minute more, time Hongji used to maximum effect. Word of converging Defiled cavalry made him do away with all his plans to withdraw the Citadel’s forces into the Central Bulwark Command, because they would never make it in time if the enemy cavalry were given free rein within the Citadel proper. Not an issue however, because even though he lacked Bai Qi’s ability to naturally know what route to take next, Hongji was a man who made plans for every possible contingency no matter how unlikely it might be, a trait he discovered he shared with Legate Falling Rain long before the boy became Legate.

An endearing similarity which was one reason why Hongji supported him so loyally, because he saw Falling Rain’s underlying talent and knew the heights he might one day soar to...

Dispatching soldiers to man the eastern walls, Hongji left them express orders to focus on keeping the Defiled cavalry out and nothing else, because he could not spare his cavalry to match them, not if he wanted to keep the Enemy from overrunning the Citadel proper. The second wall would soon be lost, but the third walls were still intact, and while he had no solution to the cadre of Demonic Warriors the Enemy had unleashed, they alone would not be enough to take the Citadel before reinforcements arrived. Even if those fearsome elites proceeded to slaughter without rest, they would still need Chosen and tribesmen to secure the gates and man the defences against the oncoming Imperial reinforcements. So with this in mind, Hongji ignored the threat he could not deal with and instead focused all his attention on ensuring the Enemy would bleed for every square centimetre of the Citadel they dared profane with their unholy presence.

