Thankfully, the Heavens were merciful and Commander General Shuai Jiao managed to withdraw with his life intact, though not in good enough condition to take back command. While he sought out Taiyi ZhuShen for Healing and rested for the next conflict, Hongji ordered the Royal Guardians and remaining Peak Experts to withdraw as well. Once everyone was safely away, he gave orders to set the lost precincts ablaze, and Bai Qi responded by withdrawing his own forces in turn. This bought Hongji precious time for his soldiers to rest, reorganize, and move into place along the third wall, as well as other reasons which would soon become evident. Even more fortunate was the fact that Bai Qi did not send his Demonic Warriors in alone to press the advantage, an outcome Hongji expected, but was glad to see nonetheless. Peak Experts were powerful to be sure, but they were not invincible, not to the point where they could stride into battle without support. Once bogged down by rank-and-file chaff, any Peak Expert would then become vulnerable to a surprise attack from an equally skilled foe, and even the strongest, toughest, and fastest Warriors were unable to defend against an unseen dagger.

Or perhaps more suitably, an unseen arrow, a lesson Bai Qi was sure to have at the forefront of his mind after his last encounter with the Bekhai.

Of course, those phenomenal northern archers were not present, and the cost to deliver a hidden dagger would be heavy indeed, perhaps even enough to secure a Defiled victory, but Bai Qi would have to pay a similar cost, one he was unwilling to bear unless absolutely necessary. The traitor general was confident of victory and was now moving to minimize his losses and prepare for the next battle against the reinforcing Northern and Southern armies, giving Hongji the barest of chances to eke out a possible victory here, or at least stave off overwhelming defeat. Of course, the Enemy was not idle while Hongji prepared his defences, mustering their forces along the still-intact second wall after ensuring there were no traps left in place, and readying to sally forth once the fires died down, but again, this was entirely expected. For almost two hours, the smouldering flames left the ground between the second and third walls utterly impassable, save for a handful of stone-paved avenues that even the Defiled were not crazy enough to brave whilst surrounded by smoke and fire. The Enemy cavalry gave it their all however, and Hongji had no choice but to dispatch Lieutenant General Du Min Gyu to help out, a task the Sanguine Tempest was clearly unhappy to accept. It was clear he saw Ryo Dae Jung’s death as his own personal failing, but much like Shuai Jiao’s strength lay in enabling his allies, Du Min Gyu’s strength lay in slaughtering weaker foes wholesale, a talent which was best put to use against the comparatively limited numbers of Enemy cavalry.

Besides, the harsh truth of the matter was that if even Ryo Dae Jung could not kill Mataram YuGan, then Du Min Gyu would likely fare no better, and the Imperial Defenders could not afford to lose yet another Living Legend just yet.

Once the conflagration began to sputter out, Hongji moved onto the next step of his plan and mentally prepared for the ensuing bloodshed. All across the Citadel, his hidden catapults rolled out of their warehouses or had their coverings torn away, at which point Bai Qi was already moving to react, but not quickly enough. Having been drilled to perfection by the Imperial Scion Liu Xuande, the Irregulars unleashed their payloads in a concentrated barrage mere seconds after Hongji gave the order to reveal themselves, one-hundred and twenty-four engines of war here to deliver death from afar. Each catapult had been loaded with a pair of chained concrete spheres, weighted with leaden cores to make them even deadlier than their already considerable weight would allow. Having long since taken measure of their targets, their payloads flew true, rotating furiously about as the spheres separated as far as their bindings would allow before smashing into the second wall.

To say the second wall crumbled apart would be more than a minor exaggeration, but it wasn’t too far from the truth. Though the outer walls were built to withstand repeated Defiled attacks, the inward facing sections were only there to keep the walls from falling over, and the heavy, leaden projectiles smashed through them with shocking ease. With so many bodies packed in and atop them, what remained was left teetering in place, with large sections simply collapsing under their own unsupported weight, killing hundreds, if not thousands of Defiled and wounding many more in the process. Rather than the Demonic Warriors, Bai Qi dispatched regular, run of the mill Demons to attack the catapults, knowing Hongji would have defenders waiting in place to protect them, and so began the race to see if the catapults could take down the entire second wall before the Demons destroyed every last one of them.

It didn’t matter even if they did, for Hongji’s statement had been made, and Bai Qi was sure to be listening. How many more catapults might be lurking in wait? What other tricks did he have up his sleeve? Though one Colonel General had fallen here today and their Commander General grievously injured, Hongji had bared his fangs and shown the traitor general that there were still Warriors to be wary of here in the Citadel, which was sure to slow Bai Qi in his tracks. Defiled died in droves as Demons and Peak Experts clashed in the streets, but Hongji had given express orders to err on the side of caution. It didn’t matter if his catapults were destroyed, because his Peak Experts and Irregulars were more valuable than those inanimate engines of destruction, which had more or less already served their purpose and anything extra would just be a bonus. Even then, he managed to eke out several more volleys as his Irregulars targeted the largest crowds with frightening accuracy, having long since taken the measure of the Citadel and worked out the angles of attack. A few enterprising souls even launched several payloads at the Demonic Warriors, but they were easily able to move out of the way, at which point Hongji had to step in and order them to target the slower, more vulnerable Defiled instead.

One by one, the Demons hunted down his catapults until none remained, but not without losing a fair number of their own. Thirty-eight Demons in total would not live to fight another day, while not a single Demon Slayer died in the process, a result of Hongji’s orders to cherish their lives and the advantage of knowing where their enemies would strike. Close to two-hundred Irregulars also lost their lives in the exchange, but over five-hundred escaped intact, and after factoring in the countless rank and file Enemy troops they killed along the way, it was a trade Hongji would make every day of the week. As the fires had finally died out, Bai Qi gave the orders to march out and his Chosen rushed over the rubble in a frenzied fervour to engage their foes and pay back what was owed, only for the entire charging army to falter and stop in place as crossbowmen revealed themselves from every window and opening along the entire third wall, whereupon they unleashed a volley of bolts that turned mid-day into midnight for the span of a second.

And then, less than two seconds later, they did so again, and again, and again as the Irregulars worked in coordinated teams to ensure the shooter always had a loaded crossbow in hand.

The screams of wounded and dying Defiled filled the air, music to Hongji’s ears, especially with no Imperial voices intermingled within to mar his contentment. The Irregulars had enough bolts to kill every single last Defiled if given the opportunity, but Bai Qi was not so kind as to sit still and wait. Spurred on by their commanders, the Defiled infantry found their courage and charged headlong into the storm of bolts, stumbling over the corpses of their comrades in a desperate rush to take the third wall over. Only a few hundred metres separated the two inner walls, perhaps a fifteen second sprint for a Martial Warrior in full armour, but Hongji would wager his Irregulars managed to double the Defiled casualties taken during this battle in that short amount of time. He owed his successes to the element of surprise, since thus far, Commander General Shuai Jiao had yet to utilize catapults or crossbows at all, simply so they could inflict the maximum number of casualties upon an unprepared foe.

All of this had been built upon a groundwork laid in place by Hongji, Shuai Jiao, Liu Xuande, and several other brilliant tactical minds working together over a period of weeks, but now, he had no choice but to deviate from their initial plans. Originally, the third wall was only meant to delay the Enemy while the Imperial forces moved into the Bulwark, which was so well fortified that even if Bai Qi committed his Demonic Warriors into the fray, they would have to do so with minimal support due to the Bulwark’s sectioned layout giving it an abundance of choke-points and killing grounds. With the Defiled cavalry assaulting the outer walls however, this was no longer an option, so Hongji did what no commander in their right mind would care to do; he readied to take the fight to the Enemy in the Citadel streets.

Legate Falling Rain once likened the Central Citadel to an indecipherable rat’s maze of back alleys and dead ends, and having been here for some time now, Hongji wholeheartedly agreed. No thought or reason had gone into the city planning, with nobles and peasants alike allowed to build however they pleased so long as access to the main thoroughfares were left clear and accessible. This resulted in a sprawling, mishmash of architecture that clashed jarringly in the skyline, dotted with the odd jumbled marketplace that was usually even more difficult to navigate. That being said, once he knew he’d be stationed here in the Citadel, Hongji made it his mission to commit the Citadel’s entire layout to memory within his Natal Palace and planned accordingly should he ever have need to defend it. Just because they weren’t planning to fight in the Citadel streets did not mean this would never come to pass, so Hongji treated it as a thought exercise which he grew more and more obsessed with each passing day. Now his efforts might well pay off, for the Enemy was here in the Citadel and he was obligated to defend it to his dying breath, for as the commanding officer of the Citadel, he was responsible for safeguarding these walls, these streets, these buildings, and most importantly the lives of the soldiers within.

This was his Domain, where he held ultimate authority. Not authority granted by the Heavens, nor by the Emperor, or even commander Shuai Jiao, but authority he took on of his own free will.

And with this thought, something snapped into place in Hongji’s mind and the comings and goings of the Citadel became clear as day. Every street, every corner, every rooftop, and balcony, he saw them in his mind’s eye as if Cloud Stepping from on high. A form of Scrying, but a working more detailed and comprehensive than anything he’d ever managed before, with information flowing through his mind at an unprecedented rate. He knew where his soldiers were lying in wait, knew where the Enemy was moving, not just by merely seeing them from on high, but also feeling their boots upon the stones and hearing the sounds of their clanking armour. It wasn’t limited to any one section either, for the entirety of the Citadel was laid bare before him, a thousand different threads of thought all coming together in a tapestry of information that told him everything he needed to know and more.

Though unsure how he managed such a feat, he was willing to act now and ask questions later. Sending his entire command cadre to the battlefield and leaving only Du Min Yan’s retinue in place to guard him, Hongji devoted himself wholly to Scrying and did the work of dozens of officers working in tandem. There was no need to wait on Sendings to report Enemy movements, for Hongji could see them himself and immediately knew who to pass orders to. Having stationed them in favourable positions himself, he used his troops to full advantage against Bai Qi’s advancing soldiers, guiding his troops to strike at the most vulnerable parts of the Enemy army while avoiding the powerhouses as often as he could. The main thrust moved along the various thoroughfares, but even those grand avenues didn’t lead directly to the Bulwark, but rather were arranged in a roundabout manner some architect likely thought was aesthetically pleasing. To be fair, it was, but few would care to view it from a bird’s eye perspective as Hongji currently was, and in the end, it worked to his advantage.

