Standing at attention in the anteroom, Yuzhen closed her eyes and willed her temples to stop throbbing to no success. Forcing herself to take slow, calming breaths, she resisted the urge to lick her lips or fuss with her clothes, two nervous ticks she had yet to wholly break herself of. 'Complacency is the greatest flaw a diplomat can have, for once a diplomat stops improving, they begin failing'. Wise words from her father, Shing Du Yi, a great man whose footsteps she could barely follow. Were he here in her place, he’d know exactly what to do and how to do it. No, she corrected, if her father were here, then none of this would have ever happened.

She was a fool to leave Rain uneducated and an even bigger fool for leaving him unsupervised. Though she had other matters to attend to like charming prospective allies, acting as an intermediary between age-old enemies, and vetting her new, enthusiastic collaborators Yo Shi Wu and Ru Minsu, it was no excuse for leaving Rain to his own devices. Once a mistake, twice a pattern, and three times a habit, the boy was an endless font of stress and anxiety. His manners were all but nonexistent and he had a propensity for finding trouble, but since he always came out smelling like roses and his antics amused her, she foolishly overlooked his problematic ways.

And now they paid the price for her folly.

“Tug your braid any harder and you’ll be balder than I am.” Gerel’s Sending caught her off guard and Yuzhen shot him a glare as she released her death grip upon on her hair. “I’ll still love you, bald or not, but given the option, I’d choose the latter.”

Disciplining herself to stand stock still, she Sent, “Does this mean I am allowed an opinion regarding your hairstyle? Or rather, the lack thereof?” Truthfully, she loved his smooth, bald head, but he would look much more ‘proper’ if he wore a queue, where the front and sides of his head were clean shaven while the back was left long and braided. Though no longer in fashion, a man with a queue looked striking in full military armour, a style she felt would suit her paramour and future husband well. Though she loved him dearly as he was, she was a politician first and it would be expected for her husband to look the part. As much as she enjoyed his rugged, tribal look, she couldn’t bring a rustic, leather-clad warrior into a formal dinner with foreign dignitaries. The quiet, stoic soldier however, now there was a man she could parade about, dropping hints about how much he loved her and what lengths he, and by extension, the Bekhai would go to should she ever come to harm...

“Speak, and this one shall obey,” Gerel replied, his Sending filled with warmth and good humour. It was one of the many reasons she loved him, so supportive of her career yet comfortable with her independence. He was there to help should she need it but didn’t fuss or pout when she didn’t. Counting her blessings, Yuzhen ached to take his hand or perhaps go a little further, but with Nian Zu, Baatar, Akanai, and Tokta waiting beside them, it would be highly inappropriate.

Especially considering their current predicament.

It was almost unbelievable. Here they were, the highest ranking officials of each branch in the Northern Province, summoned before the Legate like misbehaving schoolchildren to answer for Falling Rain’s latest antics. She almost collapsed with rage when she heard about his run in with the Canston Trading Group, but before she could get an audience with the Legate, he’d already met with Rain and exiled him from the city. It wasn’t the worst possible outcome and the Legate seemed enamoured by the young hero, so she convinced herself Rain couldn’t possibly get into any more trouble while lounging on the beaches of Nan Ping Bay.

Obviously, she was wrong to do so. Again.

It wasn’t that she didn’t sympathize with Rain’s plight. Someone tried to kill him and came exceptionally close to succeeding, but instead of trusting the people waiting in this antechamber to handle things, Rain tackled the problem head on in his own idiotic and bull-headed way. While she had no proof he was responsible for this, rumours of foul play behind the shark attack had spread like wildfire in the hours after the attack and no matter how hard she looked, Yuzhen found no other suspects.

Which likely meant neither had the Legate.

With ‘evidence’ of infighting among the ruling class, the citizens of Nan Ping had whipped themselves into a state of near panic, demanding something be done about the corrupt and self-serving nobility. To show solidarity with their figurehead Falling Rain, the people began exposing the crimes of their employers and tried them in the court of public opinion. In less volatile times, Yuzhen would’ve jumped for joy and happily recruited all manner of disgruntled servants or unappreciated guards to be her eyes and ears, but with the Empire on the brink of all-out war with the Defiled, a civilian insurrection was the last thing they needed. Why they allied themselves with Rain’s cause, Yuzhen could only guess, but his name was at the root of all her reports. From demanding justice for the assassination attempt to claiming Rain would personally save the Empire if only the ‘corrupt’ nobles would stop getting in his way, discord and unrest had taken over Nan Ping, all because someone tried to kill a young hero from the north.

None of this was of any help to Rain, as all the panic only served to isolate the Bekhai from the prospective allies Yuzhen had been courting. Even the Yo and Ru families were too busy putting out fires in their own households to investigate who carried out the attack on Rain. Meanwhile, Yuzhen’s people were busy documenting every nugget of information they stumbled across, but with so many rumours flying about, it would be all but impossible to verify the truth in short order. To make matters worse, the people were focusing on all the wrong things, airing news of personal grievances and petty scandals instead of important, earth-shaking crimes like hiding assets or private armies, things she could use against her enemies. Though she sympathized with the commoners’ plight, telling the world this noble raped a maid or that soldier murdered a farmer only reiterated what everyone already knew: the strong thrive while the weak endure.

Yuzhen wished it were otherwise. While commoners would be left to the mercy of the Defiled without Martial Warriors to defend them, the reverse was also true. Her father, a man who could barely channel the Energy of the Heavens on his best days, always said an army lived and died by its belly. A well-fed and well-led army would march into the Father’s Maw itself. Without farmers, the soldiers would have no opportunity to rise and become the Martial Warriors they were, because they would be too busy keeping themselves from starving to death. There were a multitude of other examples she could think of, but few warriors cared enough to listen. Most believed themselves superior to the common man and acted in accordance to those beliefs, which led to widespread tyranny and maltreatment. As much as Yuzhen would like to change things, asking Martial Warriors to stand against their peers for the sake of peasants was like asking wolves to stand against lions for the sake of rabbits.

After keeping them waiting for over an hour, the Legate finally deigned to meet them. Entering on the heels of the Crier’s introduction, Yuzhen glanced about the empty throne room as she made her way towards the Legate, wondering if the lack of audience was to their advantage. Once all the formalities were observed, Yuzhen stood flanked by Akanai and Nian Zu, waiting as the Legate sat and drummed his fingers across his gilded metal throne. After a long, soul-searching gaze, the Legate spoke, his voice raspy and overused. “Dispense with formalities and speak truthfully. Are you or any of your agents responsible for this recent unrest?”

Everyone replied in the negative aside from Akanai and Baatar, who glanced at each other before responding in sync, “Not to my knowledge.” It was an honest answer, but Yuzhen wished the Bekhai were less candid and more tactful. Had they not implied this fiasco could be Rain’s personal handiwork, the Legate might have overlooked such a possibility.

As expected, the Legate took a moment to consider this new information with a displeased frown. “A young hero can be forgiven many things,” he said, looking tired and overworked, “but Falling Rain tries my patience like no other. I wanted him here so we could impress upon him the gravity of our situation, but my guards returned empty handed. Care to guess why?”

Oh no. Did Rain refuse the Legate’s invitation? Or worse, rebel? No, that wasn’t like him, he wouldn’t commit his people to a war without talking things over first. While he could be belligerent and argumentative, he wasn’t outright rebellious, barring his little outburst at the merchant house. While his motivations were still a mystery, Gerel guaranteed Rain’s actions weren’t without reason and wouldn’t be repeated, though he refused to say why. Truth be told, Rain was a little too compliant, taking people at their word instead of using his own judgment to read the mood, like when the Shrike insisted he offer an opinion.

So why wasn’t he here? Glancing around, she realized she was the only one spooked by the Legate’s innocuous question. With a rueful chuckle, the Legate shook his head in pleasant disbelief. “As we speak, the boy is submerged in Nan Ping Bay and Awakening to a Blessing of the Heavens. Nineteen years old and an Expert of the Empire wasn’t impressive enough, now he Awakens in the waters he almost died in not twenty four hours past. Truly worthy of admiration. A good thing I did not act in haste and call this meeting earlier, else he might have missed this fortuitous opportunity.”

Dizzy with relief, Yuzhen smiled for the Legate and Sent to Gerel, “You knew and left me to suffer in ignorance! Why?” Wait, what did the Legate say? “He’s an Expert? How has he already formed a Natal Palace?”

“Sorry my love,” Gerel Sent, not sounding sorry at all. “Akanai’s standing orders. I’m forbidden from speaking of the boy’s accomplishments. The Chief Provost doesn’t want him getting cocky, so the less who know, the better. That goes doubly for his current circumstances, can’t have the boy’s enemies ruining this for him or worse.”

Displeased by the reminder of how the Bekhai were an insular people who saw her as an outsider, Yuzhen made a note to air her grievances some other time. Right now, she needed to focus on the Legate’s next move, which was to motion for his seneschal to approach and unfurl a scroll for their perusal. “Regarding the rumours surrounding yesterday’s shark attack, my people have found no evidence of wrongdoing. While we discovered undigested human remains within the sharks’ stomachs, this in and of itself is not enough to corroborate claims of a mastermind behind the attack. It’s possible the school came across a group of fishermen before attacking Falling Rain. Since no one has come forth to accuse a party for the crime and we found a lack of reported suspicious activity preceding the incident, I intend to rule the shark attack as an act of nature and not a deliberate attack on the Divine Turtle and her attendant.” Raising an eyebrow, the Legate stared each of them down in turn before continuing. “Unless those present have anything to add?”

Stifling a frown, Yuzhen bowed and answered for everyone, praying the others would hold their tongues. “We abide by your judgment, Imperial Legate.” His ‘proof’ was all nonsense of course, the Legate would have ruled it so regardless of the evidence. The citizens of Nan Ping were working themselves into a frenzy over the attack and declaring it as an act of nature might mitigate their outrage, not to mention put an end to the public shaming of the noble houses. Her people reported of thin-skinned nobles talking in their cups, ready to slaughter gossips and rumour mongers or burn down taverns and tea-houses in a fit of pique, an outcome the Legate could only respond to with force.

Nan Ping was a sealed pot ready to boil over at a moment's notice, but the architect behind it all was wholly unaware, drifting peacefully in the bay and basking in the Mother’s tender ministrations. Despite being a nineteen-year-old Awakened Expert with limitless potential, Yuzhen wasn’t entirely sure Rain was worth the trouble.

Perhaps Akanai could be convinced to gift Rain to their enemies. Then they could sit back and watch as they fell apart trying to keep him out of trouble...

After seeing the others had nothing to add, the Legate nodded and waved them away. “Good. Since Rain and the Divine Guardian are both unharmed, this matter ends here. Keep him out of trouble, for my patience and goodwill is not without limit. Dismissed.”

As they left the throne room, Yuzhen Sent to Akanai, “We need to speak.”

“Then speak while we walk, child.” Brusque as always, the icy warrior motioned for Yuzhen to follow and marched for the stables.

Knowing Akanai was doing the same, Yuzhen Sent orders to have her horse readied while she scurried to keep up. “You’re unhappy with the Legate’s ruling,” she Sent, diving straight into the issue without preamble.

“Putting it lightly, yes.” Though directed elsewhere, Akanai’s palpable fury sent a cold shiver down Yuzhen’s spine. “Someone tried to kill the boy yesterday, I need no proof to see this. Yet not only does the Legate refuse us justice, he offers no aid during a time when the boy is more vulnerable than ever, only pretty words and empty flattery.”

Swallowing her fear, Yuzhen pressed on. “I understand your anger, but if you consider the matter from a broader perspective, you will see he has no choice in the matter. Had Rain brought his findings to the Legate in private, then perhaps justice could have been served, but he didn’t. With the citizens up in arms, if the Legate confirms that the attack was planned, then it could spark a riot which will only end with bloodshed, an outcome we can ill-afford. Ruling the shark attack an act of nature was the only way to resolve the situation peaceably, and sending guards to watch over Rain would run counter to the ruling.”

“Hmph. You think me a mule-headed fool? I know this much and I agree with the Legate’s decision, though his actions leave me wanting.” Glaring out the corner of her eye, Akanai sneered and continued. “Ask yourself this, child: Why do you think the boy did what he did?”

Damn. Yuzhen had hoped to avoid this topic. “Because,” she Sent, inwardly sighing, “Rain doesn’t trust the Legate.”

“And for good reason. The Imperials all tout on about stability and solidarity, of uniting to face our enemies, but they would leave us all to burn if it suited their purpose.”

A bleak and fatalistic outlook, but having heard about Akanai’s last run-in with an Imperial Scion and Central in particular, Yuzhen could hardly blame her. As reward for her heroic service, Akanai was publicly mocked by an Imperial representative, which gave the nobles of Central courage enough to hunt her down for sport. Still hoping to keep Akanai from making a rash decision, Yuzhen tried a different approach. “Yes, but now circumstances have changed. They need us, but we also need them, now more than ever. If Central falls to the Defiled, the North and South will follow soon after. The only way for the Empire to survive is to work together.”

“No point telling me, child. Tell the Legate. He does nothing to win us over, leaving little Rain to fend for himself and doing nothing to dissuade our would-be assassins. What does it matter to him if a talented Bekhai youth dies young? The Empire needs capable experts now, not ten years from now.” Leaping onto her waiting quin, Akanai’s penetrating stare locked Yuzhen in place, her voice soft yet determined as she spoke aloud. “As a young child, I left home to join the Imperial Army, dreaming of finding honour and glory through battle. I served my time fighting brigands, hunting Defiled, escorting caravans, and guarding nobles, all the while watching in envy as lesser warriors rose through the ranks above me. For fifty years I toiled and bled for the Empire as an unranked soldier, my efforts and achievements ignored because of my gender and heritage, and when my term of service came to an end, I left with no rank and no reward, with nothing to show for my sacrifice.”

Forestalling Yuzhen’s rebuttal with an upraised hand, Akanai shook her head and continued. “Let me finish. Upon returning home, I realized how fortunate I was to escape intact. Many of those who I’d left with or followed in my footsteps had returned home crippled and broken, and they were the lucky ones. Still yearning to serve the Empire, I created the Khishigs to protect the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains and give our children a place to hone their skills without subjecting themselves to the harsh treatment of the Empire.” Chuckling, she added, “After fifty years of service, I finally obtained a promotion, given the rank of Major sight unseen just because I had five-thousand Martial Warriors standing behind me.”

“Why are you telling me all of this?” Yuzhen asked, worried she already knew the answer.

With a sad smile, Akanai sighed and shrugged. “So you will understand why I believe the Empire will always be divided. Unity, harmony, solidarity, these are all dreams which will never come to pass, not entirely. Just look at your own Society and you will know this to be true. As we speak, every faction in the Empire is busy making allies and jockeying for position, hoping to save their strength at the expense of another during the upcoming war.” Speaking over her shoulder as she turned to leave, Akanai added, “We will face the Defiled and emerge victorious, of this I have no doubt. My only concern is making sure enough of my people survive to see it through.”

Mind blanking at the implications, Yuzhen stood in shock and watched Akanai ride away, unable to refute her arguments. Worse, Akanai touched on another issue without outright mentioning it, but it was a matter which kept Yuzhen awake at night. The Society would come together when faced with an outsider, but they went right back to squabbling the moment the threat was taken care of. How would the Empire fare if there were no Defiled around to threaten it?

“She likes you,” Gerel said as he brought her horse around.

“Oh yes, I can tell,” Yuzhen replied, voice dripping with sarcasm.

“No, I mean it.” Covertly patting her behind while pretending to help her onto her horse, Gerel smirked in the face of her glare. “She wouldn’t speak to you if she didn’t.” Switching to Sending, Gerel added, “Baatar told me she hated talking about her time in the army. It was harder than she lets on. Truth is, she loves the Empire more than most, or at least the ideals behind the Empire. ‘Every man and woman working towards a common goal, for the safety and well-being of all’. When she discovered those ideals were nothing but lies, she returned home and made a community which fit those ideals, our own little Empress of the mountains.”

Smiling at how proud he looked, Yuzhen asked, “You admire her. Are you trying to make me jealous?”

“Yes. Is it working?” Wagging his eyebrows, he set out after his ‘little Empress’ and Sent, “Come, let’s go check on Rain. It’s not often you get a chance to see someone go through an Awakening for the second time.”

...

“What?”

Chapter Meme
