Having spent months listening to rumours and mentally preparing for the worst, Yan was pleased to find Rain in such good health, living comfortably in the northern citadel with only minimal discomfort. The proof was etched in his easy, relaxed smile as he lay asleep on his side, snuggling Mama Bun close and more relaxed than she’d ever seen him before. He’d come a long way in the years since they shared a tent on the battlefield, a high-strung, jittery fool who came awake at every noise and movement. Back then, he wore a pensive frown even when fast asleep, tossing and turning about to escape the nightmares of his haunted past, but all that was gone now. It was odd how he could never sleep easy when he was a top tier talent, but now that he’d lost his strength, he’d made peace with his weakness, and while the Empire lamented the downfall of its Number One Talent, Rain seemed a happier man for it.

And so long as he was happy, Yan was happy too, though she’d be happier still once his acne scars healed and he put on a little more weight...

Careful not to disturb the two sleeping beauties, Yan slipped out from under the covers, quietly got dressed, and snuck out the room, where her hopes of making her way out of the manor unseen were instantly dashed as she almost tripped over sweet Tate. “Morning Yan-Yan,” the sweet child said, rubbing the sleep out of his eyes while heading towards the dining room. “Papa wants to know if you want breakfast?”

Mother in Heaven... Thankful he didn’t ask why she was coming out of Rain’s room, Yan pinched his soft, white cheeks and smiled at his disgruntled pout. “Sorry sweet pea, Grandpa and Da’in should be having breakfast next door, so I’m heading over to join them, but I’ll come back afterwards to watch you Demonstrate the Forms and see how strong you’ve gotten.”

Puffing up with pride, Tate said, “Real strong. I’m gonna be the next Number One Talent, ya?” Distracted by his gurgling stomach and wary of more cheek pinching, he ran off shouting, “Okay, bye-bye Yan-Yan!”

With Tate alerting everyone in the manor to her presence, Yan now had no choice but to go greet them before leaving, an awkward and somewhat embarrassing experience she’d much rather avoid. Her future in-laws treated her warmly and no one brought up her overnight stay in Rain’s room, but Yan still lacked skin thick enough to pretend it wasn’t a big deal. Traditional customs aside, being a family of Martial Warriors, they all undoubtedly overheard the entirety of Yan and Rain’s reunion, a minor detail she’d forgotten until seeing everyone again in the morning. It was one thing to sneak into his tent or yurt while out on deployment, and another altogether when his bedroom shared a wall with his parents’ room.

Thankfully, Luo-Luo was a late riser and had yet to come out, because Yan didn’t think she could handle the lovely courtesan’s accusatory gaze...

Utterly mortified by the thought of her in-laws knowing what she and Rain had been up to last night, Yan escaped as soon as she could, but things were no better next door. Awake and seated at a table in the courtyard, Grandpa and Da’in both smirked when they spotted Yan peeking over the manor walls, and for a moment, she considered just running away and pretending she was never here. Unfortunately, Da’in was not so merciful and waved Yan over with a smile. “Yan! Oh Y-an! How good to see you. Come join us for breakfast.” Ignoring Yan’s scowl as she dropped down from the walls, the slender beauty beamed prettily and said, “Oh Yan, you’re a grown woman now.” The innocuous statement made Yan’s stomach twist and Grandpa choke on his tea, but Da’in pretended like she didn’t notice and continued, “It’s long past time you stopped climbing walls like a child. You should use the door like a normal adult.”

Had she known which room was hers, Yan might very well have run into it to hide, but she couldn’t. Instead, she did the next best thing and ignored the jibe as she sauntered over with an air of indifference, carefully stepping around all the adorable bunnies romping about the courtyard. Taking her seat with an apologetic smile, she filled Grandpa’s teacup with a grateful nod, because while he wasn’t entirely thrilled by her behaviour, he was mostly happy to look the other way. The people of Central had a lax view when it came to matters of premarital sex, but it was a topic which Yan and Grandpa were both uncomfortable with, which meant Da’in took great delight in bringing it up as often as possible in their presence. “So tell me,” she said, her wide eyes glowing with excitement, “Was he still fit enough to –”

Rain was, but Yan didn’t want to talk about it, especially in front of Grandpa. “Breakfast smells delicious,” she interrupted, spotting Eun coming out of the kitchen with two trays of food. “What are we having today?”

“Tch.” Setting a tray in front of Grandpa and Da’in respectively, Eun planted her feet and crossed her arms while facing Yan with an expectant look. “You’ll have air for breakfast until you answer the question, sweet child. Love and loyalty are all fine for the dramas, but this concerns your future happiness.”

Mother in Heaven. This was not happening. She must still be asleep, and all this merely a horrific nightmare, but Yan knew if she didn’t say anything, then Eun could do much worse than withhold breakfast. “He’s fine.” Having said it, Yan didn’t like the way her answer sounded, as if she were covering for Rain’s weakness, so she amended, “Better than fine. He’s not as... vigorous as before, but it was... very nice.”

“Nice.” Spitting the word out like a curse, Da’in threw herself back in her chair with a pout, still girlish and charming despite her age. “Boring.”

“Quiet you. Let her speak,” Eun scolded, having long since taught the Ryo Scion her place in the Du household hierarchy, which as far as Yan could tell, went Eun, Grandpa, then everyone else. “Go on then.”

Cheeks burning as she sank into the memory of last night, Yan said, “It was... different. Slow and tender, but sweet and intimate. Not necessarily better or worse from before, but... good. Really, really... good.” There were many other words to describe it, but she couldn’t bring herself to use them with Grandpa right there. Where before, they would engage in a hungry and passionate embrace, last night was an intimate and unhurried affair, with a gradual build up and release instead of a rush to sate their appetites. While this was mostly because Rain’s body was frail and weak, he made up for it with attention to detail and boundless enthusiasm, plus Yan found the need to restrain herself rather titillating, and the results spoke for themselves.

At least this time he remembered to lay out towels beforehand...

“Better than good, judging by your smile there.” Nodding in approval, Eun left to fetch Yan’s breakfast while muttering, “Injured he might be, but at least the boy knows what he’s doing, which is more than you could say for most...”

Grandpa’s cheeks took on a shade of red which Yan had never before been seen, and neither she nor Da’in could restrain their laughter. Clearing his throat, Grandpa waited for their hilarity to die down before asking, “So what are your plans for the day?”

“Well, Rain arranged a private arena so we can exchange pointers with his friends, but that’s not until after lunch. There’s also a banquet tonight in Grandpa’s honour, so that will be fun.” Perhaps Yan would even wear her new gift, a lovely, pink formal gown which revealed scandalous amounts of leg when loosened. The outfit also came with a matching set of pink-diamond jewellery, so similar to the outfits and accessories worn by Mila and Li Song during their recent and much-talked-about public spar. “In the meantime, I promised Tate to go watch him train, but you’re free to do as you please.”

Huffing in displeasure, Da’in poked at her grilled fish and scowled, yet somehow still looked radiant in doing so. “So just like that, I’m supposed to entertain myself until the afternoon? How cruel, I followed you all this way and kept you company on the journey over, only to be tossed aside for a handsome young face.”

“Jealous?” Yan teased, earning herself a hateful glare from her friend. “I could put in a good word, maybe even convince Tate to sit in your lap. A few more years and you might not have a chance anymore, so you should strike while the iron is hot.”

“You joke, but I’m this close to taking you up on the offer.” Sighing, Da’in slumped in her chair and lamented, “All the good men of my generation are already taken and I’ll not settle for less. I even considered marrying a younger man, but your Rain makes them all seem so... mediocre. Like that Zian fellow. I expected more from him after hearing how he recklessly offered an open challenge to all of Central’s Experts, but he folded like a paper lantern the second I pressed him for an opinion. His answer was so boring and politically correct, I can’t even remember what he said.”

“Bah.” Back with Yan’s breakfast, Eun gave Da’in a light swat on the head accompanied by a fond smile. “If he’d said otherwise, you would’ve called him a pompous fool and beaten him to a pulp. Don’t pretend otherwise, he’s not to your tastes.”

Giggling as she took the matronly woman’s hand, Da’in sighed and said, “You are absolutely right. Perhaps there will be someone more suitable amongst Rain’s friends.” Insisting Eun join them for breakfast, Yan and Grandpa ate in silence while Da’in grilled the gossipy woman on the eligible bachelors of the north, a list which embarrassingly included people Yan knew like Gerel, BoShui, and Vichear. Worse, they even asked her for her opinion of each man, asking all sorts of questions Yan thankfully didn’t have answers to.

She didn’t know any of the men particularly well, but even if they’d grown up thick as thieves, how was she to know what kind of lover someone might be?

Thankfully, Grandpa came to her rescue once breakfast was done. “Goddaughter,” he said, stealing Da’in’s attention and putting an end to Yan’s embarrassing plight. “Seeing how the Medical Saint is absent, I decided it wouldn’t do for us to impose on Young Lady Mei Lin any longer, so I procured an empty manor for us to stay in on the south side of the lake. Kyung knows the location, so bring him to fetch your sister and move your things in. It may not be my place to meddle, but I feel it isn’t proper for young Seoyoon to stay under the same roof as that rascal Tong Da Fung, especially without supervision. They’ve yet to be betrothed and the boy has a sordid reputation, one he takes pride in by all accounts.”

Was Grandpa upset because Yan stayed the night with Rain? They were already betrothed and Grandpa never mentioned anything about rules or reputation before, but then again, Yan never brought it up. Giving Yan a questioning look, Da’in simply nodded in agreement with Grandpa like a dutiful goddaughter should, but Eun was not so pliant. “Isn’t the citadel packed full of soldiers? Who do you know that would give you a manor to stay in, and an empty one at that? Besides, Seoyoon can handle that Fung, has him wrapped around her finger like –”

“Never you mind woman.” Waving her to silence, Grandpa coughed over what Eun was about to say before continuing, “In fact, go with them in case the girls need help.” Though Eun stood to curtsy in compliance, her smouldering gaze said they would have words about this later, and it would not be pleasant. Once they were alone, Grandpa turned to Yan and Sent, “Your betrothed is in dire straits, and I do not mean his health. I’ve been told he’s entered into conflict with an Imperial Scion, one powerful enough to force the Legate to abandon Rain and the Bekhai.”

While Grandpa explained what little he knew, Yan did her best to make sense of things. Why didn’t Rain tell her first? Because he didn’t trust her? No, that was silly, he probably just didn’t want to ruin their reunion or didn’t think it mattered much. Yea, that sounded more like Rain, the idiot. Mother in Heaven, how did he piss off an Imperial Scion? Then again, considering his history, it was only a matter of time after coming into contact with them. Rain detested arrogant people abusing their power, and never thought twice about what he said, which was both a part of his charm and maddeningly frustrating.

When Grandpa finally fell silent, Yan took a deep breath and Sent, “You were right to find new accommodations, but I will not be going with you. I will stand by Rain and the People until the bitter end, but I hope I can be a part of your family again in the next life.”

Even the People couldn’t stand against the Imperial Clan, not in its entirety, but their blood would not come cheaply.

“Silly girl.” Reaching across the table to take her hand, Grandpa held it tight and smiled. “You think I would abandon my granddaughter? Is this the man you think I am? You’ll notice I made no mention of moving my own things, or yours for that matter.” Brushing her questions aside, he Sent, “The manor is for Da’in and Seoyoon, and perhaps Gam and little five if they so desire. It would not do to drag the Ryo family into this mess, and the Eccentric would do our cause more harm than good.”

Though Yan had hoped he would say as much, Grandpa’s steadfast support brought tears of happiness to her eyes. Even after all he’d done and sacrificed for her, he was still eager to do more. “Thank you Grandpa.”

“Bah, what need is there for thanks? This is as things should be.” Settling back in his chair, he added, “Besides, this old man has always held a grudge against the Imperial Clan for not offering to take him in. If the Medical Saint can Heal my injuries, then I’ve no doubt the Imperial Physician can too, so in what way am I lacking compared to that sword-obsessed fool, Jun Bao? Now come. Let us pay your betrothed a visit and find out just what sort of dog-shit mess the in-laws have stepped into.”

Next door, Yan and Grandpa were warmly welcomed by Rain as he finished off his hearty breakfast while surrounded by his greedy pets. Though worried about the impending disaster, she was relieved to see him eating so well, and his wizened frame was supposedly improving by the day thanks to his healthy appetite. He wasn’t doing so well before the Legate procured some miraculous tofu pudding for him, which made Yan wonder why the Legate would go to such lengths only to abandon Rain to the whims of another Scion. Even crippled as he was, Rain still had value, and the People had only just displayed a fraction of their true strength to show he wasn’t the only talent amongst their ranks. It made no sense, but Yan’s understanding of politics was next to nil.

Instead of confronting him right away, Yan greeted Sarnai and the others before sitting down and taking Rain’s hand. “Is there anything you want to tell Grandpa and I?”

Blanching as he sat up straight, Rain asked, “He knows?”

“Yes.”

“Ah well, we weren’t exactly making a big secret of it.” Clearing his throat, Rain turned to Grandpa and bowed in his chair. “I know it’s traditionally frowned upon, but Yan and I have already consummated our love for –”

“Not that you idiot!” Wishing she could crawl under the table and die, Yan stared at her feet and squeezed Rain’s hand tight. “About your conflict with a certain faction.”

“Um... You’re going to have to be more specific.” Weathering her murderous glare, Rain’s eyes widened as he realized what she meant. “Oh, you mean with err... them. The bigwigs.”

From context, Yan took it to mean he understood, but with Rain, it was always best to be sure, so she Sent, “If that means the Imperial Clan, then yes.”

“Yea, sorry I didn’t tell you sooner, but I didn’t want to bring up my problems so quickly, so I figured it could wait. I was going to clear out the warehouse for you to stay in, but Mom and Dad said you guys would be unaffected if you stayed at Teacher’s home, because he’s not one of the People.”

This was the first Yan had heard of it, and apparently Rain didn’t wholly understand either, but Mother-in-Law Sarnai nodded and that was good enough for Yan. The Medical Saint had always been a bit of an oddball, but a lovable one with a noble spirit, so if he wasn’t a part of the People, it wasn’t because they wouldn’t have him, but rather the other way around. No matter, because in the end, it was a difference without a distinction considering his close ties to Rain, but it should be enough to keep the Medical Saint insulated from Imperial Wrath should things go poorly. Grandpa wasn’t entirely convinced, but after a brief back and forth between him and Sarnai, the latter snapped and said, “If I say it’s fine, then it’s fine. Should you think my word not good enough, then move your things to the manor the Legate gave you. I care not.”

“Mom...” Diplomatically stepping in, Rain quietly elicited a begrudging apology from Sarnai before offering a more heartfelt one himself. “Things are tense,” he said, offering a helpless shrug. “We’re all on edge waiting for our foe to make the first move for a whole week now. I’ve taken hits on the business side of things, like losing all cases in Adjudication and paying fines for trumped-up charges, but otherwise, things are quiet.”

“Lord Husband is being modest,” Luo-Luo said, so quiet and unassuming Yan didn’t see her until she spoke up, though it also been because the bears were stuck to her side, their furry, fat forms pressed against her while gurgling in contentment at her touch. “In the past week, we have lost a small fortune and will only lose more as we are forced to turn down new contracts for fear of stumbling into a trap.”

“It’s not really losing money if we’re rejecting work. No, I get it, no need to argue again, but it’s just gold.” Spoken like a true silk-pants, and as Luo-Luo’s hands balled up into fists, Yan offered her a sympathetic and encouraging smile. The poor girl worked herself silly training and running his business, but Rain didn’t seem to appreciate her much, somehow unaffected by the beautiful woman’s many charms. Perhaps Yan should have a word with Luo-Luo and point out the fact that Rain was hardly in a position to resist if she were to slip into his room and refuse to leave. Thick though his skin might be, even he would balk at asking his guards or family to help remove his naked concubine from his bed, and once there, it was only a matter of time before he succumbed to lust.

Perhaps Yan would even help arrange it and stick around to see how it worked out...

Unaware of Yan’s lecherous plots, Rain continued, “What I mean is, if all he can do is hurt our profit margins, then our opponents are not as fearsome as they let on. There’s more coming, but I have no idea what. Not assassins, though there have been people probing our defences these past few days. Whatever our enemies have planned, we will deal with it as it comes, and if they think the People will go down without a fight, then they are sorely mistaken.”

Proud as she was to hear Rain’s confident declaration, she feared he was taking this too lightly. Grandpa’s noisy throat clearing told her he felt the same way as he said, “As impressed as I am by your courage and resolve, our foe is not so simple. A crafty, cagey bunch, they see direct confrontation as a weapon of last resort, used only when all else has failed. While the People will no doubt put up a stalwart defence in the event of an attack, I fear our enemy will strike in more subtle and insidious ways.”

As if on cue, a Death Corps guard marched in and the room’s mood plummeted as everyone noticed the Justicar only a single step behind. Displaying his Token of Authority for all to see, the Justicar wasted no time with preamble or niceties and jumped straight to business. “Given recent events, this Official has seen fit to review past cases concerning individuals amongst the People and discovered inexcusable lapses in judgment which make a mockery of Imperial Law. For their part in the defence of Sanshu, numerous local bandits were pardoned of past crimes by Magistrate Chu Tongzu, including notable individuals such as Ulfsaar the Voracious and his wife, Neera the Miserly, Hangman Jorani of the Mother’s Militia, Siyar of the Sharktooth Syndicate, Jester Wang of Butcher Bay, and countless others. Given the severity of their many crimes, I have found them unfit for pardon, reinstated the bounties upon their heads, and demand the People hand over any and all criminals hiding within their ranks, especially individuals who once belonged to the Azure Ascendants, Butcher Bay Bandits, and Crossbone Corsairs.”

Which meant most of Rain’s retinue were now criminals again, and to contest this would mean a trial by combat for every accused soldier, but the Justicar was not yet done. “Further investigation has also uncovered proof of stolen property in Falling Rain’s possession, as well as individuals found living in Defiled rebel Yo Ling’s island camp where said property was illegally plundered. As such, Imperial Consort Falling Rain is hereby ordered to hand over all ill-gotten gains to the Disciplinary Corps, thereafter to be returned to its rightful owners, as well as any and all suspicious individuals previously residing on the aforementioned Yo Ling’s island for questioning. For his part in concealing these crimes, Imperial Consort Falling Rain will be fined an amount equal to the value of the stolen goods, a figure which has yet to be determined.”

Taking a deep breath, the Justicar continued, “For their crimes of rebellion and their part in the Battle for Sanshu, Dastan Zhandos and his retinue should have been sentenced to torture until death, but instead were granted clemency by Magistrate Chu Tongzu. In lieu of execution, they were made slaves to serve in defence of the Empire, but now they sit idle in the Citadel living lives of luxury. Such an affront is an insult to the loyal Imperial citizens who suffered due to their actions, and as such, Imperial Consort Falling Rain is hereby ordered to hand over command of Dastan Zhandos and the remainder of his former retinue, so that they may serve out their sentence on the front lines.”

Holding his hand out, the Justicar waited for Rain to obey, but Yan’s idiot beloved shook his head. Trembling from head to toe in rage, Rain growled, “The token burned up and was destroyed in Sinuji.”

“Very well.” Wholly expecting this answer, the Justicar moved on. “For his crimes, Imperial Consort Falling Rain is hereby stripped of his rank of Second Grade Warrant Officer and ordered drafted into the Imperial Army as a liaison for the criminal slave soldiers in his possession. Private Falling Rain is to report for duty within the hour, alongside the aforementioned slave soldiers.”

“You dare?”

Sarnai’s famed temper erupted and Yan feared for the Justicar’s life, but Alsantset moved to block her mother from doing anything which might be construed as rebellion. Luckily, Baatar had long since left to carry out his duties else Yan feared the Bloody Fanged Wolf might have already torn the Justicar into pieces. Unfazed by Sarnai’s anger or the threat of her Aura crashing down upon him, the Justicar nodded and said, “I dare, for I uphold the Emperor’s laws.” He wasn’t done either, and he announced he was charging Rain’s co-conspirators for being complicit in his crimes and recited a long list of names, crimes, and fines which started with Marshal Yuzhen, Marshal Yo, and Magistrate Chu Tongzu before moving on to other notable personages from North and Central. While the punishment never went any further than a fine, the implicit warning was that their punishments could be raised if Rain didn’t roll over for the Disciplinary Corps, and the message to the world needed no clarification: anyone and everyone who dared to support Falling Rain would share in his misery.

Merely the opening gambit and already it neatly cut Rain off from his allies, because while these crimes were neither shocking nor heinous, it showed just how much power their enemy had and just how far he was willing to go, even drafting a crippled war hero and risk angering both soldiers and civilians alike. One thing was for sure though: with the Disciplinary Corps involved, unless Rain contested the charges in hundreds of separate trials by combat, then Yan and even Grandpa could do naught but stand on the sidelines and watch. The Disciplinary Corps represented the Emperor’s justice, and to retaliate meant rebelling against the Empire itself, not so daunting a task when the People were home in their mountains, but here in Central, thousands of kilometres away from home and surrounded by millions of loyal Imperial soldiers?

The only outcome was defeat, and Mother help her, Yan had no idea how anyone could save her beloved Rain.

Chapter Meme
