A withered, blackened husk is all that remains of the once bulky and enigmatic Monk, his body ravaged by the Demonic Gunk and his soul’s ultimate fate left unknown. A horrific and terrifying end, yet all I can think of is the Monk’s teary smile because I called him a coward and wishing I could take it back. He died because he was trying to protect me from the Confessor, and even though I resent him for giving up, I know how difficult it is to keep going in the face of abject failure. Hell, it’s not like that’s the only reason he had for giving up, he saw the writing on the wall and accepted his fate with grace and aplomb while still resisting until the bitter end despite how futile it must have seemed. I didn’t know him well, but he struck me as a flawed man doing his best to better himself and the world around him. It makes me wish I knew more about him, had trusted him sooner and listened to his advice or learned more about him. We only had one, real conversation together, but in that one exchange, he forced me to face a hard truth about myself and I’ll always be grateful for his help.

Thank you and goodbye Mahakala. Hopefully, your struggles are at an end and you’re resting peacefully in the arms of the Mother while awaiting your next turn at the wheel of life instead of being devoured by the feral Spectres and consigned to oblivion, or worse, joining their ranks like some zombified, ravenous ghost.

...

Well, that’s a depressing thought.

With Taduk’s help, I grab the Monk’s inert Spiritual Spade and hop out the room, regretting my choice to sacrifice my right hand and foot. Not the sacrifice itself, since I’d do it again if given the choice, only I’d be smart about it and cut off my right hand and left foot instead of taking both from the same side. At least then I’d be able to hobble around with a crutch, but alas, I am not a clever man. Doing my best to ignore all the confused stares, I leave it to Taduk to explain my disabled state, which he does with a simple statement. “The Dharmapala has passed away, and the substance is much hazardous than I first suspected. Although it corrodes all manner of materials, it would appear it feeds primarily upon human flesh, or perhaps even Chi. Easy there, Rain my boy, there you go.” Plopping me down on a bench beside the wall, Taduk gestures to GangShu and continues. “After we left the room, the substance’s speed of replication increased exponentially and infected the boy here. I’m uncertain if the timing is coincidental or if it was waiting for us to depart, but either way, this is a most troubling discovery.”

“How, pray tell, did it spread to his foot? Why did he take off his shoes in the first place?” One Beardie seems utterly confused, but thankfully, everyone else ignores his question.

Stroking his beard alongside the rest of his look-a-likes, a second Beardie asks, “Is there no way to combat this vile substance?”

Having been warned by Taduk to keep Blobby and Pong Pong’s existence secret, I keep my mouth shut as GangShu answers in my stead. “Short of possessing an Elemental Spirit? Don’t get hit, I suppose.”

Well, at least now I know what to call Blobby’s siblings, assuming I ever stumble across one. I’d settle for Blobby back though. Stupid teardrop, running off at such an important time. I could have saved the Monk if Blobby was around, or if I hadn’t rejected my first Awakening and had more time to practice, or...

Breathe, Rain. Breathe. No point playing this game. Things happened. You can’t change it, so deal with it.

Grimacing at GangShu’s levity, a second Beardie chimes in. “This is a national crisis, and you of all people should appreciate the gravity of the situation. If the Medical Saint’s hypothesis is correct then the Defiled are now in possession of a weapon which can kill a Divinity.”

Is he calling the Monk a Divinity or is he speaking hypothetically? C’mon Beardie, be more clear about it.

“An understatement, if anything.” Withdrawing the copper vessel from his sleeve, the Legate gingerly places it on the table and the others instinctively recoil from its presence. “If the boy’s scouts saw true, then this is a weapon which can be mass produced and wielded by commoners. Imagine an army of Defiled lobbing these canisters towards you, or Wraiths hidden in the shadows while waiting for you to lower your guard. Small wonder Zhu Chanzui and the Defiled care nothing for the treaty. This insidious weapon affords them every advantage in a battle of Divinities, and until proper countermeasures are in place, who would dare ride out to meet them?”

The room falls silent as everyone considers the implications, myself included. It’s funny, I’ve been trying to find a way to even the odds and right the balance of power, but it looks like the Defiled beat me to it. I want to tell them about the Feral Spectres and what the Monk said about this gunk being Anathema and whatnot, but it would mean explaining how I ended up in the Monk’s Natal palace and he was pretty clear in warning me I should keep it a secret.

Wait... When he said ‘this ability’, was he talking about my Natal Palace diving thing, or the Devouring thing? Or maybe it’s the whole Water-Chi cleansing thing, or the Blobby thing... Dammit, I have too many secrets, be more specific with your final warnings! Well... whatever, one secret, four secrets, what’s the difference?

The silence is broken as a teacup shatters in the fox-lady’s grip, and she growls in frustration. “If I had known things would turn out like this,” she says, dabbing away at her soaked, ragged robes with a towel speedily provided by the Seneschal, “Then I’d have crushed that haggard mole-bitch like a bug.”

Shaking his head, the half-bull says, “Better had we heeded our absent friend’s advice and taken her hostage. There are still many questions to be answered.”

Yea, like who’s this mole-bitch and who are all of you? Also, where do I find the Abbot? That seems important, but more of a me thing as opposed to a group discussion.

Clenching his fist, the half-rhino speaks through gritted teeth. “It matters not. The Enemy has broken the Treaty, and in doing so, they have sealed their fate. We stand on the side of righteousness and those who were once neutral will flock to our side, and together, we will destroy the Defiled once and for all. This substance will not be enough to save them from the iron fist of justice.”

It’s adorably naive he actually believes that... If anything, I feel like revealing how dangerous the Demonic Goop is will encourage neutral Ancestral Beasts to go deeper into hiding, if not outright join the Defiled in the interest of self-preservation.

The half-bull agrees with my unspoken thoughts. “Assuming said neutral parties uphold their end of the Treaty.” Sipping his tea with a dainty slurp, the half-bull looks at no one in particular as he asks, “Well? It was not a rhetorical question. Answer wisely, for those who do not stand with us...”

With all the subtlety of a brick, the half-bull Expert leaves the rest unsaid, but GangShu laughs in response. “I’d always heard you were an arrogant idiot, but the rumours don’t do ye justice. Say I refuse, what’re ye gonna do? Fight me with the largest gathering of soldiers in the Empire’s history sitting outside the gates? You ever heard the term ‘collateral damage’? Talk about cutting yer nose to spite yer face.”

Shrugging, the half-bull smiles in response. “Is that a refusal?” he asks, putting his teacup down to crack his neck, and suddenly, his actions don’t seem delicate or dainty at all. “If so, I’ll happily teach you which of us is the arrogant idiot. I should thank you in advance. Only yesterday I told you I was growing bored, and now you’re kind enough to provide me with this much needed distraction.”

You know... Seeing how eager he is to go toe to toe with Ancestral Beast GangShu, I’m starting to think he’s not a half-bull after all...

Holy shit... is this a meeting for Divinities? Is that Mama Gam? What constitutes a Human Divinity? Why don’t I feel like nuzzling any of the Ancestral Beasts besides GangShu? And did he just imply he’d fuck up the millions of soldiers camped around Nan Ping? How strong are Ancestral Beasts, and how massive must Guan Suo’s balls be to sit at this table and smoke his pipe? The man gives zero fucks, and even as a fight between Divinity brews right beside him, he’s still puffing away without a care in the world.

Then again, it might be whatever he packs into his pipe. I still can’t get a read on him, but at least he’s on my side. Or Ping Ping’s side, and she’s on my side, so same thing.

Thankfully, in the midst of all this tension, the Legate keeps a cool head. “Please, Great One,” he says, standing to bow at the bull. “Antagonizing our allies serves no purpose.” Turning to GangShu, he offers a second bow, though this time not as deep. “It is not the Empire’s intention to force you to a decision, not yet. This one has sent word back to the Emperor, Blessed be His name, and must await further instructions. Whether we invoke the Treaty is still yet to be decided, but should such a day come, it would ease many troubled minds to know where the Great Ones stand.”

“Haven’t decided,” GangShu answers, giving no face as he slides his empty teacup forward, indicating he’d like it filled.

Foxy Mama Gam offers more than a non-answer, but hardly what the Legate is looking for. “My boys won’t be leaving any time soon. One dreams of dying in glorious battle while the other yearns for honour and infamy, so I too will remain to guard them, but for me to submit to Imperial authority? An unlikely prospect.”

No one else speaks, but the Legate’s grimace deepens as he nods in reply to a Sending (or pretends to for the sake of ignoring GangShu’s teacup). After a short pause, he salutes everyone in turn and says, “Then this one will not keep you all any longer. Forgive me for not seeing you out, as matters of national security demand this one’s attention.”

As handy a dismissal as any, but I still have to ask him about taking leave to deliver the Monk’s message. Pushing myself to my... foot, I call out without thinking. “Hang on.”

Without pausing his footsteps, the Legate fixes me with a disgruntled glare, none too pleased at being stopped in front of all the gathered Divinities. Standing at his side, the Beardie who asked about my missing shoes snarls and asks, “Audacious! Watch your tone, boy. Who do you think you’re speaking to?”

I could blame it on the bloodless, pain, or grief, but when it comes right down to it, I don’t care enough to play games right now. “I’m speaking to the Legate.” Hopping closer to stand before him, I ignore Chief Beardie’s glare and bow deeply to the Legate, or as deeply as I can without toppling over, and pray he doesn't have me killed out of spite. “Sorry for my blatant disregard for protocol, but in my condition, I worried I wouldn’t be able to chase you down. The Dharmapala has entrusted me with a message for the Abbot, so I will be leaving Nan Ping at dawn.”

Belatedly, I realize how poorly worded my statement was. I should have presented it as a request instead of merely informing the Legate of my departure like I don’t care about his opinion. A minor discrepancy in my eyes, but it could also be construed as a complete lack of respect and face. Combine this with mouthing off to a Divinity, and it’s possible I’ll find out first hand if Mahakala made it to the arms of the Mother after the Legate orders my execution, a real possibility considering Shen ZhenWu’s heavy breathing and angry silence. Gesturing for me to follow behind, he strides out the room and I do my best to keep up, but even with Taduk’s help, the Legate is left standing in the courtyard for several seconds before we catch up. Before stumbling down the stairs, I turn back to find Guan Suo and GangShu following closely behind, with no sign of the other Divinities to be found.

Snapping his fan open, the Legate draws himself up to full height while displaying the stylized, painted dragon, though the whole image is ruined by Ping Ping sitting in siege mode behind him. “What message does the Dharmapala have for the Abbot?”

Too tired to bow again, I feign breathlessness while thinking about how to best frame my answer. “My apologies, but the Dharmapala’s message involves secrets of the highest order, and he was adamant I deliver the message in person, from my lips to Abbot’s ears and none other. Command it, and I will gladly reveal its contents, but otherwise, I am bound by my word.”

“Hmph.” Chief Beardie offers another snort of disdain. “What secrets could he share with a child outside the order?”

“None.” Nodding sagely, I continue, “So it’s a good thing I am a member of the order, acknowledged and admitted by the Abbot himself. The Dharmapala claimed he chiselled my Dharma name into the wall with his own hands, and told me I stand second only to the Abbot and none others.” With a half-hearted shrug, I add, “I don’t understand it myself, but that’s what he said. I can swear an Oath and verify my words if you’d like.”

The antagonistic Beardie trades a surprised glance with the Legate before asking, “What is the nature of your relationship with the Dharmapala?”

With another shrug, I stick to the truth. “We don’t have one, not really. He showed up a few days before the Conference began and told me he was here to act as my Dharmapala, along with everything else I just shared. I don’t know why and if I’m being honest, didn’t entirely buy into it either, but he died trying to bring my poisoner to justice, so passing on a message is the least I could do.” Sensing it’s now or never, I ask, “Who’s the Confessor and why is he trying to kill me?”

Ignoring my question, Chief Beardie and the Legate exchange yet another glance, but the Seneschal is kind enough to provide an answer. “You met his Disciple in Sanshu, Han BoLao. As for why he wants you dead, I imagine it has something to do with her death.”

“... Oh. I see.” Please don’t piss your pants in front of the Legate. Or while leaning on Taduk. He won’t hold it against you, but it’s still embarrassing.

After a short and silent discussion, the Legate closes his fan and tucks it into his belt. “I will not command you to reveal the contents of your message, nor will I forbid you from delivering it. However, I will urge you to think twice before committing yourself to this path. The Empire needs its heroes now more than ever, and Falling Rain of the Bekhai stands high among them.”

Having said his piece, the Legate turns around and leaves with his Chief Beardie, but the Seneschal remains behind. Waiting until they’re both out of sight, the Seneschal leans in close to look me in the eye and say what the Legate will not. “Boy, feel honoured, for my young master has great plans in store for you. Think. Why would he award you with such a great honour, one never before bestowed upon an outsider? Surely you’re not foolish enough to believe your strength warrants it?”

It takes longer than I’d like to admit to figure out what honour he’s talking about, so unused to seeing Luo-Luo’s presence as a good thing. “Well if I had to guess? It’s because he knows the Bekhai and Akanai in particular have no interest in politics, which means improving my social standing and future prospects comes at little to no cost since I’ll be unlikely to use it.”

Smiling at my blunt reply, the Seneschal shrugs and replies, “I won’t lie and tell you you’re wrong, but you’re not entirely correct. My young master expects great things from you, even after seeing your reduced state. You must understand, Sinuji was meant to be our command post in the war against the Defiled, and once word of its destruction spreads, the people’s faith in the Empire will waver. We need heroes young and old to bolster their confidence and keep them from succumbing to despair, for every citizen who turns Defiled is one more threat brought to bear against us.”

With a wary glance at Taduk, Guan Suo, and Gang Shu, the Seneschal gingerly places a hand on my shoulder and smiles. “My young master believes none better suited for this than you, but it cannot happen if you leave now during this most critical of junctures. Remain in Nan Ping and my young master will raise you and the Bekhai to heights unheard of. You think yourself strong? There are young talents in the East who will put your skills to shame, but should you learn our secrets under the Imperial Protector’s tutelage, which we can freely offer now that you are an Imperial Scion, you will rise up to surpass all others and truly become the number one talent in the Empire. More than that, your meteoric rise will leave the Empire in awe as you surpass your Mentor in two decades, and your Grand Mentor in three. Given time, you might even grow to become a Divinity yourself, a supreme warrior standing at the peak of the Martial Path, but only if you choose to stay. Leave, and we must offer this chance to another, but think twice before you do. The quickest way to raise a young warrior’s reputation is by treading upon yours. This is no threat, only the cold, hard truth, for such is life, my young friend, and though you are our first choice for this honour, never for a moment think you are our only choice.”

...Wow. The Seneschal’s sales pitch is convincing, but I’m not the wide-eyed youth I appear to be. He offers secrets and strength but makes no mention of cost or sacrifice. I don’t see them offering Imperial secrets for free, not all of them at least. They’ll give me a small taste and my strength will rise by leaps and bounds, but then I’ll plateau or reach a bottleneck and the Imperial Protector will have a solution, but not one he can share without consequence. An Oath of fealty, he’ll suggest, and I’ll resist, but then he'll offer me another choice, a lesser Oath perhaps, or something else to prove myself. Slowly, but surely, they’ll drag me deeper into their clutches until I’m a warrior bound to obey the Legate’s will as surely as any slave, and I’ll thank them every step of the way.

Raise me to Divinity? Maybe they will, but only if it serves their purpose.

Even knowing how things will likely turn out, I still find myself wanting to accept their offer. Not because I necessarily want the Legate as my backer, but mostly because I don’t want him as my enemy. I don’t trust him, but I don’t mind working with him, so long as our goals are aligned. Offering them one more out, I swallow my trepidation and say, “It is not my intention to refuse the Legate’s goodwill. I am grateful for all he has done, and were circumstances different, I would gladly do as you suggest. However,” I stress, hoping he understands that the ball is in the Legate’s court, “Failing this, I must stay true to my word and fulfill the Dharmapala’s dying wish. I will travel with the utmost haste and endeavour to return as soon as possible, but if the Legate does as you’ve said and chooses a new partner to work with, then know that I will help in whatever way possible to smooth things along. I will bear no grudge for I know he acts with the Empire’s best interest in mind.” Or at least I hope he does.

“Disappointing.” Shaking his head, the Seneschal says, “I urge you to consult with your Mentor and Grand-Mentor before committing yourself to this path, for those who do not stand with us...”

Like the Ancestral Bull, the Seneschal leaves the rest unsaid, but I complete it for him. “Stand against us? Not always true. Some people only want to be left alone.”

With a sad smile, the Seneschal turns away and leaves. “Even if you mean it,” he Sends, “My young master’s enemies might think to use you against us, and we cannot afford to let this happen. Blame your own talent, Falling Rain, for it makes you too dangerous to leave unchecked.”

Burying my face in Taduk’s robes, I close my eyes and sigh.

Politics are the worst.

“Well Teacher,” I say, feigning a smile. “Let’s go tell Grand-Mentor the good news and see what she has to say.”

Seriously though, I would really love it if someone older and wiser made this decision for me.

Chapter Meme
