At thirty years old, Yuanyin's first brush with true power left him both dazed and terrified.

Constrained by the Legate’s foolhardy Decree, Master was forced to resort to underhanded trickery to reveal Falling Rain for what he truly was. How could the world be so blind as to think the Mother would choose a faithless savage as Her hallowed representative? The short-sighted fools already forgot that this same savage was at the centre of the largest Defiled rebellion in decades. Butcher Bay, the Golden Highlands Coalition, and the traitor Mao Jianghong all revealed their true selves as the Enemy’s agents and experience told Yuanyin that for every heretic uncovered, there were four more hidden in plain sight.

One of which was this supposed young hero of the Bekhai, an invaluable discovery which Yuanyin’s junior sister gave her life for. Gentle, charming, beautiful BoLao, may you rest well in the arms of the Mother. Your Master and senior brothers will not let your death be in vain.

I will stop at nothing to avenge you. Nothing.

Master’s scheme to remove the Behkai blight from the Empire was simple in theory, though far too cautious and reserved for Yuanyin’s tastes. The sea held many dangers and schools of bloodthirsty sharks were a common menace which made them perfect for Master’s purposes. Often called the wolves of the sea, these voracious, indefatigable creatures of teeth and fury roamed the Azure Sea in great numbers and devoured everything in their path. Making no distinction between human and fish, these creatures were the ruin of sailors and merchants alike, aggressive enough to attack ships and powerful enough to bring them down without difficulty. While sharks usually kept to deeper waters where non-human prey was more abundant, their presence could easily be explained by the increased ship activity and the Bekhai’s massive furred weasels frolicking about in Nan Ping Bay. Mother knows sharks had attacked for less and this wouldn’t be the first time a school of them took residence in the bay.

Though it would most certainly be the last, at least for this school in particular.

Their only issue was how to lure the sharks into the bay. Sheep carcasses thrown into the water might have worked, but sharks were drawn to blood and movement, which meant the best bait had to still be alive. Tossing a bleeding goat overboard would be far too conspicuous with so many ships around and even a peak expert would have trouble escaping a shark’s notice while underwater and covered in blood. Thus, left with no other options, Master asked his true believers to sacrifice themselves for the greater good, and even though all men fear death, Yuanyin was proud to say there were no shortage of volunteers. Hugging his shepherd’s crook, he muttered a prayer and Watched as dozens of his brave brothers and sisters Concealed themselves in the water and valiantly gave their lives to lure multiple schools of sharks towards the Defiled traitor Falling Rain. Keeping Master’s warning in mind, Yuanyin withdrew his Watch from the Ancestral Beast and his surroundings so he wouldn’t be exposed, which meant he observed what happened with his naked eyes from three kilometres away.

And what he saw shook the very core of his beliefs.

The sharks moved faster than Yuanyin thought possible but somehow Guan Suo was faster still. After pulling Falling Rain back into the skiff, the Smiling Slaughterer jumped into the water to defend the giant turtle. The ‘wolves of the sea’ were mere puppies before the martial might of an Ancestral Beast, but Master knew this and went through with this plan anyways. Powerful as he was, Guan Suo lacked the fine control to instantly kill all the sharks without harming the turtle, especially while fighting underwater. It would take precious minutes to secure the turtle’s safety, minutes in which the defenceless Falling Rain would fall victim to the frenzied sharks as he sat defenceless in his tiny skiff.

Except Falling Rain’s protectors were far more formidable than anticipated.

This wasn’t how things were supposed to happen. The plan should have worked. A Medical Saint and a peak expert, that was the information they had, but even then their prowess caught everyone by surprise. The Medical Saint’s incredible Lightening skills were unbelievable and if he hadn’t seen it with his own eyes, Yuanyin would have said impossible. Escaping at the last second with Falling Rain under his arm, the Medical Saint soared into the air but was not content to flee. Tempting fate once more, he descended to a piece of driftwood and leaped once more, soaring ever higher into the air and out of reach of lunging sharks. Yuanyin had seen Master do something similar but even on solid ground Master couldn’t leap so high from a standing position, much less while burdened with another person. This was true mastery of Lightening, not merely running through the skies but near defiance of gravity. With this consummate skill, the Medical Saint effortlessly kept himself and Falling Rain well out of harm's way.

Then there was the woman, the veiled expert skimming across the water on two boards, a feat Yuanyin couldn’t even begin to comprehend. Lightening to stay afloat, sure, but how was she moving so quickly? And did she kill a shark by diving through it? He saw the shark’s jaws clamp down on the woman yet she emerged from the other side in an eruption of blood and gore, her clothes intact and veil in place. This was making a mockery of common sense, the woman wasn’t even carrying a Spiritual Weapon! Was she wearing Runic silks? Preposterous, the Bekhai had no Runic Craftsmen; the North only had seven total and none who knew how to inscribe silk.

More importantly, why were both the veiled expert and Medical Saint staying behind instead of fleeing for safety? Impressive as his aerial feats were, the Medical Saint’s Chi expenditure must be enormous and even if Yuanyin didn’t understand the mechanics behind her locomotion, he knew the veiled expert danced along the razor’s edge by circling around the school of sharks when she could instead easily escape them.

Then all became clear as a towering pillar of water, blood, and smoke rose into the heavens, carrying with it the massive corpses of at least a dozen gargantuan sharks. It was so surreal Yuanyin forgot himself and fell onto his behind, sitting there open-mouthed while wondering if the Mother herself had descended to ruin Master’s plans. Not satisfied with escaping in safety, the Medical Saint and veiled expert remained in place as bait to corral the sharks so the Smiling Slaughterer could deal with them all in one, earthshaking strike.

So this was the strength of an Ancestral Beast. Mother above, how were mere mortals supposed to compete with these peak existences?

All this took some time to describe but it happened in a matter of heartbeats, not even a minute from start for finish. Trembling from head to toe, Yuanyin snapped out of his fugue once the cheering began, the brainless fools of the Empire celebrating their doom as they applauded for the three warriors and chanted Falling Rain’s name. Soldiers, sailors, and citizens alike had borne witness to the incredible feat and rejoiced as the battered ‘heroes’ headed back to shore and safety with their unharmed turtle.

“Junior brother, collect yourself,” Eldest senior brother Wen Zhong warned through Sending. “Remember Master’s plan: Proceed as normal. You are a shepherd so tend to your flock. This attack must not be traced back to us, there is work yet to be done.”

Gathering his wits, Yuanyin stood back up and glanced around, but everyone was too busy gawking at the shark corpses and venerating the Bekhai experts to take notice of a terrified shepherd. With a heavy heart, he set about helping eldest senior brother collect their scattered flock while lamenting the Empire’s misfortune. The Enemy would be on their guard now, but even if they had another opportunity to strike, how were they to defeat those peerless experts and kill Falling Rain?

The Empire was doomed and their cause lost. How was the army to hold back the Defiled hordes with such powerful traitors in their midst?

“Why do they cheer for him?” Yuanyin Sent, sharing his woes with eldest senior brother as they collected their errant sheep and listened to the chanting of the crowd. “Falling Rain didn’t even do anything.”

“Probably because they don’t know the names of his protectors,” came senior brother’s mocking reply.

A cynical and acerbic man, Wen Zhong’s greatest flaw was his complete and utter lack of manners. If not for his superlative martial skill and Master’s far-reaching influence, Yuanyin suspected his eldest senior brother would not have survived past twenty years old, much less his current fifty-five years. Incensed by the reply, Yuanyin Sent, “How can you still make jokes after what we just witnessed? Our foe is too strong this time. How are we to kill an Ancestral Beast and two experts as strong as Master himself?”

“As usual junior brother, you’ve made an erroneous assumption. We don’t need to kill Guan Suo or the Experts. We don’t even need to kill Falling Rain. In fact, it would be preferable to keep him alive so we can reveal his true self. Once that is accomplished, not even a dozen Ancestral Beasts could keep the Bekhai safe from the Emperor’s wrath and the Mother’s justice.”

“Then why did Master say it would be best if he dies?”

Balking at the question, eldest senior brother hesitated before answering, “Because Master is only human.”

That was the closest eldest senior brother would ever come to criticizing Master, a realization which sent Yuanyin’s stomach plummeting into the ground. It was no secret how junior sister BoLao was Master’s intended successor and none of the other disciples begrudged their junior sister the position. None of Master’s disciples aspired to wealth or status; there were much easier ways to ascend to greatness than overseeing Purges. What’s more, most of them were like Yuanyin, orphans picked up off the streets by Master and given new purpose in life, to seek out and excise the Father’s corruption from within the Empire.

And to date, each and every one of them failed Master’s expectations, all except junior sister BoLao.

By Master’s own words, Yuanyin was a mediocre and hard headed fool, a blunt instrument trying to masquerade as a fine scalpel and failing miserably. Master wasn’t wrong, Yuanyin was no outstanding warrior like eldest senior brother, or skilled analyst like second senior brother, or adept at the dance of diplomacy like junior sister. Yuanyin’s only skill lay in the art of the Mother’s Mercy, and he knew he lacked the patience or intelligence required to sift through the Father’s lies and uncover his agents. Master had given Yuanyin everything in life and raised him to become the man he was today. An Adherent of the Mother, a Disciple of the Confessor, a warrior of the faith, and defender of the people, he was a soldier in the battle for the Empire’s soul but Master had plenty of soldiers. No, what Master needed was a hero, someone to inspire the people and sway them to their cause like Falling Rain inspired the citizens to his.

But Yuanyin was no hero and of no use to Master. What else could he be besides a failure? And now, the infallible Master had revealed himself to be nothing more than a grieving, old man who put personal vengeance above the safety of the Empire.

How dare Goujian betray him like this?

Upon collecting the rest of their scattered flock, Yuanyin feigned weariness and retired to mourn his failures while lying in the privacy of his tent. It wasn’t fair. Falling Rain was born with everything he needed to become a hero of the Empire, but instead he succumbed to the Father’s machinations and turned against the Mother. In his thirty years, Yuanyin had seen the worst the world had to offer, all manner of death and suffering which would forever haunt his memories, yet he remained steadfast throughout it all, his faith unwavering in even the darkest of times.

Until now. Today, with junior sister BoLao gone, Master in mourning, and Yuanyin unable to help, the weight of mediocrity and failure sat heavy on his shoulders.

Blessed Mother, why have you forsaken us? The Father lavishes his apostates with gifts of power and ability while You leave Your faithful children to suffer at their hands. How are we to fight this fearsome foe without your aid? If I were a hero like Falling Rain, I could be a shining example and draw true believers to your cause...

...

...

...

It started as a whisper, so faint he thought he’d imagined it, but the more he listened, the more the voices made sense. The Mother didn’t abandon her children, She was here all along, only Yuanyin had been too stupid to look or listen. It was so simple, how had it taken him this long to understand?

All he needed to do was surrender his will and Her holy messengers would enlighten him to the Truth.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arriving on shore to the cheers of my retinue, I’m greeted by a worried Mafu who’s still carrying my Spiritual Weapons in his harness. Sensing my displeasure as I take them away, the fat furry coward emits a plaintive squeak and offers a pleading look, his eyes wide and whiskers drooping as he nudges me ever so gently. Unable to stay mad at his otterly adorable face, I give his fat cheeks a smoosh and a kiss. There’s a big difference between battle-trained quins and wagon quins, but I doubt even Pafu or Suret would have stuck around to help, unlike the sweet turtle behind me.

Dragging herself onto the beach, Ping Ping is clearly exhausted from her harrowing brush with death. I can’t blame her, she just fought off a dozen sharks and came out on top. I didn’t even fight and I’m exhausted, my spirits drained and mind in disarray as I come to grips with the reality of our situation.

Out in the Azure Sea, there’s something so terrifying that giant fucking sharks are too scared to travel alone.

I hate this world.

“Little brother!” Swept up in a whirlwind of muscle and hair, I grit my teeth and ride out Alsantset’s bone-crushing hug, reminding myself that the pain is because she cares. “Are you hurt?”

“Wasn’t until just now,” I retort, smiling to show I’m mostly joking. Seriously, her hugs hurt even without Reinforcement. I have an itching suspicion that Charok would understand my issues with Mila’s... unbridled affections, and I’d ask him about a possible solution but I’m 100% sure I’d shrivel up and die from sheer humiliation.

I mean... how would I even bring it up? ‘Oh ouch, stubbed my toe there. Speaking of pain, does Alsantset ever break your bones while in the throes of passion?’

...I miss Mila.

Glancing around for my sweet wifey, I find her crying in her daddy’s embrace. I don’t mind, me being in danger is par for the course but it’s not often her daddy finds himself in mortal danger. I’m still blown away by Taduk’s air-jumping skills. Seriously, why am I only finding out about this now? He says it wasn’t a big secret, but I’m almost certain that’s a lie. He didn’t want me to know about his skills and I have no idea why.

It doesn’t matter though. He’s still my sweet, goofy albeit also bad-ass Teacher/future Father-in-law. Whatever his reasons, he can tell me when he’s ready.

Giving Guan Suo a nod, I do my best not to make eye contact or upset him while checking Ping Ping for injuries. This grumpiest of red pandas has me feeling a little afraid for my safety. I don’t know how he exploded the water and I’m too afraid to ask, but I do know he’s not my biggest fan and I have a pretty solid grasp on what would happen if he used that attack on me.

There’s a pun in here with my name and raining blood and gore, but I’m too scared to think.

After some minor first aid, I have a new appreciation for how tough the old gal really is. Ping Ping’s legs and neck are covered in ineffective bite marks with no less than three dozen shark teeth embedded in her leathery skin after failing to pierce through. Her black, spiky shell shows no sign of damage nor does she appear frightened or anxious in any way, merely beaming her little turtle grin while I give her plenty of praise and attention. She’s not the cutest of pets, but by god is she one of the sweetest.

I won’t trick you again. I’m sorry big girl. Welcome to the family.

Giving her big beak a hug, I plop down beside her to rest and recuperate, idly watching as Alsantset takes charge to claim our rightful reward from the arduous battle: a whole school of dead, exploded sharks. Supposedly, their skin makes great armour and as our horde of quins drag the massive, battered corpses onto the sand, Charok sets to cooking up a pot of shark-fin soup, a delicacy I am eager to try. There’s something especially satisfying about eating something that tried to eat you, the penultimate insult to a defeated foe.

The ultimate insult? Pooping their remains out the morning after.

...I wonder if this is why Defiled are cannibals? Now there’s a disconcerting thought...

“Rainy?” Returning from his expedition to see the sharks, Tate presses his chubby cheek against my arm, hugs me tight, and opens his eyes wide as he can as he asks, “What was the battle like?”

Well, it’s official: my weaknesses are big eyes and chubby cheeks. No wonder I love Lin so much.

Plopping my manipulative nephew into my lap, I hold him close and tell the story. “So there I was floating in the water and minding my own business when...” Once I get to the part where I first see the sharks, I falter as something occurs to me for the first time. “I saw... I saw clouds of blood... The sharks were already eating, already in a feeding frenzy before they saw us.”

After reviewing my memory a few more times, I’m almost positive there’s something fishy about the whole situation. There wasn’t a lot of it, but I swear I saw blood in their path. The sharks were eating something and following a trail of bloody bread crumbs which led them right to us.

Leaving an upset Tate with his papa, I rush over to the biggest intact shark I can find with sweet Ping Ping following on my heels. Drawing Peace, I cut deep into the shark’s belly and slit it open from chin to tail, almost ten meters in total. A putrid stench invades my nostrils and sets me to gagging, but after dry heaving for a bit, I persevere and return to my search. Digging through the shark’s innards, I’m covered in guts and blood by the time I find its stomach. Ripping the lining apart, I sift through the acidic, gooey mess and soon find more than I bargained for: a mangled, and almost unrecognizable human foot.

God dammit, I was expecting like a goat or cow or something. Someone chummed the waters with human flesh and lured these sharks into the bay, which means someone made a deliberate attempt on our lives and wanted it to look like an accident.

But who would do this?

It’s not the Defiled. They wouldn’t bother with all this scheming nonsense. Maybe it’s the Canston Trading Group taking revenge for the ruined merchant house, or one of the families of the twenty-eight people Baledagh and I beat up. It could also be the Society, the rest of them arrived a few days ago and the Ouyang Clan and Baiji Sect have yet to take revenge for their dead young masters. Oh, and let’s not forget all the miscellaneous clansmen too. Who knows what relations they had?

Man... I have a lot of enemies. I should ask the Legate for help...

Glancing at Ping Ping chilling in the surf, an errant thought crosses my mind.

Could it be...

Does the Legate want her dead? Is that why Ping Ping didn’t like him? Because she sensed his intentions? The death of the Divine Guardian could be the rallying cry he needs to kick off the First Imperial Grand Conference... or something? I don’t know...

God dammit. I hate politics.

Chapter Meme
