Silence ensues in the wake of my admittedly disdainful inquiry, and I refuse to be the one to break it.

Power games 101. I’ve made my demand in the form of a question, which means I should wait for an answer. If I speak now, that’s tacitly accepting silence as my answer, blunting any and all further demands I might make, so the ball is in Shuai Jiao’s court now. The bald, bearded Commander General shows no sign of anger or vexation as he calmly sips his tea, his sharp gaze studying me like the hawk studies its prey. There a hint of mild curiosity in his expression as his eyes flick over to take in Jorani, no doubt wondering why I would introduce him as a distraction. Am I being honest? Or is it a double bluff? He’s not sure, and this bothers him, because now he doesn’t know how to proceed. In his eyes, Jorani is the ‘favoured’ son of GangShu, a neutral Territory Lord who has already taken injury in the War against the Enemy, so it would not do to upset so powerful an ally by having his son killed. What’s more, according to the Old Wolf, who refuses to actually give me a name, GangShu has been hanging around Jorani for a few weeks now, still recovering from his wounds and making it look like he’s thrown his lot in with the People, without actually committing to our cause in any way shape or form. Of course, Shuai Jiao doesn’t know that last part, so he must think Jorani’s presence here is an unspoken threat, one that says, “I’ve got another Ancestral Beast on my side who is also nearby, so tread lightly, bitch.”

Totally sounds like something I’d say. I guess Grandpa Du really has my number, as I do have a tendency to antagonize my enemies, but what can I say? It’s a terrible habit, but the insolence just slips out before I can contain it. I can’t help it, I’ve got this thing against authority figures. It’s that whole holier-than-thou attitude that irks me so, reminding me of all the time I spent under Gortan’s boot, both figuratively and literally.

Even the supposedly humble Shuai Jiao has that same arrogance baked into his bones, sitting upright and sipping tea from his cup with both hands, all while emanating a sense of general antipathy at having been so rudely interrupted. There’s nothing to hint at personal disdain in his gaze or demeanour, but the implication will be there to everyone watching, whether it be in person or through Scrying, showing them all how he is firmly in control of his emotions while I am a brash and headstrong savage who barged in uninvited. I don’t mind playing my role, because I am brash and headstrong, which means no one will think twice if I stomp my feet and throw a tantrum, the political equivalent of what I’m doing now. Truth is, I don’t need an answer, or at least not an honest one. It doesn’t matter what Shuai Jiao says next, because unless he agrees to stop withholding troops for the upcoming offensive, then there will be a new Commander General come tomorrow morning.

The time to strike back at the Enemy was last month, but we won’t be ready until next week, which means we cannot afford to delay any longer. So far, the Defiled armies are still gathering along the border between West and Central, which means I need to put my plan into action before they are fully prepared. I can hardly launch an attack the same time the Defiled attack a Citadel, and according to reports, the Enemy is likely preparing to target the North and Southern Citadels next, striking at both fortifications in tandem in hopes that my Runic Cannons cannot reinforce both. While it sounds silly to attack on two fronts instead of using overwhelming numbers to ensure the downfall of a single target, I’ve run the numbers and come to the conclusion that the Enemy would take less casualties by splitting up. Even if the Defiled hordes outnumber the Empire ten-to-one, there’s only so much room on the battlefield for Warriors to fight. Add in the Defiled tendency to devolve into infighting, the slower pace of the armoured Chosen infantry, and the Enemy’s complete and utter lack of logistical support units, and it becomes much easier to simply split your massive army into two than try and corral everyone towards the same target.

All this and more means that our window of opportunity is closing, but Shuai Jiao wants to twiddle his thumbs and play politics instead. Infuriating as this is, it’d be so much more palatable if I knew what he wanted. It’s not glory, because I already offered him command of the offensive and he graciously declined, essentially saying that he was willing to step back and let me command as this was my project from the start. His actions aren’t directed by anger either, because even though he’s been vocal with his protests, he still sat in on the brainstorming process and helped shape our plan of action, with much helpful insight offered. Nor is it wealth he’s after, because despite the sizable tract of land his manor sits upon, it was clearly built as cheaply and efficiently as possible, with little to no thought going into the decor. The steel reinforced walls are bare of any art or hangings, with only square, cast-iron candle holders and rectangular door handles to break up the monotony. The windows are little more than square holes cut into the walls, with ugly hanging shutters on the outside that open up to let light in. The courtyard is devoid of flowers or plants aside from the grass floor and boring hedges lining the walls, with irregularly shaped pave stones laid out in an almost haphazard manner to line the walkways, which make up the only non-right angle lines in the entire manor aside from the pagoda. Though newly constructed, the hexagonal outdoor pavilion is so plain and austere it hasn’t even been coated in varnish, much less paint. The unfinished wooden construction looks like it was made by a couple of friends who were paid in beers, just a raised platform and a slanted roof to shelter them from the rain, lacking any sort of artistic elements or even a plain old railing.

There’s ascetic decor, and then there’s Shuai Jiao’s manor, which is about as bright and cheery as a graveyard. Less cheery, in fact, as graveyards tend to have statues, trees, flowers, or at the very least, ornate tombstones to brighten the place up.

While I respect Shuai Jiao’s minimalist lifestyle, it means there’s no way to bribe or tempt him into seeing reason. Marshal Yo will go wherever the profit is, but the Commander General is a man of principle who will not be swayed by earthly desires. So no sending someone to seduce him, not that I have anyone I could send if I wanted to, which leaves me at an impasse when dealing with Shuai Jiao. Hence my readiness to go straight to extreme measures, though I’m torn on what to do next.

Moving my gaze a few empty seats over to the mature and dignified Jeong Hyo-Lynn, I take in her stoic demeanour and unperturbed posture, seemingly completely at ease despite having been utterly dismissed out of hand during these so-called wedding discussions. Truth be told, I was considering having the formidable woman take up Shuai Jiao’s mantle of Commander General, but now that she’s allied with him, that doesn’t seem like the best move. Then again, she wasn’t my first choice for the job anyways, but I doubt even Shuai Jiao’s enemies would stay quiet if I promoted Akanai or Liu Xuande to Commander General. I like the former not just because she’s my Mother-in-Law, Grandmother, and Grand Mentor all wrapped up in one person, she’s also one of the foremost military minds in the entire Empire, and the latter because he is the best strategist alive bar none, but neither one would be easily accepted by the soldiers of Central, much less the other two provinces. Aunty Jeong was a compromise, and a poor one at that, but the best of all the bad choices I had, except now she isn’t even an option anymore because I simply can’t trust her.

Odd how calm she appears considering it’s clear I’ve come here to demand action and have likely brought the means to force it. A facade? Or did she anticipate this would happen? If so, then Shuai Jiao expected it too, and likely has measures in place to respond with.

With this in mind, I take quick stock of everyone else present in the courtyard. Seoyoon and Da’in are difficult to read, but not impossible. They both put up an icy, emotionless front, but the eyes give it away as Seoyoon refuses to meet mine while Da’in straightens up with self-righteous hubris. The former feels guilty while the latter is reassuring herself that she is in the right, which does not bode well for me, but it’s Yong-Jin’s conflicted expression that really throws me off. His clenched fists hint at restrained anger over my insolent manners, but his clenched jaw and wavering torso tells me he’s fighting the urge to turn towards his Mentor and speak up, rather than direct any of his ire towards me. Odd that, but after thinking it through, I decide its perfectly reasonable. Perhaps Yong-Jin actually agrees with my plan to go on the offensive, being the young, glory hungry Warrior that he is, and is unhappy that his Mentor would rather hide behind his walls now that it’s all but guaranteed the Defiled won’t target the Central Citadel.

As for the guards and military aides posing as servants, there’s little to be said about them. They’re all outraged and chomping at the bit to come teach me a lesson, even though none of them are Peak Experts and would be fodder before my blade. Then again, even though they’re really only here to open doors and pour tea, I would assume that most are Junior Officers hand-picked by Shuai Jiao to teach them the ins and outs of not just military command, but political dealings as well, because what better way to learn from him than to serve at his side twenty-four hours a day? It wouldn’t surprise me to discover that there’s a few spies sprinkled into the mix too, reporting Shuai Jiao’s every move back to their masters, reports the Commander General is undoubtedly aware of and uses to his advantage. Like right now, as he would want word of this marriage alliance to spread as quickly as possible, and he’ll even have the added bonus of third-party testimony to this showdown between Legate and Commander General.

All of which I expected beforehand, and if push comes to shove, my twelve Death Corps Guards can make short work of Shuai Jiao’s entourage, though I doubt Kuang Biao can stand up to Shuai Jiao in single combat. My fate would be all but sealed if Aunty Jeong joins in, but from the looks of things, she’s here as a witness rather than eager participant, though I can’t take that for granted.

I don’t expect this meeting to devolve into bloodshed, but it’s always best to be prepared. Putting together a plan to deal with everyone in the courtyard is simple enough, as my only option is to run and hope someone strong is close enough to pull my ass out of the fire. Discretion is the better part of valour, because even though I beat Gerel a single time in a spar, I’ve no grand delusions about where I stand on the scale of strength. I’m more than a Peak Expert in some ways, but less in most that count, meaning I rate somewhere close to Da’in in terms of threat. I have fifty-fifty odds of beating her in a fair match, but if blades are drawn here, the fight will be anything but fair.

Having slowly drained his cup dry, Shuai Jiao utters a small gasp of satisfaction before placing his cup back down on the table, and only then does he break eye contact with me to refill his cup himself. The Commander General favours Brittle Needle tea, which is a rarely seen white tea with a flavour palette so light and subtle the water used has more of an effect on the taste of the final product than the leaves do. This is the only luxury he allows himself, and not much of a luxury at all, as the only reason it’s difficult to procure is because the tea ‘leaves’ are minimally processed on account of the fact that they’re dried nettles which only the poorest of the poor would care to turn into tea. This makes it difficult to transport and store the tea for long, so the only way for Shuai Jiao to keep himself supplied with enough tea to drink each and every day is to pay someone local to grow them, which is not at all worth the expense, but he insists on it anyways. Every morning, his household receives a full brick of freshly processed tea which the Commander General uses up over the course of the day, with enough to last him until breakfast to allow time for the next brick to be processed and delivered.

I spent way too much time studying Shuai Jiao’s habits in preparation for this clash, but I pray we come to an arrangement and all my hard work goes to waste. The alternative is that all my efforts pay off in the end, which contrary to what one might think, is not an outcome I look forward to.

Having refilled his cup, Shuai Jiao sets the empty tea pot aside for one of his aides to bring away, as each tiny pot only holds enough for three cups. It’s to keep the tea from steeping too long and becoming bitter and unpalatable, yet another detail I picked up on and hope to never use. Outwardly however, I let none of my reservations show and focus on emitting an Aura of steely determination, declaring that I am ready to do whatever it takes to see my plans through. Tapping the sturdy hardwood table, which is as plain and boring as the rest of his decor, Shuai Jiao takes a deep breath and exhales slowly before fixing me with a pompous glare. “Your soldiers? The Warriors of the North have thrown aside their pride to bend knee to a child, but the Warriors of South and Central still stand tall. They are not your soldiers, but steadfast defenders of the Empire, and they will remain where they are until I order them otherwise.”

Well, we’re off to a great start. “The soldiers of the North heed their appointed Legate’s order, the highest ranking Official of the Outer Provinces. Quibble about my age and capabilities all you like, but the Warriors of the North make ready to march on the Enemy. Why are South and Central not joining us as planned?”

“Because I have not given the order to.”

Infuriating bastard. He’s doing this on purpose, stirring the pot to get a rise out of me. The worst thing to do is to lose my temper, but I tire of these political games. “But I have given the order, and the last I checked, a Legate outranks even a Commander General.” Unable to help myself, I straighten up and rest one hand on Peace’s hilt and say, “So it’s treason then.”

Now is not the time to laugh or scream nonsensically dude. This is serious business.

Eyes widening ever so slightly at my direct approach, Shuai Jiao’s arm shoots out to bar Yong-Jin from standing, his other hand pressed flat against the table in a show of visible restraint. “Careful who you accuse of treason, child,” the Commander General replies, doing away with all pretense of cordiality. “Lest you find your accusations turned back upon yourself.”

What? How am I the treasonous one? Struggling not to let my confusion show, I purse my lips and ask, “One last chance Commander General. I have given my command. Will you obey? Let me hear your answer, plain and simple.”

Taking a deep breath before releasing it slowly, Shuai Jiao appears both resigned and committed to his decision. “I reject your command, because I cannot in good conscience order so many soldiers to their deaths for a fool’s cause.”

“A fool, am I?” Not the part to focus on, but it irks me too much to ignore.

Slamming a fist down on the table and overturning his cup of tea, Shuai Jiao snarls as the last vestiges of calm slip away as I inwardly applaud myself for not jumping out of my skin. “A fool or a traitor, which I cannot say for certain, but it can only be one or the other. Having contributed greatly to the defence of the Empire and saved countless lives with your efforts, you once had my respect and admiration, but no more. I have made my objections clear time and time again with regards to your intention to retake the West, and every time you wave them aside without care or concern. Your intentions are good, but your foolish ambitions can only end in misery and death. You have set your eye on an impossible goal with no benefit to be had, aside from appeasing your ego or wasting our efforts. We will take the fight to the Enemy and win, and then what? We will have sacrificed thousands of good soldiers all so we can slaughter untold millions of tortured captives.” Visibly shaking from agitation, Shuai Jiao looks older and more conflicted than I ever thought possible, a man who knows what needs to be done, but cannot stomach the thought of doing so.

A good thing too. If he wasn’t affected by the prospect of slaughtering millions of innocents, he’d be just as bad as most other Nobles of the Empire. Maybe there’s some truth to his reputation after all.

Stifling the urge to sigh, I keep my cool and reply, “And I told you so many times before, this is not a matter that concerns you. I will do what needs to be done.” Which is not the same as agreeing with his version of events, and he should realize that I have an ulterior plan in place.

“Just because you say it, does not make it so.” Fixing me with a glare brimming with indignation Shuai Jiao continues to tremble in righteous fury. “I have overlooked the grave risks you took in accepting Major Gao Changgong’s refugees, because I could not bring myself to consign those good men and women to death after they fought so hard to escape the horrors of the west, but a few thousand soldiers is nothing compared to the millions of civilians still struggling to survive in the West. What is your grand plan then, hmm? Smuggle everyone North where they will be ‘safe’? Or move them to the Arid Wastes for the Brotherhood to ‘convert’? What will you do about the Defiled malcontents who slip through your webs? Or those who profess to accept the Brotherhood’s teachings only to turn against the Empire like the former Wisdom Vyakhya?”

His visible disdain makes it clear how he feels about any of those options, though even without my ability to Cleanse the tainted, I think some could out in the end. The Brotherhood would need an objective observer to overlook their efforts, but having seen the progress they made with the tribal Defiled village that took root outside the monastery, I’m fairly certain Shuai Jiao isn’t giving the monks enough credit. “Like I said, it doesn’t concern you. I have plans in place to deal with the survivors, which is all you need to know.”

“The arrogance of youth.” Huffing with indignation, Shuai Jiao rights his cup and grimaces at the waste, even as one of his aides mops the tea up with a cloth. “Though my association with the Brotherhood was brief and fleeting at best, I am still privy to many of their secrets. You and I both understand how insidious the Enemy can be, so surely you cannot be so arrogant as to believe none will escape detection.” A subtle hint telling me he was once Defiled? Is he saying it to make me trust him more, or as a warning that he could reveal this secret to the world at large? “Even if you have the Spider MuYang under your employ, it matters not how many precautions you take. Some Defiled will slip through your nets and live to spread their foul taint, and what then, boy? Will you oversee a purge of your home province? Of course not, because you lack the determination to do what is necessary. You know this for true, even if you won’t admit it. You will enact half measures and watch in horror as the destruction you have wrought escapes your control, and I cannot understand why no one else cares enough to stand against you.”

Belly burning with anger, I force myself to let go of Peace before I do something stupid. I hate being talked down to, especially by someone who is just plain wrong. Okay, he’s right in that I lack the will to order a large-scale purge, but only because that’s a shit solution which is entirely unnecessary. “My arrogance?” I ask, wishing I could just walk away and be done with all this discussion, but if I do, blood will be shed. “And what of yours? You think you have all the answers, but you are merely a frog trapped in a well who knows not the heights of the Heavens or the breadth of the earth. Your ignorance has brought us here, Commander General, and I hope you are prepared to accept the consequences of your actions.”

Though I only said as much out of regret, everyone listening misinterprets my words as a threat, which isn’t all that surprising in retrospect. Yong-Jin comes to his feet and takes his stance, and this time, Shuai Jiao does nothing to stop him, while Aunty Jeong shifts in her chair to face me head on. Sendings go out from both formidable Peak Experts, and the guards and aides all make ready to fight. Even Da’in reaches for her swords, but Seoyoon crosses her arms and settles heavily into her seat, a silent protest if I ever saw one. A shame she’s set on marrying boring Yong-Jin, because even though I’m not her biggest fan, she’s got spunk and I can tell she’s been a great influence on Fung.

“Hmph.” Hands resting lightly atop the table, Shuai Jiao emanates an air of threat and violence, responding in kind to my apparent threat. “Consequences you say? What consequences are those? The Divinities of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains? Even they are not so estranged from the Empire as to risk a battle here in the heart of the Citadel.” I’m not so sure to be honest, as Hua Lie would probably kill every last person in the Citadel if Lin-Lin were to come to harm, but whatever helps Shuai Jiao sleep at night. “Or are you counting on me being wary of the Ancestral Rat GangShu lurking in the shadows nearby? Contrary to what others believe, I know he will not move to save his half-breed son at your side, nor has he wholly sided with you and yours.” Yep, I know that too, which is Jorani’s a distraction. I even said as much. “Or do you speak of the Spider MuYang, hiding on the rooftop three streets south with his fearsome ranged weapon at the ready?” Stroking his beard, Shuai Jiao visibly relaxes in his seat and continues, “A formidable threat, but one which has now been neutralized. My people followed him from your boat, and have now taken him into custody, for the Spider surrendered without a fight.”

Shuai Jiao’s smug expression slips as his people report that even though they have MuYang in custody, he was not carrying his Spiritual Weapon, but rather a mundane replica that lacks the ability to fire bullets, because he was just another distraction. This little nugget of information has thrown the Commander General off his game, which is exactly what I’d hoped would happen, occupying his attention to keep him from spotting my real intentions. “Believe it or not, I didn’t come here to kill you.” Shrugging, I gesture at my paltry Death Corps escort and say, “If I had, I would’ve brought a lot more soldiers and Peak Experts with me to this meeting.” Implying I purposely came to meet him without Dad, Akanai, Nian Zu, Grandpa Du, or any of the other formidable Peak Experts supporting me.

“You are posturing. Your second, your assassins, your Peak Experts, you brought them all with you, yet now that you are here, you claim you have no intention of using them.” Narrowing his eyes, he asks, “Why?”

“Because it’s expected.” Shrugging again, I add, “You’d have been even more on edge if I didn’t make these moves, worrying about the unseen dagger and what not.” Which is true, but leaves out the fact that I actually have one in play, an unseen dagger that is, one final resort I pray I will not have to use. “I believe my actions have shown you that I believe there’s little to be gained from killing you, even if I could successfully pull it off. You’ve admitted to treason, so you can either kill me here and now, or let me leave alive so I can report this to the Disciplinary Corps. Your choice.” Pulling out the chair in front of me, I finally take a seat and interlace my fingers in front of me, doing my best impression of a man with a plan. “But before I make my final decision, I’ve a few more questions to ask.”

So far, things are going as planned, so I Send a message to my unseen dagger for the first time all day. “Stand by and follow through as planned if violence breaks out or I don’t contact you within ten minutes.”

There’s no response, but having sensed my Sending, Shuai Jiao knows I’m in contact with someone, even if he doesn’t know who. Not surprising really, but it sets him on edge, which is counterproductive to my purposes, though he barely blinked when I mentioned the Disciplinary Corps, meaning he truly does not fear them. “Earlier, you called me a fool or a traitor,” I begin, tilting my head in feigned innocence as I believe I already know the answer. “I suspect I understand your meaning, but I ask you to clarify regardless.”

Because it’s possible he means I’m a monster for not considering the outcome of my actions and the widespread death and suffering it will cause if a Defiled ‘plague’ takes root inside the Empire. You never know, so best not to assume he’s talking about me being Defiled or worse.

Taken aback by my calm and logical demeanour, Shuai Jiao strokes his beard while everyone else settles back into their seats, save for Seoyoon who has yet to lower her arms and is still wholly unrepentant for her behaviour. Loyal and a good judge of character, I’m liking her more and more, but I can’t fight Fung’s battles for him. If he wants her, he needs to ask for my help, because it would be super awkward if I broke off Seoyoon’s engagement with Yong-Jin only to find out Fung is no longer interested in marriage anymore.

Seriously… just imagining that scenario is enough to make me cringe. I want to help Fung, but I can’t steal his love away from another man for him, nor would he thank me if I did. Some things, a man’s gotta do on his own, and that’s the cold hard truth.

Having studied me for what feels like an eternity, Shuai Jiao shakes his head and doubles down on his decision. “Things have come too far for it to matter now. You are either a child playing at being the hero, or the Falling Rain we knew is dead and gone, while a monster sits here in his place. There is nothing anyone can do or say to prove the truth of your identity, so I must act regardless of the truth, and I will not stand idly by as you lead the Empire towards destruction.”

...He thinks I’ve been taken over by Zhen Shi? Didn’t I clear all this up with Shen ZhenWu already? Then again, he did get attacked by a bunch of powerful Wraiths shortly after, while hanging out in my room no less, so I can see why he might still harbour doubts. Damn it, is this why I was abandoned? Because they weren’t sure if I was still me inside or just a meat puppet for Zhen Shi? Well... fuck! Shuai Jiao’s right, I have no way to prove I am who I am, not without leaving room for doubt, because how am I supposed to prove a negative?

Resisting the urge to close my eyes and rub my temples, I wrack my brain for a proper solution, but the only thing I can think of is asking Monk Happy to vouch for me. It’s worth a shot though, so I look up at the Commander General and wryly ask, “I don’t suppose you’d take the word of the Abbot’s Disciple as proof of my intentions, would you?”

Before Shuai Jiao can even answer, Monk Happy emerges from Concealment, not behind or beside me, but rather at a neutral corner of the pagoda between myself and Shuai Jiao, leaving only one section of the table empty, the area between Shuai Jiao and Aunty Jeong. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” the sneaky monk intones, lacking his customary smile. “This monk regrets to inform Junior Brother that even if the Commander General were willing, this one would be lying if he claimed to harbour no doubts as to Junior Brother’s... circumstances.” In response to my look of utter disbelief, Monk Happy at least has the good graces to look ashamed as he explains, “Junior Brother claims he Healed the Abbot, and while it appears he is recovering, he still has yet to wake after so many weeks.”

...Fair enough, I guess. “Would’ve been nice if you mentioned this earlier,” I grumble, crossing my arms in pique before realizing I should probably keep my arms free to defend myself, fat lot of good that’ll do against Shuai Jiao. “Now I just look stupid.”

So what now? Regardless of Shuai Jiao’s stance, I am still Falling Rain, Legate of the Outer Provinces. Even if the Disciplinary Corps refuses to act, which is more than likely considering they serve the Yang Family who are probably still miffed I got their scion killed, I could still strip Shuai Jiao’s rank away with little more than a public declaration. Fat lot of good that’ll do, considering it’ll lead us straight to civil war, one which only the Enemy will benefit from. Shuai Jiao knows this too, but his overblown ego won’t let him accept any possibility besides victory and success. Fucking hell, he wholly believes we can conquer the West, and his only issue is with what comes after we win the war. If that’s not ego, I don’t know what is.

Short of offering him undeniable proof to put to rest all his worries, proof which I do not have, Shuai Jiao would rather fight me to the death rather than allow my plans to go through. So what now? Take a step back? No, I cannot afford to show weakness, because doing so would be all but handing him command of the outer provinces on a silver platter. Not the worst idea, but he’ll leave millions to suffer in the West because he sees no other option. Stupid, prideful bastard. I don’t see any way forward besides killing him and all of his loyal underlings, a grievous blow to the Empire’s strength, but one we can still afford.

And so I am left with no choice but to kill a good man for following his convictions.

Heaving a sigh, I look Shuai Jiao in the eyes and mourn the loss of a hero fighting for the wrong cause, and cannot help but try one more time. “Have you considered what will happen if I simply ordered the North to withdraw from the Western border? The ships are already waiting in Sui Hua harbour, so it’d take less than a week to empty the Northern Citadel, leaving South and Central to hold a border they cannot possibly maintain.”

“Better to spread the shepherds thin than leave a wolf to guard our flank.” Ready with an answer, Shuai Jiao comes to his feet and gestures for me to stand as he takes his stance, both palms forward with right arm extended and left held back, ready to fight me head on. This is not just a defensive measure, but a move to make it clear there will be no further cooperation between us, a clear message to me and all those watching. “The time for talk is finished, but I will not strike first to justify your actions. Make your move and show us your truth. Are you foolish child, traitorous scion, or something in between? Whatever it is, Grasping Vine Shuai Jiao stands ready to oppose you.”

Having exhausted all my options, I sigh and push myself slowly to my feet, averting my gaze from everyone at the table before turning to leave without a word. The first few steps are laden with fear and hesitation as I continue forward, knowing this is the perfect opportunity for Shuai Jiao to kill me, but I am banking on him keeping his word to refrain from striking first. I don’t think he expected me to simply leave, but that is my choice because a direct confrontation is not only not to my advantage, but it’s also a move that only benefits the Enemy. Alas, I am not a man of honour, so I prepare to order this heroic General’s death, one that will come unseen and unnoticed long after I have left.

Only to be interrupted by Jorani, who I kinda forgot was still here.

“Err, bossman?” he begins, tugging on my sleeve to hold me in place before I step off the pagoda. “Mebbe it ain’t my place to say and all, but uh...” Scratching his head, he leans in close and whispers, “Well... is there any reason ye can’t just... ye know... tell him the truth?” Seeing my confusion, he adds, “Ye know, about what ye did fer me and Awdar and the others? Seems like that’d solve yer problems, ye? Bet on the man, not the dice, and I reckon’ if anyone can be trusted, it’s the Commander General. Though I dunno what he’s talkin’ about ye bein’ a monster and whatnot, so mebbe that’s the problem. If so, then pretend I just didn’t say a thing and we can just...”

As Jorani yammers on, I stop to consider his suggestion. Tell Shuai Jiao about my ability to Devour Spectres? Rejecting the thought even as it comes to me, I stop and reconsider it once again. Why can’t I tell him? I mean, I’m preparing to Cleanse millions of Westerners as we free them, so I’m sure someone will notice something... right? Then again, sharing this secret won’t prove I am who I am, nor can I even really prove I can do what I claim, though I suppose Monk Happy could support these claims, if not the others. Will telling Shuai Jiao change anything? Maybe? I don’t need his complete and absolute trust, I just need him to trust me enough to believe that I’m not leading him into a death trap. Looking at things from his point of view, I suppose I am awfully suspicious, having gone from crippled man to where I am today in the span of a few months. How can he not suspect Zhen Shi’s influence in circumstances so implausible, especially when the alternative is to simply accept that I am talented beyond all belief? I mean, shit, I know I’m me and even I can’t believe I’m so talented, which is not a humble brag.

But if I explain everything to Shuai Jiao and tell him about my ability to Devour Spectres with impunity thanks to Blobby’s presence, then maybe that’ll be enough to convince him I’m not the meat puppet of an eight-hundred year old monster. What’s the worst that could happen? News of my ability to Cleanse the Defiled will undoubtedly make it back to Shen ZhenWu’s ears, but I’ve moved beyond caring about the Imperial Clan. If they want a fight, then let them come, because Runic Cannons do not differentiate between Defiled or Imperial, and I’ve a few more aces hidden up my sleeve. Me and the Emperor were always going to come to blows, so this is just pushing up the timeline a little.

Hopefully they’ll have the good graces to wait until after I’ve dealt with Zhen Shi, but I suppose I could always just abandon the war and run home if things get too rough, just like I threatened to earlier. Why work so hard to defend an Empire that wants me dead?

...

Because even if the Emperor doesn’t give a shit about his people, I doubt I could just stand idly by and watch as the Defiled run rampant through the outer provinces. I doubt Dad, Grandma, or even my wives would either, and I don’t have it in me to convince them. Life would be so much easier if I didn’t have a conscience.

Heaving a sigh as I seat myself again, I take a minute to gather my thoughts and discuss matters with Dad and the rest through Sending. Ignoring the curious stares from everyone present, I keep my attention focused on Shuai Jiao in an attempt to gauge if he is truly the honourable man that everyone seems to think he is. Why am I so damn suspicious of him? Is it intuition? Or am I just paranoid and jaded? Since Dad and the others have left the decision to me, I face Shuai Jiao and say, “You know, I was about a bee’s dick away from ordering you killed.” Still can, since my hidden dagger is waiting in the wings, but Shuai Jiao’s arrogant huff shows how little he cares for my threat. “Instead, I’m considering taking my second’s advice and trusting you with my secret, but first, I need to get something off my chest.” Leaning forward as I look the Commander General in the eye, I utter, “I don’t believe I can trust you.”

The sound of Jorani’s face sinking into his palms is almost deafening in the ensuing silence, but Shuai Jiao merely cocks his head in almost amused curiosity. “I don’t understand why you do what you do,” I continue, gesturing at the manor around us. “Like all this. Real estate in the Citadel is expensive, but even though you spent so much on the land itself, you built this manor with an over-emphasis on poverty. Those who deny the loudest are oftentimes the most guilty, but this alone is not enough to suspect you. You can drink your shitty tea and wear your plain robes all you want, but how am I supposed to believe that you are a man of honour and justice when you thrive in an environment that is sorely lacking in both?”

Faced with my thinly veiled accusations, Shuai Jiao remains silent, still standing with hands ready to aggressively defend while maintaining the noble bearing of a man who is in the right. Hardly actions to inspire trust, but to be fair, my suspicions are largely groundless and based solely on his success. “You know what bothers me the most?” Turning my gaze to Happy, I purse my lips in annoyance. “None of the monks will tell me anything about your time as an initiate, which makes me wonder about what drew you to them in the first place.”

“We say nothing because it is none of your concern, Junior Brother,” Monk Happy replies, essentially telling me to mind my own business, but I only turned to look at the monk to make Shuai Jiao think I wasn’t paying attention to him. Out of the corner of my eye, I catch the Commander General’s surprise and discomfort, which leads me to believe there’s a dark secret in his past, one I do not begrudge him. We all make mistakes, and if he’s the fine, upstanding man he appears to be, then he’s more than made up for his sins, but...

I need to be sure.

“Before I share my secret, I ask that you answer one question of mine, Colonel General.” Looking Shuai Jiao in the eye, I ask, “Why did you choose to part ways with the Brotherhood, yet continue to uphold so many of their precepts?”

My money is on the castration bit, but to my surprise, Shuai Jiao’s eyes flash with a glint of emotions I know all too well, guilt and self-recrimination. After a long pause, the Commander General lowers his hands and looks to Monk Happy, who nods in encouragement. “Because,” Shuai Jiao whispers, lowering himself none too gently back into his chair, “The Brotherhood believes that in order to take the first step along the Noble Eight Fold Path and accept the Right View, one must first come to terms with the sins of their past and seek forgiveness, both from the aggrieved parties and from within.” Eyes tearing up with emotion, he heaves a sigh that paints a picture of sorrow that has haunted him for decades past, and will continue to haunt him for decades to come. “Alas, I was unable to do this, because some sins should never be forgiven.” Heaving heavily to control his emotions, he continues, “Instead, I have devoted my life to making up for my mistakes, in hopes that one day, the Mother will weigh my Soul and find it in Her heart to forgive me, for I can never forgive myself.”

...And here I thought he was an honourable man without flaw, but instead, he’s just ridden with guilt and hell-bent on making up for past mistakes.

Somehow, I like him more already.

Taking a deep breath, I close my eyes and Send, “Abort mission. Return to the courtyard as discussed.” Out loud, I say, “Thank you for choosing to hear me out. You’ve heard of my misadventures in Sanshu? Well, after I was swept away by the currents of Western Treasures Lake, I came into contact with what I now know to be an Elemental Spirit of Water...”

My tale is long in the telling as I spare only a few details regarding my ability to Devour and Cleanse, laying bare so many of my secrets despite my instincts screaming at me to keep quiet. I am not someone who easily trusts, and I still don’t trust Shuai Jiao, not entirely at least, which is why I keep quiet about losing Blobby to bind the Azure Sea and how Spectres get turned into usable Heavenly Energy, though more knowledgeable members of the Imperial Clan might be able to fill in the blanks. As I tell my unbelievable tale however, I get an inkling that the Commander General was not the Imperial Puppet I believed him to be, merely a pawn on the board rather than a player in their games. My story is long in the telling, but his reactions seem too genuine to be faked, from wholehearted disbelief to grudging admission that parts of my tale might be possible, especially with so many examples to draw from and Monk Happy vouching for my abilities. I even tell him about my ability to Devour Heavenly Energy and turn it into Chi, which I demonstrate by emptying my Core and drawing so much Heavenly Energy that every Martial Warrior in the Citadel can feel it. When all is said and done, the afternoon has come and gone as I fight the urge to sink back in my chair and sigh, because my work here is not yet done. “So there you have it,” I say, spreading my hands in a ‘take it or leave it’ sort of gesture. “The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.” Which is technically a lie, but he got enough of the truth that it doesn’t matter. “I don’t need any schemes to find the Defiled. I just need to be close enough to identify them. Anyone who is less than Defiled, I can Cleanse from afar, meaning I can guarantee that not a single Defiled will make it past my inspections.” Shrugging, I feel the need to add, “I mean, some might still turn Defiled later, on account of the trauma and whatnot, but we take the same risk every time a slave is whipped or a wife is beaten, so I don’t see a big issue in taking these people in.”

Which is the harsh truth, but still the truth. People are tougher than the Empire gives them credit for, because the human spirit will not surrender so easily.

After rubbing his beard raw and digesting my words for some time, Shuai Jiao finally lifts his head and says, “I require time to consider your words carefully, and ask that the reverend monk remain behind to help clear this sinner’s doubts.”

Since Monk Happy agrees to it, I push myself to my feet with a tired grimace. “Don’t take too long. We’ve a schedule to keep, and I intend to stick to it. If you still refuse to march with me within the week, then I will have no choice but to explore other options.” Without breaking eye contact, I say, “Alrighty then. Time to head home.”

Which is Pong Pong’s key phrase to stand down, one I taught him during fun times with floofs in the Natal Palace with help from animal trainer extraordinaire, Lin-Lin. Dropping Concealment from around his ward while keeping himself hidden, the Divine Turtle reveals the masked Siyar to everyone in the courtyard, sans his easily identifiable Spiritual Weapon of course. Blades are drawn and curses shouted, but no one attacks Siyar, not even the startled Shuai Jiao who bolts back out of his chair and stumbles a few steps towards the would be assassin, only to stop in place with hands raised and mouth open in slack-jawed disbelief while standing between the former bandit and the empty seats. My plan was to have Siyar show up unexpectedly at my side and give everyone a bit of a scare, but the cheeky smuggler decided it’d be funnier to appear from behind the Commander General, and to be fair, he was right. Purposely making his way around the table without paying heed to Aunty Jeong’s drawn swords or those of her daughters, Siyar marches over to my side cool as a cucumber while lacking all his usual swagger, the perfect picture of a bold Sentinel assassin rather than the scoundrel he truly is. That’s the image I was going for, and truth be told, the fear and shock on Shuai Jiao’s face makes this totally worth the possible headaches it might cause later. Leaning into the big dick energy, I make my way out of the courtyard while speaking over my shoulder. “I spared your life today, Commander General. Do not make me regret it.”

First show him the carrot, then bring out the stick. We’re not friends, but rather allies of convenience united by a common Enemy. Let Shuai Jiao believe Siyar was there to kill him with cold steel, but the truth is, even with Pong Pong keeping him Concealed, I doubt the smuggler could’ve killed the Commander General in a single strike. No, Siyar’s job here today was to poison the Commander General’s brick of shitty tea, using the same medicinal agent that almost killed me back in Nan Ping, during Luo-Luo’s ‘wedding’ banquet. A tasteless, colourless powder, that when ingested in enough quantities, creates impediments in the intestines which throw out blood clots that even my Medical Saint of an Ancestral Beast teacher couldn’t resolve with Chi alone, not without spending weeks or even months by my side breaking down blood clots as they form until the impediment resolved itself naturally.

Hell, with luck, Shuai Jiao would’ve gone to sleep and died from a blood clot to the brain, a clean and natural death which would’ve absolved me of all blame, or at least cast enough doubts as to whether or not I was responsible for killing him. That might’ve been enough to avoid civil war, but I’m grateful we didn’t have to find out the hard way.

Yet.

Because who knows? Shuai Jiao might well still refuse to help me, at which point, I’d have no choice but to send Siyar and Pong Pong back for another visit. I pray it doesn’t come to this, because honourable man or not, Shuai Jiao’s life is a price I am more than willing to pay if it means driving the Defiled out of the Western Province. As for what comes after... I’ll cross that bridge when I get there. For now, all I can do is wait and see if Shuai Jiao’s reputation is well deserved. If not, then maybe I’ll feel a little less terrible bad about ordering his death, though I doubt it.

Because I am nothing if not irrational.

Chapter Meme (Volume Warning!!! ITS LOUD!!!!!)
