“You’re here early,” Willow said, though what would have been a chastisement to anyone else, delivered with sharp, clipped words, sounded breathy when said to the vhamp.

“Indeed. Tonight is special. Tonight, my master wants to meet you.”

Willow gasped and swooned in her seat. The memory faded and wavered around Piety, and she felt nauseous. But Willow put her hands on her desk, took a deep breath, and everything settled.

“Meet me?”

The vhamp looked away from Willow, at the wall, as though seeing through to a place far away. “He’s on his way,” the vhamp said, and his voice held the same far away quality.

“I see,” said Willow. “All right then.”

But the vhamp cocked his head as though listening to something much closer then glared at Willow. “You’ve set me up,” he growled.

Willow blanched. “No,” she managed before the door to her office banged open and the mayor came striding through. Willow stood, outrage and fury wrapping around her like a favorite cloak.

“I told you not to come back here,” she shouted, while at the same time, the mayor waved a folded piece of paper above his head and shouted “What is the meaning of this?” For several minutes, the room was filled with shouting, neither listening to the other. Willow came around her desk to stand barely a breath’s distance from the mayor and each shouted into the others’ face.

The vhamp seemed to have disappeared, but with close inspection, Piety could see him in the far corner. His form was blurry, indistinct, as though Willow was uncertain in her memory where the vhamp had hidden.

Two soldiers came into the room wearing the green and white livery of Magistrate Wardenburg. They stood behind the mayor and looked at Willow. Willow’s tirade trailed off but her mask of determined fury remained.

“This letter,” the mayor fluttered it above his head again, “this letter states that you, Willow, have been removed from your post as Mother Superior of Sacred Heart Church for gross abuse of authority. Two years ago! It says you were removed and that you were supposed to have reported to the High Temple, which, clearly, you have not. A missive was sent to your office detailing your removal. I suppose that was just another letter you failed to open?”

“Do not presume to lecture me, you foul, bureaucratic, stuffy little man. This is my church, I make the rules here, not you.”

But the mayor didn’t wait for her to finish before talking over her. “Willow, no, this isn’t your church. You’re in violation of the law! The magistrate’s men are here to arrest you.”

Willow looked at the guards each in turn but her glare had no effect on them. “Arrest me? You wouldn’t dare, mayor.”

“They’ll be transferring you to the charge of the High Temple,” the mayor said.

Willow looked down, cleared her throat, and looked up. “And what of the Swords of the Church?” she asked. “Would it not be more appropriate for them to arrest me?”

“They’re here on other business. Business you refused to help me with.”

“So, they’re here?”

“My wife just served them dinner in the inn’s common room.”

Willow swallowed, her breath coming faster. She flickered her glance to the corner of the room. “Kill them,” she whispered, “Kill them now.”

The vhamp struck in a flurry of claws and blood, screeching metal and groaning men.

Piety blinked.

The floor of Willow’s chambers was covered in blood, bodies, and viscera, but the vhamp in the black leather and white silk only just now stepped from the corner of the room. Piety noted the carefully neutral cast to his features. Willow stood splattered in blood and breathing hard. Before her stood a tall man, impossibly muscled, clad in loose silk pants and nothing else. His chestnut hair was pulled back from his square-jawed face. Only a massive, ragged scar upon his left breast marred his perfection.

Piety remembered half-forgotten words whispered to her upon a dark cloud carrying her to safety. She remembered that voice, the voice of Devorah Kempenny, telling her they had failed, that the fiend they hunted together, Frederick Vahramp, had been stronger than expected, and that he would return.

She felt a thrill of fear.

Willow had to try three times to speak past her frantic breathing and fear-stuck throat. “Master. The Swords… they’re here, at the inn.”

Vahramp nodded once. “I heard. Fear not, pet, I shall slay them for you.”

The vhamp bowed. “Master.” His voice was hesitant, uncertain. “You look well. I hadn’t realized you were so close to full recovery.”

Vahramp smirked. “Do not think I was unaware of your scheming, Jace. But it’s no matter, my pet’s offerings were fulfilling in so many ways.”

The memory blinked and fuzzed and scattered.

She knew what happened next though; Willow had heard the news in the following days. Vahramp had blown into the inn and slaughtered the champions of the church before they could stand. People had screamed. Sheliah had been at the table with them and seen it happen, but Vahramp had fled afterward, not harming anyone else. The disappearances had continued, a search for the missing mayor had been undertaken, further help was requested, and people began to flee the town.

With a breath, Piety stood once again on the dais of the sanctuary of Sacred Heart Church. The memories of Willow Vytal dissipated. The evening sun still bathed her and Willow in scarlet and golden light. Willow still knelt beneath her hand. No time had passed.

Piety knelt to face Willow who cried silently, eyes closed, mouth slack. “You made a deal with a creature of evil. I’ve seen accidents of nature and horrors of war and that man is worse than all of them. You fed him the people you were charged to protect.”

“You have no right to accuse me,” Willow whispered.

“Yes. I have.”

Piety tapped Willow gently with her telepathy and put her into a deep sleep from which she would not wake until either Piety woke her or she came to acknowledge and repent her wrong doings. It was a complicated bit of telepathic work, but Piety did it instinctively. Willow slumped to the floor and lay still.

With a breath, a sigh, and a faint grunt, Piety stood and faced the congregation. In a carrying voice, she said, “By decree of the Council of the Church of Khulanty, Willow has been removed as Mother Superior. This requires the selection of a new Mother Superior.” There were several gasps and a sudden flurry of chatter that came and went like a wave on the beach.

Piety let it pass then continued. “Sister Lucille Clarice, the healer, had been assigned to take Willow’s place, but Willow kept this information secret and quickly dismissed Sister Lucille.” As she spoke, she stretched her telekinesis to Willow’s neck, and gently pulled free the sunburst pendant made of gold and rubies.

“As Mothers of the Church, Temperance and I are the only members of sufficient rank present to take the position.”

Piety sought out Temperance and looked at her. To anyone else observing she was just looking out over the crowd, but Piety knew Temperance would see the question in her eyes. Temperance shook her head quickly.

The sunburst floated into Piety’s grasp. “But we cannot remain.”

She sent her telepathic senses among the thoughts of all present, searching. Before her stood Tobias and Temperance. Temperance was crying but also smiling. Her thoughts were all about Piety: pride, fear, and a hesitant happiness. Tobias only felt satisfied and alert. Most of the sisters and acolytes were concerned for their own continued well-being after the sudden collapse of the Mother; she had protected them from the vhamps after all. Several were delighted with the collapse of the Mother, the cruel woman who had done cruel things.

There was one mind, though, who had what Piety was looking for: compassion. This woman felt pity for those who disappeared at the hands of the vhamps, for those locked outside the church and the Mother’s protection. She had winced in sympathy when the Mother struck Piety with the rod and felt bad for the Mother now. She was a kind and gentle person who, though she resented the Mother for the beatings, still didn’t want to see the Mother, or anyone else, in pain. She didn’t want revenge, which was more than Piety could say for herself.

Piety spoke, and her voice carried through the sanctuary. “Lillyfield.”

From the sea of grey dresses and brown hair, one orphan stood slowly, hesitantly.

“Come here, please,” Piety said.

Lillyfield walked slowly down the aisle. Piety felt her sudden anxiety at being singled out, and she smiled in an attempt to calm the other girl’s fear. Lillyfield had changed since Piety had left; she was taller and rounder, though not plump, as no girl could become plump on orphan’s meals at Sacred Heart. In the other girl’s thoughts, though, Piety sensed a maturity that tempered her compassion, an awareness that tempered her dreaminess.

Lillyfield achieved the dais, folded her hands at her waist, and bowed deeply. “Mother,” she whispered.

Piety bowed in return and felt surprise ripple through the crowd. “Lillyfield.”

“Mother,” Lillyfield whispered, “We were awful. I’m sorry.”

“I know you are. Of all the minds here, yours is the most kind. It’s why I’ve chosen you.” She held the sunburst out to Lillyfield.

Lillyfield’s eyes went wide. “Chosen me for what?” Her voice went high and squeaky.

Piety sensed the other girl knew the answer but could not bring herself to believe it.

“You know what.”

“But, I’m just an orphan.”

“You are compassionate and kind. That is what this church has been missing.” She held out the sunburst again, but this time she was interrupted.

“Now wait just a moment. I’m the mother’s second. If anyone is to succeed her, it should be me.”

The indignant voice sounded familiar to Piety, but when she turned around she didn’t recognize the sister. She was the youngest sister on the dais though not as young as Piety. She wore a dress of soft gold with white embroidery finer than anything any other sister wore. Her fists rested on her hips and her soft face was scrunched into a frown.

“You may have impressed everyone else with your white robes and your royal bodyguard,” she looked around at the other sisters on the dais and nodded, assuming their support, “but you’re not fooling anyone. We all know who you are. Your white hair is unmistakable, Sweep.” She smiled with satisfaction as though having made her point and won the debate.

Piety shook her head, a little confused, a little amused, and a little irritated. “I just went through this nonsense with Willow. Weren’t you paying attention?”

“Don’t talk to me that way, orphan. I have experience taking my hand to the wayward. Shall I take my hand to you?”

And Piety recognized her. “Lana Weaver.”

“That’s Sister Lana Weaver to you, Sweep, and I demand you name me the next Mother Superior, not that motherless child.”

Piety just barely kept herself from laughing. “Lana, you cannot question my authority and exploit it in the next breath. You’re contradicting yourself.”

Lana began to protest but Piety had had enough.

“Lana, you’re mean. You’re manipulative and selfish and callous. I know your mind. I can read it without trying. I see your memories. You’ve abused your authority, beaten those in your power on a whim. I’m not going to allow you to be the Mother Superior. In fact, I’m going to petition the church council to expel you. Now, sit down.”

“But it’s mine.” Lana stamped her foot. “I deserve it and I demand it.”

Piety couldn’t restrain her laughter this time. Her laughter released the tension of the room and a ripple of laughter echoed off the walls.

Flushed and pouting, Lana sat.

Piety looked at the other sisters on the dais and then out at the gathered. “Are there any other objections?”

No one replied.

“Kneel, Lillyfield.”

The girl knelt. Piety released the sunburst and set it around Lillyfield’s neck with careful telekinesis. She bent and touched the girl lightly at the left temple. Instinctively, a small surge of power leapt from her fingers to the hair, and where it touched, Lillyfield’s hair turned white as Piety’s own, giving Lillyfield a wide band of white among the brown.

“Rise, Lillyfield Morning, Mother Superior of Sacred Heart Church.”
