Piety straightened and faced the Mother, no longer afraid. The Mother had lost her temper and hit her, just as Piety had known she would. And that was the worst that could happen. The worst had happened and Piety knew she wouldn’t allow it to happen again. With a thought, she healed the cut on her cheek, the break of her nose. She watched the Mother’s eyes widen as the wounds healed in moments.

“Her Majesty, the Royal, has asked me to investigate this plague of monsters, as you so eloquently put it.” Piety continued, just as though nothing had happened. She knew they were being watched. She could feel the shock, confusion, and terror of those in the sanctuary.

“I know why you’re here, Sweep.” The Mother’s voice was harsh, as though she spent a lot of time yelling, or crying.

“Then you’ll understand that I need to ask you some questions about what’s been going on in Appledel. The rumors are wild.”

“The world rejected you,” said the Mother, as though Piety hadn’t spoken. “I protected you, and you’ve come back.” Her eyes had not lost the fervor, but her voice lowered, softened.

Confused, Piety shook her head. “What?”

The Mother spoke gently, as though to a small, frightened animal. “Even God rejected you. I was the only one to protect you, and now you’ve come back, dirtier and more wretched than before.”

“I’m here on the command of the Royal…”

“I shall beat the evils of the world from you…”

“No,” said Piety, “Mother, I need to know about the vhamps…”

“Do not interrupt me, child!” the Mother screamed, an edge of desperation in her voice. “I shall punish you for fleeing me and for the evils of the world.” She reached out for Piety. “You know you deserve this.”

Piety wanted to step back, to turn and flee, to scream with fear and frustration, but she held her ground and when the Mother’s hand closed on her shoulder, she took hold of the Mother’s wrist. The Mother dug her fingers into Piety’s shoulder, but the grip was not as strong as she remembered. Piety did not squeeze the Mother’s wrist, only held it firmly.

“Mother, I need you to listen to me.”

“Wretch!” the Mother screamed.

She swung the rod again and this time Piety raised her left hand as if to ward off the blow, but she stopped the Mother’s swing by wrapping her arm in her telekinesis. The Mother grunted at the sudden stop.

“Willow.”

Piety put everything she felt about the Mother Superior of Sacred Heart into that one word, her name. All the fear, and hate, and disgust bubbled from Piety’s chest like a pot over-boiled, and Willow’s grip on her shoulder loosened. Piety released her hold on Willow’s arm and the Mother Superior stumbled backward.

“Willow, what have you done? Why don’t you want to tell me about the vhamps?”

Willow swallowed and shook her head faintly. “No,” she whispered, and her voice had gone hoarse again.

Piety stepped up onto the dais and Willow took another step back.

“I need to know. People have died, and I can stop the vhamps if you’ll just tell me.”

Willow stepped back again, but stumbled and fell. She pushed herself to her knees but stopped when she saw Piety still advancing. Her hair had come loose from its bun, spilling about her shoulders in grey waves, highlighting her light-brown, almost golden eyes. Piety was reminded of another, more beatific, grey-haired, golden-eyed cleric.

A nudge at her toe made Piety look down to see the Mother Superior’s rod had rolled from Willow’s grasp and stopped at her feet. With telekinesis, she lifted the rod to her hand and took hold of it in her right hand. It was a golden length of wood embellished with crimson and white lacquered knotwork making repeating sunbursts in tiny rows up and down the length of the rod. It was pretty.

Piety looked away from the rod to regard the sisters of Sacred Heart, seated in their thrones, bathed in the fading light of evening through a stained-glass window. Some gripped the arms of their embellished chairs, some were pushed up against the backs as though trying to escape, some wore expression of fear, some of surprise, some of shock, none of pity, or remorse, or mercy. She looked back at Willow.

Willow remained on her knees, looking at Piety and she flinched when Piety looked at her. Piety adjusted her grip on the rod.

“Willow, the vhamps are coming back tonight, aren’t they?”

Willow whimpered.

“I can stop them, I have the power, but everything I know about them will help me. You must tell me.” Willow trembled. Tears welled at the bottoms of her eyes but she did not look away from Piety. Piety bent to rest on one knee, putting her level with Willow. Willow watched her.

“Willow, I’m not going to hurt you, but if you won’t tell me, I’ll take it from your mind. I have that power.”

Willow had to lick her lips before she could speak. She whispered so softly Piety could barely hear her. “I can’t. It’s terrible.”

Piety narrowed her eyes. “You openly abuse everyone within your power. What is too terrible for you to admit?” She too whispered, as though sharing an intimate secret. She gripped the rod tightly and desperately wanted to bring it down on the woman’s head.

Willow sobbed, a loud, coughing sound that echoed through the sanctuary but took control of herself immediately and did not dissolve into tears. “I can’t,” she whispered again.

Piety took a breath and considered her options. She considered the rod in her hand and the revenge she might extract with it, cutting Willow’s cheek and laying into her back with abandon—the idea both repulsed and satisfied her. She thought about forcing Willow to admit whatever it was she’d done to everyone in the room, watching her blubber her shame in front of those she abused. But, eventually, she decided as she always did, on mercy.

“Would it be easier if I just took it?” she asked gently.

Willow closed her eyes, sending tears down her lined cheeks, and shuddered a sigh. She nodded and bowed her head, shoulders slumped.

With trembling fingers, Piety rested her left hand, palm down, on Willow’s head.

Piety stood, a silent, invisible observer, and watched the memory unfold.

Willow stood before a desk covered in stacks of paper. She had significantly less grey in her hair than in reality. On the other side of the desk sat a middle-aged man, round and balding.

“I do not appreciate being summoned away from my church, mayor.”

The mayor nodded. “I know, Mother Willow. Please, sit.”

Willow only crossed her arms.

The mayor cleared his throat nervously. “I would not have sent for you if it weren’t important.”

“Silly man, you do not decide what is important to me.” She turned to leave, but the mayor’s voice stopped her.”

“People have gone missing,” he said desperately. “The Sonnborns”

Willow turned around slowly and gave the mayor the full weight of her glare. “Who?”

“Mr. and Mrs. Sonnborn. They attended sermon every Sunday. Surely you knew them?”

“Many people come to sermon on Sunday. You aren’t among them I’ve noted.”

The mayor blushed and stammered.

“I’m not a magistrate, Mayor, I haven’t got time to conduct an investigation. Is that really why you sent for me?”

“I just thought that—“

“Is there anything else?” Willow had her hand on the door latch by the time the mayor said, “Ah, yes, actually, there is something else.” He picked up a folded paper packet and withdrew from it a piece of paper. “You’ve been sent a letter,” he said.

“I told you, I don’t want his letters.”

The mayor spoke quickly. “I know. This isn’t from him, it’s from Glenallen Teladine, Chief Commander of the Royal Army.” He cleared his throat nervously. “Mother Superior Willow Vytal, I regret to inform you of the death—“

“Enough.”

“There’s news of a terrible battle on the coast, some port was taken…”

“I said that’s enough!” Willow rose to the strident timbre used for sermons that the filled the great sanctuary. “Do not ever send for me again, mayor.”

Piety was stunned. Not because Willow had so rudely dismissed the mayor, but because of the name: Willow Vytal. And someone close to her had died during a battle for a port. Perhaps it would have been obvious to someone else, but Piety had never suspected the Mother Superior was related to Father Vytal.

Piety blinked, Willow’s memory faded; she blinked again and a new memory coalesced around her. She stood in the chambers of the Mother Superior now and couldn’t help but shiver. Willow leaned upon her desk on straight arms and glowered at the mayor who huddled in his coat and held his hat in his hands.

“Get out!”

“But Willow, please, there are rumors of vhamps, people have been disappearing from their homes.”

Willow strode around the desk and the mayor backed up to the door. He hit it with a thump.

“You disrespect me, mayor.”

“I’m only asking for help. You’re a cleric. Clerics are supposed to have power over the undead. Protect us, please!” The mayor’s voice was high and shaky, his bald pate shone with nervous sweat.

Willow smiled her nasty smile. “The righteous are always protected.”

The mayor’s jaw fell. “Righteous? Mr. and Mrs. Sonnborn were honest, pious folk. And Jenny Leavenworth was a kind spinster who spent all her day at the loom. What of Corley Jonson? He was five years old, Willow.”

Willow hit him, slapped him hard on the cheek. “Out,” she demanded. A pink handprint rose on the mayor’s cheek.

They mayor swallowed. “I’m still mayor here, representative of the citizens and endorsed by Magistrate Wardenburg of Wardenburg County.”

Willow’s smile widened. “So the Magistrate is interfering in church business?”

The mayor’s face crumbled. “Church… No, I…”

“I shall have to write a letter to High Cleric Radden.”

“You… you know the High Cleric?”

“My foolish father was on the church council, as you’re so fond of reminding me. They were friends.”

“But, Mother…”

“Out, mayor, or I shall treat you like an unruly orphan.” She stroked the rod tucked into her belt.

Piety blinked.

Willow stood naked before a full-length mirror. Piety was shocked and looked away. Since working as a healer at Pinefort, Piety had seen countless bodies. Before that, she had assisted in birth and healing under Father Vytal’s tutelage, and she and Temperance had dressed and undressed in front of each other all the time. The human form was no mystery to her. However, to see the Mother Superior, who preached against vanity and lasciviousness, staring at her own nude reflection, was a shock.

The window was open, and a fire danced on the hearth. Eddies of warm and cool air circled the room. Willow was alone so she must have sent the attending acolytes to bed.

Piety saw the man at the window before Willow did. She recognized him as one of the two vhamps who had killed Sister Sheliah. He was dressed as Piety had last seen him; black leather and white silk.

The vhamp spoke conversationally. “You’re too ripe for his tastes, but blood is blood.”

The vhamp was upon Willow before she had time to scream. One arm wrapped around her waist, pinned her arms to her side, the other pinning her arm at the shoulder and covering her mouth.

“Don’t scream, cleric, or I’ll kill you now. Stay quiet and you’ll get to live a bit longer.”

Piety reached for her power to kill the vhamp but remembered this was only a memory, that in reality this vhamp was dead.

The vhamp took a breath though his teeth. “I just… I just want a taste before I take you to him,” he whispered. He put his face next to Willow’s neck and breathed deeply. He smiled, showing off elongated fangs. In his bliss, he relaxed his grip enough that Willow was able to speak around his hand.

“I can help you,” she said.

The vhamp laughed. “Not likely.”

“I can get your master blood, blood less… ripe.“

The vhamp pulled her close and squeezed a little tighter, moved the hand on her waist slowly to her thigh, the hand on her mouth to her neck. “No one is my master.”

“Then why fetch me for someone else?” Willow’s voice, still breathy with fear, sounded a trifle confidant. “Why not just eat me now?”

The vhamp growled and squeezed her tighter. His fingernails dug into her thigh. “We can walk into any house here and take any human we want from this town. He doesn’t need your help.”

“Yes, he does. Magistrate Wardenburg has sent soldiers. They killed two of you last night and no one disappeared. The High Cleric is sending a Sword of the Church, a man trained to kill creatures like you.”

“And what can you do for my master?”

“I can send the Sword of the Church away or lure him into a trap so you can kill him.”

“And blood? Whose blood will you offer in your place?” He flicked a finger across her neck and a red welt raised but did not bleed. He put his face next to her neck again. “You smell so good, cleric.”

“Orphans,” she gasped. “No one will miss them. I’ll forbid anyone from speaking about it.”

Several moments of labored breathing filled the room before the vhamp eased his grip, leaving bruising finger marks on Willow’s thigh, and stepped back. “Hmm, interesting.”

“You could come here,” Willow continued. “I’ll have an orphan here waiting for you, you can take her quietly. There will be no soldiers to contend with.” She was breathing hard and shivering. She didn’t turn to look at the vhamp.

“Fetch me an orphan then. But I warn you, cleric, you are too ripe for my master’s tastes, not for mine. This had best not be a ruse.”

Piety blinked.

Willow held Faith by the arm. Faith was taller than Piety remembered and resembled a woman more than a girl. Her dark brown curls bounced where they weren’t plastered to her face, wet with fear.

“Mother, I haven’t done anything, please, I’m sorry, please.” Faith pled, tears streaming down her face.

The vhamp smiled. “She’ll do.”

Faith tore her pleading eyes from Willow, and saw the pale, well dressed figure of a man with prominent fangs in an arrogant smile.

“No! Mother, I’m sorry, I’m sorry—“

But the vhamp grabbed Faith in a movement too quick to see and leapt out the window. Faith’s screams quickly faded to silence.

Piety blinked; memory shifted.

The vhamp lounged in a chair, facing Willow across her desk.

“You’ve done well, cleric. The girls you provided have boosted my master’s vitality.

Willow swallowed hard and nodded quickly.

The vhamp laughed. “Is that a bit of remorse I detect, cleric? Do you feel guilty for offering up your wards to the great evil undead?” He laughed again.

