Appledel came into view over the green farmlands and ripe orchards like another foothill. Baked tile roofs shone in the afternoon springtime sun, red and brown and all the colors between. Whitewashed stucco walls stood out brilliantly against the foothills. Sacred Heart Church was the tallest of the buildings and the great, east-facing stained-glass window of a sunburst shone its brilliance, glinting and shining and sparkling so it seemed as much mystical as symbolic. Piety had never seen it from the outside. When she’d left with Father Vytal, she hadn’t bothered looking back.

It was stunning.

Temperance rode to her left, engrossed in a book. Or perhaps only pretending to be. She had her head down so that her sun-lightened hair obscured her profile. Piety looked at her, but she didn’t seem to notice, so she looked back at Tobias, who rode behind them, quietly watching everything. He really wasn’t bad to look at, she decided. He noticed her looking and met her gaze for long enough that she turned away, blushing.

The road on the north bank of the Grand River was smoothly paved, though grass grew between the paving stones here and there. On either side of the river were farmlands fed by carefully dug, maintained, and controlled canals and ditches. People in loose shirts and short pants worked in the fields, chopping insistent weeds with hoes, removing stubborn stones with shovels, and guiding water to where it was needed.

The glinting sunburst window caught her eye again—the symbol of God, abused by the Mother Superior.

With sudden conviction, Piety twisted awkwardly in her saddle and undid the straps and holds so she could dig through her pack. The clothes were all on top—two extra dresses, two extra pairs of pants, socks in need of darning and socks suitable to wear, underwear, a formal robe she had never worn for fear of ruining it—but not the article she was looking for. Beneath the clothes were a cake of soap, a brush, a pot of mint flavored soda, and a variety of other paraphernalia that made travel hygiene possible.

“Piety, what are you looking for?”

Piety looked up embarrassed. “I’m looking for a scarf.”

Temperance frowned. “What for?”

Before she could stop herself, Piety’s hand went to her hair.

Temperance’s frown deepened. “No.”

“But—”

“No. I won’t permit it.”

“You decide what I wear now?”

Temperance snapped her book closed and urged her horse to stop. Piety followed suit but delayed enough that she had to turn her horse to look at Temperance.

“It’s been over two years. You can’t… she can’t do anything to you. You’re the Light Cleric, damn it!”

Piety flushed, and her fingers and toes went numb. She wanted to hide. She looked away from Temperance only to see Tobias, and she didn’t want to look at him either. He regarded her quizzically with his pretty hazel eyes. Piety flinched away from the thought.

Tobias turned to Temperance. “Why does she want to cover her hair?”

Temperance looked away from Piety. “When we were orphans at Sacred Heart,” and she pointed accusingly at the church and its shining window, “the Mother Superior hated Piety. Piety’s white hair makes her stand out and the Mother hated how “unnatural” it was.” Temperance said “unnatural” like it was disgusting word. “The Mother used to cut her hair every month to keep it short and made her wear a scarf to cover it.”

“Actually,” Piety interrupted, “I covered my hair myself. She never told me to, it just seemed prudent.”

Temperance ignored her. “And now, she wants to put it back on, like the Mother still scares her.”

Tobais nodded. “Perhaps she does.”

“I’m right here,” Piety protested, “Don’t talk about me like I’m not here.”

Tobias looked at her, and Piety wished she’d kept her mouth shut. “Does she scare you, Mother?”

Piety wanted to deny it, to claim the Mother Superior of Sacred Heart Church held no power over her. She wanted to point out that she’d faced and killed several vhamps, that she’d fought General Frederick Vahramp and survived, that she had served as a healer at Pinefort and seen horrors beyond anything the Mother could concoct, but she was unable. Instead, she shrugged and tried not to blush. She hunched her shoulders and ducked her head.

“Mother Churchstep, yesterday I saw the scars on your back. I thought they came from fighting vhamps but…” He looked at Temperance who nodded once and swallowed hard.

Tobias looked at Piety. “If I may suggest, Mother Sunday is correct in forbidding you to wear the scarf. In fact, we should make your hair as overt as possible. And you should look regal. Do you have any formal robes?”

Piety nodded. “Uh… yes…”

“Good. As soon as we get to the town’s inn, you two should make yourselves look as much like emissaries of the High Temple as you can. Make sure your sunbursts are prominent. Then we’ll go see this Mother Superior and find out what’s going on in Appledel.”

Piety watched the whitewashed houses pass with interest. When she and Temperance had fled, she hadn’t been interested in what the town looked like. Besides, it gave her something to think about other than what she was going to say to the Mother. Most notable was the distinct lack of people. Though her experience in town had been relegated to what she’d seen from the front step of Sacred Heart, she’d seen towns since and certainly there should have been more people.

Tobias approached the innkeeper and made arrangements for lodging, food, and baths. As he did so, Piety couldn’t help but notice there weren’t many people in the common room. The innkeeper took Tobias’ money with a furtive look.

A meal and a bath later, Tobias knocked upon their door, and it was time to go. They walked through the deserted streets to Sacred Heart. Tobias proceeded them up the stone steps of the Sanctuary. Piety and Temperance walked side by side, a few paces behind. They held hands.

The formal robes had been tailored to them and so fit well, though they had both grown in the months since leaving Pinefort. They were white, and because they hadn’t been worn, they were clean, without the stains and wear that came from regular use. Wide belts of crimson, embroidered with golden sunbursts, pulled the robe in at the waist. The robe was open below the waist so that it flared dramatically around their hips and revealed the white dress worn beneath.

Piety had insisted on wearing her pants beneath the dress and her sturdy boots, so some time had been spent polishing the boots. Temperance wore her slippers, claiming they were more comfortable than the travel boots. Each wore their sunburst so that it rested against their chests, scarlet against the white of the robe.

Temperance had brushed out Piety’s hair until it shone. Piety had wanted to have it braided or at least pulled back with a tie, but Tobias opined that it would make a more dramatic statement to have it loose and flowing. Temperance had agreed and that was that. Piety had brushed Temperance’s hair in return and put it in a simple braid. Piety had examined her friend and had to admit that, dressed formally, the travel cleaned from her hair, the sunburst prominent upon her chest, she looked like a mother.

But as they followed Tobias up the steps to the great front doors of the sanctuary of Sacred Heart, they gripped each other’s hand tighter and tighter. Piety clenched her jaw to keep it from chattering and tensed her shoulders to stop the shudders that threatened wrack her body. Her palms were sweaty, so she didn’t know if Temperance was sweating too.

Tobias also had dressed for the occasion. He wore a military uniform of the Royal army, a soft grey with shiny silver buttons, a high collar, and a white stripe running down the arms and legs. Purple knots on his shoulder identified his rank; lieutenant. He wore his saber at his belt, but the scabbard was polished to a silvery shine and the belt was shiny black. Piety wondered if he had polished scabbard and belt, or if he carried extra for just such an occasion.

The great double doors, carved in relief with the imagery of kneeling supplicants, beatific saints, and God’s sunburst, stood firmly closed. Tobias took hold of one of the large, copper handles and tugged, but the door did not open. He took hold of the handle in both hands and pulled harder but though the door budged, it did not open. Piety looked at Temperance who looked at her. The doors of the sanctuary were never locked; there was no way to lock them—they were meant to be open to any who desired entrance.

Tobias turned to look at them. “Shall I knock?”

“The doors shouldn’t be locked,” Piety said.

“We could try the orphanage entrance,” Temperance suggested.

“No,” said Piety, “If we’re going to do this right, we’re guests, and guests are meant to enter the sanctuary via the front doors. I’ll open them.”

She closed her eyes and sent her senses at the door. She felt the grain of the wood worn smooth with age and polish, and she slid along it to the stone step and under, into the sanctuary. On the other side, she felt the great wooden beam resting in two great iron hooks on either side of the double doors and threaded through the copper handles. She wrapped the beam in her telekinesis, slid it aside, and leaned it gently against the wall by the door. It took little effort.

“The door should open now.” Piety opened her eyes.

Tobias took hold of the handle and tugged. The door opened, but not as easily as it had the last time Piety had used them, as though its hinges had been neglected, and it hadn’t been opened in a long time.

The three entered to a sea of frightened expressions and panicked whispers. The back most pews were filled with grey-clad orphans while those nearer the front held white garbed acolytes. None of the girls moved. The area in between, reserved for Appledel citizens, was empty, as was the front most section for sisters, and the dais. Tobias closed the door behind them.

“It’s time for the evening service,” Temperance whispered. Piety nodded.

“Then we should sit,” Tobias said. He closed the doors, then strode up the aisle and chose a spot five pews up and on the left. The orphans in that pew scooted to the far end, some going so far as to move to the pew behind. More may have done so but the church bell signaled six-hour, and the sisters filed in. The orphans and acolytes faced the dais and went still and silent.

The sisters, dressed in varying shades of red, gold, and white, took up the three front pews and chatted quietly amongst themselves until the final retinue of sisters, headed by the Mother Superior in her scarlet dress, took their place on the dais.

Wasting no time, the Mother stepped to the fore of the dais and swept the crowd with her gaze. Piety grabbed Temperance’s hand and they held each other tight. But the Mother seemed not to see them and began the evening’s sermon.

“God punishes the wicked with wrath and plague and monsters.” The Mother’s voice filled the sanctuary but held an edge that was new. To Piety’s ear, she sounded desperate. “The appearance of the undead within Khulanty is a blessing from God to cleanse this land of the Godless. Only those with the protection of the blessed shall weather this onslaught and emerge from God’s wrath the stronger for it. Even here, in Sacred Heart, the wicked among us have been taken. But I have blessed and barred our doors to protect the righteous…”

Here the Mother gestured at the entrance of the sanctuary, and here she faltered. Her face flushed with fury, and she managed to utter “Who?” before anger choked her.

The acolytes and orphans, everyone who had seen the trio enter, turned to look at them, directing the Mother’s gaze.

Tobias whispered, “Now’s the time. Be brave, Mothers.” He stood and strode down the aisle to within several feet of the dais where he bowed. But the Mother ignored him, she kept her gaze and fury on Piety and Temperance.

“Mother, I am Lieutenant Tobias Ruthven of Her Majesty’s Royal Guard. I present to you Mother Temperance Sunday and Mother Piety Churchstep, the Light Cleric, here on the Royal’s command.” And he gestured back at Temperance and Piety.

Piety was paralyzed. She wanted to stand and confront the Mother, but the Mother’s furious gaze was upon her, and she could not move. Her vision was invaded by a grey fuzz that narrowed her sight to the Mother. Her breathing came in short, shallow gasps.

“Come on,” Temperance whispered.

Temperance stood and pulled Piety to her feet. Piety let Temperance guide her to the aisle and down the red carpet to where Tobias waited. She stumbled once, but Temperance’s arm around her shoulder steadied her pace, then her breathing, then her thinking, and she remembered why they had come. This wasn’t about the Mother, and it wasn’t about her; it was about finding the vhamps attacking Appledel.

When Piety looked up, they were standing next to Tobias. She looked at the Mother. The Mother Superior of Sacred Heart Church had her fists on her hips, knuckles white. In her right hand she held her rod of office. Her hair, pulled back in its customary bun, was more white than it had been the last time Piety had seen her, her face more lined, her lips thinner, but she still stood tall and furious.

Piety took a step forward, then another, and another. She felt Temperance and Tobias behind her, staying only a pace back, but letting her take the lead. She stopped just out of reach of the mother, folded her hands at her waist, and bowed.

Piety tried to speak, but no words came out. She swallowed hard, closed her eyes, and went to her mindspace. She took a moment to look around the room, draw comfort from its familiarity, and let it focus her thoughts. In the next moment, she opened her eyes and knew that to the onlookers, she had only blinked.

“Mother Superior, I apologize for interrupting your sermon. It was not our intention. However, I am here on order from Her Majesty concerning—“

Piety wasn’t allowed to finish. The Mother struck with her rod of office, as Piety had seen her do many times before. She saw the arc of the Mother’s blow, had time to understand what was happening, but did not take the opportunity to use her power to stop it. Instead, she tensed, hunched her shoulders, and let it happen.

The pain exploded just under her left eye. The heat of pain radiated from the point of impact, it plugged her ears with a dull buzz, and danced sparks before her eyes. She staggered and put her hand to her face. She was bleeding, the cut stung and dripped on her palm. It was difficult to breathe through her nose.

