“Your people?!” Syllea swiped a hand through the air, and every spell around Omaz burst into fractured mana. Omaz briefly lost his smile as he began to fall, but he stabilized almost as fast, though he was a lot less bright according to Ophiel’s [Mana Sight]. Syllea advanced on him, pointing a finger back toward the treetop village they had quickly passed, roaring, “You dare to call Cultists your people! HOW? WHY?! What did I do wrong?!”

“Everything!” Omaz laughed, saying, “You did everything wrong! And if you don’t let me go, I’ll be forced to put you in the ground with all the rest, dear sister! The only reason I haven’t is because your help was what got me where I am today! If it wasn’t for you, the Cult in Treehome wouldn’t be nearly as powerful as it is today!”

Erick watched as Syllea turned silent, calculating, and a little bit red. It started with her eyes, once so clear, becoming pink, then crimson. Omaz saw it happen, too. His own eyes went wider, as a manic sort of glee overtook him. All at once, every single hovering comet began to shift, they swarmed, heading straight for Syllea. The archmage was falling to her Rage, and her brother was happy to see it happen.

Erick considered his options. And then he saw that Syllea was not doing anything to actively defend herself from those comets. She likely had some sort of [Reflection Ward] active, for she had backhanded that one comet away from herself. But Erick didn’t want to risk her spell not working against all the thousands of the comets currently aimed her way. That fact made his decision for him.

He had one of his few remaining high-mana Ophiels cast a 36,000 point [Grand Dispel] at the nearest comet; a little over the raw mana cost of Omaz’s [Starlight Fall], according to the blue box Erick had seen before. The dark magic struck true, setting off an instant chain reaction through the entirety of Omaz’s [Comet Swarm], propagating through the offensive light, popping comets like they were soap bubbles, until the [Grand Dispel] circled all the way through the trees to impact Omaz and rip away his defenses, again. Syllea didn’t seem to notice.

Her body was wreathed in Light and Void. She was half a moment from reaching Omaz, and from plunging starlight swords into his chest.

Omaz faltered through the sky, looking dejected, as he muttered, “Bah.”

And then he blipped away. Starlight swords flashed through empty space. Syllea’s eyes sparked red—

She whipped around to stare at Ophiel, red lightning trickling across her body. Erick almost panicked. Teressa had almost killed Poi back when she Raged. How bad would Syllea’s Rage be? At least she couldn’t use Spatial Magic, right?

Ah. This was why Omaz had taunted her.

Syllea’s head jerked to the side, as intent flowed from her body and into the air. The air around her turned dense, then dissipated, almost as fast as Syllea had exerted her control. She flinched. Her eyes turned redder. She wasn’t trying to attack Ophiel… What was she do—

She turned to wind, briefly, as she stepped through the sky, to reappear ten meters in front of where she had been.

Ah. Shit. She was windstepping.

- - - -

Someone touched his shoulder.

Erick came back to himself, to see Poi standing beside him, with his hand on his shoulder. Bayth stood on Erick’s other side. The room was a flurry of activity, as it usually was, but there was something more frantic about the current rushing about. Someone was yelling about something happening to the southeast, while another person spoke of activity in the north. Erick focused on Poi, though.

Poi said, “There is a counterattack. You’ve been asked to assist. Please help with [Grand Dispel]s.” He handed Erick a mana potion, adding, “And you need to get checked for intestinal rads after today.”

Bayth gazed down at Erick, pleading with her eyes for good news, but she asked for nothing, and Erick couldn’t tell her what was going on out there right now. So he mentally left that task to Poi, who instantly grimaced. Erick went to work.

Ophiels took to the skies over Treehome, right as the starfalls began.
