For a second, Alden was stumped. Probably because of all the talk about Lute earlier, he misunderstood and thought the little Artonan was asking to hold an eye.

“That young man isn’t a wizard, Zakithee,” said the teacher. The two remaining students were trailing after her as she came over to welcome them.

Oh! Zakithee was asking me to cast a spell that turns eyes green.

“I’m an average height for a human man,” Alden said in a friendly voice. “But I might grow a little taller.”

He’d recently checked his height with the System, and he’d officially made it to 5’10”.

“Some humans naturally have green eyes like me. We also— ”

“You’re an Avowed!” Zakithee shrilled, taking such a large step backward that he collided with another kid.

At the word ‘Avowed,’ every child’s head turned to inspect Alden.

“A human!”

“An Avowed!”

“Uncle Esh, who is the human?”

“Did he come from Earth?”

“Uncle Esh, are more of them coming?”

“Hello, Avowed Human Avowed!”

They’d all gotten loud and higher-pitched, but that was because they were excited. Only Zakithee’s exclamation had been alarmed. Both of the adult Artonans had looked startled at the sound of it.

“Zakithee,” said the instructor, “Hn’tyon Esh-erdi has brought Avowed Alden as a guest to surprise you all. He’s traveled here from Earth. Now would be the right time to greet—”

“I’ll be a Knight of the Mother Planet one day!” Zakithee said, turning his back so that the epic sheet of hair was toward Alden.

I’m getting ignored suddenly?

“You’re too young to declare!” half of the children present said so quickly that it must have been the thing to say to classmates who got ahead of themselves by a decade.

“A knight doesn’t like Avowed! Your eyes are green, but they aren’t interesting. Even if you were an ordinary human I wouldn’t notice your tallness. We won’t share wevvi! Not even that! I’ll walk away in this direction now. That’s what I should do.”

The last sentence sounded relieved, as if a bolt of inspiration had given Zakithee an answer to the problem of an Avowed existing only a few steps away.

Just take more steps. Simple.

Esh-erdi thwarted the escape attempt by picking up the escapee and holding them up at arm’s length for an eye-level conversation. “Zakithee-und’h! Where are you going?”

Zakithee-und’h didn’t squirm. “Away in that direction.”

“You did say that. Why are you going away in that direction? Are you scared of Alden? Are you angry at him?”

“No.”

“Then what behavior is this?”

“I’m very proper, aren’t I?”

“Not right now. No. Alden, pardon us for a moment more. Zakithee-und’h, who am I?”

Zakithee-und’h glanced at the twins. “You’re Brim and Droon’s uncle.”

“That’s correct,” the instructor said when Esh-erdi failed to respond right away.

“That’s correct,” Esh-erdi repeated, staring at the child he’d caught. “I’m their uncle. And I’m also a Knight of the Mother Planet, aren’t I?”

“Yes. And you’re Hn’tyon Lind-otta’s, so you must have more to you.”

“More than what?” Esh-erdi asked. “No, don’t answer that. I can guess who you borrowed those words from. Avowed Alden Thorn of Earth is someone I like. He’s been commended by the Quaternary, who’s a knight. He was trying to greet you, who are no knight at all. So whatever idea you have that makes you say knights don’t like him as you try to run away is improper.”

“But I heard…”

“Perhaps you heard something with half your thoughts asleep or an ear turned to a door crack,” Esh-erdi said, setting the child down. “I know all the knights in your house, and they would say hello to Alden. Not, ‘Your eyes aren’t interesting.’ And he recently saved your cousin’s life! He could ask your family for her weight in manyadeeth, but he hasn’t.”

“Which of my cousins?”

“Zeridee-und’h. You might not remember her. The point is that Alden’s a person who wouldn’t say hurtful things to you. And look at what’s in his hands. He’s brought fruit. That’s not someone you should refuse to share your wevvi with, is it?”

Zakithee-und’h looked so unsure that Alden felt a pang of sympathy.

“I don’t want to be hurtful…”

“Of course you don’t,” Esh-erdi said comfortingly. “None of us thought you did. That’s why I stopped you from running to jump in the river. So that you could be proper after all.”

“Hello!” said Alden, deciding a glance from the adults was his cue to try again. “It’s good to meet you all. I did bring Earth fruits with me if anyone wants one. What are your names? Which rock here is the best?”

It turned out all right.

The class soon became lighthearted again, as Esh-erdi must have intended. Seven out of eight kids thought Alden and his oranges were the coolest things ever to happen on the Triplanets.

He had a skill—amazing! He was willing to use it on children who asked politely—even better! He confessed to having a bellybutton—so unique at his age. Respect to his mother!

They showed him the best rocks and pronounced the difficult names of those rocks carefully. Maybe, the children decided as the adults were showing signs of ending their fun, what needed to happen, what almost certainly would be for everyone’s benefit, would be if Alden became a student in rock class, too. So that he could bring them fruit and stories every day.

“What do you think of that?” Brim asked, adjusting her blue auriad on her head. “Zakithee won’t be upset tomorrow. If you were offended by him today, you won’t be tomorrow.”

“I wasn’t offended,” Alden said, cheerful and loud so that his voice would carry to the und’h boy who stood downriver with a net, collecting the pieces of pumice they were all dropping in. “Zakithee-und’h showed me how this pumice floats. He’s been properly welcoming, and I’m pleased we met.”

Zakithee-und’h relaxed visibly at the praise. Unfortunately, he’d be tense again in about a minute. Alden had seen the cycle repeat several times.

Right after their bad start, the boy had briefly disappeared with the instructor before returning to accept his orange and apologize. Alden kept trying to make him comfortable, but now it was like this.

He’s really confused. He heard some grown-ups say something about Avowed, and he learned it. Then when he tried to do what he thought was right, a knight and his teacher let him know he was wrong. Now all of his friends are having a blast with the alien, but he’s not sure how to.

The poor kid was so uncomfortable that Alden was uncomfortable with him.

Despite all my anxieties, I didn’t think someone would come right out and shout, ‘A knight doesn’t like Avowed!’ in my face. Bonus points for being straightforward, Zakithee-und’h. But when I was thinking about haters, I wasn’t picturing one like you.

“I can’t come to this class with you all,” Alden told Brim. “I have my own classes to attend on Earth.”

He saw Zakithee-und’h relax more as those words reached him. He even smiled, no poker face whatsoever to hide how delighted he was that Alden wouldn’t be coming back.

Alden dropped his largest chunk of pumice into the river, making sure it wouldn’t be too far out for the boy to collect with the net when it floated by him.

Okay, little jerk. Cut out my heart and grind it into your pumice collection, then. That’s fine.

There was no way for a child this young and clueless to offend him. But honestly…

“It’s time for us to go!” Esh-erdi announced. “The sun is setting, and I’m sure hot meals and beds are waiting for you all at home. A few of you get to ride Ploomp with us. If only I could remember which children are my sister’s!” He tapped a boy on the head. “Are you my niece?”

With much giggling and dubious claims of blood relation to the erdis, the children were sorted into those who’d be riding the Ploomp bus and those who’d be traveling home in other ways.

“We all rode the terackerin once,” Zakithee-und’h said as his farewell to Alden. “We rode her to the summonarium upstream, and I teleported home from there.”

Alden wasn’t sure why a farewell was happening under the circumstances, but the kid had steeled himself and stomped over here to do it, so Alden would try to make it go well for him. “I’m sure that was a great chance to appreciate the river.”

“It was. I like terackerins.”

“I like them, too.”

The boy stood as tall as he could and looked up at Alden with shining eyes.

Hey, what’s this? Alden wondered as he took in that expression. Are we actually going to connect over being terackerin fans? Thanks, Zakithee. That would be a nice end to it.

“I’m going to find out what my cousin weighs to make sure this is over!” Zakithee-und’h announced. “Thank you for saving her and serving the Triplanets in other ways. I’m honored to make your acquaintance, and I’d give you wevvi if we met again, but we won’t have to do that. Live a long life. On Earth!”

He ran up the bank toward the house, the wind catching his hair and tossing it, his arms pumping to help him get away from the Ryeh-b’t he looked forward to never seeing again.

Esh-erdi had sent his nieces, Moshk’s daughter, and the boy with the green auriad to board Ploomp at the end of the dock. He’d had one eye on them, but the other was watching Alden take his final blows from the little und’h.

“You handled that well,” he said quietly when Alden reached him. “I apologize for making you handle that well.”

“He’s just… ” Alden shrugged. “He’s too young for me to hold any of that against him. Practically a baby. He thought I was a tall, green-eyed wizard, and then he found out I’m an Avowed and that wasn’t…he got bonk-noggined by it.”

Esh-erdi exhaled. “I told you the small und’hs wouldn’t be a problem, but it turned out differently. He’s been eavesdropping on his elders without understanding nuance.”

“What’s the nuance?”

Is there a tiny snap in that question? There shouldn’t be. I’m not mad at anyone here.

“The ones he lives with try to avoid summoning prejudices and emotional turmoil by avoiding relationships with other species,” said Esh-erdi. “They believe neutrality and detachment make them more effective.”

Detachment. Neutrality. No relationships with other species.

He looked back toward the house. Zakithee-und’h was out of sight.

“Are there are a lot of und’hs who feel that way?” he asked.

“Many of them. Some have their own ideals.”

“Better or worse ones?”

“Both. According to me.”

“I understand.” Alden started walking toward Ploomp. “Can I buy some of the bundlefruit drink? When we take Moshk’s daughter back?”

Esh-erdi’s eyebrows rose. “If you want it.”

“I’m not trying to get intoxicated,” Alden explained. “I’m making some notes about life in Rapport III. Since there’s a famous drink, I should taste it. The Contract says it’s mild for humans, and if I take a sip, I’ll be able to tell people from here that I know exactly what they’re talking about if they ever mention the riverside pavilion. ”

“You don’t have to explain your reasons.”

“My reasons are my notes. You know I ended up talking about sermuntha juice with Grand Senator Servin-ith? Little things matter. I’ll taste the food, too.”

******
