“Your words hold wisdom,” he said, making Jake feel relieved that it didn’t look like a fight was about to break out... until he continued. “Words, I do believe you should also take into consideration. While our deaths might be problematic for our individual Territories, it’s inconsequential to our factions. Meanwhile, should you fall here, the Order will suffer a significant loss. Given your reluctance to face us in battle, I believe you also realize that, despite your power, you find yourself outnumbered and will have to take a needless risk by facing us. All we demand is for the dagger to be handed over, and we will  negotiate and decide on a fair method of distribution.”

Inadvertently, Jake’s reluctance to have an underwater brawl had been interpreted as a sign of weakness and lack of confidence. He wanted to protest that they were just walking... swimming into their deaths, but at this point, words seemed like a waste of time. They had already discussed among themselves, and if Jake continued trying to avoid a fight, it would just be embarrassing.

“You have made your choice,” Jake said, wanting to finish this as quickly as possible. “Know that it was an unwise one.”

Right then, Sandy also exploded with power as the large space worm had evidently already seen this ending coming and had been cooking up their magic. All around them, space sealed, and the spatial tunnel was closed off once more, trapping them all within a large barrier that even Jake reckoned would take a while to break out of.

Seeing this, Jake also erupted with power, not holding anything back as Arcane Awakening was instantly activated at full power, a bow in his hand and an arrow in flight before his foes could even fully react.

The only one to react was Jasper, who, despite his cute and cuddly appearance, showed that he still had some claws when backed into a corner as he teleported into the middle of the hundred and teleported out again in the blink of an eye, carrying a woman wearing a priest’s robe.

Evidently, Jasper knew the rule of always taking out the healer first, though Jake didn’t really think it mattered who they started with as the slaughter began. The hellscape of an underwater level soon became even more hellish as the water slowly started taking on a red hue.
