After a fifteen minute hike on the beach, and seeing a dozen different little communities on the shores and up the hills to the south, Erick saw the end of this beach up ahead, where sands gave way to crystal. No one had said anything about the community to the left, yet, and Erick couldn’t take it anymore.

He said, “I thought you all were incapable of society.”

“That’s a harsh thing to say,” Fallopolis merrily chided.

“It’s a true thing to say.” Quilatalap said, “Historically, to be a Shade is to be a beacon of civilization, and some of the old demands of their station are hardwired into their souls. What you saw there in the Spire, and what you see here in the Platinum Market, and what you will see all around in the Brightwater District? These are the true natures of the Shades. What you see out in Kendrithyst, and elsewhere? The horrors and the murders? Those are Shades mutated by Melemizargo’s insanity. For a very long time, there was more insanity than true purpose.” He spoke to Fallopolis, “So while it was a harsh thing to say, it was true.”

“Which is why I try to get every Shade as dead as I can get them,” Fallopolis said. “The sooner they die, the sooner that Melemizargo can appoint those who would be true to the purpose of the Shades.”

Quilatalap hummed a tiny disapproval, but said nothing else.

Erick returned to watching the world around him, to hearing the waves, to smelling the air. This place smelled good; like a freshwater lake and civilization. But metaphorically, something smelled rotten. Erick looked to the people at the beach, and in the city beyond; he had a good eye on the place, with his Ophiels floating in the air behind and above. Seeing the people here reminded him a lot of the people of Candlepoint, but surely a place like this would have been known to the outside world, right? Unless it happened in the last year?

But even then, Killzone or someone would have told Erick about a place in Ar’Kendrithyst that seemed like it held a true civilization. Silverite would have said. Someone would have spilled this secret, here, well before now.

What about the orcols that came to the Spire and got cleansed of their shadeling Status? Did they see the people in the crystal towers around the Spire? Did they see the workers in the Spire itself?

Maybe they did see all of this, and those memories were wiped from them?

“Was this place like this, last year?” Erick asked.

Quilatalap said, “Yup.”

Fallopolis said, “The population moves around. The Platinum Market is more of a vacation area than the other parts of Brightwater.”

Hmm.

Erick asked, “Why is this place called the Platinum Market? Killzone’s map named it as a ‘market’, too.”

Fallopolis said, “It used to be a market. Sometimes it’s still a market. These days, people mostly just live here.”

Erick asked, “What do they do, here?”

Fallopolis glanced back at Quilatalap.

Quilatalap said, “Some of them live their lives here, supporting their communities, but most of them, most of the time, make continuous pilgrimages out into the depths of the Spire or elsewhere around the District, searching for Lost Ones. Once a Lost One is found, they bring them to the Temple District. Sometimes the Lost Ones regain themselves and become a part of the community here. But most of the time, their soul damage is too deep, and they completely lose the memories of their previous life, or they’re too violent to let into Brightwater. Those ones are given over to the Shades, for work out in Kendrithyst, or elsewhere. Those ones are the shadelings you see out in the world. Those are the ones you gained at Candlepoint.

“Some of the Shades use this allocation of people as a horror, but for the longest time, none of the Clergy believed this world was real. So what was the bother with using the faithful against horrors perpetrated by the other gods? When shadelings die in service to their truth and their faith, they never actually die. Maybe in their next attempt they would come back stronger than before.” Quilatalap ended with, “That is the normal doctrine.”

Erick sighed. “What you’re saying sounds like a lie, and that all of this here is only here to dupe people like me who want to believe.”

Fallopolis spun around in the sand, smiling to Erick as she asked, “How can you possibly think that we’re lying, when you see all of this around you? We’re not hiding anything from you.” Losing her smile, yet trying to stay upbeat, she said, “But the gods! The gods have erased more knowledge from this world than you or I will ever know. The Geodes rise up and slaughter whatever they cannot control. Rozeta incentivizes handwritten books! And then there’s people like you, who believe what they’re told—” She suddenly stopped, then said, “You know what? Never mind. Telling people the truth never works. They always have to find out for themselves.”

Quilatalap chuckled, saying, “It is good you are skeptical, Erick, but to deny what is right in front of you is to deny the world, and that way leads to madness.”

They reached the end of the beach without further comment.

Beyond the white sands, laid more crystal towers, but they did not rise up to the sky like the ones in the far distance. Beyond a low divider of crystal, and the glowing waters flowing through the space, parts of the Palace District rose up high enough to be visible. Spires of white stone lifted above the intervening crystal, while floating gardens drifted through the space, pouring waterfalls onto the hidden lands beyond.

Fallopolis stepped onto the air beyond the beach, leading the way, her feet splashing shadows as she stepped. Erick and Quilatalap followed.

A short walk later, Erick truly saw the Palace District.

Beyond a long beach, beyond manicured green grass and flowered bushes, laid a tiered land of white towers, wide roads, and roofs of every color. It was a palace in the style of Kal’Duresh, for sure, but it was also a small city, with people dressed in white and black, and guards wearing white metal. Beyond the Palace, to the south, waterfalls fell from mountains of crystal beyond, cascading down thirty kilometers, hitting thousands of small green spaces on its way before falling out of sight. Straight ahead, was a gate, twenty meters wide, made of gold, cast in decorative whorls and lines. The gate stood wide open with guards on both sides— Oh. Wait.

The guards were not people, but they weren’t shadelings, either. There were spaces between their metal arms and torso and helmets, and every other part of them; they were the same type of automatons that Bulgan had in Candlepoint. They were also motionless.

A familiar butler and his two accomplices in black stood in the center of the open gate. He was the one who had taken Erick’s bags. He ignored Fallopolis completely, and only had white eyes for Erick.

After a short bow, the butler rose, and said, “Welcome to the Pala—”

An explosion of shadows and fire rocked one of the white towers up ahead, breaking one of them at the base, sending a spire of white stone toppling like a tree to smash down the layers of the tiered cake of the Palace. Clouds of dirt and smaller fires erupted in its short, violent journey, while a beam of darkness carved across the sky, and a woman laughed loud, dancing through the air. The beam connected against the woman, then scattered wide, turning to flaming shrapnel that caught on varied parts of the Palace, eliciting more flames from the stone.

The butler had been interrupted by the fight going on not a kilometer away, but he recaptured his lost composure and spoke over the battle, saying, “Welcome to the Palace, Archmage Erick Flatt. Your rooms are—”

A chaining explosion of fire on the side of the Palace turned to glowing ice, like ten meter wide flowers blooming, one after the other. The sudden spellwork cast booms of sound into the air. Automatons floated above the fight, then threw bolts of ice at both the woman in the air and at someone down below. The woman danced through the sky, evading fire and ice, and leaving a trail of shadow that spread and filled with motes of light. That light crashed down, like hundreds of Erick’s own [Shooting Star]s, racing into the ice and the fire below, destroying every single automaton, and much of the ice and fire.

The butler attempted to continue, “Your rooms are on the edge of the Palace, Archmage Flatt, away from our more excitable guests. Would you care to follow—”

Fallopolis spoke up, “I think Stardust is fighting Hollowsaur.”

“It’s not Hollowsaur.” Quilatalap said, “It’s Welodio.”

Erick had heard that name before. Killzone had said that if he ever met a white dragonkin who used fire magics, that he was to run the other way as fast as possible.

“That asshole showed up this year?” Fallopolis turned to Erick, saying, “I was hoping we’d meet him out in the city. He couldn’t not try to kill you, so you would have had to kill him back. You could take him.”

Erick frowned. “Killzone seemed to be of the opinion that I couldn’t take him.”

“You could.” Quilatalap said, “Especially since you’ve gained a Domain so in tune with your other magics.”

Erick changed the subject. “Who’s casting the ice?”

“Queen,” Fallopolis and Quilatalap said, at the same time.

Quilatalap added, “She can cast anything, but she prefers to match against her opponent’s magic in a perfect counter.”

Fallopolis said, “That’s actually glow-ice. Not ‘ice’. It subdues fire magics in its area of effect. Queen was a Prismatic Mage with every Greater Elemental Body before she came to us 160 years ago, and she’s been here in the Brightwater District ever since. She’s pretty far down on my list of Shades-who-need-to-die, but if you see an opportunity, you should take it, Erick. There’s not a single redeemable one in the whole crowd.”

Erick watched as ice and fire and stars battled for dominance.

When no one else spoke for a few moments, the butler spoke up, “Would you care to see your room, Archmage Flatt?”

An explosion of shadowflames rocked the sky, as an orcol in a kilt rocketed up from below to strike at the flying woman.

“My mistake.” Quilatalap said, “It’s Hollowsaur.”

Fallopolis smiled. “Stardust must have felt like poking him after his humiliating defeat by a single spell.” She looked to Erick, saying, “Not the preferred outcome, but it works well enough. Maybe they’ll kill each other, so good job.”

Stardust was the Shade of the Edge, if Erick remembered correctly. She lived in the Spire, and oversaw the space above Ar’Kendrithyst, near the upper atmosphere, at the edge of the Script. Last Erick heard, Stardust was gunning for the death of Spinner, the Shade of the Sky, over the rights to all of Ar’Kendrithyst’s airspace.

Spinner lived in the Aerie, and Hollowsaur and Undine had asked Erick to kill Spinner. But Spinner was friends with Skyhook, the Shade of the Breeze, and both of those Shades lived in the Aerie. Erick wouldn’t have been able to fight one without fighting the other.

So why was Stardust fighting Hollowsaur? With Erick’s rudimentary understanding of the situation, shouldn’t Hollowsaur be aligned with Stardust’s hatred of Spinner?

… It was likely more complicated than that.

Whatever the case, Stardust fought with Hollowsaur. Flames spread. And then another Shade appeared. A woman in rainbow clothing stepped out into the sky near the tiered Palace, but only hovered in the air near the buildings. She cast ice whenever fire spread, and used darkness to banish every glowing [Shooting Star] that got near the structures below. Must be Queen? She seemed focused on the defense of the Palace, above all else.

Erick tore his eyes away from the scene, asking, “Are Stardust and Hollowsaur actually going to kill each other?”

“Doubtful,” Quilatalap said.

“One can only hope!” Fallopolis said, “My grand-rads are on Stardust.”

Quilatalap said, “Hollowsaur is going to win. He has to; he’s running hard to restore face. Stardust will play off her attack as a simple test if she loses, but will kill him if she can.”

Fallopolis said, “His star is falling out of favor.” She smiled at her own pun, adding, “And Stardust is on the rise!”

Erick said to the butler, “I’d like to see my room.”

The butler bowed, saying, “Right this way.”
