Before Erick could tell her to do all of that first, Fallopolis dropped all her shadows, and stepped onto the crystal road, suddenly walking much slower, and at a normal pace. Erick didn’t want to follow her advice, for the simple reason that he was leaving himself vulnerable, but…

… But he had to, right?

He turned his Ophiel tiny and had them flock behind him, as he pulled his lightwalk to the center of his back, along with his [Lodestar]. He could redeploy both spells in a moment’s notice; if something bad happened, hopefully he would get that moment.

The woman at the main counter with the man looked behind her. Her eyes glowed white, but she lowered her head, and stepped away; maybe she wasn’t a Shade? What was a Shade, exactly?

Erick had asked that question a few times in his time in Spur, ever since he heard about shadelings. Killzone had said that the difference was one of night and day; too large for one to ever be mistaken for the other. In that case, the demarcation between ‘shadeling’ and ‘Shade’ seemed like a difference in power. Silverite had said that Shades have very few identifiable Script-derived spells, for they had no access to the Script. If a shadeling showed you their Status, they were a shadeling, for sure, since even a Shade couldn’t show a false Status; they too, would be slapped by the Script for conjuring a fake blue box and trying to lie about the system. There were cases of Shades showing false Status and not flinching as the Script punished them, but in that case, if they showed you something and you weren’t able to store that box in your own Script-access and pull it back out later, then you would know those illusionary blue boxes as fake.

This ‘put it away and pull it out again’ method was used to verify much of Erick’s own magic, when he was first starting out in Spur, making things like [Call Lightning]. He hadn’t known it at the time, not really, but he was under heavy, heavy scrutiny.

… And Erick’s thoughts were wandering again.

Fallopolis had walked into the Spire, proper, and Erick had followed. Some people stared at him, or at the Shade with him, others pointedly did not. Not much was ‘see-through’ inside the Spire; almost everything was either white stone, or vaguely metallic, except for some conspicuous crystal pillars scattered around this main space. Those pillars were filled with pure darkness; the same arteries that Erick had seen outside the building, that ran through the crystal road. Some of those dark rivers of shadows went up. Some went down.

Fallopolis pulled up to the man behind the front counter. “Here for the Feast.”

The man purposefully moved papers around on his side of the counter, stacking them in a professional way, while saying, “Welcome back to the Spire and to Brightwater District, Shade Fallopolis. Do you desire a carriage to Queen’s royal residence?”

Fallopolis glanced back to Erick. “You want a carriage?”

“No.”

She turned to the man. “No. We’ll be seeing some sights on the way over.”

“Very well.” The man gave Fallopolis no token, or cast no spells. He merely said, “You’re cleared.”

She stepped aside. She looked to Erick; waiting.

Erick tentatively stepped forward.

The man looked to him, and with the same monotone voice, said, “Welcome to the Spire, and to Brightwater District, Fire of the Age, Erick Flatt.”

Nothing direct happened.

But everything shifted.

It was as though the air gained a charge of lightning, briefly, while the dark arteries running through the pillars of the room pulsed thicker. And then it was done.

With a dawning horror, the same thing had likely happened to Fallopolis, but Erick had been looking to the Shade to see if anything happened to her, directly. He had not been looking thirty meters out, to see how the environment of this place reacted to her introduction.

No. Wait. But he had? Had he just missed the change in the air?

Maybe it was an invisible spell, to all except those who is was cast upon?

Erick didn’t feel any different, but he had to ask, “What was that?”

The man said, “An environmental shift. Now the shadows won’t react adversely to your presence; you have been introduced.”

“Oh?” Erick relaxed a fraction. “Not a spell cast on me, then? Instead, I was introduced to the magics of the Spire?”

“The second one.” The man asked, “Since you are new to Brightwater District, would you like a map, or a guide?”

“He has me.” Fallopolis turned to Erick, saying, “You know: some would find introduction to a system to be scarier than gaining a key.”

Erick thought about that for a second. He asked, “Because gaining a key means a low-grade magical system, whereas being introduced is… Is like meeting a sapient system?” He looked to the black arteries running through the pillars of the room. “Oh? Is that supposed to be Melemizargo?” Suddenly unsure of himself, he spoke quietly to the room, “Hello.”

The room shook, “Oh! Hello.”

Fallopolis gained a wild look in her bright eyes. She promptly and quietly giggled like a schoolgirl, staring out into the empty air of the Spire; excitedly waiting. The entire rest of this first floor of the Spire went absolutely quiet. No one moved. Someone dropped some papers, scattering noise into the air.

A shadow slipped from the arteries, to prowl around in the brightness of the room. The spectre form of Melemizargo had a friendly voice, as he said, “Welcome to Brightwater District, Erick! Don’t mind the threats; they won’t do anything to you. Have some fun. Explore a bit. Try taking in a class at Truedark Arcanaeum. We teach things quite a bit different here. I can’t stay long, so I’ll leave you to it. All of us are talking again, and I swear my head has never felt clearer. I should probably be more worried about that, but I finally have a grasp on these particles and their assorted oddities, and seeing the [Mesmerize] is the first step to breaking it, or coming to terms with the idea that this might truly be a new universe. We’ll see figment and truth, soon enough. Anywho! Talk to you later. Enjoy the Feast! I’ll probably make an appearance near the end of it all.”

“See you around.” Erick waved goodbye, trying to keep up appearances but also sweating a bit, as he mulled over Melemizargo’s casual use of the words ‘breaking it’.

The shadow slipped back into the pillars.

Sound resumed. Erick glanced around him, at the people bowing down to where the shadow had been. Papers laid where they had fallen. Stamps rested on their sides, dripping ink onto bureaucracy. Some people held their foreheads to the marble floor. Some openly stared at the darkness flowing through the pillars of the room. One woman clutched her chest, smiling, as tears rolled down her face.

Even Fallopolis had taken a knee. She smiled softly as Melemizargo departed. Glowing tears rolled down her unlined face; she looked even younger than before, and though her hair was still frizzy and grey, the 450 year-old woman could have passed for forty.

The room came alive again. People stood, some quietly cheering, or sniffling back tears, or just smiling. Most went back to whatever they were doing before. Some, who had been waiting in line, decided they didn’t want to wait in line anymore, and left, walking out of the other side of the Spire, down the road, toward Brightwater Lake. Erick couldn’t see the waters from here, for they were kilometers and kilometers above the lake, but he knew what was supposed to lay in that direction.

Erick whispered to Fallopolis, “What now?”

Fallopolis got to her feet as she happily said, “Whatever you want.”

Erick had one pressing concern, as he glanced around the room. “I see a lot of people here, so I think I’d like to know how that all works. How did I not hear about all the people that live here? Not all of them are shadelings. Where do they eat? Where do they live? Is there work? How does that all function?” He said, “Either this is all new, and you’ve all made some great game of tricking me into believing that this is who you are, or this is who you are, and the rest of the world just doesn’t know? Or hates you anyway? Or… Whatever the case, there’s some propaganda going on, for sure.”

Fallopolis looked to Erick, like he was a slow-witted child. “Oh. Erick. There’s been no tricks. Everyone here got involved with us because we either wanted to destroy the world, or certain peoples in it. Some, like myself, got in this life to free us and our god from this [Mesmerize]. That’s never changed.” She gestured to the air where Melemizargo had been, moments ago. “Or maybe it has?” She smiled. “Maybe you just made a whole new slew of true friends, and a whole new party of true enemies.”

Erick calmly took in his audience, scattered all around this level of the Spire, some openly listening to him and Fallopolis, as though this was a great moment in history. Some people were listening more covertly, with their heads turned away, yet with their body posture poised to hear. He tried to deflect Fallopolis’s words, saying, “The stage is set; the knowledge is out there. Nothing I do from here on out will stop what is coming down the road.”

“That remains to be seen,” spoke a new voice.

A Shade resolved onto the road in front of Erick and Fallopolis; it was the one with all the layered robes, and the black mask. Erick didn’t know their name, yet, but Fallopolis regarded the person as though they were a stain on the hem of her frilly dress, or a pile of shit on the side of the road.

Fallopolis said, “Don’t trust Rodel. He’s the Shade of Whispers, and is responsible for most of the evil that Shades commit around the world. He wants to burn selected parts of civilization, just so his own goals come out ahead.”

The masked man turned to Fallopolis, saying, “Spoken like a jilted housewife who only sees adulterers, or a miser who only sees the greed in others.” He added, “Stay out of politics, Fallopolis; you haven’t been at the top of your game in a hundred years, ever since Silverite toppled your kingdom and you were reduced to the Culler.” He spoke to Erick, “Fallopolis, the former Shade of the Long Night, has led no fewer than five incursions into the world to destroy it all. Thankfully, she failed.”

“You should kill him, Erick.” Fallopolis said, “I’ll help. Right here. Right now.”

People had been slowly moving out of the Spire, but at Fallopolis’s words, they ran. Some dropped into the roads, turning to shadows, flowing alongside the dark veins in the crystal. Some raced into the air. Some huddled behind their counters.

Rodel spoke, “Fallopolis would see you dead, Erick. Now that our Lord has a favorable impression, this is the perfect time for you to die and disappear.”

Fallopolis countered, “You overplay your hand, Rodel! Now who’s the miser who only sees greed?”

Another Shade slipped into the room; Erick saw her arrival. Fallopolis and Rodel did not instantly notice, but they both jolted at the second step in the room of Tania Webwalker, Champion of Melemizargo. She looked exactly as Erick remembered; pale skin, a dress that seemed made of loose, white silks, and a veil that did nothing to hide her bright white eyes. Her white spider was nowhere to be seen, but she had a diner-plate sized, white tarantula upon her right shoulder. She spoke, and her words allowed no argument. “No one is killing anyone. We’re not doing that this year.”

“Then what are we doing this year?” Another voice joined the fray, belonging to a tall, dark-skinned man in flowing red robes. He was strong-looking, with perfect features and glowing, white eyes. Erick would have called him handsome in any other setting. He said, “I had planned to guard Erick with a minion, but I’ll need to know if I need to guard him directly.”

Erick found himself staring at the man.

The man noticed. He turned to Erick and bowed, then rose, saying, “I’m Crimsonair, Healer of Brightwater, and also the Shade of Blood. A pleasure to meet you.”

Erick tried to be polite, since it was his first instinct, “A pleasure,” and then he realized he didn’t want a blood mage anywhere near him, “But I do not wish for your guarding services at this time.”

“Afraid that’s not one of your choices, Erick. Someone will try to kill you and keep you dead, but I cannot allow such a thing, as I have hopes for this new world order.” Crimsonair said, “But if you don’t want me, then the task will likely fall to my teacher; Quilatalap.”

“Ah.” Erick had no idea how to respond to that. Everything was happening very fast.

“That’s fine.” Quilatalap, orcol archlich and Caretaker of the Armory, stepped onto the road behind Erick. “I can do that.” He said to Erick, “Hello, again.”

“Hell—” Erick’s voice broke. “Hello.”

Tania decreed, “We are going to have a perfectly normal Shadow’s Feast, and everyone is going to pretend that Erick is the help, for that is all that he had earned. You will also all do well to not involve him in our disputes.”

Erick had suddenly had enough.

“Fine by me!” he declared, as he put both arms at his sides, like they usually were, and then some feet went in front of feet, and steps were taken. “Thanks, everyone!” he said, as he walked through the Spire and out the other side, exaggerating swinging his arms, which were still at his sides, like they usually were. “Oh, wow! That’s pretty! Isn’t that pretty, Ophiel?”

Ophiels chirped in concerned flute sounds as the ten of them floated fast to catch up with Erick.

“Oh! It’s not that bad, Ophiel,” Erick said, “Look at that giant black sun! And the city below! That’s a big lake, too.”

