Dragging his focus back out of his thoughts, this Sovereign studied the Emissary and Confessor both. Considering the core of their existence was comprised of fragmented, disincarnate souls joined as one, he found their accumulation in the realm of the soul to be sorely lacking indeed, with too much focus on the body and barely any consideration given to the mind, if any. All in all, these so-called Ascended Transcendents were no different from standard Transcendents, primitive miscreations born of a natural Imbalance made manifest. Albeit on a larger scale of course, for most False Divinities would find themselves outmatched against these Awakened Ascended Transcendents, the Emissary Blessed by Earth’s Fire and the Confessor by what appeared to be Blood. A strange Blessing, all things considered, but in life, Goujian had been the ‘Bloody’ Confessor, though why that would result in his Transcendent form wielding the power to control a blood-like energy was beyond even this Sovereign’s ability to explain. Such was the way with the so-called Esoteric Blessings, named so by Fifth Brother Di Zi due to his inability to categorize them in any other logical manner. In fact, this lack of progress might well be why he gave up on categorizing the various aspects of the Dao in the first place, meaning there might still well be a way to organize the Dao into an easily navigated catalogue of the various minor and major Daos.

Again, this Sovereign’s Natal Soul had succeeded in drawing his attention away, but he would not allow it again. Fixating on the Emissary and Confessor once more, he studied their workings with an insightful eye and saw little to nothing of value. The Emissary was too reliant on base flame and nothing else, all but ignoring his Blessing of Earth save for the strength and durability it offered. Even then, his mastery over his Blessing of Fire paled in comparison to Flame Monarch Yang Kai, this Sovereign’s third brother whose accumulations had long since been studied and exhausted. The Confessor was of more interest, but only due to the unique nature of his Blessing, one which was not actually the control of Blood, but rather a Blood-like Energy reminiscent of both Life and Death, yet inferior to it in all ways. That being said, the Ancestral Rabbit was incapable of defending herself against the Confessor’s tendrils of Blood, which sapped away her strength and stamina with every errant touch. While the flames of the Emissary did little more than charr her skin, the Confessor’s tendrils left behind patches of raw and mangled flesh, leaving her a sorry sight indeed.

And yet, helpless though the Ancestral Rabbit might be, her life was in no danger so long as the Ancestral Hare still drew breath.

In all his long millennia of existence, this Sovereign could count on two hands the number of individuals who possessed a greater mastery of the Dao than the Medical Saint, with six of them being himself and his five brothers. The Ancestral Hare Taduk was a Divinity who had yet to live through his first millennium, younger even than the Zhen Shi persona of this Sovereign’s Natal Soul, and yet he saw in this Ancestral Beast a harmony of body, mind, and spirit that resonated with the Heavens in a manner similar to his own. The Medical Saint pursued not the flawed Martial Dao, but a Dao of the Heavens which he used to nourish his body, mind, and soul, his every action in complete harmony with his surroundings as he fought in his abnormal manner, utilizing a myriad of different ways to draw upon the Energy of the Heavens in a surprisingly effective manner.

The curious shuffling of his feet, so erratic and capricious at first glance, revealed itself as a cadenced dance set to the rhythm of battle, one he set by humming a nonsensical tune beneath his breath which this Sovereign could barely even hear. The movements of his arms resembled the wild and chaotic flailing of a man drowning at sea, yet his hands traced a path through the air which the Energy of the Heavens were all too eager to follow, and in doing so, carried out his Will with only a modicum of effort on his part. A quiet snort interrupted his song, and the jarring disruption was enough to set the Emissary and Confessor both back on their heels to give the Ancestral Rabbit a moment of reprieve, only for Taduk to resume his tune soon after while a stomp of his foot sent the Transcendents back a second step. All the while, his movements gave rise to a vast multitude of nigh indecipherable workings which seemed to happen all at once, a myriad of simultaneous feats which were only possible due to the Medical Saint’s intimate familiarity with the Dao.

Song. Dance. Rhythm. Formation. Much like a human heartbeat, the world and the Heavens both possessed their own intrinsic ‘pulse’, one the Medical Saint was wholly in tune with. Only then could he tap into the vast powers unknown using the aforementioned mediums, perhaps even unfamiliar to him as he wielded them against his foes. Shards of Plated Domain appeared out of nowhere while powerful gusts of Air snuffed out flames and blood both, and darkening storm clouds formed around Emissary and Confessor both which they went to great lengths to be rid of. This was merely scratching the surface, for in the short moment this Sovereign was able to observe of their fight, less than a full second in time, he witnessed the Medical Saint Heal his companion no less than seventeen moderate to crippling wounds, while fending off eleven attacks from the Emissary as he hurled his flames about and nineteen from the Confessor who stuck with the decisive ferocity of a predator born..

If the Medical Saint possessed one weakness, it was his inability to apply his strength quickly and efficiently, as he was too unfamiliar and unpractised with fighting. If not for this glaring yet easily remedied flaw, then this battle would have long since concluded with Taduk’s victory even if he didn’t have an ally to fight alongside him.

Were it not for Falling Rain’s proven and unique perspective of the Dao, the Medical Saint would have fast become this Sovereign’s most coveted prey, but so long as he was here, he saw no reason why he could not simply capture both at the same time. Knowing Falling Rain was likely aiming to Devour the Transcendents in short order and join hands with his allies against this Sovereign, he compelled his host to take action and seal off their surroundings before tapping into the knowledge possessed by his Natal Soul to seize control of the Emissary and Confessor both. It was merely a matter of dispatching a sliver of his Will into the Transcendents and seizing control of their host souls. As simple as turning a hand given his wealth of experience, especially in light of how mangled and mutilated those respective souls were, tormented by the Amalgamated Spectre in control of the Transcendent and kept alive simply to provide the necessary Prana and emotions required to sustain them.

In contrast, the denizens of this Sovereign’s court of souls lived a most fortunate existence comprised largely of nihility and oblivion to minimize their expenditure of Prana. There was even a possibility of rebirth so long as they learned to neither struggle nor surrender to emotion and this Sovereign saw fit to give them new life or even set them free, a reward he might offer to Falling Rain should he retain his sanity after a millennium or two of torment.

For the third time in less than a single second, this Sovereign’s Natal Soul successfully stole his attention away, and disaster followed soon after. The area was sealed, the Transcendent’s controlled, yet he failed to command them to retreat to safety, giving Falling Rain time enough to make his move. Or, more accurately, time enough for the Predator to make its move. While this Sovereign knew of Falling Rain’s ability to Devour Transcendents with a touch, the Predator took this skill to whole new extremes as it voraciously attacked the Confessor’s Manifested tendril of blood with eyes wide and fangs bared. Much like the Medical Saint, there was a familiar sense of harmony in the strange hound’s movements, but there was no resonation with the Heavens as it pursued its goal with single-minded determination. All animals possessed this quality of focused effort, largely due to their inability to be distracted by higher-order thoughts, but while their feeble minds rendered them incapable of harnessing the Energy of the Heavens in all but the most base and primitive of ways, they more than made up for this deficiency with their strength of body and soul.

Or in the Predator’s case, in the strength of its soul alone.

As far as this Sovereign could tell, the stocky, floppy-eared mutt was physically no stronger than any other dog you might find in any corner of the Empire, and in many cases, much, much, much weaker. So weak that there was no doubt in his mind that this tiny dog of less than twenty kilograms would not survive more than a week in the wilds, and that was with a generous margin of error measuring six-and-a-half days. That being said, the strength of its formidable soul was put on display as it harnessed the distilled Energy of the Heavens which it secured from Devouring Zhen Shi’s refined physical body. Even with all his experience, this Sovereign was incapable of identifying all the skills the Predator used in an instant as it dodged, Deflected, and Domain Plated as needed to avoid the brunt of the Confessor’s Manifested tendrils of Blood and the Emissary’s bolts and pillars of flame. There was also a subtle form of Concealment being utilized which made the Predator’s movements difficult to track with the senses, physical or Divine, as well as a domineering Aura of unbridled desire that had nothing to do with lust and everything to do with greed and gluttony, all overlaid an underlying working of Materialized Domain which allowed the hound to move with an explosive speed and agility that even this Sovereign could not match. This much he could identify, but he knew not how the dog was able to seemingly phase through the sand, not burrowing down but disappearing entirely to avoid a pillar of flame only to emerge unharmed a short distance away. There was also another subtle working corralling the Transcendents together, forcing the Emissary to move ever closer to the Confessor when their powers would work better apart, to say nothing of whatever insidious working it was that kept the Transcendents from simply moving away as death padded towards them upon four paws.

For once the Predator was less than five metres away from the two Transcendents, it raised its head, opened its jaws, and repeatedly snaped at empty air, a laughable sight to be sure if not for the fact that the force produced by its actions was capable of pulling the much larger Transcendents into its maw. Not one at a time, but both at once, their chitinous, armoured forms melting away before fang or tongue could touch them. There was no rending or tearing required, no chewing or swallowing necessary, for the Predator hungered for more than the Transcendents' physical forms and had its sights set upon the Amalgamated Spectres hidden inside.

A blink of an eye, and it was all over and done with, an anticlimactic battle in which two Divinity level existences fell victim to a creature which by all rights should never have existed in the physical world, but one Falling Rain had somehow Created. Luckily, Elemental Spirits were not interested in the souls of living creatures and hungered only for the Imbalanced souls of Spectres and the ilk, else this Sovereign might well have already been Devoured in full alongside his court of souls. Even more shocking was how quickly Falling Rain and his allies reacted, for the moment the Predator finished Devouring both Transcendents, Falling Rain cut through this Sovereign’s sealed Domain and led his allies to flee towards Shi Bei.

Uttering a howl of unrestrained fury, this Sovereign bounded after them in chase. The Ancestral Rabbit was the slowest and became the target for his rage as his palm strike ruptured her inner organs and left her teetering on the precipice of life. Or it would have if not for Taduk and Falling Rain’s superlative defenses, the former layering a complex weave of Plated Domain which formed a formidable, multifaceted curved structure. A cursory examination showed it required less overall power than the ten layered defense this Sovereign used earlier against Falling Rain, yet Taduk’s working was capable of blocking a good ninety percent of this Sovereign’s attack, including the Palm Intent infused within it. As for the latter, Falling Rain Manifested his Domain to Deflect half of what remained, while the Ancestral Rabbit was strong enough to endure the rest with her powerful physique alone, especially with the Medical Saint quickly Healing what minor injuries she suffered. This Sovereign was clearly more powerful than all three of his foes put together, and it had been quite some time since he made a move and failed to kill his opponent. To make matters worse, Falling Rain even had time enough to unleash a counterattack with his rifle once more, and this time, this Sovereign dared not receive it.

Only to realize all too late that the energy contained within this Materialized projectile was a paltry fraction of the attack which injured him earlier.

A feint, one this Sovereign thoroughly fell for, leaving him no face left at all. All three of their souls were forfeit, and Falling Rain’s dog and rabbit too, for this Sovereign would not allow anyone who had witnessed his humiliation to go unpunished.

