Catching up to his quarry yet again, he attacked the Medical Saint first to keep him contained before parrying the Ancestral Rabbit’s counter punch, one which possessed the barest hint of Fist Intent which might form if given another five centuries of focused practice. Not because she was incapable, but because she had progressed along the dead-end Martial Path and closed herself off to the Heavens and the harmonious unity which came with it. In doing so, she claimed a portion of the Heavens for herself to wield, but a truncated, meagre portion which gave her power without control or comprehension.

Not so for Falling Rain, who deployed his flying sword and shield imbued with Sword Intent while empowering his rifle for another deadly attack, all the while retreating alongside his allies who were desperate to make their way to Shi Bei. Seizing the Medical Saint by the ankle, this Sovereign threw him to the sands below and followed up with a stomp infused with Palm Intent, only to be struck half-way through by an incomplete projectile delivered by Falling Rain’s rifle. The blow possessed power enough to bruise him, which was truly infuriating to the extreme, for this Sovereign was incapable of discerning how powerful each projectile might be before they struck, meaning he had no choice but to treat each and every single shot as a deadly and unblockable threat. Seeing that the Ancestral Hare had already slipped away and the Ancestral Rabbit moving to support him, this Sovereign fixed his focus on Falling Rain and fought back the urge to kill the boy where he stood.

And yet, he still came close as he tore through the Medical Saint’s hasty defensive workings and punched clean through Falling Rain’s Domain Deflection to land a blow on his shallow, scrawny chest. Spewing a mouthful of blood and ruptured lung tissue, the transmigrator stumbled back half a step before this Sovereign struck again, carefully restraining his strength so as only to humiliate his foe with a slap. More blood spewed out, this time accompanied by shards of shattered teeth and broken bone which left his mouth a gory mess, but even this pain and disorientation wasn’t enough to keep him from instinctively Healing his injuries. Not so quickly as to be unmatched, but faster than most even without the Medical Saint’s assistance, and this Sovereign could not help but respect his opponent’s tenacity.

But respect was all that he would have, for now that Falling Rain was at his mercy, this Sovereign would be sure to show none.

Upon seeing the boy captured, the Medical Saint and Ancestral Rabbit both stayed their hands. Though they made their preparations to fight, this Sovereign paid them no mind as he met Falling Rain’s hateful amber eyes. The true mark of an outlander, for the native inhabitants of the Azure Sea had only brown eyes and black hair, with all other variations having long since died out. Not so with these amber eyes, which was impressive to say the least, but this Sovereign hated this transmigrator all the more for being of foreign blood to boot. “Your futile efforts to resist end here and now,” he declared, holding his prize up by the throat with a feral grin stretched across his cheeks. “You are talented with prospects unlimited, but this Sovereign has stood unmatched under Heaven since the day of his birth, and will remain so until he so chooses to ascend, so your fate, little worm is to kneel and serve, or struggle and suffer. Which will it be?”

A single second stretched into eternity as this Sovereign readjusted his perceptions to conform the workings of reality. Not because he had yet to acclimate his senses, physical and Divine both, but because he dared not allow himself even a single moment of distraction so that he might enjoy this moment to its fullest. Another second passed, then another, the long delay only heightening his anticipation of the gratification all the more, until he realized his quarry could not speak until he finished Healing his jaw and teeth. A full fifteen seconds from start to finish, and it would have taken longer had this Sovereign not relaxed his guard to allow the Medical Saint’s efforts to reach Falling Rain and assist him. It mattered not if they conversed through Sending, the pulsating passing of their messages as clear as ripples on a lake, and if he cared enough to focus on them, he could even listen in on their discussion, but a dragon cared not for the plans of mortals, for he would overcome them with strength alone.

More seconds passed in agonizing lethargy, until Falling Rain’s colour turned a dark shade of red that bordered on purple. Remembering that mortals still needed to breathe, this Sovereign relaxed his grip. After a gasping cough which saw more blood and fragmented teeth fly out, Falling Rain groaned once, coughed thrice, and cleared his throat five times before finally deigning to speak. “Sorry,” he wheezed, speaking slowly and quietly while fluttering his feet in the air in an effort to escape from this Sovereign’s grasp. “What were my options again?”

Base mockery, and he cared not for it, yet much as he yearned to tear the loud-mouthed transmigrator’s soul from his body and mind once more and drag him into this Sovereign’s Natal Palace, he dared not do so in the presence of two powerful Ancestral Beasts, for his host’s body was still mortal yet. “What do you hope to accomplish here?” he asked, inwardly grimacing at having revealed his own ignorance. “Even if you should rally all the Divinities in Shi Bei, Imperial and Defiled both, you would still not possess the requisite strength to defeat this Sovereign in combat. The full might of the Five Supreme Families would not be enough, nor would the combined strength of the entire Empire, for this Sovereign’s strength is boundless and his accumulations unfathomable, and you are ten-thousand years too early to challenge me yet.”

“Oof.” Falling Rain feigned a grimace and tried to shake his head, but it came out as more of a slow tremble. “Not gonna lie, you sound frustrated. Rough day? I’m guessing you don’t get out much and spend most of your time with your ass glued to the throne, though I suppose you’ll have to find somewhere else to sit now that your patsies have banded together to kick you off it.” Feigning yet another wince and a look of commiseration, Falling Rain continued, “Sorry. Too soon? Seriously asking, because I still have a lot of failure related material to get through, and it’d be nice to know it’s having the intended effect.”

Giving his foe the lightest of taps infused with the faintest effort of Fist Intent he could muster, he bared his teeth and growled, “Answer the question.”

“What was the question again?” Another tap put an end to this farce as the boy convulsed in agony, but to his credit, he barely even groaned when most would have been breathless with screams by now. “Oh right,” he gasped, taking several slow, deep breaths before continuing, “What do I hope to accomplish. Like here exactly, where we’re standing right now, or like, generally in life and whatnot? Very different questions, so you’re gonna have to be more specific.”

“You are delaying for time.” The answer came to this Sovereign and presented him with yet another question, one he voiced without thinking. “Why?”

“Well…” Even as Falling Rain drew out his words to delay even further, this Sovereign scanned the area for clues. The Ancestral Hare and Rabbit pair had not moved from their spots, and he could sense no other Divinities converging upon their position, meaning none were in range for a Sending which they could not even Send due to this Sovereign’s host’s Domain blocking off all communications around them. Other than that, there was nothing else of note which came to mind except…

“The Predator.” Noticing its absence from the immediate surroundings, this Sovereign tightened his grip on Falling Rain’s throat and asked, “Where is it?”

“Buddy?” Flashing a rage-inducing smile which cast his bloodied features in a hateful light, the boy glanced towards Shi Bei and replied, “Well… I promised him we’d go out for walkies, so I figured now was a good a time as any.”

A baffling answer, one this Sovereign knew not how to parse save to say that it left him with an unfamiliar sense of unease which he soon identified as apprehension. Not without reason either, for all this time, he thought Falling Rain was rushing towards Shi Bei solely to save the Imperial defenders, but now he understood the full scope of the boy’s schemes. The Predator was loose and free to feed upon the Transcendent Divinities of Shi Bei, and he shuddered to think of what one could do with so much distilled Energy of the Heavens, energy which would not recognize this Sovereign’s Authority.

No matter though, for what harm could a mere dog do without his master to guide him?

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
