The feeling of breaking through from a Noble to a High Noble is still quite fresh in this Demon's mind.

After hundreds of thousands of years, seeing for himself that no race in this galaxy has ever come close to the strength of a Noble Demon, it is not just the words of his family that make this a fact in his mind.

Miriel is certain there is no race that could ever come close to the raw potential of a Demon.

It is true, they are the current race with an Overseer position, so it would be impossible for any others to emerge that could stack up against his raw talent.

Yet, even among fellow Demons, he is the wisest and oldest one in the Lower Realm. Those that show promise as Nobles are always picked for ascension.

Yet, all of these Nobles stack up nowhere near as strong as him.

It is only every few thousand years that word of a red star system being obliterated gets reported, and these Nobles are the peak of their bloodlines.

After so many generations passing, even these highly praised talents do not compare to him at all. Miriel is certain that even among the Demons, he is an outlier.

Consciously, and subconsciously, over the millennia, he has been separated from the others, treated in strange backward ways by his family head, and is indisputably stronger than everyone. He truly believes he is different.

He begins sending massive waves of aura, demonic energy, infused with divine threads and refined qi so fine it's turned to Low Quality ether; all toward the center of this elite star system.

Days pass, and nothing happens.

His anger only grows, and other planets in orbit begin to get affected by the residue.

Weeks, then months, and even a full year go by.

The rest of the massive planets holding some of the most elite monsters in the galaxy are destroyed by the shockwaves.

Miriel, in his unsealed yellow true cored Noble Form, is a few dozen kilometers tall, but his High Noble Vibrations are so intense, they poison the air of this star system more and more with every passing day.

From killing the elites on so many planets over his years of missions, his level has risen past 95,000. His ether maturity and demonic energy control are so strong, that dominating these worlds is an afterthought while he stares into this white star at the center of the system.

"Break already! I command you! I am the strongest Demon to ever grace this Lower Realm! There is nothing I cannot defeat!" he yells into the void, with the billions of system users in this star system all dead in fragments with their destroyed worlds, orbiting this star with the angry demon.

Countless mission notifications go off in this demon's general status, but he does not answer or accept any of them.

The pings he hears only make his anger grow, as he feels he's being used as a pawn, when in reality he should be a King.

"No more of this! I will not fight for a family that does not respect me!"

The repeating dings, paired with the fact that he cannot destabilize the star at the center of this system no matter how much he throws at it, bring his anger to the brink.

His High Noble Vibrations even travel through space far enough to begin reaching other neighboring star systems.

"Get out of my head! All of you! I don't want any more of your help! It's not like you ever gave me anything in the first place! I've just been used! Why not kill me and replace me with new blood? I'm too strong for this Lower Realm anyway! You'll all regret this torture—for what you've put me through, I'll climb higher and rule those that looked down on me!"

Ancient-sounding roars are smothered by the vacuum of space, and the High Noble Demon's eyes start to change colors, to a dark black and red within the light purple mix of a normal Noble Demon.

He is unsealing his bloodline further, trying to replicate a process that can only happen once, after a Demon successfully comes back to the Demonic Realm and is granted the right to unseal their bloodline to see their true potential.

He is breaking all of the normal rules of known Demons, using his ether and High Noble Vibrations to crack this barrier of potential once again.

"I'll sacrifice everything! My skills, take them! My affiliation with the Morvales, take it away! Kill me here if I cannot grow further! I cannot continue living under these unwarranted shackles!"

At this breaking point, another notification for a random mission in a star system across the galaxy rings in his ears, and it completely breaks him.

"Even the system itself, I'll tear it down! Anyone that tries to suppress me, while living or dead, I will make them pay! I will be the Emperor or kill him on that silver throne!"

All of a sudden, the ringing in his ears goes silent.

The final attack he throws forward at the glowing white star connects, and is filled with so much fury, it finally splits it and disrupts its natural state of combustion and rotation.

The High Noble's vision becomes consumed with a blast of hot white light as the star explodes.

At the same time, his attachment to the system, and the Morvale family, wavers, flickering in his mind, as his intent and will on the universe itself is so strong, it becomes reality.

His divine and supreme-grade skills are wiped clean from his status, and all of the mental connections between him and the generals and even his family head are severed.

His desire to destroy and tear down the system itself—and all those around him—becomes his only desire, staining his heart black and turning his whole body into anger and resentment incarnate.

The wave of hot ether and divine threads from the star's blast that collides with him is so hot and powerful, that any Noble or even the strongest High Noble Demons from the Lower Realm would all normally be instantly killed.

But, the waves of gravity, pure intent and willpower, and rage created from this Royal Bloodline unsealing create a pocket of space, a few thousand kilometers wide, about the size of a small planet.

The waves of energy bend around him, and Miriel survives the blast.

His system is successfully mutated, gaining the corruption skill.

Yet, the memories of the next few hundred years are just of him laughing and floating in the silent void of space. He has no connection to any other demons, yet he is finally free.

All of the excess energy, monster remains, and parts of worlds and the star in this dead solar system are absorbed into his body; all converted to corruption.

In the cold dark silence of space, he practices every day, learning how to use this power, and plots his revenge.

–

Dim lights eventually approach Miriel floating in the void of space, and he is taken back to the Demonic Realm.

Miriel is calm and does not resist or show off.

He has reached such a high level in this Lower Realm, that even the new age Noble Demons that escort him look like nothing but lesser races to him.

The Royal Demon just crosses his arms and is still not even surprised when he sees a 5th black tower at the peak of the Demonic Realm overlooking the commoner demons.

The cities are far more built up, looking closer to the modern-day versions of what I saw from Drako and Andras.

There is a single silver door open on the throne when he approaches, and high in the sky, a demonic dragon comes flying down, circling the tower a few times before standing before him. This is the bonded dragon he claimed in a labyrinth long ago, that stays behind in the Demonic Realm when he is off on dangerous missions.

It is known that after the 1st Class rank, the paired Dragons of Demons become weaker than their bonded pairs.

They do not share the same path.

The two look at each other, but do not speak. Miriel only releases a portion of his Royal Vibrations on this world.

It is a minuscule amount, as he does not even have his Noble Form activated, but even this weakened version of the waves makes the whole world shake.

Mountains on the far side of the Demonic Realm break apart, and every single Demon on that planet loses connection to their systems momentarily until Miriel stops.

The Dragon then speaks, smiling.

"Welcome back. You've changed quite a bit... I take it this is why you've been chosen to become the 5th Great Royal Family Head."

Miriel does not act surprised, or react much at all. He only nods and steps forward into the silver archway like he owns the throne already.

The Demonic Dragon's smile only grows more as he flaps his wings and follows.

A series of trials pass by, very different to my own, but with similar difficulty and rewards. Miriel does not seem phased by this either.

Even the stairway upward, accepting green divine threads into his core; and ascending to the Upper Realm.

The Demon keeps a straight face, the only thing on his mind is the voice of his old family head, Lucian Morvale; thinking of all the ways he will kill him once they come face to face.

Yet, upon his arrival to this vast new Realm filled with green clouds, flying past massive floating Citadels in a small white orb, Miriel is brought to the Grand Citadel, but does not take the entrance that I remember taking myself.

He's plunged deep beneath the clouds and brought to a small black facility beneath the entire floating orb.

The white fast travel orb that brought him and his dragon here does not slow down until he lands deep inside this facility and is sat in front of a massive silver reactor plunged deep into the bottom of the realm itself. Bright and thick white strands of ether so dense it doesn't even seem real shoot upward from this reactor, a few dozen kilometers, yet they seem to disappear into space.

They slip through reality, like they're connected to somewhere else, a higher zone.

Miriel's eyes fill with a small sense of wonder, as he pieces together that him jumping up realms like he just did must be where these strands lead, somewhere higher...

Though, there is not much time to think on it, because a familiar voice echoes in his mind, that turns the wonder to anger and rage.

"Welcome, Miriel. My greatest general... well... former general, that is..."

A cyan holographic image of this Demon appears in front of the closest thread of ether.

Before Miriel can get a word out back, Lucian speaks again.

"You're in front of more important figures than just me... I would watch what you say, young one."

Lucian's blurry image grins, while a dark blue manifestation of a Demon appears near a strand far behind him.

Behind even this figure, a very faded purple demon looks down on them all, and the pressure of Royal Vibrations far stronger than his own comes pouring down on him from all sides, from every one of these figures.

The final strand at the very back of his vision glistens silver, and it feels like something is watching him through it, but no visual manifestation appears.

Lucian speaks again.

"We would like you to complete a final mission for us, then offer you the 5th position as a Royal Family Head."
