The two shuddered. The Selphid had been one of the students willing to go with Wil on his great adventure. In fact, a number of students had gone, many from the special class. Their absence was felt and Umina privately thought Marian was lonely since she didn’t have Venaz to verbally spar with.
But they’d be back. They were going on a ship to look for underwater treasure. That had something to do with Wil’s question, although he had been very secretive about the trip.
Venaz and Yerranola had been less so, which was why Umina and Marian knew more than they should have. The others were a week out at sea already.
As the Lizardgirl kicked open the door, she turned to Marian with a sudden thought.
“Funny. I know Peki and Merrik are alright. You know, for the officer corps, and they’re fun to be around and good in a fight. But I’m still surprised they went with Wil and the others. Well, at least Peki.”
Marian blinked as she took the rest of Umina’s bags on her back and shoulders.
“Why’s that?”
Umina paused.
“Well…I’m pretty sure Peki can’t swim either.”
 
——
 
“Man overboard!”
“Garuda! Garuda, and she’s female, you idiot!”
“Hold on! Another wave’s coming! Dead gods. It’s—”
At sea, a wave struck the Emerald Signet, and the galleon rolled with the impact. It didn’t flip over, but the impact nearly sent the braced crew and passengers flying.
They were above decks. Which was a really stupid idea in a storm, but this one had rolled in fast. And the gale-force winds and rain had knocked one of the passengers into the water.
“Peki!”
Merrik howled. The Dwarf [War Leader] clung to the railings of the ship, staring over the port side as the seas raged around him. He could see Peki, her bright purple-and-green feathers a flash of color in the raging surf. But the waves were tossing the ship about and she was struggling in the water.
“I’m coming!”
The Dwarf began to try to jump over the railings, but someone grabbed him. Two people, actually.
“Don’t you dare, you idiot! Let one of the [Sailors] do it! She’ll be fine so long as she keeps her head above water!”
Yerranola bellowed in Merrik’s ear. The Selphid was wearing a Dullahan’s body, with the head sewn onto the body. The last impact had knocked it ajar, and the head wobbled as she fought to keep it on—and keep Merrik from diving in.
Feshi had Merrik’s other side. The Gnoll [Strategist]’s teeth were bared and her fur was soaked. Merrik fought both of them.
“Let go of me, you idiots! She can’t wait! Peki can’t swim!”
Indeed, the feathery shape was thrashing about in the water. It looked like Peki was trying to punch and kick her way out of the water, and only that was keeping her from going under, but she definitely did not know how to just tread normally.
“What do you mean, she can’t swim? We’re at sea on a ship!”
Yerranola stared at Merrik in horror. The Dwarf shouted back.
“She’s a damn bird! She’s got feathers and flies about and comes from Chandrar! Of course she can’t swim!”
“I’ll get the captain!”
Feshi shouted. She began making her way down the heaving deck. The [Captain] was bellowing orders as he kept the ship moving. He’d seen Peki go down and was trying to make for her, but he clearly thought he had time.
Feshi tried to run, but the heaving deck was impossible for her to move quickly on; she had to clutch the railing, unlike the [Storm Sailors] who dashed about the slippery deck unimpeded.
“You idiots!”
A Minotaur’s bellow cut through even the storm’s howling. Venaz, braced at the railing, turned. His eyes, normally white with dark yellow and brown irises, began to turn red. He dashed to the railing and a young man ran with him.
Wil Kallinad and Venaz reached Merrik and Yerranola. Unlike the others, they moved with some ease on the decks. Both had experience on ships and they’d been trying to get their companions below decks. Now, Venaz swore as he saw Peki in the distance.
“It’s you and me, Kallinad! Get some ropes and we’ll dive in! When we grab her, pull us back up! Find me some rope, Yerra, and—”
“I’ve got her!”
Merrik watched in shock as Wil Kallinad, the young Terandrian [Strategist] and [Lord] from House Kallinad, ran towards the railing and dove over it, into the waters.
“Dead gods! Wil!”
Yerranola shouted at her friend, but Wil appeared almost instantly. He swam through the huge waves, making towards Peki.
Fair play to the Garuda, she hadn’t stopped thrashing about. She couldn’t swim, but she was learning—and fast. But her wet feathers and inexperience would have swept her under with the next crashing wave. She stopped as she saw Wil racing towards her and thrust out a hand.
“He’s got her! Toss the ropes!”
Venaz had found a [Sailor]. They threw a rope as Wil began to swim backwards. Feshi stared as the two seized the rope and were dragged aboard.
“Selphid’s tits! He swims like a fish!”
Merrik exclaimed as he hurried over to Peki and Wil, both dripping with saltwater. Venaz shrugged.
“Bah, I could do the same. Wil’s a coastal [Lord]. When I was a boy in the Isles of Minos, I swam—”
Venaz’s reply was cut off by a roar from the bow of the ship.
“Everyone below decks! There’s a titan of a wave coming! Move your worthless legs!”
Feshi, Venaz, Yerranola, Merrik, Wil, and Peki, all ran for it. They were six [Strategists], prodigies who’d studied at the Titan’s academy by merit of their talents. And that meant they listened when an expert shouted like that. Especially at sea.
“Dead gods!”
Feshi howled and pointed. A massive wave was coming straight for the ship. The [Storm Captain] was taking them right towards it.
“We’re going to go under!”
“No! Everybody brace!”
From the bow of the ship, the [Captain] roared as the colossal wave began to break on the ship.
“[Wavebreaker’s Advance]!”
The ship shot forwards. It smashed through the wave as the bow hit the wave and split the waters. The wave parted. For a moment the [Strategists] saw a terrifying sight of the waters on either side rushing past as the ship sailed through the gap. Then they were through, and the wave, split in two, began to collapse with a roar.
The [Storm Sailors] cheered as the [Strategists] stared ahead. The [Captain] shouted them down; there were more waves to come. But they’d made it. As the six students headed below decks, Peki threw up some water.
 
——
 
“Dead gods. What was that?”
A few hours later, the six emerged above decks to find an exhausted crew, and clear skies. The ocean was still, and but for the water which had soaked the decks, and their memory of it, the students wouldn’t have known there’d been a storm.
“Summer storm. Mild, as it goes. Sorry about your friend. We thought you lot’d know how to at least swim.”
Captain Lasc, a tall man with two glinting eyes, a long cutlass, and a tattoo that looked like a magical rune on the back of his left hand, greeted the passengers. He looked tired, but the salt and water couldn’t drown out the intensity in his eyes and manner. He brusquely nodded to Peki.
“I hate water.”
The Garuda grumbled. Wil nodded.
“We didn’t know either, Captain. We’ll have to teach Peki. Thank you for your efforts! And that was a mild storm? I’ve lived in Pheislant for almost all my life, but I can’t remember a storm that bad, even when I was in some of the ships there!”
Lasc grinned. He had two ruby teeth. Yes, ruby. They glinted, shining like fire.
“Ah, well, for a landfolk such as yourself, Lord Kallinad, that’s not a bad place to be. But sea storms aren’t like the kind that make their way to land. This one was far from the worst, even for the summer. But don’t fear. So long as the Emerald Signet has me and my crew on it, we’ll be fine. [Storm Sailors] shower in storms like these.”
Wil nodded, and thanked the Captain again. He did seem unfazed by the fury of the storm, but then—it was his class.
Lasc was a [Storm Captain], one of the famous ship captains who braved storms, monsters, and pirates to deliver his cargo. Or in this case, passengers. They were what amounted to order on the seas, the untamed vastness that was larger than all the continents combined, and least settled.
“We ride through storms all the time. If worse comes to worst, I’d battle a storm over a sea monster any day. But next time we’ll have you below.”
“Thank you, Captain.”
Yerranola added her thanks with the others. She looked at Wil.
“And you said this would be a safe trip! I thought it wasn’t eventful, but here we are, a storm in the first week!”
Lasc and Venaz both laughed. The [Captain] explained to the bemused Selphid.
“That’s not that eventful. You want eventful, Miss Selphid? Try meeting a Kraken at sea. Or a [Pirate] ship. Or worse—a crew of the Drowned Folk.”
He spat over the side of his ship and flicked his fingers. Sailors were a superstitious lot who believed in luck, and [Captains] were no exception. Yerranola noted some of the other [Sailors] copying Lasc.
“Which is worse? [Pirates], Drowned People, or monsters?”
If [Storm Sailors] and their ships were the (mostly) lawful sort at sea, the rogue [Pirates] were the other main force. They preyed on merchants, sailors, and each other and had little to no laws.
They could be deadly crews, or a bunch of Lizardfolk in a rowboat. But Yerra had heard some had bounties that would make a Gold-rank adventurer blush, and that was for each member of the crew!
On the other hand, the Drowned Folk were something of an enigma, even to Yerranola. She knew they were half-fish, sometimes crabs, or eels, or any number of species that somehow turned ordinary races into the half-aquatic people of the sea. They seldom came to land, and they did not treat well with ‘landfolk’. Or even the other sea-goers. Drowned Folk fought [Pirates], [Pirates] fought them and [Sailors], and monsters ate everyone.
Lasc shrugged. He scowled as he indicated the water.
“I’d rather a storm over a monster, and a monster over a [Pirate] ship. But I can see two of ‘em, and monsters are simple, usually. But Drowned Folk? Saltsucking bastards, the lot of ‘em. If we don’t see one of the Drowned Ships on this little errand, I’ll be grateful for it.”
“Maybe we might have been better hiring one of them. I hear they have underwater capabilities, which is what we need.”
Venaz murmured. The Minotaur was unconcerned by the glare he got from the [Storm Captain]. Lasc gave him an evil eye, and then turned to Wil.
“Drowned vessels can sink beneath the waves. But you couldn’t trust ‘em, Lord Kallinad. Believe me, my crew and I can get most sunken treasures up—least, the ones not guarded by monsters or something nasty.”
“Your crew and the Emerald Signet was the first I thought of, Captain Lasc. Please don’t mind my companion.”
The [Lord] elbowed Venaz. The Minotaur grunted, but held his tongue until Lasc moved away. Then the [Strategists] turned into a huddle.
“Grandfather’s hammers, Peki! Why didn’t you tell us you couldn’t swim?”
Yerra snapped at Peki. The Garuda [Martial Artist] and [Lieutenant] shrugged.
“Forgot.”
“Forgot? We’re at sea!”
“I made it last time.”
“Peki’s a bit daft. But what was that about you needling our [Captain], Venaz? He’s been nothing but a good host. And Wil hired his ship, didn’t he?”
“Hmf. I could have chartered us on a Minotaur ship.”
“And we’d have had to wait and pay over a third of whatever we pulled up, Venaz. We’ve been over this.”
Feshi growled, poking Venaz in the back. The saltwater was drying in her fur and she was not in the mood to debate. Venaz paused.
“A Drowned Ship can sink. And they have magical shields. I’ve seen them. This Captain Lasc is decent, for a Human. But he’s only a [Storm Captain]. Wil, are you certain he’s the best pick for our mission?”
Wil wiped at his clothing, which was still drying. He looked around at the five other [Strategists]. They’d all come with him, on his offer, and under his command. He nodded slowly to the ship.
“Trust is a big thing on the sea, everyone. Captain Lasc has traded with Kallinad and we have a relationship. And that makes him the best pick. Not only that—his crew has seen fighting. They’re experienced. But trust is why I chose him. He won’t betray us or slit our throats. And Minotaurs aside, I don’t know if I’d trust another group that much.”
“Oh.”
Merrik nodded appreciatively, along with Feshi. They understood that. Venaz sighed.
“I’ll apologize to the man. But I’m cooped up and bored. How long until we reach the first shipwreck, Wil?”
The others shushed Venaz instantly. Aside from Lasc and their group, no one was supposed to know the true purpose of their outing. And that was to locate and uncover the various shipwrecks Wil had been given by Niers Astoragon.
“Let’s head below decks to continue our conversation. I could freshen up and we’re just in the way up here.”
Wil carefully suggested, and the others agreed. They trooped down below decks.
It was rather pleasant in the Emerald Signet. For all it was a ship, and thus limited in space, it was a good one, and that meant there were magical amenities to make a sea voyage more tolerable.
There was space for games below decks—the students had brought two chess and go boards and the [Sailors] had given up playing them, and the six had everything from a scrying orb to books, to a map to simulate war games with or argue about strategy.
They’d been doing a lot of that, over convivial food and drinks, or watching the Wistram broadcasts. It was a bit cramped, and they were two to a room—Yerra was bunking with Merrik, Wil with Venaz, and Peki with Feshi—but those were only places to sleep. Now though, they squeezed into Wil and Venaz’s room.
“I hate water.”
Peki announced as she sat on the top bunk. She didn’t seem too disturbed by her near-drowning experience. Merrik threw one of Wil’s pillows at her as he clambered up to sit up top.
“Why’d you come, then, you featherbrained bird?”
“I want to see the Walled Cities. Before I go home to Pomle. And find treasure.”
The Garuda stretched. Wil sighed as he looked around.
“We’ll get there. And don’t worry, Venaz. We’re nearing the first site. We won’t be at sea that long.”
“I hope so. I have the Meeting of Tribes to attend, and the Professor is still teaching classes. You are sure we’ll be back in time, Wil?”
Feshi looked at Wil, and the others nodded. Wil was their expert logistician. He nodded; he’d calculated their route and they were on schedule.
