The Wandering Inn had these quiet days. When all that occurred were…small things. Not unimportant things, but days when you could obsess over things like—nails.
“Copper nails, Belgrade. I told you, it’s a thing.”
Erin stood with Belgrade and Lyonette and Octavia, measuring out a new building that would connect to the inn. The Antinium Worker paused.
“But iron has a higher tensile strength, Erin. Surely, the inn should be constructed with the maximum durability possible. Also, I would very much like to discuss the floor trap—”
“No traps.”
Octavia and Lyonette chorused. Erin hugged Belgrade with one arm.
“No traps.”
“But if there is an emergency, you, as the most important person in the inn, should have defenses. It would not be hard to stabilize a pitfall trap that would collapse Miss Octavia’s shop. And—I calculated this last night—the explosion from all the alchemical ingredients would most likely vaporize even a Gold-rank intruder.”
“And me!”
The [Alchemist] objected to this plan. Belgrade stared at her.
“Well, in my hypothetical breaching scenario, you are already dead, Miss Cotton. The invaders would have invaded your shop and you would have put up a valiant defense.”
Octavia opened her mouth, but Erin turned to Belgrade.
“Let’s just focus on the shop, m’kay, Belgrade? Can you make it the size Octavia wants? And with the barricades and stuff?”
“To dive behind. And separate areas just in case I uh, make a mistake and need to quarantine. It’s actually great that it’ll be part of Erin’s inn.”
The Stitch-girl nodded. Belgrade sighed. The [Trapsetter Tactician]—his new class, which he was very proud of—drooped, or his antennae did.
“I suppose we can lay out this shop. And add traps later.”
“Good. And by the way, you still have to see the garden. Um—maybe it’d be better if Anand and Pawn came too. Or—is it better alone? With all the Antinium?”
Erin hesitated. She now knew what effect the garden would have. Or at least, the hill. Belgrade paused.
“I am looking forwards to considering the strategic implications of the hill for a prolonged siege. And I regret that I only have a few fortifications prepared since I did not know of the hill—”
Erin saw Lyonette give her a despairing look. But that was Belgrade, and Erin smiled.
“I’ll show you later. But maybe not the hill just yet? We’ll see. Uh, so, about the shop—”
“I want bigger display shelves! And a sign! Octavia’s Stitchworks!”
“Ooh. Rigged to fall on intruders?”
The [Innkeeper] gave up and laughed. But as she and Lyonette restrained Belgrade’s tendencies to trap anything and everything, Erin checked the sun.
“Wait! Chess break! Sorry, let’s take thirty minutes off!”
Belgrade looked sharply at Erin and then nodded eagerly. But to his disappointment, the chess wasn’t for him. Erin apologized profusely and promised to make it up to him. And she would.
But she had a special amount of time reserved these days. For chess. Well, Erin had always done that, but now she was coordinating it. It was just an hour or less each day, maybe twice at night. Three times if you did an early morning game just to wake up.
Erin didn’t have a problem. Other people had a problem and that was that they didn’t play chess. But Erin did breathe and live the game. People forgot that about her, because it didn’t define all of her.
Yet she did love it.
 
——
 
The game during Erin’s chess break was slow, methodical, and had gone into a draw. Which was normal at the level Erin played at. It had involved her and her opponent grinding at each other.
Erin had won the game of Go. That was on the second board. She was, in fact, playing on both magical boards at once. The ghostly pieces shimmered as she rearranged them and smiled.
Her opponent was good. Very good. But Erin had experience, the theories of her world to draw upon, and, most of all, a passion for board games. She improved, studying new theories and playing Belgrade, Anand, or Olesm.
Even Bird; he had memorized every single chess opening she knew of. He wasn’t just quirky, but scarily good at recreating immortal games piece-for-piece when he wanted to. Which meant, of course, that he could instantly recall a counter to a move if he saw it on the board.
But Erin’s mysterious opponent was the best player of all. Erin was still the better player by a bit, but her impression was that while playing against each other had raised both of their skill levels, her opponent was growing faster.
It was a bit of an infuriating, happy feeling. Because Erin wanted to be the best. And yet—what good was it being alone at the top?
Erin Solstice paused as she cleared the boards. Both boards of chess and go. It was fun, playing two different games at once. She paused, with her hands on a few of the go stones, and then she began placing them on the board.
 
gg!
 
It was a message, written in go stones. A bit hard to read, but Erin and her opponent had both learned to visualize the letters. And—yes. The reply came back in moments, spelled out in go stones.
 
gd victry
 
The spelling was atrocious, and the words shorthand, much like texting, because both players had to laboriously spell out each word on the board, sometimes with both chessboard and go board. Erin was a lot faster at it than her opponent; stuff like ‘gg’, short for ‘good game’, was intuitive to her from online chess chat rooms. Her opponent?
No. But they were talking. Erin went on, spelling out a message. They’d begun playing at the set time, without chatting—she sort of wished she had a chat bar she could type in.
 
hy! hw r u tday?
 
A pause. Erin tried to imagine her opponent, who was often meticulous and careful in their plays—and would capitalize on a mistake with ruthless aggression—pondering their reply.
 
nt bd. u?
slw dy. hw abt gm chss? spd? 5-sc?
 
Erin had to erase her sentences one by one and respell them, but it really was getting intuitive. Instantly, the reply came.
 
ys.
 
In the nuance as Erin understood it, she had inquired a brief question as to her opponent’s wellbeing, and they had replied with a positive but bland affirmative. Then she had stated it was a ‘slow day’ and offered to play a game of chess. Namely, speed-chess, with 5 seconds per move.
And her opponent had said yes. So that is what they did. Erin reset her board, took the white pieces, and began with the Dutch Attack, or Bird’s Opening. Bird, the Worker, did love it so.
The game was fast and aggressive. Erin wasn’t a huge fan of speed chess; she didn’t like the speed and how you could get caught up in the rhythm. But she’d begun practicing it because Belgrade, Anand, and Bird could smash Erin one game out of four in it. Not because they were at her level yet, but because they had sharp, sharp analytical skills under pressure.
And her opponent was no worse. The chess pieces moved fast as Erin and her opponent did the chess-equivalent of beating each other with hammers. In the end, Erin threw up her hands.
“Damn!”
She was genuinely frustrated. Because she’d lost due to a careless move of her knight—she hadn’t spotted how in two moves it could turn into an unavoidable loss of a piece. She glowered at the board as she sat in place.
“Damn, drat, darn—uh, dingus…”
The [Innkeeper] cursed mildly. Behind Erin, the garden door slowly closed. Ekirra, Mrsha, and Visma, who’d been playing and about to jump at Erin and surprise her, closed the door. Mrsha took her paws off Ekirra’s ears, and Visma took her claws off her earholes. They looked at each other. Ekirra opened his mouth.
“Damn!”
 
——
 
More chess-texting after that. Erin silently tapped her knight on the board and then spelled out—
 
gg! noice mves!
have tme fr anther?
y! : )
 
Erin wanted revenge. She didn’t get it. The second game of speed-chess was a draw. She sighed, but then began to write.
 
no tme mre gmes.
too bd. do u knw mre chss gmes?
 
Erin nodded. She chewed her lip, and then spelled out carefully.
 
u cn ply w/6-side brd! hexagon! is fun!
 
She had no idea if her opponent understood that. There was a pause.
 
hexagon brd?
yus!
intrstng. may make. Snd to u?
no! 2 expnsive!
is ok. hve money.
oo! r u advtrer?
 
A pause. Erin had asked a question like this before.
 
once.
 
And the answer made her sit forwards. Excitedly.
 
wow! mnstrs r scry!
ys.
do u hte mnsters 2?
nt a fn. evr c Crelers?
: /
?
ys! evil! adult bad!
adult? you met?
frnds. : (
: (
Bt surved~!
: ) elder wrse
O_O
 
It was short, their chats after a game. Erin sensed her opponent was coyer than she. And—they were picking up her shorthand, even her little faces, which she could actually spell out in the form of faces on the board.
“Erin! Break’s over!”
Lyonette called up the stairs. Erin sighed. Her hands moved quickly.
 
gd cht! gtg, mking fd! ply tomrow sm tme?
of course
c u thn! (•◡•) /
 
And then Erin Solstice got up and went back to work. In the Garden of Sanctuary, Ekirra ran around shouting his new favorite word. Apista drank from the ordinary flowers, and Visma and Mrsha collected their favorite flowers, talking about which ones they’d put in Mrsha’s garden.
It was a quiet day, a good one. And Erin had had a good chat with her mysterious opponent. She still didn’t know who they were, but she was getting to know them.
And she had no idea what consternation and chaos her words produced.
 
——
 
“See, that! What is that?”
Niers Astoragon paced back and forth in front of the go board. He pointed at the little emoji Erin had left.
“Mm. Looks like a little person waving.”
Foliana waved back. The Squirrel Beastkin was reclining in a hammock.
In her room. Foliana had multiple rooms, all devoted to herself. In this one she had a hammock she liked to rest in and eat food. The [Rogue] stared down at Niers Astoragon.
He’d moved to playing in her room. Normally, Niers hated how Foliana would bother him, or even move his pieces for him, but he had tolerated, even demanded, her presence today. He turned his head to the Centauress kneeling on the magical grass beside her.
Foliana’s room was much like Erin’s garden, in that she’d had grass, plants, even trees imported and then magically grown in her room, so she could perch on high branches overhead. Archmage Nailihuaile herself had been paid to enlarge the room’s dimensions so this could take place, and Foliana sometimes sat on a branch high overhead. But that wasn’t interesting, much less to Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros at this moment.
“Look at it, Foliana. Perorn. Do you think that’s a female hand writing that?”
He turned to Perorn Sadiluc, known as Fleethoof, one of the foremost [Strategists] and commanders in the Forgotten Wing Company, one of the Four Great Companies of Baleros.
Perorn stared at Niers. And then she looked at Foliana.
“Is this what I was summoned here for?”
“Mm. He’s obsessed.”
“I’m just asking if you think it’s a female player. The spelling looks neat.”
Perorn, again, stared at Niers. She, again, looked at Foliana.
“I’m leaving. This isn’t my job, Niers.”
“Hold on! I want your opinion!”
“Just ask!”
Niers threw a chess piece at Perorn’s head. It soared back towards the board as he shouted.
“Where’s the delicacy in that? I’m asking your opinion as a trusted confidant—”
The Centauress trotted off, shaking her head.
“Mm. Pathetic.”
Foliana rolled around in her hammock and dropped over the side. She landed flat on the ground and stared sideways at Niers.
“Is this really the Titan of Baleros? Niers Astoragon, get ahold of yourself. Mm. You’re disgraceful. Like your first love.”
Niers colored.
“I’m asking so I don’t make an ass of myself like with Lord Belchaus! He had feminine handwriting!”
“Just ask. Or pay those Brothers. The criminals. With money to find out.”
“What if they lie? Or she lies? Anyways, the Gentleman Callers are not being cooperative. Foliana, think about it tactically. You have to gather as much information as possible. I could ask, but I’m overplaying my hand—”
Three-Color Stalker rolled her eyes. And then she rolled over and smooshed Niers. She heard a furious shout as she lay on him. But the Titan of Baleros was far from dead. It took more than that to kill a Fraerling.
“Pathetic. Mm.”
Foliana stared up at the sky. At last, Niers crawled out from under her.
“I could have severed your spine with my sword.”
“Mm. You should have gone with your students.”
The Titan paused as he adjusted his clothing.
“I have my duties. This is just—fun. And I’d like it to continue being so.”
“Where are they now?”
“My duties?”
Foliana sighed as Niers walked up her side and stopped so he could glare down at her face.
“No, the children.”
“At sea. Not all of them went, you know. I’m still teaching my summer classes.”
The Squirrel-woman nodded. She sat up and Niers swore as he swung himself up onto her shoulder. She looked at him.
“Well?”
“Well, what?”
“Who went?”
 
——
 
Umina and Marian sat in her little dorm room and began packing Umina’s possessions. She was moving out.
“It really was kind of Wil to let you use his quarters while he’s gone.”
“Well, he did pay for the lease. And his rooms are like, four times my size. But yes. I’ll give him something when he comes back.”
Marian sighed. She and Umina were in Elvallian, the capital of the Forgotten Wing Company. The Centauress folded one of Umina’s pairs of leggings; the Lizardgirl stuffed her clothes into a bag.
“I wish I’d gone. Do you regret not going, Umina? Or—did Wil ask you?”
The Centauress [Strategist] looked sideways at Umina. The Lizardgirl paused.
“Wil asked me, but I turned him down. It’s his secret, and I want to keep taking classes during the summer. I can’t spend a month or two at sea. Plus, I have things to do in Baleros.”
“Hm.”
Marian sighed. Umina looked at her.
“Why’d you turn him down?”
“I can’t swim.”
Umina dropped a tunic in her bags and turned to Marian, surprised.
“What? But we were on a ship in Daquin. And I remember you treading water in the harbor.”
The Centauress tossed her head impatiently and stamped a hoof.
“Well, I can float. But Centaurs aren’t great swimmers! Too awkward. And I’d die in a wooden box if I had to live there for a month.”
“Huh. I guess that’s why Centaurs don’t appear on other continents that much. You get seasick?”
“You have no idea. You should have gone, though.”
“Mm.”
Umina mimicked Foliana as she quietly packed the rest of her things. Then she hoisted her bags.
“Ready to move into Wil’s place! You think he left it a dump?”
“Doubt it. He’s neat. Yerranola on the other hand…”
