“It’s a short trip. We visit the spots the Professor gave us, find anything worth finding, and then head to Izril to drop off Feshi. We should have time to visit Zeres and maybe even a few other Walled Cities—and for Feshi to attend the Meeting of Tribes—before we have to be back for fall classes.”
“A semester’s seminar abroad. The rolling boat beneath my feet, some of the Professor’s best students to keep my mind sharp, and the promise of adventure! Well, just the promise so far. If that’s the worst the sea has, I needn’t have brought my armor or my hammer.”
Merrik sighed. Yerra gave him a sideways look.
“Merrik, you do realize we’ll be fighting at sea? What happens if you fall overboard like Peki?”
The Dwarf snorted.
“Hah! I like water. And I can swim with armor on, unlike the rest of you.”
“That’s so un-Dwarflike.”
“Shut it, Yerranola! All these damned stereotypes about Dwarves and half-Elves. I like swimming, and I like fishing. And I’ll swim laps in my armor around you all—except for Wil.”
The Minotaur in the room was not about to let that slide. Venaz folded his arms and met Merrik’s grinning gaze.
“I can swim with an axe in one hand and fight underwater. Wil, what if we find…something?”
The room fell silent and Wil shivered. What if they found something? It was more than an outside chance. He’d been given the location of a number of sunken shipwrecks by the Titan himself. Every location with a possible artifact of power or…treasure. It was not what Wil had asked for, but it was what he had wanted. He nodded around at the other [Strategists].
“Then we play it by ear, Venaz. And like I said—we split the loot.”
“You take first pick, Wil. You have the map, or locations or whatever, and you found the ship. We just helped pay for it. Well, some of us.”
Yerra looked at Peki, who was destitute. The Garuda shrugged.
“I just want to have an adventure. Treasure aside! Why’d you let us come, though, Wil? Because Umina and Marian turned you down?”
Merrik exclaimed. Wil shook his head.
“I had a short list. Marian and Umina were on it—”
“Not Kissilt? How will we ever live without his soothing ambiance and sweet comments?”
The others laughed. Wil went on, shaking his head.
“Umina’s a great swimmer and she’s brilliant, but she didn’t want to come. Marian would be an asset too, and she’s a great shot, but she hates water and boats. But the rest of you all have something to offer, and Feshi’s got a great cover reason for us to go, for instance.”
“Even me, Wil?”
Yerra leaned over, batting her eyes. Wil smiled.
“Yerra, you’re central to part of the plan.”
“How?”
“I’m not?”
The others exclaimed. Wil nodded to Yerra.
“She’s a Selphid, so she can dive into the water longer than the rest of us. Captain Lasc has some [Divers] and waterbreathing artifacts on his ship, but a Selphid has utility.”
“Ah. So the rest of us?”
Feshi grinned. Wil shrugged.
“Peki and Merrik are good for fights. So is Venaz. Feshi, Yerra, and I can pull our weight. I don’t anticipate violence, but…Umina would have been our weakest combatant and she has that new belt.”
“Are you expecting a fight, Wil?”
Venaz’ eyes lit up at the prospect. Wil shook his head, but he was still cautious.
“It’s the ocean. You never know what will come up. And [Pirate] attacks are no joke. Six [Strategists] and [Officers] plus a seasoned crew should deter them, but I wanted to be cautious.”
“Plus, if we pull up a Named-rank artifact, we’ll have to guard it. Smart. Maybe beat up the crew.”
Peki nodded. As always, her comments, few though they were, said what no one was willing to. Wil paused.
“I trust Captain Lasc. But yes, Peki. If that happens we’ll rely on you.”
“Oho. Possible mutinies, treasure, and attacks? I’m glad I came.”
Merrik’s eyes shone. Feshi nodded.
“We won’t let you down, Wil. And I hope to have something more to present to the Meeting of Tribes besides myself.”
The Gnoll looked around. And everyone in the small cabin had the same feeling that had caught Wil’s heart, that the Titan had seen in him.
Adventure.
“The Isles of Minos clash with [Pirates] and Drowned Men all the time. You chose the right second-in-command, Wil.”
Venaz struck a fist to his chest. Instantly, the other [Strategists] glared at him. Yerra threw a pillow at Venaz.
“Second-in-command?”
“That’s right. Like Kallinad, I have experience in naval battles. I’m a trained warrior—”
“And we’re not? That’s it, we’re having this out, Venaz! You’re just a [Strategist] and Peki and I’ve seen battle!”
“I’ve probably seen more than you.”
“Peki, drag him above decks! You can hit him after I break his horns!”
The three were ready to brawl, but Wil shouted them down.
“Enough! Or Captain Lasc will tie you to a rope and drag you behind the ship!”
They quieted down. After a while, Feshi sighed.
“…Why does he have ruby teeth when it’s called the Emerald Signet?”
“Maybe emeralds are more expensive?”
“I bet it’s an irony thing.”
“Did you see the spell-tattoo on his hand? I wonder what it does when he activates it.”
The [Strategists] relaxed. Yerra stood up.
“So, anyone want to watch the scrying orb? How about a game of chess? Go?”
“I’ll play you a game of Go. And put the scrying orb on. I want to see if Belchan falls within the week, or if Medain intervenes and launches a sneak-attack on Reim, as I predicted.”
Venaz heaved himself up. The others headed out and Wil called at their backs.
“We should be nearing the first shipwreck soon. Tomorrow! Get some rest and don’t drink too much!”
They shouted acknowledgements and in good cheer, departed. For a moment, Wil was left alone. He paused, and then closed the door to his room. He put a chair under the handle, and then fished around in his bag of holding. Wil slowly unrolled a piece of paper.
On it, in the Titan’s own, small handwriting, a list had been written. There were less than a dozen entries, but each one was…Wil read in his cabin, his heart pumping with excitement. Not all were long entries, but each had coordinates, dates, and, most glorious of all, speculation. The one they were approaching was halfway down the list.
 
Anonymous cargo for Archmage Zelkyr. The trade ship (unknown) was ambushed by a pack of very hungry Reefeyes. I have no idea what’s down there and the Archmage might have recovered it surreptitiously. Or it might have been a rare resource for him, some quarried stone. Or nothing.
 
Wil had not shared the details of each shipwreck with his classmates. He trusted them, but this information was his alone. And indeed, the scroll was protected against theft. No one but Wil and Niers would know where the shipwrecks were, and he had memorized all the details. It was coded to his touch; anyone else grabbing it would find the paper disintegrate in their hands.
Cargo for Archmage Zelkyr. Two hundred years old, perhaps! And what might it be? It was the kind of thing that you made the very essence of stories out of.
It could be nothing. The first shipwreck didn’t even have the Titan’s speculation as to what it would be—just that he knew something was down there. But not all of the shipwrecks were so enigmatic. One of them made Wil’s heart thunder, the next destination on their travel.
 
Gailenwright’s Eye, the command-ship of the [Pirate Lord] Gazer, Gailenwright. Known as one of the more infamous vessels lost, and marked the end of the era of [Pirate Lords] around eight hundred years ago. The warship appeared during storms and fog and the Gazer crew would immobilize and destroy enemy ships in deadly ambushes with their superior optical abilities. It had a special hull, designed to repel magical attacks.
The ship and [Captain] were both lost in a full clash between an armada of the [Pirate Lord] and the Undersea Crews. The shifting battle took place during a storm and the Gailenwright (ship, not [Captain]) was said to be invisible to all scrying means. Because of this, locating the wreck has been difficult, but several survivors had rough estimates.
I sent two scouting vessels to ascertain the shipwrecks. They’re down there, but my [Divers] both perished. Monsters of some kind inhabit the wrecks, but I’m certain the Gailenwright, among other vessels, is hidden below.
Drowned Ships may have already plundered the vessel, but then again, even the Drowned Folk may have not been able to locate the Gailenwright. I myself only pieced it together with some extreme logistical guesses, and it took my scouts nearly a year to find. I never did put together an expedition to grab whatever was down there; my enemies would have probably stolen it on the way back, and the Iron Vanguard makes assembling a fleet impossible. Tread with caution.
 
An artifact owned by the [Pirate Lord]. Again, each site could have been plundered, or be something else. Or have been lost to monsters, or any number of things. But it was a chance. And there were more entries.
 
Massive sunken naval armada. Unknown which particular event. Speculation: half-Elf empire? [Divers] saw something like their sigil before one got eaten. Also, beware of giant eels.
 
Monsters. No shipwreck was merely ‘lost’. Some had become the resting places of the ship and their crews because of what had downed them. Or—what they had been carrying.
 
Possible resting place of the Diamond Swords of Serept, a Kheltian treasure stolen from the nation of Khelt around two thousand years ago. The curse of the treasure or some magical trap, activated at sea. Possibly still active. All possible; don’t get your hopes up. Also, don’t take the swords. [Message] King Fetohep and negotiate if you find them. Curse may still be extant.
 
Will pored through the list. Nine entries. Nine possible treasures, some of artifacts of power, others mysteries. Each one might make him famous, or might end with his and the crew’s death.
But either way, it would fulfill his dream of adventure. And—the last entry was the most dramatic of all. It was a short note, but even the Titan’s hand had trembled with excitement as he drafted the message to Wil.
 
I believe this is the location of the last known Dragonship, the Skyflame’s, resting spot. If it is—salvage everything from the hull to mast. And make at full speed for the nearest port capital city. Watch your [Captain], even if they’re the most trustworthy, if you pull anything big up, Wil.
 
If you find anything. If it was there—Wil shivered. A Dragonship. The very ships that had sailed in the ages when Dragons were still sighted, still known around the world. Not a ship made of Dragonhide, or bones. But a ship built by Dragons. Made for them.
All of that awaited. And Wil sat back, happy as he could have been. Friends and adventure, treasure and danger.
It was good to be at sea.
 
——
 
As the Emerald Signet sailed onwards, the watchful sailor on the crow’s nest scouted for threats in every direction. But, keen-eyed though he was, he could not see far below the waters.
And that, of course, was where the greatest threats lurked. A ship moved slowly under the water, protected by a magical aegis. A Drowned Ship. And the crew moved in silence, dogging the [Storm Sailor]’s vessel.
“Captain. The landfolk and the storm-ship are heading into Seagrass’ trade-waters. Do we pursue?”
The [First Mate] of the Drowned Ship was half-starfish. She had survived a half-beheading, and regrown her limbs more than once. It was true that Captain Lasc was a good [Storm Captain] and his crew was hardy. But every Drowned Folk on this ship had sunk at least eight ships before.
The [Captain] of the Drowned Ship was a half-Eel Drowned Man. He could walk through lightning and generate it, and had a rubbery consistency to his fish-half. He was watching the hull of the Emerald Signet from afar, slowly following it. He replied without taking his eyes off the other ship.
“Everyone and their seadogs have heard the rumor. They’ve got a map of sunken treasure. If it’s Seagrass or an entire armada of storm-ships, we follow. Tell the other Undersea Crews this is our quarry.”
“Aye, Depth Captain.”
Of course, Wil’s journey was secret. And of course, the Titan of Baleros had let no word slip. But Wil, for all his great precautions, his efforts, had made one mistake in securing his crew and going about his great adventure. He’d underestimated, or perhaps, overestimated his friends.
Venaz and Yerranola had big mouths and loose lips. And you know what they said about that and ships.
