Soon, the waiter returned, holding a large cloche in his hands. He had a proud look on his face as he presented the dish to her. His confidence actually made her a little hopeful, and as she saw the meal, she had to admit it looked quite pleasing.

“Certainly strikes me as an improvement,” she said, though as the aroma of the meal entered her nose, this confidence did start to wane.

“Oh, it most certainly is,” the dark elf waiter said as he put his hands together. “Even the King praised this dish when the chef visited the capital only a few years ago. I dare bet this will be one of the greatest culinary journeys My Lady has ever experienced.”

“A bet you say?” she answered, finding that proposal far more interesting. “Intriguing. What are you willing to bet?”

The dark elf seemed to take her words as a joke, chuckling in response. “I’m not quite sure what this lowly one could even offer.”

“How about this entire tower?” she said, raising an eyebrow.

“If I could, I most certainly would be willing,” he chuckled again, not noticing she wasn’t laughing or even smiling.

“I’ll allow you to,” the high elven-looking woman said. “So, do you accept?”

The dark elf seemed a little confused as he nevertheless nodded. “I would bet the entire world and my entire professional career if I had to.”

“Then let’s hope it lives up to your promises,” she said, deciding to finally take a bite of the pie-like creation. She genuinely evaluated it, and while it was certainly better than the pathetic fish that they had dared bring her before, she still found it… disappointing.

“So?” the waiter asked, hope in his eyes.

Putting down her cutlery, the woman sighed. “While not outright disgusting, it doesn’t meet expectations. The daily meals cooked by my maid while growing up were far superior.”

The dark elf waiter looked distressed as she apologized. “I’m sorry that My Lady finds what we have on offer inferior, and I’ll make sure that everything is compensa- “

“It won’t be necessary,” she stopped him, now finally smiling as she looked at the waiter. “We made a bet, didn’t we?”

Confused, the dark elf took a moment to understand what she said. “I’m not sure what - “

“You bet the tower.”

“That… isn’t something I can- “

“I allowed you to, and you lost the bet,” she said, her smile growing. “Now it’s time for me to claim my price, is it not?”

Before the dark elf could say more, she lifted her finger as it began glowing with a faint light. An orb resembling a small star appeared above her fingertip, the light it emitted catching the attention of everyone in the restaurant.

She ignored all the curious gazes as she spoke again. “Seeing as we won’t meet again, I guess there’s little harm in introducing myself properly. It’s only polite, after all.”

“What do you – “

“My name is Yrel,” she said, cutting him off again while looking at the dark elf, who now finally seemed to realize something was very wrong as his eyes opened in horror. “Short for Yrelstromoz.”

With a faint movement of her finger, light flashed.

When it subsided, the dark elf, other guests, the restaurant, and the entire tower were gone, leaving a rectangular hole in the ground in the middle of the city where it had once stood. The only thing left where it had once been was a single woman floating in the air with a smile on her face, glad to have at least found some amusement for the day.

Below, panic spread, but she paid it no mind as she instead only smiled, realizing that, as a bonus, the cleansing light had even erased the stench of the filth these pathetic creatures dared call food.

Hopefully, the next place would provide something to her taste… if not, perhaps there too she would find something to alleviate her boredom.
