Yvlon was astonished, but Ceria just smirked as she contemplated the disappointed adventurers.
“She leapt at the offer. She knows how much all that’s worth, especially for a Silver-rank team. Earlia told me it’s not even hard, assuming no monsters are in the area. I promised we’d help clear out any nests, but she’s just been carefully pulling the runes out.”
“How’d she do it without getting caught by the spell?”
The half-Elf tried to remember.
“Earlia claimed they’d do what we did—toss a bunch of soot and cloud ash down there. Apparently it’s a fire that bakes ash to the walls. They are professionals.”
Ksmvr’s mandibles were still open, but Yvlon realized what Ceria had done.
“You mean—we just gave all those excited adventurers a treasure map when Earlia’s team has been taking the only valuable thing in Albez out for ages?”
“We didn’t promise them that. But yeah. It’s pretty funny when you think about it.”
The half-Elf snorted. Yvlon just gave Ceria an odd look, but after hearing Colth’s idea, she couldn’t rightly complain. Because what sounded to Yvlon like a bit of skullduggery…both made her feel like she was emulating Ylawes.
And frankly, it seemed like a real Named-rank move. After all, the Horns were about to enter Liscor’s dungeon with only an hour of prep time.
“Ready?”
Colth was standing at the edge of the chasm, looking down into the pit. Yvlon knew there were steel barricades in place down there, which had to be unlatched to let adventurers through. She tensed, despite herself, and Ceria turned. Pisces was standing with Colth, looking—surprised. Even awkward, but the other teams gathered around to watch saw the ropes begin to lower.
“Ready! Let’s do this!”
Colth was strong enough to lower the ropes himself, but Yvlon hurried over to help, and the first being began to descend into the darkness.
Into the dungeon of Liscor, where the last protectors of the dungeon waited. They had battled the Antinium, even with the Small Queen’s advance. They had husbanded the depleted monster populations—and the dungeon had reconfigured against the tireless adventurers.
In the darkness, troops of enchanted armor patrolled. Hordes of monsters, Crypt Worms, and undead stayed clear of the Free Hive’s trapped entrance and waited.
 
——
 
Snatcher sensed the first body dropping into the chasm and turned from counting heads. So few heads.
No monster heads. The Raskghar were gone. The Goblins were gone. Less adventurers—and it hadn’t gotten the blue thing’s head.
It had tried. The being of thread had given it a chance, and it had tried—but the last of the three great protectors hadn’t been able to take the most valuable part of its collection.
Light had burned it. Magic had nearly…nearly killed Snatcher. But the head.
The heads.
So many heads had eluded it. The little white thing. The five green ones. The adventurers.
Was it…angry?
Was Snatcher angry? Such an odd emotion to have after all this long while. Pain was a rare thing for it. Names, pain, duty…those were so long ago. It still remembered what it was supposed to do.
Guard Mother.
…But it had long since given in to its desires. Taking heads. It had Stalker’s face, and it would have taken Skinner’s—if Skinner had ever had a head worth taking. This should have contented Snatcher, for its home was decorated with its trophies.
But was it…angry? 
WAS IT ANGRY ABOUT THE PAIN? ABOUT THE INTRUDERS? WAS IT ANGR—
Something walked the dungeon, and Snatcher prowled out of its lair, and monsters fled before it. It knew danger and death—but if this intruder had a head worth taking, Snatcher would have it. It wanted more. More and more, and it was starting to wonder how many heads lay above.
How long did it have to guard Mother?
Was she even still down there? Oh…yes. 
Did she have a head worth taking?
 
——
 
The Horns entered the dungeon, and the whispers began at once.
“Okay, we have no idea where we’re going. So—let’s try the routes on this map that Bevussa’s team used and go from there. If we find an old Raskghar camp, I might be able to navigate to another one.”
“We should have asked Calruz for help.”
“…No, we shouldn’t have.”
Ceria’s voice and Yvlon’s were very distinct as the team crept forwards. The metal barricades that demarcated ‘danger areas’ and safe zones had several layers due to Facestealer and the other monster threats. The first layer was around the opening of the chasm. It took some doing to lift the heavy metal bar and open the door, and the Horns were arguing the entire while.
“Dead gods, I hate this place.”
Pisces muttered as Colth kept silent—for now. Ksmvr’s voice was a whisper.
“Captain Ceria, Comrade Yvlon, please keep quieter.”
“Right, Ksmvr. Damn lever. Okay…there’s a trap left here. Left!”
The scream was just in time—a body slammed into the wall and avoided a magical trap. Instantly, the team began arguing.
“Say that earlier, Ceria!”
“I said left! Why are you going left?”
“I just heard left!”
“Well, listen to the context in my voice, Pisces. Any monsters ahead?”
The whispering team fell silent, and Colth called out.
“None that I can see. Let’s call out the traps—show Pisces ahead of time, maybe?”
“Got it.”
They moved ahead, and the adventurers slowly navigated around the traps. They were…too casual.
“Dead gods, I need a snack.”
“Ceria, keep your voice—”
“Movement on our left. What’s that?”
Everyone froze…and something crawled away from them. Colth murmured.
“It looks like just a small scavenger insect. Bile maggot. Bigger than most I’ve seen. I hope they don’t…hatch.”
“Dead gods, how many monster species are down here?”
Yvlon was disgusted. Pisces replied.
“Let’s not go that way if possible. Just on chance.”
“Fair point. Alright, we’re going ahead. Watch for traps—and if you hear any rumblings, remember the Shield Spider avalanche?”
“Dead gods, I hate this place.”
The Horns of Hammerad were not enforcing silence or cohesion as the figure in front stumbled forwards warily, head swinging left and right. In fact, they were trusting too much to the map. If a monster jumped them…
Lehra Ruinstrider was watching the Horns’ progress with Colth. She would be the first to admit her team had poor adventuring discipline. She’d realized that after their final battle with Dragial, actually.
The Halfseekers…that was a professional team for all they were fun and relaxed. They had excellent teamwork; Lehra’s did too, but their team tended to support the Stargnoll.
But the Horns? Lehra had heard they were good enough to take on the Village of the Dead raid, but their banter right now was the most unprofessional stuff she’d heard of—and she did know dungeons.
The Ruinstrider tribe didn’t do dungeons, mostly, but the distinction between ‘ruins’ and dungeons sometimes got too close for comfort. You kept quiet, you took few chances, and you didn’t trust the map.
The Horns were doing a lot of stuff wrong, and Colth didn’t seem inclined to reprimand them. If anything, he was observing them and even bantering with Pisces.
“You know, for a team that did the Village of the Dead raid, I can’t imagine this dungeon is much worse.”
“It’s traps. I hate traps. I have had entirely too many experiences encountering hunters’ snares or traps in forests.”
The [Necromancer] grumbled. Colth gave him a sympathetic pat on the shoulder as Lehra watched.
Unprofessional. Chaotic. Too loud by half—Ceria was chomping down on some fries, and Yvlon was eating them too. Dead gods, they even had Mrsha in between Ksmvr and Colth watching it all.
It would have been the most irresponsible dungeon crawl ever—if the Horns were actually down there.
The view of the dungeon lurched, and Ceria winced.
“Pisces, can you keep the view steady?”
“I can’t tell if the skeleton trips. What’s that on our left?”
“A wall.”
The adventurers were crowded around…a scrying orb. And the orb was giving them a wide-angle view of a dungeon, two swinging skeletal arms, and a very faint light as a skeleton awkwardly navigated the maze. Ksmvr was drawing a line down their map as they reached the last point Bevussa had been to. Mrsha was hugging Pisces’ arm as they saw an axe swinging in front of them.
“Dead gods, an actual swinging axe trap.”
“Yeah, well, this one shoots spikes out the sides if you get too close. Pisces, can you make the skeleton roll?”
“Stop heckling me. This is hard enough to do at range!”
Pisces hissed. The skeleton hesitated—then did a few steps, and the viewpoint spun—and everyone heard a crash and snapping sounds.
“Good job, Pisces.”
At this, the [Necromancer] threw one of the napkins at Ceria. He pointed at the scrying orb as Colth stirred.
“Is the undead dead or…?”
“I believe I can reassemble it. Hold on. The further we get from our location, the more difficult this will be to project my mana. So I need less distractions and more guidance, Ceria.”
“Sorry, Pisces. I’d make it a Frostmarrow Skeleton if I could—but I don’t know if you can control it. Here, have some fries.”
Everyone sat back as Pisces went to work, and Lehra turned to her team. Suxhel’s mouth was still open, and they all sat there—including Jewel’s team—with a kind of—of voyeuristic shame hanging about them.
“Is this even legal? This feels like cheating!”
“Cheating who, exactly?”
Elgrinna was smiling, but Lehra felt like someone should be holding up one of those yellow cards in that soccer game she’d watched.
“It’s just so cheap!”
The skeleton got back up, and the Horns went back to directing Pisces forwards, but more quietly. Lehra gestured to it.
“Look at them! They get to explore the dungeon with a skeleton, and they’re not even—people have died and—that’s Named-rank adventuring?”
Colth had come up with the idea. He looked quite pleased about coming up with the concept—and he was even extrapolating ideas.
“Adventurers have tons of items that do the same thing. [Beastmasters] would use mice or birds—canaries in the mines, you know? But a skeleton is so…expendable. I may see if other teams bite at the idea if I can copy the spell once we’re done here.”
“The scrying orb’s a great idea. We never had orbs—let alone ones to burn.”
The reason why they could use an ‘expendable’ scrying orb was mainly due to Palt and other high-power [Mages] capable of casting the scrying enchantment. Ceria was jotting down a note—if you could make a free scrying orb out of a glass orb, that was a spell to learn.
Lehra’s team was used to scouting, but they felt this was a bit too easy. However, another adventurer disagreed.
“It’s cheap, underhanded, and as safe as can be. That’s Named-rank for you. What, did you think we played fair? Rookie.”
Saliss of Lights was watching the Horns with one sardonic look at Colth. He glanced over at Lehra and kicked at her lightly.
“But Adventurer Saliss! You don’t do this!”
Saliss pointed at his chest.
“I don’t do that?”
“You fight with potions! This is…”
Lehra ducked as Saliss actually threw another napkin at her face. He looked genuinely annoyed by her comment.
“Listen, kid. Lehra. Rookie. Newbie. Peon. Uh…child.”
Her team looked unsure whether or not to take offense, but Saliss pointed a claw at Lehra.
“—Shut up. If you ever say that to me again, I’ll have Tessa kick the fur off you. You sound like some kind of wet-behind-the-ears Bronze-rank.”
“Adventurer Saliss—”
“You shut up too, whoever you are.”
The Drake pointed at Emper, and the [Monk] fell silent. The Drake stabbed a table with one claw.
“Adventurers don’t play fair. You want to know the last ‘fight’ I had outside of the Meeting of Tribes? I fought a room full of high-level [Rogues]. And what I did is—I inserted a Potion of Acid Clouds into the room and closed the door.”
Lehra fell silent and blanched. Saliss glared at her.
“If it was Crelers, I’d do the exact same thing but add fire as well. When I hunt monsters, I don’t walk up to them and give them a shake of the claw and wish them a sporting match and agree not to hit them under the belt. I ambush them when they’re sleeping. If I need to, I dig a hole and put sharp sticks at the bottom. If I think there’s a fair fight, I run away and come back later.”
“But you fought Belavierr and the armies—”
He grabbed her arm and hissed at her.
“That’s not adventuring. That’s idiocy. This is real adventuring, and if you had any sense, you would have taken out that Wall Lord who was hunting you the first time you beat him rather than let the Halfseekers clean up your mess.”
Chastened, embarrassed, Lehra ducked her head. In fact, Colth turned to give Saliss a long look, which the Drake returned with a middle finger.
“I don’t want to hear it, Colth the Upstanding. She’s a rookie, and she needs to hear this. Or she won’t live another year.”
Lehra shrank down at her table and stared at her plate. That was until Saliss stomped off to ask Ishkr how annoyed Laken Godart might be if Saliss showed up. The Drake was really unhappy to learn Laken was blind.
“Saliss has done a lot of heroic things against overwhelming odds. Like his defense of Pallass. He’s looking out for you. Don’t take it the wrong way; he is right that you and your team need to work on surviving before being heroes.”
Colth got up from the table where Pisces was walking his skeleton into a wall. Lehra glanced up.
“I know that—it’s just, I don’t feel like a Named-rank all the time. Most of the time.”
Colth was sympathetic. He patted Lehra on the shoulder.
“Completely understandable. I made it to Named-rank, oh, six years ago, and you’re younger than I was! But you need to remember something, Lehra. Even if you don’t feel like it—your threats will be Named-rank. If someone goes hunting you, they don’t take a band of [Thugs], they bring an army. Same for adventures. You’ll be the highest-level person there, and you can’t be the one who folds.”
His words struck Lehra harder than he could have known. She had been at the Meeting of Tribes. If she had been able to use the Blade of Mershi properly or…
“Watch your back! Watch your—”
The scrying orb went dark, and Yvlon stopped shaking Pisces as the snarling, red-eyed monster leapt. Pisces jerked back in his seat.
“Children.”
The monstrous child-mimics that pretended to be children had snuck up on Pisces. Colth groaned and hurried over as the Gold-rank team began arguing over what had gone wrong.
“I thought you were a duelist, Pisces. Why’s your skeleton got all the grace of a drunk Palt?”
“Hey.”
Palt looked hurt as he trotted past them. Pisces protested.
