“You what? The new lands? Where is this coming from, Pisces? We haven’t discussed it?”
He raised an arch eyebrow.
“No, indeed? Well, I have decided. For myself. Last night. I’m sure you can form your own opinion, Byres, but I’ve made up my mind. Again, your attendance is not mandatory.”
She turned red instantly, and Pisces waited for a punch or a snap. Instead, Yvlon exhaled hard.
“Did Ceria freeze your door locks, too? I’ll…well, it’s not like the idea isn’t appealing. But this is a team-decision, Pisces. Some forewarning would be appreciated.”
The [Necromancer] shrugged, trying to keep his brows arched.
“Again, Byres, this is my personal decision. You need not join me. I am announcing my intentions to the group as a whole. What you decide isn’t my concern.”
This time, her fist clenched hard on the metal spoon, and it began to bend. Yvlon gritted her teeth.
“If I didn’t know better, I’d say you were deliberately saying it like this to annoy me—”
“Comrade Pisces, Yvlon, please. Pisces is simply letting us know his intentions efficiently.”
Ksmvr looked worried and patted Yvlon and Pisces on the shoulders. She calmed down and shot Pisces a quick—hurt look.
“Sorry, Ksmvr.”
“Yes. Well, I’m determined.”
Pisces felt his stomach clench and guilt shooting through him. He turned to Ceria, and the half-Elf was propping her head up on her chin.
“The day gets weirder and weirder. Why are you so certain, Pisces? I thought you’d be keener on going back to Chandrar, not Izril.”
He flinched. The [Necromancer] avoided Ceria’s gaze and mixed truth with half-truths. The best sort of way to lie.
“First the new lands, then Chandrar, perhaps. W—I am not ready for Chandrar. Suffice it to say, my mind is made up, and if you all would prefer to stay here, I understand. Now—are we going to investigate this dungeon or not?”
He got up swiftly and backed away from his team. He hoped Yvlon would look angrier, but she just—gazed at him, and Ksmvr looked hurt and Ceria too perceptive. Pisces whirled away, not sure what he wanted.
But he didn’t want to lead them to their deaths.
 
——
 
“What the hell was that about? Silver and steel, did Pisces sleep on rocks or something?”
Yvlon whispered to the other Horns as Pisces stalked off. She was upset—not just angry at his sudden announcement, but at how uncharacteristic it was.
“He did come back to the inn quite late. Perhaps his sleep was less than adequate? He is upset, not at us.”
Ksmvr tilted his head left and right. Ceria and Yvlon frowned at him. But they had forgotten.
The [Teammate] folded his arms smugly. [Sense Affection (Platonic)].
“Now that’s interesting, Ksmvr.”
Ceria murmured as she watched Pisces’ back. Her eyes flickered, and Yvlon muttered.
“It’s not like I haven’t thought about the new lands, but where’s this ambition coming from? Do you think it’s about Roshal? Does he want to level up that badly?”
Her hand clenched, but Ceria shook her head. She looked at Ksmvr, Pisces, and then nodded to herself.
“…I bet it’s that favor he called in for Erin.”
Ksmvr and Yvlon looked up. Ceria scratched at her head, thinking hard.
“There’s no reason for Pisces to be this dramatic about it—or unpleasant. It was like he was baiting you, Yvlon. Or else he’d try to persuade us all by being smarmy or debating it. I think he doesn’t want us to go. But he has to.”
“What? He’s being threatened—”
Yvlon half-rose, and Ceria clarified.
“Favor called in. Sort of different.”
“Then we must go with him. Is it because we did not obtain the Helm of Fire?”
Ksmvr looked agitated, and the half-Elf shook her head.
“Impossible to say, but I bet whomever Pisces is in debt to isn’t happy about that. Promised a Relic-class item and it gets put up for auction?”
“Who is it, do you think…?”
They hadn’t asked, and Yvlon had probably assumed, like Ceria, it was a ‘contact’ on the level of some local [Bandit Leader] or whatnot. But when you thought about it—Ceria’s eyes narrowed, and her mind began racing.
“Could be a [Lord] or [Lady], could be something…else. You meet powerful people by chance, believe me. The question is—are you guys up for a journey to the new lands?”
Yvlon’s mouth opened, and Ksmvr stared at Ceria. His mandibles clicked, and Ceria looked after Pisces. The Horns of Hammerad hesitated a moment, and Yvlon’s chin came up. She began to nod, and Ceria was smiling when Ksmvr spoke up.
“For Comrade Pisces, of course. But I do not see the point. What do these new lands have?”
Ceria and Yvlon twisted in their seats and saw Ksmvr staring blankly at the map of Izril and the new butt appended onto it that Gothica had scrawled there, hanging on a wall. His antennae waved, but the eager adventure in his voice? It was not there. Ksmvr scratched at his chin and then sighed.
 
——
 
The Horns’ quiet mood was not really noticed with the rest of the bustling inn. And when the Named-rank came down the stairs, the energy returned to maximum.
“Colth! I thought I sensed someone sleeping up here. I missed everything yesterday. Mrsha said you were doing something in the dungeon?”
Erin Solstice was getting out of her wheelchair and stretching. Colth bowed to her.
“Just a bit of careful dungeoning, Miss Solstice. How’s Larra doing? I’m sorry I missed the [Emperor]. How did that go?”
“Um, it’s going. Well, everyone’s mad at me, but we’re doing the introductions-thing. It’ll take a bit, but I guess we’ve gotta do it. I’m going over to Riverfarm now to be nice…and negotiate a deal.”
“Erin? Negotiate?”
Relc rubbed at his earholes as he chewed on breakfast. He looked over, and Erin shook her fist at him.
“Hey! I can too negotiate! I’m getting cheap, unlimited eggs. Since Mister Ram is a [Rancher]. Deal of the century.”
Lyonette rolled her eyes and whispered to the others as she passed by the table.
“She’s neglecting the door transport fee, Liscor doing trade negotiations and all the other cities, tariffs, oh, and Wailant is trying to declare his farm a separate entity that everyone has to deal with—Ceria, did you actually eat that toast? Mrsha sneezed on it! I have real breakfast. Let me get it.”
The half-Elf didn’t appear affected by the news. She turned back to Pisces and raised her brows.
“Ready for another day of skeleton-explorations, oh Captain, my Captain? Since you’re making all the decisions. We’ve got time. But let’s look into who else is going to the new lands, eh? I wonder if the other teams are working with a group or a nation.”
Pisces slowly nodded and, with a sigh—got back to work.
 
——
 
Unlike other days, neither Liscor nor Albez were bearing immediate fruit. Which was not to say there was no fruit possible!
The civilian [Diggers] were hard at work by the time that Ylawes Byres got up. Unlike the other teams from the north, he was used to sleeping on hard ground, and Falene even had a few tricks to make the ground soft and keep them warm in the autumn.
…Which was why he objected, slightly, to the sight of a magical tent being deployed by one Gold-rank team and Orchestra’s actual house.
“Is that a house, Dawil?”
“Lad, that’s a house.”
Even the Dwarf didn’t have a smart remark in the morning as the two swished tooth-cleaning liquid in their mouths and spat it. It looked like a colorful cabin—with reinforced metal doors and windows.
And arrow crenellations. Someone had mixed a fortress’ defenses with the homey design.
“It’s one of the Haven’s specialties. Must be that Larracel either made or loaned it—you know, a deployable resting spot? I’ve heard that you can weather monster swarms in it.”
“I wonder how it works against Shield Spider avalanches?”
Ylawes had to admit—the sight of that cabin did not make him feel better about his own sleep. Nor did these Named-adventurers frankly.
Ylawes liked to think he was a…a…good adventurer. He tried not to overcharge people in need. He fought well, he thought, for his level and rank. His team made a difference.
It just felt like that commitment to the Silver Swords’ ethos was leaving them behind. The Halfseekers, yesterday, had proven what a massive spike in power their new gear afforded them. Griffon Hunt? Well, Halrac’s team wasn’t as notably different—but they were in the employ of an [Emperor], and to hear Halrac talk about it, it had its perks.
What had Ylawes done for the Silver Swords? The [Knight] felt like it was what he hadn’t done for them. They hadn’t done the Village of the Dead raid. They hadn’t gotten much from Wistram, just a few secrets. Big ones, but non-actionable ones at the moment.
He…even his latest level up hadn’t rewarded him with a Skill. He’d survived an encounter with a horrific Golem in the academy and hadn’t gotten a Skill.
Oh, and his sister, Ysara, didn’t have one kind word for him after years of not seeing her. If there were one upside…no. Even that wasn’t a direct benefit, just a worry.
Ylawes only felt more weight and a kind of competitive pressure he didn’t like. And he saw the same feeling among the lower-ranked teams.
“Dead gods. So that’s Named-rank.”
Captain Nailren of the Pride of Kelia had been at the Meeting of Tribes, but even he seemed surprised by Orchestra’s fame. He turned as Ylawes walked over.
“Captain Ylawes.”
“Captain Nailren. Good morning to you, sir. Do you know if there’s a breakfast?”
“Orchestra’s apparently paid for it for everyone. Not sure what we’re doing, no? All the civilians are digging for us. Just stand around and eat.”
The Gnoll wasn’t too familiar with Ylawes and vice-versa, but they were both teams who’d gone into Liscor’s dungeon and thus cordial. Ylawes saw skewers of meat being roasted by a [Cook]. A cook, instead of camp provisions!
Nailren noticed Ylawes’ consternation and grinned.
“I wonder how they’ll do in these new lands. Is your team going?”
“I…don’t know. Perhaps. It’s a large commitment, and we may be needed in the north. What of your team?”
“Yes, absolutely.”
The Gnoll’s reply surprised Ylawes, but Nailren just stared south.
“I wished to come to The Wandering Inn to ask Erin Solstice for advice—and to stock up on supplies and deliver the Antinium, Antherr. But the new lands? They are my people’s lands, no matter if every other power in the world is going. A real, true adventure. Of course I must go. I just fear I’ll be outmatched by the competition.”
He gazed at Orchestra and shook his head. Ylawes found some real sympathy in his heart for the Gnoll. When he did think of it like that—
“It is not fair that the Gnolls’ lands are being taken. I can agree with that, Captain Nailren.”
The Gnoll looked surprised by the comments, but he nodded at Ylawes.
“You’re kind to say so.”
“It’s just words. Can I grab something for you to eat?”
“I have to get my team’s food—let’s go and see, hrm? I smell…oatcakes. Geh. Maybe I’ll just have the meat.”
The Gnolls did not appreciate a hot oatcake dipped in a bit of honey. Then again, it did sit a bit heavy in Ylawes’ stomach assuming he’d be doing something strenuous soon.
Not that it seemed like that was going to happen anytime soon. The instant a new or old passage was uncovered, a team would head into it and clear whatever monsters there were and report it had already been searched.
Albez wasn’t like Liscor’s dungeon; the endemic monster population was incredibly small. Undead were often a more common threat because they could just stay buried for ages; a living monster had to eat.
Anyways. Ylawes re-introduced himself to some of the Silver-rank teams being ignored with all the Gold and Named-ranks about.
“Captain Anith of Vuliel Drae? Your team made it out of the Village of the Dead raid, then.”
The Jackal jumped and gave Ylawes an odd look before bowing. He was reserved, dignified—and his team was completely ignored by most of the Liscorian teams.
“Captain Byres. Mostly unscathed. Pekona lost a hand.”
Ylawes bit his tongue because he’d forgotten one of their number, the silent Drathian [Sword Dancer], had lost a limb dueling the Revenant. She just nodded to him as Dasha waved at Dawil. Dawil pretended not to see her.
“Not inclined to trade stories?”
The Halfseekers and even Griffon Hunt were talking shop with a lot of the northern teams, but Anith, Insill, Larr, and Pekona looked uncomfortable.
“We’re…not that welcome among some of the teams. After the dungeon incident. With the moths.”
“Ah. Of course.”
Ylawes had been there, and he knew that was their fault. Still…there was such a thing as forgiveness, and they’d fought in the Village of the Dead raid. He studied Pekona’s severed wrist and wondered if she could use the long, curved blade with only one hand. Actually—it looked shorter. Perhaps she’d switched out the sword for a one-handed version?
Katana, he thought the name was. Which meant the shorter blade was a…
“My team is having breakfast with the Pride of Kelia. Why don’t you sit with us?”
Vuliel Drae had been eating alone, so they brightened at the offer. Dawil and Nailren gave Ylawes a longer look, but they were cordial as they made room. Falene, of all people, scowled as she finally emerged from her tent.
“My sleep…would have been better at the Adventurer’s Haven. Perhaps we should have reconsidered our position, Ylawes. I don’t think this joint dig will yield much reward even if we do find something.”
She hinted, strongly, that they should return, and Ylawes nodded.
“It’s good to be sociable though, Falene. We may run into many of these teams, and watching a Named-rank one is a sight. I know Orchestra, and I’ve seen Variable Fortress fighting—let’s mingle. I don’t think Deniusth has the inclination to stay more than a day.”
He was certainly pushing the civilians hard. And impatiently—Ylawes suspected that the map Ceria had given the adventurers hadn’t yielded anything good.
If he were a suspicious sort, he might actually suspect Ceria had checked those locations with Gemhammer already. No, she was quite…honorable? At the very least, she was no rogue.
“You’ve seen the Named-ranks fight?”
“I grew up in a noble house. And any boy follows Named-ranks about whenever they’re in the region. I begged my father to take me to some of their dungeon crawls—and watched from afar.”
Ylawes was embarrassed, but he did know more about the Named-ranks than Falene and Dawil, who were Terandrian.
“In fact…Orchestra’s had a lot of teammates over the years. Crowdcaller Merdon was a member of their team, and they’ve even journeyed with Barelle the Bard.”
“Doesn’t surprise me. Aren’t they a bit of a contentious team, though?”
