They had little curved knives, and they were carving some of the Gargoyle bones to better fit new undead. Even, Pisces saw, painting them. One was using a very crude water dye and painting…whiskers onto a cat face?
Yep. That was Ama. It looked like she had not only salvaged the last cat undead he’d partially destroyed, but was making a new one. This one had a movable jaw, but looked like one of those tigers from the books of Baleros. And, apparently, it would have orange and black stripes. A lighter yellow-orange for whiskers.
Ama didn’t notice Pisces, despite her eyes focusing on the view out the windmill’s open door. She was watchful, even as she patiently cut slivers of bone off what would become an articulated cat’s leg.
“Do you think he’ll join the cabal, Deathlady?”
“We’ll see. He’s a Gold-rank adventurer now. He hasn’t tried to turn us in…”
“He must be over Level 30! At least! He could lead us to greater magic. Teach us—”
“Lead the cabal? Haven’t I done well enough? Are you trying to replace me, Rodden?”
She turned, and the carving knife gleamed under the moonlight. One of the younger [Necromancers] froze and stuttered.
“N-not me! I’m just saying, he’s a famous—I’d never do that, Deathlady!”
Pisces rolled his eyes. Well, Ama didn’t seem to need to establish a rule of fear if that was all it took. They were kids, the other five [Necromancers]. Young…teenagers to young adults.
Strange. Ama appeared far older now, watchful—and he recognized the burn scars on her arm and face. Nor did she seem entirely unskilled with the dagger.
Time had not been kind to her. Well, nothing for it. Pisces paced back to the forest, stepped behind a tree, and unraveled his invisibility spell. He emerged and heard, even from afar, a cry of alarm. He raised one hand and wondered what the hell he was going to do.
 
——
 
“What are you doing here, Ama?”
He only asked her that when they were alone. It took twenty minutes—the younger neophytes, the ‘Apprentices of Death’, the [Necromancers] didn’t want to leave Pisces be. They were agog and incautious. More than one like Rodden told Pisces their real name by accident—then tried to pretend it was an alias.
By now, Pisces had figured out the entire organization of this cabal. He’d participated in a few, but never really fit in…this was a less-harmful version of the stereotypical necromancer living in a dark castle and raising undead.
Sometimes, they allied with bandits or were part of a gang. Other times, they were individuals—Ama’s group was made up of locals around Invrisil. They stole bones and corpses, dug up valuables, and, Pisces suspected, sold their undead to gangs.
Still, they were pests not even worth having adventurers go after. Their theft of the Gargoyle bones really was the grand heist of the year.
Ama folded her arms and scowled at Pisces.
“It’s been what—eight years? Seven, and that’s the first thing you say to me. You show up, a Gold-rank adventurer, without even apologizing?”
“For what? I saved you from being attacked by Vaunt’s soldiers—what were you thinking, trying to rob them? Attack them with an undead? There were Gold-rank adventurers out there, and any one of them could have wiped out your entire group, Ama. I have a friend who could punch that cat to death with her bare hands.”
Ama sneered—and grew angrier.
“You must be crazy. That’s an [Artisan Bone Construct], my Sillias. He’s chased off Mothbears and killed Corusdeer!”
“Is he a Bone Horror?”
Pisces was sardonic. Ama, outraged.
“Bone Horror? He’s better than a mismatch of bones—didn’t you see how he moves? Like a cat! He can even flex his back like a cat and—”
“I meant in terms of combat ability.”
“Combat ability, what are you, Feren?”
She sneered at him again, and Pisces blew out his cheeks. This was not how he expected his first conversation to go—which really meant he’d forgotten how [Necromancers] were. Each one thought their undead were the best.
“I’m not talking about aesthetics, Ama, I’m talking about sheer killing ability. Yvlon Byres can take out two Bone Horrors with her hands. I saw her smash in an Adult Creler’s head with a broken sword. Do you want to see what happens if your cat makes her mad?”
Ama hesitated. She swallowed a bit as, perhaps, she hadn’t realized how close to a hostile adventurer she’d gotten.
“That’s just a rumor. Your team didn’t really kill an Adult Creler. You did? You?”
She gave him an incredulous look that Pisces felt was slightly warranted. He just sighed and scrubbed at his hair.
“It’s been a long time, Ama. I didn’t recognize you at first. Only that cat gave you away. Gewilena would have been proud.”
He expected that to bring them back to the start, but Ama’s face went white. Then she raised a hand and tried to slap him.
“How dare you bring her up!”
Pisces stepped back, and she overbalanced. He saw her right herself and kick out—he stepped back.
“What are you doing?”
The other [Necromancers] were watching from afar. Ama caught herself, and then she raised a wand.
“You—”
Pisces saw the tip glowing fiery-red and moved before he thought. His rapier rose and knocked the wand aside. Ama froze as he held it past her head.
“What is wrong with you?”
The [Deathbane Necromancer] snapped. He was furious now.
“I gave you those Gargoyle bones—I let you and your cabal go, and now you’re trying to hit me?”
“You think that makes up for what you did? You sold us out, Pisces. Gewilena, everyone—everyone died but Feren and me. All because your father figured out where we were hiding!”
Ah. Suddenly, Pisces’ fury went out, and his arm lowered as if a heavy weight were upon it.
“…I never told them anything.”
“So they just found us without you doing anything?”
Ama spat. Her cheeks were white, but a flush was creeping back into them. She turned, and the same fury that had propelled Pisces up till Liscor was still in her. Only in her—now Pisces understood.
He sheathed his rapier.
“I didn’t, Ama. Truly. Believe me, I wanted to stop it, but the first I heard was that Lord Ecte was going after the farm—from my father. He beat me half to death, and when I arrived—all I found was ash. Then I saw them execute Gewilena and the others.”
Ama listened, eyes wide with disbelief—but flickering.
“That can’t be right. They found us without a warning. No scouts—the first thing I saw were those [Knights] marching in. Feren told us to run, but we were still eating lunch when they attacked. Gewilena’s undead got two, but everyone else’s…Feren had to kill a [Knight] to get us out.”
“I didn’t know that. I thought he was burnt. No one mentioned casualties. I…I didn’t tell them.”
“They must have followed you.”
The other [Necromancer] was still angry, but it was draining out of her, replaced by old grief. It was a long, long time ago. This felt like opening a wound up, but Pisces had already thought of Gewilena before. And Ama…
“I don’t think they needed to. They just needed to know we were there. It wasn’t as if the farm was that well hidden, Ama. Once Lord Ecte got wind of it, how hard would it have been to cast [Detect Life]? I could tell you were all here—and the undead in the ground.”
She looked up, alarmed, and then her face twisted over.
“Feren never believed you sold us out. He thought they tortured you.”
“Feren’s alive? Is he here?”
Pisces latched onto that. The most skilled [Necromancer] had been in his mid-twenties, no duelist like Pisces, but able to cast [Flash Step] and [Deathbolt]. He had also wanted to be like Az’kerash and even tried dying his hair white in imitation of his mentor. Pisces had always thought that if anyone had been able to make it…
“No. No, we parted a long time ago. He’s still in Terandria. Working with Ailendamus.”
“…What? You have to be kidding.”
Ama shrugged.
“I was with him for a long time. But he’s obsessed with creating a huge cabal and an undead army. He wants revenge—but Ailendamus hires him to cause trouble with other nations. Raid villages, attack people—idiot. He was up to something big the last I heard of him.”
Pisces shook his head.
“You’ll need to tell me more about that. And you? How’d you get to Izril?”
“The same way you did. I just—left Terandria. Izril was closest, so I went to a port, but there’s almost nowhere safe. I should have gone to Baleros or Chandrar, but I couldn’t afford it. I finally found a place to make my undead here. And it’s been going well. Sillias is my finest creation—no matter what his ‘combat capability’ is.”
She had to actually raise the undead from the ground to show him off. Pisces saw the cat flex, roll over, and even pretend to wash a paw with a bone tongue of all things.
It was impressive and reminded Pisces of Gewilena…but it was also amazingly useless.
“How long did you spend on making that tongue?”
“Uh, five months. It was hard figuring out how to move it properly. Want to see him perch on a ledge?”
Ama was excited to show her cat off, but Pisces was glancing at the sky.
“I’ve got to get back to the inn. I just—I wanted to know what’s going on, Ama. What’s your cabal doing?”
“Learning necromancy. What else? This…this is art. And I’m happy without your help. Those Gargoyle bones will make great protectors and fuel more projects. Thanks for that. You’re a famous Gold-rank. I can’t believe those damn adventurers don’t stab you. What else is there to say?”
She looked at him like a stranger, and Pisces glanced around the ruins. He imagined living in that windmill, and looked at the kids.
“Do you rob people for money?”
“No. What are you, trying to make sure nothing comes back to you? Believe me, I won’t try that if we run into an adventurer.”
She said it too fast, crossing her arms. Pisces huffed.
“I’m not—we’re old friends, Ama. At least, we were. I just don’t want you to get in trouble bothering the wrong people. Do you need money?”
She shrugged defensively.
“We get by.”
He dug in his bag of holding.
“I bet. Here.”
He held out a handful of gold, and the [Necromancer] stared at it. She almost reached for the gold, then her face turned paler, and she swatted at his hand.
“I don’t need that. I don’t need you.”
“It’s just a gift.”
“Well, I don’t need it.”
“Fine. I’m trying to be helpful. Clearly, I wasn’t needed here or anywhere else! Let’s agree to part on that.”
Pisces lost his temper and turned on his heel. He stalked off—but Ama called out after him.
“Pisces, wait!”
She caught up to him, and he turned. The angry [Necromancer] saw Ama hesitate. She looked back at the cabal, then whispered to him.
“You…my cabal is small. Since you’re such a high-level [Necromancer], will you raise a Bone Horror or something for them? I had to tell them we knew each other.”
He stared at her, and she flushed. Pisces bit his tongue, and Ama whispered.
“They’re causing no one harm, but they want to all level up and earn lots of gold. They’ll run off to another cabal—the Gargoyle bones are huge. It’s better if they don’t.”
“There are other cabals about Invrisil?”
She gave him a long look.
“Not Invrisil specifically. But there are some bad ones out there. Please, Pisces. Getting involved with Izril’s gangs is a bad idea.”
Without a word, Pisces looked at the [Necromancers]. He sighed…then fished in his bag of holding. He spilled a pile of bones onto the ground and, with a flourish, clicked his fingers.
“Will…this do? It’s just a bear.”
The two-headed warbear rose—or at least, a simulacrum of one. The original bear and his Skeleton Lord were back on Chandrar, so Pisces just used the Gargoyle bones for this one.
…The bear head looked stupid with bone fragments crudely making it up. Pisces supposed he should alter the design or carve some bones up to make it look better. But he knew Ama’s method took forever. Maybe some paint? But that flaked off in combat. Maybe it could do more than lumber about.
He expected Ama to sneer at his creation, but the [Necromancer] gasped, and the other five practically sprinted over as the warbear rose. Pisces looked at Ama.
“It’s not nearly as functional as your cat. My original was lost…what?”
“How—how did you do that?”
“Do what? Oh, I had the warbear’s template saved.”
“No, animate a Bone Horror like that? It takes half an hour for me to raise one, and you—”
Pisces blinked at Ama.
“I’ve always raised undead that fast. It’s harder with creations above regular skeletons, but—I’ve practiced.”
“Practiced? Who practices animation speed? You had no ritual, and the bindings—the bindings are terrible.”
Ama walked around the undead, and Pisces bristled.
“It does well in a fight.”
“It probably only lasts as long as it fights. Ew! Is this how you articulate the joints? Look, it’s paw barely does more than go up and down!”
Ama fearlessly wiggled the warbear’s paws as it reared up, demonstrating a classic swipe. Pisces grew defensive.
“That’s all it needs to do.”
“Yes, but you could make it actually adaptive. This thing just charges and bites, doesn’t it? You know, bears are more clever than that. Have you inlaid the bones with more strength or speed?”
“N—not everyone has time to make a custom undead. I, in fact, know how to make a Skeleton L—”
Pisces hesitated and closed his mouth on that. Ama hadn’t heard.
“Classic Pisces. You make undead like Feren. No customization.”
“I made a skeleton with a crossbow in its chest!”
She gave him a blank look as he furiously poured bones out of his bag of holding. Pisces neglected to mention that he hadn’t used that combat skeleton in almost any battle—he really did just raise skeletons or the warbear or the Bone Behemoth.
Frankly—when you had a Bone Behemoth, most problems got squashed. Aside from armies of monsters. But Ama just sneered at his skeleton.
“Hey, raise the Scottie the Scout Skeleton. Bring him over here.”
“Scottie the Scout…you name your undead?”
Pisces forgot how Ama was. Actually, Gewilena had named all the zombie laborers. She just gave him an arch look.
“Yes, I do. And I have [Personal Undead] Skills.”
“That’s a Skill?”
“That’s a Skill? Ahem.”
Pisces froze as he heard a voice that no one else did. Ama flicked her brown hair out and pointed.
“Death Apprentices, clear some space. Let me show my peer what he’s forgotten. Scottie—dance!”
