The skeleton was just a normal one, although for some reason he had an jerkin and pants on. Clearly new clothing, not the stuff the skeleton had been buried in. For a given value of new—it was tattered stuff. The skeleton with its bright yellow eyes did a jig in place with surprising nimbleness.
That was…actually somewhat impressive. Skeletons had mobility but not dexterity. Pisces could get his to run, but a dance? He refused to look impressed as a voice spoke in his head.
“Young Pisces. It seems appropriate that now I reach out to you. At your…convenience, we must speak.”
“Absolutely, Archmage.”
Pisces was sweating suddenly, and he wished Ama didn’t look quite so smug given her audience. She took his expression for mockery and glared.
“Not good enough? Okay, Scottie—flip.”
Scottie the Scout Skeleton backflipped. Pisces’ eyes bulged. It wasn’t even an amateurish backflip; Scottie curled up into a ball and then landed with both arms raised.
“Wh…”
“That’s quite impressive.”
Even Az’kerash sounded mildly intrigued. Pisces stared as Scottie kept dancing.
“You can make a skeleton do that? Did you just say—[Personal Undead]? I’ve never heard of that. And believe me, I, uh, I’ve been studying from the greatest tomes of undeath.”
Ama just laughed at him.
“Why would they have anything to do with Skills? And you don’t know how fast skeletons can move? Scottie can run on a vertical wall. Hey, make Scottie do a wall run for Pisces.”
The other [Necromancers] herded him off, but Ama stepped forwards.
“Just between us two, I suppose I’ll share that since you showed us your bear. Not a lot of [Necromancers] know about [Personal Undead]. I know, because Gewilena did it.”
“She never told me about that.”
Pisces felt hurt, and Ama shrugged.
“Maybe she didn’t have the Skill. Not a lot of [Necromancers] named their undead. They treat them like disposable tools. Feren hasn’t named a single undead he’s ever raised. I bet you haven’t either. If you don’t treat a skeleton as valuable, of course it’s not going to do anything.”
Pisces and Az’kerash stared at Ama in silence. She smirked.
“You’ve never named a single skeleton, have you?”
“I, uh—had one of my skeletons named Toren.”
Pisces neglected to mention who named it. Ama folded her arms.
“Well, there you go. It’s like pets. [Personal Undead] can gain useful Skills—Sillias mends himself from scrapes, so I don’t have to keep repairing him—even your damage is gone.”
“Archmage Chandler? Is this true?”
Pisces had to ask. Surely, in the two hundred years of Archmage Chandler’s existence…the great Necromancer of Terandria was silent.
“I have not needed to nickname any undead without personality. Nor have any of the apprentices I ever taught expressed such odd behavior…undead were servants and protectors in my time. Interesting subsections of magic exist everywhere. As for imbuing bones with additional power, that is something I practiced when necessary. However, this cat…undead is overdone in every respect. Does it have a purring function?”
Pisces looked at Ama, and she gave him a triumphant look, as if feeling she had won something. Which…she had. He stood there as she exhaled.
“I wish I’d had Sillias when we were back at the farm. We might have gotten everyone out.”
“I’m sorry, Ama. I…I am sorry.”
She looked at him bleakly, then turned away.
“You’re famous, and you have a team now. I’m glad. Listen, we’re not always going to be here, but if you want to come by, I can teach you how to make a Scottie. Did you—ever learn how to cast [Deathbolt] or other spells? Finding tomes or swapping spells is hard. I feel like I could learn it now, but Feren never got around to teaching me. Or any other spells.”
“I might. I’ll think about it. Right now, I do have to run. I’ve got to go get some sleep, Ama.”
She nodded at him, but when he turned, she held out her hand. He reached out to take it, and Ama curled her fingers.
“I could take some gold. If you’re giving it away.”
He gave her a slightly irked look, but produced a handful of gold coins—and then another. Ama hurried it into her own bag of holding, and the two stood there, not quite sure how to continue.
“—How is the, um, adventuring going, anyways?”
“Oh, we’re exploring a dungeon. With Colth the Supporter, no less.”
Pisces snorted mildly, but Ama looked stunned.
“A Named-rank? How does he fight? Isn’t he one of Izril’s most eligible bachelors?”
“Possibly. He’s not that charming.”
Ama gave Pisces a long look.
“And you’re the judge of that? What’s it like, anyways? Is he the best fighter in the world or something?”
“I don’t know. We haven’t even gotten into the dungeon. I’ve actually been exploring it via a skeleton. I have to control one and send it down hundreds of feet and miles into the dungeon, past traps—to navigate through it. Sensible, but slow.”
“You can control it that far?”
The [Necromancer] was impressed, but this was more familiar to her, so Pisces described the orb setup and how Colth had come up with the idea. Only here, far, far away from the inn and prying ears did he say what he suspected the rest of the Horns had thought.
“It was a novel idea coming from someone who’s never worked with a [Necromancer] before. Very sensible, safe, and practical. Colth is about as adept as, ah, a junior [Necromancer].”
She laughed at that. Colth had been very pleased by his idea, and Pisces had forbore mentioning that they’d used expendable skeletons in Albez—and spiders, here. Colth had tweaked the concept and made it more useful, but it wasn’t that original.
“So he’s smart enough to be a [Necromancer]. That’s better than most meatshield adventurers I’ve run into.”
“True, true. He is a dangerous man. I don’t know in which sense, but I do know that. I wonder how these Named-ranks will act in Drake lands…ah.”
The ah was because the giant cat, Sillias, was padding over. Pisces backed up, but then he saw it twine around Ama, like an oversized, affectionate regular cat. He wasn’t sure if she’d commanded her undead to do that or if it was just created to do that at odd intervals.
Either way—the [Necromancer] stroked its head and scratched it under the chin, smiling, and Pisces had to admire that.
“…It is a work of art. He is. Gewilena would have been proud.”
Ama colored a bit and nodded at him.
“You really don’t make art anymore, Pisces? You? Gewilena taught you to carve bone as well as I did.”
His head lowered. Pisces stared at the ground, then felt a burning itch around his neck. His skin crawled on his back, and he looked up—and Ama’s smile went away.
“No. I do admire Sillias, Ama. But…my undead, as many as I can raise, as strong as they can be—they’re still not enough. I abandoned artistry to make them strong enough to kill monsters. And they’re not capable of killing real horrors. Not yet.”
Uncertainly, Ama glanced at the direction of his warbear, still being inspected by the junior members of her cabal.
“Is that why you’re adventuring? How many monsters are there in the world, anyways? How many Creler nests? I’ve never seen one and I live out in the wilds.”
She laughed uncertainly, and Pisces looked somberly at her.
“The bad ones look like people. They are, in my experience, the most difficult to kill.”
Ama stopped laughing and gave Pisces a longer look. Then she did nod, ducking her head to hide her face behind her long bangs.
“Yeah. They are. I stay away from them, but you and Feren…how many more have you met?”
“I met a number on Chandrar. Then I was rescued…I ran away. I left some good friends behind.”
Pisces whispered, like a confession. He looked at the cabal and Izril—safe. Despite the monster hordes. Ama watched her old friend’s face, and she saw Pisces look over his shoulder.
Again. She had thought he was impatient and wanting to be gone. Then she wondered if he was looking…southeast. Following the distant connection of death magic she sensed coming out of him. Impossibly far away.
“Chandrar’s a long way away.”
That was the only thing she could think to say. She had never seen the continent of deserts and old kingdoms aside from scrying orbs. It was just an idea to her, like Khelt or Az’kerash himself.
But Pisces…he nodded, then said something he hadn’t told his team or even Erin. A conclusion he’d come to.
“It is. It is, Ama. It will be a long journey back, and an ordeal. However—I have left too much unsettled with foul men and abhorrent deeds on Chandrar. I abandoned noble folk. I hope they can wait. Either way, I must return and bring them here. Or be damned.”
His eyes stared into the distance, and then he looked nothing like the boy with the practice rapier who she remembered, eagerly sitting around with the other young [Necromancers] and playing at undead. Then, she could see how he’d become a Gold-rank adventurer. And though neither she nor Pisces could see it, nor hear his voice…the Necromancer could see them and hear.
The Archmage of Death smiled, like a man named Perril Chandler once had, when he breathed and held Silvaria’s honor in his hands. Like an older mentor seeing a worthy pupil on his long, treacherous road.
A path so dangerous even he would have hesitated before stepping upon it, for he knew Roshal and Chandrar’s treachery. But—the Necromancer’s lips moved, his thoughts focusing, thinking. Wondering what he could give his successor for the trials ahead.
And while Az’kerash watched Pisces, the Tyrant of Cloth, the great ruler of those lands who knew both Roshal and Chandrar better than any other—she watched Az’kerash.
Nerrhavia smiled too.
 
——
 
Nothing much else happened that night. Aside from one person getting a very…suitable notification that made this morning fall into context. A decision had been made, or possibly, a threshold crossed.
Two points on a dataset made a line. A cluster, a trend. Well, if this were going to continue—if this were more than a hobby—what would it become? A voice measured the choices thus far and spoke:
 
[Prankster class obtained!]
[Prankster Level 8!]
[Skill – Convincing Lies obtained!]
[Skill – Pardon the Joke obtained!]
[Skill – Mischief Bank obtained!]
[Mischief Skill – Wings Upon Ice obtained!]
 
“Oh? Ooooh!”
A half-Elf flailed around in her sheets and then landed on the floor. Ceria Springwalker couldn’t believe it. A new class? Now?
Was this comeuppance or…? She couldn’t tell, but after some thinking—and especially analyzing that unique Skill—she decided this was a good thing. The [Cryomancer] was tempted to run outside, but it was late. So, instead, she just tiptoed outside, saw a sleepy little Mrsha being led to the outhouse by Lyonette—and froze their door lock solid.
She did not level, much to her dismay.
 
——
 
The next morning, Pisces wondered why the normally friendly Lyonette served Ceria a burnt piece of bacon on some untoasted bread with a scowl. And she had, apparently, personally burnt the bacon.
Mrsha was also slightly bleary-eyed and scowling at Ceria, but forgave the half-Elf when Ceria promised to teach her some magic.
“Quality over quantity, I guess.”
He had no idea what she was talking about. But then, Pisces himself was, ah—low on sleep. He was very, very grateful for Erin’s [Twofold Rest] Skill, because he had had an unpleasant night.
Ama was one thing. But his night hadn’t ended with her. He had had…a very interesting conversation with Az’kerash.
 
——
 
The Archmage of Death was—chatty of late. He asked Pisces about his studies, his team, and his return from Chandrar. Even Erin Solstice.
Was he aware of Erin’s quests? Perhaps he was regarding Pisces more and more as an unofficial apprentice.
Pisces was, of course, as polite as possible, but the Necromancer hadn’t contacted him to impart any magic or purely for social politeness.
“Young Pisces, I have reached out regarding the new lands of Izril. It is my understanding your team has not decided to enter the new lands. Is this so?”
“N-no, Necromancer. They have made no such commitments.”
Pisces began sweating the instant he heard this. Az’kerash’s mental tone, however, was pleasant. Even conversational. Pisces wasn’t fooled.
“My interests tend towards the new lands of Izril also. In the pursuit of your own levels and your career as an adventurer, I suggest you embark there as well.”
“To…assist you in your goals, Archmage? My team has commitments, and while I am sure there is a wealth of opportunity there, I cannot force my Captain, Ceria, to do anything.”
Pisces replied swiftly, and Az’kerash paused.
“Naturally, but I would assume you have no little weight. I happen to know there is a great opportunity in the new lands—the <Mythical Quest> aside. If not what, it will be invaluable to all, or so my source assures me.”
He sounded displeased, so Pisces clarified.
“Naturally, then, Archmage. You—you think it is that important?”
Az’kerash took his time replying, and when he did, Pisces’ heart sank.
“Just as I have taken your side against Roshal, young Pisces, so too do I assure you that the new lands have an opportunity you must not miss out upon. Consider this a friendly piece of advice.”
Pisces swallowed. Well.
“In that case, Necromancer, I will begin my preparations at once.”
“Properly, young Pisces. Properly. But your foresight in accepting my guidance is noted.”
 
——
 
Pisces’ forehead rested on the table. He wondered what he was going to do.
Well—obviously, go to the new lands. He’d known from the start that the Necromancer’s help had consequences. Now, he was calling in the favor from Chandrar.
And it had been a favor worth having at the time. But could he endanger his team? Pisces shook his head.
What…what would Az’kerash ask of him? Perhaps just to find whatever this was. Either way, the favor had been called in, and Pisces was only grateful he hadn’t missed all the hints Az’kerash was dropping.
His wrath…would not be pleasant. But Pisces looked at Ksmvr, who was gobbling down just toast with butter and cinnamon for breakfast, and Yvlon and Ceria…and he spoke as Ceria was munching on her single piece of burnt bacon.
“Everyone, I have decided I will be joining the expedition to the new lands. Purely as a matter of self-improvement. You need not accompany me, nor do I expect it. I am quite self-sufficient, and frankly, I can understand if you would prefer we split a time.”
It was—harder to say like that. Pisces tried to sniff and sneer at the same time as he gave his team an arch look. Yvlon nearly spat out her breakfast porridge.
