“Not exactly the same words I would use,” Adam muttered. “So. If I seize a cookie from a small child, would that break my soul in half?”

The Culturist's mouth fell open slightly. “I… am uncertain. Perhaps not? You do not seem a full god, but this can only be discovered through testing.”

“I’m not sure how much I want to test this.”

“It’s best to know. I recommend that you commit a small act of evil. Just to see what happens. Kill someone's beloved pet and see if one of your skills shatters.”

“You think murdering someone’s pet is a small act of evil?” Adam almost facepalmed. Sometimes, the Culturist was terrifyingly insightful. Other times, his orcish perspective resulted in moments like these.

The orc frowned. “Is it not?”

“Culturist. How should I put this… If I killed a nobleman’s prized steed or some Young Lady’s pet puppy, they would go from merely wanting to humiliate me to trying to enact a large act of evil on me.”

“Truly. Hm… That explains a great many things. We orcs do not often take pets because—”

“Yes, yes, another orc would do unspeakable things to the pet to hurt you. What a wonderful life you all live.”

He nodded. “You understand.”

“I was a happier person when I didn’t. So. Any idea about the other ones?”

“I know about one of your other skills,” the Culturist answered. “A very strange Evolution. Rare too. Do you have a Tracking Skill?”

“Yes, but it’s Initiate-Tier.”

“Ah. How odd. The Prey that was Promised is usually a Divination-Tracking Skill Fusion.”

The Paragon pulled up his sheet and confirmed that the Tracking Skill was still Initiate. “Not a fusion for me.”

“Which is why I think it to be strange. The fact that you lack any Narrative Skills so far is also odd. I would think that the Divine Watchtower of a Narrative-driven dimension would have given you a skill bound to the nature of a story. Perhaps one has not evolved yet. Or maybe your Shattered Star Unites caused them to submit to your nature instead.”

“Well, it was purified from the body of the Stranger after the Starhawk intervened on my behalf,” Adam recalled.

“Ah. Another set of conflicting skills. Fascinating. Regardless, The Prey that was Promised is good for you. Especially since it does not require overmuch understanding of Divination. You can still cast spells at baseline, but if you know a great deal about someone’s history, personality, and can guess at what they might do next, you should be able to mark their location and track them so long as you remain within the same dimension.”

A rush of adrenaline went through Adam. “I can track Shiv and Uva with it?”

“You should be able to—”

The Paragon exploded into action. Summoning his Divination mana, he let out a gasp as a violet field formed around his body. A magical projection of Adam took shape—and it had a Divination arrow drawn. But he didn’t just radiate Divination. There was an outline of azure incandescence that emanated from him like vapor. “Bloody hells, the Feat wasn’t lying. It’s like everything I do has a bit of Heroism inside it.”

And a bit of his Heroism continued trickling toward the Culturist, spilling into that single shard of goodness which lingered within the orc.

“I can feel it too…” the Culturist breathed. “It’s always there. Always.”

Later, Adam commanded himself. Think about the implications later. Find Shiv and Uva now.

Concentrating his Divination, his magical avatar drew its bow back and turned, seeking a target. “Alright. Personal history, you said? What Shiv might do?”

“Yes,” the Culturist replied, leaning in, his breath bated in anticipation. “If you two have history, that makes it—”

Almost immediately, Adam felt something. A cord of Divination tore out from him, and it speared out through the woods. Adam’s senses reeled. It was like a portion of himself was accelerated outward with his magic. Images flashed through Adam’s mind. It was like a rope made from his own history was lashing outward, slicing magnetically toward the moments he shared with Shiv. He recalled their time on Blackedge—seeing Shiv as a near-feral Pathless street rat; hating him. And then there was the attack during the Festival of the Eclipse, Shiv’s fall, Adam’s capture, and then everything that followed. Weave. Passage. Theborn. The Dragon-Knights. Confriga. The Recollector. Blackedge. The prison. The capital. The return. And now.

The chain of Divination uncoiled further and further. Seconds turned to minutes. Adam’s anticipation built. He wondered if Shiv wasn’t here. He wondered if—

And then he struck something dead on.

Something that promptly shredded Adam’s Divination mana like a falling blade.

But it couldn’t touch his Heroism.

The Paragon’s lip quirked upward as a notification appeared before his vision, as he gained a glimpse and received a hint as to where Shiv was.

Found you.

Within the jaws of dawn, the Court of Summer has caged and chained a beast unlike any other…
