“No. I like this pain. I prefer it. It makes me feel right.” The Culturist let out a gentle laugh and closed his eyes. He held out his arms in an embrace of all Adam bestowed upon him, a man basking in the morning sun after a lifetime of imprisonment. “I feel light. I cannot hear him, so close to you. The Challenger has turned away. The Challenger’s Domains… They… must be in opposition to yours.” The Culturist's eyes snapped open, and his teeth clenched. “The cur. He lied. He told me centuries ago he was no God of Evil. He swore to me that he was purely a God of Strife. He claimed his nature was a neutral one. He lied… He lied… He lied…” There was a snarl of relief and hatred in equal measure in the Culturist's voice. “It wasn’t just our nature. It never was. All these centuries. I knew… No. I just hoped. And I was right. I was right.”

Something about the orc seemed brittle just then, and despite everything, letting him sink deeper into his own torment felt wrong. Tentatively, Adam reached out. There was a part of his mind that always suspected the orc was playing games with him, trying to lure him into a false sense of security toward some scheme of pointless cruelty.

That can’t be the case this time. I can see it inside him. I can feel it. It is virtue. I know it is there. I can feel it. I don’t know how or why, but I know what it is, and it calls to me. I can’t let it die.

As the Paragon touched the huge orc’s arm, the Culturist went still. Adam wasn’t sure what to say. Words to hurt or to reach someone’s heart didn’t come to him as easily as they did Shiv. He made do with sincerity. “Are you alright?”

And with sincerity alone, the Culturist’s soul roared with new vigor, fanned by the flames of the Paragon’s Skill.

Icon of Virtue (Master) 1 > 3

“I think I am better than I have ever been in all my lives.” The Culturist let out a grunt of overwhelmed emotion. “I came here thinking I was to be the one to save you. The better part of me pretended I was doing this because I had the capacity to defy the Challenger to choose. But truly… I wanted to make Valor feel like he owed me. I wanted to tighten my control and influence over you. Perhaps make you something I could command. I believed that if I could pervert your nature, it might give me an edge against him when we inevitably fought again. It would have hurt him. It would have ruined you. Even with the Itch quelled, I was only thinking about how to scratch it better in the future. It was always there. Even when dulled. But not anymore. It’s gone. In your light, it has burned away.”

Admissions spilled out from the orc in an unceasing tide. He meant every word, and darker truths withheld came into the light without shame, spurred on by honesty and drawn forth by Adam’s light. “I was worried about something like that,” Adam muttered after a moment.

The Culturist nodded. “I know. It would have made whatever I did to you later hurt more. It would have twisted the heart of the Deathless as well, to have you seen ruined by my hand in some way. He imagines you to be his moral heart sometimes. Do you know this? He would have been much closer to a monster without you.”

“There are others,” Adam replied, trying to avoid the burden the orc was placing on his shoulders. “Valor. Uva. Weave. They would have—”

“The Seeker’s heart is a spot of coldness,” the Culturist interrupted. “She does not care if Shiv is a true monster to those she despises, so long as he does not prove dangerous to those she cares for and holds just enough humanity to nurse her passions on. And, in honesty, she is the most vicious among you three. She is just not so loud about it. She cares about a few things, but beyond that, her affection becomes clinical at best.”

“Uva is not a monster,” Adam almost growled. “She’s a damned hero, and I won’t hear any more of it. I wouldn’t have a home if not for her.”

“You wouldn’t. And I didn’t say she is a monster. I said she is vicious and cold. That doesn’t mean she cannot be heroic. It just means she has a higher capacity for darker acts than either you or even the Deathless. That doesn’t make her like me. But it also means she would not restrain the Deathless once his blood gets going. You do. You care. And so he reins himself in, so that you do not think lowly of him.”

Again, the orc could have been lying, but Adam’s own Psychology Skill had guessed as much. He'd just underestimated how much passive influence he had over Shiv.

“It’s also why he didn’t hesitate to save you. He could have eaten that piece of paper himself. He chose you. Uva wrapped herself around you—shielded you with her being. Because they both believed in you, valued you more than themselves.” The Culturist let out a laugh. “What is your new Path?”

“Paragon?” Adam said, trying to hide a lump forming in his throat.

“Paragon. How fitting. Tell me the rest. Tell me your other changes. I suspect I will not be as much help as I previously anticipated, but I will grant you what knowledge I can. And afterward…” The Culturist suddenly turned away. He stared off into the distance, peering through columns of trees.

“What?” Adam strained his hearing—cast his Awareness outward. “Is there someone coming? Are we in danger?”

Silence was the orc’s response. “I… am not sure. This might not be good for your morale, but though I’ve adventured across many dimensions, I have avoided the Fairwoods. And for good reason. Even a Legend can find themselves trapped in a fate far worse than death here.”

“You’re right, that’s not any bloody good for my morale at all.” Adam sighed. “Might be Evanescia looking for the pieces to her tower.”

“Could be. But I still find myself uncertain as to why she hasn’t already found us. She is greater than a Legend here. She holds influence over Divine power. She was willing to inflict brutal torture upon you.”

“Indeed. But maybe…” Adam considered something. “She’s called the Usurper-Narrator, not the Usurper-Author, isn’t she?”

The Culturist nodded in agreement, and a wide grin spread across his face. “She is called that indeed. You think the Narrative is hiding you from her.”

“Could be,” Adam said. “But let’s not count on it. If you think someone is scrying for us, then I suggest we move. Find a more secure position. Maybe higher ground.”

“Ah. Well. Perhaps, but I suspect that will be hard.”

“What? Why? We’re in the middle of a forest—exposed from all angles. Frankly, I’m not sure—”

“Stomach.”

The randomness of the Culturist’s interruption threw Adam off. “Excuse me?”

“We are not in a forest. We are inside a stomach. This is the gut biome of a great dragon. I hid us here deliberately.” The orc’s eyes turned to crescents as he smiled gleefully under his cowl. “Come now, Paragon. I would not leave you in the open like so. There is a reason why I brought us here.”

The Paragon blinked. “A dragon.”

“Yes. A Green Dragon. A creature that spreads the wilds wherever it goes. A particularly old beast, from the look of it. It’s the size of a large city. Its Awareness was respectable too—it almost noticed me.”

This fell into one of the times Adam realized just how fantastical his life was. “Right… Is it awakened?”

“Yes. It’s even dressed. It’s holding a lesser nation’s worth of gold in a large sack over its shoulder and flying across the land, trying to hire people to start a township on its back to clear out the overgrowth there. Effectively, it’s inviting parasites onto its body for the sake of a haircut.”

Adam immediately realized his life was pretty mundane comparatively. “Well then. No better place to go over all my changes… Okay, are we really inside a dragon? You’re not playing with me, are you?”

“Hardly, Young Arrow. And before you feel bad, it takes quite some effort to discover that the insides of a nature elemental are actually just that.”

The Paragon sent his Awareness up through the foliage. What loomed above wasn’t so much a sun as it was a brilliant core of concentrated mana. It even gave off the requisite warmth and brightness, infused all the vegetation with unceasing nourishment. The absurdity of his circumstance inspired a thought in Adam. “Culturist. You think this is what the System is like?”

“A giant beast whose guts lesser reality dwells within? Yes. But maybe we are so small we amount to individual cells more than anything.”

That gave Adam a good dose of existential dread. “And what might a god be in a body like that?”

“Hm. An aspect of the nervous system, perhaps. Or something that coordinates the rest of the body. Something the entire thing cannot function without. But the thing about analogy, Paragon, is that it is only a mirror at best. Not the thing-in-itself. I—ah, I will have to loan you those terrible books Kant wrote. But later. Right now, tell me of your new skills.”

For a few minutes, that was what Adam did. He still didn’t trust the Culturist completely, but with the Heroism within the orc amplified and the Itch repelled, Adam felt confident he wasn’t going to be scalped for pleasure any time soon. On top of that, the Culturist’s eons of experience proved useful as he managed to identify some of Adam’s non-Unique Skills and offer theories for those that were truly novel. Ultimately, however, the Culturist found himself astonished. This was as much a first for him as it was for Adam.

The orc claimed there were indeed ways for a mortal to embark down the path of Divinity, but they necessitated power that made a Legend look feeble. That was the case of the Challenger. Other gods were more along the lines of the Great One—grand mysteries beyond the understanding of mortal ken, descendants from these higher gods, like the Composer, who were born to divinity, or leeches, like the Ascendants, who were siphoning Divinity from someone else’s story. Adam was closest to the last category, but he wasn’t nested in someone else’s skill. No. A sliver of Divinity had been embedded inside him, and he'd changed in turn. He was still his own Pathbearer, still living his own legend, and that relieved his worries.

For however much Adam still revered the Starhawk, everything he'd learned about the Ascendants made the prospect of becoming like them more nightmare than fantasy.

“Icon of Virtue is usually evolved from an Inspiration Skill,” the Culturist said. “To gain it through deed is rare, but possible. I suspect it emerged as a leftover quantity of mana that wasn’t sure what to crystallize itself into at first.”

Adam nodded. “When the Challenger’s presence was purged from your insides, it leveled.”

“Ah. It amplifies the urge to do good in all those who are capable of goodness, and it creates a connective channel of power between you and those you inspire. The more noble-hearted individuals around you, the stronger you will be, and the more you inspire them to goodness, the stronger they will be. Good for generals and leaders—though I wouldn’t recommend a general to gain such a skill.”

“Why?” Adam asked, confused.

“Because every time I tortured a general with Icon of Virtue to death before their warriors, the army usually collapsed and had a collective seizure right after. The withdrawal and demoralization one feels when the Icon is defiled is quite severe.”

Adam just glared wordlessly up at the orc.

“Honesty comes with grim realities sometimes,” the Culturist answered with a weak smirk. “I’m still an orc, and even now, I don’t think those actions are beyond me, if I think they would be effective enough.”

“Yes. Thank you for reminding me,” Adam deadpanned. “I see now why the Heroism inside you is just a narrow thread rather than a massive sphere.”

“That, and I must question what Heroism truly means,” the Culturist countered. “It seems your Heroism means the act or potential of valorous deeds and virtue—to do righteous things rather than great ones. Classical heroism would not have held the same connotations. But this begs the question, does this Domain lean more toward goodness or righteousness? There is a difference—”

“I know there is a difference. I have taken courses on philosophy.” Adam thought back to his time at the academy. “Goodness is defined by an element of morality and pure virtue. Feeding someone. Offering alms for the poor. Dedicating one’s life to service. But righteousness can be measured by a metric of unpleasant necessity. Sacrificing an army to protect a large city against their will is deeply amoral but strongly righteous. But I suspect that is not what my Domain represents. I think mine is the urge to do right, damn the fates, damn the System.”

“I agree,” the Culturist replied. “And that worries me. Do you know that a god going against their own Domain in an unforeseen way can become an act of suicide for them?”

Adam did not, in fact, know that. “It… can…?”

“Yes. It’s not often mentioned as, 'what God of a Thing simply decides they wish to defy that which they represent or abandon their own Domain?' But if one does—or if one is somehow deceived into performing an act that ruins their own divine legend—then something in them will fracture. It is one of the means through which a mortal can damage a god aside from Animancy.” The Culturist frowned. “Or Shiv just tearing into them, for that matter. It is disturbing how his Unique Skills make him more and more capable of stabbing and mutilating everything—including ideas themselves. If only the rest of us could have been so fortunate.”

