“You have the right to ask me any question in the world, Wil. Any one at all. You chose, and so, to the best of my knowledge, I’ll reply. What aids House Kallinad the most at this moment? I’m honored they think I would know. The Forgotten Wing Company has no contracts with Terandria and I have visited the continent only a handful of times. However, somewhat ironically, I do know something of value. Worthy of the question.”
Wil looked up. Niers stood, and took his cup. He stared into the clear liquid before turning back to Wil, and his tone was brisk.
“Wil. Your half-brother—no, pardon me, your cousin, Girent, is engaged to a member of House…blast, I’m a bit drunk. House Havrington, isn’t that right?”
“The du Havrington family, yes, Professor.”
Wil sat up, suddenly alert. The Titan nodded.
“What do you think of them? Between us?”
Wil was cautious, but he relaxed as he looked around the Titan’s rooms, one of the most secure in the world.
“I—know some of them. I can’t say I’m fond of their family, Professor. They’re rather…”
“Human-centric? Bigoted? I’ve met them too, Wil. This is just between us.”
“All of the above, sir. But my father wants peace with them. Hence the marriage.”
“And he is marrying a girl. Thirteen. Lady Cassicel Havrington, who would be by bloodline next in line to the position of [Marquis] and fourth by blood to the Havrington’s own line of succession. Correct?”
Wil nodded slowly.
“Yes—yes. It’s just political. She’ll live in our household. Girent isn’t happy about it, but he doesn’t have to live with the du Havringtons, and this is a big concession for them to end the hostilities between our families, so we’re putting a lot into the marriage. What of it?”
Niers took a gulp from his cup. The fiery liquid burned his throat. The Titan sighed.
“It’s a sham. The marriage, I mean. The entire damn thing is fake.”
“What?”
The [Lord] sat up, alarm written over his face. Niers held up a hand.
“Don’t panic! This isn’t an assassination at a wedding. Nothing so dramatic. Rather, it’s political. Messy. Lady Cassicel is not a pure-blood bloodline. In fact, her grandmother was a commoner. By marrying her, you’ll invalidate your offspring unless you induct her as a Kallinad. Either way, it will be a disaster politically.”
“Yes—but how do you know that, sir? That would be a scandal! If we married Girent and they revealed her blood wasn’t pure, it would be a scandal! And we gave them—would they reveal it now? No—in a decade!”
“Perhaps when your father passed or later still. It would be used at the most opportune time to embarrass the Kallinads, perhaps if your family were trying to leverage your ties against the du Havringtons. Either way, they gain a truce and a weapon to use against you.”
Wil nodded. He was aware of the politics, more so than Niers. He sat back, staring.
“This is huge. But how do you know this, Professor? This should be the most secret of information. Only the family of the du Havringtons would know this, unless there was a leak…?”
Niers shook his head.
“Not that I know of. And I only know this information by coincidence. You see, Wil—Lady Cassicel. I knew her grandfather.”
“How?”
Wil leaned over. Niers gestured at him to take a drink. He returned to his seat, speaking crisply.
“It’s not a fantastic story. Back when I was first beginning the Forgotten Wing Company with Foliana, we were looking for officers. Recruiting anyone of talent, really. You know how it goes? Well, one of the people who enlisted was a [Lord]. Human. From Terandria, although he never said where.”
“A Havrington?”
“Yes. Lady Cassicel’s grandfather. We didn’t know, of course. We just called him Bedil. Good old Bedil. He was a [Lord] and he had decent Skills so I entrusted him with the command. He did good work, but he was running from something. He only told me who he was when they caught up with him.”
“Who?”
“His family.”
Niers tipped the glass he was drinking, walked over to the water through the puddle. He looked back at Wil.
“I think he ran away from his family. He had a few artifacts—and it’s not uncommon. He was a decent man, Wil. And his family wasn’t. He served with me for six years until they came for him. Then it was [Bounty Hunters] and mercenaries, and Foliana and I found ourselves fighting Terandrians! We didn’t want to give him up, but Bedil gave in when he realized his family wouldn’t stop.”
“Why did they want him back?”
Niers raised his eyebrows.
“Because he was theirs. Because he might embarrass them? Frankly, I think, because they wanted to marry him off. Either way, he gave in. His family took him—they never said who they were and he only ever told me his identity, so I think they assumed we were in the dark. Typical arrogance. But there was just one hitch. Can you imagine what that was?”
Wil was no fool. It took him only a second before his eyes widened.
“He had a child.”
“A wife and a child. Two, actually.”
Niers nodded. He sat down, recalling it.
“He was married, actually. It wasn’t a casual thing. She was—oh, a Lizardwoman.”
“A—”
“Fertility spells. I think both their children were Human. Lucky for them. But Bedil did love her. And when they took him, they brought his family too. Can’t have their bloodlines running about.”
“But this is huge, sir. Other species marrying into a family like the du Havringtons? If it was Kallinad, it would be big enough, but—they covered it up. I never heard of a Lizardwoman in the du Havrington family. But their servants?”
Wil was pacing. Niers nodded.
“I can only speculate. I never heard from Bedil again; I don’t think he was allowed much freedom. If he still lives.”
“He does, Professor. I’ve never seen him except at a few gatherings, but…”
“Good. But regardless, I know what his children looked like. And I can count. He has four heirs, doesn’t he? And his current wife…”
“Human. They’re all from her, or that’s what the bloodlines say. But if two came from his first wife—”
“Then they’re not purebloods. In fact, they share Lizardperson ancestry. Maybe a few unobtrusive scales? Fertility spells have a few quirks. Either way, Lady Cassicel is descended from his firstborn son. So…”
“…All of his descendants are ineligible without having been inducted into the Havrington family. Which they might have been! His wife might well have been inducted by virtue of marriage. But—”
Wil caught himself and shook his head.
“Not in the Du Havrington family. It would be a huge scandal.”
The Fraerling nodded. He looked into his drink and concluded.
“It will be a huge scandal. A blow to the Kallinad family, although not so much I daresay. It really only benefits the Havringtons to invalidate your marriage and end the feud between your families; they’ve been getting the worst of it.”
“Yes. And if they revealed Lady Cassicel’s ancestry—it’ll be a feud again. But it will wreck our reputation as much as theirs. Damn them. This is low. And they’re using Lord Bedil’s children in other marriages! Their bloodlines are pure—no wonder the Havringtons have been accepting marriages for…”
Wil trailed off. It was a foreign political system to Niers, but he knew a backstab when he saw one. And this was a good one, if Wil’s expression was anything to go by. The [Lord] looked at Niers, hesitated, and nodded.
“It—that—it is very valuable, Professor. My father will appreciate the information greatly. Thank you.”
And he would, too. Wil could only imagine how that tidbit would be used. It would wreck the Havringtons if deployed correctly, and save his family some embarrassment. And yet…Wil sagged. Niers watched him.
“You don’t look too happy for someone who’s received the answer to his question.”
The young man couldn’t answer back. He just hung his head. Niers looked at him sympathetically.
“Duty is a hard thing, Wil. I can’t tell you it’s better to live for yourself; it’s something you have to weigh.”
Wil might have nodded. His head jerked and he looked up. He hesitated and bit his lip.
“If I hadn’t asked, would you have used the information yourself, Professor?”
“You mean to threaten the Havringtons or warn House Kallinad? No, Wil. Some secrets you just keep. I have enough trouble without getting into Terandrian politics. You can’t really ever get out once you put a foot in.”
Niers looked amused as he shook his head. That made Wil feel a bit better. Even so, he rose slowly.
“I’ve fulfilled my obligations to my family. The du Havringtons will pay for this. That’s some consolation. Professor, thank you. The question was worth it.”
Just not for him. Niers nodded. He watched Wil excuse himself, walk towards the door. Niers hesitated. And he looked at Foliana and she nodded.
“Wil.”
The young man turned back. Niers paused, and then spoke slowly.
“Your dream of adventure. Don’t give it up. If you look for it, Wil, it will find you. When it does, reach out and grab it.”
Wil hesitated. Then he smiled and ducked his head.
“Thank you, Professor. I will.”
He left. Niers watched him go and then the door shut. He paused, and then sighed, and took another gulp of his drink. One down. Then the Titan of Baleros raised his voice.
“Umina?”
 
——
 
Umina was nervous. Beyond nervous. Terrified, but so scared she was calm. She’d seen Wil leave, looking unhappy and relieved. Now it was her turn. Umina walked into the room. She sat down at the Titan’s bidding, and looked at him.
“Um. You answered Wil’s question, Professor?”
“I believe I did. Whether it is to his satisfaction, we will see. I can’t speak to you of it, but he has his answer.”
The Fraerling’s voice was neutral. Umina nodded, squirming. She looked towards the door as it closed. She’d left it open. Niers waved a hand.
“Automatically closing doors. Handy for Fraerlings.”
“Sorry, Professor. Um—I know this is my chance to ask my question. But—may I ask something before that?”
“Certainly.”
He smiled at her. Reassured, Umina took a breath. She hesitated, but she had been able to talk to Niers this night. So it was only with a bit of difficulty she spoke.
“I—um, Professor, this is a bit silly. But I wanted to ask about me. As a student.”
Niers’ eyes focused slightly.
“Go on.”
“I—am I special, Professor? Do I stand out? As a student?”
The question exited Umina in a rush. The Titan blinked. He sat back slowly, as she looked at him. Then he smiled fondly.
“That’s an odd question. Of course you stand out! I’ve never had a student pop out of the ground covered in…sewer waste during my games! That was a surprise! You beat your fellow students!”
“Yes sir. But that was luck as much as strategy. I’m talking about me as a student.”
The Titan shrugged lightly. Umina watched him, her tail curled up.
“You’re gifted, sharp—you come up with the most unorthodox solutions most often, which is what I like to see. Of course you’re special!”
“Professor.”
The Fraerling paused. Umina looked at him and spoke slowly.
“I think you’re lying to me. Or—telling half-truths. I need to know. What if I made it my question, Professor? Honestly, am I unique?”
Niers looked at her. Really looked at Umina. And she felt a pit in her stomach. She’d admired him. She wanted to be like him. She’d tried her best to excel, to be worthy of the legend of her teacher. So she knew the answer when he covered up his reply with his praise. And she knew the answer before he spoke now.
“No.”
The word hit Umina like a brick. Niers sat up. He looked at her. A bit sadly.
“You did ask. And if you made it our question, Umina, I would say…no. Do you stand out? Yes. But are you…”
“Special?”
She looked at him. Niers shook his head slowly.
“I’m sorry. But if you’re asking if I see something I haven’t seen before? I don’t. I see a brilliant young [Strategist], Umina. But you have to understand. I taught Perorn, Umina. Perorn, Tulm—all of them. They were all my best students. And you know what? I didn’t even think they were the best at the time.”
“You didn’t?”
The Professor sat back. He looked backwards and shook his head.
“Some of them stood out, like Tulm. Most surprised me. I can remember students I thought would change the world, replace me, who died. Or just never became anything. Some of them were so gifted I couldn’t believe it. Others had special talents, Skills, classes. That made them ‘special’. If you want to know if I see that spark—”
He shook his head. Umina bit her lip. She wasn’t going to cry. Niers was speaking to her like an adult, not a child. He looked up, kindly, but seriously.
“I’m sorry to tell you like that. But if you were asking if I saw a great spark in you—I don’t. And overconfidence—”
“—Kills. I know, Professor.”
Did you have to ask? His gaze looked pained. Umina only dipped her head once. She’d wanted to know. It was a bitter truth. It had soured the moment. After a moment, Niers sighed.
“Umina—”
“It’s fine, Professor. Was—was that my question?”
“No. No, it wasn’t. Ask. By all means.”
He shook his head firmly. That relieved Umina. She sat up. And he looked at her.
“You have any question in the world, Umina. Any one within my power. Ask.”
She nodded. She looked him in the eye. And she channeled her pain, her disappointment, into a question that was the best she could ask.
“Professor, what is the identity of your mysterious chess opponent?”
Niers Astoragon blinked. He stared at Umina. And she rejoiced in the surprise on his face. He stared at her, smiled, and then grew serious. He shook his head.
“Ask me another question, Umina. Please.”
“That was my question, Professor. Can’t you answer it?”
She challenged him, shaking with nerves. The Titan laughed softly. He raked a hand through his hair.
“I’d forgotten there was a question I could be asked that would bother me! Sudden developments—to answer you, Umina. No. I don’t know for certain. I have a guess. And I could tell you a number of things. But let me speak.”
He held up a hand, forestalling Umina. The Titan got up, looked at her.
“I know what I promised. But I don’t want to tell you. I—sometimes I advise students on what question they should ask. Or guide them to the right answer. I’m doing the same now. Umina, ask me where some buried treasure is. I do actually know a cache or two. Ask me about something else. This answer won’t bring you anything of benefit, I promise you.”
“But it’s my question. Why don’t you want to answer it?”
The Lizardgirl persisted. Niers sighed again.
