“Listen. One of you can ask the Professor for this. It could be you, Umina! All you need to ask for is a list of every possible class consolidation the Professor knows about, and what Skills you get and the advantages and disadvantages. Think about it! We all stand to benefit. We could work towards our ideal class, and—and that information is worth gold if we sold it!”
He gestured around at the entire table. Marian blinked.
“That’s actually intelligent, Kissilt. But—every class? You think the Professor would really answer that?”
“Just [Strategists], then. Or commanding classes. Don’t you all want to know what your possibilities are?”
“But that’s such a general question. How does it benefit Umina and Wil more than you, Kissilt?”
“Well, it benefits us all, so we’d owe the asker a huge favor—”
“I’m offering gold. And my question is private. If Umina and Wil want to take it—”
Jekilt was looking meaningfully at Umina. She bit her tongue, but Marian shielded her.
“Umina can ask whatever she wants. She won the right to a question, Jekilt, not you.”
“No one’s denying that, Marian. But Jekilt’s right. She could stand to gain. Listen, I was going to bring this up later, but a [Merchant] friend of mine has a similar offer—”
“Don’t pressure her, Xelic!”
Marian glared at the Lizardman. Merrik slammed his mug on the table.
“Aw, come on. Let’s at least float our questions! Peki’s got one about martial arts techniques, so that’s probably out, but mine—”
All the students were looking at Wil and Umina now. Uneasily, Umina got up, raising her claws.
“Look, I don’t want to make promises. I have my own question—”
“Just hear us out!”
Wil was fending off Yerranola and Feshi. Marian looked up, and then leaned over.
“Umina, I do have one of my own—”
“Marian!”
“Enough! Wil, Umina, the door! Now! The rest of you, back off!”
Venaz shot to his feet. He pushed back the others as Wil and Umina backed towards the door. The Minotaur was impossible for even the Centaurs to move in the press, and he fended them off as the two students fled out the back door.
Venaz followed them out. He wrestled the door closed, pushing back the rest of their classmates who were shouting their own questions. He turned to Wil and Umina as the two panted.
“Idiots. You have a right to choose. And you would have accepted such offers beforehand if you had any intention of giving up your question, wouldn’t you?”
Umina nodded sheepishly. She’d gotten inquiries already. Some very generous. But…it was her question. Wil looked resigned as he nodded.
“I can’t ask anything else. And I bet you want to ask your question, right, Umina?”
“Yeah. I—well, it’s mine. I’m tempted by the gold and such, but I really want to know, you know?”
“Understandable. Clearly understandable. No one can force you. Um. However—”
Venaz nodded a few times. The Minotaur cleared his throat, looking embarrassed. Foliana watched him with interest as she chewed on a still-wriggling shrimp.
“—if you’d care to listen to my idea, there is some merit in it.”
Wil and Umina paused as they brushed down their clothing. It was nearly dusk; the time was coming soon. Venaz held up his hands as they looked at him.
“Listen to me! My idea is very sound. The Professor is known to have a vast spy network. If you ask this question, riches are the least of what we might gain. To begin with—”
He looked around conspiratorially and lowered his voice.
“Of all the seafaring ships that sank in the last millennium, there are three that were known to have borne relic-class artifacts that were never recovered. Just one would be worth a [King]’s ransom, not to mention that the three ships I have right here are all rich enough in other treasures to set all of us up for life. If you ask the Professor, I know a Minotaur crew that could take us anywhere in the world—”
He had a piece of paper with three names written on it. Umina stared at Venaz’s serious face, and then at Wil. He glanced at her, amused, embarrassed, and gave her a sheepish grin. She returned it. They both glanced at Venaz and then they ran for it.
 
——
 
It wasn’t hard to get back to her room or evade the other students. They’d given up after the bar, and the few who saw her didn’t press the issue. Rather, Umina’s great challenge was drinking a bit of potion to sober up, and then picking a dress to wear.
She was nervous. Meeting the Professor in his personal quarters? That was a right few students had ever earned! She was so busy rummaging through her clothes she didn’t realize the sun was setting. Then she threw on her clothes and practically ran towards the citadel.
She met Wil at the gates. He was nearly as breathless as she, and the two slowed to walk up towards the personal quarters higher in the citadel. They were far from alone; the citadel’s [Servants] and regular occupants all waved at the two as they passed. Some called out good luck, others just laughed at the two nervous students. Wil kept adjusting his clothing. He glanced at Umina.
“You look good. Did you put on makeup?”
“Just a bit!”
Umina blushed. She’d chosen her best dress for the occasion. She had to! It didn’t feel right to just stroll into the Professor’s office otherwise. And Wil had clearly done the same. He was wearing a doublet and expensive-looking leggings that out priced Umina’s best wardrobe a few times over. He hadn’t applied scale polish like she had, though.
Wil tugged at the ruff nervously and coughed.
“This was all I had. I know it’s stuffy, but I thought…”
He gestured lamely at Umina’s dress and she nodded. It fit the occasion. The two climbed the stairs, ascending higher. The classrooms occupied the two bottom floors of the citadel. But higher were the quarters of the Forgotten Wing Company’s staff. Niers Astoragon and Foliana both lived here when they weren’t away.
There were guards too. Selphids, mainly. They let Wil and Umina pass; usually students were barred from the third floor or higher. One winked at Umina.
“Congratulations, you two!”
“Thank you.”
“Don’t let the Titan pull another prank on you!”
“We’ll try.”
Wil tried to smile. But his walk was growing increasingly more disjointed, staccato. Umina felt just as rattled. He began to speak again distractedly as they climbed another staircase.
“You know, it really was kind of him to give me the right to ask a question. You won.”
“I—cheated. Really, you gave me the distraction.”
Wil shook his head adamantly.
“A win’s a win. That’s what the Professor teaches us. I’m just grateful I can ask—”
He broke off. The two paused on the seventh floor. The Titan’s quarters lay here. Wil looked seriously at Umina.
“I didn’t say it in the bar, but I really am grateful for the opportunity to ask, Umina. If I hadn’t won a question, I’d have embarrassed my family and all the effort they put into helping me. I’m glad both of us get to ask.”
“Me too.”
Umina smiled at Wil. He wasn’t her closest friend, but she felt a strong sense of connection with him in this moment. His uncertainty and nerves reflected her own. They were birds of a feather, with respect to Peki.
The Titan’s door was very, very large. Or so it felt. It was large enough to accommodate a Centaur, so it had a towering impression. Umina and Wil stared up at it.
It was silly. Both knew that Niers didn’t even use this door, but a personal one through the Fraerling-ways. Even so, the door alone gave Umina butterflies. Slowly, she knocked.
“Professor? It’s us. Umina and Wil.”
She waited. There was no sound from within. After a moment, Umina knocked again.
No response. She glanced at Wil. Were they early? But the young man’s lips had compressed into a line.
“I think—Professor?”
He hesitated, and knocked louder. There wasn’t so much as a peep from inside. Wil glanced at Umina, pointed to the door, and mouthed silently. She groaned.
“He wouldn’t—”
“He would absolutely do that. I’ll do it.”
Wil squared his shoulders and put one palm on the doorknob. He turned it and Umina held her breath.
“Unlocked.”
Wil looked at Umina. Then, pale-faced, he pushed the door open. Umina saw only darkness beyond. She inhaled. Oh no, he really was gone—
And then there was a flare of light. A shimmering orb of [Light] filled a glass orb in the center of the room. And the soft radiance illuminated a table.
Just a table. On the far wall there were shelves, huge shelves but tiny papers. An archive meant for someone far smaller than Wil and Umina. A painting hung above a scrying orb; another wall held what looked like an armory in miniature.
But most of the room looked like an office. Scrolls of parchment, velum, sheaves of paper, were organized on the desks and tables meant for regular-sized people.
This was a private room. But the bed, the chairs, and all the comforts of home could fit on one single table in the center. They’d been pushed to one side today, however, the little magical chessboard, his wardrobe—everything neatly tidied to a corner. On the table sat large bowls full of snacks. Several bottles that were giant compared to the tiny furniture. The glowing light orb.
And standing amid the dishes, smiling, was the Titan of Baleros. He too was dressed for the occasion in colorful clothing. He even had a hat with a feather. He swept Umina and Wil a bow, taking the hat from his head.
“Welcome!”
“Professor.”
Umina exhaled in exasperation and wonder. Wil just sighed in relief. Niers Astoragon’s eyes twinkled as he straightened.
“Come in, both of you. Sit, sit! And you can relax. That was the last test, I promise. Fraerling’s honor.”
Warily, not believing him for a moment, the two entered the room. They couldn’t help but stare around at the shelves full of documents, the tiny possessions next to the huge furniture. This was a Fraerling’s room. They had never seen one before; few of the small folk ever ventured into society at large. Fraerling villages were hidden. Umina almost wanted to giggle as she saw the Titan’s bed. She could pick it up, or hide it under a hat! But then she saw him sitting there and froze up.
Wil approached the table. There were two chairs at opposite ends. The Titan had one on the table itself. The [Lord] looked at the snacks and drinks.
“Is this—a meal, Professor?”
The Fraerling shrugged. He ushered Wil to one side, Umina to the other. He was smiling, looking as pleased and relaxed as they’d ever seen him.
“Drinks, really. But if you want anything else, I’ll have someone make it. Come now, sit! I told you, the tests are over.”
“Really, Professor? You had us ask you this morning. And now the door?”
Umina sat cautiously. The chair was lovely and comfortable and she practically sank into it. Wil did the same, but he sat upright, nervous. The Titan sighed, but his eyes twinkled.
“It was rather cruel of me. But I couldn’t help it. You do have to learn how to speak to your superiors. A [Strategist] must be able to overrule a [King] if need be. Nevertheless, I apologize. And I do promise that was the last of it. You’re here! Sit down. Take a bite of something. Relax. You’ve done it.”
So saying, he sat down and snagged a date. It was comically huge compared to him, but the Titan, undeterred, simply pulled out a sword and sliced off a hand-sized chunk. He laughed at the expression on Umina and Wil’s face.
“I seldom eat with you all. But believe me, Fraerlings can eat quite a lot! It still makes feeding us ludicrously cheap. Not to mention alcohol! Help yourselves. If you’d like a drink, you’ll have to pour. It makes me a poor host, but at least I can serve myself.”
He had a thimble-sized cup, and Umina was tickled beyond belief to see that each bottle had a tiny valve attached to it! Like a keg’s spigot! They were made of metal and the Titan strode over to one and casually filled his cup.
“Professor, is that…?”
The Titan’s eyes twinkled.
“Oh, this? Just a Fraerling invention. We drill holes into a bottle and attach the spigot. Far easier than having something custom-made, isn’t it? Help yourself! I think this wine is…ah, yes. Saverian Red, quite a good one. I have a few others; if you want a juice, there’s one in that bottle. Water’s—no, wait, that’s alcohol. Ah, there it is. Magically purified water. And spring water. Help yourselves! Come on, now!”
Bemused, Wil looked at Umina, before reaching for the Saverian Red. Umina helped herself to the magically purified water; she’d had a bit too much to drink already. Still, the snacks were calling to her and she gingerly picked up a few chips made of Yellats. The spicy chips were made even hotter by sprinkled pepper and there was a beautiful dip just waiting to help her with it…
“I thought we were asking a question, Professor. This seems more like a meal. If we’re taking up your time…”
Wil’s hesitation was waved away by Niers. He laughed as he settled back into his chair, munching on his date.
“Not at all. I cleared my schedule, just as I said. I’m free for the entire night. And you, Wil Kallinad and Umina Caxical, are my guests. We’ll sit and talk, so eat and drink to your heart’s content! Don’t worry about the question. While you’re here, you may ask me anything you wish and I’ll do my best to answer.”
“What?”
The two students were astonished. Niers grinned.
“Within reason. Secrets are secrets. But if you ever had a burning desire, to, say, ask me about the inner workings of my company, or any of the rumors surrounding me—ask.”
“But—anything, Professor?”
“I believe I said that, Umina.”
“But you said we get one question!”
The Lizardgirl tried to control her tail and neck frills, both of which were trying to move in excitement. The Fraerling’s eyes twinkled and he winked.
“That’s just what I tell other students. Did you think I’d march you in here one at a time and you’d ask a question and leave after I answered?”
They had thought just that. Wil and Umina exchanged a glance. Niers laughed quietly as he got up to grab a chip and some dip. He carried it back over his head and tossed it next to his seat. It was hilarious to watch and he winked at Wil’s face.
“Laugh, Wil! I know it’s funny to see.”
“I wasn’t—then what is tonight, Professor?”
“A conversation.”
Niers sat back in his chair. He ran a hand through his beard. And he smiled faintly, looking up at his two much younger students.
