“Full marks. Yes. That’s what I believed at the time. The King of Destruction had declared war against the Drakes. But I thought—perhaps he would reach out to the Gnoll tribes. Ally with them. Izril is divided. He could have reached out to the Humans too. And on Baleros? Look at our divided continent! Who might he have reached out for here?”
Neither student had to think.
“Selphids.”
“Half-Gazers too.”
Niers Astoragon inclined his head.
“Exactly. All the species who don’t have power. Who are shunned, by most groups. I employ Selphids in the Forgotten Wing Company, but if Flos Reimarch offered them a chance to take back power? Their land? Gnolls. Selphids. Half-Gazers. Maybe even the Minotaurs, before they decided to oppose him. He would have been their champion. But you know what terrified Wistram and Rhir?”
Umina and Wil inhaled sharply. Wil finished the thought.
“Demons. But he wouldn’t have allied with the Demon King. Surely not!”
He looked appalled. Niers didn’t answer at once. He looked around, meeting both student’s gazes.
“This is why I don’t teach this openly. But yes, he might have. Who knows? It’s just speculation. But I’ll wager you diamonds to dust that Wistram used that to move the Blighted King to send an army against the King of Destruction.”
“So that’s why Rhir sent an army.”
“Wistram is dangerous.”
That was just a fact. Both students nodded. Niers went on.
“So that was his strategy. And it might have worked! You’ve heard Foliana’s speech. Queravia landed with one army, separated from the King of Destruction’s vanguard after the battle with the Minotaurs. She was cut off, but she made a stand and crushed an army sent by two Great Companies! She was waiting for reinforcements, daring all of Baleros to take her on. And she won.”
Umina watched Niers walking back and forth slowly. His eyes were bright and glittering in the room, lit only by mage light.
“If she had kept going, he could have won. He lost one of his Seven against the Minotaurs, yes. But six remained. Amerys was fighting on Izril, holding down an entire Walled City! The Gnolls might have rallied if the King of Destruction had landed more armies there. And on Baleros? With more time, how many companies would have embraced Flos for a chance to rise in power? He could have done it.”
“But for you.”
“I saw it coming. And I took an army. Queravia had crushed one, but there was still a chance to defeat her. I gathered every force I could in a thousand miles and marched on her. Even so—her army had leveled from her victories and she had his elites. His Dreamers as well. I was facing the best of Chandrar’s forces, and cut off as they were, I knew it was a gamble. But I had to risk it. And that day I put myself against the Gambler of Fates. [Strategist] vs [Strategist].”
And he won. But Niers didn’t look proud. He shook his head.
“You want to know what happened on that day, Umina, Wil? The truth was that when we joined battle, from the first twenty minutes, I knew I was losing.”
“No.”
He nodded, staring backwards through time.
“Oh yes. Queravia was a genius. As gifted as I’ve ever seen. But it was her unique style that threw me. I realized in the first engagement why she had beaten two Great Companies. It was down to her Skills. Her…personality. Her luck. Let me give you an example.”
The Titan paced down the table. He came back with a chessboard Umina recognized. She inhaled as she saw the glowing magical pieces. They were in the middle of a game. The Titan carefully put it down and picked up two pawns. He showed them to her and Wil.
“Let’s say there was a matchup. Not a chess board; we know the outcome of each piece, but a real battle. Two units of…pikes, say, charging each other. The odds are incalculable who’ll win. You’re too busy as a [Strategist] to analyze their levels or makeup; you just see the opportunity to clash or withdraw. What do you do?”
“See if it benefits me to take the charge, distract the opponent. If not, retreat?”
It wasn’t really a good question for a hypothetical. Umina shrugged uncomfortably. Niers nodded.
“Fair enough. Wear them down if it’s strategic, force them to spread out and fight. But if you keep getting those encounters, do you keep committing?”
“No, sir. That’s too risky. I’d always want a scenario where I can win, or delay at acceptable…”
Umina trailed off. Niers nodded. He pointed to the two pawns, then put them back where they had been.
“Exactly. No sane [Strategist] gambles with an outcome. We take calculated risks, but we always try to create areas where we win, sometimes at the cost of others. Pull in here, sacrifice this unit, but hammer the opponent where it hurts here. Don’t risk a pivotal outcome to chance. But Queravia—she was a [Gambler]. And—remember her title? She wasn’t just a [Gambler]. She was lucky.”
“You mean in general, Professor? Or with dice…?”
The hair was rising on Wil’s neck. On Umina, her scales were tingling. Niers shook his head.
“No. I mean everything about her was lucky. If there was any scenario where it was up to the odds…sixty percent. Six out of ten. That’s what I think she had.”
“Sixty percent?”
He nodded.
“If every time you flipped a coin, the chances were half and half of it being either side, Queravia had a sixty percent chance of it going her way. And that extended to uncertain matchups. She just had more luck than me. So if we met with two equal units—”
He indicated the pawns.
“Six times out of ten, she won. And sometimes, against impossible odds, her tactics would work. And that created a huge difference over time.”
Slowly, the Titan sat. And now his students could almost see the battle, reflected in his voice, his eyes.
“She was winning. It was like I was playing against luck herself. She’d send in a group of swords to charge a flank I was sure they’d lose and they’d cut through. Arrows would miss taking out a [Captain]. She lost, yes, but she was winning. A unit of pikes would cut through an elite group. And suddenly they were heroes on the battlefield. That was how she fought. She made heroes out of ordinary [Soldiers]. And they leveled with each victory.”
“That’s not fair.”
It flew against everything Umina had been taught. Niers raised an eyebrow.
“Fair? She just had an advantage on her side, Umina. An extra factor called ‘luck’. And she used it.”
The Lizardgirl flushed. Wil just looked at Niers.
“Then how did you beat her, sir?”
“At first I didn’t. I had more soldiers, and resources and she was defensive. But her luck kept equalizing situations. I dare say I was better in pure strategy by a bit. I like to think so, or I would have lost outright. But neither of us could win. We just…hit each other. Again and again. It was a slaughter, but she was slowly overpowering my army. I knew it. So, in desperation, I changed tactics.”
“What did you do?”
Niers looked up. Umina expected a grand plan, a speech, a lesson of strategy. But all he did was shrug.
“I created a scenario where she couldn’t turn the odds. I charged her front, tied up all her forces in an all-or-nothing assault. And in the confusion, I found her command. And I killed her.”
Both Umina and Wil waited. But that was all Niers said. He looked around and filled his cup with the strongest alcohol there was. Wil croaked and reached for his own cup.
“That’s it?”
He drank.
“That’s it. Nothing special. Remember when Cameral got you with an arrow in battle, Umina? He was losing the battle, but when you were removed, your force fell apart. That’s all I did. There’s nothing to teach; I just forced a confrontation and I won.”
It was anticlimactic. Umina saw at once how it made sense. But she knew why the Titan didn’t speak of it. There was something…Niers tossed his cup down bitterly. He looked past them and shook his head.
“I suppose I was the better [Strategist] since the attack on her command worked. It’s a valid tactic. The one that walks away wins. But that’s the irony of it. I teach you all that victory is what counts. But I can’t help but remember that battle with guilt. She outfought me, Umina, Wil. She had just one weakness and I hit it. To this day, I feel like I robbed the world of a truly great mind. I wish there had been another way. But I won. And the King of Destruction’s dreams fell apart there. That’s all there was to it.”
He sat down heavily and Umina and Wil looked at each other. Umina didn’t know what to say. She only had one thought. No, two. The Titan spoke of Queravia with regret. She had been his better, or at least, so he believed. He regretted killing her, because he was alone. Alone but for…her eyes lingered on the chessboard with the ghostly pieces. And then she thought of the second thing.
He had killed her. Himself. She wanted to ask how. But Niers was sitting still. He looked up, smiling faintly, and shook his head.
“I’m melancholy when drunk. Pass me some snacks, Umina?”
She did. Niers broke off a huge chip and began to eat it.
“Enough of that story. You have your answer. It’s not glorious, but it is a secret. The King of Destruction. Wistram—dead gods, I hate the Academy. My scrying orb is warded against them, but I know they have eyes and ears everywhere. Let’s talk of happier things. The night’s not over yet. A few more questions. I get to ask you a few, about you two! And then—well, we’ll have time for one last question, won’t we?”
He smiled. And Umina and Wil felt a surge of apprehension. They looked out the dark windows. It was nearly time.
 
——
 
Niers Astoragon sat alone in his room. On the table, in his chair. The bowls of snacks had been mostly depleted, and he himself felt stretched from all he’d consumed. Still, he wasn’t about to succumb to exhaustion or alcohol or food comas yet. The most important moment of the night had yet to come.
It was a knock on the door. The Titan looked up.
“Enter!”
Wil Kallinad stepped into the room. The young man adjusted his clothing and walked towards his seat. He was more familiar now, but apprehension had returned his nerves. Niers chuckled softly.
“Sit down, lad. We were just talking.”
“Yes, sir. Professor. Excuse me.”
Red-faced, Wil sat. Niers raised an eyebrow.
“Did Umina win the contest, or did you?”
Wil blinked, and then smiled ruefully.
“I won, sir. I wanted to…”
“Get it over with?”
Niers looked kindly at the [Lord]. Wil hunched his shoulders, and then straightened. He met Niers’ eyes.
“Frankly, Professor? Yes. I truly enjoyed our conversation. My question—it’s not fascinating to me. Should I ask you now?”
“Go ahead.”
Niers waited. Wil sat up and took a deep breath. Then another. He came out with it in a rush.
“Professor, what is the most valuable piece of information that will aid the Kallinad family at this moment?”
He looked at Niers. And the Titan stared back. He searched Wil’s unhappy face. And then he reached for his drink. Niers thought better of it at the last second and pushed it away. Then he just looked at Wil.
“That’s your question, is it, Wil Kallinad?”
“Yes sir.”
Wil broke away from Niers’ gaze. The Titan nodded thoughtfully.
“A good question. One that will aid your family. Did your father choose it for you? One of your family members?”
Wil flushed.
“They had suggestions, sir. But I chose it myself. Do you think it’s a wise question?”
“Is that your question?”
Niers laughed softly and waved a hand.
“Sorry. No, to be frank, it’s a fine question. And I’ll answer to the spirit of it—I’m not some malicious monster, Wil. But let’s be honest a moment before I answer. That’s not really what you wanted to ask, is it?”
“…No, sir. It’s not.”
Niers nodded softly. Wil hesitated, opened his mouth, and then shook his head. He rested his hands on his knees, squeezing them tight.
“I won’t change my mind, though, Professor. I owe my family a debt for the ships and all the effort they spent. Not to mention enrolling me here! I can’t ask another one.”
“I understand.”
The Titan’s voice was sympathetic. He paused.
“Out of curiosity, Wil. If you could have asked, what would have been your question?”
The young man looked up. For a moment Niers thought he wouldn’t reply, but then the words spilled out of him in a rush.
“What is the greatest treasure or mystery of this world that you know of concretely that has yet to be uncovered, Professor? To clarify—how may it be found? What are the dangers? Where would one begin searching?”
He looked up, his eyes shining. And then he glanced down. Niers smiled wryly.
“Multiple questions in one. But the spirit is good.”
“I didn’t workshop the question, sir. I knew I wouldn’t ask.”
The [Lord] mumbled again. It was so at odds with the confidence the young man had shown at Daquin. Niers felt for him.
“Why that question, Wil? If you could have asked?”
“Well, the possibility, sir. I don’t know what the best thing to ask for is. A dungeon? A shipwreck? A…a Dragon’s hoard? A riddle with an artifact? But you do. So I thought you would answer me fairly. And I have the means to attempt to find whatever you told me!”
Wil looked up, eagerly. He gestured to his clothes, only a bit stained by the night’s frivolities.
“The Kallinad family is wealthy, Professor. And if I made the request, my father might grant me the resources and even forces I asked for. We have ties to the Order of Seasons and to our kingdom, Pheislant. I could request [Knights] to join an expedition, ask for volunteers among my classmates with the summer break coming up—”
He paused.
“The greatest opportunity of a lifetime. It’s romantic, sir, but even though I’m a [Strategist], I’d like to be a hero out of legends. Someone who found some great treasure, or did something truly amazing. Like Thivian Stormless. I know it’s childish, but…”
He looked at Niers. The Titan sat up.
“Childish? Wil, I had the same dream in that Fraerling village. I wanted to be a hero too. Why do you think I was an adventurer all those years? It’s not childish. It’s a dream.”
Wil nodded, eagerly, looking up, validation surging in his eyes. But then his face fell.
“It’s a risk, though, Professor. And it might not pan out. Even if it does, I could die. If it was just me asking, I would. But my family—”
“You won’t change your question? I could answer it, you know.”
That hurt him. Niers regretted saying it, but he had to ask. Wil hesitated, and then hunched down again.
“No, sir. My duty to House Kallinad comes first.”
“If you’re sure.”
Wil gritted his teeth.
“I am, Professor.”
The Fraerling watched him. And then he nodded.
