All the students shuddered. They tried to imagine facing off against their teacher. And it might one day happen. They were students for now, but they were training themselves to take positions of authority on the battlefield. It was a sobering reminder of the future.
But for now—Wil looked around. His cheeks were red with relief. They had done it. The Titan would answer any question Wil and Umina had. Any one question in the world. The excitement, that knowledge, was dawning on the other students. Umina felt dozens of eyes on her and trembled.
Any question within the Titan’s power to answer. Anything. And she would ask it tonight. She and Wil. The young man looked around. And then he raised his voice.
“Let’s get a drink. First round’s on me!”
 
——
 
Two tables had been pulled together in the bar for the students to sit together. It was a crowd even by the pub’s usual standard, and they were used to the students of Niers’ academy. But everyone was there to celebrate Umina and Wil getting to ask the question. All of their friends.
All of them. Jekilt and Marian, Centaurs, Yerranola the lone Selphid of the advanced class, Feshi the Gnoll who was sitting next to the grumpy Kissilt, a Drake with mild ice breath and pale white-purple scales, Venaz the Minotaur, Umina, two other Lizardfolk, Cameral and another Dullahan…and Foliana…
And now Merrik, Peki, Kelsa, Romin, and four more officers from their classes. They were one of the larger friend groups that had emerged from Daquin. Now Merrik raised his mug.
“A toast! To the Titan’s question!”
He downed his drink in one go as the others cheered. Venaz lowered his mug, looking put out that Merrik had beaten him to it. All the students drank and exhaled practically as one. They’d done it.
It was odd how the jealousy and resentment of the first few weeks had faded into a universal expectation, Umina reflected. A number of students had not been happy about her snatching victory at the last moment, or Wil being awarded a question for his daring maneuver in bringing a fleet into Daquin. But the long delay had solidified the student body’s sympathy for Wil and Umina. Perhaps, all as the Titan had planned. You had to admire him if that was the case.
“So, have you both thought of your question?”
Yerranola was the first to break the ice. She leaned over the appetizers and drinks, staring at Wil and Umina. The other students glanced up expectantly. Umina paused in eating some of the shrimp.
“I—um, I think so!”
“Well?”
Kissilt demanded after a second. Marian nudged him hard.
“Don’t be an ass, Kissilt. It’s private!”
“Is it? We won’t know the answer.”
“It could be! If Umina doesn’t want to say—what about you, Wil?”
Wil nodded. He didn’t look as happy as Umina would have expected. He sipped from his lighter ale, picking at his corn bread side, richly buttered.
“All sorted. I know what I have to ask. I don’t have much of a choice on my part.”
“Oh. You mean—you’re going to ask on behalf of your family?”
Yerranola exhaled slowly. Everyone leaned out of the way of her corpse breath. It wasn’t too bad with fresh bodies, but—the Selphid apologetically waved a scent-charm in the air. Wil was nodding.
“My family pulled a lot of strings to get that fleet to move into Daquin. I can’t exactly ask a question for myself, can I?”
“But it’s the question. You can’t just ask on their behalf! Don’t you have a burning question you have to know the answer to?”
Merrik protested over his mug. Peki punched him. Not in the side; the Dwarf’s head rocked.
“Dead gods damnit, Peki! Don’t punch me in the jaw!”
“Don’t be rude.”
The [Martial Artist] looked at Wil. He was shaking his head.
“I’d like to, Merrik. But I’m a [Lord]. I have duties to my family.”
“Right.”
The Dwarf grimaced. Some of the other students not from Terandria looked perplexed, including Venaz.
“What’s that got to do with it?”
“Loyalty to his family and kingdom, Venaz. Wil has to put his desires behind what’s good for his family.”
Merrik sighed. He looked sympathetic. Venaz looked perplexed.
“I understand that. But this is an individual reward. One cannot expect Wil to give up all his desires. Let him ask his own question. What benefits him ultimately benefits his family. Isn’t that so?”
He looked around for support. Cameral was nodding, as were the Centaurs and Kissilt, but Feshi, Yerranola, and one of the other Terandrians were shaking their heads. The Lizardpeople students were, predictably, split. Wil sighed again, and Marian patted him on the shoulder.
“House Kallinad’s a coastal duchy, isn’t it, Wil? I know that the Kallinad family’s wealthy. You didn’t spend too much, did you?”
“It’s about prestige, Marian. If I gave nothing back to my family, they’d suffer politically more than financially.”
Feshi frowned, wrinkling her furry face. The Gnoll looked around.
“Duke…duke…it means punching something, yes? But it’s also a rank. I forget Human nobility’s titles so easily. What position is [Duke]?”
“Just below a [Prince]. It’s pretty much the highest rank of the nobility. Wil’s important.”
Yerranola grinned as she ruffled Wil’s hair. He let it happen, resigned. They were good friends, like Marian, Umina, and Venaz’s odd friendship.
“Don’t exaggerate, Yerranola. I’m just a [Lord]. Kallinad’s a big family. I’m not even in the immediate line of succession. There are eight stronger heirs with a claim to the family head than me.”
“Really? I thought you were a third son.”
“Yes, but it’s about bloodline, Feshi. Technically, my father had my sister with his, uh, first wife. And I’m the product of the second. But that’s not how Terandrians choose their successors.”
The Gnoll [Strategist] looked confused. Cameral leaned forwards, feeding his head with a spoon.
“It’s first-born from each previous leader, isn’t it?”
“That’s a lineal descendant, Cameral. Direct inheritance. We used to do that in Terandria…a long time ago. Now though, it’s ichorial descendancy.”
The blank looks came from everyone this time, even Merrik, who was used to some of Terandrian politics. The [Lord] looked embarrassed as he tried to elaborate.
“The purest bloodlines lead each house, not the heir of each predecessor. If you marry into the nobility or even royalty of another family, your children are, uh, purer in descent. So that means my father’s sister—my Aunt Delicha—has the strongest claim because she’s married to a [Baron] of Ailendamus. Her children are first to inherit unless my sister, Talia, gets married to someone with a bloodline at least as pure as…”
Yerranola’s eyes rolled into the back of her head. Umina tried to follow the convoluted explanation, but gave up. So did Wil as he realized he was losing his audience. Foliana drank out of Xelic’s mug with a straw.
“It’s very complex. And houses can split or schism all the time when fighting over succession. Kallinad hasn’t had one for a few centuries, which means it’s probably time.”
“Dead gods. And I thought politics in Baleros were messy. What’s the point of all that?”
Xelic got up to refill his mug. Wil shrugged.
“Intermarriage between the noble houses prevents strife, in theory. It’s also hard to wipe out a house for that reason. Everyone of the peerage is distantly related to each other. Only a few bloodlines have been erased, sometimes due to war, or assassinations—the Goblin King, the Necromancer—”
“Bastard.”
Kissilt interjected that comment as an aside. Merrik laughed.
“A toast to dead undead!”
Everyone drank to that, although most of the other students didn’t share the same view of necromancy. The conversation circled right back to Wil. This time it was Venaz who was objecting to Wil’s decision.
“But you are beholden to your kingdom, aren’t you? House Kallinad is still under the domain of the Kingdom of…Pheislant. Hm. Cameral! Pheislant! What are the facts?”
He turned to the Dullahan quickly. Kissilt, Cameral, Venaz, and Yerranola were all fans of flash-facts about other nations. They loved quizzing each other at random. The Dullahan instantly sat up and his hands scratched the top of his head as he replied.
“Naval nation. Unit of specialty—aquatic [Knights]? Strong navy; weaker army but entrenched fortifications along borders. Largesse means strong connections with [Knight] orders, especially Order of Seasons. Last war—defeat. Against Ailendamus—”
“Yes, good! But that means Kallinad owes loyalty to Pheislant. If you’re asking a question on behalf of your house, shouldn’t you ask one on behalf of your kingdom? I’m just extending this logical train of thought. I still think you should ask your own question.”
“It’s not that simple, Venaz. [Dukes] can refuse royal orders if they have good reason. In fact, sometimes they can overthrow the [King].”
“What?”
Kissilt looked as appalled as Venaz. The Drake shook his head, spilling his drink as he reached for a shrimp. Foliana shook the liquid off her fur as she stood next to him.
“You damned Human anarchists. What happened to the order of law?”
“Shut it, Kissilt. No one wants to hear about the superiority of Drakes. It’s as bad as listening to Venaz talk about Minotaurs.”
“I resent that!”
“As do I!”
The Drake and Minotaur glared at each other. Feshi cleared her throat.
“Speaking of bloodlines—how is it that the nobility don’t have funny heads and weird noses, Wil? I’ve seen bad inbreeding among Oldblood families back home. And it is not pretty, no?”
She looked at Kissilt and the Drake, glaring, nodded. Wil shrugged.
“We make sure to marry distant blood relatives. And lots of the nobility have Skills to help with children.”
“Skills? What, like fertility Skills?”
Cameral spat his drink out and glared at Yerranola. The Selphid cackled, greatly amused. The other Dullahans looked scandalized. Wil turned beet red.
“No! Inheritance Skills! You know, [Adroit Progeny]? Skills that allow you to pass on what the mother or father was good at—like if the father was a [Lord] who was excellent at warfare, his children have a better chance of being as good as he was with a sword, or as beautiful as their mother?”
He looked around. This time the side-eyes he got were deeply disturbed. Jekilt shook his head. His torso leaned over as his horse-half sat on the cushions.
“Let me get this straight. Terandrian nobility have Skills that…change their children?”
He looked appalled. Wil nodded.
“Wait. No one else has heard of it? It’s not rare. I mean—come on. Really? It makes sense! A Skill that passes down appearance, or talent? No one…?”
The other species looked at each other. And then they pushed themselves back from the table, leaving the Humans and Merrik alone. They huddled together, glancing over at Wil. Foliana was stealing Kissilt’s shrimp.
“Dead gods, that explains so much. Remember the other nobility we met? No wonder so many washed out!”
“That’s so freaky. Terandria is weird.”
“Don’t make fun of him! He’s got a great body! Do you know how much it costs to buy the body of the nobility on the black market? Let alone a good one? Look at that jaw!”
Yerranola objected, pointing back at Wil. Marian snorted.
“He probably got it from his father.”
Venaz nodded, looking deeply disgruntled.
“He was born with an advantage. Humans. Even with children, they have to put a finger on the scales—”
“Don’t drag scales into this, Venaz. We don’t do anything like that in the Walled Cities.”
“What about Oldblood breeding programs, Kissilt? I know Drakes do that!”
“It’s not the same as having Skills—hey! Who ate my shrimp? Marian!”
The Drake exclaimed as he saw his bowl was nearly empty. He turned and glared at the Centauress to his left. She folded her arms.
“Don’t look at me! I don’t like shrimp!”
“You don’t?”
Xelic, one of the Lizardmen, looked horrified. Umina sighed as she waved for another bowl of the delectable crustaceans. Alive. Drunken shrimp marinated in alcohol were the best. Marian just shuddered as half the table ordered a second round of snacks. Foliana took another from Kissilt’s bowl.
“I don’t know how you eat them. They’re awful! Fish, now, I like fish. But shrimp? They’re okay if they’re breaded, but raw? Moving?”
Marian pointed at the refill a Lizardgirl [Server] was bringing over. The drunk shrimp met a grisly fate as Venaz picked it up and bit the head off. He shrugged.
“Food is food, Marian. It’s not like this is a parasite or something. Now, some creatures have little eggs that if you eat them—”
“Dead gods, Venaz! Shut up! I’m eating!”
Someone threw a shrimp at Venaz. He threw the shrimp back, and the table was distracted for a few minutes. Wil endured more good-natured prodding at his ancestry and refused to answer which Skills his parents had used in the bedroom. But at last, someone raised his voice for everyone’s attention.
It was Jekilt. The serious [Captain] was older than the other students, and so commanded more or less silence as he rose to his hooves. He nodded, raising a mug to Wil and Umina.
“I know Daquin was your victory, Umina. You won, and there is nothing else to say. Wil, you earned your question likewise. And you’ll ask your question tonight.”
Everyone nodded. The good cheer faded and they all looked speculatively at the two. Wil met Umina’s eyes and both felt that tingle in their stomachs. Guilt too; the envy was clear on everyone’s face and Umina still felt bad about undercutting Marian. But Jekilt wasn’t done. He drank, and then came out with it.
“I’ve talked to the members of my old company, and they’ve all put in gold. If you ask the Professor a question on our behalf, we can pay you one thousand, two hundred, and eighty nine gold pieces.”
Umina turned to stare at Jekilt. And then Kissilt burst out furiously.
“Hey, Jekilt, you can’t do that!”
“Why not? It’s a fair trade. There’s no rule against it.”
Jekilt challenged Kissilt aggressively. The Drake shook his head as he got to his feet.
“No, you can’t do that! Because I was going to ask if they’d take my question instead!”
Laughter. Kissilt shouted, waving his claws and exhaling a plume of icy breath.
“Hear me out! Hear me out! It’s about classes.”
All the [Strategists] paused. The Drake went on, spreading his claws, looking at Wil and Umina.
