“Is Three-Color Stalker—I mean, Lady Foliana really the head of the Forgotten Wing Company, Professor?”
“What, are you doubting the chain of command, Mister Kallinad?”
Niers looked mock-offended. Wil bit into a tiny fried fish, removing the bones before answering.
“Not at all, Professor. But it’s odd, given that she doesn’t um, command? Wouldn’t it make more sense for her to be second-in-command and you to lead?”
“I hear that all the time. But she’s been a leader for a long time and I have to say, it works.”
Niers shook his head. He spotted an ant and kicked it; Umina watched it fly away.
“Damn things. Must have come with the food; I have ward charms. Anyways, where was I? Oh, yes. Foliana.”
Niers shrugged.
“She’s better at leading than I am, in a way. She’s unpredictable, disappears on me, has no social ability—but that’s fine in a leader so long as I’m here. She scares the flesh off of other rulers and company leaders and they can’t make her do anything she doesn’t want. It’s a symbiotic relationship, but yes, when she gives orders, I obey. Rare as that is, there have been times I’ve been grateful for it.”
“So she actually is in charge.”
Umina exhaled and looked at Wil. He winked at her, deadpan. Cameral owed Umina a gold coin! Niers laughed.
“Leadership comes in different forms. And Foliana being our head means no one can truly ever figure out how we’ll jump. Not even me! Besides, she and I have known each other for decades. Dead gods, over fifty years come to think of that.”
“In that case—that leads me into my question, Professor.”
Umina almost raised a hand before she caught herself. Niers and Wil both laughed quietly. The drink was loosening tongues as well. And Niers wasn’t using his bag of holding trick; his students had finally caught on to it.
“What made you decide to become a [Strategist], Professor? Everyone knows you were a Named Adventurer before you formed a mercenary company, but what made you—uh—”
Umina fell silent because she didn’t know how to say it without being offensive. Niers smiled.
“What made a tiny Fraerling decide he could take on the big, bad world? Don’t worry, Umina. I get that question all the time. The answer is…well, do either of you have cats?”
“Cats?”
Umina looked blank. Wil nodded.
“We have some in the Kallinad household. Not many dogs; my mother’s allergic.”
“Huh. Remind me never to visit the Kallinad estates. I hate cats. I’m not keen on dogs either, or many ‘pets’. But cats I hate. You know why?”
Umina didn’t have to guess. The Titan was gesturing at his candle-sized height.
“They’re a danger to Fraerlings, right, sir?”
“Exactly. Cats love small objects. Even trained ones will kill anything as small as a mouse. Fraerlings are in danger around them. Cats are cruel, too. They kill things for fun. They’re banned anywhere a Fraerling village exists, and everywhere where the Forgotten Wing Company holds power. They can stay indoors, but those damn things don’t go outside.”
“What’s that got to do with you becoming an adventurer, sir? Or a [Strategist]?”
If he says his family was killed by a cat, don’t laugh. Umina repeated it twice and saw Wil doing the same. Niers smiled.
“I’m just bringing up cats because they’re a good example. Cats are deadly to Fraerlings. But uh, how many of your people do you know that have been killed by a cat?”
“Well, bobcats—”
“Housecats, Umina.”
“…Two?”
Niers and Umina both paused and looked at Wil. He looked embarrassed.
“Suffocation. I have a third-aunt who was suffocated in her sleep by all the cats she kept. And I heard about another death the same way.”
“That’s hilarious. Those damn furred monsters.”
Niers shook his head. He waved Wil’s statement away.
“Practically though, they don’t savage you to death, right? Umina, you’re no [Warrior] but I bet you could fight off a dozen cats if you had to. Fraerlings on the other hand? I know…dead gods, at least twenty eight people who died to cats. Imagine that.”
The statement was sobering. Umina paused as she reached for a drink. Niers went on, gesturing to his body.
“A Fraerling is strong. An adult can lift things many times their weight. I could toss that cup you’re holding, Umina, even lift it when it’s full. But that’s not much use when everything’s so big, is it?”
“No, sir.”
The Titan sighed. He sat back down in his chairs and stared upwards. When he spoke, it was distantly.
“I grew up in a Fraerling village. Like most Fraerlings. It’s rare we live elsewhere. Sure, some of us have that classic story where we live in a house unknown to the owners, but let’s be real: that’s dangerous. It’s too easy to be squished. And rats! You ever think about fighting rats? They don’t fight you, but to us they’re like bulls. Big, vicious, and smart. Cats terrify us. Now, imagine what it’s like for Fraerlings to fight a Troll.”
He shook his head.
“There’s no point to being a [Warrior] if you’re a Fraerling. Not if you want to do anything with the tall folk. Oh, you can turn the tides and we have ways of dealing with huge foes, but it’s just a waste of levels when you get down to it. A Level 60 Fraerling [Warrior] can kill even a Griffin, but they’ll still die if you stomp on them a few times.”
“What about magic?”
Umina offered that uncertainty. Niers snorted.
“Ever seen a [Fireball] cast by a Fraerling [Mage]? Size isn’t everything where magic is concerned, but it matters. There’s this book by a Drake that goes into body mass and magic. Grimalkin—I think there’s a copy in the library. Anyways, that can be better, but Fraerlings are still too small. It’s literally too hard for us to weave larger spells; we can throw tiny [Fireballs] all day, but that’s not exactly what you need, is it?”
He shook his head.
“No. Fraerlings have to hide because we’re in danger. We can protect ourselves from rats; our [Warriors] can hack through a colony at high levels, but those are small threats. Big ones? No Fraerling can match an adventurer from another species. I knew that, growing up. I couldn’t stand with other species as a [Warrior] or a [Mage]. I didn’t want to be a [Crafter]. But there was one class that didn’t care how big you were. And that was…”
“[Strategist].”
Both his students exhaled. The Titan’s lessons were often circular, but they always came back to the point via story or example. He nodded, his eyes flashing.
“Exactly. It was my dream to leave my village. To be more than someone who had to hide from a stray housecat, or live in terror of an errant boot! And [Strategists] can affect any number of people! So I became one.”
“Just like that?”
Niers looked vaguely offended.
“We need [Strategists] in Fraerling villages too, Wil. Here, pass that bottle, will you? The Drake one. Thank you. Put it there. Yes, we need [Strategists]. And I was good at my job! I helped clear out this damn hornet’s nest on my first campaign, and I pushed back a boar herd.”
He saw his students chuckling and raised his brows.
“Oh, you laugh! But imagine fighting them with an army of people one foot tall at most? I was a higher-level [Strategist] than anyone else my age by the time I turned twenty! And when I left the village to go to an Adventurer’s Guild, I could have stood toe-to-toe with any of you in my classes now. Think of that!”
Umina did. She stopped laughing. Wil leaned forwards.
“You would have been an asset to a team, Professor. But I imagine it was difficult.”
Niers nodded.
“Oh yes! A [Strategist] buffing a team of adventurers? Giving them orders? I knew I could be invaluable. But no one wanted to take me on. They just laughed at the tiny Fraerling or tried to humor me. I spent three years going from team to team until I met a team that welcomed me. Foliana was a loner, then. We joined up and when I found a group that would actually listen to me—well, the rest is history.”
He spread his arms. Umina nodded. She’d read of the Titan’s adventuring days. She edged forwards, picking at the dates as Niers continued. He was good at storytelling; it suited his personality.
“First we were Bronze-rank. Bronze. I wasn’t, and neither was Foliana, but our companions were just starting out, hence them being willing to take orders from me. But we weren’t that way for long. I was leveling fast, using my abilities to make my team take on bigger challenges. We became Silver-rank within the month. And we hit Gold the next year! Before we knew it, we were Named Adventurers.”
“You were a Named Adventurer.”
You forgot that, sometimes. But the Titan had been one. Was he still one? His fame had eclipsed that rank, but there were so few Named Adventurers in the world. The Fraerling corrected Umina.
“A team, not individual ones of course; no one would ever make me a Named Adventurer on my own. But I dare say we were some of the best of our generation! Thirty strong!”
“Thirty?”
Wil paused, looking surprised. Niers grinned.
“Why not? It makes sense! Numbers, if used efficiently, are strength! True, most teams can’t sustain numbers higher than…a dozen at best. Most are around four to five. It’s not hard to understand why; maintaining a semblance of equality and balancing your income against maintaining families, gear, potions? Not to mention all the personalities you find in adventurers! Mine was different though; as a [Strategist], I could hold them together and get them to work on multiple missions at once. We were stronger than your average guild, in fact!”
“But why did you quit? What happened to the others?”
Umina had heard all sorts of rumors. And here, at least, the Titan’s openness wavered. He paused, and his expression grew bleak.
“Well, many joined the Forgotten Wing Company. If you’re asking where all of them are now…many passed away. On our final mission—or after we started our company. In battle, from disease, time…it’s been fifty years, as I said.”
He looked around, tired. Umina and Wil sobered. After a moment Niers shook his head.
“Not all of them died; some just quit. In the end, it was just a handful of us left, the Forgotten Wing Company’s original officers. And then…it was just Foliana and I from the adventuring days. So if you’re asking how I got from a Fraerling village to here—it was because I wanted to interact with the big people. And being a [Strategist] means I can order anyone about. The rest of it? It was just natural progression.”
He fell silent, and took another drink from his thimble-cup. Niers looked up.
“Any more questions? Remember, the floor’s open. Or table.”
Umina and Wil hesitated, looking at each other. They had another big one, but…Niers tapped one foot.
“Go on. I told you, nothing’s off-limits. If I don’t want to tell you, I just won’t.”
He smiled lightly, as if he could see right through them. And perhaps he could. Umina felt like the first day she’d ever sat in his class. Awestruck at meeting a legend in person. And he was so small. Until you looked at him and realized he was far larger than his actual body.
“If I may, Professor? I have to know this. Would you—tell us about your battle with Queravia?”
Wil broke the silence at last. Umina exhaled slowly. Yes. Of the big questions they had, that was the last one. Niers slowly raised his head. He stopped smiling.
“Ah. My famous battle with the King of Destruction’s [Strategist]. Queravia, the Gambler of Fates. You want to know how it went, I suppose?”
“You’ve never told us in class. I mean, about the battle, but never the specifics. Does everyone ask, Professor? Everyone who comes here?”
The Fraerling nodded, grinning.
“Of course they do! They want to hear it from me. And to be fair, it’s a tale worth telling. It’s just not one I care to tell to the public. You know all about it, of course?”
Umina nodded. She’d heard Foliana give her speech about the famous battle three years in a row. The Squirrel Beastkin didn’t even change her words, but it still got her applause each year with the retelling. But she had never heard the Titan telling his version of it.
“Was there something secret about the battle?”
“No. Yes—damn. Let’s go from the beginning.”
“Another lecture, Professor?”
Umina teased the Titan. He scowled, and then grinned.
“No, this isn’t a lecture. Well, perhaps it is. We’ve gone over the King of Destruction’s tactics and the way he was able to so effectively crush his opponents with grand strategy. Everyone knows that. But I want to tell you some of the information I don’t share about the end of the King of Destruction’s rampage.”
Umina and Wil exchanged another look. Secret information? They edged even closer, rocking the table. The Titan nearly lost his footing.
“Careful! My wardrobe’s over there! Yes, secret information. Alright, scoot in. This is what I don’t teach in my lessons. Part of it is due to caution; it could land me in trouble if I were accused of spreading rumors. And the other reason is because, frankly, there’s little to learn. First, let’s talk about the war. He’d taken Chandrar and was splitting up his armies to invade both Izril and Baleros at once.”
“And that’s where he failed, right, sir? The Minotaurs ambushed his fleets at sea and killed one of his Seven. The Blighted King sent an army from Rhir and defeated Takhatres while the Walled Cities stalemated his armies. And in Baleros—”
“I killed Queravia.”
Niers put his cup down. He stood, looking from face to face.
“Yes. And after that, the King of Destruction entered his slumber and his kingdom collapsed. But it wasn’t that simple. You see, we teach that he was overextending, overconfident, and naturally he lost. But in truth, he was close to winning. Or at least, his strategy might have let him throw two continents into war.”
“Really? But his decision to split his armies—”
“It was intelligent. Risky, but he knew the world was coming for him. And like the Goblin King in decades since then, we’ve seen that few people can fight every army at once. So the King of Destruction changed tactics. Rather than let Chandrar be invaded and fight a defensive war, he, or perhaps Queravia, devised a bold strategy. Occupy two continents in war and force the battles to happen there.”
“But how would he fight on two fronts?”
Wil was perplexed, trying to see ahead of the answer. So was Umina. She blinked.
“Wait—was it—the Gnolls?”
Wil and Niers looked at her. The Titan’s eyes glittered.
