Niers looked up. His students stared at him as one. The Professor’s eyes twinkled and Perorn sighed again. Loudly.
“Umina?”
The Lizardgirl jumped. Behind her, Wil sat up in his chair. Suddenly, the attention of all the students in the room was fixed on Umina. She stuttered.
“Y-yes, Professor?”
Niers looked at her. He could practically hear her heart beating. He held the moment, smiling, and then nodded.
“Congratulations on your passing! But please, next time remember to put your name on your report?”
She turned bright red across her scales. The class exhaled; a few laughed, but mostly everyone just sighed. Niers smiled, leapt off his desk, and strode up the Fraerling-ways, the tunnels that ran the length of his citadel and were small enough for only his kind to pass through. He called out as he reached the door built into the side of the wall.
“Class dismissed!”
 
——
 
The students dispersed in groups. They had circles of friends, or pairs, or some were alone, but most had groups. They ordered by age, personality, and class. This particular group were made up of Niers’ special class, his best students. They were varied in species, but they were friends.
More or less. Some, like Marian and Venaz, were more like rivals, or they didn’t get along, like Xelic and Kissilt. But they stayed together because they were friends of friends. Classmates. It was a powerful bond for all the time that they’d spent together.
It was another day in the Titan’s academy in the city of Elvallian, headquarters of the Forgotten Wing Company, one of the Four Great Companies. However, it wouldn’t be forever.
Summer was coming. And with it, a certain expectancy in the air. The students were groaning about the march, but not too hard. After all, soon most would leave for a while, and while it might seem odd, these students were passionate about their work. They liked being here, and they didn’t feel like leaving. But leave they would.
The Titan of Baleros believed in vacations. He gave his students time off to visit their families or return home during the summer and winter seasons—or when the Forgotten Wing Company was engaged in the business of war. His students enjoyed the breaks too by and large; it was good to go home. But the group leaving the hall now were quiet.
Wil walked next to Feshi and Cameral, Umina trailing him with Marian walking by her side and Venaz dejectedly bringing up the rear with Yerranola. Some of the other members of the group passed them by, but the rest were just looking at Umina and Wil.
They were all getting worried because the summer break was coming up and a huge question loomed over all their heads. Or rather, two. Umina’s heart was still pounding. She’d thought it would be today. She’d thought and—
Venaz was the first to break the silence. He looked up and spoke, gesturing back to the classroom.
“You have to ask! It’s a test of courage—no, self-worth! The Professor is testing you two. He wants you to ask when it will be! Mark my words!”
“I know. But I really thought it would be today!”
Umina shook her head. Marian sighed loudly.
“He’s teasing us! You know he’ll let you ask when it’s time, Umina! Ignore Venaz.”
“When I’m right?”
Venaz was outraged. Marian turned and glared at him. But the spark wasn’t there. She looked over at Wil. The young [Lord] was shaking his head.
“Maybe Venaz is right. This is just like the Professor. Maybe we should ask.”
“You should! Everyone from our class wants to know what you’ll ask!”
That came from behind and lower down. Everyone jumped and turned to look at Merrik. He wasn’t that short—he was five feet tall which still placed him well below everyone but Umina, but Dwarves weren’t actually super short. He stroked his beard as he stopped with Peki, a Dullahan, and one of the Centaurs in his class.
“We’re all waiting for the answer to the questions! You haven’t asked already? Everyone in our class would!”
They all fell into step, arguing as they went down the corridor. Marian was shaking her head.
“You mean, Umina and Wil should demand they have their question? You want to do that to the Professor? In front of everyone?”
“It’s a test. He’s checking your willpower.”
Venaz asserted. This time Peki and even Jekilt and Kissilt were nodding. The Drake glared at Wil.
“You need to march up to him and demand it! It’s clearly what he wants.”
“Maybe. Or maybe he really is busy. You know he’s been running around every day since Daquin.”
“…True. I haven’t seen the Professor so busy in a while. Everyone wants a piece of him after the game. But even so!”
The arguing students came to an abrupt halt as they descended from the second floor to the first. They had caught up with the teachers. Perorn, a Selphid wearing a Dullahan’s body, and Niers Astoragon were all conversing with…no one?
Wait. It took most of the students a moment to realize that they were all turned and speaking to someone. Even though they were used to her presence, it took them even longer to make out Foliana, head of the Forgotten Wing Company. Three-Color Stalker, famously hard to detect and even more famously odd.
The teachers didn’t even glance up at the students; after all, they often conducted business in the citadel that pertained to the company as well as instruction. Foliana on the other hand looked up, and gave the students an unblinking stare. Her multicolored eyes stopped the group in their tracks.
“Well? Go on! Do it!”
Kissilt hissed at Wil and Umina. But everyone had stopped. Three-Color Stalker was staring at them and everyone knew her reputation. If Niers was the legend of [Strategists], Foliana was the nightmare of everyone who commanded. She’d killed thousands, it was rumored. She’d eat your favorite food and then kill you. It was her sign. Umina prayed that Foliana would never eat squid.
“He’s right there. It’s a perfect opportunity.”
Merrik muttered, but he sounded intimidated. Perorn, Niers Astoragon, and Foliana were all standing together with [Commander] Isheil. Three legends plus a distinguished commander. Venaz cleared his throat.
“I’ll—”
Even Venaz’s courage failed him for a second. The students hesitated and Wil and Umina looked at each other. They burned with the desire to ask. But now?
It was the same thing that had kept them from asking the entire month. Umina was just about to suggest they bother the Professor when he wasn’t so clearly busy talking to his superior and one of the most important people in all of Baleros, but she was interrupted. Jekilt, looking from face to face, snorted and pawed the ground.
“If you two won’t do it, I’ll do it myself. Professor! A question!”
The Centaur [Captain] trotted forwards. Everyone, the other students and even teachers, turned to watch. Niers turned his head and raised an eyebrow.
“Jekilt. How can I help you?”
His tone was mildly reproving. Foliana and Perorn both looked at the Centaur, and Perorn’s narrowed eyes made Jekilt draw up. But it was too late to turn back. Jekilt gulped.
“Professor. My deepest apologies for the interruption. However, I have to ask. When might you be available to let Umina and Wil ask their question? The one they earned at Daquin?”
Dead silence followed his question. Everyone waited, breathless. Umina even saw some of the youngest [Tacticians] poking their heads out of a classroom with a teacher. Niers raised his brows, but he didn’t look amused, as if Jekilt had found him out. He glanced at Foliana and she disappeared. With a sigh, Niers turned back to Jekilt, frowning.
“I couldn’t give you a solid date, Jekilt. My schedule’s beyond full. This very night I’m meeting with donors to the Forgotten Wing Company, and tomorrow I’m due to inspect some of our company’s cities—I’ll be travelling all day, so Perorn will be instructing you all. When my schedule clears, I’ll let you know. But until then—I have business to attend to. Foliana! You better not have run off!”
“My apologies, sir.”
Flushing, Jekilt retreated. Perorn gave him another reproving look as Niers, standing on her shoulder, hurled a quill like a javelin. It stopped in midair where Foliana had been and she grudgingly reappeared.
“Oh dead gods. You really made him mad! Fleethoof too!”
Marian squeaked as Jekilt trotted back towards them. The Centaur just shook his head, too mortified for words. Umina stared at Niers as he turned back to Foliana. The Fraerling was frowning. But—she felt a tug at her side.
“Umina.”
Wil was looking at her. The Lizardgirl leaned over. He had sensed it too. The Titan had been unusually snappish. He had days like that, but he usually entertained questions. At least, intelligent questions. She hesitated and then leaned over towards him.
“Maybe he really is busy? Huh. My mistake.”
Venaz was scratching at his horns. Jekilt tried to kick him with one hoof. But Wil was looking at Umina.
“Maybe it’s worth a shot. But it would have to be…”
Umina nodded. She whispered with Wil, and then the two of them hesitated. Their classmates saw them raising their hands and quickly throw a sign. It was sword-wand-shield, or, as some other people called it, rock-parchment-knife. Or fist-palm-fingers. It was a universal game.
Wil threw sword, an open palm. Umina threw wand, her two claws pointed. Wil groaned. He turned, adjusted his clothes, and strode forwards.
This time the entire corridor was breathless. Niers looked up from his conversation a second time, a clear frown on his face. Wil paused as the teachers turned to stare at him. This time even Foliana stared.
“Yes, Wil? I’m a bit busy. Foliana, perhaps we should take this to a private room later.”
“Hm.”
The Squirrel-woman’s response was unintelligible. Niers waited, folding his arms. Wil bowed slightly, and then came out with it.
“Professor, my apologies. However, I would like to ask you a question. During the games at Daquin, we did earn the right to a question of our choosing, didn’t we?”
Niers paused. He looked at Perorn, who shook her head. He turned back to Wil with a sigh.
“You did, Wil. Your memory does not deceive you. But as I just told Jekilt, I’ve been too busy to honor the bargain. I intended it to be right after I returned, but with that emergency regarding the Hydra—this really is inopportune, Wil.”
The young man paled at the criticism. But he raised his chin. Umina saw him straighten his back and clasp his hands behind him, the picture of a young Terandrian [Lord].
“I understand that, Professor. But, and I apologize in advance, your schedule seems unusually busy even for the summer. Given that we are about to enter our summer break, I request the right to ask the question, Professor. Today.”
Silent uproar. Marian’s mouth was a silent ‘o’ of horror, and she wasn’t the only one. Perorn’s eyes flashed. She opened her mouth, but Niers cut her off. He looked at Wil, and he did not seem amused by the request.
“You want it to be today, Wil Kallinad? And that is your…request?”
Silently, Wil nodded. Niers turned his head slowly.
“And you, Umina Caxical?”
Umina turned white. Niers was staring at her and she could see it on his face. This was not acceptable. But she had to trust to the same instinct Wil had had. So she nodded.
“Yes.”
She could only croak that word. For a moment Niers paused, and Umina and Wil waited to be sentenced to some truly horrible punishment.
And then—Niers exhaled. He nudged Perorn’s cheek with one elbow. She smiled slightly and her frown disappeared.
“Told you they’d do it inside of a month.”
“Demand, not ask. Fine, you win, Perorn. Take your damn amulet. Wil, couldn’t you have been more straightforward two days later?”
Niers looked at Wil with an aggrieved expression. The young man paused. But the copper coin had dropped. Venaz exhaled hugely. Feshi stared at Niers as the Titan grinned. Jekilt was slapping his forehead with the palm of his hand.
“Was that a test, Professor?”
One of the Dullahans called out, scandalized. Niers turned his head, looking innocent.
“What? Me? Test my lovely student’s resolve? Never.”
He ignored the accusatory looks and turned back to Wil. He smiled slightly. And the pride outweighed even his amusement. He nodded to the young [Lord] and then to Umina.
“Very well. I’ll clear my schedule. My personal quarters—tonight. Sunset. Both of you be prepared with your questions. Now, I am busy—”
He dodged Perorn’s hand as she flicked at him with a finger. Foliana rolled her eyes and vanished. Laughing, Niers leapt onto Commander Isheil’s palm. He turned and the teachers, minus Foliana, turned and walked down the corridor, suddenly in good spirits. The students watched them go. And then they erupted into chaos.
“It was a test! You did it, Wil! Dead gods, I thought he was going to tear your head off!”
“Another trick? I thought I offended him! Who knew Fleethoof could act?”
“And with Three-Color Stalker? Dead gods—”
Students and teachers flooded out of the classrooms. Umina was blushing as Marian hugged her with glee. A month of waiting and it had all been another prank! He’d been so convincing, but—
Venaz was pounding Wil on the back with glee, ignoring the shouts of pain. Feshi was grinning as Peki and Merrik laughed at the entire spectacle of it. Jekilt, red-faced, was accepting congratulations from Kissilt, Yerranola, and Cameral for being the sacrifice. For five minutes, everyone was giddy on the victory.
And then the excitement faded a notch and the students all looked at each other. Cameral shook his head, raising it with both arms so everyone could see him.
“That was an unworthy prank. I truly thought the Professor was offended. And knowing him, he would have kept up the ruse. Do you think he intended to let us wait the entire summer break if Umina and Wil did not demand the right to a question?”
“Probably. He might have kept us waiting forever if we didn’t ask. But the guts to not just ask, but demand?”
Marian stamped her hooves, looking vexed and pleased. She looked at Umina. Still shaking with nervous energy, the Lizardgirl nodded.
“He does it every time. I still have nightmares about that test where every answer was in the same column!”
“Just absolutely out of his egg-headed mind. The worst teacher I’ve ever had that way. Even in Manus—”
Kissilt growled. He paused as the Lizardpeople around him stared at the Drake. Kelsa shook her head.
“Do you think he’s that bad to his opponents on the battlefield?”
Yerranola exhaled.
“Oh, believe me. We were on campaign with him and he did a trick with the drums—remember, Venaz?”
The Minotaur nodded.
“He can be even worse, I heard. Imagine trying to fight a war against him?”
