“I know we’ve talked in class. But that’s a different setting than now. Here, we’re not student and teacher, but people. You ask me questions, I answer. We have a dialogue, not an examination. That’s the prize. You two and me, getting to know each other for a night. The question is just the end of our discussion.”
Umina and Wil exchanged a look. The Lizardgirl felt another flutter in her stomach, but it was fading. Niers sat back, studying each face across the table. He lifted a cup.
“So, then. To your victories at Daquin. It has long been overdue. To you, Umina, and you, Wil. Congratulations!”
The two lifted their cups and drank. Niers drained his cup in one go. Umina did likewise and had to fill it with something stronger. The unabashed compliment had already put a fire in her cheeks. Wil likewise. Niers Astoragon was smiling as he got up to refill his drink. When he sat down again, he looked at them.
“Whenever I have a student in this room, it’s always a mixed feeling. On one hand, I couldn’t be prouder of you. Either of you. You did it. You defeated Tulm the Mithril and you won my game. Out of all your peers, you excelled. As a teacher, I’m delighted. But also melancholic.”
“Sir?”
Niers smiled as he looked at Wil.
“Because it means your time at my academy, in my classes, is coming to a close. You two are nearing graduation. It might be in another year or two, or it could be sooner.”
The two inhaled sharply. Niers nodded.
“It’s a sign. Well, your class is all nearing that point. But this moment especially is significant. I may never have Venaz in this room, or Yerranola, or Feshi or any of the others. It’s not as though I offer the opportunity to win a question all the time. But I try to make time to have a one-on-one talk before each student goes. Sometimes it doesn’t happen, of course.”
“And this is it?”
Umina felt a pang in her stomach. Niers looked at her.
“Not just yet, Umina, my dear. And we might speak like this again. I hope so, in fact! So, let’s not drag down this discussion—you two aren’t graduates yet! Especially after your report! Failing to write your name—”
He laughed at the chagrin on Umina’s face.
“I’m joking, Umina. You and Wil did well! But we won’t talk about that. As I said, this is a conversation. I believe I don’t do all the talking, although I know I tend to dominate discussions.”
He looked meaningfully from side to side. Umina jumped and Wil cut in.
“Er—that means you’ve done this before, Professor?”
“Oh, countless times! With many students! The winners of my games, obviously. As far back as when I started offering them.”
The Titan waved a hand, smiling fondly at the memories only he could see. Umina was relaxing, or the strong liquid burning her forked tongue was.
“Then—you’ve had all your students in here, Professor? Or the best ones. That means—Professor Perorn? Fleethoof?”
“One of my first winners. I think she sat in your very chair, Umina.”
Niers winked at the Lizardgirl. Umina turned bright red. Wil coughed.
“She didn’t, Professor.”
“Oh, come now, Wil. Let Umina have her moment! No, she didn’t. Centaurs and chairs don’t mix. But she probably sat somewhere around where we are!”
Niers laughed and Umina exhaled, grinning sheepishly. Niers waved a hand.
“Yes. I’ve had conversations with many, many students here. Some for the question, others just because I wanted to talk to them before they left. As people, not in our usual relationship.”
“So—if I may ask—”
“Ask away! There are no bad questions here!”
Niers chuckled. Wil nodded.
“What about Tulm the Mithril?”
Umina coughed on her chips. Niers paused. Both Wil and Umina remembered Tulm, and his overpowering presence at Daquin. But he too had been one of the Titan’s students. Umina tried to imagine him in one of their classes. But Niers just nodded.
“Tulm, oh yes. And oh, no. I certainly taught him and had conversations with Tulm, but not ever here. Not after he won my game.”
“Really?”
The two younger [Strategists] leaned forwards. Niers grinned ruefully.
“You both know how he won my games? Yes? Well, do you think he sat in this room after burning down an entire city to win my game? I sent him his answer in letter form. If he and I had been here, it would have turned ugly. I was furious at him.”
“Really? But he won—”
“By burning down a city! And putting thousands of lives at risk! But he did win; I’ve just never seen eye-to-eye with him. I’ll admit, he got me, but Tulm was a troublesome student. Brilliant of course, but he could get under my skin! Still, he was as young as you two when I taught him.”
Niers frowned darkly, then brightened.
“Would you like to hear all about his embarrassing mistakes?”
Spellbound, Umina and Wil nodded. Niers chuckled.
“You think you made a bad mistake by not writing your name on your report, Umina? One time we had an assignment to lead a group of [Soldiers] like this last project—only in reality! Somehow, Tulm misheard the beach I wanted everyone to meet at and thought he was marching north. He made it three hundred miles and got hopelessly lost—it was two weeks before we found him! He thought the monsters, [Bandits], and everything he ran into was part of the test!”
He laughed. Umina giggled, trying to imagine that. Wil was trying not to, but he had to turn his head and chuckle. Niers went on.
“And he was hopelessly enamored with one of my other teachers. A Selphid.”
“No.”
“Oh yes! He wrote a love letter and it got mixed up with my homework. It was—ah, poetic in that Dullahan fashion. I think he nearly hopped off the citadel’s highest tower when he realized he’d turned it in with his assignment. I still have a copy. Want me to find it?”
“No! I mean—”
Umina was aghast. Tulm the Mithril? Niers grinned.
“Just remember he’s a person too. And he was as young as you two! Of course, now he’s a legend. But no one’s perfect. Perorn—”
He paused.
“Well, maybe I shouldn’t talk about her. She’d probably stomp on me if I told you her mistakes.”
“She made some?”
The Fraerling hesitated as he looked up at Wil, leaning down. Umina did likewise. The Titan wavered and then tapped one side of his nose.
“The fishing incident. I dare say no more. If you’re brave, you’ll get someone else to ask Perorn about it.”
He chortled. And Umina and Wil laughed too. They were relaxed now. Suddenly, Umina found herself asking Niers, the Professor, the Titan questions. What was Perorn like as a student? And Wil was doing the same. They caught themselves, exchanged a glance.
It was a side of Niers they had never seen. And both of them felt it. This was a special moment. Something they’d earned. The Titan was speaking to them like equals. But neither could dwell on it; he was still talking.
And now Niers was speaking of Daquin. They’d gone over the game in detail in a number of lessons, but the Professor was speaking to Wil, looking up at him, smiling fondly.
“Brilliant work, Wil. Moving an entire strike force from Terandria to outside of Daquin by sea, unseen, and timing their attack? As logistics go, you’re already above most average [Strategists]. Hone that talent, lad. Don’t let it be your only trump card, but know that you have an advantage there and everyone will remember that fact.”
Niers held up a finger.
“With that said, you need work commanding a larger force. I don’t expect any of my students to beat Tulm in a city-wide brawl, even with the element of surprise and the Order of Seasons, but your command, while good, was too straightforward. Tulm was expecting more surprises which never came, and when he found your measure he began pushing you back hard. Still, you managed to make him use one of his better Skills—no, two of them. That’s something to be proud of.”
Wil nodded, breathless. The Fraerling turned to the Lizardgirl, and she felt a surge of apprehension. But Niers’ smile was kind.
“Umina, I confess you weren’t in the light as much as Wil, but your tactics were just as brilliant. Tunneling through a septic tank? That takes bravery! Especially to be able to create sappers and use them when everything was reaching the climax of the battle! Your coolness under pressure and the ability to think far outside your opponents is what I’ve seen you grow during your time as a student. A deserved win! You managed to outpace an entire force of [Knights] and every single one of your classmates!”
“Thank you, Professor.”
He nodded.
“Now, with that said, you didn’t do it alone. What you lack, Umina, is the daring Venaz and Marian demonstrated, the willingness to take huge risks. Wil showed that too, come to that. You’re acting like a [Tactician] among [Strategists] and while that means you cut deep with surprising maneuvers, you need to develop your own authority and presence as a commander, not a squad leader.”
It was fair. Umina felt a small sting to her pride, but she knew he was right. She took a gulp from her drink. Niers did likewise as he looked from student to student.
“Those are your strengths and weaknesses. As [Strategists], you two still have something to learn. But I’d still put you against any ordinary company-level [Strategist] and expect you to win handily! Functionally, you’re both at the level of any graduate of my regular classes. What I want to see is how high you’ll get to before you graduate. And that’s me in teaching mode. Back to conversation! I just had to tell you how proud I am of your victories.”
“Thank you, sir.”
Wil’s cheeks were red again. He reached for a few dates and ate them one at a time before taking some water. Umina had already finished her cup. She fidgeted.
“Professor—can I ask…?”
“I’d be offended if you didn’t. Go on, Umina!”
“Okay then. Professor, why do you give out the right to ask a question for winning your game? Any question? Will you really answer it truthfully? What do you have to gain from something like that?”
Wil looked up. And Niers’ eyes sharpened.
“Ah, now you’re asking the questions you really want to know the answer to. Don’t worry! That wasn’t your question. And I’m happy to answer it.”
So saying, he got up and began to pace around the table. He snagged a bit of cheese as he walked past a bunch of cubes, slicing a bit off to munch and eat. He looked up at last.
“I know I shouldn’t, but I have to make it a lesson. Old habits. Tell me, what’s the purpose of a secret, you two?”
They were back in class again, only the pressure wasn’t so high. Umina sipped from her drink, thinking.
“Knowledge, Professor? A potential advantage over someone else?”
“Good. Accurate, but not what I’m looking for. Wil, your thoughts?”
“Then—trust? Safety, perhaps?”
The Titan shook his head.
“All good answers. But to me, the answer is: constancy. The purpose of secrets is to prevent change. Because the secret is kept, the world remains the same. That’s why you keep a secret. When you use it is when things change.”
His students nodded, fascinated. Niers went on, walking up a wooden slope to slice a chunk out of a banana. His sword was enchanted, but he was using it like a table knife. And a fork.
“Why do I offer a question? Well, to explain that, I’ll talk about my world. I’m second-in-command to the Forgotten Wing Company, one of the most powerful forces in all of Baleros. But not the undisputed best, yes? We have the Four Great Companies of Baleros. And, why not? Let’s throw in Jungle Tails in as well. They were a Great Company and they’re still powerful.”
Umina flushed. Only a Lizardfolk Company would have such a playful name. Niers smiled, nodding.
“Not to mention other companies who are powerful, if not as large as the top four. All of us big players, well, we’re held by each other. No one wants one side to gain more power than we already have, so there’s an unofficial agreement to ally to defend against an aggressor. If the Forgotten Wing Company moves now, two Companies or more will move against it. Stalemate, you see? We’re too big, and all the alliances are too firmly entrenched. So we enjoy the luxuries of success without being able to break the status quo.”
“But you clash with other companies all the time, Professor.”
He waved that away.
“Border skirmishes, Umina. Wars by proxy. There hasn’t been a major battle between our companies with hundreds of thousands of [Soldiers] on the line in over a decade. Even eighty thousand soldiers isn’t much compared to what we can field.”
The Lizardgirl nodded. Niers went on, frowning.
“The trouble is, I don’t appreciate the stalemate. I’d like not to live the rest of my life like this. I’d like the Forgotten Wing Company to gain even more power! But we can’t. Not easily. We have too many enemies now. It might be different if it were easier to move abroad, forge alliances on other continents, even recruit and set up bases there. But the Iron Vanguard controls the seas and we have to negotiate hard to send armies to other continents. If we could expand—but I’ve tried making our own navies time and time again, and Tulm shuts down my attempts each time. You can’t keep a fleet that secret.”
Wil looked like he wanted to take notes. So did Umina. This was Niers Astoragon, talking about the challenges of his position candidly and openly. She had no idea that he’d tried to make a fleet. The Titan grimaced.
“So back to your question, Umina—secrets. Why do I offer them? The better question is: what’s stopping me? It’s just a secret. Yes, it’s valuable, but what’s that to me? I’m rich! What good are secrets if they’re kept forever? Maybe I want to give my students some help. Maybe I think it’s a worthwhile incentive. Maybe—I’m just tired of everything being so constant.”
He looked pointedly at Umina and Wil. They analyzed what he was saying.
“So you’re helping us to destabilize the balance of power?”
The thought was mind-boggling. Niers waved a hand, smiling.
“Don’t worry, I don’t intend for any one person to do that. I’m just explaining, Umina—I don’t care if giving out a secret messes with the established order. I don’t need to maintain it. In fact, I’m counting on you two. All of you young [Strategists] to generate some excitement for me. I’d hate to die of boredom.”
The compliment took the words out of both students for a moment. But then Wil asked a question next. He had to. This was their chance. And oh, they had so many questions, rumors among the students they needed answers to. Umina couldn’t imagine how much her classmates would kill to have been here. They’d be buying her drinks for weeks when she told them about this moment! And this wasn’t even the question!
