They called him the Titan of Baleros and not because of his tread. In truth, the man was as impressive, or at least, as short as a mouse. But say that to his face and you’d probably be dead. Say it to his [Soldiers] and they’d kick in your face. Say it to Fraerlings and you’d make an enemy of the whole damn race.
Say it to his students and you’d soon have medical needs. For Niers Astoragon’s tiny boots were those of the greatest [Strategist] in the world. Of that, his students were all agreed. And this is the tale of the question they asked. Two students, a Lizardgirl and a Human who won the right at Daquin, nearly a month past.
 
——
 
“And the results are in! You all had a week to outfit and supply one of my smaller divisions with food, equipment, potions, and whatever intelligence and directions you saw fit! The goal was to march them nearly two hundred miles through swamp terrain upon which they’d make camp for three days before joining an attack on a nearby city! And the results are…”
Niers Astoragon stood on his podium and his class tensed. [Tacticians], [Strategists], even [Commanders] and other classes who used strategy as a tool, were all gathered in his class. It was one of his joint classes and as such, competition was high.
Nerves were even higher. The Titan of Baleros waited, flipping through his page of notes as Perorn Sadiluc, another teacher who led such classes, shifted impatiently behind him. They could not be more different. Perorn, also known as Fleethoof, was a famous [Strategist], almost as famous as Niers Astoragon. But while she spoke in a crisp, no-nonsense tone and never wasted time…
Niers raised a hand and waited for the drumroll to die down. The [Drummers], all Dullahans, filled the lecture hall with sonorous thwooms of sound, probably echoing the heartbeats of his class. Perorn stared at Niers.
“You actually brought [Drummers]? What is wrong with you, Astoragon?”
“Let me have my fun, Perorn. I get old and cranky if I don’t get to do this. Ahem!”
Now there was silence. The [Drummers] packed up and left the room as Niers cleared his throat. He eyed the papers and announced to his students.
“…Of the eighty seven of you in my advanced class that were deemed capable of the challenge, I regret to say that my prized division of fourteen thousand [Soldiers] died, starved to death, got lost, or ran afoul of some malady or issue in their terrain that caused them to delay or miss the battle completely in sixty two percent of the cases!”
“Rounded down.”
“Rounded down!”
A groan ran through the classroom. The Titan cheerfully kicked off the painstakingly written budget reports off his desk. Each student had recorded food bought, supplies paid for, and information added from their own surveillance of the region or [Informants] and so on. Some had hired guides, others, adventuring teams.
It was all a front. None of them had actually bought anything. In truth, they’d gone to an entire town that Niers had painstakingly set up with actual [Merchants], [Informants], and so on, all selling goods that his students had bought with actual gold—but didn’t actually go to this hypothetical army. Still, the challenge had been real, or unreal. Niers bellowed at the class.
“Sixty two percent failure! Am I teaching the next generation of [Commanders] and [Strategists], or the next generation of Goblin-fodder? And don’t let my bright smile fool you; anyone who has failed this lesson will be going on the exact same march with an actual company of [Soldiers], who will take pleasure, great pleasure, in making sure you don’t fail them when you’re actually responsible for their lives!”
A second groan, but louder. Niers looked at his students, savoring their dismay. It was just a bit fun to do this. Even Perorn hid a smile as Niers went on.
“You’ve all gotten arrogant. A bit prideful. You think that you’re the cream of the crop, the best [Strategists] in the world because you’re all at the top of my classes here. Well, this is an actual scenario and most of you failed it. In fact, even the third of you that passed leave much to be desired. You hear that, my starry-eyed little pupils?”
He leaned over the podium and addressed a group of students in the front of the class. They were about…twenty six or so, and instantly, their smug smiles disappeared. Niers looked at his personal class, who were actually able to lay claim to being the best of the best. He practically purred as he looked from suddenly nervous face to face.
“Did you think you all passed, hm? I’m proud to say most of you did. But ah, a fifth of you did not. Shall we start naming names? Anyone care to volunteer to have me read their report out loud? Feshi? Cameral? Yerranola?”
He addressed three students, a Gnoll, a Dullahan, and a Selphid. All three instantly ducked their heads, shaking them furiously. Niers looked about as Perorn shuffled her papers.
“No one? No one at all?”
He was waiting for the inevitable response. And lo and behold, like the sun rising each morning, a huge, furred hand shot up.
“Sir! I volunteer!”
Venaz looked around proudly. Niers raised one eyebrow as his lecture hall erupted into a single, unified sigh.
“Venaz! You seem very confident.”
The Minotaur nodded. He sat up straight, his horns polished, his posture perfect. He met Niers’ eyes without flinching.
“Of course, Professor! I calculated each step of my division’s movements! Food, supplies, guides—all were accounted for! They were prepared for anything.”
He spoke as if there could be no doubt, and there wasn’t. Niers raised one eyebrow.
“And you’re sure?”
Venaz hesitated, then nodded.
“Absolutely, Professor. I’m confident in my own abilities. I will not fall for mind games.”
His bravado was almost infectious. A few of Niers’ students, like the officers who sat apart from the [Strategists], began to look hopeful. Niers smiled. And then, like a spider who has finally ensnared his biggest fly in a web, he pounced.
“Interesting, Venaz. Because, and I’m afraid to say this, your division never made it past the first three days.”
“What?”
The word erupted from Venaz’ mouth along with a gale of laughter from above. He turned and glared upwards; a group of students were laughing their behinds off. Peki, a young Garuda from Chandrar, Merrik, a Dwarf [War Leader] from Terandria, Kelsa and Romin, two Centaur [Captains], and a group of the students from the officer class were enjoying his dismay. He turned back to Niers, looking furious and embarrassed.
“Professor, that can’t be right! I did the calculations! I’ve led soldiers before! I didn’t err—I must demand to see the math!”
“And you will! My fellow teachers and I have all gone over your budgets—checked and double checked them! We’ll be passing them out—er, someone will have to help unsort the reports I just kicked over—but if any of you have any reservations, you may argue your case!”
Niers waved at some of the other teachers. One of them, a Drake, shot Niers a look as he bent to tidy up the reports. The Fraerling went on, addressing the Minotaur.
“Unfortunately though, in your case, Venaz, the math isn’t even hard. Your company starved to death.”
“What? But I arranged more than enough supplies! I paid that [Merchant]—”
“You paid a fraud, Venaz! He was a [Swindler]! A good one! He ran off with your gold and your company got exactly nothing to march with. To be fair, we gave them thirty miles before starvation set in, but with your foraging order, it wasn’t enough. You get a few points for that, by the way, but your [Soldiers] deserted.”
The Minotaur’s jaw dropped and stayed dropped as Niers rifled through his reports. He fished Venaz’s out and tsked much to the amusement of most in the room. The sharper students were realizing that Venaz’s performance might extend to them.
“A real tragedy. I warned you all! Take this seriously. And you all swanned off to our glorious city to spend the gold you were given—a quarter of you never even managed to spend it all! It was stolen, you gave it to fraudulent [Merchants] or you were tricked into terrible deals with actual ones—a few of you never even made it out of the red-light district! And yes, we have records of it all.”
The class stared at the Titan. He casually flipped through another report. Then he looked up and he was grinning. His students had nightmares about that grin.
“Did you really think being a [Strategist] was about pure logistics? Have I taught all of you nothing? The entire town was bought out! My precious students—you can fight an army and supply it, but how will you do if you can’t manage people?”
“Wait—Professor! You mean everything that happened to us in that hellhole was scripted?”
At last, the students began reacting. Niers grinned. Merrik looked outraged. The Dwarf slammed a fist onto his desk.
“I was mugged in that town!”
“Not fatally. You fought them off, well done. But may I suggest that next time you don’t walk around with all your gold in your bag of holding? Well done on recovering it, though. Don’t worry; the [Thief] whose arm you broke was a Selphid.”
Merrik’s jaw dropped. From below, another student raised her hand and called out.
“They were all actors, Professor?”
Niers smiled at the Lizardgirl who’d spoken up.
“Every last one, Umina. Or rather, they were hired. [Prostitutes], [Merchants], [Thieves]—some of them quite high-level! I’m pleased to say that many of you navigated most of the threats well, but some of you…well, let’s just get to the analysis, shall we? And our first student is…”
Perorn snatched the reports out from under Niers and checked the name at the top of the page.
“Wil Kallinad, your report. Passed. Next! Marian Felthof. Passed! Venaz of Hammerad. Failed. Feshi Weatherfur. Passed! Yerranola—”
Niers folded his arms, a bit hurt, but Perorn’s efficiency and the other teachers beginning to call out names meant the students were soon reading their reports, most with deep dismay. Some were relieved—and yes, many from Niers’ special class. Venaz just stared at his report in a state of shock.
“He was an imposter? But he was so—so—trustworthy.”
“You idiot, Venaz. That’s how you know they’re fake!”
Marian trotted over to him and gleefully looked over his shoulder. The Minotaur began to angle his papers away from hers, but then gave up and slapped it on the desk for all to see. He folded his arms.
“He seemed military! He knew what he was talking about—he must have been truly high level!”
They all had been. Niers smiled as he watched his students debate and bicker over the results. In truth, the test had been hard. Niers had sent expert [War Merchants] used to haggling with company leaders to tear into his students and get the best deals they could. He’d also hired criminals versed in trickery and artifice to do the same.
They’d loved their roles. Niers had even hired some of the red-light district’s finest to tempt his students. You could tell who’d fallen for their wiles by the red faces. To be fair—many of them had used their charm or seduction Skills liberally, but that was a valid danger for [Strategists] to fall into. And not just because they might spend money unwisely.
“Ambushed? Oh, dead gods. My division got attacked because I—”
Merrik was groaning as he showed his report to his friends. He broke off, turning red and muttering into his beard. Peki just shook her head.
“You suck. Ha. Ha. I’m going to stay here while you march two hundred miles.”
The Garuda smiled. Merrik scowled at her.
“How the hell did you pass, Peki? I had to hold onto my bag of holding with both hands with all those damn [Thieves] about! Not to mention prying a good deal out of my [Merchant]!”
“I flew. Obviously. And I bought food from a trustworthy person.”
“How did you know they were trustworthy, Peki?”
Marian called up at the officers. Peki looked down and then leaned over her table to call down to them. Ever since the games at Daquin, the officers and strategist classes had gotten more friendly.
“I watched how they stood and talked to the others. I learned that from—”
“The Strongest of Pomle. Yeah, yeah. Dead gods, we got slaughtered. How’d you all do, you [Strategist] pricks?”
Merrik groaned. He looked down at the [Strategists]. Venaz’s head was bowed, but the rest looked fairly cheerful. Yerranola was covering her face, but most had passed.
“I could also smell some of them out as liars. I suppose I had an advantage there, yes?”
Feshi was grinning as she showed her report to the others. Wil smiled and covered his report as she glanced sideways at it. Not out of embarrassment; the [Lord] had gotten the third-highest marks out of everyone in the class and only lost points because he’d had a fourth of his gold stolen by one of the better [Pickpockets]. Umina sighed as she stared at her paper.
“I managed to pass too, Merrik. Barely. I got mugged too, so I just gave them some of my gold. Wil, how’d you do so well?”
“Uh—I’ve met [Merchants] so I had some experience with them. I could tell who wasn’t genuine. Venaz, there’s a number of signs, but you have to go through the Merchant’s Guild or some other form of verification to hold them responsible.”
“I thought I was buying directly from the source! And he had a certificate—it even tested positive at the Merchant’s Guild!”
“Fake. They can do that. You should have checked his name via the Mage’s Guild. The [Receptionist] at the desk was either blindsided or he bought her off.”
By now, the class was calming down. The students who’d failed were resigned to their fate. It wasn’t a disgrace to fail in the Titan’s academy. In fact, everyone in the class had failed at least a dozen times. It was a lesson Niers wanted to hammer into the students he was teaching: failure was inevitable. You failed, and you learned from your mistakes. They were also used to his unusual punishments, and while they were certain the march would be deeply unpleasant, it was also what they’d signed up for.
“Alright! That’s all for today, my lovely students! The losers will take part in the march next week; don’t worry, you don’t have to do anything but follow our [Soldiers]! Although with that said, you might want to prepare yourselves…”
Groans followed the Titan’s statement and he smiled. Perorn was waiting by the door and the students were packing up their notes, quills, ink, parchment, or for the richer ones, paper, and looking expectant. Also—a bit nervous.
“Let’s see. No homework for today. Just be prepared to discuss your reports in your individual classes tomorrow. Oh, and one last thing.”
