Grimalkin was opening his mouth. Then—he blinked.
“Well, of course. This is my revolutionary weights-system. And this is a—gymnasium. To build muscle, in a controlled environment.”
“Really? Why haven’t I heard of this?”
“It’s a new invention.”
Grimalkin shot back. He glanced at Pryde’s weight bar dismissively.
“The techniques are completely revolutionary. My concept with some help from a…significant source. Each muscular group can be worked on without the need for sparring or general training. This is an…academic approach to improving one’s body. But it is in development still. Please don’t try lifting that bar, Miss Pryde.”
“Why not?”
The [Lady] saw the Drake glance at it.
“It’s far too heavy for your muscular mass. The weights are designed to be used incrementally. You’d want to reduce, oh, eighty pounds from that.”
He gave Pryde a dismissive look up and down. The [Lady] wasn’t wearing the tracksuit, but she was wearing loose, travel or athletic clothes. She didn’t look a tenth as muscular as Grimalkin. However, at Grimalkin’s words, Pryde’s head snapped up.
“Is that a challenge?”
“No, a fact. I warn you—”
Too late. Pryde bent down. A bit uncertainly—she bent down. And then picked the weights bar up and heaved it onto her shoulders to do a squat.
Lyonette and Grimalkin stared. Mrsha’s jaw dropped. Pryde eyed the poster on the wall, and imitated a squat. The weights bar—which had to have over two hundred pounds on it, balanced on her shoulders as she did one squat. Then two.
“Too heavy, you said?”
The [Lady] looked at Grimalkin. The weight was clearly heavy on her, but she was managing it. Grimalkin scratched at his head.
“That’s not…are you using magic? An aura?”
He squinted at her. Pryde just smirked at him.
“I don’t need either. I keep myself fit. House Ulta’s retainers have strict training and I’ve ensured their regimen is second to none. And gone through it myself.”
“But how—ah.”
Grimalkin saw Pryde carefully hooking the weights bar on the squat rack; then the woman’s clothes moved. Lyonette saw abdominal muscle. Mrsha squinted at Pryde’s arms.
“[Compressed Muscle]. Of course. A [Lady]’s Skill. I haven’t seen that Skill in—years. It’s not common.”
The Drake eyed Pryde. She smirked at him.
“A gift from my mother. House Ulta has always been in high physical shape.”
“Bloodline breeding?”
“Not a concept most Drakes know about. I see you have some muscle.”
Grimalkin harrumphed. He and Pryde stared at each other, appraising each other a second time. Lyonette slowly beckoned towards Mrsha; the Gnoll was trying to pump a barbell.
“Well—I can see I’ve misjudged you, Lady Ulta. But these weights are only being tested in Drake lands. I have yet to perfect the regimen.”
“Really? I want them. My [Warriors] could use them. I’ve been looking for ways to improve their strength. Do you have more aids in building muscle? Why have I not heard of these weights before? I don’t keep up on Drake politics.”
“Well, they are cutting-edge. New. And I haven’t been advertising—”
The [Sinew Magus] hesitated. He blinked a few times.
“Did you say you wanted to know more about strength building?”
“Did you mishear me? Unless you don’t have anything else?”
The [Lady] looked archly at Grimalkin. Lyonette grinned and closed the door. Now, that wasn’t a [Princess]’s power. That was just misdirection. And she had learned that trick from—Erin.
“Lyonette, what’s up with that [Lady]?”
“All sorted, Drassi. Ishkr, they’re in the weights room. Bring in some sliced oranges and water for them.”
Lyonette exhaled as she came back into the common room. Pawn and some of the Antinium were in the common room. She exclaimed as she saw them.
“Pawn! What happened to you?”
“We were pelted with trash on our way out of the Hive.”
The [Priest] was picking a rag off his antennae. Two of his Workers smelled as though they’d been doused by…chamber pots. Lyonette’s brows drew together.
“Those—are you hurt?”
“Not physically. But I am somewhat irritable.”
The [Priest] replied. Lyonette saw Ishkr wrinkling his nose.
“Drassi, get the oranges and water for Pryde and Grimalkin. Ishkr—water? Soap?”
“Yes, Miss Lyonette.”
“I’m sorry, Pawn. We can move the door or—make a new one so that doesn’t happen. What’s it like in Liscor? Hold on, I’ll get you some towels—”
Lyonette walked past a table. And then abruptly, collapsed onto it.
“Lyonette?”
The Gnoll blinked as Lyonette caught herself.
“Whoops, slipped. I’m fine, Ishkr.”
Lyonette smiled at Ishkr—and then abruptly, sat back in her chair. Everything spun. Lyonette’s face turned pale.
“Lyonette!”
Mrsha and Pawn sprinted at Lyonette as Ishkr bent over her. The [Princess] felt everything going dark. She panted as Pawn seized her.
“[Minor Heal—]”
“No! I’m fine!”
Urgently, Lyonette knocked away Pawn’s hands. Everyone was watching! She panted as Mrsha grabbed her.
“I just need to—rest. I used up my aura.”
She’d never done that. Her mother hadn’t used her aura as much as that, not in all the years Lyonette had been at court. The [Princess] closed her eyes as the voices murmured around her.
“Just give me—give me—one moment.”
Her head lolled back. And she closed her eyes. The [Princess] passed out—just for a moment, before Mrsha shoved a stamina potion in her mouth. But that was all she needed. She heard that wonderful voice she’d been waiting for.
 
[Worldly Princess Level 20!]
[Skill—
 
—-
 
At the same time that was happening, a [Lady] was listening to a Drake’s woes. Maviola El savored her bites of the rib-burger as she walked across Liscor with Olesm.
The Drake was showing her around. Olesm really didn’t have much to do—well, he had to attend the strategy meeting regarding the Antinium situation.
“But what do I do? I’m just a low-level [Strategist]. Grand Strategist Chaldion will be there. I mean—I’ve messed it all up.”
Olesm was showing Maviola the park. She stopped, watching Ekirra throw Visma off the top of the park slide. The screaming Drake child plummeted to the ground before the safety spell caught her. Then she raced up and kicked Ekirra off.
“But you’re Liscor’s [Strategist]. You’ve done a lot for the city. Before this Council, you practically ran it.”
“How do you know that?”
She smiled at him.
“You told me last night. We played chess, remember?”
“Oh. I uh—drank too much. Sorry. I’m whining, aren’t I?”
“Yes. The [Innkeeper] doesn’t like you. That half-Elf doesn’t love you. You don’t get paid enough, the city’s undefended against the Antinium—”
Maviola began counting Olesm’s woes off on her fingers. He turned bright red under his scales. He’d told her all that yesterday? She grinned at his expression.
“I’m—sorry. I’ll shut up.”
The Drake turned away. Idiot! But Maviola just pushed at his shoulder.
“Do you know what your problem is, Olesm? You told me all your problems yesterday. But you don’t do anything about them.”
The [Strategist] hunched his shoulders.
“What? No, I mean, I can’t fix Ceria not…and Erin—I burned the bridge with her.”
Maviola rolled her eyes.
“Yes, yes. But those two aren’t the biggest problems, are they? The Antinium was what I meant—but let’s start with an easy one. You don’t get paid enough?”
“I…could use a bigger salary. I mean, it’s decent. But I spend money on paper and ink for my personal notes. It’s not that I need a lot more, it’d just be helpful. Did I mention that?”
Olesm counted his coins. Even treating Maviola to a meal ticked his cash flow at the back of his head. Maviola smiled.
“Briefly. So if you need more money and you’re working hard—why don’t you ask for it? Ask this Council.”
The blue-scaled Drake hesitated.
“I couldn’t do that. They have so many budgetary needs, what with the city’s construction and so forth—I don’t need to add to that.”
The [Lady] rolled her eyes.
“And is your salary going to impact the entire future of Liscor’s construction?”
She spread her arms to indicate the entire city, mockingly. Olesm blushed again.
“No! But—it’s petty.”
“You mean, it’s easy. Just ask. If they say no, that’s it. But you don’t ask. That’s like your Antinium problem.”
“Ow. What is?”
Olesm backed up from the poking. Maviola looked at him, exasperated, but amused. Somehow—knowing.
“Forget about what this Grand Strategist can do. What can you, as the [Strategist] of Liscor, do? You’re making a mistake of command: you think that if you can’t fix everything, you should leave it to your superiors. That’s idiotic.”
She pointed down at the ground they stood on.
“You do the best job you can in your position, and you inform those above you about what you can’t do. You don’t do nothing and wait for orders. If that’s how you act, you don’t deserve to even follow.”
Her words were sharp and cut Olesm to the quick. What was worse—Maviola sounded like she knew exactly what she was talking about from personal experience. Olesm just looked at her.
“Oh, Ancestors. That makes so much sense.”
“Mhm. Imagine that.”
She leaned on a sign in front of the public park. It read, ‘Erin Solstice is banned from entry by order of the community and the Watch’. There had been a siege here, once. Children vs grownups. An epic battle.
Anyways. Olesm just looked at Maviola.
“So—I should be doing what I can that Chaldion can’t do?”
“Exactly.”
“Which is…?”
She shrugged. The young woman gave Olesm a very blank look.
“I have no idea. I’m not Liscor’s [Strategist]. But what are the problems in Liscor that could be fixed?”
“Oh, well—so many. The Humans coming into Liscor—that’s an issue you highlighted this morning. I had this chess magazine, and that’s more personal, but it was actually putting Liscor on the map. But I don’t talk to Erin. And there’s the budget—if I could help with that—”
For a moment Olesm felt that helplessness set in. How did you fix any of that? He began to feel sorry for himself.
Then Maviola kicked him. The Drake yelped. He glared at her and then realized. He was doing it again. Here was the problem. Now—where was his solution?
“I…don’t know what I should do.”
Maviola raised her foot. Olesm hurried on.
“Yet. But—well—hm.”
He rubbed at his chin in thought. Thought, for once. And he didn’t see Maviola’s eyes locked on his face. Her smile, as she saw a fire reigniting in his empty gaze.
“Why don’t you show me around? Run your ideas by me. I can listen.”
She suggested. Olesm looked around.
“Oh! Sure. We can—walk by some of Liscor’s attractions. You know, we have great singing performances. Erin’s never bothered to go down Stonesong Boulevard, but it really is a sight. They have this Rock Crab—sorry, Hollowstone Deceiver’s—shell that they painted and people stand on it and sing. Amazing acoustics. Come on, I’ll show you.”
He pointed and the two began to walk. After a moment, Olesm looked at Maviola, embarrassed. She was smiling, looking around this city with excitement. And at him.
“So—well, it’s incomplete, but—”
“Tell me already.”
“Well, I had this idea just now. You know my magazine? What if—I saw that Pallass has a newspaper, which is this thing—okay, let me start from the beginning. But hear me out…”
He began to talk. And Maviola listened. Smiling and walking with him. She grabbed his arm and listened, laughing. As if she had all the time in the world. Or as if this was all that mattered with the time she had left.
And the flames grew.
 
—-
 
Across the Floodplains, a group of seven walked. They were a bit—disconsolate.
“Wow. Erin’s a lot more high-strung than I remember. Not as bad as Ryoka, though.”
“She really runs this inn? Why? Maybe she likes being…an [Innkeeper]?”
They were debating. Wandering up and down the hills and valleys, marveling at the landscape, the odd rocks scattered here and there, the city in the distance.
But it wasn’t—necessarily—a place you wanted to stay. Still, where else did they have to go? Rose was shaking her head.
“Erin’s nice. She let us in after we ran up that huge tab.”
“But how does she have all this? I mean—do you think she actually has a higher level? She’s only been here what, a few months?”
Leon was skeptical. Kevin scratched his head.
“I dunno, guys. She’s a pretty big deal. I was chatting up that Drake. Drassi.”
“Hitting on her, you mean. Kevin—that’s so disgusting.”
Galina wrinkled her nose. Kevin looked at her.
“Why?”
“That’s like—being one of those people. That dresses up in costumes?”
“A furry?”
Troydel looked at her. Kevin frowned.
“Drassi’s not that. She’s a person.”
“But she’s a lizard—”
“Don’t call them that.”
“Guys! I’m just asking if we want to stay here.”
Rose raised her voice. The others looked at her. Joseph, rubbing his head, muttered.
“Why not? We don’t have anywhere else to go. But is it safe? Erin can’t protect us. She’s got that Gnoll—that red-haired girl, a few employees—”
“That cute Gnoll. Did you see her face?”
Galina sighed. The others were arguing. They were lost. And—under one misconception. Only one, really. They thought of Erin as being like them. Because they didn’t know her.
Or Liscor. If they had, they might have understood. Crucial facts about the inn, about Erin that made her—not like them. Little details, that was all the seven were missing.
Like the fact that rocks moved. One of them slowly stood up and crept over a hill. It had a lot of little legs.
Another Rock Crab slowly stood up. And then another. And another. They saw the food moving in a helpful group and began to creep closer. Most Gnoll [Hunters] kept their distance from the telltale rocks. But the Earthers, like other animals not used to the Floodplains, didn’t know.
And that wasn’t their fault. Rose was poking at the others.
“All I’m saying is, we owe Erin. Don’t be an idiot and steal her drinks, Joseph! We’re going to go back, help out, and—just be helpful! Got it? Any objections?”
No one had any. But it was Imani, a [Survivor], who had been clutching Rose’s shirt who quavered.
“Everyone? I just saw—a rock move.”
The others looked at her. Joseph glanced around. There were a few rocks. Boulders, really. Big. Kevin scratched his head.
“Like…roll down a hill?”
“No. It stood up. That one.”
Imani pointed. Now the Earthers glanced around. Leon frowned.
“Those are a lot of rocks. Were they here…when we started walking?”
They halted. Six rocks were spaced around the small hills about them. The Earthers paused. They weren’t idiots.
