“Not that I bear anyone here a grudge. Did I mention the bodyguards? At least four, one for each of my assistants. If you’re using the Watch, I insist on Level 20 or higher. But I digress. If you’ll look at this second plan, this is what I’ve come up with since last night. A work in progress, but—here we are.”
A Lizardgirl rolled out a map on top of the first one. The first overlay vanished. And Olesm—gasped.
“What is this?”
Krshia half-rose, staring at the new city rising from the map. It was completely different from the old. For one thing—it was a lot taller.
A second level had been added to the city. Olesm saw aerial walkways, entire streets built above the first. Not all-encompassing—they were designed to allow passage from those above without casting too much shadow on the ground level people. But the apartments were twice as high. Hexel slithered around it.
“This takes lessons from Pallass. Horrible issues with shadows from their upper floors. The design is somewhat Balerosian, but I’ve made as many concessions to Drake architecture as possible. Space for Gnollish aesthetics too. Under this design, the city does expand—but upwards as well as horizontally. It will triple your capacity when fully built.”
“You’ve expanded in two directions?”
Lism stared upwards at the higher, burgeoning skyscrapers, and then to the sides. Olesm saw two walls had been replaced and expanded.
“Of course. West and south. But that’s because under the new plan—I would hope to remodel the walls. Note the height.”
Hexel pointed. Little numbers appeared where he did, and Olesm saw. The walls were now fifty feet high. Not sheer vertical drops either, but slanted slopes, still very steep, but to allow for the height.
“Fifty-foot walls, which would put Liscor above most Drake cities in stature. Doubled landmass based on western and southern expansions, and a second layer of the city for increased usage of space. This is partly for efficiency’s sake, but also to make room for the largest of the improvements—here.”
The city rotated. Olesm craned his neck and heard a sound. He looked down into the center of the new section of the city and saw…blue.
Water. Krshia stared into a huge, inland pool—no, lake. No—a sea. Okay, maybe a lake. But a vast one. And deep! The sewer system ran around it.
“What is this?”
“A lake. I’ve studied your spring rains, Councilmember.”
Hexel nodded to Jeiss. He gestured, and the view of the city enhanced around the lake. Olesm saw little fish swimming around it, a Gnoll fishing on one of the piers—
“You want to build a lake in our city? What nonsense! Think of the flooding! The insects that would flock to it—the acid flies are already bad in the summer! This is nonsense!”
Tismel was aghast. Lism glanced up at him.
“Councilmember Tismel, kindly shut up. This—is odd. But fascinating. Explain, er, Architect Hexel.”
Lism sat back. The Lamia smiled at him.
“I am from Baleros, Councilmember…Tismel. I know about insects. This body of water would be exceptionally deep, and the surface area enchanted against pests. Regular ward spells, like the ones on your walls. But rather than considering insects—think of the fish. Liscor actually exports a large amount of seafood in the spring. But your people don’t have high-level [Fisher] classes because, of course, it’s only in one season. Imagine that—all year round?”
The Council did. They looked at each other. Alonna murmured.
“It’s incredibly deep.”
The proposed lake ran nearly three times as deep as Liscor was tall—and that was the new model. And the surface area was large as well. Hexel nodded, going on.
“It is, Councilmember. But imagine this: free, fresh water so long as you manage it. A source of food, entertainment so long as you segregate the more dangerous fish populations from your recreational areas—and security.”
“Security? Against what? Oh—”
Lism’s eyes widened. Krshia murmured. She looked up sharply.
“The Hive. You want to flood them?”
The Lamia smiled.
“Only as a last resort. But you asked for an [Architect], and I take wars into account. The Antinium are an interesting foe. Obviously, I’d need enchanted stone to prevent sabotage; in fact, I’ll need to completely redesign your sewer system and ensure everything’s secure. Here, here and here—”
He began rotating the map, showing highlighted weak points. The Council looked at each other.
“But the cost—”
Tismel was spluttering. Hexel nodded.
“Good point. Here is my revised budget—”
He pointed, and one of his Lizardfolk assistants held up a sheet of paper with the number written on it. The Council gasped.
“Outrageous! We can’t pay for that!”
“Tismel, shut up.”
Jeiss didn’t look at the Drake. He was looking about, gauging opinions.
“Candidly, we do not have that coin, Architect Hexel. But is that a conservative estimate?”
Elirr folded his paws together. Hexel grinned.
“Assuming no other additions? I did come up with this in one night. While I was drinking, Councilmember Elirr. I can envision a few more add-ons. But while it would be expensive, I can do it. If you feel able to finance this, I will begin work and only begin the most ambitious aspects once funding is secured. This is—humbly—just in the design phase.”
The Council looked at each other. Krshia’s eyes were bright with interest. So were Olesm’s. He just stared at the lake. Imagine the possibilities! Who would have thought of it?
The rest of the Council was more reserved, though. Raekea raised a polite paw.
“Hrr. Begging your pardon, [Architect], but I see one flaw immediately. This water—where does it come from?”
She gestured at the lake. The others looked at her. Jeiss scratched at his neck.
“…Rain, Raekea?”
The Gnoll gave him a roll of the eyes.
“It would have to rain for months as it does in the spring even to fill this a bit. And we would drain it if we relied on it for water, yes, Jeiss? Would we divert a river into this place? I do not see one—”
“Ah, Miss Raekea, you’re thinking like an [Architect]. Happily, we do not need a river.”
Hexel beamed. He pointed.
“This lake would, in fact, make use of the Floodplain’s ample groundwater. It might take a few [Hydromancers] to pull it up, but Liscor could be supplied on the water from your spring rains alone.”
“Our what-water?”
Lism looked blank. Hexel sighed and flicked a claw.
“Where are the estimates of how much water Liscor receives? Your Floodplains…flood, Councilmember Lism. Every year. And yet—it drains with unnatural speed. Where does the water go? Down. It has to be somewhere. I’d like to find it, and make use of it. As well as where all those fish go every spring. If you could tap into it, you’d have more water than you could ever dream of. And more water than the Antinium could handle.”
The Council fell silent. They looked at each other. The scope of Hexel’s ambition took Olesm away. And yet—he didn’t seem like he was exaggerating his abilities. He had the kind of confidence Olesm had learned to see, rather than bravado. Earned confidence.
“I only worry that the Antinium will see this as a definite sign of aggression.”
Alonna murmured. Lism snorted and folded his arms.
“They see it that way? They’ve already been lying to us, Alonna. They don’t have to know until we start digging. And—so what if they object? If they never attack, everything’s fine.”
“Unless we decide to flood them, yes, Councilmember Lism? I’m sure they trust your honor, but the scenario exists. This is a matter to discuss.”
Krshia smiled toothily at Lism. He glowered.
“Well—the budget and this plan. And the Antinium! We’re bringing it up with the army and the Walled Cities. Maybe this will get them to stop panicking. Er—Architect. Can you make sure the Antinium can’t cave in our walls?”
“Of course. And if you’d like to talk about that, or other Antinium safeguards, by all means. That’s what I’m here for. Pass me a meat pasty.”
The Lamia settled himself at the table. Tismel was still spluttering.
“But he’s a Lizardperson. Can we really trust him to make sure our walls are—secure?”
The entire room fell silent. Hexel’s eyes glittered and he watched the others’ faces slowly. Krshia’s brows drew together. But it was Lism’s jaw who twitched. He looked at Hexel, and then around swiftly.
“Alright. A quick vote since this is in debate. All in favor of cancelling our agreement with Architect Hexel who has come from Baleros and represents the Builder’s Guild because he’s a Lizardperson?”
No one moved. Tismel’s claw hesitated.
“But Lism—”
“Shut up, Tismel. Alright, that’s decided. Now, all in favor of throwing Tismel out of the window?”
Six hands rose. Olesm saw Tismel blanch.
“That’s not an official vote! Don’t you dare! I’m a Councilmember—”
“Someone call for Guardsman Relc.”
Lism looked past Tismel, ignoring the Drake’s panic. And Olesm was proud of his uncle. Irascible as he was—Lism looked at Hexel’s vision of Liscor. And that mattered more than a grudge between species. Jeiss coughed and looked at Hexel as Tismel fled the room.
“Let’s talk, [Architect]. The Antinium security issue is a large one. Can you point out weak spots? We have a…map of the Antinium tunnel network and dungeon, roughly. And it’s concerning.”
Olesm had seen it too. Hexel winced as he saw the secret sketch Magnolia had provided Zevara and the others.
“I…may need to check your foundations. But the Antinium are good at avoiding collapsing things when they don’t want to. Can I safeguard against that? Give me enough enchanted stone, and I can. But your budget…”
“Oh, I have some more notes on the city’s defenses. Give me one second and I’ll fetch them.”
The young Drake’s voice made everyone turn to look at him. Olesm had nearly been forgotten amid the talk. He had nearly reached a meat pie, one of the last ones left. Krshia blinked at him.
“Olesm? But what about Hexel’s bodyguards?”
The [Strategist] paused.
“I—can send a letter to Watch Captain Zevara. But as Liscor’s [Strategist]—”
He hesitated. The Council was looking at him. Lism, his uncle, looked kindly at Olesm. But even his eyes flickered to Hexel.
“Well, we have Grand Strategist Chaldion meeting with us later today. You should voice your opinions then, Olesm. Yes, but I think making Architect Hexel as comfortable as possible is most important. Tell Watch Captain Zevara to send her best. At least one Senior Guardsman. We’ll call for you if Architect Hexel has any questions. And for that meeting with the other cities.”
Olesm’s heart sank through his stomach and out his tail. He opened his mouth. He was the [Strategist], though! The old Council would never have sent him packing. But they let him do everything. This one?
He should stay. The Drake opened his mouth to insist—
And found himself hurrying towards the door.
“I’ll uh, send the [Bodyguards] here later.”
He muttered as he closed the door. The Council didn’t take any notice. They were talking to Hexel and the Lamia, in his element, was answering back, making his apprentices run about.
Olesm stared at the closed doors. But he had run this city with Zevara. He had—
He had lost it, hadn’t he? The Council didn’t need him because they were competent. And Olesm had lost Erin’s friendship. He’d lost…
The Drake turned and walked down the hallway. He passed Councilmember Tismel. The Drake fled from behind the potted plant.
“Don’t you dare throw me out the window again!”
Again? Olesm was too, suddenly, woebegone to even notice that. He walked out of the City Hall.
They’d be talking to Grand Strategist Chaldion later today. And the other leaders of the Walled Cities. The [High Strategist] of Liscor’s army. Of course he wasn’t necessary.
When had it all gone so wrong? Olesm had become a [Strategist]. Ilvriss had called him a prodigy. He had the attention of Niers Astoragon—Olesm still wore the Ring of Sight.
But what had happened?
He had sided against Erin, that was what had happened. And the chess magazines had ceased. The Drake had begun hiding from the Mage’s Guild and the City Runners who sent letters demanding to know when the next magazine episode was coming out. Because how could he run it without her?
Olesm had found his job was more…mundane. He’d made a mistake. And suddenly, the whirlwind of events that had spun around Erin ceased to include him. Because she had made him.
And without her?
A little blue errand-bug scurried out of City Hall. It went to the Watch House and Zevara agreed to assign Beilmark and five other Gnolls and Humans to security. Then the blue insect walked outside.
And Olesm realized he was hungry. He hadn’t even had breakfast. And since…he wasn’t needed, he walked back towards Market Street to go buy some. Not The Wandering Inn. After all—
He was just another customer there.
 
—-
 
Part of it was depression. Self-hatred. Lack of confidence. A Drake louse scurried into the market.
Another part of it was anger. Frustration. Uncertainty. A sense of—weakness, coupled with a problem she didn’t want to have. Erin Solstice threw up her hands as she tried to argue with Montressa, tell the other people from Earth to shut up—and failed to get the irony in that.
Different people. Different problems. But that was the thing. Sometimes, the days were glorious without flaw—but seldom. Even the clearest skies usually came only after rain. Usually, the cleanest glass had a bit of microscopic dust or smudge.
Someone knocked over a neat pyramid of neatly de-cored Amentus Fruits as Olesm entered the market. It was an accident; a bump against the table. It happened. Olesm heard the [Shopkeeper]’s aggrieved shout.
Erin Solstice dragged Montressa upstairs to negotiate about why all the Earthers were off-limits. The Earthers looked at each other.
“Wow. That was a Minotaur.”
“Minotauress.”
“So—we’re staying here?”
“Guess so. Let’s look around. They call this place the ‘Floodplains’. Come on. We’ll get out of Erin’s hair. She looks busy.”
They got up and left the inn, and no one noticed for a good ten minutes in the rush. By the time Erin went to look for them to explain about Wistram—they were gone. Wandering the perfectly safe Floodplains. Erin began to curse in a very uncharacteristic manner.
And at that moment the magical door opened, as the [Innkeeper] was preparing to leave. And a woman walked into the inn and put it to a standstill. She wore not the yellow tracksuit of yesterday, but her hair was still styled. Lady Pryde looked around the inn with narrowed eyes.
The little bug heard a furious voice.
“You! You ruined my stock! You damned—someone call the Watch! Is there a [Guardsman]?”
