“I think…we should go back.”
Rose breathed slowly. She hunted for the magic wand she had been given. Joseph felt at his belt.
“I don’t have a sword. Anyone else?”
“I…left my wand back at the inn.”
The others looked at each other. They glanced back the way they came. There was a giant boulder in the way.
Imani whimpered.
“It stood up again.”
All seven heads turned. They saw a bunch of tiny legs as one of the rocks got up and shuffled towards them. They stared. Then Imani began to scream.
“Monsters! Run!”
Kevin bellowed. He pointed. The others ran for a gap—and as one, the Rocks Crab stood up and began scuttling at them. Giant pincers appeared under the rocks as the Rock Crabs lifted up their disguises.
And they began to click.
Clickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclick—
“Run! [Fire Arrow]!”
Rose pointed. An arrow made of fire blasted off a shell as she missed the gap. She paled at the effort; Imani was screaming.
“Imani, run!”
Joseph grabbed her. He and Kevin tried to run with her. But one of the Rock Crabs scuttled in front of them. The group tried to swerve. They nearly tumbled down a valley. The Rock Crabs crept over the ledges, encircling them.
“Oh my god. This isn’t happening.”
Galina looked around. Six Rock Crabs looked down at them. Their antennae-eyes stared at the food. They clicked.
Imani was screaming. The others backed up. Rose raised a finger, but her hand was shaking. Kevin looked around.
“Make a break for it when they come. Just run. And maybe some of us will get out.”
“I—let’s duck under the shells. Maybe they have a weak point.”
Leon whispered. Troydel just looked at the Rock Crabs. He grinned, face white.
“I guess we find out if this is a game after all.”
Each to their own. The Rock Crabs paused. Imani’s screaming was bothering them. It was very loud. And there was a second sound below it. No—coming from the side? Their antennae turned. And then the screaming grew louder.
“You jeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeerks! Get off my lawn!”
Erin Solstice raced over a hill. The Earthers looked up. The young woman was alone.
“Erin! Fucking run!”
Joseph bellowed. Erin was unarmed. But she was holding a handful of—
Seed cores. Erin threw the first. It splatted on a Rock Crab’s shell. The giant crab recoiled as the deadly poison leaked down towards its antennae. It jerked back and the other Rock Crabs backed up.
“Get lost!”
Erin threw the other seed cores. The Rock Crabs scurried back as the young Humans looked up, gaping. The [Innkeeper] hurled another core and pointed.
“Run! This way!”
They looked at each other. Then they ran. Kevin and Joseph went back and grabbed the petrified Imani. Erin threw more seed cores.
“Yeah! Get lost! You stupid crabs! I’ve had it up to here with—uh oh.”
She realized she was out of seed cores. The Rock Crabs stopped scuttling away. They turned. Erin Solstice hesitated. They began scuttling at the poison-thrower, full of rage.
“What do we do?”
“Run!”
Erin pushed Leon towards the inn. She held her ground. Rose pulled at her. Erin shouted.
“I said, run for it!”
She backed up, covering the other’s retreat. You couldn’t outrun Rock Crabs on the hills and valleys. They were too fast. Erin raised a fist. She concentrated.
Aura. The first Rock Crab coming up the hill saw Erin staring down at it.
“Hey. Hey you. I’ll eat you. Get outta here.”
The [Innkeeper] pointed at the Rock Crab. The Hollowstone Deceiver hesitated. The aura was making Erin…feel dangerous. But Erin was tired. Outside her inn. Her aura flickered. The Rock Crab clicked one claw.
“Oh shit.”
Erin backed up. She turned to run. The Rock Crab went up the hill.
“Erin!”
Rose saw the [Innkeeper] leap down the hill. The Rock Crab scurried over the top. It raised a pincer to snap her in half. And an arrow shot from The Wandering Inn’s tower.
It flashed past Erin and hit the ground. The young woman saw it flashing towards the Rock Crab’s feet. A miss?
No—the arrow bounced off the ground as if it was rubber and went straight under the shell. The Rock Crab made a keening sound.
[Ricochet Arrow]. From his tower, Bird took aim. He shot another arrow and it curved and went through the Rock Crab’s exposed antennae. Blue blood ran onto the ground as Erin scrambled away. The Rock Crab withdrew into its shell as the other Rock Crabs scuttled past it.
“That is not good. The crabs will eat Miss Solstice. My arrows are not big enough.”
Bird spoke to himself as he saw Erin running. He casually shot another antennae out, and then looked at the inn.
“Alarm! Hello? There are Rock Crabs! I am Bird. AND I AM CALLING AN ALARM!”
The Workers on the roof of the inn looked up. They saw the distant Humans running. They began to click their mandibles. Then scream.
The piercing wail made the inn’s patrons halt. Grimalkin looked up as he demonstrated a proper deadlift. The Horns of Hammerad stopped arguing about how Ceria’s aura should be used. Halrac cursed.
The Rock Crabs, all six of them, raced after the Earthers. They were running for the inn. Erin brought up the rear. She hurled her knife through one of the Rock Crab’s antennae.
“Take that! I’d better get that knife back! Keep running!”
They stared at her. She wasn’t afraid. She was just—intense. The young woman looked up. And then she grinned. The young people from Earth looked up. And then—they figured out the difference between them and Erin.
The Wandering Inn exploded.
Metaphorically. Halrac opened a window and shot a glowing arrow out of it. A Rock Crab saw the arrow zoom under its shell and then the arrow detonated. The Rock Crab collapsed as blue blood and smoke ran from underneath the shell.
“Aw, hells! Rock Crabs! I’m slowing them!”
Ceria Springwalker pointed. Walls of ice rose behind Erin, blocking another Rock Crab who smashed into them and failed to break the ice. The other five Rock Crabs saw a blur running at them—then a [Shatterbolt] hit another Rock Crab and the front of its rocky shell shattered. The exposed crab heard a thunk. It recoiled; two crossbow bolts were embedded in its shell.
“Switching crossbows.”
Ksmvr announced as Yvlon raced out the door. But she was too slow. Magus Grimalkin leapt, crashed into a third Rock Crab. It swiped at him.
He punched once.
The other Rock Crabs heard the crunch. They saw a glowing orb that Typhenous threw hit their exposed comrade. There was a thump—a flash of light.
Bits of crab rained down. The remaining three Rock Crabs saw arrows, spells, and little not-snacks running at them. And a horde of very angry bug-men. They turned and scuttled away.
“Yeah, that’s right! Run! Where’s my knife? Aw, I gotta find it.”
Erin Solstice stood on a hill close to her inn, panting. And the seven Earthers saw the young woman wipe at the sweat and blue blood on her face from where she’d thrown her knife through an antennae. They saw her turn to them. And they got it.
“Holy shit.”
Kevin breathed. Erin Solstice looked at them, their wide-eyes. The sudden respect or awe or—bewilderment. Imani was crying again. She sighed.
“Thanks, Ryoka.”
 
—-
 
It was so easy to be exasperated. Annoyed. Just—furious. At incompetence, incomprehension.
Youth. Erin Solstice stood in the inn, staring at Rose and the others. Her patience was done. Lyonette was letting Erin speak; she and the [Innkeeper] were on the same page. Mrsha was furiously watching from under a table.
The other adventurers were relaxing after the sudden burst of activity; free drinks and snacks all around. Grimalkin was cleaning blood off his scales as Pryde put in an order for multiple weight sets.
“You just thought it was a good idea to walk around? And none of you have swords or even knives?”
“We—didn’t know. Sorry.”
Rose lamely replied. Imani was hiccupping. She was white in the face. Erin inhaled.
At the same time, Olesm stopped on Stonesinger Boulevard. He looked at Maviola.
“I think—well, that’s my idea. It’s not great, but—what do you think?”
“I think it’s a good idea.”
Maviola El replied patiently. The old woman, the young woman, looked at Olesm. And saw his face crumple into a mixture of uncertainty from the excitement that had been there just a moment ago.
“But—it’s just my idea. I mean—Erin didn’t help me come up with it. It could backfire. What if I land Liscor in trouble?”
It was so easy to want to kick him. Which she’d done a few times. But really kick him, try to beat his uncertainty out of him. But that was youth.
And she had seen this before. Maviola didn’t kick Olesm. She spoke kindly, but directly, sparing no words.
“Is it better than doing nothing?”
“No, but—I’m not Erin.”
The Drake confessed. Maviola cocked her head, listening.
“You say her name a lot.”
“I do?”
“Every other sentence. ‘Erin did this’, or ‘Erin showed me that’. Do you think she gave you your class?”
The [Strategist] stared over the side of the bridge they were standing on.
“Sometimes, yes. I’m not as original as her. Without her—how much of my accomplishments are mine? The magazine—anything else?”
He was crumpling, even in his genius. Maviola El looked at him. And she had seen this before. You could be so unkind.
“You—are all—I just don’t know what to do. Don’t go outside! Listen, you can’t talk about…home. Do you understand? There are monsters here. Rock Crabs. Shield Spiders—”
Erin was berating them. The others listened, flushing. And Imani, gulping, flinched. And then began to scream. Erin jumped as the others crowded around her.
“Imani! It’s alright!”
The young woman was in hysterics. Actual hysterics. She refused to calm down, even though the Rock Crabs were gone. She was crying, hitting the others as they tried to grab her.
Mrsha stared contemptuously. Her ears hurt. And she hated them. They’d nearly gotten killed by crabs?
Idiots! She furiously raced up and kicked Joseph in the leg.
“Ow. What the fuck?”
“Mrsha, stop that!”
Lyonette snapped. But no one was happy with the Earthers. And Mrsha—looked at Imani as the girl recoiled from her.
“I want to go home!”
She sobbed. Perhaps only Pisces and a few others knew what that meant; Grimalkin was busy talking with Pryde. Imani howled. And Mrsha couldn’t take it anymore. She bared her teeth. Ryoka had sent them? They didn’t deserve to be here!
Mrsha would take care of them. She’d—she’d make them pay for being so stupid. Sticks in their pillows. Throw rocks at them! She balled up her little paws into fists.
“Imani, stop screaming!”
Joseph shouted at Imani. But she wouldn’t. Erin clenched her teeth. Lyonette looked around, exasperated. She could shut Imani up with her aura. She looked at Rose.
“Why is she screaming? They’re gone.”
“I’m sorry. It’s—she was attacked by Crelers. Her group was—killed. She still has nightmares. Imani, shh. It’s okay. Where’s the calming tonic, Kevin?”
“We ran out—”
Lyonette blinked. So did Mrsha. She stopped, ready to slash an ankle with her thorn paw. And she looked up.
“Crelers? Oh. Her entire group was—”
Erin mouthed the word ‘eaten’ at Lyonette. The [Princess] paled. And the Horns of Hammerad slowly looked up.
Imani was still terrified. Crying. In hysterics, yes. Which grated on the ears. It was so easy to hate that. Unless you had seen it.
Lived it. Mrsha looked at Imani’s tears. And it had not been Crelers for her, but Goblins. Yet she knew what it was like to be afraid, even in a safe place. She thought how exasperated she, Erin, Lyonette—everyone was.
And the Gnoll child realized they were being unkind. She looked up at the frightened girl.
She was crying. Weeping, babbling about Crelers, as she clung to Kevin. This world’s nightmares. She had survived that.
Erin’s arms slowly uncrossed. She looked at Imani, and the other silent young people from Earth. And she saw it in every line of how they stood.
Fear. Uncertainty. Terror, still. They hadn’t known about the Rock Crabs. Hadn’t imagined they could have been in that much danger five minutes from the inn. Erin Solstice looked at them and remembered a young woman who had run screaming from a Rock Crab the first time she’d gone for a walk.
And then she saw a little white Gnoll looking up at her. And Erin Solstice felt her anger—fading.
The little eyes were judging her. Erin was ashamed, because Mrsha looked disappointed. In herself, and the [Innkeeper]. In Erin, who welcomed Goblins. And wouldn’t welcome some people from her world because they weren’t what she wanted.
“Imani.”
The hysterics were fading—at least from screams into sobs. Typhenous cleared his throat.
“Perhaps a [Calm] spell?”
“Yes. Please.”
The old mage walked over. He reached out and Imani flinched. But Typhenous smiled kindly at her.
“This won’t hurt a bit, Miss Imani.”
He touched her head, whispered a word. And Imani relaxed. She still clung to the others. But the worst of her fear—vanished. And Erin Solstice took a breath.
“Sorry. I should have warned you all.”
That was what she said first. She looked at the seven young people.
“It’s just—this was so sudden. I wasn’t sure how to—greet you. But I meant what I said.”
She gestured around the inn.
“We have room. Stay as long as you want. But you do have to know things. About Rock Crabs. And—”
Her eyes darted to Palt, who was muttering about [Calm] spells versus his superior [Remove Fear] spells. Montressa, and Beza, watching them like hawks. Erin looked at the others.
“—there are complications. It’s not always easy. But listen. If you want to stay here, you’re welcome.”
The others looked at each other. And the [Princess] walked forwards. She smiled and nodded.
“That’s right. I don’t know if I’ve done this formally—I’m Lyonette. And this is Mrsha.”
She gestured at the little white Gnoll. And the [Princess] saw something familiar in the young people from Earth too. Like a [Princess] who refused to even take orders. Exasperating, yes. Infuriating? Beyond so. But they were not all the same.
Imani jumped. And then she looked down. A little Gnoll looked up at her apologetically. Not all the same. She nuzzled Imani’s leg. And swatted at Rose’s hand as the young woman tried to pat her on the head.
Youth was failure. Maviola looked at Olesm as he stood on the bridge, afraid to make a mistake again. And she saw his flame guttering. To her—the world was fire. It was her passion, her class.
“Olesm Swifttail. You are a fool.”
He looked at her. And the flames ran lower. But Maviola just drew herself up.
