“It seems to me, High Command, respected members of the Walled Cities—that Liscor’s defenses were always insufficient, beginning from when Liscor agreed to harbor the Antinium. Please recall—the decision to harbor the Free Antinium was meant to end the Second Antinium War. And Liscor agreed to it. However, we were granted almost no funds to prepare for the Hive at that time. And subsequently—our army left.”
He looked at the High Command of Liscor’s army.
“Our army has returned once since then. In times past, Liscor’s army did move abroad and take on mercenary contracts. But they always protected their home. Not so in recent decades. It seems to me, as [Strategist] of Liscor that our lack of funding, the absence of our army…was intentional. Perhaps Liscor was always meant to fail, but do so in an advantageous way to the Walled Cities. If that is the case—the Free Antinium’s actions cannot be faulted.”
Dead silence now. Ilvriss’ eyes glittered. So did Manus’ security council. Chaldion’s good eye never blinked. But no one said a word. Because the ones in the know—knew Olesm was right.
Maviola smiled. There was nothing unique about Olesm’s conclusion. No grand brilliance in his speech, for all he had practiced it on her to make it eloquent. He had just said it out loud. And that took more than a bit of courage.
“That is a bold accusation, Strategist Olesm. What do the Walled Cities gain from losing a city to the Antinium?”
A voice; Maviola couldn’t tell which one. Olesm replied steadily.
“It is no accusation, High Strategist. Just practicality. I submit that if Liscor fell to the Antinium, it would indeed make sense—strategically. Since they would be poised to threaten the north and thus necessitate Human intervention, for fear of incursions at least. A conflict with Liscor would also weaken at least one of the Hives and if a decisive strike were carried out preemptively…there is much to be said for allowing Liscor to fall. If war is the goal.”
He took a breath. The Walled Cities were silent, waiting. Their connection was secure, unable to be listened to even by Wistram. Magically secure—but for an ear against the door. Olesm spoke.
“As [Strategist] of Liscor, honored guests, I have only one demand. Clarity. If Liscor is meant to stand alone, let us stand alone. Otherwise, if we are Drakes, the same city that General Sserys called home, that the Tidebreaker fought for—I demand the aid of the other Walled Cities. Because either way, this is our land. And we will not leave it.”
He raised the second document he’d brought into the room, the ones now in front of Ilvriss, Chaldion, and all the others.
“I have submitted a budget plan for the renovation and reinforcement of Liscor as a city. I hope each Walled City and the army will see fit to contribute to it. All of it—or nothing. The Free Antinium have been allowed to expand because Liscor was not funded. If the Walled Cities and High Command believe this to be acceptable in the future in preparation for Liscor as a sacrifice—give us nothing. Otherwise, this is my requirement.”
He tapped the report. It was neatly broken down with Maviola and Olesm’s rough estimates, giving some reason for the number underlined at the bottom. But it was really just a number. The other cities paged through the report. After a moment, the Sharkcaptain of Zeres coughed.
“…Is there an extra zero here?”
“No.”
The Walled Cities murmured. Ilvriss smiled, and leaned forwards.
“I believe it is time for debate. Liscor, we will remove you from this—discussion. Please hold.”
The sound was muted. The scrying orb flickered from arguing people in silence. Someone threw a chair in one of the scrying orbs. He looked around.
“Dead gods, Olesm…”
Zevara stared at him. He nodded.
“It won’t fund all your improvements, Watch Captain. I asked only for as much as I thought we needed—Liscor may still need to source more money. But it should fund the construction for Architect Hexel.”
The Council looked at each other.
“What if they offer us less?”
“I will refuse it. I meant what I said.”
Tismel choked on his tongue in a corner. Olesm’s eyes flicked to the orb. The arguing people on the other side—paused for a second. Maviola’s eyes glittered. Smart, Olesm. Just because one side couldn’t hear the other, did not mean the reverse was true.
It was a long eternity, a short wait, until sound resumed. It was a representative from Salazsar who spoke for the others. Wall Lady Calistoca spoke, glaring down at Olesm.
“Strategist Olesm. The Walled Cities do not take…sides in the disputes of lesser—er—other Drake cities. We do fund certain projects at times. But we do not interfere in a city’s business. Drake settlements are sovereign unto themselves. And that is how we prefer it.”
Olesm bowed his head. The old Wall Lady pursed her lips and then spoke.
“However. We agree the Free Antinium must be curtailed in light of their…advancements. Is your decision to veto any actions against the Free Antinium final?”
“Yes, Wall Lady.”
The Drake felt a pang. There was a…rhythm to her words. The Wall Lady’s eyes narrowed.
“Then—”
“One moment, Wall Lady. Excuse me.”
Lism strode forwards. The Wall Lady cut off, looking affronted. Lism put an arm around Olesm’s shoulders. And the [Shopkeeper] politely sneered into the scrying orb.
“I just felt Liscor’s Council should present our opinions. We will also back a veto to go after the Free Antinium. They are—Liscor’s assets, after all.”
It looked like he threw up in his mouth to say that. But he stood with his nephew. Olesm looked up at Lism—then saw Krshia standing next to him.
“The entire Council’s decision.”
“And my backing as Watch Captain.”
Zevara stepped forwards. Calistoca’s eyes bulged. But now Liscor’s entire leadership stood in front of the scrying orb. The High Command of the army looked like they were having heart attacks in the background.
“Go ahead and fire him now, you scaly lizard—er—idiot.”
Lism muttered under his breath. He…might have been audible to everyone on the call. Silently, the image flickered. Wall Lord Ilvriss pushed forwards.
“I think that settles it. Unless we’d like to…? No? Very well. Liscor—we will grant you your proposed budget, in exchange for certain assurances of completion. We may send our representatives to monitor the work. Is that acceptable?”
“Yes, Wall Lord.”
Olesm’s knees shook. Lism kept him upright. Ilvriss smiled into the scrying orb.
“Very well then. Let’s discuss implementation. Now, for funding—”
The argument began anew. But Maviola didn’t hear. She’d run off, throwing her arms up, laughing until she got behind a closed door and then she screamed triumphantly. She laughed, relieved and delighted.
The fire burned.
 
—-
 
Olesm Swifttail emerged from the Council’s chambers amid cheering. The Council was celebrating, even Tismel. He was flushed—Lism had stood three rounds with his nephew and it looked like they were going to continue partying.
But he was looking for someone. Maviola El wasn’t outside the Council’s room; probably wise since they’d been demanding Street Runners bring them libations.
She was in his office, where they’d planned the audacity. He paused in the door as she napped in the fading light.
She was still glowing. Or perhaps he was. He felt alive. Triumphant. He paused, as she opened her eyes and woke up from her nap in his chair.
“You did it.”
She beamed at him. Olesm hesitated—then went into the office and sat in the guest’s chair in the little, cramped space. He looked around. He’d asked for and doubled his salary. He could have probably quadrupled it, but he really didn’t need it.
“I did. But it wasn’t really me.”
“Oh?”
She looked at him. The Drake rested his elbows on his knees, letting his claws droop downwards as he clasped them loosely. He looked at Maviola, wondering.
“You did it too. I realized it—you made it possible. If not for you, I’d be wallowing in misery this morning. Probably just standing there, letting them give us nothing.”
He nodded back towards the raucous celebrations. Lism was hugging and kissing everyone—he reached Krshia and caught himself, spat out hairs. Glared at her. She hugged him and raised a cup, roaring with laughter.
Maviola’s eyes twinkled as she looked at Olesm.
“You’re doing it again. Take some credit for your bravery. I didn’t do more than give you a nudge. And you were amazing.”
She sat up, came around the desk. Olesm was shaking his head. He drew back as she tried to sit on the same chair.
“No—Maviola. Listen. Thank you so much. But—I’m afraid it’s—you’re like Erin.”
“Erin Solstice. Yes, your muse, your inspiration. But I’m not her. And she didn’t make you. We established that.”
Maviola laughed. Olesm drew back.
“But—she helped. Maybe I don’t need to stand alone. But she—and you—”
“What’s wrong with needing help?”
She sat on his lap, facing him. The flimsy chair creaked alarmingly with both their weights, light as they were. Olesm tried to lift her off.
“No. Maviola—listen. You’re too much like Erin. I shouldn’t. We shouldn’t. It would just be like how I feel—felt for Erin—you’re too much like her. I shouldn’t.”
The [Lady] regarded Olesm. In the sunset, she threw back her head and rose. Her eyes flashed.
“I see. I’m just like Erin, am I?”
“I…can’t unsee the connection.”
Olesm whispered. He saw Maviola turn. He sighed, bowing his head. Then Maviola, who blazed with fire—did something that was Maviola.
She lifted a foot, and then stomped on the gap between Olesm’s legs. She missed him—barely. But the rickety chair collapsed. Olesm crashed to the ground.
Maviola straddled his body. She looked down at him, eyes gleaming. And she leaned forwards.
“There’s no one exactly like me, you fool. Or did you ever burn for her like this? Did she for you?”
The Drake [Strategist] gaped up at her. That was not an Erin move. He stared up at Maviola. Erin burned like Maviola, sometimes. But she was happiness. She loved the Antinium. But Maviola—agreed they were dangerous.
Erin was passionate. Maviola prickly. Erin was—Maviola was—
The superimposed image of Erin over Maviola’s face disappeared. Because she was industriously checking his belt. She looked at him.
“Well? Are we similar?”
“No. She’s wasn’t ever like this.”
He whispered. The [Lady] leaned over Olesm and reached behind her back. She laughed, young, vibrant.
“Then let’s find out how different I am. Unless you don’t want to?”
And of course, they both knew the answer to that. The blue-scaled Drake looked up. And then he nodded.
Maviola paused. Olesm hesitated.
“No, wait. I meant the other thing.”
She started laughing. And then her top was off.
Olesm gulped. But then he was laughing too.
 
[Strategist Level 33!]
[Skill – Instantaneous Barrage (Phantom Arrows) obtained!]
 
[Lady Firestarter Level 49!]
[Skill – Conjure Fast Fireball obtained!]
