Cade got a special egg-and-bacon breakfast in the form of a smile that made him laugh. Briganda, a double serving. Halrac, less sausage and more toast with butter and a bit of honey. Revi, extra the honey.
Typhenous wanted just the standard breakfast; he wasn’t picky, but he got tea with his meal, hot from a pot. And Lyonette begrudged them none of it.
Why? Again, because they were friends. Revi eyed the seven Earthers still talking with Erin. And the unusually mystified look on Erin’s face.
“Who’s that lot? I saw them last night.”
“Friends of Ryoka. They’re a bit of a handful.”
Lyonette had no idea what they were going to do with them. What did Ryoka expect? Were they to feed and house them forever? It was just like Ryoka…
Revi’s face more than expressed Lyonette’s mood.
“Ryoka’s friends? A handful? You’re kidding. No, I’m shocked. My condolences, Lyonette.”
“Don’t worry about it. Are you all staying?”
“We’re going to Hedault’s today. With the Horns of Hammerad. To get our treasure appraised. Hedault told us to wait until mid-morning, though. [Enchanters].”
“I might stay behind. Cade needs his mother. If that’s alright?”
Briganda looked up. Cade stared at Halrac. The [Scout] looked up, dour-faced. He tried to look…less-menacing. And failed. Lyonette just nodded.
“As long as you like. Of course, we can let you get back to Invrisil, Miss Briganda. Or you can explore Liscor—anything you want.”
The [Shield Maiden] brightened up.
“Really? Just like that?”
Lyonette nodded, although she herself had nearly forgotten—The City of Adventurers was open to the public, albeit at a fee. But anyone could visit anytime they wanted. This new dynamic really would take some getting used to.
Speaking of which…Lyonette’s head snapped up.
“Drassi! Did you check the door?”
“Oh, Ancestors! I’m so sorry! I’ll do it now! Excuse me, anyone from Liscor? I’m so sorry, we’ve had uh, a few delays—come in!”
Drassi ran for the door. Lyonette heard her voice coming down the hallway. Lyonette finished talking and serving Griffon Hunt and left them smiling.
The smile faded as she saw Mrsha’s face. The Gnoll was standing at the table on two legs, peeking over the edge as Erin talked with them, asking about Ryoka and what was happening in the north and receiving vague, unhelpful answers.
Because the Earthers didn’t know. And that was frustrating but—Erin knew how they’d lived, even if she disapproved. She knew Magnolia Reinhart.
So did Lyonette. She even saw something familiar in the way the others looked so…lost. Even if that was aggravating.
But Mrsha? Mrsha was just Mrsha. Mrsha all the way. And she only knew Ryoka.
Her friend. The City Runner who had carried her out of oblivion. Who had been there when her tribe ended.
Ryoka and Ivolethe, from another time. Ryoka, whom Mrsha had looked to as the only one who remembered, who had taken her to this inn.
Who had run away after Brunkr had died.
That Ryoka. And the little Gnoll probably still loved the sad, brilliant, wounded, guilty, triumphant Runner. Even if she was so angry at being left behind with no contact. Even if she understood her curse had driven Ryoka away.
These were the things Mrsha believed. If Ryoka had come in that door, Mrsha might have run to her and hugged her before anything else.
But this? This was Ryoka’s…gift. What she had decided she needed to send to The Wandering Inn. These seven…Humans.
Mrsha stared. And her little face slowly turned from incomprehension to—dislike. She looked at these people, eating her hamburger and being so stupid.
And she did not like them. Not. One. Bit. Imani was staring at Mrsha. The Gnoll glowered at her and Imani flinched. Then someone put her hand on Mrsha’s head.
“So. Cute.”
Galina tried to pet Mrsha. Instantly, the Gnoll punched the hand off her head. Erin saw Galina recoil.
“Ow!”
“Don’t pet Mrsha, please. She’s not a pet. She’s a Gnoll.”
“But she’s so—adorable! I didn’t mean to bother you! Mrsha, right? You’re so precious! Hello! Can you say ‘hi’?”
Galina bent over. And innocent as the question was—it was the wrong one to ask. She didn’t know. Ryoka had never told her about Mrsha. The Gnoll’s ears flattened and she backed away.
“Mrsha can’t speak. She’s a kid. Ryoka rescued her, but—”
Erin’s stomach felt upset. She didn’t know what Ryoka had intended. What was she supposed to do? Ryoka! She wanted to grab Ryoka, find her, and shake her. The others were just looking at Erin.
“If you’re willing to—give us a place to stay, and food, we won’t be a problem. We can help out. This is a great inn, Erin.”
Kevin looked around. His vague assurances were added to by the others. Erin nodded, helplessly.
“Yeah. I mean—definitely. You can stay here. I guess we can have you help?”
She looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] frowned. Was that her job? But then Erin looked to the stairs.
“Oh no.”
“There they are. I told you!”
Montressa and Beza were staring at the Earthers. Like hawks who’d sighted a bunch of baby rabbits who’d basted themselves in barbeque sauce. Erin sighed.
“Stay here. Don’t say anything about home. Got it? There are problems—Montressa! I need to speak to you!”
The [Innkeeper] ran for the stairs. Montressa jumped and backed up.
“Erin, listen—”
“Don’t you dare send anything! And you! How many times have I told you—”
Palt jumped as he came out of his room. He tried to hide the smoking spliff, but it was too late. Erin began to harangue.
Problems. Lyonette was split between serving guests and eying the Earthers. Erin would do her best, but what would they do? Really? She’d have to think about it.
For now—this was the inn. Hexel slithered to the door.
“Miss Lyon? A pleasure. Can we enter Liscor from here? I don’t see my [Bodyguards]. Quite a displeasure, but I suppose this Liscor’s Council isn’t that fast on the job. Before I find work, we’ll require it, Yemmi. Don’t worry.”
He reassured one of the Lizardfolk. Lyonette pointed him to the hallway. Then she saw Rose come up behind her.
“Excuse me, Miss Barmaid? Where’s the bathroom?”
“The—outside. The outhouses are over there.”
“Thanks.”
Lyonette stared after Rose. Yes, something indeed. But that was her world. Confusion, chaos—
And change. You got used to thinking on your feet, adapting. Even to—
Joseph wandered behind the bar of the inn. He hunted around and then pulled out a bottle of gin. Lyonette and Erin both looked at him. He cracked it open, and only then noticed the stares.
“…Oh. Sorry.”
Lyonette’s jaw twitched. No, it was fine. Lay down the law. She just had to—she saw Imani, who’d also found the outhouse, unprompted, coming back to the table. She went to sit down and a little white Gnoll crept around her chair. Mrsha yanked the chair back as Imani sat and the young woman went sprawling.
“Mrsha!”
The Gnoll raced off as the others helped Imani up. Lyonette was about to scold when Drassi sidled into the room.
“Um, Lyonette?”
“What, Drassi?”
Exasperated, the [Princess] turned. Drassi pointed.
“We have a situation. Should I let everyone in?”
“Everyone…?”
And then Lyonette saw them. In Invrisil, in The Players’ Retreat, there was a crowd. Of people. About…oh, four hundred strong. Lined up at the door as Redit the [Bouncer] kept them out.
All with the six-silver passage fee to Liscor. [Traders], [Merchants], pedestrians who stared at Drassi and murmured—
Curious Humans. Tourism had come to Liscor. Lyonette stared at the open door. And if she’d been someone else she might have thrown up her hands, panicked, or just frozen. But the [Princess] had been here a while. She just sighed, rolled up her sleeves.
And got to work.
 
—-
 
Olesm was hungry as he waited in line for one of the street-stalls. No restaurants; he didn’t have the time for it.
Or the coin, frankly. Olesm was paid decently well for a [Tactician] in a small city. And he’d had a small pay increase for his new class. But Liscor was not rich.
The food on offer was, ironically, a hamburger. Copied from Erin. Only it wasn’t a burger—more like a glazed boneless rib-inna-bun.
It still smelled delicious. And if the stall-owner was actually a decent cook and not a mad sales-genius who could sell vaguely meat-like products solely on the virtues of his sales craft—well, it was good enough.
There was a line, and Olesm was licking his lips and wondering if he could spring for two burgers. His stomach rumbled—
And at that precise moment, as he was drawing towards the front, a Street Runner raced up.
“There you are! Strategist Olesm to City Hall at once! The Council needs you!”
“What? What for?”
Olesm’s face fell. The Gnoll [Runner] shrugged.
“Didn’t say. They want you right away, though! Something about an [Architect]?”
“Oh, scale cheese—”
One of the Drakes in line gagged and glared as Olesm ran off. The [Architect]! He hadn’t been more than introduced to the Lamia yesterday, but he’d totally forgotten after last night.
He’d…had a lot to drink in between not getting to talk to Erin. It hadn’t been that bad a night, but Olesm felt slower, stupider today.
And he had forgotten about Hexel. So—apparently—had the Council.
“I believe I requested a group of [Bodyguards]. Plural. Non-Drakes. I was quite happy with my residence, my travel notwithstanding. But I will require both. Today. If I am unsatisfied, I will, with great politeness, leave, because security is a pressing issue for my team. And the Guild of Builders in Baleros will hear of it.”
Hexel was cheerfully threatening Liscor’s Council in the morning. They were eating. Olesm just stared at fresh meat pies that Krshia had provided to the Council.
“As I was saying, Mister Hexel—that’s an addition to the budget we haven’t calculated.”
“Then calculate it. And I need to begin redesigning the city. Shall we do it now? No? Ah—this must be the [Strategist].”
Hexel slithered backwards as Olesm, panting, raised one claw.
“You—needed to see me, Councilmembers?”
“Yes, ah, Olesm. Our [Strategist]. I think you met him yesterday, Mister Hexel? Olesm, Architect Quithail requires a [Bodyguard] escort. As [Strategist], please appoint one.”
Lism didn’t meet the Lamia’s eyes as he shuffled the papers. The Lamia gave Olesm a toothy smile.
“Non-Drake. I’m sure you understand.”
“Of course, sir.”
The young, blue-scaled Drake shifted uncomfortably. Not just because of Hexel’s obvious distrust of Drakes and the story he’d heard last night. Being attacked by hostile Drake…[Bandits]. Yes, [Bandits]. Criminals. But the frightened Lizardfolk trio hid behind their boss.
“Olesm, please hire the [Bodyguards] immediately. Submit them for Architect Hexel’s review, yes? We will begin discussing the plans for the new city.”
Krshia dipped her head at Hexel. Olesm was nodding.
“I can uh—hire some adventurers? Or Watch Captain Zevara can appoint members of the Watch. The Watch will be cheaper by far—”
He realized he was thinking out loud and blushed. Lism looked at his nephew, fond as ever, but impatient.
“Let’s do that, then. Save the city coin. Now, we’re rather pressed for time, Architect. We have a number of meetings with the High Command of Walled Cities, not to mention our armies over this damned Antinium issue. Which I was right about, incidentally—”
Krshia audibly ground her teeth as Lism shot her a glare. The members of the Council rustled. Elirr, Raekea on one side were subdued. Alonna and Jeiss were worried, as were the traditionalist, and largely, useless two members of the Council, Tismel and Zalaiss, who tended to be overridden in most majority-votes.
“—so we really can’t devote all the time to your work. But if you’d like to survey the city, we can meet tomorrow at—”
Lism’s little speech was interrupted by Hexel. The [Architect] calmly gestured, and one of his [Apprentices] put down a blueprint of the city. The illustration was in white, with colorful chalk additions on black, thick paper that could be easily adjusted.
And it was of Liscor. Olesm saw the city laid out perfectly in the blueprints. And then—he saw the new part of the city. What could be. But only for a moment.
Because the map began to glow. Hexel slithered back.
“[Ambition Visualized]. I do not have time to waste either, Councilmember. Allow me to present my view of Liscor.”
From the table rose the city. Olesm saw buildings and streets, devoid of people but beautifully detailed, as if drawn from above. The Council sat back as the [Architect] briskly pointed and another of his assistants moved around the table.
“Observe. This is the city you requested, Councilmembers. A third of the city from the expansion point—here—with a focus on high-occupancy residential housing. I have already surveyed the city, or rather, one of my apprentices did last night. I note you’ve leased certain areas, and I can work around that. But this is the Liscor you asked me to design.”
It was beautiful. The city seamlessly expanded, the original western wall falling away to make Liscor wider. Olesm saw two parks, organized streets to prevent traffic jams from travel, even—as the map rose higher—an expanded network of the sewers!
“Dead gods.”
Alonna was impressed. The rest of the Council, even Tismel and Zalaiss, murmured in clear approval. This Liscor looked like the old one, which was, of course, what you wanted to see. It was just larger.
“That’s exactly what we paid for. New residential districts—which we’ll be making sure are affordable. So long as we get the new wall enchanted by Spring, it works! I suppose that will be a priority, er, Mister Hexel?”
Lism jabbed at the map, watching his claw passing through a building with awe. The Lamia smiled as he looked from face to face.
“Certainly, my previous plans allowed for this design and a completion of the outer walls at least by Spring. The city would need to hire a high-level [Enchanter] specializing in architectural enchantments, but I would be happy to stick to the plans I laid out. Or I would be. However, recent events have put more of a focus on—security, haven’t they?”
The Council looked up sharply. So did Olesm, trying to edge around the side and get one of the meat pies Jeiss and the Gnolls were scarfing down. Hexel went on.
“The Antinium, I mean. And I will admit—security is something I have been thinking on as well, since my own encounter.”
He touched at the scar running down his face. The Council fell silent. Hexel looked around and smiled again.
