The Gnoll looked up. She scampered over. Lyonette seized her, and then tossed her. Mrsha went flying through the [Garden of Sanctuary] with a yelp. Lyonette slammed the door.
In the inn, Pryde’s aura was gathering around her. Someone had taught her. She brushed off Erin’s aura, began to overpower the [Innkeeper]. Erin’s eyes went wide. She pushed back, but the [Lady]’s atmosphere was overpowering. That was pride, manifest.
“Don’t make me discipline you. I might admire your spirit. In fact, I rather do. But I require respect first.”
Pryde half-smiled as the air began to shake around Erin. Then someone coughed.
“Excuse me. That’s our friend. If she says you’re not welcome, get out.”
The air turned cold. Lyonette saw-felt a third aura merging, freezing the air around Pryde. She saw Ceria.
“No, no, you idiot—”
Pryde glanced at the frost growing on her clothing. She tsked. The Horns were on their feet. So were the Halfseekers. Griffon Hunt were more indecisive.
“Don’t be an idiot, Moore! That’s a [Lady]!”
Revi hissed at the half-Giant. But he was carefully edging around the table. Yvlon walked forwards, her hands raised placatingly as Pisces stealthily moved around Pryde’s back. Ksmvr pulled out a crossbow and Halrac grabbed it.
“Lady Ulta, please calm down. This is not your land. Miss Solstice is the owner of the inn. Her word is law.”
Pryde glanced at Yvlon.
“And you are?”
Yvlon bowed.
“Yvlon Byres.”
“A minor house’s daughter. You have only a scrap of our class. And you have no right to lecture me on my authority. Be silent.”
The [Armsmistress]’s eyes blazed. She took a step forwards.
“We will back up Erin’s words. Please reconsider.”
Ceria was freezing the air colder and colder. Not dangerously cold yet; but she was warning Pryde. Lyonette hesitated. This was bad. Ceria was like Erin.
“That’s not how you fight with auras—”
Lady Pryde turned her head, saw Pisces and Ksmvr trying to sneak up on her from behind. Her eyes flashed with anger.
“Enough of this. You want to challenge me, children. Fine. Challenge me.”
Yvlon, striding for Pryde, suddenly froze. The aura spread out, immobilizing Ksmvr, Pisces, Ceria—it squashed Ceria’s elemental aura. And the air around Pryde turned golden, taking on an ethereal tinge.
“Oh no. She’s got control, potency, and manifestation.”
Lyonette groaned. Erin staggered as everyone in the inn felt an overwhelming, yet invisible weight pushing them down. Pryde’s ego was weight. Lyonette herself had to gather her aura and push against the intensity.
But—Erin still moved. She looked around her staggering friends. A copy of yesterday. And she lost her temper.
“Enough.”
She pointed. Lyonette saw the air ripple. Both she and Pryde blinked. But the [Lady] went stumbling back a few steps. Pryde caught herself, formed a shield. Erin blinked. She’d just manifested her aura!
“Interesting. You want to make this a competition? Show me what makes Magnolia so fascinated.”
Lady Pryde’s aura intensified. But this was Erin’s land. The young woman pushed back. And the two personalities met in the center of the inn.
It was something Lyonette could sense. To many, it was just an invisible staring contest. But no—you could feel it in the air, like two hostile intentions. And it was actually affecting the air between them. Shimmering where the auras met.
“What’s…happening?”
Revi whispered. She didn’t quite understand. But Halrac was staring at the two; the [Scout] could see almost as well as Lyonette.
Everyone could feel an aura. Everyone could use an aura. If you had ever engaged in a hostile staring contest—that was two auras clashing. But this was that natural ability multiplied a thousand times.
Lyonette saw Erin struggling against Pryde. The [Lady] was locking down everyone around her, but that was more of a side-effect. The two were battling it out and the Horns were frozen. They might have moved. Pisces might have flicked his glowing [Shatterbolt] ring. But that was—too—hostile. This was a [Lady]’s battle.
And an [Innkeeper] was matching her in her inn. It was close. They went back and forth; Pryde had experience, a more powerful class and a more distinguished aura.
But this was Erin’s inn. And she was mad. The two glared at each other.
“Ridiculous.”
Pryde’s eyes narrowed as she tried to squash Erin and found the young woman pushing at her. Erin was biting her lip hard enough to draw blood. The [Innkeeper]’s focus was slipping. But—she balled a hand into a fist.
“This is my inn. You want to get mean?”
She began walking forwards. Lyonette saw Erin raising her fist. Pryde saw it, and smiled.
“[Pride is Unbreakable].”
She began walking forwards too. They were on a collision course. And the clash of auras was about to get physical. But Pryde was supremely confident in her defensive Skill. And Lyonette, looking between them, wondered what she could do. If she threw her power behind Erin—but she could barely push Pryde off her!
Push. Wait a second…Lyonette’s eyes widened. Abruptly, the [Princess]’ back straightened. She felt the pressure lift. Of course! Erin had no idea, and neither did Pryde! Lyonette saw Erin raising a fist and ran.
“Erin!”
She shoved Erin aside. The [Innkeeper] went ‘bwuh’, and sprawled onto the ground. Lyonette saw Pryde blink.
The pressure on Erin relented—slightly. Erin scrambled up.
“Lyonette! Get out of the way! I’m gonna punch her—”
“Erin Solstice. We have bigger issues! Go after the Ear—go after Rose and the others! They’re in the Floodplains, remember?”
Lyonette snapped at the [Innkeeper]. Erin blinked. She glanced at the door, and then at the confused Pryde.
“But—”
“Go. I’ll handle things here.”
Lyonette saw Erin hesitate, weigh the odds of Joseph and the others being in trouble, look at Pryde. Then she cursed and ran. Erin only stopped at the door to point at Pryde.
“This isn’t over! Dun, dun, d—”
She slammed the door. Pryde stared after her, and then at Lyonette. Her aura was still crushing everyone around her.
“Gah! Why can’t I—”
Ceria was on her knees. She was being completely shut down. Even Yvlon was struggling to stay upright. But Lyonette? Pryde focused on the [Princess]. And Lyonette’s knees didn’t so much as buckle.
“And who are you?”
Lyonette du Marquin stood in front of Lady Pryde Ulta. She took a deep breath. And then she smoothly curtsied.
“Lyon, Lady Pryde! So sorry about that. I’m the inn’s [Manager] and [Head Barmaid], under Miss Solstice. How can I help you?”
The [Lady] blinked. The aura…slowly relaxed. She turned her head, eyed Lyonette a few times, and then sniffed.
“Well, someone has politeness and a spine. I’ll conduct my business myself. Tell that impudent [Innkeeper].”
With that she turned away and walked through one of the side doors. Lyonette exhaled, slowly. She felt everyone begin breathing, talking again.
“Dead gods damn it, I couldn’t do anything! Again!”
Ceria got up, breathing hard. She looked at Lyonette. Then at Pryde.
“We’re just letting her go?”
“Would you like to throw her out? I’ll follow her, make sure nothing else happens. Mrsha! You can come in, but don’t you dare cause trouble!”
Mrsha was peeking at Lyonette wide-eyed through the Garden of Sanctuary. The others saw Lyonette clap her hands.
“Sorry for the interruption, everyone! Won’t happen again—hopefully. Back to work!”
They all looked at the [Princess]. Yvlon, panting, eyed Lyonette. She asked the question that Mrsha and the others dearly wanted to know.
“You just interrupted both Erin and Pryde. She tried to squash you, Lyonette. I’m no expert—I’m a Level 4 [Lady]. But how did you do that?”
Lyonette just winked.
“Aura battles aren’t pure force, Yvlon. Ceria, you need practice. Just like Erin. As for how—that’s my secret. Come on, Mrsha!”
She scooped Mrsha up and followed after Pryde. The Gnoll patted Lyonette on the head urgently. She signed with her paws, practically begging.
“How did you do that?”
Lyonette saw Mrsha pleading for the answer. So she lowered her voice as she followed Pryde and whispered.
“Easy, Mrsha. I just know about auras. Pryde is stronger, more skillful than Erin and me. But you know what? I outrank her.”
It was all about perspective. Once Lyonette shifted her own authority, Pryde was aiming at the wrong target. There was nothing like a secret [Princess] when someone pulled out a [Lady].
But round two was just beginning. Lyonette wiped sweat from her brow. She hurried down the main hallway. Pryde was going through one of the side doors.
“Lady Pryde! How can I help—”
The magic door opened and a Drake strode through. An absolute unit. Grimalkin the Fist Mage made the Gnolls look small and skinny. He was already in an irritable mood. But he was unfailingly…Grimalkin.
“Ah, Miss Lyonette. Excellent. I must speak to Erin Solstice at once. About the Antinium issue.”
“Grimalkin! I mean, Magus—now is not a good time. Erin’s outside and—”
“Is she? I’ll find her. I’d also like to confer with Watch Captain Zevara before I leave. The Walled Cities are debating on the Liscorian issue…excuse me.”
Grimalkin turned towards the door. Lyonette’s eyes widened. She could see the future. Grimalkin would find Erin in a moment. And the Earthers. And knowing them—they hadn’t been briefed yet.
“No, Magus Grimalkin, now’s really not a good time—Erin’s in the middle of something.”
“When is she not? I’ll be brief, but I must insist—”
Grimalkin went for the door. Lyonette took a deep breath.
“I said, no.”
The Drake halted in his tracks. He looked over his shoulder. And the [Princess]’s aura caught and held him.
“What are you doing?”
The young Human woman smiled at him as Mrsha smirked at Grimalkin.
“Magus Grimalkin. While I appreciate the severity of your needs, Erin is busy with a pressing task. It is somewhat rude to interrupt her. Is your task critical or just pressing?”
The Drake’s jaw worked a few times. He hesitated. And Lyonette looked at him. Her aura didn’t hold him down like Pryde and Erin did. It just pushed one thing onto him.
He was being rather unmannerly. The [Sinew Magus] coughed, checked himself.
“I could—wait. Yes. I’ll—see Miss Solstice at her leisure. Once this pressing issue is dealt with. You understand my concern?”
“Of course. And she will see you directly after she is free. I’ll convey that to her myself. Would you like to wait in the inn?”
“Er…yes. Yes, before the Watch Captain.”
The [Sinew Magus] stepped back from the door. Lyonette felt more energy leave her as she released her aura. But Mrsha was giving her Human mother another awed look. Power was more than muscle. Grimalkin was all muscle. But he had little experience with noble classes.
Of course, you could mostly get around that because on the battlefield, all these diplomatic tricks didn’t stop an arrow going through your head. Except in Pryde’s case.
And speaking of her…Lyonette hurried after Pryde. What was she up to? Lyonette peeked around the inn, worried. Was she after one of the Antinium? Oh no. Where was Bird? Numbtongue? Was she—
Pryde was in one of the inn’s newest rooms. The weights room. Grimalkin’s new weights and exercise machines were all set up. And the [Lady] was staring at a poster Grimalkin had worked up showing how to properly do a deadlift. She was holding one of the larger barbells casually in one arm.
“Oh, you again. These are intriguing. They’re for building muscle, aren’t they? I want them. Where do they come from and how much are they? Never mind. I’ll buy these.”
Pryde turned to Lyonette as the young woman entered the room. Mrsha padded in after her, wrinkling her nose. It always smelled vaguely of sweat in here. Lyonette blinked at Pryde.
“You—want these?”
“Yes. Sell them to me.”
The [Lady] looked at the [Princess]. She narrowed her eyes and Lyonette felt an experimental push. For a moment she wanted to sell the weights. Well—she still did. But the [Princess] had her pride. She took a breath, restrained her vexation, and smiled.
“No.”
She rather enjoyed saying that. Pryde blinked a few times.
“I’ll buy them for twice of whatever they were sold to you for.”
Again, the [Princess] fought. Internally, her mercantile side said ‘yes, absolutely’! But part of her, the [Princess] part, said—
“No, Lady Pryde. These are the property of The Wandering Inn. They cannot be sold, even to a [Lady] of Izril. I am so sorry.”
It was so funny. Lyonette loved money. But this was her inn. No one walked in and made demands of her. She ignored Pryde’s aura; the [Lady] was still looking at her like a [Barmaid].
But this was hers, too. The [Lady of Pride] concentrated, and then looked exasperated.
“I want these. Where do they come from. What are they?”
A little bell rang in Lyonette’s head. The [Princess] smiled widely. She looked over her shoulder.
“Actually, Lady Pryde—I think I can put you in touch with the creator himself. One moment?”
She hurried out of the room. Lady Pryde opened her mouth. And then she turned and stared.
Mrsha was trying to bench press a miniature weights bar. She gave Pryde a challenging look. Even Pryde needed a moment for that. Cuteness could overpower even pride.
Grimalkin was still pacing back and forth in the hallway, muttering to himself.
“Auras. Damn formality Skills. Should I go after Miss Solstice? But there is such a thing as politeness—which is of course, how the Skills work. If I was a savage-minded person with no manners, I’d be practically immune…”
He jumped as Lyonette opened one of the secret side-doors.
“Magus Grimalkin?”
“I haven’t left. Wait, is Miss Solstice back yet?”
He turned on her, expectantly. Lyonette smiled at Grimalkin.
“Actually, not that I want to distract you, but I have someone asking about buying some of your weights. She’s very intrigued. Could you spare a moment to speak to Lady Pryde Ulta?”
“Lady Pryde—one of the [Ladies] is here? Show me, yes, absolutely.”
Grimalkin strode into the weights room after Lyonette. Pryde was experimentally loading up her own weights bar. Mrsha was helping her slot some of the heavier lead weights into place.
Both caught sight of each other at the same time. Pryde straightened and Grimalkin folded his arms.
“Oh, you.”
They practically said the same thing.
“Lady Pryde, may I introduce Magus Grimalkin of Pallass? He created the weights you see here.”
Grimalkin opened his mouth.
“May I ask what a [Lady] is doing in Liscor? Miss Pryde?”
Pryde’s eyes flashed again.
“Lady Pryde. And I came here to investigate this…contraption. I saw it yesterday, but I was occupied with Magnolia’s plan. What is this for? To build muscle?”
