“Ah—Olesm. This really isn’t a good time. By all means, make your notes when we have the meeting. But we’re just consulting with Watch Captain Zevara—”
Lism cleared his throat. Zevara was standing in front of the Council, looking unhappy. They were going to be chewed out for a second day in a row. The other Walled Cities would spend most of it going over what everyone had learned from Magnolia and asking what Liscor would do about it.
Then—they’d ask Chaldion and the army’s High Command for a decision on what should be done. Olesm knew this because it was what had happened yesterday.
And it was wrong. He spoke, politely looking his uncle in the eyes.
“Yes, Councilmember Lism. I’m aware of the pressing time. Which is why, as [Strategist] of Liscor, I demand your time. I’ll review Architect Hexel’s work as well later and present my opinions to the Council. For now—if I can direct your attention to this?”
He passed around the copied bundles of parchment. Not papyrus or paper; these were rough-copies the [Scribe] had made. The Council blinked as Olesm briskly went back to the front of the desk.
“I plan on addressing the Walled Cities first. I’m sure the Council will allow this? Also—this is unrelated, but I’d like the city to fund this new project.”
“What is this, Olesm?”
Krshia blinked at the object in front of her. It was…a bundle of words. A colorful image of Liscor and the Floodplains over a title. She read, slowly.
The Liscorian Gazette. Featuring chess commentary, news by Drassi Tewing, perspectives of each species, and stories of your city. Edited by Olesm Swifttail.
“A newspaper. Like the one Pallass has.”
Jeiss was the first one to catch on. He grinned, flipping through it. Olesm nodded politely.
“Exactly. I was thinking about the issue of relations between species in the city—and of course, our own changing times. Through this, the Council can speak to the people. I’ll include a little chess section—and other extras. This is just the prototype.”
The Councilmembers looked at each other. And Lism burst into a huge smile.
“Magnificent! Well, this is a welcome surprise, Olesm. I knew my neph—er, our [Strategist] would come up with something. So—we’ll send this out to other cities along with your chess magazine!”
Olesm gave Lism a blank look.
“No, Councilmember Lism.”
The [Shopkeeper] turned [Councilmember] paused.
“Why not?”
Olesm folded his claws behind his back.
“Why would we do so, Councilmember? It’s Liscor’s news. I plan to continue my chess magazine.”
“But this is our news.”
Alonna tapped the newspaper, proudly, though it hadn’t existed an hour ago. Elirr snorted into his paper.
“It is only our news, I think is what Olesm is trying to say. Pallass has their newspaper too. Why would other cities want to read ours?”
“Oh.”
The Council looked disappointed. Raekea frowned.
“Wait—then, this is copying, no? Is this allowed?”
She looked worried; [Blacksmiths] had their own relationship with stealing designs. Maviola, her ear pressed against the door, grinned. Olesm was ready for this. He bowed to the Gnoll.
“Certainly, it is, Councilwoman Raekea. But so are most things in life. And while this might only affect our city—I think this newspaper is necessary. If you’ll read the article headlines?”
He gestured as the Council began to actually read The Liscorian Gazette. Olesm went on.
“The newspaper has more of a role than just—announcements. This is a balanced perspective of each species. Miss Lyonette wrote the first article, about being a Human in Liscor. For many people, that might be their insight in what it means to be a Human. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark spoke to Drassi about the challenges she faced entering the Watch, and the differences between Gnolls and Drakes.”
“I see.”
Krshia’s eyes sharpened. She looked up at Olesm. A Human perspective? Olesm nodded.
“Who knows what it’s really like, being another species? There is also a short article by an Antinium.”
“What?”
Lism recoiled from the paper. He looked at Olesm in shock. So did the entire Council, Zevara included.
“The Antinium, Olesm?”
Zevara frowned. The Drake just nodded.
“Tensions between the Antinium and other species in Liscor are at an all-time high. I hope—this will calm those conflicts.”
“But the Antinium are doubling their numbers beneath our city—”
Lism spluttered, looking at Olesm in clear confusion. His views were known. Olesm sighed.
“Yes, Councilmember Lism. My perspective is that the Antinium are a threat. As I will say to the Walled Cities in—thirteen minutes, I believe. But our struggle is for the security of Liscor, not promoting clashes on the streets. To that end—I asked one of the Antinium to write a piece to…individualize them.”
“Who? Which one?”
The Council looked at each other. Zevara slowly flipped towards the back of the magazine. She read. And despite herself—she chuckled. The others stared at her as Zevara’s stony expression broke for just a moment. Then they read the article too.
Birds I Eat, by Bird of the The Wandering Inn. It was a catalogue of birds that Bird had seen. There were even images.
“It’s incomplete. More illustrations to be added. I hired an [Illustrator] with a passion for nature to draw them. Bird was very happy.”
Olesm pointed at the article. There were ratings of each bird, out of five stars, and how delicious they were, how hard to hunt, how beautiful—Bird had obsessive rankings. Despite themselves, the Council chuckled. Even Lism snorted. He looked up at Olesm. And his smile was fond.
“Brilliant. Well, I can see our way clear to approving this.”
“But where do we find the funding—”
Tismel ducked as Lism threw a cup at him.
“It’s not that expensive! Right?”
He turned to Olesm. The Drake took a deep breath.
“I think the city will find room in the budget for it. It may even pay for itself depending on its popularity. Incidentally—how well can we fund Architect Hexel’s plans?”
The Council fell silent. Morosely, they looked at each other.
“…We’ll have to request funding from the Walled Cities. In addition to the money agreed upon. It’s one of the topics we’ll be raising. Along with security.”
Zevara grimaced. Olesm nodded. He took a seat as the Council glumly prepared for the communication spell. And Maviola’s heart beat faster.
This was it. A bit of courage. She listened as the Walled Cities and even Liscor’s own High Command were magically connected with the Council. Maviola sat with one ear to the door, chasing off the people who gave her odd looks.
And she heard a lot of debate. As Olesm had told her, this was Drake chaos. Which sounded a lot like Human nobility infighting with some subtle differences.
The Walled Cities were not happy. And they were taking turns to berate each other and Liscor. Speculating—it was at first just a noise contest, until the confident voices won through.
“It’s clear Liscor was unaware of these issues. I have no time for assigning blame among the Walled Cities. The Antinium’s numbers must be addressed. If the Free Hive is this large, we may be woefully in error with our projections of the other Hives’ numbers, even with our estimates.”
Chaldion snapped through Pallass’ screen. They’d copied Wistram’s system so each representative and the congregated members of each command were squeezed into the scrying orb’s perspective. The viewpoint changed.
“Salazsar agrees. We motion for increased security against the Antinium. This is a budgetary meeting, not a shouting match. Zeres.”
Ilvriss’ cool voice broke into the conversation. There was a spluttering sound from Zeres’ feed. But a representative of Pallass—one of the [Senators] spoke off, interrupting Chaldion.
“The issue of budget is a concern. But why are we funding Liscor? Far better, one imagines, to enact our own projects. Liscor has already demanded money for construction—”
“Are you saying we shouldn’t address the issue of the Antinium threat?”
One of Oteslia’s [Strategists] snapped. The [Senator], Errif, smiled without really smiling.
“Not at all. But this is clearly a Liscorian concern. An individual city takes on their own issues. If the gold is not going to be used adequately…”
“Don’t try to weasel out of this. Liscor is closest to Pallass!”
A representative to Manus barked. Errif sneered back.
“We’re fully prepared to give an appropriate budget to Liscor, Manus. We can afford it.”
“You little snake—”
The other Walled Cities began to bicker. And a sharp voice cut through all the arguments.
“Liscor’s High Command. We want to know what actions will be taken around the Free Antinium. We support the demand to cut their numbers until the Hive falls in line with the original treaties. Only then will funding be released to Liscor from our forces.”
Everyone fell silent. Olesm saw the Council look up. He knew that voice. One of Liscor’s [Generals]. High Command.
So far from home. They had left because of Liscor’s Hive. In many ways—that had caused a schism between the army and the city. But the army had more money than the city. The view switched back to a [Mage Strategist] from Fissival. He nodded warily.
“Fissival supports this measure. The Antinium must be curtailed. What pressure will Liscor’s council put on them?”
“Zeres agrees. Punitive measures. Liscor? Your submission?”
The Council stirred. Lism looked at Krshia, swearing silently. Jeiss was shaking his head. Demand the Antinium Hive halve their numbers? But the Walled Cities were all murmuring agreement. Some of their representatives, like Chaldion, Manus’s security council, and Ilvriss were expressing dissent.
But it fell on Liscor to respond. Krshia was slowly rising, looking at Lism. He jabbed a claw at his chest and the two whispered to each other as the others shifted, impatiently. And before they could come to an agreement—Olesm stood.
He was shaking. But his voice was clear. His tail was jittering so much Jeiss and Alonna looked alarmed. But Olesm walked forwards.
“Councilmembers, as [Strategist] of Liscor I believe it is time for me to express my opinion.”
Lism looked at his nephew and shook his head. But it was too late. Dragonspeaker Luciva spoke and every voice went silent.
“Manus agrees. Approach and state Liscor’s measures, Strategist Olesm Swifttail of Liscor.”
The [Strategist] nearly threw up then and there. He did in his mouth, a bit. Some of the most powerful Gnolls and Drakes in the world were looking at him. The view switched to Ilvriss; the Wall Lord smiled slightly, then Chaldion was looking at Olesm with his good eye, impatiently.
This was it. Maviola closed her eyes. She had seen the fire, the potential. Now, the Drake proved her right or wrong.
“I—”
Olesm opened his mouth and belched. It came out, nervously, a hiccup. The watchers all recoiled. The Drake frantically waved at his face. He spoke before someone demanded him thrown out a window.
“Apologies. As I was about to say. High Command of Liscor’s army. Representatives of the Walled Cities. In regards to Liscor’s actions against the Antinium…it is my recommendation as [Strategist] of Liscor…”
He looked into the scrying orb. At every eye on him. And his mouth dried.
“Well?”
The Sharkcaptain of Zeres growled. Olesm took another breath. He could run away now. And if he ran—Maviola had shown him, he’d keep running. Better to be fired. Olesm closed his eyes as he replied. But he did reply.
“Apologies, Zeres. I misspoke. I should have said—as [Strategist] of Liscor. It is my decision that in light of Liscor’s insufficient safeguards against the Antinium, their breach of the treaty was not enough to constitute hostile action. As such—I will, with my authority, veto any such motions that affect the relationship between my city and the Free Hive of the Antinium.”
For a second there was silence. Then another second. Olesm’s heart thundered. He cracked one eye open. Then he heard Lism drop something with a clatter. Maviola laughed silently out the door.
“What?”
The bellow came from the Sharkcaptain—and then High Command. The room burst into a flurry of voices, all demanding—Olesm shouted.
“Excuse me. Excuse me!”
“Someone shut that idiot up! Zeres—kick that insane Drake out of—”
“Pallass. Silence. Let the [Strategist] speak.”
“Manus agrees.”
“Salazsar acknowledges Strategist Olesm. Speak.”
Three voices cut through the clamor. Three of the six Walled Cities spoke. Someone on Zeres’ side was shouting obscenities—then a cool voice.
“The Gardener of Oteslia acknowledges. A majority calls upon Liscor’s [Strategist] to speak. Why no action, Strategist Olesm?”
The Gardener of Oteslia. And the Dragonspeaker of Manus. Olesm’s mouth was dry. But he’d come this far, and there was a comfort in letting it all go. He shuffled his notes.
“To answer your questions, honored guests—I first ask that you consult the documents sent to you via [Message] spell—twenty minutes ago.”
He listened to the confused babble for a moment, went on as the others demanded the very documents. Ilvriss was reading his. And smiling. Olesm looked into the scrying orb and spoke.
“I believe that the Antinium presence in Liscor is, while in breach of our initial treaties—not solvable by direct pressure on the Hive. They will most certainly resist. This would lead to a confrontation between the Free Hive and Liscor. One which will result in warfare.”
“And are you implying Liscor would lose that confrontation? Or that we should fear Antinium aggression?”
A [General] of Liscor spoke. Olesm stared at the three [Generals] of Liscor, and the Drake with a burn mark around his face. And he bowed his head.
“Respectfully, General Sendel? In either event, Liscor loses. The Free Antinium are our allies. Liscor has no desire to engage in what will certainly be a destructive war. Nor—at this moment—does Liscor intend to begin the Third Antinium War. Which is what confrontation with the Free Antinium means.”
He listened to the frozen murmur. Does High Command want that? General Sendel was silent. Olesm went on, into his one moment.
“Respected guests. I understand today’s meeting is about funding for Liscor’s security. I understand the reluctance of the other Walled Cities to support Liscor. However—with respect— I submit that the Antinium were allowed to grow and take actions that violated the letter and law of our agreement because Liscor was always underfunded.”
Another murmur. Olesm held up a claw, forestalling Errif and a dozen voices.
