“I consolidated my aura. You were using yours like a hammer. It was too wide, Erin. And few auras can make someone just—move. You could keep me out a lot easier than force me to leave. One’s a shield, the other is—hard.”
Lyonette looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] was frowning, trying to understand.
“…I don’t quite get it. Explain it again?”
The [Princess] exhaled.
“I told you, I never took many aura-lessons. My mother didn’t think it was time yet—I was a Level 5—you-know-what. But this is what she taught me. Erin, you’re unskilled. I’m better at using my aura. You have high potency—no manifestation or control.”
The [innkeeper] blinked a few times.
“I have what the what the what?”
The [Princess] rubbed at her head. She had a headache, despite being able to resist someone twenty levels higher than she was.
“Potency. The power of your aura in your inn is strong. As strong as Magnolia’s maybe. But your control—how you use it—is weak. Magnolia could refine her aura until she could actually push you out of the way, or hold everyone down. Erin—is like a giant blanket. She affects everything. She doesn’t focus on one person.”
She nodded to the room as a whole. Mrsha and Numbtongue nodded.
“Too wide.”
The [Bard] summarized for Lyonette. Erin’s eyes widened.
“Oh.”
Lyonette sighed.
“Yes. ‘Too wide’. But you could fix that, Erin. You just need to practice. Focus on me; you were doing it near the end.”
“But why didn’t I move you if I had more power? I shoulda thrown you out, like bam!”
Erin punched her palm. Mrsha copied her, nodding. Lyonette looked at both of them.
“That’s not how auras work, Erin. It’s not—arm wrestling.”
“It’s not?”
“No! Why would it be? Erin, auras mix and match. Some win over others. It’s…complex. And I’m not an expert. What I do know is that you have potency, no control, and no manifestation.”
“What’s the manifestation bit?”
“You can’t make a sword out of your aura and cut someone in half with it.”
Numbtongue looked up from his food. So did Mrsha, her eyes shining.
“You can do that?”
Erin blinked. Lyonette nodded casually.
“Of course. But you need a specific aura. [Knights] have more…combat focused ones. Like a Thronebearer [Knight] from Calanfer. They can concentrate their auras, coat their blades in magical light to attack Ghosts. But that’s because their auras are tied to light and such. Yours? You have an [Inn’s Aura]. Hard to manifest that.”
“Oh. Well—can I try?”
“If you want to—”
Erin raised her hand.
“[Aura Sword]! Hiyah!”
She brought it down. Lyonette recoiled. So did Numbtongue. Mrsha stared hopefully at the table. Erin stared at the uncut butter in front of them.
“Aw.”
“Don’t do that!”
Lyonette shouted at Erin. The young woman sighed.
“I need more practice.”
Another morning in The Wandering Inn. Hexel was looking around the inn with his Lizardfolk assistants. They looked markedly less nervous in the inn, but they backed away as Drassi came over.
“Whoops, excuse me. Architect Quithail! I’m so sorry for this morning’s incident. Can we get you breakfast? Part of your room and board. We have eggs, toast, sausages, tomatoes—I don’t know what Lizardfolk eat, I’m sorry.”
The [Princess] excused herself and hurried over to tend to the Lamia herself. He smiled at her.
“I found it quite entertaining. I am a Lamia, Miss…Lyon? Yes, Lyon. I enjoyed it. I might have a different opinion if it was at the dead of night, but hatchlings—excuse me—children, are a delight. I have to meet with Liscor’s Council later, or someone about my designs, but please! Breakfast us away!”
He indicated his Lizardfolk group. Lyonette smiled.
“Right here, sir. Unless you’d like a private room? No? Well, we can add more meat or less meat depending on your dietary preferences…”
“I like eggs. But we are carnivorous, by and large. Might we have undercooked sausage?”
Lyonette hesitated.
“…Ours are actually pre-cooked. This entire inn has a [Field of Preservation] on it, Mister Hexel. But we could—Drassi, get one of the uncooked steaks, would you?”
The Lamia brightened. Ratici nudged Wilovan. The Gnoll calmly opened one eye and whispered.
“I heard. Pray, allow me to continue my morning’s repast uninterrupted, Ratici.”
He went back to eating his toast. Hexel meanwhile was chortling.
“Oh yes. Some of that steak, rare and bloody? And the eggs on toast. We’d be delighted, Miss Lyon. An entire inn under…? Of course, that’s an [Innkeeper]’s Skill. How useful!”
He smiled as a steak was brought out. Lyonette began counting the cost and debating whether she should add it to his tab—but caught herself.
Hexel Quithail and his company were special guests. He paid well, and—despite it being a steak—it wasn’t that expensive in the summer. This wasn’t the bad old days where the inn had to count every copper coin. They had money. Lyonette told herself that.
But she had big plans. Oh, yes. Big plans for the inn. The [Princess] served the guests as Drassi passed her the food, and then returned to Erin’s table.
There she saw Mrsha was busy picking bits of cut sausage off a neighboring table’s plates.
The Horns of Hammerad were awake. They sat at the tables, as if nothing had changed. Pisces was eating with good humor, shielding his plate. Yvlon wasn’t eating sausage, so Mrsha had no beef with her—or pork—but Ceria was laughing and swatting at her playfully. Ksmvr had hissed at Mrsha when she tried to steal from him, so the half-Elf was the logical target.
“Stop that, Mrsha! Mrsha!”
“Mrsha! Stop that at once!”
The Gnoll swiped another piece of sausage as Lyonette put her hands on her hips, embarrassed. Ceria looked up.
“She’s just playing, Lyon—”
“She has her breakfast. And that is terribly bad manners. Mrsha! Enough!”
Lyonette raised a finger warningly. Mrsha looked up. And the young Gnoll hesitated. She eyed Lyonette and gave her a defiant look.
Mrsha didn’t like it when Lyonette…stayed the night in Pawn’s room. Lyonette had explained, and Mrsha definitely understood—she had grown up in a Plains Gnoll tribe, where everyone could hear and smell when a couple got together.
She just didn’t like it. Mrsha even liked Pawn as…Pawn. She just didn’t like the idea of Pawn being Lyonette’s, or vice-versa.
So she tossed her head defiantly, rather like Lyonette herself and reached for a scrap on Ceria’s plate. Lyonette put her hands on her hips. She lowered her voice so that only those next to her would hear and whispered.
“Mrsha du Marquin, I’m warning you once.”
Mrsha froze. So did Erin, and Numbtongue, who were close enough to hear the whisper. Mrsha slowly lowered her paw and harrumphed her way back over to her table. Lyonette sat down, only mildly exasperated.
Erin looked at the [Princess]. She lowered her voice too. Only a Gnoll would have been able to hear, and only one close by. Even Wilovan’s ears didn’t twitch—but perhaps that was because listening in was ungentlemanly.
“…You call her Mrsha du Marquin?”
“Of course. Why not?”
Lyonette looked challengingly at Erin. The young woman closed her mouth.
“No. Good.”
Mrsha du Marquin, Mrsha the Prim and Proper, glumly took her fork and poked at her toast and egg. But she was a good girl…for all of three minutes.
Then the Earthers came downstairs.
“Whoa! It wasn’t a dream!”
Kevin stared about the inn. Joseph blinked around at the bright, painful room and held his head. But he was there, and Rose, Galina, Troydel, Imani, and Leon. The seven young people who had been in Magnolia’s care were…here. In the inn.
Erin stopped smiling. Mrsha’s head slowly rose. She backed out of her chair as Rose made a sound.
“Oh! There she is! Hello! Mrsha! Cutie!”
She and Galina stared at Mrsha, overly excited to see her. Imani just shivered and hid behind Kevin, who was tallest along with Joseph.
Seven people from Earth. Strangers. Even to Erin. The young woman slowly rose.
“Oh. Hi.”
She’d nearly forgotten about last night. The revelation that Ryoka had sent these people here was…well, it had been too big for Erin to do anything but react to. She’d given them a room after asking questions—but they’d all been tired and most more than a little bit drunk.
“Wild. That’s a Gnoll, Rose. Not a dog. And those are Drakes and that’s…uh…one of the Antinium. I think. Not Bird? Are you Bird?”
Kevin waved at Ksmvr. The [Skirmisher]’s head rose, confused. He looked at Ceria, who was getting her own looks from Troydel—known as ‘Troy’, and Leon.
“I am not Bird.”
“Right, cool.”
Kevin nodded a few times. He was distinctly…Kevin. Lyonette remembered him flirting unsuccessfully with Drassi last night.
The others were harder for her to pin any details on. Joseph was noticeably the most hung over of the group. He’d been drinking hard and subsequently run up a large amount of their—unpaid—tab.
Rose was one of the group’s leaders. She was also fascinated by Mrsha, who’d slunk off her seat in the face of the stares. Mrsha peeked around Numbtongue and glowered at the group.
They stared at Numbtongue too. And only a few of them looked at all uneasy. The perpetually-afraid Imani shivered at Numbtongue’s crimson eyes and green skin, but Leon only nudged Troydel.
“An Orc. I’m telling you…”
Galina was excitedly staring about the inn, at the stage where the [Players] had performed last night. And Troydel and Leon were arguing over whether Numbtongue was an ‘Orc’, or another Goblin.
But all seven looked around the inn as if they were, well, tourists, or visitors. Lyonette had the distinct impression that if one of them had owned a ‘camera’, that thing from Erin’s world they used to take images, they would have been taking pictures now.
“Um…yeah. Hi.”
Erin just looked at them. She had known them. Or so Lyonette gathered. The others looked at Erin, blinking at her apron. The young woman hesitated.
“So—we have a lot to talk about. Why don’t you take a seat? And have breakfast? We’ve got sausages, eggs on toast, tomatoes.”
“Oh yes! From home!”
Instantly, the group lit up ecstatically. They sat next to Lyonette’s table. And the convivial atmosphere of the morning changed for Lyonette.
She and Drassi served the food. She heard them exclaiming in relief.
“Proper food. Not like what we’ve eaten sometimes. Thank you so much—do you have waffles? Or pancakes? I’ve been dying to have some…”
Galina was talking to Erin. The young woman blinked a few times.
“I mean, we do, but—”
“Can I get bacon?”
Kevin practically shouted. Joseph swore and covered his ears. Leon’s head rose.
“Wait—do you have hamburgers? I saw that on the menu, but someone ate mine.”
He glared at Joseph. Erin hesitated.
“We…have them. But—”
“Can we get them? I mean, it’s from home.”
The others gave Erin a pleading look. Lyonette sighed as Erin turned to her.
“Coming up. Who wants a hamburger?”
“No lettuce on mine.”
Troydel instantly raised his hand. Lyonette paused—and sighed. She went into the kitchen and came back.
“I can’t believe this. You have an inn! How did you get it? Did you find it? I mean—I remember us meeting way back when, but this is incredible! Do you own it? Really?”
Rose was chatting to Erin. The young woman nodded, watching Kevin bite into his cheeseburger and sigh. Mrsha’s head poked over the table, narrow-eyed.
“I did. I mean—the first inn wasn’t mine. But I fixed it up and I run it. That’s my class. [Innkeeper].”
“Whoa. So you’re in this world. Really? And you work here?”
Kevin looked up. Erin looked at Numbtongue. The Goblin was eying the Earthers who didn’t seem bothered by him, just—fascinated. Galina and Rose were staring at him and whispering and so was Leon, muttering about a videogame to Troydel.
“…no tusks…but they have Minotaurs, man…”
The lack of fear so much as naked curiosity bothered the Hobgoblin [Bard]. He slowly edged away from his table until he was sitting with the Horns of Hammerad. Ceria realized her eyes were also the focus of much staring.
“Just insane. Wild. We were at Magnolia’s mansion the entire time. Which sucked. Right until the [Assassins] attacked—what’s your level?”
Joseph had recovered with the food enough to join in asking questions. Even Erin was wincing and looking around.
“Lower your voice. We can talk about that later.”
“What? Oh—right. Well, we came all the way here looking for you. Ryoka said you had an inn, but we didn’t know you had a magic door! That’s nuts.”
Erin exhaled. Lyonette and Mrsha both looked up sharply.
Ryoka. The [Innkeeper] spoke carefully.
“Ryoka. Yeah, she sent all of you. She sent me a letter. But I didn’t know you were…uh…coming. Where is she? Is she okay? Why did she send you all?”
Lyonette nodded. She came over and the others looked at her. Rose hesitated.
“Ryoka? Well—she arrived just before the—[Assassins]. She took our electronics. All of them. And she told us to come here since Magnolia’s estates were under attack.”
The two young women waited, but Rose was done. Erin looked at Lyonette helplessly.
“…Nothing more?”
“Well—she said your inn wasn’t always safe, but you’d take us in. She was really busy. She had this boxer-friend who hated our guts, but she hired some adventurers to escort us south. We weren’t in Reizmelt long.”
“Reizmelt. So Ryoka’s there?”
The [Princess]’s hands tightened on the tabletop. Mrsha looked at Rose. The young woman, oblivious to the hidden emotion, nodded.
“Yeah. They call her the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. She can command the wind. Didn’t you know?”
She looked around. The Horns of Hammerad were listening in. Erin’s eyes widened.
“She can? Wait—how is she? Tell us all about her!”
So much emotion. So much history. Rose hesitated.
“She’s…good. Right?”
The others looked at each other.
“Yeah.”
“Good how? Is she missing any more fingers? Is she okay? How is she commanding the wind?”
The Earthers leaned back in the face of the intense questions. They looked at each other. But they didn’t know. Ryoka was ‘good’. They hadn’t asked.
At this point, Lyonette had to serve some familiar guests. Griffon Hunt had come down the stairs, and Cade was sleepily clinging to his mother.
“Halrac. It is so good to see you.”
“What are we, spare thread?”
Revi grumbled, but with a smile as Lyonette served them. And they could order whatever they wanted for breakfast, no questions asked. Because…they were friends.
