A new day dawned. And with it, a [Princess] rose from her bed. An [Innkeeper] rolled out of her bed and onto the floor. A Hobgoblin [Bard] yawned, checked the sun, and put the pillow over his head. A white Gnoll sat on the ledge of the windowsill, watching the sun coming up. An Antinium [Hunter] was sitting in his tower, eating a raw egg.
Mrsha raised her paws as if she were holding the sun up. Bird looked around for birdsong and checked his bow. Erin Solstice said ‘ow’.
And Lyonette du Marquin found the bed was as comfortable as she remembered. Although the pillows had changed. And she was no longer lying against Pawn as he sat-slept against the wall. Since he was, in fact, a poor pillow with his non-flesh body, Lyonette had been sleeping against some pillows bunched around him.
A Fortress of Fluff. The [Princess] looked around and saw the [Priest] was staring through a window. At the sky. Like Mrsha, giggling and watching as she ‘held’ the fire in the sky, the Antinium still wondered at the sight. The [Princess] smiled and stretched.
“Morning, Pawn.”
The Antinium looked at her. And smiled with all the pleasure in his being. He had no subterfuge, no reserve. When the Antinium did something, they held nothing back.
Lyonette rose. And it was a different room—Pawn’s—that she woke up in. The mattress she’d added, but the Antinium had a little cave-fort of blankets and pillows he normally slept in. His censer was lying on a desk, ready to be cleaned. He had two books he’d bought with money from his salary.
In Erin’s room, the young woman looked up at the little Gnoll.
“Oh. Hey, Mrsha. I forgot you’re sleeping here. Did I wake you?”
The Gnoll shook her head. The [Druid] smiled in the sunlight, as Apista buzzed through the open window.
Numbtongue rolled over in his bed. He had a hangover.
A new day. And everything was different. Again. Erin Solstice, bleary in her pajamas—very comfy one-piece nightwear much like ones from her world, but a bit oversized since it had been made for Gnolls—saw Mrsha climb out the window.
“Mrsha! Hold on! You can’t do that!”
The Gnoll scampered up the roof. Erin tumbled out after her. She hurried out onto the roof, calling out.
“Mrsha! I told you—no roof climbing! Or surfing!”
The Gnoll scampered up the roof as Apista buzzed higher. Bird, looking in the distance at a flight of Razorbeaks flying high overhead, saw a white form scuttling up the roof.
“Is that a rat? No, that is not a rat. That is Mrsha. Hello, good morning!”
The [Hunter] sang to the Gnoll. Erin, cursing, saw Mrsha running nimbly past arched windows, each of which led to its own room.
The Wandering Inn’s second floor was done. And many rooms were now open. And the third floor, where Bird’s tower was set until the renovations were done? It too would hold guests, in lovely rooms. Lyonette wanted the third floor to be more luxurious, which meant larger rooms.
For now, the second floor could hold far more guests than it ever had. And the inn was still under construction.
Marching Workers leaving the city covered in detritus looked up and saw the young woman scrambling up the roof. And the Gnoll child, waving happily at Bird as he waved back. They headed up the hill, ready to help build this sacred place. It made the shouting, the trash throwing—everything worth it.
A sanctuary to them. Something as close to a place of worship as the barracks in their Hive. And they were not the only ones.
Erin Solstice ran after Mrsha as the Gnoll raced down the rooftop.
“Mrsha! Get back here!”
Her voice roused Numbtongue. He raised his head and saw a pajama-wearing Erin run past his window. The Hobgoblin [Bard] paused. He looked for the bottle of gin he’d taken and shook it suspiciously.
“No, that was real.”
Reiss’ ghost commented from his seat. Numbtongue put the pillow over his head as Erin kept yelling.
“You’ll fall! You’ll slip! You’ll—oh heck—”
She wind-milled her arms as she nearly slipped off the side of the inn. The incline wasn’t that steep, but Erin’s bipedal format was actually much more precarious than the four-legged scamper.
Mrsha ignored Erin. She raced past Pawn’s window, then stopped and stared through. The [Princess] yelped.
“Mrsha! Close the windows, Pawn! Erin will see us!”
“Are we ashamed? Erin said that shame was a sign of sin in her story about the Garden of Eden. Not the [Garden of Sanctuary], but it seems to me that Erin will find out eventually—”
“Not when I’m half-naked right now! Shut the windows!”
Pawn obediently closed the windows. Mrsha stuck her tongue out at the [Priest]. Pawn turned to Lyonette.
“I do not think Mrsha likes me anymore. This is distressing. I would like to rectify her grievances.”
Lyonette opened her mouth, and then saw Mrsha race off past the curtains. Erin followed, oblivious, still yelling.
“Mrsha! Get back here! I’m gonna get mad! I mean, I’m already ticked off!”
It didn’t seem to occur to her that chasing Mrsha was enabling the little Gnoll’s fun. Lyonette sighed. The real move was to calmly tell Mrsha to come back inside and offer her escalating punishments. Erin could have used her [Inn’s Aura], offered Mrsha a bribe, or done any number of things.
But Erin wouldn’t be Erin if logic was her first reaction after waking up. The [Innkeeper] thundered after the gleeful Mrsha. Actually, Erin was starting to see why Mrsha liked running on the roof. Aside from the drop off the edge where she could see herself breaking an arm—or her neck—this was fun!
She raced past a window and then blinked. A Lamia, completely naked, stood in front of his window, staring out at the glorious morning. And Erin.
She froze, mid-step. Hexel Quithail, the [Architect] for Liscor who had arrived yesterday, stared at Erin. She stared back.
A fun fact was that Lamias had genitalia. Not like regular Lizardfolk, but there you were. Theirs were actually retractable. Like snakes. Hexel recoiled slightly. Then he waved.
Erin waved back.
“Um. Sorry. Just chasing Mrsha…”
“I see.”
Hexel spoke through the glass. He slowly slithered forwards, drew the curtains. Erin backed away. Then she heard a scream.
A pair of Lizardfolk poked their heads out their window. They stared at Erin, and then at Mrsha. She was pressed up against another window. And inside, Imani, one of the young people from Earth, was in hysterics. A Gnoll staring at you through a window as you blearily looked up was actually scary.
Erin Solstice saw more windows pop open. Joseph nearly fell out. Rose looked around and stared at Erin. Hexel Quithail heard the young woman shouting.
“Hold on! That’s just Mrsha! Mrsha, stop that! Get down right now! I’m actually mad! Sorry, nothing to see here—”
“What a fascinating inn.”
The Lamia smiled to himself. Lyonette covered her face as she hurried out the door. Pawn called after her.
“I must go to work, Lyonette! But I will see you tonight! How am I romancing—”
“Shh! We’ll read a book! Have a good day! Love you!”
She clattered down the steps to the inn as Erin grabbed Mrsha. Then slipped and went tumbling down the side of the roof.
Lyonette found Erin hanging from the edge of the roof as Mrsha tried to haul her up, shouting curses. And that was how another day in The Wandering Inn started.
Madness, chaos, laughter, and change. Breakfast was sausage, eggs, and toast. Grilled tomatoes, unless you hated tomatoes. Mrsha had to eat hers.
 
—-
 
The city of Liscor and The Wandering Inn had changed again, overnight. The old dynamic, the old cast and the stakes were rearranged.
Change, that elusive beast, had struck again. And it had come time and time again to Liscor. So much so that change, was, in itself, a kind of normal.
Invrisil had come to Liscor via the magic door. A group of Earthers had reached The Wandering Inn. The [Architect] was here—
And Magnolia Reinhart had splendidly thrown the Antinium under a metaphorical carriage and run them over. Everything was different.
Again.
How you dealt with such shifts in ‘normality’ really depended on who you were. Some people resisted it, demanding everything go back to yesterday. Others embraced it, or at least, the change that benefitted them. But only a few really understood how fluid this world was. Tomorrow, the world could be upside down. Metaphorically speaking. Or sometimes…literally.
One of the people who knew this, but didn’t know it was Olesm Swifttail. He woke up in his lovely little apartment, which he’d rented on his [Tactician] salary when he was first hired, in an apartment just off market-street. Not exactly high-end, but nice. He stared out into the street.
And no [Innkeeper] ran past his window, chasing a white Gnoll. No glorious sun awaited him. But the world was different than he had left it.
There was chanting.
“No more Antinium! Get out of our city! No more lies! No more Antinium!”
A crowd was marching in the streets. Olesm listened. They had learned this, from the election. As people did, what was new yesterday—elections, social movements—were now old-hat. And those lessons paid dividends now.
“We’ve been lied to enough! Get rid of the Antinium! No more Ants!”
A Gnoll was bellowing through a primitive megaphone—her paws. And the crowd of Drakes and Gnolls were marching, waking up the neighborhood.
“No more Ants! Get out of our city!”
“No more Humans! Give back our jobs! Liscor is not for you!”
The second chant might not have been intentional, but it was shouted with the same fervor as the first. And some in the crowd might not have agreed. But the city was moving.
Olesm rested his forehead on the windowsill as he stood, in his undergarments. Facing another morning. How had it come to this?
Magnolia Reinhart had destroyed the old order. She’d exposed the Antinium’s illegalities en-masse. And—it terrified Olesm.
They could sack this city. Soldiers and Workers combined were nearly ten times that of the current Watch. Yes, Workers weren’t [Fighters], but they could kill your average citizen. Olesm hadn’t seen it. He stood, feeling lost.
“…Going to be more work. Walled Cities summoning the Council. The army too. And Watch Captain Zevara…”
But not him. He was a failure of a [Strategist]. He didn’t deserve his class. A Human [Lady] had done what should have been his job. Olesm—was just a fool. A fool without the magical inn. A fool wasn’t welcome there.
Slowly, Olesm Swifttail dressed. His magic was gone. He was just a Drake, who’d participated in an adventurer’s raid on a dungeon, once. Nearly died. He’d made a few decisions, run a chess magazine that had achieved worldwide acclaim—
But all of it had been because of her. Erin Solstice. Not him. He was just a fraud who rode her coattails. The Drake knew it. He wasn’t like Erin. He had none of her magic. Without her?
He checked his cupboards, realized he hadn’t bought any breakfast, and walked out his door. Head hung low. The marching in the streets continued. Antinium, the few of them, hurried about their business. The people hurled detritus at the Workers, jeering. The mood had turned against the Antinium in a day, thanks to the Deadly Flower of the North, Magnolia Reinhart.
But the Antinium could kill them all. And Olesm…what was his role? The Drake miserably went looking for breakfast. And wished he could ask Erin for help.
But she. Hated.
Him.
 
—-
 
As the sun rose higher and The Wandering Inn opened for breakfast, a Level 19 [Princess] clashed with a Level 41 [Innkeeper].
“Get. Out. Of. My. Inn.”
Erin Solstice pointed. Her eyes blazed. The room vibrated. It was a current in the air, which made Mrsha, eating breakfast with a headachy Numbtongue, look up.
The [Princess] refused to budge. The air around her—shimmered. With concentrated intensity.
“No.”
The [Innkeeper]’s eyes narrowed. There was a huge disparity in their levels, but somehow the [Princess] was holding her ground. But the room began to actually shake.
“I said, get—out.”
Her willpower and the power in the air became overwhelming. Lyonette staggered. Her feet began to move towards the door. Numbtongue and Mrsha watched, forks poised, as the [Princess]’ feet began to drag her towards the door.
But then—Lyonette halted. She fought back, gritting her teeth hard. Her eyes flashed with royal pride. The kind of resolve that had forged nations.
“Never.”
Erin’s eyes narrowed. And the pressure became physically crushing. Now, Lyonette was assailed not just with the desire to leave, but with overpowering weight. It hurt! But she drew her aura around herself, concentrating it, forming a layer around her body, forcing Erin back—
“Another sausage, Mister Ratici? You’re here early. Don’t mind them.”
Drassi passed by Lyonette holding some of the hot breakfast sausages. A Drake tipped his cap.
“You’re a blessing, miss. What’re we watching?”
“Oh, just a thing. Don’t worry, it happens all the time. This is normal. Mister Wilovan, can I refill your cup?”
The [Bartender] and [Gossip] saw the Gnoll touch the brim of his tall hat.
“I’m well served, Miss Drassi. Thank you.”
Polite as could be, the two watched Erin and Lyonette facing off. Some of the inn’s extra-early guests were filing in. And the [Princess]—despite Erin’s power in her place—refused to budge.
“Get lost or I’ll smack you! I’m gonna! Inn—smack her!”
Erin pointed at Lyonette, her brows drawn together. But the inn failed to manifest a helpful army to hit Lyonette. And as the stalemate drew on—Erin—began—to lose focus.
The pressure lightened. Erin wiped at her brow. Lyonette felt the pressure on her relax and exhaled. Erin Solstice teetered to a chair and sat down. Mrsha patted Erin’s head with a napkin. Numbtongue pushed over a pitcher of water as Lyonette came over and sat down too.
“Whew! What? How’d you do that?”
Panting, Erin looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] shook her head. She took the glass of water, gulped from it, wiped her mouth, and then took another sip.
They were training their auras. Or at least, Erin had asked Lyonette to practice after being beaten by Magnolia. The problem was…she was going about it all wrong. Lyonette panted at the [Innkeeper] as more people began coming downstairs, like a dressed Hexel—which meant clothes over his upper half and midriff—nothing around his gleaming tail.
“I told you, Erin. That’s not how Auras work. You’re using yours like a hammer.”
“Yeah. And I nearly smacked you.”
Erin exhaled a few times before putting a fried egg on toast and biting into it.
“But you didn’t. And you never would have gotten me to budge. Let alone Magnolia. Didn’t you feel what I was doing?”
The young woman frowned. She looked at Lyonette and recalled the feeling.
“Yeah. You bunched up. Like…a rock. I couldn’t shift you.”
