And everyone looked at him. All the bug-Drake wanted was some food. The inn was unguarded.
It was times like these, when the deck was stacked against you, a single face, a single card could turn the tides.
Like a [Lady]. Let alone a [Princess].
 
—-
 
Olesm Swifttail heard a young woman arguing with the irate Gnoll. He found the crowd nudging him out of line, as a member of Liscor’s law enforcement, to deal with the problem. He just wanted his sandwich.
But then he turned and saw her.
Her hair was mussed, disorderly from sharing a room with Ceria on a floor-mattress. She was in the same clothes as yesterday since her clothing—and her money pouch had been stolen by Thomast.
Even so, her hair was black and orange. And she burned like fire. The [Lady] was speaking slowly.
“I’m sorry. It was an accident.”
“Accident? Who cares? That’s my stock! Now it’s bruised! You Humans think you can just damage someone’s business and walk off? This is why I voted for Lism!”
The Gnoll was haranguing her. The young woman was scooping down to pick up the Amentus Fruits.
“Get your paws off them! And pay for those!”
The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] was having a bad day. She glared about as her customers called out.
“Leave off. They’re just dusty, Berri.”
“Shut up. Where’s a [Guardsman]? I want recompense.”
“I’m sorry. But I don’t have any money.”
Maviola El gestured to her missing money pouch. That was actually the wrong thing to say. The crowd instantly turned suspicious.
“Not one copper penny?”
“Why are you in Market Street, then?”
“Looking around. Looking for work.”
The [Lady] defended herself. But the memory of the Human [Thief] was working against her. The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] looked furiously around.
“Where’s a [Guardsman]?”
“Here’s Olesm!”
Someone called out and pointed at Olesm. The Drake jumped. He was drooling at the blue fruits. The Gnoll brightened.
“Olesm! Just the Drake I wanted! Sort this out, please? This Human knocked over my stall! And she’s loitering about here without a penny in her pockets, or so she says! Just like the last [Thief]!”
“Uh—hello, everyone. What seems to be the problem, Miss…?”
Olesm halted. He blinked at Maviola.
“Um. Do I know you?”
Maviola turned. She smiled, relieved. But only a bit relieved; she didn’t seem worried, despite the very angry Gnoll.
“I daresay you might. Didn’t we drink together? Olesm Swifttail? Maviola.”
“Oh. You beat me in chess. And—right, you know the Horns.”
The [Shopkeeper] hesitated as Olesm nodded to Maviola and she smiled. This was not how the confrontation in her head had played out. She coughed, trying to be polite.
“Strategist? This Human bumped over my stock.”
“Oh—right. Miss Maviola, did you, in fact, intend to steal or knock over Miss Berri’s stock?”
Olesm sighed. Maviola shook her head.
“But she could just be saying that. The last Human was a thief! Stole from Honored Krshia and blew up the—”
Berri protested, and then tried to eat her tongue. But the other customers were somewhat on her side. Olesm sighed.
“Why don’t we test this via truth stone? We’ll have to flag down a Senior Guardsman or go to the barracks. Miss Maviola? If you’ll come with me, we can go back there. It won’t take long. And you’re not under arrest.”
And maybe I can get some breakfast. The Drake thought internally. He tried to hold out a claw to her. But Maviola refused. She pointed at the Amentus Fruits and raised her chin.
“That was an accident. I’ve apologized, but I’ve stolen nothing. Why must I be escorted to the Watch on the merest claim that I ‘might’ have been doing something? Has anything been stolen in Market Street? Is it a crime to walk around here without money?”
The [Strategist]’s brows knitted.
“No—but—”
Why was she being stubborn about this? But the [Lady]’s orange eyes flashed as she looked at Berri.
“An accident is an accident. It seems to me those fruits would fall over if anyone bumped into that stall. They already looked bruised to me. But it seems because I am Human, I’m being singled out.”
“So?”
The Gnoll woman growled at her. Olesm’s head began to hurt again. Nothing was ever simple. He looked helplessly at Miss Berri and decided he was too hungry for this.
“You know what? That’s true. An accident is an accident. Miss Berri, why don’t we call this a simple misunderstanding. I can pay for Miss Maviola since we know each other. Here—”
He dug out four coppers and winced. He’d only meant to pull out two; he wasn’t even buying one. But Berri’s face broke into a smile.
“Well, I appreciate that, Strategist Olesm. A credit to the city, and kind too! Yes, I can forgive—”
She reached out as Olesm proffered the coins. And Maviola slapped down Olesm’s wrist.
“Stop that.”
“Now what?”
Olesm lost his temper. He rounded on Maviola. But her eyes just glittered as she looked at Berri.
“I will not let you give her money for an accident and a crime I didn’t commit. I did nothing wrong. I demand that you arrest me, Strategist Olesm, or resolve this. Because this is not justice.”
His jaw dropped. So did Berri’s. But the young woman just stood there. And the look in her eyes said that she would rather be arrested than let a single copper coin go to Berri.
Like contained fire. From her hair to her eyes, Maviola El blazed with passion, even in the early morning. Even in the light. She looked at Olesm and he saw her burning indignation. Because she was right.
But the fire burned deeper still. And Olesm looked at Maviola. And at that moment—he and perhaps other shoppers in Market Street remembered something.
Another young woman. An angry Drake, overcharging prices. And to settle it, a chess game.
Olesm’s eyes brightened. The fog of hunger and depression rose for a second. And for the first time that day, he began to think. He turned back to Berri. The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] was spluttering.
“She wants to be stubborn? Fine! Summon a [Guard]! Waste of time on everyone’s part if you ask me—”
“Miss Berri. As [Strategist] of Liscor, I am authorized to arrest civilians. Is it your wish to charge Miss Maviola with damage of property?”
Olesm snapped. The Gnoll and the crowd fell silent. Berri hesitated. But she was in too far. Her chin rose as she looked at Olesm challengingly.
“Yes. My fruits were damaged, accidentally or not. Shouldn’t I be recompensed for that?”
The Drake nodded.
“Of course. That is your right, as is your right to level a charge that the Watch should investigate. Thus—excuse me!”
He turned and waved his claws over his head. The people amid the bustling street looked around. Maviola glanced at Olesm. And her eyes lit up as the Drake shouted.
“Would everyone who has ever bumped into Miss Berri’s stall and knocked over the Amentus Fruits please step forwards? Today or in the past?”
The crowd of people on the street looked about. The wise ones didn’t raise their hands or step forwards. But at least fourteen innocent, good citizens of Liscor did. After all, Miss Berri had sold fruits here for years. Olesm beamed at them.
“Excellent. Well then, I am arresting you all for complaint of damage to property at Miss Berri’s insistence. Please follow me to the Watch House and we will make sure none of you intentionally damaged her goods. After that, we will determine if you must pay a small fine—”
“What?”
A shout came from the crowd. Berri raised her paws, looking very worried.
“I never said that! I just said this Human—”
She tried to point at Maviola. Olesm turned to Berri.
“Miss Berri, that Human is a pedestrian on the streets. Is there a difference between the accident she caused or the accident a Gnoll shopper might cause? Or a Drake one?”
“No—well—she’s Human—”
Olesm looked at Berri as she trailed off.
“So—if the shopper was a Gnoll, the situation would be different? What about a Drake?”
“Yes, exactly! Thank you!”
The Drake [Strategist] hadn’t been prepared for that. His jaw worked as Berri looked relieved. But some of the crowd understood his point.
“Stop blaming Humans for your stupid display, Berri! You’re wasting all our time!”
One of the Drake customers shouted at her. Another Gnoll shouted his agreement. Berri’s ears flattened.
“Do you withdraw the complaint?”
“Yes.”
Olesm nodded. He looked at the triumphant Maviola, who was not hiding her pleasure. But the Drake looked around the street, speaking to the Gnoll and the others.
“Miss Berri, if you have a complaint, don’t hesitate to register it with a [Guard]. Especially if a Human [Thief] appears in the market. But that goes for any [Thief] of any species. Humans are new to the city. But that is all. The law makes no distinction between them.”
The Gnoll didn’t reply. The members of the crowd watched Olesm step back. He gestured to Maviola and they walked away. In the silence, one of the Drakes murmured to his companion.
“Well, Ancestors. That was kind of harsh, don’t you think?”
“Humans. Well, he is friends with that crazy one. Say, can I get two Amentus Fruits? Not the bruised ones. Thanks.”
And the crowd shifted to supporting the downtrodden Berri.
“That Olesm. Not always the nicest of sorts. He had a point, but did he have to embarrass Berri, make a speech?”
“His new class has gone to his head, what? I remember that nice young Drake boy…”
“Anyone know where the carrots are for sale?”
Selys groaned as Hawk waved his paw around vaguely. The crowd murmured. After a few seconds, some of them began to shout at Olesm’s back.
 
—-
 
You couldn’t win them all. Olesm heard the people hurling insults at his back and high-tailed it out of Market Street. He thought he’d done a good job. But one of the said Amentus Fruits even went soaring after his head.
He started running and only stopped when he heard the laughter. Maviola was hurrying after him, but she was laughing as she ran.
The pure amusement in her voice made Olesm stop and grin ruefully. He saw her glance behind him.
“No mob. We’re safe.”
The two caught their breaths. Olesm looked at Maviola.
“Sorry. I thought that really worked.”
“It was a good speech. But did you really expect them to suddenly stop disliking Humans? You made a huge scene and humiliated that poor Gnoll.”
Olesm’s jaw dropped.
“Because you told me to!”
“Not to do it that way! And if you were going to make a scene, you should always have a way out. In case it fails! Otherwise you and I could have been beaten to pulp with—fruits!”
She laughed merrily at him. Olesm hadn’t considered that. Berri was a Gnoll woman—which meant bigger than Maviola and Olesm. She could probably pluck their heads off like grapes and put them on her counter if she got mad.
“Well—I’ve never done that before! I did my best, alright?”
“And I’m grateful. I didn’t knock over the fruits on purpose, by the way.”
“Good.”
The Drake looked stupidly at her. The [Lady] brushed her dress and glanced about. She opened her mouth as Olesm tried to say something about inclusivity and how Liscor wasn’t used to Humans.
“Well—”
“I-”
Their stomachs both rumbled. The Drake and young woman paused. And then they started chuckling.
“Sorry. I haven’t had anything to eat.”
“Me neither. My money pouch got stolen.”
“Oh no. In the city? We can report it—”
“Invrisil.”
Maviola waved it off. She bent down, dusted something off.
“Anyways, I found breakfast. I was looking for work as a [Stall Attendant] or something, but since that’s out—want to share?”
She offered the cored Amentus Fruit to Olesm. He blinked at it. It was only slightly bruised and Maviola bit into it with clear delight.
“Sweet! And so delicious. You know, these sell for gold up north? Well, the poison is deadly.”
“It’s all in the core. And if you’re hungry, want some breakfast? I need to get some. Now.”
The young woman looked at Olesm.
“I can’t pay for myself. I was going to have to go back to the inn and ask the Horns. I was actually hoping to look around the city.”
“Well, I know it like the back of my tail. Been here all my life. Come on—they’re selling burgers this way. Well—ribs in a bun. I’ll treat you. We do know each other, after all. Don’t worry; they’re really cheap.”
Maviola smiled as Olesm pointed.
“Thank you. Well, I’ll share my breakfast too.”
“What b—”
She popped the other half of the Amentus Fruit into Olesm’s mouth. He blinked. It was sweet! And only a bit gritty. The [Lady] walked past him, looking at the expression on his face with amusement. The Drake stared at her back. And then followed after. There was something about Maviola that made you want to learn about her.
It was familiar.
And different.
 
—-
 
Lady Pryde Ulta stood in the inn. Erin froze with her hand on the doorknob. The [Lady of Pride] looked around, and her eyes flashed imperiously.
She was the same as she’d been just yesterday. Erin stared at her. And the inn fell silent.
“Get. Out.”
The [Lady] glanced at Erin. The Earthers were gone; Erin had just been about to go after them. Lyonette froze as she edged out of the kitchen with an extra-large pie for Moore; the Halfseekers had come through the door just a moment ago.
“A curious inn. I don’t see why Magnolia is so obsessed with this place. However—it has some interesting qualities. Innkeeper, how much would you take for this door? Eighty thousand gold pieces? Name your price. If it is within reason, we may come to an arrangement. I have other objects I would like to purchase—”
Erin Solstice strode up to Pryde. And the air was suddenly stifling.
“You’re not welcome here. Get out.”
This time the [Lady] heard her, or acknowledged she’d heard. Her eyes narrowed slightly.
“Insolence. I am Lady Pryde Ulta. No one tells me where to go.”
“Oh yeah?”
“Yes.”
As dialogue went, that last part fell flat. But Pryde was holding still. And Erin—
“This is my inn. You can’t come in here. You’re not buying the door. And you and Magnolia—all of you are on my bad list.”
Pryde just ignored that. She turned her head. And then began to walk past Erin, towards one of the doors. Just like that. Erin’s eyes bulged.
“I said, stop.”
This time Lyonette felt the aura condensing around Pryde. The [Lady] nearly stumbled. She turned.
“So, the [Innkeeper] does have thorns. But you wouldn’t have stopped me, even alone. Girl. I am a [Lady] of Izril. I will excuse your foul manners. Once. Do not test me.”
“Oh yeah?”
This time the [Lady of Pride]’s eyes narrowed. Lyonette felt the gathering aura against the door. She looked for Mrsha.
“Mrsha—oh no. Mrsha, get over here!”
