“What power?”

“Um…it’s pretty scary. Are you sure you want to know the details?”

Alden nodded.

“Okay,” the superhero said. “It was some kind of transfer ability. It took strength and vitality—maybe other things, too—from his targets and transferred them to him. So the more people he hurt, the more powerful he became.

“They were having an early Halloween party at a club a few blocks away from your apartment building. He went there and started draining people. It took…a really long time for people at the party to notice. It was loud and crowded. He blended in, and he killed several people before someone finally realized something was wrong and called emergency services.”

She shifted in the chair, and it creaked loudly again.

“The other heroes working here in Chicago were busy, and dispatch didn’t realize how dangerous the situation was. So they only sent me and Arjun.

“When we got to the club, it was…bad. The villain’s power fed itself. The more people he killed, the more powerful he got. And as he grew stronger, he could kill people even more quickly. He was moving almost like a speed-agility type by the time we got there, which was bad for us, because Arjun and I don’t have the mental specs to deal with true superspeed.”

She grew quiet, and when Alden glanced over, he saw that she was staring off into space, her lips pressed together.

He didn’t want her to stop talking. Not until he knew everything.

“What kind of Avowed are you?” he asked, feeling a little proud he'd remembered the proper name for people chosen by the System. "What powers do you have."

She shook herself and looked over at him. “I’m an Adjuster. A-rank. I know that doesn’t tell you much because there’s a lot of variety with Adjusters. I’ve focused my skills on stabilizing and freezing isolated patches of reality.”

Seeing his blank expression, she gave him an apologetic shrug.

“Yeah, it’s kind of a complicated one. Just think of the bubble you were in. I received that spell recently. It makes a space that keeps everything inside it from changing. I don’t think it actually stops time…can’t get a straight answer out of anyone I’ve asked. But it’s almost like that. So even though you were badly injured, when I wrapped the bubble around you, you stopped bleeding. Your mind was supposed to stop working, too, but magic can be weird sometimes.”

“Nothing hurt anymore,” said Alden. “I couldn’t move. And I couldn’t get excited or scared like normal.”

“I’m glad. I’m going to study the spell more so I can figure out exactly what happened. I thought you might be terrified to be trapped in there.”

It had never occurred to Alden before that a superhero might not understand their own powers. How could you do magic without knowing how it worked?

“Anyway,” said Hannah, “we had to stop Body Drainer—that’s what they’re calling him right now. We tried to slow him down with my spells so that Arjun could grab him. Arjun is an S-rank Brute, almost purely focused on physical strength. S-ranks have loads of power, so even if the guy started draining him he should have been able to stop him. But I couldn’t target or cast fast enough. And none of my spells are invisible, so when I tried to build traps he just dodged them.”

She sounded frustrated.

“He ran out of the club, and we chased him down the street. He was too fast for us, but he kept stopping to attack people, so we managed to keep up. We had to…I told Arjun we had to get him into another enclosed space. One without any people. We would lose him if he ran flat out in an open area, and we couldn't afford that. And usually newbies who aren’t used to extreme speed do badly in small spaces. But almost everything was residential. The first empty building we saw was the one right across the street from yours.”

Alden knew about that. That building was being remodeled. When it was done, it was going to be apartments, too. He’d hoped lots of families with other kids would move in so that they could send secret flashlight messages to each other through the windows at night.

“We managed to chase the villain in there,” Hannah said. “Arjun went after him to fight, and I stayed outside to block the exits and stabilize the building so that it wouldn't completely collapse and damage the neighboring structures. It’s hard for Arjun to use his full power without destroying everything. I became his sidekick so that he wouldn’t have to focus on things like that in the middle of serious fights. So…so as battlefield support, it was my job to keep bystanders safe and…let Arjun know what his options were.”

She stopped talking again. And her silence lasted for such a long time, that Alden began to feel uncomfortable.

She’s upset.

Was it because it went wrong? Something must have gone wrong, because the villain was not dead in the empty building across the street when the fight was over. He was dead in Alden’s bedroom.

And Alden’s parents were dead, too.

“I was making stable zones where they were needed to absorb the force of Arjun’s strikes, but I was spread too thin. And the Body Drainer started showing off some weird energy skill we still haven't figured out. He was sending out these pulses that were almost like explosions centered on his body. They were going right through my spells. Shrapnel started flying, like that piece of metal that went through your window."

She stared at his stomach as if she could see the scar through his shirt, then continued. "So I tightened my focus even more, making my spells extra strong in smaller areas so nothing could get through them. And I…I made a horrible mistake. Arjun suddenly asked through coms if the middle of the exterior wall on the seventh floor could take a big hit, and I said yes. But I was in such a rush I counted the windows wrong. I stabilized the middle of the eighth floor instead, and when he tackled the Body Drainer, they both smashed through the side of the building, and the momentum carried them all the way across the street into your family’s apartment.”

There were tears in her eyes.

The ringing in Alden’s ears seemed to have gotten louder all of a sudden. His lips were trembling.

“I’m so, so sorry, Alden,” Hannah said. “It was my fault. Don’t…you might hear things from others, all kinds of guesses and rumors. But you should know the truth. Arjun was doing exactly what he was supposed to be doing. He did everything right in a bad situation. Your parents died because a teenager thought it would be cool to be a supervillain and because I made a stupid, awful mistake in the middle of a serious situation.”

Alden’s vision blurred. A huge, racking sob welled up inside of him. He tried to hold it back, but it was like trying to hold back the tide. He started crying, every bit as hard as he had when they first told him his parents were gone. It just wouldn’t stop. His body ached with it. His pillow was getting wet.

Nurse Amanda burst into the room, and Alden screamed, “Get out! Leave me alone!” so loud it made his throat hurt.

Hannah Elber, the superhero, ran from him like he’d attacked her. Nurse Amanda ran toward him, whispering words of comfort. For some reason Alden couldn’t understand in the burning pain of the moment, this was exactly the opposite of what he’d wanted.
