The threshold barring him from the once unbreachable Outside had been torn down. Now, crossing took little effort at all. And so came the second wave of orcs. Most of them were Vanguards, Brawlers, Lancers, or some other warrior-centric Path. They stampeded across with joyous war cries, and Adam counted ten seconds before he prepared to join the fray himself.

He cast his nexus of Awareness through one of his dimensional pathways and found a foreign realm utterly beset by chaos and devastation. Fingerlings were burning. Fingerlings were being torn asunder. Orcs died, reduced to nothing but ash, laughing as they breathed their last, stabbing at the monsters they wrestled with, joyous in life, joyous in death—their souls destined for a warrior's samsara.

The second wave of orcs entered the fray before additional Fingerlings could enter the zone. The burning Pinkies were cut down and smashed apart upon adamantine shields and storm hammers that cracked the sky and unleashed fissuring bolts of lightning.

While the orcs had their fun, Adam searched for Blackedge and found it in little time. A cluster of mangled Fingerlings caked together drew his attention. A few hair-thin threads of Psychomancy glided through the air, barely visible in the flashing carnage. The gleam of incandescence was what made Adam so certain.

Hymn hadn't lied. The survivors of Blackedge had somehow managed to repurpose the Fingerlings they'd mentally enslaved and turned them into a hive to disguise the town itself.

Adam didn't know who to praise this tactic for: his father's brilliance, Uva’s ingenuity, or Valor’s wisdom, but he was overcome with the urge to hug and squeeze the life out of every single person he could save from his home.

His home. Adam felt something inside him dip down to a point of near-despair. Blackedge was beyond defiled. To be reduced to such means for survival, to see his town carved down to little more than ruins and then coated with the remains of nightmarish entities that had come to feast on those who remained…

He should have been faster. He should have reached them sooner. He should have—Adam silenced that voice. That nagging feeling of doubt. That black cloud of depression. He would face that later. Right now, he needed to be a Pathbearer. Right now, he needed to be a Gate Lord.

"I have eyes on Blackedge," Adam declared.

"Well, technically I had eyes first," Hymn noted. The man casually stirred a cup of hot tea nearby, unbothered by all the carnage, unworried about the orcs eyeing him like he was a cut of premium beef.

Adam rolled his eyes but carried on. "Extraction team, we're going across now. Court Leviathan," he called aloud, gesturing for Helix, "prepare yourselves. We're going in fast. Ignore all Fingerlings that aren't in the way of the town. We get there, we secure the town, we administer aid to the survivors, and we get them out. There is no greater objective for us. We get them out. Everything else, including suicide via eldritch abomination, can wait until afterward. Are we clear?"

A series of muffled agreements and general nods greeted Adam. Going in with him would be the Culturist, the Educator, Gone, Candles, Five, Mortar, Tequila, Whisper, and Bonk. The Court Leviathan would follow them to serve as support and a carrier for the refugees if Jessica couldn’t manage to break contact with the monsters she was fighting and draw the town into Rusty like she did before. Hymn had other duties; he would provide them with intelligence and continue confounding and confusing the Stranger himself. He would also reach into the minds of the Fingerlings who drifted too close to the town and redirect them into the fray where Shiv and the orcs were.

As Adam took in his motley crew, he found himself lamenting the fact that he didn't have a group so powerful during the first siege of Blackedge. This group could have fought off Sullain and the Tarrasque, could have spared so many more people from dying. This group could have changed things. Why was the world this way? Enough, Adam chided himself. Stop! Focus! Stop letting your mind drift!

“Focus!” The Culturist said, echoing Adam's mind: “You have this. Do not let your mind split. Whatever is to happen will happen. Do all you can to shape your desired future.”

Though the Gate Lord wanted to snarl something, to tell the orc to be silent, he disciplined himself. He was a Pathbearer, and it was the right move to make. It didn't matter what the Culturist did to him. It didn't matter what other baggage Adam still suffered. He needed to do the right thing. He needed to be the right man for Blackedge, for his family, for the people around him.

You will not break me, System, Adam pledged to himself. Fuck you, and fuck every bit of your strife. I will not yield. I will soar. Do your worst. I will soar regardless. Burn me down to cinders, and I will rise on wings of flame.

And with that, Adam drew his rapier. At once it flashed, and a small army of clones flashed into existence along with it. Each of them held their bows high and nodded to one another. "Cross!" Adam cried aloud. "Cross! Cross!"

Vector wings flared. The Adams soared. They plunged across the dimensional pathways as if it were a field for them to take off from. In an instant, they were through. But ahead of them was Gone.

She tore ahead in a bolt of golden lightning, not even leaving an afterimage. And it was a good thing she went first. Right outside, a Recollector was thrown into their path, having been blasted away from the battle, missing two of its fingers. But before its hundreds of eyes could even focus on them, every single one exploded in a shower of eldritch gore, and in less than a blink, its kilometer-long form was flayed free of skin in strips—like an apple being peeled—before it was split in half entirely down the middle by a crackle of golden lightning.

Adam felt his throat go dry as the titanic abomination came apart in a shower of oil-thick blood and shattering fragments of Chronomancy. There was still quite a distance between a Hero and a Legend, and Gone made that known. She also proceeded to kill another three Recollectors before Adam could finish his blink.

By the time his eyes closed and opened once more, she was clinging to his shoulders, piggybacking him with her claws—stained black with the blood of the Fingerlings—wrapped around his chest. "Removed our impediments. I think we're clear."

"I… Yes, good job, Gone," Adam rasped, swallowing. “That was…”

“Quick?” She gave Adam a rare smile, and he, along with all his clones, plunged ahead behind the Court Leviathan emerging from a large pathway. Orc Dimensionalists were positioned within the massive flying beast, as was a small army of Biomancers. Soon, the Leviathan joined the fray as well, lashing out with its tendrils, its bio-matter reshaping down the middle, prepared to serve as a carrier for all of Blackedge's survivors.

Soaring through the Stranger's realm, Adam and his many clones drew back their bows and fired as one. Pathways opened. The arrows impacted the hive of interfused Fingerlings surrounding Blackedge. And as soon as they struck, the Adams emerged on the other side, performing another jump—so as not to give away Blackedge's true position prematurely.

The moment Adam emerged from the second set of portals, he felt a gliding sensation off his helmet. He realized that it was Uva reaching out for him, and he immediately dropped his Magical Resistance. "Uva, how are—"

"Hurry!" she screamed. Her voice was filled with pain and desperation. "Hurry! I've done all I could. Get them across, now! Before I run out of—” Her voice cut off with a choked gasp of agony, and he almost vomited as he felt something fracture inside of her mind, inside of her soul.

“Not yours anymore. Finally. No more time. Now! Now! NOW!” Another voice usurped Uva’s—one that sounded like her, but not nearly enough.

She ripped her Psychomancy away from Adam—and his insides dropped entirely. There was no reason for Uva to do that unless she wanted to spare him from feeling her end, from being compromised by whatever was eating her from the inside.

Adam's eyes widened in alarm. "No, no, hold on! We're here. We're right here! We made it!" He clenched his teeth as he prepared to cleave into the Fingerlings surrounding the town. There wasn't any obvious opening, and the Recollector's bodies were too durable for Adam to blast through quickly. He needed to—

Once more, Gone vanished. He felt a burst of her Chronomantic lightning this time, and suddenly the path before him was shorn clean. A massive chasm was carved through the eldritch biomatter blocking him from the town itself. Then he saw it. After so long, his home, Starhawk's Perch, was revealed to him once more.

The others followed close behind as Adam blasted inward. His many clones took up a defensive position, and he continued triggering his rapier intermittently, summoning more to replace the ones who vanished.

As the Gate Lord blurred through the gap in the Fingerlings' flesh, he made for the apex of Starhawk's Perch. An apex where all the few remaining Psychomantic mana strands converged; an apex which was brimming with colors that made Adam's very sanity recoil. Colors that grew brighter. Colors that were at the precipice of bursting.

"Uva!" Adam breathed. "We're here, just hold—"

Before he could finish his desperate plea, the azure sun above his head was swallowed as colors he didn't have names for erupted out from the center of Blackedge in a catastrophic wave.
