With almost contemptuous ease, the bear smacked it out of the air, hitting its handle. He didn't think it had managed to get stung by any of the spikes.

"Ah, shit," Thomas said, as the bear charged straight at them.

Jo moved to intercept, but Twitch, of all people, got there first. With a yell, he stepped in front of the bear and brandished his butterfly switchblade at it. At about six inches long, it was decently intimidating... yet extremely sad for facing off against a grizzly bear.

Unimpressed, the bear roared and clamped down on his shoulder, then began to shake him back and forth.

Twitch screamed, and Thomas didn't blame him at all.

Jo, The Living Blade, wasn't affected by things like shock or horror, and stepped forward with her sword ready to strike.

Thomas, meanwhile, ran for his dropped mace.

Jo stepped forward and swept the sword to the side in an arc that somehow missed Twitch, who was currently getting rag-dolled, and struck the bear right in the belly. Thomas came in from the other side, fully intending to hit with his penknife, then follow up with the mace again. The more the merrier.

He stepped in close, his Combat Foresight not giving him any warnings. It seemed the bear was too busy, um, eating. He was pulling back his mace to strike when Twitch made his move.

Despite being partially in the bear's mouth, he somehow had the presence of mind to swing his other arm up and plunge his switchblade into one of the bear's golden eyes. It went up to the hilt.

Releasing him, the bear screamed, a sound more high-pitched than anything that size should make. It fell, dead.

Shit, was Thomas's first thought. I didn't get a hit on it. The bear won't drop good loot.

"Help!" Twitch yelled again. He was half pinned by the bulk of the dead bear, and he was not in good shape. A huge chunk of his shoulder was ripped away, and there was blood everywhere. Thomas didn't know why it wasn't fountaining, but Twitch was still moving. In fact, he was wiggling around, almost frantic. "Help! I'm pinned! "

For a guy whose Gift kept him alive only if he didn't stop, being pinned was almost certainly fatal.

Jo and Thomas ran forward and helped pull him free.

The moment he could, Twitch was back up on his feet. Returning to his fast breathing, odd weaving motion, he looked straight at Thomas. "You got any more of those crystals?" Despite everything, he grinned again. His teeth were covered with blood.

"Jesus Christ on a pogo stick," Thomas muttered, feeling like he was getting played. He only had a couple of level 1 healing crystals left. "Wait," he said, stopping himself before he grabbed one out of his pack. "That's not going to be enough... I can't believe I'm doing this," he muttered again, and put his hand next to the meaty chunk taken out of the spot between Twitch's shoulder and neck. The man should not be conscious. He probably shouldn't be alive, but whatever. A healing crystal wouldn't do. He needed that area rebuilt.

Thomas activated his Wellspring mana and concentrated, telling the body to build up what had been lost.

Thankfully, it was not as complicated as a human hand. The muscle, flesh and bits of... white and yellow stuff rebuilt itself like a video on fast-forward.

"Healer?" Jo asked. "I thought you said your Gift was senses."

"I've been mainlining healing crystals," Thomas said. And now this gang member knew about it. Great. He directed his annoyance at Twitch. "You shouldn't have stepped in front of that bear. I had it."

He most certainly hadn't had it, but that wasn't the point.

"Ain't no thing, with my Gift," Twitch said. "We've been through a couple of dungeons, nothing as bad as this one. Grimm was telling us as we were running after you that you had a shit ton of crystals in your bag. I guessed that you had more healing."

"God," he muttered, disgusted with himself that he was that predictable. Still, he didn't stop healing the man. Maybe the mana was infecting his brain.

The second he was done, he slapped Twitch on his newly rebuilt shoulder. "You're done, but that's the last time. I'm running low."

"Yeah, yeah, I hear you, man," he said, then had the absolute nerve to grin again. "If you're feeling generous after saving your life, I'll take that nice brown I saw you pocket earlier."

"First, fuck all the way off, and keep going. Second, that's a level 2. I've seen mana poisoning and you don't want it. Third—"

"Thomas?" Jo called, cutting across his tirade. While he'd been healing, Jo had been looking around the golden bear for loot. Thomas had largely given up on finding anything good, since his Gift wouldn't be involved, but he'd been wrong.

Jo held out a fluted crystal bottle with a very old-fashioned stopper on top. "Do you know what this is?"
