The building had looked… fairly standard from the outside, but as usual with facilities in the elven districts of Coalition City, Spatial nonsense had made it far larger on the inside. Behind the counter was a tall woman with red skin and… bat-like wings that reminded her unnervingly of the shimagu twin that had so nearly ended her life all too recently.

Ranthia couldn’t help but to gawk—she had never seen any being quite like the woman. She knew Avyna was trying to silently—yet urgently—communicate that she was actively being mortified by Ranthia’s behavior (which was, admittedly, somewhat openly rude). But Ranthia had never seen a devil, and the descriptions hardly did them justice! If the woman was a typical example, they stood out in ways that no other species she had ever seen did.

“Welcome back, Lady Avyna. And this must be Lady Grace, welcome. Is this your first time meeting a devil? Do not worry, I am not here to bury you in rules and regulations! I am Lithée, the owner of this resort. I cater to the relaxation and rejuvenation of my fellow immortal women, as well as their guests.” The woman smiled and bowed while her wings followed the movement with ease. Her words were meticulously pronounced and bore a deliberate clarity that few speakers could match.

“My apologies, I had never expected to encounter a devil, even in Coalition City.” Ranthia admitted.

“I am not surprised; we are quite a ways away from the territory that my people currently possess. I am only here for the cheap rent and the captive, yet bored audience of immortals. Someday, I hope to create the greatest resort for the relaxation and enjoyment of all immortals throughout Pallos, and this seemed like a perfect opportunity to get some practical experience. If you need anything during your stay, please let me know. I shall be happy to accommodate anything that I can… for the right price.” Something about the woman’s smile managed to intimidate Ranthia, at least a little.

…Which was ridiculous, considering the woman was barely high-level enough to have her third class.

She buried the small voice in her mind that suggested that the smile reminded her of Avyna’s expression when her lover was excited about the prospect of crushing another would-be [Merchant] to make a massive profit.

Life in the resort was oddly pleasant, which was a nice surprise because Ranthia had honestly expected to hate it, once she learned what a resort was. The facility was limited to women, in large part because a competing facility catered exclusively to men. Clothing was optional—which was always dangerous with how attractive almost every immortal woman seemed to be, especially the elves. Not that she let her lust keep her from casting off her own garments (except her blindfold, to Avyna’s exasperation), especially since Avyna eagerly stored her own clothing for use when they needed to take trips outside of the resort.

The air was gently perfumed, and everyone was just so… nice. Ranthia had expected to be treated as an outsider, but no one seemed to mind her presence. The women that worked there and the relatively small number of other, usually short-term, visitors were polite and friendly. A few even took interest in her Sentinel career.

Not that Ranthia entertained requests for stories. She wasn’t ready for that, and her [Mind Healer] was permitting her to keep her professional life “walled off” for the time being. Even Ranthia knew it wasn’t something that would or could last forever, but it helped at the time. She wasn’t Sentinel Grace, semi-famous war hero—she was just Ranthia, romantic partner to Avyna.

By winter, Ranthia had settled in. She actually had to be reminded by Lithée at one point to put clothing on after she nearly walked right out the door without anything on her body except for her blindfold and her sandals. Every day she woke up to a fresh fruit and pastry tray delivered to their room by a delicious delightful woman, loaded with pears. She and Avyna spent most days together, either holed up in their plush room or enjoying the amenities of the resort. Sometimes they even ventured out to catch an entertainment performance or to eat at a restaurant with a higher-level chef (or a different style of cuisine—it was as if she was discovering new archetypes of food almost every time!) than the resort offered.

For Avyna’s birthday, Ranthia borrowed one of the cute little hats the employees wore and snuck out of the room before Avyna woke up to intercept their morning fruit tray. They otherwise failed to leave their room that day and had to order food up to their room when they finally required sustenance to appease their growling tummies.

Ranthia also continued to meet with the [Mind Healer] every three days, as promised. She had remained pessimistic about the woman’s value for a while, but by the time she concluded the twelfth session, she finally was ready to admit that her discussions with the woman truly were helping. She wasn’t quite sure what it meant for her yet, but she continued.

Of course, Ranthia knew that their days of hedonistic bliss couldn’t last forever. Sooner or later, she needed to rediscover whatever willpower or inner strength that seemed to be beyond her reach. The war was still being fought in her absence, after all.
