Chapter 478

Emmanuel exited his final rift with a sense of anticipation he hadn’t felt since he took the throne. They were done, and he could finally escape this prison.

With a wave, he obliterated the Tier 48 rift, officially ending his delving.

The only one who was already finished was Tobias, but Emmanuel had already come to expect that and didn’t comment as he joined the turtle. Silent coexistence was an acceptable outcome, both personally and politically.

Twenty minutes later, Janet exited her rift and dissipated the final rift in the star system.

Not wanting to delay any longer, Emmanuel spoke the moment everyone was confident there were no rifts left.

“Is everyone ready to complete our deal?”

The moment he had verbal confirmation from each Tier 50, he swapped Talents and retriggered his earlier curse.

“Voluntarily taken, voluntarily activated, let no one say I forced anything up until this point.”

Slamming his hands together, Emmanuel emptied his entire mana pool into the ‘spell’. In return seven orbs of light appeared, hovering over the others with a steady glow as chains loosely formed around their wrists and ankles.

“As per our agreement, you may keep two items hidden but no more, no less, along with a single veto.”

Emmanuel caught the moment where those who were truly hostile to him and the Empire contemplated turning on him instead of following through with their earlier agreement for his assistance. He also got to enjoy the moment they realized that was damn near impossible and he allowed himself to smirk, not bothering to hide it.

He hadn't been kidding when he explained that Elrick Ashwound’s Talent was remarkably capable of binding any tier, as it effectively granted a temporary, additional Talent to any who agreed to receive it. Their own spirits were the enforcers, and it was a bit of a pity how restrictive the set was overall.

The Tier 50’s didn’t take it so well. They hadn’t expected his little light show to have enough power to keep them locked into place until they fulfilled their agreement or they depleted the mana spent to initiate it. The most dangerous moments were the first few, the ones before the Talent had been able to fully come into effect and assert its power, but Allister completed the ritual by dumping all of his rift rewards onto the ground around him.

With one active and willing participant, Emmanuel knew everyone else felt the restrictions snap into place. He also knew they would find it much more difficult than expected to renege on their agreements.

“Two items kept by myself. Here is everything else to take your five from. Take your time.” Allister smiled as everyone else looked above his head to the orb still shining brightly.

Not intending to go back on his word, Emmanuel found two of the lesser but still valuable Tier 49 rift rewards, along with three Tier 48 rewards and plucked them from the pile, trying very hard not to look at the handful of Tier 50 items tempting him. If Allister had gotten seven, the others were going to hate Emmanuel, because he wasn’t allied to them and would be taking whatever took his fancy.

The moment he completed his half of the bargain, the light above Allister turned golden before fading away into a mote of light.

He hoped the others would give up, but Winter Hornet snorted and tried to fly away. His feet never left the ground, but reality itself started to stretch and bend as the Sect’s Tier 50 put his considerable cultivation into trying to leave.

After his effort had no effect, Winter Hornet stopped his attempt to leave, having the audacity to grin at Emmanuel.

Allister snorted and made a show of walking around to pick up the rest of his rewards.

Seeing the restrictions weren’t so easy to throw off, six more piles of loot appeared, but JR’s light orb was the only one to change colors, causing the other five to look upward in confusion and dawning horror.

Not wanting to force their hands except as an absolute last resort, Emmanuel reminded them of the words he said when they agreed to his expansion plans. “I have no feedback from the Talent. It’s entirely self referential once active, which is why everyone had to willingly agree. I have no more insight than any of you. The darker the orb, the more items you’ve kept hidden. Once the orbs are clear, I will pick and we can be on our way.”

Tobias growled, the sound deep enough to remind everyone the turtle's real body was larger than the planet they were standing on, but Emmanuel didn’t back down for a moment.

“I will not be bound by some human. Release me or suffer the consequences, now.”

Bringing his own cultivation to bear, Emmanuel met the glare calmly. “You agreed. Now either break our agreement and let's start a true war, or bring out your items and let us cut to the chase.”

“I—”

Winter Hornet cut Tobias off with a laugh. “What if I prefer the true war?”

Seeing the growing hostility, Emmanuel glared at the remaining five one at a time. “Then let's fight here and now.”

Instead of mollifying them or trying to back down, Emmanuel sneered. “Or, if we are going to break agreements, maybe I should just return home now and leave the five of you locked here. Let's see how long it takes you to break free and fly back, and what I can do in that same amount of time.”

Virgil sneered right back at him, “If you think petty threats will let you get your way, then do it.”

Instead of getting angry, Emmanuel smiled at her, then let his gaze travel upward to the ink black orb above her head. “I keep my word, do you?”

Winter Hornet laughed and waved his hand, causing eighteen more items to appear on his pile of goods. Eleven were Tier 49, but seven of them were Tier 50, and Emmanuel felt his heart thump hard as the Tier 50 items joined the ones JR had displayed.

However, it wasn’t the items that Winter Hornet brought out that surprised Emmanuel, but rather the fact that the Sect elder’s orb had gone from dusky black to pure white.

Everyone looked shocked at Winter Hornet’s haul and he smiled as if he hadn’t almost torn the planet apart as he tried to leave a moment ago. “My word, kept. Anything else?”

Emmanuel didn’t let his shock show through, but he did probe the orb above Winter Hornet, wanting to ensure the other Tier 50 hadn’t used an illusion to trick him.

Deadlock broken by a third party, Janet sighed at Winter Hornet’s words but waved her hand, causing over forty more items to appear on her pile. Most were only Tier 48, but she’d gotten quite lucky herself, with fifteen Tier 49 items and four Tier 50.

Except, her orb didn’t go entirely white like Winter Hornet’s did. Looking up and realizing she couldn’t easily trick herself, she pulled out one more Tier 50 item, finally turning her orb white.

Instead of looking at the items like he wanted to do, Emmanuel looked to the final three Tier 50s with black orbs.

Aoife, Tobias, and Virgil didn’t exactly surprise him in their resistance as much as the others not kicking up that much of a fuss in the first place. With morality and momentum on his side, Emmanuel simply waited and let the pressure start to build.

With everyone’s eyes on them, Aoife sighed before she waved her own hand, turning her orb white. That left only Tobias and Virgil.

Emmanuel was considering how to break the deadlock when Tobias snorted at Virgil, “Very well. May none compare me to such a vile being as yourself.” Turning back to him, the turtle continued, “We’ll see what your word is truly worth in the coming days, Emmanuel. We’ll see.”

With a wave, a pile of rewards appeared around Tobias, but his orb only lightened instead of turning entirely white.

It was a dusky gray when Virgil dumped her rewards and growled out, “Make it quick, before my nausea overcomes me.”

Instead of moving, he waited for both of their orbs to turn completely white, which took a few minutes as the two tried their best to keep an extra Tier 50 item or two hidden away.

When the last orb turned fully white, Emmanuel let himself feast.

Swapping his Talent to one of his appraisal sets, he scanned everyone's Tier 50 items, then worked his way down, looking for anything exceptional.

He found a lot. Too much. Five choices were far too few to get him everything he wanted, but more than enough to let him start dreaming. However, to his mild surprise, his initial appraisal told him that while rare, most of the Tier 50 weren’t that high on his priority list.

If he wanted to hurt them, he’d go purely for value or deliberately take items useful for their own people, but he’d much rather take things he and his people needed. If he played his cards correctly, he could come out ahead and come off as magnanimous whilst taking a step back.

Looking over the items, Emmanuel repeated a mantra of self control and restraint, but it was hard seeing everything laid out before him. He was inevitably interested in what the other Tier 50s chose not to display, but he didn’t let himself dwell on it for too long.

Instead, he looked at his rewards.

Emmanuel’s initial impression was that the other Tier 50s had made out far better than they had any right too. Unless one of them had become stupid, they’d each kept their two reserve items, which meant two additional Tier 50 items per Tier 50, and even he could count that high without his fingers.

It meant each of the Tier 50’s had gotten at least seven Tier 50 items. The very idea of so many peak realm items was mind boggling, given their normal rarity, but it had come at a cost. The planet around them wasn’t dead, but it was conspicuously empty as they’d drained the pond to catch the fish.

There was no ambient mana left in the entire star system, as everyone had wanted several ‘one last delve’s’. In their desire to squeeze out every possible delve, they’d hunted down every scrap of ambient mana. The rewards were equally impressive, but unless they were willing to destroy their own capital worlds, it wasn’t something they could recreate.

At least, not until Matt had a few more Tiers under his belt, but Emmanuel tried not to tease himself with the possibility of every delve session looking like this.

JR flapped his wings as if trying to ward off a predator as Emmanuel got close, but he could tell it was more an instinctive reaction to someone getting close to his collection of ‘shinies’ than true unwillingness to part with his treasures.

Hopping up the pile, JR asked, “Can I offer you a deal or two on crafted items so you don’t take all of my Tier 50 items?”

The other Tier 50s looked over, hopeful Emmanuel would agree, but he shook his head. “I’m looking with Talents.”

Hearing that, everyone stopped badgering him, which he found funny. They didn’t trust him, but because of how they saw and viewed Talents, they just assumed he’d follow their advice and therefore be immune to persuasion. He wasn’t that blind, but he wasn’t going to be nice when picking either.

Appraisal Talents came in all shapes and forms, and he flipped through thousands, millions even as he considered the incalculable array of treasures before him. Vera Tai, Cornelis Drebbel, Wotan the Keen-Eyed, Dmitri Eleve, Aloy Iera, Hans Lippershey, Tui Iala…

His first target, amusingly, was a Tier 49 acorn with blue and pink speckles splattered across its light brown shell. Having been able to see the seed’s description, he knew Tur’stal would kill him if he passed up on taking the Calamity Tree home. It was a tree and living, which meant it could and would have to Tier up but he was confident any expenses incurred would be cheaper than finding another seed.

However, his choice seemed to shock the Tier 50s and it caused them to start reevaluating their unknown items. He wished them luck, energy patterns could only tell someone so much.

Emmanuel wouldn’t have identified the reward himself, as he’d never seen the tree, even as a lower Tier variant, but he fell in love with the reward the moment he saw it. A long term investment, once the tree had Tiered up to at least Tier 47, the Capital’s Tier, it would start to grow into the Realm itself. There, it could create a crack between Realms and allow a tiny amount of ascension energy to seep out and into the Capital.

The effect wouldn’t be a millionth the magnitude of a true Ascension, but the tree would still be a boon for anyone who lived under its canopy. They could and might plant it elsewhere, but Emmanuel was already picturing the day where the hyper-massive tree was the Capital’s most important landmark.

JR hopped onto a scythe handle that was sticking out of the ground and asked, “Any chance you want to share what the seed did? I’ll pay for it?”

“Another Tier 49 item and I’ll tell you everything you want to know.” Emmanuel agreed without hesitating, but the raven just fluttered his wings in return, pretending not to have said anything in the first place.

Aiming for one of the Tier 50 items specifically, Emmanuel grabbed what looked like a snowglobe. Perfectly round and seemingly made of glass, the unnamed item's effect was as simple as it was powerful. It allowed someone to capture an entire star system inside without disturbing or harming anyone within the system.

One would still need to be able to move the weight of the world they captured, which limited its uses above Tier 35 unless Emmanuel himself was going to take action, but the ability to safely move not only planets but entire star systems was something he couldn’t pass up.

