Matt froze momentarily as Emmanuel stood up, not expecting the Tier 50 to be quite so decisive. Rather than dawdling, he filled his mana pool, said goodbye to everyone else and once he received well wishes in return, nodded and the two of them vanished.

He’d half expected them to appear in front of JR himself, but they’d teleported to the Empire border and flew into Corporation control chaotic space. They’d only traveled for a moment when a translucent raven intercepted them before vanishing as quickly as it appeared.

“Good, he knows we are here. Time to speed up.”

Matt had thought they'd moved fast before, but traveling with a Talented Tier 50 changed his perception on speed. What would have taken the Unsparing months at full acceleration to cover was crossed in a matter of minutes as they arrived at the Corporation capital system.

Instead of taking them into real space, Manny looked to Matt and asked one last time, “Are you sure?”

Matt didn’t quite trust himself to speak and so only nodded once more, to which Emmanuel grinned. “I’ve got your back.”

Hearing those words did make Matt feel better, but nearly a thousand years of worry and stress were hard to discard with a few words. However, he did trust Manny, and that was all he could do if he wanted his item.

And he wanted. Matt wanted so badly he could taste it.

Entering real space he felt a gentle but indomitable pressure guiding him away from the area they’d selected to enter. Seeing that the Emperor didn’t resist, he didn’t waste his efforts. Due to the redirect, he wasn’t all that surprised when they appeared in the single most advanced laboratory he’d ever seen.

Filled with top of the line, if not fully bespoke equipment, the enclosed room was massive, but it still managed to feel cluttered despite being perfectly tidy due to how many objects there were.

Seeing everything made Matt’s heart race.

This was exactly the person he needed to make his armor.

The raven in question only looked confused as Matt arrived, his head tilted fully sideways as he cawed. Matt wasn’t sure if Manny hadn’t warned JR who the item was being made for or if the bird was acting, but it caught him off guard.

“I hadn’t expected you to accompany your Tier 50, Chosen Titan. That said, it's lovely to see you. How are Legion and Wraith? All well, I hope? Do anything fun while we were gone? I hear you killed some people and gave away free information. Naughty naughty.”

Matt looked to Emmanuel for guidance but his Tier 50 only shook his head, indicating he’d keep himself out of the upcoming conversation until necessary.

Trusting that Manny knew what he was doing, Matt replied, knowing there wouldn’t be secrets after this.

“They are doing fine. We just settled the aura potion issue before coming here, which I’m personally pretty proud of. We didn’t have to kill anyone to get our way, so don’t take that squabble with Remi seriously.”

JR bobbed his head as he listened and paced around the table he was standing on. “Ah, how interesting. You mention politics, and here she is."

Contrary to Matt’s expectations, the person arriving wasn’t Max or someone else he knew from the Corporations, but someone he knew of but had never met.

JR’s secretary and the executor of his will when he wasn’t there, Rosemarie Roger.

The woman had been with JR since he’d been Tier 10, and by all accounts, there was a level of trust between them that surpassed what many combat groups shared. The raven knew that she would execute his exact desires, and she knew that he would crush anyone who disrespected her for her being a lower Tier.

He’d done it before. Though with her at Tier 46, there weren’t many people who could snub her for her Tier at this point.

Turning, JR excused himself with a bob of the head. “Sorry, Rose just arrived, and given how recently we returned, I have to deal with this. One moment please.”

Then, at the same Tier 30 speed, he turned to Rosemarie and asked, “What are the reports?”

Unbothered by the Tier they were speaking at or their presence, Rosemarie finally looked up as she replied, “The economy took a hit when we expected at the rate we expected it, but it rallied around the new aura enchantments and those that have found success in that new field. In general, nine out of ten higher Tier businesses have, on the other hand, taken serious hits due to their over extension…”

Listening to Rose give the raven a breakdown of the Corporation economy, Matt was thoroughly confused. They were obviously putting on a show for him. They could have had the whole conversation at Tier 45 speeds before he processed the first question, which meant they had to be doing it for his benefit.

The question was why?

After several minutes of updates on economic status and high Tier political maneuvers, including things Matt was sure he wasn’t supposed to overhear, he understood.

Or he thought he did.

Matt couldn’t be sure and Manny wasn’t helpful, silently watching without doing or saying anything, so he trusted his gut and kept his mouth shut.

Or he tried too.

“Timmothy’s is holding out on repaying their loans, claiming economic hardship, but we know they’ve been siphoning a portion of their profits into secret accounts. He's already preparing for an early bankruptcy, as everyone assumed a reset was coming when you returned.”

JR flapped his wings, turning his head so he had Matt fully in his sight, “If that's the case, then do a probe into his business. Launch it immediately and cut them down to… Hmm, I don’t know, how about seventy percent of their current size? Let’s trim some fat. Sell off and liquidate, starting from the business types away from their core products. Let’s remind him—. In fact, crack open everyone's books. If we are going to reset now, then let's do it. Let's cut everyone else down to say, eighty percent of their current size. That feels about right.”

Then, as if he’d only just seen Matt, JR asked, “But maybe we should do something different?”

When Matt sat there, silently watching the show instead of replying, JR hopped in place until he faced him fully and plopped down to wait. He groomed a few feathers as if to show how comfortable he was.

Seeing that neither JR or Rosemarie were going to speak, Matt shrugged, “I don’t know what you are expecting of me? Do you want my opinion? I don’t see why and I don’t particularly care to give it.”

Smiling, despite having an ordinary bird beak, JR stood back up and walked to the edge of the table closest to Matt.

“Ahh see, now that is my question, Chosen Titan. Why are you here? Emmanuel said he wanted to talk about the defensive pact we’d discussed on the way back to settled space, so imagine my surprise when he wants to meet immediately and brings you… Alone. Does that mean he intends to make you his heir? Seems possible, even if not likely, but that's very interesting isn't it? And if I'm right, why wouldn’t I want to see your thoughts and reactions to the current political situation given your own involvement in its creation? What better way to see the true worth of a man than what he does with unlimited power? Don’t you hate our capitalistic mindset, Chosen Titan? Want to tear it down? Dare you speak? Dare I act?"

Nodding as he said his last sentence JR managed to send a shiver down Matt’s spine. Or that was until he realized the mistake raven had made. Instead of correcting him, Matt raised a single questioning eyebrow as he stared right back.

“Then why not cut them all down to seventy percent?”

JR didn’t hesitate and ruffled his wings in a return shrug, “Done. Is that all?”

Matt looked to Rosemarie, who looked entirely unbothered as she blinked at him, patiently waiting for him to make up his mind.

She seemed to see nothing wrong with this whole situation, and suddenly Matt wanted to see how far JR would go.

He didn’t hate the Corporation, though he did disagree with them on a lot of things, but he was negotiating with a potential ally, and so he wasn’t willing to push too far.

“Why not sixty?”

The words slipped out before he fully realized what he’d said, but JR didn’t hesitate, nodding vigorously. “You heard the man, Rosemarie. Only stop cutting when sixty percent of each of the companies’ fat is left. Give them a good trimming.”

Before she could reply, not that she looked like she was in a rush, Matt pushed once more. “Why not fifty? A full half of their excess? Isn't that the reason behind the economic resets? To give new companies space to grow, you cut into the most feeble and the old? I know I’ve read at least one grandiose passage in a history book about ‘ensuring most companies specialize, but once they become too large and unwieldy… I also read you guys only tend to do one when the economy is already going to shit anyway, so why hold back now? Why not really cut them down?"

Matt expected some degree of hesitation or push back, but JR didn’t even need to speak before Rosemarie echoed back, “Fifty percent then.”

Pausing, she waited for Matt to change his mind once more, but instead he felt a chill go through him as he saw how far they were willing to go.

They could always be bluffing, but Matt wouldn’t bet a counterfeit credit on that chance.

Narrowing his eyes, Matt spoke one final time, meeting JR’s eyes. “Forty percent.”

JR's smile lit up his eyes as he tempted, “Why not go even lower?”

Matt immediately refused, “No. Honestly, forty percent is probably too far. I just wanted to see what you’d say.”

Tutting, JR joined Matt in shaking his head, “Afraid at forty percent? Wouldn’t it be fun to see what happens if we go lower? What about twenty five? Twenty? Fifteen? Ten? I think any of those might be more fun.”

Realizing he had no idea what was going on or what the test was anymore, Matt held firm rather than retreating. “No, I just don’t think cutting a business to less than half will allow many to survive. Any lower and I don’t think there will be any chance at all. Honestly, sixty percent seems far more reasonable, given what I know of the practice, but I said what I said. It just feels foolish to listen to an outs—"

JR interrupted him with a flutter of his wings as he crossed the table. “Boring! We’ll do forty. We aren’t targeting their core operations, so it will be a good test for the various leaders. Also, you forget that those who run their businesses well enough, by that I mean they aren't cheating the system in one way or another, won’t be overly impacted by our probe. It also won’t hit the ones who are cheating and doing it better than we can detect, but good for them.

“What you are forgetting, Chosen Titan, is that this isn't the Empire. I am not bound by tradition to politic and negotiate; my Great Power doesn't do well with the constant meddling that your people seem wont to do. Personally, I feel like I missed my calling, but I do love my shines, so I think it worked out in the end, even if I would love to play the Great Political Game all the time. It's so much more fun and interesting to maneuver people without the might of my cultivation, but that isn’t how we operate best. Instead, the Corporation flourishes when the Tier 50 allows our baser instincts to bloom, but that can’t go unchecked forever. Our history isn’t as monotone as your words imply, but that's fine… for now. We’ll do as you say, forty percent. Now, why are you here?”

Still reeling from the whiplash due to the topic change and the Tier 50 seemingly determining a Great Powers policy on the whims of a foreigner, Matt looked to Manny, who only nodded. It was slow and firm, with the barest hint of a smile that he could only assume was from JR’s misunderstanding, but it reassured him enough that he continued.

“I need an item made.”

Like a deflating balloon, JR’s interest waned. “Sorry, I’m quite busy and won’t be taking commissions for the foreseeable future. Can you not see all the interesting and unique toys here? Rosemarie can get you a form to fill out and I’ll look at it when I feel like it. If there is nothing else, you may leave now.”

Clacking his way back over to the closest edge of the table, he slapped the table once, making a mountain of Tier 48, 49, and Tier 50 items appear and causing a racket as they settled into a pile. Items available, the bird started to sort his loot, making a production of each item, but Matt could see that JR really was losing interest.

Not wanting to be rude, but knowing he was going to be, Matt turned to Rosemarie, “Would it be too much to ask you to leave? Sorry, this is very private.”

For the first time, Rosemarie reacted to something he said. One of her eyebrows reached for her hairline, but she didn’t reply.

The question did seem to catch JR offguard and he shot the idea down. “She’s involved with all of my projects and day to day running of the Corporations. In short, don’t waste your breath. If you are that worried, go somewhere else.”

Seeing Manny not say anything, implying he’d expected this, Matt didn’t hesitate any longer and shoved his hand into his chest.

That caused Rosemarie’s other eyebrow to join the first, but JR didn’t react until he withdrew the gem.

Matt hardly saw the bird move as he jumped backwards in short hops until he was hiding behind the pile of loot thanks to the Tier 50 losing control over his perception.

Peaking out from behind the pile, JR blinked at the gem several times before he kicked the pile of high Tier rift rewards into a nearby storage container. “Never mind, my schedule just cleared itself. What is that?”

His final words were spoken with a gravity that finally got Emmanuel to speak for the first time since they arrived.

