“A perfectly preserved strange realm’s reward that turns any item into a controllable growth item. We want you to make the item.”

“I want to be there when the gem is used.”

JR hadn’t looked away from the gem, but Matt had no issue with that requirement.

“Fine.”

“Done!” JR lost several feathers in his excitement as he started bobbing up and down in what Matt knew from Liz was uncontainable joy.

“What about the price?”

JR turned his smile to Manny. “Don’t think about the price. Focus on the results.”

Matt tried to interject, but he was ignored as the raven spent a full twenty minutes inspecting the reward before he pried himself away. “Please tell me you want something more complex than a new sword or power armor.”

Feeling slightly better at the obvious interest, Matt shot Rosemarie a pleading look, but instead of indifference, she reached out a hand. “I have no interest in your secrets, but if it makes you comfortable, I’ll sign this contract.”

Seeing that the contract was legally binding by both Great Powers and already signed by the other three people in the room, Matt created and tossed her a single mana stone.

Because he wanted to show off, he created one of his liquid mana stones, which caught both JR and Rosemarie’s attention. More than he’d expected, as the other Tier 50 caught the gem and redirected it to float in front of himself. After inspecting it for ten full minutes, he shivered several times at higher Tier speeds, losing even more feathers in the process.

“Chosen Titan, you should have started here. You had my attention, but now you truly have my interest.”

Trying not to panic Matt forced out, “I believe it would be better if I simply showed you first and explained after.”

Nodding, JR didn’t pull his gaze away from the gem, but waved a wing for Matt to continue. After getting a nod from Manny, who activated several spells to isolate them, Matt took a deep breath.

Letting it out, he opened his eyes as he flicked a finger to JR with his design document, not saying a word. Instead, he started releasing one mana a second, even as JR pulled his head back in confusion.

Seeing that he had their attention, he bumped the mana expulsion to ten mana, and then started doubling every second, following his progression through the Tiers and making the pattern clear.

He’d only reached Tier 7, 160 mana a second, when JR let out a small exhale as he strained to get closer without leaving his table top. It took until Tier 9 for Rosemarie to understand, and he saw her pupils shink into pinpricks as he moved to finish his cycle in a rapid burst until he reached Tier 30 and went all out.

However, as he reached Tier 25 and started to rapidly empty his mana pool, Manny held up a hand. “That’s enough.” Turning to the others, he continued, “The pattern continues, but for obvious reasons, we can’t continue. There are no limits on the production, such as time or outside energy requirements or spiritual strain. His mana simply needs to be low.”

JR shivered as he tried to settle his feathers, but had to repeat the process several times before he started to pace across his work bench.

Head snapping around at Emmanuel, the bird cursed, “And you let him onto the battlefield!? Are you stupid!? What if he’d died? How could you risk that!?”

Emmanuel didn’t respond and instead looked down and to the side.

Matt didn’t understand, but both JR and Rosemarie started nodding. “You need to tell him about Icliz. Now, before we go any further.”

However, JR raised a feathered wing instead of responding. “I see the problem, but let us work out the armor first. My interest is piqued and I won't be denied.”

Hearing the words he’d been waiting years for, Matt grinned as a projection of his design appeared before them all and JR took a few moments to look it over.

“Interesting choices, Chosen Titan, very interesting. I can see and like the direction. Use the armor to help stabilize your spirit as you cast larger and larger spells. Combined with your unique mana gems, it will be a potent combo for that alone, but I have some questions I hope you answer, because I believe that your own understanding or lack thereof is limiting your designs choices.”

“I already told you my biggest secret, so I don’t have reason to hide anything at this point.”

JR fluttered his wings in pleasure. “Wonderful. So you intend to try to claim this as your Aspect’s Anchor?”

Matt froze. He hadn’t written that down anywhere, but JR had noticed immediately.

“Was it that obvious?”

JR chuckled good naturedly as he hopped across his desk. “I’ve seen it all and the design choices you are taking, makes that obvious. Permanent implantation and regrowth functions are normal enough, but prioritizing that over raw defense? That means you are banking on using it as an Anchor. That's a good idea, but we can do better.”

“What could possibly be better than binding it to my Domain?”

JR didn’t answer and instead asked another question as the armor focused on the chest cavity. “Next, are you trying to manifest and stabilize your skills in your chest in your liquid mana gems? Very clever, but really now, why are you using a Rapthid arrangement? It's only the third most optimal array for what you are trying to do.”

Matt opened his mouth but found no words to speak. That had been his farther stretch goal for his design if JR seemed confident, but the Tier 50 had seen right through it and didn’t throw him out.

Continuing to deconstruct his armor design, JR added, “And the idea of integrating power armor and Guild cybernetics is fun and clever, but a doomed idea. Also, it's adorable that you noted that you have permission to use their blueprints, but I don’t care about that. Everything you’ve got permissions for, I’ve either licensed personally or I have access to something that’s even better. While these are good I have access to better and if we want something beyond that we’ll need actual secrets from Allister himself. For something like this, you don’t just want the raw might of power armor, you want finesse. That means Federation cybernetics, or maybe Guild implants depending on our final choices.”

JR was on a roll as the blueprint started to rapidly update. “So, no power armor. Not if you’re going to want this to be your Anchor. Not if you want this to help you with all that mana! No, no. It needs to be something you can always use. If you really must, we can aim to give it a strength-boosting effect as a tertiary power. It’ll already be strengthening your mana, in a way - you do have [Archmage’s Presence], yes? Good, good. Oh, and you have that lovely cracked armor skill, do you perhaps wish to integrate it with the growth item? I believe you have been working with Cosmind for some skill merging of some kind, should we add a skill integration with this Anchor? Or at least allow for seamless integrating. That could be fun, yes yes.

“But this should be a part of you, a second skin. It needs to grow with you, be as indestructible as you are! We can even keep a strength enhancement effect if you want in addition to more better defences than you originally envisioned. That stuff isn’t hard. It’s the very easiest. As for something harder… You mentioned stabilizing your skills inside of mana stones, and what you mean by that will determine much. Elaborate.”

Finally given the chance to speak, Matt answered the question at hand, not willing to backtrack. “I was looking into ways to improve mana flows and after my own developments, I had the idea of creating liquid mana gems in my chest and forcing my skill structures into reality. Using that as a base, I then hope to then bypass any spell structure stabilization issues that might crop up by sending billions of mana into a single spell.”

Instead of shooting his idea down, JR paced back and forth for a few seconds slowly picking up steam until he was a dark blur.

“Odd. Strange. Unique. Interesting. Brilliant. I like the idea. Yes, it's clever, but it won’t be easy either. We’d need a way for your mana to better manifest. Hmm? Hmmmm. Yes, I think this will work. What do you think about your armor growing better over time as you feed it more mana, Chosen Titan?”

“That sounds amazing. How?”

“That is the eternal question isn't it? Normally, I’d never suggest something like this, but with the gem and reports on its uses, I believe it's possible. We start by no longer focusing only inward or outward. Instead the armor should simply be… Well, it will still be subdermal armor, but it should be much thinner than your original design without being worse in any category, except maybe your strength amplification. But I have a solution for that. Tada!”

Throwing a wing up, JR showcased an image of Matt as lines started to grow and expand like a fungal map. Rather than being upset or weirded out, he tried to figure out what JR was showing him.

Appearing next to him, looking at the projection from his viewpoint, JR explained, “Why make the item have all the effects we want when we can grow more powers? By growing a mana filament weave through your skin and muscles off the foundation of the armor you already outlined, we can further empower your muscles and bones, if not more. We’ll need to consider it carefully, but I can see us encasing your bones in an ultra thin layer of mana crystal that's still connected to the armor. It could improve your defense considerably, but we can do so much more beyond that. Sure, if you lost a limb you’d need to regrow these additional effects, but you’ll be so strong afterward, it shouldn’t matter.”

Before Matt could interject, JR continued, “Still, I agree you need a robust regrow function, but I’d rather tie that into your [Regeneration] and abuse how much mana you can bring to bear. Speaking of your mana, making this work with other armors is fine, but I’d recommend we go universal. Connection conduits on both hands and on your back so you can directly connect with your sword and-or other implements such as over armors. We can use a better variation of the new [Item Link] skill instead of specifically tying to a single item in particular. How does this sound?”

After taking a few minutes to look over the designs, Matt shook his head, not quite believing. “I love the idea, but I don’t think half of this is possible. What is that base material? Its hardness ratings and magical throughput indexes can’t coexist in the same material. It's physically impossible. Can anyone actually make this?”

JR snorted at him. “Of course I can. Now, onto the specifics. We need to start with something durable as the core for the armor. I heard you have a neutronium ingot, do you still have it? I don’t have any on hand.”

Not bothering to try and speak, Matt summoned the ingot, but the raven reached out and snatched the bar, cutting a corner off with a quick swipe of a talon.

“This will do nicely. We can use this as a baseline material, and then I’ll do something better than claiming the growth item as your Anchor.” Pausing, he immediately added, “Not that you shouldn’t aim to make it your Anchor. That will be the bow that ties this all together, but I have something more fundamental we can bind the item to.”

Hearing the same claim for a second time, Matt finally got the opportunity to ask, “What can possibly be better than binding the item to my Domain via my anchor.”

JR snapped his head to Matt and smiled as if he’d been waiting for that question for eons. “You. I will make this armor you. The armor, Matthew Moore né Alexander. Of course, that would require you being alright with giving the armor your name. Or, more practically, you will need to give me your name, and I shall in turn imbue it into the armor. You would reclaim the name upon donning the armor, of course. But once you do… It wouldn’t matter if you decided to break your Domain, to shatter your spirit, the armor would be perfectly fine so long as some part of you is ‘not dead’.”

Grinning, the raven posed as he drove his point home. “I can bind the item to your very person. Make it a core part of you, just like the flesh and bones you were born with. True, perfect integration. Think about it.”

Becoming suspicious, Matt narrowed his eyes. “How? This sounds fantastical, and I know Aiden.”

JR smiled and gestured to the table next to him where a normal adjustable wrench appeared. “Adjustable wrench.”

Then as Matt was about to ask for clarification, he experienced a massive wave of vertigo as JR repeated himself. “Adjustable wrench.”

Except it wasn’t his mind that experienced the vertigo, rather it was the world that warbled for a brief instant as JR did whatever he’d done.

Matt had no idea how he understood the words JR spoke, as he couldn’t repeat the word and neither had his [AI] been able to record the information, but that all seemed immaterial as he saw what JR had done.

Above the adjustable wrench, floating in mid-air, a perfect replica of the wrench hung suspended, except it was illusionary.

Except it was also very, very real. More real than the other wrench.

Matt couldn’t explain how, but when he reached out and took the slightly see-through wrench, he wasn’t at all surprised when it felt like any other metal adjustable wrench he’d used. Flicking his thumb, the head adjusted open and closed smoothly, yet through it all he could see through the wrench.

Tapping it to the table Matt couldn’t observe a difference between a normal item and whatever the raven had done.

A puffed up JR gestured to the other… wrench.

