Matt’s mind slipped and the world blurred as his mind tried to call the item on the table an adjustable wrench, except he couldn't as it no longer was that. It was static, still a wrench, but no longer adjustable in any way shape or form.

Picking it up, he knew even before he tried, the screw which should have rotated the slide was seized solid. Even throwing his own considerable strength at the effort, Matt could feel the metal would break before it shifted in the slightest fashion.

Matt looked up, startled to find JR was mere inches from his face, and he flinched backwards.

The bird looked at him with a piercing gaze, and spoke with the most deadly serious tone he’d ever heard from him, “Matthew Moore, I am JR. CEO of The Assembly of Corporations. I work wonders, fashion the fantastical, implement the impossible and I do it all on a daily basis. To forge reality itself is my trade, to gild the stars my passion. I have wrought horrors beyond your comprehension and assembled paradises beyond that. When I inform you of what I can do, do not make the mistake of believing it is in jest.”

Matt met black eyes unblinking. “So, are you going to take me out of ‘me’ or not?”

JR ruffled his feathers, having returned to a more comfortable distance faster than Matt could follow, and spoke in his more normal voice. “Obviously. That's what I said.”

Pointing the two wrenches at each other, Matt blanched, “But what will be left of me?”

JR shrugged. “Titan. Quill. Perhaps even Matthew Alexander. People are far more complex than any wrench, and while anyone shall be diminished by the loss of their name, you already possess alternate ones. You shall simply have to make do with them for the few months in which I shall require your name. It is not quite the first step, but it needs to be done at the start. Which does call my mind back to the fact, I shall require your aid in collecting certain items from the returning explorers. This shall be expensive, as many Natural Treasures shall be partially utilized in this construction, but you will find it worthy, yes yes. Oh, and I shall need you around for perhaps a decade or two as we make the armor. No delving at all, as the time I shall have to devote to this project shall be rather unpredictable, and you must be within the same real space as I when I do need your presence.”

“I can agree to the shape of this idea but…” Trailing off, Matt looked at Manny, bringing JR’s attention to him as well.

“I guess we do need to discuss our own dealings. I assume this is your bargaining chip for a defensive agreement? I see why you need it. The others won’t let you keep him. Not with your own power set. You're expecting a true war, then? What are your terms?”

Emmanuel flicked a packet, which Matt was surprised to also receive, as it outlined a defensive pact with the Empire in the event of a true war. The prices were also something Matt only could have imagined in a daydream or possibly a nightmare, depending on who was saying it.

Manny intended to Tier up everyone’s capital worlds to Tier 50 should they win, or at least survive, the true war to end the artificial bottleneck that existed in the Realm. It wasn’t only generous, but mind boggling in scale.

Neither of the other two seemed to believe it either, as all three blurred for over a minute before they returned to a level of proprioception that Matt could follow.

Manny was frowning, but both JR and Rosemarie were smiling from ear to ear.

Grimacing, the Emperor pulled out three Tier 50 resources and a Tier 48 gourd before tossing them over to the raven.

Squawking happily, JR smiled at Matt.

“So, do you agree?”

“Have you used this on someone else before? What happened?”

JR sent him a data packet and what Matt found… mildly reassured him.

“You have two main names you go by, so you should default to Titan unless you have a nickname I’ve never heard about. I won’t pretend it will be pleasant, but the pain will be worth it.”

Reminding himself that any temporary discomfort was worth it, Matt accepted. “Then I accept your redesign and general idea. I’d be dumb not to, it's an all round improvement to my original. That is if you can do everything you proposed.”

JR waved his worries away. “You'll get to see the entire process by virtue of the nature of this item needing your input.”

Rapidly turning, he cackled at Manny, “And the deal is struck! Our people can work out the smaller details, but I agree all-round.”

Turning to Matt, the raven let out several cawing sounds, “Want to know what price I got? Oh! Do you want to know another secret? I’ll tell you that for free.”

Having had enough high Tier shenanigans for one day, Matt declined, “Not particularly, but I don’t think that will matter.”

Far too happy, JR cawed, “It won’t! The price is fantastic. When Emmanuel Tiers up his Capital planet, the Corporation homeworld must reach the same Tier as the highest Tier settled world within a decade! That, and enough mana to fuel a hundred Tier 50 rift delves at full capacity with all of Emmanuel’s best Talents in effect. No more holding back on my rifts. Though that will only go into effect in the event we win.”

Losing most of his joviality, JR caught Matt’s eyes and held them. “Matthew, you must understand, I just got to delve high Tier rifts, and now here you come offering to make Tier 50 rifts that we can delve to our heart’s content. Why would I decline, even at great risk?”

Leaning in, the raven’s joy returned as he whispered, “As for the secret? Did you know the Corporations is officially for sale?”

Seeing Matt’s surprise, he continued, sending a contract with a wave of his wing, “I’m not joking. The current standing offer is a tad high, but I didn't set it. I’m even willing to negotiate it down a bit. Emmanuel doesn't seem like he’s willing to let you take over the Empire, so do you have any interest in buying the Corporations so you can play ruler before you Ascend? That Tier 50 Talent won't upgrade itself if you don’t. Why not take a look?”

Seeing the price stated on the first line, Matt stopped looking. “This starts with a guarantee that every corporation citizen be raised to Tier 25, as well as have their wages guaranteed for three generations, along with the Tier 25 requirement. It also has to keep up with inflation and lifestyle creep and… This is absurd.”

JR barked a laugh at Matt’s response. “It’s a high price, but a very real one. Anything is for sale here Matthew ne Moore, even our loyalty. I—”

Emmanuel interrupted the bird saying a single word. “Below.”

Matt raised an eyebrow, but JR sighed. “Ever heard of Icliz the Mad?”

Not being in the Empire and in a sealed lab protected by two Tier 50s, he couldn’t look it up and so shook his head, unable to speak. Thankfully, JR was willing to elaborate without forcing him to verbally ask.

Matt almost wished he had, as it might have delayed the answer if not for the knot of fear that wormed its way into his throat.

Hopping onto nothingness, JR got close enough that he was only a few inches from Matt before he smiled up at him and whispered, "He's the Corporations’ mana font.”
