The other Tier 50 items, while useful, weren't exceptional enough for him to prioritize. They were either too specific in their use or finished items, such as the Tier 50 hammer Emmanuel was mildly interested in. However, despite its material and Tier being exceptional, the enchantments were mediocre, as expected out of ‘common’ rift drops.

Instead, he picked up a Tier 50 silvery gray potion that his Talent said would boost the mind cultivation of the drinker. At first glance, it wasn’t the most useful potion, but at their Tier items they could actually use were rare enough that the raven nearly vetoed his selection.

After taking a few other Tier 49 items he thought would be the most useful, JR didn’t hesitate and swept up his remaining loot before taking to the sky where he angrily circled them, showing the restrictions no longer bound him to their little island.

Not wanting to dawdle, Emmanuel quickly selected his next several items, going through Winter Hornet’s goods without finding anything truly exceptional that caught his eye. Instead, he prioritized grabbing Tier 49 and 50 raw resources. They were always useful and each could potentially be turned into treasured high Tier items, but he had high hopes for the bar of Tier 50 bronze infused with Armageddon mana. The Tier 49 petrified branch of mulberry tree was interesting as well, it had illusory leaves of Spectral mana condensing every three minutes, despite being dead.

Even if they lost a Tier in relative power after being processed and melded with other lower Tier items, each high Tier material was precious.

Too precious, as Winter Hornet was the first person to use one of his vetos. “I’ve changed my mind. I no longer wish to trade the Tier 50 geode. Pick something else.”

Emmanuel snorted as he tossed the overlooked void geode back to Winter Hornet, considering them even after the Sect Tier 50 helped when he flipped sides without a fight.

Sadly, his kindness was misplaced, as Winter Hornet’s action reminded the others of that ruling and they all started using it trying to deny him the items they saw as the most valuable.

Given that their grading metrics were vastly different, Emmanuel wasn’t too worried. Or, that was true until he saw a Tier 48 drinking gourd in Aoife’s loot. He’d originally dismissed its effect of ‘converts essence into an unknown liquid’ as being bad, but having something repeatedly come back with an unknown piqued his interest, even as he went through his appraisal Talents.

If the Talents hadn’t known what the item did at all, he’d have understood. They could tell it was converting essence, but the Talents didn’t know what it ended up as, and once he realized the distinction, he couldn’t help but dig deeper.

Popping the tied-on cork out of the mouth of the gourd, Emmanuel earned himself a glare from Aoife, but he was as disappointed as everyone else to find the gourd was empty. However, the moment he uncorked it, a wave of ambient essence was drawn into the gourd as the essence vacuum tried to fill itself. Not willing to drain essence from the planet below them, he quickly closed the cork, but everyone was a Tier 50 and noticed the drop of liquid now in the gourd.

Instead of becoming interested, the others saw that the item required high Tier essence to function and immediately wrote it off.

Everyone except JR, who swooped down and looked at the gourd. “Why not pour out that drop of liquid.”

Looking at the gourd in his hands, Emmanuel shook his head. “I think I’d rather not.”

However, Aoife disagreed, sensing his reluctance. “If you don’t, I’ll use my veto and keep it myself.”

Considering how far to push people compared to what his Talent now told him the gourd did, Emmanuel decided that the truth was less interesting than their imaginations.

Popping the cork, but not allowing any essence to rush into the gourd, Emmanuel poured out a single milky white drop of liquid that seemed to hold stars in its depths.

Directing the drop of liquid to hover in front of Aoife, he allowed her to inspect the result and come to the same conclusion as he had.

“The gourd converts essence into a liquid that will strengthen people's baseline physical bodies. However, as you saw how much essence it took to make a single drop.”

As everyone else's interest fully waned JR fluttered his wings. “Any cha—”

“Not for resale.”

Taking one last look at the gourd, JR sighed. “Pity.”

While the others thought it wasn’t a great item, Emmanuel was already picturing the day he could make a Tier 48 rift, drain it of essence, fill it with mana, and fill up bathtubs of the liquid. He estimated it would take at least three full gourds to fully enhance a high-Tier’s body, which would mean oceans of essence fed to the gourd, but so long as he replaced the expended essence with mana, the rift would convert everything without worry or significant depletion.

What others saw as an impossible condition, Emmanuel only saw as a matter of time and resources, and what did either matter when they could be directly converted into combat power?

Not wanting to give Aoife a chance to change her stance on the gourd, he quickly moved onto a Tier 50 item he knew she’d been eyeing and selected it, forcing her to use her veto on that.

In a concession, he took a Tier 49 talisman that boosted the user’s durability. A Tier higher than it, it wouldn’t be perfectly effective, but the talisman was rift made and packed with enough power he was confident in it being useful. Best of all, it was valuable, but not so much that Aoife kicked up a fuss about it or the gourd, even knowing he forced her hand.

Emmanuel was fairly confident that he had already gotten all of the best treasures available today, but for the sake of thoroughness, he picked through some of the less-interesting treasures with his Talent roulette. Information in all forms flashed briefly into his awareness, only to be shuffled away the next moment. But when he swapped in Iluia Leafboot‘s Tier 1 Talent, ‘You always know the effects that would result from you consuming an item,’ he instinctively swapped to a full set of emotional control Talents, fast enough that not even a flicker could register to anyone around him.

Then and only then, he swapped his Tier 1 Talent back, and verified what he’d seen.

The object before him, with a name that meant Heart’s Emberseed in an old Clan language precursor dialect according to one of his Talents, didn’t look very impressive as far as the Tier 50 items arrayed before him went. It looked like a twisting seed pod with a surface of tarnished silver, with a point made of a glowing golden gem. Deeper pulsing veins, invisible from the surface, extended throughout the entire structure making a complicated four dimensional weave even he struggled to follow.

It was also off to the side with items Virgil saw little value in, and he had nearly overlooked it because it looked almost… broken magically speaking.

The energy inside of it was unbalanced, spinning haphazardly and chaotically around nothing, like it was but one half –or one third– of something actually worthwhile. A few jagged spiritual edges and a far lower than normal amount of essence within it, completed the look. However there was no denying what he’d seen it could do.

He didn’t want to believe it, but after he confirmed his findings with a few other Talents he had no choice.

He’d expected a lot on their trip, but this… this? No, he’d never even dreamed about such an item.

Emmanuel didn’t even allow himself to directly think about what it was or what it could do until he’d secured it for himself. Knowing Virgil would be just as recalcitrant as the other Tier 50s, he waited until she vetoed one of his first five choices to circle back around to the seed.

When he finally picked up the Heart’s Emberseed, he not only made certain to not react any more or less than he had for any of the other items, but had to resist looking at Aoife.

Despite finding an answer that people had been searching for since the Shattering, Emmanuel only had more questions as he pocketed the orb.

Their return trip was much faster than their exit trip, as they were no longer fighting the raging storm that was chaotic space. And with so many new high Tier items, none of them were in the mood to bicker or fight. Everyone wanted to return home, and as they passed their Tier 45s in the third layer of the breach, Emmanuel smiled at how his Ascenders and the Empire had done.

Not the best, that title probably went to the Collective, with them grabbing a Tier 39 True Sunflower, which Tobias was already gloating over. But far from the worst, which buoyed his mood considerably.

The moment they split up and their agreement ended, Emmanuel made his move and teleported back to his home rather than spend the ten minutes needed to fly. He had to run more tests on the Emberseed, and inform Carissa about the treasure he’d happened upon.

That was why he was more than a little surprised to see his wife in his throne room with his Ascenders and aura producers brokering a deal. He… hadn’t expected that at all. He also hadn’t expected Matt to clear things up, with Mackenzie Harrington of all people, after learning how she’d been part of the Cabal arrayed against them.

Seeing that a Tier 45 asset just became available for long term use, Emmanuel couldn’t help but smile.

Appearing in the privacy bubble that Carissa had thrown up as she eagerly watched the show, Emmanuel officially returned home.

Leaning over her shoulder so their heads were in line, he quietly asked, “See anything interesting?”

By the time the two of them came up for air they didn’t really need, it was time to wrap things up and Emmanuel had no patience to wait. He wanted to clear everyone out of his house so he could spend at least a little time with his wife, and of course celebrate their good fortune, before he inevitably had to get back to work.

Not that he was going to let a good opportunity pass him by. By inviting everyone involved to the palace, he could help obscure the real meetings he wanted to have with the people he wanted to give higher Tier items too.

His plans were ruined as Matt approached instead of leaving with everyone else.

Very politely, Emmanuel used the last of his patience and asked, “You wanted to talk to me?”

“You didn’t see it already?”

Emmanuel briefly considered strangling his Ascender, but restrained himself when Carissa looked interested in hearing him out. When miniature clones of his Royals appeared, he let himself worry. Those ‘clones’ weren’t supposed to reveal themselves unless it was very important, given the costs involved in their use.

His stomach started to sink to his feet and further as Matt started to bounce as he struggled to stand in place.

“Maybe we can go to your office? Your most heavily warded office?”

Seeing his Royals and his wife giddy with anticipation, Emmanuel’s mood grew steadily worse until they sat down.

The worry unable to be suppressed any longer, Emmanuel asked, “What?”

Then Matt did something he didn’t expect, he stabbed himself and pulled a gem out of his chest.

No longer hidden by the veils Matt kept up at all times, the same ones Emmanuel was normally too polite to pierce, every warning sense he possessed started screaming as he felt the gem.

Emmanuel didn’t know what his Ascender had been hiding, but the energies inside the gem were raw and unfettered in a way that set him on edge, as if someone was scratching metal just behind him. At the same time, it reminded him of a mortal trying to approach an active volcano. The very heat would prevent them from getting too close even before they actually touched the lava in most cases, and he similarly wanted to squirm away until he wasn’t quite so close.

Trying his very best not to let his panic show, Emmanuel squeaked out, “Is that what I think it is?”

Seeing Matt shrug, Emmanuel’s desire to throttle his Ascender nearly peaked, but the words he said prevented any conscious moment. “Are you thinking this is a strange realm reward that can turn any item into a growth item, captured and preserved for the last few hundred years? If so, good guess because, yes, that’s exactly what this is.”

Emmanuel just looked at the Tier 30 in front of him and wanted to ask why. He thought Matt liked him, but clearly that was wrong. He hadn’t even sat down yet, and somehow, his recently acquired rewards were already being given to a greedy raven. Still, the very fact that Matt had captured a strange realm reward, and in doing so creating a new technique to manipulate his mana, was worth any price.

Emmanuel wanted to tear out his hair, as he sure as shit hadn’t seen this coming, but that was why he never let himself become dependent on future sight. It wasn’t what you saw coming that was the problem. It was the things you never saw that hit the hardest.

And he hadn’t seen this coming. Not at all.

Emmanuel was far from happy, but there was no way he was letting this opportunity pass them by. Which was why he was already contacting JR before Matt finished explaining his ideas. Instead, he played along until JR finally reached his own capital world and got his message.

Seeing the raven was receptive, Emmanuel stood, trying not to vomit.

There were a few ways he’d consider this upcoming meeting a success and a million and one that he’d consider a failure.

They’d just have to see what happened.

Looking at Matthew, Emmanuel could only trust in his Ascender and hope that was enough.

***

