“This one is for you.” Ren said and built up all the love he had felt between the three of them and compounded it a dozen times in the moment it took for him to lean back in. When he kissed her, he did it with just as much passion as the others had kissed her, except he also started to pour all of that love into her as well.

“MhhHMMMM!” Fayeth moaned and screamed as her ability leveled up. Rachel and Jay felt the emotional hole it had left in her and were worried. It only lasted for a moment, however. Ren kept pouring more and more of their love into her, and Fayeth relaxed as her ability was brought back up to a manageable level.

Ren broke the kiss and leaned back. “How do you feel?”

“Loved.” Fayeth said and started to cry. “I feel loved.”

“Don't cry.” Rachel sat up and hugged her. “Of course we love you.”

“We really do.” Jay said and hugged the both of them. “You are in our hearts just as much as I'm in Rachel's and she's in mine.”

Fayeth cried and held the loves of her life in her arms. She hadn't ever imagined finding someone to share herself completely with, then she had been extremely lucky and found two of them. They stayed that way for several minutes, and by the time Fayeth had calmed down from such an emotional roller coaster, Rachel had cried herself and Jay had to wipe dirt out of his eyes. Or so he claimed.

“Now what?” Jay asked.

“Well, that last move worked out really well.” Ren said. “What if we switched Fayeth and Rachel and went the other way, with a small modification?”

“What do you mean?” Fayeth asked.

“Jay can stand here and you can take him in your mouth, and Rachel can lay on top of you and suckle your breasts while I do her from behind.” Ren said.

“N-no licking Fayeth?” Rachel asked, nervously.

“Baby steps.” Ren said with a grin. “We might get you to that point eventually; but, no one will force you to do anything.” He said. “We're here to have fun and enjoy each other, not cause awkward moments.”

Rachel opened her mouth to say something, then closed it.

“Go ahead and say it.” Ren said and used a hand to comb his fingers through her hair.

“It was... pretty awkward... with you... finishing down my throat.” Rachel said with a deep blush.

“I didn't want to hurt you by trying to pull out too quickly.” Ren said and moved his hand to touch the front of her neck and caressed it. “Plus, it felt really good.”

Rachel took in a sharp breath as he gave her an echo of how he felt. “Th-thank y-you.” She said and ducked her head slightly.

“It's pretty rare to find someone like you that can handle it.” Ren said and filled her with appreciation. “So, do you want to try the modified version?”

“I'll need a few minutes.” Jay said and laid down. “Damn, I've never...” He chuckled. “Make that half an hour.”

Rachel chuckled and laid down beside him and cuddled in. “She drained you pretty good, didn't she?”

“Damn, woman! You both did!” Jay exclaimed to make her laugh, then he gave her a kiss.

“It really will take half an hour.” Fayeth said to Ren. “We kind of over-taxed Jay a little.”

“Taking a break is fine with me.” Ren said and equipped his underwear before he laid down on the far side of the bed and out of their way. “Why don't we sleep for an hour and I can show you a few more things when we wake up?”

“That sounds good to me.” Jay said and exchanged glances with his wife Rachel, then they both looked at Fayeth, who nodded.

“Ren, why are you so far away?” Fayeth asked.

“I'm staying out of your way while you cuddle together.” Ren said.

“But... don't you...”

“I'm not going to interfere with your alone time.” Ren said with a smile. “I know how precious it is.”

“Ren, come closer.” Fayeth said and laid down beside Jay without touching him.

“But...”

“It wasn't a request.” Fayeth said sternly, and Ren sighed and moved over on the bed to lay beside her. “Thank you for doing this for us.” She said as she turned onto her side and put her head on his shoulder and an arm over his chest. “You can feel how happy you've made us.”

“I can, and that's why I was trying to give you room to hold each other.” Ren chuckled.

“It's only for an hour.” Fayeth said. “Can you stand cuddling with me for that long?”

“Fayeth.” Ren said.

“Yes, Ren?”

“I can't feel your breasts pressed against me.” Ren said with a smile. “Move closer.”

“Yes, Ren.” Fayeth said and shimmied closer and her warm flesh pressed against him as he put an arm over her shouders.

“Fayeth.”

“Yes, Ren?”

“You're not calling me King Ren or My King anymore.” Ren said.

“That's because you don't want me to.” Fayeth said and placed a gentle kiss on his chest.

“No, I don't.” Ren said with a smile. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” Fayeth, Jay and Rachel said in response, then they drifted off to sleep.

For the next week, with 1 hour breaks mixed in so Jay could recover, Ren showed them all different kinds of positions and techniques to please each other as both couples and as triples.
