Deception is an essential aspect of war. More than merely being a skill, deception is going to be the core of all your engagements. You have things you can leverage: your strength, your magic, your numbers, your resources, positioning, geography, the capability of flight versus the possibility of tunneling beneath your enemies and collapsing the soil under their feet.

All these things can only be done and fully leveraged, however, if you have the right amount of information. If you are well informed and, on top of that, if you are provided with proper intelligence regarding your enemy's capabilities. And intelligence is essential, for what you don't know will often prove fatal. Assumptions on the battlefield will see you or your comrades slain, and that is not a trade. You are not trading lives for knowledge, because you will always run out of lives before you gain an adequate amount of information. You have to gain information beforehand, and so you have to be a better liar on the battlefield. You have to be able to bait your enemy into showing you their hand, their capabilities, their forces before you ever reveal your own.

And so the true dance of the battlefield takes shape before steel rings against steel, before spell collides upon spell. In battle, there is deception: two sides with a certain amount of knowledge, using that knowledge to learn more, to understand what they need to strike at, and filling the opposition with false information, feigning attacks, splitting their forces so that the enemy might find themselves diverted and made vulnerable. Detonating bombs behind enemy lines to force them to stay in place, running mock attacks repeatedly to wear down the enemy's attention, concentration, and morale. All things have deception built into their core; for the better liar always has an absolute advantage—the advantage of provocation. The advantage of initiative. The advantage of deciding where battles are to be fought, or breaking battles before they take shape.

And it is in understanding and mastering deception that you will spare your forces unneeded deaths and force your enemies to come forth to fight on your terms.

Remember this: Faced directly, a True Master is an impossible adversary for an Adept. They are near unbreakable for you in flesh, in magic, in all the ways that count. But if they do not suspect your presence, if they think they have your flank, and if they think they can access your flank only through a narrow valley that they traverse at night, then you can exploit this knowledge. You can use gravity to fill in where your skills are wanting. As they walk that valley, you wait. You watch, and you drop the stones down from above. And then, because they cannot be broken physically, you use another means of solving them. You soften the mud. You liquify the soil, and you press them into the earth where they have no leverage to push back, and so they suffocate. And so they drown, and they scream because they were not prepared. They were deceived, but you were not.

Understand that this is not an anecdote. This is how I killed my first True Master as an Adept. It can be done. Wield your mind and use your enemy's paranoia and knowledge against them.

If you can command their expectations, if you can command their perception of the world and shape it to your whim, then even if you are inferior in all other aspects, you can determine the conditions of victory.

—Captain Harry Irons, TacStrat 101, Phoenix Academy

409

The One Who Decides [II]

It took only eight minutes for Uva to conquer Passage this time, with three of those already spent testing and acclimating to her new skill before she initiated her attack.

The Dreaming Storm was a many-layered blade, and she learned to wield it well as she experimented on this simulated world and the people that populated it. The weakest of her enemies were spirited away, snatched in an instant by fingers of lightning that curled and spread, becoming a doubled analogue of storm and web. She stole them from where they were, leaving their allies shocked and terrified, before storing them in secured territory, where she could use them as mana generators to amplify her power.

Rather than ripping through Passage using overwhelming means, however, she went further. She reconstructed the insides of the teleportation complex, and her Psychomancy was unleashed as more than a thing of raw and brutal power. It was an intrusive layering atop reality, a distortion of the actual world, forged through her magic. Her Dreaming Storm spread to swallow all of Passage, and within the halls, doors vanished. New hallways were created. Paths linking one place to another were constructed in an instant as the architecture of her mind subsumed the architecture of reality. Beneath her mana, the actuality of existence remained rooted, but for this moment, while her translucent rains fell, her will was paramount, and she reshaped architecture and geometry to her whims.

Such was why she abandoned the subtle approach. She wanted responders to arrive from the rest of Weave. She wanted powerful Pathbearers to step into this reconstructed reality she'd built over Passage. And they did. Unknowingly, they walked into Uva's storm, into her web, and didn't even realize—a coming swarm of flies laying themselves out as a gathered feast for a spider to sample.

With the laws of the mind taking precedence over the laws of matter, Uva applied the lessons Hymn had taught her and continued instructing herself as she stole away core memories and used them to create a maze built on the foundations of madness and misery.

The resources used to construct the maze were freely provided by all her victims, and she approached every battle with a similar strategy. The weakest weren't worth killing or bending to her will; they provided far more of a strategic and tactical advantage as amplifiers for her mind. As she accrued the vulnerable, her storm grew. A pall of translucent lightning spread over the skies of Weave, drowning the city below in kaleidoscopic flashes of eldritch radiance.

But the creeping storm belied something hidden, something subtle. The rains that fell were gradually reshaping the shape of reality. Passage was already transforming, twisting, but ever so slowly, ever so subtly, the rest of the city was beginning to follow. It began in places no one was looking, barren of Awareness. She created bridges to these places, planting doors on walls where there were none before and connecting them back to Passage, back to where her own body remained.

Landscapes derived from harvested memories became junctions between locations. Uva installed childhood bedrooms across bioluminescent fields, and burning battlegrounds as connective tissue for her new reality. And she did it with the ease of weaving immaterial thoughts.

After all, beneath her unceasing downpour, there was no difference between matter and mind.

She exploited the spontaneously created pathways, storing her Terrorspawn and spiderlings within the psionic bridges to serve as spontaneous breach points across the city—before removing them from her mind and existence the moment after to ensure her enemy couldn’t trace her back.

This allowed her to engineer impossible encirclements and effectively remove the limitation of space and distance, at least within the reach of her mana field—which was quite considerable indeed. With every mind she stole, it swelled and grew larger, and everything beneath its shadow was hers to manipulate.

A series of absurd battles followed. Terrorspawn, spiderlings, and magical spells exploded out from portals and chasms that weren't there before, washing over her Heroic and Legendary adversaries one after another.

The Order fought well, resisting as hard as they could, just like before, but they had no counter for her most esoteric Psychomancy. More than creating bridges, she sealed away existing paths, cutting allies off from each other, isolating Legendary Pathbearers so that they could drown beneath a tide of her Outsider minions and her combined skills.

The Cherished Mother in charge of Passage was struck down without a fight this time, as she failed to notice the ground beneath her opening up and Uva's elongated hand spearing high through that psionic breach point, piercing through her chest and cleaving her open down the middle.

As the first encounter ended and the second followed, scenes like this played all across the city, one after another, and Uva never slowed her tempo. She always engaged at her own volition. Where her storm fell, where the rains accumulated, she built her reality and substituted that which existed before. A second web grew within Weave, one that was closer to its namesake. Threads of psionic essence glowed bright as the familiar spires and skylines vanished beneath kaleidoscopic veins of lightning that pulsated with fractured spiderlings.

The metaphor of a spideress was no longer enough. Uva wasn't just a spider. She had merged into her own web, and her nest was ever-growing, ever-tangled with captured minds and slain adversaries. As she captured four thousand mana generators, she stole entire spires out of reality, taking with those colossal towers everyone trapped within. Once more, she seized the weak and assimilated their minds, but she left the strong behind and ground them down through concentrated battles of attrition, never letting them join up with one another. Always hounding them, hunting the Dimensionalists, the Diviners, and the enemy Psychomancers first, for they were the ones that dealt the most damage to her new invasive architecture. It wasn't enough. It was never enough.

Slowly, a third metaphor entered the fray: Uva was more than a web. She was a sea pouring forth from a hostile reality this version of Weave was destined to drown.

And through it all, Uva found a most applicable use for Harkness as well, as she deployed her forces in hybrid warfare, dispatching her Terrorspawn as an expendable vanguard, delivering calculated strikes through her spiderlings, or interceding herself when things were most dire. Harkness, though, gained a special role in all that. Harkness became a spoiler.

“You bitch, you Umbral whore, you blood slave, you little—” Harkness's harpy-like screeches were cut off time and again as she was manifested in the most hostile areas. Beneath the hail of enemy spells, she would disintegrate in moments. Whenever the mana comprising her body was utterly spent, death came to greet Harkness.

Except not really. Shiv was no longer the sole holder of the Deathless title.

This stolen instance of Harkness' consciousness got to experience end after end as she was flung into the deep end, luring the enemies out, distracting the Order, and befuddling them as they found themselves killing the same woman over and over. This revealed more of their capabilities, their most stealthy assets, and allowed Uva to understand and devise devastating strategies toward their resolution.

“And it's all thanks to you, Harkness,” Uva declared with a slight smirk pulling at her lip. “Your sacrifices will be remembered by me, and I will reward you by sending you on new missions, just like New Albion. Why, I'm practically your new queen, aren't I?”

Harkness tried to seethe, but that was a bit difficult when a twelve-meter-tall Weaveress clad within armor sculpted from storm and stone had her arm through her chest. “Someday, someday my true self will visit my revenge upon you,” she spat through their mental connection. “Someday I will see you butchered for this indignity.”

“Well, be sure to regret this someday. But not today. For right now, I need you in the southwestern part of the city. The Pyromancer there has burned away all my Terrorspawn, and I need to take another run at her. Do scream as loud as you can. She doesn't like loud noises.”

“Mettabon!”

But Uva considered the conversation done, and so she cast Harkness away, projecting a new instance of her ego with the thunderclap of falling lightning, as her last form was spent. A satisfied sigh escaped Uva. Arteries of translucent lightning erupted forth from her head, and her powers only grew as other branching storms were installed nearby. No longer was she in the anchor anymore. She stood in the central lobby of Passage, but she had also significantly moved and layered that final sanctuary of hers deep beneath other hallways, dense mazes, and other interwoven architecture. Behind her stood rows and rows of mana generators, captured victims with strands of lightning hooked into their minds. Smaller storms burst out of them, were drawn away into Uva's Dreaming Storm, and all that power was fed back into the greater architecture at play—that subversive reality growing over the existing city like a cancer.

“Such a shame I can only deploy one instance of her through my Black Gnosis,” Uva mused. “I think I need to consume more minds—the stolen egos aren't exactly useful in combat, but I can continue expending them, and they are worth a wealth of experiences. Besides, disposable assets are hard to come by, and piling in pure psionic recreations of people requires too much concentration. Unless you have more advanced strategies you would like to share?”

She regarded the Headmaster and saw the man on the verge of open schadenfreude.

“Again, though this is incredibly amusing, I do need to remind you that you made an oath about ethics and all that before,” Hymn said. “What you're doing with her is awfully close to slavery. Frankly, a claim of slavery can still be made for all the people you have captured and fueling your telepathy.”

