“Calm, calm.” Hymn gestured for Uva to focus. “You still have one encounter left. A critical, dangerous encounter. And aside from that, I'm going to warn you right now that I felt the same way when I finished my Delve. Like I'd just learned what it meant to be a god. No, more than a god. I'd achieved a true apotheosis.” Slowly, he shook his head and tutted in criticism of both himself and her. “But of course I hadn't. My power is great. It grants me insights few other Legends can match, and yours, well, it's special and powerful and utterly, infuriatingly unique, because the System lusts for and despises you in equal measure. But know this: You are nowhere near invincible. The most important memories to hold on to are memories of defeat, not memories of triumph. Remember how easy it was for Adam to strike you down, and understand that he can still strike you down that easily if you give him an opening. Again, you are not a Dimensionalist; you don't hold power over spaces; you're simply circumventing it.”

His words slowly pulled her back from her reverie, and she waited for him to continue. “Likewise, if you were actually fighting Shiv, things wouldn't be so easy. It would be substantially harder for him than Adam to take you down since he lacks more esoteric abilities, but so do you. He didn't wander out of reality while facing you. He hasn't used his words or leapt across time. I don't know about the forces of your city in detail, but I assume the same is true for them here. The Delve is difficult, but it is also engineered for you to experience final success, and the same will go for the Hatchling. I suspect that you'll find a way to solve it now. I'm not going to tell you how to defeat it. I am, however, going to infuse it with the Stranger's essence, because I can cheat if the System can. We can, to be accurate. But I expect you to best it on your own, using what little you've learned so far. When you do, when you decide what you want to do with it, when you make your first true choice about the eldritch instead of a choice forced upon you, I want you to hold this point and all the other points you struggled with in mind.”

“So that I'm not swallowed by hubris?” Uva guessed.

“So you can help the truth sink in as deeply as it can go. Being a Legend does not make you truly powerful. It simply makes you truly aware of how mortal and vulnerable we all are, because there are other Legends who have gone through worse Delves than you—and there's definitely at least one that’s perfectly designed to kill you.”

Initiating Encounter (5/5)

And once more, the Composer’s cocoon below burst apart in a blinding explosion of divine fire, revealing the Hatchling and the Starhawk’s golden shadow looming over it.

“Food for thought,” Hymn hummed. “But while you digest that, enjoy dessert in the form of the Eldest. Let's see how badly you can humiliate an Outsider god.”

“Yes,” Uva hissed through her teeth, a cruel need to settle a score roaring to life within her. “Dessert indeed.”

It had been some time since she felt quite so hungry.
