“And an argument can be made against it. Harkness is not actually Harkness. She is just a distilled ego that I am imagining. I can't make myself a slave, or I am utterly my own slave. Either way, I do not think the ethics apply here, not in the same way as with the others…” Uva looked over her shoulder and scanned the pawns fueling her Dreaming Storm. “I suspect 'prisoners of war' would be more accurate. I'm not forcing them to do anything; I'm simply deriving an extra resource of power from them. Is that entirely ethical? I suspect not, but nothing about Psychomancy is, and I refuse to surrender what remains of my pragmatism to dignify my enemies when they might not give me any in return.”

“Some might argue you're playing with semantics, Seeker.”

“Some are System-favored,” Uva shot back. “Some have not faced a very probable prospect of being ambushed by a Tarrasque or a pantheon of hostile gods.”

Hymn just rolled his eyes. “So long as you can justify it to yourself, I suppose.”

“Are you mocking me?”

“Now, I do find your ethics questionable, but I suppose since you're just starting out, these things are inevitable. Besides, I'm not the most moral person myself, but I do mean that. Your behavior determines who you are, and if you can maintain some level of behavioral consistency, fewer vulnerabilities will arise from that psychologically. Action mirroring mind and all that. I wrote a book on that a few decades before you were born. You might be interested in reading it.”

Uva glared at the projection of the man standing opposite her. “I've read several books on this subject. My education is—”

“Let me kill your hubris before it swells. A Pathbearer’s education is never complete. The thing about enlightenment is that it's not a skill, but a perpetual deficiency.”

Hymn spoke with a seriousness Uva had never sensed before, and so she was compelled to listen. “I've noticed a few flaws in you. Not in your power. The problem is that you're flippant about many things, not due to arrogance but because you don't like dealing with them. You compartmentalize your discomfort, and you push it aside. You do that for pretty much everything, in fact. Right now, because you still hold some spite toward the surface in your heart for what one of us has done to you, you turn away from possible knowledge. You don't need to like us. You don't need to respect us. Someday, if you decide to wipe us all out, then it is what it is. But understand that turning away from knowledge is a mutilation of yourself. Enlightenment is a hopeless, vain pursuit, but it is a worthy pursuit nonetheless.

He snapped his fingers. “Learn. Learn everything. Do not let ignorance betray you. I can't stand to see that more than anything else. I can't stand to see the tragedy of a fool refusing to learn.”

And for one of the rare moments in her life, Uva listened to him and nodded once. “I'll read your book after all this is done. No need to push it any harder. Just leave me a copy after we get out of this place.”

“A copy?” Hymn repeated. “Uva, dear, you are going to be reading through libraries' worth of books if I’m going to make a proper Seeker and Psychomancer out of you.”

He watched her as if waiting for a desired response, and then pouted when she just kept a deadpan stare. “Usually when I threaten to increase the workload of my students, they whine and beg.”

Uva wiggled her nose in disdain. “How pitiful. Is the library large?”

“Quite.”

“Good.” And Uva said no more.

Hymn’s nonchalant facade cracked as he laughed. “Ah, well, this is going to be a welcome change of pace. Someone who is actually willing to learn. Well, then, before all those textual lessons, another lesson in the practical. I already told you about creating architecture using your mind. Well, since the laws of matter and mentalism are blurring, understand that the rules of space don't fully apply anymore, either. It's a strange little trick that trespasses slightly into the realm of Dimensionality—but bypasses that lore since you're manipulating things Psychomantically.”

“You're talking about making spaces smaller or closer together telepathically, like I'm doing right now.”

“Yes, but with more focus. With more deliberate thought.” A rumble of psionic lightning interrupted Hymn’s words as sixty-five more Adepts were lowered into the lobby with bolts hooked into their minds. The total mana Uva commanded grew ever greater. “Packing all your generators in one place, for instance, is a bad idea, even if you can easily move them. As I mentioned before, you're not actually a Dimensionalist, and as such, you can't prevent one from teleporting in here.”

Uva hummed in consideration. “A decentralized defense… Yes, I understand. I can apply that.”

“Let me finish completely. A decentralized architecture: a decentralized city. You don't want to give your enemies any clear targets. You want their experiences to be miserable, more than just wandering into a maze. You want them to never truly hit you. You need to occupy some space in reality. You can't simply pull everything into your own mind. The city is too much, even with all its inhabitants fueling you with mana. But you have more than enough magic right now to layer different places together using your mind—to use the dynamic nature of your thought to keep you constantly in transit.”

As Uva drank in the Headmaster's words, a growing understanding passed through her. “You mean we don't need to be inside Passage? I should shuttle us from place to place within a bolt of lightning, or use my thoughts to constantly move myself and my most important assets through the bridges you taught me to make?”

Hymn gave a slight nod. “That's part of what I'm saying: be dynamic, be flexible, be fluid, be like water. If you can constantly move, you already have zone control, so use the zone. Never be where your enemy is about to hit, and constantly maneuver. In fact, you can reshape this mental projection you have of the city, so you can move through this place in ways no one else can. Here's the part where you start exploring and stop theorizing.”

Uva took a second to calibrate her mind, transitioning herself and all of her generators out from within the heart of Passage, which was going to be quite the undertaking. Or maybe it didn't need to be. Everything around her was layered in a coating of mind mana anyway. All she needed to do was inject this portion of mind mana somewhere else.

She wasn't actually pulling chunks out of reality. Aside from a few pieces of matter that she stole into her mind and cast aside, or a few buildings she ripped away from where they once stood, she wasn't actually displacing or damaging the actual material integrity of the world.

So, instead of drowning everyone within the lobby in a massive swell of falling lightning, moving them back into her mind and performing the transition herself, she created a great many portals lining the walls and simply chose one to walk through. A few seconds later, all her mana generators passed into other areas as well, and then they kept walking. More doors constantly opened in front of them as her psychomancy bridged and built connections across the city; they never stopped moving. They never stopped changing locations.

Thus, her most important assets gained a new layer of dynamic protection.

By now, all of Weave was in shadow beneath her storm, and the lightning she cast forth hammered the last patches of defiance. But even that didn't last long. Far fewer people died during her struggle to claim the city. Far fewer, indeed. She possessed 12,000 minds under her sway this time, 12,000 that made her power so much greater than before. She wasn't just a raw storm anymore. All those minds provided her with more stolen architecture to implant over the city, and so the shape of Weave changed as well. As the storm fell, as the rain rebuilt the spires and crystalline heights, aglow in ethereal lights, they were replaced by literal embodiments of Weave's name: a spider web took shape, a spider web of translucence clutching shards of fractal brilliance in the denseness of its webbing, hiding armies of moving spiders, connecting chunks of toppled buildings.

It was a city engulfed in ruin. It was a city lost to strands spun by Uva's mind. It was a city layered in mana, hiding so much in its depths; it was a city that became a trap for anyone that dared descend into its madness.

The third encounter arrived.

Adam wasn't.

Twelve thousand minds channeled in concert struck him from existence even faster than previously, and Uva only unleashed a fifth of all the magic she'd amassed this time.

The fourth encounter came, and Shiv crashed down, but Uva had adapted her strategies in advance.

Last time, he caught her off guard, overwhelmed her by smashing and ripping through her mana generators, forcing the battle into one of near-desperate attrition until she finally solved his puzzle. This time, she was the puzzle, and he found himself bereft of any keys.

Clad in his Garden of Wounds and Broken Things, Shiv came crashing down with an overflowing sea of Shapeless Tides, expecting to blast through spires bedecked with captured minds. In the first second, he plunged into the webbing, slamming against bolts of dormant Psychomancy—bolts that detonated with power, straining Uva's collective mana and draining her by half her reserves. But they held, and while it sapped her, the lightning burned away at Shiv as well. She unleashed her spiderlings en masse, their built-up numbers slicing and slashing upon him, and fleeing across psionic bridges the next moment.

As his scar-forged shell manifested, she didn't continue striking him physically. She sent forth her Terrorspawn; they died as expected. Harkness was launched; she died as well. But in that carnage, as Shiv thrashed, trying to break something, he found himself deprived of any nourishing destruction.

Wherever he rampaged, Uva used her Psychomancy to strip the site bare of matter. The individuals she used as generators, meanwhile, simply continued walking and walking and walking. The bridges took them from alleyways to storefronts to offices, and then bedrooms. Never once did they come within forty kilometers of Shiv's person.

While he was a self-sustaining engine of destruction, indestructible, unstoppable, and undying in most circumstances, right now, in a direct contest of magical attrition, he was being ground down. Everything she lost would soon be regained and surpassed as she harvested more lightning from her captured minds, while he had no way to generate anything but innate tides.

Even so, killing Shiv took the better part of three and a half minutes. She had to play a dangerous game against his Unique Pyromancy, that flame which cooked her mana and allowed him to gorge himself on the substance of her power. This time, as he ate away at her stuff, he developed a layer of translucence all his own and started walking through her webbing, like he was a part of its substance. She adapted then, bombarding him with her time-halting frost—and only after he ripped through ninety percent of her psionic webbing, depriving her of the vast majority of her mana reserves, did she finally bring him down and entomb him within a massive pillar of tarnished gold.

By now, the cityscape of Weave had been reshaped. Beside the Symposium, everything at the core of the dimension had been harvested bare, standing as a curved, empty bowl of translucent webbing, with a single spire born of time and frost standing at its center. The Deathless within struggled a few seconds more before he went still, trapped in stasis, effectively defeated.

With that, the final encounter drew close once more, and a long breath escaped Uva. Despite what she was about to face, the enormity of the task, and the danger of the adversary awaiting her, she felt a lightness fill her body as she observed Shiv through the eyes of her spiderlings, through Harkness, whom she dispatched onto him without any concern.

Not a single mana generator was lost this time. Not a single life held by Uva's web. Though the roiling storm above was weakened, the many branches leading up into the sky continued to flow, and soon the lightning would return en masse, and the rains would follow. Her generators, her minds, her pawns were the most important aspect of this skill. She wasn't the only source of mana that she could wield—Uva was strongest when an entire city was working with her, when her mind was supported by countless others.

And that had her thinking once more. About using her powers with the consenting city, with Gate Piety or the real Weave. Instead of trying to conquer her home, she could bridge it, connect it, fuse the collective consciousnesses and intellects of her Sisters and Mothers together. What could she do then? What wonders could she bring about if the System would only give her a few moments of reprieve?

This Legendary skill was a gift above gifts. It wasn't just for war. It wasn't just to enslave. No, it was beyond that. It was synergy. It was the meaning of community. It was a dream. A dream shaped as a storm.

“And it can be more than that,” she breathed. “I can reach beyond Weave. With this, we don't need to hide inside the Composer’s dimension anymore. We can expand. The First Blood, Compact, even the Legions and the Descenders… I can see them denied. I can drive them to the brink.” Uva reached out to all twelve thousand minds synchronized with her Dreaming Storm—and dubbed them as such for good. Because that was what they were synchronized to: her mind, her power. They were synchronized to a dream, and in fueling that dream, they allowed it to become a higher part of reality.

