Laurelia caught her breath at the thought and he felt her body react. He waited as she thought about what it would mean, then she nodded. He slowly leaned in close and felt her anticipation as his lips approached hers, then he cupped the sides of her face and gave her a gentle kiss. Her body shivered again, and she reached up to run her hands through his hair as she kissed him back in earnest. After a couple of minutes, she broke the kiss and looked at him with smouldering eyes.

“My room.”

Ren nodded and picked up the statue, took her hand to help her stand, then led her out of the room and up the stairs. She pointed to her room and they went inside. He put the statue down and turned her around to open her dress. She caught it as the clasp was released, then she turned around with it held to her chest.

“Ren, I... I've...” Laurelia took a quick breath. “This isn't my...”

“Shh, it's okay.” Ren said. “All that matters is this moment. It's just you and me, and no one else is a factor. For right now, this is our whole world.”

Laurelia smiled as she very slowly slid the dress down and kept an arm over her chest. She let the dress drop to the floor and all she wore was a pair of underwear. She shifted her arm and used both hands to cover her breasts, jiggled them a little to make sure Ren was looking right at them, then moved her hands out of the way.

“Oh, my.” Ren said, and her face flushed red.

“Do... do you like them?”

“I do.” Ren stepped close and leaned down slightly to kiss them like she wanted him to, and she wrapped her arms around him and moaned as she finally felt his lips on her warm and ready flesh. He gave her breasts the attention they deserved, and then he kissed her passionately. She revelled in the feel of his hands on her and his expertly used lips and tongue, then she yipped in surprise as he picked her up and put her on the bed.

“Prepare yourself.” Ren said and moved down to touch her underwear, and she caught his hands.

“Wh-what are you doing?” Laurelia asked.

“I should tell you to relax, but you aren't going to.” Ren grinned and slid her underwear down, then kissed his way back up her legs and to her special place. When he reached there, she stopped thinking any kind of rational thought and completely lost herself in the pleasure.

After almost half an hour, she gripped his hair and pulled on him to get him to stop, and she gave him frantic eyes. He understood what she wanted, so he kissed her and stored his clothing. She nodded and let his hair go, and he moved back to kneel between her legs. She caught sight of his ready state and stopped breathing when she realized how big he was.

“R-Ren, it... it's not going to fit!” Laurelia exclaimed.

“Oh, yes it will.” Ren touched her sensitive spot and she gasped, then he slipped the tip inside. She finished just from that, then she finished again as he went all the way in.

“OH, GOD!” Laurelia yelled, and once again, she lost herself as he pleased her, over and over. It went on and on, and she couldn't believe that he could do this to her and didn't have to stop or take a break. After an hour, she had had so much pleasure that her whole body had become an erogenous zone.

Ren felt this, and combined with her disbelief, he figured that was enough for her and he finished her one last time and eased out, then finished himself. He laid down beside her and took out a cloth to wipe her off, and she stopped him.

“Let... let me just...” Laurelia looked at his face. “It's so warm and I don't want to lose this feeling.”

Ren smiled and gave her a kiss, then laid back to relax. They both laid there for several minutes, and then Laurelia touched the mess.

“Why is it still warm?”

“You wanted it to be, didn't you?” Ren asked.

“You're doing it?” Laurelia asked, surprised.

Ren nodded. “You wanted to keep the feeling, so I wanted to make you happy.”

“Oh, Ren.” Laurelia said and started to lean over to kiss him. He quickly wiped her off before she made the mess any messier and kissed her. When she leaned back, she saw that the mess was gone and looked at him with wide eyes.

“I can be really fast when I want to be.” Ren said with a big smile.

Laurelia laughed because they had just spent almost two hours in bed together.

“So, did I fulfill your little person fantasy?” Ren asked.

“You destroyed it.” Laurelia said, honestly. “I imagined you becoming full size for a short time, but...”

“I'm glad.” Ren said, and she looked at him with wide eyes. “I really like it when I can exceed people's expectations.”

“You really did.” Laurelia said and kissed him again.
