Against any other Peak Expert save a select handful, Bai Qi was confident his sabre and staff style could carry the day, but he keenly felt his limits here against Akanai. She was always three steps ahead of his actions, if not more, reading his movements with such ease it was as if she could read his mind with a glance. Her broken ribs did nothing to hamper her actions as she flowed effortlessly between defense and offense to keep him at bay, and she almost broke free within the first second of disengaging. Twenty-seven exchanges and another second later, she reversed course and caught Bai Qi by surprise as she charged headlong into another engagement, slaughtering two surprised Half-Demons threatening to overrun a section of the wall before any of them could react. Predicting that another full second would pass before he could engage her again, he took this time to reform the Green Dragon Crescent Blade into a glaive for it was the form he was most used to, a move which nearly proved disastrous as Akanai belied all expectations and turned to assault him once again instead of retreating to make more room.

The piercing lance skirted past his throat by the barest of margins, thwarted by his hasty parry, and he felt the weight of the world press down upon him as his foe used her leverage to deal a powerful strike that travelled all of three millimetres. This infinitesimal swing carried more power than what most Martial Warriors could match with an all-out attack, and Bai Qi’s muscles groaned as he strove to keep the wickedly curved blade from kissing his throat. A single moment of weakness and he would lose his life here, yet that split second of resistance felt like an eternity as he held out against all odds before being flung away and sent hurtling down to the battlements below. A lesser man would have crashed into the stone and been injured upon impact, but Bai Qi rallied his wits in time to position the butt of his glaive to absorb the bulk of the impact, allowing himself to pivot about and land feet first and disperse the rest of the force. Even then, the landing was jarring and rough, the concrete crumbling beneath his feet to reveal the iron lattice framework holding it all together. Fighting to stay standing nearly cost him his life once more as he faltered in the face of Akanai’s follow-up attack, another powerful charging thrust which he dared not take head on. Nor could he retreat in time thanks to his unstable footing, so all he could do was twist in place and pray his Runic Armour and Domain Plated Defenses were enough to blunt her blow.

It was, but only barely, and he heard the shriek of metal as his Runic breastplate buckled and broke beneath the force of a hurtling mountain. As the tip of her ax-lance collided with his Domain-Plated defenses, he shunted off as much of the force as he could through Deflection and Reverberation as he could. The bulk of it went into the air around him, but he directed a large portion of it into the ground beneath his feet, and the shattered concrete exploded into shards of stone and clouds of dust that obscured them both from sight. A good thing too, because Bai Qi would not want others to see his defenses blown apart by a single attack, even one as domineering as Akanai’s Ground-Shrinking Strike. The premise behind it seemed simple enough at first glance, as both Bai Qi and Mataram YuKon were able to identify the Movements it comprised of, namely Balance on Windy Leaf and Pierce the Horizon. In practice however, neither of them were able to replicate the combination attack, a failure which stung their pride seeing how even young Falling Rain had been able to do it. It was only upon further inspection that they realized why, namely that this was not a sequential combination of two movements, but rather a blending of the two in one.

In short, Akanai was not performing Balance on Windy Leaf followed by Pierce the Horizon. No, she performed a single movement that melded those two movements into a separate and distinct movement that was wholly her own. This wasn’t the first time Bai Qi had seen something like this, but the woman used this unique movement to strike and fade away without offering him a chance to retaliate. Frustration did not even begin to describe his emotions as he sailed back through the air and concrete dust, his body passing through poured stone and iron lattice like a ship cutting through the waves. The sands rose to meet him as he slammed into the ground, the breath driven from his lungs despite all his best efforts to blunt the impact as best he could, and only then did he dare admit the truth.

He, Bai Qi, the Lord of Martial Peace and Prince of Barbarity, was sorely outmatched.

Time stopped as he retreated into the void and immersed himself within his Natal Palace, seated atop his Natal Throne which his soul never left unguarded. He’d seen first-hand what could be done to an unsuspecting foe, and even though someone as weak-willed and feeble-minded as young Gen was able to resist the Uniter’s insidious influence, Bai Qi was not a man who left things to chance. In spite of the dire circumstances, he allowed himself a moment to bask in the comfort of his surroundings, for the surge of fond memories and familiar emotions were most welcome in this time of great need. Here he sat in his childhood home, a humble shack with only a single room and a chest of sun-baked clay to store their clothes. In the corner sat a broom with a shaft of bone and bristles of hard camel fur which his mother used to wage a losing war against the shifting sands, for the hemp cloth covering their door did nothing to keep it out. Aside from that, there was little else worthy of note other than a few basic trappings and tools necessary for life in the desert, but to Bai Qi, this would forever and always be his home. Here they slept during the day to escape the oppressive heat of the sun, and at nights, father would set out to toil in the mines while mother set to work with her embroidery with Bai Qi at her feet, singing songs all the while to keep him entertained. As a young boy, he was always at her heels whenever awake, for unattended children were often snatched up for some nefarious purpose or the other, and though these days were the harshest of times, Bai Qi had been happiest here at her side.

Because all this came before they moved to the city where his parents would die, a traumatic event that tainted all the memories he had of those days.

There was more to his Natal Palace than just this hovel here, but he cared not to explore it just yet. With little more than a thought, the sand swirled around him to form a construct in the shape of a man and woman. They were supposed to be his mother and father, but he’d all but forgotten their faces by now, and no matter how hard he tried, he could never get the details just right. Their deaths were what set him upon this Path, because even though his father turned into a Demon at the end, Bai Qi never blamed him for it. No, instead, he blamed himself, because he chose honour and duty above love and family, and it cost him everything he held dear, a mistake he regretted to this day. Even if it meant dying in obscurity in an attempt to flee the city, Bai Qi wanted more than anything to go back and at least try to save his parents from their inevitable fate, because only then could he die without a guilty conscience.

Instead, he set out to right the wrongs of the Empire by bringing the West under his control, a laughable goal which would never have succeeded so long as the Mataram Clan remained. Oh what a fool he’d been to not see it sooner, the fact that they were content to let him rule with an iron fist because it mattered not one whit in the end, but Bai Qi thought that would change once he toppled the Emperor from his throne. Now, he’d failed and faltered before even leaving the West, a far cry from where he’d envisioned how his journey would end.

There was still a chance to turn things around. He knew this in his heart of hearts. Embrace Imbalance for only a moment and he would touch upon power he’d only ever dreamed of, but at the cost of his future potential and humanity both. Mataram YuGan had done so and become a Half-Demon, as had a large number of Western Warriors and half-beast scions, but Bai Qi’s pride would not allow it. What use was there in surviving for a few years more without the prospect of advancement? While his strength would grow with time and practise, the Dao would remain forever closed off to him, for the Path of a Half-Demon was a truncated path, one which led to a dead end or worse. Who knew what secrets the Uniter still kept close? What influence could he exert over the Half-Demons? The man commanded regular Demons like dogs and slaves, so who was to say he couldn’t do the same to a Half-Demon?

No, better to die a free man than bend the knee as a slave, for he was a man of principle, if nothing else. Bai Qi was the Lord of Martial Peace, but if he could not bring peace to the Empire, then he would embrace the peace of death without regret.

That was why he was here in his Natal Palace, to make peace with his decisions, and his determination held strong even as the Spectres whispered their lies from just a step out in the Void. Their promises meant nothing, their assurances meaningless, and the power they offered was the sort of personal and selfish power he so abhorred, so it mattered not if it was close at hand. Surrender control for only a moment, then seize control once more, that was the Path they lured him towards, one which went against everything he stood for because then he would no longer be himself. Rather than give in to their lies, he instead knelt before his parents and tried to remember their faces in life and forget how they looked at the end while being tortured and tormented for the ‘greater good’. Falling forward flat on his face, he kowtowed before them nine times before straightening back up. “Mother,” he began, and tears filled his eyes as he took her hands in his own, wishing she’d had a chance to see how much he’d grown. “I, your unfilial son, failed you. Though father’s soul has been lost to us both, I pray that I can be your son again in the next life, and every other life after this one, so that I might make amends and protect you as a proper son should.”

To his father, Bai Qi said nothing, for how could he apologize for driving a soul to extinction? Father’s soul was no longer his, and would forever be barred from the cycle of reincarnation, doomed to wander the immaterial Void as a Spectre and parasite in hopes of experiencing life once more. All Bai Qi could do was mourn his father’s loss once more, before opening his eyes to meet his end like the Warrior he was and fight to his last breath. The Energies of the Heavens surged as he found his resolve, and in this moment of darkness, Bai Qi found his way forward unobstructed once more as the secrets of the universe flooded through him in a surge of Insight and Inspiration. The sands rose around him in a storm of debris as his Domain billowed out in force, but it was all too little too late, a truth he understood and accepted as he watched the ax-lance hurtle towards him. This was his death, delivered by none other than Akanai herself, the Herald announcing his end for all to hear with the clarion call of whistling steel. Meeting the ice-cold gaze of her beautiful blue eyes, Bai Qi offered her a nod of respect even as her weapon pierced through his chest and heart, for he felt no shame in his defeat at the hands of a superior foe.

And so as his growing sandstorm faltered and dispersed, his dreams of peace came to an end, one he met with a smile upon his face, for at the very least, the Lord of Martial Peace had found peace with himself, if nothing else.

Chapter Meme
