Bai Qi’s too, for he’d come to Shi Bei at the head of an army larger than any ever before expecting he would take the city within a matter of days at most, yet here he was now fifteen days later, second guessing his decisions and wondering if he should have cut his losses earlier and withdrawn. That had been his initial suggestion in fact, when he saw the boy come in riding a ship he carried two-hundred and fifty kilometres inland on a wave of Water Chi. Mataram YuKon insisted that the boy was not yet a Divinity, but that only made Bai Qi all the more wary, for if Falling Rain could already wield so much power as a mortal, how formidable would he be once he took the next step?

Alas, the Uniter insisted they continue in spite of it all, assuring Bai Qi that victory would soon be in hand, the same way he insisted Central would fall with little more than a wave of a hand once they finished consolidating the West. Two years later, concrete, catapults, crossbows, and Cannons put an end to those dreams, and they did so again here in Shi Bei, for Mao Jianghong had left a city in ruins and returned not two weeks later to find a fortress of towering concrete walls manned by a hundred-thousand crossbows which rained bloody death upon the tribals without reprisal. A formidable weapon of war, the crossbow, and Bai Qi had long since tasked the craftsmen of the West to uncovering the secrets to their construction, but thus far, they had yet to devise anything to match the quality shown in Falling Rain’s ranged weapons of massacre. The Cannons were another weapon Bai Qi coveted, but even the Uniter was unable to lay bare the secrets of their construction except to say that the cannonballs were propelled by some sort of explosive force that was then directed by a hollow column of iron that was sealed at one end.

There were so many secrets hidden within Falling Rain’s head, Bai Qi was almost pleased when he failed to kill the boy in a single strike. Surprised as well, considering he never expected to fail given Mataram YuKon’s assurance that no Divinity was poised to interfere. Alas, his assassination attempt was thwarted by a wall of water and one of the densest and most complex Domain-Plated defenses he’d ever seen, both of which had to have come from Falling Rain himself since all other variables were accounted for. It was one thing for the Bristleboar Divinity to shake off Shooting Star Nian Zu’s titular attack, but to see that same level of defensive strength in a beardless boy of twenty-one was remarkable to say the least. The wall of water was even more impressive, a fixed wave which washed away the strength of his blow and would have rendered it weak and impotent upon contact. Difficult to say if the boy himself had deployed this Chi working since both the Medical Saint and Divine Turtle of Ping Yao possessed the capability to do so as well, but it mattered not who deployed it. Without his own Blessing to negate this hastily raised yet nigh impenetrable defense, Bai Qi wholeheartedly believed his attack would have been wholly foiled and his momentum stilled, leaving him motionless and helpless to Akanai’s piercing ax-lance piercing towards his neck.

Thankfully this was not the case, and Bai Qi could still deal with the formidable woman using his ready-made plans. No longer was he that rash young man who’d charged headlong into the Magistrate’s Palace, but a veteran of almost a hundred years who’d planned out every aspect of this attack. Akanai was strong, but within reason, unlike her monstrous Grand-Disciple Falling Rain who didn’t even lose consciousness after withstanding a full-strength attack from the Lord of Martial Peace. Though he failed to kill the young Legate in a single blow, Bai Qi put his surprise out of mind and devoted his full focus towards the Herald of the Storm instead, for to do any less would spell certain death. The woman was a hunter through and through, patient and enduring to the extreme as she took action only a handful of times these past fifteen days, actions which almost spelled doom for Bai Qi himself. This time however, he was ready and waiting for her attack, because even though she approached him at high speeds from a blind angle behind him, he knew she would target his throat.

Why? Because she was a hunter who struck to kill, and the only way to guarantee a killing blow was to target the finger-wide gap between Bai Qi’s helmet and pauldron. Even though her last attempt on his life shattered his Runic Armour and left him grievously wounded, she’d been unable to deliver a follow up attack to claim his life, and she was not one to leave things to chance. This made her predictable however, for securing another set of Runic Armour was simple enough which meant he only had to guard his singular weak point from her inevitable strike. A mere Domain Plating was far from enough to preserve his life against the powerful charging thrust of her ax-lance, but with the Uniter’s assistance, Bai Qi was no longer limited to the basic aspects of Chi and could use both Earth and Air to defend himself. Such were the benefits of a Blessing of Sand as it infused his Plated Domain to make it hardier and more durable than ever. Not only that, but he was now stronger, faster, and more mobile than ever as he Cloud Stepped away from his foe’s thrusting attack, with Earth Chi bolstering his strength and Air Chi augmenting his speed. At the same time, he directed a piddling puff of Sand Chi into her eyes, blinding and distracting her for a split second. Hardly the most devastating of Chi attacks, but his Blessing of Sand was not so easily mastered and he’d only been in possession of it for a handful of weeks. There would soon come a time when he unravelled the mysteries of his Blessing and learned how to shake the ground like Exarch Gam or slaughter thousands with a wave of his hand like Du Min Gyu, but Bai Qi was still mortal yet and would need time to decipher the secrets of its use.

A bit of Sand Chi in her eyes would not be enough to stop Akanai of the Bekhai, but it bought Bai Qi the time he needed to detach his sabre from the shaft and bring the blade around to Deflect her ax-lance. Never before had he moved so quickly, his actions guided by days spent practicing this and many similar such maneuvers, for his duel against the Bloody-Fanged Baatar had shown Bai Qi the flaws within his Path. The fact that his Green Dragon Crescent Blade was a combination of Spiritual Weapons was one of his best kept secrets, largely because he’d never faced an opponent strong enough to force him to reveal it, but this also meant he lacked experience in using its various components. A few weeks worth of training was hardly enough to make up for this failing, but better a few weeks than none at all, and he benefitted greatly considering one of his sparring partners was none other than Mataram YuKon himself. During the first fourteen days of the siege, the formidable Divinity studied Akanai’s every movement and helped Bai Qi devise a counter to her methods, and seeing how this same combination proved effective at defending Bai Qi from a Divinity under similar circumstances, he was confident it would be enough to thwart Akanai as well.

Sabre met ax-lance and Bai Qi allowed himself a small smile as a booming chime rang out, audible proof that all his hard work had not gone to waste. At the same time, he Cloud-Stepped in place to reverse momentum while flicking his wrist to flip his sabre about, savouring the rasp of steel upon steel. The movements had all been planned out in advanced, practised to the point of perfection for this one, glorious moment in which the hunter would become his prey. A two-handed slash at the young Legate with his glaive, followed by a parry of Akanai’s ax-lance with his sabre, and now he would reverse course and deal her a back-handed blow that would separate her head from her shoulders.

A most worthy foe, this Akanai of the Bekhai, one who’d given him more trouble than any before. Though her Disciple Baatar possessed the ability to trade blow for blow, she was unable to do the same, falling far short of Bai Qi in terms of raw strength and unable to outclass him in pure speed, while the disparity in their martial skills was not wide enough to make up for the difference in overall ability. In all likelihood, he would overpower her within a dozen exchanges if they were to engage in a standard duel, but she never afforded him the opportunity. Instead, she picked her moments carefully using the Peak Experts of the Empire as her bait, the mantis stalking the cicada without an oriole laying in wait. Unfortunately for her, she would find that Bai Qi was no cicada but a mantis himself, and he was almost disappointed to end their back-and-forth here.

So imagine his delight when he discovered himself unable to execute his killing counter-strike, for the canny woman had somehow managed to hook the tip of her curved blade through the third ring of his sabre and bar him from completing his swing. Much as he yearned to feel her warm blood splash across his face and move on with his conquest of the Empire, he felt a stirring of glee and contentment to have found so formidable a foe. From initial charge to counter-strike, their exchange took place in less time than it took to blink an eye, yet even then she was able to anticipate his actions and come up with a countermeasure of her own. This wasn’t due to speed of reaction, for in a battle between Peak Experts, there was little to no time to react at all, meaning her actions were either pre-meditated or carried out at the unconscious level, either of which demonstrated a level of mastery worthy of Bai Qi’s respect and admiration.

But a lion holds nothing back even when hunting a rabbit, and Akanai of the Bekhai was no mere rabbit. Though Bai Qi wholeheartedly expected their exchange to end here, he’d planned for the worst and his body responded accordingly. Though bereft of the sabre blade adorning its tip, the shaft was still a Spiritual Weapon in and of itself and served as a staff tipped by two ‘ornamental’ coiling dragons, a weapon he brought about in a one-handed thrust aimed at Akanai’s chest. The movement wasn’t separate from his back-handed sabre blow, but part and parcel of the whole, a twin-pronged attack meant to ensure his foe died here and now. Again, she surprised him by using the leverage of her ax-lance to push herself away, twisting as she retreated to avoid the brunt of his attack as his staff glanced off her ribs and sent her reeling away, disengaging her ax-lance from his sabre in a show of superlative timing, precision, and forethought.

At this point, Bai Qi had a decision before him, one he made without thinking for there was no time for hesitation. Cloud-Stepping after her in hot pursuit, he angled to keep her away from the city and safety while trusting his honour guard to keep other Peak Experts in check. On the surface, it appeared as if she’d avoided any and all injury, but he’d felt the give of flesh and the crack of bone when his staff connected, for even a glancing blow from the Lord of Martial Peace was enough to kill a Peak Expert. Not this Peak Expert however, who fought on with a cold expression of almost indifferent disdain as if he were some hooligan accosting her in the marketplace rather than a foe unlike any she’d ever before faced. Even as he exchanged blows with her in mid-air, he found himself drawn to her sapphire eyes and enamoured by her hair of golden wheat. A beautiful and exotic woman, this Akanai, a half-beast of unknown lineage even the Uniter was unable to determine, which in and of itself was alarming, for it meant there could be an Ancestral Beast still unaccounted for amongst the Bekhai’s allies.

An unsettling thought, given how most ‘neutral’ Divinities resided within the Azure Empire and therefore sided with the Imperial Clan. This made the Uniter’s penchant for pushing the boundaries of the Treaty all the more peculiar given how he would likely be annihilated within the day if a war between Divinities were to break out, though little to nothing of the Empire would likely remain. A matter not for Bai Qi to worry about however, for he could do nothing to change the outcome should such an event take place, meaning there was no sense in even considering it as a possibility. The only reason he cared was because some Ancestral Beasts treated their offspring better than others and had expressed their willingness to break the Treaty to protect them, which was why some individuals like Eccentric Gam were handled with more care. If the Earth-Blessed half-fox were to die in single combat, then all was well and good, but Heavens knows what the Fox Divinity would do if her ‘precious’ heirs were harmed by means most foul.

Alas, Bai Qi was unsure how Akanai’s progenitor would respond to an unjust death, else he’d have sent the Phantom to kill her instead of targeting the Legate. Falling Rain was a constant source of aggravation and progressing by leaps and bounds with each passing day, but Bai Qi would much rather deal with him than his formidable Grand Mentor. Even injured and outmatched as she was, she mounted a daunting defense as he chased her across the breadth of Shi Bei and failed to harm hide nor hair upon her person. Her movements were sublime to the extreme, poetry in motion as she hurtled through the skies, her ax-lance never slowing as she brought it about in a dazzling display of skill and finesse. Rather than an iron wall, her defense put him in mind of a roaring avalanche, one which displaced everything in its path and either carried you along or buried you beneath its wake.

