If you so desire peace, then you must first prepare for war.

This seemingly inimical maxim was one Bai Qi lived by and the source of his title as the Lord of Martial Peace, but Lord though he might be, his eyes had long since been fixed on loftier heights. Not out of any desire for personal power, wealth, or any other materialistic aspirations, for he was a man of humble origins and simple needs. If not for the sake of appearances, he would have no qualms cladding himself in clothes of rough hemp or homespun fibres, nor did he care for the ostentatious trappings and gaudy jewellery seemingly expected of the ‘nobility’. What use were sparkling gems and precious metals without food and water to fill your belly and quench your thirst? None whatsoever, and as a man who went hungry and thirsty more often than not in his formative years, he found the wasteful extravagance of the ruling class both outrageous and reprehensible. Millions of men and women of the West went without while a select few indulged in food, drink, and flesh, an imbalance between the classes which perpetuated a cycle of bloody uprisings within the province which did little to nothing to shake the status quo.

A hard learned lesson that took years of strife and struggle for Bai Qi to wholly understand. When he first set out on his Path, he spent the better part of two decades reasoning with his superiors and showing them the errors of their ways, but they cared not for the suffering of commoners. They could not understand that his motives were not based solely in compassion or empathy, but cold, hard logic. It was far more cost efficient to see that the people of the West were fed, watered, and kept in check rather than allowing cities and districts to spiral out of control as commoners starved and bandits ran rampant. Then again, what did the nobles care of cost efficiency? Such expenses were paid for by taxes, taxes which the nobles paid a surprisingly small share given their vast hordes of wealth. This news came as something of a surprise to a younger Bai Qi, for in his eyes, those who profited most should bear the largest share of the costs, yet it was more ‘profitable’ to tax a thousand commoners a single copper than to try and eke out ten gold from a single nobleman, for the wealthy were both able and willing to spend coin on all manner of methods to avoid paying their fair share. The trail of fraud and corruption started from the smallest merchants and led all the way to the Marshal himself, a greedy cretin of a man who profited from the suffering of his fellow countrymen by embezzling funds earmarked for assisting those in need, and it sickened Bai Qi to see it in action.

All of which came to light during his rise as the Lord of Martial Peace, but it all started in his home city of Yique when he was but a young Captain of humble origin and a rising dragon of note. Having only recently returned from patrol and off-duty for another week, he’d been deep in his cups with his cherished comrades and compatriots when word of the rebellion arrived, and to this day, he still remembered how surreal that moment had been. They went from discussing wine and women to hearing how the local Magistrate just seized two-dozen Imperial caravans filled with foodstuff and rations in preparation of a long and lengthy siege, one in which Bai Qi and his comrades would be forced to participate, one way or another. There were only two options before them; throw in with the rebels and join them in defending the city walls, or return home to their families and hope to find some way to get them safely beyond the gates, for every Martial Warrior inside the city would be deemed a rebel unless they took up arms against the Magistrate. Young and full of bluster and bravado, Bai Qi had seen this as a trial from the Heavens themselves, a tribulation that would either see him buried beneath the sands or rise up as a storied hero of the Empire beloved by all.

And so, being the fool that he was, Bai Qi chose a third option, and worse, convinced his friends to go along with him in his foolhardy plan to infiltrate the palace, assassinate the Magistrate and break the backbone of the rebellion before it could even begin. Looking back on it now with a lifetime of military experience behind him, he dared not claim success so much as accept that his enemies failed every step along the way. So much could and should have gone wrong on his way to the palace, and to this day, he still had no earthly idea how he and his comrades even made it past the walls unseen. Were he to do it all over again, he would have taken the time to gather more like-minded compatriots before ambushing a patrol of City Guards, as he could have stolen their armour and waltzed right into the palace unchallenged instead of slinking in through the sewer tunnels underneath. He would also have made plans for a clean retreat or extraction, but in reality, he’d gone in wholeheartedly believing there was no coming out of this conflict alive, and thus acted accordingly. The stories called him brave, but it was liquid courage, rash impetus, and the cold sacrifice of friends and comrades which saw him through to victory, and the fact that the rebels didn’t slaughter him where he stood when he hoisted the Magistrate’s head from a balcony for all to see spoke volumes to the irrationality of the Enemy.

No, the Enemy no more, for Bai Qi fought side by side with the Defiled now and would succeed or fail alongside the Uniter.

Despite turning rebel and traitor, he still found it strange to not hate the Defiled with all his heart. They took everything from him, this he wholeheartedly believed until he recently uncovered the true secret of the Dao. There was no sense hating the Defiled any more, for there was no right or wrong, good or evil, Mother or Father, merely a Yin and a Yang to the Energies of the Heavens. Rather than positive and negative, light and darkness, or any other such nonsense based in morality, he saw it as one or the other, because there was no ‘correct’ option, only a requisite Balance to maintain between two sides. The tribal Defiled savages indulged in too much of one and denied too much of the other, while the Martial Warriors of the outer provinces did the same in reverse. Ignorance on both sides, all thanks to the misinformation of the True Enemy of humanity, the Emperor and his traitorous clansmen. Vultures and scavengers the lot of them, picking away at the still-living flesh of the outer provinces the same way the Western Marshal exploited the people of his own province. To make matters worse, the Imperial Clan kept the outer provinces weak and unaware by killing or stealing away the best of the bunch, those who touched upon those same secrets of Heaven like Solitary Sword Zhang Jun Bao. Now there was a force to be reckoned with, a man who made his way to the peak with a single sword in hand and no Clan, faction, or family to stand behind him.

And when he stumbled across the true secret of the Dao, the Imperial Clan offered Zhang Jun Bao one of two choices; to bend the knee and serve for a lifetime, or perish where he stood.

Of course, this was merely hearsay as Bai Qi heard it from the lips of the Mataram Divinity, the Clan Ancestor YuKon, but he believed it all the same. Had the Western Wall not fallen when it did, Bai Qi would eventually have found himself conscripted as some Imperial protector, a nanny and wetnurse for the next generation of Imperial whelps no doubt. There was a time when he served the Emperor with love and devotion in his heart, because he believed that in spite of all the horror and atrocities found throughout the Empire, the Emperor still had his people in his heart. That no longer applied, for Bai Qi had seen through the façade and hated himself for not seeing it decades sooner, for he wasted a lifetime as the Lord of Martial Peace fighting for a dream which the Emperor would never allow.

Killing the rebel Magistrate of Yique catapulted Bai Qi’s career, but he hadn’t known it at the time, for his trials and tribulations had yet to end. In the aftermath of the rebellion came a purge unlike anything he’d ever seen, one which claimed the lives of millions of innocents, as well as the lives of his mother and father both. Even though he understood the necessity, it was a hard thing to stand idly by as his beloved parents suffered so, yet he watched all the same because it was all he could do for them. They had to die so that billions more could live, because a Defiled outbreak inside a single city could easily spread across the province like a desert storm engulfing everything in its path. Even then, seeing his parents suffer was almost enough to unmake him, for Bai Qi loved them both so, and was so convinced of their innocence that he was ready to slaughter his way through the Imperial soldiers just so he could end their suffering.

And if his father had turned even a half-second later, then Bai Qi might well have done just that.

There it was, irrefutable proof that the parents of the Hero of Yique were Defiled, for only the Defiled could turn into Demons. That was the truth as Bai Qi saw it, and it shattered his heart to believe it. At the time, he could not have cared less about the far-reaching implications, of how this news would have ruined his military career or perhaps even send him to join them in their ignoble fate, but no one knew it was his father who turned, for no one cared about a peasant farmer’s fate, not even one who’d sired a Rising Dragon and the hero of the day. Though future rumours hinted at such a possibility, only Bai Qi himself knew them to be true, for even those who spread those rumours believed they were whispering lies that only the gullible would ever acknowledge. For decades, Bai Qi believed himself tainted and susceptible to the Enemy’s influence, so he set out each day with the intention to resist with all his might, and in doing so, he opened himself up to the Yin and Yang of Heavenly Energy. That was the true secret to his success, not his talent or comprehension, but rather the fact that he walked a more complete Path than the one shared by his fellow countrymen. Those suspected of Defilement were purged not because they were the Enemy, but because a Defiled Martial Warrior was liable to see through the lies of the Imperial Clan and understand the truth of the Dao.

And so after the Emperor closed the Western border without so much as a fight and Mataram YuKon revealed that he had been Mentored by the commander of the Enemy forces, the Uniter himself, Bai Qi was more than happy to join hands with the Defiled to overthrow the Emperor once and for all.

Millions had already died for this cause, and there were still millions more who would fall before this Holy War would end, but Bai Qi knew it was a price which needed to be paid. Might makes right, and though the Emperor was mighty indeed, the Imperial Clan was no longer united and undivided as the Supreme Families vied for supremacy over which of their Scions would sit on the Imperial throne next. They cared naught for the outer provinces because they believed their strength unshakable, but their hubris would be their downfall once Bai Qi lead his conquering army of Chosen to the Eastern Province.

A path which proved pricklier than expected all due to the interference of one Falling Rain, as well as the wealth of hidden dragons lurking alongside him. Bai Qi had long since been aware of the Divinities of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains, but matters of Divinities were beyond his ken. The Treaty kept them from taking part, though the Uniter had pushed the bounds of the Treaty too far and was now paying the price for his folly with the death of the Phantom. More of the boy’s work, apparently, and though Bai Qi did not understand how a Martial Warrior so young could soar to such heights, he knew that once Falling Rain was dead and gone, this battle would be all but won. With the tribesmen, Chosen, and half-Demons already in play, the balance of power was almost equal, yet the Uniter still had an army of Demons to call upon, Demons kept in check by Falling Rain. The boy possessed a Talent that allowed him to kill a Demon with little more than a touch, and he was fast learning how to kill Peak Experts with even less, as First Blade Junta discovered far too late after being cut down by a powerful working of Heavenly Energy emanating from the young Legate himself.

Were the stakes any lower, Bai Qi would’ve been tempted to retreat and offer the boy a truce, for there would soon come a day when the Imperial Clan set their sights on Falling Rain, and the boy was not one to bend the knee. Once this came to pass, the boy would either die or be driven into the arms of the ‘Enemy’, where Bai Qi would welcome him with open arms. Though on the surface, it appeared as if young Rain relied on a wealth of luck and happenstance to achieve his goals and rise to where he stood, Bai Qi saw a method to the boy’s madness even if he failed to wholly grasp it outright. Every decision the boy made hid devious intent and purpose, whether it be compound interest leading to outrageous debt, purchasing iron futures before unveiling his cast iron methodology, or securing bell founders in preparation of crafting Runic Cannons, the boy unveiled miracle after miracle until they seemed commonplace with frightening efficiency and purpose. Even the luckiest man in the Empire could not be so blessed, meaning the boy had his goals in mind before coming up with his mad schemes which foiled all of the Uniter’s best laid plans.

