“That’s okay, we’ll work on it together. Recovery will be a long and slow process, but I’ve been understandably agitated and impatient for recovery ever since I was sentenced to the front lines. While I’ve still got a few theories left to try out before I get really, really desperate, I’d appreciate any help you can offer to keep me alive in the interim.” I’m not entirely thrilled about actually eating Defiled or trying to control the Demonization process, but that doesn’t mean I can’t study the process and glean what I can. Besides, if push comes to shove, it’s nice to know I have options available, though there’s also a good chance both would fail spectacularly rather than bring me back to full strength, so I’ll wait to try the Spiritual Rice, Beets, or whatever food Taduk grows from Pong Pong’s poop.

And worst comes to worst? I might even have to take a page from the bunbun’s playbook and... Oh Mother in Heaven, if you’re really there, please don’t let things get that far. I don’t want to drink poop water...

With everything said and little to do besides sit and wait, I enlist the Abbot’s help shuffling back to my tent with Aurie, and Ping Ping in tow while Mama Bun hops away in a huff, indignant over not being carried. Seeing how bright and chipper Aurie is puts a smile on my face, as he’s none the worse for wear after falling for Kukku’s illusions, but Ping Ping’s mournful squeaks are so heartbreaking I almost want to give her a gourd of Water Chi to make up for it. Would she cheer up if I fed her Kukku? Better yet, maybe I should eat Kukku, deep fry me some Kentucky Fried Spiritual Chicken and heal what ails me, then give Ping Ping all the Water Chi her turtle heart desires...

...Ah, who am I kidding. I can’t. That giant rooster is too damned cute. Oh well. I might as well accept it: I’m crippled, and I’m going to stay this way for a long time, but at least there’s still hope.

Because where there is life, there will always be hope.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

- End of Volume 28 -
