After apologizing for my earlier outburst and handing over my gift of hand-made vegetarian buns (albeit ones made by hands other than my own), our conversation falls into an awkward lull as I organize my thoughts while the Abbot looms overhead. Beside us, bald Jorani makes an attempt to slip away unseen, but is foiled by the attention-starved Aurie whose paws cling tightly to the half-rat’s leg, mewling emphatically in demand for more head pats. Conflicted between my jealousy over Aurie’s affection and the joy of not having to continue this conversation alone, I make no effort to help Jorani and ignore his pleading looks until he heaves a sigh and goes back to scritching the kitten.

It’s weird how far we’ve come in little more than a year. When we first met, I was a newly-minted Warrant Officer out on my first assignment while Jorani was just a lookout for some obscure bandit group, but look at us now. I became the youngest Second Grade Warrant Officer in recorded history, the publicly accepted Number One Talent in the Empire, an Imperial Consort, and a Peak Expert for all of a minute before succumbing to my injuries and being reduced to little more than a cripple. In contrast, ‘Hangman Jorani’ all but disappeared from the public eye, going from the leader of the Mother’s Militia and one of the heroes of Sanshu to a lowly Captain-equivalent in my retinue. Unlike me, his star is still on the rise, having recently Formed his Natal Palace to become a hidden Expert of the Empire and a budding scholar of Theology, though he still has the same gaunt, angular features which straddles the line between duplicitous and dignified.

Much as I hate the man, Daxian is undoubtedly the more handsome of the two, but it’s not entirely because of appearances. If Jorani straightened his back, grew his hair back out, looked people in the eyes while they talked, wiped away his perpetual sneer, and did something about his folksy, bandit vernacular, then I’d be hard pressed to choose between his goofy charm and his brother’s chilling magnetism.

...Why would I ever need to choose?

Oh yea... Jorani has a Natal Palace now, which means... “Hey, I’ve been studying the milestones along the Martial Path lately, but I have precious few examples to go over. If you don’t mind, could you explain in your own words how you Formed your Natal Palace?”

“Sure, but there ain’t much to say.” Fighting a losing battle to keep Aurie from falling asleep in his lap, Jorani shrugs and explains, “Can’t even rightly say how it actually happened. One second I’m lost in a dreamworld havin’ lunch in the dining hall, and the next I’m chattin’ with the Old Healer in the void. Then I realized the chair under me ass was gone and I went a tumblin’ through nothingness.”

“Huh.”

“What?”

Belatedly realizing my comment might be construed as bragging, I reluctantly voice it for the sake of gathering more information. “I can’t say I’ve ever had the same problem. The void always shaped itself to my whims, allowing me to stand, sit, swim, or fly with merely a thought.”

“Ye never... I dunno, accidentally thought about falling and just fell? I mean, I told ye how the Old Healer got away, right? Me mind slipped and then his bindings were just... gone.”

“Yea, but I figured that was more because the Healer guy was tricksy, not because of stray thoughts. If that were the case, then my Natal Palace would’ve been filled with naked women, adorable animals, and just random junk from memory.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. Such lust, such sin.” On the heels of his judgmental statement, the Abbot explains, “Though this monk would be hard pressed to claim it the norm, Brother Jorani’s difficulties are common among Martial Warriors, and mastering one’s thoughts is an essential step before Natal Palace Formation.”

“Think it, believe it, and it shall be so,” Jorani declares, with the confidence of a man quoting someone smarter than they are.

“Yea... my mind jumps from one thought to the next, but I don’t think my idle musings have ever affected my Natal Palace.” Aside from that one big thing where I created a native, warrior persona to manage my murderous thoughts and ward off full Defilement. Is it weird that I miss Baledagh? I can’t help but believe that if he were here, or rather if my mindset was more like his, then I’d have already figured out the answer to all my problems by now, or at least would be working towards a goal instead of floundering in place. “If we can figure out why, then it might help other Warriors on the cusp of becoming Experts.” Like Bulat and Lang Yi, who’ve yet to put their newly Condensed Aura’s to good use. Scratching my head, I voice my thoughts out loud just to fill the silence. “It can’t be because of how I Formed my Natal Palace, because like Jorani, I also had outside help, except instead of Kukku, I had the Demon formerly known as Vivek Daatei.”

“Well, in my case, it was a matter of separating the dream from reality, ye know?” With a wistful look in his eye, Jorani curls his arms around Aurie’s head and hugs the happy kitten, subconsciously seeking comfort as he reflects on his time spent Dreaming. He misses it, that much is clear, and I completely understand, because he looks the way I feel when I think about my happy mountain village life. “The Dream wasn’t perfect, but it felt so real that even now, after weeks of knowin’ the truth, I keep fergettin’ I spent less than two weeks in the monastery proper and most of my memories come from a fake dreamworld.”

“Mhm. I know how that feels.” Or do I? Thinking back on the Dreams conjured up by Demon Vivek, I don’t think I ever truly believed they were real, not for more than a few seconds. I desperately wanted them to be real, did my best to lose myself in the illusions, but even though I experienced snippets from thousands upon thousands of lives, I knew them all for what they were: a fantasy. It was like watching a television show of what my life could’ve been like, one which changed based on my whims. The only real things to come from the experience were the lessons I learned along the way, to stop hiding behind my anger and worrying about things I can’t control, though to be fair, the latter didn’t really stick.

Oh, and also I couldn’t suppress my feelings for all my lovely, but too-young betrotheds anymore. I’m still not too proud of that, but my true mental age is a secret I’ll bring with me to the grave. Luckily, having been a man-child in my previous life, all I have to do is be myself and no one will ever suspect me of being more mature than my age would suggest, at least not anymore now that I’m twenty.

“Anyways,” Jorani drawls, his smile a match for Aurie’s contented grin, “I didn’t really Form my Natal Palace intentionally, not really, but after demanding a face to face meetin’ with the Old Healer, I had some time alone in the void. I didn’t like starin’ off into nothingness, so I pictured meself back in me room at the monastery, and just like that, I was there.” Frowning in annoyance, he adds, “Wasn’t the best location fer a Natal Palace, I see that now, but I ain’t about to start over from nothin’.”

“...Why wasn’t it the best choice?” I don’t get it. “You don’t feel safe there?”

“Don’t get me wrong, the monastery was nice and all, and I liked me cozy little room, but it ain’t exactly spacious and it’s a pain in me ass resizing everything so I gots room to practice.”

“...So why don’t you tack on another room?”

Both Jorani and the Abbot shoot me the same look, their expressions flickering through surprise, disbelief, and acceptance in the blink of an eye. “It ain’t so easy fer us untalented folk.” Chuckling beneath his breath, Jorani smiles and shakes his head with a weird mixture of pride and resignation.

“Right.” I keep forgetting Natal Palaces take time to grow. Mine started off as my room in the village, and it was months before I expanded it to the entire manor courtyard, albeit with multiple customized rooms to keep Baledagh entertained. It wasn’t long before I had the entire village packed in there with Baledagh’s room overlooking it all, but back then, I didn’t really use my Natal Palace for much besides sightseeing and chatting with my split personality slash Natal Soul. Then I razed it all to the ground and built up my new, mishmash Natal Palace, complete with Keystones which I might never be able to use again. That reminds me... “If you’re willing to gamble on your future progress, I might have something you could try. Dastan, Sahb, and a few others added one or two more milestones to the Martial Path, but while it appears to be working for Dastan and Sahb, the others haven’t had as much success and we’re not entirely sure of it’s long term feasibility.”

Brow furrowed in thought, Jorani’s lips move but no sounds emerge, or at least none that reaches my ears. Gesturing for Jorani to leave, the Abbot scowls in disapproval while I hang my head in shame, though I’m not entirely sure what I did to deserve this. The stalemate lasts until Jorani disappears into camp, at which point the Abbot sighs and sits down beside me. “You must tread carefully, Junior Brother. Interfering with an unfixed Martial Path often ends in disaster, and asking Brother Jorani to gamble upon his future is irresponsible at best.” Though his stern disapproval is hard to bear, his curiosity soon gets the better of him as he asks, “What are these extra milestones you speak of?”

“You remember Baledagh, my split-personality, right? Well...” Explaining Natal Souls and One with the Self doesn’t take long, but the Abbot’s expression goes from curious to amazed by the time I’m done. So engrossed in his thoughts, he remains silent for long minutes after I’m finished talking, and I pass the time by putting on a glove so I can pat Aurie without turning my hand into a sieve. Within minutes, my sweet kitten falls fast asleep, his torso melting against Ping Ping while his chin rests atop my knees. Adorable as it is, I barely have time to coo before a resounding thud sounds out beside me, the source of which turns out to be Ping Ping’s head crashing into the dirt. Eyes fastened shut and beak half-open, the big girl draws a long, audible breath before releasing it with a lengthy, protracted, high-pitched squeak.

So. Cute.

I don’t think I’ve ever seen her this relaxed, and I’ve never seen her fall asleep before burrowing into the dirt first. Unsure if something is wrong, I survey the surroundings but find nothing amiss, with plenty of soldiers and Sentinels going about their business less than five metres away, and many even smiling at the sleeping Ping Ping as they pass by. Nestled in my lap next to Aurie’s fat head, Mama Bun’s nose twitches a mile a minute despite also being fast asleep, her paws working and lips smacking as she devours an imaginary meal in genuine delight, which prompts me to take another look around except this time, I focus on the animals instead.

There are a few bulls and horses still ambling around, but every quin in sight is fast asleep and, judging by their wiggling butts and smiling expressions, dreaming sweet, blissful dreams. The answer finally becomes apparent once I piece the clues together, and I’m embarrassed to admit I didn’t figure it out right away. “Um, Abbot, I think Kukku is here, and he put all the animals to sleep.” All the predators, at least, though I'm not entirely sure why Mama Bun was also targeted. “Should I be concerned?”

“What? Oh, nothing to be alarmed about, the animals will not be harmed by their dreams.” Pausing in hesitation, the Abbot reluctantly adds, “Well, they might be a little disgruntled in the morning, but in this monk’s experience, animals handle disappointment better than most humans. As for this Natal Soul business, it has its merits and bears similarities to the Brotherhood’s Path, but this monk would like to speak with the others before you pass the method along to Brother Jorani, or anyone else for that matter.”

“Sure.” Obviously the Abbot has never seen an animal temper tantrum compilation video. God I miss the internet. Wishing I had a video camera to capture Mama Bun’s reaction in the morning, I stroke her soft fur and smile in anticipation while simultaneously wondering if I should let Lin-Lin or Luo-Luo deal with the fallout instead. When Mama Bun gets angry, she gets real angry, and I don’t think I’d survive a direct headbutt or foot-thump. For the sake of my health, I ask, “Is there anyway to wake her?” As an afterthought, I add, “Ping Ping too. I don’t think it’d be good for morale if the Divine Turtle destroys the fort walls in a fit of pique.”

