“...True. Then this monk will do what he can to mollify the Divine Turtle.” Reaching out with his bony hand, the Abbot gently pats Ping Ping’s leathery shoulder and the big girl comes to with a thunderous gasp. Blinking in confusion, she peers this way and that before turning to me with a forlorn expression, or at least that’s how I read it. Settling down with an indignant huff, she lets loose with a small, mournful squeak while watching me closely with one eye, not entirely sure what happened and hoping I can fix it. If I were to guess, her dreams probably involved drinking copious amounts of my bathwater or something, just like Mama Bun is undoubtedly feasting within a field of Spiritual Herbs. Reminded of the danger, I hurriedly unload the gluttonous rabbit from my lap and shuffle away to hug Ping Ping’s head in safety before giving the Abbot the all clear, and my efforts prove worthwhile as the grouchy bunny comes awake to immediately attack him in a greed-induced rage. Having been warned in advance, the Abbot gently wards off her attacks by Deflecting her aside, much like how Pong Pong dealt with her the first time they met, but without the delectable scent of Spiritual Algae to fuel her fury, Mama Bun’s tantrum dies out with an emphatic double thump of her hind paws.

Welcoming the disgruntled bunbun back into my arms, I snuggle her close and giggle at her hangry antics while she takes out her frustration on a piece of dried fruit. Thanking the Abbot for his help, I glance around in hopes of finding Kukku, but alas, the giant rooster is nowhere to be found. Favouring me with a kindly smile, the Abbot simply points at Jorani’s yurt, but even then I see nothing out of the ordinary. It’s just a round yurt like any other, with leather lined walls and a flimsy door made of lashed bamboo rods which sits slightly ajar. The Abbot offers no more help, but continues pointing at the door, so I take another look and try my best to spot Kukku, but again, there’s nothing. I see the door, and the darkness within, but that’s it.

Hang on... Why can’t I see anything inside the yurt? While evening is upon us, the sun has yet to set, so I should be able to make out a table, chest, cot, or at the very least, the back wall instead of pitch black darkness. Peering closer into the nothingness, nothing changes for long seconds until, out of nowhere, my eyes ‘focus’ and suddenly there’s a giant chicken inside the yurt. With twin dark rings encircling his eyes and a crown of snowy-white feathers atop his head, Kukku is less Foghorn Leghorn and more furry emo-birb, complete with dark mascara and grungy, untamed haircut.

I love him.

Hiding the bulk of his body behind the door, his eyes widen in alarm as he realizes I’ve seen through his Concealment and disappears so quickly it leaves me wondering if I imagined it all. Before I can even collect my thoughts, Kukku’s floofy head pokes out once more to check if I’m still there, his beady eyes zeroing in on me to study my reaction. Doing my best not to make eye contact, I do an impression of a blind man and pretend not to see him, studying his adorable expression without looking directly at him. The ruse works and Kukku bobs his head and coos in delight, which is just too hilarious not to laugh at and gives the game away. This time, instead of just hiding, Kukku even slams the door shut to keep me from charging in to attack him, no doubt shaking in fear despite being strong enough to kill me with a single peck.

Not only does the Brotherhood have a giant cock, it's a cowardly rooster to boot. This is just... awesome.

“Congratulations, Junior Brother.” Beaming from ear to ear, the Abbot heaves a sigh of relief before bowing his head in prayer. “It seems your recovery is well underway.”

“...I don’t understand.”

“You saw through Kukku’s Concealment, an impossible feat without access to Chi.” Throwing a wry glance back at the yurt, the Abbot explains, “Kukku would not have lowered his Concealment, not voluntarily, and what’s more, there’s no doubt in this monk’s mind his first reaction to being uncovered would be to use his Talent and attack. Since Junior Brother broke free without assistance, that tells this monk that even though your Core is shattered and broken, you are still able to use Chi in a limited fashion, for how else are we to explain what just took place?”

Having learned my lesson earlier today, I tamper my expectations and take the Abbot’s words with a grain of salt. “Uh... Not to put a damper on the whole situation, but I didn’t break free of anything.”

The Abbot’s smile melts away into flustered confusion, and he stares at me for longs seconds before asking, “What?”

“I didn’t break free of any Dream. I don’t think he attacked.”

“Impossible. If you were not attacked, why were you...” Widening his eyes, the Abbot stares off into the distance and lets his head loll about, a poor imitation of my blind man stare.

“I was pretending not to see Kukku so I could take a proper look, but he’s so cute I couldn’t help but laugh.” Pouting as I glance back at Jorani’s door, I ask, “Would I scare him too much if I barged inside?”

Lucky Jorani, he gets to share his big yurt with the floofiest rooster in existence. I bet Kukku’s feathers are even softer than Mama Bun’s fur, which means there’s a new contender for Mafu’s title as most comfortable mount in existence.

“Small steps, Junior Brother. Let us not rush your introduction with Kukku.” Massaging his temples in chagrin, the Abbot sighs and said, “Perhaps this monk is wrong again. My heartfelt apologies for offering false hope the second time today, Junior Brother.”

“No, it’s fine. You’re trying to help and I had no right to scream at you like that.” Shrugging, I add, “The whole... seeing through Concealment bit still counts, though I’m not sure for how much. I most definitely saw Kukku, but I didn’t feel any Chi being used or anything mystical happening. Also, I’ve been meaning to ask, what exactly did you think would happen after I drank the gourd of Water Chi?”

“...This monk hesitates to reveal everything to Junior Brother, for it touches upon matters which can easily be misinterpreted and lead to erroneous conclusions.” Running a hand over his bald head, the Abbot slumps down and looks older than ever, but he still takes the time to clarify. “Perhaps erroneous is too strong a word, but rather this monk should say ‘flawed’ or ‘improper’. Fish and ducks both swim, but it would be unsuitable to ask a fish to teach a duck, or the inverse.”

I feel like I’ve had this argument before. “While it’d be impossible for me to swim the same way a fish or duck would, it wouldn’t hurt to study them and take notes when learning to swim on my own. At worst, it’s wasted time, but knowledge in and of itself is no danger to anyone, the same way a knife is not inherently dangerous on it’s own.”

“And thus, this monk’s dilemma, reluctant to arm an untrained child with an unsheathed sword.”

...Ouch.

In response to my hurt silence, the Abbot sighs and brushes his hands together, perhaps symbolically ridding himself of guilt and responsibility for what happens next. “Think back on our discussion with the Army Healers earlier today. This monk made mention of providing Kukku with Heavenly Energy required to form his Spiritual Heart, and this matter is tangentially related. This monk had good reason to suspect your gourd contained Heavenly Energy in physical form, for there is no other explanation for why the Divine Turtle would covet it so. Were she so easily tempted by Water Chi, then the Divine Turtle would’ve long since run off with another soul, for Junior Brother was hardly the first Water-Blessed Martial Warrior to approach her.” Sputtering his lips in abject defeat, he waves his hands and adds, “But alas, this monk was mistaken and Junior Brother wasted one-third of his unreplenishable Water Chi which he desperately needs to Cleanse his Spectres. Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, such pride, such sin.”

“Huh.” Now that I’ve heard his reasons, I don’t actually blame him for being wrong, because there are no real holes in his logic. “If it helps, I would’ve drank the entire gourd down even if you had explained it all beforehand. You’re right about the Water-Blessed thing, I’ve tried feeding her water made from Chi, but she didn’t really care for it.” Tilting my head in thought, I ask, “Why didn’t it work though?”

“Because what Junior Brother calls Chi Tea is not Heavenly Energy in physical form.”

“Yea okay. Then what is it?”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. This monk hasn’t the first clue.”

“Fair enough.” Defeated and demoralized, we sit side by side in gloomy silence, unsure where to go from here, but after thinking over everything he’s said, I ask, “Why would it have worked?”

“...This monk does not understand.”

“What I mean is, if the water in the gourd had been Heavenly Energy in physical form, why did you think it would’ve fixed me?”

“It would not have, not in the way Junior Brother means.” Pursing his lips and twitching his nose, the Abbot organizes his thoughts before he speaks. “Human beings Demonstrate the Forms to forge our bodies into weapons, yet this alone is not enough. In order for this to work, Martial Warriors require far more sustenance than an untrained commoner, somewhere between three to five times in fact, yet animals have no Forms to practice and a creature with a Spiritual Heart requires no more sustenance than a mundane version of the same creature of similar size.”

Possibly true, but I’ll have to take this one on faith. Mama Bun definitely eats more than her baby buns do, but if left with an infinite amount of delicious food, they would all eat until they explode. “I see. And?”

“So what fuels their prodigious strength?”

“...I dunno.”

Rolling his eyes, the Abbot answers his own question. “Heavenly Energy of course. When we meditate, we become vessels which draw in the Energy of the Heavens and convert it into Chi, which is then stored in the Core. This is common knowledge, yet few care to ask why this extra step is necessary.”

“Because we’re not equipped to handle Heavenly Energy, so we need to covert it into something practical.” Faced with the Abbot’s disbelief, I shrug and add, “I figured it’s like salt water and fresh water. Humans can’t drink salt water, so we need to take steps to turn it into fresh water, a minute difference which spells the difference between life and death. Granted, it was mostly a guess, but so far, it seems apt.”

Beaming with pride, the Abbot repeats my explanation word for word while nodding along to the tempo. “A novel take on the matter, though this monk lacks the knowledge to say whether you are right or wrong. The truth is, no one knows for certain, but your theory is as sound as any. Regardless, getting back to the matter at hand, have you ever seen an animal settle down to meditate?”

“Can’t they meditate in their sleep?” Lin and Taduk certainly do, even though they both claim it only looks like they’re sleeping.

“Nonsense. Meditation through Balance is an active pursuit, one which requires a firm mind with steady direction.” Waving a hand to dismiss my claim, the Abbot continues, “Thus, the facts are laid out before us. Animals have no need of meditation and have no increased requirements for sustenance, yet are still able to utilize Chi and fortify their physical forms to the point of developing a Spiritual Heart. How?” Without giving me a chance to answer, he slaps his knee and exclaims, “Because unlike humans, animals can draw Heavenly Energy from what they eat!”

“...Seems like a far stretch.”

Falling silent to study my expression, the Abbot drops his voice to a whisper and explains, “This monk considered his theories for long months before testing them, for he based them on the suspicion that there was more to Defiled cannibalism than meets the eye.”

“You know, I had a similar theory but never explored it because... well gross. Considering how they can create mass out of thin air, I figured Demons weren’t eating corpses for the protein.” As the pieces fall into place, I glance at Jorani’s yurt and ask, “Is that how you provided Heavenly Energy to Kukku? By feeding him Defiled corpses?”

“Not Kukku, but with another creature in an experiment which confirmed my suspicions, but ultimately proved to be a grievous mistake.” Relieved by my lack of interest in taking up cannibalism, the Abbot heaves a sigh of relief and continues. “Thus, this monk believed that if Junior brother drank all the Heavenly Energy contained within his gourds, it would have provided the requisite sustenance needed to reforge your body, and with luck, perhaps your Core as well.”

“I don’t think it would’ve worked. Pretty sure that’s what was in the tofu pudding.”

After explaining my physical transformation following the Legate’s intervention, the Abbot’s expression could not look any more crestfallen. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo. Perhaps Junior Brother is right and Heavenly Energy in physical form is not enough to fix your woes, but if so, then this monk will be hard pressed to offer an alternative solution.”

