Zach's sense of direction was dead on, and though they had circled around the mud flats a couple of times in search of fish to kill, they somehow hadn't seen this part of it. It was a little more hilly, with streams that allowed carp a good running charge at them.

As Jo had said, she was happy to take a shot at any fish who tried their luck with them. She had really taken to the Blood Thirst Sword, and now that she had locked in her Poison aspect, she found it much easier to use her mana to kill the fish. In fact, sometimes it was a little too easy, and she killed a couple of them in one hit before Thomas could get at them.

Another interesting thing was how easily Thomas and Jo outpaced Zach, who was still level 2.

The guy was by no means out of shape, yet they found they had to think about slowing down so he didn't grow winded.

"So unfair," Zach grumbled good-naturedly. "Next level 3 dungeon we're doing is going to be fire. Literal and figurative. I'm calling it right now."

Finally, though, they crested a particularly hilly portion and looked down. There was a small flock of mosquitoes circling around in a small dip that acted like a valley. It seemed that for some reason the stupid things hadn't figured out how to fly over them. And in the middle of the flock was...

"Hey, we got a Goldie," Zach said. "I am already a fan of your new skill."

There was a golden mosquito flitting around with the rest. It was definitely what was glowing in Thomas's treasure sight. Sort of a golden blue, and yet not those colors at all.

Something twigged his memory, and he looked to Jo. "Remember that grizzly bear that charged up on us out of nowhere? I bet Grimm had been after it, and it was smart enough to take one look at him and run for its life, straight into us."

"Oh, that's right," she said. "It dropped the Mama Bear potion, didn't it? The bear was gold just like this."

"Yeah, a Goldie," Zach repeated. "Nice. Those always drop a choice rare item, guaranteed." He paused. "I say we do whatever we can to set Thomas up for the last hit on it. Maybe it will drop two rare things."

“Seconded,” Jo said quickly.

Thomas smirked. “Well, if you two insist…”
