“I guess I have.” Erick moved on, making a guess regarding Fairy Moon’s question on the nature of small fae and how they grew, saying, “Baby fae are small and unformed because their ‘Simple As’ purpose has yet to rise to the level of self-reflection and multiplicity that is required for them to be a person who walks streets and buys bread from bakeries and pays taxes. That takes thousands of years. Small fae are vulnerable in this time frame more than most, either from soul magics or from a corruption of purpose, like taking a waterborn fae and trying to raise them in the desert. They wouldn’t necessarily die, but they would become something they were not.”

Shadow smiled, saying, “Paying taxes is something we almost never do.”

Fairy Moon paused. She went, “That’s the mostly-true truth there; you sussed that out rather succinctly.”

Shadow chuckled. And then she added, “It’s not a bad thing to take the water fae and put them in a sandy environment. It might kill them, yes, but it might spur their growth.”

Fairy Moon said to Shadow, “I hope you would never do such a switching, Shadow. That sand pit might have grown its own growth, but such an action would have purloined the purpose of both locations and only originated one life instead of two. Sure, the two people take more time, but we have a terrific amount of time.”

Erick left that particular conversation alone and extrapolated what another part of this conversation was about, saying, “Ascendant Prime has come to this ‘Simple As’ existence from the other direction; through multiplicity they are remade every time pieces fall apart—” Erick had a moment.

A completely different idea suddenly came to him.

About creating an environment and then filling that environment.

He looked at Shadow, Fairy Moon, and Ascendant Prime, and asked a question he felt like he already knew the answer to, “If we create a gap in the world that is where an Erased person is supposed to be, will that gap be filled with the person that got Erased? Or is this ‘from something: a fae’ phenomenon only usable to make more fae? And can we use the Fractal Mark to do this? To implant memories in people about those who should exist, and thus make those people who have been Erased once again whole?”

The idea had just sort of plopped out there and it wasn’t fully formed at all, but…

It was there.

Most of the pieces.

Ascendant Prime was suddenly having a moment, too.

Rizala’s gold eyes dimmed as Ascendant Prime went Elsewhere for now. He was still there, in the background, but he wasn’t currently inhabiting Rizala, and now Rizala was sitting with arguably the 3 most powerful people on the planet. She was used to 1 powerful person; not 3, and certainly not the Creator of the Painted Cosmology.

Rizala tried to keep her calm as she asked, “Anyone care for some tea— Ah. The tea is already here.” She added, “But I have special blends.”

Shadow smirked, saying to Rizala, “I saw the special blends, but I wasn’t about to take them without being offered. I would love some special blends of tea. Perhaps that darkly floral one you have back there?”

“At once.” Rizala got up and went to the space behind the glass displays, to the tea and coffee prep area. She got out some packets, offering, “I have ‘Dark Garden’?”

“I’ll take it,” Shadow said.

Fairy Moon was having a moment, too, which is why she had been quiet. And then she huffed a little, chuckled once, and said, “I suppose we can push past all the carefully constructed cause and creation speeches and soliloquies I had prepared previously and arrive at the simple start of an answer to Erasure just like that.” Fairy Moon said, “Be forewarned, father of futures: It is not easy to make a miracle like the one that you have sighted on the most distant of horizons. You likely won’t be able to actualize it at all. You must find another to grab this gain.”

“Solomon can do it, now that we have a battle plan.” Erick said, “I would like to hear your speeches on the nature of Life and Eternity, though, if you would say them.”

Fairy Moon shook her head a little. “You have a small solution. The powerful prayers I have sorted can be saved for Solomon. We also felt it best for him to behold these truths, but we wished to approach you for your acumen first. Now that we have it, we will begin plans to plot for Solomon’s security of power.”

Erick nodded. “Great! Moving on, then:” He said, “I would like to know your opinion on the nature of the divinity of Ascendant Prime. Is he a Fractal God, or a Painted God? Beholden to the masses, or a person unto himself, unburdened by the Curse of Power?”

Rizala glanced Erick’s way as she made tea, and then Ascendant Prime was back, saying, “I’m many people?”

A curious thing to say, when said in that way. She didn’t know what she was herself.

Fairy Moon looked to Shadow, to see if she had an answer; this was Shadow’s realm of power, after all.

Shadow said to Ascendant Prime, “You’re a Painted demigod. You have a nascent mantle made from Darkness and you are not actually Ascendant at all. You’re more of a fae made of a whole lot of Life, and your golden coloring comes from the resons you contain and the belief that you should be gold, rather than anything else.” She waved a hand, saying, “But that’s like describing me by the color of my hair or my height; it doesn’t mean anything. It’s just hair color. The Painted God versus Fractal God does mean something though; that’s the difference between a person and an idea. Continue to develop your Dark Mantle and await for Melemizargo to bestow upon you a Spark. Do not seek out more Fractal Power, or else you will truly lose your individuality.”

“… I will keep that in mind,” Ascendant Prime said. And then she set a four-person tea preparation down on the table. “Tea?”

Shadow took a cup, saying, “Smells wonderful. Now let’s talk about how to kill a fae.”

Fairy Moon had objections. She kept them mostly to herself, as she said, “If there were another way to go about this then I would have preferred that, but since Nothanganathor has some sort of Fractal Mark of Life, then you are going to need to learn how to kill fae, even if the Erased One isn’t technically ‘Ascended’.”

Ascendant Prime said, “This is rather adjacent to our desire to speak with you, Erick, for we also imagined that Nothanganathor was somewhat fae, because he has that Sign of Power.” She looked to Shadow and Fairy Moon, adding, “That’s what the Fractal Fairy told us.”

Shadow sat back in her chair, saying, “Let’s talk about that first, actually.”

“Bah,” Fairy Moon said, lightly. “That Fractal came all the way to talk to you and They didn’t pop in to the party we’ve been having? Sometimes I don’t know why I even bother with the Old Fae.”

That comment merited discussion.

“Okay. First:” Erick said, “Is the Fractal Fairy a fae, or the Universe Itself?”

Fairy Moon and Shadow both looked at Erick.

Shadow said to Fairy Moon, “There’s not much difference?”

“Well not now,” Fairy Moon said to Shadow. “But maybe in distant dynasties? More distant than I, by far far afield.” Fairy Moon said to Erick, “They’re the Fractal Universe, Erick. Don’t ask that weird question again.”

Shadow shrugged.

Seemed inconclusive.

Erick moved on.

Erick asked Ascendant Prime, “They really came here? To tell you you’re fae?”

“Among other things. They granted us contact into the Mind Mage collectives out there.” Ascendant Prime said, “They told us that even if Veird perishes, that we would be saved. Apparently, They’re only giving Melemizargo and you and Veird a chance because the Fractal Fairy appreciates what Melemizargo has done to make us; the Mind Mage collective here on Veird. That Fairy is still an absolute bastard, though. We asked for Them to censure Nothanganathor, and They said to do that ourselves, but They didn’t give us any hints as to how to do that, only that we need to truly ‘Become Ourselves’… Which is not something we wish to do, if ‘Becoming Ourselves’ means what we think it means.”

When Ascendant Prime finished, Erick had a long thought.

The others remained silent, sipping their tea and eating little mini-cakes.

Eventually, Erick guessed, “The ‘Becoming Yourselves’ you speak of is turning all the minds you’re connected to back into a single Fractal Mark and a single person. This kills every connected Mind Mage.”

Ascendant Prime sighed a little, for Erick had hit the nail exactly on the head. She asked, “Why would you think that?”

“Because baby fae start off at the bottom. I thought that you started off at the top, as a collective that became self aware through the joining of people into a gestalt. But you’re really an ‘environment’, like a pond, or a desert. You’re growing. You’re a demigod. The final step of growth is actualization, to ‘simply be’, and become a real fae.” Erick said, “And that involves the complete gathering of the environment you were raised within. This gathering kills the environment, because why else would everyone suddenly be here, talking about all this big stuff, all at once, if it wasn’t a big deal of death or other such destruction.”

Shadow said, “And that’s how you kill the Life of a fae, Erick; you kill the environment that they are.”

Erick had a moment.

Ascendant Mind was silent in a whole bunch of thoughts; thick tendrils of power glinted gold around her head as she thought along ten thousand lines of thought, and probably a lot more than that.

Erick looked to Fairy Moon and said, “And that’s why Fairy Moon was left over when the Sundering happened; she became herself inside Elemental Fae, being the only one left while the Bands of Intent were closed off down to 1. That’s her indelible environment. Shadow, however, was simply kicked out of the Darkness because there was nothing to grasp onto, and she simply couldn’t die, but she can’t make it back there, either, because there is nothing there to go back to until it all exists again.” Erick said, “Or maybe Nothanganathor arranged things so it happened like that.”

Shadow said, “Your second guess is likely more correct.”

Erick nodded, then he looked at them all, and said, “To kill Nothanganathor, we have to close off all of him from the outside in, and then change what is at the base into something else. That way, even if he does have a ‘Trick of Eternity’ —which he has to, because of Eldraki— then we can still win. If he has no home base to return to, then he will simply perish.”

Meanwhile, Erick might need to think about actually becoming Simply Himself, and One with Benevolence, so that he wouldn’t die when he was killed, either. That was a thought for another day, though.

Shadow said, “You’re going to need to get Nothanganathor into a place like what you did with Captain Shackle and then rip him apart in that same sort of way.”

Erick said, “That’s going to be difficult.”

Shadow said, “And yet, it will need to be done.”

Ascendant Prime spoke up, saying, “We’re not pulling the trigger on our own Ascension, Erick. Most Mind Mage collectives don’t pull that trigger, because it is so destructive and… and wrong.”

Erick stared into Ascendant Prime’s golden eyes and softly declared, “You’re going to pull that trigger if we look to lose, Ascendant Prime, and then when you’re safe you’re going to recreate all of Veird and everything we’ve lost through Elemental Genesis, and all the other magics that make up this world. That simply is what you’re going to do. Call it Plan Overmind, if you want to give it a name. I already have Escape Plan Omega for all the other people of Veird. You’ll be Backup #2.”

Ascendant Prime instantly said, “40% of people have a [Telepathy] spell or other Fractal Mark portion within them. We would be taking 40% of Veird with us if we had to do that. You would be exempt, but…” She left the rest unsaid.

Everyone else would be consumed into a vast overmind. That overmind would likely rise right through Ascended all the way to Fae and be so far out of touch with its roots that it might never reconnect with the people that had made it. But maybe it would connect. No way to really know.

All of this talk was largely theoretical, but it was based on established precedent.

And if everyone with a [Telepathy] in them got taken, that meant Jane and the rest.

Erick said to Ascendant Prime, “I know what I asked. Any sort of free life is better than the oblivion of Nothanganathor’s Erasure.” He said, “Moving on: If you come up with any ways to negate Nothanganathor’s Sign of Power, I would hear them. I need to do something with my own Fractal Mark to make me immune to Nothanganathor’s non-Malevolence-based powers… I likely need a bigger goal than that for myself, though. ‘Don’t simply aim at the enemy in front of you; aim at all the ones from now until forever’, and all that. I assume that Solomon’s ultimate goal might be to make his Mark into something that gathers Erased or even Sundered people back into people.” Erick said, “Maybe he can start there; trying to bring Sundered people back, and work his way up to Erased people.”

Shadow nodded.

Fairy Moon said, “That would be our starter situation to repair, and then we move mountains from there.”

Ascendant Prime suggested to Erick, “An intact Fractal Mark is already about communication with the self across realities in order to cultivate resons and self-actualization. The fragment of the Mark inside [Telepathy] is mostly about communication with the current realm. Therefore, perhaps you can open your Mark to communication with Benevolence Itself, to move forward and backward through time, to make your own Lightning Path truly useful with regard to finding the best possible future. Maybe share that power with others to make the Benevolent Sky easier to read for all, and especially for yourself; make it overcome all interference, such as that from Nothanganathor, or whoever else might come along after him.”

Erick paused. He thought. And then he smiled. “That’s a great suggestion. I will think on that.”

“Good,” Ascendant Mind said, relaxing a fraction. She had been getting nervous about a lot, and now she wasn’t that worried. “We don’t want to pull the trigger on Plan Overmind, Erick. That is something we do not want to do. Make it so we don’t have to resort to that option.”

Erick softly nodded, saying, “That’s the plan.” Erick turned to Shadow and Fairy Moon. “How would we best go about killing Nothanganthor’s Everything?”

