The Blue Corps headquarters was actually inside Ar’Kendrithyst, in the upper layers. It was located at what used to be the Armory.

Quilatalap’s former Trials of the Dark had been thoroughly abandoned when the Shades had abandoned the city. When Anhelia began retaking the land, the Armory had become a point of contention between a whole bunch of various forces, but mostly Stratagold and all the other Geodes which all wanted prime representation in the new land.

This was because Erick had put a small Gate Network inside Ar’Kendrithyst, at the Armory, which led to many different Geodes. Erick had done this mini-Network for the Geodes because the Geodes had asked for it, and he had built it at the Armory because the Armory had a nice ‘Central Avenue’ leading directly north from the place, and that central avenue was home to many people and businesses which all moved in under Queen Anhelia’s new reign. Most everything important was near the Armory, in every direction. Brightwater had been the heart of Ar’Kendrithyst (though the new heart was certainly where the Forward Base of Spur used to be, in the north) but the Armory was practically the lungs; not a lot of the outside world got to see the heart, but it certainly saw the lungs.

And so, the Armory was a point of contention.

Who got to build here? Who got to do anything there at all?

And then the Day of Genesis happened and the Blue Corps came into being and they needed some central space for a bunch of powers to gather, so they kinda smashed through all the points of contention and built right in the center of Ar’Kendrithyst.

The Trials of the Dark did not look how they used to look. No longer was the land mostly open, with a giant mushroom-like black dome in the center, with four side-mushrooms acting as side-Trials.

The Blue Corps grew here.

The buildings were skyscrapers and bridges of imported Bluite crystal from Geode Bluite. What had once been black and solemn, and then had been a series of craters after Last Shadow’s Feast drew all sorts of grave robbers out of hiding, and which then became a land of contention in Anhelia’s New Kendrithyst, was now a shimmery blue brilliance. It was about the most-accessible, brilliant-blue part of the world, and it reminded people a lot of the Core. Bluite was just as insular as Stratagold and all the other Geodes, after all. This show of blue was as rare and beautiful as it was a mark of concerted effort against the Red.

The Blue Corps had offices from every major power in the world.

Erick was interested in the map rooms right now.

Erick opened a lightning portal and stepped into one of the many different map rooms he had made and then installed within an [Infinite Imaging] and a bunch of tech from Margleknot over the last few days. The people in those different rooms went through many different imaging scenarios, all under the watchful gaze of Illustrious Moon, from House Fae of Ar’Cosmos, and Inquisitor Kromolok of Stratagold and Rozeta’s Church, and a few other larger powers, taking control over other individual maps.

Everyone was cooperating with everyone else these days, except for the Angels and Demons, which Erick would get to eventually. Ar’Cosmos, in particular, was working overtime on cooperation. They had gained a lot of new allies in light of the Red Sparks, because the Fae Realm was one of the ways in which the people of this world managed to evacuate from Red attacks now and then.

Inquisitor Kromolok noticed Erick first. He turned, his full-white body and incani-countenance going from concerned over whatever it was they were scanning for right now, to a little relieved. He was full of questions upon seeing Erick, but he realized rather fast that he’d get a few of those questions answered if he simply allowed others to go first.

Illustrious Moon, with her giant amethyst horns and bright purple eyes, took Erick’s arrival with a bright squeal of absolute delight. It looked adorable on the large woman. “ERICK! You’re back! And we’re going to be distant cousins!”

Erick smiled at that. “I can only chat a little, so pardon me for being fast. How is the mapping going? That is what I came here for.”

“Wonderfully.” Illustrious Moon got right down to business, saying, “We’re going through the lists of missing persons and finding tracks, at least. Sometimes we find actual people. The auto-cleansers you have set up at the map and elsewhere haven’t activated at all, so no Malevolence has seeped through the Infinity of this new Scanning Magic, but we’re activating our new [Benevolent Cleanse]s anyway every time we put in a new target. We haven’t spotted any dissolving Red, so we’re pretty sure that there hasn’t been any attacks.” She added, “We’re also very careful to only limit our Scans to Veird-space after that incident in the beginning. That hasn’t happened again.”

Some guy had input a scanning target for someone and not limited the scan to Veird space in the beginning. That target ended up pinging on Fenrir’s shell, and Red invaded the entire map room. No one was injured because they shut it down fast, but that guy was not in the map room anymore. Erick had recast all the magics here after that, just to make sure there weren’t any hidden tricks, or whatever.

Erick didn’t think the guy had meant any harm by it, and accidents happen, but it was too large of an accident for the people here to let go. There had been talk that the guy had been a Nothanganathor sympathizer. That talk hadn’t borne out any fruit, though.

A sympathizer was a specific kind of person, and that guy hadn’t been one of them.

They weren’t face stealers; not exactly.

But they kinda were. Maybe. Sympathizers were suspected copies of people from other side realities that were predisposed to thinking Nothanganathor was right to kill Melemizargo. The first sympathizers had been noticed last year, but they were among the hardest of enemies to find, because they were just normal people who hated Melemizargo and wanted him gone.

And yet, the ‘Nothanganathor Sympathizer’ might not even be a real thing.

It might just be a phenomenon of paranoia.

“Have you found any real Nothanganathor sympathizers?” Erick asked, hating that he needed to even ask that. “Real ones.”

Kromolok spoke up, “It’s still an unproven theory that Red Repros even exist, for even the gods cannot tell them apart from normal people. But all the evidence on the ground supports that Red Repros do exist. And if not them, then mundane sympathizers very much do exist, Erick. A lot of people would rather have Melemizargo gone.”

Erick cast his gaze to the other maps, in the other rooms of the Blue Corps Map Compound. “Looks like no real confirmation of Red Repros, though, based on what I’m seeing?”

Illustrious Moon said, “Sympathizers surely do exist. The Erased One has power from more than Malevolence, and he has gifted that power to the people of this world to sow destruction when he calls for it.”

“Confirmation is the most difficult part,” Kromolok said. “We’re not judging people for taking his power; only for using it.”

“All we’ve really found are petty criminals,” Illustrious Moon said. “The Day of Clouds got rid of the actual face stealers. Also: I heard you were going to make Sininindi responsible for that.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. Illustrious Moon had spoken her words like she was making an accusation of a misappropriation of power. Well. Hmm. Erick decided to simply say, “It’s the truth. Sininindi helped a lot, long ago, and that help continues on until today. It’s not my fault you guys haven’t met all of her fractal selves in other slices of reality.”

Illustrious Moon decided to move past that, and said, “Very well. Where are you off to next?”

“I need to speak to the minotaur nations and the Angels and Demons.” Erick said, “But before that: What can I do for you? For either of you. Individually or together or however it comes.”

Illustrious Moon was suddenly without words. She looked like Erick had gifted her a ‘white elephant’, though that phrase hardly really applied when it came to dragons. How would you pay for the upkeep? The grounds that it would live upon? A dragon would simply eat it.

Kromolok answered first, simply stating, “Talk to Ascendant Prime about the Mark of the Fractal.”

“Already on the list. Does it need to happen now?”

“Within the hour.”

“Then it’s at the top of the list.” Erick asked Illustrious Moon, “Any requests?”

Illustrious Moon decided, “We want to pair up some people with Quilatalap and the Inquisitors and all the rest as you delve into what makes the Awakening Machine work. I know it’s a big ask, considering the history between us and your lover, but… I am still asking for that.”

Erick was a little bit stunned by such a request for a few different reasons. He had thought that Quilatalap’s hatred of the fae had gone to the wayside in light of all the much larger problems out there, and how everyone was cooperating with each other right now. Weren’t Quilatalap and the fae getting along right now? Erick had thought so. Maybe he was wrong. And so, Erick treated Illustrious Moon’s request with the seriousness it deserved; she wouldn’t be asking such a thing in such a way unless there was an actual problem.

Erick said, “Quilatalap is heading up that project along with a few Shades, for Melemizargo is involved there because the whole thing kinda infuriates and baffles him; calls it an ‘affront to divinity’. Ask Quilatalap, and see what happens. I will also ask. You truly would be better served by learning how computers work at all, Illustrious Moon. That needs to come first. The magic in the Awakening Machine is incredibly esoteric.” Erick added, “Either way, that technology is going out to the entire world.”

Illustrious Moon had assumed a deflection and a denial-in-parts, and she was not disappointed in that way. She did a little curtsy, and said, “Our requests are already on file. It’s been a day of no-answer.”

“Ah… That is more easily handled. Be right back.”

Erick departed.

- -

Erick reappeared at the House Benevolence Awakening Machine Research Center, the AMRC.

The place was perhaps the most secure and least secure building on the planet right now. Located north of the Gate District, the AMRC was a collaborative effort of about 135 different peoples to tear apart and understand everything there was to understand about the Awakening Machine. Erick had several of those machines, each working overtime with people stepping in and Awakening their auras, base mana production, and also a low-level Elemental Body, because here on Veird that’s what the Script made of the person who stepped into a machine.

Being inundated by an Awakening was like a person had put on a piece of Elemental Body armor and then absorbed that Elemental essence into their souls, except the machine didn’t use essence at all. It only used elemental-charged metal plates that Erick had set up with a node network and some magical imbues to keep those elemental plates charged up all the way; it was the better solution to replacing the metal plates every 10 Awakenings. Erick had said that he could find a more permanent solution to [Duplicate]ing elemental metals, and he had.

People from all walks of life were currently deciphering everything about the machines that they could, because how they were giving people Elemental Bodies was just one small part of their mysteries. The biggest mystery was how it empowered the Dark Mark in a person.

Erick looked around the center. There were a bunch of different forces in meeting rooms, poking around at some disassembled Awakening Machines and mostly arguing with the tech guys about how stuff worked. The tech guys were kinda furious when the mages just went around touching stuff, but also kinda miraculously happy with the powers the Script had granted them. The tech guys could poke at some broken thing with [Mend] and repair it easily, for tech was not magic, and [Mend], when stressed to perfection, easily repaired broken, highly complicated, small things.

It was only day-4 since this whole thing had started, so most people were still in the organizational stage.

The Shades, Quilatalap, and House Benevolence’s Office of the Overseer of Magic were the only people really understanding what was going on with the magic and soul-influencing of the machines at all, but then again, not really. Yggdrasil was the only one who really understood it all, and he was having trouble getting the rest of them to understand the machines because there was a lot of base knowledge that simply wasn’t there.

And the Script obscured souls.

Erick zipped through the air and landed in a giant hangar with a bunch of disassembled machine parts, diagrams in lightwards everywhere on every wall and in the air, and Quilatalap coming to terms with whatever Yggdrasil said about— What was it? Oh. Souls—

Oh.

Yeah. He could see why Quilatalap was having problems. While Shade Fallopolis and Goldie looked on, and Queen poked around at diagrams at the walls, and Al was nowhere to be found because he made himself scarce whenever Erick showed up—

Quilatalap shook his hands at the diagram in front of him, saying, “But if there is no universal Fractal Mark, how do people cultivate resons? Where is the foundation for a growth when there is no foundation to be had?”

Yggdrasil said, “That’s the thing. Most people don’t cultivate resons. Either way, the foundation comes second.” He looked over to Erick, raised an eyebrow as he probably sussed out everything that Erick wanted to talk about, and probably through some rapid, full-world mana sensing, and then said, “We’ve got all those papers for requests to join the AMRC on hold. Everyone wants to send their best people here but we need people on the front lines still, and the researchers on Malevolence are actually making progress now that they can contain the Malevolence to a small area and not be swimming inside invisible Malevolence, and fucking up everything they’re trying to study. Ar’Cosmos was doing a lot of good research in that direction. They truly should get back to that.”

Erick nodded. “That answers that question. Illustrious Moon will simply have to wait until we’ve secured Veird from annihilation.”

