“Shore up the walls of Veird and then expand them until we swallow him right back,” Fairy Moon said, shrugging, like that was all that needed to be said. “Start there.”

Shadow eyed her Father/mom, then said to Erick, “In a more Stone-solid way: Let us start with Rozeta extending the Script out as far as she can make it go, so we don’t have to counter danger happening right on the top sphere of this world. I, for one, would prefer to fight outside of our house. From there...”

The conversation lasted for a few hours.

Rozeta began expanding the Edge of the Script an hour later, while Erick ran another Cleansing Weave to target the thousands upon thousands of kilometers of solid Red just beyond the former Edge of the Script.

Red poured into Veird.

Rozeta had to implement a third Day of Clouds, but that event mainly happened far, far above where people lived, in the absolute black of the sky over the outermost silver layer of Veird, where the Script’s Authority pressed against an invisible Red Ocean.

What most people saw, from the city of the Mind Mages to the lakeside of Candlepoint to the skies of Ar’Kendrithyst, and in the caverns of the Underworld, were tsunamis of thick, white air that flowed across the skies, forming whitewater rivers, ever downward, into the Core.

Golden lightning flickered among those clouds.

Not many people noticed what that lightning did, for they had just heard that Sininindi had helped to make the Day of Clouds possible, and so of course she was here, as well. She and Rozeta and Koyabez and all the gods of the Pantheon were working together with The Wizard to take the power of the Red and smash it into free mana for Veird, consuming Nothanganathor right back.

That Golden Lightning had not been there before.

But people believed in it now, and so that Golden Lightning was here.

Erick saw exactly what Sininindi was doing. Her golden power started above the lands that worshiped her, and then spread like prayers, all the way up the rivers of white clouds, into the spheres above, into the New Edge of the Script, where it struck the Red and empowered Erick’s [Benevolent Cleanse] Weavers. Each empowered Weaver blossomed with white lightning, ending the struggle between the Edge expansion and the Red Ocean firmly on the side of the Script.

Resources poured into Veird.

The Edge of the Script advanced.

- - - -

Erick stepped out under the real sky, past the Silver Surface, onto a prominence of silver metal, to view the new heavens of Veird. All was starlight. The Red had retreated, for now. The new Edge of the Script was a good 20,000 kilometers straight up from Erick’s current location; the current radius of Veird had been doubled in one action. That was all that Rozeta was willing to do right now. They had gained a lot of mana from the second Day of Clouds and so the new Edge was pretty easily made and contained, but the Red Ocean had pulled back, and so this was as far as Rozeta could actually push the Script given current mana constraints. The atmosphere was still only a good 20 kilometers above Erick’s location, though. Beyond that was empty space, kept that way because while the mana to fill that space was easy enough to come by, she’d need to activate some [Duplicate] copy magics to fill that atmosphere, and there was no need to do that right now.

Filling the sky with air would make it impossible to see beyond that much air. Everyone preferred the clear sky. It was all the better to see the enemy. There was no enemy to be seen right now, but the point still stood.

Nothanganathor had retreated, like an army burning fields behind them as they escaped so that those fields could not be used to feed advancing enemies.

A cold wind blew, ruffling Erick’s black glowthread clothes, as he turned his gaze upon the preferred field of battle; Erick also didn’t want to fight on Veird. Fighting up there, though? That was fine.

Stars twinkled like cold, white dots on a field of a blue so dark it was almost black.

The other half of the sky was actually black, with a few world-sized [Terraforming] storms prowling the surface, like crawling stars.

“Fenrir looks okay from this angle,” Erick said.

Rozeta stepped beside him. “The barest glance into a side reality and you’d see it’s full of holes. In some places it’s completely gone.”

Erick asked, “How far into those side realities can you see? Are we protected, yet?”

“The God Pact world is safe and contained, but it is not that difficult to see worlds where some gods have fallen, and from there it gets worse. I cannot see the worlds where I have fallen, but others can; we have talked about it. All of us can only really act here, though. Whatever happens out there doesn’t matter. To me, standing here, those other worlds only exist when I am looking. This is the world that leads the way into the future.” Rozeta said, “And things are looking good.” She added, “It’s hard to put measurements of distance to how far those side realities go before I cannot see. Millions? More? Used to be a lot less. I think we’re safe to implement the [Hasted Shelter].”

Erick nodded, taking in that deep proclamation. “Okay.” Erick asked the air, “Koyabez? I want to turn this entire Silver Surface into an eternal stonewood dungeon forest in your honor. Do you mind?”

Koyabez stepped to Erick’s and Rozeta’s side, looking ragged.

For as long as Erick knew him, the God of Peace and the original god of Veird had always resembled a lithe, pale purple demi man who wore a simple loincloth and nothing else. He had not fared well these last years. The Quiet War had erupted into the Forever War once the armies of Angels and Demons came to Veird, for Koyabez simply could not stop armies of billions fighting on land that was not truly his anymore; the Angelic and Demonic gods had ascended to real power in that action. This war with Nothanganathor was also changing him, bringing out his darker side.

Physically, Koyabez was looking rather anemic. His muscles were wasting and his bones were visible. His hair was limp. One of his small horns was broken, and he had scars on his pale-violet skin.

But his sunken eyes were filled with purpose and his voice was the harsh thing of a beaten man who could take no more.

Koyabez said, “Do it, Wizard of Benevolence, and dedicate the forest to the Eternal Peace of buried enemies that cannot harm us anymore.”

Erick felt a chill that had nothing to do with the frozen wind blowing across the Silver Surface.

“It will be done,” Erick said.

Koyabez breathed a small sigh of relief. He didn’t gain any strength, but that would happen later.

Erick asked, “Got any requests for the Angel/Demon problem?”

Koyabez laughed darkly. He almost said something, but then he paused. He decided to say, “Not right now. When we’re not in danger of being destroyed, take a walk around some places. Those talks in Cerebrum won’t help, but they might get you in contact with the real powers. Try to bring lasting peace however you can… But probably not the peace of the grave.” He added, “They’re the most populous people on my planet right now…” Softly, he said, “It doesn’t feel like home anymore.”

Erick said, “I’ll try to fix that, Koyabez.”

Koyabez smiled a little. And then he stepped away.

It was just Rozeta and Erick, now.

Rozeta softly said to Erick, “Let me help with the Eternal Forest.”

Erick handed her a copy of the [Eternal Stonewood] spell, wrought in Benevolent crystal, saying, “I’ll gladly take your help.”

Rozeta disappeared the spell into Elsewhere and changed the subject, “Have you gotten a chance to try out Elemental Genesis?”

“I have not stopped to do anything but talk to people, Rozeta, and set up some repairs where I can. That’s doing a lot more good for us than me playing around with magic, though I do want to get around to that soon.” He extended his aura and began planting trees. Soon, massive white trees began to grow from nothing. Usually Erick needed some starter seeds to make this spell work, but Erick had imbued this spell with resons, thus making the spell provide its own starter seeds. At the mention of Genesis, though… “Could I do this without spending any resons at all to make starter seeds, if I used Genesis?”

Rozeta gestured to the side, off in the distance. White trees grew fast and in a long line in that direction. “That’s what I’m doing.”

Erick scoffed, “Rozeta! You can’t just put all the trees in a solid line!”

Rozeta smiled. “Sure I can. Unless you want me to make dirt and rivers instead?”

Erick teased, “What? You can’t do it all at the same time?” He added, “Be sure to make the trees have silver leaves— Ah. Yggdrasil will probably want to put a tree up here, too. That one can be the only green one. All others have to be silver and reflective of peace— and also home to Benevolence slimes and stuff like that.”

Rozeta chuckled as Erick added caveats and direction. And then she said, “Yggdrasil is already growing on the 6 corners of the Silver Surface. He started growing when Koyabez gave permission.”

Yggrasil stepped to the side, smiling, saying, “I’m growing eternal stonewood trees, too. Try to keep up, father.”

Erick turned into a dragon and started rapidly moving, his voice carrying on the half-frozen air, “I can keep up just fine!”

Laughter followed.

Erick added, “And make them hollow and able to have lots of life and slimes and stuff!”

Yggrasil said, “You already said that!”

- - - -

Three days later, amid more crises here and there, while spending all his free time on the Silver Surface to plant more multi-kilometer tall trees, the new Silver Surface was finally done.

As a dragon, Erick flew across a fully populated land of silver-leaved trees, their canopies illusionary and hiding everything below, except where the trees didn’t touch tops. In those silver chasms, light shone through, radiant and warm and in the shape of [Kaleidoscopic Radiance]s down below. Some parts of the new Silver Surface were instead oceans hundreds of kilometers across, dark as black and yet with shining surfaces reflecting silver starlight. Some parts of the new Silver Surface were mountains, but not much; just enough to get the water flowing properly from place to place.

Benevolence slimes were already out and thriving under the waters of [Terraforming] and the storms of Sininindi that crawled across the land. The mana was pouring in. Rozeta had gotten the [Worldwide Cleanse] system back up and running, too, and every instance of Malevolence the world over was instantly struck by an appropriate-sized [Benevolent Cleanse].

For the first time in years, people were able to visit the real surface without danger of being Erased by the Red, for the Red didn’t attack the surface anymore.

Erick flew for a while, a giant black void against the starlit sky to anyone who might be looking up from below, and there were a lot of people down there. A lot of people didn’t like living underground; they were moving up top and making new homes. A lot of people simply wanted to see the stars once, and then go back down to true safety, down below.

Someone had brought a boat up from somewhere and was sailing it on the ocean, under the stars, having a grand time. Erick smiled when he recognized that Slip, the Captain of the Guard of Candlepoint, was the one sailing that boat, along with a few other shadelings from the city. They were drinking Silver Wine, of Koyabez’s holy stock, which Erick had made billions of copies of and which were being handed out to every single party that came to the Silver Surface for whatever reason. The wine was a celebration that they had made it; they were alive, and here, and ready for more. Slip and his friends were just one small group having a good time. They looked happy.

Slip noticed Erick flying overhead. He waved. His party asked him what he was waving at, and he laughed.

Erick waved back, blinking at them in acknowledgment, showing the bright whites of his eyes as he flew overhead.

The people on the boat had various pratfall reactions.

Erick chuckled, glinting the sky with bright white sparks, as he moved on.

He flew for a while, checking things, seeing things. Watching the people. He was headed toward a destination, but he was taking his time getting there.

Eventually, Erick landed on a jut of silver a good 50 kilometers across that lay exposed under the starry sky. It was real silver; not the illusionary silver and grey rock of the original Silver Surface. It deformed a little bit under Erick’s weight, but then he shrunk down and was just a person again. He stepped to the top of the prominence of silver.

To the left of the sky lay the black of Fenrir, with tiny white storms crawling on its surface in orderly lines. It was like a horizon dividing the universe; it was so large.

To the right of the sky lay the sparkling universe. It was much larger.

To be here, though, was to hang above an abyss of black Fenrir, like all of Veird was floating just above a dark ocean, while the sky was glittering, saying hello.

Yggdrasil, Koyabez, Rozeta, Phagar, and Melemizargo, soon joined Erick, though Melemizargo was more off-to-the-side, since he was still a 50 meter tall dragon. Rozeta was looking good in her white pantsuit; she hadn’t changed at all in the tumult of the new world. Phagar looked like Erick, so that was the same.

Koyabez looked better. More solid. Less anemic.

Erick smiled when he saw that. “You’re looking better, Koyabez.”

Koyabez said, “The truce you brokered with the Angels and Demons was helpful.”

“All I did was say a few words,” Erick said, “I’m surprised it had this much of an effect before the actual peace talks will begin.”

“It was still a temporary truce, and people saw that,” Koyabez said. “They also saw all of this new Silver Surface.”

Erick smiled. “It does look good, doesn’t it!”

Sininindi stepped down onto the silver ground. She looked good, too. Her adamantium dress-like sailcloth was less jagged and angry; more solidly broken. It was hard to tell the difference, but to Erick’s eyes her dress had gone from chaotic-on-accident to chaotic-on-purpose. Her gaze felt stronger, too. She said, “Erick does good work.”

“Thank you,” Erick said, “But everyone else was paving the way long before I arrived. Hopefully, after today, we can slow down and truly take care with our forward-plans.”

Yggdrasil said, “The [Hasted Shelter] won’t last forever, but it will last for a few months, at least.”

“That will have to be enough.” Erick looked up to Melemiargo, “I need to cure Kirginatharp’s Dragon Curse after this.”

Rozeta looked unsure, but quietly happy.

