Melemizargo said, “It will be done.” And then he looked up to the starry night sky. He intoned, “As endless as Darkness: It is time.”

Rozeta said, “A shield of a careful age.”

Koyabez said, “A place of profound peace.”

Sininindi said, “A protection from unkind storms.”

Yggdrasil said, “A land of well-laid plans.”

Phagar said, “A time made safe from Malevolence.”

Erick finished, “A [Hasted Shelter] of Benevolence.”

The world shifted.

A thin white haze glowed in the sky, far, far away.

And then the haze vanished.

The void of Fenrir was a black horizon to the left that became stable, for Veird no longer turned. No more stars would be exposed or swallowed by those black edges. Veird hung half suspended over an unmoving darkness that was only lit by tracks of planet-sized storms. The sky of stars on the other side of Veird would remain the same for as long as the [Hasted Shelter] held.

And life would continue on Veird, in a much more relaxed manner.

Hopefully.

Erick checked a few things through a few portals. Everything looked good, but he still asked, “Any signs of any other timezones? My weavers aren’t reporting any. The Map Center looks clear.”

Yggdrasil said, “No signs of Malevolence or other magical actions inside Veird’s space that I can detect.”

Phagar said, “Everything seems good for the future. This time this might work.”

Rozeta was smiling wide, saying, “I think it will.”

Sininindi declared, “It will. It has to. I am finally starting to feel like myself again, though still different.”

Koyabez breathed deep, seeming joyful, as he said, “Me too, Sininindi.”

Erick almost said something about getting back to work, but then he felt another twitch in his soul as another startling growth took place in his Dark Mark—

Melemizargo looked at him, a casual look that was more or less what the other gods and Yggdrasil were doing. Sininindi was staring up at the sky, though. She was looking at the storms on Fenrir, and thinking. She kept her thoughts to herself, though.

Erick continued with his interrupted thought, “And now, the reward for doing good work: More work!”

Rozeta chuckled. The others grinned. Rozeta said, “I’ve got all those great new scanning magics to keep a better eye on Veird, and so, that is what I’m doing.”

She stepped away.

Koyabez, Phagar, and Sininindi left as well.

Yggdrasil said, “See you later, father.”

Yggdrasil departed.

Erick was as alone with Melemizargo as anyone could be, here on this silver hill under the open black and star-filled sky.

Melemizargo said, “You’ve grown enough to be a fine god, if you desired, but Yggdrasil is stealing all your divinity.”

“Don’t you go making plans for dying, Melemizargo.” Erick said strongly, “This trap won’t be trapping any of us soon enough.”

Melemizargo’s countenance softened as he gave a small laugh that rumbled the world. “I didn’t mean to replace me. You’re way too small to be my Second.” He stared a little. “You could have been, if Shadow hadn’t arrived.”

“I’m fine with just being me,” Erick said.

Melemizargo grunted in acknowledgment, or in an aborted laugh; it was hard to say. And then the God of Magic turned to shadows and vanished into the background.

Erick stared at the black and starry sky for a moment longer, wondering when the real attack would begin, and what shape it would take. There was too much to do, though; Erick could not be worried about black-swan events or lateral attacks. The walls were defended, and the time was now to make those defenses last. Whatever came next probably wouldn’t be through Malevolence.

Erick departed through a ring of white lightning.

Soon the silver hill was empty. The only mark that anyone had ever been there were dragon claw prints tens of meters wide and a faint golden glow in the air that faded soon enough.

- - - -

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1455 (Veird, layer 789), [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 789, Veird]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 419.46m per day / 4,854.86 per second , [Darkness Level = 28.6x Ascension baseline]

Body: 987

Mind: 1234

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+4,417.92, -9] Basic upkeep

Mp: 5.8b/∞, ↑ [+1,505, -3] Basic upkeep

Hp: 5.7b/∞, ↑ [+1,456.45, -3] Basic upkeep

Pp: 5.7b/∞, ↑ [+1,456.45, -3] Basic upkeep

Resons: 2.9b [+436.93 = +48.54]
