The Mage had left the defenses of Glyphward Fortress to face Orodan. And he was on assault from both the fortress’s defenses and Orodan’s own culminating attack.

It was a moment of prime vulnerability exploited by the Reject, who appeared via wormhole.

“Xia…?!”

From Orodan’s perspective, the blow took an eternity. But the maddened refuse of the Administrators took delight in every moment of it as his dual blades pierced the Mage’s back and erupted out his chest in a shower of blood.

Only too late did a titanic greatsword come in-between Orodan’s assault and the Mage’s own Mantle empowered attack.

A clash against the blade of the System’s greatest warrior which finally pushed him over the edge.

Everything he had done with the Eidolon, all the skills underneath it, he recalled all the moments behind them.

Spear and club training with Zukelmux and Aliya. As he had taught his students, so too had they taught him. Halberd training with old Adeltaj. Woodworking, Mining and Stonecutting with Old Man Hannegan… and the sword, shield and grappling he had honed across every battle of his loops so far.

It all came together and gave the Eidolon of Violence… it gave Violence itself that final requisite push into the level beyond Grandmastery.

[Eidolon of Violence 100 → Eidolon of Violence 105]

[New Title → Violence Transcendent]

[New Title → Sword Transcendent]

[New Title → Shield Transcendent]

[New Title → Wrestling Transcendent]

[New Title → Stonecutting Transcendent]

[New Title → Halberd Transcendent]

[New Title → Woodworking Transcendent]

[New Title → Mining Transcendent]

[New Title → Spear Transcendent]

[New Title → Club Transcendent]

The Warrior’s blade, interposed between the two of them, genuinely wobbled. The wielder of said blade roared… and then proceeded to smash both strikes aside with only moderate effort.

What freak power.

Orodan’s blood boiled, wanting a fight on the spot with such a prime warrior.

“Enough.”

Talasgan’s directive was a simple one, and for now, Orodan held his warrior spirit in check.

The Warrior’s next move was to send his greatsword right towards the Reject who was already mid-escape. The attack sent Xia hurtling through a wormhole and right out of System space. The same one which had been meant to throw Orodan out.

The Mage was wounded, but alive, magic already healing the grievous injury. Orodan was fine; better than fine given that he’d advanced to Transcendence in his third Celestial skill.

And the Warrior was not at all pleased with the situation.

“We will talk. Now.”

#

Talasgan’s hand rested upon the pommel of his titanic greatsword, point down in the ground.

Kalmiron, the Mage, was pacing. Unhappy, still scarred and wounded in a way no healer had been able to identify.

And Orodan simply stood there, arms folded across his chest as he watched.

These three were the centers of gravity in the room. Yes, Orodan had Almyra, Alagameth, Zaessythra and Talricto behind him. But in terms of weight, they might as well have been nothing in comparison to the three juggernauts.

The other Embodiers and their Transcendent underlings around the table also paled in comparison to the main three.

Yes, there were strong individuals here.

Kharadun Voidfortress being one of them. The dwarven King of Kings was apparently a well-known mercenary contributor to the defense of the System’s borders, extracting great wealth in return.

Azkar the War-Father, and leader of Azkar’s Reavers was another. The orc was gigantic. A head taller than even the Warrior and looked to be made of muscle and battle with an axe which looked like it could cleave anything it touched.

The giant eyeball he had seen a few times by now was also present. Though not a combatant, the Identifier’s piercing gaze saw all. There was no hiding a secret while this one was around.

And finally, a long and lanky being in loose robes whose skin was whiter than the sun itself. Pale and unnaturally white in a way which made fresh printed paper look dark. This, he had been told, was the Master of Death who kept the System’s casualties from being dragged out beyond System space. Not a combatant unless forced into it, but of critical importance.

Still, even then… both Azkar and Kharadun had been eyeing Orodan with a measuring gaze since they’d arrived. The two of them had no liking for one another, standing on opposing sides of the gigantic table. But a warrior’s assessment between them had the two realizing that a fight between them and the time looper would not go well.

“Never has such madness been uttered within these walls before,” Talasgan began. “Yet I am no blind fool who would cling to denial. Your explanation rings truer than even the keenest blade. Your empowerment of the loops through your own soul caused the internal breaches… and your addition of tens of thousands of time loopers to the loops has caused all the external ones.”

“Then why do we not just take his head and be done with it?” a Transcendent behind Talasgan’s section of the table furiously asked. “He slew one of your sacred kind, my lord.”

Talasgan spared a most brief glance backward at the man, causing him to shrivel in on himself.

“And will you draw your spear and dispense that sentence?” the Warrior asked calmly but directly, leaving no room for excuses. “Do not speak of passing sentences which you cannot enforce.”

“But that does not erase the fact that the Prophet is dead and we are down two of our Mantles. With the Custodian managing the problems within we are limited to just the two of us, in a time where we would be in dire straits even with all five. That preaching sycophant was… corrupted, but he was on a mission on our behalf,” Kalmiron spoke. “A mission which would have never been necessary if you had not stolen a Mantle which does not belong to you.”

All eyes fell upon Almyra with those words. She did not shrink, but Orodan could tell her stance became just a slight bit more defensive.

“And why should I turn over what landed in my galaxy? What I found first because you and yours lost it after the betrayal of its former owner?” she asked in turn, refusing to be cowed. “If you want it back so badly, then perhaps the claimant should come with it.”

There was an outrage at that suggestion. Even the lowliest person in the room was a Transcendent, yet they had opinions on such things, even if expressed far differently than how a babbling assembly of politicians might.

“Very demanding of an outsider.”

“We have a trial for these things. Do you mean to just walk in and demand Administrator status?”

Some were more direct.

“Weak mage! I could break you in half even with that little Mantle and you think you’re worthier than I to wear it?” Kharadun threateningly asked, causing Orodan to give him a challenging look as though daring him to try.

“Worthier than you? Greed for riches and treasures has rotted your heart and mind in equal measure,” Azkar spoke, sneering at the dwarf. “I will not say it should be me. But the honor of attempting a fair trial is all I ask for.”

“For a long time now, Xia’s Mantle once found was to go through bestowal after a trial,” the pale Master of Death spoke. “It is a combat-relevant Mantle, the robes of a cultivator. While I have no delusions in my ability to wield it successfully, you understand that your demand is entirely selfish, yes?”

Almyra however still did not back down.

“And perhaps the fixation on combat is what has led to the System’s current state and its poor defense of its borders. My track record in organizing an entire galaxy and giving rise to a galactically relevant faction is evident. Throughout my loops, I have honed and re-honed my plans for uplifting the Blackworth Collective into what it is today. Which of you can claim the same?” she challenged. “The dwarves? Driven by greed and riches, mercenary vultures who fight for the highest bidder. The orcs? My Collective led a coalition to drive your lot out when you overreached. Pit our factions against one another in open war and see who prevails.”

“The argument of the weak. What use will your Collective be when an Embodier slays you in open battle? If I rampage through your precious armies while you hide like a craven without checking me, what use is that organization then?” Kharadun derided. “Nobody among you could contest me.”

“I could. Shall we step out and put it to the test, Kharadun Voidfortress? I nearly slew you a few loops ago and have only grown stronger since.”

The challenge caused the room to grow silent with anticipation and the King of King’s jowls to quiver with anger. The dwarf was not stupid. He had likely seen Orodan’s fight against the Mage and that mid-battle achievement of Transcendence in a third Celestial skill.

Kharadun would still be a good fight, sure. But the advantage lay firmly with Orodan now.

“This is not an arena for proclaiming challenges to one another. Need I remind you that we all share the common cause of protecting System space from the predators circling it beyond our borders?” the Master of Death posed. “Contain yourself, Kharadun Voidfortress. And… though it is entirely against tradition, I can tentatively agree to this new claimant having a Mantle. We are in dangerous times and would not have had the Mantle at all if not for her bringing it to us and asking to cooperate. And if the time loops truly do now extend beyond System space…”

“Then it would be in our interests to use it. To train her in utilizing the Mantle with each loop, yes, but also…” Talasgan trailed off. The Warrior then looked at Orodan as though assessing the worth of a fine blade. “Did you lie when you said your loops have only been ongoing for a few thousand years?”

“To the best of my knowledge. Bit difficult to retain track of the time when losing myself to a concept, or when fighting them. Time always gets murky whenever I deal with them.”

The room grew even quieter, the weight of that landing powerfully.

“That, I can agree with. For long has the concept of War been under my dominion. But it seems, in not too many loops, that might no longer be the case.”

“I refuse to believe this. Lord Talasgan, no time looper has ever-”

“Orodan Wainwright. You are a triple Celestial and an Embodiment of two of those, aren’t you?” the Administrator asked.

“Yes.”

The protesting Transcendent grew meek and quiet very quickly.

“As you can see. Before us stands what is likely the single greatest weapon ever forged by the hands of the System and chance coming together. If the loops truly affect even the greater cosmos now… then it is little wonder that the true enemy is so desperate to lay siege to System space. It must have noticed. And we… would be fools not to take advantage of this opportunity.”

“But they also have an Invader with them! One of the true enemy’s spawn bearing its same stench!”

To that, it was not the Warrior who answered, but the giant eyeball.

“Half-dragon borne of evil Boundless, yes. But also of Eldritch Boundless. Of System and of not-System. Identifier sees enough marks of native System-born species.”

That caused many of the glares of suspicion to lessen.

“Hmmph… you shall have to share how you managed the process of true soul genesis for an intrinsically shattered soul. It strains my suspension of disbelief when you claim it was through forging her in the collision between two Boundless Ones,” Kalmiron spoke, and then grudgingly muttered. “Though I suppose neither your nor her power is a lie.”

That was the closest he would get to praise from the surly Administrator. Especially after he’d foiled the ancient’s attempt to kill him.

“Then how about I do one better. Rather than me having to tell you over and over… what if I showed you a particular thing?”

As he posed the question, an orb came out in his hand.

#

“On one hand, transferring the memories of two Administrators via the orb means we need not renegotiate this deal every time and we can hopefully avoid you getting attacked.”

“Him? Avoiding a fight?” Zaessythra questioned. “We all know he’s going to enjoy fighting the Mage each and every time before the misunderstanding is cleared up. We may as well account for that to occur in each and every loop moving forward. Because this is certainly going to take a lot of loops.”

The ‘this’ Zaessythra referred to was of course the sight beyond the boundary.

Glyphward Fortress was a gigantic structure which was embedded within the boundary of System space. It could also freely moved around to any point on the boundary, like a floating castle. It certainly helped when it came to reinforcing particular sectors or beating back enemy attacks at particular points.

But the fortress hadn’t moved in a while. Not since Orodan’s loop had began and this chaos started.

And the main reason for that was the colossal black hole on the exterior side of the boundary.

One that was slowly approaching even as they spoke.

Orodan ignored the two of them and instead looked closely at the very slowly but steadily approaching cosmic structure. It had multiple bright and glowing anchors around it, helping it maintain its steady speed. And frankly, although the encroachment looked slow, a closer look told him that it was anything but.

For something so massive, at such an extreme distance, to be moving so slowly in their view, meant it was still moving at tremendous speed.

The cosmos outside the boundary looked just as the one inside did. Galaxies, distant constellations, pockets of the deep void that looked… suspiciously empty. But that approaching black hole took up most of the view.

