“No.”

It was a simple word, one of denial.

Though the being it had been meant for showed zero inclination of being denied today.

“A shame. The Custodian’s experiment shall be rendered a failure today.”

They had now crossed the point of words.

Reality quaked as Almyra channeled power into her Mantle which then fed her intrinsic skills. Immediately, hundreds of mirror copies of herself came into being. She had been practicing with the Mantle ever since joining the loops and now had a far superior grasp upon its properties.

Illusory, elemental, spatial, dimensional, soul, mental… her clones had all sorts of spells primed and ready to go.

“Pitiful. That Mantle belongs in better hands.”

The pronouncement came like a damning indictment. And with it… the Mage finally moved.

One moment each and every one of Almyra’s hundreds of clones had spells ready to unleash in both hands, and the next…

…the very magic in their hands sputtered out and failed.

Even Orodan was shocked. Vision of Purity had caught absolutely nothing at all. The energy was completely and pristinely pure. His instincts had felt something move through the air and touch each spell, but to do so for each and every one individually? Astonishing.

The previous looper, whose spells had fizzled out like candles in the wind, went pale as a sheet.

“H-how…?”

“Your spell structure is flawed. Do not offend my sensibilities by bringing the cantrips of children against me,” the Mage imperiously spoke. “Now, enough of these false bodies.”

A dark mist suddenly came into being.

It wasn’t cast, it didn’t travel as a projectile, it simply appeared as though it had always been there. Almyra’s clones, which were created through a mirroring technique, were instantly dispelled as the dark fog cut off her ability to chain tethers and multiple reflections of her soul into the real world.

Simultaneously, each and every layered spell surrounding her body was suddenly stripped. A targeted dispel.

Almyra’s eyes went wide and her hands went to her throat as her unconditioned body without magical support was not at all suited for the harsh airless clime of the deep void.

[Galewind 38 → Galewind 40]

Orodan’s hasty Galewind which conjured copious amounts of wind into the otherwise desolate hollow allowed her to breathe, and a quick weaving of a pocket dimension around Almyra allowed the air to remain and not be hungrily devoured by the void.

Alagameth immediately began firing a cavalcade of arrows of light, Talricto began sending dimensional cutting edges and Almyra resumed her spellfire. But frankly, he didn’t like their chances.

As the spatial spider’s arrows were consumed by an orb of darkness, Talricto’s dimensional cutters unraveled and Almyra’s spells harmlessly dispelled, Orodan stepped forward via Dimensional Step.

Or, he tried to.

The sheer resistance he encountered was unreal. As though he was suddenly attempting to walk on frictionless ice while being blasted by a tornado.

But there was one more party in this battle.

The Mage suddenly howled in utter agony, doubling over as he fought to regain his faculties.

Zaessythra.

Her strange power affected even this Administrator! But, the ancient spellcaster had not gotten to where he was by not having countermeasures. This was no Prophet.

This was the single greatest wizard in all System space. A being who made Destartes, Almyra and the High-Orast put together look like little children playing at magic.

Zaessythra’s eyes clouded as an illusion came over her mind.

Orodan’s mind, soul, body and very being suddenly came under horrid existential agony.

“Stop! You’re targeting Orodan!” Talricto warned.

Simultaneously, the gigantic star-system sized Fireballs the Mage had ready finally flew for them. Not for him, but towards his allies.

Talricto and Alagameth were forced to warp Almyra and Zaessythra away lest they die on the spot.

And finally Orodan powered through that miserable agony and concurrently smashed through the strange resistance with naught but raw power and brute force alone.

[Dimensional Step 54 → Dimensional Step 57]

It was the single most expensive Dimensional Step he had ever performed. The sheer amount of soul energy he’d needed to spend was impressive even if the distance had been less than a planets’ width.

He emerged nearer to see two things.

The Prophet, both arms outstretched and glowing, but looking distinctly strained.

And the defenses of Glyphward Fortress staring at him, as though wanting to eradicate him on he spot but unable to due to the token he carried.

“Like a bottomless well… is this the unnatural power which has drawn the ire of so many Invaders?” the Mage asked, layering ten-thousand spells between himself and Orodan in an instant. The spells were no mish-mash like Almyra’s, but a pristine and perfect lattice of true harmony. “My Dispel skill is at level 199. Never before has it failed to strip or halt something. Yet that raw power of yours… it is true Infinity, isn’t it?”

“An irksome thing. I alone will suffice; I did not ask for the concept to begin fighting my battles for me,” Orodan spoke.

“Then know this. An entire faction of the Invaders are pressing against our borders simply to study you. There has never been an Embodier of that concept, even beyond System space where such terms are spoken of differently,” the Administrator warned. “You are strong. Stronger than I thought possible for a time looper to become. But the gulf between us is still vast, and the time loop will not avail you should you die beyond the bounds of its influence.”

Orodan was tempted to tell him that even hurling him outside System space and killing him would fail, but for now chose to leave the information disparity untouched.

“Orodan Wainwright. The Custodian’s final gambit turned greatest disaster. You were meant to cleanse the System, to finally give this failing cage a measure of hope. Instead, you slew the Prophet and did something which has caused an innumerable amount of breaches to appear in the boundary. Do not think your harboring of an Invader has gone unnoticed either. I have felt that wicked power once before… never again.”

“She is not an Invader,” he replied sternly. “But we have spoken enough. You struck first seeking hostilities. Let us put an end to this matter.”

“Bold. Come then, see what no amount of time looping will ever allow you to match. While you wasted time with words, I was stockpiling every possible spell and advantage I could.”

The Mage was not bluffing. The ancient spellcaster’s body was thrumming with over a hundred thousand spells now. To make matters worse, his foe was also cranking up an extreme Time Compression field, hastening his movements.

Countless spells, hastened speed thanks to chronomancy, and two miniature palm-sized black holes which were forming above the Mage’s head. Things were not looking good.

Exactly the sort of clash he lived for.

The sword rapped against the boss of the shield thrice. A mocking taunt… which the Mage did not heed at all.

The answer instead came in the form of an absolute barrage of spells from range.

[Elemental Living Enchantment 57 → Elemental Living Enchantment 59]

which Orodan was forced to answer with a furious Endless Blitz of Smites of Abrupt Deliverance while fire flowed through his body. Not his maximal power strikes, but quick, rapid.

His empowered sword alongside Eidolon of Violence carved the spells into pieces, yet even these pieces began animating and attempting to come after him. Thus he began targeting the very essence of the attacks, outright killing the spells, giving them a final death via the power of Violence.

Still, some spells did get through for such was the reality of facing an opponent who was his greater in skill and localized power.

[Fire Resistance 82 → Fire Resistance 83]

[Psionic Resistance 90 → Psionic Resistance 91]

Fire struck, as did a deluge of spellfire meant to utterly annihilate his mind. Minus the crisping of his physical body, the psionic assault alone would have turned any other looper into a comatose husk for the rest of eternity.

But Orodan was made of sterner stuff.

The Mage frowned.

“Resistant to flame and mental assaults? I suppose that particular method of permanently ending you is futile. Vexatious, but intriguing… let us test another few avenues.”

[Lightning Resistance 71 → Lightning Resistance 73]

[Poison Resistance 4 → Poison Resistance 28]

He carved a majority of the spells apart as he continued his slow and inexorable advance. But many still hit. The lightning was no issue, causing a pleasant buzz which was healed trivially quickly via Harmony of Vitality. But the poison?

His cells died, convulsed and almost wanted to rebel against him as entire patches of his body began turning black and practically melting off as though foul sludge coming off a bone. A massive jump in the relevant resistance skill, but hells was this poison some extreme stuff.

The lightning was normal enough, but he had never seen bolts made of pure poison, glowing with a pale green as though it were an element. He nearly lost grip of his sword as the bolts caused the flesh of his arm to melt and fall off in blackened patches.

“That too? The poison is meant to be the bane of any self-healing skills, and yet…”

Harmony of Vitality, though facing resistance, still pushed through with force to recover his body. It also helped that he had no veins, arteries or organs. No pathways for the poison to spread through when his body was just muscle and bone.

But the Mage had more, of course he did. Why would an Administrator who went by such a moniker be limited in spell variety?

Orodan advanced closer and closer to his foe, yet the nature of the spells he was carving down suddenly changed yet again.

[Light Resistance 26 → Light Resistance 34]

[Water Resistance 42 → Water Resistance 44]

“Now that is just masochistic… how many more do you even possess?” the Mage asked, baffled. “Have you been spending loops dying on purpose?”

Orodan had a feral and bloody grin on his face as he advanced closer.

“It was good training.”

Still, he was not stupid. The positioning of the Administrator, the baited entry, Orodan knew he was walking into a trap.

In fact, the next wave finally targeted something he did not have a resistance skill for.

Darkness.

His mind and soul suffered damage as cascading waves of the element of darkness assailed him. It was a rare element. He’d seen it once in a salamander during one of his earliest delves into an energy well, but aside from that even the more nefarious foes he’d fought scarcely used the element.

However, the real crippling issue with suffering an assault from darkness was the mind and soul damage it inflicted. It suffocated both, and this spell the Mage was hitting him with was no exception.

If anything, by the feel of it, this was another one of those which was meant to have dire long-term effects if it had hit anyone else. Already he could feel the darkness attempting to slither across his mind and soul as a permanent and crippling mark. A shadow which would haunt his every step.

It was a problem…

[Incipience of Infinity 180 → Incipience of Infinity 181]

…which Orodan burnt away by flaring his soul energy.

“Tch… you begin to test my patience, time looper. I suspected it, but you are a true triple Celestial, are you not?” the Mage asked. Orodan’s silence as he simply continued surging against the barrage was answer enough. “Abominable. To allow so much power in one being. But that will be enough. Your bullheaded advance would earn you much favor from Talasgan, but equal parts disdain for your shortsightedness. You have walked into my trap.”

And to that, he said only two words.

“I know.”

For just as the Mage had been herding him towards a pre-prepared spot with a wormhole leading to beyond the boundary… so too had Orodan been subtly moving sideways in a manner which lined things up perfectly.

The wormhole leading beyond and to the greater cosmos opened beneath his feet. And at the same time, Orodan produced the token of Glyphward Fortress in his shield hand… and crushed it.

Immediately, the System node’s defenses shrieked and opened fire.

With the Mage right between them and their target.

The Administrator’s eyes widened, casting a mighty surge of dark magic and loosing the palm-sized black holes towards Orodan. The Mage’s attention was tied up dealing with Glyphward’s barrage of defensive fire.

And in those spare moments… Orodan finally understood what darkness was and how to resist it.

[New Skill → Darkness Resistance 47 (Exquisite)]

And black holes which were entirely force-based? That he could deal with.

The rim of his shield met one, the tip of his swordpoint the other… and both exploded with cataclysmic might. A shockwave he bullied his way through as he surged a titanic amount of fire through his body via Elemental Living Enchantment.

Eidolon of Violence was the vanguard, with Elemental Living Enchantment and a Smite of Abrupt Deliverance fueled by fire and Burst Casting. It was the same strike which he’d slain the empowered Prophet with during the Defense of Alastaia.

“Hrk! Orodan Wainwright! Well played!” the Mage roared, impressed and suddenly off-guard in equal measure.

The Administrator’s Mantle channeled at full power and all the magical might within came pouring out at him.

He was strong, but the Mage was well above the Prophet in a pure fight.

Would he be enough?

A question which was interrupted by someone.

A bald, scarred maniac dual-wielding straight swords.

