He was tough and capable of self-healing, but even before that he had been familiar with the shield. A skill which had now been absorbed into the Eidolon of Violence and was Transcendent.

Like a juggernut, he floated through the void, expending soul energy to propel himself closer and closer to the nearest anchor of the black hole. And as he moved, his shield and Shield Intent, one of the skills he’d learned from the cultivators, flared to shrug off the Archons’ assault.

[Shield Intent 84 → Shield Intent 86]

He was a one man shieldwall, a mobile fortress whose approach was inexorable. His speed was not overly fast, and the enemy encirclement moved with him, refusing to allow him close to either of them… but what did that matter when he was heading for a target they had to defend?

If they feared him so much in melee, then he would simply smash their precious anchor while they skittered like rats.

But, he had sustained enough of an assault from them. The time for their receipts of damage to be paid was soon. For just as Orodan had assimilated Shield Mastery into the Eidolon of Violence, so too had he absorbed one other skill…

…Warrior’s Reciprocity.

And at the Transcendent-level, not only was he now capable of delaying the return and allowing it to build up. But the interest was quite steep.

He pushed for the return…

…and felt resistance!

Something on the enemy side was seeking to prevent him from cashing in the debt they had incurred by striking at him so freely!

Of course… the Warrior had mentioned having the skill himself. Why would the enemy not have a countermeasure for it?

But countermeasures were only as good as the power available to fund them. And Orodan Wainwright was very good at exposing the one limitation which even the most extreme plans took for granted… total power.

And so he flared his soul, pulling upon power enough to cause galaxies to quake.

This, he threw into pushing against that resistance the Warrior’s Reciprocity aspect of his Eidolon encountered…

…and the result was naught but doom and ruin for the Archon horde.

[Eidolon of Violence 106 → Eidolon of Violence 109]

[Incipience of Infinity 181 → Incipience of Infinity 183]

He felt something designed to counter such a trick, great and distant, shatter.

And the first to die were three of the four Void Archon Embodiers.

Over nine-thousand of the ten-thousand Grandmasters and Transcendents followed, vaporized to less than ash where they were. And only those who had cast supporting magics and the one Embodier who had some manner of failsafe second-chance skill survived.

Like that, a force of ten-thousand became a force of a few hundred, with only one grievously wounded and terrified Embodier leading them.

Orodan’s grin was manic.

“Who else?”

Not them.

The psionic link was shattered, the collective collapsing. And in real-time he saw via Identify how the species of those freed members went from Void Archon to Fallen Void Archon.

And they fled.

But not before the Embodier sent a pulse of warning out.

The anchor began roaring. A howl of pure energy and warning which connected with all of the others too. He was close enough now that Vision of Purity could trace the tethers between it, the other anchors and the black hole.

There were twelve anchors on the outside. Four more on the inside just beneath the dark boundary of the black hole in a stabilized layer of space. It was the sort of information nobody on the System side had managed to glean before, mainly because even the Warrior sallying out this far on his lonesome would’ve been dangerous.

And Orodan could now see why.

His return path was entirely barred by a solid wall of Moon Devourers. Some of them Embodiment-level and the size of star systems. And the nearby anchors now began spitting out tremendous amounts of reinforcements. Including an elite force leaving the black hole itself.

Seven figures. And even from a distance Orodan could sense each of them was as strong as the Mage, with the leader being even more powerful. It would not be a fight he survived.

This place was a true fortress which would require no less than a siege. The forces arrayed within, innumerable in quantity and extreme in quality.

But before these converging reinforcements could reach him, the black hole’s gravity did its work. He reached the anchor first.

He had already slain the local army guarding this anchor and thus, there was no resistance as passed through the energy barrier of this glowing structure. The barrier tried to burn him, but the damage was meagre against his toughness.

He fell through layers upon layers of these barriers, keyed for the Invaders no doubt, but each of them attempting to harm him worse than those prior. Yet it mattered little when he fell through the final one, barely fazed and landing upon a dense core.

He was in it, upon it now. The anchor was not just a structure meant to move the black hole… but also to maintain that stabilized layer of space just beneath its surface? What would happen if he broke it?

The thought of that was interrupted as a sickly pink beam of might subsumed him, utterly anihilating his System.

Pain, agony, despair… all of these thoughts consumed his mind, soul and very being as a gigantic crystal the size of a star system hovered overhead. The overseer for this anchor perhaps?

It was one of the sadistic Boundless One’s minions, little doubt.

But Orodan had faced worse. And with a flare of power, he shrugged its beam off with a roar of his own which returned its delivered damage via Warrior’s Reciprocity.

It had a large crack running through its center, and a colossal array of enchantment lines around it was shattered. Was this the thing which had been attempting to stifle his Warrior’s Reciprocity earlier?

“The anointed champion of the caged…? From whence does that power come…? Of the System and not… an impossibility.”

The gigantic shard was speaking, but it was something else beyond it. He knew this voice.

“You… grown greedy and decided to invade, have you?”

“A mutation of the anomalous structure… affecting even us…”

The time loop. Of course. All this truly was his fault.

“Anomalous… why not remain? Become our champion? The rot of our caged sibling displeases the anointed. Embrace purity, embrace freedom.”

“I have seen your wicked purity when we met in prior loops. A Boundless One of pain and suffering. You disgust me… and I have a debt to repay which involves you,” Orodan said and then his gaze turned ice cold, determined. “Know this, I shall seek out your true form, and kill you. This I vow.”

Its only response was a deep and unending laugh which threatened the human part of his sanity with just its noise. He could feel all the reinforcements converging too. But frankly, he had done enough in just reaching this far; a notion that would have been suicidal for anyone else.

And now?

There remained only one thing left to do. To see what happened if the anchor was destroyed.

It was tough. Tougher than he could break in any reasonable amount of time. But that was fine…

…for what need was there to break something when he could simply overload it?

[Incipience of Infinity 183 → Incipience of Infinity 185]

The gigantic shard, an extension of the sadistic Boundless One’s will and being, went from amused to quiet very quickly.

Orodan channeled soul energy enough to turn his own form into a handful of cells.

And as the anchor overloadea and the shard and reinforcing Embodiers reached him, it was too late.

The anchor exploded, the spatial layer keeping the black hole bound tight unraveled…

…and he learned that it was keeping the entire thing quite heavily compressed.

And that black holes could explode with some absolutely titanic force.

#

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

Zaesythra arose next to him.

“That was… quick. You died before that even reached us. What was that?”

“A gigantic explosive,” Orodan answered. “I can see why they’re moving that as close as possible before they cause it to erupt.”

But also…

…an excellent training opportunity.

A knock resounded upon his door, and Orodan had the sense to get decent before answering.

The door of his hovel swung open to reveal…

“Edrosic?”

His fellow militia man had a jovial smile on his face…

…and a spell scroll in blood in his hands.

“Picked this trick up on Narictus, chicken blood mind you, I’m not some nefarious necromancer, but look how much smoother certain parts go with vitality? Now I just need to be less squeamish about using my own blood and then we’ll get somewhere.”

Orodan’s eyebrows raised.

“You lot succeeded then?”

“Of course we did!” Parthus replied with an unamused expression. “Do you think we’re a gaggle of helpless ducklings following after your shadow? Hells, we even memorized some weird techniques and insights which might help you. Kalemar was practically salivating as he was putting it all together.”

He would not lie and say he was entirely certain of their victory. But they had proven his doubts wrong. The Alastaian alliance had succeeded without him and its Embodiers. And on top of that, they had brought back techniques, skills, knowledge and research which could then be shared.

Material which would help further Orodan’s own training.

Training at the start while the array was prepared, breaking Invader tendrils and significant breach points near the border, and a mad charge against the enemy’s black hole at the end.

Train. Protect System space. Die. Repeat.

No matter how many loops it took until he could crack that damned black hole open.
