“How long till it makes contact?” he asked the Master of Death who was looking out the balcony just as he was.

“A week. That is the battering ram which will shatter the boundary once it collides,” the Embodier explained. “In better times we would not have had so many breaches already. Our forces would have been well-organized, and the Custodian would have been freer to lend aid and prevent its actual collision with the boundary. But now? Its mere presence prevents us from sealing many of the breaches. The Warrior and the Mage are also marked out and responded to with eerie accuracy whenever they sally out to try and do anything about it.”

“You are under siege.”

“I suppose we are. We always have been, but this is the first time in my long existence that I have seen the Invaders make such successful inroads.”

“Tell me about what happens if I were to step out of the fortress and to the outside.”

“Have a death wish, do you? You are aware that Lord Talasgan has chosen to deploy you at a particular site alongside himself, yes?” the pale Embodier asked, and then the deathly being had an odd twinkle in his misty eye. “Hmm, I suppose answering a question will harm no one. If you were to step out beyond range of the Fortress’s defenses… then the first things to get you would be the Moon Devourers and their brood.”

“Moon Devourers?”

“Yes. That field of debris you see in the extreme distance beyond what even your Vision of Purity can sense? Those are not asteroids. They are the young hatchlings of those planets and nearby stars just beyond our boundary.”

They were? Orodan peered in hard. He forced as much soul energy into his eyes as he could. Vision of Purity was out of the question at such an extreme range. Good training, and something to aspire to over a few hundred loops of grinding. But right here right now he would not be extending it that far.

But he focused and tried to have his naked eyes and regular sight make out the details. He strained and focused on the nearest planet, extremely distant as it was, and…

…the thing twitched!

It was alive!

“Identifier recommends not staring at Moon Devourers. Rude creatures they are. They stare back. Sometimes they smile. Other times you catch the notice of something worse without meaning to and cry like a newborn hatchling in the healing sanctum.”

The giant eyeball floated over as it spoke.

“I’ve seen worse. Those strange anomalies among them,” he replied.

“Horrid things. Gave Identifier headache when looking at their ugly faces. Then Identifier looked back and they did not like that,” the Embodier spoke.

Interesting. So the System’s forces were not as defenseless against those things as he originally thought.

“Moon Devourers and anomalies. What else is beyond the boundaries? Armies? Fortresses?”

“That black hole approaching us is an enemy fortress,” the Warrior spoke coming up to stand beside them. “The anchors being used to move it are defended by armies of the great evil’s forces. It is impregnable. Even I have not been able to crack it. They have beaten me back each time I have tried.”

“Kharadun Voidfortress has volunteered the usage of his own captured black hole as a counter, but at ruinous cost,” the Master of Death spoke. “And sending anyone into that section of the void to try and scout things out would be a death sentence.”

“We cannot strike directly, we must first weaken their advance forces circling the borders, break a hole through this encirclement, and from there…”

Orodan stopped paying attention, allowing the Warrior’s words to wash over him like a breeze.

The lot of them were staring out at the void and noting the enemy’s movements.

Orodan was too.

But it was Zaessythra who was staring directly at him. She recognized the look on his face.

“No… don’t even think about it, we have an entire plan set-”

“Is the Invasion of Narictus done?” Orodan interrupted.

“It… should be,” Almyra answered. “I sense no activity from that part of the Athranos at all. Why are you-”

“Good. Then there is no need to delay. Plans and stratagems are good… but useless without direct frontline information of our foe. as you said Almyra, I function best under pressure.”

The Warrior looked ready to physically stop him, Almyra looked surprised and even Zaessythra looked quite displeased. The Identifier just watched, and that pale, wispy Embodier simply smiled.

Before Talasgan could intervene, Orodan moved.

[Dimensional Step 57 → Dimensional Step 59]

The resistance was titanic. Like last time, he felt as though he was attempting to step through a slippery and gelatinous thing. Proof that even the Mage was trying to stop him.

But before Talasgan’s hand could reach out to grab him, Orodan’s raw power bent and then blew an opening through Glyphward Fortress’s anti-dimensionalism net.

And out into the great void beyond the System’s boundaries he went.

His destination? One of the anchors responsible for dragging the Invaders’ black hole along.

This was Orodan’s first time seeing and dealing with a black hole. And unfortunately for him, nobody had told him how they interacted with and really skewed things related to dimensions and space.

Which was why he learned the hard way that one couldn’t so easily use Dimensionalism to travel near a black hole.

The first indication that something was wrong was when Orodan was pulled right out of his brief phase between the dimensional boundary… because there was no other dimension he could enter and travel through. Just the material plane, and an absolutely enormous force of gravity pulling him right back into it.

The moment he appeared, he realized he was within some sort of debris field. And his Vision of Purity and ability to sense souls told him that absolutely none of it was void debris.

The asteroids began moving. They grew teeth, opened eyes, sprouted appendages and looked all-around hungry.

And the first few hundred to begin swarming him began dying in droves.

Orodan Wainwright had broken hordes before. Sending an army of chaff against him was futile. But these things were not logical or reasonable creatures. The sheer hunger, the starvation he sensed in them… it was at a depth he had never seen before in a being of the System.

Their prowess ranged from Master to Transcendent, yet even then his blade, shield, fists and knees slaughtered them as though he was the center of a butcher’s shop. Their appearance, that of void rock, was a deception. The rock was shell and their insides were vicious flesh, teeth and acid.

Most hordes facing him broke and ran out of self-preservation, but these creatures, Moon Devourers, simply kept coming as though survival was secondary to sating the appetite. As he killed hundreds, the approaching thousands fed on the remains of their fallen kind. It was a sort of primal hunger which overrode any fear they might’ve otherwise felt.

Eerily, they were not even rushing for him anymore, the horde was more interested in devouring the splattered remains of the dead floating in the void.

Thousands more were pulped by his raw storm of physical fury, until the only ones left were carrion-feeders on the edges who were happy to engage in the feast he’d left for them.

And two very large and very angry planets who were glaring at him.

He was no stranger to fighting gigantic foes the size of a star system, but to face living planets who had eyes the size of continents? It was a novel experience. Particularly when the grotesque eyes—mockeries of the human organ—were hatefully glaring at him as though he’d slaughtered their children.

Perhaps he had. But in that, they could only blame themselves for not disciplining their hungering brood better.

The surfaces of these gigantic living planets were a nightmarish ruin of discarded organic refuse and drained bodies. Amidst that refuse were swarms of more of the smaller Moon Devourers, slowly being born amid an environment which knew nothing but hunger and starvation.

And within, beneath the surface… depths. Cave systems, without any sort of world gate. But in the absolute bowels of it all… world cores. Ravenous things which periodically pulsed with need to drain more from the surface and toward themselves.

The fleshy mountainscapes and foul pits of drained biological sludge upon their surfaces suddenly drained and split apart… to reveal gigantic continent-sized maws from which tongues the length of entire countries protruded, extending right towards him in hungry pursuit.

Even as Orodan’s Smite of Abrupt Deliverance vaporized them both, he could hear the tortured moans of what constituted ‘life’ upon their surfaces.

Foul things. It made one grateful for the System which regulated world cores and prevented them from going rogue to twist into such abominations. It made the defense of System space against these Invaders of paramount importance. For it seemed there were wicked creatures out there just as bad as the Eldritch.

More of which had now noticed him.

He was close to the black hole, close enough that he was being pulled along by its inexorable gravity. He could resist by flaring enough soul energy to deny gravity’s influence upon him, but why bother? One of the anchors was in the way of his ‘fall’.

Of course, plenty of other things had noticed his arrival and approach too. Chiefly, a very eerie anomaly Zaessythra had slain already in a prior loop.

Orodan didn’t know what its name was, but it was no fool. It did not approach or charge him, instead opting to wait at a safe distance… and alert everything else in the vicinity about his arrival.

A gloomful wail, the sort of sound which should never have existed, left the throat of this anomalous woman-thing. The noise echoed without end.

The anchors of the black hole, those glowing white nodes of power responsible for moving it, suddenly erupted. Thousands upon thousands of figures began spewing out of an enlarged mouth from the center.

Void Archons. Not the Fallen ones within System space.

The same group he’d aided in driving back from the Crimson Sink Galaxy. And at their head, four separate Embodiment-level Archons.

He’d killed a singular one earlier, forcing a tendril of their invasion in that sector to retreat. But to face four at once alongside an entire army?

Now this would be a good fight.

These were cautious beings not prone to the same bloodlust and battle-mania possessing him. Which meant Orodan was not surprised in the slightest when they formed a moving cage of bodies around him. Not at all in melee range, thousands of miles away, but the encircling net was absolute all the same.

And the comprehensive bombardment began.

Each and every element he could think of was sent his way. These Void Archons were not melee specialists, but they were mages. And with the coordination of a hivemind, an army of ten-thousand mages, each with six arms, all at the Grandmaster-level minimum… could be a force of reckoning indeed.

[Lightning Resistance 73 → Lightning Resistance 75]

[Ice Resistance 50 → Ice Resistance 53]

[Darkness Resistance 47 → Darkness Resistance 48]

[Water Resistance 44 → Water Resistance 47]

[Wind Resistance 43 → Wind Resistance 45]

[Light Resistance 34 → Light Resistance 36]

[Psionic Resistance 91 → Psionic Resistance 92]

[Iron Body 97 → Iron Body 98]

Orodan was electrocuted, frozen, darkened, drowned, hit with reaving wind, scorched with fire and light and assaulted by some of the strongest mental assaults he’d felt in a long time. They even began testing his physical form with bolts of pure force and gravity, but these only had the benefit of giving him one more level in Iron Body.

That anomalous thing wisely hiding in the very fringes wasn’t inactive either. Its mournful howls amplified the enemy assaults and he could feel the sound seeping into his very soul, as though attempting to weaken his resistance skills and render them inert.

This was a truly dangerous foe, a creature designed to massacre the System’s defenders by cutting off their access to it.

However that reliance on such a trick was the reason it had died to Zessythra in the past. And why it would die to him now.

He needed no System. For he had forged himself without one and then built his own from the ground up.

Eidolon of Violence grabbed the distance between them. And like a juggrnaut hauling a rope with something heavy at the end, Orodan pulled.

The slippery anomaly had but a moment to end its miserable song before it was no longer many thousands of miles away. Now, suddenly, it was in grabbing distance of him.

The sheer volley of elemental assault from the enemy Archons eased up, not wanting to harm their ally it seemed.

But it was too late.

Orodan’s hands wrapped around its neck, physically, but also around the information pattern that this wicked thought-corruption was composed of, metaphysically.

And he twisted.

[Eidolon of Violence 105 → Eidolon of Violence 106]

The anomaly died.

There was no howl, no shriek, no final display of its end. Just as he had annihilated the Prophet’s very soul when first synergizing the Eidolon, he now obliterated its very being in a simple and most final act of pure violence and savagery.

It simply disappeared, not even a corpse remaining.

For a moment, the army assaulting him stilled. It was a hivemind, one whose individuals should have been under the control of its commanding Embodiers. Yet the stench of shock and fear was now evident among the collective.

A piercing warble of that strange and alien speech the System knew not echoed, and the commanding Embodiers ruthlessly clamped down, stabilizing their underlings. The assault resumed, yet Orodan, shield raised, weathered it.

