Erick banished his thoughts on the story he had seen, and then he wrapped the belt around his waist. It fit well, though he did have to do some rearranging with his belt to hold his rod. Soon enough, he wore both just fine. When he found another metamond workshop cube, he would fit this belt with a [Benediction]… And maybe some more stuff. That [Memorize] might go well with [Benediction], actually. Putting both together might give him some sort of ‘All Stat’ equivalent… if he turned the power on both of those metamonds into an all-the-time thing, instead of a temporary boost of power. Erick preferred reliable, low level power anyway, over high-powered, emergency-use magics. Such a working would likely go very well with the belt, since that’s the type of magic it already contained.

Now Erick wasn’t completely sure, but [Unsensible] was probably an anti-sensory self-buffing magic. An illusion spell, to hide himself from others. Erick couldn’t really tell the difference, sense-wise, as he put on the belt, but he was pretty sure he was now subject to the same sort of anti-sensory magics that he had already seen a bunch of people using on the entrance zone, and what Fyuri had used, too.

He could still mana sense out to around 100 meters, but that level of mana sense was probably going to go way, way down in the next floor, when the mana saturation went from 80% to 60%…

Erick wasn’t exactly looking forward to that, but it would be good to get used to that sort of thing in case he ever had to go back outside the Edge of the Script again. He would probably need to vent a good portion of the mana in his core before he went down another level, though, just so he didn’t have to hold in so much against that pressure gradient. Erick checked his core, and guessed he was at around… 95% contained? So he had leaked a good 2500-ish mana into the dungeon.

… Like, honestly, he could just go down to 80% mana and match the dungeon’s mana density, and avoid this whole bloated feeling altogether. 80% of his max was still 44k mana. If he matched the next floor’s mana density for 60%, that was still 33k mana. More than enough to save himself if the worst should happen.

But that was rather irresponsible, wasn’t it.

Erick sighed, and contented himself with containing his mana, for now. Maybe he could construct a magic that would allow him to hold in more mana in the face of the void of space, but he had already tried that after facing Holo, the Wizard of Anarchy, and he had failed miserably, because he already had the best possible containing magic; a Domain. Which he was already using, internally. But a Domain still faltered in the face of outer space.

Maybe this dungeon had a specific solution for his problem, though? A solution that existed only here, inside this Second Script? It was possible. Erick was rather sure that permanent enhancements wouldn’t work inside a manaless environment, so maybe they had… Domains of different sorts?

The Edge of the Script, that most strongest of barriers against the void of space, still leaked, to this day, even after Erick had given Rozeta the knowledge of Earth’s magnetosphere. Veird’s new magnetosphere certainly helped, of course, both to keep mana in, and to keep the cosmic radiation of the sun and the rest of the New Cosmology from impacting Veird and cleaving away mana. It helped a lot. But mana still leaked.

Erick had already tried making a personal magnetosphere, but that didn’t work—

Oh.

He looked at the rod in his hands.

Metal was a much better container of power than flesh, and cores. Radiation barely impacted metal’s mana containment properties, or the mana therein, and pressure differentials certainly didn’t matter...

Ah.

… Well duh. These properties of metal was why Atunir had made this Second Script using metal containers as substitutes for cores, and interchangeable mana crystals as substitutes for soul-imbued spellwork; both metal and mana crystals were very good permanent holders of magic, if they were made correctly.

Erick briefly considered casting his core in platinum, or something like that, but rather instantly discarded the idea completely. Bad, bad idea, for too many reasons to count.

… Had Rozeta and the Relevant Entities ever considered surrounding Veird in platinum, or something like that? In order to fully prevent mana loss? … They probably had tried that at least once, for sure, for the benefits of contained mana fully outweighed the aesthetics of never seeing the sky again. But Melemizargo probably ripped that apart, calling it a prison, for sure. If a metal-covered Veird had ever happened, it had probably been a very short-lived experiment.

Anyway.

The gate to the next level had appeared several minutes ago.

As the morning sun had washed into the coliseum it had illuminated a hole in the world on the western end of the arena. That hole had expanded to form an archway to a white room, with words hovering above that doorway.

FLOOR ONE COMPLETE!

Erick headed that way.

With one final look to the crumbling walls of the arena, the destroyed city beyond, and the sun rising over all that wreckage, Erick breathed deep the scent of lingering destruction…

And then he stepped through the words, and the doorway.

The path shut behind him.

- - - -

Nothing changed in the deserted city for a while. But then, everything began to change in small ways, and then in large, as though someone was setting the world to rights one city block at a time.

The repair man had been busy, until now.

Water reappeared in the streets, like someone simply willed it to happen, and without any flow of water from point A to point B at all. Cracks in the ground filled in with stone and debris, like someone running a finger across the broken streets, closing in the holes with a push. Fallen buildings reversed their own destruction, like time flowing backward, walls and roofs and all the rest rising into the air and then settling back down. Walls remained broken here and there, because this was a war torn city. Only the destruction of the Beast of Destruction had been reversed.

And then suddenly the sun whipped across the sky, setting fast, and Riam’s new red star vanished from sight. As night settled into the city once again it was almost ready for another delver, or a party, or whoever. The place was still fully devoid of monsters, but...

Monsters would be placed as necessary, and at the dungeon’s discretion.

- - - -

Erick stood under bright white lights in a domed room like the ones he had encountered in the tutorial.

Ahead of him floated his status.

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 5000

Meta-Irons: 1600, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 5/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 99/100

Rod of the Lightning Guardian, 1000/1000

Necklace of [Meditation], 49/50

Wand of [Drinking Food], 156/200

Belt of Many Functions. (depleted), (depleted), [Unsensible], 5/250

Unused Meta-Diamonds: [Murky], [Benediction], [Flaming Ooze], [Shadow Bolt], [Paper Control], [Memorize].

- -

As Erick acknowledged that status, it moved to the left, and new words began to appear.

You have two options:

Continue your delve without interruption

OR

Return to the entrance zone, and come back to challenge floor 2 another day

Erick considered for a moment, then said, “I’ll come back another day. Return me to the entrance, please.”

Words appeared.

Delver housing, storage, and many other options unlock upon the completion of floor 5.

For now, you must carry your collected items with you.

Upon leaving, all of your collected items will turn into non-functional iron crystals and iron gems, but they will regain functionality after re-entering the Glittering Depths, provided they have not been altered. Altered items might not function the same way inside the Glittering Depths! Alter an item at your own risk!

Seek out a dungeon guide if you have questions.

Thank you for delving the Glittering Depths!

The words vanished from the air, and an archway opened up on the other side of the room. Beyond that open path lay blue skies and grasslands.

Erick went through the gate and many things happened at once. Mana pressure evened out, rising to 95%, allowing Erick to relax his Domain around his core, allowing him to feel more normal. It was a great relief, but leaving the dungeon would be better. Almost as soon as Erick felt physically better, his mana sense expanded outward, allowing him to mana sense everything for 400 meters around. That was how he found himself standing on the backside of a hill, on the opposite side of where people entered the lower floors. A reconnection with Ophiel came next.

‘Dad!’ Ophiel sent him, though his voice was garbled as it faltered in the distance between Erick and the entrance. ‘Nothing bad happen! Play more?’

‘Play is done for now, Ophiel. We’ll head back to Odaali for a little while.’

‘Can we pie?! Purple pie?!’

Erick smiled as he started walking around the grassy hill, to where he saw people entering the shadowed side of the hill, and where the dirt path led to the entrance. There, floating to the side of the black [Gate], Ophiel fluttered invisibly and intangibly. Seeing his son was almost as good as feeling the world start to make magical sense once again. As Erick strode forward, passing people heading into the dungeon, he felt the Script once again begin to take hold.

As Erick stepped across the shadows ringing the entrance, the Script fully took hold. Erick’s belt, wand in his pocket and all the various metamonds inside, his rod, and his [Meditation] necklace, all began to transform. In three steps, Erick felt his Stats under the Script return to him in full, and every single item he had gained inside the dungeon had turned into grey iron crystal, or decorative glass.

Ophiel alighted on Erick’s shoulder, telepathically tweeting, as Erick grinned.

‘Yes, Ophiel, we can get you some purple pie. Maybe even some red and pink and orange, too!’

Ophiel briefly fluffed up, but then he got real low on Erick’s shoulder, and kinda unhappy, too. ‘No orange. Bad color.’

Erick chuckled as he stepped out of the dungeon, all the way back into the real world. The grand spider of a good hundred legs, which stood over and around the entire dungeon gatehouse, did nothing as Erick and Ophiel passed underneath.

Night had fallen outside, and a quick look through Ophiels revealed that daytime was only a couple of hours away. The dungeon didn’t seem to sleep much, though, for the number of people in the courtyard and in the dungeon guildhouse across the way seemed to be the same amount as it had been when Erick had entered the dungeon a good 18 hours ago.

Erick made his way through a tunnel, to the Platform Square, off to the side of the Grand Dungeon’s main compound, where he summoned a Platform and rose into the air, up and away, as he spoke to Ophiel about anything and everything, but mostly about what the little guy had seen when Erick had been inside the dungeon. Ophiel’s replies weren’t the most well composed thoughts that Erick had ever heard, but he still loved to hear them. Ophiel was growing up.

And soon, Yggdrasil’s voice came to Erick, too, ‘Father. There are some concerns for upcoming Shadow’s Feast preparations, and while no one wants to interrupt your time away from the kingdom, they are overwhelmed. Can you help? But not be directly involved?’

‘Of course!’ Erick sent, ‘I might spend the night at Odaali with Poi and the Odaalis, but I will also be ready and willing to revert time if necessary.’

With obvious relief, Yggdrasil sent, ‘Ahh… Good…’ After a moment he asked, ‘So how was it in there?’

‘It was rather darned interesting, for sure. How much would you like to know?’

Yggdrasil excitedly sent, ‘Everything. I was… I was talking to Everbless, and he’s been working on dungeons for a while. I don’t think I want to do that, but the idea of a Second Script, if well done, might be interesting? I am not sure how such a thing would actually need to be done, though, for isn’t the Script already rather well done?’

Erick sent, ‘The Script is rather well done, but Atunir was not going for breadth of coverage when she came up with the Second Script inside the Glittering Depths… Maybe. I’m not sure about that. I have some longer-term questions about the nature of the exact sort of Second Script Atunir has imposed, but to start with, she’s gone for a more limited form of magic. That, along with allowing people to produce their own mana for their own use, instead of having mana being produced in the Core, means a whole lot of simplification in any required Script. When you get that simple, that simplification can probably be taken outside of the Script, into the void of outer space.’ Erick continued, ‘Now, to start, you must understand about mana density...’

Erick spoke for a long time as he flew through the early morning night. Erick made sure Ophiel was a part of the conversation, as he flew his Platform up through the sky, and toward the west, but Ophiel rolled all his eyes and did not care about magic too much. Yggdrasil was incredibly interested in magic, and Erick answered as many questions as he could, but some of Yggdrasil’s questions were beyond Erick’s current understanding, and he said so.

No one seemed to be chasing him from Greensoil, too, which was great! ‘Ashes’ had been discovered by some higher-ups and various people here and there in the Odaali Embassy in Greendale, but he had not been found out by the general populace, or by the Viridian Throne. If Ashes had been found out, then Erick would have had some very polite and also insistent inquisitors tracking him down right now, to talk. But there was none of that.

So Erick flew along, and when he judged himself safe enough to open a [Gate], he did so, and had Ophiel blank the manasphere where he conjured that ring of lightning. Anyone who had been tracking him would have found their path stymied by a sudden loss of anything to trail.

Odaali was just waking up when Erick stepped into the royal throne room, as himself, with his crown of black horns, a smile on his face, and Ophiel twittering behind him. Within moments, the guard was on him, but almost just as fast they realized who he was, and Poi was awake by then, anyway.

Breakfast was early in the Odaali household that day, with Yetta’s kids already screaming and having fun with Ophiel over a nice family breakfast. Eventually, the kids and Ophiel rushed away into the next rooms, and Yetta, Cyril, Poi, and Erick, had breakfast in peace, as they spoke of Odaali’s preparations for Shadow’s Feast, and about Denutha Odaari’s trial.

