Zac’s heart filled with endless complaints as the situation grew further out of control when a sea of golden flames poured from the rift. It destroyed nothing in its path, only annealing everything it encountered in the glory of the Limitless Empire. And the fount of Imperial Faith was rushing straight for the exposed Realmgate.

The hidden barrier to the other side may as well have been paper before the incoming storm. It wasn’t that it was too weak to resist attack; it simply didn’t block the streaks of flames at all. They passed right through, allowing Life and Faith to weave into a unified whole. The forces felt like long-lost lovers kept apart for too long, and nothing could interfere with their reunion.

Zac goggled at the vast waves of ancient Karma that were dislodged from Poised Meadow’s Primal Life and incinerated by the flames of faith. Zac hadn’t sensed those energies in the slightest until now, unless you counted that sense of being spied upon. Was it thanks to the teardrop? Had it ensured none of the Karma made it through the Realmgate?

A hoarse voice filled Zac’s mind, pushing aside all other thoughts.

‘He’s back… He’s back…’

‘The gardens burn… Flames of WAR!’

The last word held such an intense mix of agony and desire that Zac was knocked right out. When he came to, he and his spirit ball were ripping through the sky atop a small Flying Treasure made of shadows. Ogras was seated next to him with his own spirit baby, this one half Zac’s size and covered with shadowy spots.

Powerful fluctuations made Zac turn around, and he drew a sharp breath. Their vessel was barely outrunning a vast tsunami of Holy Life. At least the vast scar beneath them had already closed up instead of adding insult to injury. As much as Zac didn’t want to admit it, Ogras’ complaints had proven prophetic once more. The realm was undergoing a terrifying rebirth, and he was the cause.

“I—” Zac said, his words stalled by a fit of coughs.

“Don’t sweat it,” Ogras shrugged before taking a swig from a flagon of wine. “The trial wanted you to blow it up, right?”

“How did you know? Don’t tell me…” Zac said, glancing at Ogras’ left hand.

“You’re right. I started receiving Imperial Merit the moment you went crazy, and I got a nice bonus at the end,” Ogras grinned. “I’ll never get tired of reaping benefits from your actions. This time, I didn’t even lose much beyond a layer of skin.”

“It was a group effort. I’m not sure if I would have managed to weaken the teardrop without you draining the surroundings,” Zac said.

“Trying to spread the blame in case things go tits up?” Ogras snickered. “Fine, fine. I don’t mind being the bad guy. Shame about the teardrop, though. Your kid almost got it.”

“Huh?”

“You didn’t notice?” Ogras said with surprise. “The drop flickered and disappeared just before it was swallowed. The apparition only got a taste. I think the treasure snuck into the rift before it closed back up.”

“Maybe that’s for the best,” Zac exhaled, lying back down on the deck. His body felt great, but his mind was wrung dry.

“By the way, am I crazy, or did I sense the Buddhist Sangha for a moment?”

“I think so. There was also a hidden thread of Karma that tried to interfere with my breakthrough, and the flavor…” Zac muttered, thinking back to the hidden thread inside the first Earthly Chain. “It reminded me of Daedalian Court’s first halo. The monks are probably up to something, and reconnecting the Left Imperial Expanse with Poised Meadow interfered with that plan.”

“I would be more surprised if those greedy monks weren’t hatching some big scheme,” Ogras said with a shrug.

“Flames of war…” Zac muttered, a vague notion gradually taking shape.

Some of the Karma he’d felt was definitely between him and the Sangha, but it couldn’t account for the large amounts of Karmic Energy permeating Poised Meadow on the other side. The war mentioned by the Realmlord, could it be between the Limitless Empire and the Buddhist Sangha? The Nine Gardens and the Eight Hells were aligned with the Limitless Empire, and they wielded Authority critical to the Sangha’s Dao of Samsara.

Were the monks in the process of seizing the Lower Planes? Or were their aims even greater?
