As Valor soared through the air, his Legendary Skill grew stronger, as he found himself Unseen, Unheard, and Unknown. In this blind spot of blind spots, hidden from even the Stranger himself, the mists protecting Valor grew ever stronger and denser as his Stealth Skill nursed itself on ignorance.

A memory returned to him unbidden then. It was one of his earliest memories from childhood, a moment long forgotten. Until now. He remembered being afraid of the dark, terrified of the rustling of the wheat field outside his window, and the glowing eyes that peered up at his room in the attic from between the shadows. He remembered running into his adopted mother's arms, screaming about monsters. She'd promptly spun him a blanket, tied it around his neck, and called it a "Veiling Cape." And with that, she'd christened him "Lord of the Darkness."

For when you walk the shadows, you will be the strongest one there. You will be protected from all things that lurk and refuse to face the light. For subjects cannot strike their King.

And that had been enough, for a child so young. It was a thing of delusion, of course, a desperate attempt on part of his adoptive mother to stop the bedwetting, to end the nightly terrors. But it worked.

The first step before every Skill came to form was belief. And for Valor, that naive, ironclad belief would come to cement itself into certainty; as he hid for so long and for so many times, the only thing that kept him alive was being hidden itself.

Valor knew deep within his soul that none of this would have ever been attainable for him had his adoptive mother never fastened that blanket around his shoulders. With the return of his greatest Skill, he felt the tightening of the blanket once more, and he remembered the face of the woman who raised him, remembered all the love he'd known and all the love he'd lost.

The world was bitter, the world was sweet, and with that realization, all the despair he felt, all the loss, the confusion, the emptiness that had remained of him after his shattering bled away—and was replaced with purpose. It was time for Valor Thann to protect his disciples instead of the other way around.

***

A tower-sized spear of gold encroached from behind. Shiv ignored it. It didn't matter if it was going to kill him. It wouldn't reach him soon enough to save the Recollector he was trying to rip in half. With a final burst of innate tides surging out from his core, he pulled in two opposing directions and tore the Recollector apart down its middle and ring fingers. A lake’s worth of pulsating, black blood washed over him, crashing against his body, and whipping him with nightmarish tendrils. But they bounced off his Magical Resistance, unable to find anything to sink into, unable to seize his biology or his soul.

The Recollector's past instances came apart in sprays of gold. The palm-shaped monstrosity gave a final, fleeting cry that drove nails of piercing pain deep into the base of Shiv’s skull. He shrugged it off with a slight groan and spun around with the vain hope of warding off the oncoming attack from behind.

It was ninety degrees into his turn when he realized it was too late. The Chronomantic blast was going to hit. But it wouldn't kill him immediately. He prepared to go Non-Sequitur to avoid the bulk of the damage, but then a flaming comet intercepted the blow on his behalf.

Jessica left a trail of burning ruin behind her, a massive column of spreading fire radiating out in her wake. Drifting pieces of seared Fingerlings rained down from all directions like a mesmerizing meteor shower. There were orcs burning upon those colossal bodies as well, stabbing, striking, unleashing spells shaped in haste before their untimely demise. The grayskins died willingly. The Fingerlings went howling with fury and near-despair.
