Your story will speak more than whispers of a forgotten memory. They will boom with the might of life and echo in eternity. +25% learning speed of soul related skills. +25% learning speed of oblivion related skills. Ability upgraded! [Cosmic Soul (Tier 5) - +100% to scaling and handling of related skills and abilities. -50% Mana cost for soul skills and abilities.]

As we paced up and out of the basement, I grinned while activating oppression. The deft handling of the ability allowed me to use it even with Torix walking beside me. The ability handled like a hand or leg, shifting around me with an instinctual grace. Condensing it weighed less on my mind, allowing me to form it to less than half its size in any direction.

After shutting oppression off, I molded my armor a bit. It glided on my skin like liquid, shifting at my command. The metal responded with rapt attention at even the smallest piece of mana. The efficiency of the movement gave it a different feel. Before, molding the armor felt like forcing it out of place, like pushing down a spring. It wanted to return to its base form the moment my mana was released.

Now it obeyed my will like an iron clad order. I raised a hand, shifting the length of each finger on my gauntlet. I toyed with armor as we stepped outside of the house.

The sun already set long ago, and the full moon casted bright light down on us. Ever since Schema took over, the stars shined with far greater intensity. Without street lights or cars making everything bright down here, it let you see how bright things were up there.

It made seeing the stars a joy.

“What is that you’re doing? The armor manipulation?”

Snapping me from my trance, I glanced back down and created a metal flower from my palm. He frowned, “Deft work for a skill so new.”

I shrugged, “It’s a part of Boundless Storm. Makes it easy to use.”

“Ahhhh. Is that why you want unique skills then?”

I raised an eyebrow, so he continued, “To gain another mythical skill?”

I nodded. He looked forward, acting casual,

“Why would you want more than one?"

Torix kept composed, feigning nonchalance that was obvious. His acting wasn't good, easy to see through as peering through glass. I could see he wanted to share his knowledge, almost like he was jumping out to do so.

"You know, I could teach you my own mythical skill. It’s quite useful, even if you don’t intend on becoming a summoner.”

I turned to him, “Really? I thought you said sharing skills was a big deal.”

He kept his glance staring forward, “There are no unnecessary secrets between a master and his pupil.” He turned to me, “And besides, I should return your honesty in kind. You’ve shown that you are an able and willing student. Even my son, Alfred, couldn’t have matched your scholastic prowess. What you lack in his talent you’ve made up for with the will of your mind. It’s a feat to behold.”

I blushed a bit, turning forward as well, “Well uh, I don’t know what to say…Thank you.”

He grinned, his smile a both subtle and knowing, “Do you know why I wanted a disciple?”

I shook my head. He continued, the smile turning into a grimace, “I didn’t. I wanted my son. If you would allow me to be frank, I wanted to send you to the eldritch dimension when we first met. I wanted you to suffer. I figured it would be a fun experiment too, so I could kill two birds with a single stone.”

I frowned, “Well, you accomplished one of those things.”

Torix laughed a bit before going on, “My thoughts changed over time. After seeing you survive the eldritch portal, I wanted you as a sample. It was fascinating to see such a low leveled and new unknown. After seeing you struggle on, I found myself wanting you to succeed despite a bit of lingering hatred. Everything changed after you saved Kessiah. Not just for me mind you.”

He nodded, “It’s no secret I’ve tried convincing Kessiah to utilize her potential. I’ve done so for ages. She’s quite talented, even for a remnant. Her potential exceeds my own. I saw it as a great shame when she wouldn’t use her powers no matter the circumstance. Unlike me, you convinced her with your actions and conviction. That, and you set her competitive nature ablaze.”

He turned towards the sky, looking at the moon and stars.

“Kessiah was floating from planet to planet, wasting her time like an unfeeling ghost. Seeing your vitality gave her life. When I saw the change in her eyes, I couldn’t help but be a bit envious. I wanted the same energy she had.”

He glanced back at me, “It’s strange. Ever since I’ve become immortal, I’ve felt dead. It was only when I was waiting for death that I even felt alive. When time was scarce, it held meaning. Now it’s lost agency with its passage. Seeing your struggle renewed a bit of that vitality.”

He laughed before staring at his hands, “I haven’t worked this hard in centuries. Imagine that? I’m not terrified, I’m excited. I don’t know if I’ll make it out of this alive, but it’s better than just running away from death forever.”

He met my eye, his voice solid as stone, “I’ll use every bit of my talent, and I’ll push my limits. No more spending years and years gaining a single level. All I learned over my life means nothing if I never use it. I’ll struggle forward, as you do. I’ll find something to live for.”

He grinned, “Because knowledge can fill your head, but it cannot fill your soul.”

I blinked a few times, shocked at the speech. I nodded, “Well shit…I’m glad I could do that for you. I’m also glad you didn’t decide to kill me. Thanks.”

A moment passed before he continued with a sly grin,

“Think nothing of it, disciple. I hope you’re ready to give your own speech.”

I crossed my arms, “Uh…Speech? I don’t really give speeches.”

Torix nodded, “Oh, but you will. Your next unique skill demands it. You won’t face against giant monsters. You’ll be standing in front of several hundred troops and rally them.”

As cliché as it sounds, I gulped. I’d fought monsters a plenty. I told plenty of people to fuck off. Giving inspirational speeches?

Yeah, not my cup of tea.
