She and Malika passed the rest of the hour chatting quietly, but mostly in silence. When she finally emerged, Ali felt renewed, the tension she hadn’t even noticed in her small frame was entirely wiped away. Even her concerns about the Blind Lich and his undead dungeon had faded into the background of her mind, not forgotten, but not hounding her thoughts as they had been before.

“Let’s use the fancy clothes Lydia made for us,” Malika suggested as they dried off. “We can do a little more advertising for her store.”

“At least we’re clean now,” Ali said, grinning.

“Better not to distract potential clients with our smell, you mean?”

“Exactly! Let’s go find Mato and Calen.”

***

Mieriel glanced up at Ali as she entered the guild hall and then her eyes flickered briefly to the Kobold Acolyte by her side, before she reached up to touch her glasses, calming the frenetically flickering magic formations in front of her eyes.

“Hi, welcome back,” she greeted them with a smile, “How can I help you all?”

“I’d like to turn in the Kobold extermination quest,” Ali answered, levitating herself up to a more comfortable height in front of the desk. Mieriel was once again wearing a stylish outfit Ali had never seen before, and she wondered if the guild administrator had ever worn the same outfit twice.

Out of habit, Ali identified her, curious to see if she could see her level now.

Spy – Sun Elf – level ?? (Mind)

What? Ali was certain she had identified Mieriel before, and equally certain she would have recalled something as dangerous as mind magic.

Mieriel’s eyes narrowed, and tiny wisps of mana formations appeared around her temples. Ali experienced a sudden dizzy spell as if the room had lurched sideways for a moment. She caught herself on the table as she noticed the notification in front of her twisting and warping, but it returned to normal as soon as her mind cleared.

She stared at Mieriel in shock, about to say something. Mieriel frowned, and her hand touched her glasses, triggering a much stronger burst of mana that made her eyes shift to a deep violet glow for a moment.

“You ok, Ali?” Malika had a steadying hand on her shoulder as she looked around in confusion.

What was I doing?

Analyst – Sun Elf – level 18

The notification hovered in front of her for a second before she dismissed it.

“I can help you with the Kobold quest,” Mieriel suggested with a light smile. Perhaps it was just Ali’s imagination, but for some strange reason, Mieriel seemed tense.

Oh yes, the quest.

“I like your dress today,” Ali offered as she moved to press her guild ring to the offered panel, trying to shake off the strange mental lethargy that seemed to have afflicted her just now.

“Oh yes, I just love Lydia’s Allure, she makes the best outfits!” Mieriel’s smile seemed much happier this time.

Bronze Guild Ring – level 10A ring signifying bronze-level membership with the Adventurers Guild.Owner: Aliandra AmarielQuests: Eliminate hostile Kobolds in and around Myrin’s Keep – 187 Mana: Store or retrieve an item. Capacity: 11.5 / 25kgCreated by Giddy Clicksprocket.Ring

“Wow, you guys did a lot of work,” Mieriel complimented her as she tallied up the gold. “Be sure to come back and check in with me when you reach level thirty. I can upgrade your ring to a silver-level membership. It comes with a lot more storage.”

“Thank you,” Ali answered, storing the money pouch in her ring.

“I also posted a few new bronze quests on the board,” Mieriel said, right as Ali was turning to leave. “If you guys liked the Kobold quest, one of the farmers reported a large increase in Kobolds last night, and he was hoping that someone could help him out.”

“Ok, thanks,” Ali answered, heading for the quest board.

Last night. The timing was too exact to be a coincidence. Had her destruction of the bone spire and the subsequent unraveling of a large part of the dungeon domain caused this? Calen had mentioned that he couldn’t find a single Kobold in the upper-level ruins on the way back.

Ali felt a pang of guilt at the idea that she might have inadvertently unleashed trouble on some poor unsuspecting farmer.

When she reached it, Ali glanced over the quest board, finding two new quests posted in the center. The guild hall was quiet this early in the morning with just a couple of people sitting at the bar, chatting quietly among themselves. The new merchant, Weldin Thriftpenny, looked up with interest as Malika approached.

The first quest was a job posted by a farmer named Sigurd. Apparently, his farm had been attacked by a larger-than-normal group of Kobolds who had killed one of his pigs, stolen all his chickens, and set fire to a portion of his orchard. He was offering a reasonable amount of silver for someone to take care of the pests for him.

Ali reached up and took the quest, wondering if she should be taking payment for a job to fix a problem she might have caused.

Right beside it, her eyes caught the word ‘mushroom’ on a second quest, and she leaned in to examine it a little closer.

It was a straightforward collection quest. A local herbalist was asking for ten ‘Brown Stonecap’ mushrooms. According to the listing, the mushrooms grew in mountainous regions or caves, and their minor earth magic affinity meant they were useful for creating armor potions. Potions which were now in short supply after the garrison had used up so many during the Goblin siege. The paper was signed by an ‘Eliyen Mistwood’.

An earth affinity mushroom might be nice, Ali thought, recalling her conversation with Mato. Perhaps it would be something she could use to clear the water even more. Even if not, it seemed the reward for this quest was rather high, so perhaps she would be able to sell some in the future.

She reached out and took the mushroom collection quest too. Quest and job etiquette were a little complex it seemed – and there was even a set of guidelines tacked to the top of the board. For general community quests, like the Kobold or Goblin extermination quests, the ring tracker was used. But if the quest was a one-off, you were supposed to actually remove the quest posting from the board in case someone else tried to do the same job. Not that there were enough adventurers in the guild to collide much, but still, Ali was a fan of good principles, and the rules seemed to make sense.

Ali stored the two job requests and floated herself over to where her friends were browsing the guild store. Malika was still engaged in an animated and passionate debate about quality and economics with an equally intense Weldin Thriftpenny, in what seemed to be the closing arguments of an epic negotiation.

“I have three kids to feed,” Weldin declared. “There is no way I can accept such an atrocious offer!”

“You told me you don’t have family!” Malika countered.

“I don’t, but it’s the principle, young lady.”

“Don’t ‘young lady’ me, I’m older than you are!”

Ali wasn’t exactly sure how any of this was relevant to the pile of items and gold on the table, but they both seemed to be having a great time, so she simply browsed the shop instead. The converted meeting room had turned into a rather professional-looking store. Weldin had removed the entire front wall, leaving it open to the main guild hall, and it was brightly lit by a few well-placed enchantments. Ali found many of the items that she and her friends had collected from the Kobolds on display, but there were a few other things she knew they hadn’t supplied.

Front and center on the main display table, she found a collection of colorful potions, including mana, health, and stamina potions, and her personal vote for the ‘most essential potion in a dungeon’, the potion of recall. The powerful smells of caramel, mint, and vanilla emanated from the display – flavors included by the alchemist to make the harsh taste of the ingredients more palatable. There was a nicely designed sign identifying the potions as having been sourced from the Pretty Powerful Potions alchemy store, where she and Malika had fought Adrik and Edrik to save the Gnomish alchemist with her shocking pink pigtails. From the display, it was clear that the two Gnomes had already forged a business partnership.

On another table, she found an artfully arranged set of steel daggers and swords that she thought she recognized. Getting close enough to have to wrinkle her nose against the strong smell of weapons oil, she confirmed that each of them had Thuli’s mana signature inscribed on them. I guess Thuli did follow up.

Ali had initially been uncertain about the idea of a guild store, but it seemed that this Weldin Thriftpenny took his new job quite seriously. He was already turning leads into business relationships, and stocking interesting and useful equipment. Maybe he will buy some of my arrows, Ali thought, considering the value of the new Eimuuran steel Arrows of Accuracy she had picked up, or some of the Bone Arrows. She resolved to talk to Malika about it, because, if she had to negotiate the way Malika and Weldin did, she would be lost in two seconds.

“The Gnome likes our Kobold gear. Says it’s sized for proper people,” Malika declared, joining the rest of them. She was smiling, so Ali assumed the deal had gone well.

“Here you go,” she declared, tossing a pair of sturdy, but otherwise unremarkable, leather boots at Calen.

Given his surprised reaction, Ali looked a little closer.

Simple Boots of Swiftness – level 15+5% to Movement speed+8 DexterityRequirements: Dexterity 53Feet – Leather

Oh, those are nice, Ali thought. Not that she would ever use anything like it, but Calen had been looking for potions to make himself run faster after their experiences in the library, and now Malika had found him a permanent movement speed enhancement on a new pair of boots. It didn’t look like a big improvement, but Calen was beaming. “I can use these and still drink mana potions,” he said.

“I also got these,” Malika said, deftly wrapping her wrists and hands with dark tan leather wraps. “It seems our guild merchant snagged them in the marketplace, thinking he could butter me up with them.”

“It worked, didn’t it?” Weldin called out from where he was laying out his new acquisitions.

“Next time, Gnome, just wait till next time!” Malika retorted.

Weldin just chuckled and continued with his arrangements.

Wraps of Accuracy – level 17+8 Dexterity+6% to Accuracy ratingRequirements: Dexterity 60, UnarmedHands – Cloth

“Unarmed gear is rare and hard to sell, so I did him a favor by buying it,” Malika said loudly enough to be overheard. And then more quietly she added, “But yes, these are amazing for my class.” Malika quickly shared the remaining gold with each of them. “I got five gold for the lesser bone essence.”

Ali hadn’t thought about it much, but it was easy to trust Malika with their money. She always shared it fairly and explained how she was working it out and where it all went when she spent it – such as the two items she had just purchased. She took a smaller share of the gold, accounting for the value of her wraps.

“I found these two job requests on the quest board,” Ali said, retrieving the two pieces of parchment and laying them on the table for the others to see. “What do you think?”

“You want to kill more Kobolds? Just at this guy’s farm?” Mato asked.

“I’m honestly a little worried that I’m responsible for that,” Ali said. Yes, and I feel ashamed, so please, let’s go with it.

“You think it might be a dungeon-break?” Malika asked quietly.

“Yes, when I deconstructed that spire, it damaged a large chunk of the dungeon. We still don’t know where all the remaining monsters went,” Ali said.

“Unfortunately, the timing fits,” Calen said, confirming her reasoning. “Also, this is a good idea,” he said, tapping a finger against the second job. “It seems to be in the same location, so we can probably do both at the same time.”

“We’re good at killing Kobolds, I’m in,” Mato replied.

“Me too,” Malika said. “Regardless of how it happened, we should help the townsfolk. It’s not like it was on purpose anyway.”
