“Ohhhh. It’s not that bad! You know what? I’m just going to tell you. And I’ll tell you more than one secret, too. Lots of rewards, for the great hero, the Fire of the Age, Erick Flatt!” Fallopolis said, “The first secret is that the spell [Healing Word] does not enable extra casting outside of the Script Second. What the spell does allow is for the user to queue multiple iterations of Healing Word and then release them as necessary over the course of ten seconds or so. You can extract this usefulness out of [Healing Word] and enable a bit of cheating around the Script Second. It’s not as useful as being a Shade and getting all your magic outside of the Script Second. But it’s a good trick.

“The second reward is that you can now remove the Feast Barrier at your leisure. It won’t come down just because Tania is dead, but you can just throw that [Grand Dispel] of yours at it, and start punching holes in the working. If you choose not to break it right now, then I’m going to break it tomorrow after I’ve cleaned up what I need to clean up. After that, I’m gone. The other Shades will likely vanish as soon as they can, too.

“The third reward is that I like you Erick, and that makes me want to tell you some deep truths, but I can’t tell you any more secrets because you have no mental training to resist Mind Mage intrusion. I can tell you that I’ll be checking up on you occasionally, just to make sure you’re still you. So try not to kill me the next time you see me, okay?” Fallopolis said, “I’ll try not to let myself be killed, either.”

Erick absorbed all of that faster than he thought he could. After he did, he asked, “Will the Mind Mages actually be a problem?”

Fallopolis smiled a sad smile, and said, “Yes. But maybe not. You killed every Shade in Ar’Kendrithyst, except for me, Goldie, Farix, Treant, Queen, Lapis, and Hollowsaur, and each one of us you Blessed into submission. You even killed Tania! That’s bound to get you some goodwill.”

“… You called it ‘Ar’Kendrithyst’.”

“I did.” She nodded. “This city has always been a land of refugee souls from a distant Cosmology, hoping and praying for new bodies. So it was never really ‘The Dead City of Kendrithyst’. But I guess we’re giving up on that? Eh. It’s Melemizargo’s decision, and I likely don’t have all of those answers.” She said, “People will call this city what they have been calling it for a long time, and now there are no Shades to countermand the will of the world.” Fallopolis pointed across the webbed sky, toward the Brightwater. “But people still live here. That’s certainly a living part of Kendrithyst. That’s the bomb that will go off now that all the Shades are dead. That culture is dangerous, Erick.”

He felt a sinking feeling, again.

Fallopolis said, “So good luck with all of that. I’m off to pillage some knowledge before I go. Care to join me in the Library?”

Erick looked to the north. “Not yet. I have to fix the Swamp.”

Fallopolis nodded. “I’ll set some books aside for you! Be sure to take them and hide them somewhere no one else will find them.” She added, “I’ll probably have to give them to you several times if the Mind Mages get involved, but that’s fine. See you later!” She turned to leave.

“Wait.” Before she stepped away, Erick asked, “Are you going to change your name?”

Fallopolis suddenly froze. “Oh. Shit.” She turned back to Erick, looking contemplative. “… I really want to share that third reward with you, Erick, but not until I know the Mind Mages won’t get you. I’ll be ‘Fallopolis’ for a long while longer.”

“See you later, then, Fallopolis.”

Fallopolis bowed. “Fire of the Age.”

She stepped away in a flash of shadows.

After a moment of simply standing there, Erick stepped away toward the Swamp.

When he arrived, he gazed down into the bowl-like area of the Swamp, and saw a vision of the apocalypse laid out before him, for twenty-five kilometers in every direction. Dead trees. Grey mists turning those trees into mush. Mushrooms growing out of everything. Zombies crawling through the mists. Giant mobile mushrooms, walking around like kings, directing forces forward into the chasms in the surrounding curtain wall of the Swamp. Here and there, Toxic Hydras roared out green and grey light, filling the sky with even more grey mists, while green pools glowed beneath them all. More, unknown monsters, crawled through the mists. Erick was certain that one of the pods of beasts was some sort of Moon Reacher-type monster, except it was shaggy black, instead of shaggy grey.

A light tingling at the bottom of his sunform, ripping away his control over his own magic, indicated the presence of radiation in the air. Erick adjusted his and his Ophiels’ sunforms to block out all of that harmful light, along with the associated beta-decay particles, or whatever other radiation or exotic extreme lights hovered in those grey mists, tearing at himself and his [Familiar]s. It worked to cut the tingle, more or less.

Ten Ophiel unleashed ten [Domains of the Withering Slime], adding yet another layer of white light to their hovering forms. Thick air spilled out into the hordes below. Monsters popped, sending up plumes of even more thick air into the grey mists, carving holes into the poison with each accompanying [Cleanse]. The effect was smaller than it should have been, but Erick had ten Ophiel, and that made up for most of the difference.

Erick released a thousand [Mirage Slimes] over the course of a minute, while his Ophiels employed [Luminous Beams] upon the more dangerous monsters and [Vivid Gloom]s upon the more dangerous hordes. Experimentally, he cast a 100,000 point [Grand Dispel] into the mist. That didn’t work.

After twenty minutes, he cleaned up almost every monster, though some of them had certainly gotten away.

He moved to River Tower Gloom; the source of the mists. The green kendrithyst mountain proved a bit resistant to his efforts to excavate and discover the actual source of the problem, but he managed. Well before his [Death’s Approach] ended, Erick’s Ophiel had entered directly into the poisoned river and followed the twists and turns through the green mountain, finding artifacts strung along the whole of the aqueduct that turned water into poison. A bit of crushing, repeated a hundred times, was all it took to end the outpouring of grey mist into the Swamp.

A bit more cleanup outside, and the Swamp was cleansed. More or less. It was still an apocalyptic warzone, but the monsters were gone. The sight reminded Erick of his time helping to clean up the Crystal Mimic incursion past the Wall.

With that done, he checked up on the Shades whom he had given a second chance.

They were doing okay.

Farix was down in Truedark, helping rescue people from rockslides and giving orders to all who could listen.

Lapis stood beside the orcol-form Treant, inside the Garden, standing beside the Stat Trees. They spoke in low voices, asking for forgiveness. The trees did not respond. Treant touched a tree, and it turned ethereal, before vanishing completely, becoming as though it never was. They moved onto the next.

Goldie and Queen were at the Palace District, inside a map room with gold-inlaid work tables, surrounded by ornate shelves full of expensive-looking books. They spoke about Quest Requirements over a massive map of Nelboor, talking about how to best fulfill the needs set before them. They shot their eyes to the left, to the door to the room. A butler walked in, wondering who he had heard, but Goldie and Queen were already gone. Their map and a few books were gone, too.

Hollowsaur stood in the dark, below the broken Jungle, searching through the remains of a broken plateau that had once housed hundreds. He was not alone. A few green people searched through the wreckage with him. There were no minotaurs. Those hurt and hopefully healed people were somewhere else. Erick looked, and found them.

The minotaurs were at the Bend in the North River, meeting the people there who had managed to survive. There was tension. There were a few harsh words over how the minotaurs seemed like abominations. There would be trouble, later, but for now, there was calm.

Erick moved on.

He searched for Quilatalap at the Armory.

The whole bubbled structure was broken, while the characteristic blackness of the entire area was gone, replaced with the normal red-purple glows common to the Dead City. The central dome was completely sundered. Someone had looted the place. All Erick found inside were pedestals where the artifacts would sit, and many, many broken vault doors.

Down an empty hallway, not too far from the center, Erick found a wall that was open. There were no signs of a struggle in this place. Beyond that wall was a small house with a small garden out front. Inside, the furniture was sized for orcols. But all the drawers and cabinets and other storage places had been ransacked, just like the rest of the place. Erick did not find the archlich. A [Telepathy] sent out to the man returned nothing, but maybe he had gotten out of the Barrier some other way?

There might have been some open passageways way, way down, in the deepest parts of the Dead City. After all, the water had to come in from somewhere, right? … Though the water could have been recycled. Maybe.

Erick moved on.

He had never been to the Library before, but now he had. The Libary was a massive structure of a hundred floors and a dozen towers, in the upper Middle Reaches where the sun still reached, but not too strongly. Erick didn’t want to go inside. He did, however, pick up the bundle of books that sat outside the door, waiting for him.

There was a note.

I finished faster than expected! Go ahead and break the Barrier, if you want.

Till we meet again!~

-Fallopolis

JSYK: I stepped into the broken armory to see if I could find Quilatalap, or any missed artifacts, but all I found was his hidden home, already rifled through. I have no idea if Quilatalap is alive, but if I meet him, I’ll tell him you were worried over his fate! Gook luck with him!

JSYK 2: Watch out for unexpected artifacts popping up in the rest of the world. I managed to snag a few, but I did not get most of them. No idea where they all went.

“Ahh… Shit.”

Ah… No time to worry overmuch.

It was time to go. Erick couldn’t wait around any longer. Not with this [Death’s Approach] running out. He imagined that his 21 Mana Regen would likely become 2.1 Mana per second when this was all over. Maybe less. He had likely spent over 3 million mana since he had activated that Skill. Conservatively, according to the math, he had somewhere between 17-20 days before his Regen returned to normal.

… So he went to spend some more mana. He needed to get home. That Feast Barrier needed to come down. Erick first copied the books, and sent those copies to a few different locations inside the Dead City. Then he copied Jane’s laptop and did the same with that.

He stepped to the top of the north wall of Ar’Kendrithyst.

Black threads layered the world from left to right, reaching all the way down well past the ground and way up high, to the Edge of the Sky; the Edge of the Script. The last time Erick had spied the barrier it had been shot through with divine flames. That fire was gone. All that remained were the threads.

Erick cast a 20,000 point [Grand Dispel]. It might have been the equivalent of half a million mana.

The splash of shadows touched the darkness of the Feast Barrier, and broke a single thread.

“Ah.” Disgruntled, Erick said, “Okay then.”

He cast a 170,000 point [Grand Dispel]; Over 4 million mana worth of anti-magic magic.

Threads snapped like the breaking of an entire piano’s worth of strings. Erick rapidly stepped away. Threads broke in a chain reaction but not because of Erick’s [Grand Dispel] chaining onto another similar target, but because something intrinsic to the magic was now gone. More threads snapped in a cascading reaction. Time flexed.

Time resumed its normal, 1-second-equaled-1-second manner. The Feast Barrier snapped, then vanished like twisted spiderwebs blown away on the everpresent northern winds, taking its [Teleport]-blocking capabilities with it, ridding Erick of that particularly annoying full-body itch he just couldn’t scratch.

He looked out at the world, and felt a weight fall from his shoulders.

The dark sky beyond glittered with a billion stars. The moons were little more than dark spots blocking out the stars beyond. They were still new moons, after all. Tomorrow, they’d come back to the sky as tiny slivers, but for now, the only light above was from the stars.

And then there was Spur.

The city glowed to the north. A beacon of light in the dark. Erick smiled. From this angle, Spur was a lot closer to Ar’Kendrithyst than he would have liked. Maybe it was just his perspectives that had changed.

He joked to himself, “I am on top of the wall, instead of in Spur, after all. There’s at least one changed perspective for you.” And then he sent a message off to Poi, ‘Hello, Poi!’

‘SIR?!’

Erick immediately sent the man a 10,000 mana [Telepathy] overview of the events of the last four days, adding, ‘Take your time with that. I’ll talk more, but I have to remake the defenses around the house while I can. I imagine that things are going to get rather busy, rather fast.’

Poi’s response was a garbled, ‘Wha— ohgods.’

Erick stepped across the night sky, glowing like the brightest star in the heavens and traveling very, very fast, right onto the flat, orange land in front of his house. His garden smelled nice. His house wasn’t on fire, though someone had built a large bonfire in the next lot over.

