… There were lots of bonfires, everywhere in the city. They were kinda nice. Erick suddenly wanted marshmallows, almost as much as he wanted to know what everyone was going to say when they found out the Clergy was gutted; reduced to 6 forced-to-repent Shades and 1 Culler.

Anywho!

Erick spent 174,000 of his own mana replacing the [Prismatic Ward] across his house. Sure, a [Ward Destruction] would be able to clear that off, but there was something nice about being able to sleep in a [Ward] worth something like 20 million points of defense.

Ah. Good thoughts!

… Which led to more good thoughts.

Erick cast to the left, stringing together all of his thoughts of defense alongside all of his recent experiences with Destruction, as he molded together one very complicated spell, with one trick. A spurt of shadows touched nothing. But a blue box appeared, anyway.

Ward Destruction, instant, long range, 100 Mana

Dispel a ward.

Ah. Good. That worked. Erick smiled.

And because experimenting was important, he cast the spell at the [Prismatic Ward] he had just cast.

The dense air popped, because of course it did. Heh. That was fine. Erick could layer that dense air with a few other anti-[Dispel] tricks he had seen in the last few hours. But that would happen tomorrow. Or maybe later than that. Erick recast the [Prismatic Ward], and enjoyed the moment.

He felt good.

He relaxed.

He slipped back into his mortal body and felt a rush of pent up emotions roil through his head and heart. He rode that wave, willing it to go down.

And then he looked at his hand. A fine mist of white light flickered like candle flames across his skin. That brought him back to the moment more than willpower could ever do. He realized he better get indoors before his various spells failed. He went to touch the handle—

Jane slammed open the door. “DAD?!” She looked him up and down. “What the FUCK did you DO?!”

“Something very dangerous, though I told Poi most of it, but hey!” He briefly turned into light and slipped into the house, bypassing Jane, simultaneously setting Jane’s computer down on the counter next to the door. “Found your laptop! Poi probably needs to go over it for memetic hazards while everyone else needs to prepare for my collapse.” He turned physical again. His skin flickered with dying candlelight.

Poi rushed around the corner of the hallway, saying, “Don’t touch that laptop!”

Jane barely glanced toward Poi before saying, “It’s really you!” as she rushed him with arms wide open—

She stepped through his body, splashing light into the air. “What?” She turned.

Erick was gone.

Jane screamed into the air of the foyer, “DAD?!”

Erick came back to himself. “Huh. Odd.” His body still glowed as though rimmed in white fire, but... “I thought I canceled the [Lightwal—”

[Death’s Approach] was over. Erick caught sight of Phagar, to his left, just as the magic faded. Phagar waved, and then vanished.

Erick’s eyes rolled up into his head.

He would have fallen to the ground if not for Jane. She grabbed him, able to hold his physical body this time, as she cursed and prayed for his safety. Kiri rushed down the staircase, but stopped before she reached Jane. Justine held back, remaining at the top of the staircase. Teressa rushed into the room, carrying the rod of [Greater Treat Wounds] while Poi frantically sent out a dozen different telepathic messages at once.

Poi was also still decoding the message Erick had sent him. 10,000 mana had translated into a quarter million mana message, after all.

Ten, 174,000 point Ophiels descended on the house, some roosting on the towers, some turning tiny as they took their places on windowsills, setting up point defenses, while a few followed inside to watch Jane and the rest worry over Erick. They chirped in fun little violin sounds as everyone else panicked.

- - - -
