Erick felt a rush. The mana of the world slipped into his sunform exactly as fast as he cast. Erick preemptively moved an Ophiel to Lapis, who was just floating there, watching the blossom of light in front of them all.

Bulgan sucked in all of the light created by bursting Erick’s [Stillness] and instantly went for Lapis. Erick queued up a [Harmonic Counterspell], and kept it queued. The Ophiel next to Lapis was just for insurance purposes.

It worked just as well as it had the first time, instantly draining 15,000 mana and negating Bulgan’s attack, but this time Erick had 177,000 mana, and that 15,000 came right back, ready to be cast again.

Bulgan tried to move backward, to escape Lapis, but another [Harmonic Counterspell] killed Bulgan’s intended use of his [Greater Shadowalk]. He faltered, midair.

Lapis’s implosion didn’t miss, this time.

Bulgan turned inside out, then collapsed further inward, trying to flash some sort of magic into the air to get him out of Lapis’s attack, eliciting another activation of Erick’s [Harmonic Counterspell] for 120,000 mana. It was Bulgan’s last-ditch attempt to evade. It failed.

Erick’s mana instantly refilled.

He watched as Bulgan’s body became a speck, smaller than a fingernail, hanging in the air just in front of Lapis, who looked completely surprised. Erick was surprised, too. A part of him had not expected that. A part of him thought back to all the pain Bulgan had caused.

Bulgan had done horrible damage to Spur, and Frontier. It was his attack on Frontier that had caused Erick to accidentally kill a person for the first time, when Erick used his [Withering] on the city in order to save it from the invading monsters. Those two souls had forgiven Erick, but he had never forgiven himself; not really.

Bulgan had also murdered untold hundreds of human adventurers over the years, inside Ar’Kendrithyst. He had been the first person known to have become a Shade in the last 60 years. He had probably done much, much worse after his ascension to Shadedom, but Erick had no personal knowledge of those possible events.

Bulgan had killed over a hundred thousand people at Candlepoint, when he let the ballooning spider horde descend, all in order to draw Erick into a battle for control of that place.

And he had stymied Erick at every turn. But now, he was dead. Erick even had the notification of that death.

The fight wasn’t over, though. Erick got his head back in the battle.

But…

Queen did not appear.

There seemed to be a lull in the fight, so Erick took that moment and made something of it.

He took a part of his central sunform, and returned that part of him to solid reality. His Silver Star manifested in his center, as he vibrated his entire being with his [Blessing of Empathy], and cast another old spell that had been lying dormant in his Status for a long time.

Divine Creation, <Koyabez>

A touch of the divine will enable the creation of an appropriate artifact.

<The hands of eternity achieve the impossible.>

The world flexed outward, then inward. Silver light splashed across the dark heavens, as the Silver Moon appeared up above in a way it certainly should not have been able to appear. That moon glowed in the darkness, shining brighter, and brighter, causing a mirrored glow to take hold in the center of Erick’s sunform, around his personal Silver Star, his proof of his Avowed Pacifist status. Erick held onto the moment, knowing he would remember this, and Phagar’s [Death’s Approach], for the rest of his hopefully long life.

Lapis stared, mouthing, “Holy sh—”

The silver, ghostly form of Koyabez descended onto the world, shaping what was his to shape, carving and creating under the power of what belonged in his Domain, before all others.

Erick’s own Silver Star became something shinier.

Koyabez retreated, his work done.

While everyone was still staring, still flabbergasted, Erick stepped toward Lapis, fast as he could, and used his Silver Star on her. The effect was instant. Something deep pulsed inside the Star, eliciting a similar pulse inside Lapis. She turned limp and fully physical, as she began to cry out glowing tears. Erick moved her into the warm wings of the Ophiel he had already positioned next to her. She didn’t resist; she did the opposite. She reached for Ophiel, trying to find comfort in anything, trying to wrap herself in his feathers. Ophiel turned them both to light and vacated the battlefield.

Before anyone could say anything else, he appeared behind Farix. A [Grand Dispel] for 100,000 mana cast upon his blood orbs stripped those from him, but not before one of them fired an ineffectual beam at Erick, and Erick fired off a simultaneous [Harmonic Counterspell] at Farix, directly. Erick smiled, saying, “Don’t worry.”

Farix tried to get away. He failed, as a dozen [Harmonic Counterspell]s suppressed his power. Erick touched the Silver Star to the Shade’s chest. A similar pulse, same as the one that took Lapis, shocked Farix from the inside out. He fell, insensate, into an Ophiel’s waiting arms. That Ophiel took the man away, as Erick said, “You’ll survive, now.”

Fallopolis looked to him, saying, “You better not do that to me!”

“Of course not.” Erick launched a [Cascade Imaging] into the sky, targeting Queen.

Ah. She was hiding.

Erick stepped her way, uncovering her hiding spot like finding a toddler hiding in a cupboard. With a series of very effective counterspells and other magics, he sent Queen off into the arms of another Ophiel. He was glad he could rescue her, too. She may have been on Tania’s side, but she seemed like a nice enough person, and both Violet and Fallopolis had both given her ‘good’ endorsements. Maybe now she’d realize what she’d done wrong in her life.

Erick was not under any illusions about Queen, though. She was still a Shade. She was still evil. He had seen as much in the terrified eyes of her various butlers at the First Feast and otherwise. Queen, like every Shade before her, had done some dark deeds in the shadows.

He switched the map to ‘Goldie’.

She did not show, either on the map, or to Erick’s sight.

He switched the map to Tania. She was standing far to the southeast, inside a bit of land known as Weaver’s Quarters, near the Upper Reaches. Erick nodded at the location, then turned to Fallopolis.

Fallopilis stared at Erick. She frowned. “What divine cocks did you suck while I wasn’t watching?”

“With the Feast orgies canceled I had to get my fuck on somewhere, Fallopolis.”

“Ha!” Fallopolis might have laughed, but it was a hollow sound.

Erick pointed down at the Garden. “Is Treant worth saving?”

Fallopolis flicked her gaze down to the Garden. “If you save him, I doubt anyone will ever see him again except for the most devout Walkers in the Dark. He’ll set down in some grove somewhere and that will be the end of his involvement in mortal affairs. Maybe he’ll make some forest somewhere better than it had been before? I don’t know. I’m not a fortune teller.”

Erick nodded. “Then I will be saving another before we go confront Tania.”

He stepped down into the Garden, right next to a massive, dark tree with bare branches raising into the sky like lightning bolts. It was Treant, and he was surrounded by eight fruiting trees. The Stat Trees.

A series of super fast [Harmonic Counterspell]s prevented the disguised Shade’s counterattack, while Erick’s own massively empowered sunform took care of the lashing roots and blasting beams and bashing branches that poured in from the rest of the nearby Gardens, and from Treant himself. The touch of the Silver Star soaked into the Shade, ripping through what looked almost like a Domain. The fight was over.

Erick departed, while Treant shuddered. His branches slowly drooped. Erick could have called him a weeping willow, but that seemed overly harsh. The Shade surely deserved all the emotions he was currently feeling, but Erick did not feel like being cruel.

“Okay.” Erick stepped back into the sky, next to Fallopolis.

Fallopolis flinched backwards, stepping away fast as she said, “SHIT, son!” She forced herself to relax. “You’re scaring me a little.”

Buzz.

Erick smiled. “Lie.”

Fallopolis couldn’t help but grin at him. “… Maybe.” With much innuendo, she said, “There’s certainly some strong emotion happening, though.”

Not a lie.

Erick ignored the implication, and spoke to the air, “Goldie? Are you here?”

“She’s here.” Fallopolis pointed to an empty speck of sky. “Come on out. We might actually have a chance at this, thanks to whatever juice Erick has been drinking.”

Goldie appeared, like stepping out of a fog. She stared at Erick. “Got a plan?”

“I am going to lock Tania down.” He looked to Fallopolis. “Fallopolis will end her.” He looked to Goldie. “But you’re going to run away before you get your Blessing, if you can, and I don’t like that. So either lie to my face, and be forced to accept the inevitable, or take the Blessing now, without fighting back.”

Fallopolis grinned at the assassin, saying, “He’s got you there.”

For a long moment, no one said anything.

Goldie glared, but then softened. “… The gods are really doing this, huh?”

“Not only them, but Melemizargo, too.” Erick said, “And you know this already.”

“I know.” Goldie said, “I’m just being reluctant.” She closed her eyes. She said, “I don’t want to see it coming. Do it.”

Erick did. Goldie didn’t even flinch as the Silver Star touched her soul, eliciting the growth of something deep inside of her that had been turned off or ignored for a long time. As she collapsed in on herself, wrapping her arms around her knees, Erick had an Ophiel pick her up and move her away.

When they were alone, Fallopolis teased, but in a serious voice, “No Blessing for me, huh?”

“Nope.” Erick said, “Whatever you did a hundred years ago was pretty shitty. From my understanding you brought about the Great Purge of Spur. But since then, you’ve been helping a lot more than you’ve been harming.” He looked to her. “How did that all happen?”

Fallopolis looked away. “… It was a stupid thing I did, working us all into a frenzy to go against Spur.” She looked to Erick. “The story is stupid, when I look back on it. I worked to get Silverite called ‘Untouchable’ by the Clergy, which was about 400 of us at the time. I succeeded. Silverite got a big head and came into Kendrithyst, looking to end us all, exactly as I knew she would. Then I sprung the trap… I got a little overzealous, along with the rest of my people. Like idiots, we scoured Spur from the Crystal Forest. We never should have done that. I never should have done that.”

Erick nodded. “Why not?”

Fallopolis sighed. “Now you ask the tough one, huh.” She told the truth, “It’s not because I particularly cared about the people there. Not until they were gone. The destruction of Spur caused an event I never would have wanted, if I had known the future. It caused the rise of Kal’Duresh and Frontier, creating a brand new front of the Quiet War, that, of course, spilled into here.” Her voice took on an angry tone. “Into Kendrithyst! This once-great cosmopolitan City of the Shades became a mere reflection of the Quiet War, and then fell into even more degradation over the last century as people like Tania came into power.

“The Great Purge was a travesty on a thousand levels that I never forgave myself for allowing to happen, or for enabling. I miscalculated everything, from beginning to end, because of some misguided idea that Silverite had ties to the rest of wrought society and that by getting her, I would get the people that took my mother.” She said, “That was wrong of me, too. Silverite has always been a nobody in the Underworld.” Fallopolis laughed. “Killzone used to be a prince, though. Using him never got me anywhere, either, so that’s why I moved onto Silverite, thinking she had deep connections.” She looked to Erick. “Did you know that? About Killzone?”

“No…” Erick thought about the blacklight he had given the man; about his stunned silent reaction to the ultraviolet-glowing stone, and the brilliant purple reaction of his wrought body. Later information at that same party revealed that blacklights were used by royalty. Neither Silverite or Anhelia had the same sort of reaction as Killzone, so Killzone being a prince, and thus connected to the lights that were used as the gems of royalty, explained that discrepancy. “But that makes some sense, now that you’ve said that.”

“Too bad [Future Sight] isn’t as useful as Rear-sight, eh?” Fallopolis smirked at her own joke, then said, “You know? I killed practically every single new Shade to be born since then, trying to stomp out further expansions of the Quiet War. I wasn’t always the Culler, but that’s how I became the Culler. I had to do it, too. Every single one of them new youngling Shades would have added to the Quiet War on one side or the other. I’ve been fighting Tania ever since she was made Champion, in those stupid years after Spur’s Great Purge.” She flipped a hand through the air, toward where Bulgan died. “That Bulgan was the only one I couldn’t kill. Tania protected him too well.”

Erick nodded, taking that all in. Then he asked, “What are your thoughts on Tania?”

“You’re not going to try and save her, too, are you?” Fallopolis side-eyed Erick.

“No.” Erick said, “I cannot allow the Champion of Melemizargo to live. I have absolutely no doubt that she could break any Blessing I put upon her, so she has to die.”

“I like this side of you, Erick.” Fallopolis happily said, “If we make it out alive, I’ll show you the good time you were missing this Shadow’s Feast.”

