“Dammit.” Ren said, and equipped his clothing. “She did it to me again!” He slid out of bed and went out to the main room. Ereka sat on the couch where he usually did, and she still only wore her slip. “Ereka!”

“I'm sorry, Ren.” Ereka said. “You weren't going to let yourself feel good, after making me feel things... that I never thought I could feel.” She explained, and then stood up. She walked over to him, locked her gaze to his, and put her hands on her hips. “Now that I've thought about it, the only thing I regret is that you didn't concentrate on the House Neram Aura while we were together.”

Ren blinked his eyes a few times. “I didn't forget.” He said. “Sharing emotions is too much for you to handle for your first time.”

“I think I'm a better judge of what I can handle.” Ereka said.

“Really?” Ren said, and concentrated on his House Neram pendant. His Aura merged with the artificial Aura around the Keep, and Ereka gasped.

“What... what... by the gods!” Ereka exclaimed and lost all of her bluster. She could feel his annoyance with her, and his growing anger.

“Now, do you really think you could have sex like this?” Ren asked. “I can't believe you Distracted me like that!”

“I had to!” Ereka said. “I love how I can make the all-powerful Ren, the man that makes all the women he knows swoon and fall for him, into a blubbering idiot! You like my breasts so much that you can't think of anything else!” She yelled. “Do you know how much that turns me on?!?”

Ren felt how much it did turn her on, and his anger and annoyance faded away. “That... you really...”

“Yes!” Ereka said. “My whole life I've felt so powerless. An older brother that was huge and muscular, and a younger brother almost as muscular, and there I was between them; a short little thing, thin and frail in comparison to them, and everyone treated me that way!”

“Ereka...”

“Let me finish!” Ereka said, and Ren nodded slightly. She felt his acceptance, and nodded slightly herself. “Then there was that incident with a member of House Lodur.” She said. “I had thought the way I was treated was bad before; but, after that...” She shook her head. “Then you came along.”

Ereka stepped close to him, and he opened his arms for her. She slid into them and pressed her head against his chest.

“You gave me a job, accepted me into your House with no questions asked, and then you made me a Lady.” Ereka said. “To think that I... I had such luck to be given a second chance...” She looked up at him as he felt her immense gratitude. “After hearing about, and even witnessing, your feats and accomplishments, I knew I was blessed beyond compare.” She smiled. “Then I discovered I had a power that even you couldn't overcome.”

Ren felt how much that meant to her. “I thought you were being malicious with it, and used it to your advantage.”

“It wasn't malicious; but, I did take advantage of you with it.” Ereka said, and remembered how much fun she had with him. “I couldn't let the opportunity pass once I had you in bed.”

“You do realize I wanted to enjoy them for myself, right?” Ren asked.

“Wh-what?”

Ren let the hug go and turned her around.

“What are you... oh... mmm.” Ereka said as he massaged her chest from behind.

“I didn't even get to play with them.” Ren said. “I had access to the perfect breasts, and you Distracted me.”

“I... I said... oh... I was... sorry.”

“What about my missed opportunity?” Ren asked. “How will you make it up to me?”

Ereka grabbed his hands and held them on her chest. “You can play with them whenever you want.” She said. “No one else has ever seen them, and no one else ever will.”

“I can't ask you to do that.” Ren said. “You have to go for your training in a few years.”

“You don't have to ask me for anything.” Ereka said and turned around. “When I go for my training, I'll always wear something to cover my chest.”

“Ereka...”

“They are for your eyes only.” Ereka said and put his hands back on them. “Please accept my gift as an apology.”

“I...” Ren smiled as he felt her determination. “I can't refuse such a generous gift.”

Notice!

Trouble Recipe ingredient: 'Ereka' has been completed.

“Thank you.” Ereka said and kissed him. “Now get to work.” She said. “You should have just enough time to get 8 hours in before supper.”

Ren nodded slightly and looked at the small plate on the table. He poured more Health potion in it and checked to see that the tarantula was okay. He left the cloak there, and looked up at the ceiling.

“Let's go, Teepo.” Ren said to his friend, who flew down to land on his shoulder. He ran out of the house and went to the pen with the fire elemental in it. He dropped in some wood and more webs, gave it a cuddle and a kiss, and went into the stable. He greeted his mount Princess properly, then said hello to his familiar Ruck, and also to his construct dogs Riley and Stacy. He thought about going to greet Tee-one, then tapped his own temple and smiled.

Ren left the stable and ran out through the gate, greeted the guard, and ran down the road to go to the mines.
