Unable to speak for anger, Zian continued riding in silence. No matter how he approached the argument, he found no suitable retort, no hole in Jukai’s logic. Though it was Uncle Yang who ordered him to end things quickly, Zian should have realized it was mounting rage and frayed nerves speaking. The more he mulled it over, the more he came to appreciate Jukai’s insight. Though the criticism hurt, as the old Colonel said, it was important he realized these flaws.

Perfection his flaw, how fanciful and absurd. Fitting though, for a man of his standing. In search of the pinnacle, he’d blinded himself to the truth, that perfection was a matter of perspective. The optimal course was also the obvious one, and therefore no longer optimal. A curious dilemma. Swallowing his pride, he turned to Jukai and asked, “So how do I learn to ‘compose’?”

Smiling proudly, the old Colonel sighed in relief. “Oh good, thought I destined for the rope. Terrible way for a warrior to go.”

“Noted.”

“Haha. As to how to compose, I can’t teach you. A tiger teaching a dragon to hunt will only hinder the dragon, for a tiger has no wings. Every individual must forge their own Martial Path, step by arduous step, and only then will they reach the apex. Be critical of your own work, explore new options, practice, sweat, bleed, and given time, your personal style will take shape. I can criticize though, so prepare yourself. Your movements are too inflexible...”

While Jukai continued to expound on the Martial Path, Zian listened intently, committing every word to memory. Though Uncle was an incredible man, he was not without flaws, unable to voice his thoughts as simply as Jukai, the old Colonel delivering succinct yet profound advice with every sentence. Even in sparring, Zian felt he learned much from Jukai’s guidance while Uncle never stepped in personally. An almost heretical thought surfaced and though he tried to suppress it, it continued to float about in his mind, stirring up waves of guilt within him.

Perhaps Zian had erred in taking Uncle as his Master. The best teachers might not always be the strongest individuals. Either way, the time for self-pity was over, and though he'd lost his place as the number one talent of his generation, it mattered not.

No matter what obstacle lay within his path, Situ Jia Zian would reach the apex, standing taller than any before him.

Chapter Meme
