The problem with Liscor was that no one asked Relc for his opinion before doing things. That was the sum of Liscor’s issues. That, and nothing else. Okay, maybe the dungeon. And Rock Crabs. And the rain. And other stuff. But a lot of it could be improved if they asked Relc about what he thought about all this!
No one did. Not Captain Zevara, or Olesm, or even Embria. Which was why Relc had to volunteer his thoughts. It was a public service. The Drake strolled down the road, twirling his spear and following a group of [Guardspeople] who’d been called to deal with some emergency or other. About Goblins? Relc hadn’t been paying attention when he’d heard the warning go out.
“I just think it’s unfair, you know? All I’m saying is that we deserve free food now and then!”
Ahead of him, a pair of Senior Guardsmen groaned. They were a Drake and Gnoll, a classic team up. Like Relc they had become Senior Guardsmen by merit of their high levels and talent. Unlike Relc, their talents involved more than hitting things on the head. They were well-respected, did their jobs efficiently, and both had happy families. Relc hated their tails sometimes.
“Everyone gets hungry. Everyone needs food. I’m not the only [Guardsman] to eat while I’m on duty, and everyone gets a free meal sometimes! Even Klbkch! So why am I the only one who gets chewed out by Captain Z for it? I’m peckish! Is that so wrong?”
The Gnoll sighed loudly.
“It’s not wrong, Relc.”
“Exactly!”
“—It’s just wrong when you keep hinting that you’d like something to eat. There’s a difference between a gift and a bribe. You know that.”
“Right, I want a gift.”
“But it’s not a gift if—Jeiss, do you want to say anything?”
The Drake looked at his partner and shook his head.
“Why are you arguing with Relc? Just ignore him. He knows what he did wrong. Come on, we have to get to this incident on time.”
The Drake swished his tail dismissively and picked up the pace. Relc debated tripping him up with his spear, but he decided against it.
“Hey! It’s a legitimate problem that—okay, what about all the adventurers, huh? Why do we have to get called in every time they start a brawl, even when we’re off-duty? And by we, I mean me. Why am I never given a break?”
“Because you’re the only one who can brawl with Gold-ranks, idiot.”
“Yeah, but then why don’t I get vacation days each time I’m called in? I was on my break yesterday!”
The Gnoll, whose name was Beilmark shot Relc a disbelieving glance.
“You were called in for an emergency at the Adventurer’s Guild for a scuffle, yes? It took less than thirty minutes to sort out and you didn’t file any paperwork! We had to charge and fine the adventurers. You just showed up, broke three tables, and left!”
Relc stared back innocently as he jogged after the pair.
“Exactly. So why didn’t I get thirty minutes off today?”
Beilmark groaned and Jeiss shook his head. The two sped up. Relc ran after them, grumbling under his breath. The [Guardsmen] were following the sound of whistles being blown, telling them they were needed. Relc wasn’t sure what the problem was. Goblins? Had one of Erin’s pet Goblins entered the city? He grunted as he shifted his grip on his spear.
“So, you guys have kids, right?”
This time Beilmark glared over her shoulder. Relc rolled his eyes.
“What? I know you’re female!”
“And I have two children. Whom you have met!”
Beilmark snapped back at Relc. He scratched the back of his spines.
“Yeah…okay, well, so my question is—what do you do with them? For fun?”
Jeiss and Beilmark exchanged a glance, much like Klbkch and Relc sometimes did.
“How do you mean?”
“Well…my kid’s in town and we don’t do anything but argue. I keep trying to give her fatherly advice, but I don’t have much and uh, y’know…I could use a hand. Klb’s no good for that kind of thing.”
The Senior Guardsmen pair exchanged a long, tired look. Jeiss eventually spoke up.
“Relc, my oldest kid—Jacs—whose birthday you missed by the way—is ten.”
“And my oldest is fourteen. Embria is a Wing Commander in the army, yes? I do not think our advice applies.”
“But you’re the same age as me. I know Beilmark’s older. Hey! Don’t snarl at me.”
“Yeah, but you had a kid earlier than we did. It’s not the same. Now, would you shut up and let us get to the emergency on time? Not all of us can run as fast as you. You should be there by now!”
The Drake glared at Relc. Senior Guardsmen Relc sighed.
“I’m tired from that other fight at the Adventurer’s Guild. You know, the big fight just now? The one we all had to stop?”
“I don’t recall you doing the paperwork.”
“But I did take out three Gold-ranks! Hah! Besides, we haven’t heard the whistle blown twice so it’s not an emergency emergency. And aren’t we having fun talking?”
Jeiss and Beilmark sighed. They tried to run even faster, but it was a futile effort attempting to get away from Relc. The big Drake easily followed both [Guards], despite wearing chainmail armor and carrying his spear. If he needed do, he could lose the armor and even outrun a horse. Heck, he could probably catch Hawk if he had to! Maybe. With a head start.
The Gecko of Liscor enjoyed his life most of the time. It was peaceful, despite monster attacks and all the latest craziness with the Raskghar. It wasn’t like being in the army where every skirmish could be your last. Relc loved it in Liscor. He loved eating, he loved his job most of the time, and he loved…this.
But Embria kept telling him to go back to the army. As if he didn’t know what he’d left behind. He didn’t know how to talk to her. He never had. Relc opened his mouth to ask Beilmark what, if anything, he could say. Then he saw the Goblins.
There were five of them. Hobgoblins, not the regular, pesky Goblins. Instantly Relc became wary. He recognized the Redfang Warriors of course. They were an official adventuring team now and they were part of Erin’s inn. But they weren’t supposed to be in Liscor. And they were armed.
“Whoa. Hold up.”
Relc appeared in front of Jeiss, spear held more firmly in his claws. The Senior Guardsman slowed and for once didn’t complain as Relc peered at the situation. Five Hobs, surrounded by at least twenty of the Watch. Right in front of the entrance to the Antinium Hive, which didn’t seem good. And—Relc’s pulse quickened—there was Erin. And Klbkch.
“What the heck’s going on here?”
The three Senior Guardsmen approached slowly and heard Olesm speaking loudly to Erin. Relc’s jaw dropped as Olesm’s voice reached them.
“…am confiscating your door, Miss Solstice. A detachment of the Watch will be sent to collect it. As for the Goblins, I cannot risk them endangering the city. We will find this Hob and kill it. As for these five—”
“Hey, is he serious? He can’t do that, can he?”
He looked at Beilmark. The Gnoll shifted uneasily and gripped the mace she carried at her side.
“I don’t know. We heard the alert called earlier. Something might be happening again.”
“What was that about another Hobgoblin? Is that the issue?”
“Hold on, hold on—”
Relc was hopping from foot to foot. Klbkch was right there! And his partner had drawn his blades, which was not a good sign. But now a Gnoll was arresting the Hobs! He put a pair of manacles over one of the Hobs—the one carrying a beat-up guitar. Numbtongue? Relc never paid attention to their names. Relc exclaimed.
“No way. He really is arresting them! I thought Olesm loved Erin and her Goblins! Why’s he doing that?”
Jeiss shot Relc a disbelieving look.
“They entered the city. Relc. He can’t let that slide, Human or not. Why is she here, anyways?”
“Well, yeah, but—hold on.”
All three saw Erin stepping forwards. They could hear her voice quite plainly.
“No! You can’t do this, Olesm! They were helping me save Bird! They’ve done nothing wrong!”
The Senior Guardsmen looked at each other.
“Save who?”
“That’s the Antinium who lives on top of Erin’s inn. You know, the one with the bow?”
“Oh. What happened?”
“I have no idea. But—hold on. What is she—”
Olesm was arguing with Erin, clearly telling her that this wasn’t a debate. But Erin wasn’t having it. She spread her arms, but the Gnoll with the cuffs just walked around her. Erin turned as he began to shackle the Hob with the enchanted axe, and then her eyes narrowed. She spun.
“No.”
Her fist rose. Relc saw Erin throw a punch. Olesm raised his claws and Erin decked him in the face. All three [Guards] winced as Olesm took a full-force blow to the face. He yelped and fell. Jeiss shook his head.
“She didn’t just—”
“Your friend’s in for it now, Relc.”
That was definitely true. But Erin wasn’t done  yet. As the Gnoll [Guardsman] turned to her in surprise, Erin whirled.
“[Minotaur Punch]!”
This time her punch took the Gnoll in the stomach. He doubled over, folded up, and curled into a ball of suffering. All three Senior Guardsmen gaped at Erin. So did the other members of the Watch, and the Hobs. Erin turned. She raised her fists and looked at the five Hobs.
“Run!”
The Hobs hesitated. Then they scattered. Relc swore and Jeiss and Beilmark grabbed for their weapons as the Watch shouted in alarm and began chasing after the five. Relc saw Erin charging a Drake and trying to punch him before Olesm tackled her to the ground. He tore his eyes away and focused on the five. They were splitting up, each one running in a different direction! Relc pointed to one of them that was heading their way. The Hob held a bow and was loosing arrows as he ran, forcing the other pursuers to slow and take cover.
“I’ll take the dude with the bow. You guys get the others.”
Jeiss and Beilmark hesitated, but then nodded. They didn’t argue as they ran past Relc. He walked forwards slowly, twirling his spear. The Hob spotted him and slowed down.
Now, which one was this? Headscratcher? Numb…toes? Rabbitfeeter? No—this was Badarrow. The Hob looked around as if trying to find an alley to run down. Relc just kept advancing slowly. He could catch Badarrow. The question was if the Hob would fight or run.
Badarrow and Relc locked gazes. The Hob’s reached for an arrow. Relc grinned and lifted his spear.
“Try it.”
The two froze in place. Relc could see Badarrow performing the warrior’s internal calculation, assessing Relc’s gear, his level and the Skills he might have and weighing his odds against that. The Hob’s eyes narrowed, then he made a disgusted sound.
Slowly, Badarrow released the grip on his arrow. The Hob glared as he tossed the bow and quiver to the ground.
“Hah! You’re pretty smart.”
Relc gave him a toothy grin. He bent to collect the bow and quiver. Badarrow twitched as if he’d like to kick Relc in the face and run, but he was indeed intelligent enough to know what would happen if he did. Hob or not, he wasn’t a match for Relc, and both Goblin and Drake knew it.
It was true that Relc was a [Guardsman]. But he’d been a [Spearmaster] back in the army and a [Sergeant] as well. A high-level one. He could fight Gold-rank adventurers with just his spear and win. Sometimes. For all the Redfang Warriors were strong, they weren’t that strong.
“Hey, I got one!”
Relc sauntered back to Olesm and a few of the City Watch. They stared at him as Badarrow trooped over, scowling. Relc indicated the Hob.
“Anyone got a pair of cuffs? I uh, forgot mine back at the barracks.”
Some of the guards groaned, but a young Drake with cuffs came over to shackle Badarrow, hand and foot. Relc looked over and saw that Erin was sitting on the ground. Her cheek was scuffed up and she had cuffs on her hands.
“Uh, hi Erin.”
“Hi Relc.”
“Saw you punch Olesm. Nice hit! Stupid idea, though.”
“Yeah.”
Erin breathed out heavily. She looked at Badarrow as the Hob sat next to her. Relc shifted uncomfortably.
“So…what’s this all about?”
“Relc!”
The Drake turned. Olesm glared at him. His eye was already getting puffy, but the [Strategist] seemed on edge for different reasons. He pointed in the direction one of the other Hobs had run.
“Go after the Goblins!”
“Aw, do I have to? Jeiss and Beilmark can catch them.”
“Don’t argue! Do it!”
Relc glared, but then he sighed and jogged off. Olesm glared after him and then turned. Erin stared up at him. The Drake met her eyes and then looked away. He stood, barking orders while Erin sat on the ground. Badarrow grumbled and tested the iron manacles, pulling at them until someone raised a spear. Then he just sat.
Slowly, the City Watch returned, with prisoners in tow. Erin’s heart sank as she saw Relc come back, and the collection of Hobs sitting in chains grew.
One, three, four…Headscratcher, Rabbiteater, and Shorthilt joined Badarrow, all three having been subdued and manacled hand and foot. Headscratcher’s nose was bleeding and Shorthilt had several long scratches on his arm which were dripping a bit of blood. Olesm looked at Jeiss.
“Did they give you trouble, Senior Guardsman?”
The Drake saluted.
“No sir. They tried to knock us down but they didn’t draw steel, sir. But the fifth Hob, the one we already shackled—he uh, made it out.”
“What?”
Olesm’s eyes widened. He turned and glared at Relc, who’d come back with Shorthilt in tow. The Drake raised his claws.
“Hey, don’t blame me! I got this one! Had to tackle him before he got to Erin’s magic door.”
He pointed at Shorthilt. The Hob glared at Relc. Beilmark nodded apologetically as she explained.
“The fifth one—he ran down the streets shouting about a Raskghar attack. In the panic we couldn’t catch up to him and then he ran up to the battlements and jumped off.”
“Clever Numbtongue.”
Erin murmured to herself. Olesm glanced down at her and made a frustrated sound.
“That’s—keep an eye out for him! Don’t shoot him, but if he appears in the inn or the city—just keep an eye out! As for these four…”
He turned and looked grimly at Erin and the Hobs.
“Take them to prison and put them in separate cells.”
“The Hobs?”
Relc raised his brows. Olesm shook his head.
“All of them. The Hobs…and the Human.”
He didn’t look at Erin. Relc whistled slowly. Some of the City Watch blinked. But Olesm was already turning to Beilmark.
“I want a patrol to secure The Wandering Inn. Senior Guardsmen and our best fighters. Take at least two mages! Get them to open the door to Pallass and tell them I want Watch Captain Venim now. Pallass is already aware of what’s going on. Move!”
Beilmark nodded and ran with Jeiss down the street. Relc watched them go, blinking. Something was going on. He just didn’t know what. He looked awkwardly down at the Human sitting on the ground.
“Hey Erin. Sorry about this. You’re going to jail.”
