“Aw.”
Erin sighed. She stood up slowly and gave Relc an imploring look.
“Relc…”
“Sorry. Just doing my job. Don’t try to punch me because I’d have to hit you. Hold on, we have to check you for weapons. Hey, rookies, one of you get over and check Erin!”
Relc carefully turned Erin about as a female Gnoll came over. He spoke reassuringly as the other Hobs stood and were divested of their weapons too.
“Don’t worry. This is just to make sure you don’t stab each other in jail or something. And it’s not that bad! We don’t have rats or anything and you get fed…something. You’ll probably only be there the night.”
“And the Redfangs? And Bird? Relc, can you check on Bird? We took him to the Hive. He was hurt—bad! Klbkch brought him to the Queen.”
Relc’s eyes widened.
“That must be bad. Old Klb never bothers his Queen unless—what happened? And where’d Klb go?”
“Back into the Hive. I think—oh, Relc. It was awful. Bird was—”
“Senior Guardsman Relc!”
The Drake stiffened. Olesm was glaring at him.
“Escort the prisoners to the cells and report to the barracks without delay. Don’t waste time talking.”
“Yes, sir.”
Relc saluted smartly. He gave Olesm a toothy grin. And if Relc had said or done what he was thinking, the [Strategist] would have two black eyes. Because, fair play to Olesm, Goblins were a threat. But Erin wasn’t. She’d done more for Liscor than most Senior Guardsman had over their careers. And if Relc had learned one thing, it was that if Erin was on one side and you were on the other, you were probably on the wrong side.
They needed her. But she had struck a [Strategist] and directly aided in the escape of monsters from the Watch. So there was no choice, was there? Relc sighed. He didn’t want to do this—
“Come on, Erin. We’ll get you to a nice cell.”
He began to steer Erin away. And then he heard it. A faint sound, like a rapid set of drums. Relc paused. He raised a claw and the other guards urging the Hobs along stopped obediently.
“Hold on, what’s that? Anyone hear something?”
Relc turned his head and frowned at the entrance to the Antinium Hive. Olesm turned back, clearly annoyed.
“Senior Guardsman—”
“Shut up, Olesm.”
Relc stared at the Hive. He heard an outraged sound, but he didn’t care. Slowly, Relc backed away from the entrance to the Hive, tugging Erin out of the way. The drumming sound was louder now. The City Watch eyed the entrance to the Hive as well. And then the first Soldier charged out of the Hive.
“Soldier!”
Relc saw the massive Antinium run out of the Hive’s dirt entrance. The Antinium was as tall as Relc and even bulkier. His four arms were raised and he stopped abruptly in front of the surprised Drakes and Gnolls, looking around. Relc’s heart began to race. He pulled Erin back as more Soldiers charged out behind the first.
“What the—”
Olesm was staring incredulously. But Relc’s instincts took over. He looked around and shouted a warning.
“Oh shit. Back up, boys. They’re not playing around!”
The City Watch reacted to the uncharacteristic snap in Relc’s voice. Instantly they moved back down the street and just in time. Because more and more Soldiers came flooding out of the entrance. Dozens…then nearly a hundred. Relc stared at the Soldiers as they formed a solid brown-black wall in front of him. Soldiers in the streets of Liscor? These weren’t the Painted Soldiers either. They were regulars and they looked ready for a fight.
What in the name of the Walled Cities was going on? And then Relc saw a familiar face. An Antinium unlike any other walked up from the Hive. He had only two arms, and both were holding silvery blades. Klbkch walked past the ranks of Soldiers. He paused as he inspected the sudden change that had occurred—the shackled Goblins and Erin, Olesm’s black eye. His head turned and he nodded to Relc.
“Relc.”
The Drake managed a smile.
“Hey, Klb. What’s up?”
“Senior Guardsman Klbkch—what is this?”
Olesm stared at the Soldiers in horror. Klbkch’s head turned to Olesm.
“Strategist Olesm, I am not acting in my position as Senior Guardsman Klbkch, but my role as Revalantor Klbkchhezeim of the Hives. By my Queen’s command, I have been sent to find and destroy the Hob responsible for injuring the Individual Worker known as Bird.”
“What? But that’s—Klbkch, you cannot take Soldiers through Liscor! Please, order them back into the Hive. The City Watch will investigate whatever happened to Bird. But there’s a larger issue at stake here.”
The [Strategist] looked appalled. He tried to step forwards, but Klbkch raised his blades and Olesm stopped. Relc held his breath, Klbkch did not look anything like the amiable Senior Guardsman who normally patrolled the streets. Olesm gulped and stepped back as Klbkch looked at him.
“No. I am invoking the treaty between Liscor and the Free Antinium, Strategist Olesm. My Soldiers will move by boat with the Watch’s assistance and search the floodplains and even the northern and southern passes. We require transport immediately and Liscor’s full compliance. My Queen demands vengeance.”
“What? Now? But Klbkch—”
“No. I must speak to Watch Captain Zevara. Soldiers, fall in!”
The Soldiers began to march after Klbkch. Relc saw Olesm tagging after Klbkch, arguing with him, trying to get him to slow.
“We cannot have the Antinium in the city, not right now! Klbkch, listen to me! There is a larger situation happening at the moment. I need the Antinium’s full support, not—”
“My Queen’s orders take priority. Move aside, Olesm.”
Klbkch swung a sword out. Olesm flinched back. Klbkch marched onwards, the Soldiers beginning to spread out behind him. Relc saw Olesm’s face twist and his tail lash the ground. The [Strategist] clutched at his head and then shouted at Klbkch’s back.
“Liscor is going to fall!”
The Antinium halted in their tracks. Relc froze in the act of scratching one armpit. The City Watch whirled. Erin, the Redfang Hobs, everyone looked at Olesm. The [Strategist] panted. He looked at Klbkch and spoke in a trembling voice.
“Liscor is going to fall in four days. Unless we prepare. Unless I do something about it. I don’t have time for a single Hob. I don’t have time for Antinium marching through the streets! You can either help me, or I will arrest you and every single person who gets in my way!”
He shouted the last bit at Klbkch, straight to the Revalantor’s face. Relc held his breath as Klbkch stared at Olesm. Then, slowly, the Revalantor sheathed his swords. He nodded, and the Soldiers began to move back towards their Hive.
“Very well. We are at your disposal, Strategist Olesm. Inform me of the situation.”
Olesm looked around at all the listening guardsmen, at Relc, Erin, and the others. He shook his head.
“Not here. Follow me.”
He pointed and took off at a run. Klbkch ran after him. Relc stared after the two, and then at Erin and the Goblins and his fellow guards. He looked at his spear, and then at the clear skies.
“Aw hell. I knew today was going to be a bad day.”
 
—-
 
The alarm that went out from city to city was immediate. And as always, it led to a swift response. One by one, the cities began sending [Messages] to each other. The six-way chat opened as hundreds of other [Messages] were being sent and urgent clarifications and requests were coming through the harried Mage’s Guilds in every Drake city on the continent. But these had highest-priority.
 
Zeres. We’ve received the alert. Thoughts?
Oteslia. Is Liscor’s [Strategist] certain? They’ve issued a city-wide emergency. If they’re wrong…
Zeres. We agree with Liscor. The pieces fit. And we received intelligence from an unknown source claiming the same as Liscor’s [Strategist]. The Humans have trebuchets.
Oteslia. That’s an unfounded claim.
Zeres. It is, but it fits. And there is evidence.
Fissival is online. Where?
Zeres. There were reports of Humans employing siege weapons in a conflict with a Goblin war band, but the details were inconsistent and mentioned the Goblins constructing trebuchets of their own.
Fissival. Ludicrous.
Oteslia. But if the Humans did have trebuchets…
Manus joins the conference. This situation is grim. How did none of us spot this before now?
Zeres. The Humans played us like scatter-brained hatchlings. That’s all.
Oteslia. Focus. In that case, Liscor is under attack in four days. 
Manus. Assuming the water level drops as the [Strategist] indicated. How can the Humans be certain?
Zeres. They must be. There’s no point otherwise.
Salazsar is present. This is a disaster. We must warn the Humans at once! If they think they can take the city, it is war.
Oteslia. They’ll just deny the intent. And once they have Liscor…
Fissival. Politics aside, the Humans will attack Liscor. If they can manage it with the Goblins sacking the city, they will. But I would not trust Tyrion Veltras to hold back even if the Goblins were defeated. Objections?
Manus. None.
Zeres. We agree with your assessment.
Oteslia. We agree.
Salazsar. Something must be done. We must reinforce. At once!
Oteslia. How? They’re four days away. There’s only one city that can reach Liscor in time. Pallass must send all its armies north this instant! Or use that door!
Zeres. Where IS Pallass?
Fissival. We have made Pallass aware of the meeting.
Manus. Are their [Strategists] all asleep or something?
Oteslia. Hold on. Sending urgent request to Pallass to join in.
Zeres. It may be that they’re considering their options.
Salazsar. What options? Liscor must be held.
Zeres. Even with Pallass’ support, the odds of holding the city are low. 
Salazar. Not if they send their elites through that magic door.
Manus. And endure a bloodbath? Come on, this is Pallass we’re referring to. They’re next if Liscor falls. They’re considering whether to send all they have or…
Fissival. If Liscor falls, the Humans can march armies at us from countless directions unimpeded.
Manus. We know. But can it be held?
Zeres. Where is Pallass? Oteslia?
Oteslia. Waiting for a response…
Pallass responds. We are aware of the situation and analyzing the statements Liscor’s [Strategist] have made. They are not yet verifiable.
Zeres. We confirm Liscor’s report.
Oteslia. What is Pallass doing? How many armies and [Generals] can Pallass send to Liscor?
Pallass. The decision to reinforce Liscor has not yet been decided by the Assembly of Crafts. Deliberations are ongoing.
Manus. Deliberations? Pallass must send forces through to Liscor now, or begin marching them north at once!
Fissival. Will Pallass have a force large enough to repel the Humans? Estimates puts their army at 200,000 or more.
Oteslia. We can have a force of half a million converging on Pallass in ten days between all the Walled Cities, not including smaller cities. Oteslia’s armies stand ready.
Zeres. In ten days, the Humans will have Liscor and their own reinforcements marching south. Zeres to Pallass. Can you hold the city if the walls are broken? 
Pallass. Standby.
Oteslia. Ancestors damn it, Pallass! We need to know how many regiments you can send through to Liscor! Can your 1st Army reach Liscor in time? Answer!
Manus. They aren’t responding. They must be weighing the odds.
Fissival. Liscor has a strong City Watch. They can hold the breach, surely.
Oteslia. Against constant bombardments? Perhaps against the Goblin Lord, but not against them and the Humans.
Salazsar. Tyrion Veltras’ army is not merely 200,000 strong. He brought too many elites. Our reports showed an unusually high number of [Knights] and [Lords] and their personal forces in his army. 
Manus. Disguised under the pretense of beating the Goblin Lord. Clever.
Oteslia to Pallass. Well, your response?
Pallass. We are prepared to assist Liscor in every meaningful way possible. Deliberations are ongoing for reinforcement at this moment.
Fissival. Deliberations?
Oteslia. Cowards. Are you being serious?
Pallass. We believe it may be prudent to avoid reinforcement at this moment to assemble a larger force in the event Liscor falls.
Salazar to Pallass. Are you suggesting we allow Liscor to fall?
Pallass. The Assembly of Crafts is debating. Standby.
Oteslia. Are you spineless cowards, you [REDACTED]?
Pallass to Oteslia. Please refrain from unhelpful rhetoric.
Oteslia. [REDACTED].
Zeres. We…agree with Pallass’ assessment. It may be wiser to avoid conflict until we have a force capable of taking Liscor. 
Salazsar. You cannot be serious.
Fissival. We concur. The loss of Liscor is devastating. But the loss of Pallass’ forces would be even more so. If this is a trap, it may be designed to take as many soldiers with it.
Manus. So what should be done?
Zeres. Perhaps it is prudent to discuss contingency plans. In the event of Liscor’s fall.
Oteslia. They’re not fallen yet.
Fissival. Yet. And it could be beneficial in one sense.
Manus to Fissival. Explain.
Fissival. The effort required to defend Liscor from two armies armed with siege weapons would result in a bloodbath on Liscor’s side. On the other hand, the Antinium Hive in Liscor would be bound to aid in its defense…
Zeres. In which case, if Liscor falls there is one less Hive. And if they successfully repel the defenders, the Hive would be weakened.
Oteslia. What about Liscor’s citizens and soldiers?
Manus. Could Pallass even send enough soldiers through that magic door or bring enough forces north in time? Four days to march from Pallass to Liscor would exhaust any army and I doubt they could move more than a few thousand soldiers through per day.
Zeres. Pallass does have a point.
Oteslia. Have you all gone mad?
Fissival to Oteslia. Pallass is considering a logical response. This is not the same as the Face-Eater Moth incident. This is an invading army several hundred thousand strong. The Walled Cities must stand. But other cities, even ones as important as Liscor, are expendable as the circumstances dictate.
Salazsar. This is unacceptable. Liscor must not be allowed to fall. Pallass must send reinforcements immediately!
Oteslia agrees.
Salazsar to Pallass. Does Pallass acknowledge?
Salazsar. Well?
Pallass. Standby.
Manus. Standby.
Zeres. Standby.
Fissival. Standby.
 
—-
 
“What’s going on? Senior Guardsman Jeiss, why hasn’t the door been moved out of the inn?”
Olesm arrived at The Wandering Inn panting and out of breath. Klbkch was currently with Zevara, being appraised of the situation while Ilvriss kept repeating the alarm to the other Drake cities. Olesm was sure that there were hundreds of [Message] spells directed to him that he had to respond to, but he’d come to The Wandering Inn first.
