It was hardly ok. Not by any stretch of the imagination. The eldritch monster had reached out from beyond the grave and marked her with its incomprehensible insanity. The question of what exactly was watching her caused shudders of fear and loathing, and an overwhelming sense of defilement. She had been corrupted through her knowledge skills; Sage of Learning and Deconstruction processing the eldritch mana she had absorbed and partially understood, leading directly to this… this mind infection, as revealed by the unwanted title.

Ali didn’t know how long exactly she clung to Malika, but eventually her mind quietened, calmed no doubt by the continuous trickle of healing mana flowing through her body, and the comforting presence of her friends. Whatever this cursed title was, she knew at least her friends wouldn’t let her face it alone, and that, more than anything, brought her back to herself.

Slowly, she rose to her feet and approached the Well of Eternity with her friends, consciously aware that she wasn’t quite recovered enough to let go of Malika’s hand.

“Here you go,” Malika said, offering the large vial.

“Thanks.” Ali took the vial and stepped forward, dipping her hand into the gray water of the well. Not even a hint of a ripple disturbed the surface. Nor did any bubbles appear from the vial. But when she retrieved it, she found it was full.

It was a strange thing to behold. A vial full of gray, transparent liquid that didn’t slosh or ripple. But as dull as it seemed through her mundane senses, with Arcane Insight, she could see the sheer radiant power she held within her hand. It shone like the sun, so bright that she could see it through the flesh of her own hand.

“You know,” Calen said, producing a box filled with empty potion vials. “Let’s not be stupid and put all our eggs in one basket. Let’s all fill a couple of vials and each keep some in a storage ring.”

“For once, you’re putting all that intelligence to good use,” Mato snorted, snatching up a pair of vials and dunking both under the water.

“Hey,” Calen objected, but he did the same, collecting several and passing them around.

“Thanks, guys,” Ali said, grateful for how seriously they were taking the quest and Lira’s recovery. Surprisingly, Calen’s idea – so very much the essence of who he was – grounded her in the reality of what had transpired.

We won.

Regardless of how terrifying the monster had been, or how dangerous this unknown, cursed title would prove to be, she was standing here before an ancient, lost artifact of stupendous power, holding in her hand one of the three mythic reagents that Azryet needed to save Lira.

If she had to be watched by some annoying eldritch eye to save her aunt, then that was a price she was willing to pay.

Annoying? She shivered at her own casual phrasing, thinking for a second: What if there are nightmares out there, beings as powerful as Azryet yet more like… that?

No. She couldn’t let fear control her. Not like that.

Malika poked at the crumpled form of a fallen ice Devastation Knight with her foot, double-checking that it was really, properly dead. One could never be too sure with the undead, but its failure to react to her prodding was very encouraging, so she bent down and quickly stored its armor and weapons, a trivial task now that its own mana couldn’t prevent her storage enchantment from working. Behind her, and up near the corner of the chamber, a detonation of light and flame blasted the final ghostly remnants of the two Dark Souls into wisps of incorporeal energy that slowly drifted down toward the ground.

“I’m sorry, guys,” Ali said, looking downcast at the floor. “I just wasn’t fast enough.”

Malika glanced back at her friend, hiding the frown trying to slip onto her face. Missing the disruption of the Frozen Skull Sentry’s teleport wasn’t nearly as big a problem as it had once been – they had easily dispatched the Devastation Knight and the two Dark Souls it had teleported in, but it was so unlike Ali to fumble her spell. While it may be entirely imagined, she thought she heard an unexpected quaver in Ali’s voice.

“It’s ok, Ali,” Malika said, trying to reassure her friend. An hour further into the labyrinthine temple, and Ali still seemed to be just barely holding on – like she was forcing a veneer of confidence over the top of a crumbling core. Whatever she had experienced back there in the nightmare had truly shaken her, and even now, Malika could see the disturbing, black, twisted touch of malignancy that lingered within her – the dark legacy of the fight.

I should have been stronger, she thought. She had come to rely on Clarity for helping her friends in every situation where their minds were under assault, so much so that she had become guilty of taking it for granted. Here, when they encountered a monster of immense eldritch power, Ali’s mind had nearly been broken – and not even her Healing Mantra had been able to restore her confidence and remove the taint of the cursed title.

When we get back… Seldom did she feel the loss of Elder Rezan and his sage advice so sharply, but she would seek out Vivian Ross for advice and even the grumpy old troll Seeker, Val’korr. Or perhaps Lamyndra Duskwind – the high priestess of Lunaré was the most likely person to have experience with this kind of thing. No, this is too important. She might not be a disciple, but she would personally lead the expedition to Azryet’s domain and ask the Dragon God himself for help. Havok will definitely help. We need to get the last remnants of that thing out of her.

In the meantime, she needed to get stronger. Otherwise, she would continue failing to protect her friends. With a little trepidation, she brought up her notifications from the fight, but her inner dojo and the glowing blue-white text remained pristine in her mind’s eye, nothing like what Ali had described happening to her.

Eyes of the Soul has reached level 174 (+10).+100 attribute points.Martial Artist has reached level 88 (+4).Soul Strike has reached level 89 (+4).Healing Mantra has reached level 104 (+5).Perfect Body has reached level 61 (+3).Soul Armor has reached level 77 (+3).Enlightened Evasion has reached level 65 (+2).Divine Step has reached level 74 (+3).Second Wind has reached level 48 (+2).Clarity has reached level 62 (+4).Soul Sight has reached level 72 (+2).Appraise has reached level 36.

Malika searched through her notifications for something to answer the question that burned within her, but, although her skills seemed to be advancing well, nothing stood out as an answer to her failings. Her class level was growing, and so were her skills and attributes, but she still had no answer for the last fight. Nothing would have helped Ali or the others.

Suddenly, her chime sounded again.

Healing Mantra has reached a base skill level of 100.Healing Mantra has advanced to tier two.

Oh, a tier two skill! she thought, suddenly excited. Ali had advanced some of her skills to the second tier after the giant devastation knight, Haverron, and it had seemed to be a fundamental improvement to the way the base skill operated.

Without a second thought, she used it on herself. Her magic surged with a newfound eagerness, as if it needed to be unleashed. It rushed through her with power and vibrant energy, and, despite the fact that she was already at full health, she could sense it repairing minor things within her, older injuries and barely remembered pain that had far predated her class.

Far faster than before, her excess healing magic burst from her body, a surging pulse that tore clouds of dust from the crimson carpet and bounced off the ornate murals, filling the area around her with a nigh instantaneous spherical ripple of light that softly lingered, fading slowly in the aftermath.

She gasped inadvertently at the effect. Wow!

Just the brief touch of her magic caused her friends to straighten up, and Ali to sigh with relief as some measure of her pain seemed to vanish. It wasn’t a complete solution; she could still see the twisted knot of eldritch mana infesting her friend, but at least it earned her a little smile.

“New advancement?” Ali asked, her amber eyes sparkling with that familiar curiosity for all things magical.

“Tier two Healing Mantra,” Malika answered.

“Oh, very nice!”

Calen reached out to clap her on the shoulder. “Best work on your singing skills, eh?”

“Hey, I don’t sing it…”

Malika smiled at her friends, happy that the old Ali seemed to be back, and the cracks or bruises the eldritch nightmare had inflicted upon her seemed to be mending. She pulsed her healing a few times again, pretending to be familiarizing herself with it, but she could see Ali’s life energy visibly calming under the influence of her healing.

With a hundred unspent attribute points earned from the fight, she decided she could afford to be a little more generous in her spread – ten levels! When had she ever seen that before? Thoughtfully, she spent her first twenty-five points on dexterity and then twenty-three on wisdom, immediately feeling safer for investing more into her mental fortitude. Nineteen points went to perception to boost Soul Sight further, and then eighteen points to endurance. She pursed her lips for a moment, and then spent ten on vitality, reserving three for strength and the last two for intelligence.

Now I just need a way to train Clarity to the second tier, too. As she followed Calen through the maze, she racked her brain for ways to train her meditation and mental warding skill explicitly. Unfortunately, every practical method she could think of – whether by having Ali create Parasitic Nightmares and willingly subjecting herself to them or asking Mieriel to attack her mind relentlessly – would be excruciating and dangerous. Still, after experiencing the fundamental changes in her Healing Mantra, she had absolutely no doubt that tier two Clarity would have been enough to save Ali from that awful nightmare.

She frowned thoughtfully. No training that was worth doing was going to be easy, as her father had always said. If only, for once, they were not rushing from one problem to another, and could invest some serious time into advancing their skills…

“We’ve gotten what we came for,” Malika said. “Should we head home?”

“We got chased out of here last time, before we could even scout further. I was hoping we’d take a bit of time to see what’s up ahead first,” Calen said. Such an opportunity would be difficult to obtain again. Especially if they had to take the time to re-clear the bosses, and he was not looking forward to a rematch with that eldritch horror.

“Perhaps this is the end, and his Phylactery is waiting for us?” Ali said. “I don’t think taking a look will hurt. As long as we’re careful and ready to run, of course.”

“Gathering intelligence is reasonable,” Malika said. “But the bosses are crazy in here, let’s not bite off more than we can chew.”

“Right,” Ali nodded.

“Ok. I’ll head out then,” Calen said. “Keep following this passage. I’ll meet you at the next intersection.”

Eclipse prickled lightly, and his body shimmered, even more than with Mirage Armor, and then he vanished from sight. His feet made no sound as he sprinted down the long corridor, heading toward the crossroads he had found earlier.

Given the immense danger that Baaoht Yll’shuum had represented, he had been unsurprised to see his reward for the fight – nine class levels. Malika had done better, but that was no surprise either. Her mental fortitude was one of the crucial pivots that had turned the fight in their favor.

Realm Hunter has reached level 169 (+9).+90 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 92 (+2).Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 85 (+4).Motes of Light has reached level 64 (+3).Explorer has reached level 92 (+3).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 69 (+4).Eclipse has reached level 45 (+2).Eyes of the Archon has reached level 64 (+4).Righteous Fury has reached level 60 (+3).Azrael's Wings has reached level 43.Mirage Armor has reached level 65 (+3).Bowcraft has reached level 15.Cartography has reached level 32.

That’s not too bad, he decided. Not to mention, they had recovered the vials from the mystical Well of Eternity. Two of his skills were fast approaching tier two, and, if the descriptions from both Ali and Malika were anything to go by, he couldn’t wait. Still, he had earned something new from that fight, something that would fundamentally change how he tracked, and even how he fought. He studied the choice he had made in the thick of it once more.

Eyes of the Archon gains True Sight. (When illuminated by the light of your magic, you see things as they truly are).Eyes of the Archon – level 63You have greatly enhanced visual acuity, able to see in extremely low light. You can see mana. You can pierce the veil and see into nearby realms. When illuminated by the light of your magic, you see things as they truly are, piercing through illusion, stealth, invisibility, and concealment magic.Mana: Your vision is enhanced for long-distance viewing or aiming. Enter a state of focused awareness that enhances the range and acuity of all Perception skills. Movement cancels the effect.Light, Perception

There had been three other choices waiting for him, but nothing that could hold a candle to the incredible utility of True Sight. Already, he had been surprised by just how powerful his new perception skill advancement was. He could see himself when he was invisible, and he could see right through his mirage illusions. He sprinted down the hallway toward the large chamber up ahead, keeping his concealment magic running. He paused at the dark doorway, sending his motes of light in before him.

The crimson carpet formed a circle in the center, like a pool of freshly spilled blood upon dark stone. Evenly spaced under the flickering sconces were altars inscribed with strange runes, but the dungeon had neglected to recreate the icons and offerings that would have granted the temple any sort of genuine authenticity. As it was, it felt stark and uncannily empty, devoid of any normal person’s touch.

He walked over to the dais in the center of the wide circular room but found nothing of interest other than more runes. Ali will want to read them, he thought, hoping that the challenge would help her forget her traumatic experience with the eldritch boss.

He floated his motes of light around the room, exposing the murals. These depicted a squadron of elves mounted on gryphons raining arrows and magic down upon an endless sea of ghouls. But as his eyes took in the scene, an outline shimmered in the center of the battle, a doorway, perfectly concealed with an illusion that completed the battle mural.

