Ali watched as Mato burned, disappointed that the nectar had not made them all immune to the Parasitic Nightmares.

It even says ‘Immune to nightmares’, she thought grumpily. What good is that if the first monster called ‘nightmare’ doesn’t count?

However, she really couldn’t complain. The nectar prevented most of the negative effects of accidentally glancing at the boss: no longer did the mere sight of its eldritch form provoke splitting headaches, nausea, fear, and disorientation, or threaten to fracture their minds. In combination with Malika’s Clarity, it had rendered the melee immune to the reverse taunt, and she had seen that same disturbing surge of domain mana several times since she had returned from the nightmare realm she had been yanked off to, and yet it had no effect on her friends.

At least it works on the actual nightmare. The problem with the Parasitic Nightmares was rather simple by comparison. Those they could punch.

“Shoot him again,” she said, smiling at the cackling laughter from her Fire Mage as she summoned a huge fireball.

Fire really does work on most things, she decided, studying the way the eldritch tentacles recoiled from the bang and searing blast of flames. Still half-submerged in the Well of Eternity, the boss was continually vomiting up fresh Parasitic Nightmares with a frequency that would have had her running for her life if they weren’t immediately snared by Mato’s taunting roar and splatted by the deafening barrage of fire magic her minions rained down on the pack.

Her solution to both the problem of the rate of spawning and Mato’s vulnerability to being infected had been to simply set him on fire for the entire fight, allowing the explosions and flames to burn off any parasites that managed to latch onto him, and incinerating the rest en masse. It was working spectacularly, if she did say so herself. Every fireball, holy or flame, detonated right on top of him, blasting the writhing tentacle monsters off him as a shower of burning bits, or, for the more stubborn ones, it lit them on fire along with Mato himself, creating a blazing inferno in the center of the amphitheater. But Mato was receiving the very best healing magic she and Malika could muster, and the monsters were not.

And the boss is also undead. She grinned viciously, calling for her holy mages to redouble their efforts.

“At once, Ancient Mistress,” her nearest kobold chirped, rolling back the sleeves of her robes and lighting her taloned hands with radiant holy flames.

“Fire! Fire! Fire!” the male kobold chittered, waving his arms in vaguely mystical and entirely unnecessary gesticulations as he swirled his rapidly forming white fireball around his head.

“Shh,” the first kobold hissed, but both of them released their spells one after the other, at precisely the right time for the healers to coordinate their rotation, and Ali turned away to hide her smile of pride.

They’re getting so good at this, my little kobolds.

She glanced up and back at the sensation of a mountain of mounting impatience looming over her shoulder. The giant muscles across the troll’s back and shoulders were clear of parasites, and his eyes were fixed on the fight with calculated cunning and a fierce longing.

Of course, there was always the side benefit of abusing the undead’s ubiquitous holy magic vulnerability by filling the fireball rotation with holy versions of it.

“Get in there, Tol’brekk,” she commanded. “It’s time for your Blood Vortex to sweep the chaff from the board and then take out that trash blocking the Well of Eternity.”

“About time,” he growled, but the fierce grin appearing on his lips and the rush of joy flowing from her connection told Ali all she needed to know.

The ground beneath Ali’s feet buckled as he leapt into the fray, crimson blades of blood already beginning to whirl about him even before he landed his first immense blow, the shockwaves shuddering the monstrosity like a drumskin.

Ali checked in with her kobolds’ Healers Sight skill, glanced worriedly at the three minutes remaining on her Eternal Reverie buff, and yelled, “Fifty percent! Hurry, we don’t have much more time!”

***

Your group has defeated B̴͈̟͒ạ̵̾̀̄̚a̷̪͚̙̎ͅo̸̯̞͖̓̌͘h̷̻̃͑͌͠t̵͙̮͂͆̍͜ ̵̤͛͐̇̋Y̷̥̙̎͆̒͝l̶̗͆̀̈́ͅl̵̤͖̼̞̈͆́̿'̵̤̲̟̫̇̐̊̔s̴̘͕̊̈́͑̃h̸̦͚̼͋̐̈́́u̵̱͚͂̃̕u̶̡̙̗̩͑m̷̢̛̟͋̓ [Devourer of Dreams] – Undead Eldritch Monstrosity – level 232 (Death / Mind)

Ali dismissed the stream of notifications for Parasitic Nightmares and Dark Souls dying as her minions cleaned up the stragglers and breathed a well-earned sigh of relief.

“Thank goodness that’s over,” Malika said.

“I hate mind magic,” Calen grumbled, putting a voice to Ali’s feelings about the fight. Even with her enormous investment in wisdom, the nature of mind-magic was insidious, requiring intuition under the most challenging of conditions, rescuing your friends and allies, and, more than most fights, relying entirely upon the strengths of one’s team for even the fundamental right to one’s own thoughts.

“I’m sure you do, giggles,” Malika deadpanned.

“Oi, that was a long time ago,” he grumbled, coloring anyways to Malika’s evident enjoyment.

“At least it was an easy fight in the end,” Mato said, speaking into all their minds.

“You still mad?” Malika asked. “Ali, Mato needs more decursing.”

“He’s clear,” Ali said. “This is just his normal crazy.” Still, she could understand Mato’s twisted logic after having known the Beastkin for so long. Once the monster’s mind-magic defenses had been neutralized, the fight had simplified dramatically. Any fight where Mato could hit the enemy repeatedly was ‘easy’ in his mind.

Well, it’s dead. For now. And she had no intention of being anywhere nearby when the dungeon respawned it. She pulled up the notifications for the fight, grateful to see the steady warmth of the golden text in her inner sight remaining pure. No dark eldritch infections appeared to twist and corrupt it. No screeching threatened to strip her of her sanity.

What was it that infected Nathaniel Sunstrider? How did he never even notice? It still staggered her, how he had been so taken in. She sighed inwardly. Enough of that. Notifications first.

Dungeon of Knowledge has reached level 184 (+8).+80 attribute points.Arcane Insight has reached level 108 (+3).Arcane Recall has reached level 55.Barrier has reached level 98 (+4).Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 72 (+4).Runic Script has reached level 80 (+3).Sage of Learning has reached level 84 (+6).Martial Insight has reached level 113 (+3).Empowered Summoner has reached level 92 (+3).Minion Teleport has reached level 59.Identify has reached level 39.Inspiration has reached level 34 (+2).Imprint: Parasitic Nightmare completed.

Eight levels. She puffed out her cheeks and let out a rush of air. So, her class had responded dramatically to the very real danger of the Well Guardian. In a ritual familiar enough now to steady her nerves, Ali distributed her points carefully. She had earned eighty, which was a substantial sum. With a moment’s consideration, she spent twenty-seven on intelligence and twenty-one each on wisdom and perception, heavily investing in her primary attributes. For the remainder, she allocated eight to vitality and two each to dexterity and endurance. There, that should do it.

“Ali? Are you ok?” Malika asked, concern evident in her eyes as she danced with casual grace across the charred corpses of Parasitic Nightmares and pools of thick, viscous black blood to join her where she sat. “What happened to you?”

“I think so,” Ali said, patting down her body to check herself physically. None of the bloody mud from that place had persisted – small mercies – but the true damage had been dealt to her mind inside that dream realm.

“You were just standing there, unresponsive, while the parasites stormed you,” Malika said. “I’ve never been so scared in my life.”

While Ali knew they’d both faced the Lich and therefore her words were strictly untrue, her friend’s hyperbole was met by a rising warmth in her heart that allowed it to unclench. She breathed easier immediately. “It was a domain ability I’ve never seen before. It took me somewhere else. A nightmare.” Even as she said it, her body shuddered reflexively at the recollection of the unseen horrors that had stalked her, and Malika immediately slipped a comforting arm around her shoulders. While she knew it had been some sort of nightmare realm, she also knew without a doubt that those monsters had been real. Real enough that if she’d been found, she would most certainly be dead. Or worse. “There were things there, Malika… things lurking in the darkness.”

“If it was a nightmare, could it be that those things were simply not real?” Malika asked, squeezing her a little tighter.

“What about this then?” Ali asked, holding up one of the fading azure flame blossoms, the Eternal Reverie.

“Yes,” Malika said with a dark frown on her brow. “Well, whatever was in there, at least it’s gone now. Come, let’s get rid of that thing clogging up the Well and get our vial of water.”

“Thank you, Malika,” Ali said, shaking off the dark fog plaguing her and standing up. She had to straighten her knees twice before they would work properly. After all I’ve seen and been through and lost, this still seems worse. I don’t… understand. Was it Mieriel? Or was that just another symptom?

Maybe losing her mind was her ultimate fear? Ali shuddered and rubbed her own arms, prompting an immediate query from her friend. “I think I’m… over the worst, now.”

“No problem,” Malika said, producing a large, reinforced glass vial that had Morwynne Fizlebang’s signature exploding potion logo etched into it. “Let’s take care of it together.”

As scary as the experience had been, they had defeated the Well guardian, and she could finally collect the first vial for the Elixir of Ages. Lira, we’re going to save you, she thought, reiterating her promise like a mantra of hope. I will step up for you. None of this will stop me.

She gazed at the Well of Eternity, or rather the huge pile of dark, twisted flesh that had collapsed on top of it. Even now, many of the pieces did not connect, and much of it was warped through various incomprehensible phases of reality. The headache that the monster induced in her was far less debilitating than when it had been alive, but even now, her mind refused to accept the eldritch reality of it. At least she wouldn’t need to refresh her Eternal Reverie just to be able to touch it.

“Ok, you’ve got to go,” she muttered, grimacing at the splitting headache. She stretched out a hand, intending to touch it, but her fingers and her eyes disagreed on precisely where it was. Or even what it was. It warped reality around it, challenging her mind. “How did you even hit this thing, Mato?”

“I don’t know, I just did,” he answered, curling his thick fingers into a claw and making comical swiping gestures.

“Not helpful,” Ali said, wondering if she was being hamstrung by her high intelligence attribute. Even her sense of its mana was twisted, still shifting and rotating through dimensions that could not even be named. She decided to ignore her senses and just try something more straightforward. Finally, she felt her fingers brush across a more substantial part, and she unleashed her deconstruction.

As the inert mass began to shimmer into mana, her chimes sounded.

[Sage of Learning]Domain Magic analyzed: Summon (Dark Soul)Domain Magic analyzed: Zone of Destruction (Necrotic Poison)Domain Magic analyzed: Exile (The Nightmare) ExileRequirements: Raid Enhancement or higher, Level 200+.Source: Baaoht Yll’shuumCreate a temporary realm and exile a single target there. The nature of the realm is dependent on the nature of the caster, their affinity, traits, and experience. The duration of the exile is dependent on the relative level of the caster and the target. Skill – Domain Magic

As the notification chimes sounded, the reclaimed mana poured into her like a geyser of filth, madness, and terrifyingly unknowable truths. Her mind rang like a crystal bell struck by a cosmic hammer. The world shook, vibrating in terrible agony. And yet the torrent of eldritch knowledge only accelerated, seizing control as if the monstrosity was still alive, sucking greedily at her will, her reality, her very sense of self. Sage of Learning screamed like a thousand lost souls wailing in the core of her being, and reality began to crack everywhere she looked.

And through those cracks… she shuddered as her mind plummeted down into madness while a thousand crimson, unblinking eyes stared at her through the cracks.

You have gained Clarity.

She came to, screaming, with a raging torrent of burning magic that was trying to heal her mind.

“Ali!” Malika’s voice screamed at her from afar – as if from the end of an infinitely long, dark tunnel.

Malika?

She blinked and closed her mouth, realizing she was hoarse and still trying to scream. In distress at the horrific strain, the sensation of being overwhelmed by a consciousness so ghastly and alien, she rolled up onto her knees and promptly vomited. All she could do was kneel there and heave wretchedly through wave after wave of heat and prickling and shivering, while reclaiming her sanity, testing it, making sure it was still hers after all. As the sensations subsided, she found herself able to glance about, but the infernal cracks were nowhere to be found, and the eldritch eyes were gone.

But something was still watching.

Malika clung to her with a desperate embrace that constrained her breathing, but she didn’t complain. Something was wrong – very wrong – and she needed Malika more right now than she needed to breathe. With great trepidation, she scrolled back up through her notifications.

You have gained the Title: The Eternal NightmareY̴͎̕ơ̶̛̺͇͖̓u̵͇̇̎̐ ̷̦̤͍͌̈a̴̫̔͂ͅr̵̘̃͌̚e̴͔͌ ̵̢̹͛̀̚b̶̥̩̊̓͘͜e̷̘̜̹͂̾i̶̺̲̎͋n̸̻͖͑̄͝g̴̫̉ ̷̟̎̑w̴͕̿̏͝a̷̤̤̓̋͝t̴̛̮̓͆c̸̳̦̀͗͠ĥ̵̻̼ȅ̴͍̜̥d̴͇̤͕̽͠.̴͔͎̀͜Cursed Title

A grating screech accompanied the floating script hovering in her mind, and a chill crashed into her heart as she saw it, leaving her numb. Without feeling, she simply shared the cursed title with her friends.

“Oh, no! Ali…” Malika said, her voice distraught, but Ali was struggling to even process the emotions. “I shouldn’t have asked.”

“It’s ok,” Ali said, the lie slipping easily from her lips as she tried to reassure Malika.

