The rushing silver river of threads within my blade flows with a hypnotic rhythm.

Without a membrane surrounding us, my movements out here in the vastness of empty space feel more free than ever.

With my perception already strong enough to touch the outer edges of the universe, and even beyond into the void creeper's domain, it becomes easy to move around all known space with a single thought.

My Immortal Emperor's Form flickers in and out of existence as I move throughout the universe to see this through for myself.

I void step above the remains of every single dead galaxy left behind, disappearing and reappearing hundreds of billions of times before flickering back into reality before a golden dragon and an angel with the skin of an icy black mirror.

My gaze falls down to the sword that made the trip with me, and the flow of silver threads only grows more intense. It begins pulling the silver threads that have integrated with my Emperor's Essence in a very unnatural way.

It feels counterintuitive, like I am losing strength by letting these threads escape from my physical body. Yet, the instant the silver light seeps into my blade and joins the constant flow within the blade, a satisfying sensation ripples through me as though two perfectly crafted puzzle pieces have linked together.

A cold and dark mirror-like shadow moves directly in front of me and raises her sword.

My vision flickers, seeing the blue-eyed, fair-skinned angelic visage of Maria in front of me, but when I blink, she turns into a dark woman shaped abyss.

The human form gives off the aura of my most trusted partner, from the moment I became a dungeon diver, throughout our chaotic journey through the human world, and finally creating an unbreakable soul bond in the Upper Realm; finally to the moment we became immortals and watched all life in our galaxy die out before our eyes.

Her gentle yet icy gaze makes me shiver with excitement. It fills me with the understanding that we are yet again making a leap into the unknown.

No words are exchanged, our minds only watch the bending and changing laws that twist around us. We are the only points of energy left in this universe, and all of the weakened laws holding it together are drawn in at our whims.

A shimmering silver shadow of silver threads starts to form around Maria's void-like body as she slowly floats forward, holding her black diamond blade with the same exact grip that I hold mine. She floats forward and collides with the fiery red and silver blade in my hands.

Instead of a clash, where physical mass stops one another or energy waves explode outward, Maria's icy blade slips through my sword like a shadow without mass.

She stops floating forward once the blades fit perfectly together. It is like her form has shifted into a new direction of space I cannot yet comprehend, and neither can my physical sword.

I feel her hands perfectly envelop mine, as it feels like we're both holding onto the handle of this artifact now plunged into an abyss.

This sends another profound ripple through my psyche, as another final system mechanism turns and shifts into place, sending fractures through the bottleneck deep within my soul holding this notification back.

I watch as silver threads are siphoned off the outside of Maria's void body, and we float together locked in place as this amplifier pulls in the last bit of sustenance it needs to awaken.
