Next to enter was the Sword King, Ryo Dae Jung, alongside his talented family and a full complement of high-status warriors, though none had served at Sinuji as far as Binesi could tell. Even from afar, the Ryo’s looked like the perfect Martial Family, with two Peak Expert parents and three phenomenally talented youngsters, all of whom were elaborately dressed, coiffed, and bejewelled. Barring catastrophe, the Ryo family’s rise was all but unstoppable, save for the slow emergence of a third generation to carry on the family name and legacy.

In contrast, the Mitsue Family’s star was quickly fading from sight, but that didn’t stop the Obsidian Shadow from strutting about as he led his peacocked children and grandchildren out to the banquet. Three generations of Mitsue family scions, and both younger generations made for a sorry sight indeed, wastrels one and all with not a single spine between the lot of them. A damn shame about Mitsue Hideo, for there was a boy who showed promise, but it was strange that the boy’s civilian father had died in Sinuji as well. What was he even doing there? Helping Watanabe with the logistics perhaps? Mother knows the idiot could barely read a map, so that was probably it.

And honestly, why did Central, the safest of all the outer provinces, need three Colonel Generals when the other outer provinces made do with one? Hell, the Southern Colonel General was so busy he wasn’t even coming to the banquet, and instead dispatched his second-in-command here to represent him.

At long last, Colonel General Nian Zu finally arrived, riding atop the behemoth warhorse he secured from Mother knows where. The Living Legend was many things, but a practised equestrian he was not, which made sense since he had little reason to ever ride out beyond the Wall. Regardless of his lacking skills, he did a passable job pretending to be one as he sat still and gave the beast free rein, who was more than happy to follow the mare bearing Chen Hongji beside him. All around the avenue, the crowd let loose with deafening cheers for the Architect of Sinuji, the man who set in motion a plan which killed a half-million Defiled in a single blow.

What a blaze that was, like a fiery inferno sent down by the Mother Above, all thanks to Chen Hongji’s tireless efforts and Falling Rain’s curious mind.

Oddly enough, the man of the hour was here alone, with no other members of the Chen family to accompany him. Were his wife and children safely hidden away, or had some Imperial already taken them hostage? Difficult to say, but Binesi hoped it was the former, rather than the latter. Moving in to take his place in the honour guard, he fell in line as the Colonel General Sent, “Well done getting the boy this far. I know it could not have been easy.”

“By your will, Colonel General,” Binesi Sent, flushing with pride from the simple compliment. Thirty-seven years, he’d served at Nian Zu’s side, and still the Living Legend filled him with awe. “With luck, the foundling might even make it out alive, though I confess I’ll feel much better once I have him back in my sights.”

“One thing, Major,” Nian Zu Sent, half-turning in his saddle before thinking better of it. “Once we are inside, make no moves without my express orders, understood?”

Binesi’s acknowledgement was halfway out before the Colonel General’s orders sank in, and he did something he’d never done before. He hesitated, balked at a direct order, just to consider what the Colonel General intended. “...Sir. You mean to abandon the foundling?”

“No, of course not.” Taking no offence at Binesi’s reservations, the Colonel General’s shoulders slumped ever so slightly. “...But we’ve done all we can for the boy. Anything that happens in there, happens by the will of the Legate, you understand?” Without waiting for an answer, Nian Zu continued, “You and I both know Falling Rain deserves better, but I fear he will be sorely disappointed tonight. No matter how sharp his eyes and mind prove to be, the Supreme Families still seek to discredit him, if not worse. Even if the boy survives, which I worry is not likely, how much longer do you think Baatar will stand silently by while his son’s reputation is tarnished and smeared?”

“Sir... What do you know that you aren’t telling me? That you haven’t told him?”

“Binesi, old friend.” Having reached the stairs, Nian Zu dismounted from his horse and took in Binesi’s crestfallen expression, and for a moment, the Colonel General looked... defeated. Then he steeled his resolve, and he was the Living Legend Nian Zu once more, as valiant and honourable as ever. “I’ve no information, but there is nothing more I can do for the boy. Things have gone well for him thus far and I hope for the best, but I also fear the worst. I’ve no proof of what lies ahead, just a gut instinct which warns of danger, and I haven’t survived this long by ignoring my instincts. Tomorrow, I might well be forced to march against my second-in-command and put down his ill-fated rebellion. I cannot afford to lose anyone else, whether it be you or any of the fine soldiers under my command, not in service to what might well be a lost cause. I pray for the boy’s success, but his life is in the Mother’s hands now, so you will not act without my express orders, understood?”

“...By your command, Colonel General.”

A phrase Binesi had lived by for thirty-seven years, but tonight, the words rang... hollow.

Chapter Meme
