After a long, tense, and taxing week of vigilance and preparation, Binesi set aside an hour to meditate in the courtyard before it came time for the banquet.

Tonight’s festivities could very well devolve into a bloodbath of mythical proportions, but Nian Zu and the foundling could hardly arrive with swords drawn and bows bent. This was the true challenge which lay before him, to guard against enemies while maintaining a false air of harmonious unity. Ask any good soldier, and they would tell you fighting is easy. Despite what most nobles would have commoners believe, any fool could fight. It was his belief that this was by design, and that the Mother tailor-made humanity for this very purpose. Some might see wolves, tigers, bears, and other formidable predators of the wilds and believe otherwise, but they would be wrong. Hunting and fighting were two different matters, because one required skill, patience, forethought, and experience, while the latter just needed a reason.

And not even a good reason, at that. Of all the Mother’s Children, humans were the only ones who fought and killed for their own murderous delight.

Well, aside from cats, but they fit in their own special category...

Humans were the Mother’s soldiers in the battle against the Enemy, and Binesi was nothing if not a good soldier. Fighting was what he signed on for, what he trained for, what he thought about during the day and what he dreamt about at night. He loved his family, but despite what he might say otherwise, in his heart of hearts, he knew battle would always be his first and greatest love. He’d lived a good life, full of love and laughter, from his first kiss with Asane, bringing Aska and Teekway home from the orphanage, and watching his sons grow into men and become fathers themselves. He cherished these memories, and he missed his family dearly every time he had to leave them behind, but it shamed him to admit all this paled in comparison to how he came alive in battle.

Binesi called Baatar a mad wolf who fought only for the thrill of battle, and he knew this because they were two men cut from the same cloth. So many ignorant people believed demi-humans were wild, unpredictable creatures driven by bloodlust and instinct, but Binesi knew differently. If a demi-human was driven wild by bloodlust, then it was their human blood to blame, for humans were the most brutal and bloodthirsty creatures of them all. One only needed to look at the Enemy’s armies to know this for true, because while they had animals to ride and fight alongside them, only humans were ever truly Defiled by the Father’s whispered lies.

As such, fighting was easy. The second hardest part of Binesi’s job was waiting, but a life-long career in the Imperial Army had given him plenty of time to practice, and it was almost second nature by now. As for the hardest part of Binesi’s job, that was following orders which went against his instincts, such as marching himself into a likely death-trap to let his fragile ward rub shoulders with his enemies. Might as well send the lamb out to greet the tiger, though in the foundling’s defence, he was no helpless lamb, which was little consolation considering his foes were no mere tigers either. The Supreme Families were dragons standing above other dragons, second only to the Emperor Himself, and the foundling had somehow become embroiled in their schemes. Binesi knew now that it wasn’t entirely the foundling’s fault, as Imperial Scions and politics were akin to ducks and water, but Falling Rain still had some blame for this mess he’d gotten himself into.

He should have given up his rank the second he was crippled and run back home to the mountains. Hard to use him as a playing piece while sitting six weeks away from the action, and if someone should try to take him off the board, well... they would be in for a rude awakening indeed...

Still, there was something to be said about adversity and forges, as an argument could be made that the foundling’s trials and tribulations had helped speed him along in his recovery, but it hardly mattered anymore. The foundling was here in the Central Citadel, not back in the North and safe among friends, but deep in the thick of things from the look of it. Binesi was never one for politics or strategies, which was why he was only a Major after so many decades of service, but he knew better than to reach beyond his station. Still, he could see that the foundling played the game well, instinctively knowing when to heed sound advice from the Imperial Servant beside him, and when to disregard her entirely and go about things in his own unique and surprisingly effective manner. Between his impressive demonstration at the opera house and his subsequent hard work winning over allies and support, the foundling had done what Benesi had thought was impossible: he’d given himself a fighting chance.

And when it came right down to it, Binesi had fought and won with less.

Hearing the foundling’s door swing open, Binesi suppressed a sigh, for he knew the time had come to march into the jaws of the enemy. Coming to his feet, he gazed upon the foundling with a critical eye, studying his Sentinel armour worn over his fashionable clothes and the fur-lined steel helmet tucked into the crook of his arm. With a sword on his hip, a shield slung over his back, and spear in hand, one might think him a soldier marching off to war instead of a young dandy attending a banquet, and for once, Binesi approved.

Right up until the she-bunny hopped into the foundling’s arms and he crooned in delight, followed by a series of sickeningly moist kissy noises punctuated with actual kisses. Disgraceful is what that was, but at least the animals weren’t coming to the banquet with them...

“I’m sorry Mama Bun,” the foundling began, cradling the over-sized rabbit like a fussy baby. “I know you’re mad about being left behind all the time, but I can’t bring you with me today. It’s a cruel, floof-shaming world out there and I have an image to uphold, so you need to tough it out and stay home, okay?”

The rabbit didn’t answer, because it was a rabbit, though it did seem mighty upset when the foundling passed her over to one of the half-rat handmaidens. “Don’t ye worry about a thing Master Rain,” she said, rocking the perturbed rabbit in her arms like a fussy baby. “We’ll take right good care of them, Sorya and I will, and Big Brother Jorani will keep us all safe.”

“Thank you.” Turning to the Hangman, the foundling nodded and said, “Remember, Junior Yimu will be in touch, so let him know if anything suspicious crops up. You got everything you need here?”

“Wouldn’t say no to a Divinity or three,” Jorani quipped, and Binesi found himself agreeing with the sentiment. Then again, if matters got so far out of hand that a Divinity needed to step in, then chances were they’d all die regardless. “But yea, unless ye changed yer mind about Siyar.”

“He has other duties to attend to tonight,” the foundling replied, and from the stilted tone of his voice, he was none too pleased at the Hangman for mentioning the man, which was curious indeed. Who was Siyar and why didn’t the foundling want Binesi hearing about him?

“Sorry bossman,” Jorani whispered, before snapping to attention. “But Anrhi’s right. Me, Ral, and the boys here’ll die before letting anything happen to yer pets, ye can count on that.”

“Don’t be stupid.” Though obviously conflicted, the foundling said, “Do what you can to get my pets out safe, but don’t die for them. If push comes to shove then... then set them free and run. Maybe they’ll escape on their own, or I can come back and get them later.”

Might as well try and drag a soul back from the Father’s Maw, but from the looks of things, the foundling knew as much and was only saying it to keep his soldiers from dying for rabbits, which was the right call. They wouldn’t even have this problem if the foundling trained his pets right, or kept to raising proper animals like horses and quins, but it was far too late for regrets.

Still, it was clear the foundling loved all his critters, and it was mildly distressing to watch him say farewell to each of them in turn, enough so that Binesi didn’t snap and hurry him along. Once finished with his pets, he said his silent farewells to his family and betrotheds, as was the way of the mountains. There was a time when navigating through the treacherous snowy passes ended in death more often than not, so wakes were held before the explorers set out so as to get it all over and done with. Then, if the explorers did return, then mere survival was worth celebrating, for it was a return from near certain death itself. Much better than clinging to fragile hopes for years without end, or worse, falling to pieces if the party returned without your loved ones. It was all about managing expectations and giving people something to hope for, because Mother knows Binesi was looking forward to reuniting with his loved ones back at the Northern Citadel as soon as this whole mess was over.

Since most of the foundling’s loved ones were still muddled with Insight, it didn’t take long to get through his goodbyes, and all too soon, he stood sloppily at attention in front of Binesi and snapped off a lacklustre salute. “Major Binesi,” he said, with a half-smile that would have any sergeant worth his salt fuming at this flagrant lack of respect, “Private Falling Rain, reporting for duty.”

It was so strange to look down at the foundling and work through all these conflicting emotions. By all rights, he should have long since succumbed to the trials and tribulations behind him, whether it be his arrogant and outrageous behaviour during the Society contests, his near suicidal attempt to kill the Butcher Yo Ling, his contemptuous showing at the Imperial Grand Conference, his protracted tour out beyond the front lines, and a thousand other steps along his Path which should have seen him stumble and fall, yet here he was, as bold and brazen as ever. The foundling was an idiot, an endless font of needless frustration who spat in the eye of conventional wisdom and survived only by the mercy of the Mother Above.

But damn if the boy’s style wasn’t starting to grow on Binesi...

“At ease, private,” he began, pushing his inner conflict aside. “You sure you want things to go down this way?”

“Don’t see any alternative.”

“The Martial Dao is endless and all-encompassing,” Binesi quoted, though he couldn’t for the life of him remember who said it first. Probably the founding demi-god Emperor, or one of his generals, the superhuman progenitors of the Five Supreme Families themselves. “There is always an alternative path.”

“Sure, but only one of those paths is the best one, and this is the best I could come up with.”

“You could leave your honour guards behind and bring twenty of the Colonel General’s Famed Fifty instead.” Cracking a half-smile of his own, Binesi joked, “I know you and yours don’t think much of Army training, but we’re still Peak Experts one and all.”

“Much as I’d like to, I can’t.” Shaking his head with a sigh, the foundling shrugged and explained, “We’ve been through this before. I don’t trust the Death Corps, but I need them. Appearances must be kept, because a lowly Imperial Consort without a Death Corps escort is no Imperial at all. Until the Legate states otherwise, I am most certainly an Imperial Scion, a fact which I intend to hammer home tonight.”

Damn if that didn’t send chills down his spine, but Binesi wasn’t sure if it was from fear or excitement. “And what about them?” Jerking his thumb at the surviving slave soldiers from Sanshu, all dressed up in standard-issue cavalry armour the Marshal procured for them, Binesi said, “You could leave them behind and bring seven Peak Experts instead.”

“True, but the banquet tonight is to celebrate the Heroes of Sinuji,” the foundling said, narrowing his eyes in challenge as he continued, “And they most certainly qualify as such. More than some people seated at the table of honour, in fact.”

The worst part was, Binesi agreed. Dastan Zhandos and his soldiers had earned their place at tonight’s banquet, even if the world would never acknowledge them as anything more than slaves. In contrast, the guest of honour and ‘commanding officer’ Mitsue Watanabe would be celebrated tonight, but everyone knew he was both a coward and a fool. A shame the craven cur found the courage to return to his posting after the Divinities dispersed, else Colonel General Nian Zu could have had the idiot drawn up on charges and summarily judged while Watanabe was absent from his post. If found guilty of dereliction of duty during a battle, the most Mitsue Juichi could have done was help Watanabe keep his dog life, but now there was no point even bringing it up, because any soldier in their right mind would have fled from a clash between Divinities.

Which said a lot about Nian Zu and his Famed Fifty considering they all stuck around to the bitter end...

