The last three spots in the foundling’s honour guard had been taken up by Bekhai warriors. The only one Binesi recognized was the scarred Bekhai trueblood, Naaran the Unyielding, a storied Martial Warrior who earned many of those scars during the battle of Shrouded Peak. There, outside the broken walls of a beleaguered Imperial fort, Naaran and a thousand Sentinels held the line against an army of fifty-thousand screaming Defiled, dancing back and forth while fighting like Demons themselves to keep the tide from engulfing Akanai and her two-thousand archers behind him. Naaran survived where so many others fell, and led the final charge himself, a heroic, near suicidal assault which broke the Enemy horde’s spirit and sent them scurrying back into the wastes. In return for his service and sacrifice, Naaran was laughed out of Central alongside Akanai, and almost died to Central Assassins before escaping back home.

The old man was an Imperial Hero and could have been a Living Legend in his own right, but after that disastrous trip to Central, Naaran the Unyielding put aside his spear and took up farming instead. Now he was back, standing alongside another potential Imperial Hero, and Binesi could only pray the old warrior kept his skills sharp after all this time.

The other two guards were veiled and unrecognizable as anyone besides being vaguely feminine, but the Bekhai did so love their mysterious ways. From what he could tell, the veiled guards were there to watch over the Medical Saint’s daughter, which baffled Binesi to the extreme. If the Medical Saint was so concerned with his daughter’s safety, then why still bring her along at all? Better to leave the half-hare behind alongside the Insight addled women and the darling half-goat children, but no matter how many times he brought it up, Sarnai and the foundling refused to listen. “Get this through your thick skull, you faint-hearted goat of a man,” Sarnai had begun, before tacking on another half-dozen insults which set Binesi’s blood to boiling. “This banquet is to honour my son’s accomplishments, and we will be there to support him. You just worry about keeping your own worthless hide intact, as there is no need for you to concern yourself with me and mine.”

Hateful woman, but Binesi knew better than to step on Sarnai’s toes. Not because he feared Baatar, but because women didn’t fight fair. Even if he was stronger than her, and he was fairly certain he wasn’t, she would not be gracious in defeat. He could easily see her raising hell about how Binesi was bullying a poor old woman and maybe even turn his sweet Asane against him. The Thorny Rose might do that regardless, stomping all over his poor bones while complaining about how men lacked chivalry and courage.

With not much time left to them, Binesi simply saluted the foundling and said, “We’ve done all we can, so let us hope it is enough. Come. I will escort you to the banquet, but I cannot accompany you inside. I’ll enter soon after as part of the Colonel General’s Honour Guard, so try not to die before I get there.”

“I’ll do my best, Major,” the foundling replied, with yet another wry smile. Turning to the side, he faced an empty area and asked, “Monk Happy, are you sure you can get in without an invitation?”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” To Binesi’s credit, he kept his nerve and didn’t flinch when the monk appeared out of thin air. There was no call for ascetic pacifists to be so damned sneaky, but he supposed it was a side effect of spending all their time tempering their mind, bodies, and spirits. Gone were the rags the monk usually wore, and in their place was a set of ceremonial robes, bright yellow silk under a vibrant red sash, with a metallic headpiece reminiscent of a rooster’s comb sitting atop his bald head. “When the Mother closes a door, She always leaves an open window,” the monk intoned, his palms pressed together in prayer while cradling an octagonal bo-staff in the crook of his arm. Odd for a peace-loving monk to carry what was clearly a Spiritual Weapon, but perhaps this Monk Happy came to the Brotherhood later in life, or maybe it was a tool for beating his fellow brothers. “And more to the point, there are few who can see through Kukku’s Concealment, so sneaking in should not be a problem at all.”

Kukku? The giant silkie chicken the foundling chased about back in Sinuji? “If the beast is so adept at Concealment,” Binesi interrupted, going over the beginnings of a new plan, “Then could we not use it to sneak in more Peak Experts?”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, such deceit, such sin.” Shaking his head with a smile, Monk Happy said, “Friend Binesi, in the Abbot’s absence, it falls upon this monk to watch over Brother Rain, which is why this monk seeks entry in such a roundabout way. Given the likelihood of bloodshed on this night, this monk is not comfortable with aiding others in similar such endeavours, unless they would be willing to swear an Oath of non-violence until tonight’s events come to a close. What’s more,” he added with a shrug, gesturing at an empty corner of the courtyard where the giant chicken was supposedly Concealed, “This monk has no say on who may or may not come with us, as the final decision lays with Kukku, and he is cautious by nature.”

Damn it all to hell. Not comfortable, what a load of dog farts. The monk’s vaunted Abbot seemed comfortable enough about doling out an ass-kicking on his wayward Brother...

Grumbling beneath his breath as he stomped out the manor, Binesi kept a careful watch on the surroundings while the foundling and his guests boarded their respective carriages, driven by three drivers who looked suspiciously like MuYang and his companions, those non-Bekhai guards who jealously watched over the foundling. There were still many secrets surrounding Falling Rain which Binesi had yet to crack, but idle curiosity aside, he didn’t have much reason to care.

Another curious matter he noted was how Du Min Gyu and his adopted grandchildren rode in the foundling’s carriage instead of taking their own, a move which was sure to have some political implications, as if betrothing his adopted grand-daughter to the foundling wasn’t message enough. Again, Binesi put this matter aside, because he was not one for politics, but even he had to admit the foundling’s golden-wood ‘Imperial’ carriages were a nice touch. Escorted by Dastan’s cavalry, forty quin-mounted Sentinel riders, and his full complement of three hundred and sixty Death Corps soldiers, their convoy made for a regal and imposing sight as they wound their way through the twisted Citadel streets, their route made all the more circuitous due to the need to account for the Guardian Turtle’s massive bulk.

Less experienced soldiers might relax this close to the goal, but Binesi knew better than to count his chickens before they were hatched. As they turned out onto the main avenue, he spotted their destination off in the distance, a massive dome which housed a sprawling complex of buildings sitting at the heart of the Citadel itself. There were eight avenues like the one they currently rode upon, all which led directly to the roundabout encircling the imposing architectural accomplishment, but pleasing as the view might be, Binesi could only shake his head in stark disappointment. They built this Citadel from the ground up, yet the Central-born fool who planned it out not only left eight wide, unobstructed avenues to the central command centre for the sake of appearances, he also failed to keep the interconnecting routes between said avenues from devolving into a twisted mess, routes Imperial soldiers would use to move through the city if the Defiled should ever breach the walls. The flat Central Plains required building fortifications in grids to form choke-points aplenty, yet these fools couldn’t even get that much right.

So wide it could easily fit eight wagons abreast, the avenue was packed with crowds of curious onlookers hoping for a glimpse into the lives of the wealthy elites. Curiously enough, a good number of them cheered as the foundling’s convoy passed by, with cries of ‘Falling Rain’, ‘Undying Savage’, ‘Imperial Consort’ and ‘Guardian Attendant’ aplenty. There were more cheers for the turtle herself, but from the sounds of things, she was probably the most popular guest at the banquet by far. Strange to see how he still had the love of the people, but Binesi never did understand why people loved cheering for a dark horse.

Aside from a handful of devout Mother-Lovers who Binesi almost mistook for assassins, and a whole host of dark glares from less important nobles who had not been invited to join in the festivities, the convoy soon arrived at their destination without incident. Breaking away from the group, Binesi retreated into Concealment and watched the foundling ascend the carpeted stairs with his family and guards, strolling into the massive banquet hall with head held high and posture utterly relaxed, as if he truly believed this banquet was being thrown in his honour. Behind him, the Guardian Turtle played her part perfectly by sticking close like a jealous lover, encircling the foundling so that anyone attacking from any angle risked striking her instead.

If Binesi didn’t know any better, he might’ve thought the foundling trained the Guardian Turtle to protect him, but he wasn’t the type. He loved his pets, every last one of them, and despite what he told his man Jorani, the foundling was unquestionably willing to die for them. Stupid, but loving someone too much was hardly a fault worth criticizing, even if said someone was an idiot rabbit.

As the foundling entered the banquet hall and moved out of Binesi’s sight, he cursed the little fool once more for not making room in his honour guard for at least one more Peak Expert. It was nerve-wracking not being able to see what was going on, but at least he could still hear. The Herald was announcing the foundling now, but no one else, not Sarnai as Baatar’s wife or Alsantset as a Major herself. The first hidden barb of the night, snubbing the foundling’s family, but he took it in stride and corrected the Herald in a polite and almost apologetic tone while also handing him a pre-written guest-list which he politely requested be read exactly as written. Good, good, the foundling expected this to happen and reacted appropriately, and while some would mock him for being so thoroughly prepared, one could hardly fault a soldier for anticipating his enemy’s moves and reacting accordingly. Still, Binesi didn’t agree with the foundling’s tone while correcting the Herald, for the man had no doubt taken a bribe to snub them. Anger would only give the foundling’s enemies reason to laugh, but act too timid and the predators would sense blood in the water and pounce. Wait, perhaps that’s what he wanted, and he was merely baiting the hook in advance, but if Binesi could see this, then those practised politicians inside could probably do the same, and the foundling knew it, so what was the point?

...This was why Binesi stayed away from politics. He hated reading into every gesture and action, or putting up with idiots he wouldn’t cross the street to piss on if someone set them ablaze.

Cracking the barest hint of a smile as the Herald announced the foundling’s family, Binesi celebrated the minor victory, but once the Herald was done, the foundling disappeared into the sea of noise clamouring from within the banquet hall. With nothing to do besides twiddle his thumbs, he counted the long seconds and waited for the Colonel General to arrive, but Central Nobles had an obsession with hierarchy and procedure, and since Nian Zu was set to arrive with the highest guest of honour, Chen Hongji, this meant they would be the very last group to enter.

Which, now that he thought about it, meant the foundling’s early arrival was yet another snub. Hmph, let these Central bastards play their childish games, Falling Rain would see his way through them, just like he turned things so neatly against that idiot opera singer, Ken-Shibu.

As the night wore on, various hotshots of the Empire arrived in staggered fashion, mostly a bunch of self-important coin-counters who had no place in a military celebration, but it was less about what one did than who one knew. More foolish games, excluding the same men and women this banquet was meant to honour and celebrate, but no decent soldier would care to rub elbows with the idiots inside anyways. Except of course for Binesi, who desperately hoped the foundling would have the decency to at least wait until the Colonel General arrived before metaphorically shitting the bed, for distant waters could not quench a nearby fire.

Finally, the stream of guests slowed down to a trickle, and it was finally the Colonel General’s turn to go in. First was Shuai Jiao, marching inside with his Disciple, Yong-Jin, at his side, a poor entourage for someone of his status, but rather fitting in terms of disposition. Central’s ‘Nian Zu’ had barely even dressed up for the occasion and arrived in plain brown robes, though these ones were made of silk rather than his usual hemp. In contrast, the soft-spoken Yong-Jin, wore much more luxurious clothes, including a colourfully embroidered yellow robe under a fine red-silk vest which bore his name on both shoulders. Though common-born, Yong-Jin certainly looked like a spoiled young master, even if he lacked the customary entitled arrogance which came with the territory, and seemed a mite uncomfortable in his voluminous trappings.

