Taken aback by the abrupt change of attitude, Daxian expression was a mixture of confusion and suspicion. “Well... Take the camp for example. It’s set up well for defence, but the horses are left vulnerable on the flanks. Better to bring them into the centre where they can be protected and controlled.”

“Hmm... Good point. What else?”

“Your sentry line is too far out and spread too thin. Better to bring them closer and let more soldiers rest.”

“The Defiled often attack at night. Advanced warning would be nice.”

“But your sentries have no means to alert you, aside from riding back and shouting. By the time the camp wakes, the Defiled will nearly be upon us and a quarter of your force too far to help.”

“Well...but.... if... ah, Fuck. You're right.” Gesturing for Daxian to take a seat, Lord Husband gave the veteran his full attention.

Accepting the invitation with satisfaction, Daxian continued, “Your soldiers sleep where they please instead of staying grouped in their assigned units, which means if we’re attacked at night, they’ll be scattered and disorganized. What’s more, their discipline is lacking, a sure sign of poor or absent leadership as any. It’s expected with so many former bandits in your employ, but there’s more to it. The Protectorate eschew all military law and do as they please. This indifference has spread to your other soldiers and their leaders have done little to arrest it.”

“Solution?”

“Replace the shirkers, starting with Jorani.” Unapologetic over stabbing his half-brother in the back, Daxian’s sneered, “He’s a drunk and layabout who has no business being in command.”

“No. Not Jorani. He doesn’t look like much, but he’s a born leader. I’ve seen it with my own eyes.”

“Perhaps he was, but not anymore. He’s a broken man, and a soldier is only as useful as his commander. Replace him, or you will regret it.”

“...I’ll sleep on it.” Their back and forth continued, and though Luo-Luo was soon lost in the technicalities of travelling formations and tactical jargon, she swelled with pride watching Lord Husband at work. Though lacking in many areas, it could only be expected considering his meteoric rise. What impressed her the most was Lord Husband’s willingness to swallow his pride and put aside their petty differences, accepting Daxian’s criticisms and suggestions without feeling personally attacked. A small matter it would seem, but Luo-Luo has seen many an Imperial Servant fall victim to pride time and time again. Seeing this, she resolved to learn from Daxian’s example and be as forthright about Lord Husband’s flaws.

And perhaps even her desires...

Chapter Meme
