Clinging to the mast for dear life, Luo-Luo clutched her cloak and wondered what crimes she could have possibly committed in her past lives to warrant such a miserable existence. Her thick, furred cloak was meagre shelter from the cold wind nipping at her cheeks, and a frightened gasp left her lungs burning as they hit a rough wave. It seemed to happen more often the further west they travelled, and Luo-Luo couldn’t fathom why no one else appeared even remotely concerned by the shuddering grunts and tortured groans of their decrepit deathtrap the sailors insisted on calling a ship.

It’s as if Luo-Luo were the only person alive still sane enough to know fear.

Take her handmaidens, Sorya and Anrhi for example, their cheeks rosy and smiles bright as they gazed out over the boundless waters. Unaffected by the frigid clime, the twin sisters were joined by Aurie and Sarankho as the four of them leaned over the railing to marvel at the quins and turtles swimming alongside. The ship swayed and lurched beneath their feet, but neither handmaiden showed the slightest hint of alarm or apprehension, though Luo-Luo’s stomach turned at the thought of losing one or both to the vast emptiness of the Azure Sea.

Oh how she envied their courageous ignorance.

Even then, their escapades paled in comparison to Lin-Lin’s, standing high above them all in the crow's nest with little more than a scarf to keep her warm. Madness is what it was, for even if Luo-Luo were a thousand times braver, she would still lack the courage to scale the frayed netting to such staggering heights while the ship rocked and rolled beneath her feet...

Trembling at the mere thought of it, Luo-Luo closed her eyes and hugged the mast even tighter. As much as she wanted to return to the warm confines of her cabin, she’d promised Lin-Lin to look after the wildcats. Rather, she promised Sorya and Anrhi would look after the wildcats, and as terrified as she was out here on deck, she’d be even more terrified locked in a room with two bored predators. At least here, there were plenty of sailors between Luo-Luo and the formidable creatures. Should they fail to protect her, then at least they could serve as distractions for the murderous felines. Though she had yet to be attacked, it seemed like it was only a matter of time before one of Lord Husband’s beasts sank its fangs into Luo-Luo’s tender, delicate flesh, and she even knew which animal it would be.

The meanest and most murderous of Lord Husband’s wildcats, Aurie.

The bears and other wildcats were content to leave Luo-Luo be, and while the bunnies and hare despised her, they were small, fragile creatures who could do no harm. Aurie, however, was relentless in his harassment, always bounding towards her with eyes wide and fangs bared. He enjoyed batting her ankles with sheathed claws and head-butting her away to say, ‘It’s no fun unless you run, prey.’

As if listening to her thoughts, Aurie turned his unblinking stare towards her, his pupils expanding at the sight her trembling frame. With a slow lick of his jowls, the creature abandoned his post at the rails and padded towards her. Shrinking back at the sight, she kept the bulky mast between them and watched Aurie’s slow approach with growing trepidation, her eyes locked on his as she tried to sink into the wooden pillar. One moment, Aurie was halfway across the deck and the next, Luo-Luo lost sight of him, only to realize the canny predator had circled around the mast to come up behind her when she felt his hot breath on her cheek. Too terrified to even breathe, Luo-Luo froze as Aurie rumbled beside her, his massive paw prodding her shoulder as he waited for her to turn and meet her grisly fate.

A high-pitched whine seeped from Luo-Luo’s lips and Aurie’s rumbling rose to match it. Closing her eyes, Luo-Luo turned away and curled into a ball, but the wildcat moved closer to rest his chin atop her head, the cruel and sadistic beast finding delight in her fear and misery.

“Tch, enough of your games, Aurie,” Anrhi said, and the wildcat’s heavy weight lifted off of Luo-Luo. “Silly kitten, can’t ye see yer scaring milady? She don’t want to cuddle, and that’s that.” Aurie yowled in response and the sound sent a shiver down Luo-Luo’s spine, but Anrhi stood firm, her voice unwavering. “Enough of yer whinging. Go on now, back to the railing with you. Get.” Hearing no growling or screaming, Luo-Luo found the courage to open her eyes and saw Aurie plodding away, his head low and tail tucked. Settling down beside her, Anrhi hugged Luo-Luo much like she hugged the mast. “It’s all right milady,” Anrhi said, her voice low and soothing. “Anrhi’s here now, ain’t nothing to be a feared of.”

With a plaintive whimper, Luo-Luo said, “He’s so horrid, always tormenting me whenever he can and Lord Husband does nothing to stop him.”

“Oh, Aurie’s a big ol’ sweetheart, he is. He jus’ came over to say hello.”

Anrhi’s tone was one usually reserved for reassuring children afraid of the dark, but Luo-Luo’s worries were all too real. Resisting the urge to snap at the foolish handmaiden, Luo-Luo instead asked, “How are you not afraid of them? They’re wild animals, liable to snap at a moment’s notice.”

Anrhi shrugged. “Same could be said of most nobles I been around, but with the bears and wildcats, a little dried meat buys ye a lotta goodwill.”

The thought of hand-feeding Lord Husband’s pets made Luo-Luo shiver in terror. “I think he hates me.”

Even Luo-Luo thought she sounded whiny, but Anrhi responded in stride. “No he don’t milady, ain’t a mean bone in Aurie’s body. He ain’t the prettiest creature around, but you’d be hard pressed to find a sweeter kitten anywhere in the Empire, I swear on Mum above I do.” After a brief hesitation, Anrhi’s voice dropped to a whisper, though still loud enough to hear over the flapping sails and howling winds. “Beggin’ me pardon fer sayin’ so milady, but if’n ye wantin’ to be closer with Master Rain, then charmin’ his pets’d be a good start. He loves them something fierce he does, I daresay much as he loves his family. It’d be something to bond over, fer sure.”

As if things were so simple. Luo-Luo might as well strive to become Lord Husband’s Martial peer for all the good this advice did. She knew what needed to be done, but she had no way to follow through with her plans. Her efforts at seduction served only to drive him into another woman’s arms and her hard work in his cast iron venture almost failed horrifically when Lord Husband tried to use it as an excuse to leave her in Nan Ping. Oh, his words were sweet enough, claiming he needed her there for the business and it was all for her safety, but Luo-Luo saw through his true thoughts. In his beautiful amber eyes, Luo-Luo’s perceived value was below even that of Tali and Tate, a grown woman who could neither defend nor care for herself. At least the children had an excuse and were learning to be useful, but Lord Husband saw all of Luo-Luo’s pursuits as frivolous and wasteful. He had yet to hear her play or watch her dance, read her poems or appreciate her paintings, because he placed no value on the fine arts. Even his expensive collection was merely a means to an end, gifts to be given or merchandise to be sold, leaving it in the wagons instead of admiring them as they should be.

In short, Lord Husband was an obtuse philistine, which severely limited Luo-Luo’s options to win him over.

Still, it was sweet of Anrhi to try, so Luo-Luo said her thanks and counted the minutes until it was time to run aground for the night. When the bells mercifully rang to alert visitors to clear the deck, Luo-Luo clambered to her feet and moved back for a better view. Scarf and furred ears flapping in the wind, Lin-Lin’s grin was wide and bright as she leaped from the crow's nest and into the open air. Even though this wasn’t the first time she’d seen this done, Luo-Luo’s heart skipped with worry, but all was well. With one hand holding the mooring line and the other cradling Blackjack, Lin-Lin drifted down like a fairy descending from the heavens, so slowly Luo-Luo feared a stiff breeze would carry the half-hare girl away. Landing with barely a sound, Lin-Lin skipped over and threw herself into Luo-Luo’s embrace, breathless not from fear but exhilaration. “Hiya,” she said, smiling so hard her eyes disappeared into two tiny crescent slits. “That was so much fun! You should come try next time instead of sitting on deck all day, ya?”

“No thank you,” Luo-Luo replied, a tad too quickly to be considered polite. “Luo-Luo is happy as she is.” In one piece rather than splattered across the deck.

“Okay, but if you wanna learn to Lighten, it’s really easy...”

While Sorya and Anrhi left to pack Luo-Luo’s things, Luo-Luo and Lin-Lin made their way below decks to Lord Husband’s cabin, only to find him surrounded by the bears and rabbits while lost in quiet meditation. Even someone as inept as Luo-Luo could feel the Heavenly Energy stirring around him. It was neither overt or overpowering, more of a minor sensation, a faint cascade of swirling emotion which made her skin prickle and ears ring, things she only noticed because of their abrupt end as Lin-Lin ran over and poked Lord Husband in the cheek. “Hiya hubby,” the sweet girl said as she picked Mama Bun up and took her place in his lap. “We’re landing soon.”

“Already?” Hugging Lin-Lin tight, Lord Husband pressed his cheek against hers and frowned. “You’re ice cold, wifey. Did you spend all day in the crow's nest again?”

“Yup,” Lin-Lin replied, beaming as Lord Husband wrapped a blanket around them and Luo-Luo bristled with envy. “It’s so refreshing up there, nice and cool with the wind in my hair.”

After gracing Luo-Luo with a polite smile, Lord Husband went back to teasing his ‘wifey’. “If you like the cold so much, then sit somewhere else and stop stealing my warmth. I was nice and cozy till you came in, and now look at me. I’m shivering.”

“Mhmm... no. Cool is nice, but warm is good too.”

While Lord Husband and Lin-Lin snuggled and chatted, Luo-Luo sat at the foot of the bed and pouted. She wasn’t forbidden from curling up beside Lord Husband, but she lacked the courage to sit so close to Aurie. Even the bunnies seemed to glare at her as she awkwardly twiddled her thumbs and waited, wishing she too could share in Lord Husband’s warmth, but alas, she was left on the outside looking in. She must not despair, and instead continue to persevere, for eventually, Lord Husband would notice Luo-Luo’s sincerity and accept her into his life.

Hopefully.

The ship creaked and shuddered as they made landfall, and Luo-Luo clung to the bed for dear life. While beset with visions of the ship coming apart around them, she watched Lord Husband spring to his feet with Lin-Lin in his arms and bear on his back, unhindered by their weight or his quaking surroundings. The ship had yet to settle but he was already out the door, and by the time Luo-Luo felt it safe enough to follow, she’d already lost sight of him in the dim confines of the ship. Moving as quickly as decorum allowed, she followed the trail of hopping bunnies out onto the beach, where Lord Husband’s soldiers set camp with practised efficiency. Weaving her way through the working soldiers and soaking wet quins emerging from the sea, Luo-Luo eventually caught up to Lord Husband in the centre of camp, where he sat tending the fire to prepare for dinner.

If word of his craft were to spread, it would see him laughed out of proper society, but Lord Husband’s meals were so deliciously delectable, Luo-Luo couldn’t bring herself to make him stop.

Not that she could if she wanted to.

After freshening up inside her yurt, Luo-Luo came out just in time to see Daxian approach. “We need to talk,” the dashing soldier said, his high cheekbones and angular face in sharp contrast to his cute, rounded rat-ears.

“We need to talk, sir,” Lord Husband corrected, without looking up from his work. Then, as if to prove his disdain, he glanced at Lin-Lin and Mama Bun instead. “I will also accept boss, bossman, Warrant Officer, Imperial Consort, chef, or President and Chief Executive Officer of the Central Cast Iron Conglomerate. I prefer you use the last one.”

Lord Husband made little effort to hide his loathing for Daxian, and neither Sorya nor Anrhi knew why. Granted they only recently learned this infamous soldier-turned-bandit was their half-brother, but they knew of his exploits. Even more curious was how Daxian also appeared ignorant as to why Lord Husband treated him so poorly, always tensing up in his presence and dispensing with civility.

A prideful man, Daxian’s neck pulsed with anger as he spoke through clenched teeth. “We need to talk, Sir. I’ve been with the retinue for three days now.”

“Congratulations. I didn’t know you could count that high.”

Another unwarranted barb and Lord Husband wasn’t even being subtle about it, but Daxian merely narrowed his eyes and said, “I am a former Major of the Imperial Army.”

“And I am a current Second Grade Warrant Officer. What’s your point?”

“What I mean to say is I have experience in a leadership role, and I urge you to make use of my expertise.”

“Noted.” Rummaging through his spice bag, Lord Husband asked, “Anything else?”

Incensed by Lord Husband’s dismissive attitude, Daxian’s handsome face had turned an ugly shade of purple. “I have no idea how you rose as high as you have. We’re going to war and your whole retinue is a mess.”

“Oh?” Finally looking up from his work, Lord Husband looked more concerned than offended. “Explain.”

Taken aback by the abrupt change of attitude, Daxian expression was a mixture of confusion and suspicion. “Well... Take the camp for example. It’s set up well for defence, but the horses are left vulnerable on the flanks. Better to bring them into the centre where they can be protected and controlled.”

“Hmm... Good point. What else?”

“Your sentry line is too far out and spread too thin. Better to bring them closer and let more soldiers rest.”

“The Defiled often attack at night. Advanced warning would be nice.”

“But your sentries have no means to alert you, aside from riding back and shouting. By the time the camp wakes, the Defiled will nearly be upon us and a quarter of your force too far to help.”

“Well...but.... if... ah, Fuck. You're right.” Gesturing for Daxian to take a seat, Lord Husband gave the veteran his full attention.

Accepting the invitation with satisfaction, Daxian continued, “Your soldiers sleep where they please instead of staying grouped in their assigned units, which means if we’re attacked at night, they’ll be scattered and disorganized. What’s more, their discipline is lacking, a sure sign of poor or absent leadership as any. It’s expected with so many former bandits in your employ, but there’s more to it. The Protectorate eschew all military law and do as they please. This indifference has spread to your other soldiers and their leaders have done little to arrest it.”

“Solution?”

“Replace the shirkers, starting with Jorani.” Unapologetic over stabbing his half-brother in the back, Daxian’s sneered, “He’s a drunk and layabout who has no business being in command.”

“No. Not Jorani. He doesn’t look like much, but he’s a born leader. I’ve seen it with my own eyes.”

“Perhaps he was, but not anymore. He’s a broken man, and a soldier is only as useful as his commander. Replace him, or you will regret it.”

“...I’ll sleep on it.” Their back and forth continued, and though Luo-Luo was soon lost in the technicalities of travelling formations and tactical jargon, she swelled with pride watching Lord Husband at work. Though lacking in many areas, it could only be expected considering his meteoric rise. What impressed her the most was Lord Husband’s willingness to swallow his pride and put aside their petty differences, accepting Daxian’s criticisms and suggestions without feeling personally attacked. A small matter it would seem, but Luo-Luo has seen many an Imperial Servant fall victim to pride time and time again. Seeing this, she resolved to learn from Daxian’s example and be as forthright about Lord Husband’s flaws.

And perhaps even her desires...

Chapter Meme
