Huffing in displeasure, Guard Leader narrows her eyes and makes a silent promise to exact her vengeance upon me once she finally wins Taduk over, and for a moment, I wonder how my teacher could possibly be so cold-hearted as to reject such a beautiful and willing woman. Then again, not everyone’s standards are as low as mine, and maybe Taduk has good reason to rebuff her advances, though I can’t really come up with any valid reasons. That being said, Guard Leader takes a step back and nods at my suggestion. “Lord is acceptable,” she begins, turning her gaze to Taduk with a smirk before adding, “Or you may call me by the name your teacher bestowed upon me, Hua Lie.”

Her name is ‘Gorgeous’? I mean, she’s not wrong, but still seems a little conceited. Then again, Mei Lin’ means ‘beautiful jade’, so really, who am I to judge?

“Tch.” Sucking his teeth in annoyance, Taduk stomps his foot down in pure frustration, more aggravated than I’ve ever seen him. That being said, knowing he’s an Ancestral Beast changes things ever so subtly, because despite his exaggerated actions, I now know just how much strength he’s actually holding back. That’s probably why he kept his heritage a secret, because he knew people would treat him differently regardless of their intentions, because even I’m wondering if he’s truly upset or just putting on a good show. Taduk deserves better than that, so I will do my best to treat him like I always have, with all the love and respect in the world. “I’ve said it before and I’ll say it a thousand times again,” my goofy teacher declares, standing tall and proud as can be. “Just because I blurted out my thoughts and called you gorgeous the first time I saw you does not mean I fell in love with you at first sight.”

...Oh that’s adorable.

Responding as if they’d had this argument a thousand times before, Hua Lie smirks and ignores Taduk’s statement while emanating an air of superiority as if she’s already won, which my teacher simply refuses to tolerate. However, since he can’t come up with anything to say to her, he turns to me and wags his finger while wearing the sternest expression I’ve ever seen him use. “And you, don’t you dare encourage her. This descendant of a disease-riddled fur-bag of a vermin is my greatest nemesis and you will treat her as such, understood? Never mind anything she does or says, all her efforts are undertaken with ill-intent.”

With the daintiest of snorts, Hua Lie retorts, “Ill-intent? Is wanting to have your child really so terrible?”

“You stupid, idiotic creature.” Offering no mercy to the woman who only just voiced her desire for him, Taduk takes hold of her white-furred rabbit ears and lifts them up, ostensibly so she can hear him better. “How many times must I tell you before you will listen? A hare cannot breed with a rabbit. They might look like similar animals, but they are different as night and day, to say nothing of the illustrious creatures that are Cloud Chaser Hares compared to flea-ridden, herb stealing Bicorn Bunnies.”

“True.” Nodding in perfect agreement, Hua Lie adds, “But I am not a rabbit, and you are not a hare, not anymore. How can we know if we can or cannot have a child if you will not even try it?”

I’m starting to understand Taduk’s refusal to accept this beautiful woman as his wife. There’s no love or affection in the way she treats him, only casual familiarity and friendliness. Add in the fact that her desire for him is rooted in her desire to have a child by him and things get really uncomfortable really fast. I mean, there’s nothing inherently wrong with her wanting a child, but to bring a baby into the world for the sake of experimentation just feels wrong. What’s more, the child of two Divinities will also be a Divinity, or so I’ve been told, which is just all sorts of terrifying. I mean, I love kids and think they’re adorable as hell, but I’ll be the first person to admit that they can be a real handful, especially after the age of two. Terrible Threes, Fearsome Fours, Ferocious Fives, and more, things only get worse as children age because they’re just so pure and innocent as babes.

Personally, one of my greatest fears is Tali and Tate becoming actual teens and developing an attitude like most kids their age. That would just be the absolute worst. Add in the powers of a Divinity and that’s just a disaster waiting to happen.

All this being said, I take a step back from Taduk and Hua Lie’s argument and sidle up to my sweet wifey instead, offering her a look of commiseration while bringing her to check on the Abbot’s health. Dropping Concealment as I approach, Kukku presses his feathery head against my chest in search of care and comfort, all the while trying to watch Rakshasa lying in the corner and simultaneously hide from the fearsome feline. Alas, Kukku is not the smartest animal around, and it appears he believes that so long as he can only barely see his foe, then that means he’s hidden, neglecting to take into account the fact that the rest of his plump, feathery body is still in plain view. Honestly, without the Abbot to keep him safe and sound, I’ve no doubt Kukku would have long since been killed and eaten by Rakshasa.

After consoling the rooster, I turn my attention briefly to the adorable panda, nestled beside the comatose Abbot and suckling his paw like a sweet, wide-eyed baby. Soothing his nerves with some Aura and head pats, I finally fix my gaze upon the Abbot and do my best not to despair, for his emaciated body looks more dead than alive than ever, for now I can see beyond his physical ailments. Though untouched by the chaotic battle, the Abbot is barely drawing breath while laying atop his straw pallet, his eyes closed and heartbeat so slow I can barely stay focused long enough to count the seconds between them. Hoping my sweet wifey might catch something I missed, I ask her to check the Abbot’s health as well, but Lin-Lin clutches her scarf close and frowns. “Why?” she asks, and I’m at a loss on how to respond, until she clarifies with, “I can’t fix him hubby, but you probably can, ya?”

She has so much faith in me, it hurts to disappoint. “How am I supposed to fix him though?”

“I dunno.” Shrugging, Lin-Lin says, “Just... fix him the same way you just fixed yourself, ya? Just do that again, but with him.”

“Except I have no idea how I fixed me, not really.” I mean, I get the basic gist of what I did, expanding my Core throughout my physical body in order to fit my oversized soul and Natal Palace inside, but that’s just a broad strokes sort of explanation that really doesn’t say much else at all. It’s like saying I built a house by putting up four walls and a roof; accurate, but not at all useful to anyone looking for advice. Wary of saying something that might inadvertently affect Lin-Lin’s Path, I struggle to come up with the right words to give voice to my frustrations. “I mean, I just sorta envisioned what I wanted, and it happened, but I don’t understand how I made it happen, you know? Even going in, I wasn’t entirely sure how to do what needed to be done, I just... closed my eyes and took it one step at a time. Insight helped me find my way to success, but I can’t exactly count on that to save the Abbot’s life, now can I? If I go in haphazardly, I might end up hurting more than helping, which means I need a plan of action before going forward from here.”

“You’re so silly, hubby.” Reaching up to give my forehead the daintiest of flicks, Lin-Lin puffs her cheeks and says, “Test time. Infusion of willow bark. What does it do?”

“You’re starting to sound like your father,” I tease, delighting in her adorable grimace. “This one is easy though. It can completely alleviate mild to moderate pain, while having a lesser effect on extreme pain. Use it for cramps, headaches, minor injuries, and the bark can even be ground up and applied topically.”

“Good.” Behaving as if she’s already made her point, Lin-Lin asks, “How does it work then?”

“Uh...” Blinking like a deer in headlights, I realize I have no answer to give her, because I don’t know. No one knows, not even Taduk. It just works, and we accept it, because it’s medicine. “Oh!” The lights finally turn on, albeit after a lengthy delay, and I get the point Lin-Lin is trying to make. “You’re saying I should treat Heavenly Energy like medicine, and just trust it to do what it’s supposed to.”

“Exactly hubby. You don’t fuss about the details when it comes to medicine. You learn what it does, when to use it, and when not to use it, as well as what to do if things go wrong.” Flashing her beautiful smile, she concludes, “So just take that philosophy, apply it to Heavenly Energy, and do your best, okay? Besides, he’s dying anyways, so it’s not like you can make things any worse, ya?”

Though the last bit would’ve been better off not said, the guardian monks seem to agree with my wifey’s sentiment, and while I still have my reservations, what else can I do but give it a try and hope for the best?

...

In case things go wrong, farewell Abbot. We hardly even knew you.

Chapter Meme
