Thankfully, Pong Pong’s subtle interference went unnoticed in the grand scheme of things and I not only survived the endeavour, I also emerged victorious. I really should take some time to go over how I won and did what I did, but not only am I tired and aching all over, I have the mother of all headaches from overusing Chi. While I can technically replenish my Chi faster than I can spend it thanks to Devouring, there is still a cost associated with using it, one that I suspect is similar to muscle fatigue, only for that theoretical metaphysical spiritual system through which we control Chi. Unfortunately, even though I know it exists, I have no idea how it’s structured or laid out much less the mechanics behind it, so I have no idea how to alleviate Chi fatigue except with time and rest, albeit with a bit of insomnia sprinkled in as an added effect.

Worst of all? Refining my body into a Spiritual Heart took up almost all my reserves of Heavenly Energy, and now it takes ridiculous amounts of Chi to Heal. Though it’s hard to gauge without any real numbers, I must’ve blown through a full three Cores worth of Chi just Healing in that short fight, and twice that Honing my Domain to pierce through Goujian’s otherwise impenetrable flesh. I have some guesses as to why Healing costs so much Chi, namely there’s more metaphysical mass to fix, which means my tried and true tactic of ‘give flesh, break bone’ is no longer efficient when taking Chi expenditure into account. Overusing Chi for long periods of time is partially responsible for how I went full crazy and developed a split personality, an experience I am not willing to go through again, so I’ll have to make some big changes to fighting style or prepare to pay the exorbitant price.

Regardless of all these issues, I have more important things to attend to besides bitching and moaning, namely the matter which Taduk finds so concerning. Releasing my sweet wifey from my warm embrace, I unwillingly part from her side and signal for her to stay back where it’s safe before leaving my weapons behind and taking a circuitous route to the corner in question. Without looking directly at my target, I use my peripheral vision to study him and wonder if I’ve made the right decision, because up close and without Concealment, tigers are kinda fucking terrifying. Then again, Rakshasa probably makes most tigers look like sweet, purring kittens, for he is the Hercules of tigers, almost as big as Moomie who is just a massive specimen of a bull. Built like a pickup truck and about as big, the formidable floof is pressed against the corner with fangs bared and hackles raised, not so much terrified as he is wary of my presence and warning me not to get any closer. Respecting his demands, I stop and turn away, not presenting my back to the ferocious predator, but not facing him directly either, all while wondering how to tame this ferocious beast.

Because let’s be honest here. I have a floof-hoarding problem. Admitting it is the first step on the road to recovery, but that’s a long and arduous journey which I am not yet prepared to make, so what harm can there be in collecting a few more beloved pets? Plus, tigers are awesome. Who doesn’t want one? Especially one who can neutralize my Aura, and various other forms of metaphysical attacks as well. Princess can kinda do this too, which is why she doesn’t love me, but Rakshasa seems to have mastered this to perfection. Apparently, he’s even immune to Kukku’s Dream Bawk, which really deserves a better name, but I’m a big fan of clarity and simplicity. Dream Bawk is short and to the point, so Dream Bawk it will be, which is already an improvement from “Dream Cock-a-doodle-doo”. More to the point, the tiger isn’t exactly evil, not in the grand scheme of things, he just has a taste for human flesh and would love to expand his palate and learn what Kukku and Tai Shan taste like as well. I mean, Rakshasa is a tiger, so I can’t really blame him for wanting to eat meat, but he’s gotta learn that friends are not food.

Maybe he’ll enjoy a diet of fish. Or pigs. Or half-pigs. There’s way too many of those last ones running around for my liking, so I might as well cull the population a bit and put them to good use...

Pettiness aside, I noticed that when the Divinities all stepped aside, Vyakhya left Rakshasa here to keep Kukku from putting all the Chosen and Wraiths to sleep, but the traitor didn’t know I could see exactly where the big tiger was hiding. A born hunter, Rakshasa instantly noticed my attention and froze in place, continuing to emit his bone-shaking growl while inwardly deliberating between flight and fight as I traded blows with the Confessor. There was also a third option, which was to ignore me and go straight for Tai Shan and Kukku, who were cowering in the corner with the Abbot’s comatose body under a hefty cloak of Concealment even I could barely pierce through. How Rakshasa found them so quickly is a mystery to be sure, but something kept him in place while I fought with the Confessor, and as my luck would have it, no one thought to bring Rakshasa with them during their haste to escape.

Poor, abandoned kitty. It’s okay though. You can come live with me, yea? Never mind that I used my Domain to keep Vyakhya’s Sendings from reaching you, Sendings that were probably giving you commands to escape, or how you’re only still here because you’re worried I’ll come over there and stab you. I bet that wrinkly monk doesn’t take good care of you anyways, just look at how filthy your coat is, all covered in mud, sand, and blood like that. Life will be much better with me, I promise you that. We’ll get you out of the heat and into a nice, comfortable bath, then I’ll break out the brushy brushy until your fur shines in the sunlight. How’s that sound?

Emanating all these emotions and more, I try to get in touch with Rakshasa and show him I mean no harm, but the tiger isn’t having any of it. As his growls increase in both volume and pitch, I realize all too late that my Aura isn’t getting through to him because he’s treating it like an attack and blocking it alongside everything else, which means I’ll need to make friends with the tiger without my greatest tool of all. The last time I tried something like this without Aura, I almost got killed by a Spiritual Snake, but a lot has changed since then. Mostly, I’m older now, and taller too, with more meat on my bones that makes me a tastier target, but nothing ventured, nothing gained.

Luckily, I know exactly how to speak to animals, and felines in particular. “Here kitty, kitty, kitty,” I purr, patting the ground beside me. “PsPsPsPs.”

As Rakshasa’s furry expression twists in frenzied rage and savage violence, I realize I’ve made a huge mistake. Launching himself towards me with feline grace, the majestic tiger is a sight to behold as my life flashes before my eyes, the scenes overlaid atop visions of Rakshasa’s gaping maw and extended, dagger-like claws. Instead of crashing into me like a wall of teeth and muscle however, the tiger skids across the stone floor as his expression takes on a tone of almost comical disbelief. Turning his upper body away even as his feet slide towards me, Rakshasa scrambles in place for all of a second before bolting back to his corner even faster than he left it, but it’s already too late, for Emperor Pong has taken action and his Excellency is not pleased. Eyes wide with stark terror, Rakshasa hunches in place while staring at the turtle sat upon his snout, trembling from head to toe in acknowledgement of the powerful predator before him. No longer growling, the poor, pitiful tiger emits a plaintive, pleading groan, and my heart aches to hear it despite having just almost been killed by the same beast. What can I say, I’m a sucker for a cute face, and despite his obvious ferocity, Rakshasa is absolutely adorable, a chonker of a tiger with the biggest, saddest eyes I’ve ever seen.

Having suitably cowed the ferocious feline, Pong Pong cranes his neck towards me and lifts his head in smug satisfaction, as if to say, “I’m still stronger than you.” His point made, he turns back to Rakshasa and marches up the tiger’s snout before planting himself comfortably atop the furry, comfy head with an audible, squeaky sigh, the majestic Emperor of Turtles seated atop his feline mount.

Haha, you are captured, stupid beast!

Tentatively extending my Aura towards Rakshasa, I offer my sympathies and try to tell him that things won’t be all bad, and this time, my message gets through. The tiger isn’t having any of it however, and offers no reaction besides a sideways, distrustful glance before going cross-eyed in a futile attempt to keep tabs on Pong Pong. Unable to resist any longer, I shuffle closer and reach a hand out to pet him, only to realize I’ve somehow summoned Unity back in hand, probably during that chaotic moment when he launched himself at me and I panicked. Peace and Tranquility are also here, the shield in hand and sword sitting in its mounted sheath, all of which appeared with little more than a thought. How I managed this is a mystery to me, one which again bears more study, but aside from knowing it’s not telekinesis and more of an attractive force between myself and my weapons, I’ve nothing else to go on. It’s got something to do with Guiding, and it’s almost like I can create a magnetic field that attracts only my Spiritual Weapons, but the inner workings behind it are beyond my understanding, for now at least.

Putting my weapons aside yet again, I finally pet the tiger and find his fur as pleasant as expected, soft and silky with more than a hint of durability, without impacting the sheer comfort. “Hello Rakky,” I croon, and the tiger’s ears flick at the sound of his truncated name as he regards me with wary curiosity. “We’re gonna be the best of friends, just you watch.”

Ignoring my teacher’s sigh, I flash Lin-Lin an impish smile and beckon her over to pet the tiger, which she does with guileless glee. Though Rakshasa is still terrified of Pong Pong, he accepts our attentions with casual indifference, though after a minute of soft, tender ministrations, he lowers his head and leans into Lin-Lin’s touch, so she no longer has to stand on tippy toes to massage his cheeks. Eager to meet a new friend, Ping Ping runs a few circuits around Rakshasa while emitting squeaks of delight, until the tiger lifts a paw and sets it down atop her shell as if annoyed by all the movement. Shaking him off without any visible effort, the sweet girl squeaks some more but remains standing in place, until Rakshasa accepts his new place in life and lies down at Pong Pong’s behest, allowing Ping Ping to finally snuggle up underneath his chin.

See, there are no evil floofs, not really. Even if Rakshasa technically means ‘man-eater’, it’s not like he was killing for fun. He just thinks people are tasty, which I can’t really hold against him. I mean, Zabu is known to eat the odd person every now and then, though he limits his meals to people trying to kill him, so as long as I teach Rakshasa this same level of restraint, everything will be perfectly fine and we’ll all live happily ever after.

Unless he eats one of my rabbits or laughing birds. If that happens, I will turn him into a rug so fast he won’t even know what hit him.

Emitting another groan at my inadvertent Aural warning, the tiger huffs in protest, but his desired effect is ruined by the sight of Ping Ping rubbing her face in his chin floof. Patting his head in commiseration, I note that my Aura seems a little too easy to use now that I’ve got a Spiritual Heart, with emotions spilling out without even thinking. Something to figure out later, but for now, I back away without turning around, as I feel it is still unwise to present my back to Rakshasa. Even the wildcats took a while to train that habit out of them, as the instinct to pounce upon a helpless target is just too strong to easily overcome, so it’ll be awhile before I’m wholly comfortable with Rakshasa. That being said, there’s no way I’m not gonna at least try to be friends first, because... well, because tiger.

Bringing Lin-Lin back to Taduk, I turn to Guard Leader and take in her nubby horns and gorgeous face before offering a clasped-fist salute while bowing at the waist. “Um,” I begin, wishing I’d kept my mouth shut until I decided what to say. “So... err... I don’t know how to address you anymore. Teacher says you’re not married, but I can see there’s something between you two, and I don’t want to offend.”

“Good child.”

Patting my head ever so lightly, Guard Leader smiles and simpers even as Taduk harrumphs and crosses his arms. “No need to be so polite, Rain my boy. There’s no relationship between us, and there never has been. She is not my wife, nor is she Lin-Lin’s mother, so treat her as you always have, like the idiot she is.”

“I will be your teacher’s wife eventually,” Guard Leader declares, bold as can be, and there’s nothing Taduk can say in response. “So there’s no harm in calling me ‘Mother-in-Law’ or ‘Teacher’s Wife’ in preparation for this day.”

Even though the latter sounds better in Common given how it’s an actual term of address, I still can’t bring myself to stop translating everything in my head. That being said, Taduk looks like he’d actually be offended if I called Guard Leader ‘Mother-in-Law’, and Lin-Lin doesn’t seem all that comfortable with it either, so I aim for the middle ground and say, “How about I call you Lord instead, assuming Vyakhya was right and you are the Territory Lord of the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains.”

