Body aching from head to toe and mind throbbing with every beat of my pounding heart, I stand over Goujian’s headless corpse and relish the sweet taste of victory.

For all of a single, infinitesimal fraction of a moment, until the Heavens step in to say, “Fuck you in particular.”

Reality ripples and my stomach threatens to empty itself, a visceral response to this glaring violation of natural law taking place before my eyes, a transgression which taints the very air inside the Abbot’s tranquil abode. The weight of the world bears down on me as the Confessor’s headless, herculean body convulses to the rhythm of his pulsing, palpitating heart. The beat swells in both cadence and volume until it threatens to overwhelm the senses, and it is all that I can do to retrieve my sword from the corpse and retreat from this monstrous manifestation, as thousands upon thousands of severed slivers of souls slip their chains and emerge from within the Confessor’s repressed psyche. A black, writhing mass of despair and dysfunction, many of these Spectres were birthed by the Confessor himself, his constant inner turmoil over decades of fiendish existence an ideal breeding ground for these tortured, half-living remnants of humanity, but their numbers pale in comparison to the grudges born from the countless victims he tortured and killed. Creations of wrath, resentment, rage, and hatred, these Spectres spring forth to consume most of the Confessor’s soul before it can pass on into the afterlife, leaving only a tortured remnant behind in order to chain him to this unholy existence so that they might use his physical form to experience the vicissitudes of life once more.

Or so the Spectres believe, and if there was only one, singular Spectre in the mix, it might even work, but with so many hands fighting to steer the ship, the end result can only be described as a godless abomination.

The Confessor’s body writhes and pulsates in a way that has nothing to do with physical movement, reality as we know it warping as millions of fractured Intents vie for ultimate domination, all of which transpires in the blink of an eye. Rather than one Spectre emerging victorious, the end result is a vile and corrupt amalgamation of something that resembles a soul, yet is still wholly lacking in almost every way. This is the worst that humanity has to offer made manifest in reality, a profane creature that is anathema to life itself, for it lacks that true spark that we humans and animals hold within ourselves that separates us from other living things like plants and microbes.

Quite simply, this aberration lacks a true soul, and for this reason alone, it will hate anyone and everyone who does have one.

Worst of all, I can feel its hatred rolling off of it in waves, an inborn contempt which overshadows anything I could consciously muster, but not without motive. Having been denied what it desires the most, this abomination seeks to consume life and form a true soul, or failing this, destroy all instances of that which they cannot have. Driven by lingering animosity severed from countless human souls and cast out into the Void, this is a calamity of our own devising, but philosophical musings will have to wait as this War of Spectres culminates in an inevitably Pyrrhic victory and the Demon emerges from within the Confessor’s flesh. His severed limbs reform in the blink of an eye as his flowing Runic robes adhere to his pale, pasty flesh as blood seeps out of his pores to stain cloth and skin a vivid, visceral scarlet hue. Rising to its feet like a vampire rising from the coffin, the Demon strikes a stance reminiscent of a Brotherhood monk, with palms pressed together and neck bent as if his missing head was lowered in prayer. All around us, the bodies of fallen Chosen and slain Wraiths melt into piles of black sludge, writhes and wriggling as it courses towards the Confessor, seemingly possessed of a mind of its own as the piles merge with the Demon’s body. The nightmarish ooze ripples and swells to form eight, obsidian limbs over-top the Demon’s torso, each one so dark they seem to drink in the light itself. Four long, massive arms emerge from his back, two angled under his human arms while the other two arc over, fitting themselves perfectly so as not to get in each others way. At the same time, four nightmarish legs emerge from its waist, arranged in a crab-like formation horizontally around his hips. Each limb is so massively oversized they dwarf his herculean figure, and yet even then, his transformation is not yet done. Two massive hooked swords emerge from his topmost hands, weapons reminiscent of the one he used in life, only these ones are longer than his towering, transformed body is tall. Cast in the same ebony shade as his extraneous limbs, the weapons emanate a black, nightmarish light, one which wriggles and writhes about the blades as if possessed of a life of its own, the stuff of death and suffering made real analogous to a poison of the soul and mind.

Finally, three burgeoning masses burst out of the Demon’s neck, each one taking the shape of the Confessor’s missing head, their expressions distorting and contorting as it struggles to decide on what appearance to take. When the struggle subsides, each head displays Goujian’s face in life only in a twisted caricature of emotion. Rage, despair, fear, and agony, his faces flash though these and a thousand more expressions, only for the heads to collapse in on themselves before splitting into three again, all pressed together cheek to cheek to form one red and black head with six eyes, three noses, three mouths, but only two ears on a skull wider than the norm. The left face of wrath, the right face of despair, and the central face impassive with eyes closed in quiet contemplation, the end result is a Demon that almost seems holy if depicted in a colourless sketch, yet would never be mistaken as anything but evil when seen in real life.

And so, here stands the Bloody Confessor, in all his unholy abnormality.

In an effort to stop this depraved transformation, I deploy my Domain and attempt to reject this existence from reality, to cut off Goujian’s corpse and the Spectres within from accessing the Energy of the Heavens, but the creature’s Domain proves inviolable to my actions. Even Honed Domain is of no use here, despite having worked so well to help sever the Confessor’s still living flesh and secure my victory, leaving me with nothing to do but stand and watch as this Demon’s transformation completes. The left and right faces blink as they come into focus for the first time, only to immediately dart towards me in a mixture of fear and rage, emotions which wash over me and leave me in dire need of a deep cleansing scrub. Microseconds later, the central face’s closed eyes snap open and emanate a piercing beam of blood-red light, twin lasers which hit me with the force of a thousand hammers. The world blurs by only to stop all too quickly as I smash into the stone wall for the second time today, and long seconds pass before I’m back on my feet. Long seconds pass before I find my bearings again, only to discover the Guardian monks peering curiously at me and the Demon and Defiled nowhere in sight, fleeing as quickly as they arrived without any warning.

Because having things wrapped up nice and neat was too much to ask for. Got it.

Glancing at the four, formidable guardian monks, who are merely standing around with looks of concern, I stifle the urge to criticize them for letting the Enemy flee unhindered, but I suppose some of my frustration must have shown on my face. “Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo,” the oldest looking monk intones, offering me a slight bow with one hand raised in prayer. “This monk and his three brothers were entrusted to defend the Brotherhood from external threats, to do what our brothers can and will not. Though we are not constrained by the Noble Eight-Fold Path, we do our best to adhere to it whenever possible, for sin only begets sin. Their spirits are broken and thus our foes have fled, both from here and the monastery proper, so this monk saw no reason to pursue and continue the bloodshed.”

“Sin begets sin.” Trying something new and exciting, I think before I speak and try to see things from the monk’s perspective, but in the end, I cannot agree with his decision. “But half-measures benefit no one. How many people will those Chosen Peak Experts and Half-Step Divinity Wraiths kill now that they’ve escaped unharmed? What of the Demon Confessor? Better to remove them from the board now, so that they can cause no more harm in the future.”

“A view which is only Right if those Chosen and Wraiths are beyond redemption,” the elderly monk replies, and there’s nothing I can do but sigh before his boundless optimism. At least he didn’t say anything about the Demon, who I know is beyond saving. I managed to free Bei’s soul from the grips of her captors, but she died all the same, so what was the point?

“Is it worth it?” I ask, not to question his beliefs, but because I truly want to know. “How many Defiled can you save, and how can you ignore the cost in lives when seeing how much pain and destruction they create?”

“The Confessor was famed for his severe measures,” the monk replies. “Better to kill a thousand innocents than suffer a single Defiled to live, such was his mantra. This monk believes the reverse, that it is better to spare a thousand Defiled than kill one who can be redeemed. As for the cost, you act as if the Defiled are the only ones who kill, maim, and torture their own kind, overlooking the atrocities committed by those born and raised in the Empire proper. You ask how I can ignore the cost in lives? This one is but a humble monk, and thus can only take responsibility for his own actions. What others do is up to them, so this monk can only hold true to his Path.” Sensing we’re at an impasse, the monk smiles and dips his head in quasi-apology, a sorry-but-not sorry sort of thing, and we both agree to disagree on the matter for now as Taduk, Lin-Lin, and the rest return to check on our status and I have more pressing matters to attend to.

Like hugging my sweet, adorable, shockingly powerful little wifey.

There are so many questions I want to ask, so many mysteries to unravel, but as I lift her into my arms and spin her about, all my curiosity melts away and is replaced by love and affection. Her loving gaze and cherubic smile set my heart at ease as I touch my nose to hers, our foreheads pressed together in quiet contentment as we bask in our boundless, mutual love. She’s worried I’ll ask questions and doesn’t know how she will respond, but if she’s that concerned, then I am more than willing to wait. This is my sweet wifey after all, the woman I love and intend to cherish for the rest of my life, and perhaps even beyond that if possible. Who am I to begrudge her a few secrets, especially considering how many I have of my own? “Love you, wifey,” I whisper, for once, getting the first word in as Lin-Lin struggles with what to say, and seeing her delighted expression is worth more than all the riches in the world.

“Love you more, hubby.”

And that’s all we need to say. Whatever Lin-Lin’s secrets might have, she keeps them for a reason, so I will not press her for answers just yet. She’ll tell me when she’s ready to tell me, and not a moment sooner, so I hold her close a little longer until Taduk clears his throat to break the silence. Cheeks burning from embarrassment at having forgotten about our audience, I put Lin-Lin down as Taduk points at the corner and asks, “Wonderful victory and all, Rain my boy, but what do you intend to do with him? Surely you aren’t going to...”

As if afraid to give voice to the issue and will the matter into existence, Taduk trails off before completing the thought, but I’m afraid I’ll have to disappoint my silly Teacher today. “Yes,” I reply, trying to sound both firm and respectful at the same time, but to my ears, it sounds like I’m asking for permission instead. “I do, and nothing will change my mind.” Unless, you know, Taduk or Lin-Lin tells me not to. It’s almost impossible to say no to either of them, for no other reason than because I love them so and do not want to disappoint them.

Nestled in my hair, Pong Pong notices what we’re talking about and radiates disapproval, but he’s a grumpy goose who’s even more anti-social than I am, so his opinion is invalid. That being said, he’s a real homie who stuck around even when things got bad, and I’m pretty sure I would’ve died to Goujian without his help. Even though Pong Pong never revealed his presence, he lent me a hand when I was stuck on the back foot and getting pounded into oblivion, using Deflection to draw all of Goujian’s attacks to my upraised shield and somehow blunting the impact of his blows by spreading the force to the air and stone around me. A subtle working of Chi that I don’t entirely understand, but there’s no denying his efforts, or the touch of his curious Aura of concern and consideration asking if he should intervene while I was getting my ass handed to me. The little guy is really smart and knows to keep his head down, but I didn’t know he was smart enough to understand I didn’t want him interfering at all. If he did take action and was noticed doing so, then it could be construed as breaking the Treaty, seeing how he is a Divinity-level existence after all. Granted, he never signed anything and the Treaty is worth less than the paper it’s written on, assuming it’s even a written agreement, but if an all-out battle between Divinities were to break out here in the Arid Wastes, then the Brotherhood would have had to bear the costs, an outcome I was not prepared to accept.

