Liz leaned forward, letting phoenix Liz hop off her shoulder and eye everyone. “Is there anyone who doesn't want to go?”

To everyone's surprise, Rah raised a finger.

“You don’t want to go?”

Rah shook his head. “I have only guesses as to what this is and haven’t been able to look it up. My [AI] can’t connect to the network.”

Matt winced as the rest of them had gotten tied into the Corporations space station when they visited it the first time and no one had thought to check in on Rah.

Allie grabbed Max to help tie Rah in while Liz explained exploration. “These are worlds that have possibly never been explored before. That means a planet full of Natural Treasures. Untouched rifts. Ruins. And last but not least, weird shit. When we told you that pretty much everything in Minkalla was replicable outside, a lot of that stuff comes from explored, but unsettled, planets.”

Rah’s interest was visible and he nodded. “Ah, then my assumption that it's like exploring passing worlds is correct. I’ve done this several times when I was in the teen Tiers. I’m willing to join you all if you will have me.”

Phoenix Liz bobbed up and down in excitement that Matt couldn’t help but mirror.

Leaning forward, Allie said, “Okay let's make a list then. What do we need?”

They spent the next several minutes going through a list of things they thought they might need but generally the list was fairly short.

They already delved for extended periods of time while advancing, and beyond the ship, exploration wasn’t that much different.

The ship, however, was going to be their problem.

Lila had actually gifted each team a ship when the war ended, but those were only made for the first layer of chaotic space, which left them in a lurch given they wanted to enter the bubble of layer two space that would be entering the first layer. That process might make the chaotic forces of the second layer a little weaker, but unless they wanted to wait for the energies to dissipate they needed to arrive first, not after things had settled down.

Aster finally leaned forward so she could see Lila, who she threw a snowball at.

As the snow melted down her hide, Lila craned her head back so she could see their table. “What?!?”

Aster batted her eyes and twitched her ears. “Can we have a layer two-capable ship? Please and thank you.”

Instead of rejecting them, Lila hummed. The sound made the entire room rattle slightly and Matt worried about the structural integrity of the space station. Rattling was awful for structures.

Lila finally nodded. “I can loan you one, but I want ten percent of whatever you guys get, goods not value. Oh, and I want you to look out for my exploration team while you guys are out there. I intend to deploy them as a group to mass sweep a region, but I won’t be there to watch out for them. Therefore, you need to help them if someone else tries to put pressure on them.”

Matt figured it would be an easy request, as who would be dumb enough to anger Lila, but her next words were growled out. “Careful out there. Fellow Empire exploration teams give us our largest percentage of casualties. Best to think of this like Minkalla but with less restrictions. Watch your backs or you might find a blade in it.”

Huddling back up, they agreed but negotiated the price down from ten percent to seven percent and with the requirement that it had to be a good ship.

Gideon tried to sell them and Aiden’s groups on ships he had brought with them, but one of Aiden’s friends had their own exploration ship capable of going into the second layer. Plus, Liz was still angry enough she refused to give the duo of Monster Collective Ascenders even a single Natural Treasure and would rather pay Lila more simply to not give Eclavorn anything.

Matt kept out of the argument, but it did make him feel great when the others didn’t even hesitate to lose an additional three percent. Even Rah, who was the newest addition to their little circle of friends.

Lila’s grin was fiendish as she sealed the deal. “Fantastic. Do collect a lot. My old ship has plenty of specialized cargo capacity and I expect you to use it.”
