The second layer was where cultivators between Tier 20 and Tier 30 ventured. Far more dangerous, but far more lucrative. The higher energy of the storm brought in new tides of high-Tier worlds and even saturated the worlds it passed over with all kinds of fantastic anomalies. The ‘strange realms’ it produced were the most noteworthy, places which could operate on fundamentally different rules than most of reality, with corresponding new and unique Natural Treasures formed. Totally unexploited.

It also twisted the already dangerous nature of Chaotic Space into something far deadlier. A normal chaotic space ship would find itself severely stressed if it found its way into the outer edges of a chaotic space storm, but they could be expected to survive. However if that same ship somehow managed to get swept into the second layer, it would last minutes at best in a relatively calm area before its shields were torn through and hours at best before the enchantments gave way and the entire ship was turned into a few exotic forms of spiritual dust.

The higher-dimensional nature of Chaotic Space was whipped into a ludicrous frenzy, making even the best spiritual perceptions incapable of perceiving anything beyond a few hundred miles away. Finding anything required highly specialized skills, an applicable Talent, appropriate Domain, or simply ludicrous levels of luck.

The third layer was even harder to quantify. In part, because it was hard enough to reach.

Tier 30s through 40s exploration teams certainly tried to push past the second layer, trying to find the treasures that the less explored worlds brought with them, but it was a delicate balance. Navigating the second layer deep enough to even get a chance to go deeper was already challenging enough, but the danger of the third layer's average energy levels spiked and spiked hard.

Even a single mistake could cost a Tier 40 exploration team their lives.

It was simply the strange realms, Natural Treasures, and even cracked skills which were occasionally brought back were too valuable and useful.

Lila had described it as a target every explorer shot for. Everything exploration before that was only preparation for the journeys into the third layer. The ultimate treasure trove.

Even Lila, who had been to the third layer a handful of times, said the experience was never the same. The third layer was too big to ever hope to encounter the same thing twice.

The fourth layer was more a myth than a real place, with it being said only Tier 50s with specialized Tier 48 equipment had any chance of surviving inside for short periods of time, let alone long distance travel through the strongest of the Realm’s chaotic energies.

Few, if any, Tier 50s dared to explore such depths, as the danger to themselves wasn’t zero, which might force them to Ascend. When combined with the distance, which could take even a Tier 50 hundreds of years to cross, it became even more risky. If someone attacked their Great Power, they wouldn’t be able to react except in retribution. Which is what happened to the eponymous Rasdale when the Republic Tier 50 spent far too long trying, and failing, to find the source of the breach that would end up named after him.

It still happened— Tier 50s occasionally did explore the fourth layer of chaotic space— but it was rare for them to go into chaotic space at all. The last joint venture into chaotic space Matt knew of was when Georgios went with the Guilds’ former Tier 50 and they dragged a higher-Tier world back for the Guilds expansion effort. As far as Matt understood, they had only gone halfway into the first layer to do so.

A tidal breach was a great opportunity, as it signified an eddy of a deeper layer flowing inwards thanks to the random collision of turbulent energies. If a swirl in the second layer was strong enough, it was possible it could enter the first layer. Along with its stronger energies being tempered by entering the less energetic zones making it safer over all, the tidal breaches generally carried with them higher-Tier worlds that were rare finds in a lower layer.

It was a proverbial gold rush for cultivators of every kind, but explorers most of all.

However, if Gideon was correct, and it was a breach that had come all the way from the third layer, Matt fully understood why two Great Powers who hated each other were willing to put aside their differences and end the war before its true conclusion, so the other Great Powers couldn’t exploit the tidal breach more than them.

Matt’s attention then went to Maya and On The Last Line, who were in a war that had just started. There was a chance they would be allowed to exit the war while the Great Powers focused on the tidal breach, but it was also possible their respective Great Powers would feel forced to continue what they started.

Lila immediately stood to her full dragon size, her wings flaring slightly. “What is the latest telemetry? Send me everything you have.”

Gideon grinned. “There is time. The first to report the phenomenon were Talented Seekers and they are the most inaccurate. As I said, the general optimal approach is still five years out at the earliest. Just enough time for everyone to go home and get ready to meet the breach right as it enters the first layers in a few more decades. As it will cut through a fairly large portion of the first layer, we expect to be able to explore for about one to two hundred years before it either dissipates, and the worlds enter the first layer circulation, or the breach passes back through to the second layer and most will have to retreat.”

Eclavorn snaked his head around so he could get a better look at Lila and the other retired Ascenders. “You are welcome to come with us. We leave in two weeks.”

Lila snorted her derision at the idea of sharing. “I’m leaving immediately. If I leave now, I can beat the rush to enter and hopefully find anything from the third layer that has entered the second. I’ll send my guild to exploit the breach.”

Eclavorn looked forlorn, but Sien smiled. It was a sweet and innocent gesture that shouldn’t have ever existed on a woman as ruthless as her.

“Ah, yet I must present a superior proposition. The third layer holds such boundless potential… we ought to venture into it as a group. Those of us who have retired from the battlefield all have so much expertise to offer. And the potential for such wonderful competition in these opportune times, finding a treasure unlike any other.”

Her words caught everyone off guard, but none more than those who bet against her. The various brought-along friends, all peak or pinnacle elites in their own rights, looked on with great interest, wondering if there truly was an even greater surprise and Sien basked in their scrutiny.

Once Sien saw she had everyone's attention, she smiled. It shouldn't have looked sinister but it did. On anyone else, it would be a slightly cold but welcoming expression. But on Sien, Matt couldn’t help but see a spider grinning at the struggles of a fly in its web.

Seeing she didn’t say anything, Eclavorn snorted. “What do you know that we don’t?”

Sien’s smile turned devilish as she tapped the paper she had written on earlier. “Now is a wonderful time to settle our earlier bet. It was a good attempt, but my news is far more interesting.”

When Sien didn’t move to reveal the information on the card, Gideon reached forward and carefully plucked the protective membrane surrounding the card, causing it to snap.

With a rush, everyone brought their spiritual perceptions over to read the card.

The entire audience, Ascenders included, froze as they processed the message.

Sien had written three characters in the most common Sects dialect. ‘Tier 50’, ‘fourth’, and a character that meant ‘departed in the night’.

Putting things together wasn’t hard for any of them and Sien soaked in the attention, giggling quietly in a way that somehow remained elegant.

Liz leaned forward. “How accurate is that? What is your source?”

Sien beamed as she nodded at Liz. “Thank you darling, that is the question we should be asking. First, let’s settle our most recent bets.”

Oliver spluttered. “Hold on now. We need some proof your information is real. I agree with Liz, what's the source? I’m not paying up for a false rumor.”

Sien’s smile grew predatory. “The nightmares of the mightiest are oft the most realized. And I as a master weaver can take a peek whenever I so desire.”

Matt didn't buy that for a second, but Sien continued before anyone could call her out.

“Yet, I can assure you that all of them have departed. With a week of travel and the speeds which they are capable of traveling, they are… oh, perhaps a quarter of the way to the second layer? I presume that something particularly delectable has drifted into the third layer, and from the dreams I taste on them…” Sien hissed slightly, “Yes. I daresay there are goodies out there just waiting for us to claim them.”

At the small flinches from both Gideon and Eclavorn, the timeline seemed to be confirmed, which made Matt consider if Sien really did have a way to spy on the Tier 50s. It should be impossible, but she was known as the Lady of Ill Dreams for a reason. More likely, she could have figured out a way to spy on someone close to, but weaker than, a Tier 50 who might have a bad dream about their pillar of support leaving so suddenly.

That seemed a lot more plausible and seemingly the answer the others came to as Maya said the same thing a moment later, trying to get Sien to admit she was overselling her abilities.

Sien seemed unbothered by the accusation. “I’m willing to act on the information, which should say enough. No matter my source, my news is more interesting than Gideon and Eclavorn’s. Pay up. Then agree to my proposal so we can start planning what we need for such an expedition.”

Everyone who had bet on Gideon immediately tossed storage rings onto the floor, and people grabbed what they wanted out of the pile.

Matt, Liz, and Aster ended up winning a Tier 33 essence separator, which they would have loved to keep but instead they traded it back to Oliver for a dozen Tier 30 potions that would double their speed for ten minutes. In total value they had been ripped off, but the combat-applicable potions would be far more valuable in any kind of expedition, let alone an expedition as popular as this one was shaping up to be.

Once the bets were paid out, Lila started to shift her weight back and forth, nearly bouncing on her feet, before she said, “Okay. First, if we want to go to the third layer of chaotic space, I need to get my exploration ship moving to meet up with us. Unless one of you were holding out on me, it's the only ship capable of long-term suspension in the third layer, let alone a breach from a fourth. I—”

Matt stopped paying attention as Allie moved to a nearby table.

Their small group of seven quickly sat down, only to be copied by Aiden, who took the nearest table with his own friends.

Aster poked the water mage over the seatback. “Are you even able to safely delve right now?”

Aiden snorted. “Not even a little. It will be a blast. We’ll go in under cover. Might join up with the other two and their people to make a Tier 35 group so we can fight for bigger prizes, but that’s up to them and if they can leave at all.”

Remembering how bad Aiden’s condition actually was, Matt was glad they were in top combat shape and so wouldn’t have to do anything like hide their identities in the exploration. They had done that once in Minkalla, and that had been more than enough.

While there weren't any rules about punching down in chaotic space, there was a general understanding between explorers. Mainly, it boiled down to keeping in one’s general Tier bracket. A Tier 20 shouldn’t enter a Tier 30 world unless they could accept being killed out of hand, the same way they should avoid taking everything good from a Tier 10 world if there were Tier 15 teams who might explore it.

While cross-Tier killings did happen, any killings that were egregious or unwarranted got the slain person’s backing looking for vengeance. And Ascenders were the most sacrosanct of all, with Tier 50s more than willing to kill anyone involved in a punching down death.

The second understanding was to help others who were stranded. If rescue was invoked or needed, one generally paid with quite literally everything they had with the exception of their growth items. But no one wanted to get stranded on a world for possibly ever if the chaotic winds took them away from settled space instead of towards it.

Maya snorted as she and the four Clans Ascenders joined Aiden at his table, having not brought their friends to the meeting as they had not come in person themselves. “Not a chance we let you join us.”

Moe sighed. “If we can even go. We’ve already asked our respective Tier 50 clones but no answer yet.”

Aiden rolled his eyes as if Moe had said something stupid. “They won’t say no. They can’t afford to. I bet they are just trying to work out an armistice and don’t want them to acknowledge their Ascender will be leaving the battlefield. If I’m wrong, that's almost funnier. Wanna bet about it?”

Matt ignored the budding argument and turned to his group.

There were only seven of them and Rah was technically only Tier 27, although he could probably Tier up given a little more time, but they would be an overwhelming force. Less so if they pushed into any Tier 30 areas, but they would still be a strong team even in that Tier bracket.

That didn’t mean they were safe. There were always things that could go wrong in exploration, but if they were going to go into such a dangerous area, these were the people Matt wanted to do it with.

