Having only just been taught a costly lesson about overestimating my own abilities, I scan through the notable combatants of Shi Bei in search of an appropriate target. It’s been a long time since I dusted off the old Honed Aura, so it can’t hurt to take it slow and reacquaint myself with its usage before getting ahead of myself. Way back when I first learned how to Hone my Aura, I remember testing it against Akanai and barely making her blink even though I shredded the Auras of three Defiled Champions in Sanshu. Despite having come so far since then, I still have no idea why my Grand-Mentor proved to be so resilient, and she’s not the only one either. Dad, Ghurda, Naaran, and even Gerel learned how to power through having their Auras shredded so long as there was someone else around to defend against a standard Aura once their own was no longer Condensed. Honestly, Aura is still mostly a mystery to me, and Honed Aura even more so considering its limited scope of use. If I ever find myself facing a handful of lowly Champions or Imperial Experts, Honed Aura would allow me to shred through their respective Auras and render them defenseless against my standard Aura, but otherwise, it’s more or less functionally useless.

It has to do with the way multiple Auras stack up multiplicatively, defense wise. Against a single Defiled Champion who just recently Condensed their Aura, I stand a reasonable chance at crushing their Aura without even needing to resort to Honing, but add in a second Defiled Champion of similar Aural strength and their two Auras meld to become one giga-Aura that is all but impossible for me to break naturally. Shortly before Blobby opened my mind to the versatility of Chi skills, I tried crushing the Auras of three Defiled Champions in Sanshu with pure willpower because I believed that was the only path to victory before me, but I failed miserably even after giving it my all. That’s only to be expected, because unlike with most facets of the Martial Path, it’s much easier to defend with Aura than it is to attack, as Aura is really an all or nothing sort of tool. Either it works and you terrorize all your foes until they’re quaking in their boots and unable to move, or it doesn’t and everyone fights like normal.

As for Honed Aura, even though it seems pretty awesome and overpowered, it’s more or less functionally useless on this battlefield. Pitting my singular Honed efforts against the combined metaphysical mass of the Enemy’s Auras would be like trying to dig a tunnel through a mountain using a spoon. Technically possible given enough time and energy, but time is what we lack most. I could theoretically isolate a single Enemy elite’s Aura and try to pop it and it alone, but that’s only useful if there are only a handful of Aura users present. Here in Shi Bei, I could pop a thousand Auras and there would still be thousands upon thousands of other Auras out there to contend against, which would change nothing in the grand scheme of things. Of course, Akanai knows all this and probably more, but she doesn’t expect me to singlehandedly shatter the Enemy’s Auras and win the battle outright. No, she wants me to target a single individual with my Honed Aura to distract them in battle so that my allies can take advantage and seize the upper hand.

Which is exactly how I defeated Wu Gam in the Legate’s contest and won the title of Number One Talent in the Empire, though admittedly, he didn’t have his Aura up at the time or anyone else’s Aura to protect him.

Even if I don’t shatter an Aura, the mere presence of an unseen threat should be enough to make most Warriors falter, especially in the chaos of battle. I should’ve thought of this sooner, but better late than never, and as soon as Akanai reminded me of the existence of Honed Aura, I began imagining all the possibilities and came up with dozens of half-baked theories on how it works and how I could improve it, but again, I’m getting ahead of myself. First, I need an appropriate target, someone with an Aura who isn’t strong enough to resist my efforts and warn others about my meddling, but not so weak that their Aura crumbles the moment I give it a good poke so I can gauge the most efficient use of my efforts. Honed Aura requires a fairly large expenditure of Chi, and even though I am able to harness the Energy of the Heavens and technically have infinite Chi, I do still have my limits regarding… I guess speed and volume of expenditure? I dunno really, but considering the throbbing headache I received after two minutes of running a fully staffed Call Centre of the Void, it’s clear those limits still exist and I’m not keen on falling into another coma here and now.

Or ever, really. I’ve had enough comas to last me a lifetime, thank you very much.

Though all this takes some time to mentally lay out, it all comes together in an instant once the broad strokes are all there. With help from my supervising Natal Soul, I immediately pick out the perfect target, a Chosen Officer locked in combat with Tam Taewoong nearby. The former member of the Hwarang is in top form despite having spent the last fifteen days scrambling to keep up with Hongji, and I can sense his determination as he throws himself at his superior foe in a bid to keep the Commander safe on the battlements. Even though he knows his foe poses no threat to Hongji, Taewoong refuses to back down just yet, because even though Chen Hongji is more than capable of dealing with this Officer and holding up the Heavens with his sublime mastery of the Ethereal Palm, he is still mortal yet and thus of limited strength, stamina, and Chi. His energy and focus are better spent on stronger foes like the Half-Demons assaulting him from all sides, as dictated by the whole ‘soldiers against soldiers and generals against generals’ maxim that the Imperial Army lives and dies by. That being said, Taewoong realizes he’s bitten off more than he can chew as he blocks blow after blow with his Spiritual gauntlets, slowly giving ground to his foe inch by precious inch as his flesh and bones bruise beneath the Chosen Officer’s powerful swings of his heavy, two-handed mace.

Unwilling to distract Taewoong with a Sending, I make ready to send Peace and Tranquility hurtling over just in case things go south before taking a deep breath in preparation, for I intend to try something I haven’t done before. Reaching deep down into my pool of stored emotions, I touch upon the sensation I wish to deliver unto my foe, the gut-wrenching anxiety of an overwhelming threat and the heart-stopping panic of near death, emotions I know all-too well from firsthand experience. Were this on my emotional colour wheel, I would describe it is as an ugly greyish yellow emotion, one that is far too bright for so unpleasant a hue, an intense and jarring sepia which saps away all hope and confidence. Holding fast to this emotion in mind, I use it to kindle my Aura and harness the Energy of the Heavens to Hone it into a whirling, jagged projectile chainsaw which I send hurtling headlong towards the Chosen Officer with an effort of Will.

The Honed Emotional Aura bites deep, yet the amalgamated Auras of the Enemy hold true, but I’m not trying to pierce through it all on my own. Even if I could, I’d only be popping my target’s Aura leaving countless overlapping Auras still in place all across the battlefield. Again, my goal isn’t to break the Chosen Officer’s Aura, but to merely put pressure upon it and distract my target for even a moment. Warning bells go off in the armoured giant’s head as my attack hammers into his Aura and rebounds off as expected, except regular Aura and Emotional Aura are two different beasts. The Honed outer layer exerts a pressure on the Officer’s Aura and almost shatters it despite the overwhelming defensive strength of the Enemy’s combined Auras, then the emotional core of the Aura pierces though without resistance and engulfs my target in a deluge of shock and dread, leaving him reeling in place as he struggles to come to terms with the unexpected Aural assault and unwelcome torrent of emotions threatening to overwhelm him where he stands. A half second, maybe even less, that’s all it takes for this above-average Enemy Expert to shake off the effects of my Honed Emotional Aura, two syllables of a Mississippi at most, yet that is all the time in the world to him as Taewoong takes advantage of this momentary pause to drive his fist into the frozen Officer’s face just as he resumes his overhead swing.

To an outside observer, it would appear as if the Chosen Officer raised his mace too high too quickly and took a moment too long to reverse his momentum, and Taewoong merely took advantage of this mistake. A great outcome for him and the Imperial Army in general, but for my purposes, the Chosen Officer proved too weak a target since my Honed Aura almost actually broke through. Even though Auras stack defensively, it’s apparently not evenly spread across all targets, meaning that if the Aura were a piece of armour, the Chosen Officer was a weak link in the chainmail. While I could just use Emotional Aura to bypass the Enemy Aural Defenses, the Enemy Half Demons can collectively counter my efforts, except for some reason, they haven’t deployed any defense against Emotional Aura. Probably because they can’t keep it up for that long, as it is quite literally emotionally draining, unlike with regular Aura which is set and forget. By going about it in this roundabout manner, I’m able to hide my Emotional Aura inside a layer of regular Aura, leaving my foes none the wiser to my hijinks until they experience it themselves firsthand.

There’s also no denying that my Aura has gotten much stronger, but I can’t always count on almost breaking through, since there are definitely Peak Experts to rival the likes of Gerel in the crowd. The good news is that in the full second and a half it took to prepare, deliver, and observe my Aural attack, my supervising Natal Soul has put together a list of possible targets of interest so that I can continue my tests without interruption. My second, third, and fourth trial runs end the same as the first, with the target almost succumbing to my Honed Aura and dying at the hands of their foe. No idea if this increase in Aural strength is because I Shattered the Void and started the process of refining my body, mind, and soul, or if it’s a result of having progressed along my Dao. Aura has always been difficult to gauge, as it’s always been a sort of set and forget skill that I use in large scale combat.

One issue that immediately becomes obvious is the time it takes for me to Hone my Aura, less than a second of focused intent for each attack, but still far longer than I would like. Kindling a regular or emotional Aura happens with little more than a thought, but the Honing is what’s slowing me down, meaning it could be minutes before I find the perfect target. How can I speed this up?

The rough cord of my sword’s wrapped hilt feels so familiar in the palm of my hand, I only register its presence mid-movement. I can’t tell if I grabbed the sword out of the air or if my Natal Soul delivered it to me, but it doesn’t matter as I become One with the Sword. Though I don’t understand why, I flourish the sword about in a slow figure eight, and it feels so right in a way I cannot explain. The cold steel radiates a mild chill and pulses with an eager energy which mirrors my own excitement, a reminder that I am the Sword, and the Sword is me, and I sink into the sensations with a sigh of contentment. Then it hits me, the memory of Blobby showing me how to Hone my Aura by mimicking the flow of my Chi as if I were Honing my sword, a lesson which I failed to fully comprehend. Yes, Blobby was showing me that I could Hone my Aura, but I’ve been doing it directly all this time. For every attack, I must focus my Will and Visualize my Intent whilst kindling my Aura in order to Hone it, which is slow and inefficient. I know how to kindle my Aura, and I know how to Hone, so why am I going about it like a two-step process when I could just combine them into a single step?

I already noted how Unity in its rifle form is akin to a Keystone, one I’ve been using to fire off Chi bullets at the Enemy, but I failed to realize that Peace serves a similar purpose. Ever since I learned how to Hone, I’ve never had to put any real effort into it, as I just draw my sword, pour Chi into it, and like magic, I have a razor-sharp chainsaw edge that can cut through armour - and still cut a tomato.

Why did I say that last bit with a super racist accent? There are times when I suspect that I’m actually living out a fever dream and none of this is real, until I remember that dreams are usually pleasant…

Putting aside my inner weirdness, I hold fast to my desired emotions once more and kindle my Aura through Peace before Guiding the sword-shaped, panic-inducing Honed Aura towards my desired target with a lazy swing in his general direction. Without pause, I pick out another target and send a second Aural Sword towards him, then another, and another, and another, all without missing a beat. The end result is more or less the same, but prep time has gone from less than a second to not even a blink of an eye, a most impressive improvement that lets me move through the list with startling alacrity. Twenty-nine targets later, I remember that I was supposed to take it slow so I could guarantee my target would die before warning others that the Imperials have an Aura user capable of piercing through their defenses, but by the time I finish the thought, I’ve gone through nine more targets and found a test subject whose Aura didn’t immediately give way before my attack.

