The target in question is a half-naked half-mammoth wielding a wicked bone battle-axe that’s almost as long as he is tall, one that would technically be a poorly-balanced pole-axe in anyone else’s hands. Though I sense my Honed Aura clearly connect with the formidable half-beast’s own, he doesn’t even blink as he continues swinging his honking big great-axe at the deceptively quick and nimble Vichear, who weaves his way around his opponent’s attacks without use of his sword or Runic Shield. Thankfully, there are no tell-tale ripples of Chi denoting a dispatched Sending warning the Enemy of my abilities, so I gather my Will and hurl a second sword of Honed Aura at the half-mammoth, one with twice the power that costs almost six times more Chi. This time, the tusked behemoth falters a single step as he pursues his slippery foe, a brief opening Vichear is quick to take advantage of as he reverses momentum with a graceful pirouette to cleanly separate his foe’s head from his neck.

No matter how many times I see it, I will never not be impressed by the sight of a bulky giant of a half-bear twirling about with the grace of an anorexic ballerina. Zian has learned a lot from his dance lessons, but I don’t think he’ll ever be able to match Vichear in terms of poise and bearing.

Seizing upon a baseless suspicion, I task my supervising Natal Soul to pick out a good dozen half-beasts who are weaker than the half-mammoth Vichear just killed, and immediate test their mettle with swords of Honed Aura using only a base amount of Chi. The majority are susceptible the attacks and succumb to their foes shortly after, but three resist ever so slightly while a fat, near feral half-bristleboar defends without blinking. Though far from conclusive evidence, this leads me to suspect that half-beasts are less affected by Aura in all its variants, for no real reason than the fact that animals, Spiritual, Divine, or otherwise, all enjoy some modicum of protection from Aura as well. I know, I know, it might come off as racist of speciesict or whatever, but I don’t think this innate defense is natural, but rather acquired.

Fact: Animals are more in tune with their emotions and better at keeping Balanced. There’s no argument here, because it’s the truth, as animals know when to indulge in their emotions and when to put them aside in the interest of survival. Another fact: Animals don’t turn Defiled. They can attract Spectres, sure, but they never go full tea-drinking Defiled. They’re either not Defiled, or they Demonify, there’s no middle ground to speak of, but this raises an interesting question. Are they unable to become Defiled because they hold to Balance, or because animals instinctively refine their souls and quickly become immune to Defilement?

If it’s the latter, then it would explain why animals are less affected by Aura in general, and why their reaction to Aura wildly varies even within a single species. This is important because I think this more or less establishes that Aura is an attack aimed not at the body or mind, even though both are affected, but rather at the soul itself. It makes sense, right? Emotions are a big component of souls, a necessary ingredient one might even say, so what better way to attack a soul than with emotion? Knowing this, I target twenty more Defiled combatants with Honed Aura and pay close attention to the strain on my own soul. Only then am I able to sense the minute erosion each attack costs me, with a single attack nowhere near the cost of severing a Natal Soul, but not so infinitesimal as to be wholly ignored. It’s not life force I’m expending, thank the Heavens, but… soul force, I suppose, yet another new term I need to add to the quickly growing list.

At this point, I am wholly convinced that Aura is a soul attack, and Blobby somehow bestowed upon me the power to manipulate my soul and even sever it away, meaning I owe him even more than I thought. This also means the reason why Akanai can tank my Honed Aura without blinking is because she has a powerful soul, and the same can be said of the others. How does one get a powerful soul? By experiencing the vicissitudes of life, I suspect, and indulging in emotions both good and bad without losing hold of Balance. Explains why I was able to shake off Zian’s Aura during the trial at the Wall, as I’d suffered plenty in the mines and kept hold of my sanity, to say nothing of having retained some memories of my past life. This is also why Gerel can also more or less ignore my Honed Aura, because he’s spent his whole life with one foot dangling over the edge of Imbalance, which has in turn tempered his soul far beyond those of his similarly-aged peers. Fascinating stuff really, because it opens up a line of thought on how to refine the soul without going to the same extremes as I have over the course of my life, an experience I would not recommend to anyone, not even my worst foe.

The most important takeaway from all this is one that fills me with fear and excitement both, namely that Martial prowess is not a reliable indicator of the strength of one’s soul. You could be a weak, seventeen-year-old former slave without an Aura yet still possess a powerful soul, or you could be a Peak Expert standing at the pinnacle of Martial strength with an anemic soul that has the durability of wet tissue. Granted, those are both extreme outliers which are unlikely to transpire, though that’s not the same as saying impossible, seeing how I myself am living proof of the first. Knowing this, I put aside my concerns and throw caution to the wind to start hammering away at the most dangerous targets with my Honed Aura just to see which ones are vulnerable to distraction, and the results are most satisfying indeed.

The first major target to succumb to my meddling is none other than the Mataram Patriarch, who thankfully took his sweet time picking and choosing his moment even though Akanai had long since sussed him out. Unfortunately, Mataram YuGan is made of sterner stuff and doesn’t die to the first Honed Aural attack, and I suspect the game is up as I sense him frantically Sending in his moments before death. Not only am I able to save Han BoHai, I also get a front-row seat to Nian Zu grasping Insight as he becomes the Shooting Star and shield-charges his way through YuGan and hundreds of his clansmen. Situ Chi Gan shares in my next greatest success as a single burst of Honed Aura is enough to send Mataram Minzhe in a downward spiral from which he is unable to recover, for the formidable Situ Guardian is too cunning and experienced to let such a beautiful opportunity pass him by and ends their exchange with a domineering overhand slash. A sure sign that the Whirling Dervish had a weak soul, because he succumbed to my Honed Aura in an instant while the Crimson Reaper continues to hold his own beneath my Aural barrage despite being indisputably inferior to his senior Clansman in strength. This isn’t to say my Honed Aura has no effect on him, but only enough to skew the odds even further in Gerel’s favour, but I have more pressing battles to pay attention to than that of my older brother.

Ugh. I don’t think I’ll ever not shudder when calling him that.

All across Shi Bei, the Defiled Peak Experts are dropping like flies as I turn my attentions towards them and deliver invisible blades of terror and panic. Exarch Gam’s staff slams down atop his Half-Demon foe’s head, cracking chitin and bone before reducing the rest to a meat paste, and the old half-fox huffs and puffs with pride and fatigue before moving onto his next foe. Marshal Huong’s oversized halberd sweeps through the Enemy Chosen with ease, and I can sense his confusion as to why the Enemy Peak Experts keep freezing in place the moment they enter into his range. Lei Gong doesn’t even notice as I lend him a helping hand, though to be fair, it doesn’t appear as if he needs it considering he has a giant honking sabre of lightning that cuts down anyone and everyone who catches his eye. Radiant Fist Wugang most certainly notices, and is also the first person to show any sign of suspicion directed my way after his foe misses a step and critically fails to parry a deadly punch. Likely because he was once a candidate for joining the Brotherhood and knows more about Aura and souls than your average Martial Warrior, so I make a note to talk to him and the Abbot about this when I have time.

Assuming there will be time after, because in spite of all my successes, we are not out of the woods just yet. There are a good number of Enemy combatants capable of withstanding or altogether ignoring my flying swords of Honed Aura, as not everyone reacts to terror and panic the same way. Jeong Hyo-Lynn’s foe for one, a Bristleboar Half-Demon with two honking big maces, has eaten no less than eight Aural swords of increasing intensity, with each one costing exponentially more Chi than the last to the same lack of effect, proving that the resilience of his soul is every bit as hardy as his seemingly impervious armour. Du Kang Bin takes a grievous blow as his Half-Demon foe falters and recovers all too quickly to counter his wild strike, leading to an awkward pause in both of their rhythms which leaves Yan’s cousin, a husband to nine wives and father to far too many children, in dire straits as he staggers back before his foe. The three Half-Demons encircling Rang Min also prove to be resistant to Honed Aura, but before I can make up my mind regarding whether it’s worth the added effort to help him, the Situ Clan Patriarch explodes into action in a display of speed and power rivalling that of Guardian Chi Gan. Easy to see the similarities in their styles, a savage and domineering two-handed sword that erupts with killing intent without warning, one which emphasizes substance at the cost of grace and dignity. Though on the surface it appears utterly at odds with the man Rang Min presents himself as, seeing it in action shows that the Situ Patriarch is a true Dragon among men who might well have dominated his generation if he’d not been born in the same decade as the dragon Nian Zu.

Most distressing of all is seeing Grandpa Du’s struggle against his Half-Demon foe, Yan’s half-brother who goes by the name of Junta. Seems like I’m not the only one reuniting with undesirable members of the family, and my heart goes out to my resilient wife as she watches her beloved grandfather do battle against a most formidable opponent. Though Junta is not quite as tough as Jeong Hyo-Lynn’s bristleboar assailant, his Domain Plated Demonic Chitin is doing a damn fine job of keeping him in the fight as Grandpa Du executes a superlative onslaught of endless aggression to keep the Half-Demon on the back foot. There is no fear or despair in the Sanguine Tempest as he fights in what appears to be full form, but I sense he has regrets and misgivings aplenty as he delivers what he believes might well be his swan’s song. Unwilling to let him die just yet, I unleash Aural Sword after Aural Sword at Junta from afar, increasing in power and intensity until I realize I’m unconsciously executing the forms in reality as I stand unopposed on the battlements. No idea if that has any bearing on the power of my Aural swords, but try as I might, the formidable Half-Demon more or less shakes my attacks off while biding his time for his chance to strike and bring down a Living Legend and beloved member of my family.

Quality and quantity of my Aural Swords fails to make any difference at all, and after launching twenty-eight increasingly expensive Aural attacks in the space of two seconds, all I have to show for my efforts is a growing headache and upset dog as Buddy senses Blobby’s ill-intent regarding my spiralling emotions. Grandpa Du looks in fine form as he batters his foe about the battlements, wielding his saber in one hand or two while dancing in and out of range as if he can read Junta’s mind and knows exactly when to advance and retreat. It’s a thing of beauty to watch him work as he takes two steps forward to deliver a powerful slash, then side-steps to the right to dodge an errant kick, his movements so smooth and fluid it almost looks rehearsed. Thrusting his sabre and wedging it inside the gap of Junta’s pauldrons, Grandpa Du follows up by smacking the hilt of his weapon with the palm of his hand, driving his opponent back three steps and causing Junta’s wild retaliatory strike of the glaive to miss by a mile. Circling around to the left, Grandpa Du delivers an unexpected upwards slash, one that skirts against the Half-Demon chitin armour and misses Junta’s chin by the barest of margins as he throws himself back to avoid death, his speed and reflexes saving him where a lesser Warrior would have died.

