No matter how you slice it, Grandpa Du looks in fine form for a man of a hundred and twelve years, but from the slight catch in his knees and the minor quivering in his fingers, I can tell that he is fast approaching his limits. All I can do is watch as I wrack my brain for a solution however, even while a part of me can’t help but appreciate the raw violence and pure poetry that is Du Min Gyu as he fights to the tune of Luo-Luo’s haunting melody, his every action and movement worthy of a lecture regarding the vast intricacies of the Forms. It’s not just the Movements themselves, because even though they’re superlatively chosen when viewed in a vacuum, they also come together to form a near hypnotic cadence that I cannot quite describe. There’s a rhythm to his timing and attacks that matches perfectly with the music, a give and take and ebb and flow to the dance which reminds me of my efforts to move all my Water Chi from the Azure Sea to Shi Bei. It took me the better part of a half hour to get the feeling right, the motion of the ocean if you will, but once I found the proper cadence and put my finger on the pulse, it was easy getting all that Water Chi to go where I wanted it. The same thing is happening here with every single one of Grandpa Du’s movements as he seizes control of the match and holds it for dozens of one-sided exchanges, leaving Junta as little more than a punching bag who would have died in the first ten moves if not for his transcendent defenses.

And though I was unable to see it at first glance, I now understand how Grandpa Du is able to accomplish such a staggering feat. Just like how Hongji melded multiple basic Chi skills together to produce the full suit of Ethereal attacks, Grandpa Du is merging those Chi skills within his Domain Augmentation to make his movements appear almost otherworldly. It’s not just power and speed that are being enhanced, but grace, elegance, rhythm, and so much more, all of which is wholly under his control as he sets the pace of battle. Alas, there will soon come a time when he pushes himself past his limits and can no longer keep this up, at which point Junta will undoubtedly take his head and leave Yan an orphan once again.

With sword in hand, I stumble across the answer in a moment of Insight as I channel the Energy of the Heavens not into my sword, but through it, for though I am the Sword, what I have never once fully acknowledged is that the Sword is me. When my Core shattered, Peace broke alongside it, and I scattered its metallic dust to the winds in order to clear away the old and make room for my new and improved ‘Core’. This was a case of I am the Sword, but when have I ever allowed the sword to become me?

The Energy of the Heavens surges through my Sword and into my Spiritual System, the reverse of what I normally do, but it feels as normal and natural as breathing. With my weapon in hand, I raise it high in defiance of Heaven and cast aside natural Law in favour of my own, leaning heavily on Blobby to do so. Whatever it is he wants, he is free to help himself so long as he doesn’t kill me or leave me too weak to keep fighting, and the Elemental Spirit is more than happy to ignore Buddy’s howling to do just that. Remembering what I’ve gleaned from Hongji’s Ethereal attacks and Nian Zu’s Shooting Star, from Gerel’s flowing movements and Alsantset’s swift attacks, from Jeong Hyo-Lynn’s consecutive blows and Ryo Geom-Chi’s singular strikes, from most of what I’ve observed here today and so many memories of times past, I smile as it all comes together in the most beautiful and frustrating of ways, the pieces falling effortlessly into place thanks to Insight.

If one Chi skill is not enough, try two. If two isn’t enough, try three. Then four. And so on. And so forth.

That’s not the Insight part, because that much seems obvious. No, the Insight comes as I raise Peace high and bring it down in a diagonal slash from right shoulder to left hip of my imagined foe. Nothing happens, because I have yet to do anything besides swing my sword in order to get a good feeling for the movement. Then, without stopping, I raise Peace high once more and repeat the motion, only this time, I don’t swing my sword and instead let the weight of my sword bring my arm down in an arc. The third try sees me set off on a mental journey to find the perfect Balance between the two, neither struggling nor surrendering to the cold steel in my hand, for I am the Sword, and the Sword is me.

Closing my eyes as I continue to swing, I track the flow of Chi as I perform this singular movement in a loop. The flow surges into my Core and back out to my right shoulder in the most direct manner possible, only to circulate about the joint twice before flowing into my arm, past my elbow, and all the way to the tips of my fingers before making its way back in a similar but not quite equivalent pattern. All along the way, the flow is Honed and Amplified, Reinforced and Stabilized, Guided and Deflected, Lightened and Reverberated, the eight basic Chi skills all present and accounted for in countless subtle and profound ways, both directly and indirectly as they meld together to form a near infinite number of new and interesting compound forces. There’s no need to pay attention to the specifics however, because even though I now know this sort of thing can be analogous to the forces within an atom, this knowledge does nothing for me. I can’t even name the forces inside an atom, or what sort of forces they exert, or explain why they combine the way they do to form elements and compounds, so how ridiculous is it for me to want to understand everything about the Martial Dao with just a few years of pondering? That’s the scientist in me who’s quick to demand all the answers, the curious student who wants to understand the ins and outs of everything. The Warrior, however, the Baledagh in me, he just wants indoor plumbing and knows that fighting isn’t always about using your head. Sometimes, you need to follow your heart, your gut, your instinct and intuition, because if you can’t trust yourself, then who can you trust?

Again and again I swing my sword even as it swings me, until finally, it starts coming together and feeling right. The cyclical flow of Heavenly Energy starts up and pulses through my arm as I raise it high once more, building up in power and speed thanks to Amplification and Reverberation and smoothed out by Stability, Deflection, and Lightening. It’s as easy as breathing once I time everything to Luo-Luo’s rousing melody, which speaks to me in a way I never experienced before, the language of the Heavens telling me the answers I need not so much in words, but emotions. Reinforcing the sum total of those combined forces, I then Hone and Amplify the results once more before finally beginning my swing, an attack made with body, mind, and soul as one. My Aura Condenses from within before billowing out into existence, merging with the flow and transforming in ways I cannot even perceive much less explain to create a new force for which I have no name. Peace guides me through it all as my Domain Manifests to form a sword that is not a sword, containing Aura that is not an Aura, a working of Creation driven by Destructive Intent. Guided by my Will, the sword that is not a sword hurtles forward through reality to cleave my target in twain from shoulder to hip, not just in body, but in mind and soul as well. Unaware of how he died, Junta succumbs to his wounds with a belly full of regret which quickly fades alongside his final breath, leaving behind two halves of an empty shell of a corpse and an out of breath Grandpa Du who turns his eyes towards me in gratitude and confusion.

For there in my hand, he sees Peace as I follow through with my swing, even though he swears he just saw this same sword cut his foe down.

Both true and untrue, for this sword is not a sword, but the sword as me, and here within my Domain, I stand supreme.

This singular swing cost me more than I realized as I sag in place and sink into the Void, my consciousness wavering even as I fight to remain standing. Inside my Natal Palace, Buddy ceases his mournful howling and presses himself up against me, his big brown eyes and tiny whimpers breaking my heart without ever shaking my conviction. This had to be done, and the price needed to be paid, but this is the full extent of what I can do for now. I still need to keep something in the tank for whenever Zhen Shi shows up, because I can hardly fight him if I’m blinded by the pain of a raging migraine threatening to explode my skull from within. Despite the pain, my Natal Souls are still fully functional as they warn me of an impending attack, and I subconsciously release my hold on Peace once more so it can autonomously defend and attack for me.

Seven Wraiths die, though I would be hard pressed to say how without first consulting the Natal Souls who made it happen, but there is little to no joy to be had, for I sense yet another threat which is about to strike. A significant threat despite his complete and utter lack of presence, a creature hidden perfectly within plain sight, yet I expected him to show himself eventually. Opening my eyes to reality, I find myself face to face with a grotesque, vaguely human figure with misshapen, mottled features and enough loose skin to turn into a damn couch if need be. There is no anger in his heart, no hatred, fear, or even pride and satisfaction as he plunges his twin black daggers towards my chest, moving a reasonably speedy pace even though everyone else might as well be frozen in place.

For this is a creature of patience, cunning, and murderous delight, a Human Divinity and deadly assassin known the world round as the Phantom, who has come to claim my life here in Shi Bei.

An accomplishment which is not as easy as he thinks, because he just activated my trap card.

Even Dad and Naaran have yet to realize I have yet another foe standing before me, a powerful assassin who has killed more Imperial Divinities these last two years than anyone else has managed in the past thousand. I only noticed him because I’ve been waiting for him to appear ever since one of my unused Natal Souls stumbled across him in Meng Sha and hitched a ride on his soul so I could better keep track of him. Before, I was mostly counting on Pong Pong to keep me safe, which is why my Supervising Natal Soul has been keeping the little guy up to date on the Phantom’s location, but now I have other options to respond with. Having long since expected this most formidable of assassin’s arrival, there is no need for me to dig deep down into my pool of emotions, as I have futile rage and unresolved regrets aplenty to draw from here and now, freshly procured thanks to the Phantom’s startling and intimidating presence. Those emotions surge through Peace as I unleashed a more standard Aural Sword with everything I can spare, and the attack pierces through the Phantom’s defenses as his daggers plunge towards my heart and neck. His surprise and horror are beautiful to behold as I overwhelm him with an avalanche of senseless self-recrimination and good old-fashioned self-loathing, for where my previous attacks were but a droplet of emotion, for him, I have opened the floodgates and dipped deep into the darkest recesses of all my suffering and despair.

Even a Divinity is not immune to Emotional Aura, as evidenced by how easily Pong Pong trounced four Divinities in one go the first time we met him in the Azure Sea. Granted, emotional damage isn’t enough to kill a Divinity, but thankfully, I have allies ready and waiting to act, and the Old Wolf doesn’t hesitate for even a second as he slams his fist into the Phantom’s face. Stopping my Emotional Aura as quickly as it started, I set everything I have and more to maintaining the structural integrity of reality with Blobby’s help, but mercifully, the Old Wolf only needs one attack to end it all. Ordinarily, a Divinity as careful as the Phantom would have all his defenses readied just in case, even though he’s sneaky enough to attack and slip away unnoticed, but everything came apart the moment I blasted him with my Honed Emotional Aura, and there’s no stopping my smile as the sickly, headless corpse collapses at my feet, marking the death of the first Divinity here in Shi Bei.

Now that’s a lot of damage.

I didn’t want to escalate this into a battle of Divinities, but unlike Han, I didn’t shoot first, so my conscience is clean here. If the other Enemy Divinities want to take issue with the death of the Phantom, I have plenty of crippling depression to go around. Come one, come all, because misery loves company, and I’m finally ready share my feelings.

Chapter Meme
