She stopped to think for a few moments. "Hmm. I've not heard of anyone ever doing that, and I can think of three problems you will decidedly find if you try." At my questioning look she continued. "The first is that the mana usage will be higher than normal, much higher as it has to constantly be looking for an attack. If this item is functioning constantly that means it will constantly be draining it's mana and even if that drain isn't too bad it will need to be recharged fairly often. That will be expensive. The other is defining what an attack is. If you set the bar too low you're likely to set off your shield all the time, not very helpful in day to day activities, and potentially dangerous. On the other hand, if it's too high it runs the risk of becoming useless. Even setting those parameters is not well understood, so that may be a challenge." She got to her last point finally, tapping her chin with a finger. "You'll also need to get the timing right. I'm not sure if the item will be able to respond quickly enough to be useful in an actual combat situation."

"That doesn't sound very encouraging."

"On the other hand Alana, I think you should absolutely do it. Work like this is how magic progresses, and even if you fail to make something you can use how you want, you may discover something useful somewhere else. Please make sure to take good notes, if you bring me results we can go over them." She perked up giving me a bright smile. "Oh, and I'll send you one of the more common sequences for a standard shield item, you might find it useful as a place to start."

I knew she was just using this to try and build a relationship with me. She clearly wanted some of my research, particularly if it was something novel. I can't say that I was too bothered. She'd be getting nothing that Mystien didn't approve of me giving her, and she was helping me. If she planned to milk me for all I could tell her, there was no reason for me not to reciprocate. I'd even expected something like this when I came to her.

Mystien,

I'm writing to ask for any advice you might have on shielding items. Particularly I'm looking for something like a kinetic shield. I'm fairly certain I could manage one of the standard ones, but those are static and need to be activated. Is there any way to make an item that just slows things over a certain threshold instead? Or activates if it senses something like that?

I'm not sure where to go on this and while Professor Ieala gave me a few places that will probably be issues she didn't have any solutions.

Thanks, Alana

Mystien

That girl was on the other side of the city, in a school full of magic texts, and still sending me letters about theoretical and insanely useful things. I did not have anything like she was asking. There were those who'd made similar things, to be sure, but normally for royals, and even then, only for short period use. I could probably cobble together something like that if I truly needed to, but it wasn't something that was either needed, or my area of study. I sent her a letter telling her as much in response, since she'd at least come to me for advice.

While I wouldn't tell her, I was also pleased that she was making connections with Ieala. Her new professor was a smart girl, quite so, and I couldn't help but be glad that they might end up working together. Ieala had one major flaw, in that she lacked the art needed to make truly stellar magical items. She knew the concepts that governed them, certainly better than most, but she just didn't have the... flare, the little bit of omph that made for a good sequence writer.

She was also the most conniving, research burrowing little woman I'd ever met. She'd ingratiate herself with people and learn all she could, not out of hostility, but out of a desire to grow. It meant that she was very, very good at gleaning things. It also meant that she wasn't allowed within five-hundred paces of any lab I worked in, and all of my assistants were forbidden from so much as holding a conversation with her on the weather. I'd have to warn Alana again not to go discussing too many things with her that she shouldn't, particularly with the gates, but she was a smart girl, and for the most part was doing a... passable job keeping her secrets hidden from anyone other than her father and myself.

I sighed and turned back to my real work. The gates were proving to be quite good at hiding their secrets, and no matter what I did, I got very little back in useable information. That was frustrating, but there would come a time when I figured something out. For the time being I was pouring over the remaining notes of Ristolian, not the originals, but some copies. They were in some kind of code, and it was taking me a bit of time to parse some of the meanings. What I was sure of was that they were pointing to him doing some work on the continent of the elves. Perhaps that avenue would render some use.
