Only then did Zian turn and walk away, stepping passed the pool of blood growing around his opponent’s headless corpse. Stopping to pick up his saber, he Honed its edge and pulled it clear from the stone, wincing at the grating screech. Though he knew his saber would remain undamaged, he disliked treating it so roughly. After sheathing the weapon, Zian returned to Jukai’s side before turning to face the Defiled once more. Hands behind his back, he stood proudly before the Enemy, wordlessly daring his next opponent to come forth, using the time to Heal as best he could. Though he lacked Falling Rain’s ability, Zian’s injuries were of no importance, with only some minor tearing and bruising.

“A splendid display, young master.” Jukai’s praise arrived by Sending and Zian barely kept from puffing up. “Though I’d ask you not act so convincingly, my old heart can't handle the stress. I almost ran in to save you after you ‘tripped’, a damn fine show.”

Coughing, Zian reminded himself not to grow arrogant. Fame and glory were unimportant, personal strength all that mattered. It’s why he intended to step away from Clan and Society, no longer wanting to be distracted by meaningless squabbles over wealth and political power. His goal was to reach the apex of the Martial Path, and after struggling against this nameless Defiled brute, he still had a long way to go.

Zian’s next opponent stepped out, a svelte, graceful young man, lips twisted in a mocking sneer as he sauntered forward with twin sickles in hand. Thanking the Mother it wasn’t another hulking behemoth, Zian drew his sabers to meet his opponent. This was the perfect opportunity to train. Falling Rain won four duels in succession, so obviously, Zian needed to win at least five.

No, these were nameless Defiled while Rain defeated three top Society talents and an expensive slave. Better to win at least nine times or ten times.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Much as Fung disliked the arrogant fop, he couldn’t help but admire Zian’s tenacity and martial prowess. Six duels fought in succession, the first few against Defiled villagers, but the last two against garo mounted barbarians. Each duel ended in a close match, yet still Zian stood tall, waiting for his seventh opponent. Despite several near brushes with death, Fung knew Zian was holding back, only displaying a few Chi skills and Forms, his Aura still yet to be used. Brimming with envy, Fung dreamed of a time when he would be confident enough to fight the Defiled with a self-imposed handicap, pretending to struggle in order to buy time for the army to rest. Worst of all, Zian remained silent through it all, not bothering to name himself or even gloat a little, with zero displays of satisfaction after each hard-fought victory.

For some months now, Fung heard the whispers comparing him to Zian, implying how he followed in the other's footsteps. Both talented youths born in a Magistrate’s family, both notorious womanizers and drunks, and both victors in the Contest, they should have risen to equal fame, but far from it. In fact, many questioned why Tong Da Fung seem so lacking in comparison, despite walking down a similar path.

Fung detested his fellow young magistrate for more than this. Losing to Zian in front of Du Min Gyu would have been acceptable except the bastard had the gall to slap Fung across the face with the flat of his blade, a humiliating slight. Watching Rain defeat the arrogant prick brought him a measure of peace, but Fung still dreamed of one day challenging Zian to a duel and perhaps even returning the slap with one of his own.

After watching six duels and the start of a seventh with yet another northern savage, Fung worried the day would never come.

“This is boring.” Cheeks puffed and arms crossed, the adorable Mei Lin sat atop her quin, watching the duel with a frown. “I thought we were going to fight, ya? When are we going into the city?”

Keeping his voice down, Fung explained, “Zian is buying time, giving our soldiers and horses time to rest after riding all day.”

Comprehension dawned on her face as Lin smiled sheepishly, knocking herself lightly on the head. “Ah. Okay. Sorry.” Sighing loudly, she went back to waiting in silence for all of a single minute, before she asked, “When is it your turn to fight?”

Mei Lin was a perfect match for Rain, the two wholly unconcerned about face. There was nothing malicious about it, it’s merely who they were. Smiling, Fung merely shook his head. He didn’t dare follow-up after Zian. Who knew what sort of monster the Enemy would send out? Ignoring Rustram’s wordless plea to send her away to safety, Fung returned to watching Zian’s duels. Though the sweet girl’s demeanour often kindled a desire to protect her, he knew Mei Lin needed no protection from him.

Instead, he devoted all his efforts to finding a weakness in his ‘rival’, but to no avail. The only thing he noticed was Zian’s tendency to give up the initiative to fight defensively, studying his opponents in-depth before going for the kill. Not much of a weakness, Zian’s defences were top-notch, able to dodge, parry, or Deflect all but the most powerful of blows. How Rain defeated him was still a mystery to Fung, even though he witnessed the match with his own eyes.

After a long struggle, the seventh duel came to an end, Zian winning with a clean killing blow like always. The arrogant bastard wasn't even dirty, barely sparing a glance for his fallen foe before returning to stand next to his second. How long did he intend to continue? Almost thirty minutes had passed now, a single man standing before the Defiled army, boldly defying them time and time again. Though it pained him to see Zian earn more fame and glory, these thirty, hard-won minutes were crucial, allowing the Imperial Army to continue setting their defences and resting their mounts. Minutes ticked by in silence without an eighth challenger, and Zian merely stood and waited, unperturbed by the numerous catapults and crossbows pointed in his direction. If only the bastard weren’t such an unbearable prick, he would've made a splendid friend. With Huu and Rain both betrothed to wonderful women, Fung found himself lacking someone to drink and whore with.

A low, rumbling horn sounded out in the silence, a haunting note the Defiled used to signal battle, their commander unwilling to send another duellist to their death. As Zian rode back to his retinue, the Imperial Army cheered his return, his successive victories raising morale to its peak. Unable to stew in his envy, Fung readied himself for the battle. Though Zian’s accomplishments were impressive, his twin sabers were unsuited for massed warfare and his strength was spent. This was Fung’s chance to display his skills with the spear, the king of all weapons.

“We’re fighting now, ya?” Mei Lin asked, her eyes bright and eager. Nodding in reply, he was treated to a brilliant, toothy smile as she leaped to her feet, standing atop her quin with grace and aplomb. With bow in hand, she glanced at Fung for permission before picking a target, using her entire body to draw her bow and loose the arrow in one smooth motion. Without pausing to view her handiwork, she continued firing into the Enemy from well outside the range of their catapults, a consummate display of Bekhai archery. In less than a minute, Mei Lin’s kill count numbered in the double digits, forcing Fung to rethink his evaluation of weapons.

Perhaps he should ask Rain to teach him how to shoot. This seemed much more efficient than fighting successive duels.

Chapter Meme
