She found one of the crystal dissolution pools by nearly stepping into it. She pulled back and crouched and looked at it through Molten Sight. The pool had no fault lines at all -- it was too liquid, too constantly in motion. What she could see was the crystal shelf that overhung it, and the fault line in that shelf was enormous, running from the junction with the wall straight through to the edge, as obvious as a cracked windowpane. She did not step on the shelf.

The spore-flowers she navigated by reading the wind patterns in the crystal formations -- the fault lines indicated stress directions, and the stress directions indicated airflow, and the airflow carried the spores. She worked through the Garden methodically, mapping a path through it with the patience she brought to any technical problem. Her hands were hurting now. The fractures had reached her palms. She could feel them when she pressed her fingers together -- not pain exactly but a wrongness, a structural complaint from bone that was being asked to do something it no longer fully could.

She found the Gorger by sound first. A displacement of air. The shift in how the crystal trees refracted the phosphorescent light.

She looked at it. It looked at her.

The creature was made of crystal. Not wearing crystal, not covered in crystal -- made of it, regrown into something with appetite and territory and three prior kills already written into the tumblers of the Lock. It moved with the deliberate weight of something whose bones were quartz, whose hunger had organized itself around the particular prey the Garden offered. Its fault lines, when she activated Molten Sight, blazed like sunrise. She was the first person to have ever seen them.

She could see exactly where to strike.

One point, at the junction of the chest-crystal and the left shoulder plate, where three fault lines converged and the material was at its most compromised. A blow there with enough precision -- not power, precision, the kind of precision her hands had spent thirty years developing -- would split it along all three lines simultaneously. She had ended a firing kiln with a similar calculation once. Tap the right place at the right moment and the whole thing resolves.

She raised her right hand.

The calculation arrived with it, unbidden and precise: she had used the Gift six times. The fractures in her palm had reached the junctions. She could feel the bones the way you can sometimes feel a vessel going -- not breaking yet, but the integrity already spent, the material asking you not to ask more of it. A glassblower who ignores that feeling loses the piece and the tools both. Sometimes a hand.

She knew she could not land this strike. The bones that had spent thirty years learning exactly this kind of precision -- the finger on the fault, the controlled tap, the knowing where -- those bones were the problem now. She would swing and they would give before the force transferred. She had mapped this outcome six activations ago.

The ceiling was still that color. The light in the Still Garden had not changed. The petrified trees held their centuries of fault-lines like a language she had just learned to read, and she had read them, and she had walked through the spore-clouds by reading the airflow in the crystal, and she had stood at the dissolution pools and known which shelves to avoid, and she had been the first person in this room and it was everything the dreams had promised and more.

She had come here to see it. She had seen it. The seeing was complete.

The strike was just finishing the sentence.

The pain arrived when she committed to the motion -- not hairline fractures but the bones themselves announcing a structural language she had never heard from her own body. The sound a vessel makes when the heat differential exceeds what the glass can hold. She felt the fractures she had mapped in herself spreading under the demand. She watched through the Gift -- watched her own hand's fault lines blossoming, multiplying, reaching the critical density where fracture becomes fragmentation.

She understood she was seeing exactly what the Designation had promised she would see: the method, clear as a lesson, and the cost of implementing it.

She swung anyway.

Her hand shattered on contact.

Not metaphor. The bones of her right hand, already compromised to fragmentation threshold, could not transfer the force she asked of them. They gave instead. Her strike against the Gorger's fault point was nothing -- a falling thing, not a blow -- and the crystal monster registered it the way stone registers a thrown pebble.

She fell sideways. She did not cry out. There was no point and she was occupied with looking at the Garden's ceiling -- the phosphorescent sky, the threshold color, the light she had been trying to make for four months -- and she thought: I made it here. I saw it. It was real.

The Gorger was efficient. The Garden was quiet.

---

On a crystal surface near where she fell, words formed in the shape of her particular hand:

*It was beautiful. All of it. Even this.*

```stat-screen
  DEATH REPORT

  Entrant:         Lira (family name unknown)
  Designation:     Glazier #1
  Depth reached:   3 (The Still Garden)
  Time survived:   3 hours, 14 minutes
  Cause of death:  Gift cost (hand fragmentation).
                   Secondary: Crystal apex predator, The Still Garden

  Vitality at death:     0
  Resolve at death:      24 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3)
  Attunement at death:   25 (+6 from Gift usage)
  Fortune at death:      15

  Gift used:       6 times (Molten Sight)
  Monsters killed: 0
  Distance covered: 2.3 km

  Memory Crystals consumed: 0

  Note: Subject reached Depth 3. No prior entrant had
        reached Depth 3.
  Note: Subject identified the Gorger structural
        weakness. Subject could not exploit it.

  Harvest:
  - Death Inscription: 1
  - Memory Crystal: 1 (White — transcendence)
  - Floor Mutation: Fault-line visibility. Certain
    crystals in the Still Garden now show their stress
    fractures to unassisted vision. Partial echo of
    Molten Sight. Permanent.
  - Gift Absorption: Structural analysis acquired by
    the Maw.

  Kills registered: 0
  Crystal apex predator, The Still Garden: 1/3.
  [ Name threshold: 3 kills. Not yet reached. ]

  You are death #3.
  997 remain.
```

The white Memory Crystal formed near her right hand -- near the hand that had shattered, which was where the largest concentration of her final emotion had been. White for transcendence, for the specific quality of experience that exceeds its category: not joy, not awe, but the feeling you get when a piece comes out of the annealing oven and you hold it to the light and it is exactly what you were trying to make, when the material exceeded your imagination of it.

A future entrant who consumed this crystal would see what she saw in the last moment: the phosphorescent ceiling of the Still Garden, the threshold color she had spent four months searching for, the light that existed between amber and gold and warm white. They would have it for a moment -- that color, that particular color -- and then lose it, the way you lose a dream when you open your eyes.

The third tumbler turned.

In the Still Garden, the crystal predator moved through the trees, patient and unchanging, unaware it had been seen. Some of the crystals around Lira's death site now showed their stress fractures to unassisted vision -- pale lines under the surface, the ghost of a dead woman's gift left in the stone. They would be there for three hundred more deaths, these lines, and entrants who noticed them would sometimes see that they mapped exactly the safe path through the dissolution pools and the spore-fields, and sometimes this would save them, and none of them would know why the crystals showed their weakness there and not elsewhere.

The leather roll lay open on a crystal outcropping nearby. The pontil. The jacks. The tweezers with the worn grip. The Garden's phosphorescent light fell across them and they glowed with it, and they were beautiful, and no one came to collect them, and eventually the Garden incorporated them the way it incorporated everything -- slowly, with a patience larger than grief.

Death #3. 997 remain.
