“Goodbye, Dorcot.” Ren looked at Dorcot's diminutive wife. “Goodbye, Angeilin.”

“G-g-goodbye, Ren!” Angeilin said, gave him a quick hug, and took her husband's hand. They stepped onto the dock and walked away. Now that everyone had left, Ruck came out from hiding behind a nearby building, and crawled onto the barge.

“I don't think anyone would have said anything if you'd just come on over right away.” Ren said.

Ruck pat his belly and then covered the spot that could have been a mouth.

“You weren't feeling well?” Ren asked, then remembered that Ruck was seasick. “They've got a nice pulley system in the hold. I'll hang you from one of them.”

Ruck gave Ren a 'thumbs up' gesture and Ren turned to the last person that had come to see him.

“It's only two weeks before you'll hear from me again.” Ren said. “In the big scheme of things, it's not that long.”

“It's going to feel like an eternity.” Nathalia said.

“Yeah.” Ren said and smiled. “I was trying to convince myself it wasn't going to be.”

Nathalia smiled and stepped in close. Ren put his hands on her hips, and she sighed.

“Even this could be considered breaking the law.” Nathalia said.

“Well, if I'm breaking it anyways...” Ren said, took her in a tight embrace, and kissed her with all the passion he had in him. Nathalia's head emptied of all thoughts about propriety and the law, and she wrapped her arms around him to give as good as she got.

“Ahem.” A male voice said.

The little imaginary world Ren and Nathalia were in, broke apart at the sound and they let go of each other.

“I'm glad I made it in time.” The male dwarf said. “The release papers were only approved an hour ago.”

“Release papers?” Ren asked.

“Yes. They were sent by the Sage of Ages to the mines, and I was to be released to Ren Neram's custody.” The man said. “I'm Orimihr Juldor, the jeweler that legendary scoundrel Delthid Kulduhr had framed to take the fall for his crime of stealing the Crown Jewels.” He said and smiled. “The papers also said that you were going to clear my name.”
