“Holy shit, Tallheart, what happened in here?” Rain demanded, his own voice creeping upward as the blue rings of Essence Well appeared around everyone present. It had been muffled by the protective wax she’d crammed into her ears, but as Ameliah looked back at Tallheart, she decided that the change in pitch came only partly from the lightweight gas infiltrating her love’s lungs.

Tallheart’s state had been no less a shock when she’d arrived. The cervidian was shirtless—not because he’d removed it, but rather because the article of clothing seemed to have been burnt off him. Great smears of soot stained his hairless skin. His Ascension jacket was surviving for now, wrapped around his waist like a skirt, but the heavy fabric was blackened and burnt.

Beyond all that, the antlered smith was sweating. His hair was drenched with it, and his shoulders were heaving as he drew heavily from the regulator he held in one hand. In his other, he held his hammer, with which he turned back to his monstrous adamant-clad anvil. With no further acknowledgment of Rain’s arrival, he resumed working, the very ground shaking with the full, unrestrained force of his blows. The lack of a damage limit was why they were in here.

Covering one ear with a hand and wincing with every resounding impact, Rain signed with the other. “Ameliah, what’s happening?!”

Rummaging for a moment, Ameliah tossed him the tin of wax, feeling her mana draining as Tallheart drew on the skills of their other party members. Myth and Reason were barely holding on, working frantically together with Fume Control to keep everyone from blowing up from the sparks. Kettel was only standing with Tahir’s assistance. Romer looked alright, but he had stationed himself well back from the insanity, there just to donate his skills.

Shaking her head, Ameliah returned her eyes to Rain and gestured her reply. “Tallheart’s happening.”

“I can see that,” Rain sighed, still wincing through the wax. “What’s he doing, though? Making his new metal? And why in here?”

“More heat!” boomed Tallheart’s voice, snatching Rain’s attention from her reply. “Rain! Immolate! Saturate it!”

Rain removed his own regulator to yell back. “Tallheart, are you insane? Without the damage limit, an explosion would—“

“MORE HEAT!” Tallheart bellowed, and Ameliah felt Rain’s magic pulled through her as the smith used Immolate himself. He was also using Kettel’s magic and had been for a while. Fire blasted out to either side with each fall of the hammer.

Rising from her perch near the ruins of the smelter they’d dragged in here, Ameliah caught Rain’s arm. “Just do what he wants,” she signed quickly as he turned to look at her. “Don’t worry. We’re handling it. Speaking of handling, I’ll handle cooling.” Drawing on his magic, she used Refrigerate, directly targeting everyone inside the lair.

Even if I overdo it, a little Cold damage will be better than being baked alive.

Rain shook his head in disbelief, then unleashed his magic, veritably dumping power into their surroundings. The lair trembled under the sudden pressure as she felt the inverted aura wash over her, bolstering her resistance as the temperature soared. She felt a rough friction from the two thermal auras as they ground past each other, but her practice helped her adjust to smooth things out. Rain still couldn’t use both together on his own, but Unity and a hefty dose of metamagic provided a serviceable workaround.

“Good!” Tallheart yelled. “Do not let up!”

What the hells is he doing? Rain seemed to repeat as he returned his focus to her.

“He already made the new metal, but some of the base metals got left over,” Ameliah signed. “He’s just trying to work it now to get rid of the impurities.”

“Excuse me?” Rain asked. “This is him trying to work it?”

“It’s very tough,” Ameliah signed.

The sudden end to the clanging came as a shock to both of them. Rain’s infusion of power had done the trick, apparently. Tallheart’s hammer fell to the ground with a heavy thud, blood smearing its handle, with more dripping from his fingers as he swayed. He still had plenty of health, Ameliah knew through the system, so she merely rolled her eyes at his excessiveness, leaving Tahir to deal with the self-inflicted injury. She got to her feet all the same, walking over to see what that excessiveness had wrought.

Somewhat disappointingly, it was just a metal bar. Not an ingot—more of a rod, like a blank that could be forged into a sword, except perfectly cylindrical and barely the thickness of a pencil. The metal was practically drinking mana, glowing white hot in all layers of the spectrum as it drank Rain’s power.

“Cool it,” Tallheart signed, beckoning Rain over. “Do not worry about the temper. It is pure, and that is what matters.”

“Tallheart, don’t you think this is a bit much?” Rain asked, nevertheless doing as requested. Ameliah watched as he manipulated his domain to encourage Refrigerate to break down around the bar to be absorbed. He’d already been doing the opposite to stop his magic needlessly being absorbed by the heavy and now thoroughly battered anvil. The bar itself seemed to be helping him as the air temperature rapidly fell.

“Pick it up,” Tallheart signed as the mana balance within the bar reached neutral and Rain deactivated his magic. “Pick it up, and you will see.”

“I mean, okay,” Rain said, tapping the bar a few times before pinching it between his fingers, the mana draining from the metal more quickly than it should have for its size. Rain clearly noticed that, but something else seemed to catch his attention as he lifted it and swished it through the unbreathable air. After holding the rod up to one eye, he grabbed on with both hands and tried a bend, having absolutely no success.

“Do you see now?” Tallheart asked, slumping to the ground where Ameliah had been sitting before.

“Good work,” she signed, walking back over to sit beside him. “Is it going to be this hard to make every time?”

“Probably,” Tallheart signed back, closing his eyes.

“Tallheart, this stuff’s insane!” Rain said, standing atop the middle of the rod, balancing with one end planted in the ground and the other held in one hand. It still hadn’t bent in the slightest, and the mana within it was already completely gone. “It’s so light! And strong! And it practically eats mana!”

“Now we just need a name,” Ameliah said.

Tallheart removed his regulator to reveal something incredibly rare on his face—a broad, unmistakable smile. “Lillium,” he rumbled.
