in disguise.“You used your mushrooms to infect a dungeon and overrode its consciousness!” he said, impressed.“They aren’t mine! I was forced to adopt them. Only Mushy, Maestro, and Missy are mine and sometimes the Pygmies!” Delta said furious, jabbing in the arm hard at each word.“I was the Dungeon. You’re the Hero, I’m the Dungeon. Those two are the Monster and the Weapon,” Delta said after a moment.She touched Alpha’s hand.“Hero,” she said then placed his hand on her face gently.“Dungeon,” she whispered.Alpha looked at her and his heart broke for her. A physical sensation of pain. It shattered at the knowledge that she was not superior in terms of the system nor was she his replacement. She had been turned into something he was meant to destroy and harm... to conquer...“I won’t,” he said firmly.Delta just smiled.“You don’t need to do any of that,” she agreed but Alpha shook his head.“I don’t want to,” he insisted.“Then do you want to be my friend instead?” she asked, smile bright as she held his hand gently.The question was hard as he fought so hard to... never feel lost again, but this space... this feeling...And perhaps the fact Delta had a literal army of monsters and traps to protect her...“I do,” he said, the admission of desire and loneliness making his shoulders shake. He couldn’t stop and soon he was making unintelligible noises and Delta was rocking him in a hug slowly.“Welcome to the Dungeon... Hero. It doesn’t have epic loot or the ability to level you that great, but it... it can be your home if you need it,” she said, smiling. Alpha let go of his pain inside, letting it weep and flow. As he did so, the waiting quests and notifications melted away from his vision.For the first time since he had awoken in this world, his vision was clear of symbols and alerts.All he saw was orange and warmth.“I think I’m forgetting something,” Delta muttered above his head.----“Shackles unbound. The sun has set and the gleeful moon bids your pain!” Wyin purred as Nu observed the fight as sharp spears of branches made hallways and snakes made of Wyin’s flowery hair snapped at anyone approaching.“Whip the Grim more, but leave the innocent priestess,” Nu instructed.“Isn’t this hard mode?” Grim demanded as he deftly slashed, cutting any vine that got close. Nu smiled, unheard by them, but still responding.“It’s more... Nu Game Plus,” he said and Wyin froze, snapping her head up at him in disgust. Nu sighed in dramatic sadness.“I’m ruined. She’s ruined me,” he mumbled.
