Their conversation came to an end as the Bekhai arrived, entering the room with little fanfare. Three young Warrant Officers, each one a delectable treat. Her favourite was Tong Da Fung, not technically one of the Bekhai but thoroughly entrenched beside them. Were it any other time, he would be the focus of the citizens, the little magistrate of Shen Huo and Champion of the Contest. His cold treatment of his betrothed in front of the crowds had many women aching for his touch. After all, if their choice was between being beaten by a peasant or a prince, at least the prince could afford a healer. Ever since presenting him with his award after the Contest, she had fantasies of overpowering the slim and refined young man, turning him into her little pet, a delightfully sinful thought.

Then there was Huushal, the barbaric warrior. Feral and unrestrained, a hulking brute of a man, his yellow eyes and silver hair made him an exotic delicacy. There would be no overpowering him, no, just surrendering to his brutal lust. Undoubtedly related to Baatar, the rugged beau had caught her eye the moment he arrived at the gates, and his performance in battle had only heightened her interest. Stories of him were told, the young wolf following in Baatar's footsteps, rivals in love and combat with the Undying Falling Rain. A shame he was so shy outside of battle, her flirtatious advances only netting her a few blushes, a world of difference from the ferocious warrior he presented himself as.

Last of all was Rain. Visually, the least impressive of the three, a goofy smile on his face as he took his seat, glancing about the room like a country bumpkin. His amber eyes were warm and striking, his body lean and sinewy, almost fragile in comparison with his companions, a bundle of twigs beside steel and brick. Appearances were deceiving however, Rain's brilliance and skills were only matched by his arrogance and cruelty, the cheerful and polite demeanour a cloak he wore to hide his true nature. She felt drawn to such wicked men, wanting to change them to suit her needs. What's more, she felt grateful to him for helping her father, and dreamed of rewarding him with carnal pleasures, but he left too soon afterwards.

Putting aside her distracted thoughts, she played the part of hostess, demurely serving tea and taking the chance to press up against each one. Fung ignored her and Huushal leaned away, but Rain had the audacity to lean in and smile. His actions sent a flush through her and she silently scolded herself. Bad enough to sleep with Gerel, ten years her junior, but this boy was less than half her age. It was scandalous.

Which was exactly why it excited her so. She was nothing but what the Mother made her.

Before long, the rest arrived, five unaffiliated Warrant Officers filtering in one at a time, while the four Society Warrant Officers entered together, Situ Jia Zian leading the way. Zian's talents were undeniable, his misfortune to be born in the same era as Rain, but Nian Zu rewarded both equally. Taking their seats across from the Bekhai, the tension in the room immediately catapulted, both sides trading glares while the neutral parties stood, not wishing to be seen taking sides. 12 young talents, all under the age of 25, each one a prodigy.

“Excellent.” Her father finished his tea with a satisfied sigh and placed the cup aside. “I have called you all here to discuss a matter of importance, put aside your enmity and listen. As you are all aware, the Defiled have taken root in the eastern mountain passes. They are contained for now, but the resources required to keep them there are immense, a constant train of supplies required to keep our soldiers fed and armed.” A number of portraits in hand, her father laid them out on the table one by one. “The loss of Shen Mu city has given rise to a number of bandit gangs and scattered Defiled tribes wandering the eastern coast. The riverside farms of Jiu Lang and Sanshu cities are major sources of food production, but the gangs and tribes have taken to raiding the farmlands and supply routes. Unable to keep them back, the Magistrates of both cities have asked for aid.”

“Bandits? This is why you called us here? Send soldiers to deal with the rabble, there is no honour in this.” Sang Ryong of the Seven-Star Sect spoke, an arrogant young man, but deserving of such. Not quite at the level of Rain and Zian, he stood second only to the two of them in strength.

“There aren't enough soldiers to spare, foolish child. Listen while your betters are speaking.” Unperturbed by the interruption, her father continued without pause. “The twelve of you represent 1,200 soldiers who stand idle here at the wall. Too talented to be risked, too weak to be of real use, I offer you a chance to serve the Empire and earn your meals. What's more, these are no mere bandits, many are former soldiers, including three Majors and a Lieutenant Colonel.” Gesturing to the pictures before him, the twelve young officers finally took notice, studying them intently. “Kill them or one of the more notorious bandits and there will be honour enough for you all. Many of them even have bounties posted, which you may keep.”

Dastan Zhandos, a low-born warrior from Sanshu, gestured to one of the pictures. “You want 12 Warrant Officers to take on the Butcher Bay Bandits? This is tantamount to suicide. I grew up beneath their thumb, they hold both cities with an iron grip. What can we do that the army cannot?”

“They are only one of the gangs in the area, and I do not expect you to act alone. 5,000 mercenaries will be joining you under the direction of my daughter, Major Yuzhen. You only need make certain the supplies reach their destinations, but if you are able to locate the bandit's hideouts, the Guard Captains of the surrounding cities will be standing by with an army. The bandits are not united, so you face minimal danger should you work together.” Standing to leave, he winked at her. “Of course, I cannot force you to take part. If you feel yourselves incapable or the task too dangerous, then you only need speak. Otherwise, I leave you all in my daughter's capable hands.”

With that, her father strode out of the room, leaving her to manage the 12 arrogant young warriors, many of them with disdain in their eyes. This was going to be a struggle for her to resist temptation, especially with Rain so bold, his eyes so lovely. She could not act on her passion, it would be unseemly for a commanding officer to take advantage of those beneath her.

Then again, why should she not? Male officers do it often enough.

Chapter Meme
