They went and rented a small villa in Montoire, paying for a week. Niala refused the optional chef service, stating that she wanted to experiment with the local ingredients. Nobody on her side tried to argue.

Their next step was to visit the Landretti Company itself, asking for a meeting with one of their craftsmen to look at their distiller. After taking their credentials and confirming the distiller's authenticity, the clerk assured them that someone would be available for a meeting first thing in the morning.

David stored the distiller back into his cargo cloth, and they took the rest of the day exploring and sightseeing, eventually hiring a guide to show them around. Gustave, the guide, explained that tourism was Montaroyal's second biggest industry, after alcohol exports.

According to him, the hundreds of villas and small mansions built along the cliffs all around the valley were mostly empty save for housekeepers. Owned by a variety of nobles and merchants, they served as winter houses or retreats. Right now, they were in the “off” season, between the winter and summer gluts.

He brought the group on a cursory tour of Montoire and its outskirts, providing stories about landmarks and its older establishments, including the world-renowned Landretti Company. Founded only a few decades after the valley was settled, it was as much a part of Montaroyal's history as its wines and spirits, so he told.

As evening came around, the guide suggested some restaurants and asked if the group would be interested in a longer, more in-depth presentation.

David preempted Niala, thanked him, saying they would think about it, but that they actually had business to attend to first. A glance at his wife, and how she was glaring at him, confirmed that she had been about to ask for the full, week-long, exhaustive package.

It made him smile.

He did give the guide a good tip, dispelling the man's disappointed look.

The recommended restaurant they ended up choosing was good, if not extraordinary. He guessed the guide had gone with a “safe” choice, not knowing his client's tastes.

They retired to the villa to rest. Jordo offered to take up guard duty, and Niala insisted that Sybil and Sammie just rest; the golem was more than capable on its own.

Sammie didn't even try to argue and disappeared into his designated bedroom. Sybil took a bit more convincing, and only relented once she was assured Lieutenant Allimaya wouldn't hear of it.

Niala kept David awake for a full bell, excitedly going back over everything they had seen during the day, and what she was looking forward to visiting.

He eventually shut off the word fountain with a passionate kiss, to which she responded in kind.

Later on, as she lay glued to him, thoroughly exhausted, he pondered if there was something in the air, or maybe it was just the scenery. Either way, he figured he'd look into coming back here for vacations now and then.

And to make sure he got a villa with thicker walls next time.

Irissa, the catkin clerk at the Landretti Company's front desk, finished reviewing the day's schedule and any memos her bosses had left for her just as the young couple from yesterday walked in.

Well, she had said first thing in the morning. Their usual clientele usually interpreted it as “some time before lunch”, but no matter. She'd informed Irvin yesterday that he could have customers. He'd just have to manage.

She put on her front desk smile. “Ah, Sir and Madam Allwarden. A pleasure to see you so early. Most customers are not as punctual.”

The man quirked a brow, but it was the woman who answered. “Thanks! We just really want to get the distiller looked at and fixed so we can keep sightseeing! It's a wonderful valley!”

Irissa bowed her head, ears kept erect and still. “It certainly is. The weather is mild year-round, and having been out to other cities a few times, what I always miss the most is the air. Crisp, clean and floral.”

Niala's ears wiggled. “Totally! It smells so nice! And the view is like a painting you can go out and touch!”

“Indeed. Now, as you requested, a Landretti employee will be with you shortly. His name is Irvin, one of our dedicated service enchanters. His expertise is without question. I am certain he will be able to inspect and counsel you about your Landretti distiller.” The clerk said, getting the conversation back to business. She didn't mind a bit of chit-chat, but she wasn't a tour guide.

She pointed to a nearby waiting area with her hand. “If you would, please take a seat while Irvin makes his way over. It shouldn't be more than a few minutes.”

True to her words, a lanky catkin man burst into the reception area. He wore a white lab coat with a small tool bag at his belt, and looked like he had never experienced a good night of sleep in his life.

He ran a hand in his hair, his ears flopping as he looked around and spotted David and Niala's group. With a sniff, he walked over to them. “Hello, I'm Irvin, your assigned Landretti serviceman for today. Where is the distiller that you need serviced?”

David noticed the receptionist rolling her eyes at the man's blunt approach and smirked, turning his attention to him. “I have it in a cargo cloth.”

Irvin looked down at the man's satchel. “Oh, well, that makes it easy, and it also means I can't blame any damage on the transport. Right, follow me please, and don't wander off.” He instructed and spun around, walking back through the door with wide steps.

The group hurried to follow along. The interior of the Landretti building was much the same as the exterior; built out of ancient bricks and timber, maintained and repaired over the years with the same kind of material. It gave the building an austere, living museum appearance. The light globes illuminating the corridor they were in must have been at least a few hundred years old.

They walked past a few heavy wooden doors with intricate carvings and glass panels just large enough to see if someone was inside, but not know what they were doing. He stopped by a similar door and grabbed the handle. The series of soft clicks hinted at a high-security, multi-stage mana-lock. He let them in and closed the door behind him.

Sybil and Sammie took up position by the door, while the man pointed at the centre of the room where a knee-high wooden platform stood.

“If you could unpack the distiller on the platform, please?” He said as he approached a tool bench, opening a cabinet and retrieving a few instruments, setting them on the bench and picking up a clipboard.

David did as asked, unfurling the cargo cloth on the floor next to the raised platform in the middle, and hefting it up with Jordo's help, both of them stepping back afterwards.

Irvin, shadowed by a wide-eyed Niala who looked afraid to miss something, approached the distiller. He murmured as he inspected the apparatus and took notes. “Distiller looks to be in good shape at first glance. Visual inspection reveals no apparent damage. Hmm, fittings and parts appear somewhat mismatched, possibly from the surplus of various models. Non-standard, might indicate a special order, to be investigated.”

The enchanter pulled a white glove out of his pocket and donned it, using his gloved hand to test the different parts before taking more notes. “Unit seems to have been well maintained. No signs of debris, rust, mould or other contaminants. Hand test reveals no loose parts.”

He took out a small penlight from his pocket and turned it on, shining its beam over the distiller. “Minimal surface scaring, unexpected considering the apparent age of the unit. Refurbished, maintenance, or prolonged storage, to be determined.”

He pushed a button on the light, and it turned a pale blue. The catkin walked around, inspecting, searching for something. Niala hiccuped when a line of numbers and letters appeared under the blue light. Irvin continued his commentary. “Serial number E-0-0-0-0-0-0-7-S-L-1-7. If following the standard encoding, this is Experimental unit #7, built according to design SL-17.”

Irvin frowned. “SL-17... Not a designation that I know. Will have to search the archive...”

The enchanter put his light away and turned toward the catkin who had been sticking to him like a burr. “Madam, could you describe the nature of the problems you have encountered with this Landretti Distiller?”

Niala blinked. “Ah, huh, lately, the potion quality I brewed in it has been dipping. I checked all the fittings, seals, temperature and pressure settings... everything!”

Irvin's pen scribbled on his pad. “Do you have an approximation of the drop in quality?”

“Sure! Between 0.23% to 0.35%!”

The pen stopped. “That... is a very accurate measurement.” He eventually said.

She nodded. “Sure, but it's better to catch the issue early, no? Besides, it's been going on for a while! I started noticing it at around 0.10%, which is the margin of error that I allow myself. When I saw that I was consistently getting that much deviation, I started to suspect something, but it took me a while to re-check all my manipulations and process.”

“...Right, and you said you used the distiller for potions, not alcohols?” Irvin said, his pen scratching the paper once more.”

“That's right. It's not an issue, right?” She asked, ears drooping. “My father has been using a Landretti distiller for close to a decade by now. He was told they were perfectly fine for that.”

Irvin blinked, his ears twitching. “Ah, yes, it's fine, no issue.” He wrote a few more words, looking back up at Niala. “If I may... who is your father?”

Niala beamed a smile. “Cornelius All Brew!”

The room went silent as the enchanter stared at the catkin. “The... Cornelius All Brew. Of the Cornelius Concoction Company.”

“That's right! Why?”

Irvin pinched the bridge of his nose and squeezed his eyes shut, mumbling. “Oh, Irissa, I'm going to murder you...”

He opened them and looked at Niala. “I'm sorry, Madam, but I need to go and fetch my supervisor. Your father is on a... well. He is a very important person.”

Niala quirked her head. “Ah? He's well-known, but if you consider him so important, why was he never able to buy a brand-new distiller from you guys? He had to purchase it second-hand.”

Irvin chewed his lips for a few seconds before answering. “Madam, it's simply because we have a fifteen-year waiting list on order fulfillment. Your father has many distillers reserved out of our future production, purchased at a premium, since we usually only allow a single unit per family per period of ten years.”

Niala made an O with her mouth, eyes wide, before she frowned. “Wait, how many distillers has my dad purchased, exactly?”

“I believe it was... twenty units.”

Niala put a hand to her face as she looked down.

Sybil started counting on her fingers. Her eyes went wide. “Wait, isn't that worth, like, 60 million bits total?”

Irvin winced. “At the regular market price of 3 to 4 million bits per distiller, yes. However, as I said, Madam Allwarden's father paid a premium to reserve so many units.”

Niala looked up. “How much?”

“I-I'm not sure I should disclose this-”

She took a step forward. “How much did my dad pay for twenty Landretti distillers?”

“... Three times the market price.”

Sammie nearly choked.

David blinked, turning his head toward Niala. “Alright, so, I know your father is rich, but... just how rich is he?”

Niala hid her face back into her hand.

The manager was fetched shortly after – an older gentleman who promised Niala that she would be getting the best service the Landretti Company could offer. A second service enchanter was brought to the room, and he and Irvin began inspecting the distiller inch by inch, dismantling it piece by piece with velour gloves, and storing each part in individual numbered boxes. The stack of notes grew by the bell.

At the same time, a clerk was sent to retrieve information on the serial number, and especially the design number: SL-17.

The group was asked if they would prefer retiring to one of the company's salons, where snacks and refreshments would be served, but Niala shut that down. Watching the enchanters work was way too interesting.

David simply nodded, having retrieved an enchanting book to study, while Sybil and Sammie bantered quietly. Jordo, being Jordo, was fine with standing upright and waiting.

The bells passed, and the inspection process continued, each part getting tested repeatedly, until the door opened on a tailored-suited man, stocky, with a piercing stare, and greying hair. He was followed by a subdued clerk, wearing a puffy beret and gripping a thick file folder in her arms.

Every Landretti employee in the room stopped and turned to face the newcomer, standing ramrod straight.

The short angry man walked up to Niala. “Miss Allwarden. I am Sebastian Quaro, grand manager of the Landretti Company. After investigation into your distiller, I regret to inform you that we must purchase it back. It cannot be allowed back out of these walls.”

Niala blinked, ears twitching. “Wh-what? What do you mean?”

The man furrowed his brows. “I mean exactly what I meant. I cannot allow this unit back out into the wild. I am very sorry. Rest assured, we will generously compensate you for your trouble, and you will be earmarked for a brand new distiller as soon as we have an open production slot.”

They argued with the man for a while, Niala trying to fish out the reason, while David, Jordo and Sybil tried to look intimidating. Clearly, however, the man had faced worse.

Sammie, during that time, flirted with the clerk who had followed Sebastian in. Both of them were ignored as tempers and words ran hot among the main group.

With Sebastian refusing to budge, and the group not wanting to resort to physical violence, they accepted defeat and were led out of the company's premises.

David put his arm around Niala's shoulders as she shuffled forward, looking dejected. Behind her, Sybil kept glancing over her shoulder and throwing daggers with her eyes at the staff escorting them out.

Sammie folded and pocketed the piece of paper with the clerk's name and address on it.

Outside, the grand manager handed them a small envelope containing a bank note for 180 nobles, or 1.8 million bits, and a bill of ownership for a new distiller, to be produced within the next ten years.

Neither of which sounded like a victory to Niala.

They walked back toward the rented villa, mostly in silence, until a young man in a business suit accosted them once they were out of sight of the Landretti building.

The group stopped, with Sybil and Sammie positioning themselves between their wards and the stranger.

He held his hands up. “Sorry, Hi. I don't mean anything nefarious. My name is Emile Landretti, heir to what's left of the Landretti family. I learned what happened, and I can tell you why it happened, if you would?”

Niala and David shared a look. She turned her head toward the young man. “I'd like to know, yes.”

He let out a breath of relief, then collected himself. “The distiller you brought back is a piece of a puzzle left behind by my grandfather. Sebastian Quaro has been retrieving all the pieces since he wrested the company's control from my late father. At this point, I'm not sure if he is missing any of them...”

David quirked a brow. “A puzzle to what?”

Emile met his gaze. “To my family's secret, which he absolutely cannot have.”

“What secret?” David insisted.

The young man flinched, but then looked left and right and stepped closer, speaking quietly. “Runes. Special ones, said to date back to the time of the founding gods.”

His eyes hardened. “It might just be a legend, but if there is any truth to it, a man like Sebastian cannot have them. I was never able to legally prove it, but I know he's had my father assassinated.”

Everyone went quiet, with only the wind to be heard.

Until Sybil pumped her arm. “Yessss! An investigation for justice!”

Sammie let his head hang.