MAJESTIC

“MAHALA! MAHALA! WHERE ARE- Oh, there you are! Mahala! Have you confirmed with the backup and backup-backup ensembles that they will be available for the ceremony? We can't be music-less!”

Mahala, bags under her eyes, dishevelled, looked up from the sea of forms and papers on her desk at Cornelius, who was showing early signs of energizer poisoning.

She sighed, planning how she'd get him to drink a sleeping potion.

Again.

She picked up a piece of paper and handed it to him. “Yes, Cornelius. They've sent back triple confirmations. Do you want me to check with them for a fourth time?” She winced internally as soon as she said it. It had been sarcastic, but...

Cornelius looked over the paper, then back at her, ears locked upward. “Yes, please do so. A fourth time. Do you have the signed guarantees that the caterers have planned for quintuple servings?”

“...Yes, Cornelius, I have. You know, your daughter already planned everything at the Solar Grand Gall. Why are you planning a full second ceremony at the Evermore Hall?”

He looked like she'd just asked if drinking water was good. “What happens if there is an issue at the Grand Hall? My daughter's wedding would be ruined!”

He walked up to her desk, grabbed her shoulders and, pulling her toward him, stared straight into her eyes. “Mahala, we cannot have that!”

Letting go of her, he spun around and walked toward a table with even more documents strewn about. “My Angeline! Oh! My baby girl! Getting married to the Wardenfel heir!”

He froze.

Mahala swallowed. That was never good.

Slowly, he turned around, eyes manic. “Mahala... I need to come up with a gift for the Wardenfels! I only have eight weeks!”

He spun and darted toward the door. From down the hallway, she could hear him yell. “MARKETING! ASSEMBLE!”

She blew a breath through the corner of her mouth, letting her head flop forward to look at the paper in front of her.

Emergency tailor services.

A scribbled note in the margin, in Cornelius' handwriting: “To fix torn clothes during ceremony. Hire at least two.”

Her head slammed on the desk.

Angeline, please come back soon. Your father is unstoppable.

MERCHANT AIRSHIP PRINCELY SUM, EN ROUTE TO AMBEROSE

Angeline leaned against the railing on the deck, her dress fluttering in the wind, looking out toward the horizon where the capital was barely visible.

She had everything planned.

It had been so for a while now.

Of course, in the beginning, it had only been a contingency, a framework of a plan, the details left for later.

Even now, she found it strange that, out of all the possibilities she had foreseen after being assigned to work with Isaac, this was the one she ended up using.

She lifted her hand, looking at the engagement band that Isaac had produced for her once he'd come to his senses and agreed that they didn't need to wait any longer.

She smiled. That the man had acquired an engagement band some time ago, “as precaution”, he'd defended himself, had been proof enough that she had been right.

But, being right or wrong, having planned or not...

The foundations of her adult life, the tools and habits she had built for herself to stand above and in control of her life, when she looked at the band, they all felt irrelevant.

She had long ago learned to keep her emotions tamed and obedient, to be released when they couldn't do any damage. Now, when Isaac was involved, she was having a hard time not wanting to release them.

She sighed. Really, to have been conquered by a man who had been scared of her, and one she had enjoyed scaring.

Maybe she had enjoyed it too much.

Still, she was unable to feel any regret about the series of events. In a way, it felt like a natural sequence that only ever had one possible outcome. The thought wanted to make her cry and laugh.

A single possible outcome. If that were true, then her entire adult life had been a lie.

And yet, it was the only truth she could accept.

A strong, gentle arm coiled around her waist. She turned her head to look at Isaac, who had joined her side.

Her mouth smiled, unbidden. He mirrored it.

She leaned into him, resting her head atop his, and returned her gaze out toward the speck that was the capital.

She'd caught herself thinking a few times that it was a bit of a shame that Isaac was a few inches shorter than her. Now, those memories brought her shame.

Isaac was perfect as he was, and she actually enjoyed being taller than him.

His hand squeezed her side. “I can somehow tell you're thinking something belittling about me.”

She couldn't help but chuckle.

He pulled his head from underneath hers and looked at her, his eyes going wide and his lips thinning in consternation.

Her chuckle melted into a warm smile that reached her eyes.

He is so cute when he's affronted!

Instead of words, she leaned forward, drawing her lips toward his mouth. She could see the confusion on his face, but he didn't try to deny her.

Their lips touched. She pushed her kiss in, almost tripping him backward.

She felt the moment he gave up and returned her passion.

A spark tingled her entire body.

When they parted, she opened her eyes and locked gaze with him. He looked happy, in his own Isaac way, which meant he didn't look angry.

Her head returned to its proper position: resting atop his.

A minute passed before she said anything. “For the record, I was thinking how I enjoyed being taller than you.”

She felt his body tense up. Then, after deciding it wasn't a veiled insult, he sighed. “If I'm being honest... so do I.”

Her eyes went wide, her heart missing a beat.

She wondered if his honesty toward her was what had brought her low.

It... might have been.

She... trusted him. Really, really trusted him. He told her the truth.

He told her the truth.

Oh. That was why she'd fallen in love with him.

And that was why she was falling in love with him all over again.

WARDENFEL MANSION

Sitting in his highchair, in the main hall, Lord Jacob Wardenfel looked over at his son's fiancée.

It was indeed Angeline All Brew. The tall, blonde woman stood next to Isaac, a polite, functional smile on her face, with an impenetrable posture that clawed at your confidence.

He was the patriarch of the Wardenfels, and she was being presented for his review to determine if she was a good match for his son and the family name.

So why did he feel as if he was meeting her and not the other way around?

He glanced at his wife, Agatha, next to him. She had the same muted expression he had seen her wear for so long, though he could see the cracks around the edges of her mask.

Re-seating himself, he returned his attention to the two young people before him. “Isaac, as per your letter, you announced your intentions to marry this woman. As is required by tradition, I must interview her to ascertain she is of proper mind and morality to bear the name of Wardenfel.”

Isaac nodded as Jacob focused on the woman. “Young Miss Angeline All Brew, please step forward, and present yourself.”

She bowed slightly, at what he estimated had been the exact angle her station demanded in this situation.

The entire process was over-dramatic, and the entire nobility understood that it was nearly pointless.

As Angeline walked forward, he looked through the corner of his eye at Edvin, his seneschal, who was capturing the proceedings with a recording orb.

He sighed internally. Pointless it may be, it was still tradition, and the council would not approve if they did not follow procedures.

His to-be daughter-in-law stopped ten paces away, as was proper, and curtsied. “Lord Patriarch Wardenfel, I am Angeline All Brew, prospective marriage candidate and hopeful for your son's hand. I hold no secrets. What do you wish to know, my Lord?”

Jacob narrowed his eyes. Her presentation had been nearly perfect. The proper term was I withhold no secret.

This was deliberate. I wonder why...

“Miss Angeline All Brew. To join the Wardenfel is to join a dynasty which has striven to uphold the ideals of this kingdom and protect its people. Tell me, what do you know of our principles?”

The tall blonde dipped her head and began reciting the proper response.

He asked a question, she answered, according to the script. When he asked open questions, such as why she was a good fit for the family, she answered with clear and multi-layered responses. When he challenged her on any potential ill-desires in seeking this union, she countered with declarations of loyalty to the kingdom.

The ceremony lasted a full bell, and to give due where needed, the woman navigated it with all the grace and wits of a seasoned noble.

Nobody watching the recording would have any ground for complaints.

With a nod of the head toward Edvin, the seneschal stopped the recording orb, placing it in a secure box, and leaving for the family archive with it, dragging with him the two guards who had been present.

This left the four of them alone, ready to ask the useful questions at last.

Jacob relaxed his back, letting go of his rigid posture and using his chair's backrest as support.

He looked back at Angeline, who somehow looked more relaxed, and yet held exactly the same poise as before.

Jacob addressed his son. “Isaac, come closer. No need to shout my questions at you, all the way back there.”

He nodded and walked up, sidling next to Angeline. “Father.” He said.

Jacob observed the two of them, just standing beside each other. You could tell a lot about how people felt toward each other when they were in close proximity.

And, right now, he could see that his son was a little stressed by her presence, but also determined to remain in place.

As for her...

He couldn't glean anything. Just as he'd suspected after having been present at her deconstruction of Willard Haggleman during the Reign Ascendant negotiations.

Now that he was the one standing in front of her, he had a bit more sympathy for the king's chancellor. “Isaac, I've witnessed first-hand her talents, and from what I have been able to gather, her values align with those of this family.”

Isaac nodded, while Angeline kept her unreadable smile up.

Jacob leaned forward slightly. “But, if you are marrying only for the benefits this woman can bring to the family, then I will deny this union.”

His son's eyes widened in shock. Even Angeline's smile ever so lightly twitched.

Isaac shook away his stupor. “Father, I do not... I am not at her side only because I believe she has much to offer to our dynasty.”

“Then, why else?” His father asked.

The young man glanced at Angeline. The fabricated curve on her lips did not change, but her eyes told him much. He looked back at Jacob. “Because I trust her. She has had so many opportunities to use me for her own gain, but she only ever directed me to where I would do the greatest good.”

He stood straighter, his voice confident. “She can be a scary woman, that is true. But not because she has evil in her heart. It is the fear that a seasoned warrior instills in his foes when they notice that he has already adopted his stance and has been calculating all of their movements since five steps ago. In Angeline's case, it is not a sword she wields, but words.”

Isaac turned his head toward her, letting his gaze linger for a while more before looking back at his father. “And I wish to help her. I do not have the skills that she does. I never will, I believe. As she has helped me realize, I care too much. Yet, I yearn to do great things. I wish to enrich the lives of the crown's subjects, so that we may all lift our burdens as one, and ascend to greater heights.”

He took one step forward. “And I know that she feels the same. She is a scary woman, but she is also a loving woman. I want to support her because I know she will change the world, if given the chance, and for the better. I want to be there when she does so, every step of the way.”

Jacob blinked.

That was not the answer he had been expecting. He turned to look at Agatha, and froze when he saw a singular tear trail down her cheek.

Taking in a deep breath, he looked at Angeline. She had the same facial expression, though he could feel something had changed.

Somehow, she seemed a bit more approachable, like a panther that had momentarily retracted her claws.

He narrowed his eyes. “What about you, young lady? Why do you wish to marry my son?”

Her smile twitched up a millimetre. “Because he is a great man, with a loving heart, who has lofty dreams, and who will be utterly devoured by his peers if left to fend alone.”

He choked, Agatha coughed, Isaac groaned.

Angeline smiled.

Jacob wanted to say something, to refute, to defend his son. But he couldn't. Everything she'd said was true. Isaac, for all of his strengths, was fated to be a weak politician.

Here, this woman was proposing to take up this particular sword for him. For her own ambitions? Surely. One did not marry into the Wardenfels without ambitions.

But ambitions by themselves were not a fault, and if his son was right, hers were righteous.

He opened his mouth to give his verdict, but she stepped forward, cutting him off. He kept his eyes on her as she walked up the few long steps leading up to him and retrieved a rolled-up piece of cloth from a hidden pocket on her dress.

Still with the same smile she'd displayed since the beginning, she handed him the roll. From the red outline, this had to be a cargo cloth. He looked up at her with a question in his eyes.

She bowed her head. “This is my dowry, Lord Jacob Wardenfel.”

Jacob furrowed his brow. “Young lady, dowries are outdated traditions. Barely anyone still uses them outside of remote regions.”

“Outdated it may be, it is still a relevant one. Please, accept this as a sign of my devotion to joining your family.”

He heard his son let out an exasperated sigh. “Isaac, what is it?”

The young man shook his head in defeat. “Father, she is bribing you to make certain you accept.”

Jacob looked up at the young woman, eyes narrowed.

She let her smile drop, dismay taking its place, as she turned her head toward her fiancée. “Isaac, dear! How could you say that? It is nothing but a simple dowry!” She looked back at Jacob. “Lord Wardenfel! I apologize if I have erred! Please, open the cloth, and inform yourself of its contents! I am certain your fears of any wrongdoings on my part will be assuaged!”

He stared at her for a few more seconds before unrolling the cloth. It was a 30-centimetre one, and the image within showed a stocky chest.

Which had a small paper envelope leaning against its side.

He looked up at the woman, who was offering him a smile more innocent than he had thought possible until now.

Jacob got up and deposited the cargo cloth on the floor. He assumed it was un-keyed to any mana, and he was right, as it reacted once he pulsed his own.

The chest and the envelope lifted out of the cloth. He unclasped the chest and looked within.

And immediately closed it back. He looked at Angeline. “This is filled with nobles.”

She dipped her head. “It is, Lord Jacob.”

“How much is there?”

She smiled. “Five hundred pieces, Lord Jacob, or five million bits, if you prefer.”

He remained silent for a beat. “The largest dowry I know of was roughly two million bits.”

“I am aware, Lord Jacob. I am also aware that the dowry is to be commensurate with the perceived worth of the marriage.” She said sweetly.

He breathed in and out. “You are saying this marriage with my son is of unparalleled worth.”

“Just so, Lord Jacob.”

Eventually, he looked away from her and to the envelope. Picking it up, he opened the flap and looked inside to find a few sheets of paper. He retrieved them and began scanning the first page's contents.

Then he flipped to the second.

Then to the third.

Fourth, fifth, six-

His face snapped up at the woman. “What is the meaning of this?!” He barked out.

But she only smiled, remaining unflappable.

Isaac stepped forward. “What is it, father?”

Jacob handed him the papers while keeping his eyes on the young woman.

His son began flipping through the small document. “These are... names, locations, dates...” He looked up at his father. “Some of the names are underlined. And there is a small symbol on each page. Do these names or symbols tell you anything, father?”

“The names I recognized.” He ground out. “Are the names of conspirators against the king, and of agents we have within their midst.”

Isaac looked at Angeline, one eyebrow lifted.

Jacob kept staring at her. “What is the meaning of this, girl?”

Her smile deepened. “This is part of my dowry, Lord Jacob.”

If he could have shot lightning from his eyes, he would have. The symbol was known to him, and it belonged to the only organization that could compile this kind of list.

An organization which did not deal with nobles under any circumstances. He knew, as he had tried, for so many years, to gain their cooperation.

The scourers had vowed to never play the nobles' games after the previous dynasty.

And yet, with this document, she was telling him two things: yes, I have access to the scourers, and yes, I have negotiated for their cooperation with me, even if I am to marry into nobility.

Now, he understood what Willard Haggleman had gone through.

She was bribing him.

Only it was a bribe he could not refuse.

The whole charade had been pointless. She only had to show him this envelope, and he would have rammed this marriage down the throat of everyone.

He saw her expression shift subtly.

She knew. She knew what he'd just thought of. She knew, and she was telling him that she did.

A detail, small, and which had seemed innocuous at the time, came back to him; she had prefaced the ceremony with “I hold no secret.”

One of the scourer's tenets was “No secrets will hold.”

His son had been wrong. This woman wasn't scary. She was terrifying.