Teressa came out of the yurt with eyes wide and clouded over. “I don’t see anything in the manasphere.”

Jane and Nirzir came out of the yurt, wondering what was going on.

“Let me know if that changes, Teressa.” Erick said, “Poi, with me. Teressa, stay here. Jane and Nirzir, prepare, but don’t make it obvious. Hopefully nothing will happen.”

Poi hopped down from the yurt to follow Erick, as Erick walked across the grasslands, toward the meeting platform. At their approach, all of the remaining petitioners who hadn’t prepared themselves for Erick’s arrival launched to their feet to be presentable. Unlike on the first day, no one lined up, for Erick had already shown that lining up did nothing; he would take their concerns as he saw fit.

Erick, unimpeded, walked across the grassland to his platform. Standing atop the stone, he said to the gathered crowds, “I’m done with assisting people, for now, unless you have an actual emergency. If you do not have an emergency, I do not appreciate you taking up my time. Please remove yourself from this area if you do not have an emergency.” Erick added, “That said: if you have a longer-term concern that will become an emergency, you may remain, and we might speak of it.”

Thankfully, forty seven of the eighty-ish groups took their leave.

Erick leveled a withering stare at a couple whose application boiled down to a ‘platinum rain investment opportunity’, saying, “I do not need investment opportunities.”

The couple nodded rapidly, then vanished in a blip of orange light.

After a few more heavy words, Erick rid himself of all but eleven groups. The man with the dragon scale was among those groups, but he could wait.

Erick found a dead child for a suddenly grieving mother and father, and tried not to think about if he had helped them seven hours ago that the child might still be alive. He saved yet another coastal village from a tangled hydra. He burned a forest to the ground, taking the monsters inside with it. He rescued a teenager from a bandit gang on the far side of the Tribulations, reuniting the overjoyed boy with his father and uncle, who wept tears of happiness at the boy’s return.

He killed some more monsters.

And then there was only one person left to deal with. The man with the dragon scale.

(There were a few more groups trickling in after the dragon man, but Erick ignored those.)

Erick invited the man onto his platform, asking him, “Do you wish for a Privacy?”

“Sure.”

Erick sealed them in a Privacy, then dropped all politeness, casually demanding, “So what’s all this, then?”

The man nodded deeply, respectfully, then he raised his head. His eyes had been normal brown, but now they were bright green, and full of shadows. “This man is a willing participant in a pact made long ago, so don’t go thinking that I have corrupted his soul or anything like that; Linxel was the only unwilling person I have soul touched in a long time, hence my failure, and his discovery.”

Erick managed to speak without too much malice in his voice, “Ordoonarati, I presume.”

“Correct.”

“And why would someone agree to be soul fucked?” Erick asked, “The alternative was death?”

“Nothing nearly so crass.” Ordoonarati’s representative turned a bit angry, but he calmed, and said, “In exchange for a better life, which he has gotten, I am able to use him to speak to others, without them being able to track me down. It is a trick used by my kind in order to interact with each other without risking a physical interaction or tracking spells, for this spellwork cannot be blocked or tracked by any means save for Wizardry.”

Erick would be testing that theory after the man left, but for now, he asked, “So why have you come here?”

Ordoonarati eyed Erick. “You saw what happened at the debates, and yet you have hostility toward me? Have I not proven that I can bend with the wind? There need not be any further action between us, Archmage Flatt. You have goaded a reluctant archmage back into the public eye, and though you are taking your own power with you when you go, you are leaving us grass travelers with Koori, the Cleanser, and so we are much stronger than we were before.” Ordoonarati said, “You have killed every large monster in this land, ensuring easy prosperity for at least a year. Your ideas for Integration might keep this land from turning into a copy of Songli; might keep us free of the nobility. You have brought technology to this place, and explained how to use it.” He said, “I thought you were a plague, but I was mistaken. You are a savior, and a true Fire of the Age. I did not believe them, and I apologize for that.”

Erick allowed his anger to seep away. “I do not wish to fight you, either, for whatever would happen, others would suffer for it.”

Ordoonarati nodded. “Even if we do become allies in the future, this is how it is between powers.”

Erick got to the meat of the matter. “I want to know that I’m not leaving a problem at my back, Ordoonarati.”

“And so, we arrive at the main reason I have come today. I don’t wish to leave a festering problem at my back, either.” Ordoonarati said, “So in the spirit of friendship, I will inform you a little about [Gate], as I know of the spell.”

Erick was highly skeptical, and he allowed that emotion to show. Anything the dragon said could be the truth, or a lie, or simply misleading. And yet… It might work out. Trust was an important part to starting a relationship of any kind, and though Ordoonarati did not seem trustworthy at all…

Erick was willing to try, for what other response was there? To find and kill this hidden dragon? Thousands would die in the crossfire, for sure.

And yet, Erick was still skeptical. Perhaps even more so than he was when this conversation had started.

Erick said, “You said you wouldn’t give me this information unless I brought you a Wizard.”

The man speaking for Ordoonarati sat straight, his eyes glowing even brighter, darker green for a brief moment. He eyed Erick. “Do you know of any Wizards?”

“Probably not.” Erick said, “I’m not even sure what to look for when it comes to those types, besides a core of some sort and the production of their own sort of mana. I usually kill monsters, though, so I might have accidentally killed one, for I have killed cannibals before. How would I know if I had killed a Wizard?”

Ordoonarati continued to eye Erick. “… I feel that you need a lot more information than I previously estimated. But I will not teach you everything today. So, choose one; choose how to cement this alliance: information of Wizards, or information of [Gate].”

“[Gate],” Erick said, without hesitation. He added, “It will have to be something I don’t already know, though when it comes to [Gate], I feel I know quite a lot.”

Ordoonarati thought for a second. He nodded. “Then to facilitate this exchange, I will put forth a thought in this one’s head, and you will do the same—” He looked past Erick, to Poi, adding, “And your Mind Mage will tell if it's the same thought, or not. The Mind Mages are still honorable, are they not?”

Erick spoke up, “We won’t be doing it that way, for I don’t want certain things to be implied by omission, or not. How about this: I will ask you a deep question, and you must decide if you want to answer. If your answer is unsatisfactory, then I will pick again. The generosity of your answer will have a weight, too.”

“… Agreeable.” Ordoonarati said, “When we are actual allies, I expect better treatment than this.”

“We shall see about that on some other day, but yes; I would expect better treatment, too.” Erick warned, “Soul fucking someone I’m doing business with normally ends in execution.”

“Fucking with the life of a dragon also normally ends in execution, but I take your point.” Ordoonarati said, “Ask your question.”

Erick took a moment.

His question came from when he was walking across the grasslands, toward Clan Pale Cow for the first time and Nirzir knocked loose an idea which led down a rabbit hole that had the possibility to end this whole [Gate]-thing well before Erick got to the end of the Path.

Erick asked, “Is [Duplicate], or a variation of [Duplicate] which copies souls and people, some intrinsic part of [Gate]? Or is—” Erick stopped there, for the green eyes of Ordoonarati’s representative were swirling with a lot of dark green light.

Ordoonarati took a moment to calm himself, and another moment to speak. “You are far along the Path. Farther than I expected. Not many would even know how to answer this question, and I… This answer is...” He paused. “It is a deep answer. I can answer it. I can even elaborate to a certain extent, but not overmuch, for reasons which may become apparent at a later date.”

Erick waited.

Ordoonarati said, “The answer is this: No. [Duplicate] is not intrinsically necessary to create [Gate], the spell. [Duplicate] is necessary if you don’t want to put in a lot of work to allow your [Gate] to be used by others, for [Duplicate] is the only way to effortlessly create new permanent anchoring Gates, and...” He paused.

Erick filed away Ordoonarati’s words for later, when he had the opportunity to digest them. For now, he kept his face impassive, and skeptical. The man had more to say, and he probably would, if Erick let him.

“… And… Hmm.” Ordoonarati said, “I will throw in a bonus answer as a show of good faith, along with a warning. A high-tier variant of [Duplicate] is necessary to allow the [Gate] to protect itself, for it will need protection that it can create at-will, for attackers will always try to pierce the separation between the user-end of [Gate] and the interior inner workings, to try to take over the [Gate] for themselves.

“This is what happened when the orcols Raged through the Forest of Glaquin, and captured the Gate Networks 1400 years ago. In order to stop this, the rest of the world sent suicide kill teams into those [Gate]s to kill the usurpers while other teams outside destroyed the permanent Gates, setting the [Gate]s adrift in the manasphere, where they eventually disintegrated, with everyone inside dying.

“In this way, the Gate Network of Glaquin was destroyed.

“Mostly.

“Those orcols did not capture the main spell, though, for its protections were immaculate, and highly varied. The main [Gate] had— Well. That’s too much information.”

Erick waited.

Ordoonarati continued, “For smaller, less well protected [Gate]s, it is easy to tear through the veil separating the user-end of the spell from the core magic of the working, and once a thief is past this barrier, the thief can take over the [Gate] for themselves, forcing the spell to move as they wish, and to do what they want. [Duplicate] will allow your [Gate] to copy guardian monsters that can do that protecting while you’re off doing whatever.

“Giving a good version of [Duplicate] to your [Gate] is absolutely necessary if you plan on allowing others to use your [Gate]s.”

Ordoonarati stopped speaking. This time he was fully done.

While that was a lot to think about, Erick asked, “So [Duplicate] is not copying those who walk inside the [Gate], and then spitting that copy out elsewhere, while it pretends to move people from point to point in the world? [Duplicate] is only for protective purposes?”

Ordoonarati eyed Erick, likely thinking many thoughts in that moment. “… Correct.” Then, more seriously, he said, “Making [Duplicate] work on monsters and lesser life forms is easy enough, for the souls of most monsters are incredibly simple. A deep dive into Soul Magic is not necessary in order to protect your [Gate] from spell thieves. What you speak of is the [Resurrection] problem, and that is far outside of the scope of [Gate]. Do you understand?”

Erick felt a weight fall from his shoulders as he sighed out. Though he tried to hide his reaction, it was impossible to hide, for Erick felt light, in that moment. [Gate] did not kill travelers and replace them with copies. Thank the gods.

Ordoonarati nodded, then waited.

Erick said, “Assuming this is all true, then I thank you for your answers.”

“I would have you understand my words as true.” Ordoonarati said, “I would have us be allies, for what you have done for my people has been amazing.”

“We’re a far ways away from becoming allies, Ordoonarati.” Erick said, “But from what I’ve seen after our initial problems and from what I see here, I have hope for the future.”

“Me, as well.”

“How will I find you, for further discussion? Through this man?”

Ordoonarati said, “You can find this man whenever you wish, but don’t interrupt his life for these big discussions. The Pact we forged holds many terms, two of which was a great bounty from me to him, while another was for him to never know of the conversations he carries out in my name. This is done so that he cannot be interrogated by anyone who captures him.”

Erick asked, “What does this man think is happening right now?”

“He’s asleep. Dreaming.” Ordoonarati said, “When we’re done here, I will leave this man at his home…” He paused. He said, “This should not be abnormal to you... Unless this is your first interaction with a dragon?”

“The first one that I know about, yeah.” Erick said, “Aside from the He—”

Ordoonarati suddenly said, “Do not bring up that waste of mana in my presence—” Calmer, he added, “In the presence of any dragon. There is no need to be antagonistic... But I suppose you didn’t know that you were being rude.”

And there, for perhaps the first provable time, based on mannerisms and heartbeat and eye dilation —though, for sure, the disconnect between Ordoonarati and his man was messing things up for Erick— Erick was pretty sure that Ordoonarati had just tested how much Erick was capable of seeing.

Erick called the dragon out on his shit, “You’re testing my limits, and then pushing back on the simple utterance of a name. You’re probing for weakness.” Erick said, “I do not appreciate this.”

Ordoonarati said, “I am not doing that at all, but I can see how you would believe that. I would end this conversation here and pick it up at some later date. Perhaps when my words have proven themselves as true, and that there need not be any hostility between us.”

… It was possible that Erick was a little bit paranoid.

Whatever.

Erick said, “You have done a lot of harm around here. There might always be hostility.”

