Ordoonarati said, “To point out who has done actual harm in this land, I say that you have been a thousand times more deadly to the grass travelers than I. I merely manipulated Linxel to try to get you to leave. You killed thousands of people, and your purge of the local monster ecology will create lasting, unknown ripple effects, the outcomes of which will take years to unfold, and which might cause complete shifts in the landscape of the grasslands. I suspect we will get monster hordes vanishing whole clans in three months, if not sooner.” He added, “I was never a danger to these people; you were, and are. But you’ve been good for us, too. Hence, my appearance here, and now.

“I would tell you not to see shadows where there are none, but as I am sure you can see, I am Shadow aligned.” Ordoonarati’s representative gave a small smile.

For a brief moment, Erick was dumbfounded.

Then he asked, “Was that a joke?”

“It was, yes. I have been known to spin a good humor now and again, though it is difficult to do in situations like this, but one must try for good humor and relaxation when attempting to connect with new allies.”

Moments passed.

“Okay. Yeah.” Erick forced himself to relax. He breathed out, and said, “I will, of course, never reveal your man here to anyone else, or be sending any danger your way. But, I will be checking up on what you have told me about [Duplicate], which will…” He sighed. “Unfortunately, take me back to Oceanside.”

“There are other ways to learn these magics.” Ordoonarati said, “A trip into a Vision of the past would serve you well. I could even be your ally in there so that you aren’t unprepared. This would require a great deal more trust between us, though, because from where I am standing, you are the one who is a danger to me. If I feel you are no longer a danger, then I might reveal the Vision’s location, but I suspect you already know where it is.”

“I might know; yes. But… How does that work, exactly? I get that there’s a fraction of the Old Cosmology in there, and this ameliorates the Curse, but you have to travel through the Forest of Glaquin to get there.” Erick said, “Dragons which show themselves in the Forest would surely be discovered, and what’s more, showing yourself in that Old Place would also be showing the face you use out here in the world. Unless you have different faces for every interaction? But that solution would require you to steal faces to have one persona in there, and another out here.”

Ordoonarati gently shook his head when Erick finished. He said, “Too many people have too many untoward ideas about dragon society, and of our Curse. It is not surprising to hear you say this, but it is disheartening. Considering that you annihilated the Shades for their evil ways, I am surprised you haven’t thrown in with the Dragon Stalkers already.”

There was a pause for Erick to speak, but he did not. He waited for an actual rebuttal to his postulation.

Ordoonarati continued on, “I normally wouldn’t answer multiple magical questions since these are the currency we seem to be trading upon, but I can tell that you think I am in debt, and since this will not do, I will speak on this small secret. You likely would have been exposed to this secret if you asked around, anyway.

“If you get good enough at [Polymorph], which is an innate dragon ability and most of us are very good at it, then you can switch between ‘lives’, becoming another person at the twisting of 125 mana. Think of it like [Teleport]; a good [Polymorph] is as easy to achieve as it is to step on a different path of life. In our Status, we only have the one Familiar Form, so that gets around a lot of the problems of a Sin Seeker finding out you have multiple Familiar Forms.

“Most of us have a form we use when visiting Ar’Cosmos and then a different one when we are out here, in this Script-saddled world. No faces need to be stolen in order to separate these lives, for the people you meet in Ar’Cosmos are never the same people you meet out here.” Ordoonarati said, “There are occasional problems with the young being unable to [Polymorph] correctly, adding to the confusion, but we try to keep children out of sight until they learn how.”

It seemed that every answer the dragon gave only led to another ten questions.

Erick directly asked, “But what about eggs hatched in the Forest? I heard that the survivor goes out and hides among other people, [Polymorph]ing themselves into a child to hopefully be raised by adoptive parents, while the rest become wyrms. This seems to indicate that [Polymorph] is rather instinctive.” He said, “I heard that from the Dragon Stalkers, but was that a lie?”

Ordoonarati’s man frowned a little, but he did not sound angry as he said, “You push your goodwill to a breaking point. How would you like it if I asked you of your dead children, forced to live in a world that cannot support them all?”

“I would get over myself and answer the important questions when they were asked, because these unanswered questions have a way of festering, leading to misunderstandings that would then paint my whole species as pure evil.”

Briefly, Erick felt bad about what he had said, because it was clear that Ordoonarati was truly hurt by the pointed question. Or he could be acting. Whatever the case, Erick needed to know, but he could tell this conversation would end well before he was ready for it to end. He was pushing his goodwill, for sure.

Ordoonarati erased the frown from his face, going impassive, letting the world pass him by, as he answered, “Children must be born here, on Veird, for… Many reasons. And so they are, with most of those births taking place in small hatching sites in the Forest of Glaquin. But when the groups of eggs hatch they—” It clearly pained the man to speak of this, but he did anyway, his voice faltering a little as he said, “When they hatch they take the mana in the air and also the Curse and… It is like you have seven children, but only enough food for half a child, and all of that food is poisoned. A prospective parent will fill their nest with grand cores and true artifacts and powerful sources of elemental mana to offset some of this lack of natural sustenance and it works to a certain extent… But Veird has not been kind to dragons. So we parents must watch our kids kill their brothers and sisters, with only the strong surviving, for that is how it has to be.

“Perhaps one or two might survive. Most do not. Those that fail to thrive become wyrms. Most of those wyrms are culled by their grieving parents, watching over the nest, but some always get away for other dragons like to hunt at this time, and unmoving parents are a great target. Those wyrms that do escape are usually killed by the Forest before they get too big…” He sighed. “Though I suspect with your culling of the moon reachers and deathsoul shrooms this year’s hatching will be rough for the rest of Glaquin.”

Erick listened, and then he said, “I am not unsympathetic, but I suspect that Wizardry is the only real way to save the children.”

“You are correct.” Ordoonarati sighed. “I wish you would have questioned me about Wizards, then perhaps I could tell you what to look for, but perhaps one day you will notice one all on your own.” Ordoonarati’s voice took on a hint of needful enthusiasm, “If you bring the Wizard to me I could use them to prevent the Curse from sticking upon an entire clutch of eggs. Ten dragons or more would never have to go through what we parents have had to go through. They could live their lives free of the dragon fights that only end when one person is dead, and the land has been turned to fire, killing countless innocents.”

He painted a good picture, but...

“I wouldn’t hand over power like that to anyone I couldn’t fully trust.” Erick said, “Especially if the Wizard wouldn’t live through whatever process is required to produce this miracle.”

Ordoonarati pulled back his emotions. “Ideally the process would not kill the Wizard. Ideally, I could extract their power from them without killing them, and I could do this multiple times.” He said, “Ideally, I could even let them go before the process Ended them. They would be broken beyond basic Script spellwork, but that would be better than death. I think this is a fair result when dealing with powers that could break this world wide open, killing us all. Whatever the case, I must say this.” Ordoonarati said, “I shall give you a better deal for whatever captured Wizards you bring me; better than any other party you can think of.”

Erick nodded, satisfied. “Then. It was good meeting you, and I am glad we did not need to fight.” Erick stood. “Till we meet again.”

The man holding Ordoonarati’s consciousness stood as well, the green shadows in his eyes going dull, as his eyes turned back to brown. He said, “Till next time.”

The man walked away as Erick canceled the Privacy surrounding them.

The man had kept the scale under his arm and wrapped in paper the whole time, and Erick hadn’t asked after it, either. Perhaps Erick would have gotten the scale if he had asked after it, but he did not. It wasn’t even enchanted, anyway. Soon, the man reached the white square of land Erick had created to act as a Teleport Square, and then he blipped away in a flash of grey light.

Erick returned to his own yurt, with Poi following at his side.

He kept his emotions and thoughts under tight wraps, for the moment.

But once inside dense air, and surrounded by the power of his [Undertow Star], Erick sent to Poi, ‘Do you have any concerns or comments about what just happened? I’d hear your thoughts if you want to give them.’

‘Since the man was meeting us through an intermediary, I can actually speak my full mind—’

Erick smirked, and teased, ‘Do I make you feel like you can’t speak up, Poi?’

‘Jokes aside, Ordoonarati wasn’t there, so there’s nothing stopping me from telling you how I feel, and how I feel is this: You handled yourself well, but another Mind Mage, and possibly Ordoonarati, too, would be able to tell that you were acting out what you thought Ordoonarati wanted to see.’ Poi sent, ‘But if anyone else saw you like that, they’d wonder how close you are to turning into a dragon cultist.’

They reached the yurt, but Erick paused a meter from hopping aboard. ‘There are dragon cultists?’

‘Yes.’ Poi said, ‘You probably have cultists worshiping you, too, but I haven’t seen any yet— Ah. Actually. The people you Blessed might be going that way from what I’ve been able to tell from your own perceptions.’

‘… oh no.’

Erick’s stomach seemed to drop down to his feet.

Poi smiled wide as he hopped aboard the yurt, sending, ‘That’s a good reaction to that sort of news. Best not ever get a big head about you, or else someone will feel the need to knock it off.’

Erick stared at Poi as he hopped aboard the yurt. ‘You’re not serious, are you? You don’t think I’m actually being worshiped, do you?’

‘I haven’t personally seen any.’

‘… So that means you’ve heard of it.’

Poi shrugged. ‘Anyway: You probably want to stay away from Wizards. Nothing good will ever come from pursuing that power. I will also add that if you keep tempting dragons with that sort of power but never produce a Wizard, then they’re going to get really, really mad. Dragon fight, sort of mad.’

‘I’m not going to be pursuing that sort of power anytime soon, but it would be nice to know more about Wizards.’ For a long, surreal moment, Erick debated with himself if he wanted to actually broach the entirety of this sensitive topic with Poi. He never wanted to, before, because speaking of it with someone else would make it real, and Erick didn’t want this reality to be that sort of real. And yet… Erick asked, ‘Do you know anything about them? Anything I haven’t heard, anyway.’

Without any emotional weight either for or against Wizardry, or any indication of anything, Poi sent, ‘I have no idea how Wizardry works and I hope to never learn. It would probably be best if we never encountered one.’

Against his better judgment, Erick asked, ‘How can you tell if a person is a Wizard?’ and then, ‘How would a Wizard know if they were a Wizard?’

‘… I don’t know, Erick. A dragon would be able to find out if the Wizard wasn’t careful, though.’

Finally, Erick asked the question he had dreaded, ‘What would you do if I—’

‘I once said that Wizards could become beacons of civilization. This is still true. But it would be better for all involved if we did not have this conversation, and if we pretended that you never brought up the subject so directly.’

Erick paused.

Then he gave a half nod; lowering his head and barely raising it.

Poi pretended like nothing had happened.

And like that, the moment was over; left behind and best forgotten.

Erick went into the yurt behind Poi. Teressa, Nirzir, and Jane were already packed, with almost all of Nirzir’s stuff gone back to Eralis, save for a single backpack. Jane and Teressa had culled a lot of their belongings in the recent hours, too. It seemed all Teressa had was a single backpack, which was lightly filled with some clothes and a few books. Most of her books were gone, though.

Erick struggled for a moment to pretend like everything was fine, but he latched on to what he saw before him, asking, “Did you give your books to the kids, Teressa?”

“I sure did.” Teressa leaned back in her chair. “Are we ready to move on?”

“Almost. Looks like Poi never got much on this trip.”

“Nope.” Poi said, “A few reading books is all, and they’re staying with me.”

“Jane? Your stuff is…?”

“Hidden away, in my own spots.” Jane said, “I prefer it that way.”

“And Nirzir, you took your stuff back to your home?”

Nirzir quietly nodded, but she seemed like a dam ready to burst. If she said a single word, a lot would come tumbling out, for sure… But she held herself back, not wanting to get her emotions all over everyone. Erick gave her another moment, to see if she was going to speak, but she did not.

Maybe she’d say something later. Whatever it was couldn’t be that bad if she wasn’t willing to speak on it.

“Well okay.” Erick’s own stuff was packed up by Ophiels while he was doing other things. He had gotten a lot of necessary stuff on this trip, as had everyone else, but it seemed that they all got rid of their excess before he did. “I still have a lot of books of my own…” He glanced to Yggdrasil’s eye on his shoulder. “You want to hold onto some books for me?”

Yggdrasil spun at recognition, and then he bounced twice.

