Erick realized that he could make a Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove using electricity and cooktops. That method of cooking specifically used radiant heat to mimic a burning fire, with [Heat Ward]s being disdained for their ‘microwave like’ cooking effects, where the Maillard reaction was hard to achieve. But with an electric stove, one could cook with very high heat, and for a fraction of the cost of a Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove, and a fraction of the mana it took to cook with the actual [Prestidigitation] spell. [Small Spark] was only 5 mana for 10 minutes of work!

—But for this small cooktop here, it was basically a toaster. And for this toaster, all he needed to do was make some curled metal filaments that didn’t burn when exposed to air, they simply heated to red hot. But by that time, he had run out of tungsten, so he had to make do with some other metals. In this case, he used a mix of nickel, chromium, and iron, which he remembered was great for high temperature jobs exactly like this. He wasn’t sure of the actual amounts to use for a proper heat-resistant metal, but he got close enough for a prototype.

The lightbulb would last for a while until it eventually burned out the inside of the bulb. The toaster was going to fail due to melted filaments sooner rather than later. Nothing was perfect, but it was functional, and Erick wasn’t willing to [Duplicate] any parts of anything he did here in order to make it easier on himself, or on those who were yet to come.

Erick tapped a metal bar in front of the lightbulb, saying and casting, “[Small Spark].”

The metal bar crackled, then the lightbulb lit like a brilliant yellow flame.

He moved on to the toaster, saying and casting, “[Small Spark].”

The ‘toaster’ cooktop fired to life; concentric circles of red hot wires radiating heat under a grate. Erick took a piece of bread and placed it on top of the grate. Soon, the bread would turn into one-sided toast.

Koori let out a happy sigh as she saw the cooktop and the light, and she knew exactly what they meant. Niyazo smiled, but not at the experiments; he only had eyes for his happy wife. Happy wife, happy life!

Good for them.

Erick said to everyone there, “All of these are proofs of concept. Basic frameworks to copy and understand in your own ways. Prototypes that work, but barely.

“The gears in the differential and the car need actual Smiths that can make them tough enough for actual, hard use. The lightbulbs need better materials. The toaster needs insulation between the cooking surface and the heating element to prevent someone from accidentally setting a house on fire, or from accidentally electrocuting themselves to death. There are problems everywhere, but I’m not going to solve those problems for you.” Erick said, “I’m giving you the basic tools to create a society with a lot less magic in it, if you want that. Personally, I’m going to try for some sort of incorporation. [Mend], for broken parts; [Cleanse], for dirty parts; [Metalshape] is going to be important; [Alter Friction]; [Control Machine]. The list goes on and on, but the opportunity starts with [Small Spark], and that’s only one point away in the Open Script.” Erick joked, “And I didn’t even invent that one.”

There were a few laughs around the presentation.

Erick continued, “For five mana, you get a spell that lasts 10 minutes, and which has more than enough power to do a lot, if you know how to leverage that power.

“These tools are how you can leverage that power but there are many more tools waiting to be found.” Erick said, “The physics here is complicated, for sure, but it’s a lot easier than enchanting, for all this stuff is based in pure physicality, instead of in Truth. Anyone arranging these physical materials in the same physical configuration will produce the same effects. This is not magic. It is engineering.” Erick smirked, as a thought came to him. “Magineering, if you will.”

Teer was the first to speak, saying, “I did not expect you to come through with a full presentation and a revelation of your secrets like this, but I suppose I should have. Shame on me for not believing what other people had been telling me.”

Uriol was already smiling wide, but he laughed at Teer’s words, and said, “I told you we’d get something good! This is beyond my largest imagination!”

Puuroi said, “We’ll have to find a substitute for the spider silk wrappings. That might be the hardest part.”

The three elders almost started an argument amongst themselves over materials, but Erick spoke up, saying, “You can keep all of this stuff here, and there are notes on electricity in that booklet right there.” Erick gestured to a small black notebook on the nearby table. “I had some crazy ideas on how I was going to explain electricity to everyone, but most of those were ill-formed. If you were listening in on the left hand and right hand rule stuff, then you might be confused about what’s in that book, but hopefully, I explained it all better in there, than I did earlier.”

Teer smirked a little bit. She was perfectly fine with being called out on her spying. Uriol and Puuroi were a bit less fine on being called on, but the two of them caught up to Teer’s nonchalance about everything, soon enough.

Uriol said, “Thanks for the explanations, Erick. I’m sure that’ll answer a lot of our Smiths’ questions.”

“I copied the book and sent it out to a few different people, too, so I hope I answered the larger questions simply, and succinctly. If not, then there are other people learning this stuff alongside you. Seek them out, if you wish.” One copy had gone to Zolique, the Lightning Mage down in Eralis, who had helped Erick with learning [Small Spark], [Insulate], and [Superconductor]. Xue of Star Song had gotten a copy, too, along with Riri. Jane had asked Erick to give the Spider Polymage one, too, for the spidery would likely be responsible for a lot of wire production in the future. Erick agreed with her decision. Erick said, “You’ll have to find out the rest on your own.”

Koori excitedly asked, “How bright can the lights get?”

“Very bright.” Erick said, “But I used basic materials, and...”

From there, Erick spent a bit of time answering questions from everyone, and even a few from some of the Smiths that had come with the elders. He took the toast off of the cooktop, and showed it off, while speaking about a dual-sided cooktop that could be made that could toast the bread on both sides.

He showed Koori, and everyone else, how to use the cooktop. She absolutely loved everything about electricity. The elders were downright frosty compared to her enthusiasm, but even they had the Sight to see the power laid out before them, for the taking.

The power multiplier of [Small Spark] applied to a proper motor was massive. Many utility spells achieved a similar level of strength for a similar level of mana, with [Grow] being 5 mana to make a small tree, or [Rejuvenation] being 5 mana to restore 20 times Willpower in Health, over ten seconds.

But it was hard to use [Grow] to accomplish actual work, and to get work out of [Rejuvenation] required a fleshy, living target to do the work. Sure, all [Small Spark] did here was make a rotor spin, or make a cooktop hot, or turn on a light, but [Small Spark] was reliable, varied, strong power, only bottlenecked by a back-end production of goods that anyone could make, or repair, if they knew how. And that’s what made all the difference.

In a moment of excited thoughts about the future, Koori asked, “Will you stay here and help teach some children?”

Erick announced, “No. Thank you for the offer, but I am moving on. Today. Right after we’re done here, actually.”

Koori’s joy briefly collapsed. The elders stopped arguing to look to him. Niyazo, though, knew it was coming.

The leader of Clan Pale Cow said, “Thank you for showing when you did, Erick. You revealed ten thousand problems and then solved nine thousand and nine hundred of them. It might not be my place to say it, but the grasslands will always be in your debt.”

The elders nodded in agreement. Teer almost said something—

Koori asked, “So soon? You don’t have to go so soon.”

“I do, though.” Erick smiled softly. “It’s been wonderful to be here. Clan Pale Cow has treated me very well for a person who came in unannounced, and barged their way onto the scene.”

Koori waved a hand, “Don’t worry about that. You’re welcome here. Always.”

“Yes. But I’m still moving on.”

Koori reluctantly nodded, saying, “Then… Thank you, Erick.”

Erick nodded back.

Teer inclined her head toward the space outside of Erick’s magical protections, where people waited with applications in hand for their turns to speak to Erick. “Our merchants will miss you most of all, for you brought them lots of money with this new interest you thrummed up.”

“I’ve already completed every monster kill request out there, today.” Erick said, “Every single one of those people is hoping to sell me something, or ask me for something that they don’t need. All the important requests have come and gone.” Erick suggested, “You should ask them if they want to make deals with your people, instead.”

Teer chuckled. “Perhaps we shall, now that you’re going.”

They spoke for a little while longer about this and that, while Erick recast [Small Spark] upon his various appliances as needed. Neither the motor, the light bulb, or the toaster broke while Erick was there, which was pretty good. The differential in the skeleton of a car did break, though, but only because the Smiths were stress testing the gearing system. As the rear axle broke and a pair of riders fell out onto the grass, the Smiths all turned to Erick, eyes wide in fear, but Erick just laughed it off and cast a [Mend].

Erick almost spoke to the Smiths about their thoughts on his metals, but they were not comfortable around him, though they were quite interested in his designs. So Erick left them to it.

Eventually, stuff got moved around. The motor and the car framework and a few other small things went to a few different locations, as debated over by the elders, without Erick’s interference. He did help move them to those new locations, though.

The light bulb and the toaster cooktop went to Clan Pale Cow; a departing gift for their hospitality.

Koori felt quite embarrassed by Erick calling what they had done ‘hospitality’, and she said as much, but Erick was quick to point out custom and tradition required certain things of him, and far be it for him to upset those traditions. Koori was mollified by that, giving a simple, happy ‘thanks’, as she accepted the primitive inventions.

Eventually, the grass travelers of Ooloraptoor had taken everything that Erick had given them, and they departed with relieved shoulders and easy expressions. In their wake, platforms of grey-white stone littered the yard; empty. Even the tools Erick had made had been graciously accepted by the Smiths, for they always had more room in their sheds for lathes and hammers and rulers. Erick had even given away the remaining copper to Pale Cow, and also to Zolique, the Lightning Mage back in Eralis.

Erick spared a glance to Zolique’s home, to see her excitedly reading and yelling about electricity, as she played with [Small Spark] and wires. Her son watched from nearby, his hands loosely clenched on the wands of healing and [Dispel].

Erick turned his attention back to his ‘front yard’ and began returning the stone platforms to the land, [Stoneshape]ing them to sand and dirt. With a [Watershape], he picked up a large amount of water from the pond and scattered it across the dirty land. A burst of [Growth Aura] helped grass to fully reclaim the space.

And then it was all cleaned up. He was ready...

Mostly ready.

Erick ran a few more errands here and there, like filling up stone boxes for the wandering soul children with [Delirium Charm]s and [Personal Delirium Charm]s, and giving a few of those same Charms to Devouring Nightmare, for Warzi. He Blessed a few more people in the mountains, though the three people he Blessed were the only people to show up for a Blessing in the last twelve hours, so maybe that would slow down, too.

One thing certainly wasn’t slowing down, though.

Erick turned to the side, and looked to his meeting platform where an Ophiel stood on top of a mailbox full of blank applications, and filled out requests for aid. Near that space stood people waiting for their time to talk to him; about eighty groups, or about three hundred people in total. Compared to five days ago, almost everyone out there wanted something frivolous.

Just an hour ago, there had been about six hundred people out there. Some of those people had come in when Erick was explaining electricity and how to utilize it, just so that they could get a lesson on ‘whatever the archmage was teaching’, as Erick overheard them say. A lot of those looky-loos had departed when the lesson was over. A lot more people started departing when they saw Erick giving away all his stuff, for the crowd recognized that Erick was moving on.

And yet, some people remained, hoping that what they were seeing wasn’t what they were seeing, or that Erick would choose to come out for one final assistance. A few people even appeared in the space after it became clear that Erick was moving on.

Erick cast his gaze across those people now, skimming the applications in the mailbox, and reading the applications in the hands of their petitioners, just to be sure that no one had an urgent, true need. Mostly, the needs Erick saw were not desires that required an archmage’s solutions.

Except…

Erick paused. With Ophiel flying over the grouped people, he saw something odd among one of the petitioners. A man held a glass carving of a dragon scale, under his arm in a paper-wrapped package. The man was alone, though he was chatting with some other people who were also waiting for their turn at Erick. The man’s glass scale was an exact match for the one that Daizing and Roia, of the Knives of the Night, had given Erick, back before he Blessed almost their entire Cultist organization. It was the scale to contact the dragon Ordoonarati.

The man noticed Ophiel noticing him. The man waved, then held up the package.

A few other people waved, thinking that Erick was looking at them, instead. At that, almost everyone who had been relaxing, or sitting, or waiting, went on high alert. They hopped up and prepared themselves to make their cases for why Erick should help them with whatever it was they wanted.

Erick called out to Poi, on the porch of the yurt, and his people inside, “Looks like we got a concern.”

Poi was already looking that way.

