“I’ll take that as a yes.” Erick had an Ophiel wrap his book bags with light and step them to Yggdrasil. He spared a glance through Ophiel at the hand off, setting the book bag near the upper crook in Yggdrasil’s branches, sending to him, ‘Thank you, Yggdrasil.’

‘You’re welcome, father!’

Erick smiled and came back to himself. “Okay then!” He clapped his hands together, asking, “And now that I think of it, I’m going to give the yurt to Yggdrasil, too. The bookbag can actually go inside and he can rest the yurt on his branches and—”

Nirzir stepped forward, opening her mouth—

And then she shut it.

But now, everyone was looking at her.

Now that Erick truly noticed her, Nirzir had been skittish this morning, and Erick hadn’t seen her practicing magic like she usually did. Something was up. Hopefully she wasn’t mad at him for his night out with Linxel, because that would be truly awkward.

Ah. Shit. That’s exactly what this was, wasn’t it.

Nirzir blurted out, “You should find that dragon and kill him! And why did you give away all that magic technology to these people? They won’t know what to do with any of that. You could have given it to Eralis. And why… And why did you go out with that man!”

Jane covered her face with her hand fast enough that she made an audible slap. Teressa tried to stop herself from sighing, and she mostly succeeded, but air still escaped her lips in a rather faster manner than usual. Poi frowned.

Erick casually grabbed a chair and sat down. This was not a conversation that he could shove off, so he told Nirzir, “Please sit with me, and we can talk about your concerns.”

Jane hopped up from her chair and walked out of the yurt, saying, “I’ll be back! I realized I wanted some cheese for the road.”

Teressa rapidly followed Jane, “Me too.”

Poi, however, grabbed a chair and set it in front of Erick, near to Nirzir, then he stepped to the side. He waited.

Nirzir looked ashamed, but she transformed that shame into a coat of armor as she stepped to the provided chair and sat down. After a moment, she answered, “I apologize for even mentioning the… relations. I don’t need to know about that. But I would like to know about the dragon and the metals and… Stuff. Those events have actual strategic importance.” Nirzir almost said something else, but she stopped herself.

Erick gave a small smile. “I accept your apology.” Then he answered her questions, “I didn’t fight the dragon because they’re keeping a low profile, so, despite all my capability to find people, I have no idea where they actually are. I admit, that I have not truly tried, though, and that is because even if I did manage to find them and engage them in combat, I would likely, and rather suddenly, have two or even three dragons to fight, for I doubt the other lurking dragons around here would be able to stop themselves from fighting. They are Cursed to kill each other, after all. In that case, I doubt I could actually win.” Erick added, “But even if I should win, then my previous stance of never getting involved with dragons would be threatened, and I would be making enemies the world over. You might not know this yet, but I have just now spoken directly with the dragon in question, and he is very much the type that would ruin my life without ever making himself present.”

Nirzir’s eyes went wide.

“I’ll be going over what we discussed after this talk we’re having right now.” Erick said, “As for the technology, and metals, and all of that, I gave all that information away in the middle of a crowded field, and people have been spying on me ever since I showed myself in Songli. So, in this way, I did give out this technology to the people of Songli, for I know people from there are spying on me even now. But in a more direct manner, I did give out those books on electromagnetism to people in Songli, some of which will remain nameless.”

Nirzir's emotional armor instantly crumbled. Shame won out over all bravado.

Erick said, “As for Linxel: He—”

Nirzir rapidly said, “You don’t have to tell me; I should never have asked. I am sorry. I should have trusted you to spread your knowledge to all corners, too. It was… I was being selfish… exactly how I hate when other people are selfish.” She whispered, “I did not know this part of me, but… I suppose… of course I am.”

“That is a masterful attempt at shoving the conversation to a new topic, but I’m bringing it back to your original grievance of me having relations with Linxel. I know why you decided to follow me, and now is as good a time to speak on that as any.”

Nirzir’s pale skin paled even further. Her eyes went wide and pure dread filled her heart. Perspiration broke out across her forehead as she looked away, whispering, “Oh, merciful gods.”

“There’s no reason to be embarrassed. You have a crush on me, and that’s understandable, but it will not be reciprocated.” Erick said, “You and I will never have a physical relationship like that. Ever.”

Nirzir didn’t breathe. She didn’t move.

Erick said, “There need not be awkwardness between us, either. I know some people at your age get married to widowers my age, but I will not be doing that. This is nothing against you. This is my personal decision.”

Nirzir whispered toward the floor, “I think I should depart back to Songli.”

Erick smiled softly, and said, “You may do whatever you wish, though you are still welcome to journey with us across Nelboor. I have appreciated your presence, and your skill. It has been nice to know someone who does magic like I do magic, and I can tell that you have enjoyed that, too. Unless I’m wrong?”

“You’re not wrong.” Nirzir said, “But.” She frowned a little. Tears collected in the corners of her eyes. She tried to wipe the tears away, but she only succeeded in breaking the dam holding back even more. She didn’t sob, but the waterworks opened, full blast. “I thought… I have uncles that are fifty years older than…” She sighed, and more tears fell. “Auntie Lingxing said this would happen. I didn’t believe her. But…” All the air seemed to leave Nirzir. She sobbed, once, and then she breathed again, and sobbed again; quietly, and to herself.

Erick’s heart went out to the girl. She was technically of marrying age, and she had a lot of female cousins who married older, richer, more powerful men. She had male cousins that wed older women, too. But that wasn’t going to happen here. The idea of wedding someone under the age of thirty aside, Erick wasn’t ready for a relationship. The thing with Linxel had been a matter of a lot of pent up emotions bursting a physical barrier the second he had found a willing partner that wasn’t in it for some money, or power.

A lot of people around Erick had given him looks and sent him signals that were impossible to misinterpret. If he wanted, he could have bedded any number of about a hundred separate people in his last month in Songli, and now the grasslands. But the only one who actually seemed both willing and not a gold digger, had been Linxel. Linxel had even said beforehand that he wanted to court Erick, officially. That had been a massive swing in the man’s favor, and was probably the only thing that truly allowed Erick to fully (mostly) lower his guard.

But everyone else? Erick’s guard was up, 100%.

And beyond those hundred people who Erick could have bedded, there were even more. People like Nirzir, who was too young, and who idolized Erick. Going down that route would have been a very bad idea.

… Bedding Linxel might have been a bad idea, too, but Erick had done it, and it was over, even though a part of him wished it wasn’t over at all. Erick felt a bit lonely, honestly. He had been lonely for years, actually. A few dates here and there were not good enough.

Best not to think too much about all of that, though, or else he would start crying. He was already having a hard time of it, watching Nirzir.

Erick said, “I’m sorry, Nirzir. You have been a joy to be around, and I wish you to stay with us for a while longer, but not if you’re uncomfortable, or if you are too hurt by this news.”

“… Do you mean that? Do you actually want me to stay?” Nirzir’s voice held poorly-disguised and sudden hatred, but also a lot of hope.

“I want you to stay. I also want you to be comfortable here.”

Nirzir’s face relaxed. She sighed. She looked away, then she looked at Erick, and asked, “Just tell me… Did I ever have a chance?”

“No. You’re about 15 years too young for me, but don’t take that as a time table.” Erick said, “It’s a matter of life experiences, and we’re not on the same level. When you’ve had your heart broken a dozen times, and you’ve had a failed relatio—” Erick thought for a second in an attempt to not put his foot in his mouth. “I believe your people marry for life, and at a young age, don’t you?”

“We try to, but there is a period of courtship. I haven’t ever dated anyone but I could have. I could have broken my heart already. I haven’t…” Nirzir’s voice trailed off. Then she said, “We’re not as stodgy as the more cosmopolitan cultures out there would have you believe. We’re certainly not as free with love as adventurers, though.” Nirzir looked to Erick with a glimmer of hope in her eyes, “I was prepared for that.”

“I’m going to do what I want to do with regard to any possible future relationships, and you’re going to do what you want with any people you meet, but we won’t be doing anything together. Though if you wish for someone to vet whoever you do find, you have my promise that I will do that for you.” Erick said, “If you need me to scare away an unwanted suitor, I’ll do that, too.”

“Ha.” Nirzir breathed deep. She dried her tears with a wave of magic, and said, “I apologize for my childish behavior and would prefer to forget it ever happened. I would also remain in the party, if you truly do still want me around.”

“I do.”

Nirzir smiled, tiny and sad, then she banished that emotion. She asked, “Where are we headed next?”

Erick moved right along, saying, “Everyone thinks we’re going to the Adamantine Smiths, so we probably should go there for a bit. I need to learn about magical metals, and it’s either them, or the wrought, and there’s not many wrought on the surface. Also, I promised Jane a sword, Poi some armor, and Teressa a decent side-weapon. I have no idea what I would want from them, though; maybe a wand? And whatever you want, too, of course.”

“A ritual dagger would be nice. For carving formations.” Nirzir said, “They get better with time and having an adamantine one would be perfect.”

Erick smiled gently, saying, “Then maybe I need to get myself a dagger, too, though I am terrible at enchanting.” He stood, saying, “I’m glad you’re staying, Nirzir.”

Nirzir tried to say something but her voice failed, and her words came out as a whisper, “I want to stay, too.”

Poi said nothing, as he watched from the side.

- - - -

The five of them stood outside, on the ground. Dense air protected them from all outsiders, while an [Undertow Star] shone high above, granting even more protection under its light. The yurt where they lived for a week had served them well, with its bright white exterior and its sculpture of Yggdrasil on the front door. It had been nice.

A pair of Ophiel wrapped the vehicle in light and stepped it away, taking the mobile home down south, to rest upon a flat space atop the branches of Yggdrasil. Erick’s stuff he had already handed off to Yggdrasil went into the yurt, to stay. Erick watched as the structure touched down on glowing white bark, and that bark parted, just a bit, creating divots to hold the wheels in place.

Erick returned to himself and looked up. At a switch of intent, the [Undertow Star] broke like a small supernova that became a small nebula, which then vanished altogether. Erick took down the seven-layered [Prismatic Ward] next.

The unfiltered wind flowed from the north, as it had for every single previous day, though this time that wind was accompanied by the sounds of petitioners that had shown up after Erick cleared them all. The people over there right now saw what Erick was doing and they were worried that they wouldn’t get their chance at using the friendly archmage for their own gain.

None of their needs were pressing; Erick had already checked.

So he ignored the petitioners and gave one final wave to the people of Clan Pale Cow. A hundred meters away, Amasar watched, and bowed; he had discharged his duty to pay Erick for saving his life, in the little way that Erick had allowed. Koori and Niyazo looked on, impassive and thankful for multiple reasons, and then they too took small bows. Yorila, their Speaker, and the boy who wanted to know how to make a [Fireball] to defend his people, and the caretakers at the hawkery, and the kids that Erick had given lightwards to, all bowed.

Erick waved goodbye as he curled light around his five people.

And then he moved on.

Seconds later, the mailbox of applications at the petitioner’s platform also vanished. It was replaced with a stone sign that read, ‘estimated time of return: maybe never’.
