Chapter 489

Quill had far fewer constraints than Blake did when it came to starting a business, so when they returned to their estate he was more than willing to jump right into things, but he had a much more interesting obligation. His friends wanted to see, and experience, the difference between Blake and Quill.

He didn’t mind, it was interesting, so when they were in one of the ‘secure’ rooms he opened up questions.

Allie, unaware of anything resembling personal space, got in his face as if she could see his missing pieces.

Poking him, she caused Tara and Vinnie to snicker, breaking most of the ice.

“He’s not hollow. Boooooring.”

Her disinterest was quickly replaced by Melinda’s interest. Not bothering to argue, he stuck out a hand, letting her scan his body. He wanted to know what she’d find as much as everyone else.

Seeing her pursed lips and narrowed eyes, they silently agreed to talk around her.

Kyle was the bravest and asked the question Quill could see all of his oldest friends wanted to ask. “What’s it feel like? Do you feel like you?”

Getting it out of the way and having a convent example at hand, Quill looked to his oldest friend and winked.

“Maybe I should have stolen your name, Mathew.” Seeing everyone's confusion he continued, “My former name is gone. If someone says my name, I can no longer comprehend it. That’s a pretty apt description of the inside too. I’m currently calling my former self Blake because I can’t even think my name. So to answer your question: That’s how it feels.”

That prompted several more similar questions he answered as best he could, given how new everything was. That turned into a small game of people saying his name but he could only shrug. Everything they said was garbled into unintelligibility.

Samantha’s question was a deviation but an interesting one. “So where was the line drawn? Did anything surprise you that's gone?”

Seeing Zack, Allie, and even Liz’s attention to the question. Quill pondered it for a moment. “The ducal stuff. Blake hadn't realized he considered that role as part of his core identity but apparently we did. All of that is just… poof.”

Opening his fingers, Quill mimicking an explosion shrugged.

“So, you can’t remember that stuff?” Mathew’s question seemed to put everyone on edge but Quill shook his head.

“I can remember things but it's like the difference between having something on yourself and in storage. Everything related to Blake only exists in storage. All of that stuff normally kept in my pockets is gone. So yes, I can tell you what I had for dinner last night, but I do have to think about it.”

That seemed to satisfy both Zack and Allie. The moment the latter lost interest, she fell through a hole in the ground and joined Aster, who’d slipped out of the gathering almost instantly to see her friends.

They’d talk. Eventually. Quill would be lying if he said he wanted to rush that conversation. A little time and distance was good.

Zack, on the other hand, lingered but didn’t seem inclined to ask any questions.

Melinda dropped his hand about the same time but her expression was mixed. “I can absolutely sense that something is missing but without knowing exactly what had happened, I’d be clueless as to what is gone. I don’t think I’ve ever seen anything like it. ”

When the dust settled and his friends had their fun, he was able to get his business started.

Quill’s Quality Quintessentials, while inspired by his initial healing tasliman design, wasn’t meant to give away free things. Far, far, from it. Immortals had more than enough money to pay full price.

The problem he ran into was, what did he make? What did he want to sell?

He didn’t want to simply sell the same talismans every other delving store had for sale. There was nothing unique or interesting there. If he wanted to be a wholesaler or reseller, he’d do it in the Empire. No, Quill’s Quality Quintessentials needed to be different if his plan was going to succeed.

That meant his store required something new.

He wanted to invent.

New and useful were far from easy, but he had a few ideas. Blake had some, but Quill threw most of those out the window. They needed practicality. They needed something immediately useful. They needed something anyone would want to buy.

Quill's mind went back to his first idea. Practical.

What was the most practical thing a delving team might want? His mind wanted to say ‘a spear that magically murdered any monster with no fighting’ but that wasn’t exactly true either. Any team would be overjoyed to have such a weapon but he didn’t actually think that would be most people's first want.

Thinking back to his civilian delves, he tried to list the main thing immortals wanted out of their delves. More monsters, easier monsters, and finding the monsters to maximize their essence extracted.

That last one intrigued Quill.

Blake had never considered keeping track of every burst of essence to maximize the value of a rift, but Quill knew that was a commonly tracked metric for most delvers. One search later, he confirmed that was equally true of Corporation delvers. Combined with Blake's ideas, Quill believed he had his first product.

Tracking talismans weren’t new, thousands of variations existed but they all typically suffered from the same two problems. They were single use, as per normal talismans that weren’t made by Tier 46 crafting geniuses, lasting only a few hours before fading and needing to be reapplied. Their second common flaw was that most tracking talismans were purpose made for each specific rift’s monsters. Usually by using a tiny bit of their blood in the talisman’s ink, but that wasn’t a hard rule.

Other types of tracking talismans did exist, but the ones connected to the rift monsters’ very blood had an advantage the other types could never compare to. The ability to ensure zero monsters were missed in a delve. For immortal teams that might delve once a decade and wanted to ensure their safety from ambushes and to maximize their advancement speed, the blood tracking talismans were worth every other flaw.

Searching through the countless talismans for sale in the Corporations proved things were the same as he remembered from the Empire. A system's hardest or most valuable rifts might have tracking talismans readily available but anything else would need to be purpose made. An expensive endeavour to put it lightly.

A universal tracking talisman would break open a massive market. Most companies had dedicated efforts to crack the mystery, but no one had been able to manage it to an acceptable level of accuracy. Now was no longer then, and Quill knew that better than most.

Aura had only just begun to percolate into the mainstream with the growth boosting lights but it proved to be very useful in numerous applications. Most of those uses weren’t worth the expense, but that hadn’t stopped testers.

The interesting thing people had begun to discover was that aura could be thrown into almost anything. It might not be useful or even helpful, but it was rarely dangerous.

For the profligate that meant small scale enhancement boosts could be found by using aura in anything. It wasn’t always useful or desirable like in the case of a particular light rune that had fire aura used in the enchanting process; A light rune that flickered like a natural flame instead of the normal steady glow of a light rune without any additional runes or mana costs to create the effect was interesting more than useful.

Quill lost a few minutes investigating exactly why those two might interact that way but couldn't do the testing himself. Most fire aura didn’t have that effect on most light runes. It was only particular combinations that had the special effect.

Aura enchanting was strange but that was what interested and excited Quill.

He wanted to play.

However such minimal effects had zero chance of paying for themselves and were curiosity pieces at best.

Most people were chasing the second type of aura enchantments like the light rune. That rune turned simple light aura into something that made plants grow faster. No one had been able to replicate that effect with the simpler method, showing how important leveraging a proper rune was.

Far fewer people had found such runes, and Quill didn’t expect to in just a decade or two. He’d love to but he didn’t think he needed to.

Titan’s Torch hadn’t been idle and one of the more recent aura types one of his teams stumbled upon was an unusual aura they ended up dubbing ‘resonance aura’. Sound aura was a close second but the distinctions proved the difference and the name was settled. The team in question had been trying to make an obfuscation type aura for a knightly order using lots of shadow, blackwater, illusion, earth, and even mist mana, yet they’d created the opposite of what they'd wanted.

As per their agreements, Titan’s Torch had published it fifty years ago, but it hadn’t caught on in any large way. Few people were buying it for their domains, though there were always some. Slightly more people bought the aura trying to find a rune that might easily take the aura and make them a fortune, but that was a slow and unsteady trickle.

Going to the reserves Blake prepared, Quill grabbed one of the crates full of resonance aura. Blake hadn’t wanted to bother Allie and as such brought extra and triple of anything he might think to want. That included samples of every aura sold in the Empire, but that hadn’t been all that hard given their duchy was an aura exporter and their guild had invented most of the aura types.

When realistically, Quill could have bought everything he needed locally at a tiny markup.

Where did Blake think they were going? Deep chaotic space?

Quill realized that was definitely wrong because they’d brought less to chaotic space than to a neighboring Great Power. Grumbling, Quill looked at his storage rings. What was a working surplus for a guild of thousands, was a lot for a single man company with a researcher of one.

Shrugging, Quill came to an easy conclusion. If the talisman business failed, he could easily pivot and undercut the local aura market for a decade or two until his armor was finished.

Observing the bottle of resonance aura, Quill took a minute to appreciate it visually. The light pink aura had a deeper thread of magenta that seemed to swim around as he spun the bottle, always seeming a layer deeper than he was looking. It was quite striking and he almost considered trying to sell a physical replica as a novelty item.

Pushing such distracting thoughts aside, Quill let himself experience the aura magically. It was static and stable in a way that reminded him of the air underneath a sink. Damp and a little stale but not harmful. If others hadn't already done the research, he never would have named the aura ‘resonance’ but knowing how it was made, that initial impression made sense.

Extracting a tiny sample, Quill dipped a piece of a leaf into the viscous liquid. Immediately the aura sample tried to stretch out in the direction of the other scattered pieces of leaf even as it dissipated into nothing.

Moving the pieces with his Concept, Quill studied the aura’s reactions. He wasn’t learning anything new, but he wanted to see everything the aura could do himself before he started trying to work with it.

The tracking wasn’t instant but the difference was academic. The delay didn’t scale with distance, rather remaining static; which had both advantages and disadvantages.

More importantly was the raw aura’s main advantage and why he was interested in using it. Distance.

Starting with the basics, Quill sketched out a quick amplification talisman using a part of the bottle, hoping the simplest answer would be correct.

It wasn’t.

The talisman didn’t even activate, so he changed to a different amplifier using the aura as the core object rather than trying to integrate it directly. That succeeded. Or, the talisman at least activated, but it failed to boost the effectiveness of the aura or interact with it in any way he could detect.

Undaunted, Quill ran through a dozen new tests before emptying his first bottle of aura. Peaking at his ever filling ring of mana stones, Quill stopped caring about the price of his testing and started chipping away one experiment at a time.

His twelfth was a mild success, which gave him a burst of hope, but when that proved a fluke and he burned through two more bottles in quick succession with no progress, he took a step back.

Kicking his feet up on the bench, Quill watched the ceiling, mindlessly whistling. At the same time he ran through his tests, coming to a single unavoidable conclusion. He didn’t know how to best leverage the resonance aura in a talisman, which meant he couldn’t pick what runes he’d use to make the talisman. Without knowing what runes he could use, he didn’t have any reliable methods to start testing the aura and see how compatible it might be with said runes.

If Quill had one or the other, he’d have a wish Talent because he had neither, and no good ideas on how to find them. He was running into the same problem every talisman designer ran into. The usual answer was to brute force their best ideas and spend a lot of money in the attempts.

Letting his [AI] slam its head against the wall that was repeated testing, Quill moved to one of the rooms' large slanted worktables, setting out several sheets of testing paper.

He didn’t start with picking his runes, but instead focused on the methods.

