First, the talisman needed to be able to sense things at a distance to be a good tracking talisman. The aura theoretically solved that but it wasn’t the only way to do so. Hundreds of runes had similar abilities, but he didn’t let himself get bogged down in the details and only noted a few he thought might be useful. Moving on, he continued step by step until he’d fully designed a tracking talisman.

It was purely theoretical but it gave him a better starting shape.

Using that outline, Quill created two dozen designs based on as many widely different methodologies as he could think of, trying to cast as wide a net as he could. He didn’t jump into more practical testing.

Instead, he started looking at the second third of the talisman, the one that Blake never bothered with any more. The talisman ink itself.

Normally a core component, it wasn’t technically required to make a talisman. Not using it was leaving a lot of power on the table, but when flash creating taslimans with millions of mana, efficiency was the last thing on Blake’s mind.

Quill couldn’t expect anyone else to follow suit, so he started designing what he hoped to be a compatible ink. Once more, he started with the theoretical side, building out what he wanted from the ink, though that effort quickly proved futile.

Talisman ink effects were as varied as the products they were designed to be used with, and as complicated as any alchemy potion. While general inks did exist, they were only widely used at the lower Tiers and they quickly fell off in popularity after Tier 6 or 7.

The issue was simple.

High Tier talismans were as disposable as the low Tier ones, but they were rarely as cheap. That meant every use of a talisman had to pay for itself. For life savings talisman that was never a problem, though they weren’t exempt from the same expectations of exceptionalism.

To meet those demands it generally meant using hyper specific inks tailored to magnify the talisman’s power.

Compared to refining the runes or the ink there was a third, rarer, more expensive and finicky method to increase the power of a talisman. Tailoring the talisman medium itself to the final product. That final method could offer exceptional results, but more often than not it required dozens of additional steps, each with their own added expenses.

It was rarely economical but he also knew he’d have to look into it at some point. There were truncated processes he saw mention of that he hoped might have some answers. Making a note of it, he didn’t write the method entirely off but he did put it in a firm last place like every other talisman designer. He’d much prefer to solve his issues with one of the first two methods.

Looking at publicly available recipes for pre-existing tracking talismans, Quill found disappointingly few commonalities among the plants and other ingredients for the first two steps. Digging deeper explained it by reminding him of something he’d already known but hadn’t considered. Most of the ink recipes were tailored to the blood of the monster they were meant to track thanks to it being the main ingredient.

Realizing he might be looking for the wrong thing, Quill changed his search topic, looking for harmonization talismans. They weren’t a commonly available talisman, or runic effect, but it did exist.

Checking his Empire rune databases, he hoped to find what he needed but only managed to burn through another bottle of resonance aura in his testing. In doing so, he did manage to prove he wouldn’t stumble on an easy answer, so it wasn’t without any positives.

Going back to the ink search, he looked for harmonization talismans and their ink commonalities. Despite being rare, they weren't built around something as unique as a rift’s monster's blood and he was able to find several.

Flitting through the publicly available recipes, most core ingredients were extinct or had some other flaw that made them commercial dead ends, but direction was all he needed.

Corporate espionage wasn’t treated the same in the Corporations as it was in the Empire. There were patents and other mechanisms to protect one's inventions, but secrets in the corporations were more like paywalls. From what he knew, companies would sell you their own secret formulas if the price was high enough, but he didn’t think he needed to go that far.

Whistling, Quill went and poked around the various common rooms, trying to find any of his friends to go on an adventure with him but couldn't find most of them. Not being slackers worried about losing core parts of their identities, they were all in the swing of setting their business up and weren’t lounging around any more.

Cursing Blake for leaving everything up to him, Quill broke a few laws and opened a [Portal] in the middle of one of the best recruitment centers’ lobbies.

Far from unperturbed, a young Tier 5 man nearly had a bottle of water and a small snack presented to Quill before the fine arrived. He even managed to do it without disturbing the two other customers who had been speaking to the other front desk employees spread across the long desk before his [Portal] silenced the room.

Taking both with a smile, Quill laughed, trying to show how unbothered he was being fined more than they’d make in their lifetimes. “Thank you for the water. I’m sure your bosses are already on their way down so no need to do more.”

Wanting to do what little he could for these lowest level employees, he timed his comment for when he felt the three people nearing the nearly invisible door hidden from the front desk’s view by one of the columns. “I appreciate the service despite me dropping in unannounced.”

Knocking on the desk that looked like marble, he was disappointed to find it was a sound absorbing material. That explained the omnipresent silence and he took a second look at the desk. He’d seen battleship armor built to less rigorous standards than the unknown metal.

His idle investigation was immediately cut short as the three Tier 44’s who ran the head hunting agency smiled at him like sharks.

Snorting a laugh, Quill returned the smiles as their names registered in his [AI] rather than his brain. “I just met a clan of sharks and they eyed me less hungrily than you guys are looking at me right now.”

Far from embarrassed, the CEO made an excellent point, even as the front desk workers blanched at the realization of just which of their bosses he’d indicated would be getting him. “How can we not be happy such a large client has reached out to us? It's an opportunity for everyone to make money. We are constantly rated in the top five of putting specialists in contact with the business that can appreciate their skills and Talents. Yes, we are expensive but if we weren’t, you’d have never considered us. If you follow us, we’ve prepared a small briefing that we believe will help explain some of the key differences between working in the Empire and the Corporations, Chosen Titan.”

Quill personally wished his request to bring his spy team and Cato had been approved. But JR, or more likely Rosemarie, had told him using the local assets was the point.

Being led up to a spacious meeting room, Quill couldn't resist asking the thought as it came to him. “You weren't on the lists of ‘recommendations’ we were given, so how did you expect me?”

The answer was about what he expected, though the repeated bluntness surprised him.

They’d done their research but that was becoming very clear. “Many of us realized the visiting Chosen would be reluctant to be paired up with any company recommended officially. We fought fiercely to keep ourselves off the lists, knowing it increased our odds of catching one of the big fish.”

“And you guys happen to be hyper-casual businessmen, exactly like I prefer?”

The oldest looking man laughed as he shook his head in denial. “If you were the type to prefer hushed talks where we never directly state what we both know we are discussing over long formal dinners, we can do that if you’d like. Our job is to make you happy, and so we are as flexible as our clients.”

Unable and perfectly willing to pay through the nose for the convenience factor, Quill skipped the niceties by agreeing from the outset.

“Sounds perfect. Alright, let’s get started. I’m setting up a talisman design company and corresponding storefront. Realistically the second aspect will be… well, secondary, but I do want at least one. Everyone needs a storefront.”

Waving, one of the Tier 44’s dismissed his concerns. “We could have a storefront remolded and restaffed faster than you could fly to the location. That part is easy, Chosen Titan. The development, not so much, or we’d be doing that. As for help, that comes down to an all important question. Are you looking for primary inventors or secondary assistants?”

“Assistants. I’ll be doing the research, so I need the testers who can help me get from the design phase to something anyone can make.”

“That makes it even easier, Chosen Titan. We have applicants of every type but inventors never stay on the market.” The civility ended as the Tier 44 continued with a harder expression. “However, before I do begin, I want to point out a difference in Corporation contracts and what you might be used to. I would appreciate you hearing me out.”

After Quill’s wave, the CEO pulled out several dozens sheets of paper and smacked the stack on the table with a light tap. “A typical Empire employment contract. Now, let us compare that to a typical Corporation one.”

The second pile of papers looked more like a deranged dictionary but Quill indicated he understood, allowing the demonstration to conclude.

“While these contracts may feel overly restrictive compared to what you are used to, please don’t try to control the details. You can tell you how competitive or restrictive you desire to make your contracts but please let us handle the specifics. Many foreign clients try to make changes they see as beneficial but make them pariahs to the truly skilled. These employment contracts are exactly that. Contracts and negotiations between both sides. Let us handle that.”

Unwilling to dig his heels in on something like that, he agreed. “I have no problem with that. I intend to be generous but as I’ve been warned, I’m not running a charity.”

Every Corporation cultivator in the room looked bemused at the idea of a charity, but no one commented, treating it as a throwaway joke.

Quill had expected a lot from the one of the best Corporations to survive JR’s financial investigations but was still thoroughly impressed. They already had thousands of qualified talisman designers between Tier 15 and 30 who they believed would be good fits to work with him based on his known personality traits.

There was a slight mismatch thanks to his name removal but he wasn’t about to share such a secret with a stranger.

Seeing the most expensive contract with a total remuneration almost three times that of any other, Quill halted his skimming, stopping to inspect the profile.

He only needed to raise a single eyebrow for one of the Tier 44s to jump in. “Mr. Iglesias is something of a unique case and one of our star applicants. His talismanic ability is the worst we have seen in thousands of years. Even as a Tier 21, he struggles to learn even the simplest talismans of any Tier and everything he learns is from the ground up every time. That makes him a perfect final product tester. Judging by how quickly he picks up a talisman, you can easily see if a product is market viable. His services are always in high demand, which is why his costs are so high and why he has the subcontracting clause. During his off time, he’s known to sell his services, though he’s never had a single complaint from either permanent or temporary employers. In fact his contract is only available because his former Corporation was dissolved and truthfully speaking, he won’t remain unemployed for much longer.”

Quill had never considered someone turning their lack of ability into their greatest selling point but he was impressed by the portfolio. Enzo Iglesias hadn’t exactly risen from the bottom of society as the child of two Tier 15’s, but he did rise from the bottom of the talismanic arts.

At every step of his path, Enzo struggled. Where a genius might learn a new talisman in ten attempts and an ordinary person might learn in fifty, it would take Enzo two hundred attempts to succeed. Rather than giving up, he advanced his cultivation while slowly bringing his skills up to par, intentionally slowing himself down as much as possible. At Tier 15 and reaching immortality, he’d started gating his progress by his talisman crafting skills, only allowing himself to Tier up once he’d reached an adequate level of proficiency at his Tier of talismans.

It made his progress agonizingly slow, but six Tier later, Enzo’s services were fought over by the same companies that wouldn’t have looked at his resume before.

Adding him to the list, Quill grabbed a small team of five, covering the range of Tier 15 to Tier 28. He might end up needing something at a higher Tier but he intended to focus most of his attention at the lower Tiers, which would be easier than trying to design up.

Management staff were even easier to hire because Quill didn’t particularly care. He needed competence but didn’t need or expect loyalty given his short two decades in the Corporations.

And the contracts made that very clear.

With far stricter clauses and expectations on both sides than would have been allowed in the Empire, he had little worries of anyone doing anything wrong in that little time. Unlike the Empire, Corporation contracts for in demand positions came with all of the performance expectations codified and laid out.

