Quill looked them over but could only say he was glad he was the employer rather than the employee. He wouldn’t call things exploitative exactly, because both sides knew what they were getting into, but no one should be allowed to dictate how often or frequently employees were allowed and-or required to smile.

His only solace was to learn such behavioral stipulations often came with incredibly steep compensation.

Playing with the calculators, Quill changed his stance. He’d also be smiling every second of every day at work if someone was willing to eat the costs to demand constant smiling. That theoretical employee would only need a livestream of their bank account projected in their view at all times to satisfy the requirement.

JR’s words ‘anything was for sale’ had never been made clearer, but Quill didn’t miss the darker side. He was seeing contracts from the perspective of the employer trying to hire candidates that were being actively fought over.

How much worse were the contracts for the average person?

Checking, he got his answer.

Worse. Much worse in fact, but not to the degree he’d feared and so he finalized his contract with the recruiting agency.

Best of all, the help he truly wanted arrived the next day. Researchers wasn’t exactly the name Blake would have given them, but Quill appreciated it. Corporate spies would have been a more accurate description but no matter what they were called, they were very good at their jobs.

It only took them two days to piece together currently in production harmonization talismans ink recipes with overlapping and common ingredients. By that time most of Quill’s Quality Quintessentials’ staff had already settled in and his chief of staff had delivered him all the ingredients, along with the lists.

Goods in hand through none of his own work, Quill sorted and inspected them happily. Then he followed the stolen recipes, making small batches of each ink to better understand its properties.

There were only a few dozen harmonization talismans widely sold throughout the Corporation and a search proved the same was true in the Empire. A typical harmonization talisman's use case was to make two objects that were otherwise unstable, stable.

There were other use cases for harmonization runes, many even, but disposable talismans weren’t the preferred application method and permanent enchantments didn’t require inks, which meant they weren’t helpful to him. Adding resonance aura into the mixes, he tried creating a few tracking talismans with the new inks but failed every time.

Unbothered, he tried creating a harmonization talisman with the resonance aura ink.

It worked, to his bafflement, but he wasn’t able to identify any noticeable power increase between it and an untampered version. Or why the combination worked at all, but he didn’t dwell.

Going back to the drawing board, he played with the ingredients, trying to find something, anything, he thought had a chance of working. Dozens of plants entered his workshop pristine every hour, only to exit trimmed and battle scarred.

Being incredibly valuable plants in their own rights, they’d be returned to be resold to the supplier, who would nurture the plant back to full heath, where they’d repeat the process. According to the staff member doing the transport, it was a typical hobbyist method of making money.

While Quill's first two weeks of effort weren’t successful, they weren’t without any results. He’d actually found a material that seemed to bind well with the resonance aura.

Ground mica seemed to hold the resonance aura in the ink. The effect was barely noticeable, but he’d have never tested it without knowing it was a common secondary ingredient in harmonization talismans. The ground up silicate and aura also gave any talismans painted with it a glimmering effect, but he didn’t hate it.

In fact, it made them stand out enough, Quill hoped it remained a useful additive if the talisman ever made it into production. It wasn’t the breakthrough he’d hoped it might be but he remained unbothered.

Circling back to the runes, Quill started approaching the problem from a harmonization angle, where he quickly ran into a problem.

Typical blood tracking talismans worked by locking onto the core connecting ingredient: the monster blood. If the blood wasn’t used in the ink, it needed to be applied post-creation.

That complicated things from a design perspective but simplified it from a use one. Ideally a drop of monster blood could be applied to the outside, both activating the talisman and triggering the resonance aura all at once.

He just needed a way to link the two. After two more days, he got tired of slamming his head into the wall and went to find a blood expert.

Thankfully, he’d married one.
