“I’ll wait for you to sit,” she informs me in a monotone voice.

So, this is a test to see who cracks first. Well, game on, bitch! I'm not letting her establish dominance.

Minutes pass as I stand near the drawing-room’s door watching Tabitha slowly drink her tea. I expect her to demand me to sit once she finishes what’s in her cup, but she just sets it down and continues to sit with her back straight, the whole time staring at me with her green eyes.

Another five minutes pass, and I start questioning what I'm doing. I'm starting to feel like an idiot.

I'm thinking about what I should do when Tabitha breaks the silence. "I'll remind you I have to deal with my master on a regular basis. He once made me wait in the same spot for two days just to prove a point."

What the fuck!

"I'm used to being tested, and I'm even more used to having my buttons pushed. If you wish to continue this, then fine, we will. But I hope you'll realize how childish you are being and sit." Tabitha proceeds to reach over for the teapot Sarette left on the table and fills up her cup.

I might have bitten off more than I can chew.

*********

Lord Rayes of Blaiton Point of View:

Hands on my head, I glance around the command tent and listen to the various nobles quarreling with one another.

"We should use long-range magic to attack them while they are building their siege towers!"

“Scholl doesn’t use stall tactics; the towers are a diversion. We should send scouts out to investigate the surrounding area!”

“Then what?! Are you suggesting they spent the last two days building those towers for no reason, that makes a lot of sense!?” Kelder, a high leveled mercenary sent by the lord of Yleles, angrily slams his hands against the table, earning him an angry look from the man who continues to suggest Scholl is building ‘Fake’ siege towers.

"We should attack first and reclaim Drey!" Everyone groans and hurls insults at the lord who fled Drey for suggesting such a stupid idea.

“We need more archers around the main gate!”

“We need to spread the archers out!”

"We need fewer archers!"

I suddenly feel the need to bang my head up against the table. It's a miracle we have men stationed on the walls at all. I can only hope that the constant shifting of our men makes our forces seem larger than they truly are.

Standing up, I walk out of the tent with only a few people actually noticing my leaving.

Walking a ways away from the tent, to a spot without anyone nearby, I lean my head back and close my eyes, letting the spring sun wash over me. That is until a familiar voice calls out to me.

“Things going that well, are they?”

“That obvious?” I turn to face Giovanni and his bodyguard Marshall who’s confidently strolling over to me.

Giovanni glances back at the tent we're using for a command center and frowns. "The earl appointed you to lead; why not kick them out?"

I sigh and meet my friend halfway. "It isn't that easy. Unlike you, who owns his own company and can fire people on a whim, I have to contend with the other nobles in the area. Most of the people in there are in charge of the surrounding villages. They came here thinking they could earn merits in battle but are just now realizing things aren't that simple. Then there are the representatives from Yleles and high leveled warriors sent by the earl. I can kick them all out if I want to, but then who will help me defend the city. Have you received any word from the earl, any news about reinforcements or more supplies?"

“Just more requests for food and alcohol," Giovanni disappointingly shakes his head. "Now that the city is cut off from Yleles, the branch over there is having a hard time meeting his demands."

“You don’t think the earl will flee, do you?” I ask my long-time friend for his opinion. Giovanni has a talent for finding a good deal and an even better knack for knowing when it was appropriate to jump ship.

“Honestly?” Giovanni scans our surroundings before answering in low voice. “I wouldn’t put it past him.”

I inhale a sharp breath; I expected as much but hearing his answer only brings the proverbial axe that much closer to my neck.

My family has overseen this city since it was a budding village. We were spared when the previous earl's family was removed from power, but my grandfather told me stories about how we were almost implicated for the support we gave during his reign.

"Do you have an exit strategy?" I ask him, glancing around to make sure no one is listening.

Giovanni gives me one of his merchant smiles. “One must be prepared for all possibilities.”

I nod in understanding. “Would the two of you care to join me on the wall?”

“Sure,” Giovanni readily agrees but not without an angry look from his bodyguard. The man has always taken his job seriously, but he has nothing to worry about; Scholl is still preparing for their offensive and has only launched a handful of spells at us periodically.

The two follow me up the ramparts until we stand above the eastern gate. In the distance, you can see Scholl halfway finished with assembling three war towers. I was told Scholl detests such tools, so maybe I should feel honored they broke tradition for us.

“Giovanni?”

“Yes, my friend?”

“If I should lose, could you help my family escape the city?”.

…

“If it should come to that, I’ll do everything in my power to protect your family,” Giovanni thankfully reassures me after a brief pause.

“Thank you, my friend.” I don’t ask the reason he had to think about my request, simply happy he agreed in the first place.

"Our families have done business for years; it's the least I can do. But if I may make a suggestion?"

"Yes?" I turn to my sly merchant of a friend.

“Do your best to protect the city, but that doesn’t just mean keeping Scholl out. I’ve heard rumors from my people who stayed behind in Drey,” Giovanni leans in closer to me.

“You have my attention.”

"My people tell me Pacore is a battle maniac but not a monster. There's little chance he'll go on a slaughter should they break through the walls," Giovanni tries to reassure me.

I have to chuckle at that. The idea of Pacore sparing myself or the other nobles is a laughable one. Leaving us alive wouldn't be practical. Not that many of the men arguing below plan on being captured. They think I don’t know about their hidden men readying to help them flee the city, but I do.

"Let's hope you're right," I remark, watching Scholl move about in the distance. "Let's hope you're right."
