To make things more challenging, I need to take the city in a way where we can march on Yleles soon afterwards. My spies tell me Yleles and the earl's fort are only held by a token force at the moment, so we can’t give them a chance to reinforce themselves. I can also see some of the soldiers are sporting Drey’s guard uniforms, meaning there are effectively three cities worth of defenders packed onto those walls.

Not even I will be able to take this city without incurring some losses.

With our forces stretched thin, I don't have the option to send for backup either. I would love to discuss these issues with Jason or mess with the General to distract myself from my problems, sadly, neither are here at the moment.

I continue to stroke my beard as small platoons of soldiers take off to circle the city. We don’t have enough men to surround the city altogether, but I can certainly make it difficult for them to receive supplies.

Sieges are usually won by one side outlasting the other. For a country like Scholl, which prides itself on its strongest people, usually, such tactics would be considered a sign of weakness, but I have to be smart with what I have.

Instead of ordering my best soldiers to lead a charge, we’ll build a few siege towers. They’ll take the brunt of the force from Blayton’s siege weapons while we try to knock in their front door. I still plan to stay true to Scholl's methods of overwhelming force, only this time, there will be much more planning involved.

The downside is that the preparations will take days to set up correctly. Days of soldiers silently judging my methods without anyone to bounce ideas off of. It’s important for my image that my men never see me as weak. I can never complain to a random soldier, I can’t just sit down and explain myself either; no, I need to remain the unbreakable wall to all my men.

"Why didn't I bring Jason with me?" I groan aloud. No, bringing him would've been a mistake, I have to once again remind myself. This isn't a stroll to another village or a quick skirmish before the city surrenders. With everything the local nobility has done to prepare for my arrival, I have to assume they have assassins and other saboteurs prepared as well. If I brought young Jason along with me, he'd be one of the first people targeted. And no need to think about what would've happened if I brought General Pitz with me; Blaiton would stop at nothing to recover her.

It was the right decision to leave the two of them back in Drey. I’ll send for them after I take the city.

After I secure Scholl’s future.

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

“Your friend not coming today?” Master asks me from his bench.

I smile at him as I stoke the forge. "You're just assuming she's coming here every day now?" I ask in a smug tone.

"It feels like it. She went into the mine with you two days ago and spent almost all day yesterday watching you work. I'd assumed the two of you were connected at the hip."

“Are you jealous because I have friends and you don’t?” I smugly ask Master Del.

He looks up at me with a salty look. “You have ‘a friend’, that’s hardly that much more than I do.”

“At least I have one,” I try to retort.

"One," master emphasizes. "I chose to live alone. Can you say the same thing?" Master smiles, knowing he won our little verbal spar.

I snort at his gloating and turn back to the forge. Damn, master is winning our back and fourths more and more often. Am I losing my touch?

Shaking my head, I clear those thoughts out of my mind as the forge reaches the temperature I want. Richard and Salus finished the village armory yesterday, and I figured I start off the day's work by making a few more shields as a warm-up. The village already has more weapons than a village our size should rightfully have, so I figure I should shift toward more defensive gear. My specialty is weapons, but I know I still need to practice my armor designs more.

“Maybe I should start making some helmets too?” I ponder to myself.

I’m about to move a steel ingot into the forge when I sense someone nearing the clearing. I assume it's Sandra and prepare to hear master say, 'I told you so,' but as the person gets closer, their mana network becomes clearer, and I realize whoever's approaching doesn't have anywhere near Sandra's mana pool.

"We have company, Master," I give Del a quick head's up.

Master swings his feet off his bench and sits up properly while I stop working the bellows. Thankfully I didn't start the day by preparing to forge kaglese weapons. I'd have wasted the better fuel trying to get the forge hot enough only to be interrupted before I could start.

If someone's coming to the clearing, it either means they want to order a pot or something, but more likely, it's…

"Good morning, Aaliyah. You look wonderful today," Sandra's older brother Braddon gives me his most charming smile as he enters the clearing.

I roll my eyes, "Morning, Braddon." I'm not stupid enough not to notice his advances, but I’ve never felt attracted to him. I don’t spend much time pondering my love life or a lack thereof, but I’m 100% positive I don’t have feelings for my best friend’s older brother.

I'm pretty sure he's noticed my verbal cues, but the hunter hasn't given up the chase yet.

“What brings you here?” I bluntly ask, already pretty sure I know the answer.

Not put off by my dismissal of him, Braddon continues to smile at me. "I was asked to escort the beautiful lady back to our house. Your guest has arrived."

Even though I was preparing myself for the news, my body still trembles a little, hearing Pacore's student has finally arrived. My plans will change a lot depending on my babysitter's mood.

I turn to Del, “Master, can you watch the forge for me? I’m not sure how long this will take.”

“You want me to come with you?” Master Del stands up, giving me a concerned look.

“It’s fine,” I wave him back down.

"Shall we?" Braddon offers me his arm as a boyfriend would.

I just sigh and walk past him shaking my head. At this point, I'm debating whether or not I should try using Sense Soul on the persistent bugger, but I'm not even sure that will work at this point. I did beat the crap out of him in his basement that one time, and if anything, I think that only made him more interested in me.

"Wait up!" Braddon calls out after me as I start jogging toward his house. I make sure I use Double Step just enough to stay a few paces in front of him.

It isn't surprising that as soon as we make it back to the village, I see groups of people talking to each other, groups of people that stop talking as we near them and watch us as we head towards the headman's house. Since we’re a small village with a tight community it’s always easy to tell when something happens or if someone shows up unannounced.

The groups of people grow larger as I see Camden's house in the distance, and I can hear whispers of a knight.

A knight?

The whispers continue as Braddon and I make our way over to his front door and walk inside the house. Moving down the hallway toward the drawing room, the passageway feels longer and narrower the closer I get to the door. I know it's just my imagination, so I stop myself before opening the door to collect myself.

Shake out my shoulders, crack my knuckles, take a deep breath; make sure my mana obscuring magic tool is topped off, and I’m ready to meet Pacore’s student.

Pushing open the drawing room door, my eyes immediately fall on my target, and I can see why everyone was calling her a knight. Sitting in a chair across from Camden and Sarette is a woman who looks like the quintessential picture of a female knight. Her dark blue hair draws my attention along with the multiple feathers adorning it. Red, gold, black, each feather has a different mana signature to it, but with one look I could tell each came from a fearsome magic beast.

Pulling my attention away from her hair and feathers is how young the woman looks. I was expecting an older woman or maybe someone who looked to be in their 40's, but the lady in front of me appears to be around the same age as Mom. She has more of a Vitality glow about her, so I'm sure she's older than my mom, but it’s hard tell by just how much.

She sits with a rigid military posture wearing a shiny grey set of platemail. To her side is a traveling pack along with her sword and shield, while her gauntlets and helmet are placed on the table. She's sipping a cup of tea as I enter, and like a machine, her arms gracefully lower the cup away from her lips before setting it on the table. Her every movement is precise as she turns to look at me.

When her green eyes meet mine, I have to swallow back a lump in my throat. Unlike Pacore, who gave off the air of a sleeping monster, the woman before me feels like a drawn blade ready to strike. I only need to see a vague glimpse of her soul to tell she’s around level 90. I’d guess at least 20 levels higher than me.

"Are you Aaliyah?" The knight asks me in a robust and noble voice.

“Yes,” I hesitantly answer.

She looks over me once and nods once like I passed some sort of unspoken test. "I thought master was exaggerating in his letter, but I guess I was wrong."

"What did the old man say about me?" I ask.

The knight's eyes narrow, and every hair on my body stands on end. "You are now an official student under Master Pacore. You should address him as such," she informs me in a cold voice.

Everyone in the room flinches. Sandra and Nicolas are standing in a corner, telling me to shut up with their eyes. I haven't even fully stepped into the room yet, and if Braddon wasn’t standing behind me, I might have turned and bolted that very second.

"Lady Tabitha, I'm sure Aaliyah didn't mean any disrespect," Camden tries to appease the knight.

“I’m sure,” she flatly responds without looking away from me.

So, her name is Tabitha.

I don't know what possessed me to, but in that moment, I felt my anger start to build under her judgmental gaze. I might be considered Pacore's apprentice, but there's still the fact that title was forced upon me. So, I do what comes naturally.

I stick my foot in my mouth. "No, there was some disrespect intended."

Camden and everyone else pales in fright. Lady Tabitha just continues to stare at me, and a deep silence fills the room. I return her cold gaze with a challenging smirk while I mentally kick myself for saying that.

“I see,” Tabitha closes her eyes, looking like she’s thinking of a million ways to murder me. After a few seconds, she opens her eyes again; only instead of anger, she looks tired. "I see you and master share the same challenging personality." I want to disagree with her, but she turns her attention to Camden. "Before she arrived, we were discussing what I would be doing in the village?"

“Yes,” Camden wipes a bit of sweat from his forehead.

“My master ordered me to defend this village and to look after Aaliyah.”

“I don't need a babysitter, and I’m standing right here,” I growl.

Tabitha ignores me and continues to talk to Camden. "I was informed there might be some magic beasts in the forest, but if there isn't, I can patrol for goblins or anything else."

"That would be very generous of you; thank you." Camden forces a smile. “What do you want me to tell the villagers?”

"It doesn't matter," Tabitha tells him. "This village is quite remote, but the less word spreads about me, the better. As long as you explain this to your people, we should be fine." Tabitha reaches over and picks up her teacup. She takes a sip before asking, "Where will I be staying?"

Am I invisible now?

Camden awkwardly looks at me, and I angrily fold my arms in front of my chest. "I believe you'll be staying..."

Camden tries to say that Tabitha would be staying with us but he is quickly cut off by Sandra before he could finish. "You'll be staying in my room here." Sandra finishes for her father.

Tabitha nods curtly while Camden’s eyes turn into dinner plates. “What?!”

“Lady Tabitha is an important person, and it’s only right you host her, Daddy,” Sandra feigns innocence. “Most of my stuff is at Richards house already, so I’ll just move in with him.” Sandra turns to Tabitha. “If you give me an hour, I can have the last of my stuff out of my room.”

“I’m in no rush,” Tabitha takes another sip of tea, undeterred by the atmosphere of the room.

“It’s settled!” Sandra happily claps her hands.

“What is happening?” Camden is stunned in his seat.

Sarette leans over and grasps her husband's hand, "breathe, dear."

Sandra looks at me and winks. Well, her plan went off without a hitch. Tabitha doesn't need to move in with my family, and Sandra gets to live with Richard like she originally wanted to. "I'll go grab Richard and have him help me move my clothes’ chest,” Sandra dances past me out of the room, happy as can be.

Camden wants to shout after his daughter, but he’s painfully aware of the woman sitting across from him. “Can you excuse me for a moment?” Camden politely asks his guest.

"Of course,” Tabitha nods to him. "I would appreciate some privacy anyways so that I can discuss a few things with my master's youngest disciple."

"Of course," Camden readily agrees despite seeing me frowning at him.

Moving aside, I watch as Sandra’s family leaves the room, shutting the door behind them.

“You should take a seat,” Tabitha motions to where Camden and Sarette were sitting.

“I’m fine where I am,” I continue to keep my distance from the armored woman.

“Suit yourself,” Tabitha remarks in an uncaring voice.

I continue to hatefully stare at the woman while she sips her tea as if she's at a garden party.

My anger starts to build again as she continues to ignore me, until I hiss, “Isn’t there something you wanted to talk about?”

