I took the clothes a little deeper into the woods to make sure I had my privacy before transforming, then quickly slipped them on. Already, I could tell I had definitely gotten older. I looked down at myself. Was I a teenager now? Hmmm, yeah, close at the very least. I guess I now have a body that’s around 12 or 13 years old.

When I came back out, Fox was back in her human form as well, and I could definitely feel the difference in height. I didn’t have to crane my neck to look up at either her or Rin now.

“Look at you, growing into a fine young lady,” Fox snickered.

My ears folded down. “Shut up.” It seemed Rin had expected this—or whoever was responsible for getting my clothes together had, anyway, because I realized they weren’t tight or anything despite me growing maybe a foot in height.

But I didn’t care about any of that right now. I asked Rin, “You said you have an update on my brothers?”

“Yes, the update came to me this morning. Through a proxy, we are in talks to purchase one. It seems one of them has been causing trouble, and they’d like to cut their losses and simply get rid of him. My agent presented a purchase offer at that time, and last I heard, it seems promising that it will be accepted.”

My eyes lowered. I let out a breath, feeling a bittersweet tug at my chest. One of them would be saved? But what of the other? Ben and Jerry were so close. I almost hated to imagine them being apart from each other. I hope that until now they were at least kept together and were able to play and help support each other through the whole ordeal.

Fox put her hand on my shoulder. “There you go, two down, counting Lily… So what, 3 to go?”

“Four,” I corrected. “My mother is still out there as well.” I knew Genzo told me the fighting pits meant she was already gone. But I had not abandoned the idea in my own mind yet. I would save her as well.

I put my eyes back on Rin. “And you said you'd help me rescue the other of my twin brothers. Even if that means I have to go do it myself, right?”

“That is the intention. My agents will come up with a plan and create the opportunity when the time comes. Your job, for now, is to make yourself stronger so that you are ready when that day arrives. Therefore, my main intention was to speak to you about your quest.” She turned to Fox. “You may return to the palace.”

“She’s not taking off on her quest now, is she?” Fox asked.

“No,” I answered instantly. “Not without saying goodbye to Lily and Grick.” I turned my gaze to Rin. “Will that be alright?”

“Of course,” Rin said. “You can stay another whole night if you wish. They’ll be leaving for their own quest in the morning. I suspect you’d like to leave with them.”

“Y-Yeah,” I answered, unconsciously wagging my tail. I felt a knot of anxiety relieve itself just a little. The thought of separating from them is something I still haven’t come to terms with, and no matter how much I delayed, I kept feeling like it was happening way too soon. But still, every hour I could delay my departure gave me just a little more relief. That is… until the clock started ticking again.

But I couldn’t just keep delaying myself from separating from Lily and Grick. I had to go out there and become strong. I had to save whichever of my brothers was left behind in the Scorched Steeps. From there, I’d need to save Iris from that Valrok bastard, figure out where Luke is and save him as well, and do the same for Mom!

“Well, alright then.” Fox winked at me. “See you tonight at the dinner table.”

“Yeah. See you tonight,” I answered.

With that, Fox took her leave.

“Put up your hood and follow me,” Rin said, once she was gone.

“Oh. We’re not just staying here?”

“No. And make sure your tail stays under that cloak.”

“Um… okay…” I looked at my hands, and more particularly my clawed fingertips.

“Try not to be too obvious about those either, but it’s not truly such a great concern. I just don’t want you so easily connected as the blue-eyed Hell Hound who can turn into a human form. Simply in case the day comes that you become too well-known amongst our enemies.”

“I see…”

With that, I followed Rin out of the training grounds. The carriage Fox and I had been taking here was already gone, transporting Fox back to the palace. Rin led me down the street, and already I noticed every soldier who spotted her stopping to salute. A pair that were farther away nudged each other and pointed with excitement at Rin.

I remained hidden under my hood. From a distance I’d probably just appear as an ordinary teen following behind the High Regent for some reason. Though, closer up, even without noticing my fangs or claws, I had much darker skin than any of the other people of the Verdant Empire, so they would at least think I was a foreigner. I wonder if there was a region somewhere in this world that people who looked like me might come from? The Umarii apparently had skin that was even darker than mine, almost pitch black from what I’d heard.

But as she led me through this militarized area of the city, I couldn’t help but notice how these soldiers all regarded Rin as some kind of hero. But then I noticed one who didn’t quite have that reaction. He was walking down the opposite side of the street, sword sheathed at his belt, and he seemed to jolt upright when he noticed Rin.

It was a delayed reaction, but he did give her a formal salute as we passed him. I looked back once to see him glare at Rin’s back as his salute dropped and he seemed to swear something under his breath as he continued on.

Of course, war is a thing everyone touched by gets caught up in, whether they like it or not. Some people can accept their role through duty, pride for their country, or dreams of being a hero. Others will simply despise everyone and everything that they can think to blame it on. Those are the types of people who might desert and become bandits.

“Something on your mind?” Rin asked.

I jolted and turned my gaze forward again, and, realizing I had fallen several steps behind, I gave a quick jog to catch up. “No. Nothing.”

“That reaction did not seem like nothing. Please, speak freely,” she said.

“It’s just…” My ears folded down under my hood, wondering if me pointing out what I realized about that guy might get him in trouble.

“You saw it, didn’t you?” Rin asked. “That soldier seemed quite unhappy.”

“You noticed?” I asked, looking up at her.

“Of course. But his hatred does not trouble me. A soldier may hate me and still do his duty.”

“But… couldn’t someone like that become a problem one day?” I asked.

“Perhaps. But am I to go around punishing or interrogating every soldier or citizen who gives me a dirty look or whispers an ill word of the emperor? If that were to be the policy of the empire, what do you think our people would think of us?”

“They’d think you were tyrants,” I answered.

“Precisely. And for all I know, that man has good reason to hate me. Perhaps my orders led to the death of a loved one. Perhaps my leadership failed to protect his home province. Or he simply had dreams of being something other than a soldier, yet this is the life he must live.”

“So you just let it go? But what if he really does do something one day? Like defecting to the enemy, or becoming a bandit?”

“You think a dirty look is enough to jump to that conclusion?” Rin asked.

“Well… no.”

“I think of it this way. A war is a constant state of loss. While we are actively engaged in war, there is no such thing as winning. Perhaps some battles will go well, or better than expected. But my country will continue bleeding. The best I can hope to do is to make decisions that I believe in the long run will lead to as little loss as possible compared to any other decision I could have made. This will go on until the day the war is over, and only then can I say we have won.

“Until that day comes, there will be those who feel the loss of war and feel resentment. This is what I’m fighting against as much as the Iron March or any other enemy. A traitor to our cause is just one more loss I’d failed to prevent. And if I don’t have that man’s loyalty, maybe I haven’t earned it yet, but hopefully one day I do.”

I nodded, taking in her words.

“Besides,” she added. “He did salute. If he deliberately hadn't, I might not have let him go.”

I blinked. “Wait, you will do something about him not saluting?” My ears folded down as I spoke dryly. “Doesn’t that discredit everything you just said?”

“A military requires order, of course,” she answered. “An army cannot function if every soldier obeys only when he wants to or approves of the person giving an order. A salute is not ultimate proof of loyalty, but a gesture that speaks to a soldier fulfilling their role. And a man will stop saluting long before he thinks to deny an order or worse.”

“I see…” I supposed I understood the logic. But another thought hit me as she said all of that. Granted, Aiko’s story of Rin’s origin was apparently just a rumor, but what was clear either way was that Rin wasn’t quite human and, therefore, wasn’t she technically not from the Verdant Empire? Why was she so dedicated to it?

“You have another question on your mind, don’t you?”

“Don’t take it the wrong way but… Why are you so dedicated to this country? Didn’t the last emperor… um…” I trailed off, realizing bringing up her being tortured might be a little too blunt.

“That man is now dead, and the man who put a blade through his chest now sits on the throne,” Rin answered without missing a beat.

But he’s a frog… I thought but didn’t say. Honestly, I was more just confused about the logistics at this point. Still, I didn’t trust myself to ask about it in a nonoffensive way. I’ll admit, I can lack tact at times.

“Besides. The emperor has given me a quest I truly believe in. I might never succeed in it, but if I live a thousand years and spend all my time moving closer and closer to that goal… that is a good purpose for my life, I feel.”

“And… what is the quest?” I asked.

Her gaze turned down to me, her red eyes locking on, and calmly, she said, “To unite the entire world.”

I was glad for the cloak covering my tail, because it drooped fully between my legs. That sounded simultaneously like the most incredible and terrifying thing I had ever heard.

“Unite… the entire world?” I repeated slowly. “Does that mean… conquer it?”

“If that is what’s necessary,” she answered.

“I… I see…”

Her eyes turned forward again. “But sometimes you can conquer without direct violence. Maybe there’s a path like that. Yet, this world isn’t one that favors peace. The system sees to it that no matter what you do, there is always a benefit to killing others. I do wonder… what would peace actually look like in a world like this?”

I didn’t have an answer for her, but it seemed our casual conversation and stroll was over as she walked up to a stone building with two armored guards standing outside the entrance. They both snapped to attention with salutes.

“At ease,” Rin said to them with a nod. Their eyes shifted to me for a brief second, but I remained hidden under my hood, which I couldn’t help but feel just made me feel more suspicious.

But one opened the door to let Rin and me inside, then closed it behind us.

We entered a room that looked somewhere between an office and a war room. There were several soldiers there, or rather, they looked higher-ranking than ordinary soldiers, but they still all stood and saluted, saying, “High Regent.”

“At ease,” she repeated.

One of them was a man with a scar over a single closed eye, and he looked at me and asked, “Is this the Hell Hound?”

Rin nodded and told me, “You can take your hood off now, and please take a seat.”

“O… kay…” I said, reaching up to lower my hood and then taking a seat as indicated.

“This is the western command office,” she explained. “After you leave tomorrow, you will not be returning to the palace unless we have a reason for your presence there, such as if the emperor has a quest for you. But at such times as when you need to stay in the empire or report back after a quest, you’ll be doing it here. We will have lodging for you here as well.”

“What about my sister and Grick?” I asked instantly.

“Of course, whenever you return we will arrange for you to spend some time with them. But going forward, the idea is that you no longer exist within these walls, outside the knowledge of your pack, Fox, and the people currently in this room. You will be working for us as a shadow agent.”

"Oh…” I said, ears folding down as I looked over the people in the room. I felt quite weird about all of their attention being on me.

The scarred man continued looking me over with his single good eye. “She’s smaller than I expected.”

“I just had a growth spurt,” I muttered.

“She is technically very young,” Rin said. “She was a birth transmigration, and she came from Earth’s integration.”

I raised a brow as the other people at the table nodded along as if that made perfect sense.

What the hell! Don’t just drop a lore bomb like that out of nowhere! Build up to it first!

“Earth… integration?” I asked. “Wait. Exactly how much do you know about Earth? No, answer the integration part first.” Then I remembered the room of military people all staring at me and felt a little less comfortable. Or, even more uncomfortable, I guess I should say.

“Every so often, this world receives a wave of transmigrators,” Rin explained. “The most recent that we are aware of was a world called Earth. Whenever someone transmigrates, they either go into the body of someone newly born or someone who recently died but still has a viable body. We therefore refer to them as birth or death transmigrators.”

“Oh,” I said, not sure what else to say to that. Then I asked, “How often does that happen?”

“So far the trend has been every three to five years,” Rin explained. “So far, we’ve only been able to confirm between four and eight from each wave, but we suspect the true number is quite higher than that.” She interlaced her metal fingers as she sat back. “The trouble is, as far as we can tell, the majority of transmigrators go to monster bodies, as it seems the System does not necessarily prioritize humanoids over monsters, and monsters, of course, far outnumber humanoids. Therefore, we only have a chance at realizing someone is a transmigrator if they are among the minority of humans, or if they are a monster who finds a way to communicate, as you have. And even then, it’s not like we will automatically know about them.”

“Do you know of anyone else from Earth?” I asked.

“Of course,” Rin answered. “That’s why we already know about that world. Which seems to correlate with the little bit I've gleaned from you.”

So she, or at least someone in her intelligence network, has spoken to them recently.

“Oh… Um… Are they in the Verdant Empire right now?”

“That’s classified information,” Rin answered, and watched me for a moment. “But if speaking with another Earthling is something you are interested in doing, perhaps we can arrange it.” I noticed she looked among the room full of military peeps, almost as if checking for a consensus on who was okay with that, but nobody seemed to object.

“I… guess I don’t really care about that,” I said, and honestly, it was the truth. It would be interesting to speak to someone from my home planet, but honestly, it wasn’t high on my list of priorities. After all, there wasn’t a single person from Earth I cared about more than my family in this world, so I can’t say I felt much connection to it. Maybe if I'd had a better life there, I would feel differently.

“Then lets move on to talking about your quest,” Rin finally continued, then nodded to someone else.

A man who seemed far too clean and delicate compared to the military officers stood from his chair and cleared his throat. He wore layered green robes with a black sash tied around his waist, and had long hair pulled back into a ponytail.

“Yamiko, it is good to meet you. I am Archivist Noboru. I serve as one of the empire’s lead scholars on unusual lands and those rich in mana. I am here to provide you with information on the Black Pyre in order to aid you on your quest.”

I nodded, but then stopped and blinked as I looked over one shoulder, then the other. “Yamiko?” I asked. “Who’s that?”

“You,” Rin answered.

My ears shot upright. “I am?”

She shrugged. “Since we didn’t have a name to call you by, one was selected.”

The guy with the scar cleared his throat. “We realized it was getting a little confusing whenever we were trying to talk about you. So we just picked one. Sorry about that.”

“Oh.”

I guess I can see how that could get confusing for people.

Rin turned to me, metal fingers still interlaced. “If you have something you prefer, we can go with that instead.”

I felt about as much attachment to having a name as I did to my past on Earth. What did I really need one for? My family knew me by scent and Pack Bond. Lily didn’t need a name for me to know I was me, and Grick just called me Puppy.

“Yamiko is fine,” I said, some small part of me feeling like what would normally be a major character milestone just got a bit shrugged off.

I checked the top of my stat screen just to make sure it didn’t matter.

Name: ???

Race: Hell Hound

Level: 18

Path: Juvenile Arcane Nightstalker

Yup, still question marks. We’re all good there!

“So what about my quest?” I asked.

Noboru bowed once more. “The Black Pyre is an unusual place, rich in mana and steeped in old death. Some call it cursed. Others call it sacred. The oldest legends claim that a god-tier monster once attempted to evolve even further there, only to die the instant its evolution completed—or perhaps the instant before it could. Its body did not rot. It burned. And from that corpse-fire, the land we now call the Black Pyre became a cradle for rare magics and unusual monsters.”

I blinked.

Seriously! What’s with lore bombs constantly getting dropped in this room? I’ve only been here, like, what? Five minutes!?
