He woke to birdsong and the smell of someone else's fire.

The old man's campfire had burned down to embers overnight, but the heat was still there — a low, persistent warmth radiating from the ash bed, keeping the cold at bay. Link lay on his side in the grass with the slate pressed against his chest and the bone club within arm's reach and the sky above him a pale, clean blue that looked nothing like the ceiling of the place where he'd first opened his eyes.

His stomach spoke before his mind did. Hunger — not the vague discomfort of the day before but a sharp, insistent demand, the kind that narrows the world to a single question: where is food?

He sat up. The old man was gone. The fire was tended — someone had added a log recently, because the embers were still drawing — but the spot where the old man had sat was empty. His cloak, his hood, the quiet weight of his attention: all absent. Link was alone with the morning and the hunger and the vast indifferent beauty of a place he still couldn't name.

He went looking for food.

The Plateau in the morning was a different landscape than the one he'd crossed at dusk. Dew clung to the grass and caught the early light, turning the hillside into a field of small fires. Birds darted between the trees — brown, quick, startled by his footsteps — and insects hummed in the underbrush with a low, continuous drone that felt like the Plateau breathing. The air smelled of wet earth and pollen and, faintly, smoke from a fire he hadn't found yet, carried on the wind from somewhere lower down the hill.

He found apples first. The same gnarled trees as yesterday, branches heavy with red fruit. He shook the nearest trunk and three apples fell — a satisfying sequence, the thud of each one landing in the grass beneath. He ate one where he stood, juice running down his chin, and pocketed the others.

Mushrooms grew near the base of a fallen log — pale-capped, clustered in the shadow where the bark had rotted soft. He pulled them free and the slate on his hip hummed, so faint he almost missed it. The screen showed a brief flash: an image of the mushroom, a name he didn't recognise. Then nothing. The device was tracking what he collected. He didn't know why. He took the mushrooms anyway.

An insect landed on his forearm — green, long-legged, vibrating with a restless energy that made it hard to pin down. His hand closed over it before the thought to catch it had finished forming. His fingers knew: cup, don't crush. He held it for a moment, felt its legs ticking against his palm, and slipped it into his pocket with the apples.

He found the axe near the treeline — leaning against a stump, its edge buried in the wood where someone had left it mid-swing. An axe, not a weapon, but his hands closed on the handle and his grip settled and the weight of it felt like an argument. Better than the bone club. Heavier. The kind of tool that could be a weapon if the world required it.

He slid it through the back of his belt, alongside the bone club. Two weapons now. Neither of them built for fighting.

The smoke was closer now. Not the old man's campfire — this was coming from below, from a low structure at the edge of a stand of trees. A cabin. Log walls, a neat roof, a chimney trailing grey into the morning air. An axe leaned against the outer wall, its head sunk into a stump. A woodpile stood beside the door, and the woodpile was the first thing that made him pause.

Every log was the same length. Cut to identical measure, stacked with geometric precision, edges flush. Not the woodpile of a man surviving. The woodpile of a man with nothing to do but make things perfect.

---

The old man was inside, sitting at a rough table with a book open in front of him. He looked up when Link darkened the doorway, and his expression shifted from concentration to warmth so quickly that the concentration might have been imagined.

"Ah," the old man said. "You found me. I was wondering if you would." He closed the book — a diary, its pages dense with small, precise handwriting that Link could see from the door. Too precise. Too measured. Not the hand of a man who lived alone in a cabin on a sealed plateau.

The cabin was small. One room. A bed against the far wall, a table, a shelf of dried herbs. A cooking pot sat outside the door, iron and heavy, suspended over a bed of coals that the old man had already prepared. Everything was maintained with the same deliberate care as the woodpile. No dust. No disorder. A space held in readiness for a guest who had been expected for a very long time.

"You're hungry," the old man said. It wasn't a question. He watched Link the way he'd watched him the night before — with the practiced attention of someone who read hunger the way other people read faces. "Sit. I have ingredients, but no one to cook for. You have hunger, but no skill. I think we can solve both problems."

Link had already tried.

While the old man was reading, Link had found the cooking pot — hot, ready, waiting — and dropped in what he had: an apple, a mushroom, and the insect from his pocket. He didn't know why the insect seemed wrong. The logic was: everything he'd collected was from the Plateau, the Plateau was edible, therefore everything went in the pot.

The result was not edible. A grey lump, dense and matte, sitting in the pot like a stone that had been heated past patience. It did not move. It did not steam. When he poked it with a stick, it resisted — solid, mineral, a thing that had given up on being food and committed fully to being rock. The slate chimed — a shorter, flatter tone than usual, almost dismissive — but offered no notification. Even the device declined to acknowledge what he'd made.

He ate it anyway. He had to gnaw at the edge, his teeth scraping against the surface, working loose a piece that tasted of char and mineral flatness and the ghost of an apple that had deserved better. His body accepted it without enthusiasm. The slate registered a full heart of recovery — his health bar restored — but his stomach disagreed with the device's assessment. He was still hungry. The rock had technically been food. Technically.

The old man appeared in the doorway. He looked at the pot. He looked at Link. His expression was perfectly controlled.

"You know," the old man said, "there is a recipe in my diary, if you'd care to read it."

Link looked at the diary on the table. The handwriting was small and careful — formal in a way that nagged at the edge of his perception. He couldn't read most of it. But one entry had ingredients listed clearly: raw meat, a fish, a spicy pepper. He looked back at the old man.

The old man was already laying out ingredients on a flat stone: a cut of raw meat, dark-red and cold; a fish — silver-scaled, pulled from a stream Link hadn't found yet; and three peppers, bright red, their smell sharp enough to make his eyes water.

"The trick," the old man said, lifting the pot's lid, "is knowing what goes together. These three —" he gestured at the meat, the fish, the peppers "— belong in the same pot. They become more than their parts. That is cooking. That is the only magic I know."

Link reached for the pot. The old man raised a hand.

"Not yet. Watch first."

He dropped the meat in. It hit the hot iron and hissed, and the smell that rose was immediate and deep — seared protein, rendered fat, the particular richness of food becoming more than raw material. Then the fish, its silver skin darkening on contact. Then the peppers, split lengthwise, their seeds hissing in the oil.

The old man put the lid on. "Patience," he said. "The most important ingredient. People rush. Fire doesn't."

They waited. The pot clicked and murmured. Steam escaped from under the lid in thin, fragrant lines, and the smell built in layers: meat, then pepper-heat, then the fish breaking down into something sweeter underneath. The old man sat with his hands on his knees, watching the pot the way he watched everything — as though waiting were a skill he'd had decades to perfect.

When the old man lifted the lid, the steam that rose was dense enough to blur his face. Inside: a dish. Golden-brown, slick with pepper oil, the fish reduced to flakes and the meat tender enough to pull apart. It looked like a meal. It smelled like a promise.

The slate chimed.

```stat-screen
    COOKING
    ---
    Spicy Meat and Seafood Fry
    Effect: Restores 4 hearts | Cold Resistance (5:30)
    Ingredients: Raw Meat, Hylian Bass, Spicy Pepper
    ---
```

Link didn't wait for the old man to serve it. He reached into the pot with his bare hands — too hot, didn't matter — and pulled a piece of meat free and ate it standing up. The heat hit first, then the pepper, then the deep savoury warmth of the fish and the fat and the smoke. He ate with the focus of someone who'd discovered that the world contained this and hadn't known it yesterday. His second handful was bigger than his first. His third emptied the pot.

The old man watched. He had served himself a portion, but it sat untouched on the flat stone beside him. His expression held the same caught quality as the night before — amusement and grief, tangled together, neither winning. He watched Link eat the way you watch someone do the thing they were made for.

Link finished. He looked at the empty pot. He looked at the old man's untouched portion. The old man followed his gaze, then pushed the plate toward him.

"Take it," the old man said. "I don't eat much these days."

Link took it. He ate more slowly this time — not because the hunger was satisfied but because something in the old man's watching had shifted the act from desperate to shared. They sat by the fire, the cooking pot between them, the morning light warming the cabin's log walls. It was the first meal Link had eaten with another person. He didn't know why that mattered. It mattered.

"You eat as though you're never sure when the next meal is coming," the old man said. The words had a weight to them that didn't match their surface — as though he'd heard someone else say them once, or would hear someone say them later, and the echo made him quiet.

He stood. Went to a chest near the bed and opened it. Inside: a garment. Dark blue, quilted, heavier than Link's threadbare shirt. A doublet, lined with something soft.

"The mountain to the north gets cold," the old man said, holding it out. "Very cold. Cold enough to kill, if you're not prepared." He looked at Link's thin shirt. "This will help."

Link took the doublet. It was warm in his hands — warm the way the slate was warm, as though it contained its own heat. He pulled it on over his shirt. It fit. Of course it fit.

"I had it made some time ago," the old man said. "For a traveller I was expecting." He adjusted his hood. Whatever he was about to say next, he decided against it. "The mountain can wait. There are other places to see first."

---

The Temple of Time stood in the Plateau's centre like a broken hand reaching for the sky.

Link approached it from the west, through fields of knee-high grass dotted with wildflowers that shouldn't have been growing in the shadow of a ruin. The temple's walls were intact enough to form an enclosure — stone blocks fitted without mortar, their seams tight despite centuries of weathering. The roof was gone in places. Sky showed through gaps where the ceiling had surrendered to time, and birds nested in the eaves, their calls echoing off stone that had been carved to carry voices.

He entered through what had been the main door — a stone archway twice his height, its carved figures worn to smooth, featureless shapes. Inside: a nave. Long, narrow, pillared. Grass grew between the flagstones. Ivy climbed the columns in slow, patient spirals. The light fell through the broken roof in shafts that caught the dust and held it, suspended, and the effect was less ruin than cathedral. The space was still doing what it had been built to do.

His footsteps echoed. The acoustics were deliberate — designed to carry sound from the door to the far end, where something waited.

A statue. Taller than him, carved from stone so pale it was almost white. A woman, robed, her hands folded in prayer, her face serene and smoothed by time until the features were suggestion rather than detail. The stone around her base was cleaner than the rest of the floor, as though the ruin itself maintained a perimeter of respect.

Link stopped in front of her.

The light fell differently here. The shafts through the broken roof converged on the statue as though the ruin had been designed to lose its ceiling in exactly this way — to let the sky in where it mattered most. Dust motes hung in the light like slow, deliberate snow.

He didn't know who she was. He didn't know what prayer was, or worship, or the particular architecture of a place built to hold the sacred. But his body did something his mind didn't command: he stood straighter. His shoulders settled. His chin came up.

The slate hummed against his hip. Not a chime — a pulse, low and continuous, the way it hummed near the Shrines. A recognition. He held the slate toward the statue, and the screen flickered: a dimmed prompt, symbols he couldn't read, then nothing. The interface was locked. Something was required that he didn't have.

He touched the statue's base. The stone was cool and dry and very old, and his fingers traced the carvings there — geometric patterns, not Sheikah, older and less precise. Words in a script he couldn't read. He touched each letter. He understood none of them. He stayed a long time.

"She has been here longer than the Temple," a voice said behind him.

The old man was standing near the entrance, his cloak pulled close, his hood low. Link hadn't heard him enter. The old man was looking at the statue — not at Link, not at the ruin, at her — and his expression was the most unguarded Link had seen. Raw. The face of a man looking at someone he had failed.

"Longer than the Plateau," the old man said. "Longer than most things."

He adjusted his hood. He did not pray. He did not kneel. But he stood very still for a moment, and his hands — folded behind his back in a posture that looked trained, practised, like something he'd done in front of crowds — tightened until the knuckles went white. Then they relaxed. He breathed.

Then the expression closed, like a door, and he was the old man again — warm, measured, slightly evasive. "There are ruins to the east," he said. "Old structures. You might find useful things there." He paused. "Be careful."

---

The Eastern Abbey was a skeleton.

