Having Kaltosa Lu appear out of nowhere certainly explained how the barrier had been breached. He’d been hiding inside the Monarch’s body for God knows how long. Considering his origins and his terrifying talent with formations, he probably had a dozen ways to disrupt the shield. He must have been waiting for them to open the door before making his move.

What Zac didn’t understand was how Kaltosa Lu had caught up with them so quickly. He’d left to ignite a halo on the Mercurial Court’s pillar instead of joining the worship ceremony on the Transformation Docks. The timeline didn’t add up unless he had never left the Transformation Docks in the first place, but he had clearly ignited his halo during the month of Zac’s crossing.

It was technically possible that he could have already crossed the Peregrine Ocean, but reaching the depths of the archipelago so quickly? Finding an invader to parasitize without notice?

Zac was far from pleased to see Kaltosa Lu appear at the eleventh hour. His strength was certainly dependable, but Zac would have preferred any Inner Disciple of the Mercurial Courts over him. An Inner Disciple might claim the Divine Core for themselves, but they had no reason to kill anyone except the invaders. Meanwhile, Kaltosa Lu might be more interested in eliminating his competition for Ultom than resolving the invasion. There was also no way he would let them slip away unnoticed.

“My friend, are you going to keep me waiting? I’m beginning to think your promise of cooperation was a lie,” Kaltosa Lu said with a despondent sigh, prompting the soldiers to look around warily.

“What do we do?” Esmeralda asked.

“You two stay here. I’ll try to open a path during the battle,” Zac replied.

‘Don’t be foolhardy. You’ve grown stronger since we last faced him, but don’t delude yourself into thinking he’s easy prey. Kaltosa Lu is a genuine descendant of the old Pryer. He’s bound to carry terrifying artifacts,’ Esmeralda warned. ‘And not to mention that other guy. Either one of them is trouble.’

‘I’ll try to stall and maintain a balance between us,’ Zac said.

‘Fine. I’ll handle things on my end. What about the core? If our suspicions are correct…’

‘Let it play out. We don’t need the core anyway.’

'First hunting a goddess, then awakening another. Things are never boring when you’re around,’ Esmeralda giggled. ‘This is why I’ve held on for so long. How can I accept fate’s course when there’s so much left to experience?’

Idiche, clueless about their discussion, solemnly bowed to Zac. “Thank you for believing in me. I’ll end this hunt, even if it kills me. I won’t let these bastards get their way.”

“Good luck,” Zac said as he stepped out of Esmeralda’s protective spatial fold.

This would be a rough one.
