The edges of the [Gate] swirled with black magic, but the interior of the portal was as idyllic a land as any. Grass, trees, mountains and a blue sky. Erick thought it might be a nice place to build a small cottage and an accompanying garden. Course there was no way to know where in the world that land beyond the portal actually lay without going through it and trying to get to a known location, and Erick wouldn’t be doing that. The land beyond could be literally anywhere on Veird, and it might not even be on the Surface, for the Underworld sometimes had places that mimicked the overworld, with artificial suns and all.

And besides that, Erick got the distinct impression that no matter how nice the land beyond looked, that it was full of danger. Menace radiated from the swirling black edge of the [Gate], and especially from the Script-like box that hung in the air, in the center of the portal.

Erick tried to mana sense past the edge of the [Gate], as he could with his own [Gate]s, but his ability to become one with the mana and feel out the reality of that mana ended at that black and white box. Nothing was allowed to interact with the [Gate] at all, except for light, and all of that light could just be an illusion.

Like a screen saver…

Erick hummed, then asked, “Does this scene look like a repeating scene to you, Quilatalap?”

Quilatalap had fallen into a comfortable silence beside Erick, both of them thinking over their conversations of the Theory of Forms and what that meant for the fae, as well as what they were seeing as compared to what they were both effectively [Witness]ing in the mana all around. After taking a moment to come back to the present, Quilatalap focused his eyes again, saying, “Not a repeating scene. It’s a [Gate] to somewhere... Do you think the whole thing might be an illusion?”

“The interior at least.”

Quilatalap hummed in initial disagreement, but then he looked a bit more at the [Gate]. He asked, “Did you [Witness] the conversation between Fallopolis as she introduced the [Gate]?”

“Yes, but I’d take your interpretation over what I actually saw, considering you were in charge of the Armory.”

About five hours ago, according to the manasphere imprint Erick had seen, Fallopolis had gathered the crowds who wished to see her true presentation, the one she had told Erick that she would only show after he had seen all the other presentations. The old kook had stood in the center of the Atrium, declaring how she couldn’t wait any longer to show off what she and the Darkness had been working on, and so she opened this [Gate], loudly proclaiming that All Those Who Aspire should step forth and test themselves to see if they were worthy of the power that the Script gave them.

Three people had gone inside, following Fallopolis like they and she had planned their inclusion beforehand, which was probably what had happened. Fairy Moon followed after a glance from Fallopolis. Hollowsaur had joined them, too, after Fallopolis had wordlessly glared at the man.

Erick imagined he would hear all about all of that later, when they all came back out of the [Gate].

“It’s a test.” Quilatalap said, “I ran the tests of power and capability for All Those Who Aspire for a long time. Apparently, My God has seen fit to give this task to… Someone else? Not Fallopolis, though. She merely declared that the testing would begin.”

“… Hmm?” Erick looked to the black edge of the [Gate] again. “It appeared like she cast this [Gate]?”

“Not at all,” Quilatalap said, looking uncomfortable but reining in that impulse. “The Darkness Himself opened this [Gate].”

“… You seem uncomfortable for a lot of different reasons? Is something wrong?”

“I have a feeling that all the artifacts I reacquired from the sacking of the Armory have somehow left their secured location without triggering any of the traps and defenses I left behind. I feel that they’re in there. Or at least some of them are. And… I was the tester, Erick. So that’s one of the big...” Quilatalap stared into the idyllic portal, then made himself turn softer, attempting to dismiss all of his previous life in that simple act. “Anyway. It’s a test, and tests are not illusion-based unless the aspirant pursues Illusion Magic. There’s nothing about this that is a lie.”

Quilatalap had been blindsided by this ‘testing’, but this was not the first time his life had been thrown into upheaval without him being able to do a single thing to stop that upheaval.

“Do you want to be involved in this?” Erick asked, not knowing which answer he would want from Quilatalap, but needing to ask the question anyway.

And suddenly, Erick was worried about what it would mean if Quilatalap chose to be involved in this ‘testing’ again.

After a long, silent moment, Quilatalap said, “I don’t know.” And then he shrugged, and turned away from the portal and began walking. “I do know that I want lunch! Breakfast is over.”

… And just like that? Quilatalap was over it? Not bloody likely. But whatever. For now, it was fine. Erick walked beside the man, toward the lunch area.

Zolan, Bright Smile, and Farix sat at a table between them and the breakfast station, their meal of fancy quiches and flaky breads and jams and sausage only half touched. They had been talking business for the last several hours, from before the black [Gate] had opened, and to now, when Erick and Quilatalap had reappeared. The three of them slowed down their conversation as Erick and Quilatalap had spoken, but they had gotten right back to it when it appeared nothing was happening with the Wizard and the Archlich except for talking.

Now, though, Zolan excused himself from his conversation and stood up, as Erick made to pass by. Zolan asked, “Are you Melemizargo?”

Everyone froze except for Quilatalap, who smiled wide, and then kept walking, asking Erick, “Do you want breakfast or lunch, Erick?”

“Lunch. Whatever you pick out for me is great,” Erick said, before instantly flowing into conversation with Zolan, “I am not Melemizargo. When Rozeta helped me achieve my [Greater Dragon Body], Melemizargo did some shit, because he is a shithead, as Rozeta herself has stated.”

Zolan was not convinced, but he had pulled back from an unwelcome edge; that much was plain on his face. He was very happy with Erick’s answer. There was a lot more to that expression than happiness, but Zolan would probably share those thoughts in a more private setting.

Bright Smile had no trouble throwing rocks into the pond, to see how big of wave she could cause, “I suppose it would be impossible to be both Xoat and the Darkness.”

“Oh my gods,” Erick mumbled.

Farix flatly stated, “From you, that statement is more like ‘oh my children’. Same sort of exasperation, too.”

Erick glared daggers. “Now that is completely ridiculous.”

Farix grinned wide. “I know. That’s why I said it.”

… He was teasing? What the fuck?

Oh. Bright Smile had been teasing, too. And not just Erick, but Zolan. Both of them had been teasing Zolan and Erick at the same time.

Odd.

Farix dropped his teasing and said to everyone, “He’s not the Darkness —That’s blasphemy and I don’t appreciate it— and he probably isn’t Xoat, either.”

“ ‘Probably’, Farix?” Erick frowned.

Bright Smile said to Farix, “Melemizargo has been insane for the longest time. If he made an avatar of himself then why not make someone like Erick?”

Zolan did not like how much he agreed with Bright Smile; Erick could tell.

Farix said to Bright Smile, “The Darkness does not take a human-shaped avatar outside of extreme cases, and He would never hide Himself. Therefore, based on all known history of The Dark, Erick cannot be Melemizargo. This situation most resembles the Black Blessing of Adamantium, actually, in that My God did not want the color white to be associated with Good, and the color black to be associated with Evil. That’s all this was.”

Bright Smile frowned, saying, “But the horns. Three on both sides, looking like a crown of black. They bear too much resemblance.”

“It’s a foi— a foible!” Farix’s voice faltered, for he was trying to convince himself of his own words this whole time. He recovered fast enough. “…Nothing more.”

Ah.

So not just teasing. More like them trying to convince themselves that their current reality was fine, and that nothing was wrong, and ‘let’s not speak about the Darkness too loud for he might hear’.

Zolan sighed, grabbed a second chair and set it beside his own seat at the large breakfast table, gesturing to it as he looked to Erick. Erick took the offered seat, and Zolan sat back down in his own chair, saying, “Most people would call the color of adamantium the Black Curse, including Melemizargo himself, and on multiple occasions. To be fair, he also calls it a ‘blessing’ half the time, but the full story is not as simple as you make it, Farix. You make everything too simple by far, like how you think it is acceptable for Elemental Fae to be taught in school. That understanding of the fae we heard at the Tellings would destroy many young casters who think that ‘just willing it to happen’ is all that is necessary for all magic.”

“I thought you all were talking about business?” Erick asked. “I was prepared to speak of [Gate]s and organization on that level.”

Zolan was uncomfortable with Erick, but he was getting over it rather fast. “We could go back to that, but we promised each other that we would hold off on the topics of magic until you arrived, so that you could participate, and I am quite angry at the easy teaching of Fae Magic that these two wish to bring to the Greater Candlepoint Area.”

Farix was absolutely delighted to say, “If it were up to Oceanside, no one would learn anything, and isn’t that a tragedy of the highest sort! All you propose are arcanaeums dedicated to teaching wrong.”

Zolan said, “We do not ‘teach wrong’. We weed out those who would do harm from those who show promise as beneficial for the world. You would teach the world everything dangerous and have the world collapse under the weight of a million tyrants.”

“We would have it collapse under its own preponderance of easy magic,” Farix corrected, before adding, “At least that’s how it used to be! Everything is different now, Zolan, and the lines you have historically drawn need to be reconsidered.”

For a moment, during that teasing not two minutes ago, Erick had thought that they were all getting along.

Obviously, that was temporary.

And now they were back to normal, tension-laced interactions.

Bright Smile stuck her fork into a quiche that was hours cold already. She did not take a bite. She laid down the fork, saying, “Fae Magic is too dangerous to teach before the Bands are released; every bit of Fae Magic will cancel out another Fae spell cast in the vicinity of the first. Its uselessness is reason enough to not teach it at all.”

Farix conceded, “Now that is a valid argument.”

Erick changed the subject, “So anyone know what is happening with that black [Gate]?”

“Not at all!” Farix said, delighted.

“Not yet,” Bright Smile muttered.

“Not as such, no,” Zolan said, “Fallopolis opened it up and then she and Fairy Moon and others went through to the other side, locking the space down, ensuring that no one could follow.”

Farix looked up at Quilatalap, who was walking back their way with food, saying, “But our former Caretaker of Artifacts believes it to be a testing grounds of sorts?”

Quilatalap arrived at the table with three burgers and a large basket of fries, as well as two milkshakes. There was plenty of room on Erick’s other side, seating away from Zolan, and so Quilatalap sat down at that chair and handed Erick one burger, while leaving the fries between them. “It’s probably a new testing grounds, yes. I was hoping that you would know more than I, Farix.”

“Why would you think that? I’m more out of the circle than you are, for I’ve been far too busy with New Brightwater to go playing around with some esoteric uses of [Gate] magic.” Farix said, “The only ones who knew of that magic before Erick finished his recent Path were Our God, the false gods, and Ar’Cosmos. You should ask the empress of dragons why there’s someone else casting [Gate] magic before you ask me.”

Bright Smile did not smile nearly as much as she used to, and that didn’t change. With a slight glare in her red eyes, she said, “Ar’Cosmos has experienced some turmoil recently, but even with that turmoil there have been no great breaches of our libraries of True Magic, while thanks to our Apparent King over here the secret of [Gate] has spread far and wide anyway. Someone else might have Walked the Path since Erick finished all those months ago.”

Somehow Erick doubted that there was another [Gate]-capable caster out there aside from him, or the Darkness, or the gods, and since the [Gate] back there was clearly blacker than black, that ruled out a godly, Script-granted [Gate].

And that’s all Erick really knew about that.

Quilatalap said, “That [Gate] is through Darkness, or maybe Shadow, though with the depth of that black coloring it is likely through Darkness, and that has implications. Melemizargo does help his Clergy with large steps through Shadow, but he would not allow someone to use his power in… however it is being used over there. I don’t believe that this [Gate] is anything less than a new testing grounds, created by the Darkness Himself.” Quilatalap shrugged. “Or maybe he has appointed a new Champion. If so, then maybe they are his new caretaker?”

Erick tried not to give Quilatalap too much of a look for his final statement there. Everyone at the table had heard the same thing he had; that Quilatalap was miffed about being ‘fired’ from his job. Erick decided he would talk to the big guy about his feelings over all that later, in a more private setting, because for now there was a much larger problem.

Erick asked, “There could be a new Champion?”

“Ahh…” Quilatalap frowned, and it was mostly at himself. “Probably not, actually. I’m throwing out hypotheses here, as I imagine that is what we are doing, yes?”

Farix said, “The Darkness is a lot less fluid these days, and though He did not promise to hold off on appointing a Champion, He implied it… And considering the current guests at the party I suppose that this assurance is less than solid. A lot of big things are happening right now and I don’t know about any of them, so a Champion could be possible.”

Erick frowned a little.

He did not want to deal with a Champion of the Dark right now… But maybe the Champion was Fallopolis? Could happen.

