Bright Smile barely held back the vitriol as she said, “Every single person in Ar’Cosmos knows that you can’t trust a fae to stick to the intention you believe to have made clear. As far as I am aware, the Darkness is the same way, and considering the stories we heard last night this comparison makes a lot of sense.”

Farix frowned, almost speaking—

But it was Quilatalap who spoke, with authority, “The Darkness is not of the fae. He’s also gotten a lot better in the last two years about being so fluid, and oftentimes what looks like fluidity is just someone working at scales you can’t understand. Anyway— I don’t believe this testing area is the result of a Champion.”

Talk quieted.

Erick ate his burger. It was absolutely delicious.

Halfway through his meal, he opened the conversation back up, asking, “So Zolan? You spoke of Fae Magic causing young minds to fail to understand magic. What did you mean by that? In more of an ‘improper practices’ sort of way, or in a ‘cognitohazard’ sort of way?”

Zolan looked to Erick, questioning in his eyes. It was a look he shared with others, also looking at Erick in the same wondering way—

Farix’s eyes suddenly went wide as he grinned. “Ah! ‘Information hazard’? You mean? Like a detrimental meme?”

Zolan tensed. Bright Smile frowned. Quilatalap looked on, the teeth of his soul flickering in preparation to tear apart some possible internal threat.

And Erick said, “Yes,” heightening all emotions at the table.

Farix said, “I could give a whole symposium on the nature of memes as both detrimental and beneficial to magic, but to narrow it down to just Elemental Fae… Actually, you look like you have something to say, Bright Smile?”

Bright Smile shook her head and gestured toward Zolan; she did not want to speak, but Zolan did.

Zolan said, “Most people can only learn one to five ways of doing magic, and to accept more ways of magical creation into their life is to harm their capability to perform correct spellwork. If you learn math, and rad enchanting, and all the variations of Force Magic, then you might have trouble when it comes to stringing magic together through song, or runic enchanting, or other such ways of learning and doing. Everyone has ways of approaching magic that allows them to excel.

“But Elemental Fae is too varied. Too weird. Too point-of-view. That sort of magic exists in the very depths of the mana; so far gone from this reality that to touch it, in true, is to fall apart from everything solid and knowable.” Zolan added, “In other words, to learn Elemental Fae is to learn a thousand ways of doing magic that will all change depending on your emotions, and what you had for breakfast that morning, and if you’re sick, or feeling frisky. Emotional magic has always been the most dangerous sort of magic there is, and so teaching Elemental Fae is best left to professionals and the students who might actually learn this magic without harming themselves.”

Bright Smile added, “Superstitious and culturally-derived magics found in stories are the equivalent of Fae Magic in many ways, which makes Fae Magic a rather bad meme, when looking at it in a certain light.”

Quilatalap nodded, silently eating his own lunch/breakfast.

Erick almost said that what Zolan and especially Bright Smile described was almost the exact reasoning that Jane had been given for why she was not able to do magic so well. But he didn’t want to bring up his daughter in mixed company.

So he nodded, and the conversation moved on.

Farix went on to speak about the problem of memes in depth, and how all that related to making magic better. Bright Smile spoke for a little bit on the specific problems that learning Elemental Fae sometimes caused, but most of those problems stemmed from Fairy Moon eventually interacting with whoever used too much Fae Magic, and that right there was reason enough to nearly abandon that school of magic altogether. Though Bright Smile didn’t say that; Quilatalap had.

“I simply must lower my expectations when dealing with her,” Erick said, resigned.

Quilatalap nodded, knowingly.

Bright Smile agreed. “She is a storm. Best not to treat with her unless you have to, but then again, both you and I have to, and regularly.”

Erick asked, “Should I not have offered her the chance to give the Tellings?”

“If you hadn’t offered her some way to cause a big impact on this Feast then she would have found some way to impact this gathering outside of your control.” Bright Smile said, “But since she got her moment in the light, she will likely behave herself as much as can be expected for the rest of this Feast.”

“A bold assumption,” Quilatalap said. “Considering she went into that black [Gate] over there, and that’s going to end up a really big deal.”

Bright Smile shrugged. “There isn’t much to do against her except appeasement. I would caution against trying any big spellwork, for she has survived everything you could possibly throw at her, and more.”

Quilatalap grunted in annoyance, and probably from his personal failures against Fairy Moon; Erick only guessed at that, though. The two of them had never spoken about their own specific problems with the fairy, but it was easy to tell that they were of similar mind about Fairy Moon, while Fairy Moon apparently hated Quilatalap right back, so that was probably a great big story right there.

The conversation moved back to the business topics that Bright Smile, Zolan, and Farix had been discussing for the better part of the morning, but this time Erick was there to actually make decisions about the various plots and plans the three others had touched upon. They spoke of [Gate]s in the Forest, to support other lands of Ar’Cosmos, and of New Brightwater getting access to the whole Gate Network. Both ideas were contingent on both lands adopting some basic decency practices as outlined by Zolan, which caused Bright Smile and Farix to glare, and the conversation to get heated.

Erick felt that Zolan was pushing Bright Smile and Farix too much, but he wasn’t about to undermine his castellan, for Zolan had a much shrewder mind for business than Erick. He also, quite honestly, had a much better political mind than Erick; Zolan was trying to get New Brightwater and the varied lands of Ar’Cosmos closer in line with all the rest of the world’s economies.

This conversation right here was undoubtedly among the most crucial conversations to happen at the Feast, but it was all about money and that was hard for Erick to care about. So many other things mattered so much more than money, like ensuring that people were protected, laws were upheld, and opportunities were not abused. But money was a good basis for mutual understanding to happen, and for trust to be built, so in that way there was a lot of trust being extended here at this table, and from there, a lot more would follow—

The black [Gate] flickered.

The sign changed, the black box turning fully dark for a moment, before new text began scrolling.

TESTING COMPLETE!

Speed: <8h20m>

Clearance: < test%>

Deaths: <6>

Grade: <Test>

The black box broke apart into so much fractured black mana, fading into the manasphere as it went, opening the lock on the lands beyond the black [Gate]—

Suddenly, Fairy Moon, Fallopolis, Hollowsaur, and three other people stepped out from beyond the distant treeline, far inside the other space. They moved slowly, as though they were strolling along under the sun without much care in the world, or maybe they were trying to be nonchalant. They were easily a kilometer and a half away, but Erick could see some unguarded hope on Hollowsaur’s face, some satisfaction on Fallopolis, and some calm pleasure radiating off of Fairy Moon. The three mortals were simply tired. Erick didn’t know the mortals, personally, but he had seen them in the Shade tower.

Erick said, “I just now realized I have not asked about the other three people.”

Farix volunteered, “That one woman is from New Brightwater; Moriaga. A ‘team leader’ sort of position. I was unaware that Moriaga was tagged by Fallopolis before the Culler declared this presentation open, and that she was even here at the Feast before then, so I’m as eager to find out about her as you are.”

There was some skepticism around the table, and for a dozen different reasons of which Erick couldn’t really pull apart.

Erick asked, “You didn’t know about this woman’s entry into the Feast, or into the [Gate]?”

“All of the above. I wasn’t aware she was here until she went into the [Gate]. She was supposed to be in New Brightwater, watching the front lines.”

Erick had seen the woman Moriaga around though… Hadn’t he? Yes. She was there from day one of this Feast. Kept hidden from Farix though, obviously.

Bright Smile narrowed her eyes at Farix, not truly believing his non-Sight of Moriaga either… No. Something else was going on there. Erick couldn’t parse it—

She volunteered, “Damo, the incani man in there, was from Ar’Cosmos about 45 years ago. He was in a Team Leader position in my House, until he was killed. As near as I can guess, I assume he was transformed into a shadeling and then resummoned into a new body by Melemizargo before the Feast, and then hidden from me until Fallopolis’s presentation, though that is all unfounded intrigue. He wasn’t able to speak much between his reveal this morning and going into the [Gate]. I had thought him dead until that moment.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “Oh?”

Zolan said, “The third person is a former student of Oceanside whom I did not know had died. His name is Marico, and according to Bright Smile’s words, I am rather sure that the same thing happened to Marico as what happened to Damo. Marico had been a shadeling, and now, he was not.”

Erick stood from his chair, and turned to face the portal in the middle of the atrium. The people on the other side were getting close. Erick said, “Sounds like a lot of answers are about to be had, so shall we receive them?”

Everyone else was quick to follow Erick’s lead.

And soon, the black [Gate] explorers had walked to the edge of the portal and either flew, or shadowstepped, or hopped through the air, to land back on the flower mosaic that covered the central floor of the atrium. Fairy Moon had a smile plastered on her face, reminiscent of Bright Smile’s namesake, though the empress of Ar’Cosmos was not smiling at all. It was concerning, actually, to look at Bright Smile, and see her own concern when she looked at Fairy Moon, and the fae looked so very greedy.

Hollowsaur seemed rather more secure than he had been the last time Erick had seen the big man. It seemed he thought that all his worries were gone, for all he had to do was walk the path which lay before him. It was a marked improvement from what Erick had seen at the man’s presentation, where he had cobbled together whatever ideas he could possibly find in order to make a plan for taking back Quintlan from the oozes.

The mortals among the party each looked haggard, but calm, as though they had been through hell and back and now they were ready for rest. Farix, Bright Smile, and Zolan were each eager to speak to those three ‘interlopers’ of the Feast, but they held back. A lot of people were eager to find out what had happened; people stepped out of kitchens, and behind counters, or if they were Shades they appeared in quick shadowsteps, placing themselves at railings or on the floor near Erick and Quilatalap. Goldie had stepped close to Erick, but not too close; she was ready to defend him if necessary—

For Fallopolis threw her arms wide, smiling like a happy dragon, laughing as she sent her shadow-soaked kendrithyst staff into the air. It was a rather concerning act, but Erick did not flinch. He remained calm, even as dozens of dark droplets fell upward from Fallopolis’s staff, filling the air overhead, each droplet turning into a repeating light image; a small video of an event from inside the black [Gate], no doubt.

From the mortals of their party walking across ropes strung over canyons of swords, to fighting rock monsters, to braving hallways made of slicing ribbons, to mastering a Shaping magic via condensing flame from ten braziers at once… All as if it was taken from inside the testing grounds. Quilatalap had been right. This was very much a testing grounds. A few images were of puzzle solving. Others were of riddle answering. Most images were of monster fights.

A grand map held in the center of Fallopolis’s presentation, with tiny lines in that map leading off to the moving lightpaintings, indicating where every trial had taken place within the space beyond the black [Gate].

One grand light construct stood above all the rest.

It was lightsculpture of a perfectly spherical grand rad that was larger than most any Erick had ever seen before, high above the [Gate], in what appeared to be a fully life-sized image. The people were normal, 2 meter sized. The spherical crystal orb of iridescent lights, with a hidden stream of power roiling within, was at least 15 meters tall.

According to the lightpaintings beside that largest image, the three mortals had worked together to kill a very large, multi-armed, multi-faced, moon-reacher-like monster. And they had failed twice. The first fight ended with the three of them dying to a few lazy swipes of the monster’s long, long arms, and tiny hands, with the three adventurers completely unable to understand why they were dying, and then dead. The second attempt at the core, at the arm-monster, lasted slightly longer. They knew what they faced now, but still they died, as the ‘moon reacher’ suddenly reached out with a hundred extra arms.

They won the third time. Then they placed their hands upon the giant iridescent sphere, and that was it.

Erick felt he was able to piece together about 50% of what he was seeing, but he would wait for Fallopolis to begin talking… As soon as she finished cackling in joy.

With a glance at Quilatalap, Erick saw Quilatalap cement his thoughts that this black [Gate] was a trial location of some sort. True anger briefly appeared, followed by reluctant acceptance. Quilatalap had been replaced. He had mixed feelings about that. Other people took a bit longer to catch up to what Quilatalap already knew for sure, with most of the Shades getting there in only a few seconds longer; well before Fallopolis reached a natural end to her laughter.

