“HELLOOOO—ah HahAha!!!” Fallopolis broke into laughter again, but she controlled herself this time, coughing to force herself to calm. With mirth in her words, Fallopolis said, “The Dark, in His magnificence and power, has decided to bequeath to Veird a true testing grounds! But it’s so much more than that! Quilatalap!” Fallopolis stared at the archlich. “Our God still has need of you if you would become a tester once again, but that is a discussion for another day, and your loyalties have always been split. But moving right along—”

Quilatalap stood rock still. He said nothing. He simply stared.

“—for this is a testing ground like no other to ever come before!” Fallopolis said, “At its base, this is a way for rare resources to be plucked from the depths of this land, to be taken out into this material world. Gems. Metals. Even worked magical items now and then. These are the least of the prizes to be won, though, for My God does not want this land to become some sort of replacement for the real world.

“To that end, every day spent within this place will increase the dangers of this place to depths only seen in an event like the recent soul ooze problem of Ar’Kendrithyst, which is appropriate because—” Fallopolis cackled. “—Because My God used the soul ooze’s Truth in the creation of this land!”

Erick’s heart did not sink as much as others, for he had put together that puzzle seconds ago.

Here now was the Soul Slime, an abomination-creator given new form and purpose in death, like a person turned into shadeling and thus under direct control of Melemizargo.

This was dangerous. How much? Erick had no idea.

Zolan had perhaps the strongest reaction of pure hatred, though many of the servers Erick had hired for this event had an equally strong reaction. Those servers were mostly hidden high-powered adventurers ready for trouble, though, so that made a lot of sense. Erick continued to act like he didn’t see those adventurers for what they were, pretending that he didn’t know that Zolan had hired them. They were an assurance, and Erick hoped that they would remain an untapped resource. He hoped Zolan did not call them up to war.

And Zolan did not.

Zolan was not an idiot, but he was directly opposed to many of the plans of the Shades, and this new plan was dangerous. Who could blame him for hating the Shades? Certainly not Erick.

Erick was prepared to stop any shit before it happened, though, because the Shades were on edge, too. Farix had been threatened by the soul slime, and he did not like… Whatever this was. But he didn’t fret too much. He was still a Shade, and he was ready to fight on Fallopolis’s side if necessary, like he had done back at Last Shadow’s Feast.

Fairy Moon also had some hidden reserves ready to go to war… But she seemed ready to fully side with Fallopolis...

Which was strange. Erick couldn’t be reading that right? Could he?

Worst of all this particular moment, though, was that Fallopolis had stopped talking. She just smiled, letting her words percolate upon the gathering, letting the horror sit there, to be digested and cause food poisoning.

It was infuriating.

Erick spoke, “There is too much tension in the air, and your flair for the dramatic is doing you no favors, Fallopolis. Please get on with a concise explanation of the benefits of these new testing grounds.”

With that statement, Zolan was once again fully standing behind Erick, instead of readying himself to go off on his own. Some tension bled from the atrium, as people once again knew who to stand with. Fairy Moon, strangely enough, stood with Fallopolis, which caused an instant schism between her and Bright Smile, who was standing nearer to Erick.

In that moment, perhaps House Benevolence’s king and Ar’Cosmos’s empress were in true alignment.

They were all freaking the fuck out about whatever the fuck this was.

And Fallopolis still said nothing.

Hollowsaur scowled at Fallopolis, then spoke, “It’s a solution to all the problems of Quintlan, and all the problems of Veird, too! Stop being so damned dramatic.”

When Hollowsaur was done, Fallopolis instantly whacked him over the head with her floating staff, cracking the orcol’s head open and spilling blood onto the flower mosaic ground. Hollowsaur didn’t seem to care, though. It was a light tap, apparently.

Fallopolis loudly proclaimed, “YOU GAVE AWAY THE BEST PART, ASSHOLE!”

Hollowsaur turned on her, saying, “I didn’t give away shit, old shitbag. Explain it properly.”

“I’m getting to it. Don’t rush me.” Fallopolis breathed deep, her black suit puffing up around her chest, and then she began to speak, her voice absent of mirth for a little bit, but then her joy came back in full. “The testing grounds will be called a dungeon, and the core of the soul slime in the center is to be called a dungeon core. There are many of these, and they are self-creating, like normal slimes. These dungeons deal with turning mana into matter, making a lot of mana, and a bunch of other things that will take time for me to explain.

“The dungeon cores each have a unique Gate Space.

“The land inside that space is fully known and under the control of the core.

“Each dungeon core begins its life with some things already in abundance, like stone, air, water. Basic plants.

“Basic spells, too, like [Grow] and all the Shaping spells. But it also has [Duplicate]. With that spell, a core will take offerings of gold and other precious things, and will expand upon those things, growing their space. You can’t just throw in some gold and get a lot of gold out of them, though. There are certain ways to offer those metals and gems and such so that they are recognized by the dungeon, but we don’t have to go over that right now.

“The second main thing to know about these dungeons is that all Script-magics are useless inside of them, like how it is in Ar’Cosmos. The only magics that work inside these dungeons are the magics one gains inside of them, and the basics, like mana sense, aura control, accretion, and the like. This particular one is set up for Script-nearness, so our three adventurers could actually experience the dungeon as it was meant to be run. But normally, it is not like this. Unless you’re able to do real magic, the way it is meant to be made, then you’re not getting the biggest rewards you can from this place.

“Magics cast on oneself and then taken into the dungeon will remain, in most cases, but to prevent cheating to the final prize, all spells are [Dispel]ed if one should reach the Core Room.

“Which brings us to the third thing to know. The biggest thing! The bestest thing!” With a wild grin, Fallopolis said, “These dungeons serve a greater purpose. They impart power onto those deemed worthy! If one should clear the guardian of the core, and link with the dungeon core, they get their natural mana boosted by a small fraction!” Fallopolis cackled. “Test yourself against the hordes of the Dark, and grasp power beyond that which you were born with!

“With this boost, there is no reason for any future Scripts to clean out people’s mana and feed it back to them! People can run dungeons and gain mana depth and regeneration comparable to what the Script grants. This change removes about 27% of the Script’s functionality, lowering both the initial costs for creating a Script, and the ongoing costs by a vast, vast amount!

“And that’s only part of the best part!

“Dungeon Cores might suck up mana from the world in order to grow and create, but through the production of monsters that gain sapience and power, and especially through the magical lessons they impart to those who plumb their depths, they also produce mana! Way more than they suck!” Fallopolis said, “Each active dungeon has an intake and an outflow, and you can check on it like this!” She waved a hand above herself and a black box appeared.

Intake: 1,347,900

Outflow: 3,108,118

Holy shit, Erick thought.

That was the mana production of about 180,000 people. A major city.

With enough of them…

With enough dungeons…

They could replace people.

“No,” Erick said, his voice instantly filling the air, long before he allowed himself to fully contemplate the horror dawning in his mind.

Silence filled the space.

The air on the other side of the atrium, in the shadowed spaces and behind the black [Gate], began to deepen. To Darken. Everyone noticed. People began to back away from the presentation. Some went with grace, bowing to the presence of the Dark. Others went hurriedly, not willing to stick around when the Darkness came calling.

Soon, there were only two, and arguably three, people remaining on the flower mosaic in the center of the atrium.

Fallopolis had not moved. She demanded, “Why the fuck not, Erick! ‘NO’? Fuck you! I haven’t even gotten through my whole presentation! And you better not give me some cow shit about how this is putting danger into the world, for these cores are very controlled!”

Erick stared at Fallopolis, speaking to the hidden Darkness, as he said, “This dungeon core disincentivizes the creation of peace and prosperity between societies and civilizations through the removal of the needs of trade and the needs of mana. With a thousand of these things on a world, constantly spawning monsters and mana, what need is there for civilization? This thing is the destruction of civility. This thing will cause untold wars.”

“You have no idea what you’re talking about. This ‘thing’ will allow us to create the next Cosmology!”

“A cosmology of death and destruction. One based upon the evils of violence supplanting growth.”

“Then control the dungeons you want controlled, and destroy all the rest! These are sources of growth themselves!”

“And that’s a problem, too!” Erick said, “What if a tyrant gains control of a dungeon and kills all the rest, and then turns their world into a land where only they have power, and no one else can gain power at all?”

“Ah ha!” Fallopolis grinned. “We have solved for that problem! A core causes other cores to grow far away from where the original core is planted, and if a person desires it enough, and they’re weak enough, then they might get a personal [Gate] into an appropriate dungeon.”

Erick was about to rail against the utter chaos they planned to unleash—

But the Darkness spoke, “We have also solved for the problem of disincentivizing the growth of civilization as you have outlined the problem, Erick. The solving of this problem is part of the dungeon master program, and our solution is quite ingenious.”

Fallopolis jolted at the voice of her God. And then she recovered, “RIGHT! The dungeon master program! Uh… I was getting to that. Er. That was near the end of the presentation—”

Before she was finished speaking, a Dark spark took hold of the air in front of Erick, suddenly becoming a black book a decimeter thick, resting atop a waist-high pillar.

“It is all in this book, Erick.” Melemizargo’s voice filled the atrium. “This core is a large, malleable change I am granting to this world, based on ideas inside your daughter’s computer and opinions expressed elsewhere, along with the general desire of millions of people eager to never see a Sundering ever again. But since you do not have the patience to listen to Fallopolis, I have made this book for you that will allow you to fully understand this change. It is only fair considering the book you have gifted me, and of all the other knowledge you have granted this world. Your efforts will surely increase the stability of Veird’s manasphere by at least half over. Your opinions are valuable to me.

“But make no mistake; this dungeon core program is happening. It’s already been voted on and approved by the Relevant Entities of the Script, as of ten minutes ago. We will have a proper New Cosmology, and the only real problem is lack of mana, and lack of proper education among people. This dungeon core and all the ones already growing all across Veird will solve this problem.”

Erick heard mention of Relevant Entities and felt a profound sense of change in the world.

A shifting of futures.

A deepening of danger.

And then the feeling passed.

A new future was here, and Erick had no idea what it all meant. Once again, the world changed in the blink of an eye, but that wasn’t right… This change had been in the works for months. It had to have been. There was no way that Melemizargo and Fallopolis and anyone else involved hadn’t been involved since long before Jane killed the soul ooze in the name of the Darkness. Or maybe this had happened right after that kill?

Erick snatched up the book, willing himself to calm as he said, “It appears I have some reading to do. Appreciated.”

“Also!” Melemizargo spoke fast, “[Teleport] is no longer purchasable in the Script and a worldwide [Teleport Lock] is going up in one week! No more easy war!”

The Darkness vanished, like a child stealing a cookie too fast to be stopped.

Chaos ensued.

- - - -

Behind the closed doors of a part of the House, Erick stood across from Fallopolis, fuming.

The last ten minutes had been an exercise in controlling his emotions, thus ensuring that everyone else in the atrium could control theirs. There had been quite a few islands of stability in that chaos, raising their voices alongside Erick to calm the onlookers, but one of the servants on Zolan’s side decided that they needed to launch a [Light Missile] at Fallopolis’s head, and Erick had to weigh in on the chaos a lot harder after that.

And then things turned both worse, and better.

Fairy Moon had ‘helped’ by putting every single person into a sudden trance and then sitting them down for tea, but not Erick. Everyone else began talking calmly about the latest news of dungeons and no-more-[Teleport]. Erick wanted to object rather strongly about that, but he couldn’t. Fairy Moon said that her ‘[Tea Party]’ would last as long as it needed to, anyway.

Erick had lost all of his overseers to that Fairy’s power, and Quilatalap, too.

Right now, Zolan was taking tea with Goldie and Quilatalap, all at the same table, all of them listening to the three people who had come out of the dungeon. Those three people had many stories of their time inside. They were easy to listen to over pastries and tiny chocolates that might not be real. Others listened and spoke about the loss of [Teleport], and what that meant.

It was all rather rational. Quiet and controlled.

It was a violation.

