And Erick hated himself for letting it happen, for stepping away since he wasn’t affected. He told himself that he needed to get some real answers, and those would not come from that [Tea Party]; they would come from gods and Fallopolis and Melemizargo himself, and he needed time to talk to those people now. But he knew he had fucked up by running from Fairy Moon’s mass enchantment.

He would be back, as soon as he could.

Three people remained unaffected by the [Tea Party], either because they were a Wizard who was very angry, a God’s mortal avatar who was needed to answer questions, or the caster themselves. There was no doubt in Erick’s mind that Fairy Moon could have ensorcelled them, too, and she had simply not, because she knew exactly how much she could push Erick and she was not willing to push past that. Maybe she was actually respecting his own desires not to be fucked over by her anymore.

Many different explanations were possible.

Erick would find out later. For now, he was here, in this room with Fallopolis, as far away from the [Tea Party] as possible, as focused on the moment as he could be. There was a lot to focus on in the moment besides the trauma happening in his own mind, and back there in the atrium.

The Shade defended herself for the third time since they came out of the dungeon, “I didn’t know about the [Teleport Lock]!”

Not a lie. Probably.

Erick tried to be calm. “The loss of [Teleport] is going to kill millions, Fallopolis.”

Fallopolis had no words. She knew exactly how bad this was going to get. Erick had been learning the ins and outs of [Teleport] and shipping and how society worked on a global scale, in depth, these last several months, but there was no way that Fallopolis was unaware of exactly how much [Teleport] was used to keep this world afloat. Not a single person in power did not consider [Teleport] when making plans of any sort at all. The spell might only work on the Surface, but [Teleport] was literally how some people got to work in the morning. Some people even lived in the middle of nowhere, in hiding holes, protected from everything, and were only able/willing to leave their perfect defensive lairs through opening up the anti-[Teleport] runes, and then blipping away for an hour or two, or whatever.

The vast majority of people on Veird were city-locked, and therefore they had some roads and some infrastructure to let them get around without needing to use magic. [Teleport] wasn’t necessary at the personal, neighborhood level. But in many places, like in the Songli Highlands, every neighborhood was connected to every other neighbor through [Teleport].

Every single high-level organization on the entire Surface used [Teleport] extensively.

Even shipping from the Underworld often went onto the Surface, simply because a Surface trip allowed them to [Teleport] across the world, to get where they needed to go without having to travel through thousands upon thousands of kilometers of Main Roads, filled with monsters and death!

The Wayfarer’s Guild was completely fucked!

Open travel across the entire world was going to change!

Fallopolis whispered, “I know. I think… I think this is a mistake on My God’s part.”

The heat inside of Erick’s chest seemed to settle a fraction. “That’s surprising that you would say that.”

Fallopolis glared at him. “I have culled detrimental Shades all my life, and especially in the last hundred years. I know the warning signs of sanity loss, and I know what it looks like when My God is… less than stable— But…” She gained some measure of calm, saying, “I know that My God did not make this decision on his own. All your false gods would have to have agreed on this.”

Erick wasn’t so sure about that, but if Fallopolis believed that to be true, then it probably was. Melemizargo’ words back there could imply that the other gods had approved of this [Teleport Lock] thing. Maybe.

“I’ll be looking into that.”

“You haven’t asked them yet?”

“It’s been a crazy 15 minutes, Fallopolis. I’ll get to it.”

Fallopolis eyed him slightly.

She was probably right; meetings with gods took no time at all, if they wanted it that way.

Erick continued, “I need to gather some facts first.” Erick held up the black book Melemizargo had given him, adding, “About all of the trouble raining upon Veird.”

Fallopolis looked briefly ashamed, but she schooled that expression away, turning slightly shadowy to stop Erick from being able to read her so well. She was taking a moment, though; not gearing up for a fight.

Erick allowed her the moment.

Fallopolis came back to her mortal coil, though to any outside observer she had not changed at all. She said, “I can speak on the dungeons for I have been working to make those happen for the last year. Where would you like to start?”

“WHY?!”

“… Ahem. Well. We need mana, and we need a way to show the world how to properly use magic and to be one with the Dark, so we’ve codified the trial grounds into self-replicating dungeons which can do all of this on a grand scale. The idea is extremely old and had fallen out of My God’s mind until he started to get all of that back when you brought him back to himself—”

“Don’t you dare fucking blame this chaos on me.”

“This entire shift in this entire world is your fault, Erick! Don’t you dare falter in your responsibility now!”

Erick had some perfect rejoinders for that. ‘I only provided the tools to make this world better, more in line with the rest of the universe, allowing for Particle Magic and a true understanding of this reality to take place. What other people did with my knowledge was not on me.’ Or maybe he would say, ‘I’m building kingdoms, and you’re tearing them down.’ Or maybe, ‘Do you want me to make of this world what I truly could? Do you want that, Fallopolis? Do you?!’

But instead, he acted like a king should act. “We will be working together to ensure that this dungeon transformation happens in as harmless and as beneficial of a way as we can make it happen, or else I am going to tear it all down and continue to tear it all down, and I will ensure everyone else does the same. While we are still coming to terms on the dungeons, you will work with House Benevolence to overturn this [Teleport] decree, and I will do the same.”

Fallopolis stood straight. “Acceptable. I agree to this. But when our attempts to overturn this [Teleport] decree fail, you will be responsible for solving the problem in a secondary way, likely through the vast, vast expansion of the plans for your Gate Network. It’s possible that this is only happening because you are making another Gate Network, like we used to have before they gave [Teleport] to everyone. My God didn’t take the option to purchase [Teleport] out of the Script, after all. Only the Relevant Entities could have done that… I’m 90% sure; not 100%.”

“I am aware of this implication. Beyond that:” He changed the subject, “It seems that Melemizargo and the gods are working together like they used to pre-Sundering. I imagined it would take a lot more time for this to happen. Your thoughts on this cooperation? This… whole overarching thing?”

“He’s able to hold full conversations these days without getting side tracked. Every other time He has ever been this lucid He has only been able to maintain this for two months, and then only for short stretches beyond that. It’s been twenty months and He’s getting better every day. He is The God Above All, Erick, and He is coming back to make everything better, just how you came to Veird to do the same. I trust Him to know what is best for us all, and you would do well to follow that example.”

Erick glared.

Fallopolis got the message. “… But we can talk about all that some other time. Let us talk about the dungeons? I am more versed in that.”

“Yes. The other way in which millions will die in the coming years—” Erick suddenly remembered, and exclaimed, “No one will be able to escape from the monsters with an easy [Teleport]! HOLY FUCK, FALLOPOLIS.”

Fallopolis stood there, weathering Erick’s anger like a Juggernaut rooted to the ground.

Another moment passed.

Erick calmed himself.

Fallopolis said, “These dungeons are trials of the Dark, in the same way that Quilatalap ran the Armory. Back in the Old Cosmology and even here on Veird in the first years after the Sundering, the Trials of the Dark either ended in the deaths of the aspirant, and their transformation into a shadeling to toil for an eventual resummon back to their real life, or their ascension. But Quilatalap showed us a new way. When that man took that job and allowed people to try their hands multiple times at those trials, instead of the murderous things we had before, Ar’Kendrithyst really started to grow. Though that transformation of culture was fraught with both My God and many of the Clergy decrying the archlich's [True Resurrection] Trials as tests that fostered cowardice, Quilatalap and Koyabez managed to convince My God of the benefits of not killing everyone rather quickly. All that happened before my time; the Armory’s functions as Trials of the Dark with possible [True Resurrection]s for failed attempts had long since become the norm by the time I showed.

“And so, for the dungeon cores, we implemented this same sort of ‘second chance’. And third chance and fourth chance, depending on the dungeon in question. All of that is changeable, and I will explain how later.

“Anyway. Inside a dungeon, at the normal settings, a person is afforded 3 lives before they are kicked out, or they are allowed to try once more, and either die for real or ascend as a successful aspirant.” Fallopolis said, “In this way, we will allow millions of people to get real life and death experience against some of the worst monsters imaginable.

“In this way, we expect those who train in dungeons to be able to go out into the real world and defend themselves that much better against the real threats out there. We fully expect, in time, for all the training in these dungeons to allow for the complete extinction of all dangerous monster species, but to also allow those monsters to continue to exist, to continue to assist Those Who Aspire to greater heights. That’s complicated, and we can speak on how that will work in depth later.

“For now, know this: We expect all of existence to change, from a reality of people fighting against the horrors assaulting their homes, defending themselves with spellwork they never earned nor understood themselves, to a reality where people fight with real power that they made themselves against controlled experiences— Fully controlled experiences, in the case of a managed dungeon, overseen by a competent dungeon master.

“This is among our many primary goals with this program.”

Fallopolis let that thought hang in the air.

And Erick thought about it. His anger remained an ember in his chest, lashing out at his whole body with emotional sparks of hate and distrust, but his mind guided him to really think about Fallopolis’s words.

“Okay.” Erick said, “Fine. I can see how that might happen. This is too much, though.”

Fallopolis said, “It’s happening, Erick.”

Erick walked away, book in hand.
