The small wisps of Nether held within his person, which possessed all the substance of mist fragments curling around dew-sprinkled grass, spun together and flowed into those broken remnants of Paths. Nether coated their edges and pulled them together. Each began to overlap with the others, pressed and squeezed in repudiation of the edifice they had built.

Randidly watched without regret.

A nebula formed. A nebula that moved in two directions at once, the shapes folding inward while flattening outward. The overlapping planes of its shape fractured and refracted. It was a shadowy flower, a ruptured perspective, an all-consuming abyss. Unmoored from the spectrum of resonance, Randidly needed to find a new balance.

The reaction had created a maelstrom that moved to settle within the prepared frame of Engraved Aether.

Almost immediately, Randidly could feel his Nether Core releasing a massive sigh of relief as it found the potential for a stable foundation. The isolating power of the Samsara could barely restrain the flood of sparkling significance that began to rush into his form. His veins expanded, his body heating up as the energy naturally resumed its flow.

The Alchemist cackled and cackled, even as Randidly’s Grand Fate responded to the shift. The Samsara didn’t remain inert, either. In the memory, Yystrix wove first Engravings and then basic Nether Rituals to halt the strange bubbling within Randidly’s Vessel, but she couldn’t restrain the inexorable flow of his significance. He had carved out a part of himself, watched the universe carry away that pound of flesh with stoic eyes. The rest could shift and settle into a new equilibrium.

The whirling mass of interposed Nether shapes he had created shimmered and pulsed within its Engraved frame. The Sanctum rumbled. Randidly’s inner space rippled as the isolating effect collapsed before the rising tide of the transformation. The Samsara howled out a rejection, but the noise was muted. It squeezed Randidly, but he hardly felt it. The Samsara wielded its own sort of Truth, and although they might still be used against him, they would no longer be as effective at hemming in his actions.

Congratulations! Your Soulskill Figure of the Alpha Cosmos has evolved into Hollow Mold of Myths! Detecting changes… Path Points are being converted…

Congratulations! You have learned the Skill Tribond Nether Connections Ground the Shape (GD)(U) Lvl 1!

Nether Connection Trifecta Grounds the Shape (GD)(U): A rare Skill necessary only because Randidly Ghosthound has lost the ability to perceive Paths and Truths within the System. Only be relying on the Phaea, Maala, and Toosah forged before this loss of sensation can Randidly Ghosthound maintain at least a semblance of connection to objectivity. Gives the ability to perceive the signs of others utilizing Truth. Gives a small ability to sense a vague shape of other’s attacks against him, even if they are made using Truth. Effects increase with Skill Level.

Congratulations! Your Nether Penance Empty Vessel Fosakes the Path has grown to Level 233!

Congratulations! You have learned the Skill A Legend’s Instinctual Image Framework (L)(U)!

A Legends Instinctual Image Framework (L)(U): A Skill developed by Randidly Ghosthound to compensate for the costs of his Nether Penance. No longer able to perceive a reaction from the universe to his images, Randidly Ghosthound can still create and utilize powerful images to affect existence. His innate senses, honed by the presence of overwhelming Nether flowing through his Vessel, still create stable images without distortions. In addition, the Skill grants the user great resistance to mental attacks and increases the vibrancy of the images in unnatural environments. Effects increase with Skill Level.

Congratulations! Your Skill Nether Connection Trifecta Ground the Shape (GD)(U) has grown to Level 459!

Congratulations! Your Skill A Legend’s Instinctual Image Framework (L) has grown to Level 202!

Congratulations! You have learned the Skill Relentless Memory of the Nether Executive (GD)(U) Lvl 1!

Relentless Memory of the Nether Executive (GD)(U): A unique ability developed by Randidly Ghosthound, a Nether being of immense influence who sacrificed one of his senses to empower the others. All the experiences and information of the user are gathered and stored with the utmost clarity. Although he cannot currently witness Truth, his memories of Truth will not fade. In addition, user gains an extremely sharp intuition toward important connections within memories and their future implications. Effects increase with Skill Level.

Congratulations! Your Skill Relentless Memory of the Nether Executive (GD)(U) has grown to Level 195!

Congratulations! Your Nether Penance Empty Vessel Fosakes the Path has grown to Level 405!

Your Path Points (PP) have been converted into Vessel Points (VP)! Vessel Points are usable to strengthen the Vessel and effect various changes within the Alpha Cosmos and the body of Randidly Ghosthound. User will still receive a massive tithe of VP after the Soulskill reaches certain milestones! Current VP: 13,054, Current Soulskill Level: Hollow Mold of Myths Lvl 562,950, Next Tithe will be achieved at: Hollow Mold of Myths Lvl 600,000!

Please note, new rules are being developed for the expenditure of Vessel Points! Please open your VP Menu for more information!
