Shit, please don’t get mad. Rain winced, realizing how his question might have been received just after the words had left his mouth. He had no idea about the racial politics of this world, so he was trying to be careful. Offending the antlered man seemed like a really bad idea.

“No. They do not.”

“Oh,” Rain said weakly.

The two ate in silence, Rain watching the water flow past and listening to the sounds of the forest. It was cold near the river, the sky cloudy and overcast. The sound of the birds was peaceful, but Rain was feeling on edge from the mood that had fallen over his companion. As time went on, the silence between them deepened until even the river seemed shallow.

Tallheart finished his meal, but made no move to leave, staring down at his feet. Rain decided to finish his ration bar as quickly as possible instead of trying to start up another conversation.

“I did not burn down my shack because of a spider.”

“What?” Rain asked, slightly confused by the abrupt statement.

“I burned down my shack, but it wasn’t because of a spider. That was a lie.”

“Oh, ok.” Why is he telling me this?

“I can tell you have questions. Ask.”

Well, if he brought it up, I suppose it is a safe enough place to start.

“Ok, why did you burn down your shack?”

“I do not know. I think... I did not have a reason.”

“But…” Rain stopped himself. He sounds so sad. What brought this on?

“Ok, so you were going to go to the city or something?” he asked instead of pressing him for a reason.

“No. I cannot go to the city.”

“Somewhere else then?”

“There is nowhere else.”

“Why?”

“Not all humans are like Jamus. I am not welcome.”

“Sorry...” Rain looked down at his boots uncomfortably.

“I do not blame you for the actions of your race.”

“So, humans and cervidians… aren’t friends?”

“No.”

“What about... other cervidians? Could you go live with them? In a cervidian city?”

“My people are...” Tallheart paused, then continued in a soft voice. “There are no cervidian cities. Not anymore.”

Shit. And I thought I was alone in this world. What the hell happened to his people? Is he the last one?

The silence stretched on as Rain considered his next question. Tallheart’s face was stony and his mood seemed to have darkened even further. Rain shivered. If anything, it had gotten colder since the morning.

“Tallheart?” Rain asked, catching the man’s attention.

“Yes, Rain?”

“Why are you letting me stay here? How do you know Jamus?” he asked to change the subject.

“We met two years ago, soon after I first came to this forest. He was kind to me, and he asked me to help you. That is enough. You may stay with me until Jamus comes back. After that, I do not know.”

“Thank you.”

Tallheart stood abruptly. “We should finish the hut. It will be a cold night.”

Rain scrambled to his feet and joined him as he stumped back towards the clearing.

By the time that the sun started to set, the two had managed to complete something that could have charitably been called a shack. It was full of gaps and the roof was just piled leafy branches, but it had four walls and a doorway. There wasn’t much room inside, but Tallheart could lie down without bending his knees or hitting his antlers on the far wall.

Rain had swept out the inside of the hut with a leafy branch, then dug a shallow hole in the ground. He filled it with leaves to make himself a slightly softer place to sleep. Tallheart had left his side bare, refusing when Rain had offered to do the same for him. Rain’s bed was completed with a pillow made from his old shirt, stuffed with leaves.

Rain and Tallheart were standing outside the hut, surveying their handiwork.

“It will do,” Tallheart said with a resigned sigh.

“Looks pretty awful, but I don’t think it will fall down,” Rain said with a shrug.

“Rain.”

“Yes?”

“Thank you. For today. You are... a good human.”

“Thanks, I guess. You are a good cervidian. You are the only one I have met though.”

“Humm. Yes. Where are you from that you have never heard of my kind?”

“Far. Very far.”

Tallheart looked at him silently. Rain considered how much to tell him. He was still hesitant to reveal that he was from another dimension or world or whatever the term was. He wasn’t sure if he could trust the antlered man. He didn’t feel threatened by his strength anymore, not after spending the day with him. Tallheart seemed to be a quiet, gentle man filled with a deep sadness in his core.

He told me a little about himself, so I think I will do the same. Trust has to start somewhere.

“I...” Rain started, then cleared his throat. “I am from… somewhere very... different. I do not know how far it is. I was… brought here. By magic, I think. I did not know the name of the city. I had never heard the language before.”

Tallheart nodded for him to continue.

“I woke up in the forest. Adventurers found me and brought me to the city. I joined the guild... maybe a week ago? I have lost track. I did a few jobs, but then I tried to make some money and... angered the Watch. Someone told… shit, I forgot his name. Someone told the asshole in charge of the guild. He fined me 500 Tel and kicked me out of the city. Now I am here.”

“Humm,” Tallheart seemed to consider.

Rain shifted uncomfortably. He hadn’t even told Jamus this much. Somehow, he felt that his secret would be safer with Tallheart than the slightly eccentric mage.

“I have heard of teleportation magic, but nothing that strong. To not have heard this language… To have never heard of a cervidian… Your home must be very, very far.”

“Yes.”

“I believe you. No one could fake an accent like yours.”

“Hey!”

Tallheart was smiling softly, the first sign of levity Rain had seen from the man since their conversation at the river.

“You should sleep,” Tallheart said. He turned and started towards the forest.

“Where are you going?” Rain asked.

“Do not worry. I will return. I must relieve myself.”

“Oh, hang on.”

Rain activated purify. He held the spell for around a minute as Tallheart’s expression cycled from mild curiosity, to puzzlement, then to pure disbelief.

“Rain? Remember that I said you could stay until Jamus returned? I take it back. You can stay as long as you want.”
