The meeting began with some usual budgeting and politics. New Harrak was lucky because its nobility was still in the process of creating itself, so there were no entrenched factions to negotiate with just yet. Everything was in a state of flux that varied with every new entrant in the game, each rivaling with the other to try and come out on top. It also helped that Viv was never overtly opposed for now. She just had a good reputation, she supposed.

Her tendency to throw people off balconies and strip them off their ranks on occasion helped keep things fresh as well.

As for the budget, it was same old, same old. New Harrak got a ton of money from various projects, lootings, and taxes. That ton of money was immediately reinvested and leveraged for debts with various banks, then even more money got collected the next season, only to be used to pay interest, and fund more projects. Viv was very careful to keep a reserve not to go bankrupt just in case although she knew she could dig up more gold if she absolutely had to. The point was to keep the momentum of reclamation moving forward. Harrak was a machine that ate people and resources to make towns and fields and factories, many of which were partly owned by the throne, even before taxes. It was as lucrative as it was tense. With that out of the way, however, Lady Azar reclined in her seat.

It was time to pay the piper.

“Milady,” Lady Azar began, and Viv knew it was going to be bad.

Degrees of severity went like this: Viviane, Girl, Listen You little Shit, and Milady. Viv braced herself for the worst.

“I wanted to postpone my departure to the equinox, but if you are leaving now, then I have no choice but to inform you of an unfortunate decision. I will tell you now, it was not a happy one. Circumstances forced my hand. I wish it had not come to this,” Lady Azar said, meeting Viv’s eyes.

“You’re quitting,” Viv guessed.

“I am forfeiting my position as your Prime Minister, yes. The tension between Baran and New Harrak has only increased in the past few years, despite my best efforts, and now that rumors of Erezak’s frailty are spreading to the royal court, my continued stay here is weakening my daughter’s position too much. She is queen, after all. Married through my decision to a man several times her age. It would be unacceptable of me to continue sabotaging a situation I placed her in with… limited consent. She wanted to marry someone else.”

Viv was aware of the situation. The queen had sacrificed much to ascend to the throne.

“I… regret that it has come to this, but I also understand,” Viv said.

“And I keep repeating to you that you are too kind and understanding as a sovereign. Pah, who am I kidding? You shall never listen. I only pray to all the light gods that this situation never comes to a head, because as much as I respect my homeland’s knight orders, I do not give them the highest chance of success against you. You have done amazingly well, girl, when you bothered to listen.”

Lady Azar tilted her head to the side as a gesture of concession.

“And when you listened to your heart as well, I suppose. It is a shame that I would give up on you, however, I am pleased to tell you that my replacement is ready in the person of Bird Tongue, whom we freed from the southern slavers. She has made amazing progress and though she is still naive, she will serve you well as an administrator.”

Viv remembered a pale and tattooed freed thrall, though she also remembered that Bird Tongue had been Koro’s student for a while. Maybe she’d changed classes? It was becoming difficult to keep tracks of all her minions.

Well in any case, she would not be Lady Azar’s match. It was a great loss for the empire.

“Thanks. For all it’s worth and if there is ever war, please know that I will always listen to you should you come seek me.”

“May it never come to this.”

***

Viv’s next stop was the Merl enclave in the Deadshield woods. She made sure they were stocked up on sweaters in preparation for the next season. The merls here were rather young since the old ones disliked the cold even more, so they tended to be a little cocky when it came to low temperatures. She had to be very convincing in telling them to get dressed.

The merl were the final addition in her pokedex except perhaps for the Nemeti or the beastlings, but one had to stop somewhere, so it was fine. They had brought their spiders south, and with them, silk. A lot of really resilient silk. It was absolutely amazing. The spiders also formed a secondary layer of defenses around the children’s beastling genocide camps. In exchange, the empire provided them with metal tomahawk and arrow tips, as well as other sundries they couldn’t manufacture themselves. The merls were really talented when it came to fruit harvests, so they traded those as well. It was a great arrangement. It was just a shame that their populations remained low down here with the weather being so cold. Maybe once Viv extended north there would be opportunities for more settlements. In the meantime, Viv found herself regretting something she never expected: the lack of garlic butter spider legs. Those merl spiders were friends, not food, so Viv was forced to play nice.

Also having siege tarantulas on your side never hurt.

***

Viv walked through the streets of Kazar with some trepidation. This was where everything had started, and after all this time, it was still a city of contrasts. The old guard and residents greeted her with respect and confidence since they’d lived side by side back in the mines of Min Goles, where Prince Lancer’s assault had driven them. The refugees and newcomers passing through New Harrak’s well-oiled bureaucratic apparatus on their way to the frontier hesitated between groveling, kneeling, or merely bowing. Many were just so surprised to see her appear without fanfare that they stayed where they were without a word. The place was a bit too dirty for her tastes as well now.

She used this opportunity to meet with the various clergy including the church of Efestar. The temple guard of Neriad was faring well too, with Koro’s eldest kids undergoing training to join up. The visit left Viv with a vague feeling of nostalgia. The mage tower where Varska used to live had long since been granted to the local mages in charge of the city’s defenses. The place where she’d lived had been swallowed by newer, taller buildings. She didn’t recognize the city anymore, in a way. It was… an uncomfortable feeling that made her wonder if she would eventually feel the same about Sinur’s Gate as well one day. Maybe she’d feel the same about the entire empire if she lived long enough. Was this what happened to the other elementals?

***

So it wasn’t that easy to start an industrial revolution, but Viv was getting pretty close with the Min Goles Iron Mines complex.

Looking at it from afar, it was like being transported to an entire new world. Brickwork and shining runes adorned squarish factories and warehouses centered around tall chimneys even now belching smoke to the skies like so many fat dragons. Railways carried ore to smelters in large wagons, all dug by humans and yries who even now changed shifts. Viv was pleased to see that despite the soot and dust, there were also green spaces and specifically baths as she’d requested. Rows of cookie cutter homes extended in long streets in the distance, each one with a large garden. Magic was the only thing that stopped this from looking like 19th century Europe. There were glyphs on the tools, on the transports. Men and women carried weights that would have been impossible back on earth. It wasn’t the magical future she was envisioning one day, but at least they were working in that direction.

It remained fairly small, of course.

There were several complications that made her task more difficult, the first one being tools and measures. It was easy to know that one could make napalm with gelling agent and gasoline, but how the hell was she supposed to know what sort of gelling agent she needed? There were no useful labels, no carefully measured boxes delivered by mail. Nothing of the sort. Humans and yries worked hand in hand with the hints she had but it was still an extremely difficult process that required a ton of trial and error. It didn’t help that the Harrakan scientists were new school graduates who lacked the foundations and traditions that made a bunch of argumentative nerds — sorry — a thriving community of academics and researchers. Even special paths couldn’t bridge that gap in a mere decade.

There was also the fact that the number of workers remained low. Back on earth, urban exodus had fed the factories with all the labor it needed. Here, most people saw their own farms as something extremely desirable. Viv had finally managed to gather enough people who didn’t like the agrarian lifestyle with the promise of decent salaries and their own houses, but it was still only a portion of the population. There was a missing ethos, an absent drive that made modernization a top-down process that she had to constantly push forward herself.

Except for armaments, of course, thanks to his Genevan Convetionness, the great Lak-Tak.

“You. Are leaving,” the owl person clicked, long ears twitching.

“Yes, and for quite some time. This stays between us, but I’ll be leaving the continent.”

“Will you. Take army?”

“No. Keep this to yourself but this is a secret assignment. Also we obviously don’t have enough ships.”

The owl man remained quiet for a while, large eyes thoughtful. He smiled after that, which was usually a terrible sign.

“Understood. We yries have built many more machines. They will be ready. For when you return.”

“I’m not going to war this time.”

“You always say that. Yet war finds you. It has been too long. It will find you again. I know this. Leave, and make merry. And when the time comes. We will bring down the hammer.”

“This time will be different,” Viv said with a confidence she wasn’t feeling. “It’s supposed to be wildlife related.”

“I have heard this before. The Deep One whispered to me. Of great things to come. Great things! Would you like some honey?”

“I already told you. It would be a really bad idea to have a black elemental archmage tripping balls near inhabited areas.”

“Suit yourself. But remember. You made a fleet of liberators. Yet you do not liberate. Hmmm? The world will hear you. It will take offense, hehehehehe.”

“Dammit.”

“We will be there. Have a safe journey. And return with interesting enemies. Goodbye.”

Viv sighed. He was probably wrong. Oh well.

She still had to visit the remnants and then it would be a trip north to the Azure Lady’s enclave.

Leaving this damn place was harder than leaving a large family dinner.
