Viv helped the crews load up the heaviest pieces of loot, specifically the machines, into the back while the most valuable cargo went to the middle carriages. Viv herself went up near the front and settled down in the ‘VIP’ carriage which had a place to brew Nawa. She offered some to Solar who gratefully accepted. The train shook when the golems boarded the last carriage.

Slowly at first, then with more and more speed picked up over time, the old-school locomotive took off. Viv let the ‘kachak kachak’ of the rails lull her into a sense of relaxation. She knew it wouldn’t last.

“I still can’t believe we have enough iron for all of this,” Solar whispered.

He was a bit old too, Viv had realized. His temples were graying despite some insane physical stats. The fast changes coming upon the nation were scaring him on occasion. She patted his hand.

“We’ve salvaged most of it. And it’s a good use of metal, don’t you think? Better than levy spear tips.”

“You are right. I must see this with hope.”

The carriage shook, signs of a fierce battle waged in the shadows. It had begun.

“Already?” Solar moaned.

“We are too tempting a target,” Viv explained.

She had predicted infrastructure changes, new paths, hell, even damage done by monsters to the tracks. But there was one thing Viv hadn’t predicted.

Hadal train gang wars.

The Harrak-born little shits had each adopted a locomotive as their own, adding ghastly ornaments and gaudy color so each one ended up looking like a Mad Max prop, but that wasn’t all. They also adorned their masks with signs of belonging, then raided each other’s trains for cargo. Thankfully it was the non lethal kind of conflict and the empire could afford to have the occasional misplaced crates, but by Neriad’s ballsack was it annoying to have constant disruptions. At least, she was never late.

No one messed with the hadal train schedule.

No one.

Viv wouldn't even attempt it herself. She was arrogant and hubristic, not batshit insane. With one last sigh, she took a sip of kava while noises of battle emerged from the rear carriages. She knew her recovery crew would remain calm. It wasn’t their first rodeo.

“I feel like it happens every time,” Solar complained while grabbing a piece of jerky from one of his coat pockets. Both dragonlings perked their head and Viv used the brief opportunity she had to push her cup to the side. Predictably, a short scuffle ensued.

“Blue no! Calm down you two!”

“Solar; always have two pieces ready. Have you learnt nothing?” Viv chided.

The rear door burst open. Hadal fighters spread out in a messy kaleidoscope of shadows across the VIP carriage. The local gang was really being pushed back, it seemed.

Thing was, carrying the empress was a prestigious assignment so there was always someone ready to take the lucky crew down. Viv followed the battle with some interest. It appeared the gang leader had only allowed the younger folks to fight in the head carriage. Maybe they wanted space to seriously dish it out near the treasures.

Viv frowned.

Her hand lashed out like a viper. Her fingers clamped on the wrist of a particularly audacious girl. Her yellow eyes widened with surprise.

Viv leaned forward, towering over the little twerp with laser intensity.

“Don’t push it,” she warned.

There was always one of the little fuckers trying to snatch her spoon or something. Like she couldn’t follow second step fledges who used black mana to hide themselves. Black mana. What was she? Hello?

The local gang rallied soon after, pushing their opponents away. She would have said that it got more quiet afterward but those kinds of fights were always quiet, just very obvious in her mana perception. A member of the worker crew came a moment later. She was an older woman who’d recently graduated from the Bitter Hearts.

“Milady. We are missing a crate of silver ingots.”

“Understood. Be sure to report the value to the train authority.”

“May we take some warm water from your carriage to make more klod?”

“You don’t have to ask. Everyone can help themselves.”

“I’ll send one of the lads.”

Viv released Second Spawn so she could roam around now that things had settled down a bit. It was going to be a long ride, still. A part of her wondered if she should visit the Project Apogee site, or the eastern villages scattered along the mountain ranges. She decided she’d just visit her old allies. The less she went to the secret site, the better. As for the ex-cannibals they were probably fine on their own.

***

The portal opened over a metal glyph the size of a house. On either side of the reality-splitting aperture, rails extended as workers turned large cranks. The two rails locked in with a quiet click that spoke of precise engineering. Viv would never grow tired of the sight.

A train attendant signaled that the convoy could go through. Beyond the portal, the world changed as the grasp of the deadlands ebbed. The constant black-gray skies grew patchy, revealing distant puffs of white clouds far in the distance, and signs of an imminent fall season obvious in the harvested fields and rust-colored vegetation.

Over fifteen years before, Kazar stood at the edge of a kingdom of death, its massive purple tree an umbrella against the encroaching black mana. A bit over two thousand souls had clung to the thin fertile patch of land between this desolate place and the ever-hungry forest, at the mercy of marauding beastlings and revenants. Now four cities bloomed in the reclaimed valleys and plains of New Harrak. Fortified villages guarded fields of crop with jealousy near the frontier, where revenants and more dangerous things still roamed, but further in orchards and budding forests offered a picture of normalcy Viv would have never thought possible. Underground mushroom farms, horse and cattle ranches, and gardens painted the land with the colors of mankind but there were also parks and patches of wilderness where nature had reclaimed its due. Viv had made sure it happened because her perfect memory reminded her that dust bowls were a thing. Also the teenagers needed secluded places to snog.

Nearer to the cities, workshops of all kinds replaced the farms. Tailors and petty smiths, weavers and cobblers plied their trade. There were also tanners and dyers but she didn’t like to think about them too much since their facilities smelled like post-finals football stadium urinals in Marseille. It still brought a smile to her lips to see that everything was alive, and not currently on fire. Truly a great achievement in this economy. Well no. The economy was fine. But like, on this planet.

Between this region and the remnants, New Harrak claimed over a hundred and fifty thousand souls. It was only comparable to a medium-sized city back on earth, but here it was an exponential progression that left the other kingdoms and cities concerned. Baran had recently put limits to emigration because too many of its qualified farmhands had the curious idea that they’d rather work for themselves than as serfs for ungrateful lords. Go figure. Viv hadn’t fought the measure because she had no real way to circumvent it for now. Other cities were just pleased to get rid of their poorer population. Joke was on them, the poorer populations didn’t mind paying taxes because they were just ecstatic to have money.

Not all was rosy, of course. So many cultures melding together meant frequent clashes and arguments over local laws, not to mention the criminality was high. Abe and Themis worked hard together with guards to keep things under control, but it was an uphill battle. Viv sighed. Those were growing pains that couldn’t be avoided, the other side of the coin. She could hardly complain.

The train left the deadlands for good, or it should have, but the cloud cover was thick and dense here. It also looked like it hadn’t rained in a while. She frowned.

Solving the lack of water situation in Harrak had been the only thing that she’d done purely with magic. There had been no convenient nearby lake to pump, nor wells, so she’d resorted to the wildest tool she could think of.

Witches. Specifically, witches of the Path of the Root. Contrary to the paths of the Sun, or Thorn, those witches were the contemplative kind, really attuned to the land. They were also the only path that could make it rain. The clouds over the deadlands were made of black-saturated waters but water nonetheless, captured there for centuries. They only needed to be freed so they could return to the land. Viv had tried. She still had no idea how they managed it.

There was only one hitch: it only rained when they argued.

“Slow the train down when we go by their grove.”

“Viviane,” Solar warned.

“I just want to ask them a question.”

“Neriad dammit.”

As the train turned and slowed, Viv opened the window. The grove was a nice and beautiful heart of vibrant colors in a plain that was still in the process of being revived. A few apprentices in embroidered dresses were harvesting herbs. They paled when they spotted Viv.

She tried her very best not to smile smugly. A sound spell empowered her voice until it made the window shake.

“Is it really your turn to brew the tea? You did it last time!”

One of the apprentices frowned at the other, who immediately threw her scythe in the nearby flower bed.

“We have a chore schedule, Magrit!”

“Well I didn’t write it. Awfully convenient those rules I never agreed to, isn’t it?”

Ten minutes later, it was raining. Solar massaged his forehead with two calloused fingers.

“One day you’ll run out of ways to make them fight.”

“If a witch helps a mage circle power a spell, does that also make them a mage for the duration? Can a blade master only ever use maces? If the yries dig a tunnel right under a house, should the tunnel belong to them or to the owner of the house?”

“I will argue with you if you do not stop right this instant.”

***

The approach to Sinur’s Gate sent scouts into a panic. Squadrons of Knights approached from a patrol, asking her if everything was well and if she needed them which was incredibly sweet of them. Viv sent them on their way with thanks before veering off to the majestic siege of the Golden Scale Bank and Exchange to drop off Arthur’s kids. The titanic building dug into the side of the mountain, a gaping maw as dark and unplumbable as a modern state’s budget deficit. Minions scurried around carrying missives and the promise of fresh cash infusion… for a price. Nobody defaulted on Golden Scale debts unless they had absolutely no choice, for She-Who-Feasts-And-Collects was a wise investor. And also because of mysterious dragonfire incidents. The minibus-sized dragoness was going to complain since she’d hoped she could get some work done with the annoying spawn off her back. Viv would have suggested getting more minions. It was a complicated endeavor.

The spawn were mostly alright around humans, and could be trusted not to chomp on toddlers if left unattended for five goddamn minutes, but they were also just naughty, and the kind of naughty with wings and sharp teeth. Like flying turbo kittens. They plain refused the authority of most humans with some rare exceptions. Second spawn tolerated Viv, Sidjin, and Rakan. Third spawn was not as naughty but he tended to wander off without Solar around. As for First Spawn, also known as the White Terror, the largest and most aggressive of the bunch by far, he was bonded to a very shy orphan girl from Kazar and to this day, nobody had any idea why. Giving the nuclear button to a preteen with crippling social anxiety wasn’t Viv’s idea of a good time but unfortunately, no dragon had asked her opinion on the matter so she did what she was always forced to do: find some way to work with the situation. That meant a hidden mentor in this case.

Viv found her adoptive daughter lounging over the accounting desks, reviewing risk assessment sheets while an army of kids wiped gore off her claws with soap and soft cloth. She’d been hunting.

Mother, fate is heavy around you.

Arthur clamped her claws on Second Spawn’s neck before she could attack a stack of papers.

“We had a very long, mostly peaceful run except for that business in Regnos.”

I can remember the stench of burning aberrants.

And their screams grating against my eardrums.

It was so fun!

Maybe one of the other nations will explode in fratricidal conflict.

How old was the King of Baran?

“He’s over three hundred and don’t touch him or we’ll be in a lot of trouble.”

Your spies are whispering.

You must visit Sidjin in Frostway, before you leave.

Irao is with him.

Things are moving in the east.

“Alright. I’ll take a ship there anyway, I think. Baran has been stable for a long time. I wonder what is changing.”

Arthur revealed her fangs in a way that looked like a smile, but in dragon culture was more of a warning.

The old lion is losing his race against time, but his children are young and still much lower on their path.

He does not see them as worthy successors.

It has been so long that he has forgotten how to relinquish control.

Now six crown princes and princesses veer for a throne that will vacate before too long.

I smell opportunity.

And blood. Plenty of it.

“According to our latest reports he’s recovered from his cough.”

This time, yes.

He still has some years before him if no one hastens his departure.

I know you are leaving.

You are pulled north, and strongly too.

I will not come.

But I will keep listening.

And when you need me.

I will come.

“You always do.”

***

There were only two people in the council room: Lady Azar, and Viv. Neither of them were having a good time.

