“Pack it up, boys and girls. We’re heading back.”

Ban Junior gave Viv a confused look. The green zone wasn’t a permanent base. Rather, Viv led the One Hundred, recovery crew, and two other elites there a couple of months every year to recover valuables and necrarch cores. It came with the ‘reveal’ of how the yries war machines were powered.

For centuries, the yries had used the physical cores of their eldest and greatest shamans as power sources for their digging machines. Obviously this wasn’t enough cores to build an armored battalion, so Viv had managed to negotiate with them so they would accept necrarch core substitutes, provided they were only used in their war machines. They had accepted, or rather, Lak-Tak had been all for it while the shamans and ‘normal’ members of the tribe did their best to stay out of his way.

Fortunately, Old Harrak had a massive reserve of black mana cores, which while not being the most versatile, still allowed for some nasty shields. The expedition was thus a matter of national security, not just profit.

As for the profit itself, just the Harrakan Treasury’s vault had released actual tons of gold ingots of exceptional purity, all of which had been carefully extracted and invested to limit risks of inflation. New Harrak was still feasting off the corpse of its predecessor and the scavenging business was good. The issue, of course, was that only Viv and a couple others could manage necrarchs. No Viv, no expedition. She didn’t even leave unless she had at least one elite and two golems with her.

“Milady?”

“Duty calls. We’re leaving tomorrow. Where is Solar?”

“East gate, ma’am. I’ll let the men know.”

Viv nodded, walking past a purifying obelisk linked to a charging station. The green zone was surrounded by high walls but inside, it was still old Harrak with its brutalist architecture and colorless vistas of once-bustling living spots, now ruins eaten by corruption. Crews walked around at a brisk pace as they carried reports, supplies, and the precious goods they found in derelict places. Someone had apparently found advanced smithing tools in a workshop. Sinur’s Gate’s artisans were going to be delighted.

Viv walked while Second Spawn followed, sniffing occasional crates and people. The crews were completely used to the tiny black whelp by now. They knew not to be alarmed and not to give her sweets, no matter how much she squealed at them.

Arthur’s three children were growing up slowly, even though they ate a lot. Viv was ok with it but it also reminded her of how long and how much Arthur must have had suffered, cut off from food and company for the beginning of her life. In a way, she was lucky her mind had been so stunted. Perhaps it had protected her from much of the trauma. It still sucked for her though.

“Squee?”

“Yes, we’re going to see your brother.”

Solar was at the gate, as promised. He was practicing his forms while Third Spawn happily jumped around him, blue scales narrowly avoiding the stick with every slow swing. Third spawn was by far the most chill and shy member of the lot so no one had any idea why he would bind with someone who had ‘dragonslayer’ among their titles. Nevertheless, his wife Wamiri was delighted because the short creature was a constant source of distraction for her kids so she didn’t always have them under foot. Solar was surprised to see her pop up though.

“Themis and Clio are out on patrol. No contact for now. What’s going on?”

“I’m being called by fate. We must leave.”

He waited.

“No I’m serious,” Viv insisted. “Something came up. I’ll make a round of the country then off I go. Don’t worry, you don’t have to be emperor in my absence this time.”

“Not that I would have accepted anyway,” the blade master said.

He tilted his head to the side, smiling.

“In the meantime, and since you’re leaving… a spar?”

Viv nodded. She probably wouldn’t get another chance in a while. Solar was one of the only people who could still teach her things, even if it was just battle experience to keep her sharp.

The two flew and ran to an empty spot they enjoyed. It used to be a large park, but now it was a carved up, devastated promenade of pitted rocks. Viv checked her status. She was one, exactly one step away from pathing up. The latest tick upward had happened after she’d reached over 50 with every mental stat.

She guessed there was some sort of specific condition she had to fulfill to path up. From discussions with scholars, the prerequisites to become a fifth step person were usually lower, or more specialized in other paths. She wasn’t sure but she believed there was a specificity to the Ascender class that prevented her from moving on. Despite her best efforts, she hadn’t figured out what those conditions were yet.

Her progress was still nice.

Physical

Mental

Power

40

Focus

51

Finesse

35

Acuity

52

Endurance

41

Willpower

51

“Ready?” Solar asked with a cocky smile.

“Ready,” Viv grumbled.

He raised an open hand. Viv cast several spells at once.

“Aegis. Astra 4.”

Her compound shield blocked the first of many slices. Thanks to her high focus, she would keep it up throughout the battle. The first of her mainstay spells surged towards Solar who dodged them, only for the spell to sharply arc towards their target anyway. They popped like bubbles as soon as a slice touched them. The four layers of pressure over the black mana payloads made them explode with quiet pops. Each explosion could disable an unshielded liberator, or a squad, but this time they only damaged the ground.

That wasn’t Viv’s choice though. Solar was just a slippery bastard. Her constant stream of spells saturated the air in front of her, forcing Solar to dance a very narrow path or risk death. He did it anyway.

Solar closed in through the annihilating labyrinth of Viv’s attacks. A step to the side, and she felt his mana appear to her right. She reacted before he could retaliate. With her shield still active, she used levitation to push her body to the side. A slice through reality passed her by. She placed her body horizontally, moving her arm alongside it to avoid losing a fingertip again. Her posture had barely changed but her body still careened through the air, avoiding a flurry of slices.

Blademaster’s Danger sense: expert 2

She was the only person in the history of Nyil to have unlocked this blademaster specialization without ever wielding a blade in battle. Solar had insisted she should at least learn the basics but she’d refused. It was a waste of her time, and the more advanced blademasters didn’t follow their own rules anyway. Magic was her weapon. It was a weapon she was still far from mastering. Fuck swords.

Viv moved herself aside from Solar’s assault, blocking what she couldn’t fully avoid. He hounded her like a bad dream though.

Acuity reflex: expert 4

She managed to stay one step ahead. Both of them were holding back, Viv more than him in terms of pure destruction. It was a contest of speed and technique, not raw power. She was barely using her muscles to move because they wouldn’t be able to follow Solar’s speed anyway. It was mostly spells.

“Not going to turn elemental?” he mocked.

Viv didn’t reply. Blade masters like him struck with pure mana backed by a weird, conceptual effect that damaged elemental forms even more than real bodies. Finding this out had been a humbling experience. And a painful one too.

But that was fine. Viv had another tool.

“High Sequence: blastwave.”

An expanding tide of black and transparent mana erupted on one of her flanks, disrupting and turning the land around her to cracked splinters. Solar was forced back, though he recovered in an instant.

Blastwave was one of Viv’s anti-blade master inventions since they were pretty much the only people she still had to fear. It was randomized and chaotic, using a hint of change alongside annihilation to make it such that even she wasn’t sure how the expanding attack would move exactly, only that it would be in the general direction of the enemy. Blademaster defensive skills relied a lot on intent and the perception of it. If Viv didn’t know where the attack would go, then Solar sure as hell wouldn’t either. It pissed him off to no end.

“Not this shit again,” he complained as always.

“Portals. High Sequence: hyperbeam.”

Several portals opened near Viv and all around Solar who went from playful to serious in a moment. The beams expanded from Viv’s body to hit the nearest portals then traveled to the ones around Solar to strike him where he was standing but also where he might dodge. The blade master very seriously stepped to the side, then blocked two beams with narrow hits of his blade. He was silent by now. Viv used the opportunity to charge her shield with annihilation mana.

“Meteor.”

She crashed where she thought he would be, missing him by a hair. Her shield exploded at the same time, though another reformed around immediately after.

His blade clanged against it a moment later, destroying several panels.

Solar smiled through the sudden opening.

“I think I took your arm off, majesty.”

Viv pointed at a hole in his trouser, around the thigh. It was dangerously close to a sensitive spot and quite a few hairs were missing.

“Drafty around here isn’t it?” she drawled.

“Gods dammit Wamiri is going to kill me. She just sewed this one for me.”

“We’ll get one of the tailors to repair it in Sinur’s Gate. Don’t worry.”

“Another go?”

“Yes but give me one second. Hey you, behind the walls!”

“Squee?” something small and scaly asked in the distance.

“Hush!” a synthetic voice said, but too late.

“Are you lot not supposed to be packing?” Viv asked with the tone of someone who knew very well they were, in fact, supposed to be packing.

Two sheepish golems, the two dragonlings they were supposed to keep an eye on, and a group of workers scurried away from behind cover. Viv shook her head. She’d told them many times not to do that. It was dangerous as hell.

“It is important for the soldiers to see their commanders drill, so they know that those they’re following are worthy,” Solar said.

“They’re just fucking around when they should be working, Solar.”

“Also true. Next?”

Viv tried to stab him with a Durandal while he did the same with a side slice. His attack failed to break through her shield. He avoided hers.

Shield mastery: Intermediate 9

“You’re a hard nut to crack,” Solar complained.

Viv took off to go after him.

***

Viv opened the portal, allowing everyone to transfer to the next fortified camp on the way back to the living lands. This place was empty. There was no need for garrisons when Viv could just show up and clear everything around in seconds. Despite how inhospitable the deadlands were, it only had one apex predator and that was her. After making sure it was safe for the workers, she jumped to the next one. At Asterley though, she stopped.

“We’ll take the train,” she told the expedition.

There were quiet expressions of relief. Most people didn’t mind a trip taking longer if it meant they could just stash heavy stuff in the various carriages and relax the whole way there.

“I thought you would have been in a hurry?” Solar asked as Third Spawn climbed on his shoulder so he could take a playful swipe at his sister.

Viv restrained her black menace so she couldn’t retaliate. Second was slow to anger, being the patient and observant kind, but once started she could be quite mean.

“I want to make one last round to make sure there aren’t any glaring problems.”

She was inviting fate to strike her down with that one, but there wasn’t really any choice.

“I might be away for a while.”

“I understand.”

Asterley was one third of the way to Old Harrak, which itself was only halfway up the continent. It would take centuries before all of the land got reclaimed, which was fine with Viv. She wasn’t on a schedule. The haven city of Asterley was a bustling oasis of adventurers and soldiers on training missions. A contingent of black mages made sure to keep an expanding circle of purifying obelisks around to slow down the poisoning. It was also here that one of the trains waited.

A massive beast of steel and fortified carriages attached to a powerful locomotive, the trains were Viv’s major effort to lower reliance on portals. As other kingdoms increased their networks and the associated costs, Viv was cutting the proliferation to rely on few long range, durable, and strategically placed portals. It was part of her effort to usher new Harrak into the industrial revolution.

It wasn’t working very well for now but there were a few encouraging signs.

The issue with deep portal networks is that they required an insane amount of mana to function, and the problem with mana was that it needed casters to harness and distribute, even if they had cheats like cores at their disposal. Casters were a finite quantity. They were also stubborn people who didn’t like being told what to do but that was a secondary concern. Viv wanted them to use their skills on useful stuff like research, or crafting, or warfare. Not as glorified door openers. There was also the question of mass transportations. Carts and skills were good and all but they couldn’t carry forty tons of ore over half the settled lands in only a couple hours. With yries and hadal-controlled loading bays, Harrak could do it. There were some complications with the hadals but that was just a small cost to pay for a functional transit system.

