Chapter Eighty-Six - Broccoli On IceWe slipped and slid all the way over to the door leading into the fourth floor, then, with just a bit of finagling to keep my balance, I opened the large door and helped Amaryllis and Awen slip into the room.Lights hanging from metallic gantries above illuminated a huge doughnut of a room. In its centre was a small stone platform with a large wheel on it, chains went from it to the ceiling, then all the way to the far end of the room where the exit was waiting in plain view.Other than that, the room was nearly featureless.That was, if you didn’t count the ten or so machines skating around the room.“Insight,” I said as one of them shot past. It looked like a metallic grasshopper. Six limbs that all ended with skates, the two back legs kicking out every so often to push the body along. There were big globular eyes atop it, and a hinged mouth with serrated teeth covered their lower face. The spines along the legs didn’t look like they were decorative either.A Brass Ice Slipper Golem, level 7.Amaryllis’ head twitched a few times. “All level seven,” she said. “And obviously not aggressive yet.”“Do you think they’ll let us just cross?” I wondered.Awen shook her head. “We need to turn that wheel in the middle. Awa, at least, I think.”So, we had a nice big circular room, the floor obviously very slick with a layer of ice over what was probably more glass. And ten machines that looked like they meant business. We had to get to the middle, then over to the door at the far end.“Do you guys know how to skate?” I asked the girls.“No,” Amaryllis said.“Awa, I don’t either,” Awen added.I hummed and added that to my tally of things to keep in mind. “Okay, I have a plan.”“Do tell.”I nodded. “Awen, you can ride me. I’ll skate over to the middle. Amaryllis, you’re able to sort of fly. So I’ll kick you up into the air and you glide over to the rock.”My harpy friend stared at me for a good long while. “Counterproposal. We leave this room and I throw you off the bridge.”“Rude,” I said.“Idiotic,” she shot back.“Awa, guys,” Awen said. “We, um, need to work together, right, Broccoli?”I dropped my glaring contest with Amaryllis to grin over to Awen. “You’re right. Do you think the bots over there will slide out of their lane? We could fight them one at a time until the room is cleared.”“Risky,” Amarilis said. “There are a lot more of them than there are of us.”“Darn it.” I watched as one of the nearly-robotic golems flew pasts with a scrape of steel on ice and a wash of cool air that sent tingles across my exposed skin. “We can’t just stand around and be this indecisive,” I said. “We need to try something.”“We’ll go after the one on the farthest edge of the circle,” Amaryllis said. “I can maybe take it out with one well-aimed shot.”“That’ll have to do,” I said.We gathered on the very edge of the little platform by the entrance. Amaryllis flicked her wrist so that her sneaky little dagger fell into her talons and she pointed it towards the golem that would pass the closest to us. It was still a ways away, taking nearly a minute or so to circle all the way around.Electrical crackles and little sparks started to snap off of Amaryllis’ blade and her feathery hair rose on end a little. I felt the hairs along my arms rising as she started to mutter something under her breath. “Close your eyes,” she said.I pinched my eyes shut and threw my hands over my ears just as Amaryllis fired.The air burst apart around us, and I had to take a step back and away from the pressure.When I opened my eyes again it was to see the bot she had targeted crashing to the ground, its legs a tangled mess. Sparks and a wash of ice flew around it as the golem ragdolled across the ice.“It’s dead,” Amaryllis said with a smug, self-satisfied smile. She blew the smoke off of her knife. “That was easy.”Then the door behind us slammed shut and all three of us jumped a few feet into the air.“Awa!” Awen said. “They’re transforming.”The bots shifted as they skated around, legs bunching up and the middle of their sleek bodies unfolding until a very crossbow like device was deployed from their backs.They continued skating by, but the crossbows turned to point at us.“Oh shoot,” I said.Nine twangs sounded out at the same time and we dove to the sides as a bunch of foot-long bolts flew past where we’d been standing.The crossbows made loud crunchy noises and I just knew they were reloading.I climbed onto my knees, then almost slipped back down as my arms and legs slid across the icy floor. Thankfully, I was Canadian, so I had a racial bonus to icy pantomimes and was able to get to my feet with a little effort.The bots flew past, their bows turning to follow me and my friends. “This is bad,” I said.“Awa, it is,” Awen said as she spun and windmilled her arms to stay upright.I looked off to the side, hoping to find Amaryllis on her feet. Instead I saw her climb up to standing, only to flop back down onto her bum, as her feet kicked out from under her. “Amaryllis?” I asked.“Shut up, I’ll figure it out!” she squawked.She wasn’t going to figure it out, I decided as I saw her skedaddle on the spot and face plant into the ice.“I’m going to distract them,” I said as I pulled my backpack off. “Awen, grab the rope in there. It might help.”The story has been illicitly taken; should you find it on Amazon, report the infringement.“G-got it!” Awen said as she crashed to her knees next to my backpack and started searching within.The bots had stopped making their very loud reloading noises, which could only mean that I was running out of time.Gritting my teeth and wishing for a pair of proper skates, I started to push myself forwards. My shoes were a little thin, and the cold was already seeping into my feet, but it was better to have cold toes than stand around and get a crossbow bolt through the tummy.I looked at the oncoming row of ice skating golems, bunched my legs under me, and jumped into the air just as they were coming around.Raising my spade in an icepick grip, I got ready to land on one of the bots in the middle of their little pack.Its crossbow snapped around and I squeaked as I brought the head of my spade around just in time for a bolt to punch into and through it.I was so busy staring wide-eyed at the glass-tipped bolt hovering just before my face that my landing atop the bot was a little... messy.I don’t know exactly what happened beyond my legs clattering about on the top of the Ice Slipper. There was screaming and scrambling for purchase, but I managed to grab the base of one of its legs and hang on for dear life. The golem started to skate off to the side, my weight enough to throw it off its original path.Grunting, I pulled myself up and came face to face with the crossbow.My heart stopped.Then I noticed that it hadn’t reloaded yet and I let out a very inappropriate giggle.The girls seemed okay, as far as I could tell. The other bots had mostly fired their bolts into the air to try and hit me, but I suppose I had been a small enough target--and a moving one at that--that they had all missed.“Sorry big guy,” I told the golem as I crouched precariously atop it and aimed my spade towards the nock between its head and neck. I brought my spade down and smashed its tip against the fine rods and pistons and spinning shafts within, then when that only bent the outermost one I hit them again.One of the golem’s eyes started twitching, so I knew I’d hit something important. But I didn’t have the strength to just end it in a blow.I huffed and tried to think of a solution as we whizzed around the circular arena, my hair whipping out behind me like a lame banner. Magic? It was worth the try.Standing a little taller, I aimed an open palm down towards the golem and fired a burst of cleaning magic into it. I saw the mana race across the golem’s surface and beneath the panels covering it. The oil on the gears I could see spinning away was wiped out, but that didn’t seem like a way to destroy the machine any time in the next few minutes. Most of my mana was wasted cleaning off the surface of the ice we passed.“Dang,” I said. That had been a waste.Then I saw one of the golems skate past the freshly cleaned ice. It had to scramble a little as it began to spin out, one side slipping by much faster than the other. It rightened itself just fine, but that gave me an idea.I jabbed my spade into the crossbow's mechanism. Something in there broke, and that was good enough for the moment.Hooking a leg around the crossbow’s protrusion, I let my upper body dangle down behind the golem, face only a handspan away from the ice.Reaching down, I tapped the ice with the tips of my fingers and shot out busts of cleaning mana to the left and right. It left streaks of sparkly-bright ice behind.It only took a moment before one of the golems flew past the now extra-slippery ice and veered wildly off-course.“Oh yeah,” I said with a growing grin as I repeated what I’d just done.A moment later my efforts were rewarded when two of the golems rammed into each other. Brass limbs tangled, skates were pulled off the ice and the machines flew off and into one of the walls of the arena with a crunch.Congratulations! You have caused two (2) Brass Ice Slipper Golem, level 7 to skate off the mortal coil!“W-well done!” Awen shouted from the sidelines. “I have the rope!”“Great! Tie it somewhere then give me the other end!” I said.The idea was to kludge together a tripwire to bring down the remaining golems. I eyed them, hoping to see them skate into a wall, but they were spacing themselves out a little more and were doing a better job of keeping steady as they skated along.There was a loud clack from the six golems that were left, and that I wasn’t riding on. Their crossbows were primed again. “Oh no,” I said as I saw a few of them turning towards the girls.Amaryllis was still on her bum, looking mightily angry about not being able to stand, and Awen was tying an end of my rope to the large wheeled handle of the door. They were both prone and out of cover.Pulling myself back, I straddled the golem I was riding on and started firing out balls of cleaning magic as hard and fast as I could.Having magic smack them in the face did exactly what I wanted and soon they were all aiming at me.“Uh. Oops.”I got to put my new dancing skill to the test and I ducked and weaved atop the already shifty surface of the golem I was riding. Somehow, all six bolts fired my way missed or bounced off the armour of the golem I stood on.“Broccoli!”Awen’s call had me looking to the side just in time to reach up and catch the rope she tossed out of the air.It was time to put an end to the chase!***
