Chapter Five Hundred and Forty - Love Matters"So, you wanted to talk?" Caprica asked.We'd made it to the Beaver... eventually. It took a bit of getting lost before that, but we did make it back. By then, the sun was set, but it was pretty much winter, so that wasn't anything too special, the sun was setting pretty early.Caprica and I, as well as a few others, were in the dining area of the ship. Calamity was recounting the day's adventure to the Scallywags who'd had their own mini-adventure out in the docks, trying out local foods and daring each other to eat the biggest, juiciest bugs they found for sale.I smiled and nodded. "Yup! It's nothing too serious. Um, maybe in your room? Or up on deck, if you want?""The deck would be nice," Caprica said as she made for the door. "No, Bastion, I'm not fleeing, and this sounds like a private thing, you can stay here." The last was, obviously, aimed at Bastion, who'd started to stand from his seat. He paused, then nodded and sat back down.I supposed that the Beaver was a relatively safe space, even at dock.I followed Caprica to the rear of the ship in companionable silence, then up the stairs and onto the portside main deck. It had been a warm, muggy day, but as soon as the stars came out, it had cooled down quick--the air was chilly and humid. I took in a deep lungful, let it warm up inside me, then exhaled it slowly as a wispy trail of vapour. Just cold enough for that, which was nice."Reminds me of home," Caprica said. "The cold air, I mean. Though home is a lot dryer than here.""Yeah. I like the cold too. I guess Sylphfree is colder all year round?""Indeed," she said before she made her way to one of the seats next to the rails. She sat down, then stretched back to spy at the stars around the ship's balloon. Only the brightest were showing. Deepmarsh wasn't as well-lit as an ordinary city, but there were lights around masking the stars. "What did you want to talk about, Broccoli?""Hmm... I don't know where to start," I said honestly. "But I guess it's like a band-aid.""A what?"I giggled. "These little... plaster things that you put on small cuts. They're sticky, with a pad in the middle that absorbs blood. They keep boo-boos clean, but they hurt when you rip them off. We have an expression about them. It hurts less if you just take it off quickly, instead of picking away at it.""I think I see what you mean," she said. "So, I suppose... rip away? I already know what you want to say to me."I blinked. "You do?"She nodded, then her head tilted down, and her shoulders hunched up, like she was dreading what was coming next. "You want me off the Beaver.""... Huh? No I don't," I said.I think something in my tone must have conveyed how surprised and confused and a little bit hurt I was, because she looked up to me right away. "You don't? Broccoli, this... this kind of meeting is how you deliver bad news! Wait, is it something worse?""No! I just wanted to talk in private. I mean, I guess it's a little sensitive, but it's not bad. Not really?""Oh... well, I've made a fool of myself, then," she said.I paused for a moment, then giggled. "Just a bit?"She huffed in a very Amaryllis-like way, though she didn't quite have the touch. "You're supposed to be comforting, I think.""Sorry," I said. "But... yeah, I did want to talk." I moved over and sat next to her, then scooted to the side until our hips bumped. "It's, ah, it really is a delicate thing.""'Rip the bandage'... or however your saying goes."I nodded, then adjusted one of my floppier ears (the right one) back up straighter. "It's about Bastion," I said.She tensed up. "You have a crush on him and are madly in love," she declared."No? I mean, he's cute, I guess. He has a nice rugged chin.""His chin?" Caprica repeated."But yeah, I mostly wanted to talk about your crush.""What crush?" Caprica asked. I suspected that she had a skill that helped her keep a diplomatically expressionless face, or maybe it was just practice, but her expression remained unnaturally neutral.I shifted to the side a bit, my upper arm bumping against her shoulder. It was strange, most of the time I didn't notice it, but sitting next to her... Caprica was tiny. Sitting down, the top of her head only barely came up to my shoulder, though her wings were taller than me, even folded up."Your crush on Bastion.""I do not know what you're talking about, Captain Bunch."Find this and other great novels on the author's preferred platform. Support original creators!"Too formal," I said.Caprica crossed her arms. "I don't have a crush on Paladin Bastion," she said.I placed a hand over my mouth as a giggle escaped me. "Caprica..." I said.Caprica stiffened. "I meant... as an example. I could also be denying a crush on Calamity, for example, or, or Clive.""Isn't he like, the age of your dad?" I asked. Not to be mean to Clive, he was a great pilot and a good friend, but he was a bit... senior compared to all my other friends."Well, maybe I like older men!" Caprica said."I mean, yeah, obviously. Bastion's way older than you," I said."Only a few years," Caprica said, then she blushed all the way to the tips of her ears. "Argh! Please tell me I'm not so obvious.""You're not so obvious," I lied. I didn't like lying to my friends, but she had asked.For some reason, Caprica covered her face and groaned. Was my lie not convincing? "Everyone knows," she moaned. "Bastion... does he know?"I reached an arm around her shoulders. "I actually don't know," I said. "I mean, I'm sure he thinks you're fond of him, but maybe he just thinks that he's your favourite Paladin?""He is," she said before slowly uncovering her face. "Broccoli, what do I do? I love him so much, and he barely even looks at me.""I'm sure he thinks you're very pretty," I said."That's not what I mean!" she pouted in a very princess-y way. "Am I not feminine enough for him? I tried to look as pretty as possible in Sylphfree. I wore dresses, did my makeup, took care of my hair and skin, and barely a glance.""Oh, Caprica, boys don't notice it when girls make a lot of effort to be pretty. Only other girls notice that," I said.Caprica groaned again and let her head fall back against the edge of the railing with a soft bonk. "That's so unfair," she muttered, staring blankly up at the stars. "Why go to all the trouble if the person I'm doing it for doesn't even realize?""Because you want to," I said. "And because you deserve to feel pretty and confident and good about yourself, even if no one else notices.""That's not the point," she said. "I want him to notice. Not everyone else. I don't want to be admired by strangers, or have other girls compliment my hair. I want him to stop treating me like I'm still twelve and made of glass."I leaned a little into her side. "Then maybe you need to show him that you're not."She gave me a look. "How do I do that, exactly? Start flexing in front of him? Challenge him to a duel?""Could work," I said with a grin. "You're pretty good with a sword, right?""I'm good, but he's amazing." Caprica let out a dreamy sigh. "If he took me seriously, I would get my butt handed to me.""Well, I think it's less about martial prowess and more about impressing him as a, ah, peer? Maybe? I don't know how Bastion thinks, but maybe he'll spend less time thinking of you as someone he needs to protect and more time thinking of you as a friend if you need less protection?"Caprica considered it. "To be his peer would mean being as strong as him, Broccoli. As strong as a Royal Paladin. I've been working on that for years now!""You could also just tell him how you feel," I suggested."I think I'll start training to become stronger right now," Caprica said after gulping."You don't have to pour your heart out in a love letter sealed with rose petals or anything. Just... tell him you like him. Invite him to go for a walk, or watch the stars, or punch a monster together. Something casual.""I don't think Bastion does casual.""Then do serious," I said. "You're good at that."She opened her mouth to protest, then stopped. Thoughtful. "Maybe... maybe I'll try."I nodded. "That's all you need to do."We stayed up there a little longer, turning to look out over the water beyond Deepmarsh. A wispy fog covered the lowlands, glowing softly in places from the lights of the surrounding villages and a few adventurous boats. Overhead, a scattering of brave stars shone through the city's glare. The night was quiet, gentle, like a held breath. Caprica leaned against my side again, and I let her, happy to offer what warmth I could."I'm glad you didn't want to kick me off the ship," she said softly."Why would I ever want that?" I asked. "You're part of the crew."She smiled, eyes closed. "Still... it's nice to hear."I reached up and gently tugged one of her braids. "If you ever need to talk again, I'll be here. Even if it's just about Bastion's chin."Caprica gave a soft laugh. "Especially if it's about that."***
