Chapter Five Hundred and Thirty - Well, If It Isn't the Consequences of Caprica's Own ActionsWe thought about leaving at night, but then that seemed like a lot of trouble. Plus it was snowing pretty heavily, and Caprica said that she really ought to tell the local Sylphfree embassy that she was heading out, otherwise they might freak out a little.Also, we were all a little lazy by the time the sun set, so... the plan was changed to accommodate. We went to bed with full tummies and woke up early the next morning to find the topdeck of the Beaver covered in a fine sheen of water. The snow from the night before had melted, and it was raining a little.Rain, even if it was above-freezing range, wasn't an auspicious start. Clive mentioned off-hand (off-wing?) that it could be dangerous. Wet ropes became frozen ropes as a ship rose up into the atmosphere and the temperature dropped. There were a few spells and skills to counter that, but it would require vigilance!There were fifteen days left on the countdown timer Rainnewt had sent. I didn't know what that would lead to, but it did give me a bit of a kick in the skirts to move a little faster.Amaryllis logged our flight plan with the local traffic controller. Our destination was deeper into Deepmarsh, the capital. No one in our group had been there before, so we didn't quite know what to expect, but we were sure the Beaver was up to the task. The capital was a half-day's flight, maybe a little more or less depending on how the winds were.In any case, Clive and the scallywags and the rest of the crew ran about, making sure everything was in tip-top shape, and I donned my captain's hat, pulled on a heavy oilcloth overcoat, and stepped out onto the rearmost deck behind the ship's wheel.After Caprica returned in a bit of a hurry, we untied ourselves from the docks and Awen started the engine with a bang. Props spinning gently, we slowly pulled out and started to gain a bit of altitude.The airspace around us was quite busy, with ships departing in huge batches and more hovering on the outskirts. For a while the docks had been overcrowded since a lot of people had come over for Booksie's wedding. It was a bit of a tourist attraction. Now things were calming down, but there were still people that hadn't yet left Port Royal after the wedding.Amaryllis joined me on the rear deck, and we stood next to Clive who was at the helm. There was surprisingly little to do, actually. "The crew have come together rather well," Amaryllis said, loud enough to be heard over the purr of the engine and the whistle of the wind. "I think all three of the Scallywags have picked up some general skills for ship handling, and it shows.""That's good," I said. "I think the Beaver only needs maybe three, four people to handle well, and we have way more than that. So it's lighter work.""I suppose so," Amaryllis said. "But light work isn't so light when you're stumbling over the fool next to you. The crew is well-trained, despite a lack of formal training.""Uh-huh!" I said."We'll be able to tack on some more sail soon," Clive noted. "There's a nice easterly wind.""Good! It'll give us a boost in the right direction," I said before I leaned over the rails. "Gordon, Sally, sails to three-quarters! Let's catch some wind! Oda, shout out if the thermometer dips below freezing.""Aye!" came the response from the crew.Sails unfurled and caught the wind with a whip-like snap and the Beaver lurched slightly as we started to gain some speed.I grinned and pulled my hat down against the wind and rain squall. This was the life!And then something heavy thumped onto the deck below me, the strike hard enough that I felt it as a vibration through my soles. Something had just landed on my ship, without permission or warning.A helmeted head popped up, just visible over the railing. Short compared to me, but tall for a sylph, his translucent dragonfly wings snapped out like swords. Densely engraved armor plates - that I knew just had to be magical - shifted fluidly over his form, and a long rapier hung from his side.He raised a hand and flipped his helmet open, giving me a good look at his very familiar face."I'm going to have to ask that you turn this ship around and return to the docks, Captain Bunch," Bastion said.Ensure your favorite authors get the support they deserve. Read this novel on Royal Road."Bastion!" I cheered. A moment later I launched myself down, landed, then crashed into the paladin with a giggling oomph! "You're back!""This is a serious matter, Broccoli," he said."Uh-huh!" I said. "We need to have a party! Drinks! Are you cold? Flying out in this weather can't be warm, you're all wet! Want some Cleaning magic?"Bastion shook his head. "No, Broccoli. This is a serious matter."I paused. Even I could look past the happiness at seeing a friend again when they were this serious. So I took a small, reluctant step back, then tugged my clothes on straighter. "Okay," I said."Can you turn the Beaver around and return to the docks?" he asked."Sure," I said. "But why?"Bastion sighed. "Because you're harbouring the Princess of Sylhpfree, and she must be returned to her home. I was tasked with retrieving her.""Oh," I said. Caprica... kinda did run away from home. "Hey, Sally," I called out. "Go and get Caprica, please?""There's no need for that," Bastion said.I narrowed my eyes. "Why not?""This would be easier done back in port.""As opposed to here?" I asked.Bastion's expression barely changed, but he was a friend, even if he was a friend that I hadn't seen in a little while. I knew how to read that slight twitch of his lips and the pinch in the corner of his eyes. He wanted us to go back because staying in the air would be trouble for him.Which meant that I had to weigh things. Would trouble for one friend be good for another? That... wasn't a really nice thing to be thinking, but it was kind of the situation I found myself in, wasn't it?"Broccoli? What's going o--" Caprica began as she stepped out of the cabin at the back. She froze mid-step on seeing who I was talking with. "Bastion," she said.And then she turned around and disappeared back into the cabin."One moment, please," Bastion said as he started to go around me.I reached out and touched his shoulder. "Wait," I said. "I'm sure she's going to come back.""Yeah," Sally said as she stepped out as well. "She said something about getting changed?"I blinked, but... yeah, that made sense. Caprica had taken to wearing somewhat more casual clothes lately. They were still very nice, quality things, but they weren't the military-like uniform she had always worn when we started adventuring."Change?" Bastion asked. "Why would she bother with something like that at a time like this?"Oh, poor Bastion.He really didn't know how Caprica felt about him, did he? For someone who was so observant, he was kind of blind about some things. "How about we all sit down for tea and discuss this like friends who haven't seen each other in a while?" I asked."Certainly. We can do so at the Sylph embassy," he said.I puffed my cheeks out. "But that would mean turning around. We'll be late!""Late to your next adventure?" he asked.I blinked, then nodded. "Yeah, pretty much. I think we're aiming to save the world this time? Maybe? Rainnewt's hints are pretty cryptic. There's myths and legend, and like, some ancient band of super strong people that's all secretive, and a doomsday countdown clock."Bastion stared at me for a moment, then let out a very familiar sigh. "None of that was an exaggeration, was it?""Nope!" I said. "You should join us! It'll be fun! Plus, we might be able to use some help from someone nice and strong.""Broccoli is right," Caprica said as she stepped back on deck. She was changed into her uniform. Her hair was a little wild, and her uniform wasn't quite straight, but she looked a little more imposing. "The entire world might be at stake! Your presence would be a great boon, Paladin Bastion.""Be that as it may," Bastion said. "I have orders to return you home.""I will override them," she said."From your mother," Bastion continued, and the wince on Caprica's face was rather telling."T-technically," Caprica said. "My mother is a retired Paladin, and her non-inherited title of queen doesn't actually give her the legal right to give orders to any branch of the nation's military, including the Paladins."Bastion quirked one eyebrow. "Yes, I'm certain you could make that argument in court. And in front of your parents."***
