Warm flesh pressed close coupled with an intoxicating bouquet of feminine musk, and the sweet rush that comes with intimate release.

Burning hot fury and a rage which will not be quenched, stifled only by the frustration of having nowhere to unleash it.

A delicious meal to gorge on and a soft chair to sink into, rewards well-earned after a hard day’s work.

Dark despair to pair with bitter disappointment, chased with the cold indifference of apathy to dull the edge of caustic failure.

Surging vindication and self-satisfaction from the dispensing of due justice, leading to a sense of safety and security.

Heady rush of domineering sovereignty and the silence of a subjugated foe, complete with wealth and riches beyond compare.

Lofty pride of success accompanied by the admiration of the crowd, so full of praise and wonderment.

Heart-pounding anxiety escalating into gut-wrenching terror until nothing is left except for a deranged, desperate desire to survive and the soul-crushing awareness of impending death.

Overwhelming faith and conviction to wash away all doubt and apprehension, leaving only assurance and complacency.

Delayed gratification as enemies fall bloodied and broken before me, pleading for mercy which will not be delivered, though the taste of their anguish is a nectar for the soul.

The complete absence of fear and concern built atop a foundation of absolute freedom and unwavering certainty, which leads to unshakable confidence in self and Heaven.

Indulgence and indolence. Death and suffering. Glory and triumph. Achievement and fulfillment. All manner of temptations dangle before me, appearing in brief glimpses without any actual substance, only to disappear in the blink of an eye without leaving any lasting impression. The reactions they elicit are momentary and fleeting, flashes of joy and sorrow, desire and disgust, apathy and ambition, and more as I mindlessly react to the stimuli placed before me, an endless stream of varying perceptions and sensations without beginning or end. Soon, I recognize a pattern emerging as the impressions shape themselves to my desires, but they remain unreal and insubstantial to the end, wholly unable to satisfy the emptiness inside, a craving hunger and restless thirst, but these fleeting glimpses are akin to flipping through a picture book of delicious meals or handing an empty glass to a man dying of thirst, a cruel joke that leaves me yearning for more, hoping for more, but only more of the same is forthcoming. Confusion and reluctance give way to greed and desire, which left unfulfilled lead to anger and hatred directed both inwards and out. How can I live like this, deprived of my wants and needs? How can the Heavens do this, deny my every desire and demand?

How can I stand for this?

The answer is simple.

I cannot and will not stand for it. I reject the restrictions set upon me. I spurn the constraints that bind me. If the Heavens wills me to bend and break, then I will shatter the Heavens.

For one, short, sweet, tantalizing moment, I exert my Will and revel in all that my heart desires.

Sex. Appreciation. Reverence.

Sex. Gluttony. Sloth.

Sex. Joy. Contentment.

Sex. Triumph. Respect.

Sex. Violence. Dominance.

Sex. Apathy. Lethargy.

Sex. Influence. Control.

Sex. Sex. Sex.

…That’s a lot of sex.

So very much sex.

Possibly even too much sex. Never thought I’d say such a thing, but reel it in a little. Geez. I haven’t been this horny since I was sixteen, packed to the gills with hormones and deprived of all porn and female companionship. The public baths and lack of soundproofing didn’t help much either, to say nothing of the near daily brushes with death and overexposure to violence.

Huh. You know, looking back on those times now, I’m surprised my testicles didn’t just explode from being blue-balled for four straight years.

The allure of lust and gratification calls to me once more, but I am no longer so easily swayed, too confused and displeased by my unhinged responses that I am driven to do something about them. The reflex comes so naturally to as I reach for Balance on impulse, an ingrained reaction born from years of strife, struggle, and suffering. I close my eyes, but more than that, I close the rest of my senses off, blocking out the barrage of fleeting temptations assaulting me from all sides. There is no struggle, no surrender, merely quiet acceptance of the situation as is, a calm and inviting peace falling over me like a cloak of tranquil serenity. Relaxing from within the shroud of stillness, I draw myself inwards and open myself to whatever I might find, seeking nothing, aware of nothing, yet aware of my awareness itself. The river rages and the wind howls whilst the fury of the forge and the vastness of the mountain threatens to overwhelm me, but my resolve steels itself without need for trying and holds all of this and more at bay. One with the Self and One with the Universe, I drift aimlessly through the currents of time as seconds and minutes turn into hours and days, all in the blink of an eye.

Only for it all to shatter beneath the ice-cold rasp of Zhen Shi’s piercing articulation. “So full of surprises,” the old man intones, instilling his booming syllables and deafening silences with the force of a thousand trumpeting elephants tap-dancing on the back of my skull. “Little worm is creative and innovative unlike any this Sovereign has ever seen, yet such noble sacrifices are ultimately wasted efforts in the face of absolute strength.”

Anger and exasperation flare up from within, and I envision decapitating the old corpse and taking a shit in his skull, an uncharacteristically graphic response which I recognize as foreign and unwelcome. “Idiot,” I reply, rolling my eyes while studying my surroundings to try and pinpoint where I am, but all I see is darkness in all directions, but not the darkness of the Void. This darkness is fake and artificial compared to the real deal, filled with so much motion and emotion it sets my nerves to tingling beneath my skin. Well, not my nerves, or my skin, since I lack either of those things, being a Natal Soul and all, a realization which brings with it a deluge of memories and experience. I am the General, the micro-manager of the battlefield, and my current circumstances are a result of my boundless curiosity overcoming plain old common sense, which in my experience isn’t actually all that common. I was caught by Zhen Shi, obviously, but I don’t see him and can’t sense where his voice is coming from, probably because he’s playing his power games again. Nothing like unknowns and uncertainties to keep me on the back foot, affording him the upper hand in our exchange. No idea what his goal is, but he’s clearly studying my reactions to various emotional stimuli, which means it is of the utmost importance I stay calm, cool, and collected.

I can do that. All I need to do is listen to my gut instincts, and then do the exact opposite. Easy Peasy.

The urge to voice all my questions out loud is almost unbearable, but no good can come from engagement. I have no idea what’s happening, and asking questions will only reveal the depths of my ignorance, but the questions still pester me to no end. I figured I was dead once he caught me, that he’d break me down and render me into usable Heavenly Energy, so why did he keep me conscious and self-aware? Why all the probing emotions and temptations? What surprise is he talking about? I don’t recall making any noble sacrifices, but I’ll be damned if I give him the smug satisfaction of playing up my ignorance. Now that I’m here though, what am I supposed to do? Is there a way to escape and make it back to the physical world? Can I just Will myself back there? It couldn’t possibly be that easy, but I give it a try regardless, because it’s not like I have anything better to do.

Closing my eyes, I reach for Balance, only to find it denied to me once more as Zhen Shi opens his stupid fucking mouth once more. “The misplaced confidence of youth and inexperience,” he oozes, in that smug, holier than thou manner, inwardly laughing at a joke he has yet to share. “So willing to disregard his own counsel and place so much power in the hands of a mere tool.” Sensing my confusion, Zhen Shi’s voice surges with delight. “Oh? Perhaps not so much a fool after all. Were you unaware, little worm? Did you believe you were the true self? How delightfully cruel to leave you so ignorant of your fate.”

Ha. More proof that Zhen Shi doesn’t know shit. Who’s the fool now? I know I’m a Natal Soul and kinda glad for it, because Prime Me has a lot on his plate that I’d rather not deal with.

My amusement leaks through a hint of hesitancy creeps into Zhen Shi’s voice as he senses the change, but it’s not enough to stop him from launching into one of his painfully obvious recruitment spiels. “Or perhaps not. A willing participant then, yet still a puppet in the end, and a puppet you will be forever more. Allow this Sovereign to remind little worm of what your other self once said. You as a Natal Soul will cease to exist once you are no longer of use. You are tool and a puppet, one meant to be used and thrown away, but your fate is not yet set in stone. This Sovereign could save your life as easily as turning a hand, but why should I? This Sovereign has intervened before and had his goodwill spurned, so if little worm desires to live, then first, he must beg.”

“Eat shit and die,” I reply, not my most eloquent rejoinder, I’ll admit, but to be fair, I wasn’t intending to say anything at all, but Zhen Shi really knows how to get under a guy’s skin.

He knows it too, so even though he’s irked by my lack of respect, he ignores the insult and continues, “Is little worm so lacking in courage then? Or so willing to die? Perhaps you think it well worth it, to sacrifice yourself for what you deem a good cause, but your death will change nothing except make it so that you cease to exist.”

My pithy reply about how I’d look terrible with a goatee dies on the tip of my tongue as I’m struck by a realization regarding my impending death. I’ve been pretty blasé about dying because I knew it needed to be done, but I never really took the time to consider what death really meant. I know firsthand that reincarnation is a thing, but would that apply to me? As a Natal Soul, do I get a re-roll, or will I simply cease to exist, like Zhen Shi says? Assuming I never reawaken memories from this life in my next one, functionally, there really isn’t any difference between the two outcomes for me, but for some reason, the prospect of this being my one and only run hits me in a way I never really expected. The finality of it all just seems so…

Well… Final.

I am a Natal Soul. I knew this from the start, but even though I share all the same memories and experiences as Prime Me, is that really the same as having experienced it all myself? I don’t even have a physical body, so can I really say I’ve felt the texture of a quin’s fur or smelled the scent of an herbal tea? I’ve never held hands with Lin-Lin or wrapped my arm around Yan, never lifted Mila into the air or traded blows with Li-Li. I’ve never heard Luo-Luo playing the zither or tasted a dumpling made by sweet Tali, never run my fingers through Aurie’s fur or hugged Mama Bun to sleep. I have memories of all this and more, but they’re no different from dreams. Echoes of an event that never happened, not for me, because my life began only a few minutes ago, when I took charge of the Natal Souls dispatched to help the soldiers fighting in Meng Sha.

So if I’ve never experienced these things for myself, how can I be sure my memories are right? I’m not saying Prime Me maliciously changed some memories around, because that sounds like way more work than either of us would care to do, but he might’ve accidentally mixed some things up. What if he switched how honey and chocolate taste? Or the texture of bear and wildcat fur? Even if he didn’t get it wrong, having memories of an event isn’t the same as experiencing it in the moment. Memories can be wrong or altered by time, so what if I’ve forgotten something important? I said it before getting myself stuck in this mess, that even though we all share the same memories and experiences, the events which have transpired since the moment of my creation have forever altered my perspective in a unique manner, one Prime Me and my other iterations could never match.

I am a Natal Soul, but I am also a person. My own person, with my own hopes and dreams, ones that are similar to Falling Rain’s, but still mine all the same.

