The memories I inherited from Prime Me are not all that different from the memories of my past life, the one I lived before coming to this world. I know it was very different, a technologically advanced society with different norms and customs, but how much have those memories actually shaped my life in this world? Quite a bit, if I’m being honest, but how much of it was the memories, and how much of it was just me being me? I remember being older, and I agonize about it all the time, but I wouldn’t exactly call myself mature. Jaded and cynical, yea, but I lack the tempering that comes from living through all those extra years and experiencing life for all that time. Time changes your perspective in a way nothing else can. Just look at poor Guan Suo. He lived so long he’d forgotten what his parents and first love looked like, but he remembers the love he had for them, and the love they shared with him. How many children did he sire and attempt to raise before giving up on fatherhood? How many friends and comrades did he lose along the way before he just stopped reaching out? How long did he spend with Ping Ping at his side, watching her grow from a more or less regular turtle into the hulking behemoth I stumbled across in Ping Yao?

What I’m getting at is that Guan Suo lived through all those years. He experienced every second, every minute, every hour which passed him by, whereas I only have a fleeting impression of my past life, a general sense of how it went without ever having lived it myself. There are some memories which stuck with me, and maybe a few habits and mannerisms that shine through, but can I really say that the memories of my past life have shaped me more than what I’ve experienced in this one?

I don’t know. I want to say yes, but I also want to say no. I remember my parents and my dog, but aside from that, my memories of my past life are mostly tidbits of information which have no real bearing on who I am. I mean, yea, I remember numbers, big whoop. Indoor plumbing too, but who actually enjoys shitting in a pot? The condo, the PC, the scientific method, these memories and more have shaped my perspective, but not who I am as a person.

At least, not more than my personal experiences have. Not by a long shot.

I am who I am today because of the trials and tribulations of my past. I don’t remember much of what happened before being sold as a slave, but the ordeals I suffered through those next few months still haunt me to this day. I always told myself that Baledagh was the personality best suited for this world, but that was a lie, or at least not the whole truth. I should’ve seen it sooner, but I didn’t want to, because the lie was nicer to hear. Baledagh was brash, arrogant, impulsive, and decisive, but isn’t that just me without the fear, doubt, and hesitation? He was more than the whipping boy I made him out to be, more than the idiot to take all the blame for my actions. The truth is, he’s the person I imagined I would be if I’d grown up in the village, the person I wanted to be instead of who I was, a truth that has always been right there in front of me, but one I never wanted to see. I even put together what that life might have been like had I grown up in the village, a different melody that hit all the same familiar notes and a wonderful dream that could never come to pass, because I did not grow up in the village where I was kept safe and sound. No, I was sold as a slave to the Canston Trading Group, and no amount of wishing will ever erase the trauma I suffered through in the mines.

Baledagh was who I wished I could be, who I imagined I would be if not for the mines. Since then, my trials and tribulations have continued to shape me, even as I resisted change with all my heart, because I am, at the core of my being, terrified of change, because while I cannot imagine my life getting any better than it already is, I know exactly how bad things can get.

Except now, I will lose it all regardless of what happens, lose everything I never really had, because that life was not my life, and it never was. It belonged to Falling Rain, and my life is almost at an end.

But it doesn’t have to be that way.

I don’t have to die.

I can live.

I just need to…

Snapping out of my thoughts, I let my wry amusement shine through as I address Zhen Shi once more. “Seems it’s true,” I say, flashing my most insolent of grins with more than just my expression, but my emotions as well, and I can feel how infuriating he finds it. “You really can’t teach an old dog new tricks. Don’t you get tired of always giving the same old spiel? Hurr, durr, little worm, big dumb, but this old man smort. Join me and together, we overthrow dog emprah, whooo!”

Zhen Shi’s mounting fury and pointed lack of amusement is all the proof I need to know I’m on the right track, and I dismiss the shroud clouding my senses with a minor effort of Will. No longer am I trapped in artificial darkness, but standing in the palm of a giant Zhen Shi’s hand as he glowers down at me from above. Talk about overcompensating. His hands are so huge I fit neatly on his index finger, or more specifically on top of the entwined corpse ring adorning it. The decayed skeletons which make up the ring are no longer wrapped around Zhen Shi’s finger, but instead amassed around my legs all the way up to my hips as they whisper their dark lies for me to hear, but I will not be swayed. A fact Zhen Shi seems to accept, else he would have pitted his Will against mine to keep me shrouded in artificial darkness, but he still has me trapped and wanted to talk so didn’t bother putting up a fight.

How do I know this? Because I can sense his emotions, the same way he senses mine, and what I sense buried deep inside is something I know all too well. Fear. Doubt. Anxiety. Apprehension. Much as he loves to pretend he’s always in control, matters are not unfolding as he expected and quickly spiralling towards disaster. Worst of all, he has no idea how, because every time he thinks he’s got everything under control, a new variable enters the equation to throw all his calculations out the window. How is it that I, a ‘little worm’ with barely twenty-years of life in me, can repeatedly ruin all his best laid plans? This war is the culmination of his life’s work, a war waged against the Emperor Himself, but Zhen Shi’s ‘true’ opponent has yet to even reveal himself, because one measly Falling Rain keeps getting in the way.

So much so that Zhen Shi has temporarily put his plans on hold, and the need to do so shames and infuriates him to no end. Alas, he has no other choice, because a pyrrhic victory against the Outer Provinces will only lead to a resounding defeat at the Emperor’s hands, so better to retreat and regroup to rebuild his strength before trying again when he can. The failure eats away at his pride for he is not a man accustomed to failing, but he consoles himself with the prospect of having found a new subject to study, namely Falling Rain, the little worm who keeps getting in his way. He won’t admit it, even to himself, but he’s desperate to uncover all my secrets, because to his knowledge, I have accomplished the impossible, but he cannot deny what he sees before his eyes.

Me.

After crossing paths with him so many times and poring over his notes more times than I can count, I’ve got a pretty good grasp on his personality and can read his emotions pretty well, but I don’t understand the significance he sees in my existence. I can only sense his emotions, not read his mind, so all I know is that he sees me as a marvel and a curiosity that brings out his greed and ambition. He wants my secrets, and as such, tried to lure me over to his side multiple times, but his failure to do so fills him with rage and frustration. Never before has he met someone so resistant to his efforts, and he burns with desire to make me pay for my crimes.

And he will make me pay, for I am literally trapped in the palm of his hand, except I know something he doesn’t.

“You want to learn my secrets?” I ask, and even though he knows I’m taunting him, my words strike a spark of hope, one which he quickly quashes because he can sense I’m being a dick. “Then kowtow and call me Mentor, and maybe I’ll consider it.”

His rage and fury are formidable to behold, but that only makes my smile grow, because I’m happy to see someone suffer the same way I suffer everyday when I can’t make heads or tails of the situation. “A fool until the end,” he rages, his fury burning hot. “You think you know pain, little worm? What your other self experienced in JiangHu is but the least this Sovereign can do, a passive torment driven by your own thoughts and fears, but now you will learn true suffering. This Sovereign will personally craft your prison and watch as you live through lifetime after lifetime of pain and torment, disaster and misfortune, grief and despair, until – ”

My defiant bark of laughter cuts him off mid-sentence, but not because of the sound. No, he can sense my genuine lack of fear and respect. Spreading my arms in challenge, I wipe the smile off my face and match his gaze with all the earnest gravity I can muster. “You cannot win, Zhen Shi,” I intone, channelling my inner Kenobi. “If you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine.”

There’s something to be said about my acting skills, as the delivery sets Zhen Shi on edge, but only for a moment as I am unable to hold back my laughter. The darkness consumes me once more and the corpses rise up to wrap me in their cold and despondent embrace, but I reach for Balance and find that their whispers hold no power over me. Under Zhen Shi’s guidance, his captured Spectres were hitting all the right notes to get me singing to their tune, but the problem is one of motivation. He thinks he can get me to turn against Prime Me by offering his help, because he knows how to stave off my inevitable death. There are two problems with his sales pitch, ones I doubt he ever expected to encounter, because I am weird and quirky and not like the other girls. First off, I am a little in love with death, because death represents peace and tranquility in my eyes. An end to all the trials and tribulations, and possibly even a new beginning. Yea, yea, I’m a Natal Soul, so who knows if I’ll reincarnate, but that just puts me on equal footing with most people alive today. Who knows what awaits us after death? No one, not even Prime Me, because maybe he didn’t transmigrate or reincarnate. Maybe some Deific entity plucked out a bunch of useful memories and transplanted them into a young twelve-year-old slave, for reasons beyond my meagre comprehension. Maybe Rayne reincarnated as someone else, and Falling Rain is an entirely different soul who just shares a few memories. Maybe Buddy’s the one who reincarnated in this world, and he created me after ascending to True Divinity because he misses his human.

Or maybe not. Maybe it’s something else entirely, something I can’t even imagine. This is why ignorance is bliss, because when you don’t know the limits, the possibilities become endless.

The other problem with Zhen Shi’s plan is that he has nothing to offer me. He claims he can keep me alive, and maybe he can, but I don’t imagine it would be a pleasant existence. At best, he’s likely to put me inside a meat puppet, which is just ew, or one of his pet Demons which is even worse, but I reckon he has his sights set on a new piece of jewelry, something like the corpse ring of Spectres he’s using to grind away at my resistance. Seeing as he’s already decked to the gills in bling, I can’t help but think of the Tyrant and her sexy nipple rings, only to shudder at the thought of being accessorized in that fashion.

With Zhen Shi. Honestly, if OuYang Yuhuan made me an offer to wear me on her nipple, I’d probably have to at least consider it…

There’s something sitting on the tip of my tongue, and not in regards to my lewd reveries. The Tyrant, Runic Rings (nipple or otherwise), Natal Souls, and Spectre jewelry, it’s all tied together in some way, but I don’t have the energy to go into all that. Quite literally, as resisting Zhen Shi’s efforts to drive me to despair doesn’t come without a cost, namely the Heavenly Energy which is sustaining my life. That being said, I’m none too concerned because while considering the prospect of accepting Zhen Shi’s offer, I realized that I don’t actually need his help. This is not to say that I’ve resigned myself to death, because the truth is, I haven’t. I was willing to die before, and still am, but I am not one to just lay down and die. I am many things, but I’m not a quitter.

I am a Natal Soul, the General.

I am Falling Rain, the Legate.

I am Rayne, the lost soul.

I am all this and more, but above all else, today, I am Baledagh, the bold, headstrong Warrior who doesn’t sweat the small stuff and isn’t afraid to chase his dreams.

Balance has always come naturally to me, except my fears and apprehensions pushed it away, but I have nothing to fear here. Zhen Shi still plays his games, making himself larger and more imposing so he can look down on me with his words and actions both, denigrating me as ‘little worm’ and referring to himself as ‘Sovereign’. It probably works with most people, but I’ve long since seen through his act, lifted straight from the abuser’s playbook to browbeat others into dependency. I also know that the barking dog doesn’t bite, meaning he’s made plenty of threats yet it’s clear he values taking me alive, else he wouldn’t go to all the trouble of trying to break me. What’s more, he talked about personally crafting my prison, which was a mistake on his part, because it clued me in to one very important fact.

