They hugged, and the steaks burned—forgotten.

The autumnal equinox was exactly sixteen days away and, as a result, Ranthia’s home was almost unrecognizable. Flowers, colorful ribbons, and vibrantly colored parchment littered the ‘public’ area of their home while more and more people arrived for the first party. It was a tradition from Glorine’s hometown, a party before the wedding that was to celebrate the two as individuals before they committed to one another.

Ranthia and Avyna were dressed in their matching togas again, as they greeted the tide of intruders guests to their home. Most of them were women that Gailla knew and worked with, along with a couple of Glorine’s other friends amongst the [Messengers]. There was also a solitary man present, but Ranthia had no idea how he was connected to the couple. No one chased him off, so presumably he was meant to be there.

Avyna was openly delighted to host such a large gathering, but Ranthia’s smile was entirely faked.

Once the guests were settled and were making a mess of the trays of snacks Avyna and Ranthia had prepared, Glorine and Gailla emerged from the private area of Ranthia’s home, each adorned in vibrantly—garishly, if Ranthia was honest—dyed tunics. Ranthia had no idea how Avyna had pulled it off, but an elven [Messenger] had delivered the crates just a few days ago—they wore the tunics that their families had used for weddings for generations.

The assembled crowd cheered and praised the couple’s appearance. One of the [Analysts] activated some Skill that let her rapidly create a charcoal rendition of the couple, promising that she’d get it duplicated so they could send it to their family and friends that couldn’t make it to Remera. Ranthia at least had something to preoccupy herself with; their arrival was the signal to tap the oversized barrel of wine that Avyna provided for the occasion.

The elf herself was clearly in her element. Even under the pall of her own terrible mood, Ranthia still enjoyed watching the love of her life flow through the crowd, greeting people with effortless social expertise. She seemed to already know every woman—and man—present by name and spoke to them of their interests and kin.

“Alright, if I may borrow the attention of those present for a time. First, a toast to the beautiful couple and to their coming days of happiness!” Avyna called out, her Creation rehearsed and perfect.

Cups were raised and the assembled group cheered.

“And now, for our main event! As you all know, Gailla and Glorine requested coins or contribution points instead of traditional gifts. What they do not know is that none of us were entirely happy with that, so we came up with a special idea!

“Tonight, we will be auctioning goods and services that everyone present has offered up! The proceeds will go to the happy couple on the day they are married, and only I know everything that will be on offer! So be generous with your bids everyone!” Avyna announced.

Glorine looked shellshocked, but Gailla laughed happily while the crowd roared its approval.

The items and services were bid on one-by-one while the wine continued to flow. The small stuff came first. Candles made from beeswax, venison jerky from Remus, a few tea blends, and other similar items. Avyna mercilessly outbid and crushed the competition for one of the tea blends, which seemed to get the crowd more involved. Ranthia even got into the action and managed to win the bid for a candle that contained powdered lemon rinds—it smelled too great for her to pass on it.

Winning felt nice, and Ranthia found herself more invested in the evening.

Items became increasingly risqué as the night dragged on. A set of soft ropes that wouldn’t chafe went to one of the women Ranthia didn’t know—Avyna already owned a similar set, it was no loss, even if she had made a few bids. A grinning Gailla was the first to bid on a nude drawing of ‘you or your partner’ from the woman that did the charcoal art previously. No one bid against her, and Glorine turned scarlet when she realized what Gailla’s look implied. The crowd loved it.

The next item was a massage from Avyna herself. Ranthia immediately called a bid eight times higher than the opening amount, but Avyna refused to accept it (“You can get a massage from me any time, my love. Let someone else have a turn!”). Ranthia opened her mouth to argue, but the crowd angrily sided with Avyna.

Ranthia’s fondness for the game waned as she watched the crowd enthusiastically bid for the touch of her lover. Even if their contract enabled them to seek pleasure separately, neither of them had ever made use of it. Sure, there had been jokes, but Ranthia just wasn’t interested in any mortal—Avyna was too perfect. Yet she was forced to watch drunken people bid increasing amounts of credits—amounts she could have easily crushed, had she been allowed to bid.

“And for 1,024 points… Octavius wins!” Avyna declared—to Ranthia’s open horror.

Ranthia had no idea who the man was, which made it impossible to trust him—especially with such an eager grin on his face!

“Actually, I’m gifting the massage to Glorine, the nicest [Messenger] that’s ever outrun me! I’m sure her poor legs could use it!” The man called.

Ranthia practically deflated with relief. Glorine was obviously attracted to Avyna, but she was also a coward and was rather focused on her bride-to-be—which made the woman the safest possible outcome.

The next item made Ranthia’s face turn crimson. It was one of the elven… items that Avyna had bought for them to use, but that particular one was too far beyond Ranthia’s comfort zone to even try it. It had gone wholly unused, but it was still embarrassing to see the women hungrily bid on it. The fact that Glorine, of all people, actually called out a bid somehow made Ranthia feel worse—she had just derided the woman as cowardly and unwilling to push boundaries!

Ranthia was certain that she couldn’t feel any lower, and then Avyna announced the final item of the night.

“And last, but certainly not least… We have a date night with the one and only Sentinel Grace! Bids start at 100 points!” Avyna announced.

Ranthia froze. She had volunteered to let Avyna auction her off if it was absolutely necessary, yes, but it was just for chores and similar things! She had expected to help mend a tent or cook a meal or something, not for the love of her life to try and sell her off for a night to some woman she didn’t even know! After so many sexually charged items, there were clearly expectations.

Five of the women had gotten into a bidding war, their faces flushed with excitement. Meaningless numbers climbed ever higher. Ranthia sat there, stiff and unfeeling as she listened. Objectively it was a brilliant boon for the couple. But when Ranthia considered if she could endure the loss of agency for her friends…

No. She couldn’t. She refused. There was no way.

Ranthia wasn’t even sure what she was doing, but her body was moving. She stood, ignoring the numbers being shouted, and clapped as forcefully as she could. The sound cut through the gathering and drew every eye to her.

“No.” Ranthia proclaimed.

Once she said her piece, she calmly—certainly not hurriedly—walked to the curtains that separated out the personal area of their home and passed through them. She barely got to the other side before she broke down crying.

It felt like an eternity before Avyna passed through the curtains. There was no doubt about who it was—the rhythm of movement and the gentle sounds of her living form were uniquely Avyna. Even as she cried into her pillow, Ranthia could never mistake them.

“My love?” Avyna whispered in a worried tone.

Ranthia just continued to lay flat on her stomach on their bed while the pillow absorbed her tears and the pitiful sounds she emitted.

Hesitantly, Avyna finally sat on the side of the bed and reached over to set a hand against Ranthia’s shoulder.

“I should have discussed it with you further.” Avyna acknowledged.

You shouldn’t have ever even thought of something so awful. Ranthia thought bitterly, but at least those words stayed in her head where they belonged. She had done enough to hurt Avyna.

“My love, please. Talk to me.” Avyna pleaded.

But Ranthia couldn’t. Every last accursed thought that came into her mind was beyond terrible and she couldn’t risk any of the hateful words escaping her lips. What even am I to you? How dare you treat me like a slave! If you’re so desperate to spread your legs for someone else, just take back your promise to wait for me to be ready to open our relationship and leave me out of it!

No matter how she silently struggled, Ranthia failed to muster the strength of will required to seal the terrible, intrusive anger away. Instead, she chose to do the safest thing that she could: she continued to cry into her pillow. She had ruined the party, but she refused to ruin her relationship by speaking out of anger. Not again. Never again.

She would tear out her own tongue before she hurled insults at Avyna ever again.

Ranthia refused to talk about it, but slowly—bit by bit—their relationship returned to normal. They stopped walking on proverbial eggshells around one another and returned to intimacy and affection. Ranthia just… never talked about or addressed the problem, which was fine. It was her own ridiculous problem anyway; she knew damned well that Avyna had never meant any harm. With a bit of hindsight, it was obvious that Ranthia hadn’t communicated what she had meant to offer for the auction well enough. “I don’t really know what I can offer except myself,” wasn’t exactly sufficient to outline the proper expectations!

In the intervening days, Ranthia had worked tirelessly to bottle and hide away the darkness that had overwhelmed her thoughts. She was strong, she was a badass Sentinel, and she had been favored by Xaoc more than once! She had faced powerful foes, which meant she had enough will to conquer her own weakness of character. She had done it before—she just needed to do it again!

She legitimately had it in check by the time the marriage ceremony came along.

“I’m still surprised you’re allowing me to officiate the ceremony instead of doing it yourself.” The base commander quipped quietly while they waited for the brides to enter.

“I’m just a Sentinel; it’s tradition on bases for the person in command to handle these ceremonies. I’m not capable of handling a ceremony to marry people.” Ranthia replied.

Weirdly, the words felt untrue even as they emerged from her lips. Had Swarm ever covered their authority to wed people? It didn’t sound familiar, but that hardly contraindicated the possibility.

Ranthia was spared from having to examine that for too long. The big tent’s flaps were pulled open as the music swelled.

They were inside one of the large legion-issued tents, one that had been used for storage before Avyna managed to convince multiple people to reallocate their storage until it was freed up. The tent was decked out in as many flowers as Avyna could manage to scrape together, along with colorful ribbons that all connected and wove together at the end of the tent, where they hung down, ready for the couple.

Glorine entered first and smartly marched across the tent in her marriage tunic, until she took her position before the base commander. Ranthia, in her full Sentinel kit, walked over and stood behind her friend, with a genuine smile on her face.

Then Gailla entered and walked—far more openly nervous than her usually skittish bride had been—until she claimed her position next to her soon-to-be wife. Avyna, in a gorgeous blue dress, strolled over to stand behind her.

“We are gathered here, not for duty, but for a higher honor. It is the privilege of men like me to oversee these moments of happiness and life that endure, even under threat from beyond. Our Empire is stronger for moments like these.

“Glorine, a [Messenger] of impeccable service who joined our ranks after years serving with Ranger Command. Stalius Gailla Eppia, one of our vaunted [Analysts] that allow us to predict and counter our enemies. These two soldiers have faced death and, in its wake, have found life!

“The two of you stand before me, intending to join your lives, households, and names. Is this something that you both wish, honest and free of influence?” The base commander’s ceremony was strictly military, without even the barest hint of religion.

And so, Ranthia silently prayed to Xaoc for the women’s sake. The base commander might have left out the gods, but she wasn’t about to make the same mistake. May these two find true happiness and enjoy every bit of time they have together. Just over two-thirds of her mana disappeared when she completed the prayer and she caught a hint of Xaoc’s warmth—her smile brightened a bit further.

The couple had saluted at the base commander’s question, before they held their arms up, straight in front of them. The base commander silently—and surprisingly deftly—used the woven ribbons to bind the women across all four of their forearms in the shape of an eight-pointed star (it definitely didn’t resemble a spider, and Ranthia was absolutely not going to laugh in the middle of her friends’ wedding).

“Then with my authority granted by the Empire of Remus, I bind you together. Your first duty is to your nation, but your second is forever to one another. May you serve one another with honor and dignity, through good and ill. May your bonds strengthen you and strengthen our empire.” The man announced.

The gathered echoed the final sentence, though Avyna left off the bit about the empire. Ranthia seemed to be the only one to notice—Avyna offered a mischievous wink when she noticed Ranthia’s look.

The base commander concluded the ceremony by drawing his sword and severing the knot, which left the women freed with dangling lengths of unraveling ribbon hanging from each of their arms. That done, Glorine turned and held her right hand out to Ranthia while Gailla did the same for Avyna. Ranthia and Avyna, perfectly matching their moves, produced the bracelet they carried—each had been custom-ordered—and set them into the requesting hands. Glorine slipped the bracelet onto Gailla’s left wrist while Gailla—trembling—struggled to get her bracelet over Glorine’s left hand.

In the tradition of Gailla’s hometown, the meanings of the engravings and the explanation of the designs that were chosen would remain a secret known only to the two of them. The newly married couple joined hands and left the tent to share the secrets with one another in private—and likely indulge in a quick bout of amorous activity—before they rejoined the guests for the main banquet.

