Spitting, Gao Qiu snarled, “I’ll not listen to yer lies, Defiled filth. Come, the Red Devil thirsts for blood.”

Chuckling, Yo Ling shook his head. “Listen to yourself, ‘thirsting for blood’. How many times have you been accused of being Defiled yourself?”

“Ye deny it?” Gao Qiu was incredulous, his fury building with every word. “After bringing Demons and Defiled into Sanshu, ye deny yer guilt?”

“Guilt is subjective. Have I broken the law? Of course, I’ve done so every day since deserting fifty years ago. This is merely an escalation, but to call me Defiled is to believe the lies of the Emperor. I am the same man who lead you to war, the same man you followed into a life of banditry.” Doubt flashed through Gao Qiu’s eyes and Yo Ling pressed the issue. “My friend, you’ve danced along the edge of truth for so long, why can you not accept it? Throw away your preconceived notions and think for yourself. For decades, we took whatever we wanted whether it be lives or loot, pleasure or plunder. When have you ever felt more alive?”

“I make no apologies for the life I’ve lived.” Stubbornly refusing to think, Gao Qiu stood firm. “Aye, I’ve killed, raped, and worse, but what of it? The laws are fer the weak and the poor, and I am neither. The strong thrive and the weak endure, such is the way of life. But you,” he sneered, “You are an abomination of nature.”

“According to who?” Yo Ling held his arms out in question. “I am strong. I am wealthy. Why should I obey the laws of man? Might as well ask a tiger to change his stripes and become a vegetarian. Yes, I draw strength from the Spirits, much like those savages north of the Wall. Aye, I enjoy killing and torture, but so do you my friend, don't lie to yourself. You revel in it, chosen by the Spirits themselves, drawing on their power to fuel your legendary battle prowess. You know this to be true. Think, when was the last time you meditated? Years goes by without it, yet you continue growing in strength. Balance is a lie my friend, true power comes from the Spirits.” The blood drained from Gao Qiu’s face as he recognized the Truth, and Yo Ling extended an empty hand. “Come my friend, my brother. Return to my side and all is forgiven. Power is power, no matter its origins, the Father and Mother a fairy tale meant for children and idiots. Defiled or Enlightened, it’s all a matter of perception.”

For a single, heart-stopping minute, Gao Qiu stood frozen in place, his inner turmoil on open display. Denial, anger, horror, depression, the emotions flit across his face in rapid succession, struggling to accept the naked Truth. It was the same process Yo Ling went through so many years ago, a single moment of clarity in which all revealed itself, and he prayed his old friend would reach the right conclusion.

The ragged Red Devil took a single step forward, and Yo Ling’s heart leapt with joy. A second step followed, then a third, his pace slow and steady as Gao Qiu approached, his axe grating as it dragged across the stone. Twenty paces separated them, then ten, then five, and Yo Ling waited patiently, hoping beyond all hope to be reunited with this lost brother.

No such luck.

The axe scythed through the air and Yo Ling blocked, the impact shaking him to the bone. Backing away, he snapped, “Why?! Why forsake me? You know the truth now!”

Eyes filled with blood and the Spirits swirling around him, Gao Qiu cackled in his customary manner, the sound sending chills through Yo Ling even as he guarded against it. A second slash sent him reeling back, Gao Qiu howling with rage as he pressed the attack. Their Auras clashed in a struggle every bit as violent as their physical exchange, two experts trading earth shaking blows as stones cracked beneath their feet, Gao Qiu’s devilish grin burned into Yo Ling’s memory.

After minutes of back and forth, Gao Qiu quickly tired. Sidestepping a lazy slash, Yo Ling struck a decisive blow, the crack of bone audible to everyone watching. Ignoring the pain of his broken shoulder, the Red Devil wielded his axe one-handed and almost took Yo Ling’s head clean off in response, Butcher Bay’s boss reduced to tumbling over corpses to escape. Overcome with rage, he screamed in equal parts fury and misery as he batted the axe aside, bringing his mace back for a crushing, two-handed thrust to Gao Qiu’s chest. The body flew through the air and landed with a sickening squelch, cheers breaking out among the Butchers as they charged into the Corsair lines.

Ignoring the noise, Yo Ling approached his oldest friend as his Butchers streamed around them, giving both a wide berth. Shrouded in Purity as he channelled his Chi, the light slowly faded from Gao Qiu’s eyes. His mouth moved without sound, but his voice rang clear in Yo Ling’s mind. ‘I know my sins and forsake the Father and all his evils, prepared to accept Her judgment. I’ll beg for mercy on your behalf old friend, though I fear you beyond Her help.’

Eyes wide open and lips spread in a grin, the Red Devil of Sanshu died defending the city he terrorized for decades.

Alone in the crowd and without a friend in the world, Yo Ling stood and pondered a single question, over and over again.

Why?

Chapter Meme
