Just as he was within striking distance, and swung his sword at the mysterious man, he disappeared, and Teng Yu struck thin air.

“Watch out!” He yelled at the man closest to him, Feng Ye, after noticing a lightning trail heading off in his direction.

Before he could register what he’d said, Feng Ye’s head flew off his neck, hitting the ground with a squelching thud. His lifeless body spasmed as blood gushed out from the wound, refusing to fall due to the energy rushing through his body.

“How boring… And I even got my tunic dirty. I just bought it, y’know?”

“Feng… Feng Ye…” Teng Yu whispered his name breathlessly.

Finding out your brothers died was one thing, seeing their corpses was something else, but watching them die was another thing all together. His heart clenched in pain, and a slight tinge of red appeared around his pupils.

Feng Ye died before he could even fight back, and he was sure that the other three will follow closely behind if he didn’t do anything.

Taking a deep breath, he got serious.

Movement Technique of the Maleffic Viper… Sword Technique of the Primal Butcher… He thought as Qi circulated thorought his body, and he disappeared into a blur just as Shu Lao had.

His eyes followed the trail of lighting, and his sword swung to intercept the man’s. He blocked it just before it could cut Guang Ju’s head off. Sparks flew between the two blades as lightning crackled, but luckily the hilt protected him from the energy.

“Just what do you think you’re doing?!”

“Testing my strength. It’s been a while since I’ve had a good spar. I have to say-” Shu Lao said, and suddenly gained more strength than before as he swung the sword, pushing Teng Yu off him. “This is a little disappointing. I’d expected more from people daring to attempt to kill my blood.”

“Don’t get ahead of yourself.” Teng Yu said, fully taking that Shu Lao man serious. Before, he didn’t think he was that strong, but maybe he had a special technique to hide his cultivation level.

Either way, he could not afford to not take him seriously anymore.

Teng Yu placed himself between Shu Lao and and the rest of his members. Those three were all he had left, save for some fletchlings that weren’t allowed to come.

The message was clear, Teng Yu had to die first before they were allowed to.

The other two also understood that, and, after seeing Feng Ye die so easily, got behind their leader and readied their bows. Could they do anything? They weren’t sure, but they would try.

They trusted Teng Yu to protect them, and so he would.

“Hm? I guess we’ll do it this way as well. But just so you know, I hate poison.”

And then, without any other warning or sound, he disappeared. Teng Yu used his Qi to sense the man’s position and raised his blade to defend against his first strike.

Before he knew it, the man reatreated and a second strike was upon him.  A thrust, a jab, a slash and a strike— a flury of attacks descended upon him like a storm. He blocked as many as he could, some getting through his defense and grazing his armor.

He gulped and sent a huge Qi Wave in front of him, momentarily pushing the man away, giving him enough time to activate another technique.

Teng Yu bit his thumb and smeared the blood across his palm, where a strange symbol was drawn. It lit up with a purple light, and from it spread a scale-like armor that covered his entire body in less time than it takes a spark to fly off a piece of flint.

Right as the scale armor covered him, Shu Lao’s sword was once again upon him. With the armor, Teng Yu became stronger and more confident, though that feeling of weakness was still upon him.

Just what sort of technique does this guy have?

The weakness wasn’t too great, but it was still annoying. If he couldn’t fight at full strength, then any and all mistakes could cost him his life.

Wanting to end the fight fast, Teng Yu called upon another technique he’d learned in his fifty years of life, one that he’d almost died for. Not that the others were any different.

Taking one step back, he disappeared momentarily, and in that time, dropped his sword and  punched himself in the chest. The blood he spat out didn’t fall to the ground, but instead touched his scales, making them light up with a purple and red light.

Shu Lao’s sword was aimed at his chest, however Teng Yu didn’t move. Instead, as the light  spread all thorough his body, he laughed sinisterly.

Suddenly, his hand moved faster than lightning and grabbed the blade. The lightning had no effect on him, as his hand had, at one point, completely scaly, completed with claw-like fingers.

Transformation of the Maleffic Viper.

It was a technique that granted him the power of its creator for a short amount of time. After using it, he would be greatly weakened until his body recovered.

The only time he’d used it was against an Early Stage Core Formation Cultivator while he was in the Middle Stage of Foundation Establishment. It was a close fight, and he would have definitely died had he not used the technique.

The cost was great, though.

However, he didn’t care at that point. He only had three functioning members left and he had to get rid of that man it was too late.

His claws took on a purple glow as he coated them with true poison. If the man could not be killed by his normal poison, then the poison of the Maleffic Viper should do the trick. At least, that’s what he thought after seeing its effects.

When he finally managed to graze the skin of the Core Formation Cultivator, the poison quickly took effect and rotted the man’s skin, organs, flesh and bones while he was still alive. Teng Yu could never forget such a gruesome sight, and even he was terrified of it.

“Interesting.” Shu Lao said after considering the man. “Not bad. You might actually prove a challenge.” He chuckled and stood still, waiting for Teng Yu to attack.

Letting out an angry growl, Teng Yu’s back arched, his legs coiling before kicking up dust as he rushed the man.

Claws forward, he aimed for the man’s neck.

His attack was met by a sword, though the impact of the blow made Shu Lao take a few steps back. He coughed and retreated, blocking yet another blow from Teng Yu before counter attacking with his own.

Despite that, whenever Ten Yu struck at the man, it felt like he was fighting against a mountain. Even if he pushed him back, his claws and arms vibrated each time they struck metal.

Just who is this fucker?!

Letting out an angry roar, he once again used Qi and pushed his body to its limits. His strength increased by leaps and bounds.

Taking a step back, he disappeared from sight, though dust kicked up wherever he stepped.

Shu Lao’s neck craned upwards, smiling as he watched the giant man’s figure strike down on him. He raised his sword and looked the man in his reptilian eyes calmly.

Fool!

Teng Yu smiled and added weight to his body, making his fall that much more dangerous.

However, just as his fists almost made contact with the man, something in front of him shattered, sending out shards of Qi in all directions.

A barrier?!

He gasped, but didn’t relent. So what if the guy had a barrier? Teng Yu would break as many as he had to if that meant he could kill the man.

However, just as he prapared to strike again, something swished past his ears, and he looked back to see his members stagger, losing the grip on their bows.

“Their souls are a little bit weaker than I imagined.” The man commented, ignoring Teng Yu’s lack of attention. “I thought humans had much stronger souls, but you can’t even be compared to a small panther.”

“What?”

“Nothing, ignore me.” Shu Lao smiled and struck at Teng Yu with his sword. That time he had no weapon, but he didn’t need one. He grabbed for the sword, but before he knew it, his hand reached for empty air, as the sword disappeared.

Instead, what met him instead was Shu Lao’s palm, which landed squarely on his chest.

With his Maleffic Viper transformation, scales, and Qi strengthening his body, not to mention the basic defense of his Foundation Establishment Body, Teng Yu had full confidence that even if Shu Lao was stronger than he seemed, he wouldn’t be able to damage him.

If he could tell his self from five seconds ago how stupid that thought process was, he would have.

When the palm hit his chest, Teng Yu flew backward, unable to resist the immense strength Shu Lao’s hand had. If he had to compare it to something, it would be a boulder rolling down a hill.

He landed on his back, and swiftly rolled in order to dodge whatever Shu Lao would throw at him.

However, nothing happened.

Teng Yu turned to attack Shu Lao once again, but it was then that a sound coming from behind grabbed his attention.

Sending his sense out, he saw his members fall to the ground, all form of consciousness disappearing from their bodies.

“GUANG JIU, GUANG JE, HUO LO! HOW?!” He yelled, then roared toward the heavens as his Qi confirmed that the three people he had left had died, and the worst part was that he didn’t even know how.

“That took a little bit more effort than I excpected.” Shu Lao stretched, looking at Teng Yu. “Sorry, but I didn’t want to have to deal with a stray arrow coming for my knee.” He smiled, he laughed even, the mocking expression in his eyes angering Teng Yu even more than before.

“You!” He growled, a tear forming in the corner of his eye. “YOU!!!!!” His words, if he had any left, got replaced by such an intense rage that he could only yell. The white of his eyes turned redder than before, and when he looked at Shu Lao, the only thing he wanted to do was completely destroy him, to tear him apart, to refine his soul.

“AAARGH! GOOD, GOOD, GOOD! I, TENG YU, PROMISE THAT YOU WILL RUE THIS DAY, AND YOU WILL PAY!” He yelled out, rage turning his voice coarse.

And, much to his surprise, Shu Lao… yawned.

“FUCK!” Teng Yu howled, spitting out a mouhtful of blood from the anger.

Without any further hesitation, he slapped his bag of holding and took out a pill. It was small, orange, and smooth.

“Oh? Is that…”

But before Shu Lao could even finish that sentence, Teng Yu shoved the pill down his throat and swallowed it.

In that very same moment, his aura changed completely, and Qi gathered toward him as if there was a void that needed to be filled. He greedily absorbed all of it, and the Qi in the surroundings became disturbed.

Then, clouds gathered above the Chiao estate, and the process of breaking through into the Core Formation stage began.
