Chiao Zhen sat in his seat, tapping his fingers against the arm rests. A lot has happened over the past few days, and very little in his favor.

That damned Shu Lao…

It all began with him. If he hadn’t returned from the dead, then Chiao Zhen would have been able to sell that pill, make enough money to leave the Hu Village behind, and start a business in the big city.

But no, he’d been blackmailed and basically forced into staging a tournament, and he hoped that his useless son would win against a crippled Shu Wao Tu and the girl who could barely be considered a cultivator.

If only he knew how useless Chiao Gu actually was.

Not only had he lost, but he lost after interacting with a demonic cultivator. Thankfully, not m any people noticed that there was something strange about him, but Chiao Zhen did, even if not immediately.

He didn’t know what to do, but knew that Shu Wao Tu had gone through a similar change, judging by his appearance and sudden increase in cultivation level. Nevermind the fact he could cultivate in the first place.

After calming down and processing the loss of a generational fortune, there were a few things he did. First, he paid a visit to his stupid son, and found out that a Demonic Cultivator had paid him a visit and enticed him with sweet nothing.

Chiao Zhen knew it was far too late to save his useless son, but he also didn’t want to kill him. After giving him a good beating, he locked him up in the clan dungeon, wanting to find a cure for him sooner or later.

That was, if whatever the Demonic Cultivator did to him was even reversible.

After making sure his reputation couldn’t be damaged further, he investigated the woman that appeared at the tournament. He had never seen her before and it was obvious that she wasn’t related to the Shu siblings.

Yet, she was helping them, which made little to no sense to him. When he looked into her background through the usual means, he could not find anything. Most people didn’t even know she existed.

The Myriad Market also refused to sell any sort of information on her, which made him back out and decide that it was better not to mess with people like her.

However, one small issue was that the Golden Arch City branch of the Myriad Market was extremely unhappy with his breach of contract, and decided that  they needed to be compensated for their time.

The sum they put out was exorbitant, however Chiao Zhen figured that turning in one Demonic Cultivator could cover the cost.

Nobody liked them, and everyone wanted them dead. However, he couldn’t give up his son, so the next obvious solution was capturing, or killing, Shu Wao Tu.

That also killed two birds with one stone, quite literally and figuratively, as his sister would get killed as well, and uproot the poisonous plant before it could bear fruit.

Chiao Zhen knew damn well that if they were allowed to grow, the two would seek revenge on him and his clan, and that was the last thing he needed on his plate.

Therefore, he sent out a notice through the black market, but even after waiting for a day, no one had wanted to take on the request.

Apparently killing children was too far even for assassins.

It was only when he increased the reward by a large amount that a group of assassins replied, and hurried to the small Hu Village as soon as possible.

From then on, Chiao Zhen thought all of his problems would be solved. He would use the reward money to pay back the Myriad Market and a portion of the assassin’s payment, his son would eventually get cured, and all would return to normal.

And if that woman and Shu Lao wanted trouble with him? So what? They could not kill him so brazenly. There were rules in place, and the City Lord was on his side already. Would he need to ‘donate’ more money to the city? Sure, but his life was worth more than some Spirit Stones.

However, he could have never expected Shang Hue to be there with the siblings. She killed  four assasins, and now he was indebted to the organisation he hired.

Chiao Zhen would have to pay them back eventually, both for the fact that they lost four assassins, and that he hadn’t given them enough information. He found that it wasn’t fair, but what could he do?

Run away? Commit suicide?

Impossible.

Even now he could feel it. The gaze of the Peak Foundation Establishment Realm expert watching him from atop his roofs. He stood unmoving, and the other four assassins accompanied him, patrolling, watching.

If he tried to do anything risky, he would be locked down before he knew it, and possibly even killed. His safest choice was to wait and think about the future.

Those Shu clan bastards… Their assets were worth a lot, but not enough to justify all the effort I’d spent on wilting down their strength. Whoever sold me that information deserves to die a thousand deaths.

Chiao Zhen lamented about the fact that he’d made an entire clan disappear both for their wealth, and most importantly, for the secrets they hid.

He didn’t know what sort of secrets, but he was told that it could be found within their estate, and that he would know once he saw it.

So he plotted for the better part of a decade, stealing away their trade partners at a loss, forcing the clan head to ‘disappear’ using the decree of the City Lord, driving the mother to suicide via extreme means, and assimilating their assets.

Ten years.

It took him so long, and all for what? He didn’t find any treasure or secret, just material things that he sold off or absorbed into his assets.

Now he didn’t regret that decision, but he regretted listening to his stupid son.

If he could turn back time, he would have killed those damned children immediately instead of letting Chiao Gu toy with them.

But it was too late, and he could only regret, plan and wait.

Just as he thought about the best way to deal with Shu Lao, something changed, and everybody could feel it. There was a presence now, one that made him shudder.

Just what is this…

He rushed outside, his actions not at all unusual in the eyes of the assassins, as he too felt the presence that suddenly entered the estate.

The man watched from the top of his roof as a man that didn’t look to be older than twenty five walked in, hands clasped behind his back and a smile creasing his thin lips.

The leader of the assassin organisation, Teng Yu, didn’t know why, but he felt a faint feeling of danger coming from the man. Like a sleeping dragon pretending to be a tiger.

“S-S-S-Shu Lao! What are you doing here?” Chiao Zhen pointed at the man, fear oozing through his voice. Teng Yu raised an eyebrow, but decided to watch for the moment.

“Ah, but I’m sure you know.” Shu Lao replied, that smile never leaving his face. “I’d heard of what happened to my nephews, and I was quite interested in paying you a visit.”

“Shu Wao Tu and Shu Xu Ning? What happened to them?”

“Oh…” Shu Lao chuckled coldly. “Don’t play the fool, Chiao Zhen. You should have known that you should not have played with me.”

“I don’t know what you’re talking about.” Chiao Zhen replied, though his voice gave away his nerves.

“No, no, now. Did you already forget what happened the last time we met?”

“Hmph!” The fat man scoffed. “You’re not a Nascent Soul cultivator, stop bulshitting me.”

“Oh? And how do you know that?”

“Because if you were,” Chiao Zhen smiled in a feeble attempt to look more threatening. “Then you would have killed me and be done with it, instead of setting up a tournament.”

“Is that so?” Shu Lao’s smiled remained, though the temperature dropped significantly as his words left his mouth.

“You got me.” He said with a chuckle, then stared down at the trembling fatty. “Do you want to fight, then?”

In that moment, for whatever reason, Chiao Zhen felt his strength diminish by a not so subtle amount. His knees buckled, and in that moment, despite being at the Middle Stage of Foundation Establishment, he knew that he would not survive against the man before him.

Sensing Shu Lao’s fighting intent, Teng Yu hopped down from the roof, the other four assassins following suit and circling the man.

He quickly looked around at the new arrivals, the smile on his lips widening. “So these are the bastards who tried to kill my newphew and niece?”

Hearing that, Teng Yu felt disgusted with himself. Had he really needed to take this job? No, but the money was far too enticing for this organisation to stand idly by.

They were one of the strongest in the area, but in such an insignificant part of the continent, that wasn’t saying much.

He was their main strength, as their leader. A Peak Foundation Establishment Expert was an overlord around there, but nothing much in the bigger cities. Even Golden Arch City had a few like him.

That wasn’t to say he was weak, but that int he grand scheme of things he wasn’t worth a damn. He wanted to change that, he wanted to become stronger, he wanted to move past Hu Village, Golden Arch City, and this province of the empire.

And to do that he needed power, funds and people.

He had neither of those at the moment. His dream was of creating the biggest, most dangerous and most respected assassin organisation. Feared thorough the entire empire, with enough money to build a city.

Teng Yu could still do it, but he needed to recruit more people, and to avoid taking stupid jobs like that one.

Despite the sense of danger Shu Lao gave him, he could tell that the man wasn’t that strong. He didn’t have the distinct aura of a Foundation Establishment Cultivator, and even if he could hide it, it would require him to be far stronger than Teng Yu.

Which could not be the case, as Chiao Zhen said, why bother himself with those petty tricks if he had the strength to take what he wanted?

As a result, Teng Yu didn’t fear him, and neither did his brothers. They were all at least in the Early Stage of Foundation Establishment, so he was confident they could take on that man, even if his aura was a little off.

He didn’t answer the man, but instead needed to decide what to do about him. Their faces were covered, so there was no-

“Teng Yu, was it?” The man looked at him, shocking Teng Yu to his very core.

How?

“Feng Ye, Guang Ju, Guang Jie— are the two of you siblings?— and Huo Li. Did I get you all right?”

“You- How?”

All of their identities were kept a secret, especially his, Teng Yu made sure of that. He’d left his past behind, hid his identity, his face and even cultivation arts. He made sure that his true name didn’t exist anymore, yet that man…

He can’t be left alive. Damn it, and I’ll have to kill Chiao Zhen as well. Fuck, I’ll steal what I can and get out of here.

Teng Yu cursed the day he accepted that assasination request.

He was the first to attack, his sword imbued with Poison Qi. That was Teng Yu’s most proudest achievement thus far. In order to use the technique, he had to concoct the poison himself before being able to replicate its effects with Qi.

He had to understand how it worked, how it spread thorough the body, how it affected the blood, brain and everything else. For that, Teng Yu became an alchemist and shed his morals. No smal amount of people died for his experiments, and an even bigger amount after he’d successfully developed it.

“Ugh, poison.” Shu Lao’s expression changed for the first time since appearing in the estate, and he looked disgusted at seeing Teng Yu’s life achievement.

“You dare?!” He shouted and used a movement skill to disappear. However, it didn’t feel right. Somehow, he felt slower, weaker, less perceptive.

What did he do?

It was obvious that the man had done something, but it was hard to figure out what. Teng Yu hadn’t detected anything.

“How boring.” Shu Lao said and slapped his bag of holding, a sword imbued with lightning appearing in his hand.

“What?!” Chiao Zhen exclaimed, clearly shocked.

However, Teng Yu could not afford to pay the man any attention. The moment that sword came out he knew he had to take things seriously.

Imbuing his body with Qi, he raised his speed, strength and durability while weaving a one handed sign and opening his mouth.

A purple mist escaped his throat, surrounding him and the area he was in. Teng Yu wasn’t afraid of poisoning his fellow members, as he’d trained them all to gain an immunity to all of his poisons.

If Chiao Zhen died, well, he couldn’t care less about him.

That poison he spat out was also a poison he was very proud of. He’d gotten it from studying Jade Serpents, and even killing one that evovled a few times, using its core as the base. It took him a lot of pain to get an immunity, but he also gained an inherent understanding of how poisons work.

He had a lot to thank that Jade Serpent for.

When the poison reached the man, he was hoping that it was all it would take to kill him. There weren’t many people that could survive that mist, as it seeped in the bloodstream through the pores.

Unless one had excellent control over their body, completely avoiding it was impossible.

However, Teng Yu’s expression froze even as he advanced, as the man… laughed.

“How laughable.” He said, taking in a deep breath. “This  is what you call poison?” Shu Lao shook his head and swung his sword, parrying all four arrows coming from the archers.

Whilst all of them were archers, they were assassins first and foremost. However, taking out targets from a distance was much better than braving them in close combat.

However, if need be, their skills with the dagger didn’t pale in comparison to the bow.

Yet, that man had dodged all of their strikes with a swingle swing of his sword. It was so fast, it was difficult even for Teng Yu to follow.

