For as long as Yan could remember, she had always wanted to be a Sentinel.

Not for any grand reasons like Rain, who felt obligated to stand up in defence of the common people, or Mila, who yearned to follow in the giant footprints left by both her parents. No, Yan wanted to be a Sentinel for one, simple reason: Sentinels rode roosequins, and roosequins were the most magnificent creatures the Mother had ever created.

Her infatuation with quins started off innocently enough, by watching a small group of Sentinels riding back into the village after a long hunt. Their shoulders and saddlebags were packed with goodies, whether they be butchered beasts or delectable wildberries, and Yan remembered watching it all from atop the shoulders of a housemarm. She couldn’t have been more than four or five, and the details were vague at best, so while Yan couldn’t remember the housemarm’s name, age, appearance, or even hair colour, she remembered asking how anyone could hunt so many enormous beasts.

“They’re Sentinels, sweet pea,” the housemarm replied. “The guardians and protectors of the village, who work hard to keep us safe from the mean old wolves, tigers, and terror birds of the wilds.”

Yan remembered wondering why they needed protection, but not if she voiced the question aloud. The next thing she knew, unfamiliar hands reached out for her and the housemarm happily gave her over to the strange Sentinel, who promptly sat Yan on the back of his or her quin. The quin’s name may or may not have been Roosie Goosie, but that was also the name of Yan’s imaginary talking quin friend who kept her company for many years thereafter, so she might have just made the name up. Either way, even though she must have seen quins before, that was undoubtedly the first time she’d ridden one, for the most vivid memory from that day was of how soft and comforting the quin’s fur felt as she buried her face in its neck and nuzzled the sweet thing until she fell fast asleep.

And thus began her lifelong obsession with having a quin to call her own, which in her innocent, childhood mind, meant becoming a Sentinel. Had she thought to question the matter and learned that couriers, trail masters, ostlers, trainers, and stablehands also had access to quins, then her life might have turned out very differently, but by the time she was old enough to question her childhood decisions, she was too invested to turn away from her dreams of riding her quin out into the world to do battle against the Father’s foul minions. Every morning, she dragged herself out of bed before the sun rose and helped out with breakfast, just so she could get to the training grounds before anyone else and maybe have a few precious minutes alone with the Martial trainer Kalil, who more often than not showed up late and drunk. Regardless of the lacklustre teachings, she threw herself into the Forms and learned how to fight with spear and bow in class, and with fist and horn in the secluded valley hangout where the youngsters all hung out and sometimes brawled, all the while seeking Balance during every free minute she had and neglecting almost every unnecessary aspect of her childhood in order to do so. Rather than dolls and ribbons, Yan played with wooden ‘swords’ and ‘bows’ forged from twigs and vines, vanquishing imaginary foes and conquering imaginary lands, and she loved every second of it.

Then she turned ten, and since she still had yet to Create her Core, the housemarms gathered to try and convince Yan to give up her dreams of becoming a Sentinel in favour of learning a real trade instead. The People were a community, and the only way it worked was if everyone contributed, so if Yan came of age and could not contribute, then she would be looked down on by everyone else. A harsh thing to say to a ten year old, but Yan knew now that the housemarms had no malicious intent. They all cared for her, and perhaps even loved her in their own ways, and were afraid she would become a burden to the people and live out a long and unproductive life.

Of course, back then, Yan thought they hated her and wanted her to fail, so she railed about the injustice of the world and ran off into the woods in the dead of winter, with barely more than the shirt on her back. She hadn’t gotten far before the cold set in and she could go no further, maybe twenty minutes or so, but it felt like an eternity before her rescuer found her, huddled up inside the hollow base of a tree and in grave danger of death. “Silly girl,” big Ghurda had chided, while tenderly covering Yan in her warm, furred cloak. “Got a burr in yer britches, do ye? Runnin’ off into the woods without so much as yer boots, on new year’s day no less. Daft as a duck in a Demon’s den, ye are. Come, tell old Ghurda all about it while I get ye back to a roaring fire and a warm cup of tea.”

Ghurda only wanted to keep Yan talking so she wouldn’t fall asleep and die, but Yan told the gruff woman everything. Aside from the housemarms clucking about Yan’s overreaction and walking around on pins and needles for two weeks thanks to her regrown toes, no one ever mentioned the incident again, nor did the housemarms try to dissuade her from pursuing the Martial Path. It was almost like the whole thing never happened, except when Martial training resumed once more at the end of new year celebrations, it was Ghurda who came to teach them, with a sober, hang-dog Kalil waiting at her heels. Finally, there was someone who was happy to answer all of Yan’s incessant questions, and before spring broke, she was a Martial Warrior in truth. There were other teachers Yan was grateful to, like Yaruq, whose beautiful, curvy horns made a young Yan erroneously believe they were somehow related, or kind, portly Mengu who brought hordes of quin cubs with him for training and socialization. There was also the stern Khagati who single-handedly kept the orphanage larders from going empty, pursed-lip Alsantset whose dark scowl just oozed disapproval, and sweet Tursinai who never said a mean word, but whose prodding switch was quick to correct someone’s improper Forms.

It was only after she became a true Sentinel that Yan learned her childhood trainers were all a part of the Iron Banner, an elite mercenary force led by the handsome and heroic Captain Baatar, and thus, Yan found herself a new hero to admire. That admiration died a few years later when Baatar mistook her for a spy because he thought Yan was a boy, but it had no impact on her determination, except as a stark warning to engage in more scholarly pursuits lest she become a muscle-brained fool like her childhood hero. She was working on a story in fact, a tawdry novel like the ones she so loved to read, but it was harder than expected and she had yet to find the courage to share her work with anyone else.

Not even her idiot Rain. Especially not him, or Mila, as they would no doubt instantly realize what events inspired the main character’s compromising encounters with a powerful female Warrior who broke his bones in the heat of passion...

All of this was neither here nor there, as Yan worked hard and persevered until, at the tender age of sixteen, she was accepted into the Sentinels as a young cadet. What followed next were the most gruelling six months of her life, where she spent every day learning the skills necessary to defend the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains from any and all threats. They jogged all day and marched all night, sleeping lightly in the harness between lessons of tracking, hunting, reading the land, using the terrain to her advantage, and running her quarry to ground or headlong into a trap. Field dressings, rudimentary self-Healing, forest craft, quin riding, and more, Tokta made it clear that she and all her fellow cadets would remain cadets until they mastered the basics of all these subjects and more, not to mention meeting the exacting Martial standards set forth by Chief Provost Akanai herself.

Aside from bonding with Shana over many snacks and countless hugs, Yan had few fond memories of her Sentinel training, which made her all the more indignant when she lost her place in her first training mission to an entitled foundling brat who got to skip all those harsh lessons just because Akanai was his Grand-Mentor. Granted, Rain proved his skills and more during the bandit attack and Magistrate’s banquet, but Yan was still irked by his reckless behaviour, and she pushed herself even harder to excel, which eventually led to her beating Huu by the slimmest of margins to become the undisputed strongest cadet of their graduating class.

And then, almost five years later, Yan discovered that most of her Sentinel training was utterly useless while standing on a Central battlefield.

There was a marked difference between what Yan had been taught to expect in battle versus what Imperial Officers expected from her. With the Sentinels, she’d been told to keep a clear head and an eye on her surroundings at all times, for a battlefield was a complex and dynamic environment which required awareness and quick thinking to survive. Strike where the enemy is weak and retreat when they are strong, such were the core tenets of Sentinel tactics, but the Imperial school of thinking was far more simplistic: take a defensible position and hold it to the last. It made sense of course, since all Sentinels were given a quin to ride and care for and could easily outpace most Defiled, while the majority of Imperial soldiers fought and travelled on foot, making it easy for the Defiled hordes to swarm and overrun them.

For Imperial infantry, it was truly a matter of hold or die, and as a hundred-man commander of one such infantry force, Yan had little experience to draw upon when setting out to the front lines for the first time. Now though, after a full year and a dozen tours, Yan was as hardened as any, and she stood tall between Kyung and KageTaka as the Defiled charged her position. “Stand firm, Warriors of the Empire,” she shouted, imbuing her words with Reinforced and Reverberating Chi in order to be heard over the din of stampeding Defiled boots approaching their position and Imperial projectiles hissing overhead. “Sinuji has seen off worse than this, and the Defiled will not take it from us today. For the Mother! For Sinuji!”

Echoes of her battlecry sounded down the line, and then there was no more time for words as the wave of Defiled flesh surged up the walls and crashed into the Imperial ranks. Ghurda was right, one kilogram heavier is one kilogram stronger, and Yan would have been swept off her feet if not for Kyung and KageTaka’s support, blunting the force of the Enemy charge with coordinated sweeping blows of their sabres. Deer Form, Parting the Underbrush, but a variation that covered a wider range of area in support of the soldiers around you. A tried and true Southern tactic introduced by her second, former Captain Sutah of the Imperial Army, and adopted by Yan for use in her retinue. A spear wall was easier to coordinate, but far less effective at dispersing the momentum of a crazed Defiled charge, for anything short of instant death was little more than a hindrance.

Though Yan’s Spiritual Battle-Fan was ill-suited for the maneuver, being light in weight and short of reach, she made up for her shortcomings through effort of will. Chi surged out from her Core, down her arm, and into her Battle-Fan as she slashed at her foe, and a blade of Wind Chi shot out to claim the Defiled tribesman’s life. Were it Grandpa Du, the Wind Blade would have continued on to claim more Defiled lives and leave a gaping void in the Enemy lines, but Yan lacked his Talent to keep Chi from dissipating on contact with a living being. It had something to do with natural Domains and the inner workings of life itself, which were subjects far beyond what Yan could comprehend, so instead, she traded massed killing power for unparalleled speed and efficiency.

A second swing of her Battle-Fan produced another Wind Blade, and so too did her third, fourth, and fifth swings, as well as each swing thereafter which would otherwise not connect. Every Wind Blade caught a Defiled tribesman unprepared as they believed themselves out of her range, and her Blessing left most of them dead or dying on their feet. Soon enough, there was a pile of dead Defiled mounting at the base of the wall where she stood, but tattooed Southern primitives relished the challenge and pressed her even harder.

And for long minutes, Yan held the line, striking down her opponents from afar like a hero of legend.

It had taken months of effort to get this far, and might have taken years if not for her fortuitous Insights from the Bamboo Grove and her beloved betrothed’s tendency to ruminate on questions he had no way to answer. It was so simple, Yan was ashamed she didn’t think of it first, for push-pull interactions were one of the most basic lessons an aspiring Martial Warrior learned. When thrusting a sword, you push with the right arm and pull with the left, while the reverse was true when drawing a bow. Yan lived and breathed these simple movements for years as a child while stabbing and shooting practice targets, so why not extend these interactions to Chi use?

Of course, this was easier said than done, and she would never have figured out the trick so quickly without Grandpa there to guide her. “What you possess,” he began, habitually searching his pockets for a pipe he no longer carried or used, “Is not the Blessing of Wind, but the Blessing of Air. A push-pull interaction of Air? Why that is the very definition of Wind, for it is both Air moving to fill a void and the void pulling Air in to fill it. Such is the nature of Air, constrained by this world we live in and perpetually testing its limits in a quest for unlimited expansion, or until it can expand no more.”

