Which meant the trick to crafting Wind Blades with minimal Chi was not just to push it on its way, but to simultaneously create a void to pull Air in the right direction. Enter her Battle-Fan, which Yan angled to push air along and create wind, while simultaneously Honing the edge of the weapon to slice through the air itself. In doing so, she created a void along the axis of her swing which drew in the air being displaced by her fan, ergo the push-pull method of Wind Blade formation. Of course, this would occur even without Honing, but some testing revealed that a Honed edge displaced air the best, or at least that’s how it felt, and Grandpa agreed. Stupidly smart Rain did too, suggesting Yan try it before she even brought the matter up, mentioning something about a ‘mono-molecular’ edge slicing through ‘particles’ and creating a pressure differential, or something to that effect.

This raised more questions for Yan to study, especially when she considered the destructive capabilities of air pressure itself, but she put her stupid betrothed’s distracting ramblings aside to focus on her Wind Blades first. After weeks of practice, she could now rapid-fire them as quickly as she could swing her Battle-Fan, and do so hundreds of times before draining her Chi dry. Not bad for a Martial Warrior who had yet to Form her Natal Palace, since most upper level Chi skills required one to practice efficiently. Of course, the Wind Blade would not form without a full swing of her Battle Fan, since there was a minimum force requirement, and somehow, most Defiled seemed to instinctively know this. Either that, or they saw her deadly ranged attacks as incentive to close the distance as quickly as possible, but once they set foot on the wall and stood before Yan, they instantly moved to deny her access to a full range of motion, charging headlong into the fray with no care for self-preservation. In this situation, she could only manually create her Wind Blades in close quarters combat, which meant it was more efficient to fight without utilizing her Blessing.

And she loved every second of it. Here, in the thick of battle, shoulder to shoulder with her soldiers and face to face with her Defiled foe, Yan found her formal Sentinel training next to useless once again. Grandpa Du’s training was equally useless, as there was no time for feints or gambits and no room for footwork or tactics. It all came down to raw strength, an area Yan was sorely lacking in, but she’d been thin and weak all her life, and it never stopped her from giving as good as she got. Drawing on those hard-learned lessons from her childhood brawls, Yan laid into the Defiled by punching, kneeing, and headbutting with reckless glee. It wasn’t about hitting the hardest, but hitting the right places as hard as you needed to, and Yan had long since turned it into a science.

Besides, there were few things more satisfying than the delectable crunch of broken bone and invigorating spray of metallic blood following a successful headbutt to the face. Once, she would have thought impaling her enemies on her Honed horns would’ve been even better, but things proved different in practice. There was a marked difference between getting sprayed with blood and having it dumped atop your head, so she now only used that as a gambit of last resort.

Time became meaningless as Yan fought and bled upon the wall. She fought until her lungs burned and muscles ached, and then she fought some more. Every time she felt she had nothing more to give, another Defiled would appear and she would find the strength to fight on. Some Defiled were killed in summary fashion, others she struggled with for seconds which felt like hours, but she emerged victorious each and every time. Not without help of course, as Kyung and KageTaka were there to support her, and she even chanced upon the opportunity to help the latter a handful of times. Not Kyung though, who was a force unto himself, taking on three to seven Defiled at any given time so Yan could fight one on one. Without him bearing the brunt of the assault, Yan’s section of the Wall would undoubtedly have fallen, or at the very least her people would have taken significant losses in order to hold, but when the battle finally drew to a close and the Defiled retreated in full force, the final tally lay at seven dead with only eleven more too injured to fight again any time soon.

Not a bad day’s work, for what it was worth, but Yan added the seven unlucky soldiers to her running tally, which now sat at two-hundred and ninety four. That’s how many soldiers died under her command thus far, averaging twenty-four and a half soldiers lost per military excursion, out of a total command of one hundred. Truly a mountain of corpses, one which would only grow as the weeks, months, and years passed by. Though much improved from her earlier statistics, she still lost one in four of her retinue every time she set out for the front lines, a figure which was utterly unacceptable in her eyes. Even if they killed ten Defiled for every soldier lost, it wasn’t good enough, because she knew the Sentinels could do so much better with quin and bow. What were the numbers like for Big Huu or Alsantset when they fought from quinback on the open plains, to say nothing of Rain’s incredible record of effective deployments beyond the front lines? Hard to say, but were it up to Yan, she would give every one of her men a horse and a repeating crossbow to better even the odds.

Arms leaden and shoulders in agony, Yan gratefully turned over command to the Officer who came to relieve her, a snide, Northern-born Society Adherent named Xue Biqian. The pompous bastard’s clansmen had probably been in on the hunt which had Yan and the rest of her party fleeing for their lives from the Society Headquarters, but now she was expected to play nice. Well fuck that. Yan had almost died during that great escape, and Mila had taken grave injury too, which made her unwilling to forgive and forget, but now she would have to invite their bastard of a Clan head to her bloody fucking wedding banquet, where her dopey husband to be would shake his fat hand and laugh like they were the best of friends.

Taking a deep breath to calm her nerves, Yan sought Balance and vented all her vengeful desires. They would return soon enough, but she would not let them take root, not after seeing what Huu struggled with each and every day. There he stood in their camp, waiting with water, rations, and bandages to help with her people, and Yan flashed him a grateful smile. “Your wives have trained you well,” she quipped as she accepted a water-skin, and her heart ached as he struggled to rein in his fury at her facetious barb. Oh poor Huu, how could he let things get so bad? “Thank you. It is much appreciated.”

Though he was still bristling with anger, Yan closed her eyes and ignored him while drinking deep from the water-skin, not just because she was thirsty, but because she knew her show of trust would calm him down. Draining a good half in one go, and the other half in two more manageable gulps, she slowed her gasps and took a slow and steady breath, holding it for a count of three before slowly exhaling. Only then did she open her eyes again, and to her delight, she found her old friend, the shameful, sheepish Huu standing before her once more. “It was the least we could do,” he rumbled, scratching his nose while flashing a smile at Yesui and Yosai. “You know, after sitting back here firing arrows over the walls while you do all the fighting.”

He looked so much better now, had gotten much of his anger under control, but there was a hint of self-loathing in his tone that was all too real, so Yan felt compelled to say, “Which is exactly where your Sentinels are most effective when fighting from a static position. They all trained the same as we did, and it’d be a waste of all those hours spent at the shooting range if we put them on the wall with spear in hand.” Truth be told, they’d probably be more effective than most Imperial units here in Sinuji, as Sentinel standards were much, much, much higher than those of the Imperial Army, but if there was a butcher’s bill to be paid, then better if it was paid by men and women who trained for it, rather than the tactically more valuable Sentinels under Huu’s command. Five thousand bows were nothing to sneeze at, unlike the one-thousand crossbow-wielding irregulars who’d done fuck all during battle.

To be fair, it wasn’t Brigadier Chen Hongji’s fault Colonel General Nian Zu’s pet project had yet to take off. It was easy enough to see that arrows loosed from bows had a wider trajectory compared to bolts loosed from crossbows when aiming at the same spot. This made it impossible for the irregulars to stand in the courtyard and fire at the Defiled beyond the wall without either risking friendly fire or having their spent bolts rain harmlessly down atop the Defiled lines, which was really just a waste of effort and money. They needed an elevated shooting position to reliably work, but Fort Sinuji hadn’t been built to accommodate crossbows, and the construction effort was dedicated to repairing the middle and outer walls which fell in the last epic clash between Rain and Gen. A futile effort, in Yan’s opinion, as they were little over one week shy of autumn now and the middle wall was still in shambles, with the worker’s most recent efforts having been trampled underfoot by the Defiled force she’d just seen off. Their efforts would be put to better use building raised platforms for Sentinels and irregulars to loose projectiles from, but she was merely a lowly, third-grade Warrant Officer and lacked Rain’s unbridled gall to directly tell her commanding officer he was making a mistake.

It made sense to do so, yet every time she thought to try it, Yan’s inner self shrieked bloody murder at the indignity of it all. Brigadier Chen Hongji was a good man, and she could not shame him like that, and if she disagreed with his decisions, she should simply make suggestions, rather than outright correct him.

A suggestion which had thus far gone ignored, as they lacked the materials to build a platform large and tall enough to suit the irregulars’ needs, so it was a moot point regardless. Tired enough to fall asleep standing, but unwilling to do so whilst caked in blood and viscera, Yan followed Yesui and Yosai to where they’d set up a steaming hot private bath for her, courtesy of the stone travel tub she’d ‘borrowed’ from Rain. Sinking into the steaming hot water with a muted groan, Yan admitted that she would never give this tub back, not if it meant she would have to do without one, and she didn’t even care that it was technically against Military regulations to have a heated bath in the fields. She needed this, and what’s more, she needed Yesui and Yosai’s tender ministrations as they fussed with her hair and nails. “Honestly,” Yosai clucked, scrubbing Yan’s fingers until they were raw and red, “How can you have so much blood hiding underneath your nails? Are you killing the Defiled with your bare hands and tearing their flesh into strips?”

“You think that’s bad? Take a look at this.” Pulling out a clump of something Yan would rather not look closely at, Yesui showed it to her sister before throwing it aside and going back to combing Yan’s hair. “I don’t know how you stand it. Blood and viscera is a part of war, but you get right into the thick of things. Might as well be swimming in gore, and I much prefer killing with my spear from three paces away, or better yet, from a hundred paces with my bow.”

“I find the Defiled are rarely accommodating enough to mind their distance,” Yan replied, enjoying their friendly discourse. The half-bear sisters were a bit fussy, but they didn’t mean anything by it. Besides, Yan could kiss them for helping her get clean, as she was so comfortable in the tub, she could barely move a finger. “You don’t have to do this,” she added, using her chin to gesture at the tub and various feminine cleaning gear which she’d never laid eyes on before today. Why in the Mother’s name would anyone ever need tweezers in the bath? Tweezers were for removing splinters, and there was little risk of those while fighting Defiled atop rammed-earth walls. “I’m perfectly capable of washing myself.”

Yesui snorted while Yosai only politely rolled her eyes. “Capable, yes,” Yesui said, pulling at Yan’s earlobe like she was a delinquent child. “Willing? Ha. Left to your own devices, you probably would have thrown a bucket of water over your head and fallen asleep whilst still caked in filth. This is the least we can do after all you’ve done for Huu, so quit squirming about and let me wash your ears before something seeps in and never comes out.”

“You’re an absolute gem of a woman, Yan,” Yosai chimed in with a shake of her head while Yan was still trying to decide if she should feel sheepish or offended, “But I swear you’re as bad as a man in some ways. Just look at how ragged your cuticles are, and I daresay your nails have never felt the touch of a proper file.”

Judging by the way Yosai held up Yan’s hand for inspection, she assumed cuticles had something to do with her fingers, but what, she had no idea. “Nails are there for scratching itches. Who cares if they’re neat and tidy?”

“And your hair,” Yesui said, working her brush with palpable fury. “With how often you cut it, you’d think you’d have no split ends, but the strands are so frayed and tattered, it’s as if you’ve never soaked your hair in rice water before.”

