“...I haven’t.” Craning her neck back to look Yesui in the eyes as the woman did delightful things to her scalp, Yan asked, “Is that something I’m supposed to do? We wash rice because it’s dirty, so why would I pour that water on my head?”

“To nourish and strengthen your hair of course.” Blinking in surprise, Yesui stroked Yan’s hair and asked, “How did you ever get it so dark and lustrous without rice water?”

Shrugging, Yan sank back into the water with a yawn. “Born lucky, I suppose. Never really did anything special about my hair, skin, nails, or what have you. Never had anyone to teach me, not ‘til Eun came along and showed me how to put on makeup.” A sleepy smile made its way across her face as she shrugged again, needing to give credit where it was due. “Then again, Tomor knows all the ins and outs, so I suppose the housemarms must’ve taught her. I just never cared to ask about this sort of business, and was more liable to question them on the best way to skin a goat or when the next time the quins were expected to visit.”

“That does seem more to your tastes. Huu’s told us stories about your boyish adventures together, catching bugs and playing bandits.” The sisters shared a sneaky smile, and Yan knew they were thinking about how Rain mistook her for a boy, because Big Huu had a big mouth. At least they were too polite to laugh about it in front of her face, which was really all she could ask for since it was pretty hilarious. “That said,” Yesui began, laying a hot towel over Yan’s forehead, “I’m looking forward to seeing a more girlish Du Min Yan, if only for a day. What sort of dress have you picked out, or are you keeping it a big secret?”

“Hmm? What are you talking about?”

Yan could feel the sisters’ incredulity leaking out from between their ears, so utterly flummoxed by a simple question they struggled to find their voices. “Your dress,” Yosai repeated, as if that was all Yan needed, but it was far from enough. “For your wedding. Next week.”

“Oh.” Resisting the urge to roll her eyes, Yan shrugged once again. “Eun had something in mind, I think. Made me stand in place for an hour while she took every measurement imaginable last time I was in the Citadel.” Almost a month ago, if she recalled correctly, though days spent on the front line tended to run together, aside from the stand out battles like today. “No idea what she even needs half of them for, but there’s no arguing with the woman. I swear, if we could weaponize her force of will, we’d win the war the next day, and there would be no Enemy survivors.” Seeing her joke fall flat, Yan glanced at one shocked sister, then the other, and asked, “What?”

“You haven’t picked out a wedding dress?”

“How could you be so laid back about your big day?”

Their voices were so similar, Yan couldn’t pick out which twin asked what, but she answered their questions in the order she registered them. “I’d marry Rain wearing a rice bag if that’s what it takes. Won’t be wearing it for too long either way, so best if it’s something easily removed. As for my ‘big day’, if I had my way, I’d skip the whole thing.” Yan shuddered, imagining how it would be. “Sitting there on stage with the Legate looming behind us, while fops and dandies simper, stare, and stuff their faces on my father-in-law’s coin. Ugh. No thank you. The wedding is for Grandpa, and with Rain overseeing business in the Southern Citadel and me here on the front lines, Grandpa is free to plan the wedding he wants, or the one Eun convinces him he wants, at least.”

Instead of commiserating with her distress, Yesui and Yosai simultaneously pinched Yan’s tender flesh, eliciting a girlish shriek of surprise. As if that weren’t enough, they then had the gall to scowl as if she had wronged them. “Idiot,” they said, uttering the condemnation in unison before Yosai continued, “The wedding banquet is an affirmation of your union before everyone you know, a chance to stand in front of all women of status and show them that Falling Rain is your husband.”

Yesui chimed in, her expression as serious as the grave. “You need to take this seriously. Mila had it easy, since she was the first wife, but you being the second means there is room for a third, fourth, and even fifth.”

“Nope, no room left I’m afraid,” Yan quipped, grinning to lighten the mood. “I’m afraid Rain’s all booked up for future wives and is no longer accepting any proposals.”

“So you think, but now that they know you and Mila are open to sharing him, the women of the Empire will be more forward with their advances.”

“You should have seen how shameless they were, after Huu showed off his skills at the Legate’s banquet.”

“Brazen harlots they were, pressing up against him and whispering in his ear.”

“Didn’t even have the courtesy to approach us first, not that we’d have allowed it.”

“Huu has enough trouble with the two of us, he’s hardly equipped for a third wife.”

Her sides in stitches from their disgruntled grumblings, Yan tried not to laugh and failed miserably. When she was done cackling, she gasped, “As if they haven’t been throwing themselves at Rain to begin with. You should read some of the letters he gets, they’re better than any lurid novel on the market. No, Rain has a lecherous appetite, but he’s not a man to go lusting after strangers, or even close acquaintances and subordinates. The only women I need to watch out for are the ones he feels most comfortable around, and he’s either related to them or has already won them over.”

Much as she loved Rain, Yan would be the first to admit he had issues with intimacy. Still, it was comical seeing how uncomfortable he became when confronted by amorous strangers, like a startled rabbit with nowhere to run. Da’in especially took great delight in the game, and she made it her goal to tease him whenever they were together. It’d gotten so bad he started actively avoiding her by ordering his guards to warn him whenever she was close, which sparked off a new game as Da’in took to Sending word of her arrival to Yan or Mila, who would then escort her in under Concealment.

Honestly, having Da’in as a Sister-Wife wouldn’t be the worst thing in the world, but she didn’t want a husband weaker than her, which meant that despite his lofty rank and status, her sights were not set on poor Rain. Or any man, for that matter, as Ryo Da’in had exacting standards.

Seeing how Yesui and Yosai wanted to push the issue, Yan directed the conversation away from interlopers and to something she’d been thinking about more often of late. “Mind if I ask a personal question? How do you two keep from getting jealous of one another?”

The sisters smiled, as if long expecting this question, and Yosai answered first. “Having second thoughts?”

“No, not at all, just...” Sitting up in the tub so she could face them both while she talked, Yan put her thoughts in order before continuing. “See, I thought I was perfectly fine with sharing Rain, because I know he loves me, and I can see he loves Mila and Lin-Lin too.” Luo-Luo and Song were another matter, but there was no point making things more complicated by throwing them into the mix right now. “I love Mila like a sister, and I was over the moon for both of them during the wedding banquet, but then I saw how they looked at one another the next day and...”

It hurt. It hurt seeing Rain’s loving gaze mixed with lust and gratitude directed at another woman, because while she knew he loved Mila, before their marriage, that look had belonged solely to Yan.

Shaking her head as if she could read Yan’s thoughts, Yesui helped her out of the tub and handed her a towel. “There’s no easy answer, I’m afraid. We’re sisters, twins even, which means no two women could be closer than us, and we fight all the time.”

“Not just over Huu. She’s a slob.”

“And she has no respect for others’ personal things.”

“She always forgets to bring in the laundry.”

“She never remembers where she leaves things.”

“She’s always frittering coin away on needless frivolities.”

“And she’s never happier than when she’s nagging someone or telling them what to do.”

Despite their heated exchange, the twin sisters smiled and embraced one another. “Let me tell you what Elia told us,” Yesui said, sighing as she linked arms with her sister. “You’re not just marrying your husband, you’ll be marrying your sister-wife too.”

“Not in the physical sense,” Yosai added, a little too quickly which raised Yan’s suspicions, but this was not the time to pry for lurid details. “But in an emotional one. Envy and jealousy is natural, but you can’t portion your husband out and enjoy him separately. That’s not how it works. You’ll have to share him in every sense of the word, not just physically, but emotionally as well, and that might be the hardest part. However, he will have to share you too, for you will have a bond with your sister-wives that not many will understand. It will not be easy, so you’ll have to figure it out with Mila and the others lest your dissatisfaction tear you all apart.”

“I suggest you try talking to her,” Yesui said, her cheery, self-satisfied smile proving her sister right. She did love telling people what to do, but that didn’t mean it wasn’t good advice. “That’s what women do, after all. Men just grunt and punch one another, and somehow that makes them the best of friends.”

And it was so much easier to deal with. Women were so complicated and emotional, but alas, such was life. “You’re right,” Yan begrudgingly admitted, inwardly grumbling at having to pit herself against the too-formidable Sumila. “I’ll talk to Mila when I see her.”

Yesui and Yosai each took one of Yan’s hands in their own, and the latter said, “And if you ever need someone else to talk to, we are both here for you.”

Huu was a lucky man, for his wives were loving and understanding. Unfortunately, Yan was now too distracted to concentrate on her own problems, and was burning to know if Mila was amenable to this same sort of sharing, or if Yan would survive the encounter. Well, no way to find out without trying it first, though she would like to have Rain to herself for a few days at least, if only to finally test the limits of their endurance.

An entire week spent in bed, just thinking about it made her legs quiver in anticipation…

Chapter Meme
