They arrived at stockyard 2-B and headed straight for the secure warehouse, where employees were allowed to store non-valuables. Isaac waved off the quartermaster and headed straight for his own personal crate. He made to reach for it, only for Hodge to grab his wrist. He looked to the old man, who simply shook his head.

Isaac stepped back and let the devil go before him, who squinted at the crate, observing it from multiple angles as he stroked the few white hairs on his chin that he called a beard.

He stopped and stared at the crate. “Hmm, interesting. Very much so...”

Isaac frowned, looking between his brother and Hodge. “Could someone tell me what's interesting? Why are we here?”

David sighed. “The wood chips are actually seeds which can grow into arcane beings made up of stacked stuff. Stacking lots of stuff together and keeping an accurate inventory is like sun and water for plants.”

His brother stared at him. David stared back.

Hodge poked at Isaac's crate, ignoring the exchange. “This big boy has had so many hands and stuff passing through, it looks like it linked with the town as a whole instead of just a few people... incredible!” He turned with a gummy smile. “I didn't know they could do that!”

Isaac pinched the bridge of his nose. “You're telling me that we've inadvertently birthed an arcane construct in this stockyard.”

Hodge looked proud. “Yes! A very big, very strong one at that! It's been very well fed! Just look at all this stuff!” He waved an arm around.

Angeline stepped up to her husband, resting a hand on his shoulder. After giving him a quiet smile, she turned her head to look at Hodge. “Mr. Hodge, maybe it would help if you explained what exactly this being can do? Is it dangerous? Does it need to be controlled?”

The old man frowned while flapping a hand. “Pfawh! You no more control it than you control a dog! It's a living thing, young woman! You teach it!” He looked around. “And for what it can do, I reckon it's been doing it already. A pile is, first and foremost, a... well, a pile. Its body is made of stuff, and it likes to keep its body ordered.”

Isaac squinted at Hodge. “You're saying the reason this yard has been performing so well is that...”

Hodge nodded. “The pile's already been helping you! That's right! Now, want to meet it?” He asked, eyes insistent.

As a precaution, Isaac had all the workers gather outside the yard. They were told not to panic, which of course made them uneasy. When a noble told you to remain calm, something bad was usually happening.

Hodge insisted that it was safe, saying that new piles were never malevolent. When pushed, he had admitted that they could be misguided, in the same way that a newborn giant might not know it could squeeze a man into paste. But it would be fine! He was staying nearby to help the pile understand what it was doing!

Standing in front of the main entrance, and following the old man's instructions, Isaac concentrated on his desire to meet the pile, and spoke aloud. “I, Isaac Wardenfel, greet you, pile.”

They waited.

Nothing happened.

Frowning, Isaac spoke again. “Mind that resides in the stockyard, I greet you. Please show yourself.”

Again, no reaction. Just before he could ask again, one of the workers behind him spoke. “Huh, Lord Isaac? Are you somehow... trying to speak to the stockyard?”

Isaac went still for a second, turning to look at the man with all the dignity he could achieve. “I am. Why?”

The worker fidgeted with his hands. “My Lord, it's just that, hum, we've been calling the yard Tobbie.” As he said the name, a few other workers nodded.

Isaac stared at him. “...Tobbie. Because it's yard 2-B.”

“Yes, my Lord.”

“Right...” The lord turned back toward the yard, cleared his throat, and spoke once more. “Tobbie, I, Lord Isaac Wardenfel, greet you. Please manifest yourself so we may discuss your situation.”

Again, a pause, but this time disrupted by a low rumbling, picking up strength and turning into a grinding roar. The sound of stone, metal and wood rubbing on each other filled the air. The assembled workers went wide-eyed and alert, even while Isaac forced himself to stand straight and stone-faced.

Within the yard, pallets of materials began coalescing into a limb, with root-like tendrils anchoring it to the ground. The arm-like amalgamation of construction materials drifted downward, the house-sized hand at its end rapidly descending toward Isaac.

Workers began to shuffle away, pushing the ones too mesmerized to move, collectively covering their heads and shouting as the giant arm's shadow pressed down on them.

Only for the noise to stop. They peered around their arms to see the hand that had come to rest a few faces in front of the Lord, who hadn't moved a single step.

Isaac nodded. “Tobbie, I presume?”

The hand groaned into a ponderous thumbs up.

The noble clasped his hands behind his back. “Good. I am pleased to meet you. I wish you had informed us of your existence earlier, as the current situation is troublesome.”

The hand retreated somewhat, almost afraid.

Isaac narrowed his hands. “You are not the one in trouble, Tobbie. It is I, as the overseer of this project, who must make amends. Am I correct in thinking that you have been helping the workers assigned to you?”

Tobbie gave an uncertain thumbs up.

“Then it's as I feared. Tobbie, as a worker under my care, you are due payment for your services. I will also have a certificate of citizenship officialized for you, so that you receive the full protection of the kingdom's charter as one of its citizens.”

Isaac widened his stance. “Furthermore, I must know if you wish to remain under my employ for the duration of the Riverwall development project.”

The arm hovered, frozen, for a few moments before giving a forceful thumbs up and shaking it up and down.

The noble nodded. “Good, then, do you have any grievances toward the current situation? Anything else you wish to ask for?”

Tobbie turned his thumb down.

“Then, Tobbie, under my power as a noble of this kingdom and acting as the representative of the crown, I welcome you as one of its citizens. I expect you to work toward the betterment of it, and this town in which you now reside. If you wish to offer your services further, such as being part of the guards or militia, you need only speak... err. We will find a way for you to communicate properly. Until then, are you happy with continuing your work as part of this stockyard and supporting its workers?”

The giant arm gave a firm thumbs up.

Isaac dipped his head. “Thank you, Tobbie. You may return to your... normal state. Manifest yourself if you need something.”

Tobbie hesitated for a moment. He then brought a finger toward Isaac, ever so slowly, until it hovered at roughly his hand's level. The noble observed the offering finger, lifting an eyebrow and grasping it as he would for a handshake.

The giant finger slowly shook up and down before pulling back, into the stockyard, where its constituent parts began sliding and lifting back to their original positions in a coarse rumble.

The workers remembered how to breathe.

Isaac looked at Angeline. “Come, wife. We have some urgent work to do.” He said, turning toward the path to his office and walking off.

Angeline sauntered after him, winking at David and Niala as she passed them by, and brushed up against her husband's back. She bent forward and whispered something in his ear.

He tensed, his next few steps turning mechanical, before his regular stride returned.

Niala and David glanced at each other, shrugged, and left, dragging along Hodge, who was trying to reach for the stockyard.

The group of workers stood there for half a bell before the bravest of the lot tentatively stepped back into the yard.

It took them a few days, but once they realized that the yard wasn't dangerous and was instead actively and overtly helping them now, they began gloating about Tobbie to the workers from the other yards.

Angeline and Isaac had to hold a meeting a few days after that to put a stop to the workers' demands for “benevolent worker spirit” for the other yards.

David and Niala went around town, tracking down everyone else who had received wood chips from Hodge.

Thankfully, none of the other recipients had inadvertently created the conditions required for the chips to take root, though Leandro's was apparently on the way. It had been hampered by a lack of stuff, the large man holding a rather austere lifestyle.

Everyone was informed about the potential for creating a sentient pile of stuff and listened to Hodge's warning that pushing for the pile to take root would result in a sickly one. They needed to grow in belongings that had as much sentimental value as possible. Trying to “nourish” them with various junk would be the same as feeding rotted food to baby animals.

Letters with the same message were written and sent to the Wardenfels, Cornelius, and everyone else who was not in town.

And then, Hodge was released to go do whatever Hodge did in his free time, and David and Niala returned to their home, to their own pile, Cookie.

Niala was kneeling in front of the small pile in their basement, cooing at it. “Cookie, come on. Come say hi to mama Niala! I'm sorry we scared you last time!”

She had been trying to coax a reaction from the pile for about twenty minutes now, with no success.

David was standing behind her, arms crossed. “It doesn't know that's its name.”

She turned to look at him. “Huh?”

He pointed at the pile with his chin. “The pile. You named it cookie, but it probably doesn't know, just like Tobbie didn't know that Isaac was talking to it when he was saying Pile.”

Ears wiggling, Niala turned back toward the pile, narrowing her eyes. “Then... we have to teach it. It wanted to help, right?”

She got up and rushed up the stairs, coming back down a few seconds later with the pile's logbook in hand. “So, something useful that I need... Ah! It's mid-autumn, so the weather's going to get cold!”

With a grin, she turned toward David. “I really wish I had my mittens and tuque! But they're buried in the pile!” She said, winking at him.

He slowly moved his head up and down. “Yesss... your mittens, stuck somewhere in the pile. I wish we had someone who would retrieve them for us. We'd be so grateful.”

“Yes! Yes, we could! We'd be grateful and happy and friendly and totally not scared!”

They both stopped when they heard a soft scraping noise. They angled their heads toward the pile, careful not to do any sudden motion.

A slim pile tendril was holding up a wool tuque and mittens a few paces away, looking ready to dart back inside the protective pile below it.

Niala's face split apart into a huge smile. “Oh! Look, David, our pile, COOKIE, has found my stuff! And, being the helpful COOKIE that he is, he's offering it to me!”

She turned to face the pile and took a few quiet steps toward the winter gear. “Thank you so much, COOKIE! This is exactly what I was looking for! Can you hand them to Mama?” She held out a hand and waited.

With a few halting motions, the tendril approached and deposited the mittens and tuque in Niala's hand, coiling back into the pile as soon as they had left its grasp.

“Oh, COOKIE! Thank you! You're such a good little cookie!” She cooed again, walking up to the pile, kneeling, and giving it an approximation of a hug.

David's brow rose when the pile seemed to shiver.

Huh. Guess she really CAN hug anything.