And suddenly, parts of this whole orc army thing didn’t seem so bad anymore. He still needed to keep the large, gray monsters away from the gate, though.

Uva just stared at Shiv with her jaw slightly open. Can Hu shared her incredulity with a narrowing of its optics. “Pathbearer,” the Penitent began. “Is your solution to all issues just cooking or violence?”

“They’ve worked for me perfectly so far.” He looked to the orcs again. “Also, who here knows how to pilot a Court Leviathan?” A few thousand fists went up. Shiv laughed. “Fuck yeah. Wait! Biomancers! Sort yourselves out into another group. I got some questions for you later. A lot of questions. Have any of you read the Odes of Blood—”

“Everyone’s read that!” one of the orcs called out. “Basic reading material.”

“Pretty funny book,” another orc said.

“I don’t like how much time Ekkihurst spends eating and torturing people,” an orc complained. “It’s pointless. Just kill and get it done.”

Other orcs heckled the speaker, defending Ekkihurst. He cursed back at them. And rather than fighting, what seemed to be a civil forum on the merits of brutal cruelty versus effective inflictions of pain and murder took hold.

Adam shivered. “Shiv. Are you… seriously considering learning Biomancy from them?”

“Why not? It’s going to be a while till I can get back to Cradle. Got no one but the book. And now I got a lot of people. Listen, can you get someone to fly Courtney over? And bring some of the basilisks too? Teleport them across. There’s stuff I want to do.”

The Gate Lord slowly turned to Uva. “Uva. Say something. Say something before he turns into more of a monster.”

“Shiv,” Uva said. “They’re not teaching you any Psychomancy. That’s solely my domain.”

Shiv regarded the iron in her eyes and nodded slowly.

An orc laughed. “Afraid we’re gonna steal your nice lay from you, Umb—” One of Uva’s Psychomancy strands whipped out and straightened. The orc let out a loud cry. More laughter followed.

“Look at the dumb bastard twitch,” Shiv yelled. “Everyone, loot his stuff and hide it. See how long it takes for him to find it once he recovers.”

A collective cheer rose at that suggestion.

Adam sighed. “Shiv. Promise me you won’t develop a terminal case of orcis bastarditis if you’re going to be spending time with them.”

“Is that a real thing?” Shiv asked.

“No. But since you’re here, it might just become real soon.”
