As dark thoughts entered and left his mind, Erick wondered at the fate of the platinum coftea tree on the other side of the destroyed temple. He briefly cast a [Scry], to see the other side of Atunir’s statue.

Behind the temple, there was just more glass, and nothing else. The platinum coftea tree was gone. Erick cut the [Scry].

“Sir.” Poi interrupted his thoughts, saying, “Let’s go home.”

Erick listened to the wind for a little while longer. Air curled and cut on whistling sharp, black glass.

- - - -

Three moons hung high in the night sky, pink, silver, and white, surrounded by stars and silence.

Erick sat in bed with his back against the headboard, in his room, in his house, but he also stared at the starlit sky through an Ophiel’s eyes, still stationed on the top of his mage tower, still watching the orange land of the Human District for any possible intruders. Erick had yet to dismiss a single Ophiel; they had all existed for the last several days, each of them experiencing the world and feeling a version of what he was feeling.

He was still running [Hunter’s Instincts], and that bled through to Ophiel, too.

Erick blipped every Ophiel to him. Nine white blips flashed in the darkness of his room. The Ophiel at Erick’s side twittered in questioning violins, as each parakeet-sized [Familiar] landed on the bed and danced over Erick’s legs, or floated to the headboard behind him.

Erick sent Ophiel, explaining, ‘I didn’t want anyone watching to see you guys dissipate out there, and think us defenseless. You all are very important for the safety of my people, and my self. I’m counting on you, so subterfuge is just as important as power.’

Ophiel wordlessly responded with knowing harp noises.

‘I also wanted you here, in case this went bad, because you’re all very fluffy and I love you all very much and I might need you to be here for me.’

Ophiel trilled in worried flutes and cellos.

‘I don’t think it’ll be that bad, but I’ve been warned by others about this skill, and I’m taking their warning seriously.’

Violins and flutes; a mixed understanding.

Erick nodded. He released [Hunter’s Instincts]. The spell vanished like the setting of a sword onto the mantle over a fireplace full of ashes. Cold rushed across his skin. He shivered. Ophiels bounced around him, their gentle sounds shifting from strings to horns. Arctic tendrils seemed to wrap around Erick’s neck, gouging into his chest, sinking deeper and deeper in time to his heartbeat.

No. This was wrong. He was still in danger. He needed—

He reached for the skill again, to turn it back on, to bring back the warmth. But he shook, instead. He tried for the skill, but nothing happened. The sword was on the mantle, and locked behind growing black glass. Tears fell from Erick’s wet face, as everything of the past few days sunk into his mind like cold talons.

He wept.

It was not pretty.

Eventually, he slept.

- - - -

Poi groaned out on the couch in the sunroom, holding his head. The world flickered between light and magic, between the real and the Real, where life existed, and where Life stretched onward. He blinked, and the magic faded like a fog vanishing. Double vision and a pressure behind his eyes lingered, but he kept blinking, trying to reorient himself to the Here and the Now.

He breathed, and focused. His eyes started working, properly. Double vision faded as he looked upon the ceiling.

He had chased away the hallucinations.

Poi was in the sunroom of the house, on the couch, below Erick and Erick’s room directly above. The wardlights were on, and a pain still lingered in his eyes, but that pain would be gone soon enough.

He stood, but he wobbled and sat back down.

Rats, sitting on the couch opposite Poi, said, “That looked rough.”

Poi lied, “It was not that bad.”

“Need a [Greater Treat Wounds]?”

“No.” Poi changed the subject. “Did the murder of Mother Eriliad’s killers bring you closure?”

Crimsonscaled Rats turned a shade redder with obvious anger. He controlled himself; shoving that anger aside. He said, “No. It did not.”

“It rarely does.”

Rats said, “If you’re going to be an asshole, then I’m not having this conversation with you.”

“You rarely have any conversations at all. Why should now be any different?”

“… Because I am leaving, and I would appreciate a real talk with you before I go.”

“But a ‘real talk’ with me would make you want to stay, for I hold every card and I know how to make you do the right thing with the littlest suggestion.”

Rats frowned. “You never drop the good guy act. What changed?”

“I rarely have a reason to be less than good, and you have already made up your mind.” Poi declared, “You are being selfish, Rats.”

“You could at least use my real name for once.”

“Why would I? Your Army name is more appropriate now than ever.”

“You think he’s losing it, too? Becoming unstable; a killer. A Hunter.”

Poi paused in thought, debating with himself if he should give his real opinion, or not. After a stretched moment, he decided that his opinion on this matter did not violate his responsibility as a Mind Mage. “No. That is incorrect. What is happening is just a crystallization of what fighting monsters does to normal people. You leaving will hurt him, though. Deeply. That does not have to happen. This is your choice, and you are making it, and you know it will hurt him, and you don’t care.”

“I thought I was working for a protector, Poi.” Rats shook his head, as he said, “I can’t… I can’t be around a killer. Around blood magic. Around Hunters. Around any of that.”

Rats stopped talking, and Poi began to think. He held a secret here, unintentionally stolen from Erick without his knowledge, that would completely nullify all of Rats’ concerns. [Cascade Imaging] was not blood magic at all, but the targeting of the true nature of the interior of cells, and those cells got everywhere, in ways Poi never knew possible. People shed DNA every second of their existence; no matter how much [Cleanse] seemed to clean up everything, there was always something left behind. Eyelashes, hair, scales, skin that turned to dust. Blood, of course, but only in the ‘white blood’ cells, not in the ‘red’, or in the ‘plasma’.

Rats saw Poi thinking. He asked, “Just tell me. Please. If you tell me that I honestly have nothing to worry about, I might believe you.”

If Poi spilled this secret, Rats would believe him. Poi could see it in the man’s eyes, could hear the truth of Rats’ words beyond the closed walls around his heart, like a party going on next door in the middle of the night.

Poi said, “I cannot say anything I haven’t already said. You have to make this decision on your own, with what you already know.”

Rats frowned. He turned to stare at the window. Night and city lights filled the vista, with ample darkness between this sunny room and the far off brilliance out there.

Rats said, “Then I have to go.”

Poi futilely attempted, “You could ask him of his magic.”

“… I could.” Rats looked up at the ceiling. “But that’s the sound of a nascent Hunter when they turn off the skill, and I don’t know if I’d believe his answer. He wouldn’t even know he was lying.”

Poi changed the subject. “Where would you go?” He twisted the knife, “Oceanside?”

Rats’ voice turned hard. “No. Not Oceanside. I have an option, but I’m still thinking it over.”

Poi almost laughed as a sudden raging anger filled his mind, but he kept himself under complete control. He leveled his eyes at Rats, declaring, “The Headmaster actually managed to poach you, didn’t he.”

Rats looked away. “You’re making this too easy for me, Poi. I would have thought you would try to talk me out of it.”

That was too much. Poi did not snap, but words he had locked away as secret poured out, anyway. “You made up your mind months ago, all the way back to the very first time he picked you up off the ground after you failed to be there for the shadowspider attack, and he showed you compassion despite your failure. You almost saw him as a father figure, and you loved it, and hated it, and had no idea what do with it, so you locked that feeling away, like an idiot.

“You doubled down on this resolve when we were all around the campfire and you spoke of your childhood and Erick showed you true compassion, again. He’s been nothing but good to you, and you have yet to prove yourself as worthy of his compassion. You even had the gall to fret over what he had done to end the Halls of the Dead. And then he was wormed the first time, and he said all those awful things, and it broke you deeper than you could ever let anyone know, and ‘proved’ all your fears true.” He shouted, “Holy FUCK Rats. He was fucking MIND CONTROLLED.” Poi calmed, then said, “He showed you compassion, and now he’s proving himself to be the same damaged person as anyone else, and you can’t handle it. There’s no recovering from this personal failure of yours, and so, you need to leave.” He rapidly added, “And don’t you dare blame this personal failure on your condition. You are doing this, Rats. You. Rats will always leave sinking ships, just like they always have, and always will.”

Rats smiled in a mixture of sadness, regret, and new beginnings. “You push people away, too. Just like you are right now. Either with anger like this, or constant silence.” He stopped smiling.

“Yup.” Poi said, “Guilty as charged.” He added, “Teressa is going to miss you.”

“That was a fling and nothing more. She knows that. I know that. Besides, we couldn’t continue that while both of us worked under the same man.”

“I know.” Poi said, “I also know you already had this conversation with Teressa and said your goodbyes, so I’m going to make it real easy for you to leave this assignment.” Poi laid it out there, “You used him to get your [Greater Treat Wounds] quest done in months instead of years, and now you have your own problems to solve. This is why you joined the Army in the first place, isn’t it? To get away from the unconditional love of Mother Eriliad and Darenka and all the rest, but to still have access to Spur’s Healers and their [Greater Treat Wounds]? You chose to join the Army because no one who knew your medical history would take you in, except us.” He continued, “And now that you’ve gotten yours, it’s time to move on. Tell me if I have any of that wrong.”

Rats clenched his teeth; hard.

Poi heard a crack.

Rats loosened his jaw and flickered red light. He said, “I can’t live like you, Poi. Like anyone else. I have physiological needs that tether me to organizations like the Army. Like the Church. For the first time… For the first time in my entire life the noose around my neck is gone.” He added, “I won’t die if I go a week without a visit to the Church. I can heal myself, now; daily, if needed. I can even see without burning [Ultrasight] all the time.”

Poi offhandedly said, “You should have talked to Messalina while she was here. Maybe she could have fixed your problem. She seemed honest enough.”

Rats said nothing. He looked away.

Poi almost kicked himself. “Gods damn you. I should have seen this sooner.” He said, “You did talk to her, didn’t you?” He asked, “What did she say?” Another thought occurred. Poi instantly added, “Oh! The Headmaster didn’t poach you at all, did he? She did.”

“… She’s interested in the problem.”

Poi said, “If you explained the problem, Erick might even put in a good word with Messalina for you. You wouldn’t have to do this on your own.” Poi stressed, “You’re not on your own, Rats.”

“YES I AM.”

Poi sat back on his couch. He said, “Then go be on your own. I hope those rings on your fingers serve you well.”

“… Can you tell him I’m sorry?”

“Of course I will not.” Poi added, “The second you leave, I am stripping you of your rights as a member of the Army. I’ll turn the paperwork in tomorrow.”

Rats smirked, yet tears fell from his bloodshot eyes. “Too easy, Poi.” He taunted, “It’s like you’re pushing me away.”

A red shatter broke the air. When it cleared, Rats was gone.

Poi glanced to the door to the sunroom. He said “It’s impolite to listen in on conversations like that, Kiri.”

Kiri stepped around the corner. “Sorry.”

“Rats is no longer—” Poi amended, “Soldier Xendross Sands is no longer a member of this household or the Army. He is to be excluded from any and all sensitive discussions and concerns. We will find a replacement Healer soon enough.”

Kiri held herself very still. Slowly, she unfroze. She nodded. She turned and walked away.

When Poi was sure he was alone, he whispered, “Fuck you, Rats.”

- - - -

Erick woke to the sounds of birds, and the afternoon sun slanting across his body. He stretched, and stopped, as a shooting pain slipped up his back then into his eyes. He blinked, and the pain passed. Maybe he slept wrong, or something? Whatever that was, it had passed, and he was awake.

A tiny Ophiel bounced onto the pillow beside his head. Erick smiled.

Four more Ophiel joined the first, bouncing each other out of the way. Violin calls turned into flute caws, as Ophiel pushed away Ophiel with tiny wings and tiny tackles.

Erick smiled to see them play, but sudden tears rolled across his face, as he remembered the last few days. He breathed, he was alive, and everyone was safe, for now; someone would have woken him up if they needed him. Erick sat up. Ophiel scattered the air. With a casual thought, Erick dismissed all but one of them.

That singular Ophiel puffed up a little, happy to have won the battle with himself. He turned tiny and hopped up onto Erick’s shoulder. Erick left him there; he didn’t need to wear real clothes today. Today was a pajama kind of day, for now.

But then he smelled himself.

Rank.

[Cleanse].

Thick air spilled away from Erick only to catch on the bed and puff more thick air into the room. Erick walked through that thick air, into the hallway.

Ophiel was briefly relegated to outside of the bathroom, to sing his daily song of loneliness. He was such a mistreated [Familiar]. Why, oh why, would Erick not bring him into the bathroom! What was the big deal! Woe, woe, woe is Ophiel, the loneliest being in the world!

Eventually, Erick walked downstairs, with Ophiel trilling in violins on his shoulder.

Poi was in the kitchen, chopping potatoes. “Good morning, sir.”

Erick smiled. “Afternoon, isn’t it?”

“I guess.” Poi said, “Rats has decided to pursue personally important events, elsewhere. He has left the Army.”

