Erick smiled at Al, because Al was smiling at him. The huge orcol man seemed much happier today than before—

Blackscale Savral, white owl shifter Lanore, sand harpy Ikawa, and orcol Gorgush, stood on the other side of the roof, standing around a small table, each with their own plate of food. Savral laughed loud at something, while Gorgush and Ikawa chuckled. Lanore smiled wider, as purplescale Bacci stepped to the table, carrying a tray of drinks for the five of them. Savral smiled at her. The two of them kissed, briefly, and Savral’s hand slipped to Bacci’s side, to bring the two of them closer together.

“It is good, is it not?” Al leaned down, saying, “This is good.”

Erick smiled, saying, “Yeah. This is good.”

Al stood tall, his arms bulging the loose fabric of his impeccable black and gold pinstripe suit. He glanced behind Erick, asking, “What have you made?”

Erick brought one of the cornbreads forward, saying, “Cornbread! It’s simple, but you can use it with honey or meats or whatever. I like it for breakfast. Put it in a hot pan with butter and you’ve got a great treat.”

Al suggested, “Maybe this party can last that long, and you can show me how you would cook it, yourself.” He added, “Or I could find some other reason for you to stick around for breakfast.”

Erick laughed loud and happy, saying, “Maybe maybe!”

Al chuckled, then said, “Come! I have beer.”

Erick gladly went.

It was a good night.

- - - -

A ship captain from Nelboor limped off of his vessel, onto the solid stone quarantine docks of Oceanside. The doctors were waiting for him.

They did not listen to his sob story of parasite roach eggs hatching in his latest shipment from Nelboor. They took him, immediately. At first, the man went with the rough treatment, but when the manacles latched around his wrists, plunging into his flesh and draining his Health and Mana, he tried to get away.

It was too late. His sight went dim, and all thoughts fled.

He woke atop cream-colored stone in a windowless room with ambient lighting, where a few air vents were the room’s only defining features. He sat up. The first thing he noticed was his nudity. The second thing he noticed was that the sores all across his legs were gone; an anti-parasite doctor had been involved somewhere between his capture and now. And then he rubbed his wrists. The manacles were gone, but in their place were thick, black lines. He had seen more than his fair share of similar tattoos over the years. They were lines of power that carved into his soul, leaking out his Mana and Health. He checked his Status. Yup. Zeros all around. No Mana. No Health. No hope of escape.

He sighed out.

The air blipped gold.

The Headmaster stood over the man.

“How did you know it was me?” asked the man. A second thought instantly occurred. “Why didn’t I attempt to lie?” And then came another, “I’m talking too much.” Followed by another. “I’m not angry? That’s a change.” And then the arrival of the obvious truth. “You drugged me.”

“Yes. I did drug you.” The Headmaster added, “Caradogh Pogi.”

“By your own history and well known thoughts on the subject, you shouldn’t consider me Caradogh any longer. I did die a few times, after all.”

“You are Caradogh enough for the purposes of this discussion.” The Headmaster conjured a table and pair of chairs to the side of the room, and a small pile of neatly folded clothes. He sat down on one of the chairs. “Would you care to sit and talk for a minute?”

Caradogh got to his feet. He walked over to the pile of clothes and put them on. They fit, loosely. He sat down across from the Headmaster. He waited.

The Headmaster said, “You have been killed and remade at least seven times, according to my personal calculations. Possibly many more.”

“Something like that. The spell she cast on me should work two more times.” He asked, “How did you know it was me?”

“I know her magical signature very well, and it lingers on you, in this spell that grants you these unnatural lives. I can’t track it all the time, but when you get this close to my city, I can.”

“It’s not unnatural—”

The Headmaster spoke with calm finality, “I do not wish to debate with you about the nature of Messalina’s magic.”

“She still loves you, you know?”

The Headmaster sighed. “She does not. I don’t think she ever truly did.”

Caradogh smirked in mocking defeat. “It was worth a shot.”

“Quite.” The Headmaster said, “Did you know that you are actually the fifth Caradogh we’ve captured, aiming for Jane?”

“…”

“You did not know that, did you?”

“…”

“I’ll cut your building tirade short: You are thinking of the duplication of souls. But you are wrong. There is a much simpler answer. We have merely captured you before. You just don’t remember those events.”

“You’re lying.”

A thousand thoughts raced through Caradough’s mind, trying to understand—

Clarity came quickly.

He sighed. He said, “Safehouses that I’ve never touched, all ransacked. Connections I’ve made that should be there, gone. People I cared for not willing to talk to me... You’ve pumped me for information, each time, haven’t you? She did this for me, and then you catch me, and you find out where all my barely remembered contacts are, and she—”

“I’ll stop you there.” The Headmaster said, “You give me too much credit as an evil mastermind. Messalina took advantage of your usual method of going for resources to track down almost all of your warehouses, all across the Letri ocean. I have only had my turn for your last few resurrections.”

Caradogh felt blank. He had been played like a fool by immortals. He almost wanted to laugh. He smiled in pain, as he said, “My mother always said to leave the immortals alone.”

“Your mother was a wise woman. I remember her career as the Lower Trademaster was one of great wealth and prosperity. I appreciated working with her, and with you, too, before all of this nonsense with Spur.”

Caradogh could only lament, “Silverite… yet another immortal.”

The Headmaster continued, “You got what you wanted, in the end. I heard not long ago that Portal signed a new trade deal with Spur. The breadbasket in the middle of the Crystal Forest is gone, forever more. The normal Water Season might not even happen, but we’ll see. Portal has reopened trade, and gold flows in all directions once again. Your great homeland once again brings together everyone from Oceanside to the Crystal Forest, to Eidolon and Archipelago Nergal, to even the very edge of Quintlan’s tiny, coastal towns.”

Something cold and hateful uncoiled around Caradogh’s heart. He smiled. He asked, “Is that true?”

The Headmaster said, “You have won your little tiff with Spur, in a technical way. A very poor way that you cannot enjoy, but yes, you have won.”

“Ha!” Caradogh smiled wider. “I did it. I won.” He said, “I always win, you know. It’s just a matter of time.”

The Headmaster’s amber eyes reflected gold in the light of the room, as he asked, “Is that enough for you? If I let you go now, would you continue to make problems for Erick?”

Caradogh heard himself say, “I will find a way to kill Jane and Erick when you aren’t here to protect him.” He clutched his throat. “I mean it. I’ll never stop coming for him.” He shot out of his chair, crashing the conjured item into a wall, breaking the chair into gold light. “I’m going to murder that asshole and take everything from him!” He shouted, “Why won’t the words stop!”

“Because I am using awful drugs to force the truth from you while simultaneously using mental magic to make you forget everything. And now that I see that you haven’t changed during your slight reprieve from death, your honest confession here is more than enough reason to end this discussion.”

The world tumbled end over end. The stone floor caressed Caradogh’s skull as he rolled on the ground. He felt nothing. He couldn’t even breathe, but he could still see, and what he saw was his body slumped on the ground, a meter away. Darkness folded in on him.

The Headmaster’s words echoed, “See you again tomorrow.”

Caradogh died.

- - - -

Caradogh woke on the beach exactly where he should have, facing the sunrise. His head hurt something awful, and he was naked.

“Shit.” He checked one of his skills. He paled. “Two lives left? Two! TWO?! Only two!” He shouted at the ocean, “What the fuck happened? Why can’t I— That Mind Mage at Erick’s side.” Anger roused him to stand. He shouted, “Fucking Erick must have gotten me, and blanked everything, too! What the fuck did I do wrong?”

He yelled at the ocean again. He stomped the sand under his feet. He kicked the water. Eventually he calmed. He decided on his next course of action.

I’ll have to get at him through Jane. I don’t want to, but I’ve snuck into Oceanside before. It’s the easiest option.

- - - -

Caradogh died in a stone cell, wrapped in tattoos, under the Headmaster’s disappointed glare.

- - - -

The Headmaster frowned on the other side of Caradogh’s stone cell.

Caradogh, wrapped in tattoos, could do nothing to save himself.

The Headmaster said, “I am partially to blame, of course. I blank your memory each time.” He added, “But each time you go through all your contacts and you still manage to find someone new! Even though I kill or contain every single one you touch upon!” He calmed. He said, “As I have said, I am partially to blame for this, but not only for blanking your memory, but also for letting people think that it is possible to infiltrate my city without me knowing in the first place. I let your black markets flourish. I let you take advantage. I let you have your freedom, and I will always continue to do so. But each time it still makes me so! So!

“Embittered!

“Such is the price of remaining a part of the world, I suppose.” He added, “You kill and take the form of at least one new person each time you attempt to kill Jane. I should not give you this next chance to redeem yourself. I should rip apart your soul and save that unknown life, but I can’t. Soul sundering is a fate worse than death, and promises must be kept.”

Caradogh died.

The Headmaster’s voice echoed in the enveloping darkness, “Last life. Better make it count.”

- - - -

An unknown incani stepped into Jane’s room. He silently closed the door behind him as he flicked a blacknight dagger into his hand.

Jane slept in her bed. Unknowing. Uncaring. Undefended.

The incani flowed toward Jane, leading with the dagger, plunging it into—

Into shadow, and light. Jane vanished. Her illusion shattered.

Caradogh’s head tumbled to the ground. As he came to his final rest, his last sight was of a giant black spider lurking in shadows on the ceiling. Eight black eyes stared at Caradogh. He stared back, for as long as he could, but even his usual anger could not sustain him through death.

He died, for the last time.

- - - -

Jane twisted into a human as she fell from the ceiling to the floor. She stayed on the ground, holding herself together. She almost puked, but she managed to hold it in. Caradogh had taken so long to get to her she didn’t think she was going to last, but she had. She glanced over at the body, then the head. His blank incani eyes were still staring at her, even though he was very dead. Jane even had the notification to prove it. According to the Headmaster, that meant that this really was Caradogh’s last life.

She glanced over to the blacknight dagger. It looked almost like obsidian, but with a touch of dust to the surface. It was one of the deadliest substances known to humans, but to every other race it just made them sick. She touched her shadows to the dagger, pushing it to the side of the room, out of the way.

Alibeth slammed open the door and rushed into the room, carrying a hospital gown, saying, “That was completely unnecessary! As your doctor, I’m telling you again how reckless that was!”

“I know, doc.” Jane let Alibeth wrap her in the gown and lift her to her feet. “Thank you.”

“No physical therapy today!” Alibeth helped Jane back into bed, making sure she got all the way in. “You can lay there for a while if you don’t need to sleep, but that is all you are going to do, understood?”

Jane mocked a salute, “Understood.”

“Don’t get snappy at me.” Alibeth looked down to the body, the head, and the dagger at the edge of the room. “That guy was half delusional. If the Headmaster didn’t give him one last chance he would never have made it past the front door. This entire scenario was irresponsible—” She added, “And he killed yet another person for that form, too! Poor man. Probably in the wrong place at the wrong time. Awful. Simply awful.”

The Headmaster spoke from behind Alibeth, “I owed Caradogh’s mother much—”

Alibeth yelped loud as she turned to face the old man.

The Headmaster continued, “Now that both of them are dead, I can tell you that a bargain of trade was struck long ago, where she guaranteed my non-interference with her son’s affairs unless they directly impacted my interests.”

Jane, partially delirious and smiling at the ceiling, said, “That’s a dragon, for you.”

The Headmaster gently smiled. “It was a terrible bargain, but it was made, and thus it is upheld.”

Jane asked, “Any more news from Spur?”

“You’ve heard it all.” He said, “And you’re loopy. This might have been too much for you.”

“He came after me and mine!” Jane tried not to close her eyes as she said, “I needed to see that guy dead with my own hands.” She leaned forward a little. The body was still on the ground. This wasn’t a dream. She crashed back onto her bed.

The Headmaster said, “I know the feeling.” He nodded to Alibeth.

Alibeth moved to the headboard behind Jane, and suddenly Jane’s eyes were too heavy to hold open.

Soft voices carried Jane away.

Before her encounter with the final Caradogh, Jane had heard all about the Red Dot, and the end of the Farm, and the hundreds of assassinations, but she had also heard of her father saving the day, and then how he enabled swift vengeance against the surviving hunters and the Hand. She hadn’t actually spoken to him yet, but she would, soon. She would tell him he had done good, too. Every day, she was awake for longer than the day before. Soon, she would be back to her own quest. She’d get Polymage, and then she’d go back to Spur, and then she would help her father permanently end the Shades. It was a good thought.

That good thought lent itself to good dreams.

Jane dreamed of rolling dice, fluffy clouds and laughter, and threats brutally ended.
