“Stay, of course.” Erick looked south, past the Church District and over the city walls. Ar’Kendrithyst loomed in the night, in the distance, like a black snake resting under the stars; waiting. “I still have a war to fight, here.”

Gorgush glanced south with Erick. He said, “In war, an attack such as we have suffered would be the prelude to a greater disaster, but there is something you must keep in mind. The only things we lost were our vulnerabilities. Sleep is broken, our eyes are open, we see the War to come and at our front door.” He added, “When the time comes, we will triumph over whatever disasters shall seek to blight our land.”

Erick asked, “Have you heard anything about the Dead City, recently?”

Gorgush said, “Those that come out of that Dead City in the last week are all saying the same thing, if they come out at all: We are ill prepared for the dangers coalescing in that dark land. Shadow Krakens. Obsidian golems. Leviathans and Crystal Crawlers. Shadelings, as always, but different. Shadelings with all the cunning they had in life. They are not Shades, but they are not Shadelings, either.

“A pair of women came out the other day, before the attack, talking of a dark mockery of Spur’s Market Street, where the shadelings tried to sell them trinkets made of crystal and shadows. The women escaped with their lives and with arcane objects sewn into their flesh, gifting their sword arms with uncanny speed, but they spoke of that Dark Market with trepidation, for it was obviously a Shade concoction, but it seemed real. Not ‘real’ in the matter of illusion versus Reality, but real as in actual trade, and truthful products. Shadelings ran shops, where they exchanged chipped shadows with each other, to buy black apples, to sell bone candles, to engage in commerce, like they were somehow people.

“We only found out about this development because those two women came to the Church for healing, for those objects stitched into their skins were cursed into their Status and unmovable without the touch of the divine.” Gorgush asked, “How many do you think choose to keep their dark boons hidden? What were the purposes of those objects? The two women were truly cursed with darkness, but the objects in their flesh were not overtly harmful to their wearer.”

Erick’s mind coalesced to laser focus. He asked, “Do you still have those objects?”

“I have no idea where they are. I was not involved, but I am a part of the Church, and I hear many things.” Gorgush said, “But you should be aware that your rings do not defend against these corrupted magic items. They are usable at the same time, in fact.”

Erick stared south in silence.

Gorgush said, “A time may come that a full coalition must be built against the Dead City; that a righteous war be led against that rumbling evil. Sumtir hopes that when the time comes, he can count on you to be there.”

Erick smiled, and it was a real smile, even with [Hunter’s Instincts] running. He said. “I’ll be here.”

Gorgush said, “Ikawa has lost her grandmother, but vengeance has already been met against that particular evil, thanks to you and your searching magics. She was part of the raid led against that particular killer. I have heard she wishes to speak with you, but she has no idea how to approach. If you see her, please do not mention I pointed you in her direction.”

“I’m glad she got her vengeance.” Erick asked, “How about the rest of your team? Yourself?”

“I am doing better.” Gorgush joked, “It seems I have lifted the spirits of a man who sorely needed it.”

Erick smirked. “You have. Thank you.”

“Lanore is doing fine. She was not near any of the initial fighting, but she helped afterward to track them down.” Gorgush said, “Savral was gravely wounded, but he is on the mend. The Sewermaster was able to defend both of them from their attackers. Luckily, Bacci was out of the house when it happened.”

Erick paused for a brief moment, but his instincts, both magical and mundane, forced him to continue the conversation and ignore the discrepancy he just heard. “I am glad to hear it. Have you spoken to Savral? Ah. I’ll have to go speak to him myself, and… wish him well on his recovery.” He added, “Actually. I might do that right now.”

“I saw him this morning. He was still laid up and in pain and his father shooed Lanore and I out of the house after speaking to Savral for only five minutes, but Bacci is there with him. He should be on the mend by tomorrow.” Gorgush added, “We’re all bringing a dish to the Sewerhouse tomorrow after sunset to help him get over his weakened condition. I am sure he would be happy to see you, if you wish to bring a dish, too.”

“… I might do that, instead.”

Gorgush nodded, looking down at Erick. After a moment, he asked, “Are you okay?”

“Much better. Thank you.”

Gorgush stepped back, then bowed, saying, “Archmage.”

Erick nodded, then watched as Gorgush moved onto the next person standing in the dark of the vineyard. He seemed like a good guy. Erick sent to Poi, ‘I guess Savral got that True Resurrection, but no one else knows?’

‘They know. Sewermaster Al was not the only one to request a resurrection from the Life Binder.’ Poi said, ‘People died, and now they’re better, and the Life Binder was in the area. Not everyone knows what happened, but enough do, and Gorgush certainly knows the truth. These are the lies we tell ourselves as a community, to remain a community.’

Erick stared out into the night. ‘I guess the farmers weren’t part of the community?’

‘It is a harsh thing to say, sir, but if they chose to run after one attack, then they are not people of Spur.’

‘… Has Messalina moved on?’

‘The [Eyes of the Goddess] performed by the Headmaster as of twelve hours ago, and told to us through Eduard, put Messalina between here and Portal, but veered off to the west. She is not headed for Portal.’

‘…Where’s she going?’

‘Away, and she’s taking her cloud city with her.’

‘Have you heard anything about Jane?’

‘She’s fine. She’s sleeping. She’s able to stay awake for an hour at a time, now. Her recovery should start to go much faster.’

‘Thank you, Poi.’ He turned away from the Church, to face West. ‘I want to see the Farms. Then bed, I think. We’ll take the fast route.’ He held his hand to Poi.

Poi took Erick’s hand. A blip of white interrupted the night.

- - - -

The land was a sea of rippling, black spikes, all pointed away from Spur. This eerie land laid under widespread lightwards that illuminated the entirety of the destruction. It was not the Farms Erick knew and loved. It was desolation, and despair, and it was impossible to walk upon.

So Erick and Poi stood on a [Teleporting Platform], hovering above the glassed landscape, gently floating forward, toward the center. He would have thought someone would have started turning it all back into dirt, or at least carve a path through the glass to the center, to the Harvest Temple, but maybe the glass ran deep. Too deep? Maybe.

The air smelled clean, and cold. It was proper nightly desert air that got into Erick’s clothes and bit at his senses. Now that the Farms were empty, and there were no breaks against the northern wind, the breeze whistled, playing among the black glass spikes.

Ophiel was no longer a shoulderpad, and no longer silent. He was back to being a parakeet on Erick’s left shoulder. He trilled in tiny whistles, mimicking the sounds he heard all around him. His was a sad song, or maybe Erick was just imprinting that emotion onto his whistle. Whatever the case, Erick heard loss in Ophiel’s music. A loss of life; a loss of possibility. Ophiel’s melancholy carried on the wind, mixing with the breeze, spreading through the air.

Erick controlled the platform to move forward, trying to come to grips with what he was seeing. The sheer destructive power of the Red Dot was incredible, and awful.

A huge grove of trees had been reduced to splashed black glass. A pond for rice and fish was a depression in the ground, filled with darkness. A part of Erick wanted to cry.

Another part, the part in control, thought all this solid darkness next to the city was a monumental strategic liability. That thought transformed, and Erick wondered if Melemizargo was looking at him right now, from inside that dark glass.

But if the glass was that big of a problem, then something awful would have already happened.

Right?

Slowly, inexorably, the Harvest Temple and the surrounding Ring of Gods came into view.

The statues of the gods had been stationed atop waist-high pillars around the central, eight-pillared open air temple. It had been a place of peace and introspection, and the central location where Erick had rained for months. He remembered sitting on stone benches, reading as he listened to his platinum rain. He remembered carving little farmers and life sized Earth fruits from stone, and setting them atop the massive statue of Atunir that took central stage in the back of the temple. He remembered eating lunch with Al, and Jane, and Valok and Apogough, too, though those two were rare to show up and partake. He remembered laughing with Krakina, and letting her flirts gracefully fall to the wayside. Before she began to think of him as some awful Scion of Destruction, Krakina was always quick to laugh and quick to anger. Erick had liked her, even though she did not like him, and that was okay.

He remembered how Jane had set down coftea bush cuttings behind the temple, on the other side of Atunir. How that bush had grown into a huge silver tree, with bright leaves and dark bark. How that tree’s canopy seemed to mimic the silver clouds above, and how that coftea tasted, when shared with friends.

The Harvest Temple came into view, and also not. As it was the only structure sticking up from the ground, it had to be the temple, but it was layered with enough black glass to make it look like some lighthouse in some frozen sea, where black layered over every pillar and stretched out to the west. The Ring of Gods that surrounded the central glassed spire was barely understandable as what it had been, not ten days ago. Some of the pillars and their sculptures half-survived, but they were now merely bumps of black spikes larger than the rest.

Erick floated forward, over the temple grounds.

Someone had put up lights outside the temple, and inside, too, but they were minor lights. The dark glass drank in all illumination, turning everything into shadows and night. He docked the platform onto the top of the stairs, and looked down onto the temple floor. Other people had been here; the floor was a mess of footprints and broken glass. He stepped down onto the temple floor, and saw the mess made of Atunir’s statue.

Where there was once a tall woman holding an apple, petting a cow, surrounded by stone fruits and vegetables and wheat and grains, there was now a mess of dark glass, lumpy and indistinct. Erick raised his hand to [Stoneshape] the glass away—

He stopped.

This place wasn’t the Farm, or even a farm. Not anymore. Maybe never again. Or maybe people would come back next year, in Water Season, when the land supported normal [Grow] farming and it wasn’t all just black glass.

Whistling wind caught on the land. The sound was vastly different from the breeze playing through leaves, or grasses. The cows mooing in the distance. Bees buzzing...

Erick said, “This really sucks, Poi.”

“I agree, sir.”

“But I can’t leave it like this.” Erick said, “It’s just not right.”

[Mending Aura].

A white flow pulsed from Erick, rapidly draining mana, crashing into the glass at his feet. But the black glass did not wash away; it restored itself to full. The broken glass under Erick turned solid, and spiky. Erick cut his aura. Glass crunched under his weight, spreading tiny cracks out from his shoes. He pressed against the floor. The glass broke, a little.

“It’s been damaged that much, huh.” Erick said, “All the way to its Base Self.” He frowned. He asked Poi, “Have you heard if anyone caught in the fire was unable to be revived?”

Poi did not need to check the air for the answer. He said, “The Red Dot was an attack that rewrote Reality, turning everything to fire. It ripped apart souls, completely consuming them as it burned.” He added, “We know this because a husband to one of the guards on the wall tried to get her revived. Messalina turned him away, telling him that there was no hope. The guard’s soul was utterly destroyed.”

Erick frowned at the solid glass under his feet. “She really could have warned us about what we were actually facing.”

“Silverite thinks that Messalina doesn’t actually know how her village was destroyed. She has been known to revive from impossible odds and even soul crushing magics. It is possible that she was actually out of town, or maybe something else happened. [Witness]es conducted by the Headmaster were blank when used in the center of the remains of her village, and those remains were not glassed like this here.” Poi said, “The place where her village had been was simply gone; replaced by a crater two kilometers across.”

“I managed to reflect that spell. Mostly. Maybe.” Erick looked up at the black glass layered over Atunir. “Is this what an uncontrolled Red Dot does? Was it the right call?”

Poi said, “The consensus is that if it hadn’t prematurely detonated away from Spur, none of us would be here. Two other Archmages tried to [Dispel] it before you bounced it, but they failed, even with a 25,000 mana Favored [Dispel]. The hunters in town were plan B.” He added, “What happened was truly among the best possible outcomes, sir.”

Erick mulled that thought over.

He didn’t say that he could have used [Death’s Approach] to try a 69,000 mana [Dispel]. If that didn’t work, he still had one more Favor he could apply to [Dispel], turning his next 69,000 mana into the equivalent of a 138,000 [Dispel]. That would destroy almost any magics, wouldn’t it?

But he hadn’t thought to do such a thing, at the time, and though this failure of thought was a secondary issue, it was still a part of his usual problem; he was not yet acclimated to the demands of this world. If he had thought to use [Death’s Approach], would that action have been the right call?

And then he had another thought. The Red Dot mage was still out there. Even if Erick managed to [Dispel] the attack, the Red Dot mage could try again…

I need to solve this problem, permanently. I need to find the Red Dot mage and end them. And I need to find a secondary way around the problem of that kind of spell. [Teleport Spell]? Is that a thing that exists? I need [Lightwalk]. Should I eat that horn? Jane said I could...

