I remember how thrilled I was upon receiving Peace, a princely gift I didn’t even entirely understand at the time, and all the frustration which came after. My beloved wife wrapped the hilt, my gruff father found the needed materials, and they, along with Husolt helped me find my way along the Martial Path and bind the weapon for my use. I named it Peace, because I knew that the peace of the sword was the only peace I would ever know in this life. Might makes right, so without might, I would forever be waiting to be trod upon, just like I am right now. Make no mistake, despite my lofty titles and rising star, without the strength of the People behind me, I would be long dead and forgotten. Even then, should the costs of keeping me around ever begin to outweigh the benefits, I’ve no doubt the Legate would be rid of me in a heartbeat. I could see it in his eyes today, the way he calmly and logically considered the pros and cons of having me murdered in cold blood, and I’m still not sure he’s made his final decision.

So without my sword, without strength, I will never know peace in this life, and forever remain but one step shy of disaster so long as I draw breath.

Next came Tranquility, a gift from Yan and Grandpa Du. Also crafted by Husolt, he poured his heart and soul into a unique shield suited for my fighting style. Despite all my fears and reservations, I fight close and dirty because that’s how I prefer it, and Tranquility was perfect for my needs. It complemented my aggressive tendencies, yet also afforded me the luxury of fighting defensively if need be. I always thought it strange how I associated the shield with the more aggressive side of my personality, but Tranquility suited ‘Baledagh’ perfectly by reinforcing his strengths and shoring up his weaknesses. With this shield in hand, I could go all out and still have something to rely on in case of disaster, and I cannot count the times the shield saved my life. Not just by blocking an attack or claiming a life, but by just being there, it afforded me options I might otherwise not have had.

I named it Tranquility because that was what it gave me, the ability to calmly take a step back and find a much-needed moment of serenity in the chaos of battle. With this weapon in hand, I knew I would be protected from the worst of my mistakes, but now, I live life on the razor’s edge, with no room to err in any direction I turn.

Last of all, was Unity. Unity of mind and unity of purpose, the transforming glaive-gun was the missing piece of the puzzle. Peace and Tranquility are good and fine, but Conflict and Turmoil are all but inevitable. I wanted to be myself and keep the Warrior separate, to protect myself from the horrors of war and stay true to my modern morals and beliefs, and while Mahakala showed me what I had done, it was Unity which showed me why my methods were flawed. Even a modern man must take up arms and kill when the situation demands it, for the right to freedom, liberty, life, and perhaps more, but we all like to pretend peace is the only way. It’s not. Peace requires compromise, and even without the Defiled, there are just some people who are unable to compromise, which is when violence becomes a necessity. Fight the good fight and adapt to new circumstances when necessary, but do not lose yourself along the way, that is the lesson Unity taught me. I am the ruthless warrior, but I am also the silly animal enthusiast, and I can be both without having to sacrifice one or the other.

And now all my weapons are gone, and all I have left is dust and memories. Soon, even those will fade away, and then what?

As the night grows late, everyone heads off to sleep, though I hang back to make sure all the animals have a place for the night. Grandpa Du also lingers behind, scooping up sweet, snoring Kishi as if she were a tiny baby rather than the hundred kilo beast that she is. Coddling the spoiled quin, Grandpa Du gestures for me to walk beside him as he heads off to his room. “When I was first crippled,” he begins, sparking up a story out of nowhere, “All the Healers, Herbalists, and Physicians I met with all recommended the same thing. Amputate the useless leg, because all it does is cause pain. I of course refused, because it was my leg. How could I bear to part with it? So instead, I treated the pain and clung to the hope of recovery, and where did that get me? Addicted to dream smoke and in constant pain for several decades is where. The Medical Saint could have restored my leg even if it wasn’t there, so the only reason to keep the leg was pride and pride alone.” Shaking his head with a sad smile, he fixes me with a knowing look. “I understand why you held onto your Spiritual Weapons for as long as you did, but do not make the same mistake I did. Hope is both sweet nectar and deadly poison in one. The weapons are gone, you must accept this. When you recover, you will have new weapons forged, and it will be a day to celebrate, but do not cling to hope without cause. Do not let yourself be poisoned by hope.”

Smiling in spite of myself, I hug Grandpa Du and ask, “Is it that obvious?”

“Of course. You’ve been sitting around all night instead of poring over your notes in search of answers.” Ruffling my hair, which is still covered in product and less disgusting than I expected, Grandpa Du says, “My advice, which you will likely ignore, is to get a good night’s sleep so you will be bright-eyed and fresh-faced when you read your notes tomorrow. You are making great strides in your recovery, so there is no need to over-rush, and haste makes waste even in the best of circumstances.” Puffing up with pride, he says, “The others are too stuffed up to say this often, but you are a marvel, little Rain, and not because of your strength or brilliance. Even if you never recover and fall from grace, this old man is proud to have you as his grand-son in law, because you are a good man.”

“A good man,” I repeat, wry and unimpressed. “And look what that’s got me.”

“A loving family, two affectionate wives, a devoted concubine, and a charming young wifey, by my count.” Grinning as he shooes me away, Grandpa Du adds, “Do not underestimate the value of love, little Rain. Love makes heroes and monsters of us all.”

“...Love makes heroes and monsters of us all.” Once again, I repeat Grandpa Du’s words to myself while shuffling back to my room. Ping Ping’s loving Aura is in full blast as she herds me towards bed with a bevy of squeaks, while the red panda glares at us from on high in the trees so he can finally be free to swing. “Love makes heroes and monsters of us all.” Picking up the pace, I burst into my room and do exactly as Grandpa Du expected, sitting down at my desk to flip through my notes in a frenzy. The information all but leaps off the page at me as I search for the relevant sections, the answer on the tip of my tongue but still yet to coalesce into a real thought. “Love makes heroes and monsters of us all,” I mumble over and over, more so I don’t forget, until finally...

“Holy Shit! That’s it!”

Chapter Meme
