When it comes to big ticket fights, I’ve seen some real shit.

I had front row seats to Akanai’s duel against the Demon Vivek Daatei. When Bastard Liu’s sword erupted from Yo Ling’s belly, I was dangling in the splash zone. In Sinuji, Nian Zu unleashed the Shooting Star on Zhu Changzui, and I was almost knocked off my feet by the resulting aftershocks. It was all incredibly impressive, but then, in that same battle, I witnessed the Ancestral Mole-Lady raise a towering wave of earth and Guan Suo disperse it with a much smaller cloud of ash, and I thought, “Wow. Blessings are overpowered.”

Those were the greatest hits I ever had the misfortune to experience first-hand, but aside from the sheer resilience of Big Poppa Piggy, none of the mundane Martial Warriors were particularly impressive. Now, to be fair, every single one of the previously listed combatants could kill me with ease, even when I was at the peak of my strength, but I’d always believed there was a stark difference between Blessed Martial Warriors and their mundane counterparts. Despite Dad’s efforts to convince me otherwise, everything I’d ever seen pointed to the same, undeniable fact, that focusing on a Blessing was much better than focusing on Forms, because the disparity in endgame power-levels is just too high. It’s like fighters and wizards in video games; the fighter is strong early and falls off late, while the wizard is the reverse, and well... late game is all that matters, right? Plus, I thought it’d be cool to shoot water bullets and conjure water shields, but when it comes right down to it, I always believed that at the highest levels of the Martial Path, an Elemental Blessing was an advantage mere physical strength could never overcome.

Turns out, I’ve just never seen a Peak Expert really cut loose.

Nian Zu’s Shooting Star is impressive and all, but considering he was unable to beat Goujian in single combat, I’ve been feeling mildly scornful of his physical prowess. However, the Legate’s moves put everything I know to shame, and I suspect he might actually be a half-step Divinity, a warrior stronger than Peak Experts but not quite ready to take on Ancestral Beasts. For a tenth of a second, he all but disappears from sight as I reach for Enlightenment, but where normally this would slow things down to a crawl, the Legate’s battle is reduced to mere flashes of gold and black. It’s like watching a poorly made flip book, where scenes jump from one to the next with little to no transition as the golden-robed Legate blinks about the room with multiple obsidian blurs hot on his heels. I’m still able to parse together the battle’s progression thanks to context clues and such, but my mind is barely able to keep up, much less wrap itself around the seemingly impossible feats taking place. Gravity seems like an afterthought as the Legate puts his feet wherever he pleases, jumping from bed to windowsill before running up the walls and onto the roof, whereupon he leaps over his foes and trades blows mid-air in an awe-inspiring effort to keep them off his back. Never before have I seen anyone move with such speed, to the point where I can’t even identify the type of sword he wields or where he drew it from as the metallic blur darts about his slender frame in a dazzling display of skill and finesse. Aside from the jet-black dagger jutting out of his chest, the Wraiths’ weapons are unable to penetrate the Legate’s steely defence, and the wound doesn’t even seem to slow him down as he fights with the grace and elegance of a god given flesh.

And yet... the Wraiths still stand, even the one who was sent flying out of the room in their first exchange, clutching a single obsidian dagger while his other arm hangs loosely at his side. Not only are these cloaked assassins able to match the Legate’s speed and skill, their practised coordination seems to have him on the back foot. It’s a combination of their billowy cloaks and confusing movements, flowing about the room in a ring of ebony death. Even their exposed skin is dark as night, covered in ash or ink to better hide in the shadows, and their smooth, gliding motions leave me unable to keep track of each individual Wraith. To my eyes, it almost seems like they melt into one another, crashing without impact like weightless shadows shifting about the room with impossible speed and grace.

All this takes place in the blink of an eye, with dozens of exchanges ringing out so consistently it could almost be mistaken for a single note. Then, before the daggers in my sleeves are even halfway out their sheathes, the Seneschal joins the fight, and I regret mouthing off to the old fart so many times before. Though the others are fast, the Seneschal is even faster as his dazzling sword bisects a Wraith with ease, and my eyes are unable to even follow his movements except in those brief moments when he slows down to pivot. If the Legate and Wraiths were a flip book, the Seneschal is more like a static comic, with panels poorly arranged to illustrate flow and seemingly pulling off impossible movements. One moment he stands at the Legate’s side with back turned to his enemies, and the next he’s behind the Wraiths and facing his foes with weapon drawn, then back to the Legate’s side once more as the bodies hit the floor. Double-edged Jian humming whilst covered in the sickly-green blood of his enemies, the Solitary Sword stands ready to defend his liege, but there are no more foes to be found aside from the singular bisected form lying dead on my bedroom floor.

And just as quickly as all the chaos began, the battle comes to an uncertain end. Several seconds pass before I even realize it’s all over and my daggers are utterly useless, a period of time which seems longer than the battle itself. As the dust settles, I find my room in complete tatters, with the floor, walls, and furniture all carved to pieces and strewn all about, and a pool of greenish Ichor spilling out of the corpse and slowly spreading across the wooden floors. Sentinels and Death Corps silently appear in droves, their weapons at the ready yet seconds too late to defend their liege, who rattles off commands without a care for the weapon lodged in his sternum. “There are five Peak Expert Wraiths on the loose. Lock down the Citadel and double the guards for all General Officers. Peak Experts are to gather together and travel in groups, and secure our hospitals, craftsmen, and other vital tradesmen to ensure they are not picked off.”

There’s more to the Legate’s orders, but my world goes silent and fuzzy as I notice a gaping absence in my awareness, one whose presence I’d only just come to terms with. Shuffling in place, I turn around and try to orient myself in the ruins of my old room, but even after a full circle, I find myself unable to find my bearings. There’s something wrong, something off about my perception, and then it hits me like a hammer as I come face to face with a gaping hole in the wall where the Seneschal’s sword must have passed through. The wall once housed the shattered remnants of my Spiritual weapons, but no more. The tumultuous battle has rendered my fragile weapons to little more than fine, metallic sand, spilling off the shelves they were lovingly displayed upon. They were symbols of better times when I rode to battle with those weapons in hand, and of a hopeful future in which I would repair and reclaim them to use against the hated Enemy.

A past which exists only in memory, and a future I can hope for no more.

Faltering beneath the cumbersome weight of the truth, I stumble in place and fall to my knees. The shadows close in around me, smothering and suffocating me as I struggle for breath, and I do nothing but pray for a rude awakening from this nightmare or the warm welcome of death. Neither comes and I am left to face the cold, harsh reality, that my weapons are gone for good, never to be seen again. It was a slim chance I’d ever bring them back, even if I somehow miraculously recovered, but the dream was what sustained me, and even that has been denied me. I’ve seen this coming for months now, have known my weapons weren’t recovering the same way I was, but to see it realized hurts me in ways I wasn’t prepared for. Moving without knowing, I reach into the growing pile of what was once Peace and run my fingers through the mixture of metal, dust, animal fur, and who knows what else, and confirm the connection is dead and gone.

I’ve lost a part of myself today, as real as any limb or organ. Peace, Tranquility, and Unity were all named for things I hoped to have one day, ideals I yearned to bring to this turbulent world, but now it seems those dreams were for naught. Despite all my protests otherwise, I always believed I had a purpose in this world, had come here for a specific reason, not out of arrogance or self-importance, but because... I needed to believe it. How else could I explain my mere existence? Why else would I have been put through so much suffering? It’s what drove me to endure all that harsh training and to push through all those horrific experiences, to continue onwards through all the grief and hardships, the trials and tribulations, because I believed it was all for a reason, to prepare me for what lay ahead, but that’s all a lie, and I can live it no longer. I’m no hero of fate or Chosen Son of the Mother. I’m just a terrified man who’s been thrown into circumstances beyond his comprehension, and this, more than anything, fills me with dread and terror.

Bony fingers clamp about my shoulder and wrench me to my feet, where I find myself face to face with the Seneschal. Solitary Sword Zhang Jun Bao, a contemporary of Grandpa Du’s, but from the two... or maybe three attacks I saw him execute, it would appear the Seneschal has left his old rival far behind. The Legate too, as even in the state of Enlightenment, I couldn’t wholly make out his movements, and I’ve only seen flashy acrobatics like his when the members of the Iron Banner are messing around to determine their rankings. The Seneschal’s lips move, but my brain is unable to parse through his meaning, the sounds all distorted and nonsensical like muted, warbling trumpets covering speech. Frowning, the wrinkled Seneschal gives me a shake and repeats himself, causing something to snap into place as my brain kicks into gear once more. “ – wrong with you? Were you injured?”

“No,” I reply, my tone remarkably neutral considering the circumstances. “I’m fine.” Glancing down at the rest of me, I double check to make sure, but the Wraiths didn’t even look at me askew during the entire assassination attempt. Weird. My notes survived the chaos though, both the revised copies and the final product I dropped in favour of my daggers. They’re a little crumpled now, but should still be legible, so thank the Heavens for small favours. “Yep. All in one piece. Lost my Spiritual Weapons though. Dusted. Gone.”

The last bit just slips out as I had no intention of saying anything, but the Seneschal simply ignores it and drags me over. “So long as you are unharmed. Now, do whatever it is you do.” Gesturing at the bisected Wraith, lying there with his head next to his ankles, the Seneschal takes my notes, pushes me towards the corpse, and steps back to watch, but I have no idea what he expects. Grimacing in exasperation, he explains, “The Ichor, boy. Do whatever it is you do, and keep a clear mind. The young master will have questions for you, and he expects coherent answers.”

Glancing at the Legate, I see him watching me with focused clarity from the ruined remains of my mattress. The bed frame was shattered beyond repair sometime during all the chaos, but the mattress was only cut up a bit and is still more or less in one piece, which is enough for the Legate to lie down on while an Imperial Healer in Liang Family robes tends to his wounds. Aside from a light sheen of sweat across his brow and single lock of hair fallen out of place, there’s no sign of exertion in his aloof expression, nor any indication of pain. Not bad for a dude who just had a poisoned dagger lodged in his chest, but from the looks of his mostly clean robes, he was able to stop the bleeding almost instantaneously. The entire battle was over and done with in maybe two seconds, if that, yet I saw more than enough to know that the Legate’s Imperial Title of Shen ZhenWu is not undeserved.

Divine True Warrior is the exact translation, but True Divine Warrior would probably more accurately convey its meaning. A minor difference, but language shenanigans have gotten me into troubles before.

