Urged on by the Seneschal’s impatient noises, I return to the task at hand, though my mind is still mourning the loss of my weapons. Seeing only Death Corps soldiers around, I figure there’s no point hiding anything anymore and dip my fingers into the foul, yellow-green Ichor pooling about the Wraith’s corpse, which I only now figured out meant that this is no Wraith, but a Demon in human form. I am, of course, immediately proven wrong as the viscous goop does absolutely nothing besides stink up the room and cling to my fingers. There is no tingle of Energy rushing into my body, no draining of whatever this foul liquid might be, and it’s all I can do to keep from flailing my hand about in a desperate attempt to free myself of its touch. “Ew. That’s not Ichor.” Wiping my hands on the dead Wraith’s loose western robes, I tear free the garments to better wipe my hands, and uncover a haggard, torso underneath, his cracked skin lacking moisture yet hanging loosely from his frames. Though freshly slain, the Wraith’s corpse looks like it’s been dead for some time and then partially mummified by someone who doesn’t know what he’s doing. Dark, unseeing orbs peer out from open eyes, eyes which are pitch black as far as I can see, and removing the veil reveals brittle, grey skin in the shade of an overcast sky. The darker colours leech away as the seconds tick by to reveal a pale, wan complexion underneath, and those darkened eyes begin to clear up and reveal hints of white around the edges. This leads me to believe this inky darkness routine is brought about by Chi, but then again, everything is technically an expression of Heavenly Energy, so what else is new? One thing is for certain though. “This isn’t a Demon. This is a man. A Defiled man, but human nonetheless.”

“Impossible,” the Seneschal declares, though utterly lacking in conviction. “It must be a Demon, one cast in human form. I cut this monstrosity down myself and watched Ichor spew out. Ichor, not blood, but Demonic Ichor.”

“Like I said, it’s not Ichor.” Shrugging as I dab at the pooling goop with the Wraith’s cloak, I hold up a wet glob for the Seneschal to see. “It looks and feels similar, but it’s not caustic and never was. The floorboards are all still intact underneath, and I don’t remember Ichor stinking so much.” Plus there’s the whole lack of Succ happening, meaning there’s no Heavenly Energy or whatever in this nasty gunk. Eyeing the corpse once more, I notice a trail of crimson blood trickling out the side of his mouth and draw the Seneschal’s attention to it and shrug.

I should be more concerned, but this all feels like this is all happening to someone else, and I’m merely a bystander trapped in my own flesh watching it all go by. Prying the Wraith’s dagger out of his lifeless grip, I jam it into his chest just below the neck and punch through the bone and sinew. Foul, sickly green goop dribbles out, but I work the dagger back and forth to ‘pump’ the wound until it starts leaking blood instead, the two liquids streaming out yet never mixing much like water and oil. “See? He bleeds goop and blood. Maybe our foe discovered some way to supercharge his Wraiths with an injection of some derivative of Demon Ichor, since the real stuff would melt his test-subjects from the inside out. Hope he doesn’t have too many of them, because they looked like a real handful to deal with. Then again, considering how Demons consume corpses for sustenance and what we’ve already seen in Anathema production, I’m guessing death and suffering feature prominently in this goop’s ingredients list, and our enemies have plenty of both on hand.”

Looking up from my work, I find the Legate, the Seneschal, the Imperial Healer, and even a few Death Corps looking at me oddly, but I can’t find it in me to care. Maybe I’ll regret it later and lose sleep trying to convince everyone that I’m me and not a Zhen Shi meat-puppet, but I think I’m in shock or something, like my brain is still lagging from trying to process the martial arts fuckery I just witnessed. “Could someone bring me a washbasin please, and a hand towel too?” I’d also like my notes back, but not until my hands are clean and dry again. Wouldn’t want to ruin the pages.

For once, none of the Death Corps leap to obey and instead look to the Seneschal for orders, who in turn looks to the Legate. He nods and a Death Corps guard scurries away, but I’m beginning to think things aren’t as hunky dory I initially suspected, because the Imperial Healer is done working but the Legate is still lying prone on the mattress. Knowing his love of power games, I doubt he enjoys appearing vulnerable before me, but unlike him, I won’t judge him for his weakness. Rather than meeting his gaze or studying his wounds, I look around for another Wraith dagger, since they always come in pairs, but it turns out the dead Wraith is the same one who stabbed the Legate. “Well, at least you got even,” I quip, before thinking better of it. “Is the poison different too? Worse than normal?”

“...Yes.” A single word reply, and strained at that, but the Legate still manages to look calm and haughty. “Much worse. I do believe I’m paralyzed.”

...Huh. Well shit. The battle lasted only a few seconds, which means this Wraith poison is not only more potent, but also faster acting. Why did the Wraiths flee then? Was this just a test run? A warning? “Should I send someone for my Teacher?” I ask, approaching the Legate to check his wounds, but the Seneschal moves to intercept. Ah, right, they still suspect me of being controlled by Zhen Shi.

“No need.” Still studying me with an unreadable expression, he pauses for a few beats before saying, “A suspicious man might note that the Wraiths ignored you entirely.”

“He would also note that the Wraiths had you dead to rights, in spite of the Seneschal’s speedy defence.” Shrugging, I spread my hands to show I have nothing to hide, because in this case, I really don’t. “I have no idea why they ignored me, but I’m not in league with them.”

I don’t have any proof, but thankfully, the Legate seems... not reluctant, not hesitant, but unwilling to order my death, even though it would probably be the easiest solution. While someone must have seen me standing here uninjured, the Legate could easily lie and say the Wraiths returned for a second attack. They even have a Wraith dagger they could use to poison me, because if it can paralyze the Legate, a bonafide Peak Expert and maybe half-step Divinity, it will most certainly kill me, a mere commoner, outright.

Maybe he believes me, or maybe the trick I pulled in the Peony Pavilion tea house back in Central has him thinking I’m resistant to poison and will be too slow in dying, but either way, the Legate doesn’t give the order to have me killed and instead has the Seneschal return my notes to my still intact desk. Gesturing with his chin, the Legate says, “One glaring mistake in your notes there. The Core is not the powerhouse of the Martial Warrior.”

...God dammit. That was like... the one thing I was certain of. “How so?”

“Our power comes from the Heavens,” the Legate Sends, grunting as the Seneschal lifts him into his arms. “The Core is merely the medium through which we harness it. Therein lies the key to humanity’s success, young Rain, as well as what may be our ultimate downfall.”

Though he intends to say more, the Legate is wracked with a coughing fit and unable to Send, at which point the Seneschal interjects. “Enough,” he says, out loud for everyone to hear. “You overtax yourself. Rest, young master, and your loyal servant will see to your care.” For the first time since I met them, I’m given a glimpse behind the curtain of their private relationship, and I see tender concern and affection in the old man’s gaze, so similar to how a father might look at his injured son. That love is reflected in the absolute trust the Legate has in his Seneschal, who nods and closes his eyes to lapse into blissful sleep. Considering Zhang Jun Bao disappeared some five decades ago, it’s entirely possible he’s been serving the Legate since the day he was born, watched him grow from a boy into the man he is today, and I find that... disturbing. It’s so much easier to guard against them when they’re cold, calculating killers who hold my fate in their hands, and humanizing them makes me want to trust them even more.

I can’t though. Between Blobby, Ping Ping, and Pong Pong, that’s three secrets they’d be willing to kill for, plus there’s the whole Natal Palace diving thing Mahakala warned me to never reveal. There’s probably more stuff I’m not remembering right now, but any one of those secrets would be enough to keep me from trusting them, because at the end of the day, no matter how much value I might bring to the table or how many fancy titles he throws at me, I am still, and always will be, a pawn in Shen ZhenWu’s eyes.

Clutching my notes to my chest, I hold them tight and watch as the Death Corps escort the Seneschal out, at which point my family comes crashing in to make sure I’m alright. Mom, Dad, Akanai, Husolt, Song, and Grandpa Du all arrive in full force, their weapons in hand and escorts at full alert. Bombarding me with questions as to my health and well-being, their warm concern fills me with much-deserved guilt, because even though I knew five super Wraiths were out sneaking around, never once did I stop to worry about my family.

Because I was too busy mourning a couple fragile weapons, instead of being concerned for my loved ones. Great priorities there, buddy. You’re a stand up guy.

Tensions are high for the rest of the night as I fill everyone in on what happened over dinner at my manor. Charok and the twins came back with Taduk and Lin-Lin to celebrate my return to consciousness, but now that he’s here, none of us feel safe letting him go back alone, especially not with so many of our strongest warriors here guarding Ping Ping or out with Alsantset, Mila, and Yan. Luckily, my manor has plenty of extra rooms since I don’t keep many servants, enough for everyone to have a room for themselves. Mom and Dad take the room across the courtyard, and Akanai and Husolt claim the one beside it, while Song tries to borrow Mila’s room and requires subtle convincing to take a free room instead. The last thing I need tonight is for someone to ask about the steel monstrosity Mila and I use for safe happy-fun-times, but luckily, Song is easily swayed by the allure of a courtyard window with a view of the red panda who supposedly plays on the tire swing at night. Even Taduk and Lin-Lin stay over, though Guard Leader makes it clear she’ll be staying with my sweet wifey and that there will be dire consequences if I am found sneaking about.

I still can’t make heads or tails of her relation to Lin-Lin, but I’m pretty sure she’s an Ancestral Beast. Whether she’s Lin-Lin and Taduk’s Mother still has yet to be seen, but I know I’ll feel better having a Divinity around. I mean, the Wraiths waited to strike until after the Enemy Divinity drew Chief Baldy away, which means they’ll probably avoid my house too. That is, of course unless Guard Leader is not a Divinity and just a really strong, pushy half-beast, but either way, I won’t complain if she wants to stick around.

Today threw my perception of power levels all out of whack, and I’m not sure where anyone sits on the scales anymore. There was a time when Akanai was the end all, be all of strength, but now I don’t even know if she’s on the higher end of Peak Expert. I’ve never seen her pressed in a fight except in that battle against Demon Vivek, but she was sorely hampered by her need to put up a mental barrier against his odd, dream attacks, and still easily beat him into the ground. She had trouble dealing the killing blow without taking injury herself, but she was also handicapped by the need to keep him away from the slumbering soldiers, so it’s hard to say if she could match the Legate’s strength. Never one to shy at asking questions, I bring it up after describing the Legate’s strength to the best of my abilities, but Akanai merely purses her lips and frowns. “Impossible to say which of us is stronger without trading blows.” Though uncertain, she gives me a reassuring smile and pats my head. “But fear not, little Rain. Even if my strength is found lacking, there are still taller shoulders to hold up the Heavens. Your recovery is progressing faster than any of us expected, but even if you need another century, the People will ensure you have all the time you need.”

That’s my family. Always here to look out for me, but never willing to tell me how. It’s wonderful and frustrating all at the same time, but I wouldn’t change a thing about them.

Despite the threat of Demon-Juiced assassins hanging over our heads, we still try to make the best of the situation and spend the evening in each other’s company, mostly sitting about the courtyard watching the twins and animals play. For once, I can’t bring myself to enjoy their cutesy, floofy antics, not because my mind is stuck on the day’s events or my mysterious, unread notes, but because I can’t get over the loss of my weapons. It’s stupid and silly to be this distraught over a few broken pieces of metal, but they meant the world to me. Not just the strength they represented or the concepts they embodied, but also the memories which came with them.

