“Not Walt Disney. That’s a myth. And yes, we’ve frozen people. But Daly, it’s an idea. No one has ever, and I mean, ever been resurrected from being frozen except for embryos! And a human being is infinitely more—”
The penny dropped. Paige murmured.
“Oh no. You don’t mean—”
“If we brought her to the best medical facility on Earth with an unlimited budget—I’d expect us to fail with our current technology. I—she’s dead. They just froze her solid.”
Geneva did not want to tell them that. But she had to.
 
Geneva to Joseph. I am sorry to say this. But cryonic preservation is closer to myth than reality. No one has ever been brought back from being frozen. It may not be possible. Certainly with our level of technology. And if Erin Solstice is dead, the likelihood of her becoming undead is extreme. I repeat—
Erin is alive!
 
The words scratched themselves across the paper as the [Mage] wrote, unconsciously copying the style and force of the words. Geneva saw the parchment tear a bit. She looked down. Then her eyes widened.
[Detect Life]? [Detect Death]?
There was a spell like—
She knocked her chair over, leaning on the paper.
“Paige. Get me this spell. I need it to be learned. Now!”
The [Blackpowder Engineer] stared at Geneva. But then she noted down the spell. The Selphid looked confused. Idis was just as perplexed.
“What’s the big deal, Geneva? Selphid [Mages] know both spells. Only us and [Necromancers], but—”
“You know the spell? And you don’t—”
The others stared at her. Geneva hesitated. Idis formed the reply.
“Talking to Okasha, sorry.”
They nodded. Geneva took the moment to just—scream. Internally. No one understood. Any medical practitioner would.
There was a…spell? A spell that told you with one hundred percent accuracy if someone was alive or dead?
Employ it in every ER room in the world! Have it tell you the instant a patient was gone. Geneva didn’t believe it herself. What if someone was dead—but they were brought back? Cases where they were in the body bag and they woke up?
Would it tell the truth then? If so? It was a terrible spell. A necessary spell. One that took the uncertainty out of those moments.
Geneva Scala had never hated anything more than that spell. Magic that took away uncertainty, and thus, hope.
As a [Doctor], she needed it. And she would test it to make sure it was true.
But it changed…she sat back down, slowly. It changed the problem. Suddenly, she was not breaking the news to someone in denial. She was thinking.
Assume that Erin Solstice was brain-dead. Functions of life ceased. Of course—she had been frozen. But quickly. You couldn’t ask for a faster freeze considering the conditions, according to the scrawled replies.
And also—assume that potions didn’t work. Skills?
“She is not alive. So any Skill meant for a living body would fail.”
Rules of a game. Some of the others were nodding. Geneva began making notes. And then stopped.
This was insane. Cryonics was something beyond the cutting edge of medicine back home. How was she supposed to deal with it?
When they warmed her up, she’d die. The water in her cells had surely expanded, which meant if you brought her back to life she died from the damage to—everything. You couldn’t just freeze and unfreeze something.
Magic. Magic had to bridge the places where science was insufficient. And yet—
“Healing potions did not work when applied to the corpse? Of course not. And we have to assume poison is still present…”
She was trying to come up with an answer. The others waited as Geneva wrote, piecing out her thoughts.
First. You’d need the antidote. For the patient—Erin. She would die either way or be unable to be healed. That was simplest, most obvious. But you’d have to…apply it in her corpse-state? If Geneva were there, she might try a surgery on the corpse if you could…preserve it while warm? But bacteria, cell damage—
Some way of applying the antidote while the corpse was preserved? Body. No—person. She was not dead.
Madness. Geneva wrote on.
You needed a way of warming the body without warming it. As well as reverse the damage the freezing had caused. Insanity.
But…let’s say you managed to do that. Warm the body without destroying it. Then you had a chance.
“Some kind of—of false-life. A ventricular assist device. If they are alive, the key is pumping the potion around the bloodstream.”
Yet a healing potion wouldn’t work. So—a superior potion. Geneva went for her notes.
“They need a Potion of Regeneration.”
Idis made a sound. Daly stirred.
“What’s the difference, Geneva?”
“Highest-grade alchemy items work on living and non-living matter, Daly. I’ve consulted with [Healers]—they shared their notes during the Yellow Rivers pandemic. Some potions ignore poison. They’d need that. If only to reverse the freezing damage. Apply that. Remove the poison. Find out how to warm her—and then restart her heart and…”
All this while keeping her body safe. They had a what, a [Field of Preservation]? Did that work on someone who was neither alive nor dead? She had to be kept frozen.
The [Doctor] didn’t know. This sounded like a fairytale. But that’s what it was. An experimental procedure neither world had ever envisioned before. And they needed one more thing.
A [Doctor]. Geneva looked at the Selphid.
“I’m ready to send.”
She began writing her reply. Stopping every few seconds to jot down more notes. It was insanity. But…she looked at the name again.
Erin Solstice. But for her, the Yellow Rivers disease would still be spreading without a cure. Geneva shook her head.
 
—-
 
…hypothetical procedure would be made up of many parts. At least one ‘Relic-class’ potion or spell capable of restoring inanimate organic matter to a healthy state. Please advise me of your location and the condition of the patient.
 
The words poured in suddenly. Lyonette gasped in physical relief.
Geneva was hedging her words, every few lines writing ‘hypothetically’, or ‘in theory’. She kept stressing that you couldn’t just unfreeze someone. There was no medical basis for this.
And yet. It was like Visma’s discovery. Numbtongue’s revelation.
Hope. And with it, all the fear in the world. The [Doctor] did not have all the answers. But she had clues. Clues to a puzzle.
Suddenly, The Wandering Inn felt alive again. It was a painful life. Every step, Lyonette wanted to scream. To wake back up. To go back in time and tell Montressa to put up a barrier! To tell Bezale to cast a spell!
Throw a [Fireball] at them. Have Olesm blast them from the walls! Lyonette—why hadn’t she stopped Numbtongue? No, why hadn’t she checked for Erin?
She’d been so concerned with Mrsha, and Mrsha had been in the garden.
Guilt flooded the [Princess]. Unreasonable guilt. Overwhelming. She heard Joseph babbling to Rose and Kevin.
“Write it down! Potions! Can Saliss make a Potion of Regeneration?”
No. Lyonette knew that was beyond even the [Alchemist]. She’d heard of his Potion of Youth—and that was a far cry from the real thing, which actually reversed your age permanently. A draught that took twenty years off. If anyone had something like that, it was under lock and key in a treasury. A Terandrian kingdom might…Calanfer?
She didn’t know. Her father was cagey about their remaining treasures. As for producing something like that, either it was some secret artisan or no one had done it.
“She is not dead. She is not dead.”
A voice amid the others. Lyonette looked around. Bird was rocking back and forth on the floor.
“Bird.”
The other Antinium were standing, holding each other. Pawn, Belgrade, Garry—Bird looked around.
“She is not dead.”
“Then she must be brought back.”
Yellow Splatters said this like a fact. The others nodded. Whatever the cost. Suddenly—the Antinium saw a light in the abyss they had been plunged into.
“My Skills did not work.”
“Yet.”
It was a whisper from Belgrade. Garry looked at the others.
“Yes. If she is alive—then—what about it?”
The other Antinium stirred. Garry’s antennae twitched. Lyonette saw their heads turn. And then she heard a whisper.
“The Rite of Anastases.”
“But she is not Antinium.”
“Perhaps.”
Perhaps. Could it be done? Garry ran. Bird followed. Pawn just remained, with Belgrade.
“She is alive. She is alive. She is dead. She is neither. They killed her, Belgrade. They. kILLeD hEr.”
“Pawn. Be calm. You must be calm.”
The [Priest] shook as Lyonette ran over. She threw her arms around him and he relaxed—or at least stopped shaking. But his grief and numb despair was changing.
To fury. And as Lyonette’s shock faded—she felt a cold pit in her stomach. She hugged Pawn, trying to stave it off. But the truth was that Geneva wasn’t certain. Erin was not…dead.
But how did you bring her back? Suddenly, a mountain as tall as the High Passes. And worse—Lyonette realized something else.
The others didn’t even know.
 
—-
 
Maviola El rode as fast as she could after the army of Liscor. Her mount quaffed another potion thirstily, and the water. But she pushed the stallion as hard as she could.
She came across signs of battle. Blood on the ground, broken earth. She looked ahead. Faster. Faster, she had to be faster!
 
—-
 
The true nature of war among Drake cities unveiled itself to Olesm piece by piece. And he realized—the surrenders were another weapon.
Hectval’s forces met Liscor’s. The armies were spread about the hills, fighting in clumps. Olesm was trying to draw them back together.
But Menolit was right. This was no cohesive army. It was bits and pieces, driven forwards solely by rage. Groups ignored his orders, charging the enemy. Taking poor engagements, fighting without formation.
Even so—they won. Olesm counted eight pitched battles, six of which had gone Liscor’s way. The Drake [Soldiers] weren’t the highest-level. Nor were they a match for Gold-ranks. The sheer fury of Liscor’s citizenry.
Embria’s 4th had split up to apply their Skills to the other parts of the scattered army, fighting over a few miles of ground as they advanced, leaving the road and heading towards Hectval. The south of Izril proper lay down the road. But Hectval was in the hills, along the High Passes.
Another battle, won. Olesm was in charge of this one. [Instantaneous Barrage]. His Level 30 Skill had doubled the volley of arrows, striking the Hectval troops and forcing their surrender as Jeiss, one of Liscor’s best [Swordsmen], led the vanguard and routed the Drakes.
Yet the victory and rush of satisfaction was short lived. Half the Drakes were dead. But from the other half, Olesm heard the familiar refrain again.
“Yield! We yield! Surrender!”
He bared his teeth. They surrendered. And expected to be treated like prisoners of war, wounds treated. They demanded it.
“Tell Keldrass’ group to get back here!”
He snapped at Bevussa. She took wing, cursing. Olesm looked at the latest group of Drakes.
“You won’t win this war! Enjoy it while it lasts, Liscor!”
The [Commander] was glowering at the soldiers. Olesm strode over to him, dismounting from his horse.
“Where is Hectval’s army?”
“I don’t have to answer that.”
The [Commander] folded his arms. Olesm stared at him.
“You’ve surrendered.”
“Yes I have. I’m a prisoner of war.”
He said that like it was a shield. Olesm looked at him.
“Kill him!”
One of the Gnolls howled. They were bloody, healing wounds from the battle. Liscor’s people—Esthelm’s—the Drake just sneered at them.
“You savages. You’re not a proper Drake city. The Scalespeaker was right. Marching with Humans? I half-expected a Gnoll commander. Well—are you going to take our surrender or not?”
He stared at Olesm. He wanted Olesm to formally accept. The Drake looked at the [Commander].
The blue-scaled [Strategist]’s first punch knocked the burlier Drake back a step. The second one made him stumble. The [Commander] clutched at his bleeding snout.
“You dare hit a pr—”
Olesm hit him again. This time he felt something crunch. The Drake recoiled. He raised his claws—Olesm kicked him in the knee with a boot. The other Drake went down, swearing. He was about to jump up with murder in his eyes when Olesm began stomping on his face.
“Olesm! Stop!”
Menolit and Captain Vell dragged Olesm off the [Commander]. The Hectval Drakes were staring. They would have gone to the rescue of their [Commander]—but the other soldiers had weapons and were ready to dice them.
“Stop! He’s a prisoner of war!”
Olesm spat. The [Commander] was lying on the ground, unmoving. Olesm looked behind him. Prisoners! Hectval had attacked Liscor’s army because they had to escort the damn prisoners of war! He was sure they were [Scrying] their captives.
It was so clever. So stupid. So—he raised a bloody boot and the others yanked him back.
“They’re monsters.”
One of the Hectval [Soldiers] said, looking shaken. He flinched as he saw a Drake aim a bow at him.
“Shut up. You don’t deserve to be made prisoners. You—do you even know what you’ve done?”
The Hectval Drakes looked at each other. They slowly shook their heads.
“You killed her! Your damn ambush squads! Erin Solstice! The [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn!”
Silence.
“Who?”
One of the Drakes just looked blank. Another snorted.
“A Human? One Human? You’re all…”
His tongue stopped wagging as he stared at the [Commander]. At the bows suddenly aimed at his chest.
“Hold your fire!”
Vell was shouting at the people with bows. Olesm was breathing hard.
“Enough! Enough.”
He looked at the surrendered prisoners. Shook his head.
“Put them with the others. Someone heal this—get him out of my sight!”
Some people dragged the [Commander] off. One of the [Healers] kicked him once, then dropped a potion on his chest.
“Olesm, this is going too far. There are rules of engagement—”
“I don’t recall signing a treaty, Captain Vell! Regroup! Regroup! Get Keldrass back here! Where’s Moore?”
“Still fighting. Strategist—”
Menolit looked at the Drake. Olesm stared ahead. His jaw worked. He looked at the prisoners, swore, and raised a claw.
“…Retreat.”
The [Veteran]’s eyes widened. He almost said ‘are you sure?’ But he didn’t want to change Olesm’s mind.
“What? We have them on the run!”
An angry Gnoll bellowed. Olesm swung around.
“We can’t keep doing this! The prisoners are slowing us down! Either we let them go—or execute them! Either way, we’re marching too slowly. Tell Moore to disengage once the enemy flees and get back here!”
Menolit was right. Grudgingly, Olesm turned his horse. Take the prisoners. Head back. Menolit murmured a silent ‘thank you’ as Olesm spoke into the speaking stone and word was relayed across the different groups.
Then came Bevussa.
