She pointed at Moore. The half-Giant roared his fury out. Unstoppable despite Hectval’s attempts to down him. Maviola shouted.
“That is how furious you should be! Did you not love Erin Solstice as much as the others? Where is your rage, Olesm?”
He shook at her words.
“I’m—afraid. Afraid of myself. I was about to execute those prisoners. I nearly killed a [Commander]—”
“So you did not weep? Did you shed a tear for Erin? Did you not feel the fury of her death?”
“She’s not dead—”
Maviola struck Olesm again. Then she put her hands on his cheeks. And they were cooler. Still warm. She looked into his eyes with her ember-orange ones.
“What are you doing, Olesm? Why are you suppressing your feelings? You are entitled to them. It is right to weep when terrible things happen. Men, women. Tears are natural. And so is rage. So is anger! Have you ever known me to hide my feelings?”
“No. Not you—”
He almost smiled. Her eyes fixed him. Maviola shook her head.
“Anyone. Olesm Swifttail, we all must feel emotion. Or else, what are we? Just shells of impartial thought? It is fine to weep. Fine to rage.”
“It terrifies me, though. What might I do? I hate them so much.”
The [Lady] shook her head. She looked past him, at Hectval’s army.
“Hate? Why do you say that as if it is such a wrong thing? Is there no one deserving of hate in this world? Did they not deserve it for what they did? We are no perfect people. Humans or Drakes. Hate them. Leave only room for your soul. But look at them, Olesm. What do you see?”
He looked. He saw an army from a foreign city. Who had started a war by killing someone he loved. Who had brought an army against his army. Who used surrender like a trick.
“Hectval.”
The [Strategist] felt it building in him. He looked back at her and realized. He had raged. And then feared for the people under his command.
…But that did nothing for the pain. Nothing for the fury, underlying it all.
Erin. He looked ahead. Hectval would never let them retreat. They would harry them back to Liscor, assail the city itself.
They thought this was a game of war. And the bodies were the score. Maviola El looked at Olesm.
“We’re still outnumbered. Flanked.”
“Oh, Olesm. You should have let the Earl join you. Or waited for me.”
The [Bannerlady]’s eyes glowed. She showed Olesm something she’d brought from Liscor.
A glowing mana stone. The [Lady] shook her head.
“I did not forget the supply line. Now—go.”
Olesm whirled. He felt the terrible rage building. This time—he didn’t try to suppress it. He raced through the ranks of bodies fighting the withdrawal.
“Turn! Turn around! 4th Company, to me! Timbor! Get me a door!”
“A what?”
The [Innkeeper] turned. Maviola tossed him the stone. She drew the Kaalblade. Olesm roared.
“For the Innkeeper of Liscor! Charge! For Liscor! To me! 4th Company to me!”
He stopped as the word went through the army. He pointed back at Timbor just once. The Drake spoke.
“Open that door. Summon the Black Tide.”
Then he plunged forwards. The army of Liscor followed, and Maviola El, holding a banner of fire aloft.
 
—-
 
“What is he doing?”
[Strategists] watched. The Walled Cities were watching after Salazsar requested an immediate link to the battle. Had they heard him right?
“Did a [Strategist] of Liscor just summon—Pallass, confirm! We have to countermand—”
“Manus. Shut up.”
The Grand Strategist was watching. Liscor’s army surged across the ground, after the half-Giant and Menolit’s forces. The flanking forces were forgotten as they plunged towards Hectval’s army.
The Drakes had formed their famous defensive lines. But Liscor’s 4th Company was following the [Strategist] into the charge. And the [Bannerlady]—
She cut left as a roaring being of flame burst out of her horse’s flaming hoof prints. It dove at the enemy Drakes, burning them. Their weapons jabbed at it uselessly. Only a spell damaged the being of fire.
 
—-
 
“The House of El!”
Maviola El cut left. Olesm was surging into the heart of the enemy army with 4th Company providing the tip of the spear. She supported him, using the flame elementals to burst past the lines of the Drakes.
Alone—she galloped behind the formations of Drakes. She saw their heads turning as their neat little rows of poised [Soldiers] turned. The Kaalblade ignited in her hand. She swept it down—
The glowing arc of magic beheaded Drakes as the [Lady] rode down the line of a battalion. The [Soldiers] didn’t notice her at first. How would an enemy [Rider] have gotten past them? They thought she was a messenger at first—
Then they saw the toppling heads as she held the Kaalblade out at head-height. Drakes screamed, throwing themselves down. Maviola hacked through a spear and half of a Drake’s head—
The artifact went dead. Cursing, she drew the spent mana stone and yanked another one out of her bag of holding. The blade ignited again, nearly taking off her fingers. The [Lady] swung it as she rode towards Olesm. Fire spouted in her wake, sowing more chaos in Hectval’s lines.
 
—-
 
“They’re charging in! Burn them to pieces! [Fireball] volley! On my mark!”
The [High Mage] ignored the arrows bouncing off the barricades and the fighting around her mage group. She was aiming at the [Strategist]. She lifted her staff—heard a panicked shout.
“Incoming magic!”
“Where? They don’t have that many m—”
The bolt of lightning detonated overhead. The [Mages] flinched—another one struck from the skies. The [High Mage] turned.
“Enemy spellcaster! High-level! Blow them to bits!”
She pointed. The [Fireballs] soared, arcing far, far further than their normal range. They detonated—
And the force of the explosions was blocked. The fiery inferno raged helplessly against the barrier.
The [Aegiscaster] lowered her staff. Behind her, the spells sang again. The [Enchanter], Hedault, conjured a second bolt of lightning. But six struck the [Mage]’s shields.
Is that music I hear? The Drake heard a wail of sound. She didn’t say it though. She was raising her staff.
“Reform the barrier! [Barrier of—]”
Two arrows struck her in the neck and chest. An Antinium and a Hobgoblin lowered their bows. They began loosing arrows as the Hobgoblin behind them played, tears still in his eyes.
Reinforcements.
 
—-
 
“I think I just saw Drisshia’s command go down!”
The Luldem commander was pushing into the unwise charge by Liscor’s army. Hectval’s forces were falling back, but they had left their flank open! Now, the heavy-armor regiment from Luldem was carving in.
The [Armor Commander] wasn’t oblivious, however. He saw the flashes of light. He turned—
“Reinforcements! 1st Axes! To the flanks! [Redepl—]”
The words stopped, strangled. The Drakes, turning, cried out. Suddenly—they saw.
A second force had emerged on their side of the battlefield. But not Drakes. Not Humans. Not Gnolls or any other species that belonged on Izril.
Black, beetle-like figures. Some small. Others large. Some had color on their bodies. Others—nothing.
Some had armor. Others, wings, hopping, gliding. But each form was alien.
Insectile.
“Antinium.”
The [Armor Commander] whispered. The Antinium—
 
—-
 
Now the Walled Cities watched. Now Ilvriss watched with horror.
“The Black Tide is marching.”
“For this? For this war?”
 
—-
 
Somewhere, the Queens were howling at each other. Why now? Xrn was pursuing the Antinium. Ordering them to stop. She had blocked off the tunnel.
“I gave you orders.”
“We disobey.”
Archer B21 spoke. Xrn stared at him. They were what?
 
—-
 
“Reinforcements to Hectval at once!”
Az’kerash himself was staring. Not Belavierr, but his Chosen. More and more people, watching this battle no one had heard about.
He heard the discussion from his viewpoint in one of the war chambers. Manus wanted to send reinforcements. An aged voice replied.
 
—-
 
“No. We will observe.”
“Grand Strategist, you are out of line!”
Dragonspeaker Luciva roared at the same time as the Serpentine Matriarch and the Sharkcaptain of Zeres. Chaldion ignored them.
His heart was beating as he watched the Antinium pouring towards Luldem’s forces. There were probably three thousand armored Drakes pivoting smoothly to meet…barely a thousand Antinium. Their flow had cut off—or the door was out of power. It must have been charged to send even that many this short distance.
“Grand Strategist—”
“Be silent. That is an order, Dragonspeaker.”
Chaldion’s eye flashed. He looked around. The Grand Strategist of the Walled Cities met the gazes.
“This is the first battle between a major, conventional Antinium force and a Drake army since the Second Antinium Wars. We will watch.”
Three-to-one. And yet—Chaldion’s eyes focused.
He recognized the Antinium in front. Swinging the censer. And a few others. He consulted his notes.
 
—-
 
Belgrade. Yellow Splatters. Purple Smiles. Chesacre. Thaina. And leading them, first forwards—
Pawn.
He was swinging the censer. But he was not inspiration. Not hope and healing here. Pawn was speaking as the Antinium marched. Arrows curved away from them as they advanced.
[A Leaf in the Storm]. And the [Holy Barrier] was blocking…everything. Luldem’s commander realized he had to advance. His Drakes were forming a perfect wall of steel.
“Elites to the front! Break their advance! Pikes! Drop! Axes in reserve!”
They were placed to destroy the Antinium. Soldiers and Workers would break on steel. But why the paint? The [Armor Commander] did not know.
Then heard something. A…voice?
Clicking. Staccato in places. But a living voice. His scales crawled. The Drakes stared.
They had never heard an Antinium speak.
But the one in front, with the censer, was speaking. It was just a Worker. But his voice—it tore at their earholes, a whisper and scream mixed together.
“I curse you. I curse you all!”
Curse? The Drakes checked themselves. [Mages] lifted staves—but they sensed no magic.
The [Priest] spoke on.
“I curse your cowardice. I curse your army. I curse your city and every stone upon which it stands. I curse your murder. I curse your names. I curse every breath you take, every step upon this ground. I curse your children, and your children’s children. I curse you to pain and death and starvation and grief. I curse your armor. I curse your blades. I curse your eyes and your love. I curse your food and your drink and your wells and your roofs to cave in.”
The voice ate into the [Armor Commander]’s head. He pointed.
“Kill it.”
The archers tried. But the arrows swerved. The voice was getting louder.
“I curse you by the [Innkeeper]. I curse you by the sky. I curse you by the light. I curse you by kindness. I curse you by sin. I curse you by Heaven. I curse you by darkness and the grave. I curse you by wrath. I curse you by hatred and rot and pestilence. I curse you by hell. I curse you by god—”
Ears ringing. The Drakes were flinching. The voice continued.
“I CURSE YOU TO DEATH. I CURSE YOU TO SUFFERING IN LIFE. I CURSE YOU TO LOSE ALL THINGS. I CURSE YOU UNTIL NOT ONE THING REMAINS IN YOUR HOMES. I CURSE YOU TO MADNESS. I CURSE YOU—”
“Kill them! Charge!”
The Drakes advanced out of formation. They had to kill that Antinium. They moved forwards, towards the thousand Antinium. They heard the chant stop.
The Drakes halted, losing their momentum. Relief—too late. The [Priest]’s mandibles opened. Wide. Wider. Then—he screamed.
It was a shriek without end. Without pause. Without rest. Without a trace of words or coherent thought in it. So chilling the Drakes shuddered. And then—the other Antinium opened their mandibles.
They all screamed. They came across the ground. The [Armor Commander] had never heard a sound like this. It sounded of Rhir’s hells. It sounded—
“Hold the line. Hold—”
His voice was lost. The Antinium surged at him. The [Priest] raised his staff. As if the censer was a flail. And his voice—
He had cursed them. Screamed at them. With words alone. Words, insufficient for the depth of his rage.
“The world ends! Death! Death! DEATH!”
Belgrade was screaming next to Pawn. The [Priest] looked at the Drakes as the first wave of Painted Soldiers neared the glittering pike tips. His voice dipped. He drew upon his hatred. His grief. The madness of Erin’s death.
“[Summon Aberration].”
The world split. Something peered out of the air. The [Armor Commander] turned his head.
“What is—”
A screaming thing appeared. Forming out of—it looked like a Worker. But it tore into the [Mages] to his left. The [Armor Commander]’s sword quivered in his hands.
“What did—what did—”
The first rank of Painted Soldiers hit the Drakes as another Aberration appeared, throwing itself forwards without heed of death or pain. Screaming.
“Hold your ground!”
The [Sergeant] was braced. The pikes were ready to impale the Antinium! They’d done this in the Second Antinium War. He saw the Antinium Soldiers charge into the pikes—
Snap. The thick haft of one of the pikes cracked as it struck the largest Soldier with yellow on its body. Another Soldier was impaled. It charged down the length of the pike—grabbed the [Pikewoman] and bit her face off.
The first line of Drakes disappeared. The Antinium didn’t stop! The [Sergeant] and the [Lineholder]s brought up their weapons.
“[Perfect Block]!”
A Drake roared. He blocked a Soldier’s charge. The Soldier, painted with little stars on his armor, stumbled. The Drake lifted his blade with a roar.
“[Power Strike]!”
He swung—and the Soldier leaned around the blade. Blurring under it—the [Sergeant] stared as the [Shieldbearer]’s eyes widened.
A Sk—
The Soldier seized the Drake, grabbing both arms and wrenching them out. The Drake elite went down as the other two fists punched mercilessly. The Drake tried to move, fight back—the Soldier rose, red on his carapace.
Skills? The [Sergeant] whirled about. His sword rose—
[Flash Blade]! The light blinded the largest Soldier as it came at him. The [Sergeant] cut—
His blade dug in an inch into the other [Sergeant]’s armor and stopped. Yellow Splatters raised a fist. The Drake died. Yellow Splatter turned.
“Slaughter them all.”
 
—-
 
Luldem’s lines broke. The [Mages] on the flanks were in retreat. Hectval’s army was falling back. But they weren’t done.
“Forwards! Forwards!”
Olesm heard Menolit and the other leaders shouting. He was looking past them.
Hectval’s [General]. Olesm saw the dead and wounded.
“He’s making his lines stronger. So long as he lives—”
Maviola, panting, slowed her horse next to him. She nodded.
“He will fall on us if we retreat. Drake pride.”
