The Wall Lord passed a hand over his face. He looked past Alrric. He shook his head.
“A friend. A friend—no. Alrric. Please send word. I am headed to Salazsar’s war room. Have the First Strategist of Salazsar meet me, and a scrying orb found. Find me…Hectval.”
The Gnoll [Administrator] hesitated. He saw Ilvriss turn.
“To what end, Wall Lord?”
“To look upon the greatest fools of Izril, Alrric. The enemies of the Walled Cities.”
The door slowly closed. Ilvriss walked down the hall. He stopped and leaned on a doorway. Then continued on. Simply that.
As if he’d been stabbed.
 
—-
 
“Liscor is in trouble. Grand Strategist. Grand Strategist?”
Chaldion ignored the younger [Strategist]’s commentary. He was standing in the war room of Pallass. Just watching the battle. Someone was murmuring to him.
“Pallass has a treaty with the Hectval Alliance. We cannot make war on them, Grand Strategist.”
“I know that. I oversaw the last conflict and peace settlement.”
The Grand Strategist murmured. He half-turned his head.
“Besides which. There’s no point. Isn’t that right, Grimalkin?”
The [Sinew Magus] of Pallass sat there. He looked at the orb. Olesm was a distant point in the milling armies.
“So you’ll allow them to be captured. Killed, Grand Strategist?”
“Compared to involving Pallass and breaking our treaties? Yes. Hectval is a Drake city. This is a Drake war, to them. They will allow the surrender of Liscor’s army.”
Chaldion murmured. He removed his gemstone eye. Looked at it. He placed the sapphire in the box, and pulled out another. He did not want the magic of that eye. He put another in, and replaced his eye patch.
“Erin Solstice is dead.”
“I was just informed—”
“Pallass could not bring her back. Nor Saliss. She is dead. There it ends. Focus on the other children, [Sinew Magus]. Hectval’s unwise retaliation for the insult has done enough damage. This matter is Liscor’s.”
Chaldion watched. If it had been a case of Hectval’s army coming to kill Erin Solstice—but too late. Done was done. He sat there.
“Strategist.”
“Yes, Grand Strategist?”
“Inform the other cities that Pallass is severing diplomatic links with the Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem alliance. We will hold to our contract. But we will not be renewing it. I will write that into my will for my successor.”
“Yes, Grand Strategist.”
Chaldion closed his good eye. Then he watched.
 
—-
 
The alliance of three cities pinned Liscor’s. From all sides they attacked the forces from Liscor. Pinned them down with spells, used heavy infantry and attacked from all sides.
Ranks of Drake spears, commanded by real officers, fought in formation. Liscor’s army had few supplies. They’d been marching and fighting for nearly a day.
It was the perfect strategy. A classic enveloping formation—safe for the rear as of yet. Even in the skies, the uncontested Wings of Pallass had been beset.
Eighty Oldblood fliers were fighting them. Loosing arrows. On the ground, the massed infantry was being taken to pieces. Yes—Hectval had the edge in every conceivable way.
So…why were they failing to advance? The [General] of Hectval frowned through his spyglass.
“Move the vanguard up!”
“They’re stalled, [General]! The—”
“I see it!”
It was the high-level units in play. Flame burst from one side and Gnolls and Drakes ran screaming. The Flamewardens of Pallass exhaled and the [General] cursed as an entire swath of his army fell back.
“Get [Flameshield] on that group and move in! And bring down that half-Giant!”
The vanguard was fighting a group in the center. A giant figure was bellowing, swinging a quarterstaff as thick as a club around and refusing to retreat.
You ran into superior individuals like that all the time. The [General] just cursed the few units, like the annoying Garuda team. Liscor had bought Gold-ranks? So what? They died to superior numbers.
“Coat the arrows. Hit the half-Giant. Send in the Mithril Spears unit. Kill him and the lines crumble.”
The [General] gave the order. He watched as arrows were loaded and a group of Drakes armed with the expensive metal spear tips moved in.
“Moore! Fall back!”
The [Strategist] was amplifying his voice. The [General] just snorted. A foolish boy of a Drake.
He was keeping his army alive—rotating soldiers, fighting in good holding points and using his Skills to hold off the inevitable slaughter. But he’d walked the army into the trap. And this? How did you think sending a half-Giant, a walking target into the vanguard of your army would go?
 
—-
 
Olesm had made a mistake. He had been so caught up in rage. He had done what Erin would never have wanted. He was supposed to be a [Strategist], but he had committed every blunder in his blinding fury.
And he had forgotten.
Tragedy did not prevent more tragedy. Rain loved company.
The arrows flew as the Drakes armed with gleaming spears closed in. The arrows fell, tangling, snapping and glancing off the [Armor of Thorns]. But some struck the half-Giant. He stumbled. A Drake [Spearman] lunged.
“[Piercing Stab]!”
He saw the tip of the spear pierce the thick thorns. Go through the armor, into flesh. The other Drakes swarmed forwards.
Erin Solstice was dead. Hectval had taken her. And now—
A quarterstaff descended. The Drake’s helmet deformed. The remains of his head came out the sides of the bent metal.
The other Drakes stopped.
“[Captain]?”
They looked up as a huge hand as large as their heads yanked the spear out of his side. A half-Giant turned.
“Worms!”
Moore swung the quarterstaff. It sent Drakes flying. He brought it down again. A Drake raised the spear to block and the impact broke his arms. He screamed—Moore dragged him up and hurled him into the milling bodies. The other Drakes looked up.
“Worms! Maggots! You wretched things! You killed her! YOU KILLED HER. You will all die!”
The half-Giant lifted the staff again. Drakes backed up. A [Shieldbearer] Drake interposed himself.
“[Stonearm Bl—]”
The blow drove him into the ground. Moore grabbed another Drake and swung him so hard the arm snapped. The Drake went screaming. The half-Giant raised his staff.
[Pillar of Earth]! 
A group of Drakes disappeared. Gnoll conscripts ran. The half-Giant rampaged forwards.
“Hold the line! Hold the line! Bring him d—”
The half-Giant stomped a fallen Drake. He lashed out with his staff and another Drake died. They died each time he struck them. But that was too slow. He roared and charged into them. His armor stabbed them as he crushed them against each other. They tried to stab him. Poisoned! He was poisoned—
The half-Giant’s mouth was open. He was still roaring. A ceaseless bellow of rage that never stopped. Another poisoned arrow struck him in the shoulder. But it was so small—
The [Captain] was screaming. He rose into the air—
Moore ripped his head off. He hurled both pieces into the ranks of Hectval’s soldiers. They looked up. And then began to flee.
“Ancestors.”
Olesm stared. The half-Giant wasn’t stopping. The arrows—the elite Drake unit—both disappeared. Moore? Gentle Moore? More vines erupted from the ground, spearing bodies upon the thorns. Trapping others in the thorny foliage.
Ahead. Moore ignored everything. Heading straight into the body of Hectval’s army. Olesm had never seen something like that in person. Only once before.
It was like the wrath of Zamea of the Nomads of the Sky. Only—it was wrath.
Hectval’s army poured down on Liscor’s. Superior positioning! Superior numbers! Formation!
They burned. Keldrass exhaled again as the Flamewardens advanced. He brought a warhammer down, killing one of the enchanted Drakes. Another struck at him. A blow to the side, under his helmet—
The blow struck the gorget, bounced off. Another Drake took aim.
“[Seeking Arrow]!”
This time it went home. Through the eye socket! It—
Snapped. Burned to ash. The Heartflame Armor was raging. Keldrass inhaled. The blue flame engulfed the screaming Drakes.
“Forwards!”
The Flamewardens advanced, heedless of the fighting. To the left, Jeiss was fighting with the Watch. The [Swordsman] beheaded the third enemy [Swordsman].
“Slaughter them!”
 
—-
 
“What are they doing? Stop their advance!”
The [General] couldn’t understand it. Liscor’s army was surrounded. But against all reason, groups were advancing into Hectval’s army. Throwing the lines into chaos, heedless of the danger. This wasn’t strategy! What was that [Strategist] thinking?
They were going to die. They were dying. And yet—the [General] saw one of the figures fall out of the sky.
 
—-
 
“Zassil!”
Bevussa saw her friend fall. An arrow in his side. She looked around.
“They’re all around us!”
Issa cried out. The Oldblood fliers were too numerous. It was just the Wings of Pallass. Both Oldblood Drakes had been forced to land.
Or they were dead.
“Go after Zassil!”
Kin dove. Issa flew after her, covering her. Below—Moore was still roaring. Bevussa heard it in her ears.
She looked up and saw a wing of Oldblood Drakes flying at her. In a ‘V’ formation, like they were geese. No spatial awareness. They flew as if they were rooted to the ground.
Dozens upon dozens of them in the air. Bevussa had been cut twice in clashes. And yet—she looked around.
Hectval had made one mistake they couldn’t realize.
They had killed Erin Solstice.
The Garuda had eaten the Scaleguard Sandwich. She drew her shortsword and flew, like she had when the Wyverns attacked. She had fought in Pallass’ 2nd Army! Gold-rank Adventurer.
She dove.
[Mach Wings]! [Sundering Slash]! 
[Wyvernhide Flight].
 
—-
 
Thump. The Drisshia [High Mage]-[Commander] whirled. What was that? She’d been watching the fighting. Those irregulars in the lines of Hectval’s army were hard to target! This wasn’t as easy as she’d been assured.
“What was that s—”
Thump. The second Drake screamed before she hit the ground. The [High Mage] saw the falling body. The imp—
The Drake bounced off the cliff, falling, tumbling. The [High Mage] saw the colors of one of Drisshia’s fliers. She stared—saw the second body, which had crushed one of the [Mage] corps.
Then she looked up.
A third Drake fell, screaming, trailing blood. He tried to save himself.
But he only had one wing.
Above—the Garuda dove, unmatched by the slower, clumsier fliers. She slashed through another wing and dropped them. She didn’t bother with their armor. Didn’t trade blows.
A flier’s combat. The Drakes had been raised in a city filled with ground species. They weren’t Garuda, who flew as soon as their wings developed enough plumage.
“Dead gods. Strike that adventurer!”
The [High Mage] pointed. She aimed up—but the Garuda was already shooting at another group of fliers with bows.
Bows in the sky? They just hovered there, as if they were safe. Bevussa shrieked. She severed another wing as they cried out and scattered.
 
—-
 
Zassil was dead. Olesm saw Bevussa tearing apart the sky. But it was happening.
They were killing Hectval’s forces. But they were dying.
“Enough. Stop. I didn’t want this.”
He whispered. He was pulling more forces back. But he realized—the enemy army was trying to encircle. Behind—Captain Vell’s squad. He’d gotten them killed! Embria’s 4th was embattled, holding an entire flank against the [Armored Soldiers] assailing them. But the regular fighters were too low-level. They would die. Erin’s friends. And when the prisoners were freed, they were going to be trapped on all sides—
“Menolit! Timbor! With me!”
He desperately bellowed as he turned to meet the threat he knew was coming. Olesm whirled his mount around. [Blades of Glory] had returned. He pointed. He saw a group coming up the road. Drakes—
“Strategist! Reinforcements!”
Olesm lowered his blade. Captain Vell was racing towards him with all the forces he’d left with the prisoners. He stared at her. Blood was on her armor and blade.
“Vell?”
“They sent a group to free the prisoners! They’re all free, I’m sorry, Strategist!”
She panted.
“Then we have to retreat!”
“No—they’re on the run!”
“How? There have to be three, four times your number—”
“We got their leader! And they’re running from the fire things! The elementals!”
“The—”
Olesm saw the burning figure appear in the distance. A towering being of pure flame was pursuing a group of fleeing prisoners and Hectval’s rescue team. She rode up towards him, a glowing blade in her hand.
“Maviola.”
Maviola El slowed her horse as she reached the pass. She looked ahead and cursed.
“Our rear is secure! I put a sea of flames at our backs! Now there is only this army!”
She was panting. Her riding clothes were bloodied in two places, and healed. She looked at Olesm.
“You colossal fool. What are you doing?”
Olesm looked at her.
“Maviola…? I’m so sorry. I led us into a trap—”
“Strategist! Orders?”
Olesm didn’t respond. Maviola looked around.
“Captain! Take your squad up and harass those [Mages]! Olesm—wake up!”
She drew alongside him. Her horse was panting. Olesm just shook his head.
“I’m a failure of a [Strategist]. I let my anger get the best of me—look. They’re getting killed.”
Jeiss’ momentum was slowing. The Flamewardens had run out of fire. The fliers were swarming around Bevussa. Maviola saw it all. She looked at Olesm. Then she slapped him.
It was a brisk blow. The Drake jerked. He felt himself wake up a bit. Maviola’s hand was scorching.
“What are you doing? Why have you pulled back like this? Advance! Why did you take those soldiers prisoner?”
“I—I couldn’t execute them!”
“So you decided to do exactly what they wanted? Stop playing their game, Olesm! I taught you more of war than that!”
The [Lady] snapped. Her eyes flashed. She looked around.
“This battle isn’t lost. Why is Moore alone? Advance! Forwards! You—advance after that half-Giant!”
She pointed to Menolit. The Drake swore.
“On me!”
He shouted and Drakes and Gnolls and Humans surged forwards. Olesm started.
“They’re going to die, Maviola!”
“This is war, Olesm. You know that! You have led men and women before! I have played games of strategy with you! Why are you holding back?”
She gripped his shoulder. Her hand left a smoldering imprint on his scales. This was not the time for the conversation. But she gripped him.
“Take the battle to them. Even if there is a cost—I did not come to help you retreat. Did you not swear to burn Hectval for Erin Solstice?”
“But—”
The rage had cooled in Olesm. Now he flinched at Maviola’s words. Burn the city? The innocents? She looked at him. Maviola’s ire cooled, slightly.
“You have not wept. Nor are you as furious as you should be. Look. There!”
