“The House of El doesn’t have Potions of Regeneration anymore.”
Lyonette looked at her sharply. The [Lady]’s head rose.
“…They don’t fix poison half the time, either. But—what about the Eternal Throne of Calanfer?”
The [Princess] was suddenly thinking. They all were. More [Messages] flashed across the world. People rose from the stupefaction, the disbelief, the grief.
Hope, that wonderful lie, that illusion you clung to, surfaced. And yet—
Erin Solstice was still lying there. Encased in ice.
Maviola El listened to the bubbling conversations. The sudden shouting. The whispered prayer of the Antinium. And she remembered something else she’d been told.
“Olesm. Zevara said he went after Hectval?”
The others turned.
“Yes. He left yesterday. With an army—”
“That fool. That—”
Maviola felt her blood spike suddenly in alarm. She looked towards the window. Then she was hurrying for the door.
“Maviola? Where are you going?”
Lyonette called after her. The [Lady] turned.
“I’m going after him! This Drake city cannot be allowed to get away with this. And he may be in grave danger.”
She turned. In minutes, she was racing from Liscor, having recaptured her horse.
Yes. The mourners in the inn had been only part of Liscor. One reaction to the [Innkeeper]’s death.
Let the others grieve. Let them try to turn back oblivion’s hands. Let them plan and look ahead.
But not now. Not here. Enough of it.
An army marched on the road, past the Bloodfields. A force enraged beyond belief.
Drakes, Humans, Gnolls. A half-Giant. Adventurers. Civilians. [Soldiers]. [Guards].
Their grief was manifested in fury. Later, they would collapse. Later, they would fully mourn. But first, vengeance.
Now for wrath. Now for the ruination of cities. Now—blood, until a second Bloodfields covered the land!
A [Strategist] rode at the head of the army, screaming for blood. Behind him, Maviola El rode upon the south, bringing the fire of hell and vengeance in her wake.
The world had ended. It was only fair Hectval end with it.
 
—-
 
Hectval, one of the biggest cities in the region, one of the best. If not the best, really.
Yes, there was Pallass to the south. But you could call Hectval second-best to Pallass. And only then, really, because Pallass was so old. Hectval was filled with master [Bowyers], and exported the famous, brightly-fletched arrows and crossbow bolts that made them a renowned and dangerous enemy to cross.
You could even tell Hectval was the most important. The Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem Alliance—based off the three cities who had allied against other Drake cities and Gnoll tribes—had Hectval first.
A leader among cities. Something to aspire to. Little Gnoll crime, an elite fighting force. Yes, Hectval deserved its reputation—or so claimed Hectval’s patriotic citizenry, the great military minds and ruling Council.
Which was exactly why they couldn’t let the insult to their city and Scalespeaker Yisht slide. Oh, no. Liscor was a backwater border-city with no idea of manners, dignity, or diplomacy at all. It was a savage city and as such, the raiding parties were justified. That was how Drakes did these things, you see.
If they were lucky, they’d actually assassinate one of the targets. Otherwise—they’d torch outlying farms, attack travellers. Maybe destroy that damn inn everyone was talking about. After all, they were…
None of the four ambush teams reported back. Which was cause for some alarm, but they must have just slipped up. Unfamiliar terrain—perhaps the Bloodfields had got them? Probably prisoners of war. The ransom would arrive, or maybe Liscor would be baited into a retaliatory force.
Hectval waited, having already mobilized its considerable army and alerted the other two cities of a possible conflict. They were good at the game of Drake diplomacy. Yisht had said that Liscor’s Council were naïve as Lawsheep, and clearly, they were already degenerating to let Gnolls on the Council, let alone have an Antinium Hive settle under their city! Just—pathetic, really.
The City of Hectval received nothing as eloquent as a formal declaration of war the day after their ambush teams were due to have struck and reported in. One of their [Negotiators], on standby to receive the probable notification, instead got some weird [Messages] from Liscor.
“Er—Scalespeaker. I have some communiques from Liscor. But they’re not—not quite standard.”
“Is it war, then?”
Yisht rubbed at one eye. He still felt that damn Drakes’ punch. As one of the Council—Scalespeaker being one of the posts—he had been waiting for Liscor to declare war. But they didn’t have the gonads, eh? He took the [Messages] the [Negotiator] was holding out.
“What are they saying? Did the teams get captured? Some petty insults? Hah! Well, let’s just…erm…what is this?”
“I checked it, Scalespeaker. But it’s genuine. Comes from Liscor’s Council. Mage’s Guild certifies. Um—there are pages of them…”
The rest of the Council sat up. Yisht was reading the parchment rolls, blank-faced. After a second, he laughed, a bit incredulously.
“Is this a joke?”
The first part was a transcript.
 
Liscor to Hectval. Is this Hectval’s Council?
Hectval. [Messages] to the Council may be transferred depending on the importance. Who is sending?
Liscor’s Council. Excellent. Please relay this to Hectval’s Council at best speed: we are going to burn your entire damn city down.
Hectval. Liscor, your message appears to be somewhat confused. Send again? 
Liscor. We are going to tear down your walls, pour salt down your wells, and turn your precious little city to rubble. You are all dead. You pathetic, inbred Drakes don’t know what you’ve done. Go find a noose and hop into it. We’ll feed you to the Bloodfields. Tell Yisht I will personally feed his tail to him. 
Hectval. Is this Liscor’s Council? 
You’re dead too.
Hectval to Liscor’s Mage’s Guild. Please confirm identity of sender?
Mage’s Guildmistress. Identity confirmed. You’re dead. If you have any sense, run out of your city and keep running.
Hectval. Is this a formal declaration of war?
You don’t deserve formality. We’ll plant Creler eggs on your corpses. Start running.
 
It went on, and on. Pages of [Messages], really. Yisht’s mouth opened wider the more he read. Some of the threats—well, it sounded like people were taking turns.
In fact, Liscor’s Mage’s Guild was sending the [Messages] pro bono to Hectval on behalf of the citizens.
“Are they mad? What is this?”
“Better deploy the army. Sounds like we got them mad.”
One of the Councilmembers chuckled, discarding the parchment contemptuously. He looked around at the Council.
“Oh, what are you looking so nervous about? Their army is across the damn continent! All they’ve got is the Watch. We have the Watch, the army, and the alliance!”
That was true. Hectval’s Council relaxed. Some kept reading the parchment, though. The [Councilmember] smoothed his neck-spines.
“We already have three thousand [Soldiers] enroute to stall whatever’s coming. I suggest we alert our [Generals] and have them move—”
“Councilmembers! A report from 3rd Regiment!”
“Hm? See—there—”
Yisht looked up as the same [Negotiator] skidded into the room. This time he looked frantic.
“What is it? Have they met the enemy?”
“3rd Regiment has been wiped out! They’re being held prisoner or dead! We’re counting an army of 16,000, marching on Hectval!”
The Councilmembers dropped the parchment. Yisht turned pale under his scales.
“…Say what now? Wait, that’s an actual army.”
He looked at the sheet again. He’d thought it was just words. But then he looked at the others.
“How mad are they?”
 
—-
 
An hour ago, 3rd Regiment had set up a roadblock. They were spread out on the newly-built road. Damn thing. No one had asked Hectval if it was alright to make a road. But it was convenient so Hectval had let Liscor build it.
And now—it was an ideal place to hold back any retaliatory force and cover their ambush team’s withdrawal. The Bloodfields lay to the left—and get too close and even an army would suffer. So—this was a good spot to hold. They’d dug in, set up palisades, and of course, their famous [Crossbowman] lines.
Hectval-Drisshia-Luldem. Each one was a city with a specialty. You had to have one. Hectval was known for their archers. Bows, crossbows, they made the best [Archers] around. Okay, there was Pallass. But Pallass didn’t count. Their army was known for their ranged capabilities.
And the alliance meant Hectval could specialize. Drisshia was the center of a local [Mage] school and provided a smaller army, but invaluable spellcaster reinforcements. Luldem? Heavy infantry. All three cities had their mounted divisions, but in the foothills, it was less cavalry.
They were prepared to defeat any idiotic force that came this way—or hold and retreat. Their [Commander of the Line] could go toe-claw to toe-claw with a [General] for a while if he used all his Skills. And besides—Liscor’s ‘famous army’ was doing mercenary work to the south. Liscor was going to suffer for angering Hectval. They had no idea what—
The army came down the road like Demons from Rhir. The [Commander] counted a thousand at first. Then two thousand. By the time he counted six thousand, he was already ordering his forces to sound the retreat. He’d spread out multiple wings of his regiment to envelop the foe. Now—he sent one group forwards to hold the line. He saw the Drakes riding forwards, bows raised.
They vanished. The howling army dropped the [Riders]. The [Commander] saw the flash of magic—flame—
“Oldbloods! Fall back! Orderly withdrawal! Prepare to hold them at the fortifications!”
Hectval’s Drakes looked at each other uncertainly. The rearwards forces were already scrambling for horses, those on foot abandoning gear—
The army was charging already. No order! No—they were screaming. The [Commander]’s scales prickled. What in the name of the Ancestors had the ambush teams done? He turned.
“Get them moving! Hold the line! [Steelclad—”
A form dropped like a stone. The [Commander] whirled his shield up as his [Guards] raised their bows and weapons. He saw the Garuda flicker—
Bevussa planted a sword in his open mouth and whirled into the air. The Wings of Pallass dove, screaming, at the Drakes. Gold-rank Adventurers?
The first rank of [Lineholders] felt their [Commander]’s Skills vanish. They wavered, but then firmed.
“Drakes do not run!”
The [Lieutenant] exhorted her troops. The Gnoll-conscripts had already been ordered to hold their ground. The Drakes firmed.
“For H—”
A half-Giant covered in thorns punched through the first wooden palisade, spikes tipped with iron. The Drakes looked up, and Moore’s face was the last thing most of them saw. Then the charging Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans overran them.
 
—-
 
Olesm Swifttail didn’t even have a chance to use more than one Skill before the first rank of Drakes crumpled. There were more forces in the hills, the narrow ravine adjacent to the road and the Bloodfields. Ideal ambush territory—
“4th Company, I want them dead!”
“Lightbridge! On me!”
Embria’s 4th Company raced as fast as she did on horseback up a bridge made of light to hit the enemy there. They were wavering, not sure if they should retreat or fight.
Liscor’s [Soldiers] took them to pieces. As for the main enemy—Olesm was shouting at the army to stop pushing in clumps in case they took a [Fireball]. Beyond that? It was just how fast the army could run that was holding them back from the slaughter.
[Vigor of Champions] meant they didn’t tire. Fury meant they’d marched here at a rapid pace, through the night, barely pausing to rest. It was poor strategy. There was no planning—it was an army mostly made up of the militia—there was Embria’s 4th, and two thousand of the Watch, and adventurers, but most were civilians.
Olesm didn’t care. Erin was dead.
Hectval would burn.
They left half the regiment dead in the first clash. Then—Olesm was bellowing.
“Captain Menolit, hold your group back! [Rapid Retreat]! Keldrass, back!”
He was ordering the army to retreat, heal up, and advance in something like a formation rather than let them keep pursuing. Olesm put the [Riders] under his command forwards. He addressed the temporary leaders he’d appointed.
Menolit, Keldrass, Bevussa, Jeiss—Embria was functionally the second-in-command despite being a [Wing Commander]. The rest were Senior Guards, Adventurers, and [Veterans] like Menolit, despite the Drake never having actually been an officer.
Olesm didn’t care. He was barely holding himself back from plunging after the Drakes and hacking them apart.
Kill them all. Feed them to the Shield Spiders! No, cut their limbs off and let them bleed out. Even that’s too good for them.
Erin was dead. Erin was DEAD. Erinwasdead. ErinwasdeadErinwasdeadErinwasdead—
It still didn’t feel real. Liscor’s army was made up of people like that. People who hadn’t come to grips with it. Who were shocked—
But also furious. Who wanted blood. Who demanded it. Hectval had done this?
Olesm would kill the Scalespeaker himself.
Blood and vengeance. The Wings of Pallass had joined. The Flamewardens. Moore alone of the Halfseekers. Other adventurers like Gemhammer, and the citizens of course. Not just Liscor’s civilians. Esthelm, Celum—they’d all come, volunteering.
It was notable who had come to fight. Olesm himself, Liscor’s [Strategist], shouldn’t have been here. But Liscor’s army had authorized Embria to come herself.
And it was also notable who wasn’t here. For instance—the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings had not joined in, despite the rage and grief consuming them.
They might have. But they were instead sitting in the inn. They had failed their task. The two Brothers who had been in the inn when Erin had been—they alone were marching with the others. The rest stayed where they were. Guarding the inn and Erin’s remains.
They would not fail a second time.
Someone else not here? Altestiel of Desonis. Olesm remembered that, in the shock of the night.
 
—-
 
The Drake was hitting his head on the table until his forehead bled. Trying to—wake up—
People were shouting. Furious voices. Menolit had retrieved his spear and was howling for blood. But Todi’s Elites had already killed the ambush team. Tossed their bodies in a Shield Spider pit when they had heard what happened.
Not enough! 
“This is war! We’ll burn down the city! Call back the army!”
Jeiss was bellowing. Olesm heard Altestiel arrive. He felt the storm front break over the inn.
Yet when the Earl entered…he just stood there. Over Erin’s body, which had been moved into the center of the inn.
“We have to—we have to put her in the garden.”
