The hilltop in the garden lay in silence. The bright air seemed dimmer. Certainly—colder. Frost rose, from where the bier lay.
Just a plinth of smooth stone, covered in a sheet of ice. A body lay on it. Her hands were crossed. But those who had put her there had done little else. They had not the time before she froze.
Now—she lay there, eyes closed. A slight smile on her lips. Frozen blood still stained her clothing. Five broken shafts of wood stood out on her side.
It wasn’t right. It wasn’t fair.
Around her stood statues. They changed, each time someone climbed the hill. And—it seemed like they were always different.
It depended on the person. They would turn and see a face they recognized in the mists. As real as life. Standing, sitting—but carved of grey stone.
A smiling adventurer and his team, missing two people as they gathered around in a circle, like they had before they entered the dungeon.
Gerial.
A Hobgoblin staring up at the sky, leaning back on a bench, spreading his arms. A Gnoll, edged over, looking slightly irritable at the lack of personal space.
Headscratcher and Brunkr.
And in the middle of the grass, the frozen ground. The young woman.
Erin Solstice.
The visitors—and there had been hundreds—thousands—had climbed here. Passing through the garden, up the hill blooming with Sage’s Grass and yellow flowers. Coming…here.
It was as if the protections were gone. Or perhaps it was—a wake. As if The Wandering Inn held a wake for its owner.
She was dead. And yet—so some cried. Not dead. They said it.
It could not be. Her frozen skin. Her half-smile. There was hope. Or so the young man from Earth claimed.
Yet.
 
—-
 
People had laid things at the foot of the bier. Against stone, where the objects half-froze as the powerful magic kept the body frozen.
An [Enchanter] had drawn it. With a shaking brush, in the evening. As horns blew and people screamed and war was declared.
That was one moment in memory. Hedault’s hands, so precise—shaking like a leaf. The azure Antinium, head bowed, casting the spell. Her one word.
“Alas.”
No tears had come from her that day. Or any other Antinium. But they had left things.
Some people had left parts of themselves. A Dwarf’s helmet. A little Drake girl’s doll. A favorite ball. A letter. A chess piece.
The Antinium had left coins. Flowers. And—nonsensical things. Some of the visitors, even in their grief, wondered at the logic.
“Why a pillow?”
Lyonette gently held back Bird. He wanted to raise Erin’s head. But she was—ice. Already, Hedault was working on protective wards against accidents. Bird clutched his favorite pillow, stuffed with all his feathers.
“She—she will want a soft thing for her head.”
The [Princess] said nothing. After a while she wiped at her eyes. Her tears were freezing to her face.
“Just put it there, Bird. I’m sure—she’d appreciate it.”
How fast. Too quick. It was still—not happening. It was just poisoned crossbow bolts. Not Crelers. Not monsters. Not war. They weren’t even smart killers. This was a dream.
 
—-
 
The spark of life she had tried to give them burned on her fingers. A tiny flame. It melted the ice, still.
It had never gone out. Slowly—the [Innkeeper]’s closed eyes fluttered. Beneath the sheet of ice, she stirred. It cracked.
Erin Solstice sat up suddenly. She gasped.
“Ow. That really hurt!”
And then she—she—she did something silly and loving and—
 
—-
 
Mrsha raised her head and uncovered her eyes.
Erin was dead.
The Gnoll curled up again. Covered her head. And tried to unmake reality and do it again, right.
She was not the only one here. If you walked up the hill, you would pass by…strange, black-brown mounds. Slightly shiny, dulled perhaps. Large brown shells with antennae. Look closer, and you would realize—
They were Antinium. They knelt there, curled up in the grass. Unmoving. Not eating, or changing position.
Barely breathing. More had come, in the night. Workers and Soldiers, painted and not.
Mourning. The silence they generated was a physical thing. Before—
There had only been weeping and screams.
And then the horns of war. But the vengeful had gone. The shocked wandered about in a daze, unsure of what to do. Jobs were neglected or done by rote.
Not everyone. Some people marched about, doing jobs, avoiding the downers. Why was everyone sobbing? It was one Human. One Human who hadn’t learned to dodge. Who had gone rushing towards danger rather than listening to her [Dangersense]. You run at monsters? You got ate.
No sympathy. The world wasn’t ending. Go ahead and grieve, but Liscor was going to be just fine.
Nothing was wrong. People died.
And still more dealt with it other ways. Eating. Drinking—that was popular. Finding family and checking on them to make sure they were still there.
But news was still spreading. Liscor knew. All of Liscor knew. Celum—knew. But elsewhere?
 
—-
 
Krshia Silverfang looked at Tkrn as the Gnoll stopped, panting, from the dead-long sprint. He had gone into the nearest town to check for monsters or obstacles ahead. [Bandits], whatever. He had—
She fell out of her saddle. Half-tried to catch herself. Then just hit the ground and lay there. The Gnoll convoy stopped.
“What? Tkrn—that is a very poor joke, no? That—can’t be true.”
One of the Silverfang Gnolls tugged at his ear. Someone else looked at Tkrn. He looked at Krshia. She believed. The others began to shout at him.
His response, instead of words, was to throw back his head and howl. The raw note told them he wasn’t playing some terrible joke. The others stopped. Voices joined Tkrn’s.
 
—-
 
The Chieftain of the Flooded Waters tribe just sat there. At the large table where Goblins ate. Her meal-half finished.
Snapjaw had returned. Snapjaw alone, so the Goblins had feared the worst. But the news she brought?
A sound ran through Goblinhome. It sounded like a moan. It sounded like death. It was the sound Goblins had made when the army of Humans had killed them at the Floodplains.
Goblins did not weep. So it seemed—Goblins did not weep for the [Innkeeper]. Many did not weep. They just stopped. Stopped, to process it. Shook their heads. Went to find the truth.
Thus—no one wept for Erin Solstice. No Goblins, at least. Just her friends. Just Cave Goblins, who didn’t know what Goblin was, properly. Just Goblins who weren’t Goblin for a moment.
It was a waste of water and energy.
Rags sat there. She looked ahead as Snapjaw turned. She looked around as Redscar shook his head. The Ogres were confused. Human? What Human? Why did it matter?
The Chieftain said nothing. She had no order. They had not been there. She listened as she was told Numbtongue was there. Rabbiteater alive. And that Badarrow was gone, for a while. Perhaps she understood.
But she said nothing. Did nothing. She sat there. And in time, her claw moved. She sat at the table as Goblinhome moved around her. Soon—she picked up the wooden spoon and ate. Because you didn’t waste food.
A little Goblin sat at a table in the inn. She thought hard, and moved a chess piece. Then peeked suspiciously at the Human’s face. The [Innkeeper] smiled, and moved the bishop. The Goblin grumbled, moved another piece, and slurped greedily at the soup.
She took another bite. And kept playing.
 
—-
 
A hundred and one perspectives. As she walked up the hill, the [Princess] had seen too many. Her legs were leaden. She—was not working.
The inn was closed. But she was still moving. Because, despite how much she wanted to lie down and move no more, like Bird, or kneel on the hill with flowers like the two Goblin brothers—
Her daughter needed her. The [Princess] bent down and picked up the small bundle of fur. She hadn’t eaten in nearly a day, now.
“Come on, sweetie.”
Weak fighting. But no more than that. Lyonette gulped. But she forced herself to be ruthless. Even cruel.
“You have to eat. Just swallow it. Then you can come back. She won’t—go anywhere.”
Oh, hate me. Shake. Hit me. But live—
The [Princess] bore the little Gnoll down the hill, past the silent Antinium. More figures were summiting the hill. Two Drakes from Liscor. A man with his hat in his hands. They looked past her. Ahead—Teor was holding a kite, or something, chatting with Redit and pointing up into the sky.
The garden remained. The people passed in and out. A bee lay in the grass, too tired to fly. The Fortress Beavers were silent, hiding, huddling together in their den.
The wake continued, unending. Lyonette walked out into the silent inn.
Erin Solstice was. Dead.
But she wasn’t. Cling to that.
They were just words. But he had said them. And the others had claimed the same. Lyonette went to the little meal she had prepared. Just the last of the Ashfire Bee honey. Crackers. Bread. Fresh beef, anything that might tempt a little Gnoll.
Three chews and the Gnoll stopped. So Lyonette just made her sip honeyed milk. Water, until the tears that the dry tear ducts had ceased flowed again.
She looked up only when he said it again.
“Erin isn’t dead.”
Kevin was grabbing Montressa’s arm hard enough to hurt. Trying to say it, again. She was just shaking her head.
“It wasn’t a—a stasis spell we cast, Kevin. If I knew one—it’s Tier 5, the one I’ve heard of. But it wouldn’t stop—if I knew the Tier 6 version—”
“It doesn’t matter, Montressa. It’s—cryosleep. It’s something from my world.”
My world. He said it for everyone to hear. Caution had gone out of the window. Lyonette just listened, hungrily.
“She is alive. I think. She has to be. She’s just—stopped. Right before she dies. Her brain’s frozen. Her body—she—just needs to be woken up.”
“How, by warming her?”
The [Aegiscaster] was incredulous. Lyonette half-shook her head, rocking the little Gnoll slowly, and hoping the sleeping draught would put Mrsha to sleep for a while. But she would have nightmares. And then wake into the worst one yet.
“No! I don’t know! I just know it was something from my world. It was all I could think of.”
“You’re the only one who thought of that.”
Palt murmured. He hadn’t risen. He couldn’t. His hooves were cracked, and probably the bones in his hindquarters. He’d kicked the wall until they’d pulled him away. He looked at Kevin.
“How? How does it work, then?”
“I don’t know.”
“Then how is she not dead?”
Montressa shouted. She flinched as Lyonette looked at her.
“I’m sorry. I’m—”
Kevin’s head was bowed. But when he raised his head, Lyonette saw—
Just a bit of determination. A tiny bit of resolve, even now. Even here. She remembered the silly young man—older than her, in fact—and remembering wanting to toss him into the outhouse and lock him in.
How they changed. Now—she looked at him hungrily. And he just pointed at Montressa.
“Call her. There’s only one person who can help Erin now. With actual science. We need…Geneva. The [Doctor].”
Montressa looked around the inn. The door still hung ajar. From where the Minotaur had forced his way into the inn. And that was another moment Lyonette would not forget.
Slowly, Montressa nodded. She raised a finger to her brow. She spoke. And as the sun rose, the day after continued into another day of disbelief and grief—
Maviola El returned.
 
—-
 
The [Bannerlady of Memory’s Flame] rode back to Liscor on a stolen horse as the sun rose. She was smiling, her black hair, streaked with orange, blowing in the wind.
She was not the woman who had left. She had touched…greatness. With just the tips of her fingers.
She had ridden across Izril and rallied the Five Families. She had seen a girl achieve a fraction of her potential.
She had fought side-by-side with a Drake.
And Maviola had lost her great friend, Gresaria Wellfar. She had wept, upon hearing that news. Wept—with grief.
And pride. Pride, in the great [Harbormistress] of First Landing, who had rallied the [Captains] of the sea to fight for her honor when the courage of the Flowers of Izril failed. The Guild of Assassins was still not enough to lay on her tomb.
But it would be done. Maviola would have preferred her friend to live—but she would say only this: Gresaria Wellfar had died well.
“May we all be half as brave in our final moments.”
That was all she said as she rode across the road towards Liscor. The walls, somehow familiar despite her staying barely a month—looked so inviting. She had been riding far. It was far harder to return without [Haste] and the adrenaline of flight and battle in your veins.
Well, she would have arrived yesterday. But there had been complications. A voice muttered a reply.
“Can’t I be braver?”
“I will stab you, Saliss.”
Maviola warned the Drake. She glanced over her shoulder.
…A naked Drake was flopped over the back half of the horse, just dangling as it carried both across the Floodplains. Maviola had found Saliss floating down the river on a hunch. He had apparently been trying to float the entire way back to Pallass. Given the real dangers to the Named Adventurer in the north, she’d persuaded him to ride.
It was amazing he hadn’t gotten sick of riding like that. It couldn’t be fun. But—Maviola thought Saliss was doing more than a comedy bit. He might be injured; he’d barely moved as she helped him into the saddle and made camp.
The transmutation potions might have done lasting damage. And the [Alchemist] was out of…almost everything.
They had paid a high price for victory. Maviola had seen higher. But she was ready to rest. For just a day or two. And then…?
The Wandering Inn rose on the hill. Maviola El smiled, but didn’t turn her horse towards it. There was a stables, now. But she intended to find someone else first before the inevitable excitement of the inn.
The gates of Liscor were manned by a double-shift of [Guards]. They raised their weapons; Maviola slowed. They’d fixed her with arrows from two hundred feet away.
“…Clear. Clear! I recognize her! Bows down!”
Someone shouted. Maviola looked around as Saliss stirred.
“Something’s happened. Monster attack?”
“Eh. No holes in the walls.”
“Excuse me. Is something amiss?”
Maviola waved as the horse trotted towards the gates. The Senior Guardsman just stared at her. Maviola saw—his eyes were red and a bit puffy.
“What?”
“We’ve just returned.”
“You’re—Maviola. Maviola El.”
The Drake said it slowly. Maviola hesitated. But the secret was out. She was prepared for…
But the Drake barely looked twice at her. He just shook his head.
“You don’t know.”
The other [Guards] looked at Maviola. They knew her. They knew Olesm’s…but nothing of the past amusement, confusion, annoyance—anything was there. Maviola felt something settle into her stomach.
“Is Olesm alright? Was the city attacked?”
“Attacked? Attacked? Yes!”
