Lyonette was repeating herself. Mrsha was trying to nudge Erin’s hand. But everyone was being kept back.
“Back! Back! Step fucking back! She’s frozen! We have to keep her body safe!”
Joseph was pushing the people wanting to touch Erin. Altestiel’s aura pushed more away. He just stood there.
“Which city did this?”
When he looked up, Olesm realized he’d come to the same conclusion growing in the [Strategist]’s heart throughout the fading day and into the night.
Vengeance. The [Earl] turned. Kiish, the others, were openly grieving, but they threw themselves at the Earl, shouting.
“Her Majesty—”
Lightning began to fall and the storm winds howled through the night.
 
—-
 
For an hour. The Earl had been raging. He had helped mobilize the army. But he had not joined in the march of vengeance.
Olesm had seen it. Desonis’ [Queen] had spoken.
“Desonis will not make war on a Drake city!”
And her will had been chains of water. They had bound Altestiel and his people had carried him to the coach. He looked back at Olesm.
“Their deaths, Olesm. Do not let it go unavenged!”
He had howled. One voice of many. Still—
The Antinium were not marching either. Olesm remembered Moore raging. But the Halfseekers had been grieving. Seborn—Seborn, who Olesm had expected to join—had just stayed by Erin’s side. Weeping from his Human half. Neither had Jelaqua nor Ulinde gone. The Silver Swords? They would not join in the slaughter, although Dawil had half-nodded before turning away.
The Antinium had been broken. Surrounding the inn, making a clicking noise. And besides—
Xrn had forbidden it. The Small Queen had looked upon Erin only once. Then walked away. As if that was that.
Damn them all, then.
The first battle was fast. Hectval had not expected this. Olesm sent [Riders] to run down the flanks. He watched the regiment being obliterated with satisfaction. And he wanted to see their entire army slaughtered thusly.
“Prepare to move out! Wings, scout ahead! Give me the next fifteen miles—”
Olesm was shouting. The army moved forwards in a vast column; he was beginning to spread them out. Too close together and they’d do no good. Just bunch up while a fraction fought, at the mercy of area-of-attack spells. He began to move them through the rough terrain turning into foothills as they passed the Bloodfields.
Something happened though, as they ran down the remains of Hectval’s regiment. The first clash had wiped out the Drakes thoroughly. But nearly two thirds had made it away. They were slowly chased down as the [Riders] and Bevussa’s team and two Oldbloods from Liscor harried them. Mid-morning saw them make a stand. Olesm closed in with nearly eight thousand on foot towards the force hemmed against a cliff. Then he heard a shout.
“…yield! Yield!”
He stared, as the Drakes, and Gnolls, who had fled the first attack, threw down their arms. Olesm twisted the Ring of Sight and saw more clearly. Yes, they were abandoning their weapons—spears, swords, shields—and raising their arms. Shouting.
What was happening?
 
—-
 
“Surrender?”
“Yes, Strategist. It’s customary.”
“Customary?”
Olesm ignored the furious shouting behind him. The soldiers wanted the enemy dead. Only the officer’s Skills were keeping them in check. Embria was explaining at a shout.
“It’s city-fighting. They’re [Soldiers]! Close to [Mercenaries] at times! Like Liscor’s army! They’d rather surrender and be ransomed than die!”
That made sense. But—Olesm stared at the surrendered Hectval forces.
He had never fought an actual battle against other Drakes. Nor had he joined Liscor’s army. It made sense—and yet it didn’t.
“They didn’t even fight.”
“No. But its customary. Even in the thick of battle. One battalion takes a beating and is cut off? They’ll surrender. Drake cities ransom soldiers all the time. Surely you were taught that in Manus?”
“Yes I was! But I’m not inclined to accept their surrender!”
Olesm wanted to order his [Archers] to fill the entire group of two thousand with arrows and leave them to rot. Surrender? There wasn’t any mercy for them.
4th Company’s officers and some of the retired [Veterans] shifted. Captain Vell coughed into her claw.
“Sir. It is traditional to accept. If Liscor did not honor the rules of engagement—”
“Did they let Erin surrender?”
Olesm bellowed. There was a roar of fury from the soldiers. It was Captain Wikir who raised a paw.
“Strategist. A request?”
“What?”
The Drake rounded on him. The Gnoll looked at him directly.
“At least let the Gnoll conscripts go. They aren’t part of the army proper.”
“Conscripts?”
Olesm realized that out of the two thousand Drakes, there were about four hundred Gnolls. Most wore the poorest, most ill-maintained equipment. And they were in front, he noticed.
“Poor bastards probably didn’t have a choice. They’re not career [Soldiers], sir.”
Olesm remembered the Paworkers of Hectval and his desire to raze the city grew.
“Fine. As for the Drakes? What am I supposed to do?”
“Capture ‘em, ransom. You can get a few gold per each one, usually.”
Vell replied, and 4th Company agreed. It was common.
“Let’s just make them run through the Bloodfields. Any who refuse, we kill.”
Menolit snarled. That was met with agreement from half present. Olesm almost nodded himself. But he realized—everyone was looking at him.
Zevara had refused to take command. She had tried to talk him out of it.
“Hectval will pay. But this isn’t wise, Olesm!”
He hadn’t listened. Even now—if the Scalespeaker were standing in front of him, Olesm would kill him with his bare claws.
But this—he tried to think.
Erin was dead. But she wouldn’t—
They were too good for her mercy. He knew what his training, what honor he had, his morality, and his duty compelled him to say.
So what? Goodness had bled out on the grass outside her inn.
Kill them. But Olesm was spared of having to speak by Bevussa screaming at him through a speaking stone.
“Olesm! Your left wing is in battle! They’re getting chewed up!”
“What left wing? I told them to halt—Menolit, guard this group! 1st to 4th Battalions on me! Double time! Embria, go!”
Olesm swung himself back into the saddle. He raced across the ground and found that the wing he’d ordered to sweep left had kept going and had met with the enemy.
This time they’d run into an ambush. Crossbows in the hills, Drakes with their classic spear walls covering gaps in the stone. The dead—
Were fewer than he’d hoped for. Olesm stopped as he saw the retreating elements. Bevussa had gotten them all to safety?
“No. We lost eight hundred.”
“Eight h—”
“Only a hundred died, maybe. Two hundred? The rest were told to surrender.”
The new rules of this war unfolded as Olesm found that the second regiment had fallen back, taking the prisoners of war with them. When he returned to Menolit, he realized he needed the prisoners to exchange.
And one more thing. Olesm put the prisoners behind the main army, under guard, and realized he had to put a large number of his soldiers there to prevent the surrendered [Soldiers] from simply escaping or worse, fighting back. And what if the enemy tried to liberate them?
Two more of Hectval’s regiments were in the foothills. Hectval itself was still a day or two’s march away. But these two groups were trying to slow the massive army coming their way. One made the mistake of taking the battle to a pass.
Olesm watched them vanish as the Gold-rank adventurers and Liscor’s Watch took them to pieces with 4th Company. So what if it was [Soldiers] versus [Guards]. Hectval had no idea of what Liscor’s Watch had been through! Liscorian [Guards] were trained to kill Rock Crabs.
As well, 4th Company was part of Liscor’s army. And their practice of layering Skill-buffs over their forces meant they turned their group of six thousand low-level [Warriors] and [Soldiers] and the Watch into a superior fighting force.
Olesm took 1,600 more prisoners; once the momentum shifted, Hectval’s forces just surrendered. It was astonishingly easy. Even so—after the second battle, Menolit jogged over to Olesm.
“Olesm. I need a word.”
“What? Bevussa, tell them to halt while we scout ahead. Do you have anyone in your group who knows how to fortify? Get Earlia to tell the others to do it…move the supplies up and feed everyone!”
Olesm was cursing. Menolit, the [Veteran], looked at Olesm seriously. He said the last thing Olesm expected him to.
“Olesm. We should retreat.”
The [Strategist] stared at Menolit.
“Retreat? We have more forces than Hectval’s entire army!”
He’d seen the reports. Hectval’s entire army should have been around 9,000, including the Watch. A smaller fighting force—but then, their army stayed in the city. And, Olesm was realizing, that might not count conscripts only full-time [Soldiers]. And besides! He had 4th Company, Gold-ranks! And the Watch.
Menolit looked Olesm in the eye. The Drake was no less angry as he shifted his severed tail, the other half lost in battle. No less distraught. But he saw more clearly than Olesm.
“This is a bad idea, Olesm. We should stop now. This isn’t an army.”
He gestured at the disordered ranks of soldiers. Soldiers, not [Soldiers]. Yes, every Liscorian citizen had the class. But…
“What are you talking about? We have the Watch! We have Gold-rank adventurers.”
“Yeah. They’re the ones who’ve been taking these battles. But most of the fighters here haven’t ever been trained to fight in formation. They hit each other, they bunch up—they can’t follow commands. There’s more to an army than levels or numbers. Training, drilling together matters. You give the order to fall back and they won’t.”
Olesm knew Menolit was right. The [Veteran] had seen more battles than he had. Olesm looked around. He snarled.
“What do we do, then? Just leave? Let them get away with…?”
The older Drake was silent. Olesm turned on him—and he saw the spear vibrating in Menolit’s claws. But all the [Veteran] said was—
“I’m not in command, Strategist. But now I think of it—we didn’t take supplies. We just grabbed potions, food—there’s no command structure. We didn’t even take the magic door.”
Olesm looked at him. Wavering. But again—he heard a snapped report.
“Moore and the forces with him are moving up!”
“What? Tell him to wait!”
“He’s not listening to anyone!”
Olesm whirled his horse, cursing. And he began to feel his command slip. He could either pull them back. Or…he looked ahead, down the road, towards the hills.
The war in the foothills began to intensify as elements of Liscor’s army and Hectval’s met past the Bloodfields.
 
—-
 
Geneva Scala sat in her office, trying to understand. Someone was writing [Messages] to her. The Selphid [Mage] was transcribing as fast as his hand could move. She was reading. Feeling her heart sink with every line.
She was talking to Joseph.
Not…‘Joseph’. But the real Joseph. Of course, she had suspected the previous conversations of having more than one person. Or…being someone else.
As it turned out, she and the others had been right. Paige looked up. Daly was chewing his lip, hard enough to cut into his cheek. Siri was shaking her head.
“An [Innkeeper]? I’ve heard of it. The Wandering Inn. Wasn’t that behind—all that fighting in Izril?”
The others looked at each other. Ken produced a journal. The [Diplomat] shook his head.
“I recall—this is Liscor, yes?”
“Yes.”
Geneva read the panicked words. At first, she’d been busy administering the latest cure trial. But the insistency of the [Messages] had dragged her away from her work.
“Then—it has been on television before. At least…three times?”
Ken’s lips moved, consulting his notes. The Face Eater Moths. Events like the Wyvern attack. The others looked at him.
“It was her. She helped get the cure. And she’s…”
“Poisoned. Shot by six arrows. No—bolts. Unenchanted. Poison on the tips, unknown. Prevented healing potions—potions attempted multiple times to no effect. Chest, stomach wounds. One bolt removed. She hemorrhaged out. Death from immediate exsanguination within less than four minutes before a [Healer] could arrive.”
Geneva was making notes. She had yet to come up with a system to note magical and other ailments. She wished she had a picture. But this was enough of an image.
“We use poison. That’s—you don’t survive that.”
Siri murmured. Daly shook his head.
“They must have got an artery.”
“Yes. If I was on the scene—”
If she was there, it would still have been three-to-one odds that…Geneva checked the messages.
Erin Solstice. That Erin Solstice, a young woman from her world died.
The [Doctor] clenched her hand. She could have stopped the blood loss! If she had transfusions on hand? She’d reverse those odds.
Idiots. Idiots, who trust to magic potions and never learned the basics of medicine! She wanted to say that. The convenience had crippled the advancement of science in this world.
They’d tried. Staunch the bleeding—but they needed non-magical solutions, not Skills from a [Healer] who might not be there in time. A single, non-magical clotting agent might have saved her. A blood bag?
“It says—it says she is alive, Geneva. How is that possible?”
Aiko was reading the desperate [Messages] over Geneva’s shoulder. The [Doctor] leaned her head onto her hands.
“…They froze her, Aiko.”
“What, like Walt Disney?”
The Selphid looked puzzled. A reference from their world, from their time. Geneva shook her head. She tasted bile in her mouth. That was what they were asking her for. A desperate scrawl.
 
—[Alchemist] working on the antidote for the poison. How do we bring her back?
 
“Tell them…tell them to list where she is. Any danger of the cor—the body being disturbed? What temperature is the freeze? How fast was it—”
Geneva stopped. The [Mage] looked at her curiously. She threw down the quill she was writing the reply with.
“No. What am I doing? She’s already dead. She’s dead. Oh my god. They—they don’t know about cryonics. Just what they saw on television. In the movies.”
The other members of the United Nations company looked at her in shock. Geneva wanted to throw up.
“But they froze her. Geneva—”
“I know. It was all they could think of.”
Those poor kids. Those—the [Doctor] realized no one else understood. She raised her head and looked around. Daly was the first person whose eyes she met.
“Cryogenics is not a medical field, Daly. We’re experimenting with it. But it’s not known medicine. Not to me.”
“But we’ve done it. We freeze people like—”
