She hit the ground and then rolled desperately; [Light Arrow] spells were arcing up out of the water, following wide trajectories and stabbing down towards her. Montressa knew this trick. It’d be pointless to fire back. Sinew Magus Grimalkin had set up the spells on a delay, and by the time the Gnoll hit the location, he’d be long gone.
However, this stranger from another time wasn’t out of tricks. She got to one knee, then vanished—she appeared a dozen feet away, easily avoiding a shower of arrows, and Montressa and Bezale blinked.
“[Flash Step]?”
Pisces’ spell! Of course, it wasn’t his spell; it was common enough, but only Pisces was a real expert in it. Even [Mages] like Valeterisa, who could cast the spell, didn’t like the sudden acceleration or deceleration; you had to have strong legs and practice to pull it off.
Hers was as flawless as Pisces’ spell. The Gnoll girl kept spraying the water with [Stone Arrows]. It seemed like that was a bad move, especially since the Sinew Magus’ next move was to emerge from the water like a muscular whale, leaping through the air. He pointed.
“[Jet of Water].”
The empowered spell conjured six streams of water as wide as Montressa was. The Gnoll girl raised her wand and blocked some of it, then tried to [Flash Step] away. She went sprawling, and the Sinew Magus dove into the water.
“He’s preparing a big spell. She’s out of barriers.”
Valeterisa was commenting, flying upwards for a better view, and the cursing young Gnoll woman was picking herself up, too distracted to cast for a second. Falling behind the magical arms race.
That was how the duel went. If you could take out your opponent in one move, you did; otherwise, it was fouling the other one up while you bought time to enchant yourself or prepare a big spell to seal the deal. The favor swung back to Magus Grimalkin’s side.
—Right up until the young woman pushed herself up, waved her wand, and said:
“Detonate.”
Then every single [Stone Dart] she’d fired into the water exploded, and Montressa went deaf and blind for a second.
 
——
 
Reporter Drassi was having a mixed day. You could call it a bad one; she’d been hit by a chair in a newsroom brawl just thirty minutes ago, the first she’d ever been part of.
On the other hand, Channel 2 was currently the most watched channel in the world, which wasn’t nothing. She had just seen a Goblin do a comedy routine, but that was actually the bad part.
Why was Chieftain Rags telling jokes on television? What was 2nd Army doing around the High Passes? Was she, Drassi, going to cover more deaths of people she liked? More senseless violence?
Sometimes, her job of being a reporter, a [Journalist], sucked. All she delivered was death or trouble, and all she could do was talk.
Rémi Canada had talked to her about that. He understood what this class, this job was in ways she was finding out with everyone else for the first time. Of course he knew: he was from Earth.
Secrets. Drassi was a [Journalist]. Her job was to tell people the truth. But if that was all she was, she was no better than the [Gossip] she’d been. Her job, then, was to report the news through the lens of what she deemed relevant, important, and helpful. She should not endanger people by her coverage of the news. Nor should she leave out the news for fear of retribution or her own biased opinions. Yet she had her morality, and that mattered. She was caught between impartiality and her own principles.
That all combined to make what you’d call…ethical journalism. Which, in practice, meant ‘don’t be a Relz or Noass’. They really were good examples of what not to do. Everyone on Drassi’s news team got the talk, and then she pointed at those two and they got it.
Anyways, why was Drassi upset? Well, because she didn’t know what was going on. She knew more than she let on; this had to do with The Wandering Inn. A Solstice event was in-progress, and here Drassi was, wandering around the inn looking for Rags.
But she didn’t know the details. She wasn’t part of it anymore, and she missed that. Her new job was everything she had ever wanted, but she missed—this.
Right now, Drassi was wandering around the common room of the inn, playing dumb a bit, trying to get the vibe. She was on camera, but the real action was on the other channels. One of her co-hosts was duking it out with Sir Relz on the issue of covering Goblins, other channels were doing historicals on Velan or Goblins in society or trying to see if 2nd Army was in the High Passes…it was all a whirlwind of scraps. Drassi wasn’t concerned; she’d done this before.
If she found something to follow, the attention and news would follow her. So she meandered, tugging on strings, and, well, helping Rags as she could.
“Excuse me, sir. You’re a Goblin. Do you have any commentary on the day’s broadcast?”
Drassi stuck a microphone—a speaking stone stuck onto a wooden handle, but prettier—into the face of a Goblin. Sticks gave Drassi a blank stare. Then he concentrated.
Neither Drassi nor her audience had context for the events that had occurred that morning in the inn. They didn’t know about Songmistress Calla, but Sticks had been there, and no one had told him. So they had zero understanding of why the Goblin began singing.
It was just highly entertaining.
 
“My name is Sticks
Don’t beat me with them!
I don’t like apples.
And I don’t want to die! Don’t set me on fire
Don’t stab me with swords!
Why Chieftain tell jokes?
Probably because she’s bored!
Sticks!
Not flammable!
No bad spells here, please!
My paycheck is tomorrow.
I want to buy socks—”
 
Drassi had a team these days. A [Cameraperson], technical support in the form of a [Mage], and bodyguards after the Nerrhavia’s Fallen incident where an [Assassin] only tried to kill her. As a warning.
Drassi kept her face straight and blank as Sticks kept going. She could see one of the team trying not to giggle; a Garuda named Kalek. Her [Producer] was a Dullahan—Drassi hired more female and non-Drake members for her team than any of the other news channels—and the Dullahan was giving her a thumb slowly rising up.
And the viewership is mine. She let Sticks go on a few more seconds, then cut him off.
“—And how do you feel about how Goblins are treated?”
Sticks hesitated, then seemed to realize no one was singing and hadn’t been for a while. He blinked, felt at his tongue, and shrugged.
“What? Oh, we not singing? Phew. What thing about Goblins treated?”
“The…fact that your Chieftain was nearly killed by spells on camera?”
Sticks gave Drassi a blank look.
“What? That normal. Everything tries to kill Goblins. Eater Goats. Weather. Toilet poos. Chieftain Rags smart.”
“So you’re not mad about it?”
The Goblin screwed up his face with novel cogitation, and Drassi held her breath. She had come to this inn for a reason. Sir Relz had too; he could cut all the coverage of angry Goblins he wanted, but her audience wanted something that was real. And what was realer than Sticks earnestly staring into the camera and giving Drassi a reply like—
“Why mad? It rainy outside. People kill Goblins. No one get mad when it rains.”
He paused.
“Except if you in it. Sometimes I get mad.”
“But you’re not angry that it happens?”
He gave her a blank look and a shrug.
“That how it is.”
—And if that doesn’t make you think, why are you watching? Drassi hoped it made people uncomfortable. Sticks turned around and got back to work, and she pointed silently. Her camera-Gnoll hesitated, then zoomed in on the white flag sticking out of Stick’s back pocket.
You had to cut after that. Cut to something lighter; if you kept ramming it down people’s throats, they’d puke it back out. So, Drassi was all set to begin interviewing people about this singing escapade this morning when the explosion happened.
It wasn’t whumph; it was like a dozen smaller explosions chained together. Someone screamed, and the people having fun in the inn ducked.
“Alright! Everyone get ready to run!”
Menolit, a veteran of inn events, was on his feet fast. Ishkr was already running, and Drassi ran too—towards the sound.
It was bad instincts since she was no warrior or healer, but that was the job. She broke outside and came to a halt.
“Aha. This is Drassi, Channel 2. If you’re tuning in—I think we just ran into a magical duel.”
Rain showered down for a few seconds as water fell from the skies from where it had been hurled upwards. Drassi was grateful for the magical barriers even though she did have a few Skills like [Journalistic Shield] and [Safety Zone]. She stuck her microphone out.
“Excuse me—Courier Salamani. What’s going on? Who’s fighting who?”
The Courier turned, spotted her, and with perfect theatrics, pointed at the water as the horse, Ci, trotted into frame. Give Couriers this: they were naturals at being on camera and at the center of attention.
“No idea what started it, Miss Drassi. Magus Grimalkin’s fighting some Gnoll girl. I think she just killed him.”
Drassi kept her face straight; concerned, but straight, as the Dullahan [Producer]’s arm detached from her body to indicate how high the views were going.
Some days, she loved her job.
 
——
 
Mrsha noticed the people watching her, of course, but she didn’t have time to focus on them or the consequences of her actions.
All her attention and energy was being sapped by Grimalkin. He wasn’t even close to her, and it was—terrifying.
She’d done sparring before. Trained with experts, and yes, she’d fought monsters, even with Lyonette trying to keep her from danger until she was ‘old enough’. But the real thing was taxing.
She felt like she was burning through her stamina and mana three times as fast as a spar. And the pressure Grimalkin was putting on her was insane. He was in the water, launching attacks—not even his most dangerous, and it rattled her.
But she’d got him with the exploding [Stone Darts]. The Archmage of Izril was agog, and the other [Mages] were demanding to know how the Gnoll had fired so many. Binding a second spell into a low-tier spell wasn’t something [Mages] of this era really did.
It was old magic—which meant it was going to be new magic soon. In the interim, as she picked herself up, Mrsha began casting more spells.
[Lion’s Strength], [Speed]—she had to reapply it—[Ward of Protection] for a one-hit guard—she knew what was coming.
The Sinew Magus emerged out of the frothing waters like a bullet from a gun. He didn’t run at her; he jumped straight out of the water in an explosion, arms crossed, balled up. He wanted her to try and hit him. He’d take the blow, then punch her.
Like heck she wanted to deal with that. Mrsha waved her wand and cast her spell.
“[Illusory Mists]!”
She vanished, and Grimalkin punched the air that she’d [Flash Stepped] away from and turned. Mrsha vanished into the mists. Now they were in close-range combat. He’d bound another [Tremor] spell into his fist, and she had [Siege Fireball].
It’ll work. He’s not that tough. I can do it! I can hurt him!
It didn’t actually occur to Mrsha she’d kill the Sinew Magus. He was Grimalkin.
She knew how he’d died.
She didn’t think she could kill him.
 
——
 
Grimalkin’s scales hurt. So did his eardrums. The water transmitted the shockwaves of the blast quite unpleasantly.
He deserved it, of course. Like a hatchling, he’d thought she’d cast a suboptimal spell when in fact she was still ahead. He’d gotten her with the rock; no one expected you to throw a giant rock at them. Grimalkin kept one in his bag of holding just for this purpose.
However, she’d actually blocked it with [Arcane Barrier]. Another sign she knew him. You see, most [Mages] cast [Spellward] or [Forceshield] or some spell that blocked magic—in which case, the rock killed them—or which was linked to their mana. In which case, the rock ate into their mana reserves.
She was using set-mana defensive spells. She was focusing on mobility and now—illusions.
You are a fantastic [Mage]. My students should aspire to be like you. Who taught you? Are you really from…?
He could hear Montressa and Bezale shouting commentary along with Drassi.
“That’s Palt’s spell! She can’t dodge him in that!”
Grimalkin wished it was true. He was trying to find the Gnoll, and it was, uh…not working.
Illusion spells were usually easy to bypass unless you were up against a master. There were a few standbys that Grimalkin used.
Number one—wind spell. It would blow the spell away if it had any physical component like mist. Grimalkin tried that as he swivelled, fists ready to strike.
No good.
Number two! [Detect Magic]. [Heatvision]. [Sense Life]. You could get even [Invisibility] spells with a lot of these combinations. Grimalkin flicked through half a dozen ‘filters’ on his vision.
Not a one. Sweat was on his scales, now, oozing between the pores. Not a cold sweat—not yet—but he was aware he was losing his initiative. She was casting while he tried to find her.
Number three—he began firing ‘probes’ of magic into the mists. A simpler variant of Valeterisa’s seeker spell; they’d return any contact, magical or physical. And then he’d know roughly where she was and close—
Grimalkin got six magical returns from different parts of the mist. The Sinew Magus grunted.
“Splendid.”
Just—every avenue accounted for, every technique he used reversed upon him. Except one, of course, and it was his own expertise in battle. On a hunch, Grimalkin spoke as he lowered one claw, pivoting left.
“However—you cannot win a battle without taking a risk. I—”
She [Flash Stepped] towards him, and he pivoted, right fist lashing out. He’d guessed that she was in the largest proximity of probe ‘pings’; an outlier was bait. Also, for all her accomplishments, she’d risen to the bait. He saw, in the flashes of time that they punched towards each other, her eyes widen.
Then their fists collided, and a tremor met roaring flames.
Magus Grimalkin hit the water and came out of it, blinded but moving, dodging reflexively. He was seldom tossed anywhere in a duel. But right now, he was in a good deal of pain.
That was a real [Siege Fireball]. Before charging in, he’d cast [Flame Resistance], but the shockwave had still torn several scales straight off his arm. His muscular frame had helped absorb the blast, but—
I can’t take one of those again. He wondered how much damage he’d done to his opponent. Bleeding, still half-blind, and head ringing, Grimalkin charged the young woman; she was shaking her head, visibly disoriented by the rattling impact that would have shaken her around and left her puking.
