Brave men go to war. Women too, but regardless—
They fight and die. They charge the breach, pull friends out of hell, and march on. Through months of living in hell, sometimes despite grievous injuries. Severed limbs, still fighting while bleeding, through horrific pain.
Then they go home. They stand under the bright sun, in places not scarred by war, and it looks so incredibly wrong. Fake, because they’ve seen what the world looks like when you peel the lining off, and they know how easy it is to become that way.
The lie they see everywhere is children playing with weapons and knowing what it means. Young men bragging about how they’d cover themselves in glory or win any fight and not knowing how it sounds.
It’s hard to leave the war. And the lie of the rest of the world, the blank, uncomprehending stares from the people who have never been there—that hurts. Perhaps the worst lie of all is this: they think the world is one step away from behind that battlefield. But is that the case, or is it easier to believe that than to realize they’ve gone somewhere and have changed forever from the rest of the world? You can never go back. You can find your peace, but never forget.
Even if you could go back—you wouldn’t be the same person. So, brave men and women go away to war. In some way, that’s the easy part. Attending a funeral, watching someone pass away by inches—returning to those foreign lands is the hard part.
It’s a battle that Senior Guardsman Relc fought for decades. He was a boy when he joined Liscor’s army. He quit as a young man; he had years to recapture that feeling of normalcy, of ceasing to be a [Soldier]. Sometimes, he missed the army. He knew why he wouldn’t go back in oh so many ways and excellent reasons, but he also is allowed to miss it. And that’s a realization that took him ages to come to. His peace.
The irony, of course, is that The Wandering Inn has hurt him as badly as the war, in ways he can never express properly. He has tried to explain it now and then, in the crude words he sometimes feels embarrassed by. He doesn’t understand what a simile is, or a metaphor, and it makes him feel stupid.
Especially when he’s with the Archmage of Izril, Valeterisa. She’s smart. Not just ‘smart’ like a [Scholar] is, all fanciful words and Pisces-isms, but actually intelligent. She’s like how Relc feels when he solves a puzzle, but her mind does that all the time, for everything.
Anyways, Relc tries to explain it, and Valeterisa sits, head cocked like an owl. And he says, each time, how easy it is to get cut and bleed out. He’s never lost a limb, but he’s taken bad wounds before. And it doesn’t hurt in the same way, it’s not the same pain, but—
Having to face Goblins like real people? Having to—the rage of seeing someone treat monsters like people, then realize you’re losing friends, you’re going crazy over something you fear you’re wrong about?
Watching someone get hurt or pass away in your city where there shouldn’t be a damn war? Facing your daughter, who looks at you like you’re a traitor and scum under her boot?
He’d rather face-tank a [Fireball] first. That’s just pain, if that makes sense. He would lose his scales and flesh and blood, and he wouldn’t be able to do anything about that. It’s so, so much harder to visit a grave, hold a crying friend, or look someone in the eye and be on the wrong side of everything.
Of course, The Wandering Inn has good days as well. Glorious days. He met Valeterisa here. But it hurts. So badly that sometimes he takes a breath before going through those doors, but he came here to know he’s alive. Relc won’t stop visiting here. ‘Course not. It’s just—
When he glances at Mrsha, in the middle of the singing and the inn events, and sees her with all the spies and whatnot, Relc Grasstongue hesitates. He hugs Valeterisa, and he doesn’t instantly rise to follow the [Knights] of Solstice.
A brave Drake, a [Spearmaster], fears what he’ll find in those little, round, earnest eyes. Maybe it’ll come for him anyways, and if so, he’ll face it. But it hurts.
Everyone in the inn, everyone who’s been here, has faced that pain before. It burns like agony. It’ll make veteran [Soldiers] run. And that’s the thing, Relc tells Valeterisa, as she listens, making a [Magic Picture] of him as he poses on the bed, which is really embarrassing, but flattering. Relc goes on—each and every time it hurts, but what’s worse is…it hurts differently.
Then Valeterisa smiles and says ‘she’d like to see it’. Relc Grasstongue wonders when the inn will get her. It hasn’t, really. A few times, in her own journey. But he looks at her confident smile, and part of him wants to see it.
 
——
 
Agony. She bit her lip so hard her teeth nearly clicked together, and she never felt it. Not a thing.
The young Gnoll woman hesitated at the door. Not the door to the inn. Rather, the real door.
The garden door.
She stood in the [Garden of Sanctuary], which was so familiar to her. It hadn’t changed after all this time. Oh, there were a few differences; the garden looked bigger, and there wasn’t a little cabin to the side by the pond.
And the bier was empty.
Those were the big…changes. Even now, Mrsha wanted to go back up and check again, but she’d done it two dozen times. And it was empty.
Erin was gone.
—No, she was alive. That was what it meant. Mrsha told herself that, but this all felt like a crazy dream. Which was how she knew it was a Solstice event, of course.
“Just like the old days. I’m ready. This is it. You’ve waited for ten years. Just—just—”
She wiped blood from her mouth. Reached for the door’s handle. She knew she had to hurry; this [Garden of Sanctuary] was in use.
Her paws were shaking so hard they could barely take the handle. She was going to pull that door open, and she’d be there. No, wait, what had that Goblin, Rianchi, said?
She was somewhere else? Mrsha wished she’d quizzed him harder. But she hadn’t believed, not until she’d stepped through that door and felt the world change. What would she find beyond that door?
Me, eight years old. Mom, ten years younger. Dead gods, I’m a year younger than she is, aren’t I? The inn with everyone in it safe and sound.
The Horns together. Everyone alive. Liscor before the—
Dead gods.
Before the Mother of Graves. Mrsha felt her fur ripple. This entire world was different. If Erin had lived or come back from the dead—she really didn’t know what had changed. But this was also before other events had happened.
Events I know about. Should she say anything? It seemed like there was definitely some trouble. Mrsha rubbed at her face.
“Just do it. Go for it! You coward! You silly—”
She almost pulled out some Dreamleaf gum and chewed on it, but she stopped herself. This wasn’t an anxiety attack. She was just legitimately afraid. Mrsha was psyching herself up when she heard a sound.
The door opened from the other side.
Instantly, Mrsha vanished. She turned herself invisible and leapt back, racing away. Just in time; the first Goblin entered in a roar of sound.
“No interviews! Get lost! This way, Chieftain.”
Peggy shouted, and a group of Goblins stormed into the garden. Mrsha froze as she recognized two instantly.
Redscar and Rags. They strode forwards, and Rags reached back and yanked someone else after her. She pulled—a younger Rags through?
They looked completely different in dress, hairstyle, and even attitude, but Mrsha had met so many Goblins over the years she knew they were the same person. Their magical signatures as well were near-identical matches.
“Get in here. We missing anyone? No? Let’s go.”
Rags snapped and slammed the door on a [Spy]’s face. She strode forwards, and Mrsha, crouched under an [Invisibility] spell, panicked.
Oh no, she’s going to see me! [Heat Null]!
She cast the spell a moment before Rags’ eyes swept over the garden and backed away as fast as she could towards the only cover: the jungle. Rags could see the body heat of people. At least, the Rags in Mrsha’s world could, and she assumed the Goblin had gotten the Skill back in the day.
To her relief, the Goblin ignored her and snapped her fingers; the door to the [Palace of Fates] opened, and she nearly kicked her copy through it.
“Hey, take it easy. Where are we going to talk? Your world? Mine?”
“I think we need to use this palace to its full potential. Where’s Mrsha, Peggy?”
“Dunno, Chieftain. She left with the Knights of Solstice and other Mrsha just before you got here. And Chieftain Lyonette’s doing the wand thing.”
Two Mrshas? Two Rags? Who the heck was this Goblin? Mrsha cast [Appraisal].
…[Floor Boss] Level 27? What the heck? The Wandering Inn had Goblins on staff? It made sense, Mrsha supposed, but it was also insane. In her world, in her time, Goblins were hunted worse than when Erin had lived. Because she had died.
A better world. A…the real world?
Mrsha refused to believe that right off the bat. She bet this was just an alternate timeline. A good one. But now all the realities were bleeding together, which was chaos as far as she was concerned. She just had to achieve a few objectives here, and then she could go back. After all—all Mrsha had to know was how Erin had been revived and she could do it in her world, right?
Simple. Not adding to the chaos was an optional objective. So Mrsha kept listening as the arguing Goblins began disappearing into the [Palace of Fates].
“Keep me posted if she returns. I’m going to the doors. Rianchi, where’s Mrsha? Nevermind—we can find her. One last thing, Peggy. Chieftain Lyonette?”
Rags poked Peggy with a finger, and the bigger Hobgoblin gave the [Chieftain] a lopsided grin.
“What? She Chieftain to me, now, Chieftain. Respect.”
“If she tells you to take her side and I need your help, who are you reporting to, Peggy?”
The Flooded Waters tribe’s Chieftain narrowed her eyes, not quite aggressively, and Peggy gave her a huge grin.
“Depends on who’s paying my salary, boss. I get days off and free food.”
“Ooh. You want more guards?”
Another Goblin waved a hand, and they all laughed as Rags kicked them into the door. Then they vanished. Peggy strode back towards the inn, and Mrsha got up after a second. She shed her invisibility spell and exhaled.
“Whew.”
Strangely, that entire encounter had calmed her down a bit. It was surreal, but Mrsha had just gotten the drop on the Goblins, escaped all their notices. True, they didn’t expect anyone to be watching them from the [Garden of Sanctuary], but still!
“Spellcasting’s not that advanced ten years ago. Everyone’s still at Pisces’ level at best for [Invisibility] spells. Which means I’m probably at an advantage with anyone except a real master like Grimalkin.”
She’d taken lessons from Moore, Pisces, Ceria, Montressa—before the latter two had gone off—and a lot of other experts. Not that she intended to get into a fight, but it was good to know she’d be more powerful than your average spellcaster. Mrsha began to walk out of the jungle section, brushing at her brown fur, and was instantly attacked.
A giant, giant bee with huge orange and black stripes landed on Mrsha’s head and began trying to sting her.
“Aaaah! Aaaaaaaaah! Apista!?”
Mrsha tore it away—only to see a not-Apista-shaped bee flying past her like the primordial bee to end all bees. She ducked as Apista dive-bombed what she saw as an intruder, buzzing furiously.
“Apista, it’s me! What—what happened to you? Why are you so big?”
The bee recognized her name and aborted the sting, but she didn’t recognize this strange, tall Gnoll and hovered around her, suspicious.
Someone new in the garden! Who’s this, then? I don’t know you!
Her attitude and menacing stinger were hostile. Mrsha’s throat constricted. Her paws began to shake, and again, there it was.
Agony.
“Apista. It’s m—me. I’m here. You’re Apista, aren’t you?”
The bee stared at the suddenly watery-eyed Gnoll girl. She reached out and jabbed her stinger at the Gnoll threateningly, but with no real danger. This was the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Apista dodged back, but Mrsha was faster. She gathered the bee up in her arms and nuzzled her. The outraged Apista tried to squirm away, but when she noticed Mrsha had tears in her eyes, she stopped.
Who is this stranger? And why does she seem familiar to me? Also, what’s that smell?
The Gnoll girl sniffed—then nearly let go of Apista in shock as Apista transformed out of her Scourgebee form! She became the smaller, cuter Ashfire Bee, and Mrsha caught her again. Then she did sob.
“Apista—!”
In her world, there was no Apista. She’d survived the hell that had come to Liscor after the Dungeon of Graves revealed its final trap. Survived all the scrapes Mrsha got up to, the chaos of Lyonette refusing to go home, war with the Antinium—so much.
Not old age.
Honeybees had the lifespan of weeks. Queen bees lived for up to four years or more if they were lucky. Ashfire Bees, being bigger, could get up to seven years as queens.
The Apista of Mrsha’s future world had lived for eight full years. Seeing her now, small and pretty and with—fake legs?
“What’s this? What is this?”
Mrsha had noticed the prosthetic legs and wings. Apista began to buzz in actual anger as Mrsha touched them gently and tried to fly away.
Stop touching my legs and wings! Intruder! I’ll get Lyonette! Just you wait until you leave the garden, sucker, because I’ll sting you so hard you won’t sit still for a month!
Her outraged thoughts and commentary on the world were normally ignored by, well, everything. But to Apista’s astonishment, the brown Gnoll woman cocked her head, narrowed her eyes, and frowned.
“Apista, I’m friendly! Don’t you dare sting me or I’ll paint your head blue. Also—here’s a gift for you. I should have remembered my favorite buddy was here. Take this. It’s the best Dreamleaf you’ll ever have.”
To the bee’s astonishment, she spoke to Apista and produced the fattest blunt of Dreamleaf Apista had ever seen. The bee grabbed it and actually dropped a few inches in the air before fanning her wings to keep level.
Whuh? All for me? Who are you?
Her reply was a wink and another hug. Mrsha nuzzled her face into Apista’s confused head, then let go.
“I’m…your best friend. It’s really good to see you, Apista. Don’t smoke that all at once or you’ll go crazy. And enjoy yourself, okay?”
She turned, and Apista buzzed around her in utter confusion. Mrsha spared one more look for the bee, then took the door’s handle in her paw.
“Mrsha? Mri? No…how about Arrema? That’s a real fake name. Keep steady, Arrema. Here we go.”
