Some had made all the effort, of course. Moore, Lord Moore, was attired in his best clothing. It was still weird calling him that, even after two years, but he deserved it. Selys was leaning on her walking cane-spear, her grandmother’s memento, but she was also dressed up. She was linking arms with a man who wore robes of all white. He carried a long, jet-black rapier at his side, and Mrsha was dying to talk to him as much as see the movie.
Pisces Jealnet, leader of the Horns of Hammerad, stood exactly opposite a woman as far away from the others as the entryway would allow. Kevin was taking tickets, still trying to make a show of it, but he kept glancing at the half-Elf shrouded in ice.
Freezing cold mist was rising from around her, and she appeared—old. Older than Pisces, despite the years being kinder to her. Ceria Springwalker turned away from a conversation with Lyonette.
“I don’t have time for this. You informed me this was an important moment, Kevin Hall.”
“Oh come on, Ceria. This is! It’s a reunion! At least say hi to—Pisces.”
Kevin called out, and Mrsha’s smile faded as Ceria glanced across the ground. Pisces stiffened. The two stood there like strangers, and Ceria’s face was blank.
A mask of ice. When she moved, it was only to adjust something. A pale, bone-white circlet on her head. Pisces’ face grew pinched, lines appearing as he stared at it. And the necklace hanging around the [Cryomancer]’s chest.
It was a simple, leather cord, but what dangled on the end of it was the real magic. It gave it off, so much that Mrsha was almost blinded, and she wasn’t even that accomplished with magic yet. An engraved, yet disturbingly simple object pressed in ancient, violet metal, which caught the light in odd ways, making the surface ripple with different colors, but never actually reflecting it.
A cage. An empty bird’s cage, perhaps. The half-Elf toyed with it, then turned.
“I have nothing left to say that was not already discussed. If you intend to reunite me with my team, where is Yvlon?”
“She—couldn’t make it.”
Kevin’s smile faltered, and Ceria Springwalker turned away.
“Still wasting her life at a grave. I should not have indulged in emotion, even once. Princess Lyonette, I bid you farewell. Contact me should business allow it.”
She began to walk out of the theatre, and Kevin tried to chase her, but Pisces called out, halting everyone but Ceria.
“First morality, then emotions. Your master would have stopped you, Ceria. How much more are you going to give to those cursed relics?”
He had a hand on his rapier, but he didn’t move. Ceria turned at the door, and her eyes were pale white, like a tundra’s frost. She put her skeletal hand on the door and swung it open.
“Illphres did not sacrifice enough. Be well, Pisces. If you seek magic, I shall open Wistram’s doors to you.”
Then she was gone. Kevin stood there, trying to smile and cover over the moment, but the icy trail the half-Elf had left was as cold as Mrsha for a long while. The next time she saw Ceria, it was at Wistram Academy five months later. But she didn’t see Ceria, didn’t talk to her, only watched her from afar, and it was hard to applaud, then.
Even for the Archmage of Frost’s inauguration.
 
——
 
The entire memory—a movie, really—played overhead, and Mrsha felt like she’d been backstabbed as well as frontstabbed. She rubbed at her eyes.
“Dead gods. It really is an Erin-Skill. I have to do something about that, too. About…is he alive? Ksmvr?”
All these disasters. She had to do something. She owed it to this world. If it gave her a cure…only when she turned did Mrsha realize someone had snuck up on her.
Ishkr was striding into the [World’s Eye Theatre]. He caught the ending of the movie and halted, but he focused on Mrsha at once.
“Miss? Visitors are not allowed in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. Please come with me or I will be forced to eject you from the inn.”
Poop. Someone must have noticed her entering. Mrsha held up her hands at once.
“Sorry. I was just—”
“I’m sure you were.”
His face was impartial, but he eyed her severely. Ishkr relented after a second.
“You don’t appear to be a [Spy], but this is not a place for guests. This way, please?”
She strode up the steps, embarrassed about being caught. When she was level with Ishkr, he gave her a friendly, business-like smile.
It was so familiar. The inn was chafing at Mrsha, like someone rubbing against her fur until it felt like it was matting and tearing from her flesh. Joy and pain until she couldn’t tell which was which, and she could not help it, so she stopped and looked Ishkr up and down at the top of the stairs.
He was handsome. In his way. She’d never noticed it growing up, and in truth, the uniform did a lot for his looks as well, but that was strange and uncomfortable. He seemed so—competent. Well, he’d always been competent. But…an itch was on Mrsha’s body, and her tongue was warring with her mind.
But she didn’t really care, at this moment, what the consequences were. She had lived them. She had vowed to change them, so Mrsha gave Ishkr a toothy smile.
“Ishkr, right? [Head Server of Tales and Fables]?”
“That’s right, miss. This way?”
Ishkr was busy; the inn had a lot to do, and chatting with one guest wasn’t one of his priorities. Mrsha strolled back down the hallway slowly.
“You’re the best employee of the inn, aren’t you?”
“I don’t believe we have employees of the month, Miss, nor do I think we rank ourselves.”
“The highest-level, then. Do you like your job?”
“I quite enjoy it, miss. If you wouldn’t mind—?”
This time, Ishkr pointedly coughed; Mrsha was standing by one of the windows, admiring the rain. She glanced up at him.
 
——
 
What Ishkr saw was a brown-furred Gnoll woman like many others. True, with maybe a bit more magic about her than most and a casual air that spoke of youth to him, but an adventurer, perhaps. What unsettled him—and not even veteran spies unsettled him—was that knowing look in her eyes.
He had a feeling about her, but mostly, he refused to be intimidated by a guest, so Ishkr coughed again. But what the young woman said was—
“You enjoy your job. But not enough to stay with it. How much have Barnethei and Larracel offered you this month? Two thousand gold pieces a month? And managing their special bar room?”
Ishkr hesitated. He was too good to say, ‘how did you know that?’ Instead, he shifted a towel hanging over one arm.
“Miss, The Wandering Inn has an ejection policy. I’d hate to toss you out into the rain. Whatever you think you know, I am not at liberty to discuss it.”
Spies tried all kinds of stuff with him. This wasn’t even the best he’d heard; he’d had seduction, threats, bribes—the young woman fixed him with a knowing gaze.
“I know you won’t take it now. But you have a price. Six thousand eight hundred gold pieces a month and you’ll just walk off. Despite this inn making you. You know, you won’t ever hit Level 50? You’re complacent.”
Her eyes flashed, and Ishkr paused. That was an accusation, completely unfounded and a lot more emotional.
“I…don’t believe I’d quit my job for that amount of money, generous as it is. And I have every hope of hitting Level 50, miss. But if you’ll excuse me—”
He stepped forwards, and she recoiled.
“I’m telling you—”
His paw touched her arm, and Ishkr thought a Skill.
[Emergency Evacuation].
He felt her presence vanish, then saw, out the window, a flailing brown figure appear and land on her back. Ishkr permitted himself a small smile.
They get weirder every day, I swear. He strode back into the inn.
“Asgra, strike one on Table 17. If she causes trouble a second time, she’s banned for good.”
“Can I have rest of her pizza if she’s kicked out?”
Ishkr eyed the mixed pizza and glanced at the door. It slammed open, and a wet, glowering Gnoll gave him the evil eye. He gave her a polite nod.
“Absolutely, Asgra.”
 
——
 
“You got one strike. Two and you don’t eat here. Three and a scary man feeds you to the fish if you even get near.”
Asgra informed Mrsha smugly when the young woman stomped back to the table. She growled a reply and grabbed a piece of pizza. It was wet out there! He’d just tossed her out like—like a common spy!
Admittedly, she’d been insulting him. But she couldn’t help it. In her world, Ishkr had walked off for a cushy job at The Adventurer’s Haven. It didn’t matter that he sent gold and he said he’d come back the moment Erin returned.
If he’d stayed, Lyonette would have been able to keep the inn running. Without a high-level person like him…
Mrsha got madder as she ate, mostly because she had another revelation that this world wasn’t the same as hers.
“Ancestors. This pizza is good!”
Who the heck was making it? Pizza from her inn was never that great, even with Lyonette picking up cooking Skills. It had some spice to the fried fish, and Mrsha ate greedily; she hadn’t had food since breakfast. It also let her think.
She didn’t know…what to do. Mrsha supposed just going around and telling people their faults was stupid. A real Ryoka move, which was a pejorative to Mrsha.
I’ll just write a bunch of letters. That’s the smartest move. All I need is information on Erin.
But from whom? She’d burned a bridge with Ishkr, and the staff didn’t trust her. Relc—maybe—but she didn’t know if he’d been part of it, and Mrsha suspected the solution was magical, in which case, he was out.
She needed someone native to the inn that had the knowhow and intelligence to describe the issue whom she could interrogate at length without giving herself away. Lyonette was gone, as were both Mrshas, which was a bit of a relief; Mrsha had no idea how she’d deal with a younger mother.
The perfect candidate appeared as Mrsha surveyed the room. She hesitated—then got up and took half her pizza with her.
“Hey, can I get a strawberry rosé wine?”
She ordered one at the bar from an Antinium who mixed it up for her and saw Ishkr eye her suspiciously as he reappeared. However, at that exact moment, the doors opened and a welcome distraction appeared.
“Channel 2 news! Is Chieftain Rags here?”
Drassi entered with a full news team, and everyone latched onto her. Mrsha slipped away from the bar after paying and approached a table of two regulars of the inn who didn’t immediately crowd around Drassi. Now, if she played this right…her eyes latched onto another familiar, old face.
Dead gods. She looked so young. When in the future, at least Mrsha’s future…
The [Mage] who would become the Archmage of Barriers was leaning over a table, slurping spaghetti as her friend tried to pick a wiggling Rockmite out of her hair.
 
——
 
“Montressa, don’t freak out.”
“I’m not freaking—eugh! Was that in my hair?”
Bezale crunched it in one fist, then groaned and stood up.
“I need to wash my hands. Look, you did great today.”
“I can’t do bugs, Bezale. You weren’t happy either.”
“It was a hard job! We’re both professional [Mages]! There’s no need to beat ourselves up over it!”
Montressa glowered at Bezale’s back. She knew the [Spellscribe] was trying to cheer her up. A day of feeling rather pathetic did that to you. At least Bezale was strong and hadn’t gotten tired. But Montressa had freaked out when the Rockmites poured out of that hole in the wall, and she was the weakest [Mage] present.
Salamani, Grimalkin, Valeterisa, Viceria—all experienced [Mages] with talent. Montressa and Bezale were graduates of Wistram, but they felt like they were second-stringers compared to the ones trying to found a new academy.
Montressa knew it was just her low self-esteem, which had improved a bit since becoming Valeterisa’s apprentice, but also taken a few hits of late. The Solstice, the grueling magical job of shaping earth…it just wasn’t her speciality, so she felt bad.
She’d cheer up. She grimaced as she sipped at some ale and ate more spaghetti. The food wasn’t doing it for her, and she was glancing at Drassi. Now there was someone who had it all put together. Montressa saw someone block her view and leaned to the side—but then the figure spoke.
“Mind if I buy you a drink and ask you a few questions, Mage Montressa? Nagas’ tongues twist skywards, right?”
Someone pulled up a chair, and Montressa saw a young Gnoll woman, around her age, sit down with a smile. She was magical, and Montressa blinked—but then groaned and held up a hand.
“Sorry, this isn’t a good time. I’m not dealing in secrets at the moment, and I’m having dinner with a friend.”
“Even for an urgent buyer? I’ll trade you a spell—I’m desperate for information, but it’s nothing major, I think. The name’s Arrema. Drink?”
Montressa was offered a red wine of some kind and saw the Gnoll put down a pizza platter. This was forwards, and Montressa looked for Bezale, who normally chased off busybodies with a single glare or a word.
“Are you a spellcaster? I really can’t—hm. Oh, this is very tasty!”
That surprised Montressa. After her obligatory detection spell to make sure the drink wasn’t spiked, she realized she enjoyed the wine. She was used to it from home, so she’d switched over to beers and ales, but this was a tasty strawberry-flavored wine that really hit the spot.
“I thought you’d like it. I’m a…huge fan of The Wandering Inn, Mage Montressa. And of the Archmage of Izril, actually.”
Montressa instantly held up a hand as her warning senses activated again. She patted at her mouth.
“Apologies, Miss Arrema, but anything related to the Archmage of Izril is off-limits. I’m her [Apprentice], and I disclose nothing.”
The Gnoll lifted a hand.
“No, no! Perish the thought. I wouldn’t want to interrupt her valuable research. I’m actually just after a story. It’s common knowledge, or so I’m told. And you were there, or present. It’s about the [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice.”
“I don’t know anything about her either, sorry.”
Montressa’s face was flat, and she searched around for Ishkr to let him know another [Spy] had appeared. Yet she was surprised as the young woman leaned over.
“Not about her whereabouts or what she’s doing. I want to know…how you brought her back. From the dead, I mean. I’ll pay you whatever price you want, but please, tell me how it was done. What spells? What Skills—I need to know.”
It was such a curious question that Montressa stopped trying to get the stranger to go away for a second. She inspected Arrema up and down, and two things happened.
