Uh oh. Mrsha was suddenly aware of how many [Mages] were around her. Relc was walking with Valeterisa and Montressa and Bezale were both watching her. Grimalkin stood in the rain, and Mrsha smiled as she cast a spell.
[Truthbreaker’s Tongue].
“That’s right, Mister…?”
“Magus Grimalkin. Pallass. So you are from what tribe?”
“Silverfang. I heard about The Wandering Inn and came north to hear the story. I hope I’m not disturbing you?”
“I had no idea there was such an accomplished [Mage] in the Silverfangs.”
“Well, I’m not with the main tribe as much. Everyone has secrets, Magus.”
She regretted her lie at once, but she’d already used it with Relc. The Sinew Magus nodded slowly.
“Far be it from me to question every passing [Mage] who comes along. I am not the Eyes of Pallass, of course. I was merely curious, miss. And if I may, I would love to inspect this familiar.”
She relaxed slightly; if he wasn’t going to press, she’d just let him investigate or ask questions and be gone, never to be found again. She extended a hand.
“Feel free, it’s not like it’s alive, even like a skeleton.”
The Sinew Magus eyed the familiar as it flitted over to him.
“Far more beautiful and utilitarian, of course. I can see why they were a staple of old magic in the previous eras. This could have invaluable uses for my current projects and in general. Though of course, it is Mage Montressa’s spell. And she has every right not to share it.”
He sighed, crestfallen, and Mrsha blinked.
“What? No, feel free. She said anyone was free to share—”
It was just a second of error. No, well, to be fair, it was a lot of errors all the way down, but this was the error that tripped her up. Her mother had always said it was better not to give away all your cards…but Mrsha had trained to be an adventurer, not a debutante.
The Sinew Magus, though—just as always, just as ever—his eyes narrowed. He nodded to himself as Mrsha bit her tongue, and everyone looked at him questioningly as he uncrossed his stance. His inviting posture became confidently poised at once.
“My [Detect Truth] spell registered no lies. As it seldom does to half-truths or half-lies. But it did not detect truth, either, when you told me Mage Montressa’s decision, Miss Arrema. You are a spellcaster of training and knowledge. And a Gnoll. Tell me. When are you from?”
She was made. Mrsha stood there, rain pattering down around the shelter above her. Her head was bowed, and she took a huge breath. She let it out as she turned her head up to stare skywards.
Drat. She always lost at cards with Ekirra and Visma, even when she couldn’t speak. Grimalkin’s hands weren’t raised, but he was ready. A mass of muscle and magic. She met his eyes, and her smile was gentle, riven with grief and hope and madness, just like so many had ever felt when coming to the inn.
Mrsha said:
“Ten years later.”
She threw a punch, and he pivoted to block it. Grimalkin thrust the fist sideways and saw the rune she’d drawn on her fur spark—
 
——
 
Magus Grimalkin’s barrier spell faded as the [Flashbang] ceased echoing in his ears. He turned, squinting towards the inn, and saw Arrema standing in front of a violet barrier of light.
Mage Montressa had her wand raised, and the spell was shielding the front of the inn. Arrema turned, a weary sigh on her lips, and everyone stared at her.
“What?”
Relc stared at the Gnoll girl, and then every eye fell on Magus Grimalkin. The Sinew Magus was adjusting his stance, raising a fist on guard, focusing his magic.
He was in danger. The Drake sensed the young woman activating her own magic, felt that familiar intensity on his scales as her face turned from alarm to concentration. He kept his face straight and nodded to himself, for the benefit of the audience.
Internally—he couldn’t believe he’d actually called it.
He’d mostly been bluffing.
 
——
 
She was made. Mrsha saw the Sinew Magus raising his arms, sensed his magic flowing stronger, his muscles like shining bands of mana, and she saw him nod, tightly, eyes focused, serious.
Sinew Magus of Pallass. Grimalkin—in the flesh.
Ten years ago. And now he knew about the future, had guessed it in that genius way she’d never gotten until she was older.
It was fine. She had almost everything she needed; Mrsha shifted her stance lower, one fist forwards, the other raised, facing Grimalkin side-on. A [Martial Artist]’s stance, which he recognized.
“Stay back. Don’t interfere, Mage Bezale, Montressa, Archmage.”
“This is fascinating. Her spellcasting is completely different. I know [Summon Shadow Familiar], but that’s a rote spell taught by levelling. It has no optimization; every spell you learn is baseline. Her spell has improvements, refinements in the spellcraft…oh, why are we fighting?”
Valeterisa was chattering excitedly as Relc paced with her, guarding her, his spear in hand. He was watching her hard, and it was uncanny; he’d never looked at her like that, even when he was at his maddest.
She was a stranger. They didn’t recognize her. Mrsha bared her teeth as she glanced at the two [Mages] out of the corner of her eye. Bezale had a scroll in hand, but she was stepping back as Montressa raised more barrier spells.
Strange. The future Archmage of Barriers was just standing there, afraid of Mrsha—but the Gnoll girl couldn’t spare any other attention.
The Sinew Magus was right there, and he began casting spells at the same time as her.
Why were they fighting? For Mrsha, the answer was simple. She bore Grimalkin and this world no ill will. But her blood was up. She needed an outlet for the emotions in her chest. She also had no desire to be captured by Pallass and interrogated—but most of all?
She wanted to know how she matched up to the past. Grimalkin, that imposing figure who’d been one of her heroes growing up, was now in front of her. Of course she wanted to know if ten years of training mattered.
And—Mrsha’s eyes flickered as she saw Grimalkin staring at her, and she gazed at Valeterisa. At Bezale, and her soul writhed. She couldn’t just leave it alone. Not with the future she knew.
As for Grimalkin? He looked wary as he lowered one fist, keeping the other high. There was some training in how he moved; Mrsha saw it now. He didn’t fight like a random [Brawler]; he was compact, fist turned up at his waist. When he threw a punch, his entire body would go into the blow, and he was huge. But they were [Mages].
They cast magic simultaneously.
“[Bind Spell]. [Tremor]. [Paralyzing Touch].”
Grimalkin opened with the spells Mrsha knew. A [Tremor] in his right fist, [Paralyzing Touch] in his left claw. He was casting other spells as well, silently.
[Speed], [Stoneskin], [Detect Magic]—when he moved, he’d be fast. A fast brick who’d hit you with all the power of a miniature earthquake or paralyze you. The Grimalkin method.
What surprised him was—she was doing the same thing as he was.
It looked like a clone of his magic. The Gnoll girl was chanting.
“[Bind Spell]! [Siege Fireball]. [Speed]. [Stoneskin]—”
She bound only one spell into her paw; burning strands of fire flared to life as they seemed to come off her fur, like wavy patterns of flaming yarn knitting into a miniature orb of fire that sunk into her fur, leaving a corona of menacing orange light in her fist. Valeterisa gasped.
“A Tier 4 spell? So fast? Very flashy effects.”
Relc reacted by gripping his spear with both claws and backing Valeterisa up a few steps. [Siege Fireball]? That was no joke. Most [Mages] couldn’t cast it unaided, let alone pop one into being like—
“Hm. [Fire Resistance].”
Grimalkin circled left, enchanting himself. Mrsha didn’t move. She kept casting, and her next move surprised Grimalkin. She opened her free paw, then touched it to the wet grass.
“[Calm the Land].”
The Sinew Magus blinked. He’d never heard of that spell before. Then he felt a tingling in his right fist. He glanced at it and sensed the [Tremor] spell unbinding. She was disenchanting his spells?
“[Druid] magic. Marvellous. [Bind Spell: Orb of Air].”
Grimalkin whispered; he rebound a spell as his opponent spoke.
“[Earthen Spire].”
He jumped as the stalagmite of stone burst out of the ground. It showered the area with earth, and several of the undead moving around the construction site went sprawling as clods of earth hit them. They picked themselves up, looking around for their attacker, only to see a flying Drake. He was leaping back, through the rainswept air, his robes whipping in the wind—but the leap after him didn’t come.
A second flaw in his reasoning was assuming she’d engage in a close-range brawl. Instead, Mrsha darted forwards. Grimalkin had launched his own spell; a dozen [Light Arrows] struck the earth hard, mostly to force her to move. But rather than close the distance, she leapt on top of the [Earthen Spire] she’d created. Then she raised a wand in her left paw, pointed—
“[Lightning Bolt].”
Positioning using a spell of her creation to force him out of his preferred engagement range. Lightning spell to catch a fast-moving aerial foe.
It was like Grimalkin was watching a presentation on battle magic—because he was. This was how he taught combat. Splendid exec—
The bolt of lightning streaked towards him, and the Sinew Magus almost forgot he was in combat. He made a choice and activated the spell in his right hand.
The orb of air detonated in a shockwave of force, which made the rain explode everywhere and sent him hurtling into the water. It allowed him to dodge the spell and also detonated the [Lightning Bolt]; the flash of light covered the sight of him falling. Grimalkin sank in the water, considering his next move as he cast spells.
This was a proper [Mage]’s duel. No ending it with a single punch; he and his mysterious opponent were testing each other’s capabilities rather than risking a single engagement. And—what made Grimalkin grin was—
He was losing. She had a [Siege Fireball] bound to her fist. He’d lost all but [Paralyzing Touch] in his offhand. Regardless of weight or muscular differences in how they hit each other, he would lose the exchange.
 
——
 
Archmage Valeterisa was perhaps the only person who understood how many things had gone into those few seconds of magical exchange besides Grimalkin and the mysterious Gnoll girl. She was running commentary—and she was a veteran duelist of Wistram.
Even Montressa and Bezale hadn’t made a name for themselves in combat magic, and so they listened as the Gnoll girl began casting more spells. She was so—fast. She looked like the best Wistram [Mages] that Montressa had ever seen, and Valeterisa’s commentary only confirmed that.
“—Flawless transitioning between elemental spells. She has no set type I can tell, or she’s achieved competency in each area. [Cryomancers], for instance, would struggle to cast [Fireball] at the same efficacy once they passed Level 20. And she dispelled one of Magus Grimalkin’s casts at range. Even your average [High Mage] would hesitate to try that—oh my, what’s she casting now?”
Valeterisa swooped forwards, only for Relc’s spear to block her.
“Valley, get back, it’s not safe.”
She blinked at Relc; he was tense. The Archmage floated back as the Gnoll girl spoke.
“—There you are. [Lightning Bolt]!”
She pointed her wand, and the water lit with a flash of lightning. There was an explosion of water, silence—the Gnoll girl cast a spell.
“[Arcane Barrier]. [Stone Arrows: Volley]!”
Another wave of her wand and arrows of stone began hitting the water, raising smaller splashes. Valeterisa was fascinated.
“She detected Magus Grimalkin despite his [Invisibility] spell.”
“Why did she switch from [Lightning Bolt], Master?”
Montressa was doubling her barrier spells; it seemed reasonable if the Gnoll girl came at them. Valeterisa answered absently.
“Lightning is doubly logical to use in water. It spreads out its effect, though; see the dead fish? Magus Grimalkin knew this, and I suspect he used [Lightning Resistance] to effectively nullify the danger. However, he had to drop [Flame Resistance] unless he burned mana on upgrading to a multi-elemental defensive spell. He’s down two Tier 3 spells on mana.”
Magus Grimalkin? Outmaneuvered? Montressa couldn’t believe it. She’d heard of his duel with Archmage Feor, and the Sinew Magus had lost that—but he’d clocked Feor with a punch that had gone down in Wistram history in the first ten seconds. However, his opponent was reading him. Not just reading him; anticipating his tactics.
In fact, Valeterisa was visibly excited; this kind of magical battle was complex, elegant, and seldom seen. She wasn’t the only one either.
“Dead gods, it is a fight. Why is she sending stone spells into the water, though? They’ll lose all their force. Must be a trick.”
“[Arcane Barrier]? That’s only got the energy to resist a single Tier 4 spell unless she’s overcharged it. And it doesn’t move well—she must be trying to tower up—ah, there it goes.”
There was a counter-flash, and Montressa saw a lightning bolt from the water hit the barrier and explode. The Gnoll staggered, but her barrier did hold; she waved her wand, and the Sinew Magus continued evading in the water as she hurled more stone darts after him, then a [Fireball] that lit the water up.
The explosion illuminated a new group of watchers; most emitted death magic. The villagers of Rheirgest? Viceria? Even Magus Salamani and Ci!
They’d all come back, drawn by the magical conflict. The [Necromancers] were the ones commenting on the spellcasting. They’d been summoned by the damage to their skeletons, who had taken cover in the shadow of the tower.
“Careful! It’s a Mage’s Duel!”
Montressa shouted as she added barrier spells to their location, but one of them, a motherly-looking woman, just gave her a sniff.
“We know, young woman. Don’t block our vision with your barrier. I haven’t seen a good duel in ages. Oh—watch out—”
That was for the young Gnoll woman. She was losing the stationary battle; even as she put up another [Arcane Barrier], a second lightning bolt came out of the water. Magus Grimalkin appeared to be moving swiftly around the water about the hill, popping out and taking shots at her. This time, she blocked the lightning bolt with a slash of her wand.
“What was that?”
“[Disjunct Spell]. She’s not bad—ooh!”
The ooh was because the young woman had let her guard down. She’d easily exploded the lightning bolt midair. But she’d missed the rock Grimalkin had lobbed at her. The non-magical rock hit the [Arcane Barrier] and shattered part of her perch; she fell, cursing a blue streak.
“—swinging Centaur ballsacks—ow!”
