“Hey, hey, he doesn’t have to know. This is witch business. I was checking on Mrsha! Witch Thallisa told me to come here; take it up with her!”
Grimalkin hesitated. He eyed her severely, but Mrsha’s name made him twitch. He sat, hard, and took another huge gulp of his drink.
“Appropriate. Keep it to [Witches]. This is a scenario they are called for, I think—better them than Wistram. This should be a convening of all six Walled Cities, and I should…I should. But what would they do? Exactly what I suspect. Without Chaldion. No.”
He was muttering to himself. Morose. So un-Grimalkin-like that Alevica began to gird herself against whatever was coming. She adjusted her hat as she stepped closer to Arrema. Who was she?
She blazed with [Mage] magic. Her emotions were a mix of relief, anxiety, guilt, and—hope. Such a blur of it. Everyone had strong emotions. But hers were in flux, and she was talking.
“You never did.”
“For ten years?”
Ishkr was sitting with Arrema, and the two had forgotten their quarrels. Arrema was…angry, but not at him. She was giving him a sad, searching stare.
“No. You got rich, though. Famous. Ishkr the Server of Fables. You dropped the tales bit. I think they all liked the idea of it. I…I stopped talking to you. I was angry. You sent money back all the time at the start. You still might. I dunno.”
“And I work for Larracel?”
She shook her head as Alevica paused, frowning, confused. Arrema lifted three fingers.
“Three years Larracel. Then Barnethei starts his own inn. You join that. But never…you never pass Level 50. I don’t think you even get much into Level 40. You just—stop. You don’t fight. You don’t do much, I think.”
“I was afraid to go further. That sounds like me.”
Ishkr was looking at his paws, shaken. By what? A prophecy? Fortune telling? The girl didn’t fit any description like that. Alevica cleared her throat.
“Hey. You. Who the hell are you?”
It came out more aggressive than she thought. Arrema looked up.
“Mrsha from ten years in the future. A future where Erin Solstice never wakes up.”
“Hah. Good one. I’m Alevica if she was trying to be nice to people. What’s really going on?”
Alevica turned to the others and got flat, dully-amused smiles. Pitying expressions. She wavered and then swallowed. Hard.
“That’s a bad joke. That’s impossible, even for Erin. That—”
Someone brushed past her. Grimalkin sat back down, cradling his drink. Mrsha, an older Mrsha—and Alevica saw the similarities now—crooked her head at him.
“More questions?”
“Not about my end. So not once—did you know me?”
“Six years.”
His eyes were steady. She flinched and tightened her paws on the table, but Grimalkin had so little fear. He had that grim focus of [Soldiers]. But there was a different kind of anxiety Alevica saw in him, growing, all-consuming.
“Not once in six years did I ever visit the north? House Ulta? Was I…alone?”
Mrsha swallowed. She studied him and replied honestly. Alevica knew the answer in the sorrow in the girl’s emotions before the words came out.
“You had tons of apprentices. You visited the inn a lot and tried to help. You were always surrounded by people. I think, yes. You were lonely.”
Slowly, the great Drake closed his eyes. The fear spiked—and then turned to acceptance, and that made Alevica afraid, because there were so many ways that could go.
“Thank you. I have to call someone.”
Without a word, he stood and walked away, and Alevica was next. The Witch Runner turned to flee.
I didn’t sign up for this. Mrsha called out at her back.
“I don’t remember you. Sorry. I don’t know everything. I knew Valeterisa because it was…news. You don’t forget that. I didn’t like the Unseen Empire. It wasn’t all his fault. Bad things happened—but I held a grudge against him for Nanette.”
Nanette. Alevica turned, gripping the tip of her hat tightly, her wand in the other hand, though neither would do much good.
“What—what happened to her? She’s okay. She’s here in the inn.”
Mrsha’s eyes widened fractionally, and she let out a huge breath.
“Good. I didn’t know that. In my world, she didn’t ever come here until…she was old. In my world, she’s a bad witch.”
“Why? What d—her hat.”
Alevica knew the answer already. Future Mrsha gave her another curious look and shrugged. She felt at something on her neck as she replied.
“I don’t know. I’ve only met her half a dozen times. She’s got a bounty on her head, and she works with…no. Just don’t let it happen. In my world, Alevica, she commands the power of water. It’s always raining when she arrives. They call her the Witch of Sorrow. I think she killed a Great Witch who tried to stop her. Witch Eloise?”
Mrsha’s gaze had no familiarity in it. Her words were delivered without deep emotion. Someone recounting facts she’d heard. That’s why they cut. Alevica backed away. Then she ran.
To get reinforcements.
Mrsha watched the Witch Runner flee, and then she sought out the others. No one wanted to meet her eyes. Her smile was a split line of despair across her face. From a future where it had gone so wrong. Her eyes glittered with terrible certainty, and a desire to unmake it.
“Anyone else have questions?”
 
——
 
“What do you think’s going on in the inn? I sort of want to check.”
Student Rags was glancing up at the ceiling in the [Palace of Fates]. Chieftain Rags grunted as she inspected the root going into the door.
“No clue. Hey, Rianchi, what possessed you to enter this door?”
“Uh—uh—it was the closest one?”
He flinched at the glower she gave him, but Chieftain Rags sighed. She stood up, then stretched her back.
“Well, we’re not wasting another one. Alright, you have to come with me. I’m going in. Let’s meet back here in two hours.”
Everyone turned to her, and Student Rags’ eyes lit up. Chieftain Rags was standing in front of the door. The one leading to the future.
“You’re going through?”
“We need help. Knowledge. Spells—and besides, the Mrsha of this world met Rianchi. I need to speak to her. You go to your world, and we’ll meet Mrsha here. One of them.”
Chieftain Rags met Student Rags’ eyes. She was playing it cool, but they were both Rags. Student Rags knew how terrified the other Goblin was, how uncertain—at least, she hoped they were alike enough not to be alone in this. She shook her head.
“No. Way. If you’re going to the future, I have to see it.”
“No. You’ve already caused enough trouble.”
“I helped you. Come on! You’re me! Would you really let yourself stop you from seeing your future?”
It was such a confusing sentence that the other Rags paused, then tried to hide a grin. They both grinned at each other, and Rianchi shifted from foot to foot. The other Redfangs were excited too.
“I’m coming with you, Chieftain.”
Redscar would brook no argument, and Dyeda grabbed Rianchi’s arm.
“Where he goes, I go!”
“That makes five. That’s probably enough for a brief visit. I don’t…see Mrsha in there, but it’s only showing the inn. It’s going to be sad.”
Chieftain Rags warned them all, and they nodded. Then, one by one, they grabbed the root and pulled themselves into the doorway. Rianchi did pause at one point, staring at the root as if trying to remember if he’d placed it just there or if it had moved slightly. But then they vanished. In the door of the future.
On a journey with absolutely, 200% no consequences.
 
——
 
Doors. Strangers from different times. Strangers to different times.
A Gnoll girl and a group of [Knights] stood in front of Brunkr in a room full of dead Raskghar.
A young Drake woman spun, and [Reporter] Visma saw five Goblins tumble into the inn and recoiled. On Mrsha’s birthday no less.
And in The Wandering Inn, Lyonette du Marquin returned, exhausted and tired, and her first question was:
“Mrsha? Where’s Mrsha?”
Hethon pointed, and Lyonette strode forwards, through the inn. Into a theatre, and her eyes roamed around for her daughter. She did not see her child, thin or otherwise. Instead, Nanette playing cards at a table with Relc and a stranger. They all stood as Lyonette ran down to her, and Rhisveri snorted.
“See? All’s well if cards are being played…”
“Lyonette!”
Nanette wavered and the young woman across from her tossed down her cards; she had all [Kings].
“That’s how you do it. Um, hi there, Lyonette.”
The [Princess] slowed as she eyed the stranger, a young woman with brown fur and odd…clothing. She was about to demand where Mrsha was, and Ushar, but then she slowed to take in the odd apparel the stranger wore. She was a tall, brown-furred Gnoll woman. Wearing…a kilt? Adventurer’s gear. And her face looked so familiar and—Lyonette felt lightheaded.
“Excuse me, I need to know where Mrsha is. Now. And you. Do I know…?”
“Mrsha is upstairs, Lyonette. Ushar has something to report. But this is…this is..um…”
Nanette faltered, as she tried to explain, and Lyonette felt the tension in her chest ease at the reassuring words. But then she focused on the stranger.
The young woman gave her a lopsided, pained smile and eyed Lyonette up and down. She stared blankly at Visophecin and gave Rhisveri a long, hard glower. But she shrugged. She raised a paw and said:
“Hi, Mom.”
They’d never done it before, but to their intense embarrassment when they woke up, Ser Dalimont’s eyes rolled up into his head and he swooned into Duke Rhisveri’s arms.
The Duke dropped him.
