‘Arrema’ tucked her floating quill and book into a belt pouch; it wasn’t essential to have floating about. She double-checked she didn’t have Pawn’s stupid halo, and nodded to herself.
Then she pulled the door open, and rain filled the air. It showered down in such a torrent that Apista did an evasive backflip through the air, and it drenched the young woman. She blinked as the rains of Liscor came down.
An unending torrent of water. Near-black skies dumping water into the flooded valley, a basin with the tops of hills poking out of the water; little islands connected by tiny bridges of wood.
Precarious, surreal to visitors.
“Home.”
Apista listened as the familiar-unfamiliar Gnoll girl stood there, smiling. Water ran from her brown fur, and she whispered a spell. Then it collected over a thin barrier rather than drench her.
“It looks so empty. I forgot how dark it was. I really am back, aren’t I?”
The young woman gazed around, then stepped out, passing through the garden just outside the inn to the side, next to the outhouses. She turned, the warm light from the windows catching her as she shaded her eyes and peered at the front of the inn. Then she stumped around and checked a little sign on the ground. She laughed softly, a faint moment of relief in the roaring water.
Apista hated the water. It would drown her, beat her up, weigh her down, and sink her in its deathly depths. But the young woman just stood there, arms raised to the rain. Then she began to walk forwards. She entered The Wandering Inn from the front door, a stranger from distant times.
Then the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] closed. And Apista was alone, wondering what the heck was going on. The Ashfire Bee almost debated following the older Gnoll. Then she peered at the blunt.
The finest Dreamleaf she’ll ever have, you say? Apista did a lazy barrel roll as she headed back to her nest. She felt like important, stressful things were happening in the inn again, to Lyonette, to Mrsha, and obviously Apista was concerned.
But she was also a bee. She smoked Dreamleaf, she made honey, and she hung out until it was time to sting someone in the eye. Then she’d possibly die. That was her purpose.
It was good to know your purpose.
 
——
 
“So, whaddya reckon is going on right now? Goblins doing comedy? Think we’ll get Wistram News Network in here? My bet is…we’re getting a Goblin-themed television network.”
“What? What? That’s stupid. What are all the spies about, then? What about 2nd Army in the High Passes? It’s going to be a damn war if that happens.”
Menolit raised his claws at a table where he was gossiping with the other inn regulars and several [Spies] desperate for some clue as to what was going on.
It was a tradition for the regulars of the inn to hang out like this. They were, largely, content not to try to get into the [Garden of Sanctuary] or ask to be invited to the main event. It was actually more fun to sit, have something to eat, and to speculate.
If you played your cards right, you wouldn’t have to even pay for a meal; the suckers would do that. And by ‘suckers’, what was meant were the [Informants], newcomers thinking they could just experience what was going on at The Wandering Inn by showing up, and the victims.
In this case, the victims were obvious. A dozen off-duty [Soldiers] from Pallass, doing their best to look inconspicuous, a few battered Drakes who had been working Channel 1’s newsroom when the Drassi broadcast went out, and a host of Pallassians and spies. They’d tried to rush the [Garden of Sanctuary] door four times, and it didn’t get less funny watching them smack into the invisible wall.
Now they were resorting to the only thing they could think of: pumping the regulars for information. So Menolit, wearing his best clothing in case he came up on the news, was having an animated discussion with Relc, who was off-duty for once.
“Relc, Relc. Let’s say Rags is right and 2nd Army is in the High Passes. Sure, it might be a war. If they attack Goblinhome.”
Relc opened his mouth to take a bite of some hot pizza someone had bought him.
“2nd Army is Pallass’ attack dog, Menolit. They don’t mess around, and I’ve heard General Shirka’s intense.”
“Right, but now everyone knows they’re there…I say no war, Goblin news channel. And Drassi comes by with a news crew after she and Sir Relz stop punching each other. And I also say she takes that fight. Fifteen silvers on it.”
Relc almost reached for his money pouch, then waved a claw.
“I’m not taking any bets. I’m saving up. Besides, Menolit, there’s Lyonette rushing off and whatever was going on with Mrsha. Something else is happening, and it might not be pleasant.”
Several of the other regulars nodded. A Drake, Miss Uriesta, another old regular, was knitting a scarf.
“I’m ready to run, but I hope it’s not about those poor Goblins. Feels like we’ve had enough bad events with them.”
That was an incredible statement, as was the relaxed attitude of the Drake. But Relc and Menolit were nodding, and one of the Eyes of Pallass, doing his damnedest to look like a normal Gnoll who wasn’t taking notes, leaned over.
“What about the, uh, singing? Surely that had something to do with all this? And the new staff?”
Relc and Menolit gave the Gnoll an arch, pitying look, and Menolit sipped ostentatiously from his mug.
“Window dressing. Ambiance. That [Songmistress] might end up mattering later, but the songs were just something that happens. You’ve gotta parse what really matters here out from what’s just fun to watch.”
Relc, Uriesta, and all the others gave the Eye of Pallass sage nods, and Relc stretched out in his chair and checked the time.
“Valeterisa’s almost getting back. Fun as it is to jaw, I’m going to get her a pizza—”
He gathered up half the slices, and Menolit lifted a claw.
“Oh, don’t let us keep you, Relc. Just watch yourself. I bet he’s going to get mixed up in this as well. It happens. You start sleeping with an Archmage and suddenly you’re the one dodging Crelers each inn event.”
“Hey, watch your mouth.”
Relc gave Menolit a friendly punch to the arm. He tried to act casual as eyes snapped to him, and more than one person began taking notes and pictures. The Archmage of Izril, who’d lifted Fissival, had a partner?
One of the anxious Pallassians, a Dullahan, interrupted.
“Are you sure that 2nd Army can’t just defeat anything it runs across? This Goblin tribe or that Lord Xitegen?”
Menolit burped and eyed his empty mug meaningfully. Someone called for a refill, and the Drake [Veteran] happily explained.
“Ah, well, they might do that, they might, miss. But you have to think of this in terms of inn-psychology. Armies? Sure, they matter, but I’ll bet you gold pieces to copper what’s really going to matter is Miss Mrsha, and possibly Rags. Follow the logic.”
“…What logic?”
Relc ignored them and rose from his seat, grinning. He was worried, honestly; a lot of the regulars were. They just hid it behind gossip. They were here because this mattered to them. Everyone just had to wait and see, though.
If I see Mrsha, maybe I should just ask if she needs to talk. Not that Dame Ushar and Lyonette don’t have it covered, but maybe she just needs a word with someone she trusts, huh? Starved? Abused? I’ve seen Mrsha everyday for weeks, and she was fine. But if I—
Senior Guardsman Relc was in it, this Solstice event. Or rather, he wasn’t running from it. He’d actually taken his spear that Valeterisa had enchanted for him with him in his new bag of holding. Just in case.
Now, the Archmage of Izril wasn’t an inn regular, for all she’d been here for a while. When she flew in, the setting sun obscured by the rainclouds, wet and grumpy, she just seemed confused the inn was so crowded.
“Here we are. We shall gather tomorrow morning for more geoshaping. Montressa, find a bug-killing spell for all those Rockmites. And food. Food first.”
Salamani, Viceria, Grimalkin, Montressa, and Bezale all got off a floating platform of solidified air as it rather unceremoniously dumped them onto the lawn. They all seemed tired and, apart from Grimalkin, who stretched, were holding their backs.
“Hey, Valley girl. I’ve got something to eat. Long day?”
Relc was there, in the eaves of the inn, with the pizza on a plate. It wasn’t like he’d made it or even bought it, but it won points as Valeterisa’s face lit up. She flew over instantly.
“Apprentice, cancel finding my food. Hello…you.”
She blushed and fiddled with her hair as Montressa hurried past Relc into the inn. He gestured, and Valeterisa landed and walked as the [Mages] strode inside.
“Big day? It’s been Solstice events all since you left.”
“Oh yes, the uncategorized ‘Solstice event’, quote unquote, you insisted we were in despite a lack of any Skill- or magic-based phenomena. Well, we have been excavating the site of our academy all day.”
“Which sucks. Is it pizza tonight? I’ll take pizza as soon as I check on Ci. She’s in Celum.”
Salamani stomped past them into the portal room, and Grimalkin nodded to Relc.
“I hope your day was more pleasant than ours, Relc.”
“Shaping earth not that fun?”
Grimalkin scowled as Bezale and Montressa shook dirt out of their hair, thoroughly miserable. Viceria waved at them as she headed into the portal room, probably to see her husband. The [Sinew Magus]’ reply was succinct.
“Rockmites, giant bats, and a particularly unpleasant Camouflaged Cavebiter. Shaping stone is already difficult to do without causing damage, but the monsters were not happy. We chose a magical leyline; we should have anticipated how many there were. Add in a quake and I think I would have rather hired a Gold-rank team to secure the area.”
Valeterisa murmured.
“No one got hurt, but I would have been very irate if I let myself be.”
Grimalkin pointed at his leg; a huge, faint imprint of teeth was sketched onto his scales. Valeterisa corrected herself.
“No one got hurt in ways I consider important. Magus Grimalkin took the bite.”
“Well, let’s buy him a drink.”
“I should be getting back to Pallass. Then again—I caught part of that broadcast on the way in, and I don’t particularly want to have to explain to High Command what’s going on. Are they serving anything other than pizza? Bah, I’ll ask Calescent. Has Rags returned?”
Grimalkin was, like Relc, aware of how this went but willing to get involved. Relc shrugged.
“She already came back and vanished into the [Garden].”
“Well, I’m stymied, then. I might as well have something to eat.”
The Sinew Magus relaxed, and the normally-focused and intense [Mage] of Pallass seemed all too happy not to get involved. Which was either a commentary on how tired he was or how motivated he was on acting in Pallass’ name.
Things were changing. For the better, sometimes. Relc based that on the fact that he was holding Valeterisa in his arms and she was nibbling on a piece of pizza as a plate floated after her. She enjoyed that kind of treatment. No one had ever just carried her around or treated her like anything but a powerful [Mage].
Relc was wondering how many more Relc Points™ he could earn today. Relc Points were very important. They came with amazing prizes.
And there they were, outsiders, the audience or side-cast to whatever play was going on in the inn. Relc was at the common room door, and he grabbed it with his foot as Magus Grimalkin passed through, turning slightly sideways to accommodate his impressive physique as several people hurried out for the outhouse. Relc glanced over his shoulder and held the door open.
“Whoops! Here.”
He edged it wider with his foot, but the open-mouthed young woman didn’t move at first. She stared at him, a young Gnoll woman just a few years younger than Embria. She had on a collar, pretty, trendy clothing, but also a shortsword, and she seemed like she knew how to use it. Some new adventurer? After a second, she stuttered.
“Oh. Th-thanks, Relc.”
“Uh. No problem. Do I know you?”
The young woman hurried through the door, staring at him—and Archmage Valeterisa—as if she’d seen ghosts. She jumped.
“Me? Uh—uh—who doesn’t know Archmage Valeterisa? And Senior Guardsman Relc? I’m M—A—new here.”
Valeterisa sat up slightly, and Relc grinned despite the odd greeting.
“You must be new to Liscor. No one thinks I’m that big a deal. If they said so, they’re pulling your tail.”
He was searching around for a seat in the inn, and this was just conversation. But when the young woman walked in after him, she stopped and stared around with such a heartfelt, open-mouthed expression of wonder Relc had to look twice.
She stood there like she had come to a Walled City for the first time. No, that wasn’t right. She gazed about like a young soldier after his first tumble between the sheets—no, that was stupid and crass—again, Relc wasn’t good with this kind of thing. Then he had it.
The young woman stood there like an Antinium who emerged from the Hive for the first time and saw the sky. Her face was utterly consumed by the busy tables around her, by Antinium trooping past with all four hands holding plates, Goblins taking orders, a few Players of Celum on stage singing with Songmistress Calla—
She appeared so devastatingly happy, so sad, so disbelieving that Relc raised his brows and glanced at Valeterisa.
Valeterisa was slicing the crusts off her pizza with a magical knife. Relc looked back at the Gnoll and coughed.
“First time visiting The Wandering Inn?”
She started.
“Oh. Yes—but I’ve been told what it looks like. It’s so lively. It’s so…beautiful.”
Beautiful? Relc gazed about, wondering why that was the first word she thought of. He eyed her up and down and hazarded a guess.
“You’re not from the Silverfang tribe or the Great Plains, are you? I can’t imagine anyone else would talk about this inn like that. I mean—maybe. I know it’s more famous, but it’s not the Adventurer’s Haven.”
“It’s better than the Haven. And you—why are you holding the Archmage of Izril!”
The young woman spun on Relc with a flash of anger and then seemed to forget her anger the next moment as she regarded him again. It was actually getting uncomfortable, and Relc felt Valeterisa floating out of his arms towards a table.
“Er…we’re together.”
He smiled despite himself, and the young woman’s mouth opened.
“You? Wh—how?”
She actually pursued him a few steps, and Relc didn’t know how to answer the personal question. He wasn’t shy about how happy he was, but it was weird to talk to a stranger about it. She was so personal. So familiar, and yet he had never met her before.
“It’s just a thing that happened. I, uh, have to go. Nice meeting you, Miss…?”
