“No! Too many [Spies]! It stinks of them in here! How many do you have?”
 
——
 
Mrsha was quietly fascinated by the Plains Gnolls demanding everyone’s attention at the moment. Not only were they high-level, they had come here to head north and even settle?
Deskie…Deskie…wait, wasn’t there a ‘Spinning Deskie’ that someone had invented? Was this the Gnoll they were talking about? It was so different from her world.
In her world—Plain’s Eye was dominant, and the hunt for Doombringers was bad. The tribes had moved, yes, to get away from the accusations and infighting that came when a Doombringer was found.
Chieftain Xherw had made it a condemnation of the entire tribe if one was found within a tribe or sheltered by any group. And his will had even touched the cities. Not that it was the only problem facing Gnolls. Plain’s Eye was needed to hold the line against so many nations who’d pressed in. They’d lost half the Great Plains and…
This is a better time, then. Mrsha had to believe that, unless Yelroan was here because Plain’s Eye was so powerful even The Wandering Inn tolerated their presence. But how would Mrsha be allowed to live, white fur and all? Did they know who Yelroan was? And why had they said ‘Doombearer’…?
Questions like that sapped her mood to explore further, and Mrsha went back to her table where her pizza was ready. Asgra wrinkled her nose at the pizza, but Mrsha took one bite of pineapple pizza, chewed it, then took an alternating bite of a fried fish slice.
“You gross.”
The Goblin walked away, shaking her head, and Mrsha snorted at her. Ekirra loved pineapple pizza. Visma called them both insane.
Ekirra. I wonder what he’d say if I told him I’m from the future. I’d tell him…well, I’d tell him to be nicer to Visma when he’s fifteen or she’ll dump him. That idiot. As for Visma…? No, better to leave well enough alone.
That went double for other people she might know. Saying goodbyes to someone who’d pass, like Apista, would hurt. She had to stay covert. She was just some random Gnoll [Mage] poking around. Ordinary.
—Mrsha had forgotten that Gnoll [Mages] hadn’t existed at this point in time. To her, they were commonplace; the Ferkr Trials had occurred a year after Erin’s death and conclusively proved Gnolls could become [Mages].
However, at the moment, she wasn’t noticeably casting magic, so most people didn’t pay attention to her. Archmage Valeterisa being an obvious exception. There was one other person who had picked up on Mrsha’s presence, though, from the moment she walked into the inn. Another type of class had instincts that were similar to [Spies]—if in different ways.
They were detectives of villages, sometimes. Adjudicators. Peacemakers—and they could see emotion.
 
——
 
To Witch Alevica, the girl who sat there, eating her objectionable pizza, appeared like a whirlwind of grief and pain and joy—so fierce and strong and firing off at seemingly random things that she came to one conclusion:
“That girl’s insane. Or…she’s part of this.”
Alevica was nine damn hours into her mission to figure out what was going on in The Wandering Inn. Witch Thallisa’s stupid errand had turned out to be—
Okay, not that bad. Alevica had had a few drinks, a burger for lunch, snacks all the way down—including fried tomatoes with goat’s cheese—a blue juice cocktail with a straw on it while she occupied one of the fireplaces, and even a show via the television.
She’d learned absolutely squat about what was going on. There’d been singing, dances, allusions to a wand, child abuse…but none of it fit.
Alevica hated quandaries like this. It reminded her of being an apprentice and Witch Oliyaya taking her to a village with troubles and telling her to figure out what was going on. Not her speciality. Alevica was going to have to call in backup. She’d take some food back to her three little brats, then summon the coven and get some more help.
What she’d report to them was that the situation was indeed serious enough, but not easy to pick apart. The [Caretaker] was an idiot. She’d noticed Mrsha’s trauma, but anyone with a Skill could see she was fully traumatized. Alevica had actually had to keep some of it from getting in her hat it was so damn bad.
However, Lyonette wasn’t guilty. She didn’t have it in her; she was worried, genuinely concerned, and no one had any real guilt for what had been done to Mrsha. The inn didn’t have psychopaths. Either Mrsha had somehow been neglected without anyone knowing or there was a mystery afoot.
Even so, Alevica drummed her fingers on the table. She might have to kidnap Mrsha. A kid like that with that weight of emotions in her…? Alevica had seen torture victims who hadn’t given off that much residual stress.
Thoughtful kidnapping, obviously. Just grab her, plunk her down in front of Hedag, and feed her until she could roll. But before Alevica did that—she had to solve the second Gnoll mystery.
Who was that young woman? Why did she stink of so many emotions, and why did Alevica sense mage-magic coming off her?
The Witch Runner was an odd pick for The Wandering Inn surveillance mission. Witch Thallisa was a mercurial woman, even by [Witch] standards, but why pick Alevica? She could have asked another, senior [Witch] or a more covert apprentice. But Alevica?
Possibly it was because Alevica got bored. Her approach to a mystery was to analyze it, think about the whys and wherefores, play the field…and then, at some point, snap and give up. Then?
Alevica got up with a mug in hand, walked over to the table. She waved for the young woman’s attention.
“Hi. I’m sitting here.”
The young woman had been chowing down on her pizza. When the intruder came to her table, she blinked, noticed Alevica’s hat, and leaned back.
“Okay?”
Alevica pulled a chair out, tossing her plate of fried green beans down; she’d already eaten the fish. She hooked another chair over with her legs and put her feet up on that. Then she sat back.
“Alevica. The Witch Runner.”
“Arrema. Not looking for company.”
“Hey, don’t mind me. I’ll just ask questions then be on my way. So who’re you and why are you here?”
Alevica reached for a slice of fried fish pizza, and the young woman slapped her hand down. Alevica gave her a sinister look, then pushed her plate of half-eaten green beans over.
“Here.”
She reached for the pizza again and took a slice. The brown-furred Gnoll sniffed the green beans, then folded her arms.
“What’s with the questions? Also, what’s a witch doing in The Wandering Inn? Aren’t you supposed to be in a swamp, harassing little children?”
“Funny. Looks like someone’s anti-witch. For a species who just realized they were wrong about Doombringers, you’re pretty intolerant, Miss Arrema? What tribe? Or are you from the cities?”
Arrema’s brows shot together, and she growled.
“What’s with the questions?”
“I’m asking them. On the authority of Emperor Godart of Riverfarm.”
Alevica didn’t expect that to necessarily work, but the snort of derision from Arrema was odd. She knew who Laken was?
“That idiot? Oh, and what if I don’t feel like answering His Blind Majesty’s will? Are you going to come over and kick me in the face with a steel-toed boot?”
The Witch Runner waggled her boots.
“Like them? I stitched mine up myself. Not a fan of [Witches] or the Unseen Empire, then?”
Arrema’s eyes were narrowed to slits. She growled, and Alevica realized her irritation and growing anger were genuine—but also that there was an undercurrent of fear growing. Real fear. Terror, even. Why? For a [Witch]? That suggested she’d done something wrong.
Or met a bad [Witch]. Arrema replied slowly.
“I…haven’t met many [Witches] I care for.”
“Funny. The owner of this inn is a [Witch], you know.”
Alevica took some pleasure from the spike in emotions that elicited. She wished she could harvest it like she used to, but Arrema’s face twisted up in confusion, and she grew more anxious.
“She is? That’s not r—why? Nevermind. It’s fine. I know there are ‘good’ ones out there. But I have met two who’re real bad [Witches].”
“That’s a loaded word. What, did they hex someone you liked? They probably had it coming. And they’ll live.”
It was Alevica’s turn to go defensive on behalf of Oliyaya, but Arrema’s reply surprised her.
“Hex someone I liked? They ruined lives. One of them’s killed over a hundred people. The other—hah—well, no one would bother counting the number of bodies she’s piled up. Both have tried to murder me personally.”
The Witch Runner felt an unsettling prickle on her skin. She wished she had [Detect Truth] spells like a [Mage], but you didn’t really need them if you bothered to look at people. That didn’t sound like a lie, and the young woman’s fear only grew. Alevica pitched her voice to be as casual as possible.
“…Sounds like some bad [Witches]. If that’s true. What’re their names? Maybe I know them. There are a bunch of good—hah—okay, there are a bunch of less-horrific [Witches] in Riverfarm. Ever seen how we take our own to task?”
Unsuccessfully, if they’re like Belavierr—or with a cudgel, if you’re Agratha.
Arrema’s eyes flickered, and she grew oddly conflicted by the simple question. Was she uncertain if she could trust Alevica? Neither woman knew the other. Arrema glanced at Alevica’s hat, then at her pizza. She gathered up the platter, and Alevica called out as the girl wordlessly stood.
“Hey, don’t be like that. I’m not trying to start a fight.”
—She sort of was, but she was genuinely curious. She twisted, and Arrema walked past her. The young woman turned, and her brown eyes glittered. Uncertainty ran through her, then sadness. Then conviction, all so strong it made Alevica freeze. Arrema took a deep breath, then leaned down and whispered.
“One of them’s the Witch of Webs. But you know her. The other one? If you [Witches] of Riverfarm could help her, you should have. You really should have. Stop harassing me and go take care of Witch Nanette, Alevica. You won’t like what she turns into.”
Then she rose and strode past Alevica, so fast that the Witch Runner didn’t have a chance to say anything. Not that she could—Alevica had been rocking back in her chair, using the other one for balance.
She hit the ground with a crash that drew laughter and looks—and leapt to her feet. But Arrema was stalking away, and Alevica—
Alevica was lost for words.
What in the name of hag warts was that? Nanette? But Nanette’s here and—
It sounded true. But it was utterly—Alevica gazed around for Nanette, then remembered she was with Lyonette. The Witch Runner hesitated—then made a beeline for the stairs.
Nanette had a room with Mrsha. It was an off-chance she had a diary or something with conclusive evidence, but if there was any bad witchcraft up there—Alevica turned at the top of the stairs.
Who was Arrema? Her eyes traced the common room, but the young woman had left.
 
——
 
Mrsha had messed up with that outburst. But if there was even a chance that future-her didn’t have to face Witch Nanette—she’d take it. Shuddering, the young woman felt at her neck, tracing a scar under her fur as she hurried away from Witch Alevica or whomever the heck she was.
The [Witch] tried to cast a charm on her; Mrsha blocked it effortlessly. She was used to [Witch] magic. To get out of the other woman’s line of sight, she hurried down the common room, looking for an empty table. Instead, she found something else.
When she came to the long hallway that branched off right from the common room, Mrsha stopped. She stared down at the improbable part of architecture and hesitated.
“…What is this?”
It was blocked off by a rope and a sign. It said—
 
World’s Eye Theatre. No admission without permission.
 
World’s Eye…what now? Mrsha had never heard of this. It certainly hadn’t been in her inn; in fact, she hadn’t missed that this inn’s common room was half the size of the old one. A thought occurred to her as she peered down the hallway.
If Erin never died…she kept levelling.
Was this a new Skill of Erin’s? Mrsha had to see it. She glanced around, then ducked under the rope and padded down the hallway.
 
——
 
“Dead gods.”
The sight of the crystal dome took Mrsha’s breath away. The padded seats, the empty auditorium—she recognized it at once.
“This is a movie theatre! Like the one Kevin built, but—better!”
Earthers had made so much over time, and she remembered Kevin using all his profits to build a movie theatre in Liscor. This was better than his work, no offense to the amount of sweat and cursing he’d put into the theatre.
Mrsha trailed down the steps, imagining how it must be to sit and watch things on the big screen above. She wondered why there was a circular dais in the center of the room. This place didn’t seem unfamiliar to her, oddly; she suspected she was given access to it, just like the [Garden of Sanctuary], because she was still Mrsha.
“Wow. It’s so Erin. I can just imagine chilling out here and watching movies and…eating popcorn with her weird nutritional yeast on top. Seriously. No one likes that stuff.”
Mrsha refused to admit that she had also committed various sins against cuisine, including pineapple pizza. Ekirra had ordered it on a dare one day and—look—she’d gotten used to it!
She was so lost in imagining that, thinking of her world, that Mrsha didn’t realize the dome overhead was flickering until something began playing above. She jumped as a voice spoke, and then a crystal-clear image played overhead.
It was…a memory.
 
——
 
“Ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here today for the Solstice Theatre’s grand opening!”
Kevin Hall was dressed up in an old-fashioned maestro’s outfit, and the red carpet was actually red. He’d shaved his beard into a mustache, which didn’t really work, but he was doing his best.
Mrsha, Ekirra, and Visma were obviously part of the gala and most excited to be here. They applauded loudly and cheered; the fourteen-year-olds were dancing with excitement, and there were crowds outside.
But the actual screening audience was small. Just friends. And by which Kevin meant ‘friends of the inn’. He’d gotten them all together for this. It was a mistake, in a way. They didn’t fit with each other anymore.
