The two spells meeting had mitigated the effects for both. It should have snapped both’s arms, but both had reinforced their bodies. Another curiosity—
Enough thinking. Grimalkin abandoned analytics and devoted it all towards a punch from his left fist.
 
——
 
“Oh shit.”
When she saw the left claw of the Sinew Magus come at her, Mrsha flinched, raised her hand, and the punch knocked her sprawling. Her body froze up, and she landed, bouncing hard as the Sinew Magus strode at her. He raised a foot to stomp.
“[Dispel Magic].”
His stomp on her chest wouldn’t have killed her, but it made everyone watching wince. Grimalkin’s foot hit Mrsha’s chest, and he frowned.
“Hm?”
He raised his foot to stomp again—and the keen-eyed watchers realized that the young woman hadn’t really been hurt by the stomp. She’d just sunk into the wet earth. The [Dispel Magic] hadn’t worked. Grimalkin stomped again and saw the wand come up—
“[Hand of the Gale Elemental].”
One of her three Tier 5 spells took the Sinew Magus up in a whirlwind of roaring winds and slammed him into the earth—then dragged him into the water. Mrsha sat up, coughing, drained of mana.
That has to work, right? Right? She hadn’t believed she’d take him out with the [Siege Fireball] in her fist. So she’d used the illusion spell to begin casting this one. Pretending to be paralyzed was the rest of the trick; she’d cast [Remove Paralysis] the moment he hit her.
Tier 5 magic was hard to cast in a magical duel or even most fights. It required windup, and it wasn’t even stronger than empowered Tier 4 magic all the time. But when you used it…
The hand roared into the waters, sending it geysering upwards, and Mrsha tried to draw mana in from around her.
“That did it. That did it…”
Her spell abruptly exploded in the water, and Mrsha gaped up. She wheezed.
“Oh, come on.”
She wasn’t Level 40 like he was at this point in time. Her knowing higher-Tier magic was purely a product of her teachers. And he—
A bleeding, bruised Drake was falling out of the sky. Eyes gleaming, hurtling towards her like a comet. Sinew Magus. Sinew Magus of Pallass!
She had—one last trick up her sleeve. Mrsha whispered two things as she bunched a fist up.
“[Lucky Strike]. [Bind Spell: Siege Fireball]—”
Flames roared into her fist, and she saw Grimalkin’s eyes widen. Valeterisa shouted.
“How can she bind it that fast?”
[Condition: Emberbody]. [My Flame Won’t Die]. Mrsha was drawing the flames off her fur, the Sinew Magus realized and Senior Guardsman Relc saw. She was on fire. Just like she’d been for ten years—
The final spell came as the Sinew Magus was a moment from landing on her. Mrsha crouched and spoke it.
“[Grimalkin’s Physique]! Aaaaah!”
It wasn’t a heroic shout. She just screamed and jumped at him. The Drake’s eyes widened, and they met in the air, two [Mages] covered in muscles. She threw a punch, and he caught it; the [Siege Fireball] exploded and sent them hurtling to earth. They got up punching, kicking—
A fistfight, spontaneously casting magic. She went for a spinning backhand, then a roundhouse kick. He jabbed her in the chest, blocked the kick, and returned one that sent her sprawling.
Showy moves—when she rolled upwards, dodging an axe kick, she threw an elbow into his stomach and felt like she’d elbowed a wall. Then a one-two punch, which he blocked—
 
——
 
Ferkr had never, ever seen someone punch Grimalkin like that. Not punch him; he let people land blows all the time. But hit him and make him stagger.
He trained officers in Pallass’ army. He trained [Battlemages]; he was a hand-to-hand and magical expert. But she had never seen…
No, she’d probably seen other people land good hits on him before. She had never seen a Gnoll hit him. Not with magic.
Not like that.
Even she, in the back of her head, had never thought she’d get that good. When she’d begged him to teach her magic, Ferkr had dreamed of becoming an official Mage of Wistram. Of receiving accolades, awards, but never of punching Grimalkin so hard he landed on his back.
[Earthen Shockwave]. A more localized version of his [Tremor] spell. He actually used his tail to springboard back to his feet and replied with a kick that knocked the young woman a lot further back, but she took him to the ground.
They were spontaneously casting spells as they hit each other. After that magical display where she’d tied down the Sinew Magus. A Gnoll.
A Gnoll.
Yes, everyone knew Gnolls could cast magic now. Yes, there were Gnolls learning to become [Mages]; they had the spellbook Krshia Silverfang had gifted the tribes, and plenty had the class.
But there was still that image in the back of Gnolls’ minds. Those refusals from Wistram to acknowledge them. That doubt, pervasive, that had lasted for over a century.
Right now, though, there was a young woman matching the Sinew Magus of Pallass blow for blow. Casting Tier 4 magic and beyond. Ferkr kept wiping her eyes. She knew it was embarrassing; people kept calling her the origin of Gnollish mage magic. But—
“I knew it. I knew I wasn’t alone.”
Ferkr’s voice was lost in the sound echoing around the Meeting of Tribes. The howling from across the Great Plains was coming by the thousands. Dancing Gnolls watching the scrying orb, cheering on this stranger.
When Ferkr turned her attention away from the brawl, she saw Gnollish children running around with sticks—shouting spells. Trying to copy how the two of them, Drake and Gnoll, were fighting. She even saw adults who’d told Ferkr to her face that they didn’t want to ‘copy Drakes’, or were too old to learn magic, looking on, eyes bright, fur standing on end.
But the truest value of this moment being broadcast to Gnolls, in Ferkr’s opinion, was a young [Shaman]. He was maybe, what, fifteen? A student of Shaman Theikha, a Gaarh Marsh [Shaman]. He had one of their custom staves in hand, carved out of the marsh’s knotted wood and decorated with talismans of nature. He had witnessed all the revelations of the Meeting of Tribes.
Had it shaken his faith in the tribes? Absolutely. Had he given it all up in disgust? No. But he hadn’t abandoned what he’d seen, either.
The young [Shaman] was standing on a mound of earth, wearing the regalia of his tribe. A cloak of moss around his shoulders. A headdress of branches—and robes on his torso, open-cut and breathable. The cloth whipped around him as he held the stave in one hand and a shining wand in the other.
The wind was howling like the Gnolls around him, and his head was thrown back. His eyes were aglow as the storm of air swirled around him. [Shaman] powers—and lights, glowing butterflies and moths, dragonflies made of humming, arcane energy, flying through the storm.
[Mage] magic and [Shaman] magic co-mingling, creating something that no [Shaman] nor [Mage] had dreamed of. He was laughing, eyes wide. Ferkr wiped at her eyes again. Then she threw her head back and howled in triumph. Before she kept watching. And she didn’t know if she wanted her master to win or to see that Gnoll triumph.
She felt like her people had already won.
 
——
 
She knew how to fight. Sinew Magus Grimalkin was exchanging blows and still amazed. Even as his entire mind was devoted towards combat.
It was hard to say who was more surprised; her that he understood the martial arts she practiced, even if he wasn’t a master, or he that she could fight hand-to-hand as a [Mage]. It was all just a roar of blood in his veins, as she spontaneously cast a jolt of electricity that struck him, tried to chain a blast of wind into a palm strike—
He punched her in the chest, and she stepped back a few steps, groaning with the impact. Yet—and yet—Grimalkin’s mind was going over that last spell.
[Grimalkin’s Physique]. A spell named after him? It had worked; for a second, she’d been huger, heavier, stronger—she was still trading blows with weight behind each punch.
A physical enhancement technique, scorned in this age as useless magic. His spellschool. She was from ten years in the future, and she had a spell named after him! Elating? Ego-boosting?
No.
Grimalkin’s mind came together in a conclusion as he threw a jab, blocked, took a punch from that desperate girl, and it was an insight like how he’d once predicted Erin Solstice had come from the future.
A spell imitating my abilities. I made this. My work lives on. It was not fruitless.
And I am dead. Because I would have never named it that.
A chill on his soul. Then he wasn’t Grimalkin, taking blows and trading them with a stranger. He was Grimalkin, trapped in a Solstice event, and he had forgotten how it hurt. That look in her eyes.
 
——
 
Senior Guardsman Relc was one of the few people not trying to do magical commentary or just watching the battle as a show. He was latched onto the real matter at hand. Which was that this young woman was from…the future?
How? He didn’t get it, and he was piecing it together with the strangeness of Mrsha, the other stuff. He wasn’t a bright guy, but he had heard that last spell.
Like a puzzle, Relc was putting it together in his head. And he regarded the young woman, brown-furred, and wondered who she was. Because she had known the inn. A stranger?
It was the clues.
The burning fur. The collar around her neck. The way she had that floating quill which wrote each spell out—and the confirmation was the last thing as she pulled back.
“[Relc Kick]!”
The Sinew Magus dodged back reflexively, then surged at her, but he ate a [Burst of Air] spell. The young woman caught her breath, staggering; she’d lost the fistfight, but she wrote in the air with her wand.
 
Invoco spiritus venti, principem qui singula caeli elementa vincit. 
Concede mihi flatum et corpus procellarum furentium, quae singula flamina sunt procellae.
In Ryoka Griffini nomine—
 
She wrote it in a blur of letters, faster than speech, and Valeterisa gasped.
“Incantation spells? Wait, does that say—”
The Sinew Magus charged up the hill to stop her. Relc didn’t need that nor the rest of it. He was just thinking—Relc kick? It worked as a distraction. People thought it was a real Skill, even when it wasn’t.
Then he gazed at her, at a young Gnoll woman about eighteen, and counted forwards ten years.
“Mrsha?”
 
——
 
Grimalkin broke the incantation before it could activate. The Sinew Magus knocked the young woman off her feet, and he was striking down to subdue her. He had an [Orb of Air] spell on his fist—and it went dead as something kissed his scales.
A blade. It numbed his hand, pierced his enchantments, and stopped on his back. A familiar blade—a terrifying one.
Relc’s spear, enchanted to kill [Mages], was on Grimalkin’s back. The [Spearmaster] had moved, lunging into the battle in a moment.
“Relc!”
“It’s Mrsha.”
That was all the other Drake said. He whirled away even as Grimalkin reflexively threw an elbow, and the Sinew Magus stopped. He peered down—then up as the young woman kicked away, cursing. Grimalkin blinked at her, and then he saw it.
If you aged her up; the collar, of course. Her face and—the reason she fought like one of his students, as if he’d taught her—
Brown, desperate eyes. A snarl on her face as she charged at him. The Sinew Magus touched at his chest. His scales were torn. He was bruised, genuinely injured from the magic she’d cast, but suddenly—he felt like he’d taken an actual mortal wound.
Grimalkin gazed up at Mrsha, an adult Mrsha charging him. Then she hit him in the face with her [Lucky Strike]. It never came like you expected it.
“—And we are live with Magus Grimalkin on the ropes! I don’t know what’s going on or why he’s fighting—or who, but we have very angry callers! One Lady Pryde Ulta is insisting he’s throwing the fight! I don’t know if that’s true or not, but the Sinew Magus is—”
Drassi was running commentary behind Mrsha, and a name registered in Grimalkin’s head. For a second, just for a second, he froze up.
“Pryd—”
Then Mrsha clocked him in the face, and he saw stars. The Sinew Magus backed up and saw she’d bound two Tier 2 spells into her fists. He raised his hands—then just stood there.
“I cannot.”
The Drake lowered his fists, tensed his core muscles, and covered his face. He felt the first punch hit him square in the stomach—then in his armguard, unleashing a flare of electricity, then wind. The young woman kept punching, casting spells, unleashing everything she had on—
Her furious assault slowed, Tier 2 spells striking the Sinew Magus. Hitting a figure whose heels were dug into the earth, who didn’t react as she struck him. Spells, jolts of electricity, fire, a piercing needle of ice breaking on a body of tensed muscle.
Sinew. Mrsha stepped back, panting, and the audience saw Sinew Magus Grimalkin slowly, slowly lower his arms. He wore a grimace on his face, but when he flexed his arms, torn scales revealing bloody flesh—he seemed like an unbroken statue. Mrsha lowered her arms, panting, and then sat down on the ground.
“I…can’t…even knock you down?”
She fell onto her back as the Sinew Magus stood there. The Fist Mage of Pallass, who’d just taken the barrage of punches and spells. Indomitable. Invincible.
His eyes found the camera, and the Sinew Magus looked at only one person as he stared silently at the audience. A [Lady], whom he could not speak to directly, separated by hundreds of miles. Watching him. The Drake’s back was straight, his posture perfect.
Grimalkin.
 
——
 
Valeterisa floated over after the applause had ended and the fight stopped. Despite all the young woman’s accomplishments, spellcraft, and magical knowledge, the results were clear. Pallass’ stocks were up: nothing and no one could beat down Grimalkin. That final display where he just refused to even fight had proven that.
Archmage Valeterisa understood that Grimalkin’s actions had less to do with his desire to prove his superiority and more to do with other factors. And she was curious. So…she reached out and poked one of his raw, exposed muscles as he stood there, panting.
Grimalkin looked at her. Valeterisa hesitated.
“Um. Sorry. I observe that’s not actual Galas muscle yet, but very close. You have quite a lot of it. Very commendable. Did that hurt?”
“Yes.”
She supposed this was not a good time, then, to ask him for a sample. Valeterisa drifted over to the young woman, who was just staring up at the sky as rain drenched her fur. She seemed oddly relaxed despite all that fighting. When Valeterisa tried to pull a few hairs out of her leg fur, she yelped.
“Ow! Who the hell is—”
She sat up and saw Valeterisa. The Archmage tried to pocket the fur unobtrusively. She waved a vague hand.
