“Hello…Mri. I believe, for the sake of the televised audience, that is the best nom de guerre to use? In the future, is summoning [Familiars] commonplace or is that merely a spell of utility? No, wait, I had a list of questions I made in case I ever managed to scry the future. I left it back in my mansion. Hold on, let me remember it…”
She was very excited. Everyone else seemed to be treating future-Mrsha with some reservations. Relc was explaining what he’d realized to Montressa and Bezale, and he seemed disturbed, for lack of a better word. So too was Magus Grimalkin; Drassi was trying to get an interview, but Montressa’s barriers were keeping her back.
The young woman was fascinating to Valeterisa, who was running analyses and finding everything about the young woman spoke of a more advanced time of magic. Even her spellcasting had small efficiencies in it, and if Valeterisa could get the girl’s spellbook or have her cast every spell she knew…
You see, at this point, Valeterisa believed Mrsha was from the future at about a…46% probability. She wasn’t convinced this wasn’t some other phenomenon, but the magical evidence spoke for itself. Regardless of what this was, the value was beyond compare. She was excited, in full analytical mode, even if she wasn’t running that many [Parallel Thoughts] at this time, and she’d forgotten.
She thought she was above the things that happened to other guests. The things that left them teary-eyed and trembling. As if Valeterisa had forgotten that she had once hurled herself out of the sky to apologize to her apprentice or that her meeting Relc was a Solstice event. She was busy analyzing Mrsha’s body, about to ask about the curious scars or why the girl was dying her fur, when the young woman sat up.
“Archmage Valeterisa. You’re Valeterisa, right? I’ve only ever seen you from afar.”
“Interesting. That implies you and I never met. This is correct. I am Valeterisa. Hello! Can you name any Tier 6 spells in the future? Did Wistram ever get past Zelkyr’s last test? What is the most foundational accomplishment in spellcraft to be discovered in the next ten years? Addendum to that, where and who discovered the magic? Were there any spell tomes uncovered in locations of note and—”
The Archmage of Izril was chattering away as Mrsha rubbed at her ears, wiped at a bloody nose, sniffed, and just peered at her. Mrsha’s eyes were tired, she was trembling with mana fatigue, but she uncorked a bottle, sipped from a mana potion, and didn’t let Archmage Valeterisa steal it to inspect. She eyed Valeterisa and then said:
“Archmage Valeterisa. Even if you go to them with all your wealth, even if you brought them a million gold pieces, Fissival will never let the Djinni Heorth leave. They’ll go to war first.”
“—if you knew where they were and had a list of…which ones…were most important…”
Valeterisa’s mouth stopped moving. She floated there, a few feet off the ground, staring at Mrsha with her spectacles aglow with light. Then, abruptly, she landed on the wet grass. Rain poured down off the magical barrier on her head; it clung to the young woman’s fur, beading along the ends. Mrsha’s eyes were brown and dark in the night.
“How—time is uncertain. They w—I have sway in—circumstances are not as you would know them, in your time. That is a fact.”
She realized her voice was trembling. Valeterisa tried to partition off her emotions, but she couldn’t. All of her [Parallel Thoughts], from 1-10, were focused on the girl.
 
Valeterisa Subprime: She’s not correct. She is attempting to rattle you.
Valeterisa Think-of-Apprentice-Montressa: We don’t even know she’s from the future.
Valeterisa Emotions: Ow.
Valeterisa Relc: Relc’s hurting too. We have walked into a trap.
Valeterisa Action: Evade. Evade—
 
All of them shut up as Mrsha breathed the next words. And they felt that sensation, like someone dancing on their grave. Fate doing a tap-dance on the piano wire of fate as someone hit the entire tapestry with a hammer.
“They will not. I know it because everyone heard about it. The Archmage’s War. One woman versus a Walled City. Until people rose up in support of her and Fissival stomped them down, like it will do. Like they’ll all do. They will never let you free him because they think they can control you. So long as there’s someone you love in Fissival, that’s how it ends. I don’t know who he is. But they’ll kill the clockmaker to force you to stop.”
The Archmage of Izril’s face had gone deathly pale. She swayed there, untethered, and then peeked around.
“A-apprentice? Apprentice? …Relc?”
He was there before Montressa. Relc scooped up Valeterisa in a hug and looked down. She hugged him tight, and he met Mrsha’s eyes; she flinched, guilty, but Relc just spoke in a soothing voice.
“I got you, Valley. I warned you. C’mon, let’s get inside. You too, kiddo. It’s wet out here.”
Mrsha blinked at Relc, then at the water all around her. She splashed at it.
“Wow. Yeah. It is. Sorry.”
She tried to get up and then took Relc’s claw as he pulled her up. They exchanged glances, and Relc’s gaze had that intense pain, but he grinned. Brushed at her hair.
“You turned out pretty good, kid. Why don’t you have a spear, though? Spears are cooler than swords.”
He indicated the unused shortsword at her hip, and she made a face.
“You have to use a spear with two hands.”
“Right. [Mages].”
That was all he said. He carried Valeterisa towards the inn, and Mrsha followed after a second, gazing around. After a minute, Magus Grimalkin trooped after them, and he coughed as he came to the crowd.
“Excuse me. Does anyone have a lower-grade healing potion I could take a sip of?”
 
——
 
Ishkr kept staring at Mrsha as she sat at a table in the [World’s Eye Theatre]. They’d moved her there; everyone wanted a word, and the spies were getting into a frenzy. Ishkr didn’t know who she was—yet.
Relc hadn’t really been able to tell him. He’d just gotten everyone moving. That was what a [Guardsman] did. Every time someone had a question, like Montressa—
“So how are you here—no, is there something you need to tell us!?”
He’d interrupt them all and say—
“Not yet, Montressa. Let’s get somewhere private. Move it along, folks. Nothing to see here!”
And it worked. They sat in the [World’s Eye Theatre] as Magus Grimalkin finished winding bandages around his scabbed and healing flesh. He’d taken no swigs of a healing potion after all. He glanced down as Mrsha stopped poking him with a wand.
“[Regrow Flesh]. And it has no…consequences?”
“Oh, tons. But it’s good for lower-level wounds, and you can, uh, sort of cut off parts you make a mistake on. It’s not easy, but in my world, see, the Eir Reef died, and no one ever figured out a replacement. So people used spells. I wish I could cast [Restoration], but that’s beyond me.”
“You know a Tier 5 spell?”
That was Bezale’s wary comment. Mrsha grimaced.
“A…weak one. I don’t have the pure mana to cast a big one. I’m only Level 31.”
“Level 31?”
Montressa chorused with Relc in astonishment. The [Aegiscaster] was higher level than that, and she felt like Mrsha would have steamrolled her! But Grimalkin just grunted as he cast the spell and flesh and scales grew over one arm.
“Like this?”
“Slower. You do it really slow or you can make your scales grow in backwards. I did that once with my fur.”
She shuddered, and Grimalkin modulated the spell to the barest crawl. This was evidence enough, more than any knowledge she could muster. Now he knew a spell, a healing spell, however low-grade. It would change the world. He would.
She was no idiot. She had to know the ramifications. This was Mrsha, true, but she didn’t appear thoughtless. When she glanced at him, the Sinew Magus was afraid. Mrsha went on, voice casual.
“You’re not surprised, Magus Grimalkin?”
He shrugged and instantly made a mistake with the spell. His skin regrew, but as he shifted, it formed a little ripple in his flesh. He stared at it—pulled and felt the flap of skin. Mrsha winced.
“Ew.”
Grimalkin…dealt with that as he replied.
“[Mages] of previous eras are as strong as magical knowledge permits. Levels permit higher-level casting. In theory, anyone with magical potential could cast any tier of magic they wanted with practice and knowledge. During the Creler Wars, Level 20 [Mages] were expected to all know [Siege Fireball] as a matter of course.”
“So magic does improve in ten years! Amazing!”
Montressa exclaimed, and Mrsha gave her a funny look.
“Yeah. I’m…not sure what sharing this is going to do. The rules are, um, different. Look, I just came here to learn how Erin came back to life. In my world, she’s still sleeping. But I’ll wake her up. Just tell me how.”
Everyone else reacted to that as you might expect. Grimalkin had already put that part together. He closed his eyes, trying to make sense of this.
Chaos. Pain. The pain part scared him the most. When he opened his eyes, everyone was asking Mrsha questions, but cautiously now. Valeterisa was writing down spells, and Mrsha’s eyes were aglow with hope.
A world without Erin Solstice. Strangely, it did sound bleaker, even if it was just one woman. Grimalkin of Pallass stood there, arms folded, unsure of what to say or do.
“You don’t know Lady Pryde in connection to me, do you?”
—Of all the questions, he asked that? Bezale’s head turned sharply, but Future Mrsha just shook her head, frowning.
“No. Why?”
“She’s a business…person dear to me.”
Grimalkin hesitated mid-reply, and the answer drew everyone’s attention. Mrsha’s eyes went wide, and she almost smiled, then she shook her head. Her gaze—ah, he’d seen it before.
He’d seen it on the battlefield. Worn it himself. The gaze of a soldier speaking to someone who was dead but didn’t know it. Grimalkin felt his scales crawling all over as they regrew. She met his eyes.
“Did you like how I fought, Grimalkin?”
“It was superb. Your execution needs practice, but the theory? Splendid.”
“That’s good. You taught it to me. I just kept practicing.”
That shouldn’t have surprised him, but it did. Grimalkin forced a smile.
“Binding a [Siege Fireball] into a fist?”
She ducked her head with a grin.
“That’s unique to me because of my Skills. But everyone does it. They call it a ‘Grimalkin Greeting.’ There are tons of [Mages] who use physical magic these days. That technique is the one everyone knows. You’re famous for it.”
The young woman held his gaze, and she seemed old. Old as Erin Solstice, too aged by whatever reality she came from. She whispered the next part, voice pained and cracked, someone who had seen it. Seen him.
“They say—they say it surprised even the Death of Magic. There was no television, though. That’s all I know. Don’t go to war, Magus Grimalkin. You won’t come back.”
The dead Drake shivered and then became a living person once again. But forever, forever, he’d know where one version of him had gone and died and—
Fate. How treacherous it is. The Sinew Magus sat down.
“I see. Ishkr?”
He called out, and the Gnoll raised his head from above the seats where he’d been spying on them. Ishkr’s mouth remained open, and Magus Grimalkin eyed him.
“I’ll take a Firebreath Whiskey, on the rocks. Make it four shots.”
He usually didn’t, but he had a feeling he needed a drink.
 
——
 
The Sinew Magus of Pallass was having a stiff drink. Archmage Valeterisa was hiding from someone magically fascinating rather than engaging. Ishkr was…nervous.
If you needed more proof that something was off, well, Alevica didn’t know what else you’d ask for. Erin Solstice getting serious and intense? They’d done that, thanks. She didn’t have a second Oliyaya to lose.
Guess it’ll be me next. Wow, that’s depressing. I need some of Eloise’s tea.
The [Witch] was hopping mad. She’d spent nearly an hour combing Nanette’s room and the inn, trying to see if the young [Witch] was up to bad magic. And there were lots of bad magics that Alevica didn’t partake in but she knew.
Every [Witch] had…moments. Moments when you just wanted to burn down a house rather than deal with the idiots inside. Moments that had drawn you to witchcraft. Her two apprentices, Cirsa and Malluni, were prime examples of the rage and despair that could drive you into becoming a bad witch.
That’s why Oliyaya had been so genius. She’d taught them to scare people, to cast hexes and curses and vent that pain into the world. But not go too far. Alevica could only hope she could do the same for those two, and for Arcanis, the Vampire boy.
What was bad witchcraft? It wasn’t being selfish. Alevica was a poster-girl for witchcraft that was nasty, but not bad. Trip someone? Make someone’s life miserable? Even break up a couple out of spite? Oh, it was mean, but it didn’t cross the line into badness as [Witches] thought of it.
Now, if she’d stolen someone’s lover with a potion and done it to ruin them? That was bad magic. If she started sacrificing things that weren’t hers? People’s treasures, physical, emotional, or otherwise? If she started sacrificing animals?
Bad magic. Lots of it was stuff that hurt you—you gave up too much and then it changed you forever. Alevica had looked for any trace of it and found nothing. So she was royally pissed at Arrema.
When she heard the Gnoll was in the [World’s Eye Theatre], Alevica came striding into it. An Antinium tried to stop her.
Goldbody clotheslined Alevica as she tried to get past him, and she clutched at her stomach, wheezing.
“I’m…a friend of the inn!”
The Soldier held up a rolling pin of censorship—until Rosencrantz came over and spotted her.
“Oh, Witch Alevica. She is probably fine to allow through, Goldbody. Though she is a troublemaker. Excuse me—Dalimont? Can we let Alevica through?”
They went away, and Alevica got her breath back as she was okayed. She limped past the Soldier, giving him a baleful look and resolving not to try running past an Antinium again. They were faster than they looked.
When she got to the [World’s Eye Theatre], the scene played itself out in front of her. Drinking Grimalkin. Valeterisa hugging Relc—in fear, that was the new part—and Ishkr, nervous.
Her wrath faded, and she felt her own flicker of apprehension as she peeked around.
“What’s going on? Who is that?”
She asked Grimalkin, on the basis that he knew most things. The Sinew Magus glanced at her.
“Witch Alevica. This should not instantly go back to Laken Godart. Nor Pallass. Perhaps I should eject you.”
He half-rose, and Alevica lifted her hands fast; she did not want to tangle with the Sinew Magus. She’d seen some of the fight from the window.
