That drew her up. The young woman hesitated, then put out a hand.
“Arrema. Arrema. It’s good to meet you, Senior Guardsman Relc.”
He took it and felt a decent amount of strength in her grip.
She’s got [Warrior] levels of some kind. Though he got more of a [Mage] feel from her. Definitely an adventurer. A Gnoll [Mage]? [Shaman], then. Relc nodded, meeting her eyes.
“Nice to meet you, Miss Arrema. Sorry Valley’s in no mood to chat. Welcome to The Wandering Inn.”
“Thank you.”
She whispered, voice hoarse, and he turned away before things could get more awkward. Relc sat down at the table, and after the young woman moved off, he leaned over to whisper.
“Hey, Valley. Who was that young Gnoll woman I was talking to?”
Valeterisa had been in a kind of fugue state where she ate and rested her mind. She stared blankly as she chewed on more pizza, then her eyes opened wide as she took in what he’d asked her, and she sat up fast.
“Who? Gnoll woman? Is she attractive?”
She glanced around suspiciously, and Relc shook his head.
“No, not that! She acted like she knew the place. Uh—there.”
He pointed covertly at her and saw the young woman being led to a table by Asgra, still gazing around. She caught his eye, and both pretended to not be staring. Valeterisa glanced at her and frowned.
“Interesting.”
She began muttering to herself, and Relc had to prompt her after a minute.
“What’s interesting?”
“She’s got an enchanted collar. But not a regular protection and…a speaking stone embedded in it? It’s interesting looking. High-quality sword, enchanted boots, armor—an adventurer? Oh, she’s also a [Mage]. Quite well trained. I can’t tell what her spell school is. I’m better at magic, you know.”
Valeterisa gave Relc an earnest look as Rosencrantz appeared with their usual glass of wine, and Relc grinned. He began to reassure Valeterisa there was only one Archmage for him until he had a second thought.
“Did you say [Mage], Valeterisa? Not [Shaman]?”
“Mm. Yes. A good one. If I was accepting more [Mages] for our academy, Name in Progress, I’d invite her in a moment. Why?”
Relc glanced over at the young woman, then leaned forwards.
“A Gnoll [Mage] that’s high level?”
Valeterisa gave Relc a blank look until her eyebrows snapped together. She took a longer sip of wine.
“Indeed. That is…fascinating.”
And then Relc felt it. That tingling on his scales. He checked his bag of holding again, just in case. Good or ill came to The Wandering Inn. Some days…the rain poured down outside, and he decided he’d have water tonight.
Sometimes, regardless of what it was, it came like a storm.
 
——
 
Seeing Relc like that was strange. It hurt. Everything hurt, but not all of it was pain. That was the relief in Mrsha’s chest. Relc without grey scales was fine. Seeing him with his badge, instead of behind the desk, giving her the ‘you can’t keep doing this’ talk in his friendly way, was odd.
She’d almost felt like she’d been caught when she saw him standing there. He was so young! Somehow, he’d changed in her memory to being the age he was now, not the younger Relc. Well, not that young, but ten years different!
Senior Guardsman Relc. Not Watch Captain Grasstongue.
And dating Valeterisa? That—had been surreal. The Archmage of Izril hadn’t been—well, Mrsha had only recognized Valeterisa from pictures, really. Her own memory. In her time, Valeterisa had been dead. In this reality, she and Relc were getting down together?
“This is insane. How the heck does that happen?”
Mrsha had to slap herself at a table. Asgra gave her a weird look.
“You don’t like fries that much?”
“Uh—no! I’ll have fries. And whatever’s popular. Pizza. Make it half Hawaiian, half fried fish.”
Mrsha unconsciously ordered, and Asgra’s brows rose higher.
“Okay, you weird. I like you. Is fifteen minutes! We actually making pizzas because we so busy. You want a drink?”
“Uh—just water. Can I get up and move around?”
“Yeah, sure. Just no running when we get your food! Or we beat you up with a stick.”
Mrsha assured the little Goblin she wouldn’t run and, as proof positive, actually dumped a few coins on the table. Asgra picked up a silver coin.
“Small pizza isn’t much. I only need two. Hey—what this?”
She was frowning at something, and Mrsha’s heart leapt in her chest as she realized—she tried to snatch it back, but Asgra was admiring the coinage.
“Nice. This Liscor on it? Very shiny!”
“Uh. Yeah. That’s a new coin. It’s real silver.”
Asgra bit it.
“Sure taste like it. Okay! Four of them, please. Thank you! Pizza back in fifteen minutes! I get you water now.”
She headed off and was back with a mug of water in moments. Mrsha thanked her, then sat back, heart beating out of her chest.
Stupid! She was being a real Ryoka right now. She hadn’t prepared for this at all; she had to play it cool. Play it—
She glanced back at Relc and saw him looking at her and jerked her head away. Mrsha’s heart hammered in her chest. She had to calm down. Just stay calm and—
“Hey, everyone! Bets on the next Solstice event? Non-violent, violent? We’re accepting coins, but also just for fun! Next round’s on me if you get it right!”
A voice shouted merrily from a table, and Mrsha turned, then clutched at her heart.
Menolit! Seeing the old Drake there with half a tail—she put her face down on the table. Panting, wiping at her eyes. She couldn’t do this.
She had to. Suddenly, Mrsha couldn’t sit still. She had to know. She had been told, but—
“Hey, um, excuse me. Can I ask a question?”
Mrsha stood and stopped an Antinium [Server]. He had a name tag that said ‘Rosencrantz’ on it and pointed with a free hand as he took empty dishes.
“The bathroom is just outside, miss. We will have towels by the entrance, with apologies for the rain.”
“No, I know that. Um, Rosencrantz? Is—the owner of this inn is Erin Solstice, right? Is she…alive?”
The Antinium’s antennae wavered, and he turned to face her. He lowered his plates and hesitated, then spoke in an aggressive voice.
“Erin Solstice is alive.”
“She is?”
Sunburst of hope and pain in her chest. Mrsha opened her mouth, and Rosencrantz jabbed a finger at her.
“She is! And if you are insinuating she is not or should not be, I will be very unhappy. I may even refuse to be tipped! She is not a bad person.”
Mrsha waved her paws hurriedly.
“No, no! I’m not suggesting that at all! I like her! I’m a huge fan of hers!”
The antennae stopped waving as fast.
“Oh. Well then. I hope you have a very pleasant experience in the inn, ma’am. I withtract my earlier ire. Erin is alive and well. Just not here.”
“Where is she? If you don’t mind me asking. I’ve, uh, been traveling. From the Great Plains, and I wasn’t around a scrying orb.”
Mrsha cast [Truthbreaker’s Tongue] just in case, but Rosencrantz didn’t even seem to miss a beat. And even if he had a [Detect Truth] spell or something similar, it wouldn’t have registered.
Right, no one knew [Truthbreaker’s Tongue] back then. We all thought the Blighted King told the truth, that bastard. Though they did have scrying orbs. And no one’s realized Wistram is watching them through them. Eugh. They’re gonna come out with the first recording of all the people having sex that one of those pervert [Mages] made in like three years…
The Antinium responded carefully.
“Miss Erin is in Baleros, ma’am. Beyond that, I do not believe I know much more.”
“Okay. Thank you.”
Rosencrantz nodded and hurried off, and Mrsha sat back down for a second. Baleros? How the heck—?
She got back up again, unable to sit still. Rosencrantz? She didn’t remember…no, wait. Was he one of Silveran’s workers? So he’d ended up here instead of in Silveran’s Cleaning Emporium! ‘An Antinium in every home!’
Dead gods. It was still flashes of agony, but now it was also pleasure, relief, joy to see them all here. Mrsha began circulating the inn, and she couldn’t help it.
“Hey, Menolit. How’s Liscor Hunted going?”
She called out and was rewarded with a grin.
“A fan? We’re not taking any work for the wet season, sorry. It’s actually Esthelm right now—we’re rolling out a new experience in a week!”
“Awesome. Do you sell those t-shirts?”
“Absolutely. Do you want—?”
Mrsha moved on, waving at him as she felt a euphoric rush. She passed by someone else—spun—
Grimalkin. He was taking a bowl of salad to a table where he sat alone, pointedly glowering at every agent of Pallass who came close. Mrsha almost wanted to go to him, but Grimalkin was sharp. She edged around someone else and whistled.
“Whoa. He’s pretty attractive.”
She was a young woman, and she had to admire someone in a suit. Mrsha eyed the Gnoll up and down as he whirled past her with a bunch of trays—then saw him pop out of existence. He reappeared behind the bar, strode into the kitchen, and her face screwed up instantly.
“Wait. That’s Ishkr? Gross.”
She scrubbed at her eyes and wished she could take them out like a Stitch-person. Okay, this alternate reality had all the consequences! If she wasn’t careful, she’d end up flirting with Halrac or something, and then she’d have to just [Fireball] herself.
Halrac. Mrsha sombered as she thought of him. He’d be…in Riverfarm at the moment. Too far to just head over to, but now that she was here, she had to do something.
“Write a note, maybe. He’d never believe me. He’d just go down and get himself killed sooner. Unless I told him what was going on and maybe…”
She had to do something. No, she had to find out how Erin had come back. But she had to do something.
—To distract herself, Mrsha did a lap of the inn. The second floor was off-limits to guests unless you bought a room, but she poked her head into the rec room and saw off-duty Goblins and Antinium chilling out on familiar sofas in front of the scrying orb. Mrsha eyed Rags doing her comedy routine on television and heard a voice.
“—we’re rebroadcasting Rags’ show because someone tried to take us off air. In a moment, I’m going to visit The Wandering Inn and see if I can’t get an interview with a Goblin. And if someone wants to throw a spell at me, well, don’t!”
Drassi. Good old Drassi, but younger. Practically Visma’s age!
Dead gods, Visma was here too. And Ekirra. Mrsha’s head spun.
She wandered into the weights room and had to use the bench press. A few other people were trying out the equipment. Mrsha pressed up a hundred and eighty pounds without much effort and smirked as she saw a visitor’s mouth open. She wrote her name on the sheet—her fake name—and kept exploring.
Of course, she was being observed. Not by [Spies]; they hadn’t actually clocked her by and large. There was a lot happening in The Wandering Inn right now, and she wasn’t one of the established players. If a few people noted her odd, enchanted collar or a few other oddities about her, they just added her to a long, long list of people to investigate.
There were, after all, Gnolls entering the inn who were much more suspicious than Mrsha. A group of them pushed forwards from the common room, led by none other than Yelroan. He appeared a bit—besieged.
Mrsha gave the bespectacled Gnoll the wariest and most hostile of stares as she recognized him. The Plain’s Eye’s counter. What was he doing…?
A dozen Gnolls were with Yelroan, and one sniffed the air.
“So this is the inn. We have arrived! A good place, then, to have earned Honored Deskie’s respect, along with that of so many others. Where is Doombearer Mrsha? Or is Honored Krshia here? Someone must come that we can offer our respects!”
So saying, he threw back his head, and Mrsha caught her breath as she recognized his tribe. Longstalker’s Fang! One of the good ones—from her time at least. He had one of their iconic fang-daggers at his belt and ‘tribal’ gear on—mostly fur, undyed—and shamanic magic woven into the slip-knots securing gear to him. Feathers, pouches; she caught the whiff of animal fat from one, and she guessed he was carrying goods to trade or craft.
He was a Plains Gnoll for sure. Even other Gnolls gave him a second look—then jumped and clapped their paws to their ears as the Plains Gnoll howled.
It was a brief note that silenced the entire inn. Astonished people turned to him, and Yelroan covered his face.
“Ruskel, Ruskel, we don’t do that here.”
“I’m greeting the inn. And look, here comes someone. Greetings, friend!”
Ishkr had popped into being behind the bar and came striding over. He was less flustered than the rest; he knew the greeting. In the Plains, that kind of call would have had an entire tribe pouring out to meet the newcomers. Here? He had a tray of drinks.
“Honored Deskie’s people? Gnolls from the Meeting of Tribes—welcome. Neither Lyonette nor Erin Solstice is here. Nor anyone else—be welcome. Please don’t howl twice.”
“Ah! City behavior. Are these for us? This is a rich greeting! We have gifts for your welcome. Honored Yelroan has been showing us Honored Deskie’s lodgings, and they will do, they will do indeed! So much shaped stone, and very well done! This comes from the Great Plains! Muskox testicles—and this is some ewe meat to actually eat.”
Several of the Gnolls with Ruskel laughed uproariously at the little prank. Ishkr had blankly taken a pouch of said testicles and peered inside. He sighed, but Calescent had emerged from the kitchen rubbing his hands as prime cuts of ewe meat came out of a bag enchanted to preserve it. At the same time, Octavia burst out of Stitchworks.
“Did someone say Muskox balls? I’ll take those!”
The appearance of Calescent visibly startled the Gnolls. It wasn’t as if they hadn’t been warned, but Mrsha still heard the murmurs.
“A Hob.”
“And a Stitch-woman. Strange to see either one in an inn.”
“Hrr. Cityfolk, yes?”
Yelroan was patiently introducing the lot of them to Ishkr, who was greeting them, passing out mugs, and it quite distracted the spies and everyone else in the inn. Especially because the first thing Ruskel did after taking a huge drink of Velrusk Claw, the Gnoll’s purple mead, was to wipe his mouth and say—
“I have come to see how many Gnolls should join Liscor from my tribe. So have the others. And to scout the north, of course, and see if it is wise to travel. Ach! Too complex and political for me, but for Honored Deskie, the tribe moves. Still, if this is how it is in the city, I don’t know how I’ll live.”
“Too wet? Too crowded? Too much stone and not enough places to roam?”
Ishkr raised his brows, asking about the usual complaints of Plains Gnolls. Ruskel waved all that away. Then he pinched his nose and sneezed.
