One—Montressa felt a very familiar, nay, experienced aura of magic from Arrema. She was a [Mage]! A good one, too. Montressa honestly didn’t know who was better, and that shook her, because Arrema was a Gnoll. Or looked like one.
The second was that someone sent her a [Message] spell on such a tight wavelength that only Montressa could receive it.
Apprentice, this is me. Valeterisa. Who is that Gnoll? Investigate.
Montressa’s eyes flickered as she smiled at Mrsha.
“One second? Let me think about the request.”
“Of course.”
Arrema sat back, and Montressa didn’t show she was sending the spell back as she cast [Message].
Master, she’s asking about how Erin Solstice was brought back from the dead. Arrema? She’s a [Mage].
The reply came almost instantly.
Apprentice. I know. Entertain the request? This is curious. She is not under an illusion as far as I can tell.
That was beyond strange. Ullsinoi’s pranks were what Montressa would have gone to at once if this was Wistram. She pretended to be deep in thought as Arrema broke in.
“If you need payment, I could offer you a spell you’ve never seen before. What about—”
A hand grabbed Arrema by the shoulder, and Bezale hauled her up.
“Are you being bothered, Montressa?”
The Minotauress was back, and she’d spotted their unwanted guest. Montressa rose.
“Bezale, no—she was just asking for something—”
To her astonishment, Arrema twisted, grabbed Bezale’s hand, and prized the Minotauress’ hand off her. With a strengthening spell, but she cast it so fast and fluidly Montressa was astonished. She was strong! Even with an enhancement, Bezale grunted as her hand was forced back.
“Not bad. Adventurer? Gold-rank?”
“Silver.”
“Heh. Only in the House of Minos.”
Bezale bared her teeth, and Arrema grinned. Somehow, in that way Bezale had, they took a shine to each other instantly. Bezale cautioned Arrema.
“Now’s not the time to bother Mons. I can take the request, but she’s had a long day—”
“I’ll take the request. For a new spell. It’s just history, Bezale. Nothing confidential.”
The Minotauress’ brows rose, but Montressa just took a sip from her wine cup, then changed where she sipped from. It was a subtle clue that meant something was up. Bezale sat down, shrugging.
“Business is business. Alright, Miss…”
“Arrema. And you’re…?”
“Bezale. [Spellscribe]. Let’s see what you’ve got. We will take gold, you know. It’s rare we see new spells. No offense, but we are Wistram [Mages], and I’m sure you know.”
The young woman sat there, amused, and Montressa realized the collar was actually projecting the voice they heard. She was astonished; it was so natural. And so…familiar.
It’s like little Mrsha’s speaking stones. Montressa glanced around for Mrsha, but she wasn’t there. The young Gnoll woman grinned as she traced on the table with one hand.
“I’m aware of Wistram’s knowledge. But if you knew…this…I’d be impressed. How about it?”
Bezale and Montressa leaned over the table casually. Neither one was willing to be blown away by a stranger flashing magic, but Montressa realized that the young Gnollish woman had just traced a spell freehanded on the table. And then Montressa inspected the spell and—her eyes popped open.
“Hundred Heroes, what is…?”
“That’s not a spell I’ve seen in my life.”
Bezale was certain, as a [Spellscribe]. She began trying to decipher it at once, giving Arrema a suspicious look.
“It could be faked. But it looks…spell circuit starts and ends, no breaks in the matrices, mana is equal input output…”
She went through the basics you could look for to tell if a spell was incorrectly written or malformed. Montressa studied Arrema, and the [Aegiscaster] knew how to read people from her job as a secrets broker. Arrema was confident. Nervous, emotions elevated, but she seemed confident in this. She spoke casually as the two regarded the spell.
“I mean, I think Wistram probably knows the spell, but if anyone casts it there at the moment, I’ll be shocked. The spell is [Summon Mana Familiar]. Want it?”
Montressa felt a little jolt run up and down her spine, and Bezale’s face went blank. The Minotauress pushed herself back from the table.
“Well, now I know you’re lying. Summoning familiars? The best you get is a Skill like the Adventurer’s Haven. Montressa, doesn’t your Archmage have a bunch of Shadow Familiars?”
“She does. And she says each one took a ritual and ten days. Now she can summon them via a regular spell, but this…? This looks like a Tier 4 spell. And it’s a ‘mana familiar’? What’s the difference?”
Montressa eyed Arrema, and the Gnoll shrugged.
“Tier 3. And it’s a temporary, elementless familiar. I can do another spell if you want. Though a ritual that takes a powerful mage ten days…? If you’re binding a familiar permanently, much less one of a specific element, I bet it takes that much effort.”
The Gnoll tapped her lips thoughtfully, thinking out loud.
“Then again, she might have just been performing a Ritual of Calling and she just configured it to summon only Shadow Familiars. Which is better than what you could get. These last five minutes on an unempowered, raw cast. You can bump it up or give them elements. Listen, I’ll give you a copyable spell you can put in your spellbooks. No teaching, no instruction, ready-to-cast magic. If I get what I want, I’ll even throw in variations. Deal?”
The [Aegiscaster] wanted to look for her master, but she had to assume Valeterisa was taking note of this. And she knew what her master would say; even if they had one spell, variations on a spell were always welcome. Plus, then Montressa and Bezale would get their own spell, rather than have Valeterisa teach it to them.
Learning spells was always a mixed bag. Even a great [Mage] had to take time to teach another [Mage] magic; whereas if you had it in ‘copyable’ form, it meant you’d learn it in a fraction of the time. This was what Arrema was offering: elegantly packaged and teachable magic. The hardest and rarest of all things.
“I need to see it cast, but I’ll take you on credit. Deal. Let’s deliver half of what you want, then you can give me a demonstration and we’ll haggle over the rest, agreed?”
Arrema held out a paw, and they shook on it. Then the young Gnoll woman sat there, chewing on a piece of pineapple pizza.
“So…were you there? For the resurrection of Erin Solstice?”
The question was laced with emotions. Not just for the stranger. Montressa was emotional herself, and she took a breath. Such an odd question. Many people had asked her, afterwards, about the event, for details and knowledge and, yes, how it was done. But always as information-seekers. Never for the story of it.
“I was there. Well, rather, I should say I was there multiple times. For the first, failed attempt, then the success.”
Arrema’s eyes flickered as she drank in the tale. A Goblin came over to the table.
“This person bothering you? No?”
“Not at all. Can we get a drink? And a refill for me?”
Bezale lifted her mug, and Arrema requested a goat’s milk. Then she leaned forwards, so intent that Montressa felt it.
“Twice? You only had to try twice?”
“Once was more than enough. Yes—you’ve done your homework. We tried once with a Potion of Regeneration. That…failed.”
That frozen body, the silent inn, everyone hoping against hope as they watched the liquid fall into the wounds and then…trickle out. Montressa had known it wasn’t going to work back then. The second time—
“Tell me. Please.”
Montressa looked into the eyes of the young woman, and they were strange. They were filled with magic, familiar eyes she’d never seen before, and she knew. Montressa felt drawn into a Solstice event, but she just nodded. And began to speak.
 
——
 
It was all so…elegant.
It made sense. It was crazy, but it made sense, and it was crazy that no one had figured it out—no. The execution was doable by a decent number of lower-level people, but the conceptualization was masterwork.
And it made sense they’d never thought of it. It was too risky, warming Erin up. They had been told, under no uncertain terms, that repeated experimentation would kill her. They would have had to be certain.
Warm her body, heal it. Those were logical parts, but the key, the secret ingredient of a Skill that could rally someone even at the edge of death?
That was the shining insight that made Mrsha believe. And it was in Montressa’s story. She was a good storyteller when all was said and done.
Of course, she was also a [Mage], so she could speak about each spell with knowledge and precision, which was the real key. Mrsha’s paw was shaking, so she wrote with a flick of her magical quill, which impressed Bezale.
“Dead gods, I’ve seen some [Mages] write with magical quills, but never telekinetically. Your control is beyond refined.”
Mrsha, oddly, felt a connection with Bezale, perhaps because both used writing so much in their magic. She grinned at the Minotauress and took a draft of ale.
She’d switched to ale when Montressa began relating the actual cure for Erin and the steps needed to get there. It hadn’t been easy.
It shouldn’t have been, but they did it. Dead gods, they did it. If only…no.
No, Mrsha would not think of all the sacrifice and effort those in her world had done as failed effort. They had tried, and some had kept trying. Kept trying until the cost was so high they had to give up.
She’d do it, though. Mrsha was almost ready, but Montressa broke off her description.
“—There was an unexpected event when the ritual succeeded, but I’ll get to that, and the exact Skill, in a moment. I believe we’re owed a demonstration?”
“What? Right, of course. I’ll cast it here, if you like.”
Mrsha was so agitated she nearly knocked over her table as she leapt up. Montressa pursed her lips.
“I know it’s raining, but we can cast a barrier. There might be one already. Let’s go outside. Do you mind if others watch?”
“I don’t care. It’s your spell. Use it how you want.”
Mrsha was distracted. She knew she was handing them a spell that had been rediscovered in the future—it was a small price to pay. Mrsha had been willing to offer a lot more if it got her what she wanted.
She could go back and begin putting the pieces together at once. Depending on who came for her birthday…she could do it now!
She was shaking in impatience as she strode outside, but a few surprises were there too. Mrsha halted when she saw the tower.
Or rather, beginnings of one. Undead skeletons were still at work, but a bunch of wooden scaffolding had been put up to shield the tower from rain. In addition, there were piles of…
“Chemath Marble? Is that just—Chemath Marble sitting there?”
Montressa and Bezale were walking under the gantries of construction, and Montressa turned.
“I shouldn’t be surprised you know about Chemath Marble too. You’re quite knowledgeable, Miss Arrema.”
Mrsha rubbed at her eyes. And she felt excited, because this was it. The inn feeling she’d missed for so long.
“I mean…it’s Chemath Marble. You have two piles of it just sitting there? Unensorcelled? That’s crazy. It’s going to take on a spell, even ambient magic, if you don’t secure it.”
“Er…really?”
Montressa exchanged a glance with Bezale, but before they could inquire further, the door opened, and Mrsha saw a few more people exit.
“Montressa, Bezale, are you being bothered?”
Ishkr gave Mrsha a suspicious glower, even when they answered in the negative. She eyed him, but then saw Relc and Archmage Valeterisa there. Uh oh.
“Apprentice. What a coincidence, seeing you. I was just going to the bathroom…with Relc. Together. We do that together. Is this a magical demonstration? I shall watch.”
Valeterisa was about as subtle as, well, Valeterisa. Mrsha wasn’t surprised she’d attracted the Archmage’s attention. Montressa rubbed at her face.
“Ignoring that first part, absolutely, Archmage. Why don’t you demonstrate for us, Arrema?”
“Absolutely. Uh…[Summon Mana Familiar]!”
Mrsha produced her wand, waved it, and a floating, vaguely monkey-shaped creature with a long tail and nondescript features appeared out of the air. It was misty blue and flitted around her as Montressa gasped.
Mrsha should have made more of a production out of it, but she was too rattled to do so, and it really was a Tier 3 spell.
“Go, uh, pick up some rocks and put them here. It’s not very smart. You can customize them; I’ve s—heard of people making ones that can talk and stuff, but this is all I can do.”
The familiar darted over to the water’s edge and began hauling up pebble-sized stones and putting them in a pile. A skeleton passing by gave the familiar an insulted look and began to walk faster, as if afraid its job was being taken.
“Magical servants. A hallmark of old [Mages]. And the spell is so—so—simple! Mine isn’t like that at all. [Summon Shadow Familiar] has more of a mana cost and it has an, um, 178% longer cast time, even with my Skills! Of course, these are temporary—fascinating. It’s so refined as well. I can learn from how this spell was optimized!”
Valeterisa was all over the familiar at once. She flitted about as Mrsha showed Montressa and Bezale how to cast the spell, slower. The Minotauress gingerly touched the familiar and exclaimed.
“It’s not warm. Do they all look like that?”
“No, that’s just how mine look. They’re just mana. Not infused or anything. Uh—is that good? I’ll teach you the spell and anything else. Let’s finish the story.”
Tell me how it ended. Montressa jumped, glancing at Valeterisa, before nodding at Mrsha.
“Of course. There was a complication near the end and—I’d be delighted. May I ask how you know this spell, though, Arrema?”
“Sorry. Secrets unkept and all that.”
Mrsha vaguely held up a finger to her mouth, implying she was related to Wistram, and Montressa sighed. She hesitated, then looked over Mrsha’s shoulders and stopped.
Mrsha felt her fur rise up. She didn’t sense anything at first as she fired off a bunch of spells behind her. No magical aura, no life detection—except from the inn, of course.
Only when she fired a low-level pulse of magic off did it run into something. Mrsha turned…and there he was.
Magus Grimalkin of Pallass looked tired. Tired…but he was leaning against the side of the inn, hidden in the shadows, and he closed the notebook in one hand. As he stepped forwards, shedding rain, the Drake spoke.
“A good hypothesis can be utterly wrong. Sometimes, however, it is worth revisiting old theories as new evidence emerges. A word, if you will, Miss Arrema. Are you from the Meeting of Tribes?”
