Chapter 278

Allister nodded as he watched the proceedings.

Another set of Ascenders from the Empire.

It was a good thing. Despite everything the other Tier 50s said, the Conglomerate of Guilds wasn’t just a pawn of the Empire to be absorbed down the line. He and Emmanuel had a dozen treaties to prevent such a thing, and while that didn’t mean their successors couldn't change that, the weight those agreements carried made it harder.

And more than that, Allister trusted the Empire. Emmanuel first, of course, as the person he knew best, but the relationship had survived from previous generations. Notably, the Empire was instrumental in the expansion of the Guilds thanks to some rotten luck in the last few millennia. Planets over Tier 15 just hadn’t been appearing near their regions of space and it was only thanks to his predecessor combining their power with Georgios that they were able to pull a Tier 30 planet deep out of chaotic space and towards the Guilds.

As a Tier 50 himself, he knew just how monumental a task like that was. He could destroy a Tier 30 world easily enough, but moving one the required distance through chaotic space without pulverizing everything in the star system would be almost impossible. Extending chains of low Tier worlds out to capture the true jewels coming out of chaos space was almost always easier than moving the higher Tier worlds directly.

Tier 50s were usually too busy to be personally expanding the borders of their territory.

Which was why the fact that Georgios had helped in such an endeavor was a proof of allegiance. You didn’t go that far out of your way for a mere vassal.

That, and a dozen other acts had cemented that fact in Allister's mind.

They just needed to win this war.

The momentum set in these early days would prove instrumental, he knew. And while there were no new Heroes upcoming to aid the war effort yet, Heroes always came out of nowhere, an unstoppable ball of force sending all other plots careening out of course. But even a Sidekick who reached Tier 18, 20, or even higher with the Caped Crusaders was an elite fighter in their own way.

None had been deployed quite yet, but they were an invaluable source of potential strength. It was simply a matter of choosing when and where to unleash them. Their lives were valuable, and he had no desire to send them to their deaths. But with a second set of Ascenders, the war would soon redouble, and if he didn’t act now, he surrendered the war’s momentum to their enemies.

And once that had started, it would be all but impossible to stop.

He had taken his own risks through getting involved in this war. If the opposing coalition managed to beat the Empire, they wouldn’t be satisfied stopping with a mere pound of flesh from their primary enemy. They’d take their reparations from the Empire’s allies as well, and the Guilds had enjoyed very little in the way of recent expansion to begin with. They’d been tremendously misfortunate as of late, and a massive blow to them now would be… catastrophic.

The ceremony concluded, and the chain of portals he’d been using to view it through snapped shut. Allister took to his feet, the spheres orbiting around him picking up a bit of momentum, but he stilled them with a thought as he paced about his office. He always thought better when moving.

The real oddity was the last message Emmanuel had sent to him.

It had hinted at jealousy and an invaluable treasure, with the implication that people would stop at nothing to get it. That he should be ready, because people would seek to take it, to tear them apart. That this war was almost a distraction from a true war that they were certain would take place, and if they needed to lose this war to be better-prepared for the future, they should.

It was a worrying message, and if he didn’t know Emmanuel so well, he would think it was either a threat or declaration of intent. But he did know Emmanuel, so he knew the man was perfectly content with the Empire’s current rate of expansion. He wasn’t the type to risk burning everything down for a few more twinges of power. So perhaps he was expecting something akin to the old Federation to happen to the Empire? It shouldn’t have been, while there were a dozen or so worlds between Tier 43 and 46 somewhere out in the depths of Chaotic Space, they were all unimaginably far away, with only his connection to the Realm itself telling him they were there.

His future sight shouldn’t be strong enough to predict a true war this far in advance, so what was going on? He couldn’t sense anything massive in motion, certainly nothing past the point where stopping it would be catastrophic, so why the man was so certain was a mystery.

Allister’s only clue was the half-dozen vials of Elder Dragon’s Blood attached to the message. Not that they even were Elder Dragon’s Blood. Eclavorn was an Elder Dragon, and this surpassed even him in rank. Allister had previously managed to secure a few vials, but they had never come cheap. To be simply granted six more was… surprising. Was it a buying of goodwill, or the Emperor saying the impossible prize everyone would want was connected to the Elder Dragon Blood?

Something to consider.

For now, he’d simply make use of the unexpected gift. While he had no bloodline himself, Mephistopheles, White Horse, and The Subterranean would certainly appreciate what it could provide them. One would go to the Cosmic Forge to see if they could make anything interesting with it, and the final two he would hold in reserve… for now. He didn’t wish to start all his avalanches too soon. Perhaps a new Hero would appear with a bloodline, or another beast would earn his trust. Emmanuel had really gone all out to ensure the Guilds were ready for the next war, and he didn’t intend to squander that generosity.

Real wars weren’t to be trifled with.

Even these more civilized wars weren’t to be underestimated, but at least a loss there wouldn’t mean the death of a Great Power.

No matter what, it wouldn’t be the Guilds burning.

Allister wouldn’t allow that.

***

Janet sighed as the video of Quill, Torch, and Scoop’s identity reveal was sent to her, and she waited with clenched fist as the information reports came streaming in about their histories.

Much of it was as she expected. The man was from some backwater planet of no importance, steeped in problems that just so happened to remove most records of his birth and early life. Ideal for hiding some sensitive experiments and inserting him right where he would need to be in order to minimize accountability. She could practically read Emmanuel like a book.

As she read, however, her anger grew. It wasn’t just that they had suspicious pasts and time on the Path, it was downright comical.

To start with, finding a bond egg as a Tier 1. Possible, certainly, but even at the very beginning of this preliminary report there were some flags being raised. The primary witness to the rift reward, executed on the spot? Convenient. Very convenient.

Next, the B-7112923 training planet, taunting her by bordering the Republic. Matthew just happens to stumble into Elizabeth, just as one often runs into the daughter of some of the most powerful people in the realm. Soon after, they register a growth item, and Janet nearly dropped her drink when her agents cross-referenced future videos to ascertain what they found: a pair of rings.

Mara could not have been more blatant in setting her daughter up with her future husband and getting them a pair of growth rings under the table. Naturally, the children could never know if the rings had come from some source other than the rift as presented, and it wouldn’t have pinged the relevant AI. But the signs were all there.

To cover up any evidence of the misdeeds, Mara then stole the planet shortly afterwards. Yet another convenience for them.

The reports were somewhat mixed for the middle of their time on the planet where the Empires vassals had fought for sport, but her spies had already picked up some irregularities. An auction house had flagged their group as selling far more materials than they should rightly have, and no one in their group had any indications of being a seeker. Most likely, they were being handed wealth in some deniable format, and had all the indiscretion to be expected of teenagers with more money than they knew what to do with.

And then their group somehow attracted the attention of Luna, who had nominally been retired. Luna, who had trained Mara and Leon, and could have been complicit in making sure that fewer future leaks could occur. Void magic was particularly good at erasing evidence, after all.

It wasn’t until their tournament that Janet had to pause again. Elizabeth seemingly had a second growth item, and from as best as her agents could tell, it was a blood growth item. No recording of having bought it. Did they expect Janet to believe that possibly the sole low Tier blood mage in the entire Empire happened to find a growth item that specifically fit their incredibly niche style? And yet again, a planet was sucked up into the void that was Mara’s collection, breaking numerous Empire laws in order to hide the “source” of the growth item before anyone could look into it.

The so-called Scribbling was suspicious, admittedly, but that was a known event with myriad speculation. From her position, it simply read as even more taunting from Mara and Leon, showing that they had some method of skirting the normal rules on resources afforded to Pathers.

It was Aster who showed the next discrepancy, the next slip up. She was registered as being born an Arctic Fox, a rare but standard breed. Somewhere between the tournament and their Minkalla run a few years later, Aster seemed to have transitioned to being a Winter Fox, as confirmed by her statements at the academy and some inferences of their sightings within Minkalla.

The question was how, and almost as importantly, why?

How would a lowly little Arctic Fox cultivate their bloodline enough to fully change it, at such a young age? The resources required to do so would be enormous, far more than could ever be allowed on The Path. Additionally, winter was a rare element, not one that could be found on any typical planet to refine a newly forged bloodline. It would be incredibly foolish to change bloodlines to something so rare, and potentially lock out any future advancement. Even the resources afforded to an Ascender couldn’t help, if those materials didn’t exist in the first place.

But Janet had a hunch there.

Helen.

JR had pursued Helen for millennia, purportedly for her cooking and great beauty, but that speculation had always felt shallow. If Helen had some undisclosed ability to help progress bloodlines, it would explain JR’s dogged pursuit and Aster’s incredibly strange advancement in one fell swoop. All under the noses of the Path guidelines, as Aster was only loosely bound by Path rules.

It was the mother hen running the foxhouse.

Janet would send agents to check what she could, but she didn’t expect much. The one other thread to pull was the incredibly strange timing of Frederic becoming a royal. Emmanuel had selected his royals a short few thousand years previously. Why add someone new, someone so misaligned with his previous ambitions, and after so little time?

The only conclusion Janet could reach was that Frederic had found something, something that Emmanuel couldn’t risk getting out, and had given him a position of incredible power in exchange for his silence. Was it related to Lilly, where Emmanuel had booted out the established nobles and installed a loyalist too inexperienced to ask the right questions?

Then came Minkalla, which she had frustratingly little information on. It was well known that Luna had taken great pains to prevent an unexpected Inspiration, but why? The question haunted her.

She came back around to the greater question of Minkalla, which possibly tied into this same plot. Aiden Waters, on his rise to greathood, had gone into Minkalla a monster and come out a thing of legends, with not just a great run, but a theoretically ideal sequence of floors. Seven Concept boosting floors in the optimal order for the greatest Domain specialist in recorded history. It defied explanation. All Gladiators and their ilk defied logic and faced the impossible in their own ways, but even still there were limits.

The only coherent answer anyone had was that Georgios, in the moments of his ascension, upgraded his Talents and saw the path to making a beast of nightmares, and sent that plan to his son. It was utter lunacy, better fit for the pages of a conspiracy tabloid than an actual discussion she’d had with her cabinet, yet when life was insane perhaps it was the insane themselves who were most sane.

For Elizabeth and her entourage, however, Minkalla was where the oddness ended, as if a line had been drawn. In the best of times it was strange, that a life so full of oddities and impossibilities would suddenly become normal, but there the records were. The increased scrutiny of Pathers past Tier 15 was what best explained it, but it was difficult to say.

Maybe they had simply gotten better at hiding their cheating.

There were only two possible explanations, overall. The first, most coherent one, was that this newest group of Ascenders was an incredibly sloppy operation led by the two most incompetent leaders in the Empire, Mara and Leon. It fit neatly, that the benefactors of unbridled nepotism failed the biggest undercover operation in history less than a tenth of the way into Emmanuel’s reign. It had holes, as did any explanation, but it fit the evidence.

