The second possibility, that this was the masterwork plan of a man on his way to the higher realms, was daunting. Impossible to disprove, equally impossible to believe, but it explained the extreme oddities in recent millennia. Minkalla was the biggest point of evidence in its favor, as no known mechanism could influence its inner workings, but it had been coerced into making a demon anyways.

It begged the question, was all this sloppiness in crafting the newest Ascenders intentional? A necessary step in a grand plan ensuring a new group of peak fighters? If so, the future looked dim for her darling Republic.

She was almost impressed at how brazen Emmanuel was, but she couldn’t deny she might do the same if she did have a repeatable way to create powerhouses.

Seeing another Great Power grow so much in just three immortal generations was worrying in and of itself, but she felt she was in a nightmare being forced to watch her people’s slow and steady enslavement happen in front of her. All while unable to do anything to prevent it. It was unflattering, but the Great Powers were like crabs in a pot, unwilling to see any of their number step on their heads to get away from the boiling water.

She sneered as she thought of herself as a crab before snorting at the image of Emmanuel reduced to the same unflattering form. That visage would suit his smug, overly inflated self worth perfectly.

Amusing thoughts aside, the metaphor fell apart as she knew they weren’t fighting for control so much as their own freedom. If the Empire stepped on their heads and managed to keep up even a fraction of their growth for another two, possibly three immortal generations, even the collective might of the other seven Great Powers wouldn’t be able to resist the Empire's.

That would mean a true war, where combatants over Tier 35 fought, like what happened when the Federation was split apart, it would mean planets would burn. Inhabited planets filled with the people who voted for her, believing that she would be the best person to protect them.

And Ascended damn it, she would defend them. As she would defend their children and grandchildren.

But to do so, she needed to ensure the Empire lost this war and they could restrict its growth and expansion.

Janet took a deep breath, the action still helping to clear her mind after all these years. She was growing irrational again, possibly even jumping at shadows. She needed a break. It did her and her citizens little good if she allowed herself to drift away from their actual concerns, growing out of touch and distant from the concerns of the ones she had sworn to protect. It happened too often with her peers, but she never wanted to forget her roots.

Forget what was at stake.

She sent a message to her cabinet, letting them know she was going for a walk and would be out for a month or two, but if they needed her input on something urgent she’d still be reachable. But they could handle themselves well enough. Unlike the Empire, they didn’t demand all of their upper-level cultivators be in a dozen places at once, stretched so thin that [Clone] and gear dedicated to making that specific spell cheaper was an outright requirement of office.

No, she was getting over-fixated again.

No more thinking about the Empire.

She left her office, striding down the long corridors but waving her guards to stay in their places.

She wouldn’t need them, where she was going.

Once she was at the entry hall, she passed into the Between.

The sensation was never not strange, but she infinitely preferred the shifting, confusing, but tamed semi-reality the Republic had established over the tumultuous chaos that the other Great Powers had been content to endure. Even if the pathways of Between were only this robust near their core worlds, the opportunities and security it provided was unmatched in the Realm.

Conveniently, there was a newly-incorporated Tier 2 world not far from the capital. Janet emerged from a wooded stretch of the Between in a shaded grove of trees, tucked away from common perception and just outside the heart of a major mortal city.

Her perceptions expanded almost involuntarily, but Janet forced herself to pull back, pushing down on her cultivation, suppressing her aura, and forcing it all to task. She refused to be a voyeur, spying upon the mortals simply going about their lives and peering in on their most intimate moments. She was better than that, even if it was technically illegal for her to be present. She just… couldn’t have been bothered to submit the proper paperwork, not when she was in such desperate need of clarity.

Besides, the paper to approve someone above Tier 45 visiting a sub-Tier 5 world would have landed on her desk in the end anyway, so she told herself it didn’t really matter. And it didn’t.

She picked a random direction and started walking.

All around her, people were just being… well, people. Children were laughing and playing, parents were yelling at their children to behave, adults were going about their daily lives. They went to work in the morning and came home in the early evenings, cheer filling the air as they simply lived. People were singing on street corners, colorful lights decorated buildings, and there was a sense of joy that permeated everything.

It was beautiful.

This was what she was fighting for, she reminded herself. For mortals to just be mortals, living their lives unaffected by the whims of nigh-omnipotent deities, powerful enough to hear their cells divide, mighty enough to rend their city in half with but a thought. If she had been so inclined, if any immortal were so inclined, they could have ended the lives of millions of people before any of them even knew what was happening. She’d seen what even minor scuffles between cultivators could do to a mortal world, and the results were never pretty.

It was why they stayed separate.

This close to the capital, the veil separating mortals and cultivators was practically airtight. There were a few Tier 5s living in seclusion across the planet, in the rare situation where a rift break could happen. A few Tier 1s and Tier 2s would cycle in every so often, keeping the rifts under control, and ideally the mortals would never even know they were here.

It was a good system, a stable system.

Unlike the Empire, which touted itself as being so great because they just chucked everyone into the rat race of cultivation, leaving most of their most vulnerable citizens subject to the whims of a guild to be bought and sold like a commodity-

Janet took a deep breath. No, she wasn’t going to think about them. She was just going to sit on her bench and watch the children playing on the frozen stream winding through the park.

Hmmm.

She wasn’t certain about that ice. It looked a bit too thin to support the half-dozen children clambering all over it. Fortunately, she could and did fix it with a thought, thickening the ice and ensuring the safety of those most vulnerable to the chilly waters beneath.

She tried to do what she could, after all. It wasn’t like she was blind to the benefits which high-Tier cultivators could bring to mortals, not with how often the Interventionists argued for it, but determining what was and wasn’t acceptable interference, to say nothing of what actual malicious actors could do, simply made the trade-off distinctly negative. Overall, worlds where the Veil separating them was stronger tended to be more populous, happier, and the people on them had a higher sense of self and life satisfaction.

She wouldn’t inflict that on people. There were always ways for the lucky, the driven, and the exceptional to find their way past the Veil. She’d done it, after all.

“Do your parents know you’re out on the ice?” she called out to the kids.

Her voice attracted a few glances, then the group scattered. Ah well, it was about what she expected. At least they weren’t scared of her, though one of them was wondering about what she was wearing.

Oops.

It was midwinter here, and her outfit was not only entirely too light for a mortal in this weather, but entirely incongruous with the styles worn by the people around her. She must have been too distracted by the Empire to have forgotten such basic precautions. Still, one of the first things just about any cultivator learned in the Republic was how to nudge the perceptions of mortals away from any unusual happenings around them with their Domain.

A subtle flex of her Concept ensured that none would notice her clothes being so radically different from the locals, but she still pulled a coat out of her Talent. Weather and temperature didn’t bother her any more unless another cultivator was responsible, so she barely noticed.

It had been even longer since mere Tier 2 weather could bother her. Probably hadn’t since… well, before she was a cultivator. When she was just a kid on a distant Tier 3 world, with no real knowledge of cultivators. Oh sure, there were rumors about people who did impossible things, and she grew up on the stories of kids who stumbled upon a fantastical hidden realm and were whisked away on grand adventures, but she lived in a mortal neighborhood with mortal parents and with mortal friends.

It wasn’t until she managed to see through the Veil of a visiting cultivator, notice their odd clothes and tendency to vanish into a solid brick wall she later learned was hiding a rift, and confronted the man, that she learned the truth. From there, the rest of her life was practically out of one of her childhood storybooks, and while her parents had passed away untold ages ago, they had loved her and supported her through it all. Even if they didn’t know the full truth of their world, they were happy, and they were happier when they didn’t know the reality of their daughter fighting monsters from nightmares to grow stronger, into a Realm filled with ancient empires and massive conspiracies.

She was still reminiscing about her parents, now long dead, when the smell of coffee hit her.

It took control to walk at a mortal’s pace to the nearest diner who’s door had opened and not rush over.

She entered, and following the actions of the man before her,, stomped her boots to knock any snow off them. Not that snow could stick to these boots, but blending in was important.

It only took a moment for an elderly woman to return from where she sat the man down and said. “The bar is open if you‘d like, but I can seat you at a table as well.”

Janet smiled and tucked a strand of hair behind her ear. “A table, please.”

“Right this way honey. It's blistering cold out there, let me get you something to warm you up.” Having said that, the woman was already turning around to grab the pot of coffee.

Janet smiled and thanked her as she took the proffered cup and pretended to look at the menu.

The smell of the coffee was delicious, but she knew that it would taste correspondingly awful. Still, it brought back thoughts of her childhood, and she let herself ponder the situation with the Empire in between memories of playing in booths similar to the one she sat in now growing up.

The Empire needed to be stopped, or planets like this would be lost in the shuffle. In the rat race that so many cultivators threw themselves into. Lost in the rift breaks that would claim lives. Lost in the progression as they were born behind the Tier of the planet and unable to take more than the first few steps.

If the Empire became hegemon, that is exactly what would happen.

The Republic wasn’t perfect, she knew that, but there was a reason they had been the second strongest Great Power for the last two million years until the Empire overtook them. They were strong because their system worked.

It had harmony. Balance. Mortals could live their lives free from greater concerns, while those who were more ambitious could, with some struggle, become cultivators and try to improve themselves.

Sure, it wasn’t easy, and many, many people who nominally wanted to become cultivators didn’t, but the paths were there. On higher-Tier worlds, Awakenings were pricey but affordable for the driven. On Veil worlds, people would leave… not gaps, but weak points. Places where the curious and dedicated could fall through in a safe and controlled manner. Lots of those people never even left the planet they were born on, but those who wanted to, could.

It was opt-in, and those who didn’t never needed to feel bad about it. They could live their lives however they pleased. It was that which the Empire tossed so merrily aside. Mandated Awakening of everyone ensured that nobody was immune to the perils of their first Talent. Those who wished for a quiet life but awakened an Exceptional talent had their lives ruined just as surely as those who awakened a Detrimental talent without a firm, usually higher-Tier, support network.

Even in the Republic, where they had never done anything so foolish as publicize Talent ratings, some abilities were just too obvious to not impact the lives of those Awoken. The requirements of Awakening meant that even those whose Talents were harmful still had some form of support from their Awakener. Those who bought awakening on higher-Tier worlds were well-off enough to afford support on their own, or cultivate ambient essence until no matter their Talent, they could work better than a corresponding mortal and so find employment that way.

It seemed to be a nuance the Empire had wholly ignored. So many of their people simply languished at a low Tier while the Empire spent fortunes to raise planets to Tier 5. That might be a laudable goal on paper, as the long term benefits were undeniable. But the expenses were mind-boggling, and that put the people of the Empire under a greater tax burden, which limited their economic freedoms.

Janet didn’t want to see her people put under such burdens.

