Tobias refused to hold the crimes of the father against the son, but Emmanuel had hardly left the best impression upon him during the War of Independence. He certainly didn’t owe the Empire anything. He’d spent so many millennia trying to raise support for the beasts of the Federation, and it wasn’t until the Federation had too much luck that any of them had bothered to listen to him.

Any of them could burn and he wouldn’t care. Oh, he wouldn’t set them on fire, but he found it so… delicious, that the Empire was experiencing the inevitable turnabout of the Federation. Too much fortune, too quickly. He would shed no tears for them should they fall, and he would happily be there to pick up the pieces in the aftermath.

I Carry the Weight of the World, after all.

He had borne his burden for eons, and he drew ever-closer to the finish line. Someday, he would Ascend, and he would leave the Realm a better place than it was when he’d first hatched. What more could he ask for?

And if that meant visiting the Empire for more dragon’s blood, so be it.

Still, all might not be bad. While he was in the Empire, he’d get the chance to talk with Helen again. It’d been well over a hundred thousand years since they last talked. If nothing else, that alone might be worth the visit. It had been quite the shock when he first met her to find someone significantly older than him, at such a low Tier to boot.

Smiling, as he reminisced of old memories, he accepted the offer to meet.

***

JR fluttered to his favorite perch. It was a very comfortable perch, tucked away in the corner of his office. From it, he could see so much of his homeland, and it always helped put things in perspective.

Below him, the Corporation’s Capital sat. It wasn’t the most comfortable of worlds, between the eternally raining forests of the coasts and scorching sands of the center, but the striking gold, green, and blue made for such a pretty sight. Around him and extending to the stars beyond were far more interesting. Cities of metal and crystal, ships the size of a moon, gently spinning rings with millions, even billions of inhabitants… they were the true heart of the Corporations, and that heart had been beating quite excitedly of late.

War was often good for business.

There were still those who mourned their losses, but so long as JR managed to keep the war away from their actual worlds, those deaths would be limited to the brave and the bold. The ones whose jobs demanded their deaths, rather than their lives.

JR ruffled his feathers in thought, staring out at the shining stars against the eternal blackness of space.

The war was undoubtedly set to explode in potency. Already, he could feel certain sectors of the Corporations restructuring and preparing for new mercenary contracts, new arms supplies, new treasures being pulled out of storage for sale. With another set of Ascenders to outfit, the Empire would no doubt seek their aid in ensuring they were fully equipped. Perhaps they would even seek out his aid. It had happened before, and the shinies he’d gotten as a result kept him keen-eyed for future potential earnings.

Though, they hadn’t asked for any of his workmanship for Light and Shadow. Perhaps they assumed he was too busy, now that he was the Chief Executive Official? Well, he was, but sufficient shinies would surely tempt him back to his crafting bench for someone else's ideas. Or perhaps that was the issue, they thought he would charge too much? Hmmm. Perhaps he should send a sample of his wares, a small reminder of the sorts of things he could make. He could spare a few days and some of the less-shiny treasures in his nest, yes, yes.

It was always profitable to be in the good books of a Chosen-equivalent. The only question was what he should make.

Something for the blood girl? No, she probably had cups. Also she was a fire girl. Fire and blood had historically never played well together, but perhaps as a phoenix, leaning more into the side of life? Blood and fire… JR paused. In Empire-standard alchemy, those would be an alchemically complete composite for life, wouldn’t they be? That could be a solid base for a custom element. But hmm, no. Not quite complete. Perhaps if lightning were included as well? Perhaps… but it would still require far more to truly coalesce into a new element.

Bah! Too much work for a mere sample. Perhaps his message could allude to the possibility, but bloodfire was too much to be given for free! That was not how you got shinies.

Something for the fox, perhaps? Hmm, no, ice wasn’t something JR enjoyed working with. Too many harsh winters as a young bird for him to specialize in the element.

Something for the boy? Yes, that was an excellent idea!

Quill would surely appreciate well-crafted goods. His [Ranged Stabilization HE8-ST] processor had been quite fantabulous to behold, a fully novel style for a brand-new module. JR could have made something better if he had tried, but that wasn’t the point! Quill had been Tier 10 at the time, and if that didn’t speak to having a heart of a crafter, JR didn’t know what would!

Talismans, though. What could he make for talismans…

Tools would be tricky, he didn’t know the boy’s traditions. He was certainly self-taught, yes yes, but he’d be learning soon enough, and if JR acted quickly enough then his gift would be able to influence the forms of crafting he would attempt to learn! Yes, yes, this could be good. If he sent something which lent itself more towards the style which Corporations used, then Quill would try to learn more about Corporations technology, and that would mean more of the budget the Empire spent on their Ascenders would go to them. And that meant more shinies!

And if he was really lucky, maybe he himself would be able to visit the Empire if they needed his services, and then perhaps he could see Helen! That would indeed be most wonderful. He had a new bauble for her. He had seen it on one of his flights and scooped it off the side of the road after its sparking reminded him of Helen's tail feathers in flight. Very pretty.

Shaking his head he refocused on his project.

He must think about what tools might be best for Quill. Perhaps a temporal recorrector? Hmm, no, the boy was only Tier 25. Meta-flux adjuster? No, not very useful for talismans. Bifate pair-linker? That could work, yes yes. He had utilized talisman arrays in the past, and he could certainly make a BPL with enough flexibility to account for any material the boy decided to use, be it metal, hide, stone, or wood. Oh! And if he did it right, he could possibly allow for multi material pair-linkages.

Most people said they were impossible, but JR was not most people!

Firstly he was a bird.

Secondly he refused to listen to the naysayers.

And that was why he had all the shinies!

***

Grand Sect Elder Winter Hornet nodded as he read the report.

The Empire had done it once again.

Not long ago, he would have railed against the heavens, but he had passed long past rage and found bliss. The heavens were impartial, and it was the duty of the strong to claim their due. If one wanted something, they needed to reach out and take it themselves. This was clearly their tribulation, and they would not be found wanting.

If one relied on luck and chance, they would never rise.

Power coursed through his body, sweeping through him and leaving him at the edge of a vast cliff. Mist shrouded the bottoms and clouds obscured the top. Not that either stopped his gaze, and he looked out upon the Sects based in the lowlands of his own. There, the mighty competed for their due.

They railed against the heavens, and the talented and powerful naturally rose to the top. It was the only truth which meant anything. The weak could not rule the strong. Not for long.

Maybe this really was the Empire's time to rise, but he knew it would come crashing down eventually. He’d be there with a hammer ready to knock out a foundational stone or two when the time was right.

Speaking to the air, he said. “Call forth Synoid and Crastor.”

It was time to stir the pot and see what came out.

Potion or poison would only be clear after the cauldron settled.

***

Virgil felt one of her teeth deform, denting as she clenched her jaw.

Another set of Ascenders from the Empire.

Her rage started to shatter reality around her, but she controlled it before it did more than warp her desk.

Standing, she tore through reality to arrive at the training grounds.

Ten thousand new rune-enhanced soldiers went through their paces, marching at speeds that felt to her as akin to a crawl. They weren’t progressing fast enough, and she crushed the urge to obliterate them all. How magnanimous she was.

These ones were far less likely to rebel thanks to the updated techniques and a better control rune implanted directly into their skulls. Once they had reached Tier 15, they had even enabled her to see through their eyes, feel what they felt.

The power was lesser than the first iteration, but these were far more stable. Her own Talents were stretched thin, but she could focus them upon those who showed the most promise easily enough.

Drones monitored them ever-carefully, screening for promise and disloyalty alike. Should she desire it, she could review practically their entire lives through her AI, ensuring that they were loyal, that they wouldn’t leave her.

She was not so blessed as the Emperor, gifted as he was with the ability to peer through time, to spy upon her agents from the future and weed out the spies and the traitorous. But there were advantages to this method. None but she could control these drones, and while her supply of them was finite, such was simply the Price of Control. It was a concept she was well-acquainted with.

None but her could be trusted with that power. In time, she would need to find another roboticist, but that was still centuries away. Her current fleet of drones would be more than adequate for quite some time.

It was a pity that they could not be utilized in this war. They would certainly be a better sight than this sorry batch of utter ingrates. If she wished for sloppy work and slow progress, she would have turned to Community members. The attrition rate after Awakening and sorting was bad enough, so many potential new soldiers relegated to branches which ultimately did not need them. These recruits were all Warriors, yet she could only see children. Noisy, useless, whiny children who demanded far too much of her time for far too little reward.

It felt akin to an eternity, but mere moments after her arrival, their head trainer stood before her.

“What can I do for you, ma’am?”

“Get them ready for the war. I want this group sent to the Tier 15 battlefields immediately. Also, start integration of squad level runes on the Tier 25 soldiers.”

That last one had been almost impossible a few years ago, thanks to the spirits' rejection of the implanted runes post awakening, but she didn’t care if the Tier 25s burned themselves for greater power. She couldn’t rely upon a Slayer to make themselves in time for this war, that duty once again fell to her.

Perhaps it was better this way. Slayers were unpredictable, messy, and altogether far too ungrateful for her purposes. She wouldn’t rid herself of the program, though. Such actions would simply serve to tip her hand to Sophron and his ilk, and she was not ready for that yet.

They thought the Federation weak, crippled. They thought that cutting away half of them would weaken them, leave them a shell of their former self. But in truth, it had cut away disorder and allowed her to consolidate what was left. Awakenings, to find the strongest. Castes, to ensure everyone was in their proper place.

The chaotic, messy guts of the Federation had been replaced. In their place was muscle and bone of metal and mana, an iron fist hidden under a veneer of soft skin. She’d taken disorder, and brought order. Order brought power, and now the entire Federation was like a tempered blade, ready to be swung at her command. Flesh gave way, adamantine did not.

And were it required, she would excise every last pound of imperfect flesh.

By the time the other Great Powers realized their folly, Virgil would have armies of rune soldiers ready to take the field, and the war with it. She would be the dagger which cut their hearts, and they would fall at her feet.
