Her people had enough burdens of their own.

No system was perfect, and there were always those who fell through the cracks. People who took out loans for Awakening and then could never truly pay off their debt were the most common. Her heart ached for them, and she provided aid when she could, but there were countless reasons why she couldn’t simply sweep away their sorrows. Then, there were those who sought to pierce the Veil, but never could. Those on remote planets whom the Awakened exploited, abusing their greater power for personal satisfaction. That was a never-ending battle, but one always worth fighting.

And yes, she would question herself. She always questioned herself. Every choice she made would make the lives of some better, and the lives of others worse. Quadrillions of lives swung in the balance of her choices, their hopes and dreams able to be crushed or realized in the palm of her hand.

But ultimately, it wasn’t just her choice. Her citizens had voted her in, and she had made promises to them in her election. She’d sworn to protect the unawakened, to maintain the Veil, to safeguard the Republic against those who wished it ill, and uphold the rights afforded Republic citizens wherever possible. That was why she was here, and it was those ideals she followed.

A younger woman, early thirties, late twenties if Janet had to guess, came out and cheerfully took her order before sauntering back to the kitchen where she leaned into her wife and spoke Janet's order.

The cook smiled even as she cut up part of an onion and green pepper and started to cook them on the grill. The couple laughed together, sharing some private joke Janet didn’t have the context for. They were mortal, and they were happy.

Janet’s fist clenched around the coffee cup, and it exploded, but even before the coffee moved an inch, she had already destroyed it all and replaced the cup and its contents.

The thought that this sort of good family could have their life upended because Janet lost to the Empire set her blood ablaze.

No, she would not allow that.

They could not lose.

She forced a smile out as the waitress brought her omelet out a few minutes later and happily ate it all. It was good. Not as good as her father's had been, but that was an impossible standard, and she knew that.

Making a display of finishing her food and cleaning her plate, she dropped twice her bill on the table before getting up and leaving.

The waitress started to do a small dance at the large tip which made Janet smile, and she made her way back to the Between entrance.

It had been a good walk, but she’d been away long enough.

She needed to win this war and prevent the Empire from becoming hegemon.

***

Aoife drummed her fingers against her throne. Each tap sent faint vibrations echoing through the stone she rested upon, carried through all the halls of the Undermount, and returned to her a fairly accurate impression of what was going on throughout the entire planet. The stonework was such that she didn’t even need substantial focus to interpret the feedback, and could direct the attention to overhear any conversation in the entire world.

It was an incredibly clever bit of dwarven engineering, and also all but useless. Her spiritual sense could extend even further and with quite a bit more fidelity, and would be all but undetectable besides.

Impressive… but useless.

What a perfect metaphor for the entirety of the Clans.

It was always unfortunate to be the Sovereign directly following a Golden Age. Even if every Clan leader could sense their fortunes changing, that they had tapped that particular vein of resources to its utmost, they refused to acknowledge it in favor of pressuring her to live up to the impossible standards set by Saint Hastor and his generation.

Yet there was nothing she properly could do. While her predecessor had left the treasury all but overflowing, it was not truly hers to spend. Were she to open the gates of wealth, their streets would run with gold for the rest of her rule, and perhaps even the rule of her successor… and then, that would be it. The Clans would not fail, would not die, but they would be undeniably lesser for generations to come, until the next Golden Age.

It would inevitably happen. A generation would experience such grand fortune that the Clans would utterly dominate the entire Realm, their choices dictating the flow of destiny for all the Great Powers. There would be an outpouring of power, of wealth, of treasure, and all would know prosperity. But then, time would pass and the Golden Age would fade. The Clans would steadily decline in influence, in power, in grandeur, until a new Golden Age arose and began the cycle anew.

Saint Hastor’s Golden Age had truly been a sight to behold. The man had risen to Tier 50 solely through inspirations and left a surplus of the treasures and worlds usually required to raise a Sovereign to the throne. The Clans had usurped the Federation from their generations-old dominance, created a new Great Power, reaped a harvest of hundreds of valuable worlds, seen no less than two Legend groups rise to power and a True Inheritor besides, retrieved at least six Tier 50 skills and countless other treasures so rare they were previously little more than myth.

And nearly none of it was useful to Aoife.

Oh, to be certain, she would claim a Tier 50 skill in time, once she decided upon what she wanted. The Last Line, the most recent Legend group, was still serving admirably as a deterrent from some of the more enterprising Corporations independents who were sniffing around her border regions, and life was still good for her subjects.

But every time Aoife looked, that golden sheen was tarnishing and flaking.

A Tier 22 world, lost to the Monster’s Collective. The Inheritor they’d sent to claim the world had been forced to retreat from mere Pathers. That they had now become Legends was of little consequence— Inheritor Seasaìdh should have utterly crushed them. The girl had simply been insufficient, and her efforts to correct that weakness hardly offset that after the fact.

A portion of her yearned to heed the demands of her underlings, to toss aside the neutrality afforded the Empire which Saint Hastor had negotiated for and join the war against them. The Empire seemed to be entering their own Golden Age, a thought nearly heretical, yet practically undeniable at this point. If they weren’t stopped, what would they become? Surely, she ought to unleash the full might of the Clans, demonstrate why their inheritance was the entire Realm, prove their strength and end the war decisively. Crush the Empire before it could rise ascendant, break the will of its populace and claim what riches it had amassed for themselves.

But to do so would destroy their future. It would condemn unknown generations to insignificance and poverty. Perhaps they would curse her name, for squandering their wealth. Perhaps they would curse her successor, when the river of gold ceased to flow. The resources they would spend would be irreplaceable, to ultimately take scraps from an Empire too large for its own good.

Aoife most certainly would not entertain the petition of Clan Von Kozih, that they ought to break the rules of war and kill Waters, Light, Shadow, and the newly risen Torch, Quill, and Scoop. It was a petition so idiotic she had nearly revoked their status as a clan at that instant, with only immediate and emphatic intervention by Clans Viuhal and MaiChetun to persuade her it was made in utmost ignorance by a new Clan Head.

Such things simply were not done.

The Ascendancy of the Sun was the last Great Power to have attempted such a thing. Their Divine Lord had decided Daedalus, the Federation’s Slayer of the age deserved to die after they slew one of the Ascendancy’s own Legends. The ensuing kidnapping and sacrifice of the Slayer nearly re-started the Shattering, and the ensuing conflict could not even truly be called a war.

A war implied opposition.

Within a century, the Divine Lord and all of his High Priests had been killed or forced into Ascending, overwhelmed by the combined might of all other six Powers. It didn’t matter that the Clans and Guilds had been at war, nor that the Ascendancy and Empire had previously been firm allies, none allowed the Divine Lord to go unpunished. To do so would allow a precedent to be set of higher Tiers disregarding the laws of war, and no one wanted to see a return to inhabited planets burning.

The aftermath saw the complete replacement of the Ascendancy with the Corporations, and some historians attributed the Federation’s eventual rise to dominance partially due to the glut of new worlds they had gotten as recompense. Meanwhile, the Corporations to this day had substantially fewer worlds than the rest of the Great Powers, even though few actively sought that outcome.

It was one of the first lessons which every Sovereign, every leader of the Great Powers was to learn: The rules of war are sacred, especially for Legends. Should a Legend die due to a violation of the War Pact, even if the murderer was acting wholly of their own accord, the recompense ranged from merely immense to outright crippling, depending on the circumstances. Even the Federation, in their ever-so-sorry present state, would eclipse whatever remained of the Clans, should they try to slay a Legend illegally.

No, if Waters or the others were to be slain, it would be done properly and honorably. Not that the Clans were in any position to manage an honorable kill, if she wished to preserve their glory for generations to come.

Should she stand aside, allow the Empire to shine brightly, outshine even the Clans? Or should she look to extinguish their light here and now, and risk bringing the Clans even lower than the Empire would fall to?

She did not know.

But whatever Aoife chose, that would be her legacy.

***

Tobias smiled as he saw the identities of the new groups of Alphas. The youngest one of that little Phoenix chick overseeing their kin in the Empire. He was genuinely happy for the couple, having become acquaintances over the past few millennia, and the duo had never failed to make him crack a smile over the years. The pair were truly an ideal example of a beast and bond.

Now their progeny was just as impressive. He’d heard tell that Elizabeth had undergone a fairly unfortunate Awakening, having broken the connection to the element in her blood. Such things were blessedly rare for the trauma they inflicted, and few who underwent such experiences ever fully recovered. Most never even formed a Concept, their sense of self in such disrepair that they were forever barred from immortality should they even muster the fortitude to progress.

He’d been proud of Elizabeth, for overcoming that and even reaching Tier 15 entirely of her own merits. But now he was somewhat uncertain if it was even true, or simply a cunning ruse to disguise her all-the-more potent fire magic. He doubted it was a cover-up, but he wasn’t certain yet. If she legitimately had Awoken a Talent largely barring her from all but blood magic, that made her accomplishment all the more impressive. A Concept and Intent before the age of 200 already spoke of a tremendous self-confidence and ability to know one’s proper place in the Realm, and to do so with a broken-off bloodline? Toby could only stand in awe at the girl’s resilience.

Her Path had been a fairly straightforward one, as far as that could be said for any Alpha. An impressive showing in a mock war, first place in the Empire’s tournament, nearly completing Minkalla at Tier 11, even putting up a good showing against Soddus and Girang. By all accounts, Aster was equally impressive. She’d apparently altered her bloodline before Tier 15, and even if that feat was thanks to Minkalla, it still spoke quite highly of her own prowess.

Then of course, Aster’s bond. A young boy from a backwater planet, blessed with an early beast egg and managing to keep up with both Elizabeth and Aster. It was an impressive showing for someone like him, and equally as deserving of commendation as his two peers for his own accomplishments.

Alongside the recording of the trio’s ceremony was a message from Emperor Emmanuel, requesting a meeting. Though he was tempted to decline, he withheld his first impulse in favor of a more measured response. The dragon blood the Empire was able to provide was simply too promising. Eclavorn had been all but begging, insofar as any dragon would beg, for more of the only substance which he could use to reliably improve his own bloodline. Truly, the only thing which motivated an Alpha was the allure of more power.

Kar’Tan had been in his other ear, requesting all the more for his own experiments. The chimera program had truly exceeded its own mandate with young Soddus, and his old friend had been utterly fixated on the possibility of creating a chimera with a native rank three bloodline in the wake of that particular success. The dragon’s blood not only improved the likelihood of such things, but even granted the possibility of a rank four or higher Chimera. None of them knew what rank the blood was, after all, simply that it was stronger than anything they’d ever come across.

Stronger than his own third Rank, certainly.

Wherever the Emperor had encountered such a font of blood, he truly did not know. Were it not for the undeniably draconic nature of the blood, he would have almost attributed it to young Elizabeth! Its potency was surely fit for an Alpha, and its sanguine nature befit the young girl perfectly. And it would be just like the Empire, to harvest such a potent tool from their mightiest warriors and leave them as little more than a dispenser of valued materials.

Bah.

