Maybe I’ll help them because I’ll care about them, and because it’s the right thing for me to do, rather than stifling guilt.

Veron found that perspective felt better. He supposed a few things could be true at once. Would people be pissed if they found out about the time magic? Sure. Would they be glad that he was there to help them once he had learned more about their goals, the world at large, and had more power and wealth at his disposal? Probably that too, yes.

And if they knew about the curse, I’m pretty sure they’d want me to find a way to prevent it too.

Their two slightly guarded and confused seeming teammates joined them again.

“So, what now?” Isaac asked.

“You both agree to try and see how we work together?” Veron asked.

“Yes,” Isaac said.

Elke nodded.

“Alright, perfect. So, what should we do?” Veron added and looked at the group. They all seemed to wait for what he had to say.

Not a very assertive group.

“You should be the leader,” Ailis said.

Veron blinked his eyes. He gave her a questioning look.

“So that we don’t have to discuss every little thing. You’ve set up the team already.”

“You’re not interested in the job yourself?”

“No,” she said.

Leading a group of adventurers into the dungeon.

It sounds like a challenge, but not impossible either. And if I do return again, it would be good experience to have.

He looked at the group he’d gathered.

Elke doesn’t seem assertive at all, Isaac not too much either, so they’re both not great candidates. And Ailis kind of gives me the impression that she doesn’t want to get involved too much. If I’m the leader, she can bail without much entanglement, is that it? Maybe I’m being unfair.

“What about you two?”

“You formed the team,” Isaac said. “I’m fine with you as the leader.”

Elke nodded.

Veron looked at her.

She looked away.

Veron touched his brow and then smiled.

Yeah. That’s strange. I wouldn’t have expected that but it feels right. The last few times I took the lead in a project, I hated it. But this is a very different job.

I guess because I actually care about this one.

“Okay. I’m the leader then. We will discuss important things either way, and I want everyone to speak up if anything bothers you or if you have suggestions. Otherwise I’ll just suggest our general approach.”

“Sounds good,” Ailis said. “So what then, team leader?”

Veron looked at her. “I’m getting the impression that you really didn’t want the responsibility.”

She smiled sheepishly and gave him a shrug. Then she refocused and looked at them.

“Something else,” Ailis said. “Just to set expectations, I’m mainly here to improve my Path. Once I reach a certain level, I won’t be sticking around. Just in case you’re looking for a longer term or more serious team situation.”

“That’s fine for me,” Veron said. He was looking for people to work with, sure. He was here to improve his magic too, but he wanted to form connections too. His situation just happened to make everything about that a lot more complicated. And what she said made him feel a lot better about her. “I don’t know how long I’ll be delving for either.” It was true, though of course Veron left out why he felt that way.

“I mainly care about my magic and the dungeon,” Isaac said. “I don’t expect any of you to stick around for years.”

They looked at Elke.

“I… that’s okay,” she said. “The dungeon is dangerous.”

“We know that,” Ailis said.

“I think she means we could die at any time,” Isaac said.

Elke nodded.

“I know what she meant,” Ailis said. “But not if we prepare well and don’t take stupid risks.”

“We’ll prepare as well as we can,” Veron said. “And I hope there won’t be any unnecessary risks. There shouldn’t be, with our goals aligning pretty well. We go in, kill beasts, work on our magic, and leave. Any treasures will be a bonus.”

Ailis nodded.

“Sounds good to me,” Isaac said.

Elke glanced between them all, then looked at Veron.

“I suggest we have dinner together, get to know each other a bit more, and talk about how we should go about exploring the dungeon,” Veron said.

The others confirmed.

“Any suggestions? I’m staying at the Willard Inn. The food is nice enough.”

“The Spindle is the best place for food,” Ailis said.

“It’s a bit busy, but yes, I like some places there,” Isaac said.

Elke looked between them, not adding anything.

“What’s the Spindle?” Veron asked.

Elke followed his gaze.

Ailis smiled slightly. “Adventurers, and you don’t know the Spindle. I could guess with Elke, but you’re not from around here either, are you?”

No, Ailis, I’m really not.
