How he’d gotten one so fast? That ingenious bastard nodded at Felkhr, and the [Visionary of Flight] looked up from making a second tube with an [Engineer]. A Drake was jogging next to Chaldion as he sipped a Chaldion’s Eye and ate barbecued shrimp from a poker he dipped in a bowl floating next to him filled with sauce.
“And the local search from the Eyes picked up nothing on the duo, Grand Strategist—”
“Doubtless not. Close the record, but append a note for my personal dictation at a later point regarding the duo. Happily, the Hundredfriends Courier is by ‘chance’ here as well, so I will inquire. Send him to me. Next?”
The running Drake flipped over to the next report as Seborn stared at Chaldion with something like admiration.
“Now there’s a captain of his ship.”
“My ship, Seborn. Anyways, come in, come in! Make yourselves at home! I don’t see you at all, Jelaqua or Ulinde! We’re cool now. Heck, Montressa and Valeterisa are here.”
Erin pointed at the Archmage, who was solving puzzles on the beach with Relc. Ulinde did a double-take at Valeterisa, and Jelaqua chuckled, looking embarrassed.
“Actually—can I bring Maughin through with a few of his Dullahan and smith friends, Erin? They’re waiting, and I said I’d ask, but it’d mean a lot.‘
“Oh—sure!”
Maughin alone would crowd the beach a bit, but Erin knew he and Jelaqua were a couple. She leaned over.
“Actually, it’s totally good. But don’t leave! The beach is open all night, and I have something to give you all later.”
“Oh? I have something to tell you too. I’m—well—it’s—nevermind. Thanks a bunch!”
Jelaqua went to get Maughin, and Erin gave the other Halfseekers a puzzled look. Moore heaved a huge sigh.
“I don’t know what will happen now.”
“Cheer up, Moore. It’s for the best if everyone’s happy. Let’s find Mrsha!”
Ulinde took his hand, and his face blossomed into a smile too. Erin had rarely seen the half-Giant so happy.
Oh, right. They were dating, weren’t they? That left only…Seborn. He had a sardonic look in his eyes as he turned to her.
“Everyone’s having fun.”
“Not you?”
“I try not to sleep within the team. Habits from being at sea. It’s okay, Erin. Things change, and I’m glad for them.”
“They’re good relationships. I should’ve gone with Jelaqua more when she invited me. And Moore and Ulinde—makes sense, right?”
Seborn put his hands in his pockets and rolled his neck, making his crab-side crack. He was bare-chested, and the transition from man to crab ran straight down his chest, straight as an arrow.
“Yeah. Sure. Sorry, I guess it is close to home. But you make life fun and interesting.”
Erin patted him on the shoulder and thought for a long moment.
“…Shrimp cocktail? Rufelt is making them.”
Seborn frowned.
“Why would anyone mix shrimp with alc—this is a great idea. I’ll have one. Thanks, Erin.”
 
——
 
Only a few people weren’t here that could make it.
Pelt, who really didn’t care about beaches and could literally work in blast heat.
Tessa, who might be around, but was gloomy and withdrawn of late and snapped at Erin when she was invited.
Magnolia Reinhart, who, despite being in the area, refused the invitation that Erin dithered over sending in the first place.
And…the luckless pair of boys who stood outside the door to The Wandering Inn in Liscor and argued.
“She’ll never let us in, Sammy.”
“We have to go! Look inside! Ullim, do something!”
“Lord Sammial…”
For once, their guardian and nursemaid was helpless. Hethon himself wasn’t arguing for prudence much, either.
He was gagging to get in there and see this ‘beach’ everyone was talking about. But you had to be a regular and on Erin’s good-list to enter, and he and Sammy?
Definitely not on the list. Their one hope, Ryoka Griffin, was also elsewhere, and so was their father, who was the guarantee they’d never get in. So it evened the odds, but both boys were scheming for ways to get in.
“What if we said we’d recommend her or something because we’re Veltrases?”
“I don’t think she cares, Sammy.”
Hethon only had to glance at Ullim to confirm his suspicions. Erin was like the people that his father had mentioned—men and women who cared nothing for rank, who you had to impress on your own merits.
The problem was, the boys didn’t have many merits, and they had a lot of de-merits going against them.
They were jostling for a look with the crowd trying to bribe Liska for entry every time the door opened, and only their bodyguards let them hold the space. The [Majordomo] looked at their desperate expressions and coughed.
“Lords, I think we have to wait for Miss Griffin to return. And I shan’t get your hopes up. Sometimes you can’t get your way. And that is a hard, but important lesson for a [Lord] to learn.”
Both looked up at him wretchedly, and Sammial banged his fists on the door.
“That’s fine for everyone but me! And just this time! Let me in! Let me in!”
He hammered and hammered until the door opened, but before he could go through—
“Aha, it’s you again! [Lesser Wall of Force]!”
Liska threw up a hand, and Sammial bounced off a wall of red light. Even his [Lord] powers were no match for Liska.
She kept getting new Skills. Between Tyrion, Sammial, and the traffic, Hethon wondered how fast she was counter-levelling. He tried a different tack.
“Miss Liska, can you talk to Miss Erin for us? We’re Ryoka Griffin’s friends.”
“Hmm. No. I’m off work in eight minutes. Travel only! If you pay to get through, you’re not getting into the inn, so save your coins!”
Liska hollered at the crowd, and someone fought through the people.
“Wotcha, Miss Liska! Me and the lads are going for the door, right?”
Grev and an entire gang of boys appeared, and Liska sighed.
“Wonderful. You’re on the list—but Erin has to approve that many midgets. Enter.”
Grev flicked some coins into the pot and sauntered through. Liska was about to close the door when Sammial tried again.
“I—I know Princess Oesca of Ailendamus!”
“And I know Princess Mrsha of Calanfer. You’re not special.”
Sammial turned red, but rather than throw a tantrum, he screwed up his face in novel concentration. Hethon was amazed. Either Sammial was growing—or Liska was on his level for childishness, so he engaged rather than threw a fit.
“I know—the Waterbear and Hundredfriends Courier! And Ryoka!”
“I know Salamani and Ci, Hawk the Hare, and Ryoka too. Plus, the Hundredfriends Courier is here, and he didn’t mention you.”
Liska picked at her teeth, and Sammial’s head shot up.
“He’s here? Call him over! He’ll vouch for me!”
Liska groaned, but that had some weight. When an Antinium came by to check if she needed anything, she whispered to him, and he walked off. Never had Hethon and Sammial looked at an Antinium with such hope. When the Antinium, Silvermop, came back…
“Sorry. He didn’t say anything. Well, actually, Silvermop couldn’t find Seve, so he asked the ape, Erek, and he definitely said no.”
Out-aped. Sammial stood there like he’d been poleaxed. Hethon’s head fell—and then he saw someone hurrying towards the door.
“Miss Liska! Can you put in a request for a [Seamstress] from that new shop in Invrisil to come over? Everyone wants swimsuits, and Erin says they should be waterproof.”
“Ooh. Swimwear? Wait, are the half-naked Gnolls and Drakes gone?”
Liska looked horrified, and Nanette, who was herself wearing a towel that was dripping wet, smiled.
“Nope! They’re still bare-chested, but everyone wants beachwear. It’s even more revealing, apparently.”
“I don’t care about the guys. Unless you mean everyone? I’ll send a City Runner right away! Hey, City Runner!”
Liska looked intensely hopeful, and Hethon stared at Nanette and—wavered. He felt his tongue in his mouth, and she was heading back.
But maybe—
“N—Miss—Nanette? Wait a second!”
Hethon stumbled over his words, but the witch turned at the last moment. She spotted him, then trotted back warily.
“Oh, Lord Hethon.”
“Um. Hello. How do you do this fine day?”
Sammial had stomped off to be comforted by Ullim, so Hethon was without backup except for his bodyguards. Frankly, they should have helped, because a wince told Hethon that he had inherited his father’s social graces.
He didn’t know how to talk to girls! Hethon turned red, and Nanette gave him a cool look.
“Fine, unless you’d like to lecture me again? Why are you standing here, anyways?”
“I’m, uh…”
The fight with her seemed to be long ago, and he couldn’t remember why he’d been so hopping furious. Now he felt stupid, and Nanette’s look of sudden, smug comprehension made him turn redder.
“Liska won’t let you through, will she? You want to come through? Erin won’t like that. Is your father here?”
“No. But we’d…really like to see this beach. We know beaches, you see.”
“Oh, really? It was my first time having fun on one. I suppose it’s not that exciting for you.”
“No, wait!”
Nanette turned, and Hethon held a hand out. She waited, and he took a breath.
“I—would greatly appreciate it if you asked Miss Solstice for us. Sammy and I would love to go. Please? Thank you.”
He was bright red, hot, and Nanette looked him up and down. She tilted her chin up, looking very smug.
“Maybe. I’ll think about it. Perhaps it’s the right thing to do, and it wouldn’t be wrong to have a [Lord] in the inn’s debt. Assuming he remembers to be grateful to more than one person.”
Hethon turned redder and redder as Nanette rubbed in their last argument. She turned, gave him an arch look, and he felt sure she wasn’t going to say a word.
But then an old man stepping into the common room of the inn, bare-chested and bravely so because he was more white chest hair than muscle, turned with amusement in his eyes.
Typhenous the Plague Mage was escorting a sighing [Witch] Eloise to the beach. He saw Nanette and laughed.
“Miss Nanette! Take pity on the lad! Forgive and be nicer, especially today.”
Nanette whirled, stared at Eloise, and the older [Witch] gave her a longer look.
“Gloating is a part of witchcraft, Nanette. How much of it depends on whether you’d rather be an Alevica or not.”
Nanette turned into a beet, to Hethon’s slight satisfaction, but he still thought she’d walk off. Then—to his amazement, she turned to Liska.
“Can you let him through? Just the brothers and two bodyguards, maybe? I’ll tell Erin.”
“Wh—really? Thank you!”
Hethon didn’t believe it until he actually stumbled into the inn, and Sammial came racing through and pointed at Liska.
“Hah! I did get in!”
“Oh yeah? You’d better be nice to me or I’ll kick you out.”
Liska smirked at Sammial’s panicked face, and Hethon turned to Nannette.
“Thank you.”
He said it a third time, and she gave him a sudden smile.
“So you can say it. Okay, then. I suppose I can be nice, too. Come on, Erin’s making a slide, and the first time it launched Ekirra into one of the walls. He flew twenty feet!”
She pointed, and Hethon, who normally lagged behind Sammial, found himself running as fast as he could without knowing why. That smile dragged him into a run, and he and Sammial burst into the Garden of Sanctuary, looked around, and were happy in a moment.
And that was good.
 
——
 
Lest you think they were forgotten—the Antinium and the Goblins had remembered themselves in case no one else did.
But unlike last time, all the other times—they weren’t following around other people, like Mrsha, watching what they did and copying them. It was a small thing, but it mattered.
The Antinium hated the water.
Goblins, by and large, loved it, and took to swimming with amazing speed, even the ones who’d never swum in their lives. There were exceptions like Gothica, dressed all in black, pointedly sitting with a trio of [Goths] copying her every move.
They were growing in number. And the aspiring Chieftain of Darkness—was still amidst her people.
They sat around the first fire that was set up as Erek turned out to have picked up some guitar skills from the Jungeclads and he and Numbtongue began to show off. But after they were done competing, Orangutan and Hobgoblin began playing around a fire, riffing together. Garia Strongheart, to her dismay, found that Salkis and Octavia were both sitting there after she came back from a long swim.
So it wasn’t perfect, but the Antinium were swaying to the music, and then someone brought out the Rxlvn, and Seve made the mistake of thinking that the flesh of A’ctelios Salash made him proof against everything.
Somewhat to the dismay of Kevin, among the various beach-activities, the Antinium seemed to enjoy the conga-line more than anything else. Again—no swimming, but they made magnificent sand-castles. The bravest amongst them did cling to a float and do a circuit around the garden, whereupon it became a test of courage where, if you were unlucky, you drowned for a few seconds until someone fished you out. But the Antinium were definitely having fun.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice watched it all with her hands behind her back. She even noted Hethon and Nanette entering the inn, and she counted.
“One. Two. Three. Four…what’s going on here?”
Jelaqua and Maughin. Moore and Ulinde. Possibly Hethon and Nanette, though Erin was sure that she was just making up the sense in her head. Relc and Valeterisa?
She rubbed at her eyes and got sand in them. It did get everywhere!
Erin wasn’t blind. She just pretended to be, and she tried not to interfere in the one thing she wasn’t good at.
“I guess Imani and Palt makes five. And are there more? Kevin and Ceria was weird. But good for them.”
She stood, staring down into her beach-garden. Not at the slide where Sammial was climbing, ready to shoot down into the water. Not at Kevin, trying to boogie-board since a surfboard was too much work.
It was good. Why, even Tesy had come out of his rooms, and he was drawing pictures of people, though Vetn was nowhere to be seen.
Erin was probably wrong about her romance-sense. It wasn’t that strong, and—she glanced at Lism and Krshia, arguing in one corner.
“…Nah. I bet it’s more like a ‘do I sort of get along with this person at this moment’ sense. Because otherwise—nah. Definitely wrong.”
Same with Elirr and Hexel. Erin was running out of fingers as she frowned at them. But she didn’t think it was bad, oddities aside.
Soon, it would be night, and Erin did intend to cater to the couples. Because that was what she thought she had missed.
There was a lot that Erin Solstice could do for you. Talk to you. Hug you. Sing a song. Prepare a bed. Feed you. But somewhere in…she rested a hand on her chin and stared down into the beach.
