A week passed in the winter like a flurry of snow.
Ser Normen and the Order of the Solstice, the downfall of Elia Arcsinger, Halrac the Grim. These things took Izril by storm—then the continent was busy talking about a duel between two caravans from the House of El and the City of Zeres that ended in blood.
The echoes persisted, especially around the Liscor-Invrisil-Pallass-Celum region where each city now often echoed each other when news occurred.
Someone else who persisted was Seve-Alrelious, who didn’t run off to his next job right away, but enjoyed over a week in The Wandering Inn.
It must be said, he wanted for very little. His friends, the myriad species, were given free rein of the inn, and it was therefore a joy for them to fly around and allow people to pet or feed them, and Erek, the Orangutan, happily enjoyed all the inn’s amenities.
Indeed, the worst incident was Reagen, the young cat, trying to assert dominance on Kithru, the magical tomcat, who sent him packing fast, especially because Kithru felt no pain from the other cat’s claws.
Seve made it up to the outraged Numbtongue by talking about the amazing guitarist in the Jungleclad tribe, recounting his own encounters with famous [Bards] like Barelle, and later, hinting about the Goblins he’d met at sea.
But he was still the backdrop to the fact that Elia Arcsinger had apparently been checked into Tenbault and the Healer of Tenbault herself was taking over her difficult recovery. Her team, Arcsinger’s Bows, hadn’t disbanded…but three members had quit, one was dead, the other two were in shock, and their reputation was in tatters.
The Order of the Solstice, for their part, were new celebrities but awkward with it. Normen, the burnt [Knight], was a Grandmaster of his Order. They had no base and no armory, but they had a thousand applicants and several [Knights], new and old.
A week to mourn Zanze’s passing. A week for Laken to rebuff any visitors onto his land and post real guards around Erin’s door—and to warn any trespassers onto his lands there would be consequences.
A week closer to the Winter Solstice. But only a few people were thinking about that in dire terms. And because she was with her friends and ready-ish—Ryoka Griffin only had four panic attacks. That was just one every two days.
Whew. Life was good.
 
——
 
What wasn’t good was the damn weather. The winter was at its zenith now, and everyone was shut indoors. The blizzard that had made Normen’s first adventure so difficult? The weather wasn’t as bad as that day…but roughly as much snow fell over the week as it had during the blizzard.
It was more than Liscor got normally, and the citizens in the city grew used to Antinium crews shoveling the snow out. Even the most anti-Antinium sentiment went a bit silent when you saw them removing literal tons of snow from the streets you weren’t going to damn well shovel.
However, why was there so much snow? Well…it was, as ever, Ryoka Griffin’s fault. Or rather, a number of pesty blue faeries who kept returning from far and wide to the one inn in the world without iron nails that had food for free.
So it was Erin’s fault.
 
“Hey, I just got back from dropping snow on Baleros! ‘Twas a lot of it. I hit five herds of Centaurs.”
“Didn’t it melt?”
 
A pair of Frost Faeries met, blowing in from different directions at incredible speed. The first shrugged.
 
“Pshaw, so? It was snow! Where’d you go?”
“South! To yon Minotaurs. Not a proper maze in sight, but I got their entire island.”
“You idiots!”
 
The two faeries did a double-take as a furious, green faerie shot towards them. Both groaned.
 
“Oh, here’s high-and-mighty Shaestrel. You done teaching your precious Human how to pick her nose?”
“Wipe her ass?”
“Seduce a Unicorn?”
“Hah, that’s not hard. She doesn’t even need to be breathing for that.”
 
The two faeries high-fived and laughed bawdily as they insulted Unicorns as a species. Shaestrel just pointed back the way they’d come.
 
“What is that?”
 
One looked over her shoulder with a sigh. A vortex of frozen crystals, wind, and, yes, snow was coming from the west, a literal stormfront moving at dozens of miles per hour. Below, the [Guards] on the wall were groaning, and some were shaking their fists up at the air. But the Frost Faerie just picked at one nose without concern.
 
“What? That? Oh, that’s just some snow and wind. Don’t worry about it.”
“Stop bringing it here! It’s been snowing like an Ice Giant taking a dump the last week!”
“Pshaw. It’s not that b—hm. Was that farm buried last time we were here?”
 
The Winter Fae considered the scene below them and looked a tiny bit guilty. They were arguing over whose fault it was when a third Frost Faerie came screeching southwards.
 
“Hey! I finished in the north! There was too much snow in that icy region, so I felt bad and brought it here.”
 
Shaestrel slapped a hand to her face.
 
——
 
Snow. It made going out not just unfun, even if you liked the cold and could stand it for a romp for a few days, but intolerable.
It wasn’t even the snow, honestly. It was the damn cold and wind that froze you to the bone. Mrsha herself ran out into the snow one time to play with Ekirra and Visma, and the miserable trio came knocking on The Wandering Inn’s door eleven minutes later, begging for a warm drink.
The wonders of winter snow were over. The waiting for the thaw had begun already.
In truth, it did give the Order of Solstice some time to process what had happened. Jewel was tired of telling her teammates, Toimt and Hilten, why she’d chosen to vaporize a fellow Gold-rank adventurer.
They got that he’d murdered Zanze, but both said quite plainly they feared they might never get work as adventurers again in some circles. And if she was a [Knight], would they be doing charity? They weren’t [Knights].
“You don’t have to be. I’m working for Erin, and it’ll be lucrative. We’ve leveled, guys.”
“Yeah, but we haven’t been paid. Levels are half of what we want.”
Hilten pointed out, and Jewel exhaled.
“Listen. This is a huge opportunity.”
“For you. Nevermind. If you get armor, try to squeeze in some Demas Metal for us, huh?”
Both stood up and huffed off to Invrisil, and Jewel exhaled. She still remembered the moment when she’d thrown the acid jar.
She didn’t—no, she regretted having to kill that idiot, but she both wished she hadn’t had to and wished she’d done it sooner. If so, Zanze might be alive.
It was wrong to call it a ‘Wandering Inn classic’ because that trivialized the moment. It was fairer to say that this feeling of uncertainty, of loss and triumph and change, was what Erin’s inn was becoming known for.
So perhaps it was more that Erin’s regulars kept waiting for something they were certain she was working on. Something…expected, because the [Innkeeper] had been talking to Vess, Jewel, Durene, Ama, and the others to see how they were doing.
But she hadn’t addressed the matter fully, or thrown a party or a sad not-party. Everyone was an adult. Perhaps they didn’t need parties to reflect on death and duty.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was suspiciously absent from a lot of the inn during the intervening week. And every time she rolled through the main room, people would stare at her with narrowed eyes.
“Hey, guys, hey, Menolit. How’s the business? Closed because of the snow?”
“Erin. We actually still offer winter survival.”
“Really? Any takers?”
Menolit shrugged.
“Sure, for the trophies. Even a crazy [Lady] and Magus Grimalkin have expressed an interest.”
“Wild.”
“Mhm. Should I clear my schedule tonight?”
Erin paused as she rolled across the inn. She turned, and Menolit raised a fork with a bit of crispy potato on the end and gave her a long look.
“Why would you do that?”
“Oh, just asking. So not tonight?”
“I—wouldn’t know anything about that.”
“So tonight? See here, Erin, I’ve got to deliver some Sage’s Grass to Wales, and I’ve been putting it off because I can’t tell when I should be here.”
Wailant interrupted noisily, and the [Farmer] turned from his table where he was having the same beer he’d been having all day while reading a book. Erin scowled about.
“What are you all expecting? I don’t have—if I was—”
She tried to look innocent, and half the patrons in her inn just stared at her. Menolit folded his arms.
“Tonight?”
Erin slowly rolled backwards towards a door in the wall. She tried to laugh.
“You’re all crazy. Nuts. Tonight. Psh. Why would tonight be so cool you have to—it’s probably midmorning. If anything was going on. And it’s a long thing, but you have no clue.”
She gave them all an irritated look as she rolled through into her garden, then began screaming.
“Aaah! Hills! Out of the way, Apistaaaaa—”
Her wheelchair shot out of view, and no one laughed. Someone, Drassi, took a long sip from her parfait she’d brought from Barehoof Kitchens.
“She pulled that gag already. Do you think she’s running out of ‘random distractions’ or is she giving up?”
Erin Solstice reappeared, scowling, out of the kitchen and gave Drassi the stink-eye. Then she rolled away.
“Calescent! You got a moment to work on something? Since these jerks apparently want to put me on a time-table…”
 
——
 
Unbelievable. Erin Solstice asked the Goblin to show her all the fruits and fresh stuff they had in storage, and then she eyed the bowls she had.
“Too bad we don’t have a mixer. You’ll have to do it by hand.”
“Nah. Palt showed me new trick for his parfaits.”
“But not the recipes? They’re killing us in Liscor! Imani, that traitor! Well, we’ll get them today.”
Erin punched a hand into her palm, and Calescent shrugged. He pointed to a glass jar.
“Palt has a cooking spell. [Razor Whirlwind]! Only teensy. Dices up things very nice. I want that spell. Could be good for cooking and battle.”
The use of Tier 4 magic for cooking tickled Erin immensely, and she smiled.
“Well, I think we’re ready. It’s great we have preservation, and Oteslia’s got so much fruit, by the way. Can I get a peach-mango slushie? It’s hot.”
She waved at herself, and Calescent, who, despite the kitchen, had a layer of padding on, gave Erin a long look. He obligingly went to a window and hauled a bucket in, and the gust of freezing air made Erin shiver. Calescent mixed some snow into a cup as he began to dice mangos.
“So lots of work later?”
“Sure! But if you prep, I think you can take time off. Say, why do all those jerks in there—yeah, I know you’re listening, that’s what I said—know something’s up? I thought I was being stealthy.”
Erin looked put-out as she shook a fist out her kitchen and got a series of catcalls. Calescent just stared at Erin for a long moment.
Put aside the fact that people knew Erin. Or that she was conspicuously absent at times. Normally, she was always around when healing or her presence was needed. And ignore that Erin was cheery despite the freeze-your-genitalia weather out there.
She was wearing a t-shirt and shorts. Indoors, and for all there were two fireplaces going full-roar, the inn was cold. Erin kept asking for smoothies, and she’d had Calescent buy up as much fresh fruit as he could and taught him how to make the icy drinks. She’d asked for roasted corn—which, fair, was warming—but also a lot of seafood dishes.
Oh, and one last thing. Calescent slowly held up a knife and angled it. Erin stared at her reflection in the mirror finish of the cutting blade.
“Oh.”
“Yeah. You need more mirrors in your life.”
Erin Solstice checked her skin and blushed as she realized the obvious bit.
“I didn’t realize it was so noticeable! It was the last day or two.”
She was getting tanned.
 
——
 
Octavia Cotton had no idea what Erin was up to, but she thought it was silly.
She was mixing a bunch of experimental oils together and grumbling when Rhaldon walked in with a delivery.
“This is so stupid. Rhaldon, did you get my stuff? You’re a lifesaver!”
“Right on cue. Lots of Eir Kelp. Everyone wants it. But this bunch is ‘contaminated’.”
“What does that mean? I guess Master Saliss will look at it. Put it there and I’ll get it to him, will you? Hey, do you want more lessons in alchemy? I have a spare day.”
The Stitch-girl gave him a huge smile, and the [Wagon Driver] noticed he was tracking snow in. He was embarrassed, but Octavia waved it away.
“Leave it, leave it. My best delivery-driver can track all the snow in. Numbtongue and Reagen do it anyways…”
“What are you making?”
Octavia was pouring a bunch of liquids together, not heating them up much, but making a series of test-vials. Then she was smearing them on her arm with a grimace and sniffing at the result.
“I have no idea. Stupid Human stuff. Sorry, but it is. I get Erin needs a new batch today, but really? I’m making ‘sun screen’.”
Rhaldon began grinning, and Octavia waved her arm at him.
“Listen, I don’t often think fleshy people are worse—but you get it, right?”
She gestured at his dark skin and then at her arm, which was fair-skinned and currently smeared with eight different samples of various gels, one of which was pink and goopy, another a greasy smear, a third red…
“She wants a bucketload and cheap, and I just wish she could replace her skin if it gets ‘burnt’. I had to buy an entirely new arm, but thankfully there was one in the bargain bin.”
The Stitch-girl really didn’t respect sunburns, especially as a species that was used to dry Chandrar and could change her skin to whatever she wanted. Rhaldon, though, knew exactly how much it could hurt and bent over her pots.
“What’s the recipe, if you don’t mind me asking?”
“I don’t know. For once, Master Saliss was no help. He just laughed at me and told me that Drakes get peeling scales and sunburn—but he doesn’t do cosmetics as much. And Xif is furry, so he doesn’t really care either. I thought about buying a recipe from the Alchemist’s Guild in Pallass, but I might have to reach out to Invrisil if I can’t whip something up. I hate wasting money, though. Anyways, I was going to hold this under a [Harsh Light] spell and see how much it hurts after ten minutes.”
Rhaldon could actually do Octavia better, and as he carefully put down the first crate, he coughed.
“Olive oil, rice bran, and, uh, jasmine.”
“Say what now?”
Octavia’s head came up, and the chemist shrugged.
“I heard that’s what older civilizations used. That’s cheap enough, right?”
“Olive oil, rice bran…jasmine?”
Octavia’s eyes lit up. She looked around, then set up another pot.
