The little door that she had opened in the ceiling was invisible to almost everyone. She could make it any size, and while the ‘main’ door had to stay open—Erin had the Key of Reprieve.
She had two doors. Thus far, she thought Saliss, Chaldion, Klbkch, and a few others had picked up on her watching. Lehra, the new Named-rank adventurer, was oblivious, but her Gazer companion had an eye on Erin.
“…Enough spying.”
Erin pushed herself back from the garden. She stretched and glanced down one last time at her real quarry. And she thought—well.
It was a week’s work and potential sunburn to create a beach. Not bad, and she thought she’d keep the garden like this. But it was really for a moment.
It had taken some doing to get him out of his armor. But even Normen had agreed to get it off. He looked—burnt, and he was still mostly bald, though his hair was growing. Her wounded knight. He couldn’t even sunbathe; he was wearing a big hood and soft clothing to keep his skin from the light.
But Erin had seen enough, and Normen was awkwardly making a sandcastle in a competition with someone else.
She guessed she had never noticed how he’d helped out another newbie to the inn get situated when even Erin had been rather mean. Jewel was trying to out-build Mrsha and Visma’s tower as Normen made up a mud foundation. Maybe it was nothing, but Erin smiled.
“Good.”
She closed the window and turned.
“Calescent! The hour of those poor lobsters has come. The age of pilaf has begun! Dinner time!”
He held out a huge thumb as Erin got back to work with a will. She took off her hat and exhaled as she waved it in the air.
“Damn. Happy? I was going for wonder! Wonder! Oh well.”
Her eyes flashed as she stepped out of the inn and into another garden. Erin Solstice put her hands on her hips and nodded.
“The Winter Solstice is almost here. I’ll hit them with the other stuff later. Today—fun. As for you—”
She saluted the dauntless defenders of her main garden. Few people had been in her garden for a while, and there was a reason for that. Even Mrsha had begun complaining, but Erin had played it off by pretending to build a beach.
Which she had. But everyone knew that you distracted people from the real trick. Maybe she’d even gotten Chaldion.
“Eh. Probably not. Well, we’re ready. I admit—I took you for granted. Harsh words were said. I regret it. I take it back. This time, I’m counting on all of you. We’ve worked hard.”
Erin paced back and forth. Then she spun dramatically.
“You are the first line. You will not be the last! But if things go well—it’ll be because you were here. I don’t want any loafing around. I need you to get down and rye. Pull yourself together. No dough, just true wheat.”
She stopped and sighed.
“This is so stupid.”
Erin turned away from the fort in miniature sitting in one corner of the garden. It had worked. She told herself it had worked. But still—she looked over her shoulder.
The fortress of Shadowbread loaves still looked sort of silly, even to her. There were so many of them she’d stacked them in rows.
Forty loaves. It wasn’t enough to make more than a primitive fort, a box of four walls where you could sit in the middle, but they had thick walls of raised dough. Buttresses of batter. Ramparts of rye—no, wait, she’d made that pun again and even she couldn’t take it seriously. The loaves hadn’t decayed despite being over a week on in some cases. Apista may have been nibbling on them, but nothing else.
Erin sighed.
“Well, that’s done. I wonder where Lyonette went?”
She walked off as the first line of The Wandering Inn’s defenders, the ever-loyal loaves, cast the entire garden in gloom. Shadows. Darkness. And a single Frost Faerie slamming into the walls above.
 
“Fucking shite! Who keeps putting all this damn stuff around? I can’t see a thing!”
