“If that’s true, I’ll double your tip! Thanks! You sure do know a lot about my work. I guess that’s why you can deliver stuff. You sure you don’t want to try your hand at alchemy for real?”
Rhaldon was double-checking all the boxes were there and counting up how much he’d get paid for this job. He hesitated.
“Not yet. Not…yet. But soon. If you can give me a few more lessons or let me watch you make stuff, I think I’d be willing to give it a try. I’ve got to go to the Driver’s Guild, though.”
“Thank you. Wait! The tip!”
Octavia rushed around, and then, as she counted coins into his palm and he was walking off, it only occurred to Rhaldon to poke his head back into Stitchworks and ask.
“…Why do you need sunscreen?”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice was a homebody. She had travelled, but adventure seemed to always find her when she left her inn, and she wanted to go places—but sometimes you had to make good things come to you.
The magic door was an example of that. Yet, even the door could not take her to warm places so easily.
Sometimes, you had to think outside the box. Or outside the garden. Or inside another garden.
She lay half-upright in a long, slanted chair with some fabric stretched to form a canvas shell for her.
It was a beach chair, the kind that had stilted feet so they wouldn’t rock in the sand, and it had come from the Unseen Empire. Durene was spending more time in her inn, and Laken had grudgingly turned over his best [Carpenter] to her on a rush job.
It was a nice feeling, lying back with a warm breeze on your face. The ‘sun’ was very warm. Bright. But perhaps…
A beach could be too hot, you know. Then the sand was uncomfortable, but there was something to the heat that forced you into shade or made you dance your way into the cooler sand at the water’s edge. Erin hmmed loudly.
“More sun.”
Her skin felt warmer in seconds. Erin shaded her face and looked up.
“Gah, that’s bright! Less light, a touch more heat. Ooh, yeah.”
That felt like a bake. Erin lay back down and nodded to herself.
“Yup. Yup. Okay, we’re almost good on lighting. Now—I think we need a dune right here. Then it slopes downwards so you run into the water there. And I’m saying salt-water. Okay? If that’s possible. Not chilly. Warm. But not too warm! The kind of tepid-warm you get from cool water being warmed by the sun. And chilly at the bottom the further in you go, along the edges of the dome. I need seaweed or something. Maybe I should throw some in? Oh, and the sand’s great, but I need seashells. Maybe I can hire someone to get me some rocks to mix in.”
She spoke out loud, eyes closed as she lay in the sun, and yet, the world was changing around her. Erin cracked one eye open and nodded.
“Yeah, that’s good stuff. Whoa!”
The ground rose above her, and she nearly went tumbling down the hill. Erin caught herself, looked down, and shouted.
“Stop, stop! Too much dune! Give me half that!”
The ground moved down obligingly, and Erin wiped at her forehead.
“Jeeze. This place is too reactive. I’d better disable anyone else changing stuff, and I’d better not say firestorm ag—aaaah!”
She left the beach chair and charged into the water below so fast that even the old Erin would have been impressed. But panic did that to you. Erin poked her head out of the water and screamed.
“No fire! Never fire!”
Above her, the whirling mass of flames went out. Erin stared up at the ceiling. She paddled to shore and lay there a second, panting.
“Waves.”
One crashed over her, and Erin Solstice swore in the second before it tossed her down her ‘beach’.
 
——
 
This Garden of Sanctuary was not always a beach. In fact, it had taken ages of work to figure out how to get multiple features even remotely resembling something like this.
When Erin had first rolled into the room, she’d thought there was a mistake. She’d asked for a ‘sunny, warm room’, and expected either the arid, aerial Garuda’s garden or somewhere else.
Not a blank, white room with nothing in it. Erin had found what looked like several ancient wands, magic long-spent, a quill and paper, and other supplies, but the room had been disappointingly barren. But she had recognized the symbol of Wistram and guessed that this had been the room of a [Mage].
It had only needed a bit of experimentation for Erin to find that the owner of this room had taken full advantage of the Garden of Sanctuary’s power: the ability to conjure things like rain, light, and so on.
In this case, all the terrain, buildings, and everything else seemed to have been converted into one feature.
Elemental creation.
Flame. Water. Earth!
…It wasn’t as cool as it sounded. Erin could demand a blazing fire and it would appear, but the room had limits. She could ask for a gale and get one, but it felt like a magical version of the Strongest of Pomle’s training room.
She wondered if this was really a ‘sanctuary’ for whichever [Mage], probably an [Elementalist], had owned this place. Maybe there was something she was missing?
Anyways, Erin had had the brilliant idea to convert it to a beach at once.
Implementing it had taken a week. For one thing, the ‘earth’ that this garden summoned was terrible stuff and vanished. The sunlight was blinding, and Erin had to tune everything very carefully until she had a picture of a beach in her mind.
The sand she had literally imported into the room by making some of her inn’s staff shovel it in from other gardens and sieving it out. She felt a bit bad about that, but the sand didn’t have to be deep.
The end result? She finally had her beach done, and Erin wiped her forehead.
“I’m so smart.”
She puffed out her chest as she regarded her handiwork. Erin had never felt happier about a Garden of Sanctuary project yet. She admired everything for five whole minutes until she got bored. After all, this hard work wasn’t for her.
Sand clung to her pants as Erin tromped over to a door waiting for her. She walked through it and into the common room of her inn. She had tanned skin, and she looked a bit sweaty, but the chairs were set up, the water had two bags of salt poured into it, and Calescent had more smoothies than he could count. Erin walked through the door and beamed as she put her hands together.
“Ladies. Gentlemen. Knights. I bet you’ve been wondering why I called you here.”
A crowded common room was waiting for her, half of them cold or wet. A scowling [Emperor] was shivering by a fire as Durene looked up with a huge smile on her face. Normen, Jewel, Vess, Ama, sitting together, glanced up from a hand of cards.
Halrac eyed Erin’s tanned skin and blinked. He hadn’t seen her for a bit—he’d been the talk of Riverfarm and Invrisil and everywhere he’d gone.
“Ooh. Nice skin tone, Erin. Humans never experiment, usually.”
Revi called out. Mrsha rubbed her paws together, and Nanette, playing with one of her Stones of the Elements, looked up excitedly.
“Oh, Erin, don’t keep us in suspense.”
Lyonette was sheerly exasperated as she hadn’t been allowed to see the project. Only the Goblins and Antinium staff had been allowed in, and they were surprisingly tight-lipped. Although, Rosencrantz and Peggy both had straw hats on.
“I’ve called you all here because I think we’re all tired of the snow. And because so much has happened—we need a break. Like last time. Only, this time it’s not just for me. So, I’ve put together something for you all, and I hope you enjoy. It’ll just be the regulars for now. I’m not sure about the others. But I will take guesses on what you think it is!”
Relc was rubbing his hands together as he and Klbkch sat together.
“Klb, buddy, it’s like the old days.”
“No, that would be Skinner. This is the new days.”
“Good point, good point.”
“Any takers?”
Visma waved her claw excitedly.
“Is it a Sand Golem army?”
“Nope.”
“Is it…something hot?”
Ekirra was next as Menolit made impatient sounds. Wailant stomped in, shaking snow off and shouting.
“I’m not late, am I? What’s going on? I’ll have four!”
Viceria and Garia followed him in, looking embarrassed, and Erin beamed wider.
“Nope. You’re just in time, Wailant. Any guesses? Come on—”
“It’s a beach. She’s made a beachfront, and it’s doubtless pleasant. Hence the drinks. Someone call for Rufelt and have him set up a bar. I’ll do my work there, and damn the heating stones in my office.”
A sour voice called out, and Erin’s face fell.
“Chaldion!”
Everyone’s head turned as Erin scowled. Chaldion of Pallass was wrapped up in a massive fur coat, looking sardonic. Kevin sat up with a huge grin, while Mrsha, Lyonette, and several others gave Erin a puzzled look.
“You asked me to guess. It wasn’t very hard.”
“You’re not supposed to get it right. I was gonna—the door appears and—”
Erin gestured, and the door swung open in front of everyone. Light, glorious and bright, shone through, and Selys gasped as the winter gloom of outside turned into pleasant heat on her scales. There was sand inside! And waves, rolling from the edges of the domed room, and chairs and—
“Now, it’ll be open all day, and I don’t want random people. No littering, and I can change the waves, but there’s just the beach and water. I would have done palm trees if I could b—”
“Beach!”
Erin’s lecture about beach-etiquette was lost. Nanette, Mrsha, Visma, and Ekirra charged through the door so fast that Visma plowed face-first into the sand, and Mrsha went tumbling down the decent hill. Ekirra leapt into the water with a splash and shouted.
“It’s so nice! This is the greatest day ever!”
“Wait! There’s—”
Relc leapt through the doorway, pumping his fists in the air.
“Alright! Beach! …What do you do here?”
Joseph was a step behind him and grabbed two non-alcoholic smoothies. He pointed to a chair, handed Relc and Klbkch a smoothie complete with a wood straw, and walked into the hot sands. There…he stood a second, sighing, and then ripped off his coat, shirt, and sat down in a chair.
“Fuck. It’s so warm and nice.”
He lay there, then lazily lifted a straw to his mouth and sipped the sweet orange smoothie. Relc stared at him and then took off his coat. He stood there, arms stretched in the sun.
“Ancestors. Eight hours of patrolling in the snow. This is my reward.”
He fell face-first into the sands and lay there like a corpse. Klbkch removed his coat as well and peered around.
“Fascinating. This must be another kind of garden. The sunlight is very pleasant on my shell. Relaxation seems to be what you do here?”
He took off his winter clothes as people flooded into the room after him. But Joseph and Relc began screaming at him as soon as Klbkch took off his leggings and loincloth.
“Put it back on! Put it back on!”
“You have your chests bare.”
“Totally different!”
The Antinium sighed loudly, but the heat in the beach-garden was such that even if you were chilled from outside, the coats went flying off.
However, not everyone was at home with even partial nudity, which was why an exasperated Erin went stomping in after everyone.
“Excuse me, guys. This is what the changing room is for. I planned it out! I even have beachwear! Well, sorta.”
It was mostly just trunks or handy notes and crude drawings of what ‘appropriate’ beachwear consisted of. The guests clustered around, seeking clarification, and Erin realized, to her surprise, that most of them didn’t actually know what the beach was.
“It’s so sandy, Erin. So these things are all over the coast? Uncle Zel and Tekshia told me Chandrar’s mostly sand, but these are fun because…”
“The waves. You go surfing, snorkeling—you’ve never been to a beach, Selys?”
The [Heiress] propped her hands on her hips, blushing as Erin laughed.
“Some of us haven’t gone to a coast, no. Thanks for shaming me. In fact, I’d wager most of us don’t know what a beach is like.”
“Oh, come on. Relc, you’ve been beach-going, right?”
The Drake looked around blankly.
“I’ve fought on this stuff. I hate fighting on sand. And sure, we jumped in the ocean to wash off all the blood, but—”
“Okay. Halrac.”
“I have no idea what’s going on, but can I bring some people from Riverfarm? Pebblesnatch, Master Helm—Briganda and Cade, though he’ll probably have to stay away from the water.”
Erin’s face fell as Halrac lifted a hand. She turned.
“Revi?”
The Stitch-girl was peering around the beach-garden, smiling.
“It’s as warm as home! And you’re getting nothing from me, Erin. I’m made of cloth. I have stitches. Stitches. Cloth. How much swimming do you think I enjoy doing for fun? Hey, Octavia, is that oil for my stitches?”
“Nope! Sunscreen! Only one silver a pot! I’m kidding, Erin. But if you had told me we were swimming—let’s get some spare thread and oil it up, Revi.”
Erin gobbled as she looked around for anyone who knew the great art of beaches. But no one did! Not Mrsha, who raced around in the sand then complained it was in her fur. Not the Drakes. They got the idea, but there were in fact only a few people who understood what this was.
Kevin, and Joseph raced around the beach in delight. Kevin especially, but he rounded on Erin.
“Dude. Erin.”
“Dude yourself, Kevin. You’ve gotta be on my side. California has tons of beaches, and you were a surfer-bike-skateboard dude, right?”
She wondered why he was so upset. Kevin scrubbed at his hair with grease-stained fingers. Kevin had a wild-eyed gaze of delight and exasperation on his face. But he grabbed her shoulder.
“Erin. You didn’t tell me. Of course, I know beaches. But if I had known—I’d have made a surfboard!”
He shook her as she gave him a blank stare.
“There’s not that much room in the garden. Plus, I hate surfing. Boogie-boards are cooler.”
He stepped back and gave Erin such a disbelieving look that she floundered.
“Well, I can’t surf.”
“You and I are now feuding. Laken, back me up!”
“I hate sand. I can’t tell where I am on beaches. But this is nice. Durene, get me a flag. I’ll claim this beach for the Unseen Empire.”
The [Emperor] headed into the garden as Erin shook her fist at him, but Durene grabbed her hand in delight.
“Erin, this is amazing! Don’t mind Laken, he’s just grumpy because he doesn’t have a magic garden.”
She headed in, and people got the allure, but again—they had to be shown what to do.
The three most experienced beachers were all people who knew the sea and therefore, what to do. In fact, each one was an iconic member of beach culture.
Wailant charged forth, practically telling Viceria to ‘take it all off’, and tossed Ekirra and Mrsha into the waves.
