“You lot don’t know beaches? Well, let’s build a fort out of this sand! You stand in it and pelt any bastards with mudballs—and bury fake treasure chests! [Storm Sailors] know how to have fun! Get the drinks out!”
“Treasure, you say?”
Mrsha and the children appeared, and Wailant laughed. He waggled a finger.
“Fake ones with traps inside, obviously. Then you hide and wait for a bugger to dig them up. Hey, [Pirate]. You seeing this?”
“Already here.”
Seborn surfaced from the water, looking happier than he had in a long time. He spat out some water thoughtfully.
“Not salty enough, but it’s not real brine. Still feels good. Hey, anyone pisses in this, and I’ll stab them. I’d better tell the rest of my team.”
Wailant puffed out his chest as he beamed around the beach, and now people were getting into the spirit of things. Relc charged into the water and stood there blankly.
“I don’t get what this is about. The water bit, I mean. Cool off? Or wh—”
A wave hit him. Erin had asked the room to ‘vary’ the waves, and it apparently could randomize them. Unfortunately, because this room had probably been meant for training, it meant one in every thousand waves was intense, and sometimes the waves were six feet high.
Or ten. Relc looked up, shouted, and the wave tossed him onto shore. He came back, roaring.
“You bastard! You want to try that again? Aha!”
He braced himself, and a second wave crashed around him. Then Relc posed, muscles bulging, and flexed.
“That’s right! Bring it on! Hey, Erin! Can I get some big waves?”
He slammed into the next one, and Ekirra promptly tried to do the same and got flipped head-over-heels. But the game of smashing into waves was a time-honored tradition.
The last and most normal of all beach-goers was already staking out a spot with a beach chair. He cast a critical eye around. Then Saliss of Lights, nude as could be, stretched out.
“We need more attractive people on this beach. Nude. Feel free to join me. Not you, old man. No one wants to see anything. I’ll bury you in the sand, though, if you want.”
Chaldion walked past him and eyed the dune Erin had built critically. He snapped his fingers as four Drakes hurried in after him.
“Level this spot closer to the ground. There’s not enough sand. Someone get me a ton of sand, quality stuff, and water. Salt, too. I need a shade spell here. Desk—here. Bring in all the non-critical work and tell Rufelt he’s hired to serve drinks for the day. Oh, and find me five [Masseuses].”
He sat down, and Saliss threw sand at him until Chaldion ordered him tossed into the sea. Erin wanted to object, but more sand came pouring in, and she was more concerned with her [Knights], anyways.
“Hey, Normen, hopefully this doesn’t bother your skin. But I thought…y’know, beaches? I hope you like it.”
She gestured to him as he stood there, wearing his Demas Metal armor, shading his eyes under the sunlight and looking around. The man turned to Erin, and when his one eye focused on her—it was alight, and he was smiling.
“So this is a beach. I always wanted to know what the Brothers from far off meant when they said it was sand. I want to see it with my own eyes, Miss Erin. This and more.”
He inhaled, and Erin’s nervous look became a tremulous smile.
“It’s not perfect. There should be seagulls and more salt in the air, and all we’ve got is Apista—but I even got some shrimp all the way from Zeres! Eat all you want! Seve?”
“This is incredible.”
The Courier walked out, looking stunned by Erin’s garden, and Erek sipped from a cup with great delight. Erin’s smile grew wider, and she exhaled.
It was a beach. She turned to the others.
“We’ll visit a real one someday, too. But this is good enough for now, huh? Alright, let’s get changed and—the last one in the water is a rotten egg!”
Saliss stopped trying to drown Chaldion’s bodyguards.
“Last one in is a burnt potato! Oh, wait, that’s Normen. Wait, don’t throw me out, Erin! The Brothers love that sort of humor! Don’t throw me—”
 
——
 
The fun was not in seeing who enjoyed the beach, because that was everyone. It was in seeing how people either knew the allure of the beach or had to find it first.
Some entered the beach for the first time and knew what to do. Ulvama was already lying down near the ‘calm’ section of the beach, which had a good view of the rest. A Garden of Sanctuary, when converted just to a beach, was surprisingly large, so there was room for over a hundred people before it even began to feel crowded.
People came in and out, but the net influx was positive. It worked like this: people would have to tear themselves away and enter the cold world outside. They would tromp back to work, and people would ask why they were covered in sand, and the lucky few would describe the beach and graciously be begged into taking more back.
It was why you stayed in Erin Solstice’s good books and why you nodded at Goblins and Antinium.
Shake your head too many times, and yes, you might have the moral or whatever high ground. But even Chaldion of Pallass didn’t blink twice at Ulvama eating on a picnic blanket in the sun close by. His staff did, but the Drake knew the score.
You wanted the beach? Play nice.
And it was such a lure in this cold winter that even Ekirra realized his family had to come by and begged Erin to let them run into the water. Erin’s inn was doing fine business providing food and drinks—anyone not on her best list had to pay—and Erin had slyly blocked Imani and Palt.
“Well, well, well. What have we here? Y’know, if you guys wanted to sell whatever you have for a day or two at my inn, I could see about letting you in here all the time.”
Imani gave Erin an outraged look, and Palt blinked.
“Erin, are you extorting us? That’s so…Larracel of you.”
Erin scowled, but not even the threat of Larra could make her waver. She gave Palt a sinister smile.
“Well, I suppose it is, Palt. And I guess we can’t do business. Which is too bad. Because, y’know, I had planned on leaving the beach open all night too.”
“So?”
He was unimpressed, but Imani hesitated and elbowed him. Erin folded her hands behind her head.
“Oh, I guess it’s not fun. Beaches by moonlight? A lūʻau with a bonfire? Dancing? And then it’s quiet and the most beautiful place to be. People have honeymoons there all the time, but if you don’t want to do business—here’s the door.”
She gestured, and Palt danced in place a few steps.
“Let’s not be hasty, Erin. I think we can work together. Did I say Larracel? I meant that the Haven herself can’t do better! Can I offer you some of our parfaits?”
Erin’s self-satisfied smile grew wider and wider, especially because she had the pick of anyone who wanted in.
 
——
 
The people Erin didn’t let in could only hear stories of what was inside—and people were willing to pay to sit in the sun. Erin was accepting a few people, and Yelroan was helping manage that with Liska, who actually had the duty of unlocking the main door in The Wandering Inn for people.
“No access unless you’re on the list. Oh, Hexel and Elirr? Go right through.”
Liska pointed and, with a huge smirk, watched as the door clicked audibly and swung open.
“[Door: Remote Locking]. Sorry, sir. You’re not on the list. I can ask Miss Erin to adjudicate, but her word is law.”
She turned and steepled her paws together smugly. Lism gave her the blankest look in the world as Krshia Silverfang groaned.
“That Skill seems like the most useless talent in the world, young woman. And I am a Councilmember of Liscor!”
He threw a tantrum until Erin came out and spotted him and Krshia.
“Not you. You’re a jerk.”
“Erin—can you make an exception for today?”
Krshia tried to reason with Erin, but Erin scowled at Lism. The purple-scaled Drake was flushed with outrage as he tried to flatter, threaten, and wheedle his way into the room.
“Not for Krshia, and not for anyone. Why would I let you in?”
She shooed him away with exasperation as her Goblins and Antinium came rushing out to buy more supplies. Peggy tugged Erin’s arm.
“Erin, do we bring food to people in the beach? Might need more Antinium. Lots of hungry guests.”
Erin snapped her fingers as Lism calmed down and stared at her sharply.
“Darn. Break out the roasted corn! Grilling time! Hot dogs! Shame we don’t have marshmallows, but Imani won’t make them. I think they’re made of horse hooves or something.”
Krshia gave Erin an appalled look, but Lism slowly backed away, and Erin didn’t notice. The Councilmember of Liscor had changed.
Where once he had just shouted and bullied, he had grown as a person. Now, Lism was capable of shouting, bullying, and bribery. Which was the art of good negotiation.
When he came back, Erin Solstice stomped out to meet him.
“It’s you again, Lism? I’m gonna ban you from even entering my inn! Why would I let you in? And all your…friends?”
She looked over his shoulder, and Lism cleared his throat importantly.
“I have heard Chaldion of Pallass is in your inn with some staff. But I doubt he did much, did he?”
“He gave me a lotta sand. Why? Just because you’ve got aides doesn’t mean I want more of you.”
Erin squinted suspiciously at Lism and then at the Drakes and Gnolls. Funny. She didn’t know he had so many helpers…and they were young, too. In fact, one Gnoll was shirtless already, and Erin frowned at Lism. The Drake gave her a very smug look as he gestured at them.
“These aren’t my helpers, Miss Solstice. Rather, because I suspect Master Rufelt, Lasica, and all your hard working staff could use a break—the best [Hosts] of Wishdrinks, our premier lounge, have agreed to work at your establishment.”
Some of Liscor’s most attractive staff gave Erin a hopeful smile as she blinked at Lism—then her brows crossed.
“Oh no. I see what you’re doing, and we don’t need attractive people working here.”
“Hah?”
Even Liska made a disbelieving sound, and she gave Erin an incredulous look. Erin floundered.
“I mean—”
“Consider your staff, Miss Solstice. They need breaks, and if you intend to keep this bar open…all you have to do is let me in, and I’ll arrange everything.”
Like a viper, Lism whispered poison into Erin’s ear. The [Innkeeper] squeezed her eyes shut.
“Please, Miss Erin? Please? It would be super—nice.”
Liska herself went to beg Erin, and the [Innkeeper] wavered. Then one of the [Hosts] bowed.
“We’d be delighted to serve the Antinium and Goblins, and we also can do activities, Miss Solstice. We can run games—”
“Volleyball.”
Erin whispered. She hung her head, then pointed at Lism.
“Net. I need a long net, two poles, and a soccer ball. I forgot to get them. Everyone reports to Ishkr. No racism, you don’t cause trouble, and no ‘other guests’. I approve them all, and if I think someone sneaks in? I’ve tossed fifteen people out who didn’t belong, and you don’t want to see what happens if I yell ‘firestorm’.”
Lism offered Erin a claw to shake.
“You have my word, Miss Solstice. I won’t be there at all. I’ll be consulting with Krshia about work. Did I hear this was open all night?”
She gave him a long look and sighed. Then she gestured to the door.
 
——
 
The beach only got better and better as people began adding things that Erin herself lacked. She was like that.
An enabler. Only, of a good time, rather than anything else. Or a bad time. The point was, Erin couldn’t do things alone, and it was Kevin who took it upon himself to educate the world on how things should be.
“Erin, can you clear the sand off this part of the beach?”
Bemused, she cleared the edge of the beach away as Kevin eyed the domed room. He nodded, then pointed.
“Okay, and can you join the water that normally flows around the room in a huge circle?”
“But then people would enter into the water—no, wait, I can just move the door so it enters the center of the room. Go on, Kevin.”
Erin made the adjustments as Kevin stood with Hedault, who was busy at work on something as their test dummy, Mrsha, jumped up and down.
Mrsha was wet, happy, but had a problem. She was bad at swimming.
Ekirra and Visma were annoyingly good, as Liscorians. Even if Liscorians didn’t like swimming in the dangerous spring rains with the monsters, they could still swim every year.
Mrsha, as a Stone Spears Gnoll, swam like a rock. She was learning, but Kevin had a solution.
Water rushed around the beach, turning it more into an island, and Erin looked at him.
“Going to do laps?”
“Nah. I just had a cool thought. You said this room can do whatever it wants, right? Then—the laws of physics don’t completely apply. Like sea currents. Can you do the waves over there—and a current over here?”
Kevin made a spinning motion and then pointed.
“Also, we’re going to need a slide down there…”
Erin’s eyes widened, and she threw up her hands.
“Kevin, you’re a genius!”
The water began moving, and Mrsha saw it circling around the dome, now. She was about to hop in when Kevin put something over her head. The [Mechanic] hesitated as Mrsha squirmed and stared at the contraption.
“It looks stupid.”
He had to admit that it wasn’t perfect. Mrsha squirmed in outrage, and Hedault sighed.
“It is…two pillowcases tied together with a rope and enchanted so the air does not escape. With a stabilizer. It will do.”
“Fair enough. Valeterisa’s busy over there with Relc, so—hey, Mrsha, if you have trouble swimming, don’t do anything. Just—float!”
With that, Kevin scooped Mrsha up and hurled her into the water. She went in with a howl, and Lyonette came running over.
“Kevin! What are you—”
Mrsha bobbed up and then spun around in the lazy current. She began paddling, then realized there was no need to.
The mock inflatable tube or bobbers worked! She lay back, turning a bit, as Kevin gave Erin a smug look. Erin gave him a thumbs-up.
“Okay, slip n’ slide? Or a big slide? I can’t do anything fancy, but maybe Moore can make a huge ramp.”
 
——
 
The Halfseekers appeared in full as Erin’s beach-garden was nearly complete. Moore stared around the room and burst into a huge smile.
“I’ve been to beaches like these before. I thought it would be an age before I saw one as nice.”
“Look at this! It’s like some coastal beach!”
Jelaqua crowed, and Ulinde danced around in delight. The Halfseekers knew travel, and they went to find Erin.
Erin was beaming around, making a sand-castle, while Visma, Ekirra, and a bunch of kids buried Saliss up to his feet in the sand…he was in head-first. The lazy river was sending people around it, and even Chaldion had deigned to sit in a more appropriate looking inner tube.
