Edmund trod upon not rough but sturdy stone nor packed earth nor soft soil, but carved and springy wood.  The fresh smell of sap and leafage just barely snuck past the overwhelming acridity in the air to reach his nose.  There seemed to be more smoke than normal, but Edmund had long given up questioning the details of his Madness.  He peered past it at his immediate surroundings.  They weren’t much.

He stood upon a narrow balcony overlooking nought but empty space.  Three feet separated the back wall from the ornately carved handrail, leaving him just enough room to turn around.  It was only when he did that he realized his true location.

Edmund stood upon a landing halfway up the largest tree he’d ever seen.  Its light brown trunk stretched easily thirty yards across and uncountably many high.  Sparse, massive branches jutted away from the towering pillar, tapering off slightly before coming to an abrupt end where they reached the floor’s true walls.

Edmund would have to traverse one such branch if he wanted to investigate them further.  Instead, he turned his attention back to the balcony itself, which hugged the trunk some five feet beyond the edges of the floor’s entrance in each direction before ending at the handrail.   No obvious direction presented itself other than the peculiar amount of access the landing provided to the tree trunk itself.  Edmund only had to follow that line of reasoning to ascertain Liam’s intent.

He looked up.

Sure enough, beyond the numerous landings and potential hiding spots the various branches offered, near its peak the trunk itself tapered away into what appeared—from Edmund’s limited vantage—to be a terminal landing.  He didn’t need to see it to know he’d find the exit up there.

Pulling his attention away from the dizzying heights above, Edmund squinted through the rising smoke to peer down at the chasm below, finding, at last, the reason for the excess fumes that filled the air.

The tree was on fire.

Crackling flames inexorably ascended the trunk below him, rising threateningly towards the very platform on which he stood.  There’d be no going down, only up.

As if in response to his gaze, a great crack echoed through the open space as a low branch broke away from the burning tree and plummeted to the ground below.  It landed with a crash and an explosion of sparks and smoke.  The flames rose faster.

Edmund had to move.  There was no telling how fast the blaze would get, and he had a long climb ahead of him.  Between his swelter ring and other flame-resistant gear, he could survive in a fire for some time, but not forever, and certainly not if the flames ate away his only path to the exit.  Tactical mind kicking into gear, Edmund began by plotting out his course.

The balcony stretched out past both sides of the entrance, leaving him with two potential starting points for his climb.  He examined the left side first.  Rough, uneven bark awaited him, jagged and cracked enough to make for a hundred easy handholds.  Refusing to get ahead of himself, Edmund wrapped his fingers around a piece and tugged.  It came away with little effort, leaving him with a spot of sheer wood and a chunk of tree bark in his hand.

Edmund exhaled.  Of course it wouldn’t be that easy.

He pulled free two more chunks of bark before dismissing it as an option.  Even if secure pieces did exist, he’d never find them fast enough trying every possible handhold.  Instead, he reached for one of the metal spikes along his forearms, grasping the tip of his modular spear in an underhanded grip.  With all his strength, he slammed it into the tree.

It pierced no more than half an inch.

“No climbing spikes then,” Edmund muttered as he returned the spear tip to his arm.  “There’s gotta be something I’m missing.”  He crossed the balcony to check the other piece of exposed wall, again finding no apparent way up.  He tried clearing away a section of bark, but only sheer wood revealed itself.  It wasn’t until he stepped back to reevaluate his options that Edmund turned to the smoke.

He knew there had to be a way up; he knew there was no shortage of smoke in the air, and thus he knew if naught else, his Madness would present an answer.

Present it did.

In a spot on the wall he hadn’t thought to search, beyond the railing and thus beyond the sections of trunk the balcony had pointed him to, the rising smoke seemed to bend, swerving abruptly towards the trunk before rising back away, as if pulled then repulsed by some invisible magnet.  The effect was subtle, hardly visible in the black haze that enshrouded the space above the ongoing inferno, but Edmund had spent more than enough time staring at smoke to recognize its complexities.

Just as the very construction of the balcony had pointed him towards sections of empty wall, the smoke led him elsewhere.  He trusted it three hells of a lot more than anything Liam made.

Edmund had to plant his stomach against the handrail and extend his arm to the fullest to reach the smoke-designated spot, but as he closed his hand around the piece of bark, his suspicions proved true.

It held fast.

Pulling back, Edmund ducked under the handrail, grasping it with his left hand and handing off it to again reach for the piece of bark.  Now suspended above a long fall to a fiery death, he hung more and more of his weight on the prospective handhold, ready to windstep back to safety at the first sign of trouble.

None came.  As he yanked and tugged and hung off the bark with every ounce of force he could muster, still it held.  By the time he finally released the handrail and pulled his feet from the balcony, it came as no surprise that the bark supported his full body weight.  It’d already handled more in his testing.

Edmund spotted the next handhold easily enough, his eyes simply following the path of the smoke until it pointed him in the right direction.  The piece of bark in question sat two entire yards above and to the right of his position.  Liam, apparently, had no intention of making this easy on him.

The presence of his windsteps gave Edmund some comfort as he prepared to launch himself towards the next handhold.  They’d have been of great use in his climb, but without a landing on which to stand, he wouldn’t be able to replenish them along the way.  Since at least a dozen holds stood between him and the nearest branch, he decided it best to keep his windsteps in reserve should anything go wrong.

Edmund wrapped both hands around his current hold and hung back at an angle, his left shoulder pressed against the trunk of the tree.  He took a breath.  He gritted his teeth, and with a mighty tug, flung himself up and past his handhold and towards the next one.

He caught it in his right hand, his feet and left hand scrambling desperately against the loose bark to halt his momentum.  The handhold held fast, but chunks of bark and dust rained down to the fire below as his left hand tore it free.  His feet fared better, digging in and pressing down against the loose bark rather than ripping it away, but in truth it was only his right hand curled around the secure piece that kept him aloft.

Edmund exhaled and scanned for the next hold.  It took him some moments to find, as the smoke above him wafted unimpeded along the trunk.  He eventually found a spot further along to his right, three yards horizontally and a few feet below his current hold.  Loath as he was to descend as the flames continued their approach, only a return to the balcony from whence he’d started presented itself as an alternative.  Unable to see past the smoke to the handhold beyond his current target, Edmund would simply have to trust this path lead somewhere.

He didn’t like it.  Trusting anything in the Depths bothered him at a primal level, but he knew any other path he might’ve found would’ve been the same—only one handhold visible at a time.  Truth be told, the lack of alternatives granted some solace.  If there was only one path and no way to determine its destination, the fairness accords mandated it couldn’t be a dead end, not with the ever-growing inferno beneath him.

The jump proved treacherous, surprising Edmund with its difficulty compared to his previous leap.  Rather than reaching the peak of his trajectory right at the handhold and only having to scramble to halt his horizontal momentum, traveling down the trunk meant also halting his increasing downward motion.

His fingers ached in protest as his entire bodyweight yanked against his curled grip, swinging him around until his back slammed into the tree trunk past the handhold.  Bits of bark and wood drove into his three exposed fingers.  Couldn’t Liam have given him this floor after he finished assembling his gauntlet?

Ignoring the comparatively negligible pain of splinters through his skin and under his fingernails, Edmund stabilized his grip and set his sights on the next hold, spotting it above and to his right.  Again he hung back from both hands, and again he slingshotted himself for the next hold.

On and on and up he climbed, weaving this way and that across the tree’s circumference as he made agonizing progress.  Twice his hand missed its target, and twice he spent a windstep to buy another chance at avoiding a long fall.  By the time the first branch was in reach, the flames had begun to lick at the balcony from which he’d started.  There’d be no going back.

Edmund had to catapult himself to a handhold some yards above his immediate destination just to get laterally close enough to make it to the branch, but he felt his efforts worth it the moment he set foot on the relatively solid surface.  He took a moment to breathe, allowing his sore muscles and windsteps alike to recover.

He walked the length of the branch, making a cursory scan for any signs of traps, treasures, or the monsters that had yet to make themselves known.  Once-green leaves curled and died in the smoky haze, going gray with lack of clean air and direct sunlight.  Even without the flames, the smoke alone would eventually kill the monolithic tree.

Edmund knew it was killing him too, just much more slowly than it did the leaves around him.  Much as it dried his eyes and irritated his throat and scorched his lungs, his various regenerative and defensive abilities overcame the true damage it dealt, at least for the time being.  It hardly bothered him, its effects barely noticeable after months inhaling its acrid poison.  While another delver might’ve found the smoke on this floor suffocating, Edmund found it a minor annoyance at worst and a great comfort at best.

The smoke was his ally.  It had always been his ally.  At times he’d just been too foolish to realize it.

So as he walked the branch, traversing its length to the point where it joined the sheer stone wall and back again, he breathed it in deeply.  He watched it rise around him, studying its twists and turns, its little idiosyncrasies, the ripples and eddies his every motion sent through it.  If this branch had anything hidden for him to find, the smoke would lead him to it.

It didn’t.  It clouded the air and filled his lungs and seemed, if anything, to direct him back to the trunk, back to his climb.  As the crackling blaze grew nearer and nearer, Edmund didn’t hesitate to leave this branch behind.  There’d be a dozen more like it before he reached the exit.

His progress fell into a pattern.  He’d follow the smoke, trusting its guidance as he flung himself from handhold to handhold, spending windsteps to save himself whenever he misjudged a leap or lost his grip.

By the third branch, he’d grown accustomed to the motion, filing various types of jumps and methods of halting his momentum into his mental catalog.  His hands grew more comfortable with the hidden holds, his feet more adept at digging into the loose bark to stabilize him.  By the fifth branch, he’d stopped needing the windsteps entirely.

He made a point of walking each branch to its end and back, albeit forgoing his normal thoroughness for a cursory search of the roiling smoke.  Edmund worried he wasted precious time scouring the branches for secrets, concerned the flames might quicken or that he might need a head start to deal with some challenge yet to come, so he kept it quick, never stopping for long, always ready to return to his climb.

The further he made it up the massive tree, the more nervous he grew.  The lack of monsters, traps, or secrets of any sort gave him pause, forcing him to reevaluate the purpose of the level.  The climb couldn’t be the entire point.  Difficult—if not impossible—as it might’ve been for a fresh faced delver, for a nineteenth floor, it seemed too easy, too simple.

Even without the smoke to guide the way, any delver or party should’ve had some sort of perception ability by now, and thus some way to parse out the location of the handholds without any guesswork.  Sure the ascent made for demanding physical activity, one with which anyone built for ranged combat might’ve struggled, but any such delver wouldn’t have survived to the nineteenth floor without a party to help them up.  Rope was allowed down here, after all.

Edmund wondered if the floor’s monsters were fewer because he’d come alone, or if he’d somehow missed them despite the smoke guiding his way.  The branches in particular seemed terribly vacant, vast stretches of empty space for want of something to fill them.

Still, Edmund pressed on, unable to do much else as the rising flames forced him ever upward.  He leapt from handhold to handhold, past branch after branch, waiting with every milestone, with every moment’s rest, for the other shoe to drop.  On the twenty-second branch, it did.

His trip from the twenty-first to the twenty-second began like all the others, winding chaotically to and fro across the tree’s circumference as he progressed inexorably upwards, until, as he made the final leap from the penultimate handhold to the branch itself, his hand never reached its hold.

Something grabbed his wrist.

Edmund instinctively wrapped his fingers around the unfamiliar limb, finding it corded and cool to the touch.  The creature’s own hand held fast, the two of them locking grips as whatever had grabbed him held him up rather than letting him plummet to the fire below—not that Edmund’s windsteps would’ve allowed that to happen.

With a high-pitched grunt, the thing pulled Edmund up and over the branch’s edge, allowing him to finally get a look at the thing that had at once disrupted his climb and brought him to safety.

