There were three of them in all, each standing no more than four feet tall.  Their skin, once chlorophyll green, had browned in the smoke, leaving them with a sickly visage.  Their humanoid faces looked to him with confusion and a slight tinge of hope, expressions Edmund had yet to experience from a dungeon mob before.  They wore sleeveless cuirasses and leggings crafted of tree bark, and carried wooden spears in their hands.

The smoke around them swirled and twisted to spell out their names in friendly green, names that explained both the looks on their faces and the fact they’d helped him.

Strethian Branchkeeper

Edmund blinked.  He’d seen their ilk before, if not this particular variety, back on the second floor.  It seemed wrong for similar monsters to show up on such different levels, especially given the difficulty gap between the two, but he wouldn’t complain.  The prize he’d won back on that second floor had finally delivered on its promise.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Edmund reread the description of his first sigil as the branchkeepers talked amongst themselves in their high-pitched, chittering tongue.  Their conversation struck him, forcing him to wonder where exactly his sigil drew the line of ‘intelligent.’  Clearly these creatures had the capacity for language, yet they still considered him an ally.

His musings came to an abrupt end as the chattering ceased and a small green hand grabbed his.  Together the branchkeepers led him to the edge of the trunk, where one pressed a browning palm against the rough bark.  Whether by magic or some hidden mechanism, the tree split open to reveal a hidden passage.

Lit by the same torches that littered the Eternal Depths, the altogether-too-cramped space contained a spiral stairway that hugged the outer wall of the tree.  The downward steps to his left confirmed to Edmund that this passage extended past branches he’d already visited, forcing him to wonder how he’d missed the secret entrances.  Either they were better hidden than any he’d seen before, or only the Strethians had access.

Edmund ducked as the branchkeepers led him by the hand up the spiral steps, speaking amongst themselves in hushed and nervous tones.  From their ragged appearance, Edmund figured the ongoing inferno meant more to them than the loss of a home.

He counted some fifty of the uneven and bumpy steps before the passage opened up into a cylindrical chamber that seemed to span the tree’s entire diameter.  Edmund froze as he saw its sole occupant.

A single pillar of pale wood stretched from the ceiling to the floor at the room’s center, its top and bottom tapering off as it smoothly connected to both.  Carved into the pillar itself was the form of a little girl, no more than nine, her front half escaping from the wood even as the rest of her remained a part of it.  Edmund might’ve taken it for the most lifelike sculpture he’d ever seen were it not for one simple fact.

She moved.

In the moments before she noticed him, the little girl’s eyes shone wide with desperation as she writhed in agony about her pillar.  As Edmund stepped into full view, her expression shifted from one of fear to one of rage.  Smoke drifted off her form, spelling out her name in angry gray with the telltale crown of a rare boss.

Strethian Heartwood

Sharp branches shot from the wooden floors and ceilings for Edmund’s throat, forcing him to dance to the side and raise his shield.  He prepared a Flame Dart, ready to accelerate the heartwood’s fiery death if he so needed.

But even in her rage, teary desperation still peaked through those childish eyes.  One of the branchkeepers spoke, stepping between Edmund and the heartwood with both hands raised in a gesture of peace.  Whatever the creature said took immediate effect as the sharpened branches retreated, the child’s gaze softened, and the name above her head shifted from its crowned gray to a friendly green.

Edmund blinked, lowering his spell casting hand as the heartwood withdrew her weapons.  He scowled.  The heartwood was certainly intelligent, at least intelligent enough that his sigil alone hadn’t stopped her from attacking him at first sight.  Yet there her name floated, cast in the same green as the branchkeepers.

As Edmund’s stance shifted away from one of combat, the heartwood returned to her chaotic writhing, pain and desperation returning to her face.  The branchkeeper that’d spoken in his defense gestured him towards her, speaking some command or request in its foreign tongue.  Immediately Edmund realized why they’d brought him here.

They wanted his help.

With what, he didn’t know.  He had no hope of extinguishing the flames that devoured their tree, nor any idea of how else he might’ve saved the dying Strethians.  He supposed he might’ve cut the heartwood from her pillar and delivered her to the exit or at least to higher ground, but he had no way of knowing if the creature could even survive such a thing, let alone what it would accomplish.

The dungeon’s rules on traveling monsters were vague, at least as far as Edmund was concerned.  Explicitly, mobs had no capacity to leave the floors on which they spawned, though Edmund himself had already challenged that concept by removing the azure fox from its native fourth floor.  He figured it possible he could repeat the feat.

Then again, the azure fox seemed to be an anomaly, one even Liam treated with some level of curiosity.  One truth stood out among the rest, though.

He couldn’t save them all.

As Edmund considered his options beneath the pleading gaze of the wooden little girl, another, terrible possibility came to mind.  Even in green, the icon of the crown still hovered above her head, and if Edmund had learned anything about this cursed place, he’d learned that the Eternal Depths didn’t reward mercy.

He gritted his teeth and swallowed back bile before muttering the words he knew the Strethians wouldn’t understand.

“Liam, what happens to the mobs the delvers leave?”

“Well, it depends on the floor,” Liam replied as if he’d always been standing by Edmund’s side, appearing from thin air as he’d made a habit of doing.  “On the hubs, delvers never truly leave, so mobs live and die and respawn continuously.  On most of the public floors, the same is true, though I try and reset things a bit whenever they’re empty.”

“And here?”

“On the private, event-driven floors like this one or the siege level you saw a few floors ago, once the delvers leave, the floor resets for the next group.  Dead mobs are respawned, surviving ones are memory wiped, and the environment returns to its pre-delver state.”

Edmund refused to look at Liam, keeping his gaze fixed firmly on the heartwood’s youthful face.  “So no matter what I do, she’s going to keep burning to death, over and over again, forever.”

Liam shrugged.  “That isn’t how she would see it.  Respawned mobs don’t keep their memories.  They’re entirely new entities.”

“That doesn’t change what’s happening here.”

“She’s just a dungeon mob.”

“She’s a child.”

“They’re all children,” Liam snapped.  “Age is meaningless.  Time is relative.  That heartwood has existed for all of four hours, as has just about every mob you’ve killed so far.  You showed no pity then.”

“They were trying to kill me, not asking for my help,” Edmund argued.  “I can’t just…”  He trailed off as the smell of smoke once again asserted its presence in his mind.  “You set this up, didn’t you?”

Liam didn’t answer directly, but Edmund could practically feel his smirk in the air.  “If your moral code arbitrarily assigns value to creatures that resemble human children, maybe some of its other values are just as arbitrary.”

Edmund kept silent, his eyes glazing over as he stared unblinkingly at the desperate heartwood.  He gulped.  By the time he finally opened his mouth to rebut Liam’s argument, the avatar was gone.

Only Edmund and the Strethians remained.

Edmund took a deep breath as he evaluated his options.  With every passing moment the air grew warmer and thicker with smoke.  He was running out of time.

The way he saw it, three paths forked ahead of him.  He could attempt to save the Strethians in spite of the knowledge his efforts would almost certainly be in vain, he could leave the floor as quickly as possible in the hopes of it resetting before the flames could reach the vulnerable heartwood, or he could put an end to their suffering here and now and claim the loot the accords mandated for the slaying of a boss.

The little girl’s pleading eyes met his.

The branchkeepers bickered in their alien tongue, volume increasing as did the temperature of the wide chamber.

Edmund’s heart pounded with agonized indecision, indecision he could ill afford as the flames drew ever closer.

He swallowed.  He clenched his jaw.  He rubbed his eyes, moisture budding within them as they fought to clear themselves from the smoke’s unceasing assault.  The damn smoke refused to offer any relief, any guidance, anything at all but reddened eyes and a dry throat.  He coughed once, a short and sharp thing that failed to even draw the Strethians’ attention.

In those horrible moments, with the pressure of a ticking clock, the heavy miasma in the air, and an impossible choice in front of him, the dungeon did what the dungeon did best.

It brought Edmund to its level.

It was Liam.  It was always Liam.  Whatever point he’d been trying to make, whatever moral argument he though subjecting this creature to endless torture would accomplish, Edmund knew one thing and one thing only.

Helping the heartwood wouldn’t save it.  Ending the floor early wouldn’t stop it from burning again the moment a new party set foot onto the floor.  The only way to stop the violence, the only end there could ever be for such suffering, would be the end of its progenitor.

It would only stop when Liam drew his final breath, and that would only happen if Edmund had the strength to make it happen.

He blinked away the moisture in his eyes to once more meet the heartwood’s gaze.  She pleaded with him, begged, desperately, for any help, any relief he could offer from her fiery torment.  With pity on his face, Edmund approached the childish form, and drew his sword.

A single slice across her throat did the trick.

Amber sap dripped from the wound as the heartwood stilled, a trail of golden blood oozing down once-pristine wood.  The branchkeepers shrieked with rage, but a Firebolt each put an end to their suffering before anything resembling a real fight could break out.  Moments later, the dungeon reclaimed the bodies of its instruments, of its victims, and Edmund stood alone in an empty room, accompanied only by the smoke in the air and the gilded chest upon the ground.

His stomach churned as he knelt to open it, moisture beading in his eyes as the smoke affected them once more.  He let them water.  It felt right.

Inside the chest he found a circular wooden charm on a brown leather string, a bracelet of some sort, carved with the childish face of the heartwood.  By some cruel joke of Liam’s she seemed to look at him with hopeful innocence, her gaze absent both the rage with which she had first greeted him and the agonized desperation with which she’d plead for her life.  Unwilling to allow himself time with his thoughts, Edmund read its description in the smoke.

Heartwood Idol

See their memories.

The moment his skin came into contact with the wooden token, a deluge of sounds and images rushed through Edmund’s mind.  A sapling sprouting from fresh earth.  A spring storm pouring its deluge down upon him.  A green-skinned figure approaching him and offering aid.  Through it all the cylindrical walls of the dungeon surrounded him, offering plenty of space to grow and rise into the air, but cutting off his branches before they could stretch as far as he would’ve liked.

Edmund yanked his hand away from the idol before the memories could overwhelm him further.  The smell of smoke and crackling of a not-too-distant fire returned.  He glanced down curiously at the bracelet, wondering what utility he might get from watching the memories of a tree.  The ability seemed only tangentially useful, especially for something that clearly required powerful magics in order to function.

As with his rootmother’s sigil, Edmund got the distinct impression the idol was meant to serve a particular purpose, one that only Liam would know until the time came.  He grumbled at the thought, unhappy to dance upon the dungeon’s strings, but unable to do much else.  He slipped the bracelet into his satchel to keep the tree’s memories out of his head and turned his attention to the spiral stairs.

He bounded up them two at a time, ascending towards the treetop far faster from within than he ever could’ve hoped to on the outside.  He wondered if the dungeon had intended delvers to take this path, before realizing that of course it had.  To any delver without his rootmother’s sigil, a powerful boss fight would’ve stood in their way, effectively allowing parties to trade the danger of climbing for that of combat.

Edmund, instead, had faced a different type of challenge.

He took care to check for traps or hidden passages as he ascended, but didn’t bother returning to the tree’s exterior.  Doubtlessly other mobs awaited elsewhere on the tree, mobs that would burn to death if Edmund didn’t leave the floor before the flames reached them.

It was a meaningless gesture, sparing the unintelligent creatures a single death in their endless cycle of violence and rebirth, but Edmund felt he owed it to them.  Whatever branchkeepers remained had offered him no cause to wish them ill, and the three he’d already slain weighed heavier on his mind than he’d have liked to admit.  He hoped the heartwood idol would prove worth it.

Sparse minutes passed before Edmund emerged once more into open space, this time with vertical branches instead of walls and crowning leafage instead of a ceiling.  In one of the branches stood a doorway, already hanging open to welcome him into the darkness beyond.  A chime rang out as the dungeon declared he’d completed the floor.  A chest of deep brown wood arose, an oddity after the precious metals he’d seen previously.

