Ornate carvings decorated its appearance, belying its material’s claims of mundanity.  It was at once the simplest and most complex of the loot chests Edmund had seen, sparking just enough curiosity to set his mind wandering without actually giving him pause.  He stepped directly towards it, unwilling to waste time as the flames continued to rise.  Inside sat three gold coins and a glass vial of amber liquid.

Heartwood Sap

Sap of a Strethian heartwood.  Drink for temporary access to a heartwood’s mastery of plant life.

Edmund didn’t hesitate to stash the treasure in his satchel, mind already racing with possibilities for his newest tool.  It was the only true consumable the dungeon had given him so far, implying both incredible power and limited potential.  As with what felt like far too much of his loot lately, the heartwood sap seemed a bit situational, but if he could replicate the fury with which those branches had stuck at him before the branchkeeper had argued for him, it’d be a worthy boon indeed.  He’d just have to choose its time carefully.

Satisfied with his loot, Edmund moved on to his Aspect selection.  His previous logic as far as crafting tier threes still stood, which left him with the choice of upgrading The Recluse or Sorcery first.  Still hesitant to further empower The Recluse in case he should end up accompanied and thus on the wrong side of its effect, he chose the alternative.  With a thought, Sorcery and War came together to form something new.

Tier 3 Aspect: Artillery - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Firestorm spell.

Most of his other Aspects remained unchanged, other than his now level fifteen Madness.  Its new description seemed slightly off, different from what it’d been before, but Edmund couldn’t quite put his finger on what had changed or why.  He simply let it go, unbothered by his Aspect’s weird evolution.  Madness was a part of him and he a part of it, after all.

Instead of thinking too much about it, he nodded approvingly at his newest ability, pleased with the hole in his skillset it’d helped fill.  Between his various other spells and Focus’s push towards single targets, he’d sorely lacked a good way to strike several enemies at once.  Firestorm seemed like the perfect option.

He considered, for a moment, testing the spell then and there, but the ever-approaching inferno deterred him.  His predominately wooden environment had already proven it didn’t take well to being set on fire, and while Edmund felt safe with the exit hanging open right next to him, he wouldn’t exactly be getting many repetitions in without burning down the very ground on which he stood.

No, he reasoned, it was better to enter the next floor with a full mana pool than to waste it all just to see what would happen in the few seconds before the new blaze forced him to leave anyway.  Every moment he lingered another mob might’ve burned, a qualm he felt almost hypocritical for having, but one that spurred him on nonetheless.

Just because he’d slain the heartwood for its loot didn’t mean he condoned pointless violence.

He repeated that line to himself a half dozen times, each time hoping that now he’d believe it.  With a sigh he turned away from the tree, away from the encroaching flames and the rising smoke and the dying Strethians.  He might’ve climbed for a bit, but in the Depths, the only real way to go was down.

So with a shallow breath, the heartwood idol weighing heavily in his satchel, and a grumbled curse at what this place had done to him, Edmund stepped into the darkness.

Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 20

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 8 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt.  Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 8 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 8 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 10 - Gain health regeneration.  Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 15

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession.  Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 3 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone.  Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 5 - Grants resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: Artillery (War and Sorcery) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Firestorm spell.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Warmonger (War and Obsession) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a greater increase to all damage dealt and a greater decrease to all damage taken while engaged in combat you initiated.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 2 - Question the concept of truth.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Provides access to the Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target (War and Focus) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target.  The target takes increased damage from all sources.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects.  Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure)- Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters.  Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open.  Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage.  Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Journeyman

The fourth step on the Path of the Azure Fox.  Increases agility.  Grants two windsteps.  Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally.  Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Sigil of the Slumbering Deep

Gain greater health regeneration.  Gain immense health regeneration while sleeping.  Gain water breathing.  Gain lesser dark vision.  Gain lesser subaquatic sonar.
