“Before we get to the business of the Town Watch’s unprovoked attack on me, my friends, and the Adventurers Guild, I have something far more urgent for the council’s consideration.” Ali summoned the seven copies of Calen’s report onto seven small disks of her barrier magic. She had practiced for a long time to perfect splitting her focus so many ways, and it was only with the enhancement to her arcane control from Arcane Recall and the intelligence boost she was getting from Empowered Summoner that she had been able to pull it off while still sitting on her barrier seat.

Each disk floated smoothly across the dais, depositing a copy in front of each council member.

“What is this?” Bastian asked, not moving to touch it, but he was immediately interrupted.

“Is there any proof of this?” The new voice sounded stern and crisp as he tapped the report.

Gerald Brand, Commander of the Garrison. Ali identified him by his iron-gray hair and piercing blue eyes.

“I am the proof,” Lira answered, her voice resonating more than usual, seeming to hang indefinitely in the air, still running rich with her mana. “My name is Lirasia. The forest that was my home for the last three thousand years, the Lirasian Forest, is no more, undone by the blight of the Necromancer, Alexander Gray. It was utterly destroyed.”

At her words, Gerald Brand’s aide left the room at a sprint, carrying the report.

“You’re not taking this nonsense seriously, Brand?” The voice was gravelly and strong.

Hadrik Goldbeard. He was the only dwarf on the council. His hair and beard were an uncommon blond and were worn in thick braids that were festooned with heavy, ornate gold jewelry.

“That group warned us of the Goblin siege. Yes, I am taking their report seriously,” the commander answered. “Besides, that is a three-mark Dryad bearing the title: Grand Mother of the Deep Woods. There can be no question she is the one from the legends.”

So Mieriel was right. The commander had remembered them, and more importantly, credited them with providing crucial information in support of the town’s defense – and Lira’s presence had lent an enormous weight of credibility.

“The second matter of business for this council is related to the first,” Ali announced, pitching her voice to carry as best it could. Commander Brand had accepted the report as worth consideration, which was her purpose. She just hoped it was enough to sway his vote in their favor as Mieriel had predicted.

“With a Necromancer closing in on town, many outlying farms have been destroyed, and I’ve been informed that the town is struggling to find food. I want to offer the magic of my domain to feed the town while the Garrison Commander defends us.” This was her bid for the second vote, and she studied the mayor carefully – but, by using the eyes of her Acolyte, so that she didn’t give away her interest.

“Can you really feed everyone?” William Turner asked. He seemed rather tense, and by the gasps and murmurs from the audience, it seemed that the food shortage was more desperate than she had imagined.

“Lirasia has agreed to share her magic, and with the help of a few of the town’s farmers and nature mages, it should not be a problem,” Ali confirmed, happy that she had caught his attention.

“Was it you that advanced the Elder Tree yesterday?”

Ali’s eyes caught the piercing gaze of the Gnomish mage. Donella, it seemed, was intensely curious about magic. “It was Lirasia,” Ali confirmed, filing the tidbit of information about her away just in case it might prove useful.

The room erupted into a chaotic explosion of conversations as the news and the proposal were processed. Ali simply waited for it to calm down sufficiently.

“For our final business, my friends are on trial for self-defense against the Town Watch, but I am a dungeon, and I ask that the council vote to explicitly recognize me as a person.” This was the most crucial moment. If she had done her job well, Vivian would bring her proposal before the council formally, and one of the other council members would second it, forcing the vote to be on her personhood, rather than on whether to cull a dungeon.

“You want us to recognize a dungeon as a person? So that you can have legal protection? Nobody will support that nonsense,” Bastian scoffed.

Ali saw Vivian sit forward out of the corner of her eye, but surprisingly, it was not her voice that she heard first.

“I will put the motion on the table.” It was Commander Brand’s voice.

We got one.

“Very well, who will second it?” William Turner asked, sounding unsurprised. The excitement of securing Gerald Brand’s vote was quenched by William’s response. Ali had been hoping that her proposal for feeding the town would sway him to their side, but if it had worked, he wouldn’t have called for a second, he would have done it himself.

“I second the motion,” Vivian called out, after waiting long enough for William to do it if he wanted to.

One of two, she realized, racking her brain to figure out what else she could do to convince the mayor.

“If we’re proposing motions, I propose we elevate Kieran Mori to take Roderik Icecrown’s seat, and I propose we do it before we vote so that we can vote with a full council.” Jax’s cold voice interrupted Ali’s thoughts, and she snapped her head around, finding his hard eyes boring into her.

“Absolutely not! I object!” William Turner shouted. “You will not stack the council with your Town Watch lackey.”

“The Town Watch are the heroes here; they bravely confronted the dungeon at the cost of many of their lives. Yet you insist on hearing this dungeon speak. This is a travesty,” Jax answered, raising his voice.

“Your so-called heroes tried to kill my son!” William yelled, on his feet in an instant, glaring down at Jax, amid the gasps and exclamations from the crowd. “As mayor, I will cast Roderik’s vote in this matter.”

Ali stared dumbfounded as the heated argument erupted. She had of course been there to see Aiden and Havok being beaten up, and she understood William Turner’s rage. But she had no idea they could use the empty seat to vote.

“Silence. You’re both out of line,” Bastian’s voice cut through the boiling anger with a calm authority. “I am the executor of the crown. I veto Mori on account of the fact that he has no noble blood. The crown will not stand for that. In the matter of the crown’s interests, I outrank you, William. I will cast Roderik’s vote until we find a legal replacement.”

Oh, fuck. Ali watched helplessly as all their careful planning came down in tatters. Bastian Asterford was definitely not going to vote for her – she had killed Roderik. And Roderik was a noble, just like Bastian. With him wielding two votes and the tiebreaker, she could not win, even if she somehow swayed William Turner and managed to buy Jax’s vote.

What can I do? Ali wasn’t even certain she could buy Jax’s vote. Based on the outburst she had just witnessed, they had critically misjudged him as motivated by personal wealth; he seemed to care far more about influence and power. In fact, if he had any interest in wealth, he would have most likely been more amenable to her case from the start, but instead, he had been hostile at every step.

“I thank you for your scouting report, and your proposal of food, but none of it is necessary. Gerald Brand will defend the town, and we will simply teleport in supplies from Southport to feed the people,” Bastian continued. “Now let’s get this trial finished.”

“How will you teleport food in when there is a spatial suppression field blanketing the town?” Ali asked. She had no idea what to do, it was simply the first thing that sprang to her mind. Bastian had to know about it, and he was simply lying to her.

“How dare you share military secrets in public!” Jax called out.

Aah, that’s what it is. Several things clicked in her mind in rapid succession. Bastian was not lying to her; he was lying to the spectators. The townsfolk did not know how dire the situation was, but it was clear that Jax did. Her sharing the information in public must have hurt him somehow. She also knew that she no longer had any reason to pander to him, given that winning his vote would not sway the outcome at all. And Jax had just demonstrated he had two enemies on the council, not one as they had thought. The Banker, and the Mayor. Maybe…

Ali glanced at Lira, wishing she could ask Mieriel for confirmation – but Lira nodded imperceptibly, and it was enough. Plucking up her courage, she glared at Jax. “Perhaps you should have considered that I might tell the truth before inviting all the townsfolk you’ve been lying to, you two-faced ass,” Ali stated, delivering the insult with a deep sense of satisfaction. For the last part, she used a Dwarven word she had heard Morwynne use to great effect – the Dwarven language was crude and crass, but it was an exquisite tool for delivering an insult. The word she had used compared his face to his ass, while simultaneously calling him out for being two-faced.

There was a loud snort from Hadrik as he doubled over, letting out a belly laugh that filled the room, “Good one, lassie!”

Ali opted to smile at him mostly to cover her fear, ignoring Jax’s infuriated scowl. She expected that most of the people present would not understand the Dwarven language, but just the sound of the word and Hadrik’s reaction told everyone all they needed to know. Ali was still using her Kobold’s vision, so she saw Malika staring at her in shock, followed by a tentative smile.

She was way off script, and she had clearly just lost Jax’s vote, but Malika’s small smile had kindled a warmth in her heart, and she suddenly felt a lot less dirty, somehow. But her brief respite was short-lived as the wreckage of a trial continued unabated.

“Before I call this matter to vote, there is a formal complaint registered by Eliyen Mistwood against the Town Watch. She claims to have invested over two hundred gold in a joint venture with Aliandra to procure mana-purified water. She claims that the investment was maliciously destroyed in the attack on her business partner, and furthermore, members of the Town Watch were found selling the stolen product in the market without a license.”

“Pay her the damages, and I will fine the individuals selling without a market license,” Hadrik declared brusquely. “Mana-purified water is expensive and rare, and we cannot allow them to circumvent the crown’s taxes.”

William Turner cleared his throat awkwardly. “We can’t afford the damages, Hadrik,” he said.

“What?” Hadrik rounded on William, his phenomenal, gilded beard quivering in shock.

“She claims that Aliandra made an entire lake of mana-purified water, and the survivors of the raid were trying to sell it by the bucketful.”

Hadrik choked, his face going red. “A lake… that’s worth…” he trailed off, unable to finish the thought.

“More than the town, probably,” William Turner finished bluntly, as if relishing the implication or merely the chance to twist the verbal dagger.

Hadrik turned to stare at Ali, so she just shrugged flippantly and said, “Dungeon. It’s what we do.” But her mind was far from jokes, or more accurately, her earlier joke and Hadrik’s laughter had planted a small seed of hope in her – hope that their cause was not lost.

If I can just figure out how to win him over.

Mieriel had said it was impossible, but now Ali was not so sure he was that unassailable. Not that I have any other choice. She had burned Jax – her only option now was to win Hadrik, William, and Donella; if she failed with even one of them, she would again face a tie that was not in her favor or an outright loss.

“Even though I made a lake of mana-purified water, I still worked through the guild merchant to sell it to Eliyen. Everything was legal and all the required taxes were paid,” Ali offered the flabbergasted Dwarf. Her mind raced as she struggled to get ahead of the game, trying to figure out what else she might use to convince him, and then it came to her – she had been planning to offer Magicite as an enticement to buy Jax’s vote. She couldn’t buy Hadrik’s because he seemed too honest and law-abiding.

Or can I?

“Recently, I discovered how to make Magicite, and that too was sold to the Novaspark Academy of Magic via the guild merchant, Weldin Thriftpenny. As you can imagine, a reliable supply of Magicite could be a significant boost for the economy of the town – and Weldin Thriftpenny is properly licensed.” In the front row of the spectators, she saw the dapper Gnome merchant nodding to her.

Her statement caused a ripple of excited voices through the spectators, and Donella sat up with sudden interest as she explained the source of the couple of chunks of raw Magicite she had been sold.

While she wasn’t explicitly trying to buy the town’s tax collector, she guessed that the huge potential influx of money would result in vastly more taxes for the crown. Hopefully, that’s enough to convince him. If Hadrik thought she was trusted to work within the law, she might be able to snag him.

“She’s trying to buy your vote, you idiot,” Jax interjected angrily. Mieriel’s observation that he and Hadrik despised each other enough to fight during the council meetings was proving remarkably accurate.

“Shut it, ya twit. I wasn’t born yesterday,” Hadrik retorted, his giant gold-braided beard bristling with anger, before he rounded on Ali.

“I know what you’re trying to do. Enticing me with the promises of riches from a dungeon. You paint a rosy picture of prosperity, but once you are strong enough, what’s to stop you from finding an unscrupulous merchant and circumventing the law?” He glanced significantly at Jax before turning back to her. “The lure of profit and the color of gold is a powerful force. No, if you want to convince me, you must prove you can be controlled.” His voice was clear, and his laughter and anger had both vanished, replaced with a stern, focused businesslike attitude.

With his dramatic shift in attitude, Ali realized she had never even been close to winning him over. The laughter at her joke, his anger at Jax, underneath it all the stocky Dwarf had a mind as solid and firm as granite, and a sharp intellect too. He had unerringly identified the potential connection between her as a dungeon and Jax with his smuggling ring – the very plan they had decided to use before Bastian claimed the extra vote.

The color of gold…

