“You want control?” she asked, drifting her barrier closer to the Dwarf, taking in the color of his golden jewelry. She retrieved the pouch of Dal’mohran gold coins from her ring into her pocket, slipping her fingers in to touch the coins. Control was something she would not submit to, but she needed to convince him that her interests and his were aligned. There was only one way she could think of. She pulsed her magic, deconstructing as many coins as she could.

“She’s using magic!” Donella’s shield of arcing lighting snapped into place as Ali’s barrier reached the dais.

A few more seconds. Before Donella could launch an attack, she had to distract her. Buy just a little time. “I merely wish to demonstrate why my respect for the town’s trade law is relevant, and why I believe you can trust me to adhere to it in the future,” Ali announced. Several more coins vanished, creating puffs of mana that Donella clearly could see. Several of the council members activated defensive enchantments.

Imprint: Dal’mohran gold coin completed.

Close enough, she thought. It would have to do; Donella was already trying to cast something as she stared at Ali’s Grimoire that had suddenly appeared in response to the new imprint. She activated Arcane Recall, and the entire council froze in the suddenly gray room. Ali anxiously checked everything she could see, but, to her intense relief, no terrifying blue glowing monsters leapt out from anywhere this time.

Donella must have seen something because her expression seemed twisted into one of surprise, her hand outstretched, brimming with mana. Ali chose a chapter with her mind, allowing the Grimoire to inscribe the new imprint upon the pages. As soon as it was done, she channeled her mana, using the customization to create as much as she could all at once, like growing a wall full of ivy or a carpet of moss. She fed it almost her entire mana pool, saving just enough for her Barrier, in case she needed to defend herself from whatever Donella was planning.

Her spell completed and, as the room snapped back to normal, it was filled with the distinctive sound of a continuous ringing cascade of gold striking wood and stone as the large mound of Dal’mohran gold coins she had summoned crashed across the table and spilled onto the stone floor.

Hadrik’s jaw dropped, and he just stood there staring. Donella’s magic fizzled as she let it fade.

“As you can see, I have no need of smugglers to sell Magicite. Nor do I need to wait till I’m strong enough. I can already just make a lake-full of gold if I wanted – and buy the entire town.” It was not strictly true, the pile of coins she had made looked impressive, but it was hardly more than a couple of hundred coins, and it had taken almost her entire mana pool to make. A lake would take ages. But she was going for hammering the impression home, so she didn’t mind stretching the truth just a little.

“And just what is your little stunt supposed to prove?” Hadrik asked, collecting his jaw from the floor.

“If I can already do this, but still choose to work with the town, I think you can use that as a strong indication of my future behavior. There are people in this town I care about – and wrecking the economy would put them all out of business, damage their livelihood, and likely drive everyone from the town. I meant what I said: I seek a peaceful coexistence and mutual cooperation with the town.”

“Ok, that’s just about enough for theatrics,” William announced. “I call the council to vote. A vote of yes will accord Aliandra Amariel with the rights and protection of a town citizen under the law. A vote of no will deny her this right.”

Wait, I need more time… He was calling for the vote early, and she hadn’t had time to finish making her case to Hadrik. Nor was she certain of William’s vote, and she hadn’t even started to figure out how to win Donella to their side.

“I vote no,” Jax declared. “Obviously.”

“I vote yes,” Vivian said, sounding like she was countering Jax’s statement.

“The crown votes no,” Bastian announced firmly. “Both my vote and Roderik’s.”

Three no votes, and one yes. It wasn’t looking good already, but these were the votes that she had been certain of from the start.

“I vote yes,” Commander Brand announced, giving Ali a tiny thrill of achievement.

“I will abstain,” Hadrik announced, stroking his beard with his fingertips as if in deep thought.

I didn’t convince him? she thought, a sudden chill settling in the pit of her stomach. She hadn’t had enough time to convince the Dwarf, but she had hoped he would at least see her value to the crown, and Myrin’s Keep.

The rapid voting ceased as William Turner contemplated his choices. Ali’s anxiety spiked as his face showed the conflict in his heart.

“What are you waiting for, William? This is an obvious decision,” Jax prodded him.

“That’s right, this should be an easy decision for you,” Vivian answered, inexplicably agreeing with Jax.

What’s she doing? Is she betraying us? The whiplash of Vivian throwing in support with Jax left her reeling and hurt inside. But Vivian continued.

“Aliandra saved your boy’s life.”

William’s head snapped around and he met Vivian’s eyes.

“If you would put aside your differences and had actually talked to him, you would know this,” Vivian finished. William turned to the crowd of spectators, and Ali saw Aiden nodding.

“I vote yes,” William announced, his voice thick with difficult emotions.

“Are you mad?” Jax exclaimed.

“Be quiet,” Bastian shouted, rapping his knuckles on rich wood of the tabletop for emphasis. “Donella, how do you vote?”

Where Vivian had pulled this trump card from, Ali couldn’t fathom. She had expected betrayal, but instead, she found an upwelling of gratitude toward the Guildmaster. But it wouldn’t be enough, Ali had done nothing to convince Donella.

The Gnome mage was simply sitting in her seat, studying Ali, her expression perfectly controlled.

“Your daughter Brena is up for class advancement soon,” Vivian said casually, drawing a sharp look from Donella.

“And what of it?”

“Aliandra has an advanced dungeon shrine, and I’m certain you understand what that means.”

“Are you trying to buy my vote with a class for my daughter?” Donella’s controlled expression faltered, leaking conflict and anger onto her face.

“I’m just pointing it out because it’s relevant,” came the smooth reply. “William’s son unlocked an ice mana affinity and got an Ice Swordsman class from her shrine. He told me it was the fourth class choice he was offered.” It was a surprisingly well-considered pitch. Malika had explained that the town’s crafted shrine could only offer a single alternate choice. Vivian was pretty blatantly emphasizing the superior abilities of using her Shrine of the Ancient Grove. “I have personally verified the shrine’s authenticity – it’s the real deal.”

“You can do this?” Donella asked, her gaze returning to Ali.

Ali’s heart leapt as she saw the Gnomish mage wavering. She desperately wanted Ali’s shrine for her daughter, it was plainly written on her face.

“I can,” she answered. But the pained expression on Donella’s face brought her to a sudden clarity.

In that moment, she placed herself in the shoes of the powerful mage, trying to decide between her family and her principles. Her inner struggle was obvious as soon as Ali understood it. The warring emotions were played out across her face plain for anyone with eyes to see. If she chose her daughter, she would be publicly demonstrating nepotism, and her position as an impartial council member would be ruined. If she didn’t, her daughter might be confined to a mediocre class for life. It was as profound a conflict of interest as Ali could imagine.

“But I won’t,” Ali said, committing to her course. Her answer was met with a sudden silence as everyone in the room stared at her in shock.

Ali swallowed, trying to ignore the stares of confusion from her friends and allies. “I will not buy your vote. This shrine was passed down to me upon my father’s death and it has always been offered freely. I would honor his memory by doing the same. If your daughter wishes to use my shrine, all she needs to do is ask. Your vote here will not influence my decision on this in any way.” Her words caused a loud commotion to erupt from the spectator seats.

“That, of course, requires that you be alive,” Donella countered.

“Yes, it does.” She couldn’t deny what Donella said, and it certainly stole a lot of the wind out of her sails, but she felt the rightness of her argument and refused to back down, simply meeting the Gnome’s gaze as steadily as she could manage. It was the best she could do under the circumstances.

“You are throwing away your chance, your only leverage,” Donella said, speaking like the words were a bitter pill in her mouth.

Why am I throwing it away? The risk was clear to her – without Donella’s vote, she would lose. She would probably be killed, imprisoned, or forced to flee, dying to domain withdrawal later. But she was done bending over backward to win votes at the cost of her values. She suddenly understood Malika’s view – standing up for what she believed was right and letting the cards fall where they may. She wouldn’t make someone choose between their family and their principles simply because it was convenient for her.

“I stand here asking to be treated fairly by the council. To be considered on my own merits. I would be a hypocrite if I didn’t treat your daughter with the fairness I seek. Please vote your conscience in this matter.”

“You are certainly brave, standing up for your principles like that,” Donella said, her face returning to its former composure, clearly having come to some sort of decision behind her impenetrable façade.

But Ali felt anything but brave and principled. She had entered the trial planning on selling out to Jax. At every turn, she had simply been afraid of condemning her friends to death. Now, in the end, she had thrown all of it away on some silly pride in her father’s memory. She felt sick.

Would you be proud of me?

“I vote yes.”

Donella’s words entered her mind, but she didn’t quite comprehend.

Yes?

She had been braced for failure dreading all that came with that, but the word that touched her ears was not the one she had expected. Her thoughts tumbled chaotically as the room erupted into shouting and she saw Malika’s white-knuckled fist unclench in the corner of her eye. Calen – the rascal – had the cheek to nod, once, as if he had expected this all along.

“Silence!” Bastian roared, restoring some order once more.

Ali’s eyes sought Lira standing regal and impassive, like a rock unmoved by the winds and waves, but as their eyes met, Lira smiled and nodded approvingly. Is it really…

In the ensuing quiet, William Turner collected himself, straightening up in his chair. “The vote is concluded. In the matter of Aliandra Amariel, the council has voted four in favor, three against with one abstaining. Aliandra is hereby granted recognition as a person in the eyes of the law. As such, her actions in defending herself against Roderik Icecrown are considered to be self-defense and she is acquitted of the charge of murdering a noble. Similarly, Calen Avery, Malika, and Mato Bahr are acquitted of the charge of attacking the Town Watch, as their actions are now legally self-defense. This council session is concluded.”

“You’re not going to just accept this, Bastian?” Jax seemed livid.

“It is a legal vote, and we are bound to abide by it. Obviously, I will report this to Southport, where I expect it to eventually be overturned as the crown does not abide dungeons. But, until then, it is law.”

Jax turned on his heels and stalked out of the hall without another word.

We won?
