Economics – to oversimplify drastically – is nothing more than the balance of supply and demand made liquid by the application of currency. Dungeons, by their very nature, break this. I am well aware of how the Silver Cog Trading Company has wrought its substantial successes due to the timely and skillful locking-down of important dungeon trading contracts, but objectively, dungeons are a disaster for a stable economy. At the core of the problem is the dungeon respawn. Every few hours – or days, depending on the dungeon – most dungeons respawn their monsters, along with all their harvestable monster parts, weapons, armor, or whatever. This creates a potentially infinite supply problem that can drive the value of important items and resources to zero. When a new dungeon appears, spawning an easy boss with a desirable bronze-ranked sword, not only does the value of that specific sword plummet, but the value of all swords of similar rank and purpose will crater because cash-strapped adventurers will purchase the vastly cheaper one even if it isn’t exactly ideal. Consider, for a moment, the problem of coins. Most item dungeons learn to create coins – presumably from consuming the many corpses of adventurers, delvers, and opportunists that die in their caves or hallways. Easy bosses that spawn with coins become rapidly sought after, sparking a gold rush that can crater an entire kingdom’s currency. It is fortunate for us that such a rush on a dungeon typically causes it to be wiped out immediately or forces the dungeon into such a rapid growth cycle that the risk grows to overshadow the value of a few coins.The problem of coins is far trickier than most would believe. I draw your attention to the fate of the Marakian Kingdom which, just a few centuries ago, pioneered the idea of imbuing their coins with mana signatures, making them impossible to duplicate or respawn exactly. The kingdom, as you may recall, collapsed when their neighbors assassinated the head of their government’s mint and his mana signature vanished overnight, taking out half the kingdom’s currency in a single blow.Besides, even if a dungeon cannot copy a mana signature, the coins still have significant value as gold, platinum, or electrum.- Internal Manual on Dungeon Economics by Bixi Bargainhunter, Silver Cog Trading Co.

It was one of those bright and clear mornings with not a single cloud in the sky. The breeze carried the crisp cool scent of freshness, blowing away the usual odors of the town. Ali stepped down onto the street in front of the Adventurers Guild and gazed about, taking in the sparse early morning traffic. Stretched across the sky, her sensitive mana-sight picked out the almost invisible tendrils of mana forming the vast formation that must have been the spatial suppression spell blanketing the town. It was a curious magic, reminding Ali of the old eccentric mage that had teleported her to Volle, but she didn’t have the time to study it further.

“Ok, I’m off,” Vivian announced abruptly. “Wait a few minutes and then come to the Town Hall.”

Ali nodded. Their entrance would be a carefully orchestrated play, directed by Lira, and every part of it had been considered for maximum impact, value, or strategy. Ali had not even followed half of the subtle interplay, but Mieriel, Ryn, and Lira had agonized over every detail.

As Vivian disappeared down the street, Ali opened her Grimoire and began to summon her monsters. All her friends were already there, but she would not be going alone. Lira stood beside her looking serene, of course, emanating a soft, peaceful aura of nature magic. Malika and Calen looked exactly as nervous as she felt in their brand-new, exquisitely tailored suits. At first, Malika had strenuously objected to ‘dressing like a noble’ and seemed quite uncomfortable in such expensive clothing, but Lira insisted, claiming it was the proper ‘armor’ for this kind of battle. Calen’s squirming and tugging at his collar earned him a severe glance from the Dryad.

She made two Forest Guardians to round out her small retinue of minions. They appeared, taking up a huge amount of space in the street, shifting restlessly as if reflecting her mood. Besides the two giant elementals, she had made a single Kobold Acolyte and Fire Mage. Both had been dressed by Lydia too, sparing no detail on their entrance, and it was a good thing too – Ali would need every ounce of enhanced intelligence she could eke out of her Empowered Summoner buff for the trial itself.

I hope the Guardians fit through the door. The Town Hall doorway was wide, but she had forgotten to check if it was wide enough. The Guardians would certainly be able to enter but reducing the building to rubble and ruin was not quite the entrance she needed.

“I’m ready.” It was a simple statement of fact, but it had the significance of a large boulder placed in precarious balance at the top of a cliff. What was to come was an avalanche, and it was uncertain if the events set in motion would crush her into dust or carry her on to safety.

“Let’s get this started, then,” Malika said, turning angrily and stalking down the street toward the Town Hall, the tension held in her body broadcasting just how upset she still was.

I’m sorry, Malika, Ali thought. She had tried every way she could think of to explain or apologize to her, but she would not hear it. Still, she refused to abandon Ali to face this alone, clinging to her trite ‘we’ll do it together’ like it was the bedrock of her soul. Ali stared sadly at Malika’s back, but she felt a comforting hand reaching down to grab hers.

“She will understand, give her time,” Lira said, her voice soft and gentle. But Ali was not so confident, and she worried about her friend the whole way.

When they reached the Town Hall, Malika pushed the doors wide and entered with Calen. Ali directed her Forest Guardians to follow, one at a time, and to her relief, they made it through, leaving just minor scrape marks on the protruding steel hinges. She had them fan out into a flanking formation behind Malika and Calen before she floated through, sitting cross-legged upon her barrier, with her two Kobolds walking along behind like retainers. Lira had even purchased an impressive-looking gnarled staff for the mage and censer styled like a dragon’s head for the Acolyte at Weldin’s store, details that Ali wouldn’t even have considered.

We look like a funeral procession, she thought, hoping fervently that it would not be her funeral.

The reaction to their entrance was a stunned silence – the kind of shock that caught the breath in surprise. Her enormous Guardians kept pace with her barrier, their slow, heavy steps shaking the foundations of the Town Hall. A quiet undercurrent of whispers rippled through the crowd of spectators arranged around the central dais. There were rows of important or curious townsfolk and Ali recognized quite a few of them – Eliyen and Basil to the one side, Lydia dressed in a beautiful creation, and Mato’s parents were clearly visible by the sheer bulk of his father. Off near the back, she caught the gruff countenance of Thuli, sitting beside a hooded figure she knew was Kavé. Quite a few of the novice adventurers were also present.

Spectators for the main event. No, supporters – I hope.

Vivian had made sure that the trial was open to the public, and although she felt the weight of all those eyes upon her, Lira had insisted this would be better for their case. Winning over the public sentiment would not directly change the vote, but some of the council members cared about the opinion of the townsfolk and would be influenced. But Ali had her doubts – for one thing, she was the terror of a dungeon, manifest in the flesh before them – and for another, she was about to make a deal with the crime boss who oppressed the town.

In the center of the room, the richly dressed, impressive group of council members occupied seven of the eight seats upon the raised dais, presumably so they could look down upon the accused. Lira had spent an incredible amount of energy impressing on her the importance of a strong entrance, and how setting the tone by how she arrived would help her argue her case as an equal rather than a supplicant at the mercy of the council’s whims. Every detail had been planned out, including just how high Ali sat upon her barrier so that even with her smaller stature, she was the one looking slightly down on them. The Guardians had nothing to do with her safety, they had been selected to convey solid weight and size.

Ali’s attention was drawn to the tall, opulently dressed man rising to his feet at the center of the dais, his face flushed red with anger. With a dark scowl, he thrust a finger at her in accusation.

Here it comes.

“What is the meaning of this!” he shouted. Even though she expected it, her heart pounded in her throat at the sheer aggression he leveled at her. Her mind conjured images of Roderik’s violence, and more than anything she wanted to run and hide behind her Guardians, but she forced herself to face him as outwardly calm as she could manage. It was only then that she suddenly appreciated the wisdom of Lira who had insisted on makeup – she could tell her face had blanched, but nobody would ever see it.

Bastian Asterford. She easily identified the crown executor by his extremely expensive crimson robes and the descriptions she had been given. Their analysis predicted he would vote against her.

“Since when are criminals allowed to bring monsters before the council?” This voice was sharp and cutting – and oozed with power and control.

Ali turned her attention to the new speaker, a stocky man with a powerful-looking frame, dressed in an exquisitely tailored suit. He stared flatly at her with hard eyes, clearly a man used to people jumping when he spoke.

Jax Hawkhurst. Council member of Myrin’s Keep, and the owner of the highly successful Hawkhurst Trading Company, both positions serving to cover his illicit smuggling, thievery, and extortion rackets. Behind his harsh façade, Ali could detect nothing about his inner thoughts, other than an instinctive sense that this man was cunning.

The person most likely responsible for orchestrating the Town Watch raid on me. He was also the person whose vote she needed to buy, over Malika’s vehement objections. And Mieriel’s sure he’s the one responsible for putting out the hit on us. Again, she felt the knot twisting in her gut at the wrongness of courting this man for his vote.

“Brand, get her in chains already,” Jax continued with a sneer that seemed to be honed to the status of a deadly political weapon.

Ali said nothing. She simply sat, trying to control the roiling emotions within. If she hadn’t known what to expect, she would probably have been just as shocked as the rest of the room.

Nature-affinity mana crested like a tidal wave behind her.

“Watch out!” the Gnomish council member yelled, levitating herself behind an arcing shield of lightning magic.

Donella Novaspark.

Vines writhed their way through the open doorway, the windows, and even the stone floor, cracking and buckling it in the process. A soft breeze blew through the hall, bringing with it a rapidly expanding carpet of moss and delicate wildflowers, and as the mana crashed through the room, nature wisps spontaneously materialized, darting back and forth on the heavy currents of mana.

Lira. Despite expecting something spectacular, Ali was awed at the power of the Dryad’s magic – now restored by the forest she had made. By the startled looks from the crowd, so were most of the spectators – including the wide-eyed Gnome mage hiding behind her potent magic. She forgot sometimes that her aunt was an ancient magical being of extraordinary power. Ali waited, enjoying the way the shocked shouts faded to total silence as Lira approached, striding elegantly and unhurriedly along her mossy carpet to join Ali before the dais.

Many among the spectators – Elves, Druids, and other nature magic users – rose to their feet, bowed, or made signs of respect.

That’s my cue.

In the silence created by Lira’s magnificent entrance, Ali raised her voice and addressed the council.

“There appears to have been a misunderstanding. I do not come to throw myself upon the dubious mercy of a council that seems to have already decided my guilt,” she declared. As the council collected themselves, Ali took a deep breath to settle her nerves.

The silence that greeted her statement oozed hostility.

“My name is Aliandra Amariel. I am the dungeon that lives under Myrin’s Keep and I come with a proposal for peaceful coexistence.” Lira had insisted on leading with confidence. Arguing about her class was not going to help her case. By putting it out there at the start, she would circumvent many arguments.

“Why are you here? Myrin’s Keep has stood here for a hundred years. It’s our town – you’re an interloper and not welcome,” Bastian declared. He was still standing, but much of his bluster and anger had evaporated at Lira’s entrance.

“I was born three thousand two hundred and eighty-seven years ago in the city of Dal’mohra, the ruins of which now lie below Myrin’s Keep. I have remained here all those years, so I think you’ll find that it is you all who are the interlopers in my home.” Most of those years had been spent locked away behind her mother’s legendary Time Stasis spell, but Ali didn’t feel he needed to know that.

“That’s preposterous,” Bastian scoffed.

“I have the results of her Advanced Identify on record in the Adventurers Guild,” Vivian said calmly from her seat. “Her age, at least, is accurate. So is that Title she bears.”

Ali had expected them to derail on Lira’s presence, but it seemed Bastian was more interested in sparring with Vivian.

“That’s not proof of anything,” Bastian declared. “She’s claiming the legendary city is below our feet, has anyone seen it?”

“I have,” Calen answered. Beside him, Malika nodded her agreement but chose not to speak.

“Anyone who is not accused.”

“I have been in the Grand Library Arcana.” Ali’s heart jumped to hear the sound of Ryn’s voice raised in her defense from the back of the audience. “My class is proof of that.”

Bastian just stared her down in frustration, and Ali took the opportunity to direct the flow of conversation, just as Lira had coached her.

