He noticed that he was getting thirsty when he saw movement to his left. He hid behind a tree and glanced past. Faint sunlight shone down on a small clearing in the forest, illuminating several carcasses of animals, one of them as large as a horse and winged, its head a blend of a bird and a stag. Kneeling before it was a woman. She wore a dark red cape whose color seemed to be fading. Below, he could see what looked like medieval or Roman armor made of leather, parts of it steel. She had long brown hair, partially obscured by the large scabbard fastened to her back. The handle of a large sword peaked out at the top of it.

She had stopped moving.

She's human. Or at least she looks like it. And she's already heard me. I shouldn't delay.

He had prepared for this moment. Had hoped for it. But now, it did feel slightly awkward after all. More so because he barely knew the language. He peeked out from behind the tree and waved at her before he could consider that she didn't speak Lavirian at all.

“Hello. I am Veron, an adventurer, and I think I need help.” He had no idea how much he butchered the pronunciation, but the main words were there. A greeting, his name, the adventuring bit that would hopefully kind of explain his state of nakedness, and a plea for help.

The woman stood up and looked at him. It looked as if her eyes had a glint of red in them. Her skin was tanned. She sighed and glanced around, slowly reaching for her sword before she unsheathed it from her back. The handle looked golden, the blade itself reflecting the sunlight. She looked calm and not particularly focused on him.

He waited.

When she glanced his way again, she seemed slightly confused. Then she gestured for him to come closer.

Veron forced himself to move slowly. By the way she casually held the sword almost as large and half as broad as herself, he wondered if she had been the one to kill the beasts. What he knew for sure though, was that if she decided that he was a threat, he would very likely be dead.

He slowly stepped out from the tree, covering his privates with the sheets of paper. And he was ready to make a run for it.

He tried to smile in a friendly way and waved again. “Hello. I'm Veron. My speak is bad.”

She stared at him for a long moment and then lowered her sword, starting to laugh right after. She said a few words then and a sentence that sounded like a question.

He shook his head in a confused manner. “Help?”

The woman shook her head In disbelief. She seemed slightly amused and then nodded. “Help.” It was all she said before she sheathed her sword and walked up to him. She stopped a few meters in front of him and crossed her arms.

He saw now that the red in her eyes was really there. She looked to be in her forties. He saw a few small scars near her left temple and it looked like her gear had seen better days. There were dents and scratches but it looked reasonably well polished.

She said something. It sounded accusatory. But she seemed amused at the same time.

Staring? Or because I’m naked?

Veron tilted his head to the right slightly and smiled. Then he shrugged. He was naked in what he assumed to be another world, and barely spoke the language. It was bound to be a little awkward.

She pointed at the sheets of paper.

He kept one and handed her the rest.

Her slight amusement changed to a more serious expression as soon as she started reading. She murmured to herself, slightly confused it seemed. Then she glanced at him with interest. As if she was looking at a strange exotic animal.

“Veron,” he said again.

She nodded slowly, lost in thought for a moment before she focused back on him. “Veron. I’m Ivera.” She said and handed back the papers. She said a few words and then walked off and back towards the carcasses.

Wait here, Veron translated. He sat down and watched her.

Ivera didn't speak another word for a while. She first checked all the carcasses. The large winged one and three smaller ones that looked a bit like starved dogs but it was difficult to tell at the distance.

She moved the bodies, changed the position of their legs and closed their eyes. Then she stepped in front of them and grabbed something out of a pouch on her belt. A candle that she lit and set down on the forest floor. She slowly unsheathed her blade and rammed it into the ground, then knelt down before the candle. She kept one hand on her left thigh and the other one touching the handle of the sword and then she started speaking. Quiet words that sounded like a poem.

A prayer? Veron could almost feel the heavy atmosphere around him. He didn't raise his sheets to try and translate the words she was speaking. It felt wrong, to interrupt this moment. Instead, he closed his eyes and listened.

He breathed in and felt the forest floor below him, the earth that lay deeper still. He felt a pulse go through him, through everything he was.

And then it was gone, leaving only goosebumps behind. He opened his eyes and saw that Ivera was rising. She put away her sword and glanced his way with an unreadable expression. She walked towards the thicket and said a word.

Follow, he translated.

Veron gave her a nod and followed, glancing back at the dead creatures one last time. The scene before him felt lighter, more serene, the violence and death fading with the strands of sunlight reaching down.

He wondered what he had felt.
