The sky was spitting blood down over the treetops that splintered like broken glass as the UH-1P helicopters roared over the forest.
Below, a thousand flickers of movement in the dense jungle cover gave the gunner too many targets. Not a single one actionable. The ground was alive; the radio was spitting almost as much fire from the major on the line as the hornets of gunfire echoing up from the ground.
The entire squad didn’t react as another artillery blast split the air. The half-Elf in the gunner’s seat just kept swinging the M60 left and right, searching for a new target.
On the other side of her, her squad sergeant was having a smoke. As the whop-whop-whop of the helicopter signaled they were descending, someone began blasting Fortunate Son against military regulations. But they were landing, and so Silvenia Ettertree, Private First Class, took hold of the M16 she’d just been issued and—
 
——
 
“Silvenia. Silvenia. Please stop.”
The helicopters still kept descending as a half-Elf wearing forest-green armor and a simple, rounded helmet leaned out of the helicopter’s window.
The illusion spell was very good. It even had music, the smell of oil, and the acrid fumes wafting from the cigarette.
Serinpotva could even feel the heat and humidity of the jungle, like that of Baleros. It probably wasn’t accurate; Silvenia had no idea what helicopter fumes actually smelled like, and using the memories of Earthers wasn’t anything like a real war.
“I asked you a straightforward question. Can you not…just be honest?”
“What? That was how it was back then.”
The Death of Magic, the real Silvenia, gave Serinpotva a salute as the image of the girl who looked barely sixteen froze in the projection. In reply, the largest living Harpy in the world, the Death of Wings, Serinpotva, exiled ruler of Harpies, just turned her head and pecked at Silvenia.
It was a default gesture, even if she had a Human’s torso and face, despite having avian wings. She was so vast that she could carry the Death of Magic and the looted chest of holding and tons of grain on her back and keep flying at max speed.
Mind you, not all the grain; the silos they’d struck in Taimaguros had been just one target, and Silvenia was levitating the rest behind them. The warhorns from their raid to steal as much food as possible were still echoing in Serinpotva’s ears.
However, the pursuit, if any had been attempted, would be fruitless. One did not simply catch two Deaths of the Demons. Even if there were Pegasus Riders or Griffin Riders who could move at astronomical speeds—what would they do if they caught up? Scream?
It was a classic raid for what Demons needed: uncontaminated food. Doubtless, the Blighted Kingdom would spin it as hard as they could, but even Silvenia’s magic couldn’t generate food forever. Besides—striking Taimaguros would exacerbate the traditional feuds between the two sides in that kingdom.
The Deaths had done it countless times. True, they hadn’t been able to until recovering their health, but Czautha had already petitioned for five dozen strikes against Slavers of Roshal, which would net coin, potential recruits, and most importantly, hope for her people.
It was a game of increasing risk and rewards—too many would galvanize the world against Demons. Serinpotva, as strategist and leader of Demons under the Demon King, had long done the assessment.
That didn’t matter. That wasn’t interesting. Serinpotva turned to the half-Elf sitting on her back. The Harpy Queen flapped her wings every now and then, but she moved with magic as much as physicality, so her wings sounded like vengeance and the weight of her fallen species.
Silvenia was lighter in temperament and nature. She lounged, despite the ruined body, effortlessly projecting an illusion for Serinpotva to see as she shielded the two from tracking, levitated many thousands of pounds of grain behind them, and probably used a dozen more spells at the same time.
She was the oldest living Demon. The strongest, at least in warfare. Serinpotva led armies. One might argue Czautha might have been a superior combatant. But neither could erase an army as fast as the Traitor of Terandria, the Archmage of the Forgotten Era, Islandbreaker—
Silvenia Ettertree.
Her company was not interesting after so long. What was interesting was…
“I asked you who you flew off to meet with. Tserre. A half-Elf you personally knew. When I asked about your relationship, you claimed she and you had known each other millenia in the past. When I requested a story about your past, you showed me that.”
“I thought it was more interesting.”
“You don’t wish to tell me stories of your past.”
Serinpotva’s voice was calm, if disappointed. Getting a story out of Silvenia was like wringing water from a rock if she didn’t want to tell it. For all she was ancient of days, she was surprisingly close-mouthed about her past.
Sure enough, Silvenia wriggled slightly as she sat on Serinpotva’s wing. She gestured at the Vietnam-Silvenia in the illusion.
“What about an illusion that’s a metaphor? I built half the movie already. It’s got lots of hidden lore. For instance, a UH-1P helicopter instead of a UH-1 is significant because—”
“Silvenia. Please. I just want to know about Tserre. Ally? Enemy? You can spare me the story if you don’t want to tell it.”
Strategy. Serinpotva interjected just the right amount of weariness and exasperation into her voice. A hint that this was her as the war leader speaking. Silvenia’s smile faltered. The half-Elf, who had embodied merciless war since the day Serinpotva was hatched, hesitated—and then sighed.
“—It’s not an easy story to tell. I could—no. Fine. I’ll tell you honestly. Give me ten minutes. I might as well show Flora and the new Demons a picture of what Rhir looked like in the past.”
She sat there pensively, silver hair streaming behind her, and Serinpotva nodded.
“Thank you, Silvenia. You needn’t do this if you do not wish.”
“…It’s fine. It’s just memory. Like scars, sometimes I wish they’d fade. And sometimes I regret each one I forget.”
The half-Elf gave the Death of Wings a crooked smile. Her eyes contained a multitude of lives, each one lived in magic’s name. The Death of Wings gave her a dignified nod again. Then, inwardly, Serinpotva pumped a mental wing in victory.
Yes. Success. 
She sent an instant [Memo] spell to Czautha to get all the interested Demons they knew for a story. And to bring popcorn.
 
——
 
“War-torn Rhir back at the height of the Creler Wars looked incomprehensible to the modern day. You may be wondering where the ground is. The smoke is from [Everburning Blaze] spells. The ground is mostly cratered earth. Later on, we realized the Crelers kept the blazes going because they helped them escape our eyes more than killed them.”
Silvenia’s voice floated through the illusion of a half-Elf girl, sixteen years old in appearance, clutching a wand and a glowing shield. She was sitting in a leather seat of sorts anchored to the Harpy’s back, the air blowing around her as, below, roiling clouds of black smoke filled the landscape.
It looked like they were flying above a sea of another world entirely, an inhospitable land. No, not in an attack helicopter.
But there were parallels. The gigantic Harpy dipped one wing and turned her head.
“We are closing over the embattled zone. Prepare for descent.”
“By your guidance, First of Wings.”
A Dullahan woman had been eating a nali-stick. She stood up, carelessly balancing on the vast Harpy’s back, as an entire group of nearly forty figures looked up.
Some were as young as Silvenia looked. The oldest was the Dullahan, barely forty years old. Her armor was pitted and scarred, but the Adamantium metal had survived all but a single gash that had torn up the midsection. It had been patched—but [Banehunter Captain] Loteiv had shown Silvenia the armor the day she’d come recruiting for the war effort.
She’d warned the half-Elf girl that some breeds of Crelers could tear through Adamantium and any barrier spell in a moment. But the Crelers had reached even the Ettertree Groves. Even the last Dryads and Treants had gone to war.
Shouldn’t she? The question had led a girl of barely forty years to leave her village. She was hardly the youngest person here. She’d spent forty years studying magic and even receiving lessons from her elders returning from the battles against the Crelers.
The entire world was wrapped in conflict with the horrors. 
Leaping from a Harpy’s back into the heart of Rhir was, ironically, not the most dangerous thing you could be doing. Silvenia’s heart still bounced in her chest a thousand times a second. She saw the gigantic Harpy glancing at her and bowed.
“T-thank you for your passage, First of Wings.”
She didn’t even know the Harpy’s name. First of Wings was just her title; she flew alone, so she was given the title by default under Harpy military doctrines.
“Fly well, little half-Elf. You are young. Too—no. Thirty seconds, [Captain].”
“You heard her. Reconnaissance Team Septha, prepare to drop. Keep your spells muted.”
It was the umpteenth time the Dullahan had said it, but it bore repeating. One of the reasons Silvenia had been chosen was because she’d learned [Camouflaged Magic]. Now, she stood, stumbled, and nearly fell off the wing as she panicked and overbalanced.
A huge [Druid] caught her arm and grinned. He had a shaggy head of wild, brown hair, and he was bare-chested, wearing only tattered robes. No magical gear, unlike her carefully prepared artifacts and wand.
“Careful, little leaf-child. What’s your name? We barely had a moment to talk.”
“Silvenia. [Mage]. I’m from Terandria, Avel. The Ettertree Groves.”
“Rottervine. [Druid]. Izril’s forests. Now under House Veltras.”
They exchanged a glance for one second—then heard a shout.
“Jump!”
Silvenia hesitated. From wh—
Rottervine saw her hesitation and tossed her off the Harpy’s wing, then leapt after her with a howl lost in the wind. Silvenia flailed, screamed—then recast [Feathercatch]. She angled her body, diving down as the [Druid] pointed.
Thirty-nine figures dropped through the air as the Harpy banked overhead and flew back the way she’d come. They passed through burning smoke, and Silvenia’s lungs ached, despite the [Filtered Air] spell she’d applied. When she stared down past the first layer of smog, she gasped at the raging fires covering the land.
“This really is hell!”
She cried out, and someone laughed hoarsely.
Dropping towards the uninhabited earth. Aiming for a tiny patch of darkness amidst the ruined soil that was the entrance to the vast tunnel networks the Crelers had dug. They had to get in there fast. Otherwise, the constant bombardments from Wistram and other areas might hit them by accident.
The long-range bombardments would never kill the Crelers. Silvenia angled her body clumsily, trying to copy the other veterans. They had to find where the huge ones were hiding, the Elder Crelers, or ones specialized for laying broods. Or, failing that, find a nest, a brood colony where millions might spawn from and have it bombarded into oblivion.
If they found a single Ancient Creler—they’d all die. But if one were killed, it might shift the course of this war, and all their lives would be well spent. Either way—they would be spent.
Suicide mission. Far too much for a girl from Ettertree to be asked to participate in. But she was a gifted [Mage] and…
There had been no one else that wasn’t wounded or traumatized by the war. So Silvenia Ettertree first stepped foot on Rhir’s soil at forty-three years old. She pivoted, and a blast of wind shot dirt and dust into the air, catching her right before she landed. She saw the [Druid], Rottervine, land nimbly next to her as she stumbled and almost fell flat on her face.
“In the tunnels. Now.”
He growled as she looked around for their [Captain].
“Wait, what about—”
“Those star-suckling bastards! It’s a bombardment from the Walled Cities! One of the ancient Mershi scrolls! Run! Run!”
A Drake shouted, and everyone looked up—and the clouds of smog overhead tore as meteors and comets blasted down. Straight towards them.
“That’s supposed to be five minutes later! Into the tunnels!”
[Bane Captain] Loteiv shouted, and Silvenia saw a constellation appear for a second through the clouds overhead. The smog tore away to reveal a snarling Drake, an illustration made of the very stars, pointing down, the tip of a claw glowing.
“Constellation magic.”
She breathed—then saw a meteor glowing like the forests of her home heading straight for her. Then the half-Elf realized everyone else had already run for the tunnel and ran after them, screaming. She leapt for the hole as the glow got brighter and brighter—
 
——
 
It was a very good illusion. Flora, Bazeth, Demon officers, even ones who looked like they were over a century old, all watched, forgetting to even eat their popcorn.
Why, Czautha and Serinpotva were both here, which told Flora how important this was. Even one of the Giants was sitting forwards to stare.
Apparently, not even the other Demons and Deaths knew much of Silvenia’s history. The half-Elf refused to tell them more than they needed to know, and only the Earthers’ presence had changed her mind.
The image of Silvenia diving for the hole was vivid in Flora’s mind. The magic of a top-tier illusion was not only the hot air on Flora’s skin or the smell of incomprehensible, vile organics mixed with scorched earth.
If Flora chose, she could watch Silvenia from afar or be in Silvenia’s skin, feeling her panic and the need to wet her pants. So transfixed was Flora that when the voice interrupted the illusion, she jumped.
“Q-q-q-q-q-quest-t-t-t-t—”
“Wait. Pause.”
Czautha spoke, and Silvenia obligingly halted the illusion. Everyone sighed, gasped, and blinked.
The voice had come from a shaking figure being supported by Czautha. The new Death of…well, they hadn’t given them a name yet. Even they had come out of recovery for this. Flora’s eyes jerked to the shaking limb being raised, then away.
It was painful to see; all the surviving Deaths were wounded beyond belief. But the Djinni leaned over, listened to a cracked whisper, then spoke.
“Question, Silvenia. Did you truly drop into Rhir on Harpy’s back?”
The Death of Magic puffed out her cheeks.
“I did!”
Serinpotva exchanged a dubious glance with Czautha. Silvenia just shook a finger at them.
“When I was young, Harpies were still respected like that.”
“What does this have to do with Tserre?”
Silvenia blinked.
