“How? And why? We wiped their species out. Murdered them so efficiently that if they had been Crelers, no more would remain. I did that. The stones filled with—radiation you called it, Flora? The ones the Blighted Kingdom hurls at us? I helped invent those to wipe the Soiretham out. I used every tool against the foes that assailed the Blighted Kingdom. And there were so many.”
She sat there, once the greatest enemy of Demons. Then a wing softly enveloped Silvenia’s body. A feathered hug from Serinpotva.
“Tell me what it was like, Silvenia. Holding that line.”
“How many Demons I killed in the name of protecting the world from them?”
Silvenia’s lips twisted, but Czautha spoke up.
“No. Demons and the Blighted Kingdom—and Antinium—strive against what emerges from Rhir still. Soiretham—were there others?”
The half-Elf glanced up, and her features came alive again.
“Oh, yes. Every few centuries—a thousand years was the longest time between new things I remember. And then something truly nasty emerged. But most of my time observing all that was as the Death of Magic. When I was in the Blighted Kingdom, it was never so obvious. Even so, when those first few walls were going up, the rest of the world’s attention would wane, and we’d struggle—until the Demons emerged.”
“Obviously.”
Serinpotva nodded quietly, and the new Death made a garbled whispering sound. The Harpy Empress leaned down, and Flora peeked at the Death of…well, they hadn’t decided their name yet.
New Death. New—and let the Blighted Kingdom tremble when they were ready. They hadn’t shown their face much; Silvenia’s stories truly brought out everyone. They were—shy.
Yeah. Shy was one way to describe it. A trembling limb jerked a shawl over their features, and Flora glanced away respectfully as Serinpotva listened, then nodded.
“—She would like to know how the politics of other nations affected the Blighted Kingdom before the Demons justified a constant threat.”
Serinpotva translated, and Silvenia pondered a moment, eyes lighting up with a more academic interest.
“I almost wish I were back in the academy. I could have taught a class on politics. The most prescient example is the way we tolerated imperiums. The Nagatine Empires…every time the Lizardfolk formed one, or declared one was being founded with the Eyes of Baleros, we did nothing. Rhir, that was. I remember toasting them forming one with one of the Blighted Queens one time.”
“Why? Didn’t Lizardfolk conquer too much and have to be overthrown?”
Flora burst in, holding her hand up, and Silvenia cocked a silver eyebrow at her.
“Well, yes. But that was someone else’s problem. Whenever the Lizardfolk first formed the Nagatine Empires, Rhir looked forwards to getting a wave of thousands of Nagas as reinforcements. Then, after a few years or decades, the generosity ceased. It happened twice before I joined the Demons. Both times, I got to relax for a while—the second time I ended up flying to Baleros to join the fighting because the Nagatine Empire was threatening Wistram.”
She sighed nostalgically.
“I even got my hands on one of the Eyes of Baleros. I never did figure out all its features, and it bothered me so much I was debating chucking it over the edge of the world when someone stole it from me. [Thieves]. I chased that stupid Dwarf over the waves for miles, lobbing spells the entire way. She was running on top of the water, and I was laughing too hard to aim straight.”
She laughed to herself, then fell quiet.
“It was easier like that. Demons. That was when—I could have kept going back to Rhir if they had never existed. Again and again. But the Demons bothered me. So—Tserre?”
She began to conjure another illusion and looked into the past with a sigh.
“I wonder, if I had asked her, if she would have gone. I never did, though. She was never a boon companion or the greatest of my allies. I like to think that she and I were friendly enough, though.”
 
——
 
The last times they met, they were equals. Of sorts.
They never would be, not really. But Tserre could pretend, when she saw Silvenia leaning on a balcony, that it was acceptable to just walk over with a cup of wine and stand next to a legend.
The Archmage of Elves they called her now. So old—well, Tserre looked older now. Yet Silvenia was ever the undisputed master of magics. The…
The same she’d been, in a sense, ever since the Creler Wars. There was no one who could hold a candle to her, not least because magic was fading.
“Did you see the expressions on that [High Magus]’ face when you told him [Featherfall] was a spell for infants, Silvenia? [Feathercatch] being the default for [Mages]—they don’t teach them like they used to.”
It was a safe conversation topic, at least, Tserre felt. Silvenia leaned on one of the balconies of Wistram, so high up they could see the sea for hundreds of miles. She had a pensive look on her face. A maudlin expression that had grown more and more of late.
“Levels are waning, Tserre. Not just magic. If you don’t have a Level 40-plus [Spellscribe], you can’t write Tier 6 magic.”
“What Level 40 [Spellscribes] do you know, and where can I hire them?”
That drew a smile from Silvenia, and Tserre offered her a cup as one of her familiars rolled forwards.
Squishy CXLII bobbed up and down until Silvenia took the cup, but she didn’t sip. Nor was she in the mood to laugh at the ‘young’ [Mages] and their new notions of magic.
“The Harpies have officially joined the Demons, Tserre.”
Tserre’s wine went sour in her mouth.
“No. Even if they were exiled from Terandria and—they fought Demons.”
“The very first mission I took against Crelers was on a Harpy’s back. I don’t understand. They’ve warred and made battle against other species, but they remember Rhir. Why would they…?”
Silvenia rubbed at the lines on her face, and Tserre tried to speculate.
“Maybe it’s the corruption of Rhir? Mind-control spells? If the Harpies were promised their kingdom—”
“They had nowhere to go. But it still makes no sense. Demons. It’s always Demons these days.”
“Are you going back for another tour of Rhir?”
Tserre held her breath. Please don’t. She didn’t have the time nor energy for it. But to her surprise, Silvenia, the tireless, the endless warrior for Rhir, just shook her head.
“No.”
“N…no? But aren’t the Demons still attacking the 3rd Wall of the Kingdom of Blight’s—what do they call it, the Blighted Kingdom?”
The Archmage nodded absently.
“They are. And yet…I’m not needed. Or rather, I am. But I’m not. The Demons attacked all across Terandria’s coast via the Harpy drops last month. When I saw that—I petitioned the Giants to act.”
“The Giants?”
If anyone could ask them for any favor, it would be Silvenia. The half-Elf nodded. She went on, voice musing.
“Then I approached the Blighted Kingdom’s Burnished Courts for…it was a fascinating conversation. With a [Prince]. Tell me something, Tserre. If I wiped out the Demons tomorrow, what do you think would happen?”
Was this a trick question? Tserre thought.
“Well, after they buried you in more medals and commendations and honorary titles…you’d have a drink?”
The Archmage chuckled at this.
“No, no. What happens after I defeat the Demons?”
“The Blighted Kingdom builds more walls. They make sure no Creler nests are hiding in the old tunnels. They investigate those ‘Antinium’ rumors, and we’re done.”
Silvenia twitched at the mention of ‘Antinium’, but she’d never elaborated on the name when it was brought up. She nodded at Tserre’s words.
“That’s what I thought. But apparently, I’m wrong.”
“Pardon? How so?”
“Apparently, if I wiped out the Demons with the last Giants—if they marched, and they’re willing to, one last march in the world’s name—I haven’t considered what comes next. After the Demon King is dead.”
The reply stumped Tserre. She stood there, wishing she’d switched the wine for water after all.
“But—the Demons are the pivotal threat of Rhir.”
“Apparently. Yet apparently, there’s a ‘next’. Enough for my volunteering to storm the Demon King’s citadel with thirty Giants—nevermind. Nevermind, Tserre. I’m just maudlin.”
Silvenia got up on the balcony and sat there a while, legs dangling over the surf below where sounds of merriment were echoing from Wistram. Tserre got up next to her and, eventually, changed the subject.
“Leila’s getting married.”
“Who’d marry an old woman like her?”
Tserre performed the Winebreath Blaster almost in the exact same spot where it had been invented. She laughed, and Silvenia smiled.
“Alright, who is it? I can at least show up for that wedding.”
“Please don’t. Well, do, but she wants it low-key.”
“So…magical cornucopia as a wedding gift or not? I’m still building them for nations who want them. Though I think undead farming is so much more efficient.”
Tserre just shook her head and felt bad about all the power games in Wistram. In her spare time, Silvenia did things like that. Tserre explained the circumstances of the marriage, and Silvenia made jokes that Tserre hoped wouldn’t appear at the wedding.
And smiled. Tserre heard Silvenia had flown out the next day. She did that, and Tserre, like their kind were wont to do, just waited for the next time they met since they had so long to do so.
But Silvenia never attended the wedding. Five months later, she was declared dead by the Blighted Kingdom following a march of the last Giants into the lands of the Demon King, and Tserre was in denial and shock. Silvenia should have taken half of Rhir with her.
Then—four years later—
The Death of Magic led an invasion that crushed the Third Wall of Rhir, and another worldly war began.
 
——
 
The final scene with Tserre before the Death of Magic’s betrayal of the world played out in silence, and Silvenia blew her nose with a handkerchief noisily. That broke the other Demons out from their trance of watching.
The story of Silvenia Ettertree, a prequel to the events of this world, was a sixteen-hour movie marathon with possible adaptation to novels or comics.
But since Silvenia could produce magical illusions far better than she could write or illustrate—let alone compose poetry—she left it there.
“So, you see. Tserre is no real ally of ours, Serinpotva. I never attempted to recruit her. She is more of a thorn in the Blighted Kingdom’s side, but one they would be wary to pluck.”
The Harpy nodded thoughtfully. Her heart hurt at the images of her forebears long gone, but her mind was alert.
“So I see. The full truth has always harmed the Blighted Kingdom.”
“Not enough. And they have always been good at strangling it, even when I tried to shout it to the world.”
Silvenia tapped her lips with a crooked grin, and Czautha shook her head. She was not able to muster a smile when discussing the Blighted Kingdom.
“How dangerous is she? To you, Silvenia.”
Silvenia produced an illusion of her last meeting with Tserre, complete with a nostalgic soundtrack. She fondly looked at the old half-Elf’s face, then turned to Czautha, and her eyes were steady and calm. The Death of Magic once more, Silvenia put away pity to answer the question simply.
“I could kill her if I had to. If she has an army like Erribathe’s around her, it gets tricky. She knows how to fight, but she’s not on my level. She’s more of a problem for the Blighted Kingdom than us, though. She knows better than to pick a fight with me.”
That seemed to assure the Deaths, but one of the Demons stared at the image of Tserre and her moving cottage—and the two loaded chickens with a bit of dismay.
“Is her magic that powerful, Death of Magic? Cottage aside—were you really chased off by a chicken, Lady Silvenia?”
The Death of Magic turned with an affronted look as the Demon flinched. But for answer, Silvenia just jabbed a finger at the illusion, and her smile widened once more.
“Heh. That’s the response I was looking for. I truly hope the Blighted Kingdom doesn’t really remember her. You fools. That’s not a chicken.”
Okay. That made Flora never want to meet the half-Elf with the walking cottage. She felt a shiver run down her back and touched the holster at her belt. However, Czautha’s weary sigh interrupted any more questions. The Death of Chains leaned forwards, memorizing Tserre’s face with a resigned look. She shook her head as she muttered to herself.
“So another powerful spellcaster enters the modern age. How many more are there? If I flip over a rock, will I be fighting a Level 80 [Druid]? How many more Dragonlords or potential allies or enemies, Silvenia?”
It was a flippant question, but a serious one. For answer, the Archmage of Hell just raised a hand, and her eyes flashed. One final scene played out.
 
——
 
The last Giants numbered thirty-eight in all. They stood like the hills, towering so far over the city of Paranfer that even the tallest buildings were only of a height with their chests. Even the palace.
Silvenia floated there, eyes on the horizon where the Demon King waited. The [Prince] was trying to dissuade them once more.
“Great Giants of old, Archmage, the world can ill afford to lose you. If the Creler Wars should happen again—”
A booming voice cut him off.
“If they happen, they happen, Prince of the Blighted Kingdom. We are tired. We who stand before you are the last Giants of all. In the name of the Archmage of Elves—we will fall upon the Demons. It is a worthy end to our kind. One last service in the name of the future we have no place in.”
His words shook Silvenia’s soul, and she heard voices crying out. A great congregation of Dwarves and half-Elves and half-Giants had followed them, all of whom had tried futilely to stop their kindred.
Lamentations. But the Giants’ eyes were calm, and the [Prince] of Rhir looked up and smiled.
“Don’t—don’t say it so, Ser Giant. How would the world be if there were not the possibility of someone climbing a mountain of ice to see it move and eyes appear? Or for a traveller to pass under the leg of a sleeping Lava Giant? There will always be more Giants, surely, just as there are Dragons.”
The look he received from above was not scorn. Not exactly. But it was like Silvenia’s eyes. The [Prince] faltered as the Giant bent over, casting a shadow over him and his wary escort.
“I understand your words, mortal [Prince]. Yet I tell you this: the Tallest are gone. There are no more Giants. You believe one or two will remain. No. We are the last.”
The lamentations rose, and the [Prince] of Rhir faltered. His eyes found the three dozen giants.
“All…? But surely—”
A female Giant boomed, her voice ringing with amusement and loss.
