“Tserre? You wanted to hear stories of the old days I thought, Serinpotva. You bugged me as a chick all the time about it. If it’s Tserre—I can fast forwards. She’s far younger than I. Drat. I had an entire story about my first foray into Rhir’s heart. I even met Antinium, though we had no idea who they were. Hold on…”
She conjured what looked suspiciously like Flora’s description of a remote and, sighing, fast-forwarded the memories. Everything rushed forward in a blur; Flora saw a half-Elf firing panicked spells at Crelers swarming up a tunnel mouth, separating from her team as a horrific worm-like Creler exploded through the tunnel. Racing for her life across the surface with a squad of four until a vast wolf ripped the worm-Creler to bits.
The [Druid], Rottervine, grinning as he spat a twitching leg out his mouth—
“No, no! We want to see the entire thing!”
Czautha protested. Silvenia paused and gave the Djinni a sinister stare.
“Well, make up your mind. Tserre’s one part of the story.”
“Just how long is this, Silvenia?”
“Only eight hours. It covers the first adventure I had, then it skips ahead. A lot of that’s dialogue—I cut out a lot, but you do a lot of talking between fighting for your life. I did include the first romance I ever had—”
The Demon’s leadership groaned, and one of them raised a hand.
“Can you at least conjure chairs for us, Death of Magic?”
Sighing, Silvenia did that and then brightened up.
“What if I made a time-slowed theatre and brought the story to all the Demons? I could charge for admission. Two rocks a seat. An irradiated rock for a premium seat. A handful of sand for popcorn—”
You had to have fun in the lands of the Demons. Flora took a seat and began to eat more popcorn as Serinpotva protectively shielded the new Death’s ruined face.
“How much explicit material is in your memories, Silvenia? We don’t need to see you making eggs with someone.”
“How about tasteful nudity?”
The two began to argue as Flora hesitated, then leaned over to Bazeth, one of the Demons’ [Generals], if far lesser than Silvenia.
“Who’s Tserre and why does she matter so much, Bazeth?”
He whispered back.
“We have no idea.”
 
——
 
Voreca read out everything Erribathe knew on Tserre. Which wasn’t much.
“Tserre. Half-Elf from the Village of the Spring. True name unknown. Tserre Springwalker does not appear on any records. A ‘Tserre’ does appear in several of our records. Ancient records, Your Majesty. Some thousands of years old.”
King Nuvityn sat in the royal palace of Erribathe, sighing. The army was mustered. Warriors from across the Kingdom of Myths had come to his banner in a week’s time. They were set to march—and he was sitting here.
Because his visit to the Village of the Spring had proven more complicated than he’d thought.
Mysterious half-Elven [Mage] wants to join Prildor to save her grandniece? Half the courts had just nodded as if it were obvious. It happened.
Said half-Elf had a walking cottage? The Village of the Spring had launched a petition for Tserre to put it back, not because they were alarmed by her grand magic, but because it had really disrupted their understanding of geography.
Still fine—it meant Tserre was a powerful [Mage]; the best in the army, perhaps. All fine.
Said half-Elf attracted the Death of Magic for a one-on-one chat the moment she left the Village of Spring? That—that was a red flag.
King Nuvityn had done the logical thing: have someone investigate Tserre. He would have done it anyways. But there were problems.
“She’s old, then. Twice as old as Prildor, maybe more.”
“Yes, Your Majesty. She’s not just old for a half-Elf. She’s, well, old as Djinnis measure it.”
And only Djinnis and a few other half-Elves could equal her age. Dead gods. Well, Nuvityn focused.
“Is she waiting? Comfortable?”
“She has been eating cookies with tea, Your Majesty. She awaits in one of the sitting rooms; Her Majesty has been keeping Tserre company.”
“Good. Then we shall ask Magus Tserre personally who she is.”
They had to have answers, even of a kind. Nuvityn stared down at the transcripts of old documents the [Historians] had found.
The problem was that even enchanted books decayed after a mere ten thousand years with the best bindings and magic. And those were the best. Cross-referencing a single name across all their records was the job of madness—yet [Librarians] and [Historians] delved into the past, sometimes with boots on in case of what they found.
“Most of her records were excised, Your Majesty.”
“How?”
It was outrageous to Nuvityn that anyone would destroy records. The Kingdom of Myths had some of the most extensive recordings of world history—but Voreca just shook her head.
“Our notes indicate they were removed during the Purging of Ettertree.”
Nuvityn felt another blow to his chest.
“The Death of Magic’s name being excised from history?”
“Yes, sire.”
“I always wondered about that. It was such an extreme reaction. Her name being removed as a great defender of Rhir, yes. But so many stories and other tales being removed?”
“She was beloved at the time, sire. News of her ‘death’ at the hands of Demons was a scant four years past before she took their side. To preserve morale and establish a proper narrative, I gather that’s why Rhir gave the order.”
“Hm. But it seems this Tserre was also affected by the purge?”
“Yes, sire.”
The two came to a halt in the corridor before the tea room, and Nuvityn turned.
“—How likely is it she’s a Demon or allied with them?”
Voreca shook her head.
“I have had the royal guard stationed unobtrusively close by, but Prildor swears to her credibility. Moreover, the Blighted Kingdom does not let allies of Demons live, Your Majesty.”
“Unless she hid from them. She never left the Village of the Spring once according to the other half-Elves.”
Nuvityn had a bad feeling about all this, but he hadn’t sent a question to the Blighted Kingdom. And that prudence was rewarded when Voreca glanced around, as if anyone might be listening in.
“I would be more concerned, sire. But I remind you that we have had issues with the Blighted Kingdom before.”
“Leila Springwalker. Yes, I see. Then—we ask.”
Nuvityn nodded, then opened the doors and strode inside as a half-Elf slowly got to her feet. Tserre was wary, but she bowed slightly to him, and he sat, offering her a smile. When he did ask, it was politely and with genuine curiosity to know the truth as she saw it.
After all—
He did love stories.
 
——
 
Tserre was two hundred and six the day she first laid eyes on the Archmage of Magic’s Ire—or, as some called her, the Archmage of Hell—Silvenia Ettertree.
The half-Elf strode into the class of students she’d agreed to teach, wearing visible armor under her robes. Mithril shifted as she placed a staff down and it hovered there, and then the [Archmage] turned.
“So you’re the children who want a taste of Rhir.”
Silvenia looked barely forty years old. To be fair, Tserre looked fourteen. They had both slowed in their aging immensely, to the point where Tserre looked wildly young for her age and surprised even other half-Elves.
The girl squeaked as Silvenia’s eyes passed over her, and she clutched the cute wizard’s hat and wand she’d been given on her first day at Wistram. That made the half-Elf’s gaze swing back as Tserre’s hat bulged.
“Tserre! You were supposed to leave Squishy at home!”
A half-Elf in the back row of the class hissed. Maura Springwalker, one of Tserre’s friends from the villages, was trying to hide the jiggling in the hat when Silvenia arched an eyebrow, and the hat tore upwards.
A wiggling, yellow slime danced around on Tserre’s head. A miniature monster, in grave dereliction of Wistram’s no-monster policy.
Both girls froze as the Archmage floated forwards. She was over a thousand years old. Among the greatest of [Mages] in the entire world, if not the best. She still had scars from the Creler Wars, and her eyes were cold and dispassionate.
“Names.”
Tserre’s head emptied of thought instantly. She stood there, knees shaking, as she stared into those dispassionate eyes. Thankfully, Maura was able to stutter a response.
“M-Maura, Archmage! From the Village of the Spring! And this is Tserre! From—”
“You want to visit Rhir. And you think bringing a slime is a good idea?”
Silvenia spoke over Maura, eyes flicking to Tserre. The girl was still tongue-tied, but Maura tried to defend her.
“It’s part of her class, Archmage! She wouldn’t bring Squishy there—”
This was just a test to see if they were even eligible to visit the continent where Crelers had sprung from. It was still hell, and the lone Archmage with the title of Hell’s Warden at Wistram had long advocated for more [Mages] to return there.
The Kingdom of Blight’s End needed help after all. At least, that was what they were calling it. The first wall was going up around a colony spot, and the Archmage of Hell had been there so often she hadn’t visited Wistram for the last few years!
“Are these what Archmage Valmira thinks capable students look like? You want to perform a semester of duty in Rhir. How old are you?”
Silvenia leaned forwards, eying Tserre and Maura skeptically. Both instantly spoke their ages, making a young Human man eyeing them jump.
“A hundred and forty-nine, Archmage!”
“Two hundred and six.”
Silvenia narrowed her eyes at Tserre.
“You’re both from the villages. What year?”
“Third—”
“Third. And you think you can survive Rhir?”
Didn’t you survive it when you were only forty? Tserre managed a response, eager to assure Silvenia she could keep up.
“I—I studied magic and practiced it for over a hundred and sixty years, Archmage! Maura for over seventy years!”
Maura nodded eagerly as the other students gave them dismayed looks. It was the kind of thing only a half-Elf of the true timeless villages could boast.
A hundred and sixty years of practice. Maura had gotten into her magic training later, but Tserre had happily practiced magic day in, day out since she was forty. It had shot her through Wistram’s basic classes so fast she had been able to take this class on Rhir. After all, the old half-Elven villages had spells the rest of the world had begun to forget after the Creler Wars.
Tserre was waiting for Silvenia to see something in her. Possibly to take Tserre under her wing and teach Tserre spells herself. She saw the Archmage of Hells look down at her—and then Silvenia stared past Tserre and Maura.
“Fail.”
The two stood there as Silvenia walked backwards. The Archmage turned back and glared, as if annoyed they were still here.
“Get out. Half-Elves who haven’t even seen real combat are no match for Rhir’s horrors. One day in the outside world is worth a decade of your ‘training’.”
“But I—”
Maura was already backing up. Tserre began to protest, and Silvenia flicked a hand.
That was how a screaming half-Elf girl—and a slime—plummeted past Archmage Valmira’s window as the woman was having a drink in the morning. And how the Winebreath Blaster was first invented.
 
——
 
“—You were taught by the Death of Magic when she was still the respected Archmage?”
After a while, Voreca confirmed this, and Tserre broke out of her memories to see the King and Queen of Myths staring at her.
“Hm? Oh, yes.”
It was the politest interrogation she’d ever had, and she had been a guest of the Blighted Kingdom. Tserre’s hand twitched at the memory, and she wondered if this had been a mistake.
She needed Nuvityn’s support to leave Erribathe safely. Trying to appear calm, the half-Elf kept drinking her tea.
“I cannot prove I was there then. But if you have truth spells or Skills…”
…They’re absolutely useless against the right magic, but they might make you feel better? To her relief, the King of Myths sat forwards.
“Continue, Magus Tserre. I thought you were a [Witch].”
“Oh. No. My exact class has some overlap, but I was always a student of magic itself.”
Tserre smiled faintly. She understood how he got there with the moving cottage. That, too, was part of her studies. Understanding how a cottage could walk, at least, had been a fun challenge.
“And your class would be…?”
“I prefer to keep that private. I am sure you understand my caution, Minister Voreca.”
The woman wasn’t pleased, but Nuvityn lifted a hand.
“I am merely curious as to your association with the Death of Magic. How—was that the only moment you had contact with her?”
It would be easier to lie, but the lie would soon be uncovered, so Tserre sighed.
“I grew to know her after that, Your Majesty. The next moment was nearly a dozen years later—our association was never as close as friends. But she and I well knew each other…perhaps if I recounted another brief tale?”
For answer, Nuvityn slowly pulled out a piece of the fake Elven bread and began to nibble on it. Tserre? All she had to do was close her eyes and—
 
——
 
The second time they met, the Archmage of Magic’s Ire recognized her. And she was slightly more complimentary.
“The girl with the slime. You made it to Rhir after all.”
Tserre jumped as a load of [Mages] were disembarking the flying chariot that had led them to the war front.
War in Rhir. The entire world was abuzz with fear of it, but seeing Silvenia here made Tserre feel, strongly, it was the right thing to do.
“Y-yes, Archmage. I won’t let you down this time. I’ve been practicing.”
The Archmage of Magic’s Ire just screwed up her lips and turned slightly. She carried a sword at her side and armor, not magical robes. Said armor had scorch marks, and her silvery locks had holes where something had sheared through them. The [Mages] under Silvenia’s command were fresh-faced. Tserre could see ranks of grim-faced warriors, including half-Elves from home, and even a Harpy.
“I’d take novices at this point. The Kingdom of Blight’s End is under attack, and no nation is willing to commit its armies?”
That provoked a response from the Harpy, who was sitting by himself, wings folded. They were golden wings, and his gaze was surly; everyone else avoided him, but he spoke in a loud, booming voice.
“They are afraid, Archmage of Hell. Afraid we will all be stains on the earth and any armies sent will be lost. You, I, and the brave warriors here are to remind the wavering rulers that courage and victory both exist.”
Tserre held her breath; the comment provoked the ire of many around the gigantic Harpy. However, Silvenia just nodded at him respectfully. Then she turned.
“Where’s your friend?”
“Maura? She—she didn’t come.”
