She’s afraid. Who could blame her? It was one thing to visit Rhir, dangerous as that was, in times of peace. This had been a call to arms.
Silvenia just nodded.
“Then follow my orders. Your magic looks more precise than it was. Your barriers—double the layers if you can keep mobile. I don’t care what the mana cost is. These Soirethams pierce magic protections with their base spells. And keep behind your partner. Where are they?”
“U-um, mine should be there. She’s related to Maura, actually.”
Tserre’s voice quavered as the [Mages] were intercepted by a company of warriors. It was Silvenia’s initiative.
Shield & Sword. [Warrior] and [Mage]. Nothing else would do; a [Warrior] needed a [Mage]’s spells, and likewise, a [Mage] died in close-quarters combat without support.
Silvenia turned as a half-Elven warrior trudged over the ground towards them.
“Magus Tserre? I am Knightess Leila Springwalker. Your Shield in combat. Though I protest, Archmage. I don’t have time to guard a junior [Mage].”
A very unhappy-looking half-Elven woman stomped across the ground wearing armor like a [Knight] of Terandria. Tserre’s heart sank. Maura had said her older cousin was grumpy—she looked older than Tserre by far, and she seemed at home on the battlefield.
“Knightess. Humor me. You’ll need us [Mages] out there.”
Silvenia floated over, as cordial with Leila as could be. The half-Elf glanced at Tserre, who stepped forwards to introduce herself, and completely ignored the younger girl.
“We need more Archmages, if you’ll pardon me, Commander. And a Harpy?”
The huge avian was far, far different from Garuda. In response to the unspoken question, the Harpy rumbled.
“I am here to represent the exiled Empire of Wings. To show my people are not ignorant to the danger here, regardless of where we fly.”
Several glares from other species made Silvenia raise her voice.
“Then we are all here for common cause. Come. [Mages], report to me with your partners. You will never leave each other’s side until you depart Rhir. I need spells on our fortifications. Soiretham are coming. And I have heard there are even traitors fighting with them.”
Traitors? Tserre stared at Silvenia as Leila grabbed her by the arm and pulled her after the Archmage of Magic’s Ire. She felt her stomach churning and hoped her pet slime wouldn’t be too upset. Of course, telling Leila she had a pet slime might have been prudent.
Leila’s first introduction to Squishy was him crawling over her at night to get at a bag of green beans on her dressing table. And from there—
 
——
 
“Wait. You knew Leila? She never mentioned your name.”
Queen Eithelenidrel interrupted incredulously. Tserre broke off her explanations.
“I imagine she wouldn’t have.”
Her eyes were shifty. Nuvityn’s head hurt from all these revelations. Voreca was making notes, but she showed him a line she’d written down.
She’s dancing around the topic.
Yes, but fascinatingly so. Voreca was as engrossed by these tales of old as Nuvityn. The King of Myths felt like he was hearing something he shouldn’t; any positive tale of Silvenia was not told in Terandria. But it compelled questions.
“Soiretham. What are those, Magus Tserre? Forgive my ignorance. This was around the time of the advent of Demons, correct? The first Demon King?”
Tserre paused, a host of emotions running over her face at the mention of Demons, but then she looked surprised and offended.
“Soiretham, King of Myths. One of the many threats the Blighted Kingdom weathered. You surely recall them?”
“My…history is not so far back as that, Magus.”
“Far b—”
She paused, and he wondered just how long she’d been in the Village of the Spring. After a moment, Tserre ducked her head.
“They were a great threat to rival any but Crelers. If I may, I can describe them quite well.”
“Please do. You say the Archmage of Traitors—the Death of Magic fought them?”
Everyone leaned forwards as Tserre smiled bleakly.
“Oh, yes.”
 
——
 
Two years later.
Silvenia stared down at a stump of her hand as Tserre dragged Leila back.
“Archmage!”
“Hush. [Regeneration].”
Flesh began sprouting from the stump as Silvenia grimaced. She flexed her hand, but gestured at the lines of Soiretham forces.
“It took my gauntlet off, enchantments and all. So that’s their commander. All forces: rival [Archmage] on the field. Fall back. Prince Olisev, Knightess Leila, can you move?”
The Harpy [Prince] and the half-Elf were both wounded, but he uncovered his wings and rasped, and Leila staggered upright.
“Yes, Archmage.”
“Then here are my orders. Mage Corps. Every [Mage] under Level 50 will fall back. Every [Mage] over Level 50 will follow me forwards. Forget long-range casting. Use physical magic only. We must take them hand-to-hand.”
Was she insane? Tserre had been backing up when she heard the order. The Harpy Prince just glanced at Silvenia.
“Leave this to the warriors, Archmage. We cannot lose you.”
For an answer, Silvenia just drew a sword, and it hovered into place beside her head.
“[Mithril Body]. Much good it will do me against their spells. [Physique of the Supreme Spellblade]. [Shapeform: Armaments of Molten Stone].”
Floating molten rock, lava, erupted from the ground and swirled upwards, coating Prince Olisev’s wings and body. It didn’t weigh him down; the burning rock was so hot it made Tserre back up another step.
“Once they collapse my magic, it will burn you, Prince. Try to engulf them in it.”
Silvenia warned the Harpy, and he sneered as he opened his wings further.
“I am descended from the last true Empress of Harpies. I will not die. Will you take on that one?”
He pointed a wing, and Silvenia turned and leaned out of the way as a thin beam of magic visible only as a glimmer cut through the air where Silvenia’s head had been.
She locked eyes with the leader of the Soiretham. At least—whatever eyes it had.
It had a huge, insectoid back and tail, like that of a roach’s carapace. However, it was tall and hunched; they stood on two spindly legs, and they had, well, dozens of thin limbs.
Like Crelers, but they were a species unto themselves. Each one had tiny eyes, but at least two rasping sets of mouths they cast incantations with. Their words were incomprehensible to Tserre, even after two years of battle, but she had long since identified the Soiretham species.
They would forever, always, remind her of the little pests that haunted libraries. And forever after this, she swore she would purge the area of all of their kind.
Silverfish. They looked like giant silverfish. Only, these ones carried staves, fought in formations. Had magic so powerful even Silvenia had fallen back in the face of fighting so many.
And traitors, too. Why any people would fight on the Soiretham’s side, much less soldiers—they bore the Blighted Kingdom’s armor. Silvenia narrowed her eyes as they began to beat their weapons against their shields.
“I will kill their [Archmage]. I can’t tell what Skills he has. Does anyone know?”
“[Parallel Thoughts]. Definitely [Autocasting], Archmage.”
Tserre spoke, unsure of whether this was helpful, and Silvenia just nodded.
“What level is he?”
She and the enemy [Archmage] hadn’t moved. For the first time, Tserre wondered if Silvenia was out-levelled by a foe. The half-Elf waited, supreme in magic—but her foe was as old as she was.
Where had they come from? And why—Tserre shuddered.
Why did the Soiretham have levels and Skills? At first, everyone had denied the reports as mere hysteria. But anyone who fought them could tell you it was undeniable.
There was no more time for musings. A strange keening filled the air—voices or sounds so high-pitched that they were barely audible to Tserre. The drumming of the Demons’ weapons on their shields intensified; the ranks of men and women wearing the armor of proud bravery in hell marred only by the taint of invisible treachery upon them.
Then the enemy [Archmage] rose into the air soft as a thought, and Tserre forgot how to write or read. But the Archmage of Hell, who would later be known as the Archmage of Demon’s Bane, rose to meet their charge. Tserre heard one of the commanders shouting desperately.
“The Archmage of Hell is holding off their assault! Send Roshal’s slave legions forwards. Send forwards the Selphids! Breach—breach the Minacien Wall!”
It was all happening ahead and behind her, but for a moment, Silvenia just lingered where she stood, watching the enemy come towards her. Tserre could barely speak; the words were jumbled inside her head, being consumed by the being across from her, but the higher-level people resisted the influence.
Olisev spoke to Silvenia as Leila strode into place beside him.
“They’re chanting a name, Archmage.”
The Harpy Prince was tilting his head. Silvenia glanced at him as she began to float upwards.
“Really. What do they call that one?”
“—Death. Death. They shout ‘death. Death of Words.’”
The half-Elf paused, and Tserre saw the leader of the magical race of Silverfish open a tome with one feeler as it raised a staff and two wands. But it was a mockery; the book was empty.
They ate every magical word they came across. And in return—
The air warped, and Silvenia shouted.
“Advance!”
Then she was fending off a dozen spells whose very matrices were causing the air to visibly distort around them. Tserre would have gone after Leila or Silvenia, if she was able to, to help. But when she took one look up at the Tier 8 spell materializing in realspace, she just fled.
 
——
 
“Silverfish? With levels? I see their name in our annals—why were they not spoken of? Why are they not still listed as a threat from Rhir?”
Voreca was stunned by the revelation. For answer, Tserre just raised her weary brows.
“Because they are all dead. All of them, Minister. The Demon threat largely eclipsed theirs; by the time the ‘Demon King’ was a known quantity, the last of their magisters were serving amongst Demon forces. I had cause to encounter them. Time and again.”
“This was all still when the Death of Magic was an ally against them, though. I suppose in my studies of her, I understood she was a heroine of the Blighted Kingdom, but that is obviously eclipsed by her betrayal.”
Nuvityn was no fool. He was a King of Myths who knew history as well as most, it seemed, but it depressed Tserre to see the gaps in his understanding of the time she had lived in. She answered bitterly.
“Oh, yes. Heroine? She was the most celebrated Archmage in the Kingdom of Blight’s End. She built parts of the walls—her crusade against Rhir was endless from the day she fought in the Creler Wars. Yes, she left, but whenever I returned…”
Tserre’s voice trailed off.
 
——
 
Always, it was Silvenia. How many times?
 
“A call to arms has been issued by the Kingdom of Blight’s End.”
“The Kingdom of Blight’s End has invoked the concords. Magus, they have sent your name to—”
“Councilmagus Tserre, the Blighted Kingdom calls for aid! Will you join us on—”
 
How many times? 
Tserre didn’t know how many times they came calling. She wearied of it, in truth.
“It does not matter how many times you ask. I will not return to Rhir.”
“It is war, Councilmagus.”
Each time, she’d be met by a grave-faced young person. Always a bit younger than she was, eyes shining with urgency, and they’d tell her of some new horror. But Tserre would just shake her head.
She didn’t know how Silvenia did it. She’d snap back.
“The war never ends. They should just sink Rhir into the sea and have done with it! Leave me be. My final answer is no.”
And then she’d force them out, or ignore them, and go back to angling for an Archmage’s candidacy. She wasn’t really an [Archmage], nor would she ever be in class. But position? You could dream.
However, then, whether it be in Terandria, in her half-Elven village, in Wistram, or even exploring another continent, happily advancing her real passion and class—that woman would find her.
She’d just…float down out of the skies, laughing and calling her name. Once, she’d just had Leila dangling under one arm, and the half-Elves would wave at Tserre, and the [Mage]—well, not really [Mage], but that was the term for anyone who did magic—would weakly wave up at Silvenia.
Try to protest. But when Silvenia floated down, all the arguments would vanish.
“Tserre. I need your help.”
So Tserre went. Each and every damn time, because if she was weary, if she raged against the futility of it all, these damn Demons who seemed to refuse to die, even with so much arrayed against them—how much worse was it for Silvenia?
 
——
 
Nuvityn had a list of people he could call on in Erribathe’s darkest hours. Every ruler did. Not just warriors. Anyone over Level 40 was sure to appear on a list. Anyone over Level 30, frankly.
Prildor was Nuvityn’s go-to name. They knew each other. Nuvityn respected him. Yet he understood the cost. Prildor had served the Kingdom of Myths too many times. He had gone to Rhir. Yet—this old woman before him?
“How many times were you recalled?”
“Too many.”
That was all the half-Elf said. She sat there, eyes lost, then shook herself. Tserre gave the King of Myths a look as she put down her cup, and Queen Eithelenidrel hurried to refill it.
“There is far more to tell, Your Majesty. There always is. But if you doubt me, you have only one question to ask. Did I know? Did I join her?”
All three leaned forwards as Tserre’s lips twisted.
“No. I saw the signs. But no. It was—”
She paused. Her eyes flickered, and she passed a hand across her face as if trying to wipe something away. Guilt? Or—
“It was obvious. In hindsight.”
 
——
 
Silvenia had a nostalgic, bitter look upon her face as she recalled the war that had defined her existence since she was a child. Species, monsters, times and dates, flew by as she switched from moment to moment. So many that Flora couldn’t begin to even form a coherent timeline of events.
Neither could the other Deaths. Even some of the Djinni didn’t know all the foes Silvenia had met.
“The Soiretham. I know there were their [Magisters] in the Demon army’s ranks when I was a chick, but I barely remember any of their names. Nor did I think they were a people.”
“Those ones were dying of age. They remembered me. We never truly interacted. I should be glad the last of the last even deigned suffer my company after so long.”
Silvenia looked up and shook her head. Flora raised a hand.
“They didn’t try to reproduce?”
The Death of Magic sat there, and the magic waned around her and revealed just a woman. A tired one filled with regrets that rose and sometimes burst over her countenance.
