“Surely. Such a funny word. Remember this, mortal man. ‘Someday again’, ‘one more’, and ‘another day’. These things run out. You do not see it. I tell you now: there will be a day when tomorrow becomes the final day. It has arrived for us. Archmage. There is no more breath to waste. Will you lead us to the end?”
Silvenia flew upwards as the voices from below were drowned out. She looked ahead at where she would find answers or death—and raised a staff high.
“Forwards then, friends. To the end of Demons.”
Or to the truth. She led them past Rhir’s walls as horns rose like some pitiful heraldry of what the world was losing. The Giants just hummed as they walked, and the land shook.
When they reached the end of the Walls, and when they passed through Monarch’s Pass—Silvenia saw the Demons arrayed in vast concert. Even the bug-peoples standing there, warily, and she smiled like their Death.
—Then she saw the Demon King advancing alone to welcome her, and she slowed a second as the Giants drew their weapons. She floated down to speak.
That was how she came home.
 
——
 
Apparently, there had been recordings of that moment until they were all purged. Nuvityn wished he could have seen them, but Tserre’s words and the illusions she conjured were, by themselves, enough to stir the feeling.
“I never took her side. No one will gainsay that. When we went to Rhir, Leila, myself—her old students and friends—we met her in combat. None of us could stop her. But believe me—”
Tserre felt at her arms bitterly.
“—we never took her side.”
Nuvityn felt like he was in the presence of one of the old legends. His heart was beating fast, and he wondered what her class was. And more importantly…
“Then why did she not kill you?”
She met his eyes, and there was a refusal there to share the final part. Tserre hesitated.
“I have—a past that did not endear me to the Blighted Kingdom, Your Majesty. If I should leave Erribathe, the wrath of Silvenia is not my greatest fear.”
“You have no bounty with the Blighted Kingdom, Magus Tserre.”
Voreca double-checked that, but her brows were suspicious. Tserre just shrugged.
“Likely, that is true. They will remember me. I was waiting until they collapsed. Or simply…forgot about me. If I travel in His Majesty of Myth’s company, I believe they may keep their distance.”
“Did you attack their agents?”
“I acted in self-defense.”
Not what Nuvityn wanted to hear. The Blighted Kingdom was among the few that could give him pause, if only because their ancient pacts guaranteed support. He leaned forwards and looked at Tserre.
“I must ask, Magus. What did you do that would incur enmity after so long? If you will not share it with me now, at least enough that we may consider ourselves companions for my long journey.”
She studied him appraisingly he felt, as if to gain a measure of his character and weigh that against the danger to herself.
All for Ceria, a girl she had forgotten about in her long exile. No—that wasn’t right.
All for a memory. A single connection to the few people who remained. Nuvityn understood that.
At length, Tserre exhaled.
“Why, it is simply that I asked questions when the Archmage of Magic’s Ire became traitor to the world, Your Majesty. I denounced her actions. I still do. I fought against her. I have scars. But I did what I should not have, in hindsight. I had questions.”
Nuvityn exchanged glances with Voreca and his wife, and this meeting was now sealed to the crown beyond the shadow of a doubt.
“What—questions could leave enmity to this day, Magus Tserre?”
For answer, the half-Elf just took another sip of tea, and her face was carefully, perfectly blank.
“That’s a good one to begin with, King Nuvityn. The others I’d prefer to keep to myself to avoid—entanglements. As for the truth? Only Silvenia herself knows. And we are enemies.”
She looked at him.
“So. May I accompany your army?”
The King of Myths considered what he’d learned. The answers were wholly tantalizing and unsatisfying, but he only thought a minute before standing.
“Perhaps I shall hear the rest of the answers when you are willing, Magus Tserre. Until then, you are a welcome ally and companion. I accept your service and offer you Erribathe’s protection on one condition.”
She raised her brows warily, and he smiled at her.
“—You tell me more stories.”
Of herself. Of Silvenia. The [Mage] nodded, smiled, and stood to bow before Nuvityn again, but when she raised her eyes, it was still in her gaze.
The question she herself had never answered. The memory of an Archmage’s smile.
Tserre and Silvenia.
Silvenia and Tserre.
The last two half-Elves of the place that never would be again. The Groves of Ettertree.
Tserre Ettertree.
