Lizardfolk were so social that even prisoners in the simple jail could shout and see what was going on. They didn’t believe in locking their people away out of sight and mind. So Beth, if she pulled herself up with her Selphid body’s strength, could see through the simple rusted bars to the muddy street where Lizardfolk tracked in fish from the rivers, harvested sweetberries from bushes, and mingled.
“We have wounded. [Healer]! We need a damn [Healer]!”
They came in screaming, like a storm, and ran into both Selphids and Lizardfolk. Beth stared out the bars of her cell and saw desperate warriors, many bloody. One had an arrow sticking out of his shoulder, and they were all…
Beastkin? She saw what looked like a Gnoll—only he was shorter, had distinctly lupine features, and grey fur. A pair of Cat Beastkin, spotted, were holding up their paws as Lizardfolk surrounded them with spears.
“Which company are you? Lower your blades! Lower your blades—”
“Unlock my cell!”
Beth shouted at Vexx. The Naga glanced at her, but she was already trying to bend the metal of her bars. She saw blood—and the [Mercenary Captain] was panting, wild-eyed.
“They tore us up. Greyfur Irregulars. We were just supposed to ambush—they took three different companies apart. Th-th—”
He was in shock. Beth raced out of her cell and triaged.
Half the company looked like they were hurt, but two were so badly wounded they were being carried. One was obvious; a deep sword wound in the gut. The other?
She wasn’t sure what was wrong from a superficial inspection. Beth snapped.
“Put pressure on those bleeding cuts. You—I’ll tourniquet that wound. Get those two inside Vexx’s home and get me any healing potions left in the town!”
“We’re out! I have none to spare, and—my home smells of blood already!”
Vexx threw up his hands, but Beth ignored him. She applied a tourniquet to a cut leg that was losing too much blood, then she was racing into the Naga’s home.
This time, she was in a race against time on multiple fronts. But she had levelled up.
Two patients. The first had a cut along their abdomen from ribcage down to pelvis. Deep, filled with blood, and the Wolf Beastkin wasn’t responsive. The other was a scaled person—but neither Lizardfolk nor Drake. Salamander? They had a curiously flat head and the most lizard-like face of all three species, and they were crying out in agony.
“It’s burning! It’s burning my side—here! It’s in here!”
“What was he hit with?”
“We don’t know! But it’s there—”
A desperate [Mercenary] who’d helped drag the two in pointed, and Beth stared at the smoking flesh. It was…charred in a circle, and she had no idea what was causing it. But she recognized the cause.
Some kind of magic or effect. Her triage told her that the belly-cut Wolf Beastkin would die faster. But whatever was burning the Salamander Beastkin alive would be almost as fast.
So Beth pointed at the Wolf Beastkin as she checked his airways and found they were clear.
“Someone hold him still. I need to—”
Dab away the blood. Then she whispered as she stared at the pulsing blood running out of him.
“[Telekinesis: Bubble]!”
The blood flow stopped. At least, from the largest cuts. Beth concentrated, and one of the [Mercenaries] stared. Even for someone not trained in medicine, the bleeding visibly slowed.
Three, four…
Four bubbles, and Beth’s mind was screaming in pain. But four tiny bubbles of telekinesis appeared, stopping the flow of blood. That was all the Selphid could do.
“I need a potion. Someone find me one. Tell Vexx at least one of the patients is going to die right now if I don’t get it. You—hold still. I’m going to have to cut into you, understand?”
The Salamander was on his side as one of his friends cut away his armor. His voice was a rising scream.
“Just cut it out. Get it out, getitout—”
She had to figure out what it was. The Wolf Beastkin had more time with the blood flow slowed. Beth reached for a razor blade as she heard a commotion outside.
“I saw the fighting. Where are they?”
“Stay out! Who are you? Who are—? And who are you, Miss?”
Beth paid no attention to the shouting. She was slicing into flesh, cursing as she realized whatever it was had gone straight past or through a rib.
It wasn’t magic. Now she looked closely, the flesh was literally cauterizing before her eyes. But what could it be? She’d seen the residue of [Fireballs] and flame rain spells, but this? The Salamander was begging her to take it out, and she realized—
The barber’s razor was heating up fast as she cut. It had to be some physical object. Then, as the [Healer] worked desperately, someone spoke.
“[Analysis: Origin of Injury]. That’s no spell. It’s a crossbow bolt. It’s lodged into the flesh. No other pieces of shrapnel, thank goodness. Don’t try cutting it—it’s too hot. Pull it out. Slice the entire area of skin out if you have to!”
Beth jerked up. She stared into two slitted eyes—and then a Lamia was bending over her. A Lamia…wearing a pair of spectacles, who talked like Geneva and had a dagger in her hand. But she pointed, and Beth felt her pulling with her mind.
“You’re—”
“Help me.”
Beth concentrated—and then the two were pulling. The Lamia had found what was burning the Salamander to death.
A tiny piece of shrapnel, the enchanted head still burning with enough flame to cook the Salamander from the inside. They yanked—and a tiny, flaring bit of metal came out of the cooked wound.
Beth jerked aside as it landed, flaring, and stomped with her shoes, crushing the metal and extinguishing the enchantment. Then she looked up.
A Lamia, scales twisting from green to orange across her body, was panting as she ran her hands over the Salamander’s side. An entire section of their flesh was charred. Deep, and they would die from the heat that had killed far too much around their ribs.
Beth needed that potion! The Lamia whispered as Beth dug around.
“Bone shrapnel might be lodged in the soft tissue.”
“I—think I’ve got it out. If we had a potion it would push the shrapnel out of the wound in most cases. But we don’t and the burn—”
“Allow me. It might not be enough. But I can—[A Drop A Day: Potion of Mending]!”
A glistening drop fell from her claw tips. Beth’s eyes went round as the Lamia—Lamia-Geneva placed her claws over the wounded Salamander and a drop fell.
“No!”
Beth caught the drop mid-fall with her mind. Lamia-Geneva turned to her.
“What are you—”
“My turn. [Potions: 148% Efficiency]!”
It was the Lamia’s turn to goggle. Beth dropped the tiny bit of potion into the wound, and both held their breaths.
Potion of Mending? Most healing potions were called ‘healing potions’ without bothering to identify which it was, aside from cost. But Beth prayed that this…
A drop. But a drop at 148% efficiency was enough.
The charred flesh visibly lightened, and the smell of cooked meat lessened. Beth, exploring the wound, saw healthy flesh reappearing until the burn damage was ‘only’ an inch deep.
Far better, though. The Salamander groaned in relief, and the Lamia was speaking.
“Any other wounds? I didn’t spot any—that shard of shrapnel would have killed him by overheating his body before anything else, but it would have been death regardless in another ten minutes. A deadly—too deadly a weapon.”
A microscopic splinter of killing magic. Beth agreed. It was even worse than an Evercut Arrow—and she thought only one species in the world could manufacture something so deadly, so small. So that told her what this Beastkin mercenary group had run into.
Fraerlings.
However—that was only the first of two patients. She had to go to the cut Beastkin next. At least that was simpler, if no less dire. At least they could try to do an impromptu blood transfusion if one of the other Beastkin was compatible. They just had to mix the two blood samples. But closing that wound mattered even with her temporary telepathic seals.
Beth’s head rose to the other patient. Then she stopped and stared.
A panting woman with half her face dripping and oozing with wet, semi-transparent, indigo tendrils—like long strands of noodles—or the tendrils of a jellyfish—was standing over the Wolf Beastkin.
Her entire right side of her body was wet, though much of it was covered by clothing. One bright yellow eye without pupils or irises stared out of the Drowned Woman’s face.
The other half was Human. Dark-skinned, fingers dancing as she held the needle sewing the abdomen closed.
The stitching was amazingly precise. Criss-crossing lines of thread, holding the skin together with thread that looked far, far better than the stuff Beth had. The Drowned Woman was also doing something to the Wolf Beastkin’s abdomen.
“What are you doing? The internal bleeding—”
“Stopped. Nice bubbles of telekinesis. How did you do that? I was more direct. The venom is hemostatic. I’ve sutured everything closed. [Fast Stitching] and [Upgrade Material: Angler’s Line].”
Lamia-Geneva and Beth turned as the Drowned Woman straightened. Then the half-Jellyfish Geneva Scala looked at the two of them as Vexx and the Beastkin [Captain] and Teyis all stopped at the doorway. All three Genevas—former Genevas—looked at each other in a moment of silence. Then, as one, they turned and shouted.
“Get out of the operating room!”
 
——
 
Three women sat in the jail cell, talking. The Drowned Woman, who called herself Ithaca, and the Lamia-Geneva who still went by ‘Geneva’, were not technically under arrest like Beth.
But this was ironically a good spot for them to talk. They had tended to the other wounded [Mercenaries], and the Salamander and Wolf Beastkin had good chances of surviving. A [Healer] with [Recovering Bedrest] was looking after both, which let the three relax.
They were talking quietly, yet each one was eying the other. And each one was—familiar and different.
Was it their bodies? The cloning process? Or just the different perspectives each shared? The Lamia was the most nervous.
“I—I know it was the Forgotten Wing Company that did this. I cannot understand it. Original Geneva is with the Titan, but his methods are beyond even the Roving Arrow company’s tactics. His people are searching for us. They were searching for me. I saw his people fighting three companies that ambushed him. They cut down their attackers so fast—”
She shuddered. Beth shook her head, troubled, but confused.
“Maybe it’s better if we go with him. If only to spare the fighting. How did you get here, Ithaca?”
The Drowned Woman made a wet, bubbling sound.
“I saw the fighting and split up w—I came running because I didn’t know you two were here. I ran into Leneva here. But I’m not sticking around to join the Forgotten Wing company.”
“Leneva?”
Lamia-Geneva pulled a face at the name. Beth grinned.
“It suits you. You two ran in when I needed your help. And your Skills! Sewing?”
She looked at Ithaca, and the woman grimaced.
“Weak. [A Drop A Day] is far better.”
Beth nodded.
“Absolutely.”
Then she and Ithaca turned to ‘Leneva’, who raised a claw.
“It may be, but it’s a drop. Your telekinesis…that’s impressive, Beth. And you can add to the effects of potions?”
“For what it’s worth. I started at Level 1. You two as well?”
Both nodded. Leneva slithered to the window, and Ithaca leaned back. She was still dripping; her weak Skills might not be powerful—but her jellyfish nature was.
“I can poison with the tendrils, and they move—although better in water. The real advantage is paralyzing patients or numbing them—or stopping blood loss. I was probably meant for a role in anesthesiology. I’ll take every advantage, but I get dry fast. I wouldn’t even last a day in this cell without needing a lot of water.”
“We can get you some. Vexx isn’t a monster…”
Beth went to call for a guard, but Ithaca got up. She paced over to the cell door, which was unlocked for this meeting.
“No. I’ve got to go. Forgotten Wing is right on top of Leneva and you. If you want to come—I’m heading out.”
“Go with you? Where?”
Both Beth and Leneva were surprised. The Drowned Woman nodded to the window.
“Where we’re needed. Tell Geneva if you meet her and the others—we’re dividing up. I met another Geneva, and she’s headed straight for Izril. She…‘fits in’. You two can choose what you’re doing. Great Company, United Nations—but I’m taking off to sea. It’s fitting.”
“To go where?”
Ithaca paused, then looked back.
“I’m going to the Eir Kelp Island. One of us has to figure out why the healing potions are gone and synthesize a replacement or do something. Leave it to me. If you don’t hear a replacement for healing potions is out or news in six months, assume I’m dead.”
She looked grimly determined, or maybe it was her body giving that look, but the glowing-eyed woman was already headed to the door. She turned to Leneva.
“Want a ride?”
“I…no. I don’t have an adventure in me. I would rather work with help. That—impromptu operating is insane. These poor Lizardfolk without more than a [Healer] who can give them better bedrest. Someone needs to help them.”
Leneva answered first. Beth was wavering, and something called to her. Ithaca had a plan. The healing potions? Of course! Beth rose.
“I’ll go. If you need backup, Ithaca—I’m your girl.”
The Drowned Woman paused, as if she hadn’t expected either to join her, but then she smiled.
“We’ll see if I need it. It might be better to split—got any gold? Let’s—”
They were walking towards the door when Beth recalled the guards. The Lizardfolk guards who could listen. A pair of crossed spears tipped with crude iron barred their way.
“Hey! No running! Vexx! They’re running for it!”
“Uh oh. Just let me—”
Beth tried to push a spear down. She was strong, as a Selphid, but one of the Lizardfolk surprised her.
“[Leg Sweep]!”
“[Tag Team: Leg Sweep]!”
Both Lizardfolk took Beth and Ithaca down in an embarrassingly easy way. Neither doctor was a fighter—and Beth was afraid to hurt the Lizardfolk who threw themselves on top of her, screaming for backup.
“Stop, don’t hurt them!”
Leneva backed up—though both Lizardfolk weren’t even attacking her. Arguably, she was the strongest of the three without Beth going into a Rampage—and the Lizardfolk looked at her anxiously as a Naga.
But Leneva wasn’t talking to them.
One of the Lizardfolk [Guards] fell over, crying out, and Ithaca got up. Her jellyfish stingers had struck the Lizardfolk in the face!
Do no harm.
Beth’s mouth was open wide with disbelief, and Leneva was horrified. But Ithaca just pushed herself up.
“Sorry. Beth, are you—”
