Geneva Scala got up in such excitement she would have shaken Beth—but without Okasha, she had to sit back down hard. Beth relented and leaned over to Geneva.
“I am basing my analysis not on empirical data, but limited observation as a member of the species, Geneva. It may be that I am completely wrong. But if I am right, the question of why Selphids waste away no longer becomes an open one. Nor can it be attributed to malice on another species’ part. At least, I do not believe so.”
“Becoming a Selphid gave you insight into their biology? What? What is it?”
Geneva focused on Beth like lightning to a lightning rod, and the Selphid smiled.
“I imagine because it is a normal thing to Selphids—none of them notice it at all. It is a unique conclusion only born from a Human perspective in a Selphid body. The Mind-Geneva—Evil-Geneva might not have even realized it since the Minds created her.”
The [Doctor] shuddered, but then she leaned over.
“What is it?”
Beth looked herself in the eyes, then nodded. She reached up to adjust her spectacles—then remembered she didn’t wear any.
“Since I have been—created—it has been about two weeks. Two weeks, and I have been cared for quite well. The first few days of surviving were tough, but I’ve been fed, clothed, given a new body, and do you know what, Geneva?”
“Hm?”
The [Healer] whispered to herself, a stunning conclusion. A suspicion that put the Wasting in a new context.
“I ate ants on my first real day of wakefulness. Then food. Teyis thought I was ill. Then, when I got here, I gorged myself until I was sick. I can’t eat as much as you, not with a Selphid body—it just gets stuck. But I ate and ate, Geneva, until I was beyond sated. And do you know why? I feel so hungry.”
She smiled wider, and Geneva Scala’s pale yellow-brown eyes snapped up, like a cat’s eye stone in themselves, and the conclusion hit her at the same time. It was not the satiety of food that Beth craved. Or if it was, it was no food she could eat, and she had eaten such a variety that even Foliana had wondered if she had too diverse a palette.
Nor might a Selphid who felt this all their lives realize how odd it was. But Beth, a Human—felt it.
A craving. Selphids were hungry.
But—for what?
 
——
 
She was not Geneva Scala. That was a kind of mental refrain going through Beth’s head. It was—uncomfortable seeing her face and seeing the mind behind it—and the unease with which Geneva looked at Beth.
It made the Selphid feel like a parasite. But by the same token, she realized she really didn’t envy Geneva at all.
“Doctor Scala. I have eight questions for you today from my city. Ten from the others. Here’s a handy list—but would you have time to talk over your answers? The experts keep coming back with questions and clarifications.”
“I can do that. Who am I speaking to?”
Iuncuta Eirnos pulled a huge face as she accosted Geneva over breakfast. Niers rolled his eyes.
“That would be me. Privacy reasons. We have volunteers who might fly out just to meet you. Which would be a pain to organize security and training for those cityfolk who’ve never seen a beetle in the wild and think they’ll eat out of your hand.”
Fraerlings were fascinating. They were the only people who ‘got’ what Beth and Elizabeth were doing and were thusly impressed by the [Doctors].
And unsettled.
The amusing thing was that in a world of healing magic and potions, the more magic you had, the more barbaric the idea of delving into the body and the brutality of cutting, even breaking bones to suture and stitch flesh together, were.
Fraerlings hadn’t forgotten [Restoration] existed. True, they didn’t have full-scale access to the spell, but Beth felt like they treated her and Geneva like [Saw Doctors] from the old parts of her world’s history.
She didn’t blame them, but there was nuance to her opinion. Niers Astoragon coughed as he looked at Eirnos.
“I can give you an hour of Geneva’s time, Eirnos. But after that, I really do need her.”
“For what, Titan?”
The one-eyed woman was not impressed with his titles. Foliana, sitting between the two, leaned out of the way of the two Fraerlings locking horns as she nibbled on a moldy mushroom.
“Three-Color Stalker, that’s really not good for your health.”
“Miss Foliana, that’s likely to make you sick—”
Geneva and Beth both spoke at the same time. They glanced at each other, surprised both by their overlap—and the fact they’d said different things. Beth had spoken first and more authoritatively.
Niers and Eirnos focused on the mushroom, and both recoiled. Did you think mushrooms couldn’t get moldy? This one had growth on the growth…and it was wet. In a state of decay.
Foliana was gagging a bit, But she forced the mushroom down.
“Someone likes it. I think. Yuck. Yuck.”
It was difficult to even watch. Eirnos lifted one eyebrow, grimacing.
“Can’t you eat something else?”
“No.”
The Squirrel was the leader of a Great Company, and no one could gainsay her, not even Niers. The Titan shot back at Eirnos as if he were used to watching his companion endure food poisoning.
“She’s teaching my [Healers], Eirnos. You can send Fraerlings to watch and learn too if you wish. An hour and twenty-two minutes from now.”
“As opposed to teaching Fraerlings, Titan? Who’s better placed to understand what the good [Doctor] is saying?”
He rolled his eyes.
“Tallfolk need her expertise more, and we are in a position to mass-produce her tools and concepts. Fraerlings need little; even with the Eir Gel shortage, one bottle of the damn stuff will hold over a Fraerling settlement for ages. Actually, we have two [Doctors]. Miss Beth, would you consent to…?”
Reminded of Beth, the two Fraerlings turned to her just in time to see the [Healer] close her eyes and flick a finger.
The mushroom Foliana was nibbling on shot out of the Squirrel Beastkin’s paws. Foliana blinked at it, but she was so nauseated she only made a half-hearted attempt at a grab. The mushroom spun past a [Servant], who recoiled—and straight out the window.
Niers, Eirnos, Geneva—and the [Servant] with a second course of fly agaric mushrooms, the red, spotted shroom that looked like the archetype of all poisons—all stared at Beth with a kind of horror. Foliana’s eyes narrowed.
Beth pointed and, with a mental push, sent the other shroom flying out the window too. Three-Color Stalker caught it in a simple leap.
“Stop that. I’m eating.”
“That is literally poisonous to your digestion. As a doctor, I forbid you to eat it.”
Foliana opened her mouth with the mushroom’s red cap in it. She stared at Beth, perplexed.
“I’m Three-Color Stalker. Mm. I own…this. Everything.”
She gestured around the entire palace. Beth pulled with her mind, but the Squirrel-Woman was too strong. Foliana closed her mouth—then drooled on a bubble of force.
A telekinetic bubble. The Duck, the mini-Mind, had claimed that psychic shapes were useful, akin to how [Mages] had ice-walls. This one was fragile. Foliana poked it twice, then clapped her paws and imploded it.
The explosion of mental force made Niers wince, but he was patently fascinated. Eirnos just rubbed at her temple.
“Telepaths. Great. I thought only Fraerlings were experts. And Selphids.”
Niers snorted.
“Beth is a Selphid now. All the Genevas have picked up the ability—that’s something else to see if we can steal. It’s obviously possible. Not everything our kind does is superior, Iuncuta. With that said—Beth, Foliana is trying to backtrace a monster. We’re reasonably sure it eats mushrooms, but it’s also killing people. One of the Yellow monsters from the Dyed Lands.”
He grimaced.
“We need a better word for that. Not yellow. Sunrise Yellow? Something classy.”
Foliana watched the mushroom tug in her grip. It was a weaker tug than Geneva could produce. Even with her [Doubled Mental Presence], Beth had realized she was about a quarter as strong as Geneva at telekinesis.
Size mattered. Mental ‘force’ from her was coming from a tiny Selphid. Just like magic, telekinetic strength seemed to scale with the body. The Skills she had acquired probably helped to correct that, but there was no way she’d be able to grab the mushroom from a [Rogue] of Foliana’s level.
So Beth spoke instead.
“The likelihood even someone of Foliana’s constitution will get ill from this—or pick up something untoward—is far too high. You haven’t even roasted the mushroom. That other one was in a state of decay; it could have parasites.”
“Mm. I have to eat it like it’s enjoyed. You can’t boss me.”
“I forbid you to eat it, Foliana. For your own good.”
The Squirrel Woman’s lips moved.
“Forbid. Me. Hmm.”
She opened her mouth, inserted the entire mushroom, and began to chew. Beth stood up. Three-Color Stalker swallowed defiantly and folded her arms. She had defeated Beth with the powers of mastication. The mushroom was down—Niers was watching Beth with great interest.
What are you going to do now? Beth marched over and looked Foliana up and down. Then she turned to Geneva.
“Have you replicated a stethoscope? Do you have any records on other Beastkin? I will have time for the Iuncuta or whomever Geneva is teaching later, Niers. But at this moment, Commander Foliana and I will need an hour. I’ll write up a checklist, Geneva. Can you ratify it tonight?”
“Checklist? What? I’m busy.”
Foliana tried to hop past Beth, but this time, the Selphid grabbed her arm, and she was physically stronger than Geneva. Foliana blinked at her as Beth stared at her.
“You need a checkup, Commander Foliana. We’ll start with your medical history. Then move on to your diet and any symptoms. We need to create the process from scratch. Even if you insist on your diet, you need proper meals in between them.”
“What? No.”
Foliana shook Beth off with a weird wrist-twist that made her paw vanish out of the Selphid’s grip. She vanished as well…and Beth saw Niers’ lips quirk.
“If you want to try—maybe start with someone else, Miss Beth? Foliana is impossible to control. Ask Perorn. She’s fighting in Izril, and it’s a holiday compared to managing Foliana.”
“And you.”
Eirnos muttered under her breath. Niers frowned at her, then paused. Beth was staring at the open door where Foliana had probably escaped through. Then…slowly…she rotated. Her head turned, and she stared pointedly at the chair where Foliana had been sitting. It was still pulled out. After a second, Beth reached out.
A glowering Three-Color Stalker reappeared, and Eirnos swore. Geneva had been looking the same way.
“I hate telepaths. Thinking quiet is hard.”
Foliana bounded out of the chair. Beth ran after her.
“Foliana! It will not take long, but you need someone to make sure you’re in good health! You broke dozens of bones, you eat anything you think is necessary, and you’re in your advanced years!”
“I’m not old!”
The angry Squirrel Woman turned back—and she and Beth began to squabble. The sight of a Selphid woman trying to drag the famous [Rogue] to a room for examinations while Foliana swatted at her with her paws drew such a crowd of the Titan’s students that classes had to halt for half an hour.
After all, everyone was used to Niers doing unhinged things. But Foliana? Geneva Scala caught Beth’s eye as Foliana pushed the Selphid into a broom closet and locked the door with some lockpicks in a flash then bounded away. The [Doctor] seemed amazed.
She was really surprised when Beth kicked the door straight off the hinges and went after Foliana.
 
[Healer → Headstrong Healer class obtained!]
[Headstrong Healer Level 14!]
[Skill – Locate Patient obtained!]
[Skill – Medicine: Remove Flaw (Single) obtained!]
[Skill – Quicksilver Stitching obtained!]
 
[Telekinetic Level 8!]
[Skill – Indefinite Lift (Mental) obtained!]
 
——
 
The Duck floated in the air as Beth dangled from the ceiling of Foliana’s tree-rooms. It wasn’t the best place to conduct a training session—but Beth couldn’t get free.
“How did she do that?”
“[Rogue Trap]. Rope. I’m trying to undo the knot, but it keeps tightening. Quack. Even her simple Skill traps are hard to undo.”
Beth was just glad that she didn’t suffer from blood rushing to her head. She was glaring—but she had failed to break the ropes even with her Selphid strength.
At least she’d managed to get through half of Foliana’s interview before the Squirrel Woman had announced she was ‘bored’, caught Beth’s feet up, and dangled her from one of the tree branches.
The entire room that mimicked some great tree branch and a nest higher up was fascinating to Beth—and so was the Duck honestly.
It hovered there, and when the knot finally undid itself, the Selphid Mind caught her.
“There. Three-Color Stalker is a very good [Rogue]. Better than any one of my component minds. But all together, this Duck can match her quack for, um…whatever sound squirrels make. Quack for squeak-scream.”
Beth sat up slowly as the Mind lowered her to the ground.
“Geneva doesn’t trust you. Neither do I.”
“This is hurtful but fair. Rest assured, though—I am a deadly duck, but Three-Color Stalker and Niers Astoragon could kill me very quickly. I am the weakest of all Minds. A useful helper, but not a killer. Not like the legends of Baleros. You need to know who you are, and both you and Geneva can benefit from mental training. The Second Mind did only give you the basics.”
Beth sat cross-legged warily…then got up. She hadn’t been hurt by Foliana, and the rope trap had only left her more resolved to chase down the woman.
No one else would, not even Geneva. But Beth turned to the Duck first.
“Have you had a medical checkup?”
The Duck recoiled and quacked a bit.
“Me? I self-tend my Selphids constantly.”
“I don’t know enough about Selphid—our physiology to judge. But I should find out. So you are going to teach me more telepathic abilities?”
“If you want.”
The Selphid Mind seemed diffident. A welcome change to be sure, but Beth was still wary.
“What do you do in your Named-rank team?”
“That? Oh. Pick locks. I can blind a monster. Set a trap.”
“You? Set traps?”
The indignant little ball actually lifted something up and shook it at her. A cloth sack.
“I have a bag of holding! All I do is toss down a bear trap, arm it—I don’t get to use Skills, but I am the greatest [Rogue]-amalgamate living! I can pick a lock from the inside, just by moving the tumblers! And there’s nothing stealthier than me. I have no footprints, no lungs to give me away—”
“You quack a lot. I can hear you think. Get out of my room.”
Three-Color Stalker spoke, appearing on the branch of her bedroom. Beth and the Duck jumped. The Mind screamed.
