While this was going on, Beth had to work fast to slow the blood loss. She had to cut as economically as possible to reduce the patient’s pain. Thankfully, the boy had passed out, so his screaming and moving was not an issue. The straw technique she was glad to have; there was a rapidly diminishing quantity of healing potion.
If she were a younger doctor, it would have failed mid-surgery. Because she was older and had done this so many times, Beth never hesitated.
One of the three Nagas had to leave mid-operation. The other two just looked away as Beth performed the surgery to save the leg. She didn’t fill the entire leg with transplanted flesh. Once she thought she had enough—she connected everything she could with more healing potion and released her [Mindward].
Blood pooled again, but as Beth spot-sealed a tear in the new artery, she watched blood rushing down the leg. She did one last thing with a final tablespoon of potion; the bottle was almost empty. She applied drops down the entire length of the graft, hoping that it would prevent any weakness in the grafted tissue.
She felt it, pressing her fingers into the boy’s foot, behind the knee—then realized she had little touch. Instead, Beth made one of the Nagas confirm they could feel the pulse where she indicated.
Once she was done with the grafting, Beth pulled out four teeth—the piranha left part of its teeth in the victim’s flesh to make the bleeding worse and kill them. She sutured each gap, then stood back and tried to think if she’d missed anything.
“I think—I think I did it. When he wakes up, I want to know if he can feel anything in his foot. But until then…”
Beth sat back at last, covered in blood from the arms down. The gloves she had put on—not a surgeon’s rubber gloves—were red, and she was terrified of infection.
“I need a poultice. Something to disinfect—to keep the wounds clean. The likelihood he’s going to develop an infection is high. We need to clean the wounds. Does the other [Healer] have anything? If not, I can mix something up. I know a basic antiseptic.”
“A what?”
The Naga who owned this house and given the orders was named Vexx. Beth clarified.
“A cleaning fluid. For the legs.”
The Minds had helped her in that. She rattled off local varieties of herbs and a root, and Vexx nodded.
“I can have it made up. In case you’re not here—what do you do?”
Beth described cleaning the wounds, changing the bandages, and eventually removing the stitching, since she had used a lot of that to supplement the potion. Vexx wrote this down and nodded.
“Clean the wounds. Change bandages regularly; do not let the boy get it dirty or flies get in. I know this. Thank you…what is your name, [Healer]?”
“G—Beth. Beth.”
The Naga nodded. Then he focused on her, and the Naga calmly grabbed her.
“You did not try to steal Calexn’s body. But you used something on his leg—and I have never seen a Selphid [Healer] act like that. Something tells me you were at that Gathering Citadel. I will remember you saved my people’s life. So please, do not try to escape.”
Beth’s relief turned to fear as Vexx stared at her. And she remembered, too late.
She was a Selphid now. And Selphids…
Were in danger.
 
——
 
“We dug into the brain of reality and inserted ourselves into it. Tricked into believing we should belong.”
―The Second Mind
 
“Life, although it may only be an accumulation of anguish, is dear to me, and I will defend it.”
―Mary Shelley, Frankenstein 
 
What purpose had Beth? She asked that as the Nagas held her captive in the town of Soxet. It seemed to her that her origin was twisted. She had been cloned against her will, and terrible deeds had been done by the Minds.
Not all, though. She had been wronged by the representatives of a species—wronged in ways she was sure she was not consciously processing and no amount of therapy might ever fully resolve.
But she also felt it still. It burned in her, a desire to know. A desire to understand.
A desire to give aid where none existed.
The boy, Calexn, lived. His leg did suffer an infection, but a minor one that the poultice Beth made up fought off. She mixed it using [Basic Synthesis] in the cell that the Nagas put her in. The local prison cell was nicer—especially because the Lizardfolk gave her pillows and tried to make her comfortable.
The Nagas allowed it and to let Beth check her patient, though she shouted at him for trying to hobble around. She had saved his leg.
But the problem was they were intelligent enough to spot things. And Beth’s use of her Selphid body was something no Selphid ever did—for fear of calling down the suspicion upon them of stealing bodies.
However, her Selphid form could be used to save lives! In her captivity over the next day and a half, Beth began formulating how, in an Earth-setting, a Selphid might act as an exploratory probe in a body. Doctors used microscopic lenses. What about a living being capable of manually performing surgery within the body? Let alone a Selphid’s ability to attach muscle…
Well—the issue of contamination via microbes, the dangers of invading a living body, and the danger of Selphids taking a host were all salient. But Beth did envision a kind of synthesis with medical theory. The idea of using nanotechnology to heal wounds without the invasion of surgery had long been floated, but there were huge ramifications in that move too. Selphids were the natural bridge in this world.
“…If only we could trust you. Mark my words well, Beth. I think you are a good person. A [Healer]…what level are you now?”
“Level 9.”
She had leveled four times in one surgery.
 
[Healer Level 9!]
[Skill – Bloodless Incision obtained!]
[Skill – Enhanced Edge obtained!]
[Skill – Stretchline Thread obtained!]
 
[Selphid Telekinetic Level 6!]
[Skill – Telekinesis: Bubble obtained!]
 
She had leveled in her other class, too. Her [Healer] Skills made sense and were welcome; the ability of her [Telekinetic] was…odd.
With it, Beth could make a bubble or sphere with force. It had limited applications as far as she could tell, in most settings. She had one very useful idea—but that wasn’t something she could test right now.
Beth had been amusing herself by taking some of the tea the Lizardfolk served her and floating orbs into her mouth until Vexx arrived.
The Naga was knowing.
“Level 9 yet you worked with a talent I have only heard rumors of. Do they call you The Last Light?”
“I am not her.”
The Naga consulted the truth stone and frowned at the mixed results.
“Another odd statement. But I know for a fact she is Human. Perhaps the Minds did something? You did meet them.”
Beth said nothing. No Selphid had been allowed to visit her. Her eyes slid to the door where Lizardfolk stood guard.
“Have you harmed anyone else?”
“Your people? No. But they are not cooperating. Here is my dilemma, Beth. I think you know a lot. And yet—you came into town wounded and alone. I do not see an agent of the Minds in you. But I am Naga. You are Selphid.”
Vexx stared at her, and his eyes were faintly violet-green, slitted, and he was tall, eight feet when he slithered upright. Dangerous. Lizardfolk were physically slim, weaker, and playful; Drakes outweighed them, and Lizardfolk’s only main advantage in battle were numbers. But Nagas were the balancing force; each one was powerful in the extreme, and many had powers.
Beth said nothing to Vexx, but the Naga just sighed and slithered closer. He rested his claws on the jail cell.
“Here is the thing, Beth. I know Teyis. And because I know him and have had Selphid companions in my travels before I settled here—I know your people. And what I know is that Selphids report to each other. They take care of each other like every species does. But your Minds are unto Selphids what we Naga are to Lizardfolk. And do you know what my quandary is?”
She waited, knowing it was rhetorical. Vexx whispered to her.
“Neither Teyis nor I…are agents of our people. Yet here you are, and now I am very nervous, you see?”
He slithered back, and Beth frowned. That was not what she had expected. Vexx looked…vexed. Worried.
“You mean you’re not an agent of…”
“Jungle Tails. The great Naga leaders. Whomever you want to assign me, I am just a Naga living in a town. We are not all part of a grander conspiracy, but I know my roles too. Here I am with a possible agent of the Minds who were responsible for—something terrible happening. Do I report to Jungle Tails? Do I report to my people? Or do I report to the Forgotten Wing? And I know at the same time Teyis is doing this too. Neither he nor I want to tear this town down.”
Vexx gave her a look, and Beth hung her head.
“I’m sorry.”
He shrugged.
“Don’t be. I am telling you this because I feel guilty. And so you know, because I am a simple Naga, who wants no danger to come to my town, I told several—contacts—I had found you. Nagas. But far more senior than me.”
He stared at her. Beth grew nervous at once, but Vexx lifted a claw.
“I told them…I had found you. I gave them details and then told them that, regrettably, the Forgotten Wing company had gotten to you first. Maybe it will bite my tail, but I think they will understand. You see?”
“The Forgotten Wing Company?”
Geneva Scala? The original? Beth’s head came up, and Vexx nodded at the look on her face.
“Yes…the Titan’s forces still occupy this area. And I think he has the best—and most gentle claim on you. He is kinder to Selphids than Maelstrom’s Howling or Iron Vanguard would be. So. His people are enroute. This is my compromise. Think less of me for doing this, but Baleros is about profit and opportunity. But sometimes…”
He looked at her seriously.
“…Sometimes, I do not want that opportunity where I am.”
She understood his fear only too well. So Beth nodded and sat back down as Vexx left and wondered what would happen when the Forgotten Wing soldiers got to her. She hoped they would ask questions rather than torture her. She had heard terrible things of the Titan…but then she had a thought.
If Vexx had told the Forgotten Wing and his people…
Who had Teyis told?
 
——
 
If Vexx was the de-facto head of this town, Teyis was the unofficial one where Selphids were concerned. When they got wind that Vexx had imprisoned Beth, there was trouble.
Beth heard the loud arguments from hundreds of voices outside her cell. Selphids and Lizardfolk in a standoff. Despite being outnumbered, two dozen Selphids were approaching the cell, and the Lizardfolk were nervous.
Rampaging Selphids were a danger on par with Nagas—Vexx, hissing as he and Teyis argued, let Beth come out of the jail to show she was unharmed.
“—This is larger than either of our peoples here, Teyis. Let it be!”
“Not if you turn her over to Maelstrom’s Howling or someone else. She is a Selphid, Vexx. You do not interfere with my people.”
“That was before a Gathering Citadel was turned to ash only miles from where we are!”
The Naga pointed to the horizon where the smoke still rose from the crater. The Lizardfolk around him had slings and simple spears. Teyis had a steel sword, which made him one of the most well-armed people in the village.
Neither looked like they wanted to fight. They were caught between the giants of their people and obligations—Teyis looked guiltily towards Beth.
“At least she’s well.”
Vexx was offended and twisted his tail into a ball.
“You think I would have harmed her after she saved Calexn? She’s being treated very well. But until a Great Company arrives, she’ll be here. You can visit, Teyis, but—hey. Miss Beth, you are under arrest! Don’t move!”
He twisted around, and everyone tensed up, but Beth ignored Vexx. She had left the two Lizardfolk guards and was currently…tickling a Lizardboy on his foot. He was laughing.
“Stop, stop! I can feel it!”
“Good. Remember, you keep your bandages clean and change them. Did anyone else get bitten by the attacks? Is anyone else hurt? Sick?”
She raised her voice, and the Lizardfolk, completely distracted from their standoff with the Selphids, murmured. One of them raised her voice.
“I have a bump on my tail from where a fish bit me. I swear there’s something hard in there, but it’s all healed. It hurts.”
“I think I have Yellow Rivers.”
“Gaaah! Get away!”
They were not the most impressive fighting force in history. Vexx covered his face with one claw in a familiar way. Then he raised his voice.
“Stop interacting with the prisoner! We’re in a standoff with the Selphids—get back in line! You don’t have Yellow Rivers, Extin. Beth, inside!”
She ignored him. Beth was feeling at the yelping Lizardfolk’s tail and grimacing.
“It may well be a tooth. This is a cyst—give me fifteen minutes and I can see what’s in there. But I’ll have to cut into your tail to remove it. I’ll sew it back up, but it will hurt, understand?”
“C-cut into—? Can’t you use a potion instead of sewing me up?”
“Do you have one?”
“No…but…it hurts real bad. Maybe I’ll let it stay?”
The Lizardgirl danced on her feet nervously. Beth gave her a stern look.
“It could get worse, and it won’t heal without treatment. I need to borrow your home, Vexx. But let me see the sick person next.”
“What? Absolutely not. My house is not a [Healer]’s clinic.”
The outraged Naga tried to get the Lizardfolk to arrest Beth. But she was diagnosing the Lizardfolk who thought they had Yellow Rivers—they did not. When he tried to push her back into the cell himself, she poked him in the chest with a finger.
“Some of your people need my treatment. I won’t run. I don’t think I’d get far. Do you have any more healing potion?”
“We have [Healers]. Not as fine as you, Miss, but an aching tail and a few rotten teeth are not your job to fix.”
Vexx was annoyed. Beth locked eyes with him and folded her arms.
“It is my job if you’re keeping me here. If anyone else gets hurt, call on me. Because I am the best medical practitioner in this entire region. Now. Where do you keep your soap and how can I boil some hot water? I need linens for another tourniquet too.”
The Naga’s full serpentine glare met Beth’s stony gaze. Beth…was the same woman who had faced down the Minds. The Naga slithered back a step—and then exhaled hard as Teyis grinned at Beth. She winked at the Selphids.
 
——
 
Despite being a ‘prisoner’, Beth left her cell no less than eight times across the next day and a half to minister to people with complaints. And her insistence on being resupplied with medical tools paid off instantly.
When trouble came—it came from the direction of the river again. But this time it wasn’t fish.
It was [Mercenaries].
