“Aaah! Wait, you can hear that?”
“Mm.”
The Squirrel woman looked amused. Beth pointed at her.
“Family history? Do you know anyone who’s had a disease or—”
“Out.”
Foliana landed and tossed Beth out of her rooms. Then locked the door. Beth rolled out into the corridor as the Duck floated after her.
“Did you just try to stop Foliana with your mind? You’re crazy. And I’m the Duck.”
“It didn’t work.”
Trying to stop Foliana from moving was like trying to stop a tank with a dandelion. Not only had it been hard to get a ‘fix’ on her—Beth stared up at the Duck.
“If you want to help me, answer me one question. Why is Geneva so much stronger, mentally, than I am? Even without levels, we are both essentially the same mind. I think it’s because I’m smaller than she is, but why does that make sense?”
The Duck floated past Geneva. To a passing servant staring wide-eyed at the woman who had annoyed Foliana, it looked like a duck was sitting on Beth’s head. Beth got up as the Duck continued.
“That’s simple. It’s because the shadow of our mind is the reflection of our body. The mind and body are connected. If it’s the power of your thoughts—you and Geneva are equals without Skills. But the weight of your mind in moving objects is bound to your Selphid body. Don’t worry. Your Skills like [Doubled Mental Presence] will accrue faster than Geneva’s, especially if you work at it. And technique will make everything easier. But this is good.”
“Why?”
Beth sat up as the Duck begged for a snack and the servant offered it a piece of bread.
“Why, because otherwise I could lift this entire citadel. Balance matters. I have often said to the other Minds that they should be cute Ducks or dogs or divide up like me. When they grow large, they grow pompous. Are we rulers of Selphids or companions and guides?”
That answered a lot. She still didn’t trust the Duck…but as Beth sat up, she thought she was at least willing to listen to it. Then she went to sit in front of Foliana’s door. After a moment, she called out.
“I am willing to take my answers in writing, Foliana.”
No one responded. But after a long, long moment, Three-Color Stalker’s voice came out, muffled, from behind the door.
“Go. Away.”
 
——
 
Beth’s bullying of Foliana, the most famous [Rogue] in Baleros, was not missed by the staff of the palace. From servants to the [Mercenaries] of the Forgotten Wing, her stock rose instantly upon seeing that.
Geneva Scala was a story to many who wanted to shake her hand or talk to her. Beth…was the crazy Selphid [Healer]. Their reputations influenced how people talked to them.
Among the Fraerlings, Geneva was the ‘Earther doctor’, and something of a rival in terms of her medical prowess. A friend to the United Nations company. It meant they came to her respectfully, with a hint of challenge and determined to show her they were the equals of her world, if not better.
Beth was just a funny Selphid—since the nature of her cloned identity wasn’t out.
“Psst. Miss Tallfolk. Uh—Beth, right?”
Most Fraerlings were also not as impressed by Beth taking on Foliana. The [Headstrong Healer] blinked as a Fraerling strode over.
“Hello? Can I help you?”
By ‘strode over’, that meant the Fraerling was speaking from one of the Fraerways overhead as they did not share foot space with Tallfolk. But the Fraerling was very energetic and had that wide-eyed look of a tourist.
“Are you…a Selphid? Oh, it’s fascinating to meet another one! I have a report for Geneva Scala from the ‘front’ all written up. Interviews with Tallguard battling monsters. I was told to file it…do you know where?”
That was the problem with getting set up. Beth hesitated.
“I think they moved the filing cabinets so the Fraerlings could access them. It’s a shared room—I could take it for you.”
The Fraerling sighed in relief.
“Thank you. I’ve been walking for the last two hours asking for anyone who knows—you can’t bother the Titan, and only the senior staff seem to know about Miss Scala’s project. My feet are killing me. This is no city like home—but fascinating. Can I pass it to you from a window?”
There was a way for Tallfolk to place objects in ‘loading bays’ or via windows into the Fraerways. Beth picked up a teensy folder that a [Scribe] would have to re-transcribe and tried not to say it was cute.
“You’re from a Fraerling city, then? Not one of the Tallguard?”
She could have guessed based on the wide-eyed look the Fraerling had. She had bright yellow hair spiked up with gel or something and a pair of glasses that seemed to make her eyes huge. Magnification?
“That’s right! I’m a [Doctor] from the cities. Doctor Yeiyan at your service! I’d shake your hand but the Tallguard tell me that’s a good way to get hurt. Mind you, I saw a bird up close and nearly fainted the other day. What a terrifying place!”
She was chatty, energetic, and Beth immediately loved her.
“You don’t even see birds that often?”
Yeiyan shuddered.
“Birds? We have pet ones in the aviary our Tallguards use to travel with, but even those are dangerous. They’ll take your arm off in a single peck! The largest animals in a Fraerling city are…dragonflies? Hump Beetles you ride on? Nothing like here. I heard there were rats in the Fraerways, and I’ve been jumping at every shadow. Although the Tallguard are constantly patrolling!”
She pointed to the serious fighters, who did indeed patrol the Fraerways and wiped out all threats to their kind. Yeiyan pulled something out and waved it around. A teensy wand.
“They even gave me a wand for self-defense. Self-defense. Imagine needing a weapon to just walk around! At least it’s only [Paralysis].”
Beth smiled sadly.
“I’ve heard how safe Fraerling cities are. Thank you for coming out to help with the medicine.”
“Oh, well, I had to. Tallguard are [Medics] and [Healers] at most. They rely on potions. Someone had to bring you Tallfolk up to snuff.”
Yeiyan beamed, and Beth paused.
“…Right. We’re not all incompetent. I’m a doctor myself, you know. I don’t have the class, but we might work together.”
The Fraerling paused.
“O-oh. A Tallfolk [Doctor]. That’s very good of you. Do you, um—are you a [Sawbones Doctor], a [Plague Doctor], or a [Bloodletting Doctor]? Those are the three I’ve heard appear in your societies.”
“…None of those.”
“Very good, very good! You know, we have something called blood transference. It’s a very handy thing where Fraerlings can exchange blood—but it’s complex. I was told the Last Light knows about it, which is impressive.”
Beth was straight-faced.
“I know about that too.”
“Do you? Wonderful! Do you wash your hands before you work? That’s very important, you know.”
At this point, Beth decided she should stop playing dumb. She smiled.
“I do practice proper hygiene, Miss Yeiyan. In fact, we’re working on a proper disinfectant we can cheaply clean our operating theaters with. Cross-contamination between blood transfusions would be terrible if we get the practice going among us Tallfolk. Of course, we’ll have to index all the blood types. They have eight main types among Humans—and far more given mixed species and all the other peoples of this world.”
The little Fraerling [Doctor] paused in fiddling with her glasses. She peered at Beth.
“…Um. You seem rather up-to-date on most medical knowledge. For a Tallfolk. But if you have any problem with a patient, allow me to help! We can remove organs in Fraerling cities, you know. Infected ones that you think are sickness—even your tonsils. See? Mine are out!”
She opened her mouth, and Beth smiled.
“Do you remove the appendix regularly in your profession?”
She nearly knocked over Yeiyan with shock. Then the [Doctor] sprang to her feet.
“Who are you?”
Beth’s smile widened.
“A doctor.”
 
——
 
Half an hour later, no less than eight medical practitioners, two Tallguard, six from the cities, were having a spirited argument with Beth in one of the rooms where Fraerlings and Tallfolk could organize.
“—it’s all aftercare in the cities. Which is why I went and joined the Tallguard. They don’t come whining to me about painkillers two weeks after an operation.”
“Why couldn’t you just use a healing potion?”
Beth sat with one of the grousing Tallguard [Healers]. The [Doctors] were groaning in sympathy. Some were [Healers]; one was a [Physician]. There were no [Surgeons], because magical medicine mostly just meant that level of specialization was rare.
“Sometimes they’re allergic. Or it’s just best not to overload the body with healing potion. Ironically—you Tallfolk with your weaker potions strain the body less. We can develop resistances to our stuff because it’s so high-grade. You know about allergies where you come from, Miss Beth?”
The question came with an innocent stare from the Tallguard. They kept doing it to her, and Beth smiled politely.
“Absolutely. Do you have any antihistamines for Doctor Geneva and I to look at?”
“Anti…what’s your term mean?”
The group instantly wrote this down. Beth’s eyes twinkled.
“Allergy-suppressing medication.”
“Oh, well, of course! By the way, did you know that it is possible to reduce allergies via exposure? That was one of my specializations!”
Yeiyan raised a hand excitedly. Beth’s face was deadpan.
“Absolutely. Although with beekeepers, the longer they’re exposed to bee venom, the weaker their tolerance becomes. It’s a huge problem in the beekeeping industry where professional keepers are forced to retire.”
The Fraerlings fell silent and glanced at each other. After a second, Yeiyan whispered.
“Ooh. She’s good. But that implies you keep honeybees, Miss Beth! We keep the cute little ones. Sweat bees, masked bees, cellophane—honey bees are too big and dangerous for Fraerlings. Ours help our [Druids] pollinate.”
“Ah, cross pollination, of course. But do you work with bees because it’s simpler than doing it by hand or have your people found there’s some benefit?”
“Argh! She got us!”
One of the Fraerlings plucked a hat from their head and danced on it a second as the others clapped. And like that—Beth had won their respect. Then they began gossiping and trading information freely.
“It’s so much fun being here—although the injuries are terrible. Tallguards are fighting hard against the monsters and Jungle Tails. But the worst ones are the lightly-wounded Tallguard.”
Yeiyan confessed to Beth. The [Healer] blinked.
“Oh? Why? Because you’re operating on them when they’re awake? I’d have thought you had anesthesia or magic for that.”
“Oh, no. We can put them to sleep. But I have to chase them around and stop them from hurting themselves worse while they’re in recovery. Tallguard bounce off the walls. Have you seen what they’re doing on that balcony on the second floor?”
Nothing would do but for the Fraerlings to make Beth take them there. And unlike the Tallguard, who would ride on your shoulders or head—they could either follow her in the Fraerways or she could carry them in a cage that resisted falls or impacts.
“There they are! Miss Beth, arrest all of them! Halt, you lot! You’ll smash your heads open!”
Commander Rozcal and a bunch of Tallguards, some with broken arms or light wounds, froze as a group of Niers’ students and Fraerlings gathered around.
“Aw, it’s the healers! Jump, jump—”
A Fraerling was on the second-floor banister leading down to the first one. As Beth walked over, she saw a Tallguard dive off the balcony—and the bungie cord attached to their legs caught them a literal centimeter before they hit the ground.
“Look at them. One miscalibration and they smash their heads open. The rest of them are gliding off the roof! What happens if birds attack, Commander Rozcal?”
He laughed, a tiny man with a booming laugh.
“That’s what bows are for! It adds to the excitement! Hey, Healer Beth, you wouldn’t stop us from having fun, would you?”
Beth glanced down at the bungie-jumping Fraerlings. The healers looked at her, and she addressed Rozcal.
“I wouldn’t, Commander Rozcal. But it seems to me the students might accidentally run into your jumping Fraerlings. It’s not that safe, is it?”
Rozcal looked around at the Titan’s students pushing to get a look.
“Eh, it’s safe enough…”
“Would a helmet take away from the thrill of having your head striking the ground?”
“Yes it would!”
Half the Tallguard shouted indignantly. Beth leaned over and smiled at Rozcal.
“Would a dead Fraerling take away from the thrill of this game? Because no one here can save someone whose brains are splattered on the floor, Commander Rozcal.”
Oooh. The healers looked at her, and Rozcal’s face went slack. Then he grumbled.
“…Fine. We can put on a Crelerbane helmet. That thing will save you from anything. You’re tougher than most Tallfolk, Miss Beth.”
She smiled at him, then winked at her new friends, who were cheering.
“I’m just doing my job, Commander.”
 
——
 
A day later, a woman was ticking off boxes on a list. She hadn’t organized it yet, but it was a sample sheet with a lot of items. She read them off to another woman, who was busily fabricating up a kit you could pack into a small case. Surgical needles, gauze, thread—bags of holding existed, but not everyone could afford them. This had to be compact and have enough to deal with most contingencies.
“Blood types. Past history of diseases. Checking for parasites…addictions to new types of drugs, magical damage. Physical scars. Presence of Galas muscle. Skill-based curses or other effects?”
“We need Fraerlings. They have the technology to detect these things. A comprehensive medical checkup gives us records. Records become a database.”
“The Titan will use that database. He’s all for itemizing his people’s levels. If we can build it, he will use it.”
“That is a necessary tradeoff, Geneva.”
Geneva Scala glanced over at Beth, and this time when both looked up, neither could quite read the other’s thoughts. They could guess—but something was happening.
“You want to let him make his company stronger?”
Geneva’s voice was offended. Beth’s was exasperated.
“I thought we went over this. It is far better to work with a Great Company to effect a greater change in the world—even if it makes him, personally, stronger. That is how it works in our world.”
“Yes, but he doesn’t need to go to a bloody war. Beth, I am all for working with Niers Astoragon and Paeth. But I will never be an unconditional witness to a slaughter again.”
Beth gave Geneva a brisk nod.
