Now that the giant flour maker was as completed as it was going to be until the cement dried, Ren ran back over to the warehouse and giant forge, and made two long sinks. They were 2 feet wide, 2 feet deep, and 3 feet long. He added an indentation on the bottom to hold several steel squares, then added 2 taps that would hold one square each. He enchanted the ones for the taps with all Water runes, and the ones on the bottom of the sink with Antiwater runes.

Ren then made braces and legs for them, rather than have them only mounted to the wall, stored everything and ran back into the bakery to set up the two sinks between the three sets of ovens.

“I think that's everything.” Ren said.

“We still need the giant sifter.” Tee-one reminded him.

“Dammit!” Ren exclaimed. “I forgot!”

“Language, My Lord!” One of the women said, and Ren turned to see who it was.

“I'm sorry, M'lady.” Ren said to Gemma, and gave her a quick bow. “Please forgive me.”

Gemma's mouth opened and closed several times at being called a Lady, then she took a deep breath and nodded. Ren ran back over to the giant forge and made another large bowl, about half the size of what the flour grinder would be when it was done, then enlarged the plans for the flour sifter. He didn't increase the size of the space in the wire mesh, however.

Ren added in the turning gear and handle for the sifter to push the flour though the mesh and scoop out any larger pieces that weren't ground properly. With that done, he went back over to the bakery and Tee-one already had the shelf ready. Ren put the large bowl and sifter on it and stepped back.

“Okay, now I think that's everything.”

“You should probably set the owner of this place before you leave for the night.” Tee-one said.

“Thanks for reminding me.” Ren said and walked over to the 4 women who were hard at work. “I know this is going to sound a little weird, but... which of you is the most senior?”

“That's Gemma.” Betsie said. “She's been a baker a lot longer than any of us.”

“Hey, I'm not that old!” Gemma said in her defense. “My daughter Falla is only 10!”

Ramona chuckled. “My Russell is only 10, too. Do you want me to claim I'm older than you?”

Gemma opened her mouth to respond hotly, then she sighed. “All right.” She said a little sadly. “I'm the oldest.”

Ren chuckled. “That wasn't really what I meant, but it'll do.” He said and opened the Land Owner menu and made Gemma the owner of the building. A key appeared around her neck, and she gasped.

“Wh-what's this?”

“Congratulations.” Ren said. “You are now the proud owner of the very first bakery in Goagan City.”

“I'm the WHAT?!?” Gemma gripped the key in her hands and stared at Ren. “W-wait! D-did you just say Goagan City?”

Ren nodded and added the other three women to the allow list for the building, and similar keys appeared around their necks. “The rest of you have full access as well.” He said. “I hope you can make as much baked goods as you can.”

The 4 women stared at Ren with open mouths as he walked back over to Tee-one.

“I'm tempted to have you work on the defenses for the county.” Ren said.

“I can do that.” Tee-one said. “I just need some supplies from you.”

Ren took out a couple of good-sized diamonds and a couple of poles, and gave them to Tee-one.

“I'll head out right after Ruck and I make the medical building.”

“Right!” Ren said and opened the order menu; then laughed. “Actually, I don't know what I'm supposed to order for healers to use.”

“You can ask Nathalia to get the information from Ereka.” Tee-one said.

“That's a great idea.” Ren said. Teepo, what's my time like?

“If you leave now, you can be back in Aurora and still have an hour before supper.” Teepo said.

Thanks, buddy. Ren thought to his friend. “I better get going if I'm going to catch her before the supper rush.” He said. “I might be gone for a few days, too. The guys have a quest in a couple days, and I might have Adventurer's business until then.”

Tee-one nodded and Ren gave him the farm vehicle and bid the women bakers goodnight. He saw that Ramona was disappointed that he didn't kiss her hand goodbye, and noticed Gemma's sister had a similar look on her face. He gave them a little bow instead, and when he turned to leave, Gemma spoke.

“Wait!” Gemma said. “It's almost done!”

“I'm sorry, I can't wait for the bread to finish baking.” Ren said.

“No, these!” Gemma said, and shook the wire basket in the deep fryer. Ren ran over to her without hesitation and looked into the large steel tub.

“They look good.” Ren said and took in a deep breath through his nose. “They smell good, too.”

“Just wait.” Gemma said, and shook them again. “Okay.” She said and few moments later, and Ren watched as she lifted out the basket and hung it on the side. He reached for one and she slapped his hand.

“Ow!” Gemma said and cupped her hand against her chest.

“I'm sorry.” Ren said and took out a Level 5 Major Healing wand. “Let me see your hand.”

“No, it's fine.” Gemma said.

“Gemma, show him your hand and let him heal it.” Ramona said.

Gemma sighed and held it out. Ren saw one of the fingers was immobile, and he very carefully examined it with his own fingers. He sighed in relief when his Healing ability told him it was just a dislocated knuckle, and he switched the Major Healing wand for a Minor Healing one, and healed her hand.

“Gemma, you need to be more careful.” Ren said. “I'm pretty Tough, and you'll hurt yourself if you try to hit me like that again.”

“I'll remember.” Gemma said and picked up the wire basket. “They should be cool enough now.”

“Butter!” Ramona said. Gemma dumped the fried pieces of dough out onto a large cookie sheet, and Ramona covered them in butter.

“I've got the sugar.” Betsie said and grabbed a small handful, then sprinkled it over the butter-covered fried dough. Gemma offered Ren the first one, and he took a bite.

“Oh, wow.” Ren said and ate it. “That's really good!”

“I told you.” Gemma said and took one herself. The other three women took a piece, and Russell took one, too. Gemma offered Ren the last piece, which he gratefully accepted and stored.

“I'll need a couple of buckets of grease.” Ren said and Ramona pointed to the third one Ruck had brought in.

“That's the last of my stock for the month.” Ramona said. “Gemma?”

“I've got one, and maybe another half of one.”

“I haven't used mine at all.” Betsie said. “I have 4 of them.”

“Ladies, if you would be so kind, I'd like to get them from you.” Ren said.

“Well...” Betsie said. “I don't want to give up all of what I have...”

“Just two from you will be fine.” Ren said. “I see two empty buckets, so I assume two can half-fill the fryer.”

Gemma nodded. “If you put much more than that in it, you run the risk of it spilling or splashing.”

Ramona looked at her son. “Russell.”

“If Ruck comes along, sure.” Russell said. “He can run faster than me!”

Ren chuckled and stored the bucket of grease. “I'll go and see how the houses are coming along while you're gone.” He said and ran out of the bakery behind Russell and Ruck, then went across the road to see how far along Jen and her work crews were in building the houses.

“We're just packing up.” Jen said when he approached. “It's taking a little longer because Jhulune isn't here to carry everything this time.”

Ren was tempted to offer Jen a Strong Ring of Storage; but that would cut Jhulune's usefulness to her down, and he didn't want to do that.

“If you're going to be a few minutes, then I'll go and check on Janice and get Princess ready.” Ren said instead. Jen nodded, and Ren ran across the road to Janice's shop. He knocked on the workshop's door, and she stopped working to look at him.

“I'm heading back to Aurora for the night, and I'll probably be gone for a couple of days.”

“I have to log out soon, too.” Janice said. “Can you leave my old house and my spawn point?”

“Sure.” Ren said and ran around the back of her workshop and took her old house out of inventory and set it on the ground, then ran back to the front. “It's out back, and you can transfer your stuff to your new place.” He said, then made her a small icebox and gave her a dozen plates of food. “By the way, I'm pretty sure you can set your spawn point for the new house. It should be a safe zone.”

“Thanks, Ren.” Janice said. “You really... I mean, look at this place.” She said, then walked over to him to give him a hug. “You've done so much for me, and... and you... you don't expect me to... well, I...” She smiled at him. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said, and let a smile spread across his face. “Although, I wouldn't mind seeing you bend over in just a slip again.”

“Ren!” Janice said and playfully swatted at him. “Get!” *swat* “Out!” *swat* “Of!” *swat* “Here!”

Ren laughed, then ran over to the Main House and went inside.

“Hi, Princess.” Ren said and pet her. “Did you have a good rest?”

Hello, My Lord. Princess thought to him and stood up. I did, but I am ready to run again.

Ren smiled and led her outside the Main House and over to Jen. She stood beside the three carts that her work crews were going to ride in. Ruck and Russell arrived back at the bakery, then came over and gave Ren the buckets of grease he wanted.

The work crews all loaded into their carts and Ren took out the Giant Strength and Haste wands, and cast them on the three horses. They took off at full speed, and Ren switched out the Phantom Steed wand his Hand of Glory held for the Energize wand. Ruck and Russell waved at them, then Princess ran after the carts to follow them back to Aurora.

*

Officer Holly Stonewall was glad that there was an underground network online for buying FLOW gold, because she didn't have the time or the inclination to go adventuring to earn money. She was currently asleep at an inn because she had an early appointment at the Temporary Care Facility where she thought Ren was staying. She was exhausted because she had been up nearly the whole real life night and tried to follow Ren's erratic movements around the city, to try and discover what it was he was doing.

*

Ren and the lumber yard carts arrived at the West Gate into Aurora, and he cast Energize on the horses so they wouldn't be exhausted after the hard run.

“I'll see you again in a few days.” Jen said, and Ren shook his head.

“Actually, I've got Adventurer's business to take care of, and I won't be available.”

“I... oh, well... I guess we're going back to regular travel for the next trip.”

“I'm sorry if that messes up your schedule.”

Jen smiled. “Don't worry about that.” She said. “I'll see you the trip after that.”

“Probably.” Ren said. “See you then.”

“Bye, Ren.”

They went their separate ways when they entered the city. Jen took her crew back to the lumber mill, and Ren went to the Housing District.

Verwynn should have closed the market stall a couple of hours ago. Ren thought and felt his Aura merge with the shared Aura. He felt reservations and feelings of concealment, and frowned. What are they doing? He asked himself.

Princess came to a stop outside the house, and he took her inside and put her in the back bedroom with a couple plates of food. He saw Riley and Stacy and didn't get any ominous feelings from them, so he left the back bedroom and tried to check on Railyse. He only managed to check on the water elemental guard because it wouldn't let him in, and instead went upstairs to the bedroom. Ren walked inside, and all 5 of the maids sat still on the end of the bed and looked very reserved.

“Okay, what's going on?” Ren asked them. “You're all hiding something.”

The maids exchanged glances, and he felt their worry.

“If something bad happened...” Ren let a spurt of anger out. “...to any of you...” He said and clenched a fist. “Tell me who it was and I'll deal with it.”

The maids let appreciation flow into the Aura, then they let the feelings of reservation go and happiness and joy flooded out of them.

“We sold it all!” Verwynn said and jumped up. “Look!” She took off her coin pouch and dumped out 120 gold and a pile of silver coins onto the bed.

“Wh-what?” Ren let his anger go and blinked his eyes a few times. The maids laughed at his reaction and tackled him. Verwynn got her arms around his neck and stood in front, Navruth and Lusinia had one of his arms each, and Frikara and Andrela hugged him from behind.

“It went a little slow at first; but, once the first person bought a vase at a discount...” Verwynn smiled and kissed his cheek. “We couldn't beat them away!”

“Really?” Ren asked.

“It's true!” Lusinia said and kissed his cheek, too. “I don't think I've ever seen so many people before!”

“They were all so tall.” Navruth said and kissed his other cheek. “We didn't see anything besides people all day.”

“Until you showed up at noon riding Princess.” Frikara said. Ren turned to look at her and she kissed his cheek, too. “What a sight that was.”

“It was great!” Andrela said, and Ren turned his head the other way to look at her and she kissed his other cheek. “I really liked how much you appreciated us.”

“We all did.” Verwynn said, and Ren faced front. Her face was only a couple of inches lower than his. “Then just now, when you thought we were in danger, we felt how angry you were.” Her face flushed red and she leaned in close. “I really liked that.” She whispered seductively. She was so close, and in fact they all were; and he could feel they all liked that he would crush anyone that would try to harm them. The maids held onto him, but weren't restricting him at all; and he let his appreciation for them and their efforts on his behalf flow out.

They all caught their breath, and then gasped as Ren kissed Verwynn. Just like the last time he had kissed her, she wasn't sure what to do with herself and just stood there and let him kiss her as much as he wanted. Ren could feel her desire and her uncertainty, and Navruth and Lucinia let his arms go. He wrapped them around Verwynn and held on tightly, and that was enough to shake her out of her doubt.

