Verwynn was still kind of lost in how she felt, but her body knew exactly what it wanted. Her hands moved through his hair and grabbed on, and she pulled herself up so her lips were at the same level as his. Ren moved his hands to her backside to hold her up, and she moaned into his mouth because he was touching something she had thought he would never touch. She desperately wanted to wrap her legs around him, but the long dress prevented that.

Ren felt her frustration and broke the kiss. “What...”

“Dress.” Verwynn said.

“Just store it.” Ren said

Verwynn's mouth made that little 'o' of surprise, because she had forgotten she could do that with the ring. She actually thought she would have to get undressed and they would have to stop what they were doing; then she smiled and stored the dress in an instant. She wrapped her legs around him, now that the dress was no longer in the way, and kissed him. Ren felt her joy, all of their joy, and walked over to the bed. He sat Verwynn on the end of it as they kissed, then he moved her back and laid down with her underneath.

All Verwynn wore was a pair of underwear and a smile, and Ren got caught up in the beauty of the sight. He knew what he was doing, and the maids knew what he was doing, and he let the maids feel how he felt as he looked at Verwynn. The other maids climbed onto the bed and laid down beside her. Verwynn let her arms fall away from around Ren's neck, and two maids on one side held onto one arm, and the two maids on her other side held her other arm.

Verwynn looked at Ren and nodded, and he ground himself against her. He was still fully clothed, but he knew that didn't matter for her. Verwynn's breath sped up as his movements sped up, and they stared at each other as he did his best to make her go. He could feel it in the Aura as it slowly built up, and he felt the other maids going along for the ride.

Ren didn't look at anyone else, even though he felt like some of them wanted him to look at them. This was Verwynn's turn, and he let some of that feeling out. Verwynn stopped breathing when she felt that, and that was enough to push her emotions over the edge and she let herself go.

“By the gods!” Verwynn said and kissed him. When she let all of her reservations and uneasiness go, she finished. She broke the kiss and threw her head back onto the bed. “UnnnnNNNN!” She half-screamed and half-moaned as Ren kept rubbing himself over her. She panted over and over as the rest of the maids finished, and she unwrapped her legs from around him. Her limbs lost all mobility as her entire body relaxed. All 5 maids had been satisfied far beyond what they thought was possible, and Ren got up off the bed.

“R-R-Ren...” Verwynn mumbled.

“I need to run a quick errand, and then I'm going to be gone for a couple of days.” Ren said, then walked over to the first maid on the bed and kissed her, then the next, and so on until he had kissed all 5 of them. “I'll be back in a bit so we can eat supper.”

“No... rush.” Frikara said, and Ren chuckled. He left the bedroom and ran down the stairs, then went outside and down the street. He ran to his business and went inside to see Anabelle.

“Hi, Ren.” Anabelle said.

“No one else in the store?” Ren asked.

“I was about to close early and go grab a bite to eat.”

“That's a great idea.” Ren said. “Mind if I join you?”

“Mind?” Anabelle said and came around the counter. “I insist.”

“Go put on something sexy and I'll close up the shop.”

“What makes you think I'll do that?” Anabelle asked, teasingly.

“Because when you swing your hips when you walk, you want me to know that you're doing it only for me.”

Anabelle bent over and kissed him. “It is only for you, Ren.”

“Then get your ass upstairs and change. I'm a little sexually frustrated right now, and I need the distraction.” Ren said. “So, hurry up.”

“Yes, My Lord.” Anabelle said and jogged over to the back door and disappeared up the stairs. Ren closed the curtains on the windows and locked the door, then equipped his stylish red suit. Anabelle came down a minute later in a dress that wasn't supposed to be low cut; but, because she had done something to her chest, it was pushed well above where it should have been. When she walked, he saw the skirt had a large slit cut up the side of it so she could show off her long legs.

“You've been sewing?” Ren asked her, and she nodded.

“Do you like the alterations?” Anabelle asked, and bent over in front of him. Her breasts almost spilled out of her dress, and Ren swallowed loudly as he watched intently for it to happen. Her hand reached out and touched his chin, and he looked up at the huge smile on her face. She gave him a kiss, and stood up straight.

“Shall we go, My Lord?” Anabelle asked and held her arm out. Ren nodded wordlessly and took her arm, then they left the business and walked up the street to Nathalia's Nourishment.

*

Lara, the Sage of Ages, had finally finished her Required Knowledge quest. She sat up straight at her desk and then stood up to put back the book she had borrowed.

Who would have thought that reading a thousand books, even with Expert level Speed Reading, would take so flipping long? Lara asked herself and walked over to the shelf she had gotten the book from, and slipped it back into place. Her stomach rumbled, and she looked down at it. That's new. She thought, and then it rumbled again. She looked at her Health Bar and it started to drop a little. Ha. They added a warning system.

Lara walked over to her closet and went inside, chose the Aurora Library from the drop down menu, and stepped back out. She came out of the back area and walked across the Library, then glanced at the Head Librarian. They exchanged respectful nods, and Lara left the Library and walked up the street to Nathalia's Nourishment.

*

Ren was glad they were a little early, and they got in almost right away.

“Oh! Hello, My Lord!” The woman who sat people said, and looked at Anabelle. “Table for two?”

“Please.” Ren said. “Preferably secluded, if that's possible.”

“We just had a partition installed in the back.” She said and smiled. “Three private tables, separated by a curtain.”

“Anabelle?” Ren asked.

“Oh, yes.” Anabelle said. “More privacy would be preferable, My Lord.”

“A private table it is.” Ren said and looked at the woman. “Lead the way.”

“Follow me.” She said, and Ren led Anabelle across the restaurant to the back. They went behind a partition and through a curtain to a very nice private table. It was covered in the red tablecloth that he had made for it, and for every other table in the establishment. Ren held a chair out for Anabelle and she sat down, then Ren sat across from her.

“I'll send a server over in a few minutes to take your order.” The woman said and gave them menus to look over.

“Thank you.” Ren said, and the woman left.

“No, this won't do.” Anabelle said. “I'm much to far away from you.”

“It's a 3 foot wide round table.” Ren smiled. “You can bend over the table and I can kiss you.”

“No, no.” Anabelle stood up and picked up the chair. “That's much too far away.” She walked around the table and put her chair right next to Ren and sat down. “Yes, this is much better.” She said, and wrapped an arm around Ren's, which squeezed her breasts together. Ren thought for sure they would pop out when she did that; but they didn't.

“Can I take your order?” The server asked as she stepped through the curtain. “Oh! Hello, My Lord!”

“Hello.” Ren said to her. It was the server that liked getting her hand kissed. “What's the special today?”

“Steak and potatoes, with a side of vegetables.”

“Two please.” Ren said.

“Yes, My Lord.” The server said. “There's going to be a brief wait. They're still butchering the cow.”

“That's fine.” Ren said. “I don't have to leave for Adventurer's business for another hour.”

“I'll have it to you as soon as it's ready.” The server said, and left to wait on more tables.

“It seems we have a bit of time on our hands.” Anabelle said. “Whatever will we do?”

“I have a couple of ideas, but we're in public.” Ren said. “We can't just...”

“Oops!” Anabelle said and tossed a spoon onto the floor. “I seem to have dropped my spoon!”

“Anabelle...”

“Don't worry, My Lord.” Anabelle said and moved her chair back a little. “You just sit right there and relax. I'll get it.”

Ren watched as Anabelle bent down and went to pick up the spoon, then she ducked under the table and disappeared behind the tablecloth.

“Anab-” Ren stopped talking when her hand came out from under the tablecloth and touched him between the legs. He was still excited after what he had done with the maids; so he squirmed a little when Anabelle tapped on it, and then she tugged on the cloth of his pants. He didn't protest, and her other hand came out from under the tablecloth and undid his pants. Ren moved a little closer to the table to hide what she was doing, and he closed his eyes as she pleased him.

*

Nathalia came through the portal in the storage room, and gasped as her collective with Ren formed immediately. She closed her eyes and let his feelings flow over and through her.

By the gods! Nathalia thought. What are you doing?

Nathalia walked to the storage area door and made sure it was locked, then sat down on the floor to ride out what she was feeling from him.

*

Ren had felt Nathalia appear and his emotions reached a new height when their collective formed. Anabelle had felt the change in his body, and she took full advantage of it.

By the gods! Nathalia thought. What are you doing?

Anabelle is... under the table... and... Ren thought to Nathalia.

I can feel it, too. Nathalia thought to him. It's like...

I know. Ren thought. I'm... almost done.

Oh, Ren. Nathalia thought. I wish it was me.

It is you, my dearest love. Ren thought. It's always you. He fed her the feelings he remembered of her mouth on him. Nathalia covered her mouth because she really could feel him on her lips, and then she gasped as he finished.

Anabelle was determined to hold all of him this time, and she stayed where she was until he was done. The server came in with their two plates of food and placed them on the table. “Where is your pretty date?”

“She had a last minute thing that she wanted to do.” Ren said in a normal voice.

“I hope she comes back before the food gets cold.” The server said.

“She's almost done.” Ren said and smiled. “Thank you.”

“I'll come back in a while to see if you need anything else.” She said and left.

It took a couple of minutes for Anabelle to finish cleaning up, and she had somehow came out from under the table gracefully.

“My Lord, you really needed that.” Anabelle said and sat down.

“I did.” Ren said and kissed her. “Thank you very much.”

“It was my pleasure.” Anabelle said, and then Nathalia stepped through the curtain. “Nathalia!” She said and stood up to give her a hug.

“Hi, Anabelle.” Nathalia said and hugged her back. “I just stopped in to see that everything was all right.”

“Everything is fine.” Ren said in a satisfied voice, and sent Nathalia the feeling of a quick kiss on the lips. “Thank you for checking in on us.”

“After that order you made the other day, I had to see what you've been up to.” Nathalia said.

“I've been feeding lunch to the work crews building the houses in my county.” Ren said. “And also myself, Princess, the maids, and sometimes Anabelle and a woman I met, Janice.”

“Janice?”

Ren nodded. “She's a glassworker, and I'm paying her for lessons.”

“Have you made anything yet?”

“Only a few odd-sized potion bottles.” Ren said and chuckled. “I've only had one lesson so far.”

“Well, if it's like everything else you can do, you'll pick it up fast.”

Ren stared at Nathalia and remembered getting to touch her all over, and saw Nathalia shiver a little. “I'm sorry.” Ren said. “Just seeing you in person...”

“I know.” Nathalia said and hugged herself. “I feel it, too.”

“Well, before I forget... can you ask Ereka what Artrude and Malenka ordered for the medical building as supplies? I'm building a healer outpost and I'd like to know what to fill it with.”

“Of course.” Nathalia said. “I'll step through the portal and ask her, then check again when supper is over.”

“Thank you, Nathal... ah... M'lady.”

Nathalia smiled. “When we're alone, you can call me by my name.”

Ren shook his head. “I won't take the chance that it might happen in public, my dearest love.”

“I feel so bad for the two of you.” Anabelle said. “So close, and yet so far.”

“It's all right.” Nathalia said. “We... we both need to adjust to... not being together anymore.”

“Let me help.” Anabelle said and kissed Ren passionately. She broke the kiss and walked over to Nathalia.

“I don't think that seeing him kiss another woman is-Mmm!” Nathalia's words were cut off as Anabelle kissed her just as passionately. She broke the kiss and smiled at her friend.

“There! You kissed but you didn't kiss!” Anabelle said. “You don't have to feel guilty about it, okay? You didn't actually kiss him, right?”

Nathalia blinked her eyes at her, and Ren blinked his eyes at both of them.

“Now go and do what Ren asked, and let us know what Ereka said.” Anabelle said, turned Nathalia around by her shoulders, and eased her out through the curtain.

“O-okay.” Nathalia said and walked away, stunned.

“Anabelle.” Ren said and she walked over to the table and sat down next to him.

“Yes, My Lord?”

“That was very nice of you.” Ren said, rather than tell her that she had shocked Nathalia.

“It was!” Anabelle said. “Did you see her face?” She took a bite of food. “She still really loves you, you know.”

“I know.” Ren said and started to eat as well.

The poor spoon was still on the floor, alone and abandoned.
