“I'll bring a smelter with me next time, and I'll make what you need at the Main House.”

“What...”

“Do you still need to go to town?” Ren asked her, and Patty shook her head. “Then I need to go.” He said and walked away from her.

“Wait!” Patty exclaimed. Ren turned around and saw that she held out the silver coin towards him. He shook his head at her.

“Keep it, and use it for something else.” Ren said. “If I'd known you needed basic tools the last time I was here, I'd have brought you everything that you needed already.”

He left her standing there, in the open field, holding a shovel and a silver coin in her hands. Ren and Nathalia climbed into the cart and drove all the way back to Aurora. They made it back just in time for nightfall, and went inside the business just before the closing time popup. Ren took Nathalia up to the apartment and into the kitchen to wait. Anabelle came upstairs a few minutes later and handed Ren a list of items to be made. The three of them ate a good meal, and waited for another half an hour.

“The Sage was right.” Nathalia said and sighed. “I guess I better go.” She said. “I really wanted to help out tonight.”

Ren put a hand on her arm. “I know you did.” He said. “I'll walk you to your portal.”

They left the apartment and then the building, using the new rear entrance, and walked down the street and around the corner to the restaurant. Once inside, Nathalia kissed him goodbye.

“See you in an hour.” Nathalia said, and stepped through the portal. Ren left the building and ran back to his own, then up the stairs to the apartment. He was disappointed that he hadn't even gotten a message from Elerlyth, explaining why she hadn't logged in; but, he figured she must have gotten caught up in something.

See you on the other side, Teepo. Ren thought, and Teepo dissolved into the Beetle Crown ring. “See you in a couple of days, Anabelle.” He said as he opened the cabinet to the portal. She walked over to him and gave him a quick hug and let him go.

“Bye, Ren.” Anabelle said. “Thank you.”

“For what?”

“You let me pick the people I wanted to work with. You didn't tell me to pick the best looking, or the best seller, or even the smartest one.” Anabelle smiled. “You told me to pick someone I liked instead.” She laughed. “Who does that?”

“Me.” Ren smiled. “Bye, Anabelle.”

She gave him a little wave, and he stepped through the portal. Once on the other side, Ren made a door on the second floor landing, just to keep the two buildings close to identical, fed Princess, and hooked her up to the cart. They made good time on the trip back, and arrived at House Neram Keep an hour later. He put Princess in the stable, and went inside the house. His Aura merged with the artifical one in the house, and he felt Nathalia in her room. He went into her room, stored his clothing, and left himself in just his underwear. After climbing into bed and under the blanket, Nathalia turned to him.

“I think we're both too tired to do anything but sleep.” Ren said, and Nathalia nodded slightly.

“Exhaustion is definitely an excuse we can use.” She said, kissed him, and snuggled down onto his chest. “Although, today was worth it.”

“I don't remember the last time I got to spend the whole day with you like that, so it was definitely worth it.” Ren said. “Goodnight, My Love.”

“Goodnight, My Love.” Nathalia said.

They both felt the love they had for each other, and fell asleep surrounded in both physical and emotional warmth.
