Nathalia laughed as well, and then she moved over the other equipment. A large grill, a huge oven, a portable pantry, and then supplies.

“I wish I could help.” Ren said, as Nathalia dropped off yet another load of food.

“Me, too.” She said. “This stuff is heavy.”

“I'd suggest moving my other warehouse in the Dwarven Kingdom closer to House Neram Keep, but I'd lose the portal if I did, and it would cost another hundred platinum to establish it again.”

“Plus, you can only use it for another few months anyways.” Nathalia said. “There's not much point in going through all of the trouble to move it.”

Ren nodded slightly and took in a deep breath; then let it out slowly. “At least I can still see you after that.”

Nathalia came over to him and they embraced each other. She gave him a light kiss, that became something more impassioned. They both had their emotions run high, then Ren remembered where they were.

“We... shouldn't do this.” He said and looked around.

“There's a counter here, too.” Nathalia suggested. Ren looked at her with wide eyes, and she smiled demurely. She stepped away, kept a hold of one of his hands as she led him over to the counter, and he did the same thing that he did in the other building. He laid a bolt of cloth down to make the floor more comfortable, then they stored their clothing and made love to each other. It seemed fitting somehow, that they had christened both buildings by doing so. They cleaned each other up and equipped their clothes.

“No matter how many times we sleep together, I still marvel over you.” Ren said.

Nathalia smiled. “I was just thinking the same thing.”

“I don't know what I ever did to deserve you.” Ren said, and cupped the side of her face.

“You gave me an enchanted stove and said my given name in public.” Nathalia said, and laughed at Ren's surprised expression.

“That's... not what I meant.” He said, and she kissed him.

“I know that, My Love.” Nathalia said. “But it's best to not think about such things. I'm yours, and that's all that matters now.”

*

Jhulune had heard that there was a job opening at Ren's shop; but, she would never abandon her mentor Jen at the lumber mill. Although it was really tempting to actually get paid for her work, she knew that an apprentice was never actually paid a salary; only sometimes tips or even shares on really large jobs. 'She was there to learn, not to earn money' in the words of her mentor. She'd had no idea that Jen had saved all of their shares until the city repair job was completed, and she looked at the pile of 25 gold coins in her hands.

What in the world am I going to do with it all? Jhulune thought. Well, give some of it to my parents, obviously. She chuckled. Imagine the looks on their faces if I spent it all!

She put 10 gold coins into her pocket, and 15 gold coins in the other pocket.

I think I'll stop at Ren's shop during my break. Jhulune thought as she touched the strap of her bra. Just to see what else he has for sale.

*

Ren and Nathalia went back to the shop to see how things were going, and Katie was doing a good job dealing with the customers. Anabelle praised her, out of Katie's earshot of course, and Ren told her that if nothing bad happens, to offer her the job at the end of the day. Anabelle nodded, and Ren turned to Nathalia.

“What would you like to do now?” Ren asked her.

“I'm not sure.” Nathalia said. “We've got another 7 hours before nightfall. What else is there for me to see here?”

Ren thought about it. “Well, there's not much else in the city to show you; but, I do know a couple of places you might like to see.”

They left the shop and went to the stables. Ren rented a horse and cart, and took Nathalia out through the North Gate. After a short ride, he asked her to close her eyes. She did so, and he drove a little further. He pulled the cart to a stop, set the brake, and asked Nathalia to concentrate on her House Neram pendant. She did so, and Ren felt their Auras merge. He turned her head to look to the side, and spoke.

“Okay, open your eyes.”

Nathalia opened her eyes, and the sunlight was at just the right angle to highlight all of the giant sunflowers perfectly.

“By... by the gods, Ren...” Nathalia said, her voice and feelings full of wonder. “It's... it's...” She took a breath, then another. “I don't know what to say to describe it.”

Ren hugged her, and she leaned into him. “That's why I wanted to share our Auras.”

Nathalia sighed, and they sat there for about 10 minutes and just watched the soft wind shift the endless field of flowers from side to side, and basked in the wonder they both felt.

*

The High Elves tracking team had found the site of the skirmish battle, and it took several hours before the pair of jaguars had finally picked out the one individual scent that their master was looking for. Once they had it however, they would never lose it. The jaguars crashed through the underbrush, ran around several trees and then jumped into a large river.

“I'm always amazed they can do that.” One of the guards said. The Tracker laughed, his voice making the sound of growling and claws clacking.

“Most people don't know that jaguars love the water, and can even track prey through it.”

“You're kidding.”

The Tracker shook his head and smiled. “They don't even have to search for the scent when they reach the other side.”

“No wonder you're always in high demand.”

The Tracker nodded. “I get hired to find all kinds of things.” He said. “None are as satisfying as this, though.”

The guard laughed. “Yes, our dark brethren are the best hunt to be on.”

“Don't call them that!” The Tracker exclaimed, then sighed. “They are abominations, and need to be exterminated.”

“Ha!” The guard said. “Good luck with that.”

The Tracker nodded. “I'm doing my part.”

“Just don't finish it.” The guard said. “Catch, relocate, and release, remember?”

The Tracker didn't say anything, and watched the two jaguars climb out of the water on the other side.

“They're out.” He said, and the guard put a hand down to the water. A water elemental reached a hand up to grab it, and a moment later, a 10 foot wide section of the river's surface froze over to the other side.

“Now it's my turn to say that I'm always amazed that you can do that.”

“It's because of my high water and ice affinities.” The guard said as he let the frozen hand go. “It only lasts a few minutes, though; so, get across before it starts to melt.”

The pair of High Elves made their way across the ice quickly, and reached the other side. Several cracks could be heard, and a minute later, the ice broke up and flowed down the river. The water elemental waved the still frozen hand to the guard, and the guard waved back.

“Let's go.” The guard said, and he and the Tracker ran after the jaguars.

*

Ren drove the cart back to the city, and then out the West Gate. “This is a bit of a long drive.”

“You're taking me out to your County.” Nathalia said.

Ren nodded slightly. “I can run it pretty fast by myself; but with the horse and cart, it takes about 3 hours.”

“I'm not in any rush.” Nathalia said. “I'm getting to spend the whole day with the man that I love.”

Ren smiled. “And I get to spend the day with the woman I love.”

Nathalia put her head on his shoulder for a brief moment, then sat up straight. Ren chuckled.

“It's too rough of a ride to cuddle, My Love.” He said. “I've been fighting the urge myself.”

Nathalia laughed and put a hand on his leg instead. They made it to the Main House that Ren had built in the County, and he parked the horse and cart in the available space. Ren took her inside and showed her how different it was from a normal Main House.

“You made it into an actual house, and not just a House-governing building.”

Ren nodded slightly and took her up the stairs.

“You're really planning on living here?”

“Eventually.” Ren said. “I needed to make some kind of arrangement.”

“Why didn't you just buy a house in the city?”

“I don't have to.” He said. “I stay at the apartment above the business when I'm in town. Of course, I haven't slept there overnight in... well, it's been a while.”

“Can you show me the village?” Nathalia asked.

“Sure.” Ren said, and they left the Main House and climbed into the cart. He drove to the village, and showed Nathalia the sheer cliff face it was made under.

“No wonder you want to build new houses around the Main House.” Nathalia commented. “I'm getting nervous it's going to crumble, and I just got here.”

Ren chuckled. “I know, right?” He shook his head. “I think it started as a good base, to protect the village against attackers; but, the physical danger from the protection is more pronounced than anything else right now.”

“Do you think you can hire a crew to come out here to work on it?”

“If I pay them enough, and probably make them somewhere to live while they're here.” Ren said.

“Then I'm sure you'll get everything done before you know it.” Nathalia said, and turned to him. “Thank you for showing me all of this.”

“What's mine is yours, remember?” Ren said, and Nathalia's mouth dropped open.

“Ren, that only applies if we get married!”

He shrugged his shoulders. “I received all of this while still under contract with you, so... you tell me. Do you own half of it?”

Nathalia was going to argue that it didn't matter, because when the contract expired, all deals were null and void; but she could see the gleam in his eye, and shook her head.

“You don't care if I argue about it, do you?”

“Nope.” Ren said and hugged her. “I don't need a piece of parchment or a ceremony to tell me what you mean to me.”

“Oh, Ren.” Nathalia said, and kissed him. A few minutes later, they got back in the cart and drove back along the main road, and Ren decided to stop in at the farmhouse. He pulled the cart to a stop next to it, then climbed down.

“What's this place?”

“The seat of authority for the village.” Ren said. “The village elder is usually here. I don't know if she lives here, or just comes here to work, though.”

Ren and Nathalia walked arm-in-arm over to the farmhouse, and Ren knocked on the door. Patty opened it and stared at them.

“She's the elder?!?” Nathalia asked, surprised.

“Yeah.” Ren said. “Hi, Patty. I'm sorry I haven't been back to take that tour; but, I've been really busy with a bunch of things.”

“I saw.” Patty said. “That's quite a 'house' you've made.” She looked at Nathalia. “Who's this you've brought with you?”

“This is my fiance, Nathalia.” Ren said.

“Hello.” Nathalia said.

“Hi.” Patty said. “You arrived here just in time.”

“For what?” Ren asked.

“I need a ride to Aurora.”

“We'd be glad to give you one.” Ren said. “I'll make sure you get back here, too.”

“Ren.” Nathalia said. “We don't have the time to do that.”

“I didn't say I'd take her back personally.” Ren said. “I'll hire a driver.”

“Okay.” Nathalia nodded slightly. “Just in case the Sage is wrong, and we will have that event tonight.”

“She's not wrong.” Ren said. “At least, she hasn't been yet.”

“I'll be right back.” Patty said, and disappeared from the opening.

“She looks a lot like you described Lucy, Ren.” Nathalia said. “Are you sure it's safe to have her here?”

“Don't worry. I've been warned about her, and I have absolutely no intention to start anything with her.”

Nathalia sighed. “I don't know if your intentions have a lot to do with it.”

Ren looked at her, and then Patty came out with the jar of copper coins.

“Okay, I'm ready.” Patty said.

“Um... can I give you something to carry that?” Ren asked her.

“If you want.” Patty said. “Although the jar holds the money just fine.”

Ren took out a coin pouch and held it out to her.

“What is it?”

“It's a coin pouch. It will hold money, and convert it to any currency you want.”

Patty took it gingerly. “What do I do with it?”

“Equip it.” Ren said.

Patty did so, and gasped as she now had something on her person that held money.

“Now dump in the coins from the jar.” Ren suggested.

Patty did as Ren told her, and the coins slid in easily. She watched it as it easily took in nearly three times it's size in coins, and yet it didn't bulge out or get heavier.

“How is this possible?” Patty asked, then the 100 copper coins she had so carefully counted only minutes before Ren had shown up, became a single silver coin and she gasped. “A SILVER COIN!” She yelled, took it out, and held it up to the light. “It's a silver coin.”

Ren and Nathalia looked at each other, then looked back at Patty.

“What did you need the money for, if you don't mind me asking.” Ren said.

“We've been saving up for a shovel.” Patty said, as she marveled at the silver coin. “The old one broke last month, and we have to use the money we've been saving all year to buy a new one.” She put the coin back into the pouch and looked at Ren. “The water drainage ditch won't dig itself.”

Ren looked at Nathalia, and she smiled at him.

“Go ahead. We've got a bit of time left before we absolutely need to leave.”

“About half an hour.” Teepo said from Ren's shoulder.

“Can you show me where this ditch needs to be dug?” Ren asked.

“Shouldn't we go?” Patty asked. “I need to get to town before everything closes.”

“Don't worry. If you still want to go to town later, I'll take you.”

“Okay.” Patty said. “It's this way.” She turned around, put the empty jar on the step of the farmhouse, and started to walk across the field. Ren followed her, and she stopped a few minutes later next to a partially dug trench.

“It has to be nearly a hundred feet long, and along the edge of the field.” Patty said. “If it's less than a foot deep, it won't work for what we need it for.”

Ren walked along the spot she said, and pointed to where it needed to go. Patty nodded, and Ren took out his hammerpick. He jammed it into the ground, then started to run. Patty's mouth dropped open as Ren ran back and forth several times, and churned up the dirt. He took out a shovel, and emptied the foot deep trench. It only took him about 10 minutes to do it, and he stopped when he was back at Patty.

“How's that?” Ren asked.

She didn't say anything at all, and just stared at him with her mouth still opened wide. Ren chuckled and handed her the shovel. She looked at the shovel, then at him, then back at the shovel.

“What... what... what...”

“Make a list of anything else that you need, please.” Ren said.

“What... what...”

