Ren and Nathalia came to the street that his business was on, and had to stop walking.

Teepo. Ren thought, and Teepo took off from his shoulder and flew over the crowd. There was people everywhere, standing nearly shoulder to shoulder. A lot of them turned around to look at him, and some of them even waved.

“There's a bunch of people in and around the business, Ren.” Teepo said.

“What's going on?” Ren asked out loud, and the woman standing in front of them turned around.

“There's a job opening at the hottest business in town.” She said. “Getting a salary would be good enough; but there's a rumor that it's by commission, too.”

“I didn't hear that rumor.” Ren said, and the woman shrugged.

“Like I said, it doesn't matter one way or the other.” She smiled as she lifted her hands and almost cupped her own breasts, then thought better of it and let her hands drop. “They sell the best products!”

Ren looked around and saw that it was mostly women, with only a few men scattered about. He looked at Nathalia, and then back at the crowd. The people there were nearly a foot and a half taller than the both of them, so trying to walk through the crowd was not going to work.

“I knew I should have made a back door to this place.” Ren said, then led Nathalia around to the back of the building. It only took a few minutes to smooth out the pile of dirt there, and Ren built a set of stairs that went along the back of the building and up to the second floor. He knew exactly where the landing was, cut a hole in the wall, and built a doorway and a door. Ren stepped back, and ushered Nathalia in ahead of him.

“Thank you, kind sir.” Nathalia said as she passed, and Ren shut the door and locked it. He was tempted to store the stairway; but upon reflection, decided it was better to have a quick exit without having to jump down to the ground. They went down the stairs and opened the door to the shop. It was packed wall to wall with people, even worse than what was outside. He was lucky that the rear area and lingerie display was behind Anabelle's desk, so no one was packed right in front of the door. He could see Anabelle was quite overwhelmed with all of the customers.

“I'm sorry I didn't come back sooner.” Ren said, and Anabelle screeched as she whipped around to stare at him.

“How... how in the world did you...”

“Back door.” Ren said.

“We don't have a back door.” Anabelle said.

“We do now.” Ren said and smiled. She sighed, smiled back, then turned back around to face the people trying to get her attention.

“Please, calm down everyone.” Anabelle said. “There's no need to shout, push, or do anything else to try and get my attention.”

No one was listening to her, however. The crowd noise was too loud for anyone to hear her, except for the people that stood right in front of her desk. Ren moved her chair over and stood on it. It added 2 feet to his height, and he was now a few inches taller than everyone else; but, that wasn't enough for them all to see him. He sighed, climbed up onto the desk, and towered over everyone. Ren put his fingers in the sides of his mouth, and blew. A loud whistle pierced the air and everyone fell silent.

“If I could have everyone's attention, please.” Ren said, and they all looked at him. “Are there any genuine customers? If so, raise your hands.”

A smattering of hands were raised above the mob of the crowd.

“If you would be so kind, please step into the forge area of the shop. It's still on, so stay away from the forge itself. There's a couch, though; so have a seat for a few minutes.”

The people that had raised their hands started to move through the crowd towards the forge area.

“Now, everyone else.” Ren said. “How many are here only to confirm the rumor that sales are by commission?”

About a quarter of them raised their hands.

“It is not a commission job. If it was, I would have added that to the job posting.” Ren said.

A soft groan escaped several people, and they made their way to the front door.

“How many of you are just friends of people who want to apply, and only came along to provide support?”

Nearly half of the people raised their hands.

“The people who actually want to apply for the job, can come over here to go through the door at the back, and up to the second floor. It's standing room only, since it was only finished today; but, at least it will give you a lot more room to move around.”

The people that wanted to apply for the job stepped forward, and filed past the desk. Nathalia held the door open for them, and they went upstairs to the second floor. Teepo flew past and went up the stairs as well.

“I'll keep an eye out, and let you know if anyone tries to go up to the apartment.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought as the crowd thinned out to a more manageable amount, and he climbed down off of the desk.

“Whew! Thank you.” Anabelle said. “I wasn't sure how much longer I could keep a handle on them.”

“Me, either.” Ren said. “So, you better go upstairs and start talking to them. See if you want any of them working here.”

“M-me?” Anabelle asked.

“Well, yeah.” Ren said. “You're the one running the place. If you don't like them, don't hire them.”

“But...”

“Do you want me to hire someone you don't like?” He asked and grinned at her.

Anabelle opened her mouth to say that her opinion didn't matter; but then she saw the smile on Ren's face and changed her mind.

“You're going to trust me to hire someone for you?” She asked.

“Sure.” Ren said. “In fact, why don't you pick out three people. We can rotate them in and out on a trial basis over the next week or so, and if they work well with you, we'll hire them permanently.”

“Th-three of them?” Anabelle asked, surprised.

“Why not?” Ren asked. “You work pretty hard already, and you do only get one day off a week. Why not get as much help as you want?” He made a shooing motion with his hands.

Anabelle took a deep breath, and smiled. She took him into a hug and kissed the top of his head.

“Thank you for worrying about me.” She said, and let him go.

“It's no trouble.” Ren said. “Just don't forget that you're not limited to the people already in here. There's a pile of people outside just waiting to get hired.”

“They don't even realize you're the owner.” Anabelle chuckled. “If they knew, I bet there would be a lot more people out there.” She said, then went through the door and up the stairs. Nathalia shut the door and came over to Ren.

“I think she's right.” Nathalia said. “How many of them would like to have a boss like you?”

Ren shook his head. “I think you're both overestimating me.”

Nathalia chuckled. “You'd better take care of those customers in the forge area.”

“Oh, right!” Ren said and left Nathalia behind the desk. He dealt with the customers, and they paid for their orders. One woman asked Ren to carry her things for her, and it gave Ren an idea. “I can't leave the shop at the moment, but I can deliver it in a little while, once everything calms down a little.”

“That's fine.” The woman said. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said, and she gave him her address. When she left the shop, he saw that he'd dealt with all of the available customers and went back to Nathalia, who was now sitting behind the desk.

“Leaving a list of prices was a good idea.” Nathalia said. “The people just standing around bought a bunch of things.”

“Thank you for taking care of them.” Ren said, and gave her a quick kiss. “I'm going outside to see if there's any other customers to deal with.”

“You're not going to wait and see if they come in first?”

“With this crowd?” Ren laughed. “If my guess is right, they're caught up in the press of bodies.”

Nathalia smiled. “All right, but don't be long.” She looked at the door behind her as several people came out of it. “Anabelle is sorting them fast.”

Ren nodded slightly and went outside. He took out a ladder and put it against the side of the building, and climbed it to do the same thing that he did inside the store. He asked for actual customers first, and he helped them as best as he could, then asked for actual job applicants.

Teepo, how is everything? Ren thought to his friend.

“Not too bad.” Teepo said. “Anabelle is going through the workers like a hot knife through butter.”

Thanks. I'll bring more in. Ren thought, then led more potential workers inside, and to the door that went up the stairs. He told them to go up to the second floor, and Ren stood beside Nathalia. The next hour passed quickly as people came down from the second floor, met the ones waiting for them, and left. Ren dealt with a few more customers, and then Anabelle came out of the door with three women behind her. They were about the same height as her; they had long hair to the middle of their backs, and they all wore the largest smiles Ren had ever seen. One was blonde, one was a redhead, and the last had brown hair.

When added with Anabelle, it's like I have a complete set of hair colors. Ren thought. “I assume you've found who you'd like to try working with.” He asked Anabelle, and she smiled the same large smile.

“I have.” She said. “This is Carly, Katie, and Holly.”

“Hi.” They said at the same time, so Ren had no clue which woman had which name.

“Hi.” Ren said. “Which one of you is going to try and work today?”

The woman in the middle raised her hand. “I hope I can meet all of your expectations.”

“Don't worry about that.” Ren said. “As long as you do a good job, and treat the customers well, I'm sure everything will be fine.”

“Do we get matching outfits?” One of the women asked. “I really like what Anabelle is wearing.”

“Sure.” Ren said. “Give me a few minutes.”

The women nodded, and Ren went over to the forge room to a workbench, and took out enough fabric to make three similar outfits. He changed the size of the lapels and made them smaller, so that the cut was slightly different from Anabelle's outfit; and it was clear to anyone that looked closely, that Anabelle's was the original. He dyed the fabric and made the three outfits, then turned around to see the women standing there watching him as he worked.

“He really does make them himself.” One of them said. Another leaned over and whispered in her ear. “Yeah, I thought he was a blacksmith, too.”

“I am.” Ren said as he handed an outfit to each of the women, and they nearly squealed with joy. He wasn't sure why women seemed to like getting new clothes so much; but, he didn't question their reaction.

“Thank you.” The one who had spoken before said. “I'll go and get changed.”

“I want to get changed, too!” One of the others said.

“You can't, Holly.” The last one said. “Katie's working today. You're working tomorrow.”

“Aw!” Holly said. “I wanna try it on!”

“You can do that later.” Carly said.

“Okaaay.” Holly said, disappointed.

“If you put it on now, people will think you're working.” Ren said. “I don't mind having more help for Anabelle, but let's give Katie a chance to work first.”

Holly smiled at him. “Anything you say, boss.”

Katie came out of the change room, and you could tell that her outfit was a little different. Anabelle smiled and gave Ren a little wink when she realized he had made them different on purpose. Ren went over to Nathalia and asked her if she wanted to eat lunch with him.

“Like I'd want to eat with anyone else.” Nathalia said and laughed. “Let's head over to the restaurant and eat there.”

“That's a great idea.” Ren said, then looked at Anabelle. “Do you have food for lunch?”

Anabelle looked at him with surprise on her face. “I... I didn't know I was supposed to have food ready for you.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm sorry, I didn't mean to imply that. I was asking if you had food for yourself for lunch.”“Oh!” Anabelle said as she relaxed. “No, I don't.”

Ren took out the large icebox and put a couple of plates on her desk, then stored it again.

“I'll be back in a little while.” Ren said, and took Natalia's hand and led her out of the shop, down the street, and around the corner to Mitchell's old place. They went inside and Nathalia sat at one of the tables.

“I'll be right back.” Ren said. “I just have to make a quick delivery.” He left the restaurant and ran to the address the woman had given him. She had just arrived home herself, and he put her new dresser in her bedroom. She thanked him for his promptness, and Ren ran back to the restaurant. He went inside, took out the large icebox, and put a couple of plates of food on the table.

“Did you want it warmed up?” Ren asked.

“Sure.” Nathalia said. “Do you want me to go and get the stove?”

“Did they deliver the equipment already?” He asked, and she nodded slightly. “Then sure. Only take one piece at a time, okay? I don't want you to strain yourself.”

“I'm not going to take more than I can handle.” Nathalia laughed. “Unlike someone else that I know.”

“Hey, I handled it.” Ren said as he smiled.

“Yes, by almost dying.” Nathalia shook her head. “I still can't believe you moved Dorcot and Angeilin's house like that.”

Ren grinned. “It was a first and a last for me, that's for sure.”

Nathalia got up from the table and went into the small storage room behind the counter. Ren took out a stone brick and enchanted it with several fire runes and a wind rune combined in a glyph, activated it, and held the plate of food over it. He used his Fire Manipulation ability to disperse the heat from the plate into the food; but, didn't make the same mistake he had made once with Ereka burning her fingers on food that was too hot. Nathalia came out of the storage area and walked over to the section where the kitchen would be. She took out the stove and put it where she thought it would go.

“You need to add the stone bricks.” Nathalia said and came back over to the table.

“Eat first.” Ren said, and handed her the plate of warmed food. She sat down and they ate their meal in companionable silence. When they were done, Ren put the empty plates back in the icebox, absorbed the enchantment from the stone brick, and stored both it and the icebox. He went to the stove and added enough bricks to be used instead of wood.

“You're not going to enchant them?” Nathalia asked when he shut the bottom compartment.

“I can't, until we find the cooks you want to work here.”

“I guess leaving the stove on all the time would be a bad idea.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “Yeah, especially if you don't want the place to burn down before it opens.”

