“I’ve already reined in my aura as much as I possibly can,” Artemis said. “The Shimmerfur Warpsnatcher is just especially sensitive towards the auras of others. They possess a set of very powerful skills that allow them to identify dangerous creatures and areas, but when it comes to someone like me, all it can detect is that it can’t detect anything, which usually correlates directly to danger.”

“You seem to know a lot about Warpsnatchers?” Jake asked as he continued stroking the C-grade, trying to calm it down.

“I know a lot about most beasts,” Artemis said, once more reminding Jake he was speaking with a god who had lived for longer than his entire universe had existed several times over.

“Are they a powerful variant?” Jake just asked directly, seeing no reason to beat around the bush.

“Powerful? That’s hard to answer,” Artemis said as she went over and made herself comfortable on a sofa. “Rather than powerful, I would call them unique. I will also clarify that it’s definitely not native to the Hunting Grounds you found it in, but then again, Warpsnatchers aren’t really considered native anywhere.”

“If you’re not native to that planet, then how did you get there?” Jake asked the Warpsnatcher as he also walked over and sat down on the sofa opposite Artemis.

Despite its nervousness and fear, the little C-grade still answered. “Sent.”

“You were sent there?” Jake exclaimed in surprise.

“Let me clarify,” Artemis chimed in. “When the offspring of Warpsnatchers reach a certain level of maturity, their parents teleport their young elsewhere in the universe. Dependent on the power of the parent, this can be across an entire universe or perhaps just a single planet. All I do know is that even a B-grade Warpsnatcher can send their young from one galaxy to another.”

“Now that does sound pretty darn powerful,” Jake said as he looked down at the Warpsnatcher. “Aren’t you indeed a powerful little space magician?”

“They don’t strictly use space magic,” Artemis clarified. “Their magic is more in the realm of mysticism. Space magic is certainly involved, but only to a certain extent. Generally, what they do is referred to as Shimmermyst magic.”

“And is Shimmermyst magic considered powerful?”

Artemis shrugged once more. “Depends on the user. It definitely can be, though its applications don’t tend to be combat-focused. As you’ve probably already realized, Warpsnatchers aren’t fighters. I am curious, though. What are you trying to truly learn with all these questions?”

“I’m just considering something,” Jake shook his head as he looked down at the Warpsnatcher. Yeah... I guess this little fella is a candidate.
