The [First Mate] looked calmly at Wil. So calmly, the young [Lord] calmed.
“Lord Kallinad. There’s no way Lasc’ll lose. You don’t know how he fights. Neither does that Minotaur.”
Venaz was studying Lasc. The [Storm Captain] hadn’t put on armor, but his rather swanky [Captain]’s uniform was pretty good. Also—enchanted, at least against salt and other minor annoyances at sea. However…Venaz had a sword and a Minotaur’s strength.
All Lasc had was a shortsword. And—something on his hand. Metal? Venaz narrowed his eyes. What fighting style was this?
“Last chance, Captain. If you’re not ready?”
“If you’re turning tail, Mister Venaz, no one’ll stop you. Otherwise—start as you please. And I’ll show you why the continental nations don’t rule these seas.”
Lasc grinned. And Venaz, temper already at the breaking point, charged. If he was calmer he might have appraised. But he came in with a slash at Lasc’s arm.
It was fast. Wil, who had taken a noble’s fighting lessons, would have been disarmed literally by the blow. Even the [Sailors] winced. Venaz was a Minotaur who’d seen battle. And his blow was fast, strong—
Lasc moved. The air rang with a sound and Venaz recoiled. He stumbled back. And Wil—stared.
On his hand. The bit of metal on [Storm Captain]’s left hand was neither buckler nor dagger. It was just—or rather, it was a gauntlet. A—glove. Made of metal.
With his right hand, Lasc had parried Venaz’ strike with the shortsword. With his left, he’d belted Venaz across the face. Twice. So fast the Minotaur hadn’t been able to pull his head back.
“Dead gods! That was quick!”
Yerranola exclaimed from the side. Venaz recoiled. He narrowed his eyes.
“That’s an infighter’s trick. You wouldn’t be able to block an axe with that.”
“I’d dodge that. Shall I come, Mister Venaz?”
The Minotaur didn’t reply. But the crimson in his eyes grew deeper. He advanced, his shield raised to cover his face. The one unguarded spot on his body. He had plate armor. And his sword lanced out, quick as a snake.
Quick! But Lasc was faster. Again, Wil saw his shortsword parry Venaz’ thrust. And his left hand moved like a blur.
He had a faster hand-speed than any [Warrior] that Wil Kallinad had ever seen. And he had watched his sister sparring her peers in the Order of Seasons. But the [Storm Captain], unburdened of armor or anything but that metal fist, was faster yet. He hammered Venaz’s shield, smacking the back of it into the Minotaur’s face to disorient him. And then he dodged around as Venaz struck out.
The Minotaur was too tall for Lasc to easily hit his head. So the [Storm Captain] jumped. Venaz whirled. This time, his sword just went straight for Lasc’s legs as the man leapt. The fastest blow yet, just to cut, to slow the man down—
Lasc’s hand blurred. It was definitely a Skill. He struck Venaz twenty times before he landed. According to Peki. Helmet, neck, jaw—and his arm. Venaz’ sword sliced into the wood of the deck as it was deflected. He rocked. But he kept his guard up.
The [Storm Captain] advanced. His left hand hit the Minotaur’s chest, chin, head, arms—it was like hearing an endless ringing sound. The blows weren’t light, either. Venaz stumbled back. He was trying to keep his guard up, trying to keep on his feet. But it was a flurry, a rush. He tried, but his shield was blown back and he stumbled for just a second.
In the [Storm Captain] danced, and his fist laid the Minotaur flat. Wil saw Venaz go backwards onto the deck. He waited, but Venaz’ eyes were rolled back in his head.
Unconscious. The [Sailors] and students burst into a roar of amazement. Lasc raised his one hand. Delivan looked at Wil and grinned.
“[Storm Captains], Lord Kallinad. He can’t march with your [Knights]. But on the sea? Armor just makes you sink faster.”
 
—-
 
When Venaz woke up, even he had to admit that Lasc deserved his title. The Minotaur had something to say, though; he always did.
“If I’d known I was up against a [Brawler], I’d have kept my distance. My strategy was sound. But—er—hrm. That’s a difficult summit to beat without Skills and enchanted equipment. Even for me.”
That was as good as saying he’d lost outright. Lasc was gracious about it, though.
“Ah, I had you by surprise, sir. I’ve seen Minotaur crews. Nasty as they come, especially with their ship-mounted weapons. But I’m fair fast with my fists.”
“Beyond fast! Can you do that, Peki?”
“Trying.”
Peki was competing with Lasc, but even her best flurry was slower than the [Storm Captain]’s. He was indeed just incredibly fast with his left hand. And he’d turned that one trait into an overwhelming advantage.
After that, there were no more duels between Lasc, although Merrik did take on a few [Storm Sailors]. They were all quick. And Delivan had a nastily precise aim with the hand-crossbow he carried.
“Wands and crossbows. That’s how [Sailors] fight. We need to be nimble. It’s all movement and clashing and retreat. Can’t lug around heavy gear. And trouble can come quick.”
The [Sailors] were good, although Merrik and Peki were generally better. Although—they kept eying Lasc. And he them.
“I’d have more trouble taking down your armor, Mister Merrik. But I’ll spare my ship’s deck a refit. Myself—I think it’d be an interesting match if we went head-to-head. But if we were at sea, it’d be an easy one. Even against Miss Peki.”
“How so?”
The Dwarf looked wounded by Lasc’s appraisal. The [Storm Captain] grinned.
“Against either of you? I’d dump you in the sea and let the water do the rest! No sense fighting folks who can’t swim, in armor or with feathers.”
The two officers exchanged a look. Then they laughed. They had to respect that.
That night, Venaz was still nursing a sore jaw as they ate. He refused the healing potion, though, and an exasperated Yerra gave him the option of using a bit of potion or shutting up.
“I’m not whining.”
“No, but you wince loud enough to make my jaw hurt. And my body’s nerves are rotten!”
Yerra scowled. But Wil was relieved and looking forwards to tomorrow.
“We’ll be ready to dive again tomorrow. The next wreck isn’t far and Lasc has a ship-speed Skill.”
“Hopefully it’s something. But not a bad day.”
Venaz was far from exuberant, but he seemed relaxed after having been beaten in a spar—and then having smacked down six sailors in bare-knuckles fights. With one arm. The others nodded and they had what was for them, an early night. No late-night drinking and debates. Just rest.
Rest, and…Wil listened to Venaz snorting below him. Snorting, snoring, and smacking his lips.
Venaz did not sleep lightly. The [Lord] hunted around for some sealing wax he’d shaped into earplugs out of desperation, but they were gone. He hoped Merrik hadn’t stolen them; he complained of the exact same problem with Peki. Only, she whistled in her sleep.
“Damn you, Merrik—”
Wil was getting off the top bunk stealthily, to creep into Merrik’s room and see if he had purloined the earplugs. He was just creeping out into the corridor when he heard the sound.
Someone was humming a song. Wil paused, and then went above decks. He found a dark ship, [Sailors] on deck of course; it was never a ship without dozens upon dozens of crew working. But relatively less occupied. And there—close to the passenger’s quarters was her.
Inky.
The [Storm Sailor] was sitting on the rails, one leg over, watching the ocean. Wil stared at her. And then he heard her stop humming. She turned her head.
“Bothering you, am I, Lord Passenger Kallinad?”
Her tone wasn’t exactly rude, but it wasn’t friendly either. Wil winced, although he had no idea how she’d sensed him; the waves were an ever-present backdrop.
“No, sorry. I have a snoring Minotaur and I couldn’t sleep.”
The [Storm Sailor] grinned. And when she spoke, he saw the inner beak moving in her mouth. It was dopplering her voice a bit, but it didn’t seem to bother her much.
“Aye, that one. We can hear him too. Loud as a storm. But the [Captain] probably has some wax you can stuff your ears with.”
“I tried that. I think Merrik—the Dwarf stole mine.”
“Ah, another common issue at sea.”
The part Drowned-Woman nodded. She didn’t move as Wil came over to the railing. She eyed him.
“So. Curious are you about Drowned Folk? Could’ve asked me. I take no offense, but for idiots damaging the ship.”
Wil choked. He glanced at Inky.
“You—heard?”
“Begal told me.”
He did? Wil’s expression must have given him away, because Inky laughed.
“What’d he say to you? That Drowned Folk and [Sailors] don’t mix? True enough. But he didn’t tell you that when it comes to it, we’ll both drink from each other’s cups rather than let landfolk get the drop on us.”
And here they thought they’d been clever. Wil sighed. But Inky didn’t seem displeased. She glanced at him as he leaned on the rails.
“I’m sorry. We didn’t mean to offend you.”
“Ah, well. I admit, you’re not as bad as I thought.”
“Really? How so?”
Inky laughed.
“The first thing I was thinkin’ when I heard you were asking about me was which one of you it’d be. The Selphid? Not likely from how she acted, thought I. She likes you. The Gnoll don’t seem interested and it’s a rare landgirl who admits to liking women. The Garuda? Nope. So it was you, the Minotaur, or the Dwarf. I had odds on him or you being the gallant [Lord] who’d be kind to a half-breed like me. Invite me to your bed, sweep me off my feet. Marry me if I was lucky.”
She winked at Wil. The [Lord] said nothing.
“You might’ve lost your jaw on the decks, there, sir.”
“Why do you think I’d do that?”
Wil turned red. Embarrassed because she’d struck closer to home than he’d liked, even if he hadn’t been thinking of taking her to bed. Inky laughed.
“Why, because that’s how my ma had me. And Drowned Folk are an exotic fling for our passengers. We carry all sorts of noble folk. And they’re all too willing to try things at sea they’d never on land. But it’s a double blue moon before any of them take it further.”
“I’m—”
Wil halted on the sentence. He glanced at Inky and her look. And he didn’t say he was sorry. Because he had nothing to be sorry about. And there wasn’t much judgment in her gaze, anyways.
“Ah, an odd sort. The Titan’s students are different. And here I was, wooing you. All you had to do was say you were sorry and I’d have given it a shot.”
She grinned. She had two gold-capped teeth. Wil jumped. He stared at Inky.
“Now you’re teasing me.”
“Who, me? I was being serious there. Not often you get to snag a [Lord]. And Kallinad’s folk would mean you got to go back to the sea now and then. Mind you—I like that idiot better.”
“Which one of my idiots?”
A laugh.
“The Minotaur. He’s brash as can be. Wouldn’t be if he was one of the Minotaur crews. The seas beat that out of you. But—you landfolk’re alright. Invite me to your table. Captain Lasc doesn’t have enough work to keep me from it. And I’ll happily spin you all the yarns you want if you ply me with enough drink.”
She was—friendly. Wil found himself smiling. His impression of Inky from her shouting at Peki was all wrong. But that was often how to happened. Wasn’t that what the Professor said?
“Try not to let your first impressions shape what you believe to be true. Or rather—understand that they do and compensate.”
“Smart words.”
“The Titan of Baleros said them, once.”
“Well, he’d be the one. You’re not bad, young [Lord]. I had the wrong impression of you. But you’re still landfolk.”
The comment made Wil look up.
“…Am I doing something wrong?”
The part-Octopus girl laughed. She looked at Wil and shook her head in amazement.
“Of course. But all landfolk do it. Look at you. You’ve been at sea, what, three weeks? And you’re still mad. Cooped up. And you don’t see.”
“See what? What is there to see?”
Inky sighed. She dangled one leg over the railing and pointed.
“There.”
And Wil looked. He stared over the edge of the boat. And he saw nothing but the ocean. But of course, that was what Inky was pointing at.
The sea.
It was…dark. Like a black mirror, reflecting the stars and moons when they were out. But at times, they were just empty. And then—the vast, empty isolation struck you. The terror as you looked into the ocean and realized—you couldn’t tell where the bottom was. You couldn’t even guess.
It was not a beautiful sight, except in the frightening aspect of it. Wil shivered. But—the allure of it called to him. He stared into vastness of the ocean. And wondered what would happen if he fell overboard. If Inky pushed him. What lay in the depths? How far would he swim, until he was exhausted? And float?
Forever. You could wander endlessly forever here. Without land in sight. Without any clue but for the stars where you were.
So entranced was Wil that he didn’t realize Inky was grinning at him until he looked up. And she nodded.
“It’s not beauty as landfolk understand it. It’s terror. The deeps. They call. They call to me and any [Sailor]. Look.”
She pointed down the railing. And Wil saw. More than one [Sailor] on duty was just staring. Consumed by the grand, terrible sight.
“And here I thought you liked the sea’s beauty.”
“What beauty? This is it. The sea’s as lovely as a blade. Without the danger—there’d be nothing.”
The Drowned Woman smiled. The [Storm Sailor] looked into the horizon with a kind of longing. Fear and expectation. And Wil followed her gaze.
How deep? How deep? What lay beneath? He remembered being a boy and wondering the same thoughts when he rode with his family on Kallinad ships. And he—understood. A bit of the fascination.
The sea. It stretched before him. But he could see nothing of what lay beneath the waves. Wil remembered. A vast, murky emptiness. Terrifying. And yet—there were other things too. He looked at Inky. And as he did, the water moved.
At first, it looked just like the waters. A shimmering, giant mass of something on the hull. Wil stared at it, perplexed. The dark waters had birthed a cloudy, half-opaque…gelatinous thing. It had latched onto the hull. And it was moving.
Slowly, up the side of the ship. Wil stared at it. He saw two protruding things appearing. And then—light.
Something like organs, lighting up inside the body. Two blob-like antennae. Glowing with interior light. Wil realized he was staring at a slug. It rolled up the side of the ship, surprisingly quickly.
Oh, and it had a mouth. And in the mouth were rows and rows of rotating—teeth? Wil saw the slug rear up as it went over the decks. It lunged at him, coiling and expanding. Half again as large as—
“Get back! Sea Slug!”
