Now, Captain Lasc roared. He strode down the deck as the [Sailors] fought twice as hard, shouting.
“[Storm Sailors]! Into the water! Damn this beast back into the abyss!”
Inky and the veterans roared. They charged the railing and leapt. Into the sea, filled with the jellyfish’s tendrils. Wil looked over the side.
“[Unit: Tough Skin]! Will they survive?”
He turned. Delivan was nodding. He pointed a wand, hit a slug in the head with a bolt of fire.
“Don’t worry, Lord Kallinad. They’ll make it. Those are the sea’s best.”
And indeed—the [Storm Sailors] were fighting in the water. Most had enchanted weapons. And they were carving straight for the jellyfish’s brain.
Wil saw one of them go under, sucked down by a slug. Another reached the brain and was covered by slugs. Two down. But then—Inky was standing on the brain. Diving into the waters and hacking into the pink head. The other [Storm Sailors] joined her. They cut, mercilessly ripping the jellyfish apart.
The slugs swarmed back over the railing, trying to protect their true self. Too late. Even as the last ones tried to plop over the railing, they slowed. Grew…aimless. They flopped down.
Dead. The [Storm Sailors] kept cutting until all that was left was floating pieces and gore in the waters. Then they returned to the ship.
Three didn’t come back. But thirty-seven, some wounded, most intact, had done it. The [Sailors] cheered. The students, panting, Merrik, Peki, and Venaz covered in jellyfish guts, saw the [Sailors] returning. Captain Lasc saluted them.
“[Storm Sailors]! Sea’s honor to you all! And the bounty to you and the dead!”
They raised their weapons and cheered. Victorious. Wil watched, panting. He felt—tired. But he’d barely fought, just tried to command. Saved one man’s life.
That was all. He felt—wrong. He should have done more. And Feshi’s face clearly reflected the same.
But it was done. The [Captain] ordered kegs of alcohol breached. He toasted the dead, listing names. The [Sailors] drank. They slapped each other on the back, complimented Venaz and the two [Commanders], who had slaughtered the jellyfish. Even Wil and Feshi and Yerra, who’d helped with their Skills.
And then? They got back to work. And yes—swabbing the deck was now mandatory. The jellyfish was dead, but it had to be removed from the ship.
“The worst damn part is that there’s little to salvage. Maybe the brain, but we’re not sticking around to gather it up.”
Inky was cursing as she tended to a few bites on her side. She glanced up as Wil and the other students approached. She grinned at Wil’s face.
“Fancy your first engagement at sea, Lord Kallinad?”
“I think I’d have preferred the boredom. That was…something.”
An enemy that vast? No land-creature was that big. At least, none that Wil had seen. He stared into the ocean. A different scale of foe. He looked at Inky and stared at the dark waters.
“Is it still good to look at the sea, Inky? Captain Lasc?”
The man heard him. And he and the other [Sailors] laughed as if it were the funniest thing they’d ever heard. So did Inky. Her teeth flashed as she pointed at the jellyfish they were leaving behind.
“Of course! How else do you know what’s sneaking up on you?”
 
—-
 
Treasure and Angry Crabs
 
The next day, the ship felt different to Wil. Not as much a prison of boredom. More like…well, a kind of home.
They’d fought for it. Protected it. And—Inky had shown him the sailor’s secret.
The sea. The students sat at their table and just watched as the ocean passed by. They didn’t need games. They had conversation and—well, you could admire the ocean.
Green and clear with the sun’s rays shining through them. It was hypnotic beauty, one that could let you spend days and hours watching.
Too, the battle was fresh in their minds. And they were discussing it.
“I feel like my entire strategy was flawed. Here I was, leading a vanguard down the decks when I should have been apprising the situation. Also—we weren’t optimally fighting. We killed the slugs, but I didn’t take into account the fact that they were weighing down the ship. I should have been keeping them from boarding. Mistake, and mistake, and mistake—I didn’t even see the real threat.”
Venaz was self-critiquing his part of the battle. Which was funny—he was insufferably sure of himself, but in victory he never failed to give himself the hardest time.
“You’re not a trained sailor, Venaz. Even Delivan didn’t realize it was the jellyfish. Lasc did. That’s his job. I didn’t even do much.”
Wil grumbled. He was having a morning drink. He wasn’t a drinker, but the sea was turning his blood alcoholic. The Minotaur shifted.
“Even so, we have to be our best. And what if we’d had to take the fight into the water? I’m seeing more of my weaknesses. I should have studied more on underwater combat in the Isles of Minos.”
“But we could have helped better. We should have taken up a position to help manage the crew from the start, yes? We didn’t even prepare for that. We should have coordinated with Lasc.”
Feshi pointed out reasonably. Wil nodded. He glanced at Yerra.
“Why did you tell us to get below, Yerra?”
“Well, the sailor was wounded. And you and Feshi aren’t fighters, Wil. Not really.”
“Neither are you.”
The young man looked miffed. The Selphid grinned.
“But I’m wearing a dead body. I don’t take wounds like the rest of you. Merrik and Peki get a pass, but even Venaz should be more careful. He’s good, but he’s not exactly a [Warrior], right? Lasc proved that. You need to be careful.”
“Ah, but there’s no safety in a ship battle, Miss Yerra. If the jellyfish had penetrated the hold, all those below decks would have been just as threatened. More, if the slugs came down the stairs. Nowhere to run.”
That came from Inky. She was having a drink. The students had invited her to join them and the [Storm Sailor] was enjoying it. Lasc had granted the leave; the [Storm Sailors] were lounging about as the regular [Sailors] worked hard. The privileges of risking your life.
“True enough. But there is something to protecting [Strategists]. Remember Orthenon hacking apart Belchan’s elites and their [Mages]?”
Merrik put in. He and Peki were cleaning his armor. The jellyfish gunk was hard to get rid of. The Garuda nodded.
“Lots of dead [Strategists].”
The other students glared at her. Yerra was raising her hands as she looked at Wil.
“Just trying to keep you safe, Wil. You only get one body. Be a shame for Kallinad’s best [Lord] to get hurt!”
Wil turned red.
“Don’t say that. I hate being treated like…”
“A [Lord]? You shouldn’t have been a [Strategist], then. Yerra’s right. If we had to pull slugs off you, you’d have been a hindrance. You still used your Skills. Nice one—I wish I had [Lucky Dodge]. Commanders only get a few good battalion-wide Skills. We sacrifice a lot to be good fighters as well. But [Strategists] get lots. Still, you’re fragile.”
Merrik could be remarkably blunt when he wanted to. Wil sighed. But that was that. Inky grinned.
“Is this what being a student is? I could do that. Talking about tactics and whatnot while drinking.”
“The Professor doesn’t let us drink in class. But we make up for it after class. You might enjoy it, Inky.”
“Except for the time he did let us drink. Remember? Kissilt was saying that it didn’t matter? So he had us play games increasingly drunk?”
The entire group shuddered as one. The Titan had made them drink. And he’d proven with exacting detail how it impaired them as [Strategists] and how many [Soldiers] they lost due to sloppy mistakes.
“Strategy is important. It’s all too easy to come up with a winning strategy that relies on one element. But being adaptive? It’s our job to come up with plans that can change an entire army’s battle. However, even with all our training, amateurs can surprise even the best [Strategists]. We can always learn. And we should. Do you have any naval tactics you can share with us?”
Venaz sat back, looking at Inky. She grinned at him.
“Mister Sea Cow, you’ve come to the right place.”
“Sea Cow?”
The other students choked on their drinks. Venaz stared at Inky.
“I take objection to that.”
“Go ahead and do that. And sit back while I spin you a yarn about a few situations I was in that were worse than that.”
It was a good way to pass the time. And Venaz, who was known as ‘Sir Bull’ behind his back, was given another name. Wil had almost forgotten the purpose of the trip or the fact that they were closing on the seventh shipwreck. But he realized when he saw the island in the distance.
“Land ho!”
Someone shouted from the crow’s nest. The [Sailors] and students rushed to the railing, eager to see. The island was mostly a rocky bluff in the sea. Some underground mass of stone that had risen. Or an actual island eroded by time.
“Ah, damn. Look at the rocks! No wonder the ship went down.”
Inky exclaimed. Lasc instantly ordered the ship to slow.
“Delivan, you’re steering. Take us close as you can. We’ll row to the spot if need be.”
“Aye, Captain.”
The [First Mate] gritted his teeth. He had a navigation Skill that helped him see underneath the boat. He moved them forwards slowly, adjusting the ship, swearing at the changing wind. Wil stared at the precipice of rock.
“I don’t…see the boat.”
What he did see was some sand and an actual floor to the ocean—as well as the treacherous outcroppings of stone that could so easily shred a boat’s hull. Inky peered into the waters.
“Might have fallen deeper. We’ll have to dive. But hey—it could be this place wasn’t picked clean. Although…wait…”
She pointed. The [Sailors] peered over the edge. Wil stared into the waters. They were very clear around here and he could see straight down. His heart leapt.
“Look! A ship!”
It had been downed. The hull was cracked in two. But it was unmistakably a ship!
“I don’t see a diver’s sign. Could be its hidden, but it would shine at us.”
Inky was staring down at it. Wil’s heart leapt. He looked around.
“Prepare the diving bell. [Divers], get ready.”
Lasc was calm as could be. But he was smiling, having heard Inky’s words. The other students were perking up. Yerra slid over to Wil.
“Come on, [Strategist] Kallinad. Which wreck is this supposed to be?”
“Well…I don’t want to raise your expectations…”
“Wil!”
The young man’s heart was pounding. It even looked the right size. He took a breath.
“Alright. This may be the site of a cargo ship. With cargo that was meant for…Archmage Zelkyr.”
The students and [Sailors] looked around. So did Lasc. Yerra’s eyes went round.
“No way. Then…”
Everyone stared at the shipwreck. Delivan was looking about.
“We’re good if we hold here, Captain. Drop anchors?”
“Yes. We’ll search the wreck and—”
“Storm Captain! Shipwreck off our aft starboard side!”
Someone shouted. Begal waved and everyone turned to look. Wil stared and then rushed to the other side.
“A second ship?”
This one was torn to bits. Everyone stared at it. A submerged prow—a faded figurehead. Wil saw heads turning to him.
“Was it a fleet meant for Archmage Zelkyr?”
“Perhaps. But the Professor said it was only one.”
“Damn. Maybe this place has been plundered. And that’s a diving ship that hit the rocks.”
Inky cursed. Wil felt his heart sink. But the [Divers] were making ready. Two shipwrecks meant that there was twice as much to possibly find. They were preparing to go down, Inky among them.
“Can you dive, Lord Kallinad?”
“I swim fairly well.”
The [Lord] replied modestly; he was by far the best swimmer of the group. Inky grinned at him.
“And you, Sir Sea Cow?”
“I’m beginning to think you’re doing that on purpose, Miss Inky. I can hold my breath for six minutes.”
“Well, perhaps you’ll dive with me, you two. Once we make sure there’s nothing lurking in the wreck—”
Inky was teasing. And then—a voice from the crow’s nest.
“Captain? I see another shipwreck. No…two shipwrecks.”
Everyone stared up. Captain Lasc’s head slowly turned.
“Four shipwrecks?”
He looked at Wil. The [Lord] felt a prickle run down his spine.
“That wasn’t in the Professor’s notes at all, Captain Lasc.”
The [Storm Captain] looked at him. And then he turned his head.
“Delivan. Your [Dangersense]?”
“Not tickling. Yet. Captain.”
“But it could be…take us away, Delivan.”
“What? Why?”
Yerra looked incredulous. Captain Lasc stared narrow-eyed at the small outcropping of rock, and then into the underwater mountain.
“Something’s…off. We’ll investigate from afar. I’ll take volunteers. Away, Delivan. At least a few hundred feet and then—”
Something moved in the waters. Wil saw it. Everyone saw it. A shape crept around the side of the stone mountain. He froze.
“What is that?”
A gigantic shape breached the waters. A huge, armored leg pulled the creature upwards. Wil saw a huge eye, staring at him from a stalk. A chitinous body. Dark with algae and barnacles. And on its back—the hull of a ship.
A hermit crab. The size of The Emerald Signet, with a warship as its shell. Captain Lasc and the sailors stared as the crab’s head breached the waves.
“…That’s a big crab.”
Peki pointed calmly. Merrik swore.
“It’s got a ship on its back! Grandfather’s—”
“Take us back, Delivan! All hands! Prepare to maneuver!”
“It’s as large as we are! Are we going to fight?”
“Captain! Captain!”
Lasc was hesitating. The crab was huge, and The Emerald Signet was turning. Wil tried to push forwards as the [Divers] flung off their gear. They were grabbing for harpoons, ranged weapons. The crab was moving forwards, massive pincers raised. It clearly saw…food.
“We don’t need to tangle with that monster. We could try. My ship-spells are recharged. But I don’t like the odds of it.”
The [Storm Captain]’s magic came from his class and Skills. He aimed at the crab, appraising the fight. And then he saw Wil.
“Captain! Look!”
The [Lord] was white-faced. He was pointing. The [Captain] turned his head. And everyone saw.
There, on the part of the ship that was the crab’s shell. Something was glinting. The magical paint was worn. But—the name was still visible.
The Archmage’s Favor.
A ship’s name. Delivan’s eyes went round. Captain Lasc turned his head back. And he stared.
Archmage Zelkyr’s cargo. The [Storm Captain] thought.
“If we maneuver, we’ll keep out of range of that crab’s claws. And if the cargo is there? Watch for any magical attacks, Delivan. Steer us out of range! We’ll see how fast this crab is in the water!”
“Aye, Captain!”
