The [First Mate] was turning the ship. The crab followed as The Emerald Signet shot away. The crew was cheering, aiming, waiting for the thing to get onto land. The crab was obliging them, climbing onto rock precipices after the ship.
“We’ll have a hell of a time doing it, Captain! We can’t shoot into the water!”
“We’ll wear it down. And I’ll use [Depth Explosion] as soon as I can. If we must, [Storm Sailors] can climb onto it. Get around it and shred the monster where it can’t fight back.”
Delivan was conferring with the others. Venaz was nodding.
“I can boost them from afar. We have six students with Skills that can boost the [Storm Sailors]. If need be—”
“Hey. The crab’s slowing.”
Yerra pointed. The crab was perched on top of the little island. It was just resting there, huge legs holding tight as it carried its huge burden out of the water. The [Sailors] began loosing shots, but they were too far to hit the monster properly and the few arrows that landed did nothing to the massive shell.
“Idiot thing. It’s clearly not as smart as some of the monsters in the sea.”
Delivan chortled. The others were nodding, and Lasc was frowning, trying to figure out if now was the time to hit it with a spell. But it was Feshi who looked concerned. She glanced left and right.
“Wait. Is that the thing that downed The Archmage’s Favor, or did it just pick up the ship?”
Wil glanced at her. The Gnoll looked worried.
“What does it matter, Feshi?”
The [Strategist] eyed the giant crab. It was just standing there. Waiting. Expectantly.
“If it downed the cargo ship, that was one thing. But what about the other ships that came after? If it did that—”
The others looked at Feshi. And Wil—hesitated. He saw Lasc turning his head, suddenly, appraising the size of the shipwrecks on the ocean floor. He looked up sharply.
“The Archmage’s Favor and that ship are both twice our size. Delivan—take us back another—”
As Wil looked at Lasc, something flashed out of the corner of his eye. Then he heard a wumph.
No, a wh—
 
—-
 
Water on his face. Rain? Wil heard ringing. Shouting voices. Someone was…someone was…
“Wil! Get below!”
“Turn the ship! Take us away! Get us out of range!”
Bellowing voices. Wil tried to raise his head. Yerra was dragging him. The ship was moving and people were shouting. What was…
“But the treasure.”
“Get us out of range! It’s about to—”
Another explosion. This one from father off. More rain. Wil struggled upright. Yerranola was dragging him towards the quarters.
“Get below! Out of danger! ”
“What’s happening? What—”
Wil got to his feet. He resisted the Selphid trying to move him down. And he saw—Venaz, Merrik, and Peki all standing at the railing. Holding their weapons, but just…staring. And in the distance, the crab.
The hermit crab. With the broken warship on its back. Wil saw the holes in the hull. The gaping—broken warship’s frame. But the light? The explosions?
And then he saw. A flash from the interior. For a second—a beam of golden light. It hit the water near The Emerald Signet and the superheated water exploded, geysering into a rain that fell on the ship. The galleon rocked. And the crab shifted. Aiming the beam.
“That’s magic.”
Wil said it dumbly as Yerra pulled at him. A spell. But where was it coming from? And then—as the light appeared again, he saw it for a moment.
A carven face. An eye made of a gemstone. A staring figure.
A Golem, buried in the hull. It was covered in barnacles, moss. Still secured by the bindings.
“That’s a damn war golem. But look at the size of it.”
It fired again. The magical beam of light missed—Delivan was turning the ship, zig-zagging away.
“Get out of range of that thing! It will tear through our decks, Skills or not!”
Lasc was bellowing, his face white with fear. Wil tried to struggle as Yerra dragged him down the steps.
“No! We have to go after it! That’s a Golem! That’s—”
“Stow it!”
Merrik jumped down the steps. Peki, even Venaz was taking cover. The Dwarf looked at Wil as he pointed.
“That thing will destroy the ship in one go! That Golem is massive! It’s probably designed to sack cities! We can’t fight it!”
“But the treasure—”
Wil whispered. The ship rocked as Lasc and Delivan took The Emerald Signet away from the isle. Another near miss—and then—silence. Wil looked around. Yerra stared at him. Afraid, remorseful.
“I’m sorry, Wil.”
“Some threats are too big to fight in the sea. You learn that.”
Inky spoke up from her cover. Wil Kallinad looked around. But it was there. The golem.
An Archmage’s…
He closed his eyes, bitterly. Someone else would have to take it. A navy. Another hero. He let his head fall back.
“Damn it all.”
 
 
—-
 
Captain Therrium of The Passing Shadow had seen it all, of course. He’d let the jellyfish attack The Emerald Signet—the [Storm Captain] had the resources to fight it off, even if he was an air-breather.
But the crab? That had caught them off-guard. He stared from his remove as another beam pierced the waters. It didn’t penetrate far, but the explosion was thunderous from under the sea. His crew, used to silence, clapped their hands or appendages over their ears.
The Emerald Signet was leaving. Fast. The [Depth Captain] stared at the giant crab, which guarded the other wrecks and what was clearly a war golem. The half-Eel man eyed the monster, glanced at the other Drowned Ship waiting underwater next to him. The other [Captain] was staring at him.
The two came to a same conclusion.
“Nope.”
They turned their ships. They’d mark the spot, but an armada would have to take the ship back from that damn crab. Some treasure wasn’t worth the risk.
But it burned in the memory of all who had seen it. A relic of Archmage Zelkyr. It was there. Waiting to be claimed. Perhaps more. Was it better to have never seen it? Because it consumed the soul, like poison.
It was there.
 
—-
 
The Kraken’s Pass, Fog, Strange Meetings
 
“…Upon reflection, we should have clearly taken measures for engaging giant monsters. Not that this ship isn’t well-equipped. But as we’ve seen—perhaps a very defensive-oriented ship might have been able to close the gap. I hear some hulls can be stronger than steel.”
“Well, if you had the best [Captain] in the world and one of the most famous ships, perhaps. But Captain Lasc did right by us, Mister Sea Cow. And before you complain you did naught—there was nothing any of us could do.”
The mood was somber after the encounter with the giant crab. It had been so sudden. So short. But they had seen it.
Treasure. And yet—it was gone. The giant crab was too big, and the magical attack from the golem too terrible. Lasc had flatly refused to even go near the spot again. He had taken the ship in the direction of the eighth shipwreck.
And Wil was depressed. He sat as the others debated the issue.
“We know it’s there, though. Can’t we go back with like, uh, a magical deflecting shield or the right equipment? A stealth-rogue like Lady Foliana to deactivate the Golem? Dead gods! I’m sure the Professor would do it. What if we hired a fleet?”
“No good. And how do you propose we negotiate for it, Yerra?”
Merrik sighed. Venaz nodded as he poured a drink. The Selphid looked blank.
“We know where the crab is.”
“Yup. So you lot tell…who? Lord Seagrass himself? And he takes his armada, loses some warships and…what?”
Inky took the cup out of Merrik’s hands. He’d been offering it to Wil. But the [Lord] didn’t want to drink. Yerranola went on.
“That’s right. And he gets the treasure…”
“And keeps it. Why would he share the bounty with us when he does all the hard work?”
Wil spoke up flatly. Yerranola opened her mouth.
“Well, we have the location.”
“And? He’s the one who has to do the fighting. Or the Professor. It doesn’t matter anyways. We could sell it for…something. I’ll do it tonight. Sell the location, rather.”
“Oh, come on, Wil. Sell it? Negotiate—”
“With what?”
Wil turned, looking angry. Yerra didn’t understand. She waved at him.
“We’re the only ones who know where the treasure is.”
“Yes. Us. And Captain Lasc. And Delivan. And the entire crew of The Emerald Signet. Who probably already sent their own [Messages] to people telling them what they saw.”
Yerra went silent as she digested this.
“Oh. But…but they don’t know where it is. Right?”
Inky swished the drink in her mouth before swallowing. She looked sympathetic.
“Trouble is—Miss Yerra—that undersea mountain’s too visible. If it were one of the older shipwrecks, I could see it being harder to locate. But this one’s findable. Now—if there was no marker of any kind and you were trawling the sea bed unless you had the exact star-coordinates, that information would be worth something and perhaps only Lord Kallinad’d be able to sell it. Or Lasc, since he’d have a good idea where it was. But this? Too easy to say ‘look for a mountain around hereabouts’.”
She nodded at Wil. The [Lord] nodded glumly.
“I don’t think we can even sell it for much. I’ll…ask Lasc to make the next two shipwrecks harder to spot. He can play with the timing so we arrive by day and sail far away by the time it’s nightfall. If there’s anything worth finding, though.”
That would help. With the other two shipwrecks. If they came back for a treasure. But the fact remained. That had been it. And it—was gone.
“I’m sorry. It was a sight to see, at least.”
Feshi spoke quietly from the bunk where she was sitting. The others nodded. Wil did too, after a moment. It was. He tried not to let the depression consume him. However—it was hard.
To distract himself, Wil took issue with Yerranola. Mildly.
“Yerra, you dragged me belowdecks. Again. And you told me and Feshi to take cover. We’re not children. We are [Strategists]. We can fight.”
“Yeah, but you’re fragile. Venaz has his armor at least and Merrik and Peki are [Commanders]. And I’m—”
“A Selphid.”
Everyone chorused. Yerra smiled.
“Hey, you know my line. Look, Wil. I’m just looking out for my favorite fleshfriend.”
She hugged him lightly. Wil sighed.
“I appreciate it. But we don’t need to be overprotected, Yerra.”
The Selphid disagreed, smiling, looking a bit concerned.
“But you’re all my fleshfriends. I can’t have one of you accidentally getting stabbed! Arrows through the head kill you.”
She elbowed Wil, laughing gently and tapped her skull. It made a slightly hollow sound.
“There’s nothing up here.”
“You can say that again.”
Venaz grumbled. Yerra threw his pillow at him. It stuck on his horns. The others laughed, relaxed—Wil smiled as he felt Yerra patting him on the shoulders. It was a cold, clammy touch. But she and he were friends, ever since she’d befriended him when they first entered the academy.
Yet, Yerra’s flaw was she was protective. Overly so. He straightened and spoke in a haughty tone. Half-mocking, half-serious.
“Miss Yerranola. We didn’t join this adventure to stay below decks. We can fight. Stop ordering us to get below at every opportunity. You may tell us where to be safe if we’re being idiots.”
She hesitated, and then ducked her head in an acknowledgement.
“Oh—fine. We’ll let you fight. But you have to put armor on. Wil, Feshi, do you even have any good enchanted gear?”
“I have armor!”
Feshi just shrugged as Wil retorted. Merrik rolled his eyes.
“Well, do you ever put it on? Let’s see it then. And let’s see if you can even swing that longsword you carry about.”
The others chivvied Wil onto the deck. He found himself doing mock sparring with Merrik, who gently swatted his blade down and then forced Wil to try his best. They were helping cheer him up. And Wil appreciated that.
And resented it.
 
—-
 
For about five days, the students were left to their own devices. Inky drifted in and out of their conversations as they discussed everything and anything besides Zelkyr’s lost ship—which was by now public knowledge. It had indeed been sold by members of the crew to anyone willing to buy the information and it was now worthless.
Captain Lasc had apologized to Wil and assured him he’d take more precautions. From now on, the [Sailors] would have a harder time marking spots via the stars. And, barring any notable landmarks, it would discourage information trading.
Too little, too late. Only…two shipwrecks remained. And Wil was despondent, even if finding actual treasure had rekindled his dreams. It was just regret. If he had convinced the [Storm Sailors] to attack the crab from all sides, would they have triumphed? If he’d realized the threat, convinced Lasc, maybe? Maybe?
It would have risked the lives of everyone. But that was what you needed to do for treasure, right? It was right…
There.
Wil might have moped forever, despite everyone’s best attempts to cheer him up. But two things took his mind off the loss. And cheered him up.
The first was the drama around Lord Bein and the [Couriers] on their run. That was entertainment, and the [Strategists] had a good time watching and commentating. Feshi, an Izrilian, actually knew one of the Couriers.
“Mm. Hawk runs south of Liscor as well. That’s a useful Skill.”
“[Physical Overdrive]. Imagine if Peki had that. Or me.”
Venaz was clearly jealous. So was Peki.
“Good fighters. Wonder if I can beat them.”
“They’re Couriers, Peki. The best Runners in Izril. Even for us, that’s a hard sell. Dead gods, but I’d love to have them as irregulars under my command, though.”
Merrik was commentating. The others nodded. Wil was about to bring up some of Terandria’s finest Runners—and mention that Salamani actually ran on Terandria now and then—he switched continents—when there was a cry from the side.
“Starboard side! Something in the water!”
Everyone shot to their feet. By now, the students were in tune with the boat. Everyone checked for their weapons. Wil had some leather armor on. He could swim in it, and he had been pressured into wearing it at all times.
“Helmet—”
Yerra checked Wil as he ran. He scowled, but grabbed it. By the time he ran to the starboard bow, everyone was ready for trouble.
But for once, the trouble wasn’t there. Instead—the [Sailors] were laughing in delight. Even Inky was smiling and calling out to Lasc, who’d emerged from his cabin.
“No trouble, Captain! It’s sea-friends!”
“What? What are?”
And then they pointed. And Wil saw a leaping shape nearly reaching as high as the deck. He saw an eye, a curved body and fin.
“Dolphins!”
