She was pointing to a group at the front, or prow of the ship. Peki flew ahead of Merrik and Wil as the [Sailors] navigated around them. They were both used to the sway of the ship, but neither could move as nimbly as the [Storm Sailors].
[Storm Sailors], the regulars of the sea. This was a ship led by a [Storm Captain], and crewed by [Storm Sailors]. Such ships were considered better than most trade ships, because while they were common, you had to earn the [Storm Sailor] class and its counterpart as a [Captain].
They weren’t always honorable ships either. Sometimes, they were. But a [Storm Captain] could turn to piracy if need be. The sea was a different place than on land. There were few [Knights] who fought at sea. And the sea…
The sea was boring. Honestly. It was. Wil stared at the relatively flat landscape of green and blue as he walked with Merrik grumbling about arrogant Garuda. It was a matter of perspective, he supposed.
The sea contained [Pirates]. Monsters. Treasure. Adventure, and drama and romance and everything in between, just like land. The problem was that there was a substantially larger amount of sea than land. And the continents were vast.
But the sea was vaster. And when all you experienced of it was the top portion (which was the least notable part of the sea, which extended miles into the dark waters below), you tended to get a lot of uniformity.
And it wasn’t as if Wil or Merrik could walk off the ship and go for a nice stroll on the waves. Neither of them had Waterwalking Boots, and even Peki couldn’t fly far. Besides, what was there to do?
Well—one thing you could do was bring entertainment. And at this moment, three [Strategists] were playing chess at a table set up near the front of the boat.
Venaz was playing Feshi, and Yerranola spectating. It was a game of chess. A tradition among Niers Astoragon’s students. Only—there wasn’t so much rapt attention and competitiveness among the two players so much as…vague disinterest.
“Check.”
The Minotaur, Venaz, spoke curtly as Peki flew over towards them. Feshi moved a piece out of the way. Venaz moved a piece.
“Check. Again.”
Feshi moved her king. Venaz moved his piece a third time.
“Checkmate.”
“You win.”
The female Gnoll pushed over her king with a sigh. Venaz stared at the board. He didn’t gloat, or point out her mistakes as he had the first hundred times they’d played on the ship. This time he just sighed.
“Yes. Another match? Oh look, there’s Wil.”
“Yaaaaay.”
Yerranola slid down in her seat. The Selphid was wearing a female Human’s body for the trip; she’d brought a few bodies and kept switching them out to keep them ‘fresh’. She stared up at the sky. Wil and Merrik slowly walked over to them, the same…look on their faces. They were getting close to the sixth location. But none of them had any excitement left.
“Ship turning! ‘Ware the boom!”
A voice cracked across the deck. The [Strategists] looked up. Now here was someone with some pep in her voice. A [Storm Sailor] glared across the deck as she shouted at them.
The ship was indeed turning. At the prow, the [Captain], Captain Lasc, was turning the ship, moving the thick ship’s wheel. All well and good. Venaz went back to staring at the chessboard. His right eye was twitching.
They were bored. Venaz sighed as he pushed the chess board back.
“I’m not in the mood to play. Feshi, Yerra?”
“Nope.”
The two chorused as one. Venaz nodded. With care, he put the carved stone pieces into his bag of holding, and the board.
“Maybe we should bring out the scrying orb. Hopefully there’ something interesting on.”
Television had come to this world. But watching it all day still made you go insane. The others were nodding. And the voice cried out again.
“Watch the sea-cursed boom, you idiot bird!”
The others looked up. Peki glanced around. Just in time to see the boom of the ship and sail turn with the galleon. Because…that was what happened when a ship turned.
All the [Storm Sailors] were out of the way. But the inattentive Garuda, who did not voyage on the sea, was directly in the path of the ship’s boom. And it swung into her and smacked her out of the air.
“Peki!”
Yerranola sat up quick. Feshi and Venaz saw the Garuda hit the deck, roll, and spring up. Venaz sat forwards.
“Hah! That was entertaining!”
Peki was unharmed. She’d tried to block the boom, and then, realizing that was impossible, transferred the energy into the roll. She was patting her ruffled feathers down as Wil and Merrik strode over.
“Peki! How many times is that? Eighteen? Watch the boom!”
Merrik needled Peki as the Garuda eyed the offending boom of the ship—which was connected to the sails, which a ship would turn to catch the wind. That was also how ships worked, incidentally. And when a ship turned—or the wind blew hard, the boom moved. By accident, it was called a jibe. Either way—you watched the boom. Everyone seemed to get that but Peki.
“Didn’t hurt.”
The Garuda defiantly flicked her wings out. Merrik rolled his eyes.
“And it still swats you each time! I thought you were a [Martial Artist] from Pomle!”
“Am.”
“Well, you seem to get hit by a ship quite often.”
“I can hit you.”
Peki raised a fist. Merrik raised his and Venaz got up, looking excited. But before another brawl could break out—a [Storm Sailor] strode across the deck.
“Oi, you salt-brained sack of scum! Don’t you learn? Watch the boom!”
She bellowed at Peki, pointing angrily at the piece of the ship. Peki and the other students from the Titan’s academy turned and stared.
They saw a [Storm Sailor] glaring at them. One of many on the ship. They had names. Personalities. Some of them were probably people. But they didn’t make a point of getting to know Wil and his friends. Wil was familiar with the [First Mate], Delivan, and Captain Lasc, but all the others were a blur of ‘don’t touch that’, or ‘captain’s orders’, or ‘you’re in the way’ to him.
This was just another one. Only—she—stood out. She was short, as [Sailors] went. Skin dark, tanned from the sun. Dressed in a [Sailor]’s garb, relatively lightweight and not entangling to avoid issues if you had to swim. Sleeves and leggings rolled up, crusted with salt; you didn’t wash often on a ship, and hopefully didn’t need to.
Well, her legging was rolled up on one leg on her left side. Her right…leg…was harder to roll up on so she’d just cut the cloth away. That helped her octopus-leg stand on the deck.
The [Strategists] stared. The [Storm Sailor] glared at them. She pointed at Peki.
“You got stuffing in your ears?”
She had…two normal arms. One normal leg. A normal, Human face. So she wasn’t your classic Drowned Woman, or one of the Drowned People in general. You could normally tell because half of their bodies were some sort of sea creature’s. Just her leg.
Oh—and when she opened her mouth, Wil saw a beak in her mouth. An interior set of jaws. Like a bird’s jaw, but—different.
A cephalopod’s beak, in fact. An octopus’ beak they used to eat. That was an octopus-fact. It was a second mouth in her mouth.
The [Storm Sailor] didn’t seem to care about the stares. She pointed at Peki.
“Stay out of the way of the boom, you got that, landbird?”
Peki stared at the beak. Then she stared at the [Sailor]. She shrugged, face blank.
“Why? Doesn’t hurt.”
The short [Sailor] looked incredulous. Her right tentacle-leg extended a bit, and she stood tilted slightly left, slightly taller.
“You? Who cares about you? If you hit the damn mainsail, there’ll be hell to pay! I’ve seen you punching the boom as well! You crack the wood, Captain Lasc’ll be eating chicken tonight!”
“Why?”
Peki looked blank. Her classmates stared at her. The [Storm Sailor] stared and her jaw worked as she tried to figure out if Peki was being funny.
“He’ll have you tossed in the ocean! Stop flying about like an idiot!”
That was all she came up with. Then she stomped off. Well—one foot stomped. Wil and the others watched her go.
“Amazing. See how her leg’s moving? It’s not a balanced walk by any means. But the tentacle-leg actually works on a moving deck. Imagine her trying to run. On land.”
Venaz whispered a bit too loudly. The others looked at him. Wil slowly sat down, boredom forgotten for a moment.
“I’ve never seen anyone like that. She’s not fully Drowned Person, is she?”
“Nope. And [Storm Sailors] don’t like to crew with them. Rivalry on the sea. We have to ask about it. Hey. Hey, you.”
Merrik instantly waved at the nearest [Sailor] passing by. The man grunted; he was swabbing the deck. People actually had to do that. It was to keep it from allowing moss or mold to grow, and to keep the planks wet and thus swelled with water to prevent leaks.
More ship-facts. The [Sailor] grunted, but he leaned on his mop as he came over.
“What?”
His tone wasn’t exactly polite for guests, but he wasn’t spitting on them either. Merrik waved conspiratorially at the part-octopus [Sailor].
“What’s up with her?”
“Merrik. We shouldn’t gossip.”
“What? Why not?”
The Dwarf looked at Wil. The Terandrian [Lord] hesitated, but the [Sailor] turned out to be only too happy to gossip. He looked around conspiratorially.
“Her? The one that just yelled at you? Oh, that’s Inky. She’s got a tongue on her almost as bad as that fucking beak.”
The [Strategists] were instantly fascinated. This was the highlight of their day.
“Tell us more. Take a seat.”
“I should be working.”
The man hesitated. But Venaz instantly pulled one of the chairs out.
“We’re chartering this ship. Sit down.”
The Minotaur ordered. The [Sailor] weighed this, glanced about, and sat.
“Whaddya want to know?”
“Everything. What’s with the beak, the leg—”
“Does she have any more octopus parts? That is octopus, right? Not squid?”
Yerranola was as fascinated as Merrik and the others. Of course, the Selphid was a body-connoisseur. She looked at people…mainly for their bodies. The man just shrugged.
“You’d have to ask some of her mates.”
“Do you mean mates as in—”
“Merrik. Don’t be disgusting.”
Feshi reached over and poked the Dwarf with her paw, hard. The Dwarf grunted. The [Sailor] however seemed to appreciate the Dwarf’s humor. But Merrik was a friendly sort. Everyone got along with him.
“If we’re all her mates, it’s only a few who’ve seen underneath. And only a few cared to if you get my drift. She’s part-Drowned. Part octopus, aye. You saw the beak and the leg? The rest’s just ink and suckers.”
“Suckers?”
“On her hands. And the soles of her feet, so I hear. She spits ink and makes it everywhere else. That’s the name. She’s not one of ours. Just a crewing member for the trip. But she is a [Storm Sailor], so old Lasc took her on. I’ve seen her twice; she knows the job, but she ain’t ours.”
By ‘ours’, he meant a member of The Emerald Signet. The regulars versus the people they might hire on for the journey. The students nodded.
“You’re not a fan of hers. Why, does she cause trouble?”
The [Sailor] hesitated. Yerranola instantly poured a drink.
“Fancy some rum? Straight from the larder.”
“Don’t mind if I do. Thanks. You lot are alright!”
The [Sailor] downed the shot appreciatively. He wiped his mouth and went on, lowering his voice.
“Nah, she’s good at her job. Wouldn’t be part of the crew otherwise. Helps kick the others into shape. But she’s—you know? Part fish? One of them. Drowned Folk. Only, they wouldn’t take her, so she crews with us air breathers.”
He spat to the side. Wil frowned. It was Feshi who asked the obvious. The Gnoll leaned over. Parts of her fur were dyed with color, but she hadn’t kept it up of late. Feshi Weatherfur cast an eye towards Inky, who was walking over to the mast. She put her hands on the mast and instead of grabbing onto any ladder or handholds, just climbed up the mast.
“Suckers. See? Unnatural. But she’s the daughter of a Drowned Person and a Human. Don’t know the details, don’t care. But she didn’t take the Sea’s Bargain—don’t know if she can, since she’s already part something.”
The [Sailor] explained. His name was Begal. Or his nickname. Sailors were big on nicknames. That was probably his actual name, though. Like Inky, he’d been born to sailor’s families and lived on the sea all his life.
But he was all normal, for all his heritage was mixed through multiple species. He had a bit of Gnoll—even a bit of Drake in his ancestry, way back, which tickled Feshi’s fancy no end. But they didn’t count, as Begal explained.
“On the sea, there’s only Drowned and non-Drowned. And Drathians, if you want to get technical. They’re an odd bunch. But they’re still not Drowned Folk.”
“What’s so wrong with them?”
Begal’s brow darkened.
“They’re at war with us non-seabreathers. You know [Pirates]? Most of ‘em are Drowned Vessels. Sure, lots are [Pirates], but Drowned Vessels’ll sink both [Pirates] and regular ships. They’re a law of their own. A nation without borders under the sea. Well, they claim the entire sea’s theirs. Bastards, most of ‘em. No [Sailor]’ll crew with a Drowned bastard.”
“…And a part-Drowned person?”
Wil was eying Begal’s face and Inky as she kept climbing towards the crow’s nest to relieve whomever was on watch. The man shrugged.
“Well, they were kicked out of the Drowned since they’re not fish enough. Their faces aren’t, you see? Can’t breathe in water. And I suppose the Drowned folk don’t like anyone who’s not taken the Sea’s Bargain of their own will.”
“The what?”
“Sea’s Bargain. It’s when they join with something of the deeps. Become part-fish, part-crab, part-clam—whatever it is. Anyways, Inky can crew since she has the class—dead gods, I’m not a [Storm Sailor] so Lasc’ll use anyone who’s got the class. But she’s not and never will be one of us. You feel me?”
“Yup.”
The other students nodded. Begal nodded. He pushed himself up after a third shot of rum and nodded.
“You students from the Titan are alright, then. Didn’t think you’d be, but you’re not half as bad as the other lot we’ve had onboard. Thanks for the drink.”
He nodded at them and hurried back to his duties before he could catch the eye of any of his superiors. The [Strategists] kept quiet for a few seconds until he was out of earshot, then Yerranola spoke up.
“So how much of that is a [Sailor]’s tales and how much is real, I wonder?”
“What? The man just told us everything there was to know, Yerra.”
Venaz raised his brows. The Selphid glanced back at him. She was frowning, and Wil, sitting to her left, knew Yerranola was vexed. Not quite why, yet, but she explained.
