“…So, Pheislant is a coastal nation. We’re known for it. We’re not as big as some of Terandria’s larger kingdoms—which is why we’ll probably do something if Ailendamus pushes at Calanfer and the other nations. They can’t be allowed to continue expanding.”
“But do you have the forces to resist an attack?”
Wil sighed.
“At sea we’ll do well. But Pheislant has a weaker land army. We don’t profit by wars like the Minotaurs, Venaz. We have lighthouses, you know?”
“Famous ship-guides, I know. I have been on a vessel before.”
“So you say, sir. Repeatedly.”
Captain Lasc and his [First Mate], Delivan, chortled. They were having a cordial drink with some of the [Strategists] and Lasc had lent the students his cabin. Actually—they were having a miniature lesson there.
“So this is the sextant? And you’re plotting us by—what was it? Tacking the sails?”
Yerra was looking at the map. Lasc nodded. He had a compass, a sextant, and any number of tools for navigation.
“Aye, Miss Yerranola. We move zig-zag, see? By the wind. If worst comes to it, we’ll use a spell or call upon a [Mage] or Skill to boost our sails. But we use the wind normally.”
“And we plot our course by the stars and the moons. Both of ‘em. It’s a Djinni’s riddle, to do it. But any [Captain] worth his salt learns the trade.”
Delivan put in, grinning as he showed the other students how to calculate their course. Wil and the others were suitably impressed as the officers entered. Peki and Merrik hadn’t joined in the little lesson, reminiscent of their classes. But then—they wouldn’t even need to do this sort of thing.
“Ah, there you all are! How’s it going? Dead gods, but I thought we left the book learning in Baleros!”
In a good mood, Merrik strode over to the table. The others looked at him. Yerranola winked; she had a good intuition for this sort of thing. Feshi sniffed the air and Wil and Venaz turned from a debate over Pheislant’s land forces.
“Hey Merrik, Peki. Come to join in the learning?”
“No.”
Merrik kicked Peki under the table. Peki being Peki, she kicked back. Merrik muffled an oath as his eyes watered.
“Well—I can’t say I’ll ever captain a ship. Leave that to the experts like Lasc here. But I can respect Wil and the rest for learning to send ships across the ocean! Say, Feshi. You wouldn’t mind teaching me some of the logistical side of things, would you? Never hurts to know more. And I’m—”
“No.”
The female Gnoll smiled at Merrik across the table, baring her teeth slightly. Merrik paused.
“What, not even a few lessons? I was hoping—”
“No. I’m not interested, Merrik.”
The Dwarf’s face went flat. The others looked at each other. Venaz raised his eyebrows, looking hugely entertained. Merrik spluttered.
“I wasn’t insinuating—I was just asking—”
The Gnoll [Strategist] gave Merrik a look and he shut up. She held up a few fingers.
“Firstly, you’ve washed and you’ve oiled your beard. Second, I can smell you. And third—”
The Dwarf deflated. Peki was smiling.
“Yes?”
Feshi gave him a grin.
“I’ve heard people trying that before. I’m not an idiot. Sorry, Merrik. But no thank you.”
The others laughed. Merrik turned red, but he laughed along good-naturedly too.
“Damn! Well, there goes my options!”
“What? With this pristine body here? I’m only slightly rotted—oh wait. This is my wrong body.”
Yerra sniffed at her slightly decomposing flesh. She glanced quickly at Peki. The Garuda was staring at Wil and Venaz. They shuffled their feet. Peki was very unsubtle. It was one of her flaws as a [Commander], actually. Then she started staring at Lasc.
The [Captain] grinned. But he turned to Merrik.
“Sorry, sir. Heard you and your lot were going stir-crazy below decks. Happens to all first-timers.”
“Rejected.”
Peki whispered. Merrik’s rueful laughter cut off. He turned and growled.
“That’s it! I’ve had enough of you, you giant chicken! Upstairs! We’ll settle this, once and for all!”
Peki grinned. The two shot out of the cabin. Slightly worried, the other students and the two [Sailors] stared after them.
By the time they got upstairs, the fight was underway. Sailors looked up from their tasks as the Dwarf and Garuda strode to a clear patch of deck. Merrik had grabbed his helmet and armor and he was donning them fast as he could. Peki, being Peki, was helping him. As Wil got above decks she leapt back, and then kicked across the deck.
“You blasted bird!”
Merrik raised a shield. The Garuda struck it and the impact and crash of sound made everyone turn. Merrik barely moved.
The Dwarf had a shield and in his plate armor he was like a rock on the deck. Peki darted right and left, lunging forwards to attack in a flurry of blows, but Merrik let the impacts rain on his armor and blocked with his shield. He lashed out with his hammer, but Peki was far too fast.
“You’ll never break my guard, Peki!”
“And you’re slow.”
The Garuda flew up and dropped in an axe kick. Merrik swore as he blocked. The impact cracked the deck. The Dwarf swore, as he raised his hammer.
“You’ve tried that in training! Take this! [Giant’s Hammer—”
“Lower your weapons and stop fighting on my ship or I’ll throw your guts overboard and the rest of you with it!”
Captain Lasc bellowed as he advanced on the two fighters. Peki hesitated and Merrik turned. Both stared at the broken planks on the deck.
“Uh oh.”
Peki alighted and stood behind Merrik. The Dwarf pushed his helmet up.
“Er, sorry about that, Captain Lasc.”
“Captain, Kallinad will repay you for the damages.”
Wil looked at the furious [Captain] and waved his hands at Peki. She waved her wings back, looking only slightly apologetic. Lasc calmed down, but only slightly.
“No fighting on my deck, sir. Miss. I’ve no objection to training with arms, but not of that sort!”
“But that’s the only way we know how to fight! Mind you, I am sorry. Peki—she doesn’t hold back. Good on you that the deck’s secure—I saw her kick straight through the roof of a house and into the ground floor with that trick, once.”
The [Storm Captain] glared, but then, surprisingly, relented.
“Well, it’s just a bit of damage. But The Emerald Signet’s hull isn’t made from ironwood! Or enchanted, beyond a few basics on the hull! But I’ve seen Miss Peki fight.”
“Really? Where?”
Merrik pushed up his helmet even further. It was First Mate Delivan who replied with a grin.
“Daquin, of course! We saw the entire thing! You’re not the only one with scrying orbs. And it was good to see someone kick the Iron Vanguard in the teeth! Bastards rule Baleros’ waters with a fist like…iron!”
The other [Sailors] laughed. Bemused, the students realized they were known. And—the ice broken, even Captain Lasc acknowledged having seen Peki and Merrik in action.
“It was part of the reason we took this charter. Seeing Lord Kallinad duel with Tulm the Mithril, well, we hoped this would be a similar story. But it’s good enough to see. And if you can split the deck with a single kick—”
“Stay away from the fucking boom!”
A voice among the [Sailors]. Inky. The others laughed. Peki looked actually embarrassed and hid her face behind a wing. The [Martial Artist] could weather near-drowning, boredom, and Merrik better than embarrassment.
“Well, if I avoid striking the deck and Peki avoids hitting me from above, we’d have no problems. And sparring’s not a bad idea. Helps with the rejection.”
Merrik gave Feshi a mock-heartbroken look. The Gnoll laughed.
“He’s still trying. Does he have a chance?”
Wil whispered to Yerra. The Selphid grinned as she slung an arm around his shoulders.
“Wil, my boy, there’s always a chance. Especially with Dwarves. Stubborn, like that.”
Across the deck, some of the other crew of The Emerald Signet were taking advantage of the conversation about Daquin to test Merrik and Peki, minor celebrities. It was Delivan who spoke while casually patting his side. He had a sword and a miniature crossbow at his sides.
“You know, [Storm Sailors] fight as well as any landfolk in their armies. We’re the vanguard of the sea, but we don’t truck with shields or armor. Can’t swim if you get tossed. And a moving ship’s not as easy to fight on as dry ground. Mind if I give your armor a try, Mister Merrik?”
The other [Sailors] laughed and cheered. The Dwarf and Peki looked around at the challenge.
“I never turn down the chance to learn.”
Merrik grinned beneath his helmet. But it was Captain Lasc himself who stepped between Delivan and the Dwarf.
“If it’s a challenge, I’ll be the first to take it on. After all—a [Storm Captain] shouldn’t fall behind a student. Even the Titan of Baleros’s students.”
The gathered crowd fell silent for a moment. Then there was a low murmur. The [Sailors] looked at Lasc. And they were…expectant as they glanced at Merrik and Peki. Appraising.
Wil Kallinad felt his spine tingling. [Storm Captain]. That was, to his knowledge, at least a Level 30 class. But the students were high-level. He saw Merrik pause, and grin.
“Can’t be sure I’d spare your decks if I went up against you, Captain.”
“Well, that happens in a ship battle. Can’t help it if it’s a true engagement. But we try to end it before it comes to that, right, crew?”
Lasc looked around. The [Sailors] laughed and cheered. Merrik’s eyes narrowed. Wil was hesitating. Should he break this up? He didn’t know Lasc’s class or abilities or temperament. He could…probably hold back. But he had a sword in one hand. Shortsword. Was he just some kind of good [Swordsman]?
But then—a snort from the side. And like he was born for the role, Venaz spoke up.
“That’s a lot of bravado. But I’m not sure Merrik’s the best fighter among us. Or Peki, for that matter.”
Every head turned. Wil leaned on Yerranola and covered his eyes for a second. The Minotaur strode forwards. He was, of course, the tallest person on the ship bar none. Huge, hugely muscular, his fur rippling with muscle. He looked at Merrik and Peki. Both [Officers] eyed him.
“Venaz, I love you like…a friend. Whom I’ve gotten to know for a few months at most. Two months, really. But you do like to talk out of your ass, right, Peki?”
The Garuda nodded.
“All ass, no Skill. We are [Warriors]. You’re a [Strategist].”
“ A [War Strategist]. I earned my levels, even if not all of my Skills went to combat. I consolidated my class. I’ve led [Soldiers] into battle. I didn’t join the officer classes because I heard the acumen of the [Strategist] classes was better, and that was what I needed to work on.”
Venaz flexed one arm, casually. Wil recalled—Venaz used plate armor too. He’d brought some for the trip. Also—he was skilled with any number of weapons.
“Oh, really? And you think you could take me?”
Merrik put his hammer down with deceptive good-nature. But even he had his limits. Venaz eyed him.
“You’ve got armor. Give me a moment to put on my armor and I’ll take you on. Bastard sword, shield. Since it’s not to the death, we’ll call each blow a point. Mortal wounds or ten to a victor, fair?”
The Minotaur was smiling confidently. Merrik’s eyes narrowed.
“You’re overconfident, Venaz. Just because you have a few Skills, you think you can take me on? Fine. Let’s do it and bet some real gold on—”
Captain Lasc walked between the two. The [Storm Captain] had a casual stroll. But he put one arm out to block Merrik. And he looked at Venaz.
“Mister Venaz. As much as I’d like the duel, I believe it was I who made the challenge. And the [Captain]’s honor must come before a passenger’s. Even a paying one.”
The Minotaur blinked. He looked at Lasc. Then he grinned.
“Pull out your armor, then, Captain. I don’t have a set large enough for you, but take out whatever you bring for a fight. Same rules—”
“I’ll fight bare blade and as I am. A [Captain]’s dress. And for you, sir, I’ll let you put on plate and whatever armor you feel’s fitting. I’m confident enough not cut you. Say you touch me once—we’ll call it your victory.”
The Minotaur—froze. And Wil heard Feshi laugh with delight. Peki was grinning.
“You think you can take me down without a scratch?”
“It’s my ship, and we’re at sea, sir. I’d dare any man or woman on this ship the same.”
There was a look in Lasc’s eye, like a predator. And Venaz? He looked into that confident face.
And he lost his temper.
 
—-
 
Wil Kallinad had seen Venaz lose his temper a few times. When he’d broken the other Minotaur’s jaw in the battle with the Iron Vanguard. In a pub brawl. In class with Marian.
The Minotaur’s eyes would turn red. He would lose all sense of control—but not reason. When a Minotaur raged, it was like a Selphid’s rampage. They were stronger, faster.
And Wil was worried about the outcome. Lasc was getting ready, but he hadn’t done much other than draw his sword and put something on his left hand. On the other hand—
Venaz was in his plate armor, holding a sword and shield. He had a small armory in his bag of holding.
“Venaz, you can’t injure Lasc. Or make him lose too much face in front of his crew. A [Storm Captain] relies on it.”
“I should let him insult me in front of everyone? Don’t worry. I’ll just draw blood.”
But Venaz’s eyes were reddened with blood. Lasc calmly watched him stalk towards the circle of crew. Wil hurried over to Lasc and Delivan.
“Captain, Venaz cannot be injured or wounded in any serious way. And he is angered. If you could call this off—”
“Call off a duel I started, Lord Kallinad? I’d be laughed off the waves for that. Don’t you worry. I don’t need to bleed the Minotaur dry. Although it would be easy enough. This’ll be a quick bout. Don’t you worry.”
Lasc strode forwards. Venaz was gritting his teeth as he raised his sword and shield, taking a defensive guard.
“No playing for points. A proper duel! No one kills the other, but all’s fair before that. We both have healing potions.”
“Is that how land men do it? Fair enough. Until the other falls or surrenders.”
Lasc grinned. Wil whirled to Delivan.
“Can’t you stop him?”
“Don’t worry, Lord Kallinad. You paid for a true [Storm Captain] and his crew, sure enough. We’ve fought more than one invader off. Monsters, [Pirates]—any number of threats at sea landfolk have never dreamed of in their darkest. Captain Lasc—he’s not going to lose, even to those two.”
Delivan nodded to Peki and Merrik, who were betting copious amounts of hypothetical gold on the outcome. Merrik, for all his anger, was backing Venaz. Peki, Lasc.
“Are you sure, Mister Delivan? Because this could be a serious matter if it goes poorly.”
