“Only every other day, Venaz. But if Minos is so perfect, why don’t more people join? Or why don’t the islands expand?”
Yerranola strolled back over. She made a face as the others looked at her.
“Diving isn’t going well. Looks like another wreck.”
“Damn.”
Venaz swore. The others groaned and put their heads down. Venaz covered his eyes and looked up.
“No one tell Wil this, but I think he should have insisted the Professor give him whatever answer he wanted for his family. Why don’t we expand, Yerra? The House of the Minos was one of the last gigantic empires. Our Kings still remember. They decree we will not be so dishonorable again.”
“Ah. Good [Kings]?”
“The best. Our King is wise—a seasoned warrior—we may pass by the House of Minos. If we do, I can arrange shore leave for all of you. Perhaps even an audience. She’s quite generous. And the very font of honor.”
“She?”
Before Venaz could explain about the female King of Minotaurs, Peki spoke up suddenly.
“Pomle is great. We don’t have [Kings]. We fought to get free.”
“Peki! Is that national pride I hear?”
Merrik chortled. The Garuda looked around defiantly.
“Pomle is strong. A hundred Pomle warriors once held off an army of a hundred thousand.”
“Ah, but that was when it was founded. Can they still do that?”
“Yes.”
The Garuda made the others pause. Merrik was pursing his lips and the others were, despite themselves, looking forwards to a good debate. But then it was Feshi’s turn to sigh.
“I miss home. When we get to Izril, I’ll take you to my clan, along with Venaz’s nation. The Weatherfur clan isn’t the biggest clan—well, we’re pretty big. And powerful.”
She didn’t sound very modest because she wasn’t being. The others looked at her, curious.
“I have to admit, I’m not up on Gnoll clans, Feshi. What makes the Weatherfur one unique?”
Merrik stroked his beard. Feshi smiled. She indicated her colored fur.
“We color our fur like the rainbow. Because we know where and when to send our flocks. We have very large ones and we predict the weather. Well—traditionally. Our clan is one of the biggest. Silverfang, Weatherfur, Ironscent—we’re among the bigger ones. Not the biggest in the pack…and we lost Garusa Weatherfur. Our pride. She would have made us important at the Meeting of Tribes. I wanted to become a [Strategist] because she was a [General]. I would have…liked to serve under her command.”
The others stilled. Feshi looked sad. Yerranola interrupted them.
“If we’re talking about home—you should visit a Selphid place sometime. We’re friendly. Just not beloved in Baleros.”
She looked once at Venaz. The Minotaur paused.
“What are Selphid communities like?”
Yerra grinned. The same grin she had among all her bodies.
“Small. But some of our people are as old as Dwarves or half-Elves. We stick together. No one who’s around another Selphid goes hungry. We have to stick together. You know, because of the empire.”
Two species with a recent history of world domination looked at each other. Venaz gave a short nod. He sat up, looking extremely awkward. He took a long moment before he spoke.
“Yerra. I may have been wrong. Why don’t we ask this Inky for her side? Just to ratify…”
The Minotaur’s not-quite-an-apology was interrupted by a sound from the side. The [Strategists] and two [Officers] looked up. Wil Kallinad was striding along the decks. His face was white. Captain Lasc, Inky, and the other [Divers] were returning. Yerra turned.
“Wil?”
It didn’t take them long to find out. There was nothing in the shipwreck. Inky herself had found a tag that [Treasure Seekers] used. The shipwreck had been picked over long ago.
Six down. Three to go. The students looked at each other. Then they went to comfort their friend.
 
—-
 
Meetings Above and Below
 
“Nothing. That’s the sixth one. I’m sorry, everyone. I think I’ve led you all on a pointless chase. That was one of the biggest leads. It was meant to be the Gailenwright’s Eye. And it was nothing.”
Wil sat on the bed as the other five students stood around him. Venaz blinked.
“The Gailenwright? One of the most famous ships in modern history, crewed by one of the [Pirate Lords]—”
“Don’t get excited Venaz. That was it. And it wasn’t the Gailenwright. And nothing was left.”
The young [Lord] was still pale-faced. White, not so much with shock as with despair. The other students sobered. Venaz lowered his hand.
“Oh.”
“It’s not that bad, Wil. There are still three more shots. Even if—I mean—statistically, there’s still some chance of…”
Yerranola looked around for words. But…the problem was this.
It was easy to say ‘it’s just bad luck’, or ‘the probability’ was this. They’d been doing that the entire trip. And if it was just that, it would be easier to keep hope.
But all six shipwrecks hadn’t just been duds. They’d been looted already. By [Divers]. [Treasure Seekers], using treasure-hunting Skills. The Titan’s notes, his secret file of all possible treasures…wasn’t unique.
“I’ve never thought of it, but the Professor doesn’t have any real experience with sea-battles. Some, but he’s not an expert on it. He’s…a land-strategist. And his research might not exceed that of most treasure seekers.”
Venaz muttered to himself as he sat on the lower bunk that was his bed. Feshi patted Wil on the back as Merrik poured himself another drink and offered Wil a glass. The young man refused. Peki began doing squats. No one really knew what to say that they hadn’t said five times before. But reality was sinking in.
“Lord Kallinad! Are you shipshape? I just need a moment, sir.”
A knock at the door. Captain Lasc came in as Will called out. The [Storm Captain], a hardened man from the sea, but not as bulky as you might expect—even lean, and young, for a man of his rank, saluted slightly. Wil might have been young, and he might have been a guest, but Lasc often worked for the Kallinad family.
“Just wanted to have a word after the dive.”
“I’m sure the crew is upset, Captain Lasc—”
The man smiled slightly, a slightly unfamiliar action to him. And he tried to moderate the tone of command that was his by right.
“Don’t worry, sir. The crew looks at this as easy, paid work. You won’t get any trouble from them and it’s a fine attempt.”
Captain Lasc looked cheerful, having already resigned himself to finding little on this voyage. It was a good way to be. Not so for Wil.
“Thank you, Captain. We have only three more spots to go. Then we can proceed to Izril. Perhaps a stop at the House of Minos?”
“As you wish, Lord Kallinad. My crew is willing for all of it. Just wanted to let you know.”
The door clicked shut on Lasc’s heels. Yerra spoke after a moment.
“Well, he’s cheerful.”
“He gets paid either way. But…my family won’t be as pleased.”
Wil buried his head in his hands. It was Feshi who thoughtfully spoke up after a moment. The Gnoll looked from Wil to the others.
“You know, Wil. If nothing is found on this voyage, the Professor’s list was all wrong. Not even a bit of treasure? I think he would be as upset as you. And he might…offer you whatever it is you didn’t get for your family if that turned out to be the case.”
The others looked at her, surprised. Wil’s head rose slowly.
“He wouldn’t. Would he?”
“He’s prideful. He wanted to give you an adventure and if you didn’t get it? You could…negotiate.”
“Negotiate with the professor? For a gesture made with all his knowledge?”
Venaz looked horrified by the thought—and then thoughtful. Wil looked up.
“But that would be—”
“It’s the Titan’s secret. If it’s a trash secret, ask for a refund. Feshi, you’re a genius!”
Yerranola laughed. The Gnoll smiled to herself.
“You know him. He is generous, yes? It’s worth bearing in mind.”
That, more than anything seemed to cheer Wil up. He looked around.
“Well—well—we don’t know the other locations are a dud.”
“But if there are, we have backup. Rhir’s hell, Feshi! That’s genius! And it’s what the Professor would approve of. Let’s—hey, let’s send him a [Message]! Just tell him that and ask what he says.”
“No. That would be—”
“He’d love it, Wil! I bet he’d bring it up in class and ask the others what they’d do!”
“That’s an excellent idea. I wish I’d had it. We can all draft the [Message]. Make him the bet—”
“And if it goes wrong, it was Venaz’s idea.”
Peki put in. Everyone stared at the Garuda’s sly look and burst out laughing. In a great humor, they began drafting the letter. And Wil smiled. But he paused.
“Three more places.”
The downed ship of Archmage Zelkyr. The possible resting place of the Diamond Swords of Serept. A Dragonship.
Each one a treasure to make your skin tingle. But…Wil smiled. Maybe it was the Titan’s lesson after all. But he joined the others in composing a [Message] spell that night. After all—
It never hurt to ask.
And far below the ship where the six students composed a [Message] that did indeed put Niers Astoragon in stitches—and wonder if his information really was that poor—a similar conversation was being had.
An underwater ship, crewed by Drowned People was following The Emerald Signet. But they’d stopped to check something.
“Depth Captain. Our scouts have found nothing in the shipwreck that the landfolk did not find. It was indeed picked clean.”
A [First Mate] whose body was half-starfish saluted a Drowned Captain. He was half-Eel. His name and title was Depth Captain Therrium Sailwinds of the Undersea Crews. And his ship, The Passing Shadow was feared above and under the sea.
…He wasn’t happy. He growled curses that the rest of his crew, moving in the silence of the waters, looked up fearfully to hear. Not only because his wrath was terrible, but because he had violated one of the precepts of those who sailed under the waves.
Make no sound, lest ye attract what draws to it.
But the cursing was short-lived. Captain Therrium, a man who had three sons, a ship to his name, and quite a lot of gold, was used to risky ventures. He just hated it when they fell through.
“Damn the landfolk who plundered the ship!”
His voice was a deep, bubbling growl even as a whisper among the silent vessel. Of course, he sounded like this, as did much of the Drowned Folk, but they all did, so to them it was normal conversation. The First Mate winced.
“Actually, Depth Captain…I think the [Divers] were ours. The marks looks so.”
“Oh. Well then. Scavengers.”
Therrium moderated his tone. He sighed. And only then did he hear the muffled obscenities coming from his left. The half-Eel Drowned Man turned his head.
…A second Drowned Ship was floating next to the first, having drawn alongside. And the other [Depth Captain] was cursing through the magical barrier that kept the waters out.
“Damn you, Therrium! Three weeks it’s been and not a sight of treasure!”
“This is our mark!”
The [Captain] whisper-howled back across the gulf between them. He saw a half-Shrimp Drowned Woman, her antennae moving as she furiously pointed one feeler-hand at him.
“You don’t own the ship until you’ve sunk it, Therrium! We have a right to the sea!”
“Then don’t curse my name for a dry spell!”
Disgruntled, Therrium turned his back and motioned for the [Helmsman] to take the ship away. The other Drowned Ship drifted back as well.
Two ships were following The Emerald Signet. Two that Therrium was aware of, including his own. More than one person had heard Yerranola and Venaz’s careless slip of the tongue about the Titan’s treasure. But it was turning out to be a fruitless endeavor.
Nevertheless…the other [Depth Captain] was pulling back, but she was no doubt making the same calculation Therrium was. Was it worth the risk of following this ship underwater? Spending time and thus, food and coin on a worthless endeavor?
Therrium held the course. But…it was a funny thing. Wil Kallinad didn’t know it, but more than one person was hoping for his success. And waiting for that moment.
 
—-
 
Romance, Duels, and Slugs
 
Again, as was his wont, the Professor refused to say if Wil would get a different reward if he turned up empty-handed after his trip. But the other students opined that it was the Titan’s way of saying ‘yes’. Also, they’d received [Messages], letters, really, from Marian, Cameral, Umina—even Kissilt and the others about how the Professor had shared the [Message] in class and immediately begun a lecture on naval tactics in response to Venaz’ allegations.
That was a good moment. But it didn’t last. Soon—monotony set in. Only—this time the students knew their enemy. And one of them—Merrik—decided he was ill. He had cabin-fever. Sea-fever. Boredom-fever. And the only cure was sex.
“Alright. So, if I get lucky, here’s how we’ll do it. I’ll hang my helmet on the doorknob, like so. That means I’m busy. Don’t come in. Bunk with someone else, got it?”
The Dwarf was showing Peki the symbol they would use. She had the top bunk and he had the bottom in their room.
Yerranola was paired with Feshi. Venaz with Wil. Peki was with Merrik, but the two didn’t mind the gender difference. They were friends from Niers’ officer training classes.
Peki eyed the thick, plate helmet that Merrik wore, forged from his home’s forges. It wasn’t enchanted, but his hammer and mail were lightweight. Strong. Stronger than regular steel and made by experts.
“Do you understand, Peki? I don’t want you barging in and ruining the mood.”
Merrik shook the helmet at the Garuda. The bird-girl tilted her head sideways.
“Fine.”
“Okay. I’m going to see if Feshi’s interested in anything.”
The Dwarf smoothed his beard with some beard oil. He’d already cleaned the salt from it, and his clothing. Peki smiled.
“She said she’s not into Dwarves.”
“Ah, she just said she wasn’t interested in visiting Dwarfhome. There’s a difference. Besides…we’re all cramped up on the boat. What’s the harm in offering, eh? And she’s smart. That thing with the Professor? I respect that. Who’re you after? Venaz? Wil?”
“Eh.”
The Garuda made a face. Merrik chortled.
“A [Lord] and Sir Bull himself. I don’t fancy your options. But here—say you do get lucky. What’s your signal? Worse comes to worst, we’ll pair off in the other’s rooms and sort it out. But I doubt we’ll both do fine. Because I’m charming and you’re a bird-brain.”
Peki ignored the jibe. She plucked Merrik’s helmet from his other hand and smiled at him. When he looked at her, she pointed at the door.
“If I get lucky, I’ll use your helmet to let you know.”
The two stared at each other, and then laughed. In a good humor, they trooped upstairs.
