An ancient hull. A sail, rotted, virtually useless. But the ship still floated. And—it had a crew. But the fog was lifting, however slightly. And this time…The Emerald Signet’s crew could see.
There was no light on the other ship. None, in the absolute fog. The Emerald Signet had any number of safety lanterns. But none on the other ship.
That told Lasc everything.
“Either they’re out of oil. Or…we’ve found a culprit. It’s a ghost ship. Or—did you say you saw figures, Delivan?”
The [First Mate] nodded. He was armed. Captain Lasc turned his head.
“Lord Kallinad. I fear we might be entering a fight for our lives.”
“Against what, Captain?”
Wil stood next to Venaz and Feshi, staring into the gloom. There were figures moving in the darkness. But who—
His breath caught as he saw the unnatural, shambling walk. The [Storm Captain] spoke darkly.
“That’s no ship of the living. That’s an undead ship. And the crew’s long passed.”
Indeed. The ship was coming their way. And Wil saw the first rotten form. He smelled the rot as the zombies and skeletons moved. A mockery of the living ship. The [Sailors] murmured. They had weapons ready.
“How can this come about?”
Feshi covered her nose. She had her bow raised, but she had avoided fighting. Lasc was cursing.
“Somewhere on board, there’s a [Necromancer]. Or a death-artifact. Either or. And we’ll have to fight. This close to the Kraken’s Pass?”
“At least the ship’s only a frigate. If it were larger…we can handle that crew, Captain.”
Delivan was nodding. So were the other [Storm Sailors].
“Undead aren’t a match for a proper [Storm Sailor]. They might have numbers if they’d packed the ship. But we’ll take them. Worst threat is the [Captain]. Ships like this always have a Revenant.”
“A what?”
Peki looked around blankly as Yerranola shuddered. The Selphid spoke.
“A thinking undead. A trapped soul. It might be able to use Skills. It’ll be far stronger.”
Indeed—was that the [Captain]? Wil saw a figure steering the ship at them. Glowing eyes, burning blue in the fog. Captain Lasc spoke.
“All hands, prepare to repel boarders. We’ll fight them off. Burn the damn ship and put these souls to rest. They’ve underestimated us. Lord Kallinad, you and your [Strategists] will give us an edge, however many of the damned there be.”
The crew nodded. So did Merrik.
“My [Battalion of Glory] gives magical blades to anyone under my command. We can slay even ghost-[Pirates] with that.”
“Have they given any demands?”
Lasc turned to Delivan. The [First Mate] shook his head.
“No, sir. This might be just a group of [Necromancers]. Or a ship looking to add to its ranks.”
“More fools, they. To arms. We’ve sailed through storms far worse than a crew of undead.”
The ships were closing. Ready for battle, both sides. More undead were appearing in the gloom. But just one ship. Smaller than The Emerald Signet. Only—Wil couldn’t help but feeling uneasy.
This felt like a trap.
And then the waters moved. Wil saw something breach the dark waters. And he realized he should have taken Inky’s advice.
A warship rose out of the dark waters. Rotten, old. Covered in barnacles. But the crew cared not for the water that slowly drained. Captain Lasc turned his head. The second ship turned, slowly. And another figure, another long-dead [Captain] looked at the living man.
“Flanked. Damn—we’ll take the left, Captain Lasc and Wil, Feshi, the right. Starboard, port, whatever.”
Merrik whirled. Peki narrowed her eyes.
“Strong undead.”
“Fucking ghosts.”
Inky pointed, eyes wide. A figure, a half-remembered man, skin rotted was the [Captain] of the second, larger, warship. He was pale. Transparent. But his blade was still sharp as he drew it.
“I’ll take him on.”
The Dwarf growled. The crew rushed to the port side. And that was when Wil felt his skin prickle. He turned.
“No way.”
A crow’s nest breached the waters. A third ship rose, silent as the grave. Delivan slowly turned around. He made a small sound. And then a fourth ship rose. A fifth. He slowly looked at Wil.
“Ah. The thing about undead fleets? They keep growing.”
“To arms.”
Lasc drew his sword. Six ships circled The Emerald Signet. Without a word, without a signal, the undead began swarming towards the ship. Swimming. Climbing. Wil drew his sword. Venaz was already hacking a ghoul trying to board the ship. But they were outnumbered. And—the ghoul Venaz bisected fell into the waves—then reappeared.
“There are [Necromancers] about! They’re reanimating the dead!”
Venaz roared. He swung his axe.
“[Battalion of Glory]. They might not even be on any of the ships. We have to burn them. Take out the undead—waste the [Necromancer]’s mana! Hold the line!”
“Wil?”
Yerranola looked at him. The [Lord] had his sword out. He was calling orders, defending a section of the ship. The [Lord] turned to look at Yerra.
“I’m not going below.”
“I know. Just don’t get killed.”
The Selphid smiled. Then she walked into the undead, the one form fighting back the waves assaulting the [Sailors]. The students called out, fortifying their positions. But the undead were coming. A ghostly [Captain] strode through the air and met Captain Lasc. They locked blades and Lasc punched through the air. But the freezing ghost’s form took no damage.
 
—-
 
Captain Therrium saw the six undead vessels surrounding The Emerald Signet from below. And he had been told at least two more vessels floated in the fog.
“Damned [Necromancers].”
One of the two vessels had to be their command ship. They were attacking The Emerald Signet, thinking they were just another ship on the waves.
His [First Mate] looked at him.
“Captain, do we join the fighting?”
His crew was restless. Drowned Men and Women were ready for a fight. They didn’t fear the numbers. Nor did Therrium. He glanced at the other Drowned Ship. If they joined the [Storm Sailors], they’d put a hole in the undead fast enough.
However.
“Fight? And expose ours plans? No. Not yet, at least.”
“But they’ll all be slaughtered. There aren’t enough of them and even if the [Storm Sailors] put up a good fight…”
Six ships versus one. Therrium knew that. He spat.
“We wait. We only need the [Lord]. Make ready to rise. And when we do—you’ll grab that [Lord] and we’ll lose our sister ship in the fighting.”
He gestured at the other Drowned Ship. The [First Mate] grinned. Slowly, the Drowned Ship began to move. Air was conjured, negating the effects of the ballast. The ship was preparing to rise suddenly.
And that was when a lookout shouted, breaking the oath of silence.
“Depth Captain! Another ship sailing into the engagement!” 
Captain Therrium Sailwinds turned. He snarled.
“How many ships are out here?”
 
—-
 
Captain Lasc saw the ghost-[Captain] retreating as Merrik’s glowing hammer rent the magical form that made him up. Lasc struck home with his shortsword. He thought he saw the other [Captain] smile at him for a second before he vanished, his form turning into mist.
He had worn a [Storm Captain]’s clothes. Lasc hoped he had found rest. He would never let his body and soul be stolen so. He whirled, nodding at Merrik.
“My thanks, Mister Merrik.”
“Pleased. I just wish that killed the other undead.”
The Dwarf turned, grunting. A Garuda flashed past them. She kicked off a zombie’s head and watched as the head slowly floated back to place. Peki frowned, and spun and kicked a skeleton to pieces. But it too began to reassemble.
“Damn [Necromancers]! They’re reanimating the dead!”
“Even me! I don’t think they know I’m in here!”
A hulking Draug had torn off Yerranola’s arm. But it was floating back to her body. She dodged around the Draug and sat it aflame with multiple chops of her hatchet. She watched her arm reattach.
“Neat. Thanks.”
That was the only good news in the tide of undead assaulting the ship. The [Sailors] were fighting in formation, pressing the undead back. But the undead kept coming. And every [Sailor] that fell instantly rose on the other side.
“We must break out! Raise the sails!”
Venaz was shouting, ignoring the order of silence. Lasc pointed; the sails were already dropping.
“[Ship Spell: Bound Wind]!”
For a moment, a wind blew and The Emerald Signet began to shift. But the other boats had it boxed in. And—the wind abruptly halted.
“They have weather spells! We can’t escape!”
Feshi pointed out the obvious as she fired an arrow. One of the ships burst into flame as her arrow tip exploded. But even the fire died down.
[Mages]. Lasc felt a moment of despair. His forces were holding well. But this was a battle of attrition. And he couldn’t find the [Necromancers]. He aimed at one ship. He had one [Depth Explosion] spell to use. They’d fight. And then—the [Necromancers] might run out of mana and mana potions first. If not…
“Captain! Something’s coming out of the fog!”
Inky bellowed from where she was fighting with Venaz and a group of [Storm Sailors]. The [Captain] turned his head. Another undead ship?
No. The last ship came through the waters, surprising Lasc. The [Necromancers]. Even the Drowned Folk. Fast, fast, cutting through the fog. And in more ways than one.
Light. It burned through the fog. A bright, brilliant yellow light. Like some gigantic lantern. It filtered down through the sea. Captain Therrium shaded his eyes.
“Are they mad? The light’s visible in the darkness! They’ll wake the Krakens! Who’s casting that spell?”
He roared. The [First Mate] pointed up. Her skin had gone pale.
“Not a spell, [Depth Captain]! Look! Look at the hull!”
The Drowned Man looked up and saw. A shining hull. The material that made it wasn’t normal wood. It was glossy. Semi-transparent. And it glowed.
The light burned away the fog where it touched. A magical light. For a magical ship. It shone through the darkness and night. Moving faster, faster.
Captain Lasc turned as he cut down a ghoul. He saw it coming closer. And—it couldn’t be.
But only one ship was filled with fools crazy enough to bring light to the Kraken’s Pass. And in the distance, he saw a name, written by magic on the side of the hull as it turned.
Illuminary.
The [Storm Captain]’s eyes widened.
“It’s them. Why are they here?”
“Who?”
Merrik turned. He spotted the distant ship. It was—pursuing something. A second ship, running dark. The [Necromancer]’s painted ship, made to be white-grey, invisible in the fog. It was turning—but the Illuminary was three times as fast.
Merrik stared as the glowing ship came at the first. It didn’t slow. It hit the [Necromancer]’s ship with a crash of sound that split the air. The [Necromancer]’s ship cracked. The Illuminary did not. He saw a glowing figure, glowing with the same light as her ship, swinging across to the other ship.
The undead shuddered. They lost some of their cohesion. Became aimless. And they did not rise again. There were still hundreds, at least a thousand of them. But someone had slain the [Necromancers]. Merrik turned his head.
“Grandfather’s beards! Reinforcements?”
But Captain Lasc just stared. The Illuminary was turning. He shook his head and sighed, looking—well, worried.
“No. [Pirates].”
 
—-
 
The fog was lifting. As the last [Necromancer] died and the ship began to burn, a figure strode out of the flames. She caught a rope as it was swung out to her. Held on.
The passing ship yanked her off the deck. She swung through the air with a dozen other figures, back towards the glowing ship. The Illuminary. She landed. And she was glowing.
Glowing, like her ship. The woman was half-Drowned. Half her face was Human. The other half covered by a bandanna. But her right eye—and shoulder gleamed. Something bright burned in her body. Yellow light.
Half-Anglerfish. She grinned with sharp teeth. And a voice called out to her.
“Captain? Your orders?”
The sky was exposing itself. It was sunset; but the fog had been thick as night. The [Pirate] lifted her head.
“Onwards! Take out those undead ships! We’ve done for the [Necromancers]! Quick, before they do for that Lord Kallinad and those students!”
She pointed. And the Illuminary moved. It shot forwards, propelled by a wave underneath the ship.
Some called it the fastest ship in the world. Including the Captain herself. She didn’t wear a hat. But she had a glowing sword in hand. She pointed; the fighting had continued after the [Necromancers] had died. The undead were still undead.
“Hurry up! We’ll miss the action!”
As if the Illuminary was moving too slow for her. Her crew looked up as the ship sped towards the cluster of ships. The [Pirate Captain] turned her head. She grinned up at the clear skies.
“Ah. It’s a wonderful day. Battles at sea. The Kraken’s Pass! And treasure. What more could you ask for?”
She laughed, fearless, as her ship’s light threatened to wake the denizens of the deep. If she’d died at this moment though, she would have died laughing. And her crew laughed too. Fearless, and insane, all. Even by the standards of [Storm Sailors] and Drowned Folk.
But these were [Pirates]. The glowing [Pirate] looked around.
“Prepare a boom throw! I’m going in first!”
The [Helmsman] roared with laughter. He was a tall Gnoll. He saw the [Pirate] grab hold of a rope. Someone had attached it to a boom. He spun the wheel and the boom snapped around.
You had to watch the boom. But she always watched it. And the rope attached to the moving part of the ship snapped. The boom flung outwards. And she swung through the air.
“Incoming!”
Peki, flying through the air and hunting for the strongest foes, saw a flying shape. The [Martial Artist] turned and saw the flying [Pirate]. The half-anglerfish woman winked as she passed by. She landed, and the light flashed, brilliantly yellow. The undead whirled.
“To me! Take these rotting corpses down!”
Her glowing blade beheaded a Draug. The [Pirate] swung around, slashing through a zombie, a ghoul—she stepped back as a skeleton swung a sword at her. Then she raised her offhand. A glowing crossbow bolt caught the skeleton’s head and the detonation blew all the undead off their feet.
The [Pirate] was already rolling away. And laughing. The crossbow began to reload itself, magic doing all the work as she slapped another bolt into place. She brought her sword down and slashed through a ghost of a woman. The undead vanished. The [Pirate] whirled, and saw a Minotaur staring at her.
“Who are you?”
Venaz stared at the [Pirate]. She laughed.
“Just a friend!”
