A pod of dolphins had swum alongside the ship. They were racing alongside the vessel, making clicking sounds, leaping, playing in the water. And the [Sailors] were laughing, finding bits of food to toss over the railing.
“What is that?”
Ironically, it was Peki who hid behind Merrik. She squatted down, warily eying the dolphins. Merrik, Feshi, Yerra—none of them knew what the fish were and were confused. Inky laughed.
“Dolphins! They’re one of the smartest fish out there. Sailor’s friends. No [Sailor] or [Fisherman]’ll hunt for them—only shorefolk and idiots do. They save folks who’ve gone overboard. As smart as they come!”
“Really?”
“Surely! They’re playful! See?”
The Dolphins were doing tricks, dancing in the water. One flipped past the boat and Peki emerged to stare.
This pod was a mix. Some were blue to gray. But there were pink dolphins in the water as well! Wil marveled at the sight. The colorful dolphins were smiling—or at least, that was how they felt to him.
“So there’s not just monsters in the sea?”
“Of course not. Just the largest of them. If you’d been watching earlier, you’d have seen some fish. Mind you—dolphins are prey for a lot of the big ones, like that damn crab. But they can fight off sharks and they’re smart enough to run.”
Entranced, the [Strategists] watched. Then they realized—they could feed the dolphins! The fish were only too happy to eat some of the salted fish and other meats. Everyone was laughing and Venaz was actually opining to get into the ocean to see if they could touch the dolphins when something moved below.
A vast shadow. Instantly, the crew reacted. But the dolphins kept playing.
“What is that?”
Another shape. And this one was—vast. Not as large as The Emerald Signet, but far, far larger than a dolphin. Ten times as large. Wil froze, but Inky frowned and pointed.
“No danger! It’s a Nelgaunt!”
“Nelgaunt sighted!”
The others took up the call, relieved. Wil looked around. This he wasn’t familiar with. He saw a huge fish surface. Like a catfish crossed with a whale. Only, it had long tendrils. And it was…
Smiling. It had a shark-like hide, but a whale’s strange, feathery ‘teeth’. And it swam with the dolphins and they played about it, clearly relaxed.
“What’s a Nelgaunt? It’s big!”
“Another friendly sort. Two sea-friends in one day! Although Nelgaunts often swim with dolphins. They eat small things in the water, and they only fight to defend themselves. It’s one of the reasons they swim with fishes; they look out for each other. How else would you survive in the ocean against Reefeyes and worse?”
Inky waved at the Nelgaunt. And to Wil’s amazement, the Nelgaunt copied the motion with one of its tendril-arms.
“It can wave?”
“Nelgaunts make dolphins look like idiots! It can wave—might even understand a few words. I’ve heard of ships partnering with Nelgaunts. Training ‘em. Captain Lasc, thoughts?”
The Captain was looking into the waves. He saluted the Nelgaunt.
“If it were a baby alone, we might try feeding it, and taking it with us. But this one seems well enough. Let’s call it good fortune, and not push our luck.”
“Can we communicate with it in any way? This is incredible.”
Feshi peered over the railing. She made a barking call towards the dolphins. They scattered, clearly astounded, and clicked back. The Nelgaunt’s reaction was even more astounding. It blew water out of its blowhole. A sound trying to imitate Feshi.
“No. Way.”
Yerra was amazed. She waved at the Nelgaunt.
“Can you understand us? Blow twice for yes, once for no!”
A pause. And then two toots of water shot out of the blowhole. The students and crew laughed in delight.
“Someone open the stocks! Toss the dolphins what they want! What do Nelgaunts eat?”
“Fish! Krill—”
“Can they eat bread? What about rum?”
Laughing, Begal poured some over the side. Inky immediately smacked him.
“Idiot! Don’t poison them! And don’t waste good drink!”
Wil was trying to think of a question to ask the Nelgaunt. He called over the side as the giant catfish swam closer. It was staring up at him—it actually had another eye on its side. But the main one seemed to be looking at Wil. Amused, thinking he was an idiot, Wil shouted down.
“Know of anything interesting for us to see? Treasure?”
The Nelgaunt looked up at Wil as the others laughed. And then—suddenly—it dove. Wil saw the dolphins turn, diving after it. In a moment, they were gone.
“What? Was it something I said?”
Wil looked around, disheartened by the sudden disappearance. He couldn’t help but feel he’d caused it. But he hadn’t. In fact—a warning call came from the front.
“Storm Captain! We’re nearing Kraken’s Pass!”
Delivan was turning the ship. Venaz ducked as the boom sailed overhead. Captain Lasc whirled.
“Already? Turn us, do it now, man!”
Delivan was already turning the ship. Wil didn’t know why. Until he saw…how deep the waters were on the port side. The [Sailors] fell quiet.
“The Nelgaunt warned us. Or perhaps we’d have noticed if we weren’t caught up watching them. Lord Kallinad, we’re taking a detour.”
Captain Lasc strode to the wheel. He pulled out a spyglass and stared ahead. The other [Sailors] were suddenly, entirely quiet.
“Kraken’s Pass?”
Merrik looked at Inky for confirmation. The [Storm Sailor] was pale.
“The water ahead. It’s a vast, vast trench. Miles deep. And what lives in it is—at least one Kraken. Sleeping, mostly.”
The entire ship was quiet. The Emerald Signet was turning. Wil felt his skin chill.
“Navy-destroyers. The rulers of the deep. I’ve heard they ate Dragons in the old days. Or that a Dragon was what it took to down them. They ate the entire Antinium fleet, or so it was said, when they came from Rhir.”
Delivan had surrendered the wheel to Lasc. The entire ship was moving in silence. Even below—the Drowned Ships were turning. And no one spoke.
“Nothing survives a Kraken attack. Or if they do—they’re truest [Sailors] of the sea. I’d rather fight an Adult Creler at sea than a Kraken. Well, you don’t fight one. They can be miles long. Fortunately, they mostly sleep.”
“Does anything prey on them? How can they live, being so big?”
Calmly, but controlled, Captain Lasc turned his head to look at Feshi, who’d asked.
“There’re things in the deep that are more dangerous than we can imagine. Not all things are violent, Miss Feshi. And the sea has its ebb and flow. I’ve seen Tearwhales devouring and devoured by smaller fish. But they could bring down a Kraken if there were enough of ‘em. It’s all give and take. But we sail in silence now. Well clear of Kraken’s Pass.”
The others nodded. Everyone headed belowdecks. Inky reassured the others as she pointed.
“It’s safe enough. Captain Lasc is steering us far from the pass. We’ll be around in less than a day. What’s dangerous is when they move. Then—well—you can be attacked in any place the sea’s deep enough. Come on, Sea Cow. You can teach me more of these board games.”
Wil was following her down when he heard a muffled curse from the helm. He looked back. Just in time to see Lasc staring.
“What in the name of salt is that?”
The [Storm Captain] turned the wheel. But it was too late. Wil saw whiteness rolling at them. A vast cloud of—
Fog. It rolled over the ship unnaturally fast. And it was dense. Vision was lost in a moment. Wil could barely see the command deck. He staggered forwards.
“Captain Lasc?”
The man was staring about. There were shouts of confusion from all around. And then silence again. Slowly, the [Storm Captain] let go of the wheel. And he looked up.
“Furl the mainsail.”
“Drop anchors?”
Delivan had raced back on deck. The [Storm Captain] hesitated.
“We’re too far. No. Furl the sails. Quiet.”
“What’s the fog from, Captain?”
The man looked at Wil.
“I don’t know.”
And Wil realized, as he stared around that there was no way of Lasc of knowing where they were, either. The sky was shrouded. They couldn’t see the Kraken’s Pass. They were…
Lost.
 
—-
 
Two days later, the fog had continued. The Emerald Signet floated in the waters, sails furled. Helpless.
They had no idea where they were.
“We could be over the Kraken’s Pass right now. We should be sailing away. Better that than…”
Begal was wide-eyed with nerves. Inky, the [Storm Sailor], was more calm.
“Don’t be daft, man. Captain Lasc knows we might well sail in circles. And if we move, we’ll attract more attention. This fog ain’t natural. But whatever it be, we can only hope to wait it out. At least the wind ain’t moving. The waves on the other hand…”
They were just floating. Captain Lasc had lookouts posted every few paces on deck, for all the good it did. Everyone was aware of how close they were to the Kraken’s territory. And they were all nervous for the fog.
“Becalmed at sea. Lost. Isn’t this a [Sailor]’s worst nightmare?”
Merrik wondered. Inky gave him a reproving look.
“Neither and neither, Mister Merrik. We can always [Message] for help or scrying if our [Captain]’s not a fool or something wrong with magic. Same with wind—if we wanted, Lasc could conjure us a breeze with his Skills alone. Never mind the emergency items. What we fear is Krakens. Fire at sea. And—The Last Tide.”
The other [Sailors] sitting with the students murmured. Wil looked up. But no one said anything more. This was a bad time for dark tales. Especially ones that were true.
“There’s not much to do but keep an eye out. Right, Feshi? I mean, that and—”
“Not interested, Merrik.”
The Dwarf sighed. Venaz gave him a look.
“This fog is unnatural, Merrik. Every [Warrior] knows you conserve your energy?”
“You mean, you don’t jump into bed before a battle?”
The Minotaur looked aghast.
“What a waste of stamina. No. Minotaurs are disciplined. Besides…we don’t know what’s causing this. It feels like a spell.”
“But what a vast one. Or is it just on our ship? Lasc is asking for Wistram’s assistance, but there’s limits on what they can do, especially if the fog is magic. We’ll try lifting it if we have to wait longer. But there’s a limit on how long—”
“Contact above! Get on deck!”
A whisper-shout. The [Sailors] and students shot to their feet. They raced above, silently as possible. Armed for battle.
 
—-
 
Below, the Undersea Crews were restless. They knew of the fog, of course. It didn’t affect them underwater and The Emerald Signet was drifting, dangerously close to the Kraken’s Pass. But far enough.
“What’s causing the damn fog?”
Therrium growled at his First Mate. She frowned.
“We’re spotting multiple vessels in the water, Captain. All land ships. Caught by the fog.”
“More tails to the students and their treasure? But they’ve found nothing yet!”
“Maybe the others are tired of waiting.”
“I’ll be damned if I let them take our mark.”
Therrium swore. He looked up, sharply.
“Another ship’s closing with The Emerald Signet. Get me eyes on what’s happening. How many vessels are in the water?”
“Many, Captain. Some are in the sea.”
“What? Drowned Ships? Why aren’t they hailing us? Unless they fear to make sound or light?”
“I don’t know, Depth Captain.”
 
—-
 
The first vessel passed close to The Emerald Signet. It was a small ship. Not close to the galleon-class that was The Emerald Signet.
“A caravel.”
Inky breathed as Captain Lasc peered through his sky glass. The students watched, cautiously. It was a small vessel to take on the galleon. And it didn’t seem to be. The sails were furled. But there were people on deck, staring up at the ship.
“Ahoy. Are you lost in the fog too? We sail the storms. If you be peaceful, raise the flag of truce.”
First Mate Delivan called out softly. His voice was the only sound in the waters. The figures on the boat stared. There were a good number of them. On the railings.
They made no move. But neither were they triggering anyone’s [Dangersense]. Yet. The two vessels drifted closer.
The waves were taking both vessels in the same direction, but the caravel was lighter and moving faster. It was chance that the two had met. And as the ships drew closer still, the fog parted enough for Wil to see something in the mists.
Red light. A strange, ominous glow in the darkness, multiplied many times. And then—amid the fog—he realized.
They were eyes.
Crimson eyes. The crew of The Emerald Signet recoiled as they saw Goblins.
They stood on their ship. Crudely built, but seaworthy. Goblins. Many of them were small, but Hobgoblins sat or stood along the side of the ship.
“Goblins.”
Venaz breathed. He reached for his axe, but Inky and half a dozen [Sailors] held him back.
“Not here! We’re too close to the Kraken’s Pass!”
“But they—let go of me!”
Someone slapped a hand over his mouth. The Goblins looked up. They stared at the Humans with curiosity. Without fear.
“Have you caused this?”
Lasc’s voice was wary. Cold. But the Goblin’s sails were furled. And—one of them moved. Wil saw a figure sitting on the deck. His hair was beaded. His skin tattooed. Feshi murmured.
“A [Shaman].”
She stared at the Goblin. Small. He was a regular-sized Goblin. But he was in charge in some way. He glanced at her. And then he grinned at Lasc. Slowly, he brought one finger to his mouth.
Shh.
And he mouthed one word.
Krakens.
Without a word, the caravel drifted past The Emerald Signet. The [Storm Captain] hesitated. Venaz was furious. He wanted to attack, or interrogate the Goblins. But they were all—wary. The Humans let the Goblins pass.
“I’ve seen Goblin crews only twice in my life. I heard they sailed the ocean. But even they fear Krakens.”
Inky murmured when the caravel was long out of sight. Captain Lasc was trying to figure out what was going on with Delivan and the students. Venaz stared through a port window.
“Of course they go to sea. They have an island.”
The others looked at him. But the Minotaur said nothing more. Lasc looked around.
“Yet—they were helpless as we were. The fog wasn’t caused by them. And if their [Shaman] couldn’t raise it—they control the weather. So. Something’s out here.”
The others nodded. They did not know what. But the watchfulness of all on board sharpened further.
It was another day before they found out what it was.
 
—-
 
“Captain. Lord Kallinad. We have a signal in the mists.”
A ringing bell. Wil heard it as he played Lasc a game of chess. The [Storm Captain] looked up, glad to be done; he was losing badly.
“I hear it. What fool rings a bell around here?”
“The kind that doesn’t fear Krakens. Storm Captain. You had better look.”
On deck again. Everyone stared towards the ringing sound. And Wil saw it first.
