“I hear it’s not like that for Drowned Folk. And they’re hardly the scourge of the seas. Lots are quite peaceful, but it’s [Storm Sailors] and other marauders they fear. And if that’s how they’re treated, no wonder. It’s a wonder Inky crews with this ship if this is how she’s treated, but maybe she doesn’t have a choice. I know the Sea’s Bargain doesn’t work like that.”
She folded her arms. Venaz gave her an incredulous snort. The Minotaur folded his arms and flapped one hand airily. He had…strong opinions which his fellow students were used to. Even so, his superior tone grated at times. Most of the time.
“Yerra, I grew up in the isles of Minos. I know the sea, and that [Sailor] told us nothing I haven’t heard myself from every manner of sea folk. Drowned People are dangerous.”
“Not all of them.”
Yerra’s eyes flashed and she clenched a long-dead hand. Wil eyed her, worriedly.
“Yerra—don’t mind Venaz.”
“I’m just saying—what did Inky do to deserve being talked to like that? The man—Begal—even said she’s a good [Sailor]! What has she done? He didn’t name a thing except that she was part-Drowned! And she was born that way!”
“She yelled at me.”
Peki refused a shot as Merrik poured another round for the students. So did Wil, but Feshi, Venaz, and Yerra all drank up with Merrik. Yerra was glaring at Venaz. Wil was trying to calm her down.
It wasn’t often that Yerranola, as affable as Merrik—perhaps even more so—got angry. It was surprising to Venaz and Feshi, who knew her from class, but Wil, who was close friends with Yerra and recently, Feshi and Venaz, knew his friend. The Selphid was touchy about…outsiders. She herself had experienced enough of what she was seeing or projecting onto Inky.
“Either way, the lesson is to not get hit by the boom. Peki.”
“I’ll dodge it next time. It’s fast. Good training.”
The others rolled their eyes or sighed. But they relaxed, after that brief moment of interest and insight into their monotony. After a few seconds, Venaz produced the scrying orb.
“And now, I believe we have a performance by a high-level [Bard]. Let me get the name. And there’s some to-do about a marriage going off-the-road so to speak, between a…Lord Bein and Lady Hetessana of northern Izril? Am I pronouncing that right? No, wait. Lord Bein and Lady Dealia. Apparently, the [Lord] was allegedly cheating on his fiancé with a Lady Hetessana Wellfar…”
The others groaned as the now-familiar voice of Noass began speaking. Sometimes he would cut to fascinating things like the battle in Jecrass, but the King of Destruction’s armies still had to move and clashes were fast and usually not caught ‘live’ as it were.
And it was a week still before the drama around Lord Bein’s infidelity would come to a head. Wil saw the broadcast cut to a [Bard], who bowed towards the audience and began to declaim.
“Oh tribes. Venaz, turn it off. I cannot handle another Terandrian ballad, no?”
Feshi groaned as she covered her ears. The Minotaur sighed. He slapped the scrying orb into his bag of holding.
“What then? Another game of damn chess? Go? Shogi?”
“No, no, and no. Can’t we get drunk?”
“I’m bored of being drunk.”
Merrik slammed his cup down. The others nodded. Venaz cast about for anything else.
“Swimming then? What about a simulated battle, Wil?”
“We’ll just get left behind the ship again, Venaz. And we always argue about how we run the simulation.”
That was true. The Minotaur flopped back down on deck and stared vacantly into the horizon. His hands moved.
“It’s just—we need—figurines. Like the Professor has. And rules. That would make it easier. Some way of…of deciding arguments, instead of which battalion would win an engagement.”
“Like a board? Sounds like a game.”
“Yes! But…”
The Minotaur trailed off. The others leaned on the table. Bored, bored, bored. None of them looked at Wil, but he sat there. Staring.
After an indeterminate amount of time, someone spoke.
“We’re nearly at the next spot, ladies and gents. Captain Lasc wants to know if any of you’ll be wanting to watch the proceedings?”
Delivan, the First Mate of The Emerald Signet approached the table with the bored students. Wil looked around.
“We’re here?”
The sea…didn’t look too different. Ah—but wait. There was a distant rock. And something like an island in the far distance? It was precisely where Niers had written the shipwreck might be. Wil rose to his feet.
“I’ll go, of course. Captain Lasc has my gratitude.”
“The details were exceedingly precise, Lord Kallinad. Anyone else? If you’ll be wantin’ to dive, we can get some of the suits rigged. Excepting, well…”
The man looked at Merrik, Peki, and Venaz, all three of which wouldn’t fit the diving suits. Wil saw all three wave their hands.
“I don’t think that will be necessary, Delivan. But I will watch. Anyone coming?”
The others looked at each other. Yerranola rose.
“I’ll come, Wil.”
It was mainly friendship that made her speak. The others shook their heads. Slowly, Wil, the [First Mate] and the Selphid walked off.
Alongside one section of the deck there was a bustle. [Sailors] were congregated around a group of [Divers] getting ready to jump into the ocean. Some had suits on—with helmets made of glass and metal. Others? They were practically naked, stripping down, only taking a single glass bottle plus a stone or weight to help them sink. Yet more had an amulet.
[Divers]. Bottles of compressed air. Diving suits. Or just Amulets of Waterbreathing. There were any number of techniques to brave the ocean even if you weren’t a Drowned Person. And The Emerald Signet, which had been hired to help Wil investigate Niers’ list, was specialized in recovering shipwrecks, among other things.
Normally—or rather, at first—the other [Strategists] would have been all over the proceedings, wanting to try to dive or borrow an amulet from the experienced divers. And worrying about monster attacks, speculating over the treasure—asking why most of the [Divers] would have to stop at regular intervals on the way back up to avoid being sick or dying. The bends, a phenomenon unfamiliar to most landlubbers.
And they had been. Especially over the diving bell, the metal container that would be heaved over the edge of the ship and lowered to preserve air and pressure. Not all the [Divers] would use it; but only because nearly forty would be going down through various methods. They had been so excited.
The first five times. But all the excitement, the hype, all of it had turned to disappointment the first few times. But the students had known that treasure wasn’t guaranteed, or even likely after all this time. They had told themselves that the second time. And the third. And the fourth.
This time Wil and Yerra went off to watch as Captain Lasc marched down the deck. Few of the [Sailors] were watching too. Although—and here was a brief spark of interest—Inky was one of the [Divers]. She had an Amulet of Waterbreathing.
“There. If she can breathe underwater and she’s not accepted on a Drowned Crew, it must be prejudice as that Begal said. I was right.”
Venaz pointed that out to the others. Feshi sighed.
“Venaz, you are more stubborn than one of my clan’s dogs with a bone. Drop it.”
The Minotaur harrumphed, but he said nothing more as the others watched the [Divers] go under and the diving bell being lowered. It was Merrik who sighed and looked around.
“Okay, I bet…forty six hypothetical gold pieces that we find something this time. Even if it’s a minor artifact or gold.”
“No bet. That’s too open-ended.”
Feshi instantly replied. The dives had found objects before. Some gold, a few very minor objects like a green vase that turned out to be silver—but all the wrecks had been picked clean. Or the undersea currents or something had moved the contents. Or there hadn’t been anything to begin with.
“Why forty-six hypothetical gold pieces? Hypothetical?”
Venaz stared at Merrik. The Dwarf shrugged.
“If I was going to bet them. Hypothetical, yeah. Peki and I bet them all the time.”
“I am one hundred and eighty two hypothetical gold coins in debt. I bet thirty nothing comes up, Merrik.”
The Garuda nodded as she dipped her beak into a glass of water. Venaz frowned.
“But why did Merrik bet forty six?”
It was really bothering him. Merrik ignored the Minotaur as he turned to Feshi. The Gnoll was idly fiddling with a bone necklace.
She was Feshi Weatherfur, of the Weatherfur tribe. As was her tribe’s custom, she dyed parts of her fur different colors. Beyond that? She, like many had come to the Titan’s Academy to become one of the world’s best [Strategists].
She was very good at ambushes, moving battles—not as good as Marian, but she was in the special class for the best students. If she had any specialty, it was laying traps. But she wasn’t the class’ best. Now, she sighed through her nose as she sprawled out on the table. Merrik eyed her sidelong.
“Feshi, You know what I’d do if we are on Terandria and had forty-six gold pieces? No—if we were home? We should visit, by the way. Once we’re done with…”
He gestured at the people at the railings on the port side, calling out to each other, checking to see if anyone wanted to come up. Wil was there, looking tense. Upset. Yerra was patting him on the shoulder, clearly trying to get him to laugh.
“Can’t. We’re going to Izril. I need to attend the Meeting of Tribes.”
“Oh, yeah. Damn, I forgot.”
Merrik sighed. He went on though, undeterred.
“Terandria’s a great place, though. Safe. Safer than Baleros. Still has its fair share of monsters—well, you can’t eradicate them. But it’s got some good places. Like my home. You should all visit. It’s a wonderful mountain city.”
The others nodded. Merrik looked around and his voice rose slightly, with the confidence of all those far from home had that their home was special.
“It is! Come and visit!”
Venaz stirred. He looked up over his umpteenth cup of the strong swill the [Sailors] favored. It was being provided to the guests free of charge. Well—Wil’s family had paid a small fortune to hire the vessel and crew for his adventure. Venaz had been calculating just how much money would be lost. For…fun.
“You mean, the mountain of the Dwarves? Dwarfhome Mountains?”
Merrik snorted.
“That’s just the colloquial name. Dwarfhome. Technically, we’re the Mountain Kingdom of the Dwarves, Deríthal-vel. But most people can’t pronounce that.”
“Derithal-vel. There. And why are we visiting? For the lovely sights of a…mountain?”
“You pronounced it wrong.”
Merrik smiled smugly at Venaz’s glare. He shook his head.
“It’s the place to buy weaponry! I thought you’d appreciate that. Even you, Feshi. There are some decent [Bowyers] there, but you could buy a bow made of metal!”
“Pass. And I’m not interested in a bunch of Dwarves. Too short for me.”
The Gnoll sighed. Merrik ignored that crack. But Venaz seemed to take that as another point against visiting.
“I’ve always been curious. But what do Dwarven women…? We don’t get many Dwarves in the House of Minos. So do they have…”
He made a gesture for a beard. Peki began laughing. Merrik glared.
“Hey! It’s not all Dwarven women. Most look Human and not all of ‘em have beards. That’s stereotyping, right there. Actually…most don’t have beards. That’s a weird fetish. Don’t understand it myself.”
“Really? How many other species are there?”
The other students listened as they watched one of the divers return. Inky. She was already shaking her head at Captain Lasc, but he was clearly ordering her back down. Merrik had to think about it.
“Humans are a good population in Dwarfhome. And apprentices from every species come to learn our craft. ‘sides, us Dwarves have a lot of Human blood in us. We’re taller than our forefathers were…mostly because of all the interspecies marriages. Tens of thousands of years of it. But Dwarf blood is stubborn. Still.”
He shrugged. Venaz nodded.
“How defensible is Derithal-vel?”
“Still saying it wrong. Very defensible. We’re Dwarves. We have Dwarven steel—the best [Smiths]…but we don’t fight in many wars.”
“Not even the one with Ailendamus and the other nations? Isn’t Wil’s homeland potentially part of that? Aren’t you worried?”
Feshi was searching for some salted fish. She gnawed on it and shared it around; the others ate mainly to have something to do. But it did help make them thirsty for the drink, which made them willing to eat the fish…Merrik grunted. He looked a bit sad.
“Ah, well. We go to war now and then. But we’re attacked seldom. Truth is…Dwarfhome is mostly a giant smithy. We provide arms, sometimes take sides. But Terandria relies on our steel. And there aren’t enough of us to kick around in an army anymore. Well, not that we want to lose. Good numbers, but not compared to all the Humans in the rest of the continent.”
“Declining populations?”
“You try outbreeding Humans.”
The four [Strategists] shared a hearty laugh. Some of the passing [Sailors] looked sideways at them, but the other four species nodded at each other. Merrik sobered. But then he smiled, suddenly.
“True, we don’t invite war because it’s dangerous. But there’s another reason for it. We don’t get attacked because Dwarfhome has never been taken once.”
He folded his arms. The other [Strategists] glanced at him. It was the kind of statement that invited instant ridicule for anyone in the Titan’s classes.
“What, never? You’re pulling gold out of your ass, Merrik. Don’t give me that look, Peki, that’s how the saying goes.”
Venaz snorted incredulously. Merrik’s eyes twinkled.
“I’m not. You can debate it as much as you want, but that’s not a false claim. Not. Ever. We’ve surrendered, but no one’s ever breached Dwarfhome by force of arms.”
“What about surrender via attrition? Starvation?”
“Nope. Surrendered because we didn’t want a bloodbath. But never starved to death. And even when we endured decades-long sieges—they stormed us and never got through. Not. Once. Top that? Not a bad reason to visit, eh?”
The Dwarf leaned back, looking satisfied. It was a challenge. The other [Strategists] glanced at each other.
“Not bad. But Minos is a paradise. Almost no crime—safety—[Warriors] who have reached a martial peak. I know Peki speaks of Pomle, but the reason I left was that Minos was too safe for me. Being a [Strategist] is my ticket to joining our mercenary forces. And that is an honor. Only the best of Minos get to go. Did I mention I beat the [Prince] to earn the honor?”
