Inky yanked him back. Wil fell backwards and felt a huge, slimy, weight, like filled water skin but far more massive crush his legs. He felt the pain, felt it squirming. And then he felt reality come back.
“Sound the alarm! We’re under attack! Sound the alarm! Port-side! Sea Slugs!”
Inky howled. She drew a cutlass and slashed twice. Her blade sank into the slug’s body, scattering some of its fluids. But it was huge and the blows seemed to do nothing. She dragged back Wil with one hand. He felt something—her suction cups—tightening on his skin, adding to her grip.
Then—her right, octopus-leg, tensed. Inky pushed off the deck and jumped back with him. The slug undulated forwards. Wil scrambled back as shouting erupted from the front of the deck. Someone began to ring the bell. The slug opened its mouth and oozed forwards. Wil saw more glistening shapes appearing over the railing.
“Sea Slugs! Where’s the Captain!?”
“All hands! Get up you idiots! GET UP HERE AND FIGHT!”
Inky spat black ink towards the slug. It hit the gel antennae and the slug paused. But it tried to bite again. It was—fast! Not like a regular slug! The body was a lot more compact, and it moved like—
Wil reached for his sword. He drew it, shakily. He was no [Blademaster]. But he knew how to fight. His sword was enchanted and he circled left, slashing at the slug’s side. He saw the tip of his sword open the thing’s side. But like Inky’s blade, it was just superficial. The slug was thick and it’s organs, while visible, weren’t easily reachable. And—
It turned, biting. Wil saw the rotating jaw of teeth, jerked backwards.
“Stay back!”
Inky shouted at him. She was slashing as she advanced, using her octopus leg to change her position quickly—it was far stronger than her Human leg and let her leap from spot to spot. Wil saw more [Sailors] fighting. He backed up and the slug came at him.
Strike, strike—it was able to coil and lunge like a snake! Wil cursed. He reached for one of the expendable scrolls he didn’t have. And he tripped backwards. The slug reared up.
“Slugs? Damn.”
Merrik towed Wil back. A feathered shape exploded past Wil’s head. Peki kicked the slug back and Wil saw the huge body smack across the deck. The [Martial Artist] landed and punched into the slug’s body. Wil saw her fists tear straight through the membrane. Peki yanked out a bundle of organs.
“Ew.”
That was all Wil could think to say. But the slug was still moving. It writhed, snapping at Peki. She shed the glistening innards as she dodged backwards. She kicked and punched it again, tearing out more organs. But it refused to die easy.
And more were coming. Dozens and dozens of slugs were pouring over the sides of the ship. But The Emerald Signet was awake. Merrik grinned at Wil.
“Hey, Wil! Get behind us! Peki! Back up! [Giant’s Hammer]!”
He roared as he charged. Peki jumped back and for a second Merrik’s hammer rose and fell.
The deck shook. The slug exploded . Merrik turned, grimacing; he had the innards all over his body.
“Grandfather’s hammers! It’s in my beard! Peki, did you hit the brain?”
“Thought I did. Kept moving.”
The Garuda complained. Wil staggered forwards. Then he shouted.
“Peki! Merrik! Behind you!”
The two turned. Six slugs were crawling over the railings. Merrik swore.
“Damn. Wil, back up! We’ve got—”
“Starboard! Where’s Captain Lasc?”
Inky pointed. The students turned. Two dozen slugs had taken the railing and were flanking the [Sailors]. Wil stared about. They were being flooded by the slugs! He saw a [Sailor] slashing with a sword, but he was outmatched. The slug fell on him and bit—the man cried out, looking shocked as he tried to get away. Wil raced forwards, stabbing. He hit something in the slug’s body but it refused to get off the man. Merrik and Peki were battling the ones around them.
“Wil! Watch your left!”
The [Lord] rolled just in time. A second slug dove at him. He saw more figures dashing on deck. A familiar bellowing voice roared.
“Clear the way!”
Venaz had his armor on. And this time he carried no sword and shield, but a battleaxe. He charged as the slugs oozed towards Wil. One reared up as the Minotaur, eyes glowing red, raised his axe with a roar of fury.
Venaz swung horizontally towards the slug’s midsection. He cleaved through the organs, the body—the slug’s torso fell to the ground, shaking. The Minotaur turned. He saw another slug, brought his axe down vertically and chopped through the slug, into the deck.
“Green hells! What are these things?”
A voice from behind Wil. He saw Yerranola, armed with a glowing hatchet. Her blade was enchanted with fire and she hacked into the slug attacking the [Sailor], raising steam as she did.
“Get it off him!”
Feshi was behind Yerra. She had a shortbow and loosed an arrow into a slug. But it did nothing.
Venaz on the other hand—he saw the [Sailor], and punched through the slug’s body. He began ripping out the organs. Yerra copied him. Her thin arms bulged and she and Venaz hurled the slug off the [Sailor].
The man was alive. But his shoulder was a mass of blood and slime. Wil looked about.
“Fuck all of this! They’re hard to kill!”
Peki was punching and kicking slugs as Merrik smashed slugs with his hammer. The Garuda whirled.
“[Launch Kick].”
She hit a rearing slug. The entire frame of the monster flew over the railing. Merrik grinned.
“That’s the way! [Ram’s Charge]!”
He smashed into another slug with his shoulder, blasting it into the railing. Peki jump-kicked it off the railing. But more kept coming up.
“He’s hurt. How bad?”
Feshi was leaning over the injured [Sailor]. The man was gasping.
“Can’t feel a thing. I don’t feel—it bit me?”
He was staring at them, in shock. The [Strategists] turned as a voice roared from the prow.
“All hands, repel these monsters! [Ship Spell: Floor of Impalement]!”
Captain Lasc pointed. A section of the deck erupted as huge, six-foot high spikes shot out of the wood. They impaled the slugs fighting the sailors there. The [Captain] whirled. His enchanted shortsword speared a slug through the stomach. His gauntleted fist flashed, tearing into the body.
“[Rallying Position]! [Attack Formation]! Don’t let them surround you! Surround them! Spells first, you idiots! Spells!”
Delivan was standing in front of the cabin. He’d replaced his crossbow for a wand and the [Sailors] were forming up around him. [Storm Sailors], like Inky were dueling the slugs while the lower-level ones pushed back in numbers, hacking the slugs apart.
But there were a lot of them. Wil looked around. Focus. He saw Feshi shouting, trying to pull the man belowdecks. Yes—but she’d lost focus of the battle. They were [Strategists]! Wil tried to find a way towards Delivan and Lasc. They needed his Skills!
“Yerra, help me get towards Lasc!”
Wil pointed. The Selphid turned. She was looking around as Venaz finished off the slugs he’d bisected. Even in pieces, they kept moving until he hacked them up even further. Yerra looked at Wil and shook her head.
“No! Get below!”
“What?”
“Get belowdecks! Help Feshi! We’ll send the wounded your way! Block the doors!”
The Selphid pointed. Wil shouted back.
“What about you!? We’re [Strategists]—”
A hand grabbed Wil’s shoulder. Merrik shouted.
“We’re [Commanders]! She’s a Selphid! Get below before we kick you down there! Use your Skills from afar—Venaz!”
The Minotaur wasn’t listening. As Merrik and Yerra forced Wil and Feshi towards the belowdecks, the Minotaur raised his axe.
“With me! Form up! You, you, you! Now!”
He pointed to Inky, Merrik, and Peki as well as a dozen [Storm Sailors]. They looked at him and fell in. Venaz roared as they charged the largest group of slugs.
“[Unstoppable Advance]! [Enhanced Strength]!”
“[Battalion of Glory]!”
“[Fleetwind Feet].”
Merrik and Peki added their Skills to the mix. Wil saw the group’s weapons glowing, and accelerate—they hit the first slugs and the monsters exploded. Venaz and his team began hacking through the starboard side of the ship as Lasc saw and put his men to the port side.
“Wil! Below!”
“But—fine! [Unit: Ram’s Charge]! [Unit: Lucky Dodge]!”
Exasperated, unable to argue, Wil pointed. Venaz grunted as his group charged and smashed another group of slugs. Another group of [Sailors] leapt back, avoiding the slugs with unnatural ability for a moment.
“[Instantaneous Reload].”
Feshi pointed at a group of [Sailors] with crossbows. Then she and Wil were dragging the sailor below. Yerranola took charge of the stairwell, calling [Sailors] around her and holding the ground.
“We should be above. Helping direct the battle—”
Wil panted. The [Sailor] was asking how bad it was. Trying to move. Both Gnoll and Human told him to stop moving. He stopped.
“Lasc has it. And there are enough [Strategists] above. The slugs stand no chance. Help me with him! He’ll bleed out without help!”
The Gnoll growled at Wil. Chastened, Wil reached for a potion. He stared at the [Sailor]’s wounds at last.
A big chunk of his shoulder was gone. Wil had seen injuries, but this was new on him. Countless micro-serrations from the giant slug’s teeth. And—the healing potion wasn’t working right.
“I tried a potion. It didn’t work. What do you feel?”
Feshi was feeling at the man’s head. He was pale, sweating.
“I—I can’t feel the bite. How bad is it?”
“No pain?”
“It itches.”
The two [Strategists] looked at each other. Wil’s mind raced. Feshi turned to him.
“Toxin of some kind.”
He agreed.
“Numbing. It’s interfering with the healing, clearly. What about our antitoxin lessons?”
The Gnoll knew more about toxins than he did. Feshi thought, as above there was an explosion and shouting.
“Hot water. We’ll try washing it clean.”
Slime was covering the man’s arm. As Wil found a pot and filled it with water, Feshi grabbed it. The Gnoll closed her eyes. The pot began to bubble at once.
“What the—gah!”
Wil burned his hand on the metal handle. It was hot! He stared at Feshi.
“[Shaman] class. Pour it on him!”
The hot water began to move the mucus. As it did, the [Sailor] began to feel the pain.
“Dead gods, Kraken’s teeth! My arm! It hurts, it—”
“Hold still. We’ll try healing you!”
This time the potion did more. The numbing toxin was still getting in the way, but it wasn’t as deadly as pure poison. Still—it made healing harder. Wil and Feshi stayed for a few more seconds. Then they raced abovedecks.
More [Sailors] were coming down, bitten, injured. But the entire ship was up and armed. Three hundred men and women, fighting. And the [Strategists]. And Lasc. He was triggering…spells? From his ship. And they were slaughtering the slugs; they weren’t the highest caliber of monster.
…The only problem was that they kept coming.
“We’ve killed at least a hundred of them! And they keep climbing on!”
“Move the damn ship! Wil! Feshi, I told you to stay back!”
Yerra shouted. A slug had eaten part of her leg, but she didn’t even notice. Feshi aimed her bow left and right.
“[Bursting Arrow].”
She pulled, loosed. Her arrow glowed. It sank into a slug’s midsection and detonated. But two climbed up as the first one rained down. Wil stared at her.
That was a spell. [Shaman]? But the crisis was becoming apparent.
Venaz was literally striding down the deck, hacking slugs in two. Merrik and Peki were smashing slugs with ease. But. They. Kept. Coming.
“We can’t move the ship, Captain! We’re caught in something!”
Delivan was shouting as Wil and Feshi made their way down the center of the deck. The [Storm Captain] was looking around. His clothing was covered in slime and he’d downed a dozen slugs. But now he was frowning.
“The damn things are in the water. There might be thousands. Captain, they’ll sink the vessel!”
The [First Mate] was looking worried. But Lasc was glancing around.
“Get me Inky or that Garuda. Tell them to climb up and spot!”
He pointed up. Delivan whirled.
“Inky! The crow’s nest!”
The [Storm Sailor] heard. She abandoned her fighting and ran as fast as she could with her ungainly gait towards the mast. She was slow on the ground. But she swarmed up using the suction cups on her hands—and feet. Wil saw her disappear upwards. He turned.
“[Rapid Retreat]! Pull back from that spot! Feshi, covering fire—”
He began bellowing orders, taking charge of a group of [Sailors]. Lasc glanced at him, but let the two [Strategists] and Delivan command his men. He was staring over the sides of the ship. Searching. And then—
Inky slid down from the crow’s nest, shouting wildly.
“Captain! The port side! A hundred paces in the water! Pink glow!”
“Ah.”
The [Storm Captain]’s eyes narrowed. He strode over to the wheel and turned. The boom moved. The ship turned—slowly—laboriously.
“Captain? What is it?”
Captain Lasc’s teeth were bared. He was taking the ship, wrestling it—and moving it towards something. A glow in the water. He shouted as Inky moved towards him.
“We’re not being attacked by slugs, Lord Kallinad! This—they’re all connected! Separate parts of a whole. We’re fighting—”
He pulled the boat forwards and Wil saw. A floating, glowing…thing in the water. Vast, as vast as the ship. But it was submerged in the same clear substance. Wil stared. And then he realized.
He was staring at a brain. A brain the size of The Emerald Signet. And he saw the slugs coming over the side and realized.
“A jellyfish?”
Feshi’s eyes went round. The Captain nodded.
“They’re just pieces of the body. We won’t kill it’s body nor escape before it takes us down. Not without taking the brain out. Inky, Delivan! Forty [Storm Sailors]! Prepare to go overboard on my mark!”
“Into the waters? They’ll be slaughtered! Even with our Skills, Captain—”
Wil stared at the churning water, filled with slugs that were climbing up. The Emerald Signet was groaning, trying to float with the added weight. Lasc’s eyes narrowed.
“On my order! Lord Kallinad, this is my ship! [Storm Sailors]!”
“Captain!”
They came running. The [Captain] pointed. Wil saw his eyes flash.
“[Ship Spell: Depth Explosion].”
He pointed. Wil saw the sides of The Emerald Signet flash. Something coalesced in the water. And the pink, floating brain detonated.
The glistening body erupted in a fountain that sent water and slimy guts raining down. Wil threw up his hands. What was that? A Tier 5 spell!? Was that a Skill? He saw Lasc staring into the waters. And as they cleared—
The brain was damaged. Parts had been torn away by the blast. But the core remained. The slugs shuddered, moved slower, but they still came on. And yet—the protective layers of the jellyfish were gone.
