There was a thunderous crash. The Illuminary had docked—by ramming through the largest warship. It had a metal blade attached to the keel, instead of a figurehead. And it had cut through half of the now-sinking ship. Figures grabbed ropes and swung over to The Emerald Signet.
[Pirates]. Drakes, Gnolls—a pair of Lizardfolk. Even a damn Centaur leaped over the gap, not even bothering with a rope. Some Drowned Folk too. They landed and began to hack the undead apart. They were armed with glowing blades. And the ship still shone bright.
“To arms! Push the undead back! And hoist the colors! No quarter!”
The [Pirate Captain] ran past Venaz, her sword carving through everything in her way. And the Minotaur saw the foreign ship sailing two flags. He saw a skull and crossbones, a traditional flag. But the eyes burned with light.
A [Pirate]’s flag. And just below it—a second flag. The Minotaur’s eyes narrowed. He absently kicked a zombie backwards and buried his battleaxe in a lumbering amalgamation of undead—then he put it together.
“The Flag of Savere.”
 
—-
 
Wil Kallinad saw the arrival of the [Pirates] shift the course of the battle in a moment. Not just the dramatic entrance of the [Pirate] who’d literally hurled herself across the ocean. All of the crew of the new ship were—elites. It was a smaller ship than The Emerald Signet. No galleon—a modification of a smaller ship. Strangely, it had only one sail for a vessel so large.
But it had any number of oddities. Not only did the hulls shine with whatever they were made of, the ship was armed with more than spells. There was a ballista mounted. No—six of them. The rare siege weapons snapped, blowing undead to bits. And the crew?
The crew were all armed with magical blades of some kind. They cut through the undead even faster than the [Storm Sailors]. Wil saw their [Captain] dueling one of the Revenant undead captains. The undead was fast and had even skirmished with Lasc. It had a [Fencer]’s grace. But the glowing [Pirate Captain] was just as fast. She disarmed the undead in a slash and cut it in half. She was laughing.
“Those are elites! Where did they come from?”
Feshi stared wide-eyed as the crew pushed the undead off the deck. The [Sailors] shouted, seeing only the reinforcements and not caring who they were. They charged the undead, hurling spells and even lanterns and oil onto the other ships.
The undead vessels burned, bereft of the magical support to stop the blazes. The rest of the undead were hurled into the sea. Only then did both crews stop. And Wil saw Captain Lasc’s face.
“Ah! That was refreshing! No Kraken, though. They must all be napping!”
The [Pirate Captain] was laughing as she wiped her glowing sword. She was still illuminated—part of her shoulder, her right eye—it was all glowing. Like…Wil had never seen an anglerfish, so he could only approximate it to a [Light] spell.
“Everyone alright? Are uh, all the passengers alright? Wouldn’t want anyone getting hurt.”
The [Pirate] was glancing about, looking at Venaz, Merrik, Peki—everyone was fine. Yerranola had lost an arm, but she’d gotten it back. A few cuts or bites—a ghoul had taken a chunk out of Wil’s arm.
He only felt the pain now. And a healing potion helped regrow the lost skin and muscle. Wil winced as the woman looked around. Her eyes fell on him.
“Aha.”
She winked at another of the crew who’d come over. The Centaur. At sea. The [Sailors] stared as the Centaur stowed the pair of crossbows she’d been using to blow undead to bits.
“Who—just who are you? I mean—thank you for the save. We thought we were goners. But who…”
Mystified, Yerranola looked at the group. She didn’t seem to realize they were [Pirates]. But Captain Lasc hadn’t sheathed his blade.
“Me? I’m just a passing [Captain]. Saw the fog, thought you might be in trouble. [Necromancers], tricky business. Shame I couldn’t recruit—I mean, negotiate. But there you were.”
The woman shook hands with Yerranola, beaming. She had sharp teeth on one side of her face. Wil blinked as she studied him.
“I’m exceptionally grateful, Captain. I am Wil Kallinad, passenger of The Emerald Signet. And you are?”
The [Pirate] focused on Wil. And she grinned wickedly. But then she reached up—felt at her head.
“Where’s my hat?”
“You left it in your bag of holding.”
One of the crew members muttered. He was a Drake and he was armed with a cutlass. He also had wings. He’d flown over.
“You let me fight without my hat? What kind of crew are you?”
The woman complained. She produced a magnificent hat from the bag of holding at her side. She put it on her head. Then—promptly swept it off as she gave Wil a bow.
“Captain Rasea Zecrew. At your service!”
“Rasea?”
The name made Venaz start. The last name made Wil start.
Zecrew? It sounded like a common name. But if you were up on monarchies…
“Lord Kallinad, a few steps back if you please.”
It was Captain Lasc who laid it all to bed. He approached, flanked by Delivan and a squad of [Storm Sailors], including Inky. He was staring hard at Rasea. Warily.
“Captain Rasea. I am Storm Captain Lasc of The Emerald Signet. Do you fly your colors for my ship?”
He gestured at the flag flying above the shining ship. And Rasea turned her head. Wil, backing up, saw the [Sailors] tense. But they looked worried. Alarmed.
Peki elbowed Merrik.
“Who is she? Why does she look like an enemy?”
“Don’t know. Anyone?”
It was Venaz who replied. He and Wil knew the sea. He spoke, slowly.
“Unless I’m wrong, that would be— Captain Rasea Zecrew. [Pirate Captain] of the Illuminary. Rasea the Shining. One of the most feared [Pirates] on the seas.”
The other students inhaled. Rasea grinned broadly. And Wil murmured under his breath.
“And related to Revine Zecrew. The Siren of Savere. The…[Bandit Queen], Revine.”
“Ah. You mean, my big sister.”
Captain Rasea laughed. She looked around the deck. Fearless. Her one eye shone. Captain Lasc looked at her.
“Do you mean to take my ship, Captain Rasea?”
The woman paused. And her eyes twinkled. Like a kind of madness. The person who would sail bright lights through Kraken’s Pass. She reminded Wil a bit of the Professor.
Everyone was tensed. But then—Rasea Zecrew just smiled. She shook her head.
“Not at all! I was just passing by. I saw the fog—wanted to give a hand. We’re not all [Pirates], me and my crew. Can we give you anything? Food? Water? Patch up your sails? Actually—if you lot were wanting to go somewhere, we’d be happy to escort you.”
She grinned. Wil stared at her as her eyes flicked to his face. And slowly, every head turned to gaze at Wil out of the corner of their eyes.
In the deeps, Captain Therrium, listening, slapped his face and groaned. Captain Rasea Zecrew beamed. She was indeed one of the most dangerous [Pirates] on the sea. Famed. Dangerous, unpredictable, and deadly.
She also could not bluff to save her life.
 
—-
 
“She’s clearly after your map of shipwrecks, Wil.”
Yerranola pointed out as the students took a desperate conference. The damage of the battle was being cleaned up. Undead parts tossed off the side. Damaged sail mended.
The decks were being swabbed again. Wil was thinking hard. Merrik leaned over and gave Yerra a sarcastic look of shock.
“No kidding? And here I thought she really was just passing by, and wanted to lend a helping hand.”
“So did I.”
Peki raised her wing. Merrik looked at her. The others were silent.
“Captain Rasea. The Illuminary. I’ve heard it’s one of the fastest ships in the world. The House of Minos has a bounty on her. She would not…be an easy foe to oust. Even if we had two ships the size of The Emerald Signet.”
Venaz was calculating the odds. Even he didn’t seem keen to cross blades with Rasea. But she was still here. Blithely insisting she wanted to help.
Lasc, Delivan, and all the other members of the crew were watching her like a giant snake in their midst. And Wil—had no idea what to do. Rasea wanted to escort them to their next destination.
“‘Twould be ungentlemanly of us not to. It’s the [Pirate]’s Code—we have to help those we do a good turn to get to their destination. Or some such.”
“We have a code?”
Rasea kicked the Centaur. She was insistent. And Captain Lasc was unable to press her off the boat.
“We appreciate the assistance, truly, Captain Rasea. But my crew and I have the matter well in hand—”
“We can’t help in any other way? Actually—we’d be glad to escort your passengers anywhere you want. Not to say this isn’t a fine ship. But the Illuminary is the fastest ship in the world.”
The woman grinned crookedly. Lasc stiffened.
“As…helpful as that would be, I’ve made a pledge to escort my passengers wherever they wish to go.”
“Aw. Really?”
“Really.”
“What if we—insisted?”
The woman laughed at the way the [Storm Sailors] tensed. She waved a hand.
“Just a joke! Just a joke!”
“Captain Rasea. We are truly grateful. But perhaps we should leave discussions of this sort until after we’ve left the Kraken’s Pass?”
Wil broke in, having come to a quick decision. The [Pirate Captain] glanced at him. Then she grinned.
“Just as you like. All aboard, mates! Let’s see where The Emerald Signet goes, eh?”
She winked at Wil. And he wondered how in the world he was going to deal with this. But he had an idea. It was a stupid one. But it just might…fail.
 
—-
 
The [Pirate]’s Promise, and a Moment of Awe.
 
Two ships sailed out of the waters around the Kraken’s Pass. Well—four. Therrium was cursing blue streak. He knew Rasea. And her ship spelled trouble.
Wil knew it too. So did Captain Lasc.
“I have no idea why she hasn’t kidnapped you, sir. But [Pirates] are an odd sort.”
“[Pirates]? She’s a Drowned Woman, though, Lasc.”
Wil frowned. The [Captain] hesitated. He was sitting in conference with the students in his cabin.
“Technically—no. I know Captain Rasea’s legend. Most do. She was a [Pirate]. She joined the Undersea Crews—that’s the name for the drowned Folk who turn to their brand of piracy. Even took the Sea’s Bargain. Half-angler, that’s her. And her ships glows like she does. But she left the Undersea Crews. She’s a [Pirate].”
“Which means she preys on everyone, including Drowned Vessels. How good is she in a fight?”
Yerranola looked around. First Mate Delivan inhaled.
“You mean—can we repel her crew? No. There’re less of them, but each one’s as good as a [Storm Sailor]. Better.”
“Then we have to be clever. Outwit her. We can’t—fight her. Those are Minotaurian ballistae. She’s seized them from House of Minos ships she’s sunk. We must trick her. I vote that we send her to the giant crab. That’s treasure. She can battle it out with them.”
Venaz punched his palm with a fist. Wil shook his head.
“I don’t think that will work, Venaz. We can try, but…Captain Lasc, did you say [Pirates] have an odd sort? An odd sort of what? Honor?”
“Aye, Lord Kallinad. Odd as it is, they do their own thing. Some kill every person they raid—like the damned Bloodtear Pirates. Savage armada, that lot. Others have rules. The Illuminary kills only those who fight back. So they’re more traditional. They’re all completely mad.”
“They’re also tied to Savere. A [Pirate] nation.”
Wil thought aloud. He had…an idea. It mainly hinged on how crazy Rasea was. And given that she had been disappointed there was no Kraken attack, he guessed the answer was ‘very’.
 
—-
 
“Ah, Lord Kallinad! And Captain Lasc! Can I help you? Say the word! We could conjure you a stiff breeze if you want to move faster!”
The Illuminary was easily keeping pace with The Emerald Signet. Wil looked at Rasea, lounging on the railing.
“Actually, Captain Rasea, we were hoping we could—parlay.”
The woman looked blank.
“What does that mean? Oh, negotiate your surr—I mean, talk? Why not?”
“Well—we were hoping to make this a solo venture, Captain Rasea. We’re greatly indebted to you, but I’m on a sort of private mission. My teacher, the Titan of Baleros, has given me some…leads. It’s a secret, so I cannot share all of it. But—you haven’t heard anything about it, have you?”
The half-angler woman hesitated.
“What? Me? No, we were just in the area, right, lads?”
“That’s right. We didn’t hear a Minotaur and Selphid bragging about—wait. Nothing!”
The rest of Rasea’s crew lied about as well as their [Captain]. Wil’s head slowly turned to Venaz and Yerranola. The two [Strategists] instantly looked away. Merrik edged over slowly and whispered at them.
“Venaz? I’m going to break your legs in your sleep.”
“You can do mine. Oh, dead gods. You think they heard when we were drinking, Venaz—?”
Yerra was blushing orange through her dead skin. Wil wanted to throw himself overboard. Or his friends. He put his head down, and then raised it and smiled artificially at Rasea. She still thought he hadn’t caught on. Or she didn’t care how transparent she was being. She was still glowing.
“Well, Captain Rasea, I’d prefer to do the rest of my…exploration in peace. I appreciate the assistance, truly. However, we’re very grateful. As thanks—what if we put you on the lead of some treasure?”
Rasea’s eyes lit up. Literally; her right eye glowed brighter and her crew grinned.
“Treasure? Well, we’d never say no to that. What did you have in mind?”
“We found a…shipwreck. The very same ship charted by Archmage Zelkyr in the past. It’s guarded by a rather large crab and it’s quite—dangerous. There’s an active war golem inside. But I’m sure that there’s a bounty of treasure. If you wanted—as a reward for saving our lives—we could give you the locations.”
Wil carefully spoke. Rasea was just smiling at him.
“Well, that would be…wonderful indeed, Lord Kallinad. A crab, you said? And an Archmage’s treasure. That’d surely be an amazing haul. However—we couldn’t take that from you.”
She didn’t blink once. Wil’s heart sank.
“You…wouldn’t want to test yourselves against such a foe, Captain Rasea?”
“Well—it seems like a foe like that’d be very—dangerous. Especially war golems. With their fucking beams. I mean—whatever they do.”
Wil glanced over the side. He stared down the length of the Illuminary. And he noticed part of the hull looked…patched. He glanced back up at Rasea. She winked at him.
“Might not be the easiest catch, Lord Kallinad. You have any more…spots? We’d settle for—one.”
The [Lord]’s heart sank. He looked at Rasea. She might be a poor liar, but she could spell out her demands. And she had a simple trade. He hesitated.
