A good chest piece is triangular in shape to deflect arrows and swords properly, this concept applies to both men and women. The skimpy armor I used to see in games had way too many creases and crevices, and if they were used in a real fight, they would have the wearer take more damage than it would deflect.

The trick with chest pieces is that the better they defend you, the harder it is to move. If I tried wearing a platemail chest piece, I wouldn't be able to bend over.

The chest plates I’m making are meant to overlap each other while still giving me a small degree of freedom.

When everything is mostly done, master moves over next to me eyeballing the various plates I made, probably picturing how they’re supposed to fit together. “Finished everything?”

“I think so,” I stretch out my tired arms. The sun was just starting to go down.

“Will you be back tomorrow?”

"I don't think so," I tell master. "Mom has the leather set aside, and it will probably take the whole day for us to get everything fitted. I'll be back the day after to make any adjustments I need to and maybe start crafting some of the weapons I plan on selling.”

“What about the special arrows; you don’t want to start with those?” Maser curiously asks.

"I was thinking of setting aside the materials I need for the arrows and make them last. I'd rather try to raise my skills a little higher before I tackle the most expensive items."

Master hums in agreement. "Then I'll see you in two days with your new armor."

“I think you’ll be impressed,” I brag a little as I put everything away.

"I don't think so; it isn't full metal after all." Master lets out a hearty laugh. Stone kin and their metal. Apparently, some stereotypes are the same across both worlds. If I ever meet an elf, it will probably be in the forest.

"I'll do my best to impress you then," I say in an over-exaggerated manner. Gathering up the twenty-three metal plates, I say goodnight to master. "See you later, master. Remember, when I get back, we'll have another forging marathon."

“Gods help me,” Master shakes his head as he waves goodbye to me.

Walking home, I can’t help but think about what the next few months have in store for me.
