Aaliyah’s Point of View:

My arms tense.

My eyes narrow.

Yelling, I pull back my arms while digging my feet into the forest floor.

Exhaling the large breath I've just drawn in, I swing my new axe in a downwards diagonal strike. This time I won't mess up!

My muscles tense just as my strike is about to hit my target.

When I hear the bark crack from the tree I'm swinging at; I immediately know I failed again.

“Gods damn it!” I swear in frustration.

“Language, Aaliyah,” my mom tells me for the hundredth time today.

Mom reprimanding me is another blow to my pride, but the giggles from my other onlookers are what really kill me.

"I don't see why you're mad about hitting the tree," Sandra pokes fun at me, knowing what I'm trying to do. "Axes are meant to fell trees, aren't they?" She asks sarcastically.

"Now, dear, you shouldn't make fun of her flaws even when they're so obvious.” I can’t tell if Sarette is really reprimanding her daughter or just taking a shot at me like everybody else.

I had to start coming out here into the woods to train with my new weapons because Camden said I was distracting the villagers with all my practicing.

I was hoping to train alone today, but Sandra and Sarette stopped by our house after Mom and I finished our morning run together. My friend and her mom wanted to see how I was doing since I spent a whole week forging my new weapons with my master. Today is my third day off from the forge and the last day before I go back and start working on my armor.

I'd tried to tell them we could talk later in the day after I practiced with my new weapons for a few hours, but I should've known that wouldn't work. And Mother, of course, didn't want to be left out, so she joined the impromptu girls club in the woods to watch me train. Hence my current predicament.

The three ladies have been critiquing each of my swings since I started.

Usually, I'd be happy to show off in front of my friends and family, but this time is different.

I was so happy to practice with my new axe and war-hammer, I spent my first day off from work swinging away with everything I had. That's when I noticed I missed one crucial detail about my new weapons.

Though they are on the heavier side, I can still lift my weapons with my stats. The problem comes when I swing them. Both my axe and war-hammer are top-heavy, and even with my Strength, the momentum from my swings is enough to drag me along with them. Widening my stances has improved my control a little, but not anywhere close to where I need it to be.

That's why I'm practicing swinging my axe at this tree. I'm trying to perform a full swing while stopping my strike before it actually touches the bark of the tree. People think of the axe as a brutal weapon that you just swing with all your might, but swinging like that will just get you killed in a real fight.

I know I could solve my problem by practicing with some heavy armor on, but the armor I'm designing with Mom will at most weigh forty pounds. My armor would need to weigh almost three times that amount to compensate for my weapon's momentum.

All of this has led to me making dozens of minute changes to my stances, trying to figure out a way for me to compensate for my lack of weight. I never thought I would wish that I was heavier.

“Your comments aren’t helping,” I hiss at my onlookers.

“Can I try holding it?” Sandra asks, stepping forward. “I put a few spare points into Strength once or twice.”

"Fine, I need a small break anyway." I hold out the large axe with both of my hands. Sandra firmly grabs the weapon with a smile on her face. I notice she isn't holding it correctly to support its weight, but I'm content to watch how this plays out after all her heckling. "You ready?" I ask, to which she nods her head, and I let go.

“Shit!” Sandra screams. Her entire body locks up, straining to balance the heavy weapon. “How do you swing this thing!?” She grunts.

I reach out and take my axe back before she accidentally drops it and chops her foot off. "I thought you said you put some of your points into Strength," I tease Sandra. Mom and Sarette share a giggle, for once not at my expense.

“I’ll have you know; I have a solid 25 in Strength. I was the strongest amongst my master’s pupils,” Sandra proclaims, folding her arms in front of her.

"That's pretty good," I say in a sarcastic voice. "Now you just need six times that, and we'll be twins." Everyone here is practically family, so I don't mind bragging a little.

“Your Strength stat is 150! That’s ridiculous,” she says in disbelief.

I easily heft my axe onto my shoulder and smile at her. "It's a little higher than that, but yeah," I can't help but flex a little to show off after all the crap they've been giving me since I started practicing.

Sandra shakes her head in a disapproving manner. "If only you focused on your magic skills as I suggested, you'd be as great a mage as my master is."

Scoffing at Sandra’s remark, I increase the circulation of my mana network. Like I’d let Sandra win this friendly debate. “I think I’m doing quite well with my magic studies. In fact, let me show you my newest magic skill.”

“Really,” Sandra gives me a suspicious look.

"Move back to where our moms are," I instruct her. I glance at Mom, "I've shown this to Dad already, so don't be surprised when he doesn't freak out when you tell him."

Glancing up at the top of the tree I'm using for target practice; I pick a branch to aim for. I shift my axe from my shoulder into a proper grip and ready myself to jump.

I hear three gasps as I launch myself into the air and even more exclamations when I use Air Walk to jump a second time even higher into the canopy. Closing in on my target, I stop and use Precise Strike to sever a thick tree branch with one upward swing of my axe.

I'm happy I hit my target, but I'm more surprised that my axe didn't drag me with it this time. I replay everything in my head as I start to drop to the ground with the severed branch. Halfway to the ground, I use Air Walk once more to slow my descent. As my feet touch the forest floor, I'm still trying to figure out what I did differently that time than in my last hour of practicing.

I was soaring up to the branch I wanted to cut; I shifted my stance and stopped when I was in range. What could've kept me from being dragged along with my weapon?

Did Air Walk have something to do with it? I’ve already tested that my skill helps provide a much sturdier surface to interact with. Would that help stop me from moving, though?

No, but I did stop when I reached the branch I wanted to cut. How did I do that? Was it my mana?

I start to piece together an idea of what stopped me from soaring higher. Subconsciously, I must have formed a mana barrier around my feet like I do to use Air Walk. Only this time, I used the mana to temporarily hold me in place so I wouldn't fly any higher, which subsequently kept me from being dragged around with by my weapon!

I can use mana to lock myself in place!

It will take some practicing, but hopefully, I can figure out a way to anchor myself to the ground when I'm swinging my heavier weapons. That way, it won't matter how heavy I am; I could keep using my movement-based fighting style even with heavier weaponry.

A huge grin crosses my face. And to think, if I didn’t try to show off in front of everyone, I wouldn’t have realized this until much later.

I look over at Sandra to thank her, only to see her, Mother, and Sarette staring at me, mouths open in shock. Something happens to your ego when you leave people dumbfounded. Strutting over to the ladies, I feel eight feet tall.

"Like my new skill?" I ask Sandra with a gloating smile. "It might not equate to the many spells you learned, but I'm happy with it."

“That was amazing!” Sarette is the first to find her voice and quickly compliments me.

“You can run through the air now?!” Mom is equally surprised as her friend.

“Yep,” my grin widens.

“That shouldn’t be possible,” Sandra mumbles, leaving me confused.

“I’ll admit it was hard to do, but it’s not impossible,” I tell her.

Sandra shakes her head. "No, I mean, even at your level, you shouldn't be able to use your mana like that. A person's mana dissipates rapidly once it leaves the body. Covering yourself is one thing, but creating footholds to run in the air, that would take a level of Mana Manipulation I can't even comprehend!”

I flinch away from Sandra, who has a crazy look in her eye. "Did you manage to break past the level 40 test?"

“Ummm,” I nervously babble while taking a step back.

"Sandra!" Sarette calls out to her daughter. "Get a hold of yourself. Can't you see you're making Aaliyah nervous?"

Sandra closes her eyes and takes a deep breath. When she opens her eyes again, Sandra has calmed down and has replaced her fevered look with a serious one. "I'm sorry, it wasn't right of me to ask for your skill level like that."

“It’s cool,” I tell her. “You are my best friend after all. I just don’t get why Mana Manipulation is such a big deal. Anyone who plays with their mana enough can get it to level 40.”

Sandra lets out a big sigh. "No, it isn't, Aaliyah. Mana Manipulation is a tier 3 skill, but it levels like it’s tier 4. I practice with my magic every day, including trying to control my raw mana, and I only managed to get Mana Manipulation to level 23. I haven't leveled Mana Manipulation in almost six months. My master wouldn't tell us what level his skill was at, but he dropped hints he was stuck on its test. My master can't control his mana anywhere close to what you can. Is there some sort of secret technique you've discovered that can help me?"

Sandra looks at me with pleading eyes, making my answer all that more difficult to give. "I'm sorry, Sandra, but I don’t know what to tell you. I just kept playing with my mana and trying new things with it as my skills leveled. I mostly focused on my internal manipulation, but my skill started leveling a lot faster once I could cover myself in my own mana. You probably noticed the skill I gained from it."

“The barrier you always keep around you,” Sandra moves to poke my arm only to have her finger stop when it hits Mana Skin.

"That's right," I tell her. "I kept trying to make it stronger and stronger until recently when I realized it was strong enough to walk on."

“I see,” Sandra says, looking like she’s has a lot on her mind. Sandra lets out another sigh after she looks like she’s come to a conclusion. “I guess the only thing I can do is work harder and try to catch up with you. But you did past the first test already, didn’t you?”

“Don’t hate me, but I don’t think I feel comfortable giving out the specifics to my skills,” I awkwardly tell Sandra.

“I understand,” she responds with a smile. “It wasn’t right for me to ask again anyways.”

“I won’t give you the specifics, but I’ll tell you I’ve passed the first test.” Telling Sandra that I’ve reached level 60 in Mana Manipulation might dissuade her from trying to catch up to me. Friendly competition is always a good thing.

Sandra gives me a warm smile, “you didn’t have to tell me that, but thanks.”

“I should be thanking you,” I tell her. “I had no idea other mages had such a hard time with Mana Manipulation. I've could've accidentally said the wrong thing to a mage in the future. I already called the mages helping to melt the snow in Drey criminals."

Sandra face softens as she tries to hold in her laughter and accidentally makes a snorting noise.

“The two of you make such good friends,” Sarette remarks.

For a second there, I forgot our moms were here.

“The best,” Sandra and I echo each other.

Now that that that’s taken care of, I should get back to my practicing. I start walking back over to the tree I was using for target practice.

“You still want to train more!?” Sarette asks me in disbelief.

"Yep, I had an idea that might let me swing my weapon properly, and I need to test it out."

"But I was hoping the four of us could go back to our house and have some tea together," Sarette pouts.

"Sorry, but I still have a lot I want to try out," I politely decline her invitation.

"You shouldn't work so much. Doesn't a tea break sound nice?" Just like my mom Sarette doesn't give up that easily.

I’m about to politely decline her again when surprisingly, it’s Mom who comes to my rescue. “Don’t even try, Sarette. I’ve been telling Aaliyah that for years now. And besides, if we drag her away from her training right when she has a breakthrough, she’ll be moody while we drink our tea. Let’s leave her here like she wants.” I make a mental note to thank Mom later for helping me.

“Oh, all right,” Sarette relents. “Let’s go without her.”

Mom and Sarette start walking back towards the village but stop when they notice Sandra isn’t following them.

"Is something wrong, sweety?" Sarette calls back to her daughter.

"I think I'm going to stay here with Aaliyah and meditate for a bit," Sandra tells her mom.

I can see Sarette's shoulders visibly drop in disappointment. "Fine, be careful, you two."

"We will," I yell back, reassuring her.

Sandra moves over to a nearby tree out of my way and sits down. She closes her eyes and starts meditating while I square off with my tree. Both of us aware that the other plans to seriously practice now that we’re alone. Sandra has her searching spell activated so I can put 100% of my focus into figuring out how to utilize my mana without worrying about our surroundings.

I start by swinging my axe through the air a few times, trying to imprint how I stumble with each different swing.

