“You can just click it, look—” I explain, using my tentacle to poke at Rhys’s place on my hud, expanding it. It showed me his health total, and on a long press—his status window popped up.

“I had a feeling from the books, but seeing what you can do, it seems to me like your special. It should work like an AR, but it’s like I’m trying to control a quest without the controller. Your tentacles must let you bypass that— I think that you exist in a state between digital and real.”

“That would explain a lot, yeah.” I agreed, popping a piece of mackerel onto my tongue. The sweet tomato rich Masala made the curry a treat. “Did you try interacting with it in your computer?”

“You mean in my stream? It’s not like I’m actually in the computer; The avatar’s more like a puppet. Haven’t you heard of Vtubing?”

“Nope. I liked your guy though I loved the way your snout wiggled when you talked, and how your trotters clip-clopped when you moved. I can tell a lot of attention went into crafting that cute piggy~”

Rhys’s cheeks flushed at the unexpected compliment. “Thanks…”

“Don’t tease him too much now, Cthirche. It’ll get to his head you know?”

“Sesh!”

“Aren’t you going to eat your tomato?”

“You know I don’t like them… Anyway! Your biggest problem right now is your gnostic eye!”

Cthirche gave a self-deprecating “Ehe…” at his statement, “Yeah, it’s pretty low right now.”

“I’m sorry what? How low?”

“Like, 3%?”

“How did you let it get so low?!”

“I think it was the activation cost for my 《 Embody 》 skill. Wouldn’t be here without it”.

“Yeah. Yeah, that checks out. Good thing is it’s a one-time cost, and nothing went wrong. You took a big gamble using it though—if something wanted you dead, you would be. But it looks like you regained some too. It says you need to spend faith and data to regain gnostic power, but…”

“You're right, I certainly didn’t do anything like that. Don’t even know what you’re talking about! I ate a nasty little monster is what I did.”

“Ahh, eldritch communion then. You absorbed the data of the… animal that you ate. You won’t be able to do that again, not with the same monster at any rate. But you’ll have its data in your logbook, and you should have access to its skills too—”

“I hope the next abomination is a bit less nasty. I won’t be able to see spaghetti the same way again…”

“Would it be better if you cooked it first, I wonder?” Sesha asked.

“That doesn’t even make sense, how can you cook dream monsters?” Rhys argued.

“Would you do that for me, big sis?” I asked with starry-eyed admiration.

“I’d be happy to try of course.”

“What if its poisonous?!”

The chat around the dinner table went on well into the night, but by the end, the dishes were piled high, and I was struggling to keep my eyes open.

“You still get tired like a normal person, huh” Rhys asked.

“Mhmm… I’m more person than squid like this. Warm blooded too.”

“I hadn’t even considered how a cold-blooded person would work… Probably would have been a miserable end to your story if you were though.”

“You should probably get some sleep, Cthirche. It’s been a long day after all. Don’t worry about the dishes, I’ll wrap up. Do you remember where the guest room is? I sorted your bedding out… Do you need anything?”

“Sesha, could you dote any harder?”

“Don’t be jealous Rhys, I’ll tuck you in too.”

“Thanks for letting me stay. I’ll go get some sleep now” I yawn. “Thanks for everything.”

“Mm. Sweet dreams then, Cthirche.”

I carried myself up the stairs on leaden feet, and practically fell into the sheets, my eyes heavy.

“Do you really think the people will accept her?” Rhys sighed, taking a plate from Sesha and drying it with the tea towel.

“I hope so. She’s a good-hearted girl.” Sesha answered. She finished rinsing another dish, slipping it into the rack for Rhys.

“Yeah, obviously. But you know what I mean.”

“The Sentinel? You know more about them than I do—You worked on them during your placement, right?”

“Yeah. If I could see what she did, or if I could have explained what to—”

“Thats hindsight for you. Don’t let it worry you, let’s just see if things all work out.”

“It’s not just the Sentinels though—They’re actually the least of her problems. Our problems.”

“Yeah?”

“You’re playing coy— We’re talking about the Ddraig Church. They won’t accept her— and if they don’t, the people will turn against her too.”

“Father Morgan’s… Not a bad guy.”

“And the Dragon?”

“Well… I think you just don’t understand Ddraig, Rhys. But it’ll be okay. Cthirche’ll be one of us. And he will protect her too.”

Rhys sighs. “If you say so.” He puts the last dish into the cupboard. “I’m going to bed too. Thanks for the food.”
