It was seemingly crafted out of a single, large piece of flawless crystal, the carving and working maintaining that nature even while it still had the carvings like everywhere else in the mountain. Here, those carvings were clear, and somehow wrought so that they didn’t distort the light that passed through them… yet Tala could still see them if she looked.

The many facetted crystals around the room created a maze of reflections and bending light that rendered the space like standing within a woven rainbow, and the colored lights originated from seven thrones.

Each of the magnificent seats was hewn from the same crystal that surrounded them, making up the throneroom and everything else of permanence. In the case of the different coloration, it looked almost as if the hue had burst outward from each seat, saturating the surrounding facets and mingling with the others near at hand to make a perfect gradient across the unified dais. Three of the thrones—orange, green, and indigo—were lifted above its fellows.

All seven seats were occupied by dwarves in comparatively simple clothing, and as Tala looked upon them, she saw their power and their authority.

It was all one. Unified in purpose, source, and expression. Though… the three higher seats held dwarves that felt more…actualized?

If Tala had to guess, she’d say that those were Sovereign, while the other four were Hallowed, acknowledged and both supporting and wielding the same power.

Regardless of how it manifested, these dwarves were united in power and authority. They were the Mountain King while each being one of the Mountain Kings.

Twenty one armored dwarves—three adorned in each color—stood in various alcoves around the room, and seven white-armored warriors stood, one beside each throne.

Those were of a mix of races, and Tala knew them to fulfill much the same role that Eskau did to arcane Pillars.

But these were the weapon arm of Sovereign existences, and their Hallowed power made that clear. Still, it matched Eskau Meallain in feel.

Hollow as hers is as well. They are unacknowledged? The warriors don’t share in the authority directly, but those on the thrones do. A funny thought entered into the back of her mind, but she squashed it.

-Yeah, trying to uplift their subordinates would not go over well, Tala. They could likely deny them advancement regardless.-

True enough. Tala calmed her mind and gave an appropriate bow, the elf bowing lower beside her.

They had arrived, and it was time for her to make her petition.

Stars send, they agree to help.
