“The ward should wake us up if anything tries to sneak in, but we still keep watch in case something manages to get past the spell. With you here, I'm looking forward to a little more sleep throughout the rest of the journey but I think it's better if you take your first shift tomorrow night,” Reka explained.

“Sure,” Veron said. He wondered if it was due to lacking trust. She probably wanted to get to know him a little better to feel comfortable sleeping while he was on guard duty.

It made sense, he would probably do the same.

“I think it's done,” Silvie said, excitement in her voice as she got a bowl out of her pack.

Veron got his own but Hayden stopped him with a gesture.

“It needs another five minutes,” the armored man explained.

Silvie tried again and frowned. “He’s right.”

“He’s always right,” Reka said.

Reymond glanced between them with amusement, his eyes going back to the carving again. An elk-like creature, including delicate antlers he carefully carved free.

He's really good at that.

It felt cozy, like an outdoor adventure with a bunch of interesting strangers. He wanted to get to know them better but he didn't want to disrupt the atmosphere with a conversation. Silvie soon served the food, Reymond taking an extra portion which he brought to the carriage. Veron would’ve glanced over to see if he could catch a glimpse of the stranger in their caravan but the carriage was situated behind him and he thought it rude to turn around to look.

The thought was quickly forgotten when he started digging in. The only thing that would have improved the dish was if he had walked all this way instead of sitting on a wagon.

Two portions later, he pulled his Greyr cloak closer, feeling the cooling winds. For once, it didn't feel as if the winds called him to adventure but instead warned him to find warmth and shelter. He pulled up his hood and shivered slightly.

He thought about starting a conversation when he felt a drop of rain land on his hand. More soon followed, sizzling in the moving flames of their campfire.

“I thought we'd have a bit longer. Oh well. Alright if I take first shift?” Silvie asked.

“I can take second,” Hayden said.

“You sleep, I take second,” Reka said.

Veron felt tension between them for a moment, just based on their body language. And then it passed with an acknowledging grunt from Hayden. He felt that they must have had this conversation many times before.

The others packed everything up and put out the fire. Silvie showed him to the back of their wagon and pointed to a crate. “Blankets in there, leave two for me or I'll kill you.”

He looked at her and she looked back.

Then she smiled. “I like this guy.”

“I have another question.”

“What is it?”

“Think I should leave my armor on?”

“Would help, but not easy to sleep with that kind of gear. Your call.”

“Right. Thanks.”

Yeah, I’d be uncomfortable. But maybe worth it too.

And it was uncomfortable. He took off the chest piece and helmet. Then he tried to situate himself in the limited space with two of the four blankets, finally getting out again and grabbing a few of the large rocks from the fireplace. Silvie gave him a glance but he was back in the wagon a moment later, focusing on the rocks and molding them into something akin to a headrest. He emptied his pack and set it onto the molded rock before he lay down again. It wasn't a bed but it was better than before.

And while both his headrest and the armor pieces he was still wearing were quite rigid and hard, the proximity of the stone felt comforting.

He thought of Eyra, of Ian and the others. He felt a bit of grief at the fact that he was leaving. That was okay. He simply felt it, and soon, it lessened.

Veron pulled the blankets closer and sighed. This lifestyle would take some time to get used to, but he was fine with that. He listened to the winds, hearing the patter of the rain against the canvas of the wagon. And slowly, he drifted off.
