The Drake’s head turned. The fearsome Named Adventurer had slowed in the crowd, but more bodies were charging after them. An azure Drake with clearly-dyed scales to the [Painter]’s eyes was leading dozens of Drakes in Gemscale family colors.
“Erchirite Spears! On the business of a Wall Lord of Salazsar! Clear a path!”
A voice bellowed. The [Painter] sprinted left—then tried to slow, turn around. They yanked their hood down. In the crowd, they’d be lost. Drakes and Gnolls looked around, irritated or confused. But the [Painter] smiled, shook their heads. Blended in.
They’d lost some of the good paints! Damn…but they had to run. This city was too hot. They just needed to slip the—
Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar strode down the street with a hundred of the Erchirite Spears. People stared at the display of force as the group blocked one end of the street. The [Painter] froze.
“I am Wall Lord Ilvriss! Please remain calm—we are looking for an individual hiding among you! Captain Shieldscale, the [Appraisal] Skills. Shriekblade—”
“There, there, there, there! Those four can’t be read.”
The [Painter]’s blood ran cold. The Named Adventurer was looking at them, materializing on a balcony. They had used the anti-Appraisal ring against them!
“It’s that one! The painter! With the white scales!”
She pointed at them.
Sellme ran.
 
—-
 
People’s heads turned as Ilvriss and half of Gemscale’s family guard and his hired forces thundered after the [Painter], blockading the street. He saw a white, scaled face, a Drake—with colored scales, yellow and green speckled in. Unusual pattern.
“The painter? Sellme? They’re going after—”
The crowd reacted to Shriekblade’s loud voice. They turned, saw the fleeing figure, and came to the obvious conclusion.
“They’re silencing Sellme! Stop them! That’s Shriekblade!”
They began pushing at the Erchirite Spears and Gemscale [Guards]. Ilvriss cursed.
“We are not arresting that [Painter]! I just want to—Shriekblade, apprehend, do not harm!”
“But that’s not what I’m good at—”
“Go!”
She leapt after the Drake. Ilvriss saw Osthia slowed by the crowd, who turned their wrath on the Drakes.
“No violence! I’m going after them! [Haste]!”
He twisted a ring and blurred past the people.
Oh yes. A Wall Lord had resources. He cursed Shriekblade’s methods, though. He’d told her to identify the Drake, not grab! But she’d wanted a bigger bonus so she’d tried to get Sellme before Osthia and Ilvriss arrived.
She’d misunderstood what he wanted to do. But the fact that Sellme had actually evaded the Named Adventurer, even if she wasn’t allowed to harm, was impressive.
In truth, the reason Ilvriss had wanted Sellme had more to do with wanting to know what they could do rather than what he had an idea for. Unlike Xesci, they were an unknown quantity.
But they were high-level. And there was always a use for…
Ilvriss caught up to Shriekblade, who’d cornered Sellme against an alleyway.
“Stay back! I’m a citizen of the Walled Cities! You’re not allowed to kill me!”
A surprisingly young voice shouted. Male. Ilvriss saw a frightened Drake as Shriekblade advanced, tensed.
“I’m not going to kill you. I’m not allowed to. But I will break your legs if you do that again! You got paint in my eyes!”
She hissed. Ilvriss skidded to a halt.
“Shriekblade, enough. Sellme—I want to talk. I am Wall Lord Ilvriss—”
“I won’t be silenced! Salazsar is corrupt!”
The [Painter] drew forth—Ilvriss tensed, but it was a brush. Coated in paint. They turned their back to him and he motioned.
“You stay back. Stop them if they run, but no harming them. I wanted to talk!”
“Oh. You’re not breaking their legs and handing them over to Lord Rellmel? But you said to that [Diplomat]—”
“That was an unrelated issue! Painter Sellme—”
Ilvriss saw a flicker. He turned just in time to see the younger [Painter] leap into the doorway at the end of the alleyway and scramble down the street. He started. Shriekblade blinked. They charged after the Drake as one, cursing. Ilvriss was so confused.
That hadn’t been—
Wham. They ran into the painted doorway as Shriekblade hit the brick wall and then Ilvriss collided with her. It was so realistic that neither one had realized that the Drake had drawn it while they were arguing!
“What—”
Ilvriss stared up at the paint now on his face and armor. Shriekblade cursed.
“He did it again! He threw paint at me the first time—I ran into it in the air! It’s a [Magical Painter] or something!”
“Extraordinary.”
Ilvriss stared at the doorway. He’d broken the paint—it had been showing the street beyond. He stood up as Osthia, battered, with the contents of a chamber pot on her armor, skidded into the alleyway.
“Wall Lord. Did you get—”
“They escaped. They can paint doors, Captain. After them! I need their talents.”
Ilvriss got to his feet. Shriekblade was already running, mad as hell.
But Sellme was gone. They were out of the city before Shriekblade found the hole in the wall of Salazsar, an artfully drawn ramp that had carried them to safety.
 
—-
 
Wall Lord Rellmel was celebrating the disappearance of the acclaimed [Painter], Sellme, with his sister, Wall Lady Grisa. That was the ruling elite’s mood; the city was sullen.
People blamed Wall Lord Ilvriss for the incident on the streets, and rumors were already flying that he had deployed no less than Shriekblade to silence Sellme before his secrets could be leaked.
What that was, was unclear. Rellmel had a different opinion.
“I bet you he wanted to get Sellme to sweeten the deal, Grisa. He really wanted the Potion of you-know-what.”
His sister glanced around the restaurant, one of the fanciest in all of Salazsar, with a commanding view. Rellmel hated being here. It was too expensive, but she always wanted to take her boyfriend here. And she was always interfering with the company that was his job to run.
Case in point. A million gold pieces? They could live off that alone for…four years! Three! But she refused. She was paranoid about safety; her Amulet of Protection glinted conspicuously as she glowered at him, waiting for the handsome Drake to get back from the bathroom—her date.
“Absolutely not. That’s our heirloom. A million’s too low! If he went ten million, I’d think about it.”
“No one can afford that for one potion, Grisa.”
“Fetohep of Khelt, might.”
She tossed her head. His jaw dropped.
“You want to sell to a skeleton?”
“Business is business.”
“But Ilvriss went after Sellme—”
“Maybe it was because his company has problems. If he caught Sellme—so what?”
“The pictures of us—”
“They’re gone, so we don’t owe Ilvriss anything, Rellmel. Now, I want a happy dinner. Understand?”
He folded his arms as his sister glowered. The Wall Lord was discontent, but he felt like trying his luck at the bar now that Sellme was gone and his reputation would be cleared. This—unpleasantness with the [Miners] would be forgotten, and business was booming even without.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
“Hm?”
Rellmel looked up from studying the menu. Grisa was already ordering. She looked around as Rellmel’s personal bodyguard, a Gnoll, urgently whispered to him.
“Lord Rellmel, Wall Lord Ilvriss is approaching the restaurant! We’re moving to intercept, but he has caught the Emera family off-guard! We have to evacuate you now!”
For a second, the Drake didn’t even understand what he was hearing.
“Evacuate me? Ilvriss? Here? What are you talking…”
Grisa was on her feet. Rellmel saw an Emera-family hire, old Vidam, arrive, panting, clutching at his side. And two more he recognized, both Drakes.
All with the same class. The bodyguard was speaking urgently, trying to get Rellmel to understand.
“We thought it was a possibility but—Lord Nerul returned yesterday and he was seen hiring a full negotiation squad. He is coming, Wall Lord—”
Rellmel’s eyes widened as Grisa shot out of her chair past her date.
“Ancestors! Rellmel! He’s gone mad! He’s going to force a negotiation! We have to go—”
The Wall Lord was struggling out of his seat as the three top [Diplomats] and [Emissaries] of House Emera moved towards them. The [Bodyguard] and the other members of the staff present closed ranks as they looked for an exit. But it was too late.
 
—-
 
The doors to The Ancestor’s View were already open, so Nerul had them closed so he could kick them open. It was about style.
Also, shock value. The [Diplomat] strode into the restaurant as people got to their feet. And with him, he had a team of hit-Drakes.
The most dangerous, the most deadly infighters in all of Salazsar were at his back. Each one dangerous alone. With Nerul? House Emera had seen trouble the instant three of them gathered in one place.
Mister Grerre, a contract scroll in hand, more bundled in his arms. Weressna ‘The Sealer’, hobbling along on her cane. Mister Superior, the only Gnoll of the bunch, almost as overweight as Nerul.
The most dangerous posse, yes.
…Not in a fistfight, although Nerul was surprisingly good at fighting and he knew Weressna had a sword-cane, but in their chosen field.
They were [Negotiators]. [Diplomats]. [Contract Sealers].
The class of soft power. The people you sent instead of swords or arrows to use words instead.
People laughed—until they saw what high-level experts with dedicated Skills did.
They didn’t laugh in Salazsar. This was a raid. This was an assault, and as close to war between the Walled Families as it got.
“House Gemscale greets House Emera! Excuse me, Wall Lord Rellmel, Wall Lady Grisa, but we’d like to come to the table regarding an item for sale.”
Nerul bellowed into the silence. He saw the two noble Drakes, trying to get out the back door. The [Bodyguard] tried to block the group of six [Negotiators], but he was useless. He had an enchanted axe, a shield that could have stopped a Grand Elephant on the charge.
The [Diplomat] raised a claw as the Gnoll drew his axe.
“Not one step further or I strike!”
“[Peacekeeper’s Pass]. Sorry, young man. But you’re not going to stop us.”
The [Diplomat] walked past the Gnoll [Bodyguard]. He saw the Gnoll move to strike—with the butt of the axe—
And his arm didn’t move. The group walked past him and the other guards. They had the Skills that [Ladies] had learned, but yet to master. The abilities that [Innkeepers], [Kings], even [Strategists] and [Generals] got—but they were all of their class.
So long as I do no harm, you cannot harm me. Nerul focused on his real opponents. There were three of them.
Old Vidam. Nerul cracked his knuckles and winced.
“Ow.”
“Out the doors—hurry—”
The [Silvertongue Emissary] was trying to force the Drakes down the steps. Nerul smiled.
“Not so fast. Wall Lord Rellmel, we have a negotiation to get to and I insist you [Come to the Table].”
The Wall Lord froze, his hand on the doorknob. He tried to fight—but he wasn’t Ilvriss. He began to pivot when Vidam blocked Nerul’s way.
“[Request Denied]. Lord Rellmel has said his piece and no Skills or unlawful persuasion will force him otherwise!”
The Drake woman tsked. Weressna shook her head as Videl freed Rellmel.
“Oh come on, Vidam. [Think About It].”
“[Exit Negotiations]!”
One of the younger Drakes from the Emera family barked. Nerul raised his brows. No style, no substance. And it was three versus six.
The Drake with scrolls moved at Nerul’s nod.
“[Let’s Make a Deal]. We have vast funds, Lord and Lady of the Walls. You haven’t heard all of what House Gemscale and Lord Ilvriss have to offer.”
“[Clear Minds]! That’s not a valid offer. Wall Lord Rellmel has refused the offers on the table!”
“Let’s [Sweeten the Deal], then.”
Nerul crooned. Vidam was already sweating. He was trying to deny the multiple Skills attacking his clients, but he was outnumbered and outplayed. One of the Drakes croaked.
“[Future Negotiation]. We—we will do this—”
“We will do this now.”
The [Diplomat] broke the Skill in half without even needing to waste his own. The weaker [Negotiator] reeled. Nerul turned to Vidam.
“I was always the better [Diplomat]. I’m afraid this is going to turn into a sit-down, Vidam. Bring whoever you want. But you’re going to lose.”
He turned, wiped the sweat from his brow, and pointed.
“Let’s see. That table will do nicely. Let’s clear the restaurant. Where’s the manager? We’ll need food, scrolls—”
“Provided for.”
“And I’ve talked to the manager.”
Mister Superior emerged from the back room and nodded to Nerul. The Drake grinned. He nodded to the Drake and group he’d told to wait at the doorway. Ilvriss entered the room as the two members of House Emera sat, furious, but helpless, at the negotiation table.
Nerul sat. Oh, they made fun of him. The black sheep of House Gemscale. The white Gnoll, in other parlances. [Diplomat]. What a useless class. What could it do that a [Lord], a [Warrior] could not?
Well, he could pry a potion out of the hands of even the most stubborn Drakes. And all without drawing a weapon. He grinned, cracked his fingers again, winced, and got down to work.
 
—-
 
Ilvriss recalled that Erin Solstice had once been furious when Xif the [Alchemist] had forced her to sell one of her faerie flowers. He didn’t recall if he had been there for that, or just heard the news from keeping tabs on Liscor.
Well, Xif had one Skill in Nerul’s field. Nerul had many. And what Xif could do to an [Innkeeper]? A [Negotiator] lived to do this.
…Some of them. The negotiation-raid was a known tactic in Salazsar, who relied on contracts and companies. It beat bloodshed, but it was not employed normally.
It was to aggression what kicking down the door with a group of [Thugs] was. And even if you got what you wanted—
“There will be consequences! We won’t let this lie!”
Grisa hissed at him. The turn of phrase made Ilvriss pause, but he just shook his head.
“Maybe so, Wall Lady. But I insist.”
“And we are right to believe your number is above eight hundred thousand, but below one million. Let’s call it nine hundred thousand gold pieces, hm?”
“My client…is not willing…to sell a value-less item for that much.”
The old Drake, Vidam, was fighting Nerul and the five top-level [Negotiators] with a squad of seven. They’d actually waited for the others to arrive, but Nerul had called on his best friends—including the legendary Mister Superior.
Alrric was sitting next to Ilvriss, as a representative of his company. Vidam was sweating, but Nerul was merciless.
