“It’s just impulse, though.”
“Of course. That’s very revealing…and disturbing, sometimes. But I don’t see much wrong with you. That Drake is like a beacon, but there’s also other Drakes. First loves; childhood crushes don’t really count.”
“All Drake?”
“Two Gnolls.”
“Really? Who?”
“Er…close to black fur, a spot on the shoulder—”
Ilvriss turned red under his scales. He knew exactly who that was. Xesci watched with a slight smile. She tried to cover it, but then—
“Will you tell me? If I’ve told you this…”
He struggled, but she had been honest. At last, Ilvriss hung his head.
“I was a young man, and she was one of the staff in our employ. Always getting on my case about tracking mud in. I must have been…nineteen…”
He hadn’t even realized how attracted he was until she brought it up and the older Drake recalled the younger one’s viewpoint. She laughed.
“It’s always like that. And people ask for me to check.”
He took a deep breath.
“You’ll forgive me if I say that’s strange. Not—wrong—but strange.”
She nodded.
“That is fair. Two Gnolls, then.”
He knew the other one. He’d been curious. Ilvriss sat back.
“And anyone else?”
“One Human. But that’s another odd case.”
Her eyes flicked to his. He kept his face straight.
“I see.”
“If you want…?”
“No.”
The Drake wondered how accurate her Skill was. Or whether it was…it wasn’t like that. But he supposed it was.
He sat there for a while. But then he came to the real reason he’d come.
“Miss Xesci. Can you take on other…forms? Besides female, I mean. Can you become a male Drake? If you chose to?”
She froze. The [Courtesan] carefully eyed Ilvriss.
“If you are asking if I could…or have…Wall Lord, I would have to decline to comment.”
He glanced at the door at the same time as she did. This felt—wrong to discuss.
“I am not interested in any details, Miss Xesci. I am just asking if it is possible.”
She folded her arms. Which was an answer enough for him. He nodded.
“Let us change the subject, then. I wanted to know because…are there people you can’t sense anything from?”
The [Courtesan] hesitated. She narrowed her eyes, trying to figure out where he was going. But no offense to her co-worker—but the Drake didn’t seem as cunning as the knitting-Drake had been.
“I…have met people like that. Odd ones. They love no one and nothing. From time to time—I don’t use this on everyone, you understand. But I met an adventurer like that. He only wanted me to be the most beautiful person I could be. Then the next. And there have been—others. Why do you ask?”
Because, Miss Xesci, I need your help. The Wall Lord smiled thinly.
“Curiosity, Miss Xesci. Thank you. Would you describe the Human? Before I go. Just…”
She did. He listened. Then he left, paying her fee in full. The Wall Lord stood outside for a while.
A wedding ring.
Idiot.
 
—-
 
“I’m sorry, Ilvriss. But it’s not a good time right now. That damned seditious [Painter] and their lies. Have you heard…?”
“Not at all, Wall Lord Rellmel. But let me assure you, I can pay whatever fee we can agree on. Up front.”
The Wall Lord’s eyes flickered, but he was shaking his head, even during the sit-down meeting with Ilvriss, Wall Lord to Wall Lord.
“I really can’t be selling artifacts, Ilvriss. I’m tempted, as a favor between fellow Wall Lords, but…my sister would throw ten kinds of fits. I’m sorry.”
Ilvriss sighed.
“What would it take for Gisha?”
“Honestly, Ilvriss? Too much to imagine. She’s paranoid about needing it. Well, it’s a Potion of—you know.”
Rellmel looked around the tall restaurant in one of the highest points of the towers. He patted at his mouth then fetched a toothpick.
“And she’s not in the mood. All the slander about us…do you have any idea who this ‘Sellme’ is? We can’t even get it taken down. We’re putting a bounty out—they’ve gone too far.”
Ilvriss wondered if the [Painter] would be alright. They had a decent Skill that had kept everyone but him away. He sighed.
“Thank you, then, Rellmel. Are you sure? One million. By the end of the week. In your vaults.”
The Drake gulped. He stayed there a long time as Ilvriss leaned on the table. Then he shook his head.
“Ancestors, but no. I’m sorry, Ilvriss. You know, we should go drinking. You have to tell about Liscor. Should I buy some land there? I hear…?”
But Ilvriss was gone.
 
—-
 
He nearly forgot his appointment with Shriekblade in the evening. Ilvriss had some personal [Messages] that had been screened by Alrric or someone in the company; everyone wanted to talk to a Wall Lord, obviously, and few people did.
‘Wasn’t sure. –Alrric.’
An appended note to one of the notes. Ilvriss walked into the Gemscale residence and his part of it, looking around.
“Shriekblade?”
He talked to the Gnoll with black fur and a white spot on her shoulder blade. The [Head of Household] grinned at him.
“No, Wall Lord. Were you expecting her?”
Ilvriss jerked his eyes away from the white patch of fur.
“Not at all, Miss Yern. Er—that is—I suppose she declined to come.”
He sighed. Temperamental adventurers. He was rethinking his contract with her. After all—he wasn’t moving on any huge engagement yet. Finding Az’kerash’s minions was harder than it seemed. Maybe he’d terminate it at the end of the month.
Ilvriss was sorting through the [Messages]. Some were interesting.
‘Regarding your search—representative of Wall Lord Dragial of Fissival?’ Interesting. ‘Regretfully decline…’
He was reaching for the one Alrric hadn’t been sure about when he entered his personal chambers. He swung the door closed, glanced up—and dropped the letter.
Shriekblade was in his bedroom. The adventurer had slipped in undetected, worrying, but she did have the keystone that passed her through his security enchantments.
…That was about all she was wearing. She was naked.
“Adventurer Shriekblade reporting, Wall Lord. What would you like me to do?”
Her voice had regained some of the flatness of how she was when she was using mind-altering substances. Halfway between her true personality and this. Ilvriss stared at her.
“What are you doing?”
“Reporting.”
She looked at him, with a half-clouded look of annoyance. She gestured at the bed.
“Shall we?”
“What d—no. That is not why I invited you here!”
She blinked at him.
“You told me to come here this night. You’re telling me you had other plans?”
He swung around.
“Yes. I wanted you to show me your swordsmanship—what is wrong with you? Put on your clothes, now!”
The Drake heard silence from behind him. Then a shuffling sound. He didn’t look around. After a moment’s hesitation, he strode to the door, opened it, and stormed out.
“Wall Lord?”
“Shriekblade is present. Get me—a drink. Something stiff.”
“With alcohol?”
“Yes.”
He’d told the staff not to give him anything. But Ilvriss—he found himself sitting as a cup of Firebreath Whiskey was handed to him. He stared at the liquid in the glass, tilted his head up—
Paused.
He was feeling the same as when he’d collapsed in the mines. A sense of…of frustration. Everything not turning out how it had to. That idiotic adventurer. If people had begun to gossip, his reputation—
At first he was angry. He looked at the drink in the cup. He’d promised. But damn it, it was one drink. He just wished it were different.
A bit of faerie flower in the cup…
The liquid stopped against his pressed lips. He felt like a ghost was holding them closed.
It was so easy to believe Xesci’s lies. Not the one she’d told him, but her changing form. To believe for a moment and let yourself…be. Even if they were gone. Even if it had never happened.
He felt a hand on his shoulder. Was it a claw or Human fingers? He tried to listen.
Shriekblade. What would she have said if he’d related that event to her, while sitting at a table? She would have said…
Wall Lord…
No. Wait. She would never have said that. What would she have said? Have done?
He did not know her. But he tried to be like Xesci.
Ilvriss stared at his claw as it carefully set down the tumbler.
Erin Solstice carefully tugged away the glass of the bad juice from Wall Lord Ilvriss. She put it on the table—pushed it to the edge—then turned to face him. She put her hands on her hips. And then…
The Drake saw the same claw rise. And—
 
—-
 
Yern was telling the other Drake staff to shut up.
“No one will be blabbing about that Drake in his quarters. He stormed out—nothing happened, no? And if one of you lies, I know it will be one of you and I will dangle you out of the tower by your tails.”
Chastened, they nodded. Yern sighed. Then she heard a sound.
Smack.
She glanced back into the sitting room.
“Wall Lord?”
He was lying half sprawled out of his chair. He rubbed at his cheek.
“That will be all, Miss Yern. I slipped.”
She stared at him and nodded slowly. The loss of Miss Perris had really taken a toll.
Now he was punching himself?
 
—-
 
Okay, maybe too much channeling Erin Solstice. Ilvriss rubbed at his face. And he wasn’t sure if she would have done that.
But now—thinking of her—he regretted what he’d snapped at Shriekblade.
What is wrong with you?
What was wrong with the people who’d employed her? He slowly stood up.
“Miss Shriekblade. Are you decent?”
“No.”
He took a chance and opened the doors. She was hiding in a corner, facing the wall, curled up onto her knees.
“I guess I’m wrong again.”
“I…apologize, Miss Shriekblade. For what I said earlier.”
She half-glanced at him.
“What was that?”
“I—shouldn’t have insulted you. Nor was I aware other employers of yours had acted so…wrongly. Criminally, perhaps.”
“They paid me. I do anything.”
“Yes. You should not.”
“I just want money. I’ll leave now.”
She stood to go. Ilvriss hesitated.
“Adventurer Shriekblade. I called you here to ask if you were willing to…replace Master Zelir. Or at least test me without breaking my arm and show me what a real ambush or battle would be like.”
She looked at him. Either the Calming Tonic was wearing off, or the moment had snapped her out of her former state. She spoke, incredulously.
“You want me to hit you? With swords, knives, needles?”
“Not…fatally. But I need to improve. So, if you were willing to—”
“I would get to hit my employer?”
“Without doing permanent damage.”
He stressed that. Shriekblade nodded.
“But I’d get to hit you?”
“Under controlled situations…”
“Wow.”
She stared at him. Then she nodded. Ilvriss felt like he’d made a mistake already. But he stopped her as they began to leave.
“Adventurer Shriekblade…Miss Tessa. That incident in the bedroom. I do mean what I said. You should not have been put in that situation, your…willingness aside. Nor do I think, in light of that, it is wise for you to rely on those potions.”
She looked at him.
“I’m a better adventurer when I take them. I follow orders. I don’t like doing this when I’m not on them.”
“Even so. Would you consider refraining from taking them unless needed?”
The Drake stared at Ilvriss. She actually walked around him, peering at him. Eventually, she nodded.
“You’re strange. Alright. When we spar, I can’t hurt you permanently. But I can hit you.”
“I think I will specify ways we might fight. For instance, bare-claws. Or you could simulate a…rapier.”
“I can use that.”
“Captain Shieldscale may want to learn, if one can learn.”
He was going to find out how he’d fare against a real high-level opponent without artifacts or backup. Ilvriss’ stomach began to hurt. He hoped he’d level. Shriekblade’s eyes flickered.
“I can hit her too?”
“Under controlled—”
“Got it, got it. Can I bite?”
“What?”
 
—-
 
The next morning, Ilvriss lay in bed as the sun rose.
He was….physically…healed. But his ego and body had taken a beating. He shuddered.
You could dislocate someone’s arm and that was not permanent damage if an expert did it to you. Allegedly.
Was there a point to it? He was already trying to rationalize why another sparring session was a bad idea. But the problem was…Shriekblade was an expert.
“You have a gap—here.”
Then she kicked him in the groin. He curled up at the memory. She’d spotted a weakness in his guard. One that maybe Zelir had spotted or pointed out. Either way?
Ilvriss would never make the same mistake after Shriekblade pointed it out.
And yet, she seemed almost happy. How did he know?
“You not getting up?”
“No. Please close the door.”
The Named Adventurer was having breakfast in his residence. Ilvriss lay there.
“Never again. It’s just self-flagellation. I don’t need to do it.”
He muttered to himself. The hard part—the difficult part was—
He’d damn well leveled up last night. The Drake moaned internally. It was probably mending ties with his uncle, or progressing his understanding of Xesci’s class. Levels were cumulative effort over time! You couldn’t attribute it to the final day of—
The door opened.
“I get to spar with you tonight?”
“Yes. Captain Shieldscale first.”
“Awesome.”
He hid under the blankets as the door closed again. He was at least glad that someone was happy. What would Erin say?
…She’d be laughing too hard to talk about now. But he thought she would also have approved, even if she hadn’t worded it this way. Shriekblade…he felt for the Named Adventurer. She was not Xesci, who, despite everything, seemed in control of herself.
Ilvriss was wondering if he could justify wearing armor—or at least, a codpiece—when he noticed something on his bedroom floor. He must have forgotten it after Shriekblade dumped him in his home and he crawled into bed.
The [Message]. Ilvriss slowly exited the bed, feeling phantom pain with every step. He crawled on the floor to the [Message], picked it up, and read it. It was all so—
 
—-
 
Shriekblade felt good today. It was such a rare feeling when she hadn’t recently been to the Healer of Tenbault she kept expecting it to go away. She had an appetite and everything, even if the Gnoll serving her kept glaring at her.
She got to punch her employer, and he hadn’t even told her to sleep with him. This was a good job. And that annoying blue Drake. She was looking forwards to that, even if the day was going to be dead b—
Ilvriss kicked the door to his bedroom open and strode out.
“Shriekblade! With me!”
The Named Adventurer was already on her feet. Ilvriss was striding across the room.
“Wall Lord? Is everything alright? Breakfast—”
“Send it to the company headquarters!”
