Wall Lord Ilvriss collapsed during a routine inspection of Mining Shaft #4 currently in the possession of the Gemscale family of Salazsar.
It was, to all present, sudden. One second he was upright, frowning over the adamantine ore recently discovered in this valuable seam. He put a claw to his head, as if with a sudden migraine and then just folded up.
One of the Gnoll [Foremen] caught him before he fell over. The next second there was chaos. Half the people present went running for a [Healer] or grabbed emergency potions—tried to drag Ilvriss to a safe place.
Within minutes, there was a crowd as all work halted. And rumor shot through the city faster than someone could run. People were saying that there was gas in the mining shaft—or that Ilvriss had been poisoned.
Shriekblade, the Named Adventurer currently employed by Ilvriss, didn’t make things any better. She materialized as if springing from a shadow, and drew her enchanted daggers on the Gnoll trying to check for Ilvriss’ pulse.
Until a [Healer] arrived from the Gemscale family and another new adjutant, Captain Shieldscale formerly of Pallass, no one could so much as touch Ilvriss. Shriekblade refused to let even a potion touch him.
Wall Lord Ilvriss came around barely ten minutes later to the huge commotion. The [Healer] didn’t detect either poison or malign magic, but she administered a healing-stamina tonic and he was back on his feet within a minute despite the offers to bear him by litter to the Gemscale family tower.
“I will accept a palanquin when I’ve lost a leg, Foreman Graer, thank you.”
The Wall Lord’s words, and the incident, were all the talk in Salazsar for the rest of the day. Ilvriss himself arrived at the most reputable [Healer] in Salazsar within thirty minutes, taking the time to reassure people he was well and walk at a measured pace.
It didn’t end there, of course.
It never did.
 
—-
 
“Extreme stress and fatigue. When did you last get a full night’s sleep, Wall Lord?”
The [Renowned Tincturist], Merla Topaz, removed her Spectacles of Identification and put them securely in the padded case. She took a seat as the Wall Lord sat up.
“You must be joking, Healer Merla.”
She frowned at him as she went around her cabinets, removing a little paper envelope and slipping some bright, transparent purple pills into it.
“I never do when it comes to medicine, Wall Lord. Stress. Fatigue. I’ve seen it before. Your father never had it, but your grandfather did and countless Wall Lords and Ladies have suffered from the same. Stress, overwork—I wouldn’t have expected you to come down with it. Normally it manifests when a company is failing. And it’s rarer among younger males of any species, but I am not wrong.”
The purple-scaled Drake took a minute to sit there and process it. He couldn’t believe it. Stress? Of all the things…
It was both ignoble and embarrassing. He didn’t even remember fainting, just feeling weak for a moment and then—
“You’re quite sure?”
“Absolutely, Wall Lord.”
“It’s not poison gas? Lack of oxygen? It gets harder to breathe sometimes in the mining shafts…”
The old Drake, who had greying scales but a remarkably healthy body for her age of 80+, sighed. She could have passed for someone twenty years younger, a product of Skills, no doubt.
“If you’d like me to say so, Wall Lord, I will. This is of course confidential, but the city does like to gossip…”
“…No. No, Healer Merla. Thank you for the consideration, but no.”
Wall Lord Ilvriss had to struggle for a second before saying that. He was tempted to say ‘yes’, but understood in a moment that trying to cover the real reason for his fainting was a pointless endeavor that would probably backfire in time.
Stress. He stared at himself in the large mirror, which was an antique artifact used to diagnose patients. Merla had used Spectacles of Identification for bad spells, her own Skills and knowledge, and a Mirror of Wellness to confirm.
The Mirror showed Ilvriss as he was, but also a faint fugue about him, dark, like fog. If he had been sick or poisoned, it would have marked parts of him beset by his ailments.
It was a wonderful relic for a [Healer] of her level and reputation. Ilvriss wondered if it could show whether you were alive or not. Then again—a good spy would never let themselves be taken to a [Healer] of Merla’s standing.
Unless she was undead. But that was another Waisrabbit hole you could get stuck down—especially since the damned animals tended to collapse their burrows such that only a teleporting creature could ‘hop’ from section to section.
“…What, Healer Merla?”
“How long since you had a good night’s sleep, Wall Lord?”
The Drake woman repeated herself patiently. Ilvriss frowned.
“I slept every day this week.”
“For how long?”
“…S—F—Three hours last night. But I took breaks throughout the day.”
He admitted reluctantly. Merla raised an eyebrow.
“And the rest of the week? Similar? You know stamina potions do not replace sleep, Wall Lord? And unless you were sleeping under the effects of a Skill, that seems too low, even for [Twofold Rest].”
Ilvriss rubbed at his face. He had not been using Skills. It sounded bad when you said it outright, too. Glumly, he looked at the other Drake, with her faded rose-grey scales.
“I suppose the only cure is…?”
“Rest, of course. Here are pills for two weeks. Take them—sleep at least eight hours each night. They should keep you down and out.”
He accepted the envelope and sighed.
“I will, Healer. It’s just that…”
She pointedly folded her arms and Ilvriss hesitated. Of course, he was a Wall Lord, one of the richest families in Salazsar and the ruling class, since Salazsar was made up of only the Walled Families and had no higher power.
And Merla, despite being a [Healer], was a citizen. However, she had also tended to his family since he was a squalling Drake baby and you did not simply talk back to her.
“We all must rest, Wall Lord. I can’t do more than give you pills—although that will keep you rested—but there are ways to relieve stress or anxiety besides Calming Tonics…I can make up a list if you’d like.”
She waited. Ilvriss shook his head after a moment and forced a smile.
“That won’t be necessary, Healer. I know the root of my—weakness. I will deal with it and get proper rest, thank you.”
She saw him off. No one spoke of payment; she’d bill his family.
There was a crowd outside, but Captain Shieldscale, or Osthia Blackwing as he knew her, had a carriage drawn.
“To your tower, Wall Lord?”
“Yes, Captain. Thank you.”
He nodded at her; the bright blue-scaled Drake was more than capable after a few months in Salazsar. He noted a shadow detach herself from the clinic.
Shriekblade. The observers drew back slightly as the blank-faced Named Adventurer walked forwards.
They were an odd comparison. Wall Lord Ilvriss was a handsome Drake, one of the most eligible bachelors in the city, even if he’d never really been a target for seduction of late, but still, tall, lean, and thought of as an example for the modern Drake to emulate. His corporation of the Gemscale family was flourishing, he could and had led armies, and was thus good at both economy and war, the two things Salazsar prized.
He had royal purple scales crossed with dark red, and while not being Oldblood, was fairly ideal in most ways.
On the other claw? Shriekblade was shorter, and had more scars than you could count on the visible parts of her body. She was a Named Adventurer and thus famous—but she herself was infamous for being uncontrollable, completely mercenary, willing to switch employers for better pay, and essentially being a walking weapon you pointed at monsters or your enemies.
“Tessa. Is that you?”
Healer Merla stopped in the doorway of her clinic. Shriekblade paused a moment in climbing into the carriage.
“Hello, Healer Merla. I am Tessa.”
Her voice was inflectionless. So much so it made some of the Drakes and Gnolls watching shudder. But Merla just looked concerned.
“You’ve taken too many potions again. When did you last come in for a checkup?”
“Five months ago.”
“Why don’t you stop by tonight?”
“I am employed.”
“Shriek—Adventurer Tessa. I believe Healer Merla should do a routine checkup. I will send her by tonight, Healer.”
“Thank you, Wall Lord.”
Shriekblade didn’t react as she climbed into the carriage. Ilvriss sat as Captain Shieldscale ordered the driver to get the carriage moving. They’d have to climb the tower on foot, but this separated them from the gossip and crowd for a moment.
He sat, Shriekblade sitting across from him, and felt the prickle on his scales even now. Here was danger. Danger under his employ, but still—Shriekblade was a superlative blade expert. He had seen her fight.
“You know Healer Merla and make use of her services, Adventurer Tessa?”
She nodded, once, looking at him then scanning the area for threats, even in the carriage. Shieldscale was riding with the driver.
“She has attempted to treat me. I do not go to her anymore. She cannot help me.”
“I see.”
The female Drake did not respond further. Ilvriss sat back.
He was aware Shriekblade—or Tessa, her infrequently used actual name—was not…well. Well, it was obvious. When she was not stone-faced and impassive, obeying orders with perfect detachment and disinterest, she was moody, dangerous, and nigh-uncontrollable. Her contract actually stipulated Ilvriss provide or pay for numerous Calming Tonics, Draughts of Serenity, Scrolls of Blank Mind, and so on.
But she then took too many and became…this. Well, Ilvriss preferred that to the female Drake who might stab her employer as she had done on six occasions, but neither was ideal.
He cleared his throat for a topic of conversation.
“Your remuneration, Shriekblade…”
“My what?”
“Your pay. I assume it will go straight to the Healer of Tenbault?”
Shriekblade considered this and nodded.
“Yes. I will go to her soon. When I have enough money. She will make me…better.”
A note of some actual emotion flickered in her voice at this. Longing. Ilvriss nodded.
It was all public knowledge to anyone who would ever hire her. Shriekblade charged extortionate fees, but she was afraid of nothing. And when she had saved up a small fortune, she visited the Healer of Tenbault, in the north.
“The…Healer. She seems to cure what ails you, Adventurer. But not permanently.”
“No. But she makes me all better.”
“May I ask how long this treatment lasts?”
“Months. Less.”
Shriekblade looked past him, uncomfortable for once. Ilvriss nodded. Something the Healer could do fixed Shriekblade, but not permanently.
Well, it was not his business so he rode in silence, letting himself think of his collapse. An embarrassment. Shriekblade was content with the silence. He was paying her fees.
If Ilvriss had one talent in this world, it was not his acumen with a blade. Shriekblade could be said to have a ‘talent with the blade’, and if she was talented, everyone else was a clod playing with magical sticks.
Similarly, Ilvriss was not a strategic genius, an inspiring [General], nor political master, which all ran together sometimes. He could do all of these things, but it wasn’t where he stood out above all others.
If he had one talent, it was making money. His power was the ability to fork over more gold than you could make in a lifetime. And to be fair, that was a pretty great power.
Except if you were fighting the Necromancer of Izril in secret. Except if you remembered that gold, money, is an indirect way of applying influence. Power is the knife in your claws.
In that sense, Shriekblade was entirely more powerful than Ilvriss. Take away her armor and gear, and she was still deadly. He couldn’t even carry all his gold around, not even with the best bags of holding.
It had never really bothered him before. Money paid for lessons, armies, bodyguards, artifacts! However, he was keenly aware of it now, where every passing person might be the Necromancer’s agents.
Where…he closed his eyes and his head rested against the back of the carriage. He was tired. He hadn’t realized it until he’d passed out.
It wasn’t as if the world had imploded. It had already done that. It was just…he’d forgotten, that was all.
He had met Zel Shivertail, hated the Drake, thought all the rumors about him were true. A disgrace of a former war hero. Then he had learned to respect both the Tidebreaker’s personal battle prowess and him as a person.
Then he had died. And like him—Ilvriss had made the same mistake twice.
He had thought, believed in the myth of Erin Solstice. And there was something to believe. But neither she nor Zel were immortal.
They died. Good people he counted on died, and it felt like Ilvriss’ personal tower, like the many rising, vast skyscrapers of the mountain-city, the Walled City of Salazsar—it felt like each time they died, another support was lost.
Zel Shivertail.
Erin Solstice.
Periss Veldant.
 
—-
 
Wall Lady Navine Gemscale, younger sister of Ilvriss, found herself in rare company as she paced in the Gemscale family residence at the top of their tower.
That was to say, she stood with both Zail and Helessia, her father and mother, present. They rarely met.
Both were old. And both were—assisted. Although it was interesting to see in which way they chose to rely on help.
Zail had hired help, loyal Gemscale Drakes who helped him when he was lost, guarded him—until he escaped them. Also, artifacts.
He stood tall, but wounds and age had worn at him. There was a huge scar on his chest that his clothes only partly hid. On his head, more noticeable, an indentation practically devoid of scales. A place where he had been struck in battle that had never quite healed.
Helessia on the other hand was physically unmarked—save by sickness that kept her bedridden. Her bed actually floated, and it had been escorted here. Similarly, she had her own attendants, mostly who helped administer medicines.
Time had driven the couple apart, and there was a definite split in the Gemscale family. There had been for a long time.
Navine controlled her own company, less successful than the main Gemscale holdings, but profitable. Liberal, just as her policies were, or so her detractors claimed. She and Helessia were in a pro-Human movement—which was to say they opposed continual war with Humans. That was pro-Human sentiments among the Drakes, as extreme as you got.
Zail on the other hand was a traditionalist who believed in the power of Salazsar. And until recently, Ilvriss had been a loyal follower of his father’s ideals.
