“Nine hundred thousand gold pieces. In your vaults tomorrow. What do you say, Wall Lord Rellmel? You have to know we can’t just walk off. And that’s…nine hundred thousand gold pieces now. Rather than ‘someday’. [Think About It].”
They had used dozens of Skills with overlapping effects. [Everything Has a Price], [See it My Way], [Sweeter Deal]—
“Do we have confirmation this is a genuine Potion of Regeneration? Excuse me, I’d like a [Fact Check] here.”
Mister Superior was taking on two Drakes at another table. They gulped and Grisa blurted out before anyone could stop her.
“Of course we have one! It’s only one third full, but—”
Ilvriss stirred. Vidam snapped his claw and Grisa’s mouth shut, but it was too late. Nerul stirred.
“I think that just kicked down the value to…three hundred thousand gold pieces. And you know that even if you’ve stored it properly, a third isn’t enough, Wall Lord. We’re talking damaged goods, here. You want to sit on that? Or a nice…three hundred thousand? You could live like a [King] for an entire year on that. You and your sister. And this all can end.”
Rellmel was sweating. It was also the pressure that got to you at this table. Ilvriss had known hard Drakes, who lived and died fighting.
Even so. There was something unnerving about someone who refused to blink, or stop staring at you. Yes, you could try to win the staring contest.
You would lose. Weressna was blowing smoke into a younger Drake’s face; the [Mediator] actually had tears in her eyes.
Nerul was playing nice. Some of his cohort were just staring down the lesser [Negotiators] and winning the battle of wills.
As he said, sometimes he spent three months sweet-talking, sometimes he strode in with fire and thunder.
There would be consequences. And Ilvriss, at that moment, as he saw Rellmel’s mouth open and Grisa whirl, decided to step in. Nerul had said not to, but it was time.
“Five—six hundred thousand.”
Nerul glanced up. He shot Ilvriss a warning look and poked him with his tail.
“Ilvriss, I can get—”
“I know, Uncle. But I want to at least try to make this…less painful. Six hundred thousand for a third-full Potion of Regeneration. Well, Rellmel?”
He looked across the table. Vidam rose, swaying.
“[A Moment of R—]”
Weressna tapped her cane on the ground and stopped his Skill with hers silently. Rellmel gasped.
“Yes. Fine! Damn the potion!”
Ilvriss exhaled. He saw Nerul nod, and Vidam collapsed on the table, ashen-grey. His people surged around him. Grisa stared at Ilvriss as the Drake with contracts unfurled the scroll. He had just written the number in magical ink.
“And we are ready to sign. Wall Lord?”
He offered it to Ilvriss, then Rellmel. The Drake wrote with a shaking claw as Ilvriss sighed. Alrric exhaled.
“It will be sent tonight. I have the sum prepared.”
It was done. Grisa never looked away from Ilvriss as Nerul and the other [Negotiators] rose to raid the bar, already congratulating each other.
“You have made a terrible mistake.”
“Perhaps so, Lady Grisa. But I need it.”
“For what? You’re not hurt. Unless—Zail? Helessia?”
He met her gaze without replying. He rose, as Rellmel sat back, white under his scales. Wall Lord Ilvriss stepped back, and spoke to Alrric.
“Cover the costs of this for the restaurant. My deepest apologies. The food used—tips for the staff. All generous. And my Uncle and his friends drink whatever they want tonight. On me.”
“That’s a mighty tab, Ilvriss.”
The Gnoll murmured. Ilvriss nodded.
“Less than what I spent on the potion.”
“True. And what do I do with that?”
Ilvriss straightened. He felt light. He left Grisa behind, ignoring her threats. He walked with Alrric.
“Send word to Lyonette in Liscor. To the Horns of Hammerad. Tell them to wait. And tell them—I have what they want.”
It would cost him. It had cost him. But if it was just payment…he was Wall Lord Ilvriss.
He’d settle the bill.
 
—-
 
He had done what he could for Erin Solstice. The Potion of Regeneration was away within the hour, with a full escort. Not Shriekblade—she was with him, but happy since she’d thrashed both him and Captain Shieldscale and gotten to cause chaos and watch it unfold.
The Horns might not even need to dare a death zone. Ilvriss hoped it would do what was needed.
But it was the Necromancer who remained. He stood, with Captain Shieldscale, no, Osthia Blackwing, in front of Xesci.
“[Detect Life] is the easiest check. But you can fool even [Detect Lies] or [Detect Truth]. If you are a high-enough level [Mage]. Isn’t that so?”
“Yes. Ancestors and dead fucking gods, but I could do that. But this?”
The magical artifact draped over Xesci’s head changed colors with her mood, with the truth. A more advanced ‘crown’ that revealed a complexity of meaning. Ilvriss hoped it was enough to ‘tell’ whether a person was real, or a puppet.
“You are not an agent of any power, or controlled by an influence besides your own, Xesci. Is that true?”
He had asked a dozen times, a dozen different ways.
“No.”
Ilvriss and Osthia studied the lights. She pointed to one.
“There’s something here.”
The [Courtesan] shivered. Shriekblade twitched. Ilvriss held his breath. They’d tested Shriekblade, Osthia, himself, and the last of the members in this room of five. The five who would form the heart of this operation. If any of them owed allegiance to someone else—they were dead.
Shriekblade had been the biggest gamble, really. But Nerul had told Ilvriss he could stop her from attacking long enough to raise the alarm.
It was ingenious. Send a [Diplomat] at an [Assassin] and you could actually stall even her. For a time.
“I….have ties to the Sisters of Chell, I suppose? No one else.”
Ilvriss watched the colors light up. Truth. A slight hesitation—
“No one else besides individuals or friends, yes?”
“Yes.”
Truth, more accurately reflected.
“I think she’s good, Wall Lord.”
Osthia exhaled. Ilvriss nodded at last and the [Courtesan of Change] sagged. He helped her remove the diadem.
“That’s it then.”
The portly Drake stood. Nerul. He looked sick.
“Az’kerash lives. And he’s got agents…”
“Named Adventurers. Regrika Blackpaw was one. Anyone could be under his sway. We don’t know his forces. We don’t know his preparations. What I do know is that he’s alive and he killed Zel Shivertail. And Periss.”
The room was silent. Shriekblade scratched at one earhole.
“Huh. Am I supposed to know this?”
He looked at her, then Xesci. The Drake woman nodded and licked her lips.
“Why are you telling us?”
The Wall Lord slowly walked around the room. He met everyone’s eyes, Osthia, Nerul, Shriekblade—no, Tessa, and Xesci.
“Because we have a duty to stop him. And right now—there are five people in this world we can be sure of that aren’t his agents. He is, possibly, a Level 70 [Necromancer]. Possibly Level 80.”
“Ancestors.”
Nerul muttered. Ilvriss nodded.
“Only Zel Shivertail and an army of the Antinium attacking together beat him. And the Goblin King. Beyond that? He has destroyed Terandrian kingdoms. And I believe he has grown stronger since then. He is our enemy. And right now, we are all that can be trusted.”
There was Ryoka Griffin. There had been Erin…and others. But they could have been subverted. Replaced. Ilvriss felt his scales crawling.
“You are all Drakes. Members of the Walled Cities. Of Izril. I believe you all have a talent and the will to fight back. So.”
He sat back, tired, but feeling the tingle in his veins.
“Let’s hunt the Necromancer. We have my resources. We have an army in training. And we have leads. Now I can actually rely on people—”
He nodded at Nerul, who could actually organize things with authority.
“—I can begin pursuing some of the ones outside of Salazsar.”
“Such as?”
The [Diplomat]’s eyes were sharp. Shriekblade tilted her head back and forth. Xesci was just staring around, slightly overwhelmed.
“Magnolia Reinhart once said something that made me think she knew he was alive. Either she is aware and opposing him—or she is concealing the information but hinting at it—or…”
Ilvriss trailed off.
She was his. Nerul muttered.
“Ah. So you’re on the move?”
“How so?”
Osthia looked blank. Ilvriss glanced at her, and Nerul elaborated.
“Magnolia Reinhart is going to Oteslia. It seems only fitting that if you were going to approach her in confidence to find out one way or the other, you’d go there. It’s an event, which is even more cover. Isn’t that so, neph—Wall Lord?”
He looked at Ilvriss. The Drake nodded.
“We may have an ally—if an untrustworthy one—with sources of information. I won’t rule out Human help, or any species or nation. But we have to know, and avoid tipping our hand. That’s why Xesci is here. Nerul helps us reach out, gives us cover and excuses. Xesci can identify them—or so I hope. Either way, she can act as a perfect [Spy].”
“What if she is—wrong? What will you do then?”
The [Courtesan] licked her lips. Ilvriss met her gaze. Then his head slowly turned. Shriekblade had been fiddling with a knife. Then she blinked at him and grinned.
“That’s why Shriekblade is coming too. To Oteslia.”
He made his plans. And the potion went to Erin Solstice.
Hope in a bottle.
