“It is true that ‘elite’ gets tossed around a lot, Captain Shieldscale. But unlike other groups, the Walled Families of Salazsar don’t keep individual standing forces of renown. Rather, we pool our strength. So we have a different system…here we are.”
They had entered one of the military areas of Salazsar. Their city wasn’t as proactive as say, Pallass’, and had fewer armies, but they were still good. Strong.
And they answered to Ilvriss.
“Wall Lord! Can I assist you today?”
A [Lieutenant] on desk-dusty straightened and saluted as Ilvriss and Osthia approached. She glanced at ‘Captain Shieldscale’, but she seemed perfectly at home with Ilvriss’ rank, somewhere around [General]. He could, after all, call upon an army if he wished.
How strange other cities were. Osthia listened.
“Lieutenant, I’d like to buy into one of our Gem Regiments. I’d like one battalion-strength group of the Occum Swords if they’re available.”
The Drake grimaced as Osthia listened, bewildered.
“I’d have to consult my notes, but I am almost certain they’re on deployment with our 1st Army, Wall Lord.”
“Pity. Then—are the Erchirite Spears available?”
“At battalion-strength? Certainly. And what will you need them for? Duration?”
“Indefinite, and I will pay for four months if that is acceptable. Guard duty and perhaps monster-slaying, without ruling out fighting. No plans for full-scale engagements.”
The Drake didn’t even blink as she noted all this down.
“…Here’s my figure for the payment, Wall Lord.”
Ilvriss glanced at the number on the piece of paper. Osthia gulped. He nodded.
“Done. Send it to Alrric in my company. Also, I’d like—”
“Wall Lord Ilvriss, please excuse me, but what is going on?”
Osthia burst out, bewildered. The [Lieutenant]’s brows shot up, but both she and Ilvriss smiled.
“Simple. I’m hiring an ‘elite’ group, Captain Shieldscale. Or rather, the specially armed Gem Regiments of Salazsar. Surely you’ve heard of them?”
“Yes, sir. But—you can just hire them?”
“They are paid for by all of the Walled Families. It costs more to hire them, and Salazsar can recall them if need be, but it allows for some level of equipment. Exceptional averageness I suppose.”
Ilvriss sighed, and Osthia didn’t get that part. But then he was looking around.
“Is one of the [Battle Captains] on duty, Lieutenant? Perhaps Captain Shieldscale can see the Drakes she’ll be leading.”
“Of course, sir. I have a Captain Presz on duty. I will have him called up and the Erchirite Spears assembled directly.”
Ilvriss nodded.
“I’d also like to draw on…sixteen Rubirel Guard. Same duration. Bodyguard duty. Both forces report to Captain Shieldscale.”
“Of course, Wall Lord.”
 
—-
 
The Erchirite Spears were elite. And Osthia wouldn’t be disparaging the four hundred Ilvriss had paid for. They were lined up, ready to do whatever needed doing.
Made of [Veteran Soldiers] who won the right to enlist in the safer, much more well-paid Gem Regiments. Also?
Enchanted armor, enchanted weapons. Osthia stared in envy at what money could buy you from the richest Walled City in Izril.
Captain Presz saluted her, and then showed her his spear.
“Each one’s expensive as they get, Captain Shieldscale. Hence our small regiments. Take a look. Mithril-alloy shafts, and the tip is…”
He indicated the topaz-like mineral stuck to the top. Only, it was charged and Osthia knew better than to touch it. It wasn’t as transparent as topaz, but had an inner sparkle.
“Echirite. Stores and releases electricity when struck. Without protection, a full unleash from one of our units is like a [Chain Lightning] spell in battle.”
The Drake grinned as the [Soldiers] stood to attention. Osthia imagined what it was like to charge into that group—or suffer a spear-charge.
“I take it back, Wall Lord. That’s a fine fighting force.”
“Under your command. Battle Captain, Captain Shieldscale is my commanding officer. I don’t expect you’ll be doing more than relaxing for the short interim, but she has my full authority.”
The [Battle Captain] saluted.
“A pleasure, Captain Shieldscale.”
“I won’t interfere in tactical decisions until I know your unit, Captain Presz. And I’ll try to listen to the expert in the field.”
She hastened to assure him and the Drake smiled.
“Thank you, Captain. It’s a tossup on who we get commanding us. And I understand you’ll be taking the Rubirel Guard, Wall Lord?”
“Sixteen. They’re heavily-armored, Captain Shieldscale.”
They were indeed. The Drakes were like the Flamewardens of Pallass, a former group of heavy-infantry Oldbloods that Osthia had once known.
But rather than relying on Oldbloods, the Rubirel Guard exchanged the ability to breathe fire for the ability to survive…anything.
“Enclosed helmets with sight spells. Internal air reservoirs. No [Snipers] putting an arrow through the arrowslits. Heavy—but we can still swing battleaxes. Toss us into fighting, Captain. Toss some [Poison Cloud] spells in too; we don’t mind.”
“Just don’t make us sprint.”
One of them joked around. Osthia nodded, impressed.
This is the kind of force I want to take against the Necromancer. If they had ten thousand of them—she’d be talking about when to siege his castle. But they were expensive and hard to field. There were fewer than a thousand among all of Salazsar’s army, mostly as shock troopers or bodyguards.
 
—-
 
The high-powered Gem Regiments he’d paid for made Ilvriss feel like he’d done something. But he didn’t have a target to hit; the instant he went after the Necromancer, he suffered.
At least they’d get some battle experience. Alrric and Osthia would use them to kill monsters that appeared while the mining teams worked. He almost pitied even Crelers running up against the Rubirel Guard. Almost. Actually—not at all.
But the problem of high-level, trustworthy people remained. So frustrating. Once you had good people, you could have them do work, like Ilvriss was trusting Osthia. But he had even relegated his old adjutants to other duties because he wasn’t sure, and he couldn’t watch them all without first having his good, core team.
Zelir would be the first. So why…did Ilvriss feel as though his mentor wasn’t enough?
Perhaps because this battle isn’t one you can win with a fancy sword art.
He was rubbing at his head and debating taking a purple pill so he could work early tomorrow when someone called upon him.
“Ilvriss! Ilvriss—we’ve come to kidnap you!”
The Wall Lord nearly drew his sword before he recognized the familiar, jovial tone.
“Tasilt?”
Tasilt and Brilm, the two Wall Lords that Ilvriss had known growing up and were around his age, were waiting for him in the foyer of the Gemscale residence.
Tasilt and Brilm. Alike and not. Both enjoyed, well, fine things as most people of money did. Brilm loved novelty, curios from afar like the song-gems he’d invested in and were making a big profit.
Tasilt? He was more into wine, libations, enjoying himself.
But Brilm, a bit pudgy for a Drake, was far more conservative than Tasilt, who had married a Gnoll and scandalized Salazsar. Tasilt by comparison had put Ilvriss onto hiring Alrric and was an easygoing, good-natured Drake.
Of the two, Ilvriss trusted Tasilt to be honest and moral. He trusted Brilm to show him something interesting.
He liked both of them, even if he had little time to be a friend at the moment.
“What did you say, Tasilt?”
“Kidnap.”
The Drake winked, without realizing why that had alarmed Ilvriss. Brilm chuckled.
“To be more precise—we’re the two who are going to save you. From yourself. Don’t try and resist! We’re armed!”
Ilvriss eyed Brilm’s side, knowing the Drake could barely use the enchanted sword. Tasilt was better, but neither had studied the sword as much as he did. Then again—Tasilt had been in bar brawls with Ilvriss as a young Drake and he was good with his fists.
“And what am I being kidnapped for? I have [Healer]’s orders to rest up. Stress.”
“Yes, yes. Stress. As if overwork could lay low the mighty Ilvriss!”
Brilm’s tone was mocking and teasing. Tasilt just looked at Ilvriss, brows raised.
“You’ve been overdoing it. If you try to resist, we’ll have to use force.”
“Which is…?”
“We’ll tell your mother that you’re overworking yourself.”
Ilvriss knew it was only Tasilt who could come up with a threat like that. It would never occur to Brilm, but Tasilt knew Ilvriss and Helessia. Also, that his mother would fuss and worry about it.
Ilvriss grimaced.
“A low blow, Tasilt. And what am I supposed to be kidnapped to?”
“You’ll see. Brilm?”
The Wall Lord gave Ilvriss a wink that Ilvriss didn’t like at all. The Wall Lord thought as they shepherded him from the residence, laughing with the staff and promising to have Ilvriss back before his bedtime.
They were headed down the tower. Ilvriss suddenly began to really think about the number of things that would take Brilm…Tasilt…
“Listen, you two. I’m happy to rest up. In fact, I was about to sleep. I have medication…”
Brilm waggled a claw in front of his friend’s face.
“Oh no, Ilvriss. We heard the diagnosis. Stress. And you don’t just need sleep! A Drake needs…”
He glanced at Tasilt and the other Drake coughed.
“We know it may have been—difficult of late, Ilvriss. Everyone heard about it.”
Oh no. Ilvriss closed his eyes. Tasilt was referring to the alarm when Erin had gone to Invrisil. But they had never heard the one when she was hurt. She must have taken off the ring? Why did she…?
And if they were talking about that, they had the wrong idea. Ilvriss turned.
“I think you’re mistaken.”
His two ‘friends’ grabbed him under the arm.
“Ilvriss, it’s for your own good. We know an excellent place. I go there all the time. Tasilt, vouch for me.”
“I’m married, Brilm.”
“Oh. Right. Well, even so. Before that.”
“Absolutely not.”
Ilvriss began to struggle. The two Drakes refused to let go. He could have forced them to stop—but then Tasilt threatened to tell Zail and his mother.
 
—-
 
The…place…was known as The Drake’s Pearl, and it was a brothel. But a high-class one, the kind where you didn’t have denominations below ‘gold pieces’.
It was also private…insofar as you could stealthily arrive and disappear if you chose.
Some did choose. Others did not, and strode in there like Brilm every week. He knew the staff by name.
But privacy of the clientele only extended to the gossipers and people who poo-poohed The Drake’s Pearl and all establishments of its kind.
The people who worked there knew all the names, even if the Drakes came in hooded, cloaked, or [Invisible]. After all—it was hard to be invisible when doing the deed. Although that was something you could pay for.
Also, contrary to the name, there were more than just Drakes working here. After all, Salazsar’s lonely bachelors—or married Drakes—had a number of desires that could not be expressed in polite company.
Bachelors. Even here, female Drakes did not just walk into a brothel, much less ask for the entirely-female [Escorts] and so on. They had different methods. If, say, Navine Gemscale wanted to meet someone in the same industry, well, she could ask for a house call as it were. Or go there herself.
The Drake sitting down knew all about the secrets. It was a community, after all, so she knew the dirty little secrets only an idiot would ever try to cash in on. She had started in far worse places than this, in fact. Here she took breaks, waiting for the expensive, expensive clientele to come in. You earned gold per assignation, and if you had people who liked you, gifts of valuable perfumes and gemstones were the least of what you’d get.
“Perfume. As if it’s all we want. And I have to wear the scent each time he visits! I keep getting them confused!”
A female Gnoll—Aranna—was grousing. She was young, beautiful, and had made the smart move of dying her fur such that she looked, well, like some exotic Gnoll [Shaman] from the plains. She’d even added touches to her costume. She was fretting about a recent gift. The Drake leaned over.
“Are your preferred clients Drakes or Gnolls, Aranna?”
The Gnoll huffed.
“Drakes, Xesci. You think Gnolls want to see me pretend to be a ‘wild Gnoll who needs to be tamed’?”
Xesci snorted. Oh yes, it was an act. And exotic…she sighed.
‘Exotic’. She hated that word. But she nodded to Aranna as the younger Gnoll held out the perfume bottle of extreme expense.
“I know someone who resells stuff like that. I’ll introduce you. My advice? Sell it.”
“But the perfume—”
“He’ll give you cheap ones. Get some that smell a bit like the one they gave you. You could even use the same one. I knew a Gnoll who used the same scent, every time. Told each of her clients that it was theirs and they bought it.”
The Gnoll laughed and Xesci smiled. She sat back as Aranna nodded.
“Thanks, Aranna. I—”
She coughed. Someone was smoking on a puffer. The Gnoll glared at another person sitting in the back rooms.
“Do you mind? It sticks to my fur!”
“Say it’s part of your tribal rituals. Dance about a fire. It’ll get them excited.”
A female Human, Shakra, rolled her eyes. Aranna huffed, but left to go store the gift instead.
“She’s sensitive to smoke. Put that out.”
Shakra glowered.
“I got it as a present. I’ll trade you a puff.”
“No thank you.”
Xesci didn’t put down what was between her claws. She was, in fact, knitting. Shakra glanced at it.
“You have the weirdest hobbies for someone in our line of work.”
“It beats drinking or smoking. I do that when I’m not about to lie on my back for an hour.”
“An hour? I never lie there for more than five minutes.”
More snorts.
Human, Drake, Dullahan, Gnoll—they had even had Garuda and Selphids in. Any species you wanted. Any look. They could cast magic, sweet-talk you—or go exactly the other way.
Xesci was not a…specialist in those areas. Certainly, she wasn’t one of the older Gnolls, who, unlike the ‘exotic Plains Gnoll’ of Aranna, instead was quite mean to her clients.
Mostly Drake clients, incidentally. Gnolls just didn’t have as much money—and, perhaps, there was less of a culture of coming to these establishments in groups. Wall Lords on the other hand…
“Everyone, tails up! We’ve got three Wall Lords in the lobby! And one of them’s new!”
Someone hissed through the back rooms. All the women inside looked around.
“Really? Who’re they?”
Secrets, as noted, were not kept except from the outside.
“Brilm’s here.”
“That’s my cue. Unless he wants Aranna or Medroniaria.”
